

is sufficient — 6 * "T :
B. Gr. W/LTKINS CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
■ .IjiL _ —FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
For Every Description
OF
High-Class Machinery.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .. .
128 William St, Melbourne, Vic.
3EIOBA.3EIT.
>- ' ——
pdleys Orient fjotel.
##
Take it back*
■■
Fine Apple Brand
CHUBB’S SAFES
FOR JEWELLERS.
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP
EDIS
Mo^i
m
Economy in Cuiiuknt.
Equality of Light.
THE
EDISON 1 SWAN
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
A ustralasian Branch :
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depot:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
Victorian Depot: 45 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
cia ,
Ue,
U
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
are ■ • • • ■
TELEPHONES
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE “ SILVERTOWN”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch:
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
GOWIE’S
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Mnnufart.irpi-s nf the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit=Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
sa
m
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENCINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BUSHELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famcu3 Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesco
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
m
EASTWAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
Hmufejs.”
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
DONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WATE
HELIDON SPA is development of higher civilisation and
more perfect knowledge of human system.
GOLLIIM & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
Vol. 20.— N0. 1464.]
[Thursday, March o < ;>OB.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THIS WEEK’S
NEW BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET
SYDNEY.
Bogart, Economic History of the United States, 11s,
postBd. Kennedy, German Dangers, Is 3d, posted ls7d
Six Weeks in the Mediterranean, illus., Is 3d, post 3d.
Newsham, Horticultural Note Book, 5s (id, post 6d.
Welsh, Character Portraits from Dickens, 4s, post 6d.
Maughan, The Explorer : a Novel, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Vaile, Woman the Adorer, 3s, post 4d.
Buchanan, She Loved Much, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Itothery, Decorators’Symbols, Emblems, etc., 3s Cd, p. 6d.
Butter, True and False Democracy, 5s 6d, post 6d.
Hutchinson, The Limit of Wealth, 6s, post Bd.
Arnold Forster, Socialism of To-Day, 3s, post 4d
Maclaren, Graham of Claverhouse, cloth 3s 6*d, post 6d.
Donovan, Sin of Preaching-Jim, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Gunter, Dr. Burton’s Success, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Are We a Stupid People, 6s, post 6d.
Campbell, Christianity and the Social Order, 3s 6d p. 6d.
Porritt, Sixty Years of Protection in Canada, 6s p.’ 6d.
Thomas, To-Day in Great Britain, 3s, post 4d.
Bax, Essays in Socialism, new edition, 8d posted.
THE WAYSIDE SERIES
LITERARY POST-CARDS.
'TWENTY-FOUR Quotations, from the World’s G«
Writers, are here printed in beautiful style,
motto takes the back of a post-card, and is printed i
artistic type, with a dainty color design in red run
round it. |
Four packets of six cards, all different, now ready,
6d. each ; post free, 7d. ; or 4 for 2s. 2a.
THOMAS C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., MklboukS
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says : —“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
CD •p
A. The Larynx or
Organ of oice '
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
C. HUDSON, Manufacturing- Chemist, 5& 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney. Agencies in all the Australian
States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
THE RED PAGE
POEMS ON ENGLAND
ENGLAND, MY ENGLAND.
What have I done for you,
England, my England ?
What is there 1 would not do,
England, my own ?
With your glorious eyes austere,
As the Lord was walking near,
Whispering terrible things and dear
As the Song on your bugles blown,
England
Round the world on your bugles blown !
Where shall the watchful sun,
England, my England,
Match the master-work you’ve done,
England, my own ?
When shall he rejoice agen
Such a breed of mighty men
As come forward, one to ten,
To the Song on your bugles blown,
England—
Down the years on your bugles blown?
Ever the faith endures,
England, my England :
“ Take and break us : we are yours,
England, my own 1
Life is good, and joy runs high
Between English earth and sky :
Death is death ; but we shall die
To the Song on your bugles blown,
England—
To the stars on your bugles blown ! ”
They call you proud and hard,
England, my England :
You with worlds to watch and ward,
England, my own !
You whose mailed hand keeps the keys
Of such teeming destinies.
You could know nor dread nor ease
Were the song on your bugles blown,
England—
Round the Pit on your bugles blown !
Mother of Ships whose might,
England, my England,
Is the fierce old sea’s delight,
England, my own,
Chosen daughter of the Lord,
Spouse-in-Chief of the ancient sword,
There’s the menace of the Word
In the Song on your bugles blown,
England—
Out of heaven on your bugles blown !
W. E. Henley.
AVE IMPERATRIX.
Set in this stormy Northern sea,
Queen of these restless fields of tide,
England ! what shall men say of thee,
Before whose feet the worlds divide ?
The earth, a brittle globe of glass,
Lies in the hollow of thy hand,
And through its heart of crystal pass,
Like shadows through a twilight land,
The spears of crimson-suited war,
The long White-crested waves of fight,
And all the deadly fires which are
The torches of the lords of Night.
The yellow leopards, strained and lean,
The treacherous Russian knows so well,
With gaping blackened jaws are seen
Leap through the hail of screaming shell.
The strong sea-lion of England's wars
Hath left his sapphire cave of sea
To battle with the storm that mars
The star of England’s chivalry.
The brazen-throated clarion blows
Across the Pathan’s reedy fen, •
And the high steeps of Indian snows
Shake to the tread of armed men.
And many an Afghan chief, who lies
Beneath his cool pomegranate trees,
Clutches his sword in fierce surmise
When on the mountain-side he sees
The fleet-foot Marri scout, who conies
To tell how he hath heard afar
The measured roll of English drums
Beat at the gates of Kandahar.
For southern wind and east wind meet
Where, girt and crowned by sword and fire,
England with bare and bloody feet;
Climbs the steep road of wide empire.
0 lonely Himalayan height,
Gray pillar of the Indian sky,
Where saw’st thou last in clanging fight,
Our winged dogs of Victory ?
The almond groves of Samarcand,
Bokhara, where red lilies blow,
And Oxus, by whose yellow sand
The grave white-turbaned merchants go ;
And on from thence to Ispahan,
The gilded garden of the sun,
Whence the long dusty caravan
Brings cedar and vermilion ;
And that dread city of Cabool
Set at the mountain’s scarped feet,
Whose marble tanks are ever full
With water for the noonday heat ;
Where through the narrow straight Bazaar
A little maid Circassian
Is led, a present from the Czar,
- Unto some old and bearded khan ;
Here have our wild war-eagles flown,
And flapped wide wings in fiery flight;
But a sad dove, that sits alone
In England—she hath no delight.
In vain the laughing girl will lean
To greet her love with love-lit eves :
D >wn in some treacherous black ravine,
Clutching his flag, the dead boy lies.
And many a moon and sun will see
The lingering wistful children wait
To climb upon their father’s knee ;
And in each house made desolate
Pale women who have lost their lord
Will kiss the relics of the slain
Some tarnished epaulet—some sword—
Poor toys to soothe such anguished pain.
For not in quiet English fields
Are these, onr brothers, lain to rest,
Where we might deck their broken shields
With all the flowers the dead love best.
For some are by the Delhi walls,
And many in the Afghan land,
And many where the Ganges falls
Through seven mouths of shifting sand.
And some in Russian waters lie.
And others in the seas which are
The portals of the East, or by
The wind-swept heights of Trafalgar.
O wandering graves ! O restless sleep !
O silence of the sunless day !
O still ravine ! O stormy deep !
Give up your prey ! Give up your prey !
And thou whose wounds are never healed,
Whose weary race is never won,
O Cromwell s England ! must thou yield
For every inch of ground a son ?
Go ! crown with thorns thy gold-crowned head,
Change thy glad song to song of pain ;
Wind and wild wave have got thy dead,
And will not yield them back again.
Wind and wild wave and foreign shore
Possess the flower of English land—
Lips that thy lips shall k ss no more.
Hands that shall never clasp thy hand. ’
What profit now that we have bound
The whole round world with nets of gold,
If hidden in our heart is found
The care that groweth never old ?
What profit that our galleys ride,
Pine-forest-like, on every main ?
Ruin and wreck are at our side.
Grim warders of the house of pain.
Where are the brave, the strong, the fleet?
Where is our English chivalry ?
Wild grasses are their burial-sheet.
And sobbing waves their threnody.
O loved ones lying far away,
What word of love can dead lips send !
O wasted dust ! O senseless clay !
Is this the end ! is this the end !
Peace, peace ! We wrong the noble dead
To vex their solemn slumber so ;
Though childless, and with thorn-crowned head,
Up the steep road must England go.
Yet when this fiery web is spun,
Her watchmen shall descry from far
The young Republic like a sun .
Rise from these crimson seas of war.
Oscar Wilde.
STEP HEY PHILLIPS.
rpHE twentieth century has found out
| the mechanism of the Tennysonian
trick. The pretty little tradition
is dying, with Stephen Phillips despe-
rately hanging on to its vanishing tail.
(This is the weather for mixed metaphors
and other cooling mixed things.) In his
last rechauffe of verse, New Poems (Lane)
the X rays of a new epoch have disclosed
to us the bare bones beneath that dainty
perfection of form : we can see how the
figure works. Stephen Phillips was a
poet. His Paolo and Francesca, though
dreary upon the stage, was a beautiful
thing in a book. His “ Christ in Hades”
and his “ Marpessa ’ were charming
notes in a Tennysonian theme. But the
poet, by accident, was also an actor ; and’
that overrated fetish, stage-technique,
lured him on to Ilerod and Ulysses —two
plays that were perfect in spots, but in
large stripes cloyinglysweet and uudrama-
tic. And now Phillips comes back to his
earlier method ; he offers us poems to lye
read, not declaimed in magnificent cos-
tumes before gorgeous scenery. And the
pulse of beauty is faint and faltering, and
the poet remains in the backwash of the
Tennysonian method. Tn this volume
there is much estimable verse, much
prose, a few lines of the poet's earlier
luscious self, and, here and there,
Phillips’ individual note—his naive sim-
plicity and direct appeal. But “ En-
dymion ” is an echo of “ Marpessa ”
and a dying echo. Yet there are tine
lines in it, as when the Moon-Goddess
speaks :
At times, indeed, it seems to me that I
Was later born than ever the sun or stars,
And that, perchance, so many faces raised,
So many ballads lone, and secret strings,
feo many far, far thoughts, and spoken names,
Slowly created in the heaven this arc.
And made the sadness that my being is. ...
I had so yearned for joy ; and to be loved
A little, if only such a simple love
As hath a gleaner’s wife in evening hour—
Ivind hands, a still and sweet anxiety,
Brave, prudent talk about the corning day.
And yet, in the same piece, Phillips
degenerates to lines like these :
On Nature’s brow stood out the extreme drops ;
She shuddered, and experienced final cold.
And I should only feel
With melancholy mouth, a grassy mound.
But indeed Phillips, all through this
book, mixes his great linas, such as :*
Babylon, abandoned to great stars. . ..
Launce’ot,
Who burned in sudden steel, like blue flame
amid the cloister.
Or this, of Gladstone :
Yet didst thou love old branches and a book,
And Roman verses on an English lawn.
And this :
But ah, through thine eyes unnumbered dead ones
are peering ;
To the windows the phantoms throng ;
Those millions of perished women, and poets and
lovers.
Gaze where thou gazest and breathe ;
And by ghosts is the blowing meadow-land unfor-
gotten ;
Memories deepen the blue.
So through tears not our own is the sunset strangely
pathetic ;
And splendid with thoughts not ours.
So feel we from far-off hills a soft invitation,
A divine beckon and call.
At the sudden mysterious touch of a stranger we
tremble ;
At lightning from eyes in a crowd ;
And a child will sorrow at evening bells over
meadows.
And grieve by the breaking sea.
O never alone can we gaze on the blue and the
greenness ;
Others are gazing and sigh ;
And never alone can we listen to twilight music ;
Others listen and weep,
And the woman that sings in the dimness tomil-
lions is singing;
Not to thee, O my soul, alone.
But then the jarring clatter of the
machinery !
For a man shall set his hand to a handle and
wither
Invisible armies and fleets,
And a lonely man with a breath shall exterminate
armies,
With a whisper annihilate fleets ;
And a captain shall sit in his chamber and level a
city,
The far-off capital city.
And she lies there.
My mother ! ay, my mother now ; O hair
That once I played with in these halls ! O eyes
That for a moment knew me as I came,
And lightened up, and trembled into love ;
The next were darkened by my hand ! Ah me !
This is the mere echo of Herod, the
echo of an echo of Tennyson. Out of the
twenty-seven poems in this collection
many are puerile, and but five worthy of
note. Blackwood, in reviewing Phillips’
first book of poems, unconsciously used a
prophetic simile.
This volume has made more noise than
any similar publication since Alexander
Smith shot his rocket skyward. But in this
case the genius is no illusion. There are
passages here which move with the footfall
of the immortals, stately lines with all the
music and the weaving of the highest poetry.
It is a habit of rockets to fall, and the
Bodley Head is not ashamed to pick up
and publish the stick.
AUSTRALIA'S BACK YARD
AUSTRALIANS have not yet dis-
covered Australia. The delusion per-
sists that this irregular slab of mud and
dust has no history ; but its earlier records
are at least as exciting as the squabbles that
used to go on in England before Caesar and
William came and colonised and policed that
tiny archipelago. Now Alfred Searcy, of
Adelaide, publishes In Australian Tropics
(Kegan, Paul), an account of his fourteen
years’ experiences as a sub-collector of Cus-
toms at Port Darwin. And an astonishing
and exciting narrative it is. Few in Aus-
tralia would connect this continent with
Malay proas, yet Australia is within easy
reach of the Malay. Searcy’s chief, and
certainly most adventurous, duty was due
to the annual arrival on the coasts of
the Territory of a fleet of Malay proas
from Macassar, come hither to engage in the
trepang, tortoiseshell, and pearling in-
dustries, and, incidentally, to evade payment
of Customs duties and break through immi-
gration q,ets.
“ These proas had between them one hun-
dred and thirty men and nineteen large
canoes engaged in dredging for trepang, so
some idea can be formed how thoroughly the
coast was cleaned up when large numbers of
proas were down, and worked, as they did,
night and day. They also employed a great
number of natives. All the papers on the
proas were made as having cleared f r , mi
Macassar for Marigi, which means black-
fellows’ country or unknown land.
“To think such a scene was possible on
the coast of Australia ! There were four
proas anchored close in to the beach, some
sixteen large dredging canoes at work, and
numerous smaller ones plying between the
proas and the beach. On shore were four
great- smoke-houses, built of bambao anrl
palm-leaves.”
These proas Searcy had to hunt down and
relieve of their Customs dues and fines ; and '
the quest was one of adventure and danger I
He tells, too, of conflicts between Malays I
and blacks, of the arrest of smuggler*’ ■
ketches, of massacres, duels and murders I
And there is much space devoted to sport I
to adventures with buffaloes and alligators
and mosquitoes and ants—in Australian ’
tropics it is hard to decide which of these |
varieties of wild beasts is the most formid- i
able. But the Northern Territory is not a :
mere hunting-box. Enough is gathered from I
Searcy’s narrative to show that this enor- I
mous and valuable tract now to-let is a place
of great navigable rivers, fertile soil, and <
abundant rainfall. And the probable tenant !
ready to move iu—unless the Commonwealth
puts its boundary fences in order and closer-
settles it itself—is the quiet and patient
Chinaman. The book is quite readable and
well illustrated.
A BOOK OF THE SEA
An interesting book, written by a man
who knows, is Bel me and Above the U «fir-|
line, by “Seafarer” (Whitcouibe and Toiblk
M.L.). These sketches, originally appear-
ing in a M.L. newspaper, aim at a descrip-
tion of the work of all the members of a
ship’s company, beginning with the fireman
and working up to the commander of aliiier, i
As an example of the author’s easy informa-
tive style and his sympathetic understand-
ing, this picture of the fireman is worth
giving :
“Imagine yourself in a close, dust-laden
atmosphere with a temperature at from 102
to 125 degrees Fahrenheit, having for four
hours to undergo the continuous physical
exertion of attending to four furnaces. There
are but few opp< utunities even for a mo-
mentary spell ; you pass from one fire to an-
other shovelling, slicing, pricking up between
the bars to detach clinkers, and driving
your slice under the fire to let the draught
percolate freely. As you open each door the
heat, accompanied sometimes by flames-if
the coal is inferior and the draught bad-
rushes out and scorches your face.
“ By the time you have had four hours of
sucli work, and have probably concluded
your labors by partially drawing and closing
two or three fires, you will find yourself
quite exhausted, and will regard the eight
hours’ interval before your next work as
none too long. The arduous nature of your
work, the heat, and the continuous sense of
discomfort will affect your temper ; and even
your training, education, and long-acquired
habit of politeness will not prevent you from
making your verbal communications iu a
sharp and irritable manner, or enable you to
maintain that Chesterfieldian urbanity for
which, in ordinary discourse, you have
hitherto been distinguished. Imagine also,
if you can, that you are of an illiterate class,
that your vocabulary is limited, and your
feelings and energies strong, and you will
come to the conclusion that your previous
condemnation of the steamer-fireman may bef
discounted by many just allowances.' 1
A suburbanite protests against being ex-
eluded from the “Day at Home’’ competi- J
tion. The trouble is she wants an evening ,
cloak, marked 355., and “as the closing date |
is only a month away, it doesn’t give me time |
to take up a selection, or go on the wallaby. |
If you do not alter the conditions so as to |
include suburbanites, I will be compelled to J
withdraw my support from your valuable j
paper, and, by raising money on fine family L
jewels, start an opposition paper with a red |
page three shades brighter than yours, a j
front lawn, roof garden, and two backyards \
with a competition in each, for suburbans i.
The competition is really a deep tie- f
sign to make our readers go on the land; |
but, maybe, there will be a chance fore |
suburban competition later —if. that cloak I
can only wait.


UP-TO-DATE
Lawn Mowers.
No. 484.—The Silens Messor Lawn Mower.
Green’s Silens Messor Lawn Mower (No. 484)
10in., 905.; 12in., 110 s.; 14in., 1375. 6d.;
16in., 1725. ; 24in., .£l2.
Green’s New Century Lawn Mower, with box—
9in., 325. 6d. ; llin., 355. ;
13in., 375. 6d. ; 15in., 40s.
Send for
Illustrated
Price List of
Agricultural
Implements,
Posted Free
Anywhere.
No. 587.
Double Furrow Marvel Plough, to work with one horse, all Iron (No. 587), £4 4s.
The Emperor, 24 Teeth (8 feet) Horse Rake, .£5 ss.
Double Furrow
Marvel Plough.
m
MST :.
JCB
I
No. 40 Ames* American
One Horse Plough.
No. 589.
Ames’ American One Horse Ploughs, wood beam, with extra Share (No. 589),
No. 40, 235. 6d. ; No. 42, 295. 6d.
Extra Shares, 9d. ... Is.
Double Furrow Ploughs, with two extra Shares, £l3 10s.
Circular Coulters or Skeiths, adjustable, for one horse, 12in., 155.; 14in., -17 s.
Wiard Patent Steel Beam Ploughs are put up with Best
Soft Centre Steel Moldboards, &c.
Iron Swing'letrees.
Swingletrees, Iron (No. 606), No. 2, 21 s. ; Single, No. 1, 7 s. 6d.;
Wood do., in sets, 12s. 6d. ; singly, 4s. 6d.
Bullock Yokes and Bows, 375. 6d. complete.
Implements for the Man on the Land
•«♦ AT «*«
Anthony Horderns' Famous Low Prices.
One Horse Iron Plough.
No. 590.
No. O One Horse Iron Plough, with one extra share and
spanner; weight, 1161 b. (No. 590), 70s.
The Little Beauty Iron Pony Plough, weight 821 b., 50s.
Extra Shares, Is. 2d. each ; 13s. doz.
JM
RK
J,
J
J
f/,W A
J
No. 2134.
Guard Lever Harrows
Guard Lever Harrows, 2 Sections (No. 2134)—50 teeth, 605.; 60. teeth, 655.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards, or trashy
ground. The ends of the tooth bars being protected prevents injury from
colliding with trees or shrubs, and avoids the accumulation of trash that
would foul the ordinary harrow.
Made in two sections of 25 and 30 teeth to the section.
The teeth are 8 inches long by inch square.
Wiard Patent Steel Beam Ploughs
(RIGHT HAND)
Forged Steel Beam, Chilled or Steel
Moldboard, Jointer or Coulter, Scotch
Clevis. Handles raise and lower. Wheel
adjusts to either side of beam.
m
Wiard Patent Beam Steel Ploughs are put up with best “soft-centre-steel” moldboards, steel
landsides, with steel shoes and forged steel beam, while the price is lower than that of any
other genuine Scotch Plough ever put on the market.
WOOD BEAM PONY PLOUGH.
No. G 2, will Plough 3in. to Sin. deep, Gin. to Bin. wide ; weight, 401 b., 21s.
No. 62, will Plough 3in. to sin. deep, 6in. to Bin. wide; with wheel, 235. 6d.
STEEL BEAM ONE-HORSE PLOUGH.
No. 74, will Plough 4in. to 6in. deep, 4in. to llin. wide ; weight 841 b., 50s.
No. 75, will Plough 4in. to 7in. deep, Gin. to lOin. wide; weight 801 b., 50s.
No. 120, Steel Beam Swivel Plough, Sin. to Bin. deep, Sin. to 12in. wide, weight 1181 b., 78s. 6d.
Wood Beam, No. 21, One-horse Swivel Plough, will plough 4in. to 7in. deep, 6in. to lOin. wide;
weight 771 b., 445.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace ILnnporititn,
Brickfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


umT
and other
SKINS;
A| so BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, M . d to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court ok London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. Tiie
Wife, The Husband, and Tiie Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Hkptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bf.lls, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, is;
postl/3. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/- ; post 1/3. Manning’s
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwivks’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring- Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Merrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
(W~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
20/ Bourke St., Melbourne
G
4
ME
vm
tm
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To ail vrho supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
give a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
marvellous offer is a business proposition to out a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distriDute among friends. In order thatour goods maybe appreciated,
we require vou to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and |in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’ '
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, ffcc.
This offer is at least worth investigating. Itcosts nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
■nHHIIII—BKBOE3t ft" :
wm-m .mx.
Fountain Pen and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you, Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
great offer is only open for a limited time, "
Write at once. THE GUTTA PERCHA TRADING C 0„ 120 Ash St., Sydney.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘Fruit salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION. '
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
&
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS. OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, «fec.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Valuable Presents
FREE!!
NO MONEY WANTED
We have decided to give away £.5000 i n good and
useful Presents in order to introduce
The Best Peqny Picture Post Cards in Australia
Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, Rifles,
Cameras, Phonographs, Dressing Cases
Girls’ Outfits, Boys Suits, Solid Silver
Watches, and Chains, Etc., Etc.,
I GIVEN AWAY AS PRESENTS to those who will distribute our
Cards. Penny Post Cards are our Great Specialty, and we will send you ?
any quantity from One Dozen to Ten Dozen (to prove the superi- '
ority of our Cards) which you may sell among your friends or keep for (
vour own use, and at anv time within one month after you receive the Cards send us the
due to us, and we will send you any Present you choose from our Grand Prize Lists of good
useful, and valuable Presents (sent with the Cards) without auv further Payment. Remember ! You
may Order anv quantitv from One Doz to Ten Doz. and we require no money whatever I
with your Order. You mav rely on our treating you fairly, as it is to our interest to do so n <
; Trial' Solicited, simply send us your Order fc.r One, Two, Three, or up to Ten Dozen and <
) we will forward the Cards to your Address. We want a great number of Agents, and we want to (
) show you what we can do in Penny Post Cards an d the Valuable Presents we give away (
) to our Agents. <
) T suppukd E The Post Cards Supply Co., 5 Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W. !
CB
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
G'B"
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas,
(&/NPIP
m
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here is a type immeas-
urably superior to all other straight-
fronted corsets.
Wherever smartness and
refined elegance holdssway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles.
Light as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
OBTAINABLE in all styles
FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STOREB
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style, wr te for book of types to
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & GO.
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE
16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY; aad BRISBANE.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobsi'n Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.
’<3 [~| D TTIfILE rsjnn n (?
For TORPID LIVER,
For CONSTIPATION,
For INDIGESTION,
For BILIOUSNESS,
For HEADACHE,
For the COMPLEXION
Everyman and woman should know that Liver Disorder
Injure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER'S LITTLE LIVEK
PILLS, and above all things, fight Constipation. Begin at
once with CARTER'S LITTLE LIVER PILLS. Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuine
Carter’s Little Liver Pills Must Bear Signature of
Palmer Gasoline Motors
MARINE and STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes. 1J to 25 H.P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running. Catalog FREE.
PALMER BROS
Cos Cob,
Conn., U.S.A.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., Agents, Brisbane.
KNOWLES AUTOMOBILE & MOTOR POWER CO. LTD.,
Agents, Sydney.
u
m
rmi
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
t*
(fk
<••9;
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co, Melbourne.


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
\
now in London
writes under
) date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 55 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
filler’s
yiair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S ,b
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded with ut question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year*, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowes. manufacturers’ prices.
LATEST
MODE S
£3ulo to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Frakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to anv rort in the _We guarantee safe deli-, cry.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage for free art catalogues
and our * >tc<nl ojfer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO o, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
2
r
My
Favourite
Sum m er
Beverage is
Montserrat’
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a coo'mg,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the Pennine “MONTSERRAT.”
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art.
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
“4 Teetli”
Davis Town, ® Rl f£g AN “ Owing to
m q w., June 23. son be-
2S5* SCOTTS
came weak, ii . him from rke
Emulsion improved d sleep
THE REASON WH
Always get the
Emulsion with
the mark of the
Scott process—
the Fishman.
. toeth came
hi ill He got the
neededfrom^hehne
gfgwSHj
Vieht, strong,
white teeth; and he
VoTT’Sdown
kept v unique
SCOTT P>ocess °f
r“e“ c, s«”S’
perfectly digestible.
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
of all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicine
D
§
(© S
IRIS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
HIM
|g|| .NGTCN’S
IRISH MOSS
Ji^EC^2 —
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Q
0
BT&jxrd £ss
Tables.
k
„Q
m
$Q
J&
Has it ever struck you what fun and enjoyment
it would be to have a Billiard Table of your own,
even if only a small one? You can get one from
the first makers in the trade, for Messrs. Alcock
& Co. have devised a perfect minia-
ture, at a cost well within the
compass of everyone. Write for
Icomplete catalogue, which will ba
mailed free to any address
MELBOURNE DEPOTi
155 Elizabeth Street.
SYDNEY DEPOT;
422 George Street.
Remarkable Results
from “Hair Drill.”
Thousands of Readers Respond to Offer*
n Another Week’s Test now Offered* !■
There was a very notable response to our recent invitation to readers of this paper, in
which they were offered one week’s free test of the only approved “ hair drill" extant;
and we are pleased to report that a very large number of these are most enthusiastic over
the results accruing. We have also been desired, on behalf of those who did not at the
time avail themselves of the opportunity, to renew our offer ; and we now have pleasure
in announcing that arrangements are now complete for another week’s free “ hair
drill ”
Let us repeat what the “hair drill ” will assuredly prove:—
A. That your hair can be drilled into fine condition.
B. That your hair need not be too brittle or too limp.
C. That your hair need not be too highly coloured or too colourless.
D. That your hair need not fall out when combed or brushed.
E. That your hair need not be scurfy, greasy, or odorous.
We have received very gratifying accounts from those who participated in our previous
test and the unanimous expression is that the “ Harlene Hair Drill ’ ’ undoubtedly improves
and benefits the hair, no matter what form of hair weakness and decay it is suffering
from.
Quality and quantity are both greatly in evidence even after the week’s free test, and
afford the most conclusive proof of the eventual excellence to be attained by a thorough
course.
The proprietors of this famous and celebrated preparation, universally known as
Edwards’ “ Harlene,” therefore, invite everyone whose hair is weak, deficient or faulty
to subject their remedy to the week’s test alluded to, and are confident that those who
do so will be able to report a most manifest improvement.
Edwards’ “ Harlene ” is no new untried preparation, but is the great hair specific, of
which Royal and other distinguished personages speak in terms of the highest approba-
tion, and there is no corner of the world from which testimony to its remarkable value
and efficacy has not been forthcoming.
Readers desirous of having proved to them the possibilities of hair cultivation under
proper conditions are invited to send 3 penny stamps (to cover postage) to Edwards’
r ‘ Harlene ’ Co., 95 and 96 High Holborn, London, who will forward their special free
gift bottle of “ Harlene,” their interesting booklet on hair drill and full directions for use.
“ Harlene” can always be obtained at Chemists and Stores the world over.
No greater mistake can be made than to resort to internal remedies which only ruin
the constitution, or to use cheap, worthless remedies which will but aggravate hair decay
and unhealthiness.
Underwear
•MARK
Made in
England
3avuj.
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE * BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
ON TNE NOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ! ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin siae
Price, 21s.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mystery.
friend of my life, and Brother of my heart,
Give me a word of cheer ere I depart.
When beyond the city wall
Shrills the Heaven-high bugle call,
And the postern gates unroll
For the flying soul;
Past those thunder-clanging gates,
In the Mystery he waits.
Who shall lead thee on and on,
Till the dark be gone ?
Death, gigantic and austere,
Take his hand with little fear ;
He shall bear thee, tend thee well,
Where no tongue may tell.
Lean upon him, he is strong,
On his breast shall come no wrong;
Gentle-browed as love is he,
An thine eyes could see.
Friend of my life, when at the bugle-call.
And the great gates behind me clang and fall,
What if there be (God’s fear 1) no guide beyond the
wall ?
MAORILAND.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.
Poppies.
Royally you ruled aforetime.
Held to many lips the gall,
In the days when you were women—
Kings and kingdoms in your thrall.
Tell me, poppies, in your dreaming.
Do you recollect it all ?
You, the swart Egyptian siren
(Oh, I know you for the same !)
By the side of Nilus river,
Fanned the hearts of men to flame,
Till they burned to grey, cold ashes
So the years might keep your name.
You, the Guinevere of Arthur,
Years ago, in passion hot,
Light, they say, your wedlock bound you,
And they speak of Launcelot.
Did your after-penance right you ?
Has your husband yet forgot ?
And, Delilah, tigress-hearted,
Were your eyelids ever wet
For the giant fool you slaughtered ?
Came there ever late regret ?
(Even now we have our Samsons,
Sturdy fools amongst us yet.)
Flaunting poppies, nodding gaily
To the sunflower next the wall,
Do you think of olden lovers ?
Any memories recall
Of the days when you were women,
Kings and kingdoms in your thrall?
N.S.W.
P.J.D.
A Prayer.
Keep me away from love, Mary, my Mother.
Keep me away, apart,
That no one man has power more than another
Subtly to stir the depths of my sleeping heart,
Subtly to stir my pulse to a beat uneven.
Keep me away from love,
Mother of Heaven !
Keep me away from love!
There is a man whose name, even in praying,
I have no right to bless ;
(Pity me, pity me. Mother ! What am I saying?
How shall I steel my heart in its feebleness ?)
Lo, I can fight no more. I have prayed and
striven.
Keep me away from love !
Mother of Heaven.
Keep me away from love !
Never a word of mine or a smile has moved him
(See, I have slain my pride !).
Am I to blame in knowing I could have loved him
Had he desired this love which I strive to hide ?
Which I would hide, forsake—nay, would even
smother ?
Keep me away f rom love,
Mary, my Mother !
Keep me away from love!
Love is so cruel a thing when it comes so vainly,
And I can bear no more ;
Love is too fierce a thing to be dealt with sanely,
Knowing no rules or bounds now or evermore.
How shall I face the nights and the long to-
morrows ?
Keep me away from love.
Mother of Sorrows,
Keep me away from love !
Never shall helpless hands cling trustfully to me,
I must remain alone,
Never to feel the wonderful thought thrill through
me,
Breaking in rapture—“ This is my child—my
own ! ”
(Why is so weak a heart to a woman given ?)
Keep me avjay from love,
Mother of Heaven !
Keep me away from love!
I have grown starved and weary with endless
giving :
God will perhaps repay ; .
I would live calmly now —if one calls it living .
Nothing shall break the calm of my lonely way ;
Cold and remote as the moon which o’er-shines
the city—
Keep me away from love !
Mother of Pity,
Keep me away from love !
N.S.W.
ASTERISK.


ART METAL
CEILING
r/£0
<Send fer our ‘Booklet 'Beautiful Homes 7
postfree on application.
J fte
, v,v<'vr
SYDNEY,
56.
Pitt St.
oin
MELBOURNE
I 123 |
Queen St.
The New Frag'rant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
f.
6
Tobacco
■ 0 ManuFactored in.
V Richmond Virginia.
I © by Larus C?
V Packed by RTowr^siiCo.Agents.Sydney.
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot get
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile 'reduced) of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
Strenuous
Wor/cerJ?
CADBURY’S COCOA
/ is the ideaJ beverage because it is rich
in strength - imparting essentials and there-
fore promotes physical endurance and hardihood.
English
Prize Awards:- London 1851. Paris 1889.
Lonpon 1862. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892..
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
N
RM AMS
DON
Watch es
SOLD BY
All Jeweli f.rs
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
am
head office - Mutual Life Building,Martin Place,Sydney.
'j\X term//j*7for
v J\EV£R f/t/L S
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World I
A'
Of all Dealers,
S' for
comfort
aw h eel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
/ all cyclists the world over
Sole makers :
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director
ItJW.C.
l 9 g g $
LOOK for the U trademark stamped on the
head of all U. M. C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets.
Tell your dealer U. M. C. make ONLY .
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
M.
3BHflßsaggjajm
H'uOLlJf.
S 3 13
m
asm
S'O
HOTEL
HIETROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain anti Circular Quay •
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may bo secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
/<
jr
■•■ i
.
1
A
. W>
r
iL.
E.RICh a Cg. LT?4; BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 29.-No. 1464.
THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1908.
Price 6d
A DOMESTIC EPISODE WITH AN ALL-AUSTRALIAN APPLICATION.
N.S.W. State Premier Wade and the Sydney
Water and Sewerage Board are still rolling over
and over on the floor, discussing the question of
another 57 square miles of catchment area which
the Board says is urgently required to guarantee
Sydney against water famine. Wade declares,
while the two authorities scrap fiercely with their
heads under the grate, that he will use the place
for a benevolent institution and consumptives’
hospital, and that Sydney must look elsewhere for
water; and the Board, while fighting a desperate
rear-guard action in the coal-scuttle, asserts that
Wade does this sort of thing with a mere view to
being, nasty. Anyhow, when Sydney itself can’t
get a small question of a water reservation fixed
without all this bitter scrimmage, the Australian
Parliament had better make dead sure that the
whole water-supply of the Federal capital is under
its own control. The Federal capital would
almost certainly have a far worse experience than
Sydney, if it depended on the State Government,
and would have to scuffle a lot harder for a drink.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
** A ustralia for the A astral iana.”
Printed and Published by William Maclicod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advaine, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ° ®
Half-yearly ... ... ••• n v rt
Quarterly ... ... ••• U I if
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tub Bulletin’ posted
regularly to you every iveelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tv he addressed to \Villiam Macleod, Managing Director.
lloiv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor * Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Jnsufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved oy
the publishers. .
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential. _ ,
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamos
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tub Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
jo Amateurs in Itlach uml White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn will be pufd
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 113 High Holborn, London , W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central Neivs Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco.— W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
A gen ts’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x l!tin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TTie'^'alleiz^L.
THURSDAY, MARCH 5, 1908.
BRITAIN’S DEFENCE AND AUS-
TRALIA’S—A COMPARISON.
This comfortable folk who babble pleasantly about
the needlessness of any serious attempt on our
part to provide for Australia’s defence are much
addicted to quoting the alleged example of
Britain in support of their case. Britain, they
are fond of saying, doesn’t find any need for
universal military training, therefore it is absurd
to suppose that we can require anything of the
kind. And Britain, it is further added, is pledged
to protect us, therefore compulsory military train-
ingin Australiabecomesdoublyand trebly needless.
As regards the first of these points, it is well to con-
sider what forces Britain actually maintains for
its own protection, and gather from that what
view Britain, if it seriously considered the matter,
would probably take of Australia s military
necessities: —
Forces for Purely Local Defence of British Isles.
Militia .. .. •• •• 133,900
~ Reserve .. .. •• 7,700
Yeomanry .. .. .. •• 27,638
Volunteers .. .. .. •• 337,072
506,310
Forces Available for Local Defence or Foreion
Service.
Regulars in U.K .. .. .. 169,723
Army Reserve .. .. .. 129,000
Regulars in India .. .. .. 75,967
Naval Forces (mostly in British waters) 128,000
502,690
Grand Total . .1.009,000
So we come down to the facts and figures of the
case. Britain’s idea of the force required for the
protection of two little islands— l2l,39l square
miles in all —is, in the first place, 506,310 men
RESERVED FOR LOCAL DEFENCE ONLY, and all fairly
well trained ; second 502,690 really trained men,
likewise 65 battleships, and about 445 other
vessels, op all of which the British Isles have the
first call in every case, and all of which will
devote themselves wholly to Britain’s defence so
long as the British Isles are in any kind of danger.
These, with arsenals, gun-factories, cannon foun-
dries, ammunition factories, dockyards, and
strongly-fortified naval ports are the British theory
of something like a defence for 121,391 square miles
of territory. But Britain doesn’t call this by any
means an adequate defence—-the weakness of the
yeomanry, militia, and volunteers is a constant
subject of lamentation; it is simply the least inade-
quate defence the country has been able to get
.together under the voluntary system.
■X - *
Australia, on the other hand, has 2,972,906
.square miles of country at stake. That means
that it has 24 times the area to be defended that
Britain has, and though no one .proposes that it
should therefore maintain 24 thrifts the defence
force, yet the question of area calls for some con-
sideration. The proposal of the Deakin Ministry
is to gradually—very gradually—raise an Aus-
tralian defence force of something like 800,000
very slightly trained militia, and a naval force of
a dozen or two small vessels. The 800,000 very
slightly trained men, with no reserve of male
population behind them, compare very poorly
with Britain’s defence force of 1,009,000 men,
mostly far more elaborately trained than
the prospective Australian soldier is to be,
and with several millions of able-bodied but
untrained adult male population in reserve,
and with 510 war vessels in the foreground of the
picture. And it must be remembered that all of
these forces are primarily for the defence of
Britain, and only incidentally, and as an after-
thought and a side issue, for the defence of
Greater Britain. It is a pleasant and comforting
delusion that these purely British forces are
pledged in some way to the defence of Australia
and Maoriland and any other part of Greater
Britain which may require their aid. Britain
will defend Australia and Maoriland and Canada
and such-like places, with the force that isn’t
reserved for purely local defence, if its pride,
or its interest, impels it to do so, or if it feels that
way; but there is no promise, guarantee,
treaty, assurance, protocol or writing, or any
other obligation to that effect. If Britain feels
the other way it may do as did the Emperor
Heraclius, when he released Asia from its
allegiance and told it to shift for itself, and left in
a hurry. And even if Britain was bound on
paper, the meanness and precariousness of the
policy of depending on Good Old Mother would
still remain. Moreover, the strongest paper obli-
gation doesn’t amount to much.
* * * *
Of course Britain has no system of compulsory
military or naval training, but that is not the
matter at issue. Britain reckons that a mixed
military establishment of a million men is some-
thing like a reasonable- —or at least a possible-
provision for its own defence, and as it can get
that force without compulsory service, it has no
compulsory service. Australia has 24 times the
area to defend, and it can’t raise even half
Britain’s defence force without compulsory and
universal training, therefore Australia proposes to
go in for compulsory and universal training.
Britain can persuade a little over 2 per cent,
of its population to arm, more or less,
in a voluntary way, and a little over
2 per cent, gives Britain a million soldiers,
of a more-or-less description. Doubtless Australia
could also get a little over 2 per cent, of its popu-
lation to serve voluntarily, but that would only
represent abcwt 81,000 men. Between a million
men (and about 510 ships) to defend 121,391 square
miles, and 81,000 men and perhaps, in the dim
future, a dozen ships to defend 2,972,906 square
miles, there is a great gulf and discrepancy. The
effort made in the way of defence should bear
some proportion to the size of the inheritance to
be defended. The Briton, on an average, is born
to an inheritance of If acre ; the Australian, on
an average, is born to an inheritance of nearly 500
acres. It is worth while to make a rather
bigger effort per map to defend 500 acres
than If acre. There are, roughly speaking,
560 people to hold each square mile in England ;
150 to each mile in Scotland, and 137 in Ireland,
and if even 2 per cent, of that population volun-
teers, that means, so far as England is concerned,
11 armed defenders to the mile. In Australia,
there is, on a steady average, less than 1| person
to hold each square mile, and the 2 per cent, of
the population that seems to be obtainable on the
voluntary principle only means about one soldier
to a county. It is up to that 1\ person to make
some extra sacrifice if he (and the half person)
hopes to hold the square mile that a lavish Provi-
dence has blessed him with. Britain’s idea of
defence is, roughly, one soldier to 77 acres. The
allegedly large and wild proposal of the Deakin
Government, when its scheme is complete, about
ten years’ hence, is one very slightly trained
militia-man to rather over 2300 acres. Taking all
these matters into account, it is difficult to see
how even the most infuriated advocate of peace
can find much to object to in the Deakin
Government’s defence proposals. Their great
weakness seems to lie in their excessive modera-
tion—in the inadequacy of the training proposed
for the military forces and the miserably diminu-
tive character of the suggested naval armaments.
* * * *
It must be remembered that money as well as
men has to be considered. When an island com-
munity like that of Britain (or Australia) resolves
to retire from (or abstain from) dangerous foreign
land wars, its first business is to protect its shores
(if it can afford to do so) with something like an
invincible fleet. The biggest fleet on earth costs
a frightful lot of money, but it is cheap in men.
Britain has invested a few hundred millions in a
navy which is reckoned at least a match for any
other two navies on the world’s waters ; yet that
gigantic, unprecedented and apparently in-
vincible fleet requires only 128,000 men—men,
in this sense, including even pensioners, boys
in training, marines, students and coast-guards.
If Britain were a country with a land frontier,
and had to rely solely on its army for
defence purposes, or if it had no overwhelming
navy and so, again, had to rely on its army for
defence purposes, these 128,000 men wouldn't
make the beginning of a first line of defence.
Such a force isn’t regarded as anything like half
sufiicent for the protection of Bulgaria or Rou-
mania. Britain, by taking to sea defence, which
it can do by reason of its insular position, is able
to make money, to an immense extent, fill the
place of men, and thus dispenses with compulsory
service ; but in the days when it hadn’t command
of the sea it had compulsory and universal mili-
tary service as a matter of necessity. Australia
can’t take a lesson and an example from Britain,
as Britain is now. It can’t put up two or
three or four hundred millions for a fleet that can
hold the sea against all its marine neighbors.
When, some day, it is left to itself in war time,
because Britain is busy guarding its own coasts
and the communications with America and else-
where which preserve it from starvation, this
country must consider the possibility of
having to meet an enemy on land within
its own territory. That means that it must
make men take the place ot money, and put things
on a Roumanian or Bulgarian footing rather than a
British footing. The British model doesn’t fit
our case, because Britain’s scheme of volun-
tary military and naval service is based on
the substitution of a floating kingdom of iron-
mongery for human beings, and Australia can’t
buy more than a floating province of ironmongery
as yet. But even when Britain has, according to
European ideas, substituted ironmongery for men,
it keeps nearly 900,000 white soldiers ready for de-
fence. The gap between British ideas and the ideas
of the anti-defence party in Australia is thus some-
thing enormous. Even the gap between
Britain’s idea of defence and the ideas of
the Australian party which demands uni-
versal military training is large enough.
Ilritain, described as a country which has kept
out of the vortex of militarism, and abjured the
bloated armaments, has still ideas in the way of
armaments which, putting one set of circum-
stances against the other, transcend anything yet
proposed or dreamt of in this country. And the
oft-quoted fact that Britain has many isolated
Crown colonies to defend has no bearing on the
case. The British fleet and army and reserves
exist as a precaution against war with the coun-
try’s big neighbors—mainly France, Germamy,
and Russia. France and Germany would be just
as near, and as big and as dangerous, if Britain
didn’t own such places as St. Helena and Lagos
and the Falkland Islands, and Britain would have
to make its defences just as massive as they are
to-day, even if it didn’t possess Gambia, Turk’s
Island, and South Georgia. So it is a fair thing
to measure Britain’s defences, regarded as the
fortifications of tw'o little islands in the North Sea,
with the proposed defences of Australia, and con-
sider, on that basis, whether there is anything
extra large or extravagant in the Deakin Govern-
ment’s proposals.
* * * *
The only real question is whether we need
any defences, or whether we can depend for
protection on that two-headed creature, the
Anglo-Jap alliance. Leaving out of consideration
the meanness of shirking our share of the
burden, and the fact that, if Britain had to come
to our aid in time of war Britain would almost cer-
tainly claim a voice in such matters as the White
Australia policy, on the ground that they tend to
provoke wars of which Father Bull has to carry
the burden—what is the value of Bull-Monkey
as a protection ? On Bull we might possibly rely,
but Bull-Monkey looks like less than half the
friend that Bull was—certainly he doesn’t look
like twice the friend. There is nothing pleasant
in the prospect of finding a friendly Japanese
garrison, many thousands strong, in possession of
our cities, and a friendly Jap fleet filling our har-
bors in a perfectly friendly way. when Father Bull
gets into serious difficulties. Yet if difficulties
come, and we can’t provide for our own defence,
that seems to be exactly what the Bull-Monkey
combination is for. On the whole it seems a lot
cheaper to provide for our own defence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wade on a Polluted and Undrinkable River.
A FEW days ago the legal gentleman who occupies
the Premier’s job in N.S.W. was moved to speak
this little piece about the alleged unfitness of the
Federal capital site selected by the Australian
Parliament:—
Referring to some illustrations published in a weekly
paper, with the object of comparing the magnitude of the
THE SOURCE OF THE SNOWY RIVER.
Above Dalgety, the selected Federal Capital. (This is the river which , according to N.S.W.
Premier Wade, is so closely settled that the water must be contaminated.)
Photo, by Kerry & Co., SOS George-street, Sydney.
Snowy River, the “ water frontage ” of Dalgety, with the
insignificance of the Cotter River, which is the source of
the water supply for the Canberra site, Mr. Wade said the
obvious suggestion was that the water supply for t e
capital, if Dalgety was chosen, is to come from the Snowy
River. “There is no doubt that the Snowy River is a fine
body of water,” the Premier added, “ but it has settle-
ment along its banks for many miles above Dalgety. The
Commissioner distinctly eliminated the Snowy River as
a source $f water suprLY, and recommended that the
supply be drawn from the Moonbah, which, like the
Cfb free M. U» «< contortion I-
There’is such a tendency on the part of the die-
rsJSS
is always good to look up actual documentary
evidence ; for often when it is looked up it flatly
contradicts the statements of State Frights and
Co., and proves to be the exact reverse of what
they alleged it to be. For instance this is part of
the official report (dated 17/10/’O5) of Surveyor-
General Scrivener on the Dalgety capital site
Regarding as I do the water supply of the Federal City
as a matter of supreme importance, I think every effort
should be made to secure an uncontaminated supply ; it
is obvious that were the seat of government established
at Dalgety, within a limited area, small factories and
trades of a noxious character, that probably would not
he permitted within the Federal territory, would be
established outside, but still within the catchment area
of streams discharging into the Snowy River, when no
possible effort would prevent pollution. The difficulties
that have been encountered by every city, and the ex-
penditure involved in securing a sufficient water supply
from an unpolluted source, are well known, and should
aid in preventing a repetition of such difficulties in con-
nection with the Federal City.
Apart from the Snowy River, the Dalgety site has no
advantages over others ; IT IS BECAUSE IT POSSESSES
A WATER SUPPLY OF UNSURPASSED PURITY,
AND SOURCES OF POWER EQUAL TO ANY DE-
HANDS THAT MAY BE MADE UPON THEM, that
this site occupies a position so prominent, hence the
necessity for so designing the Federal territory that in
the future these advantages may not be lost.
If the most desirable area were to be designed, I should
not hesitate in suggesting that shown by green edging,
which contains an area of about 1550 square miles, and
embraces the whole of the catchment area of the Snowy
River and its tributaries above the proposed city site,
With the catchment area controlled by the Federal
Government, pollution of the waters of the Snowy lii WT
would be impossible.
That authority, at all events, considerably upsets
the Wade story. He represents the Snowy, not
as an undrinkable fluid, but as “ a water supply
of unsurpassed purity,” and merely emphasises
the fact that it is necessary for the Common-
wealth to secure a large area of land so
that it may control the whole upper course
of the river and be in a position to pre-
vent it being contaminated through the State
Government allowing the establishment of bone-
mills and tanneries on the catchment area just
outside the Federal border. There is a wide dif-
ference between Wade saying that the Snowy
isn’t a drinkable supply and the official authority
suggesting that it might become undrinkable if
the State Government —which is Wade at present
—were left in charge of its catchment area. Sur-
veyor-General Scrivener reckons that 1550 square
miles is the smallest area of Federal territory that
will enable the Australian Parliament to prevent the
State authority —which is Wade at present—from
allowing the pollution of the water supply, and
the advocates of a 200-square-mile Federal terri-
tory would do well to make a note of this fact.
Yet even the 1550 square miles don’t include two
great essentials —a Federal port and a land outlet
into another State besides N.S.W. When these
matters are allowed for, The Bulletin’s proposi-
tion that 5000 square miles should be considered
the irreducible minimum begins to look a very
moderate suggestion indeed.
John Quick, Federalist.
Almost before the ink was dry on Minister Chap-
man’s proclamation, prohibiting the importation
of wheat bags built to hold more chan 2001 b.,
some alleged farmers’ delegates met and started
making a noise in Melbourne. They represented
those eleemosynary institutions called P. and A.
societies, and, like them, they wanted all they
could get, and offered little in return. They
offered the lumper and the agricultural laborer
bucketsful of sympathy, and none of them wanted
to put more than 2401 b. of wheat in a bag (some
even agreed with the 2001 b. limit), but they were
quite sure Minister Chapman’s act was a
“gross interference with State rights and an
unwarrantably serious tax on the rural producer.”
One delegate only (J. W. Power, of Horsham)
had the courage of his convictions. He wanted
no 2401 b. bag, or even 2001 b believed the
work could be done by mechanical appliances.
But he thought Minister Chapman had exceeded
his powers, and he advised going to law'. But
“ he was no believer in going to the State to fight
their own battle. Let them put their hands in
their pockets and carry a case to the High
Court ! ” The amazed delegates jeered at him.
They were Anti-Sosh to a man, but not of that
honest breed. They turned to John Quick,
M.P. for Bendigo, and Quick told them
they could do nothing till the proclamation
came into effect on May 15, “ but in the
meantime let them go to the State Premier and
ask him to bring in a law to legalise the comsack
of the present size [6oolb. presumably]. Whjlst
not desirous of conflict, he thought the State
authorities should have been consulted.” That is
Quick—John Quick, Federalist! The State
Premier was consulted long ago, and at nrs
agreed to the 2001 b. bag ; but, even if he were no
consulted, does Quick, Federalist, imagine tha
the Federal Ministers are expected to consu
every little State authority before carrying ou
reforms strictly within their own domains .' An
if Quick, Federalist, also lawyer, fancies sue
questions are debatable, doesn’t he know that t
High Court is the proper authority to decide
matter? Since when has he been in the habit
appearing and arguing before Justiee BENT.
♦ —;
Cow.
Since Aaron made a golden calf and the child
ren of Israel bowed down in worship of it ( w
was B C. 1700, according to those who protess
know) up to this year, 1908 A.D., there * eel “ s ,
have been always a malign influence at *p
Cow, its husband the Bull, its progeny the >
and its products—the milk which is so usu
watered, and the butter which is so us J
adulterated with boracic acid. The Cow s
to be immediately and obstinately—wel J
a Cow. In the singular number the
of its evil eye shows conspicuously. -
a happy suburban family has been tor
dissension and brought to the,, P Ol ' 1 , i |V
which son called father “a fair Cow t
the acquisition of a female ox and the subs 1
blighting quarrels as to who should mi _ , .
animal and attend to its cow-like and deg
habits. The best of neighbors can be broug
a state of mutual loathing by one or other s
to keep a Cow. But it is in the aggregate™
the Cow becomes really maleficent. Ihe ta , t
and evil of one Cow is multiplied, a hundre
least, in the herd of twenty cows. Where
human feeling can survive the propmqu y
one Cow, aggregate Cow means ine
child sweating, sordid slavery of adults,
in short, a Cow of a life. Let Cow come


guide the destinies of a district, and humanity-
dies and the milk of human kindness dries at the
social udder. With which preface The Bulletin
records the fact, on the authority of the Rev.
Carr Smith, a most respected Anglican
clergyman, that at the Anglican church of the
dairying district of Mittagong (N.S.W.) the State
orphans who are engaged by the Cow-owners are
not allowed to mix in church with the other child-
ren, as they are not counted respectable enough !
The fact needs no comment. It’s just Cow.
«.
About Traditions and Things.
Sydney Telegraph got its second wind, the other
day, and started its “military expert” out to find
some new reasons for objecting to universal mili-
tary training. If there could be anything more
encouraging to the friends of the principle than
this anti-national paper’s frenzied opposition, it
is the absurd futility of the arguments that it has
been compelled to use, for want of better, in the
attempt to justify that opposition. The first of
the two new reasons found by the Telegraph
against the universal service scheme is—
It will abolish the names of the existing militia regi-
ments, and, with their names, all their glorious tradi-
tions.
The office-cat nearly perished with laughter on
reading that. The “ glorious traditions” of Aus-
tralian militia regiments amount to simply nil.
Perhaps some people will be misguided enough to
count as glorious the exploit of the Australian
contingent which went to the Soudan and brought
one more donkey home. Even so, no regiment
participated in that fantastic frivol, and so it pro-
vides no regiment with a “tradition.” To some
people the help which Australians gave the
Randlords to fasten Chinese labor on South
Africa would count for “ glorious traditions.”
But again, no single regiment participated.
Never yet has an Australian regiment brought
its colors to the front, or faced anything more
serious than a King’s Birthday Parade. There is
no reason at all, therefore, for the sake of non-
existent traditions, to object to a reform which will
at least allow of the possibility of acquiring tradi-
tions in the future. The second reason found by
the temporarily demented Daily Telegraph for
objecting to the proposed scheme of universal
service is that the specialists of the service, such
as artillerymen, are to be required to put in longer
periods of training, for which they will be paid.
How disingenuous is this objection, which
the Telegraph exalts into a fatal blot
on the whole scheme, is best seen by con-
sidering the alternatives. Either the “special
arms” would be put through the same period of
training as the rank and file of the infantry, in
which case they could not possibly become
efficient; or they would be asked to put in
lengthy special periods of training, but not be
paid anything, in which case they would have a
solid grievance. Now which does the Telegraph
propose ? Or will it confess that it is actuated by
no motives of reason, but only blind hatred of a
scheme which promises to put Australia on its
feet as a self-respecting, self-defending national
entity, fit to take its Imperial responsibilities in
real earnest ?
■ ♦
Daily Fiction.
Some day, when a monumental work is written
upon the fiction of Australia, it is to be hoped that
a fair amount of space will be given to the Sydney
Telegraph’s Federal Parliamentary reports.
They are a crude, coarse variety of fiction, but
still, like “ Dead wood Dick ” and its kind, they
fill a place. The Telegraph’s “ Federal Session ”
column doesn’t give real news. It is a wild
partisan distortion of news, suited to the ’Graph’s
purposes. In it Federal Ministers are always
flurried, or excited, or ignorant of the contents of
their own Bills, or making pathetic appeals to a
magnanimous Opposition, or doing strange
entrances and curious exits, or perpetrating
abject and terrified surrenders as soon as
the meanest Joe Cookite rises and fixes
them with his tremendous eye, or some-
thing like that. The Federal Minister, in
the Sydney Telegraph’s great serial fiction, is a
poor and humble and confused creature, akin to
the process-server in the Irish melodrama ; while
the Oppositionist isakeen, logical, eloquent master-
ful person, who carries everything him—
something like the heroic character that George
Rignold used to do on the stage. Yet the
Government, which is always represented as
crushed and cornered and apologetic, and in a
state of back-down, carries its measures ; while
the overwhelming and glorious Opposition that
the Telegraph is so fond of depicting gets licked.
After every imaginary victory won in the pages
of the Telegraph’s Parliamentary summary,
the Telegraph’s victorious party seems to
gather up its baggage and fly for its life.
And the humiliating and complicated episodes
of the Telegraph’s summary, wherein the
Government is shown up in all its mental naked-
ness by the Solomons of the Opposition, can
never be found in Hansard ; the thing one finds
there is so utterly different that it is hard to
imagine that it is the same animal. For instance,
here is one story, as told in the Telegraph’s
summary (28/2/’08): —
On Tuesday night the last shred of independence was
taken from the Government. Senator Chataway, an
Opposition member for Queensland, proposed a reduction
in the duties on artificial flowers. He gave reasons which
appealed to Senator Best. Senator Best thought that
the arguments were most excellent. There should cer-
tainly be a reduction in the duties, he admitted. . . .
Suddenly a Labor member got up from below the gang-
way, “ What does the Government, mean,” he angrily and
menacingly called out, “ by submitting to a request for a
reduction of the dutv? Is not the Government going to
stick to its own tariff ?” “ Stick to its own tariff ” was a
novel sort of phrase from a Labor member. For the
Government had all the evening been hurriedly arid
eagerly agreeing to every increase of duty that the Labor
party had either proposed or had offered to support.
Senator Best listened to this attack on himself,
seriously disturbed. Running off, he consulted the cus-
toms officials, who occupy a small box at the side of the
Chamber. He returned to his seat, shaking his head.
Then another Labor member arose. “ Why is the Govern-
ment sacrificing its tariff in this way ?•” he asked. What
does it mean ? Hasn’t the Government the courage to
stand by its own duties?” The Opposition looked on
with amusement and curiosity. ,
Everybody, of course, knew what would come. Senator
Best got up. He was afraid, he said, that he had made a
mistake. He had in a moment of, what should he say—
he searched about for the correct word, but it seemed
impossible for him to find it—however, he had, in a
moment of—in fact, in that moment, he had said that ne
would support a proposal by Senator Chataway for a
reduction of the duty on artificial flowers. He was very
sorry, but it was quite an error. And then he searched
his whole vocabulary to find language apologetic enoug ,
and the whole of his resources to discover an attitude
correct enough to assure the Labor party that never
again would he venture to accept any proposal that nad
not its complete endorsement; that never again would
he risk an opinion of his own until he had handed it over
to the caucus for approval. The Labor Members let
him off.
That is a fair sample of the ordinary, every-day
Telegraph Parliamentary report. Anyone who
reads it can see, in his mind’s eye, the lofty,
superior, dignified Foreign-trader, looking like
Columbus when he discovered America; the
angry, overbearing Laborist; and the cringing,
truckling Minister. But Hansard doesn’t show
ffy aggressive Laborist shouting “ What does the
Government mean ? ” nor any other Laborist cal-
nng out Hasn’t the Government the courage to
stand by its own duties ! ” There is no sign
in the official record of Senator Best
struggling to find the right word of apology,
or making any apology at all. It shows
in a plain, simple way that Chataway proposed
a reduction of the duty on artificial flowers in the
general tariff from 30 to 25 per cent.; that Best
agreed ; that he then found that the Opposition
likewise expected a reduction in the already low
duty charged in the preferential tariff on artificial
flowers imported from England, and with that
Best wholly disagreed ; that Millen, the leader
of the importers’ party, declared he would rather
have no reduction at all than have it only on the
non-English imports, and Best took him at his
word, and said that, in that case, no reduction
would suit him well enough. It isn’t exactly like
the Telegraph’s yarn, but the resemblance
between actual fact and the Telegraph’s yarn is
seldom very close.
A Community that is Running After Itself
with an Axe.
The S. M. Herald, like all the parochial papers,
can’t get away from the idea that the Common-
wealth is a foreign and invading animal—a Jap,
or a crocodile, or something—against which we
have to take the most serious precautions. Hence
such items as this (leading article, 28/2/ 08) :
For it is at this point that the States are first called
UDon to take such action as will show very plainly that
they do not intend to become the victims of anything
like unification. ,
Now what, in the name of all that is silly, does
that mean? The States are the people. The
Commonwealth is the people—the same people.
If the people decide to govern themselves to a
greater extent through the 1‘ ederal authority, and
to a less extent trough the State authority, who
can stop them ? The S. M. Herald holds that it is
up to the people to take such action in them State
capacity against themselves in their Federal
capacity as shall be a stern warning addressed by
themselves to themselves that they don t intend to
be the victims of their own base umhcaLon con-
spiracy. That is the Herald s foolish infant-
school yarn put short. It urges the people not to
allow themselves to put their own lron h ® el “
their own necks, but rather to rise up, and knock
themselves into the middle of next week so that
they won t see themselves again till midday on
the ensuing Wednesday. It urges them to beware
of themselves. It bids them keep an eye on their
own insidious doings. It is afraid they will
supinely fall asleep, and crawl treacherously upon
themselves during their own slumbers, and slay
themselves by stealth, so that when they wake
up they will find themselves dead, and no one
but themselves will know who did it. The
Herald is convinced that we have gathered
together to deprive ourselves of our own liberties,
and unless the people—who are slumbering in
fancied security at the same time that they are
gathered together as above described—wake and
gather together again (the same crowd) to defend
themselves from their own previous gathering,
and tight against themselves, and,make dead sure
that they don’t fall a victim to their own machi-
nations, the results may be fatal. Then the nation
will bury itself, and come on fine Sundays to
lunch at its own grave. It may all seem very
good Herald logic, but it is very poor ordinary
logic. A paper that tells the people that they
are called upon to take such action as will show
very plainly that they don’t mean to fall victims
to themselves, appears a good deal of an ass. If
the paper thinks that unification would damage
some little parochial interests of its own, why
doesn’t it say so, instead of drawing fearsome
pictures of the community running insanely after
itself with an axe ?
Japan : A Friend’s Portrait.
We are often reproached—we White Australians
who cannot share Bruce SSiith’s affection for the
Japanese—with judging them ignorantly, with
picking out the worst that can be said about their
worst specimens, an 1 generalising from it about
the whole nation. Very well. Then try for a
change the opinions of the most sympathetic
European who has yet lived among them as a
Japanese, and see what he thinks of their best
specimens. Against Bruce Smith we summon
Lafcadio Hearn :
The differences in the ways of thinking render it im-
possible for an educated Japanese to find pleasure in the
society of a European. ... I imagine that sympathy and
friendship are almost impossible for any foreigner to
obtain, because of the amazing difference in the psycho-
logy of the two races. ... I feel unhappy at being in the
company of a cultivated Japanese for more than an hour
at a time.
Here’s one reason why :
To an Oriental it seems utterly monstrous that grown-
up children should not live with their father, mother,
and grand-parents, and support and love them more than
their own children, wives, or husbands. It seems to him
sheer wickedness thac a man should not love his mother-
in-law, or that he should love his own wife even half as
well as his own father or mother. Our whole existence
seems to him disgustingly immoral. . . . His wife is not
of the family proper—a stranger, not of the blood of the
ancestors. How can he love her like his own parents?
. . . I’ve seen how thoroughly detestable Japanese can be,
and that revelation assisted in illuminating things. lam
now convinced, for example, that the deficiency of the
sexual instinct (using the term philosophically) in the
race is a serious defect rather than a merit, and is very
probably connected with the absence of the musical sense,
and the incapacity for abstract reasoning.
So much for the possibility of admitting even the
best Japanese to permanent social intercourse;
but commercial intercourse on anything like equal
terms with honorable traders—we cannot deny
that with some European traders terms would be
equal—seems equally unattainable. Listen to
Hearn’s prophecies of 1895, and then talk to any
merchant of your acquaintance who trades much
with Japan :
A system of small persecutions will be inaugurated and
maintained to drive away all the foreigners who can be
driven away. . . . Life will he made wretched for Occi-
dentals in business, just as it is being made in the schools,
by all sorts of little tricky plans which cannot be brought
under law provisions, or even so defined as to appear to
justify resentment—tricks at which the Japanese are as
elaborately ingenious as they are in matters of etiquette
and forms of other kinds. The nation will show its ugly
side to us—after a manner unexpected, but irresistible....
And again :
The Japanese official, with all his civility and morality
rubbed off, is something a good deal lower than a savage,
and meaner than the straight-out Western rough (who
always has a kernel of good in him) by an inexpressible
per cent.
But why depend on even Hearn ? Out of their
own mouths they can be judged. ‘‘Men have
come to think,” says one of their Ministers of
Justice, “ that any conduct which is not illegal is
allowable.” “It is the low public estimate,” says
Viscount Koyata, ‘‘of the character and general
qualifications of Ministers of State that is at the
root of existing corruption.” “The efficiency of
the Department of Justice,” says Dr. Hiroto, “is
impaired by the lack of facilities for discovering
and punishing crimes committed by the higher
classes of society.” These are not remarks on the
Laurier Ministry in Canada or the Thaw case in
New York. They are Japan described by its own
people. Nor are we safe even with Japan’s virtues.
Where they differ from ours they are poison to
our civilisation ; where they seem to resemble
ours, the semblance is only superficial. They
are based on different assumptions ; the practice
of them may at any moment lead to different,
even to horrifying, consequences—as in the ca.se
of the peasant Hearn tells us of, whose filial
affection for his mother led to his killing his wife
to cure the mother with her liver. Truly enough,
says a writer in a recent Edinburgh Review,
the Japanese
are, and they will remain, fundamentally different.
Should they, conceivably or inconceivably, adopt Chris-
tianity, they will produce an entirely dissimilar sort of
Christian ; should they break themselves in to the Roman
character, they will still read life from left to right. We
shall never be able to foretell their mental processes more
accurately than those of the cat upon the hearth-rug,
even had we as favorable opportunities for study.
We let cats into our life on terms. As Japan is
not likely to accept those terms, let us keep
Japan out. And the advice is not vitiated by
Bruce Smithian declarations that she is a darling
pussy, or by timorous diplomatic warnings that
she may prove a tiger-cat.
♦
Cow and Cataract.
Just about every Sydney milk vendor who is
asked to tell the Court how he came to he starving
the public and at the same time getting money by
false pretences, explains that he sold the milk-
and-water in exactly the same state as he received
it from the wholesaler ; and the daily paper only
mentions the wholesaler in vague terms. The
other day, at Newtown—a poor district, where
the infant hasn’t got too good a chance at the best
a magistrate discovered that the wholesaler
from whom the accused had bought his extract of
Cow-and-Cataract had been himself fined only a
few weeks before. “ This is a very bad case,” said
the Bench, and fined the small retailer £ls, or £lO
more than the ordinary quotation for that day.
In other words, the retailer was fined an extra
£lO because the wholesaler’s record was so bad
that the retailer’s defence seemed a great deal
more credible than usual. No doubt the retailer
may be able to recover from the wholesaler if he
knows how and likes to risk Law and Costs ; but
it seems to be a case in which the State and not
the small, uncertain retailer should get a move on.
Of course, the retailer, like every other buyer, is
supposed to be responsible for his own bargains ;
but when the starvation of infants is concerned,
the fiction had better be more or less suspended,
especially as the buyer mostly can’t tell from
looking at it whether something in a can is
all Cow, or partly Cow and partly Cataract.
The law with regard to milk ought therefore
to be put on somewhat the same basis as the law
with regard to whisky. If the whisky-purveyor
is an incorrigible fraud or law-breaker, he is sim-
ply barred from carrying on a business which
throws too many temptations in his path ; and, to
make sure, the law is capable of putting the
premises, as well as the man, into quarantine.
The supply of pure whisky is certainly
of no greater national importance than
the supply of pure milk ;it is doubt-
ful whether it is of half as much im-
portance. Yet in the one case the law attacks
the matter with a bomb, and in the other with a
pound of butter. Also, it allows the pound of
butter weapon to be manipulated by the local
alderman ; and the local alderman is an uncertain
shot where the rights of propputy are concerned.
♦
The Clause that Isn’t There.
Last Monday, the new Victorian Factories and
Shops Act came into force. Previous to that,
Bent’s Minister of Labor, Peacock, supplied the
local press with a summary of the new pro-
visions :
Under Section 7, provided resolutions are carried in
both Houses of Parliament, special Boards may be ap-
pointed for any of the following businesses or occupa-
tions :
fa) Any business whatsoever usually carried on in a
shop; (b) any business of carting or driving either
generally or for any particular class of business ; (c) any
business connected with the erection of buildings or
quarrying ; (d) any business connected with the sale and
distribution of firewood, coke, or coal ; (e) any business
whatsoever connected with the employment of clerical
labor.
But (alas !) the italicised clause is the one which
isn’t there. It is the one which the ingenious
Minister of Labor, through some temporary aber-
ration of intellect, quite overlooked. It is the one
which this paper supplies through a fear that its
omission should inspire .an accusation of criminal
ineptitude. Apparently, that ’umble pawn of
capital—the clerk—is not in need of the enforced
regulation of his hours of labor. He can go on
toiling for his boss —a particularly silent and loyal
drudge—for just so many hours as that stout
and generous person may decree. Of course,
if the clerk’s silence upon the subject could
be accepted as evidence, his lot is beautiful and
his bed a bed of lotus blooms. He just strolls in
casually during the day to gather up his private
correspondence, while, once a month, he suffers
from the devilish exertion of signing for his
salary. But that, unhappily, is nowhere near the
case. More often, he is sweated without any
other redress than a plaintive howl in the dailies—
that is, if he can rake up sufficient audacity for
the howl. For over him always hangs the order
of the sack, and within him too often is the
shabby genteel soul that prefers a purgatory of
long hours and brief remuneration to any con-
certed action with the beastly Labah Pahty.
Yet, if there is any creature whose case calls for
immediate legislative attention, it is the silent
and ’umble disaster who makes out Fat’s invoice,
Fat’s bank-book, or Fat’s insurance policy. But,
in the face of opposition from the House of Rich
Landlords, the present Victorian Minister of
Labor isn’t the man for any brutal assault upon
the privileges of Capital—although he might show
fight at bowls.
The Greater Sydney that Doesn’t Seem
to Arrive.
Various anxious and worried deputations of
Sydney’s aldermen have lately dropped in on
Premier Wade or Treasurer Waddell, and the
opinion that "something will have to be done” is
obviously growing. The chief matters put before
the State Government have been : (1) That Syd-
ney requires to be to a great extent remodelled ;
(2) that this work can’t be done till there is a
central authority to do it, for if the 40 munici-
palities of Sydney start 40 different remodelling
schemes, devised by 40 mayors and about 700
aldermen, the end of things is likely to be worse
than the beginning; and (3) that the land-tax
raised in Sydney should be handed over to the
Corporation as a reconstruction fund (and as
the N.S.W. country municipalities have
the spending of the land-tax raised in their
own districts, this seems a most reason-
able request). The State Government receives
these deputations on an empty stomach —or at
least with all the signs of a vacant mind—and, so
far, it does nothing. It doesn’t even promise any-
thing very definite, though it professes to do a
great deal of hard chinking. Yet the situa-
tion, so far as the Government is concerned,
is not so difficult after all—not half so diffi-
cult as it looks. The Government and Parlia-
ment are not expected to do so very much ; what
is really required is that, by certain simple and
easy acts, they should give the people of the
N.S.W. capital a chance to work out their own
municipal salvation. The first essential is to
unite all the multifarious municipalities in a
Greater Sydney —or rather to so fix things that
the people can achieve union by an easy process if
they want it. WRerefore The Bulletin pro-
pounds this theory :
(1) Thac an Act should be passed whereby all the 40 or
so municipalities of Sydney and its suburbs are combined
under the control of a Council of, say, 100 members the
Act to be subject to acceptance by the ratepayers at a
referendum. .... .. .
(2) Greater Sydney to commence with the city of
Svdnev and as many adjacent municipalities as care to
join. Municipalities which refuse to join, and muni-
cipalities which vote for union but which can’t be taken
in because they are cut off from the new Greater Sydney
by cantankerous and disunited municipalities which vote
against the new movement, to be left out for the pre-
sent. A new vote to be taken at the expiration of, say,
every three years to allow these dissentients a chance to
reconsider their position.
(3) In view of the fact that the financial adjustment is
the great difficulty in the way, some such provision as
this to be included in the Act: (a) That all the remunera-
tive assets of the separate municipalities shall be valued
by independent authorities appointed by the Auditor-
General, and taken over by the new municipality; (b)
that they be paid for by the new corporation taking over
absolutely a corresponding amount of each municipality’s
debt; (c) that any remaining liabilities be taken over by
the corporation, but be kept in a separate account until
liquidated ; (d) that for this purpose each existing muni-
cipalityshall form a separate ward of Greater Sydney,
with representation according to its population, and such
differential rates shall be levied as will wipe out the
separate ward debts, or bring them to a level of
the same amount per inhabitant jn, say, 20 years,
after which time the bookkeeping process may
cease, and the city may be divided into new wards on a
more suitable plan ; (e) any ward which has a credit
balance instead of a debt after its remunerative assets
have been handed over to the Greater Sydney Corpora-
tion to receive a rebate on its general rate until the
balance due to it has been paid.
It would not be a very large scheme, nor a very
elaborate one. There would be no compulsion
about it, so that the most embittered suburban
alderman could have no just cause of complaint.
The position at present is that, however much
Trust Yourselves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The leader of the Canadian Opposition (Mr. R. L.
Borden) moved a resolution condemning the arrange-
ments made as to Japanese immigration, but the Premier
(Wilfrid Laurier) said that “Japan and Britain might
yet unite in the North Pacific against a common foe—
with Japan’s fleet at Vancouver, protecting British in-
terests.”— Cable.
There sang a bard long years ago—his land hath
tasted sorrow—
“ The help that should within be sought scorn
from without to borrow ” !
He preached a creed of common sense, and well ye
too may heed it —
The land that looks elsewhere for help is likely
long to need it!
’Tis Self-Reliance wins the day—lo! see the
Canuck fawning ;
Shall ye like fools, too, throw away a Land whose
hopes are dawning?
If ye would keep this glorious land, to be your
own for ever,
Go ! guard it with your own strong hand, and trust
the Brown Man never !
Too long your hands have idle been—now work
or ye shall rue it;
For dark the storm cloud looms afar, and angry
lights gleam through it !
The Canuck goes his foolish way—he’ll find a hard
task-master—
But why should ye he fools as well ? —work fast,
O sons, and faster !
Yea, launch the ships—the fighting ships, and
drill the crews to steer them ;
So that the Ape may note the fact and sundry
foes may fear them !
For ships of war this land must have—hear far
Korea groan now;
Lest ye should helpless helots he, go, Trust
Yourselves Alone Now !
Old maxims these, yet stout and true —as history
makes certain ;
Up ! Do at once what ye must do ere Fate rings
up the curtain !
Your fleets prepare, your soldiers arm—make
haste ! The years are passing ;
And lo ! I hear the mighty tread of mighty
legions massing !
Old Britain’s fleets are far away—her star is slowly
fading—
And soon shall come the blood-red day of ruthless
cannonading !
Then strike, and hard, Australians all—like Titans
toil to keep it,
LeSt this our Land should prostrate fall and alien
hordes should sweep it!
The labor of a hundred years—shall it un-fought
for perish ?
This land that we have slowly won, shall none
defend and cherish ?
The Empire’s might may pass away, the strength
of Britain crumble;
But this our land shall stand for aye, stern-visaged
and un-humble !
We’ll build a nation greater far than Laurier’s
over yonder—
We’ll hitch our dray unto a star whose light shall
make men wonder !
The work that should to-day be wrought we’ll
leave not till to-morrow—
The aid that should within be sought, we’ll scorn
elsewhere to borrow !
There sang a bard long years ago—to-day another
warning
Rings out afar : “Australians, lo ! behold a breed
for scorning!
Hear ye a creed of common sense, and well ye,
too, must heed it—
The land that asks its foe for help is likely long to
need it!
’Tis Self Reliance wins the day, and though the
Canuck, fawning,
Alay cringe, we shall not throw away a Land
whose day is dawning !
But we shall keep this glorious land, to be our
own for ever —
Go ! guard it with your own strong hand, and
trust the Brown Man never.”
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best Film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films evu-y week, and our
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 CEORCE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Qubkx Strekt, Brisbane. __
the people may want a Greater Sydney, they
have no adequate means of making their views
known. They can’t do it through their aldermen ;
the mere fact of becoming an alderman generally
converts a supporter of the Greater Sydney idea
into an ardent opponent, who hates the very
thought of abolishing his own pint-pot digriity.
They can only make. an occasional local demon-
stration, and as there is no immediate prospect
of the demonstration leading to anything,
even that is seldom done. If the Government
drafts a scheme on something like the lines above
suggested, it will thereby show the people that
the establishment of a Greater Sydney, on lines
which will not compel any one of the existing
pint-pot municipalities to sacrifice a single penny
in the way of paying the existing liabilities of the
half-pint municipality next door, is quite possible.
Then it can leave the scheme to the people to
accept or reject. Like Pilate, the Dago, it can
wash its hands of all further responsibility. If it
feels very tired it can leave all the small details,
such as fixing the number of the aldermen
of Greater Sydney, defining their exact
powers, their mode of election and so forth, till
after the referendum. If it feels extra tired it can
get a copy of the municipal constitution of
Glasgow, and appoint some reliable person like
Judge Murray to adapt it to local conditions, and
then adopt it bodily. All that is essential just
now is to give the people a chance to vote “ yes’
or “ no ” on the question of municipal union, and
to assure them that, if they vote “yes,” the
financial difficulty will be provided for. And
even a Government that is very busy hunting for
Federal grievances should find time to do that.
“ Harrison O ” : I have for a long time known
that G. Reid was a poor politician, but I had
always thought—until quite recently—that he
was a skilled debater and a clever clown. I now
know that in both these connections he is a
globular delusion and a fat, ungainly snare. In
the anti-Australian, anti-Defence, and anti-
everything address which he delivered to his
chairman and several other persons in St. James’
Hall, Sydney, he admitted that “ the day might
come when every man in the country would
have to fight for Australia, and it would, of
course, be folly to wait until they were
actually wanted.” That is Reid’s way of say-
ing “Yes.” But—there are always more buts
in one of Reid’s speeches than in the whole
Rumford family — but, “What are the .real
dangers of the present time which we have to
meet by immediate expenditure?” That is the
way Reid yells “No.” Smart man is G. Reid—
has plenty of horse-sense. I am just building a
house, and I have asked myself, “Is it in any
present danger of being burgled ? ” No, I do not
think that it is. Then why should I spend money
on bolts and bars and locks? By Jove, I won’t
do it ! I will wait until William Sikes sends me
round a notice in writing to the effect that he
intends to rob my house on a certain date, and
then I’ll buy my locks and bolts. Brainy chap
G. Reid ! He says that young men should not be
compelled to train because they have not got
votes. That is him saying “ No” again. G. Reid
has his sovereign remedy for this. He says we
should only train the schoolboys—who have got
no votes either. That is how this amazing man
remarks “Yes.” But really Reid’s address is
not to be taken seriously. He did not himself
appear to be serious. He spent most of his time
perpetrating painful jokes —pathetic jokes which
bring tears to the eye, jokes which only a
fat man like G. Reid would be guilty of. The
press reports of the speech are liberally
punctuated with “Laughter.” Alfred Deakin
wrestled in a masterly and statesmanlike fashion
with one of the most tremendous ques-
tions an Australian politician has ever had
to deal with, and formulated a national
and patriotic Defence scheme. Reid comes along,
and in a spirit of buffoonery throws miserable
verbal breadcrumbs at it, without making any
attempt whatever at suggesting a reasonable
alternative scheme. At a critical moment for
Australia Reid’s puerile jokes are maddening.
When will he learn that he is even a failure as a
Fool, and that he doesn’t amount to much as a
Blighted Halfpenny Ass ?
“Old Soldier” : Whitelaw Reid, Yankee
Ambassador in London, has told an audience of
New York clubmen two or three things :
(1) Great Britain would not be obliged to sustain Japan
in the event of a war against the United States.
(2) There isn’t the ghost of a probability of any war
with Japan.
(3) The Anglo-Jap treaty simply provides that, in the
event of any aggression on Japan’s recognised territory,
Britain would sustain her.
In the same paper appeared a cabled statement
that: —
Californians are puzzled at the extraordinary exodus
homeward of able-bodied Japanese. A prominent Japanese
explained that they had been recalled by the Mikado.
Ought the two statements to be read together?
There is no escape from the inference that Reid’s
speech and the yellow exodus were related. It is
equally reasonable to infer that the Simian inva-
sion of the Pacific Slope was a deliberately-con-
trived provocation to the people of the U.S.,
and was withdrawn when it was seen that there was
real danger in continuing it. It was probably
believed by the officials of Tokio that the U.S.
navy was no more able than that of the Czar or
their own to make such a long voyage without
getting into a helpless state of decrepitude. Now
that they have been taught the difference, they
think it is time to back out. But it is not neces-
sary to eat humble pie, for the Yankees are
generopsly willing, so long as the real cause of
offence is removed, to save them the humiliation
of doing that by putting up their Ambassador in
London to make a florid speech for publication.
It is the demonstration of Linde Sam’s strength
more than the Monkey person’s financial straits
that has caused the change. There are possibilities
of profit for the most hard-up of Governments in a
sporting war with a weak and rich antagonist. There
are examples enough in all conscience, if one only
looks for them, of Governments that went to war
with neither cash nor crfedit to back them. There
was the great but penniless Frederick of Prussia,
who fought France, Austria, and Russia, while
they occupied a good part of his territory, and
sometimes even his capital, but he won in the end.
The French Government of National Defence,
after 1793, fought all Europe, though its treasury
was empty, and its assignats were worth about
the value of the paper they were printed on. All
the same, it drove the Austrians and British out
of the Netherlands, and the Prussians out of the
Rhineland, and occupied the north of Italy. For
a fine hard-up Government, it would be hard to
beat Turkey, but the want of money never yet
prevented it going to war, or forced it to make
peace. Russia is not much better, and now it
looks very much as if these two insolvents are
about to fight out a quarrel about a parcel of
other dead-beats.
<>
A WANDERING Sydney pressman writes from the
Snowy River (N.S.W. ) :
Landed at Jindabvne, the other day, and am backing
up the Federal Parliament’s choice. What a change after
the sunburnt plains! Climbed up a hill behind the
mountain township and drank in the breeze straight
down from Kosciusko (or Joojcola, as the natives called
it. The native name for Dalgety is Coonghoongbula, and
I don’t see why this shouldn’t be revived.) Jindabyne
would be a suburb for the capital, and what sort of week-
end resort would it make 1 Mer. could think big thoughts
there. Tiers of timber-clad hills tower above the
valley, away back to the Snowy range. Through
them run red-brown, wheel-scarred tracks leading to
Kosciusko, Ingebyra, and Dalgety. The Snowy River,
clean and pure, whirls and eddies past the rocks and
through green-covered flats, with its millions of life-
giving gallons. Its banks are lined with ti-tree, their
sombre shade relieved here and there with the lighter
green of the willow. The only sounds are the tinkle of a
bulloclc-bell on the hill, and the ring of the
smithy’s anvil. Over the river bridge a couple
of horsemen—tall, sinewy Monaro men—are pack-
ing towards the mountains. The coach, its four
horses standing wearily with heads down after a hard
pull, unloads its mail at the last post office this side of
the Divide. A few cattle graze over the flat. Half-a-
dozen horses are hitched in front of the store. The whole
makes a picture of tranquillity and coolness—a contrast
from, sav, Jerilderie, lying like a wreck on a huge, brown
plain, smothering in dust and perishing in endless
monotony. Each place has a reason for its existence.
Each is a type of Australia—the land of versatility and
the unexpected. But there is an added charm in the
mountain village. It is not merely the calm and the
cool change. The rugged hill outlines, the rocky surface,
the wiry, twisted white gums, the intervening gorges
and gullies—they all strike the stern note of reposeful
but confident strength, of perpetual virility, that is
wanted in our national life if we would hold this outpost
for the white race. And environment does much in the
making of men and nations.
♦
S. M. Herald editorial on “The National
Defence League,” September 6, 1905: —
The lines of the League are those of the Swiss system
modified to meet Australian circumstances. The League
starts with the postulate that, in the early stages, com-
pulsory military training is imperative. We must catch
our raw material young, and, following the Swiss system
at a distance, it is suggested that the male youth of the
country should be kept in training between the ages of
16 and 20. It is a good proposal for several reasons.
Between the school years and the beginning of manhood
too many of our Australian youth lose permanent touch
of life’s more serious responsibilities, especially in the
cities. There is nothing to continue the habit of school
discipline. They begin to feel themselves at an awkward
age, free from the earlier restraints of the school, and not
yet reached by the ideals of citizenship. The tendency,
in many instances, is to degenerate into the worst of
material, although the slightest touch of agreeable discip-
line would help to give them just the character-balance
they need.... The Defenoe League has discovered
THE RIGHT LINE OF WORK.
But then Prime Minister Deakin took up the
idea, and everything that Deakin does is wrong
in the Herald’s view for three reasons : (1) He is
a Victorian ; (2) he is a Protectionist; (3) he is
political head of the Commonwealth. So the
S. M. Herald now declares that this scheme,
which it cordially approved in September. 1905,
is un-English, unnecessary, absurd, foolish and
incapable in February, 1908. Besides George
Reid, after much hesitation, decided to be against
compulsory military training, and the S. M.
Herald is against what G. Reid is against.
—— -♦
The passage of the Wages Board Bill through the
Queensland Assembly, even though it was thrown
out by the Council, has had its effect; and all
over Brisbane the sweating class of employer has
been tumbling over himself in his haste to show
what can be accomplished by ‘ ‘ voluntary ”
methods. The carters have just been permitted
to score a victory in that way; and it is worth
while considering in cold blood the size of the
victory that “ voluntary ” methods have given
them. Their union, a weak little thing, asked for
a reduction of hours to 60 a week —what the work-
ing time was before isn’t mentioned, except
that it was never more than 24 hours a
day. Also, for 60 hours a week these grasp-
ing fellows asked no less than 40s. (one-
horse carters), and 455. (two-horse ditto).
After a long wail about low cartage rates and high
cost of fodder and horseflesh, the master carriers
opened their hearts to the stupendous extent of
a 2s. a week rise, so that the carter can now earn
38s. a week as a rule. But as Capital is a very
nervous institution, the benevolent fatman first
raised the carrying rates to the general public;
and it is pretty certain that it wasn’t a miserable
two bob a week increase that struck the general
public.
The moralisings of ‘ ‘ Kodak ” :—•
The significant news comes to hand that Germany has
reduced the official life of its battleships from 25 to 20
years, so as to be sure that there will be the shortest
possible tail to its fleet when that fleet goes into action ;
and has re-arranged its building programme for the
period 1908-17 accordingly. The optimists who indulge
in International Peace Conferences no doubt feel disap-
pointed at the regular dropping in of messages like
these ; but the upkeep of a sufficient armed force is a
discipline which is as necessary to a nation as food.
Some people have a wonderful childlike faith in
the gossamer web of civilisation. The fact that it is
daily getting more or less mangled in all parts of the
earth does not cause them to despair of some day making
it savage-proof. Our civilisation is not the first the world
has seen, and possibly it isn’t the most perfect either;
but in all ages and in all countries there has ever been
the armed man in the background, waiting and watch-
ing for the inevitable moment when laws and
oratory would fail. He was never disappointed.
Perfect peace will never arrive on this planet, and it is
just as well that it is so, for the nation or man that isn’t
prepared to fight either with guns or fists when the re-
sources of the tongue are exhausted, lacks the vital force
which justifies his tenancy of a patch of earth, and,
sooner or later, Nemesis, in the shape of a strange, rough,
barbarian, will arrive in a coracle, or rush out of the
forest shadows. Then in about ten minutes’ time the
barbarian—w'ho has retained his club—will have
another scalp in his album, and the peace talker
will have vanished from the earth, and be sitting bald-
headed in the cave of History by the side of his ancestors,
wondering what it was that hit him so suddenly.
Tongue is a poor weapon to rely on. When Providence,
or evolution, provided man with the organ of speech, it
never intended him to use it for any other purpose than
to communicate with his fellow creatures, but we have
almost persuaded ourselves that eloquence will serve just
as well as a sword, and a gun, and a belt full of
cartridges. That idea is not new. It has been
exploded so many times that its coat - tails
are a bundle of' rags and its back hair is
absent. But apparently it is an indestructible jim-
jam. It still lives, and goes round waving its arms at
placid people who cherish dreamy ideals and won’t bow to
hard facts when they meet them.
The thoughtful nation, with its weather eye fixed on
the dead list of the ages, waves the flapping hallucination
of Universal Peace impatiently aside with its left hand
while with its right it takes a firm grasp of its permit to
live, and gazes steadfastly at the horizon.
The Full Court of British Columbia (Canada) has
declared null and void any and every law applying
an education test to the Japanese stranger who
arrives at the Dominion’s gates, on the ground
that such a law would “ conflict with the Anglo-
Japanese treaty.” And by reason of the same
treaty the central government at Ottawa has dis-
allowed all previous attempts at restriction. The
insane Anglo-Jap treaty looks like a shorter cut
to the disruption of the British Empire than any-
thing else that Britain has done or attempted for
a century past. Britain, so far, has gained
nothing by the treaty. The Jap has given Bull
no special trade advantages. He has pegged
away just as industriously as ever at the work of
driving British merchants, bankers and shipping
companies out of China and off the Chinese coast.
He hasn’t spent a penny in helping Bull
anywhere. He has set to work to systematically
undermine the British empire in India by pro-
mulgating the theory of an Asiatic-owned Asia,
with the Jap as the guardian and heavy father of
the continent. And, aided by a servile Canadian
Government, and a cringing and unmanly Supreme
Court, the Jap has, inside half-a-dozen years,
driven the people of the western half of Canada to
such a pitch of desperation that they would pro-
bably attempt to break away from the Empire to-
morrow if the movement had half a chance of
success, which it would have if only the United
States would take a hand in the disagreement.
More than ever now is it up to Australia to train
its men and build its fleet and get its arms and
ammunition factories working overtime. A pre-
cedent has been laid down that the Anglo-
Jap treaty overrules “ colonial ” exclusion
laws, and that same precedent may call round to
see us any day. Then the only answer that is
likely to count for anything is one to the effect
that Australia is so well armed that it
is as valuable a friend as Japan, and that
if Bull likes, despite this fact, to accept the
eternal disgrace of butchering his own children to
please his immoral Asiatic acquaintance, it will be
a most expensive disgrace, and the butchery bill
will run high.
A few heated remarks from “Jean 5.,” which
are true enough as regards one type of farmer, but
not, fortunately, applicable to all: —
In Melbourne, some Things that are called men came
down from various country shires and convened a meet-
ing. The meeting was a protest against the iniquitous
interference of Customs Minister Chapman, who had
recently ukased that wheat bags exceeding a capacity of
2001 b. should, after a certain date, be prohibited
from import into the Commonwealth. So the Things
removed the straws from their whiskers and talked.
The discourse was not remarkably mendacious or
disputative—for farmers. It only defined the polluted
standpoint of men accustomed to an atmosphere of cow
and swine-filth. It merely presented the somewhat con-
torted idea that man was a trifle more sublime than a
beast and valued, for labor purposes, at about fourpence
ha’penny. Throughout the whole miserable business,
there was scarcely a humane sentiment expressed. Most
opined that the odorous and loafing farmer, the sweating
and elaborately protected backbone of the earth, was, in
some obscure way, related to God ; while the stevedore,
who humped his produce, was an inexpressibly paltry
blot. The tenor of the meeting can be gathered from
the remark of one of their number, who, if he was re-
ported correctly, said that “ farmers were asked to lose
£75,000 a year simply for the sake of a few stevedores in
Melbourne.” Apart from those amazing figures, probably
unsupported by anything but a powerful imagination,
this statement beautifully expressed their attitude. And
how tender and angelic is the attitude of Things who
have lost all the finer instincts in the pursuit of fourpence
ha’penny. These poor things live and die amongst
dirt and manure. To an atrocious extent they assimilate
the inestimable vacancy and idiocy of the cow and
the humbler animals. Their intelligence is a vague sort
of primitive instinct, at its best at the approach of food
or sleep. Their callousness is illustrated by a hopeless
confusion of their children with beasts of burden. Their
political belief is Anti-Sosh, while they howl for State aid.
They are pampered with rebates of freight on their pro-
duce. They sweat their workers. Invariably they loaf
on the city taxpayer for the wherewithal to build roads
and things. And their souls, their miserly, pestiferous
souls, are so small that, lumped together, they wouldn’t
realise the size of a tolerable wart.
Wade’s special Arbitration tribunal to settle the
Newcastle mining trouble has been hung up
again. It is a curious, mystifying row. After
muddling on from one little strike to
another, the Miners’ Federation eventually said it
wouldn’t go any further if the Court heard evi-
dence in camera. Of course, Fat says that that is
absurd. People, Fat says, shouldn’t be compelled
to disclose their business to the public. But the fact
is that the miners haven’t got much confidence
in the Court as a means of settling the trouble ;
therefore, as there may have to be a strike or a
lock-out, the miners want the public to
have the real “strength” of the case.
Curiously enough, the Fat papers, discussing
conciliation and “voluntary” arbitration, have
lately been booming “the force of public
opinion” as a settler of disputes. Com-
pulsory arbitration isn’t needed, they say;
“the force of public opinion” will compel
the wrong party to cave in. And now when
the miners say, “ Well, open the door, so that the
public can see which is the wrong party,” there is
a “ Tut, tut —absurd ! ” In short, the public is to
have an opinion, but it isn’t to have the data on
which to form an opinion worth having.
Gr. Reid has been discussing the recent
N.S.W. Labor conference, and, “as leader of the
Anti-Socialist movement,” is “deeply gratified”
because the Labor Party has quitted “wild-cat
Socialism ” for progressive Liberalism. The Labor
Party, it seems, used to be an appallingly bad egg
in a political way, and as dangerous as ten bombs
on a string, and Gr. Reid felt in those days bound
to fight it tooth and nail. And, like a brave and
patriot warrior, he did what his country and his
conscience demanded—by .taking the leader of
these political desperadoes into his Ministry, and
allowing the desperadoes to keep him in office
for five years or so.
J. Carruthers, the Bold Buccaneer in the
wire-netting farce, has mixed himself up with
another piece of admittedly illegal business. This
time he came along as spokesman for the council
at Kogarah, in his district, and explained that the
council had borrowed £l2OO “without per-
mission,” and now found that it was personally
liable ; wherefore Minister Lee was urged to give
authority to borrow not merely the £l2OO, but
£l5OO. But Solemn Lee has apparently got a bit
tired of J. Carruthers and councils that adopt
Carruthers’ methods, and replied that he wouldn’t
give any such authority, and he dropped a hint
also that if the council collected rates and paid
the illegally-borrowed money with the proceeds it
would find itself in trouble. Evidently Kogarah
’ didn’t know that Carruthers was going to resign
in such a hurry and become a mere private in-
dividual with no authority to indemnify law-
breaking councils —it hadn’t any idea that the
wire-netting was loaded.
The Cardinal, as limber at 78 as the
average man is at 50, goes to Rome shortly on a
big mission. It is asserted in Vatican circles that
the Pope intends summoning an (Ecumenical
Council this year, in celebration of his jubilee.
There has not been an (Ecumenical Council—
which is to say a reunion of all the bishops of the
Church for the discussion of Church matters—
since 1870, and that was interrupted by the Italian
invasion of Rome. The most recent, barring the
Council of ’7O, was that of Trent, in the sixteenth
century. The genial old N.S.W. dignitary
reckons that the trifling load of years he humps
is quite inadequate to anchor him here when there
is the chance of a big disturbance abroad. So he
is a certain starter, and dreary depressing peace
is imminent in Australian religious circles.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “A Modern Adventuress.”
Theatre Royal “ The Prisoner of Zenda.”
Her Majesty’s “ The Dairymaids.”
Palace Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
The Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Wonderland City,
Bondi •. Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “ A Warning to Women.”
Princess’s “ Brewster’s Millions.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
♦
“You are very like me,” said the un-
pleasant King to a pleasant and affable subject
newly arrived at his capital. “ Was your mother
ever at Court?” “Nay, sire, but my father was.”
That essentially Gallic witticism suggests the peg
on which “The Prisoner of Zenda,” revived at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, was hung. But
whereas Anthony Hope, in his novel, gave a mere
hint or two at the incident which led to
Rudolph Rassendyll, of London, being the exact
double of Rudolph V., King of Ruritania, Edward
Rose, in making a play out of the novel, has
exalted it into the prominence of a long prologue.
There is not, too, the justification that this makes
the plot any clearer. Like most plays adapted
from novels, “ The Prisoner of Zenda ” is confused
in story, and is fully understandable only by those
who have read the novel.
* * * •
Of the somewhat poor material of the play
a good company makes the best, assisted by
exceptionally handsome dressing and staging.
Julius Knight has, in the part of Rudolph
Rassendyll, a role which generally suits him to
perfection. It is only when in mufti as an English
tourist in the forest of Zenda that he threatens to
descend to the commonplace, and he then rather
savors of ’Arry on a holiday. In the costume
scenes—and they are the majority—Julius the
Great is fine, handsome and impressive.
Miss Ola Humphrey has a part which is
more scenic than personal. As the Princess
Elavia she has to be always “on her
dignity.” Still she makes the best of such oppor-
tunities of emotional treatment as the play
affords, and she is always a beautiful figure in the
setting. Miss Elwyn Harvey, Harry Plimmer,
and Leslie Victor deserve credit for very
good work; but Dudley Clinton hardly gives
enough weight to Colonel Sapt (a very stal-
wart part), and Miss Elsie Wilson a
deal over-stresses Antoinette de Mauban. “ The
Prisoner of Zenda ” promises to have a good run,
and as plays go now it deserves one. It is a robust
affair, with much military clang in it, with swords,
dignities, thrones, expensive upholstery, princes,
conspiracies, hair-breadth escapes, and an atmo-
sphere of pomp—also a suggestion that the roar of
battle may be heard in the distance at any
moment. And it is pleasantly located on the sea-
coast of Bohemia, or the mountains of Poland, or
some such spot which history has unfortunately
mislaid —a place where politics are strenuous and
where the throne goes to the sprinter who gets
there first.
*# * *
Clara Clifton is putting up a record at Her
Majesty’s, Sydney ; for five weeks she has been
running a dairy, with a pump convenient thereto,
yet she hasn’t once been fined for supplying goods
not of the substance or quality demanded.. How
much longer her “Dairymaids” will continue to
earn their wages while keeping their shoes spot-
less, the advt. doesn’t mention. That a musical
comedy of this pretty poor sort should have had
such a run is a striking proof of the magnetic
power of silk stockings with the right kind of girl
inside them ; for, after all, it isn’t the dairymaid
of the first part so much as the gymnasium girl of
the other part, that maintains the steady streatn
to the ticket-office.
*» # *
“Lured to London ” goes the way of all
Ber-lud on Friday night next, and on the Satur-
day “ A Modern Adventuress” will step forward
at the Criterion, and proceed in full view of a
blameless Sydney audience to fracture the laws
of Edward VII., and generally make herself as un-
pleasant as she knows how. The villain of the
new piece is said to own a moral character
rivalling that of a buckjump outlaw, and the
heroine’s part is very, very be-yewtifull. So suc-
cess Looms.
** * *
At Wonderland City, last Saturday, the
Sydney life-savers had a day out, and what
with "rescuing large numbers of would-be
drownees, rushing wildly about in neck-to-knee
costumes, and indulging in terrible tugs of war
while half-buried in the sand, they all had a real
good time. They went to enjoy themselves, and
to save life, and they succeeded. Some of the
drownees revived too suddenly at mention of the
word “whisky,” but went off again in disgust
when they realised it was only a case of words, idle
words.
** * *
The meeting at the Hotel Australia last
week to fix up a concert for Josie Miles and
Gwen Duffy was a real success. Scores of ladies
thronged the room, passed resolutions propounded
by H. N. Southwell, and took shovelsful of
tickets to sell to their trusting friends. The con-
cert is fixed for April 2, at the Centenary Hall,
Sydney.
» * *■ *
Since last week fled into the past, leaving
muddy footprints in the corridor of Time, Sydney
Tivoli programme has added six new turns to
itself. The chief of the newcomers are Terry
and Bentley, comedy-sketch artists, a ™
double with a quietly humorous act; Frank
Harwood, a young man who has robbed the old
chestnut tree of some of its most venerable fruit;
and Frank Sylvo, a gay juggler who doesn’t worry
if he drops things. Miss Lottie Kay (soprano),
and Leonard Nelson and George Dean (comedians)
are the three other additions. The Sisters Klos,
Artois Brothers, Alma Gray, Ike and Will Scott,
Three Cunards, and Four Rosebuds are all old resi
dents of last week who may be taken as read, in
compositor will please be careful and not nia e
this read that they may be taken as dead.


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
Why suffer from pain in the stomach ?
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy wiH relieve you.*
Those Ashes have gone to the side most
•capable of showing supreme qualities to meet
supreme tests. The brilliancy shown by the Aus-
tralians when nothing but brilliancy could win was
more than chance. It was, in fact, D.C.L
Whisky. Other things being equal, moral courage
is the decisive factor in success. And moral
courage inspired by D.C.L. is irresistible.*
An audience that was a Sabbath day’s
journey round the aggregate waist beheld the
resurrection of ‘-Charley’s Aunt,” at Melbourne
Princess s, last Saturday nicht
of view of ancient and hardened ShaW P ° mt
playgoers, the .tale of
different exposition of the absurd. Very probabW
they are right; but no one is intensely animated
by the statement that this mirthful pageanHsn’t
a very striking literary accomplishment Its
primary object is as a solace to nerves and bad
S snffi lk H UCCeed , S - nii^hcil y in this intention!
which sufficiently explains its resurrection. The
aunt is the joliiest dame in farcical his-
toryid F™? 1 the outset > her pseudo-personality
would deceive no one, for the appearance of a
Brazilian donna, equipped with the mob-cap and
sweet gentdity of British spinsterdom, is beyond
the bounds of probability. Charley’s uncle’s wife
is a medley of childishness and simpering audacity.
Careering madly from the lavish attentions of
Spettigue, she is a shrieking phenomenon ; while
the real Brazilian, in similar state, would be
amusing, but highly undignified. For an old lady
whose limbs should be feelle from rheumatics and
increasing age, her pace is surprising. Likewise
her chaste flirtations with that martial gallant!
Chesney Bart., show that her progress in another
direction is considerably beyond an amble. Al-
together she is a charming and voluble old person
who, despite the creep of time, can hold her own
with the perkiest of juveniles. Frank Thornton
humps along the onus of the deceptive old lady
in his usual admirable style. He is a most
pleasurable and breezy little demon of energy
Harry Ashford gives an acceptable picture of the
inept Spettigue, and the other males are good
e w lt dl .es-well, they are very agree-
able, though their contribution to a mirthful
entertainment can scarcely be described as sump-
* * * *
■^ e ?r-,^ a^urda y n ight ushers in “ Brew-
ster s Millions.” If the play is, as stated, a futile
attempt to spend ten millions in ten minutes or
something like that, it should be an eminently
useless lesson to the impecunious.
* * * *•
Further contemplation of “ Miss Lan-
cashire Ltd.,” at Melbourne Bijou, has induced
an attitude of deliberate indifference. Mary E
lhompson may proceed with the demolition of
the public peace, and this paper won’t interfere,
ohe may continue to butcher the British language
and to be a destructive influence towards portable
property, but The Bulletin won’t run for a
policeman. It is really of no consequence.
Crowded houses still laugh at Miss Thompson’s
violence, and appear satisfied with the combustible
lady.
** * *
At present, West’s Picture Show at Mel-
bourne Olympia is a blessing to the prosaic Mel-
bourne tradesman. Now Jones, whose most
vicious appetite is sated by the perusal of an
evening paper and who doesn’t even soar to beer,
assumes the air of a gay and fearful dog, and asks
his neighbor to “come ’n’ ave a flick.” “’Avin’
a flick "’ is Jones’ nearest approach to a desperate
night out, and the device has its advantages.
People who merely flick don’t wake up in the
morning feeling as if they had swallowed a burnt
cathedral.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) “ Humpty-
Dumpty’s” days are limited to this week only.
His end is enlivened with some new dresses and
novel capers, which tend to make his departure
more regrettable. The earnest playgoer likes to
learn all his panto by heart, and he will hardly
have time to absorb the last interpolations.
“Mother Goose ” waddles into Humpty’s proud
place on Saturday night.
** * *
Miss Hil dyard, at Melbourne Royal, gave
“A Warning to Women’’for the first time on
Saturday night. This drama is a further injustice
to Ireland. Why the nationality of the criminal
lunatics it portrays should be credited to the poor
little island, the good Lord only knows. Such
figments belong to a cosmopolitan madhouse, and
nowhere else. The story of Moira Kennion, and
her appetite for beer and bromides, is one
of sheer gloom, anyhow. And it isn’t im-
proved by the monologues of Dr. Dread, nor
the Franeo-English humors of the chronic reliefs.
Moira Kennion is a neurasthenic female who
suffers from anaemia. She is seduced and ruined
body and soul by a medical gentleman, whose
hobby is the wholesale destruction of humanity.
This personage takes an interest in the declining
birthrate, and fears that the British matron will
have ended the race before his destructive plans
can be carried out. He animadverts upon this
subject at great length and with particularity.
Moira has a cMr ami , in the shape of a wander-
ing ballad-monger. When Moira is irretrievably
damned, this poetic youth carves Marcus Dread,
the medicine man, into small pieces, at the
heroine’s bidding; while she howls banshee-
fashion through a back window. Altogether a
highly moral and edifying entertainment of the
cheerful sort!
* * * *
As usual, Miss Maud Hildyard prances
through her part with huge abandon and much
irrelevant grotesquerie. Her throbbing, hysterical
voice and her frantic gestures lend great realism
to her portrait of a degenerate epileptic.
But her capers aren’t in any category of art.
Charles Vane is excessively serious as Marcus
Dread, and in the scenes with the wandering
homicide (Conway Wingfield), who vends songs
and stories, both of them are sublimely melo-
dramatic and needlessly funny. James Lindsay
does pretty work as a superfluous English noble-
man, and Miss Maisie Maxwell —the only Aus-
tralian girl in the cast —shows real talent in her
character study of an immoral match-seller. Her
performance is good art in a bad cause. “A
Warning to Women ” will be screamed (or scrome)
till further notice.
* * *
General Rickards has reinforced his Mel-
bourne Opera House army with a bicycle corps.
The Kaufmann family is it—three strong men
and three nice girls. The turn is about the
most expert exposition of trick cycling seen to
date. The nicest girl is fairly surprising, but is
excelled by the strongest man. His best effort is
in riding a tandem on its back wheel while he
uses the front pedal, and then spinning round like
a teetotum. Margaret Parker and co. perpetrate
an impossibility called “ The Seal,” which is as de-
pressing as a night’s outing on an iceberg. Charles
gold medals & era^'e K lB l a t° r with two
JdmiriSr to k n lfc m the P ubll S’ ‘’other from an
that sentenced Lookm g back on
Federal lerislaL gh be taken to read that a
executed T T ‘wo gold medals,
isn’t time ' bot * her6
** * *
Miss Madge Mclntosh, at Adelaide Royal,
Magdlw e t d V,r ith V mCe , assor tment of modern
and th« u r em °t’ onal one of the Camellias,
and the half-forgotten English clergyman’s-
daughter type according to Wilkie Collins. In
between those things was sandwiched that
heroic improbability, “The Midnight Wedding.”
Harcourt Beatty and Mervale were, as usual
something more than adequate in the variety
of characters that fell to them. A quite
new crowd is just moving in with “A
Message from Mars.” Melba has crammed the
Exhibition in spite of a passing heat-wave. The
lvoli, which had taken a short holiday after a
year s continuous toil, has opened again, and the
old ice-rink has made a fresh start with roller-
skates, and concrete flooring that tries hard to be
noiseless To return to the Royal show,
Harcourt Beatty and Miss Mclntosh brought their
version of “ The New Magdalen” up to date by
making the desperate woman annex the dead
girl s identity after a Boer skirmish, instead of a
f ranco-Prussian one. Small details are a trifle
inconsistent, nurses, war-correspondents and
English people in general having, of course, been
not only non-combatants but neutrals in the
bigger affair that Wilkie Collins had in
mind. It is always difficult to hide all your
tracks in this kind of work. Writer remem-
bers, at the height of the Mafeking frenzy,
a melodrama being vamped up—evidently from a
Soudan original. When all the principals got into
the middle of the fighting, the villain officer
threatened to hand over the heroine to “those
dusky fanatics raging below”—which seemed per-
fectly satisfactory to the audience. But presently
the comic man’s deserted wife, rushing in to
claim him, mentioned that she had landed at
Alexandria, and tramped all the way up-country
a few thousand miles or thereabouts.
Last Saturday s tragedy at Paddington
(Sydney), when Joseph Rossiter perforated Mrs.
Mary Anne Williams with a revolver in the street
and in the presence of her husband, had a simple
explanation at the back of it. Says the unobtru-
sive daily paper :
About three years ago George Williams, a miner, went
to seek work in Queensland. While he was away his
wife acted as housekeeper for another, named Joe
Rossiter, in Alexandria. When Williams returned to
Sydney a few days ago, she went back to him, with her
four children, the youngest of which is about a year old
anq the pair stayed in Forbes-street.
Rossiter, it is said, did not discover the woman’s
whereabouts until Saturday.
Then he went on the shoot.
THE NEW DEVICE.
As the leader of the Anti-Socialist movement, I feel
deeply gratified by these attempts by the men of ability
and experience in the Labor movement to not only call a
halt, but to “ cover up their tracks.” ... On the whole,
how'ever, there was sufficient proof that political educa-
tion and larger experience are toning down the leaders of
the Labor movement so rapidly that they may, before the
responsibilities of office are vested in them, become the
prudent advocates of sane and practicable reforms instead
of revolutionary changes, thus taking their places in the
ranks of true Liberalism as opposed to wild-cat Socialism.
—Reid on the Labor Conference.
Norman Grenfell, a young Victorian caT-
penter, is clearly possessed of talents which ought
to be cultivated. If that were done there is
waiting for him a fortune and a name far out-
shining those of the people who dive from
great heights into small tanks, or fall off
balloons into space. The discovery of Grenfell’s
remarkable ability was quite accidental. The
other night he was travelling in a railway
train on the Box Hill line. He found, when it
was too late, that it didn’t stop at Camberwell
station where he was to meet a “ cobber.” As the
train dashed through Camberwell station Grenfell
was seen to leap out of the door of a car. The
speed of the train was near 20 miles an hour.
Grenfell struck the platform with a bang, spun
round like a professional toe dancer, and then took
a header under the last three cars. The railway
officials who saw the daring performance rushed to
the spot when the train had passed. They found
the young carpenter sitting comfortably against
the brickwork of the platform conscious and un-
marked. A strip had been cut out of the back of
his coat, and the brim of his hat, which was still
on his head, had been neatly shaved off by the
wheels. When he was picked up one of the porters
remarked, “Gripes, it’s a wonder he didn’t upset
the train. Talk about luck ! ” If Grenfell could
be induced to repeat the act, what sort of a
“ house ” would he get ?
AT POVERTY POINT.
Harrison O. : As you can judge the smartness of the
average kid by the number of cigarette cards he
possesses, and the prosperity of the average town by its
pub-numerousness, so also may a bellowdrammer be
judged by the number of its crimes. Here, for instance, is
a and correct catalogue of the major crimes com-
nutted in “The Great Awakening’’—the minor offences
such as bigamy, petty larceny, defamation of character,
and false pretences I have ig'nored i
Prologue. 1 Attempted murder.
1 Robbery.
Act I. 1 Murder.
Act 11. 1 Abduction.
2 Violent assaults.
1 Illegal use of drugs.
1 Fa,ce at the window'.
Act 111. 1 Violent assault.
1 Illegal detention,
• 1 Illegal use of drugs.
1 Abduction.
1 Attempted murder.
Act. IV. 1 Murder.
1 Marriage.
Grand total of crimes : Murders 2, attempted murders
2, robbery 1, abductions 2, illegal detention 1, violent
assaults 3, druggings 2, face at window 1, marriage 1
minor crimes and sundry offences 69 ; all out for 85. ’
“Harrison O.”: “Sr,” in his description of the first
part at Rickards, omitted to mention two important
items. First, the serio-comic damsel, clothed in grease
paint and other things, who is the possessor of a raucous
voice, fine understandings and much self-assurance ; and
who repeatedly mentions during her turn that she is
“ The Lady from the Naughty Oontinong,” and for the
inevitable encore sings a song about goo-goo eyes, at the
conclusion of which she displays her understandings,
and then breathlessly drops back upon her own particular
rock or sheaf of hay. And, secondly, “Sr ” ignored the
eternal rag-time melody. lam surprised at this, as the
said melody has been a popular item upon Rickards’ pro-
gramme every time I have had a bob’s worth of him.
There is a rag-time lady, and also a rag-time baby, a rag-
time moon, which of course rhymes with a rag-time coon,
and quite alarge numberof other rag-time articles. Where’
when and what, in the name of Tophet, is rag-time? It is
not mentioned in Webster’s Dictionary, the calendar,
Who’s Who, Judkins’ List of Suspicious Houses, or the
Missing Friends column of the Sydney Yawning World.
A variant of the club-swinging foolishness is the axe-
w’hirling imbecility. At Cobar (N.S.W.), recently, Jack
Griffiths gyrated two 41b. 7oz. axes continuously for a
solid 9hrs. 6min. He worked from a 12in. pedestal,
under a rough bough-shelter, with the sun 103 deg.
in the shade. He is still alive—so much so that
there’s now talk of matching him against club-expert
Burrows, in March or April next.
The first night that “Claudian” was produced in one
Australian city, Lillah McCarthy came on early as the
lady who falls dead in the prologue. She was quite a girl
then, and was travelling with Wilson Barrett’s co. much
as George Gunn travels with A. O. Jones’s—for health
and change, with a public appearance when required.
That night she wore a fair wig ; and she was mistaken for
Maud Jeffries, the heroine ; and she got the special round
of applause that custom and a kind public reserve for the
leading lady ; and there were ructions and insurrections
and complications behind the scenes. So W.B.—whose
genial ambition it was that every co. of his should be a
happy family under his paternal care—had to decree that
Miss McO. should be careful not to look like Miss J.
A sea of trouble rages at Sydney Theatre Royal just
now and refuses to be oiled. It is in connection with J.
Knight’s newly-acquired status as champion millinery
expert of the Commonwealth. The S. M. Herald blew
the first blast by intimating that Julius had designed all
the “ Zenda ” dresses. (And promptly thereat his co-star,
Ola Humphrey, who designed her Flavia costumes herself,
uttered the low wail of the stricken woman, and wilted,
and complained to the management.) The evening papers
followed the S. M. Herald’s lead with hound-like trust,
and gave intimate details of the clothes Julius designed ;
also the exact point at which he gave way to
modest confusion and turned over the remainder of
the job to a hardened tirewoman. (Ola duly read and
wilted anew, and lodged further objections.) On Saturday,
the base allegation was once more repeated—this time in
the D. Telegraph—and once more an anguished leading
lady occurred at the Australia Hotel, and declaimed of
“ injustice,” and refused to be comforted. These points
are vital, no doubt, to the mimes implicated, but the
coarsely-practical member of the general public views
them with a lack-lustre eye. Asa fact, Julius had nothing
to do with the designing of Ola’s dresses. But, assuming
he had, what of it ? How is the mendacious rumor that
he was responsible for the lady’s garniture going to affect
her position on the stage ? She and eke Julius are at the
Royal as theatrical people, not softgoods experts. The
mystery of her grief at its being mooted that Julius
planned her frame coverings is almost as inscrutable as
Julius’s patent joy in bis talents as a costumier.
“D.”: A heroic figure of the Australian buckjumping
■combination, now showing at Prince Alfred Park, is a
small, self-effacing aboriginal—by name “ Black Albert.”
He is great. It is his part to take the kicks and such-like
unpleasantnesses of the entertainment, and let who will
absorb the limelight, which, to some, is of more
worth than many half-pence. One of Albert’s many
uses is to hold the scrap of paper which Waite
cuts to pieces at a distance of 30 feet with
a stockwhip. A more jumpy contract it were
hard to conceive. If any particularly eccentric out-
law makes its appearance the cry is for Albert, and he
mounts with every semblance of joy. Though a fine
rider, he is not in the class of Waite or the Dempseys, and
he is usually hurled, with extreme violence, to earth.
Sometimes he is rendered unconscious (at Newtown,
when Waite showed there, the dauntless aboriginal was
“ outed ” twice during one week). Very often he emerges
from the bout lame and groggy. But never, under any
circumstances, is his nerve affected. Many men perform
daring, not to say asinine feats, despite" the fact that
they are rather afraid ; Albert is one of the sort, often
spoken of though seldom encountered, who has never
met fear, and simply wouldn’t know it by sight if he did.
„ • Sydney D. Telegraph errs quaintly in fts
1“. C * C29/2/"0S) where, apropos the recent en-
gagement of Lalla Miranda at the Paris Opera House, it
remarks that this constitutes a signal triumph for the
“i'”” f . lfc » for any British artist to
succeed on the Continent, for, as is known, each country
naturally prefers to support its own artists.” Italy has
hardly any leading Italians singing in its leading
opera houses. In Austria the star parts at the
theatres where grand opera is produced are taken
by foreigners mostly Paris-trained Americans. Calv 6
does not appear in Paris once in a blue moon
nor do her fellow-countrymen and women who!
like her, are in the first flight of the operatic hunt. The
Continent gets almost invariably a class of singer whom
any artist within measurable distance of the top may
depose. The reason is that the European opera houses
either can t or won’t, but anyhow don’t, pay the salaries
™; racks demand. Tetrazzini, who will earn her
year in America, couldn’t make £-5000 in the
same time in Prance, with all the riclame her recent
>e u- Caruso wou)a need to simr hard for
? r ghb ye ir s V* hls °' vn land to snare the £40,000 he
1 anks as a result of one year’s toil in London or N. York.
*? art eve ” as in grocery or a State Lands
Office, and so long as it continues to do so, it will con-
tinue to be about 14 times easier for a British or Yankee-
bred singer to get a job “abroad” than in the English-
speaking countries.
H : ? h . e “ Zenda ” P Ia Y. w 'th its central idea of
the ruddy-thatched young aristocrat whose ancestress
a Shfrht , n ’’ Btake , with a red-haired, Ruritanian
, the c i urloU3 a P ath y that exists among
ffiany of the best people ” of Europe in regard to that
!!°" un , on i occurrence the royal bastard. The latter is
regarded in the normal high-toned home as some-
fhl g uu". He, or she, is invariably
th.e god-child of the sovereign, and is dowered oil
marnage, and well and highly placed afterwards,
and otherwise taken care of. To a frequent type of
old-world mind it is inconceivable that any loyal hus-
band should object to his spouse receiving royal atten-
tmn. In a big divorce suit of the mid-Victorian epoch,
wherein H.R.H. was “mentioned” often and vigor-
ously, the petitioning husband was asked amazedly by a
rising young counsel, “l>o you mean to tell the
juty you weren’t proud to entertain his Royal
Highness at your house?” It was a fatal break
on the barrister’s part. The witness answered
with acid haughtiness: “It may seem strange to
you, but there are people in my class who don’t want
royalties about their homes. lam one of them. When
you get older you may learn why.” Which cryptic
utterance burst up the cross-examination abruptly. The
jury torn between rabid loyalty on the one hand and
equally rabid morality on the other, gave smashing
damages against the co-re. (there were several) who was
not royal.
Micawber”: I protest against outsiders coming in
and spoiling a legitimate business. Passing a news-
agency yesterday I saw on the Protestant Press bill-
board :
The Cardinal in Maoriland
With Pictures.
I reckon that the man who takes round the flickergraph
has enough troubles of his own without the Cardinal
entering into competition with him.
The Adelaide Register’s musical reporter ran amok
wRh the language in describing Melba’s second concert,
baid he. She established herself incomparably the
Queen of Song. And did she not act the regal part ? Did
she not, with queenly grace, bestow upon the clamoring
people, as a last sop to their insatiable appetites, one that
will ever remain to linger upon the palate ? Her notes
fall from her lips like pearls from that of the bewitched
maid. Her old-time, conquering, defiant air has seem-
mgly given way to an assumption of reposeful dignitv ”
etc., etc., etc. (Whoop !)
The Ballarat “mystery” has got on to that city’s
nerves, and it jumps out of its seat if anybody whispers
anything vaguely as to the whereabouts of William lies.
The other night an alleged Melbourne clairvoyant got
her little advt.—and expenses—by hiring the local Alfred
Hall, and promising to “say something interesting.”
After the usual messages from the spirit of little Willie
(who urged his fqnd parent not to weep), and from the
departed mother-in-law (who was quite happy in
Gehenna), the medium switched off on to the case of
Madge Graham. She said three persons had been
concerned in Mrs. Graham’s murder, one a woman whose
description accurately tallied with that of a Ballarat
friend of the missing lies. That sought-after young man,
she said, was not far from Ballarat, in a house devoid of
furniture, and in great poverty. That was all, and when
Ballarat realised how little it had got for its money,
it became a dour and sulky city, and wanted its cash
back. It expected lies to be produced there and then,
and a dramatic arrest to be followed by trial, conviction,
and “ dull thud ” on the spot—all for sixpence.
“ Shell ” : An Egyptian series at West’s Picture Show,
in Melbourne, gives the best idea of Egypt available to
the untravelled man. A volume about the land of the
Pharaohs—a volume as big as Webster’s unabridged, and
littered with half-a-thousand drawings—could not repro-
duce Egj'pt, its sights, scenes, and people, simmering in
their own sunshine, as this fine film does. There is won-
derful reality in the streets, the thronging market places,
the drowsy corners, the camels, the donkeys, the deserts,
the pyramids, and the Nile wonders. Not only do you
seem to get the action, but there is a sense of vivid color,
and you can smell Egypt. Edison con es out ahead, after
all. Others may invent marvellous ships of air and water
to cart us to foreign climes ; but the almighty Yank has
done better with the little apparatus that carts foreign
climes to us.
“ Snell”: We hear a great deal about the decorum of Aus-
tralian crowds, and take considerable pride in the opinion
of visitors, who declare that, in the lump, we are about
the best-behaved people on earth. This is all very well in
a way, but is it wholly flattering unction ? There is a point
at which forbearance ceases to be a virtue, and the crowd
that is always submissive is likely to be composed of units
wofully lacking in spirit. For instance, a crowd of 15,000
people hung round in the dust and sun at Melbourne
Exhibition ground, the other day, waiting for Stewart,
the balloonist, to make his ascent. It was drawn
together by muqh skite about deeds of daring and
desperate adventure. These 15,000 people had paid to
see the balloonist balloon, but after their long wait
Stewart simply let his gas bag go off on its own, belching
smoke. He made no ascent. There was nothing in it
but a bag of hot air soaring off a few hundred feet, and
falling to earth again. What did that great crowd do?
Did it make a righteous demonstration of wrath? Not a
hit. It simply laughed and said casually, “ What a
sell!” and went home. Stewart had excuses'; he couldn’t
fill his balloon, he said. But filling the balloon is his
business, and a crowd that has paid £4OO and gets merely
a failure in return owes it to itself to throw at least one
brick.
Austin Melford, who starred here in the “ Ben Hur ”
company and had Her Majesty’s (Sydney) burned about
his ears half-a-dozen years ago, died last'month cetat 53.
Melford was a sound actor—the most capable “ all-
round ” man, it was said, on the British stage. He was
prepared at the shortest notiee to play anything from
parsons to pantomime knockabout parts, and from Henry
V. to an aged family retainer who offers all his bit of
savings to his young master ; and whatever he did he did
well.
“ Greatest-show-on-earth ” Bailey (his real name was
Gordon, and he was a big circus-man and Barnum’s
partner), whose property was recently reported to be
valued at £1,300,000, has, it appears, actually left some-
thing like £200,000. He bequeathed it all to his wife,
giving as his reason : “ She having, by her counsel and
devotion, largely aided me in the acquisition of my pro-
perty.” The will was contested, but has been declared
valid.
Meynell and Gunn seem to be importing a good team
for “Miss Hook of Holland.” Miss Ruth Lincoln, who
plays the leading part, studied singing under Professor
Henry Blower, who was tutor to Madame Clara Butt,
She created the principal part in “ Madame Sherry,” at
the Apollo Theatre, London. Miss Emmeline Orford,
who plays the part of Mina, has filled important parts in
many of the most successful West End productions.
Miss Helen Rose was a most successful Fifi in “ The Belle
of New York,” and Miss Amy Perrin and Miss Gwendoline
Boyd are both spoken well of. For the second opera of
the co.’s repertoire a different principal has been
engaged ; Miss Alice Russon will play the heroine in
“ The Belle of Mayfair.”
A BAFFLING PROBLEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
U nl to - L °" don ’’ dre w another crowded audience
knock.out te Wo n w T 1?o at r r H e °E S ? turday > "*»»> the curve’s
razeed urchhl°« Hi* • t ! le^ U n y bur^lar . and the little
esnecialW nn^,o d f \ nto the Regent’s Park Canal, proved
p cially popular features.—D. Telegraph, 2/3/’OB.
Here is a point I’ve noted oft :
In high-class melodranimer
Strict law-abidersare deemed “soft,”
They lack dramatic glamor.
In real life curates may not fight
Save against Hell or Satan ;
Laymen who one another smite
The Law proceeds to wait on.
Genuine streams in mundane parks
Are banked up, railed and sodded;
The urchin-diver who plays larks
In them is forthwith quodded.
We all have felt a pleasant glow
When some stage-hero swore he
Would shield his hunted friend—and so
Become an accessory.
Likewise we’ve watched with interest tense
The leading man a-smashing
(Avid for Wills) another’s fence
And looking oh ! so dashing.
Scores of such naughty acts we’ve viewed,
Nor damned them as unlawful—
Deeds which we always have eschewed
Ourselves as simply awful.
A standing puzzle this affords ;
Off-stage to gaol we shove him
Who breaks the laws. Why on the boards
Do we applaud and love him i
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


BOOTS—
for tl\e Man
on the Land.
THESE Boots are not built for style or
looks—they are built for solid, hard
wear, and are easy to put on. Every
country man knows and wears them.
They are Australian made from toe
to heel, and may be had in all sizes. We
send them carriage paid.
o\ir Price is
lOs. 6d.
We are believers in the money-back
principle, and guarantee to refund any-
one’s money who is not in every way
satisfied with our goods when received.
DAVID JONES
LTD.,
SYDNEY.
-s3
Hand Camera
WITH AN
“ALOIS” ANASTICMATIC LENS F/6
MEANS
FIRST=CLASS PHOTOGRAPHS |
The “VICTOR” No. 7 Hand Camera is equipped with ab^ el Jid
magazine carries 12 Plates for Photos. 4J x SJin. (i-Plate). It producesp
Pictures, and is fitted up in the best style. PRICE
Postage —N.S.W., 1/3 \ Inter-State, 2/2.
All the Best Makes of Cameras are stocked by us, at prices from 7/6 to &
KODAKS in many Styles, and at Bedrock Prices.
PHOTO MATERIALS fn L GBBAT F VABIETY.
RACING at BRO.OKLANDS, ENGLAND; 100 Miles an Hoiur, U
Second Exposures. A. P. JOURNAL .posted anywhere /
Subscribe NOW !
£6 lOs.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
386 George Street, near G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Branch—93 Queen Street, Brisbane.^
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
According to Melbourne Coroner Cole, the
Victorian baby-farmers—otherwise receivers of
boarded-out infants —have found anew and simple
way out of their difficulties in disposing of the
“remains.” Having observed an unusual short-
age in the supply of small corpses during the recent
hot weeks, Mr. Cole inquired, and found that the
■ordinary medico was giving certificates of death
for such infants, though the Infant Life Protection
Act restricts the issue of such certificates to the
dozen or so doctors appointed under the Neglected
Children’s Act. The Act provides a £5O penalty
for the breaking of the law, but so far no £5O has
ever been called for.
IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN WORSE.
HE: "By Jove, yes! I loti my head all right!"
SHE: “What a good job there was nothing in it!”
A man in Adelaide has put up a record for
..eccentricity. He stayed at a boarding-house for
ftO months, without disclosing his name or speak-
ing to his fellow-hashees, and at last his own
•monotony got on his nerves. A woman inmate of
the house was returning to her room after bathing
her infant, when the taciturn lodger loomed up in
Head silence with a revolver. He didn’t depart
from his habitual reticence, but chased the lady
.•all over the premises and through the backyard,
firing as he ran, until she found a haven in an
adjoining house. His marksmanship was even
more villainous than his intentions, and he never
iscored an outer. The police subsequently stormed
his room, and captured him after an exchange of
lead, in which he was slightly wounded ; again he
didn’t hit anything. No reason is assigned for
his madness, except the monotony of existence;
but such a bad shot should be kept under restraint.
A man like that couldn’t aim at a woman without
endangering every cow in the neighborhood.
ALL THINGS ARE POSSIBLE.
HE: “ Don't you think you could learn to love me?”
SHE: “I might. I learned to talk German once."
Dr. Cole, Melbourne’s new coroner, lias
shaken up the medical profession in respect to
deaths that occur while patients are under chloro-
form. At times it looks as if he were keen on
sending someone to a higher court on a charge of
manslaughter. In the last few cases he has drawn
from the doctors, who have appeared before him,
admissions that the administration of chloroform
is not scientifically taught in the medical course.
The “art” seems to be picked up in a casual
sort of way during a doctor’s ordinary working
hours. The real trouble, in most cases of death
under chloroform, is that the anaesthetist, being a
general practitioner, is too interested in the opera-
tion, and so the collapse of the patient is not
observed until too late. That is why we read
this kind of evidence : “ Suddenly I noticed that
the patient had changed color, that the pupils ot
the eye had dilated, and that the breathing had
become labored.” These things shouldn t ic
noticed “suddenly.”
“ Karaka tells a horrid tale :
Note with approval your remarks (23/l/’08) re local
administration of the Pure Foods Act in Victoria. But
New South Wales can’t afford to cast stones. flow
often do we in this State hear of any prosecutions
outside the metropolitan area? True, we have a
Board of Health, but it doesn’t worry any about
the country districts. It just leaves thing’s in trie
hands of the local councils, which are mostly
composed of small business men, grocers and
the like, who would lose half their profits
were they rigidly checked from selling
adulterated foodstuffs (jams, potted
meats, and the like) themselves. The
inspector, whose billet depends on the men
he ought to be prosecuting, remains dis-
creetly blind to what is going on. As one
interesting result, the very phrase, pure
food,” has become as much taboo in back-
blocks society as the mention of convictism
is in that of Government House. The
provisions of the Act are the deadest
of dead letters. Storekeepers sell what
goods they like, dairy cows drink filthy
water unchecked, butchers wrap beef in any old
newspaper, and sell the meat of tuberculous
beasts they have bought outside the city or town
boundaries. Recently it was reported that rotten
tomatoes were removed from Belmore Markets for the
purpose of being made into pickles. Last tomato season
the writer w ; as informed by a reputable fruiterer in a
western town that the boys of the place came to him
regularly for all the rotten and condemned tomatoes,
which were carefully gathered up and sold to the local
factory. The country districts want a live Board ot
Health, and want it badly.
The massive thing called Capital actually
did something new in Sydney the other day. As
a rule, whenever Capital does anything, it leaves
the country in silence, and unseen save by the
Tory press which sits up all night and can see lots
of things not visible to the person who keeps
decent hours. This time Capital, in the
shape of two company directors, started to
beat itself over the head with umbrellas
and roll itself in the gutter in broad day-
light and before hundreds of horrified spectators.
A constable disentangled it, and dragged it apart,
and tore its broken umbrella from it, and ran it
in. The magistrate before whom it was charged
said that it was old enough to know better, and
fined each end of it 205., or 14 days. Capital then
left the court.
The other day the Sydney papers were
kinder to the Water and Sewerage Board than it
deserved, wherefore they cut the reports of one
of its meetings in halves, and set up a nice dreary
rampart between the two sections. One section
told how the Water and Sewerage Board was in
such a thriving way that for the half-year it had
a surplus of £26,125 ; and the President suggested
that the old Board should recommend to the new
one “that the surplus should be applied in re-
ducing the rates.” The old Board said Yes
enthusiastically, because a recommendation of
that sort is a fine thing to go to an election with ;
it is the same sort of certificate that «T. Carruthers
cunningly gave himself before last elections. But
at the meeting at which the Board was cock-a-
whoop about its surplus, and the possibility of cut-
ting something off the property owners’ rates, a
letter was read from the contractor for some deep-
sewerage tunnelling work. The men who are
gouging a way through the rock in these ill-
ventilated, dust-laden holes have been getting 9s.
a day of six hours (men simply can’t work in such
an atmosphere longer), and now they actually
want 10s. The Board was quite hurt about it.
The chairman —he who had proposed that Fat s
rates should be reduced —said there was “no
question about the liberal treatment these
men had received ” (they get 9s. a day for
a job which cuts years off the life of
every man who engages in it). On top of
that he proposed that, as Henley, M.L.A., a
member of the Board, “ was’ going ‘Home’
shortly, they might get him to induce
some Italian rock-choppers to come to N. S.
Wales.” Fortunately, the Sydney Sewer-
age Board doesn’t govern Australia; and if
Henley, M.L. A., rises to this official person’s bait,
and imports a few cheap Italians, the Common-
wealth may come into the argument. Also, about
the same time, somebody may arrive with the
suggestion that a cheaper man —say a Bulgarian
ought to be imported to take the president’s job ;
while Henley might be invited to see about bring-
ing in a small boat-load of Paris aldermen. The
latter, anyhow, would be able to give Henley and
Co. several points.
* * *
The North Melbourne beaks lately tripped
into a tangle, and gave it up. As the case stands
adjourned for refreshments, call the man Brones.
Brones married Belinda in 1894, and they dwelt
together more or less happily for 10 years ; but,
no children arriving to bless their union, they
adopted one, whose real mother came to see it
periodically. Presently she came to stay with
them altogether, and soon Belinda became a
back number. Instead of “ having the law ”of
Brones there and then, she went and “kept
house ” for a perfect stranger, and had done so
for six months, when it struck her she might try
to get maintenance from Brones. The Court
cogitated over the fact that Belinda was still
“ keeping house,” and was on the point of telling
her to go about her business, but just then it
remembered that Brones had tossed her out, and
supplanted her with his adopted child’s mother.
So the Court feebly adjourned the case, and
desired the parties to settle it themselves, if they
could. But it’s safe to say that only a divorce
judge, or a pestilence, can straighten out a com-
plicated matter like that.
The good old “ place within the meaning
of the Act” came before the N.S.W. Full Court
in an appeal by a Blayney saddler against a deci-
sion given against him by a country P.M. The
local police, hearing that “two up” was being
played in a disused quarry, invaded the place
on warrant. They found several men in a ring,
and collared the appellant, who had on him £l2
9s. in small change. They also secured a “kip”
and two pennies. The P.M. fined appellant £2
and confiscated the £l2 9s. The appeal to the Full
Court was based on the propositions that (1) a
quarry was not a “ place” ; (2) there was no need
for the police to take out a warrant to enter a
place when there was nothing to stop them any-
how ; and (3) there was no evidence that
gaming was being carried on. The I ull Court
enthusiastically upheld the appeal on each and
every point, basing its decision on the old Act of
1902. No one thought it worth while to refer to
Wade’s Act of 1906, with which the Deform
crowd reckoned it had covered up every orifice in
the old sieve of a law. So it would seem that the
old difficulty of finding out whether a place is a
locality or just a darned old spot, is as bad as
ever.
EXTREMELY OBLIGING.
CADGER : “ Could yer oblige me wi’ the price of
bed, Mister ?”
GENEROUS YOUNG BACCHANAL: “ Shertnly , of
shap. Mos’ ’appy to oblige! Have yer, go
change of a (hicJ five pou' note on yer?"
A sound but little-known principle of law
cropped up in the N.S.W. Bankruptcy Court the
other day. A hotelkeeper tried to prove fo
debt of £lO ss. 6d.. for drinks supplied at dittere
times. It was held that he was prevented by
Tippling Act of George 11., which enact * 1 ‘ thnn
debt is valid for liquor supplied of value less
£1 on any one occasion. Unless a dnn *v- „
round of drinks, costs £1 it can’t be a legal sudj
of debt.
THE ALIEN KILT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Agnew, of the Old Scotch Collegians’ Club, said a
Scotch cadet corps should be formed from amongst the
boys attending the Scotch College. “It would be an in-
spiring sight to see fifty' of these lads in kilts marching
down the street, headed by the pipers. The heavens
would be rent with the cheers of the people as they
passed along the street.” —Melbourne Daily Paper.
Oh Agnew ! Doctor of whate’er you be !
Medicine, Law, or smug Divinity !
you’ll never, never operate on me.
For surely such a brain is made of milt,
'That could propose Australian youth to wilt,
And dress his militarism in a kilt.
For kilts no use nor beauty have—-they have age,
Belonging to the time when Kerns did ravage,
And one Piet savage bit another savage.
“’Twould an inspiring sight be,” barb’rous doctor !
Either you have the poor reporter mocked, or
You call for prosecution by the proctor.
You’re right to think the firmament would be rent i
So would the bagpipes and their pipers be sprent,
And Pentridge-wards the ghastly fragments be sent.
Old clansmen all! You’re full of tales of slaughter !
Full of wild screanungs of Lord Ullin’s daughter !
Fighters of muckle whisky, mickle water
Living in gory r pasts ! George, Cappadocian,
Andrew and Patrick ! With much whisky lotion
You bring your aged cults across the ocean.
Your kilts, your pipes, your claymores all are alien,
Your men are cruder than those of Deucalion !
Australia only wants soldiers Australian !
VIC.
MARTIN LUTHER.
THE LETHAL WEAPON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two of the directors of the Emu Gravel Company came
to blows this morning .... the two men were rolling
over and over, and one was jabbing the other with his
umbrella. — Daily paper, S5/f/’OB.
Of the fearsome Umberella
Shall the whispered word be spoken ;
From Cue to Corinella
The gore-bespattered token
Of battle, murder, sudden death, and corpses crushed and
broken.
When roused by wild palaver
The Dago loves to dandle
A razor-bladed carver ;
The toy can’t hold a candle
To the fearsome Umberella firmly grasped about the
handle.
With a shout that wakens wonder,
With a dark and horrid chuckle,
You bring it down like thunder-
Bolts upon the foeman’s knuckle,
Then swiftly jab the sharpened point an inch above his
buckle ;
And so with fury Coptic
And with swift and skilful passes,
To the gouging of his optic,
Though he guard the same with glasses
Till he lie a blood-bespattered ebrpse upon the waving
grasses !
Yea, the fearsome Umberella
May be witnessed by the curious,
From Cue to Corinella,
As a weapon quite injurious, '
And much employed by Fatmen when the same are wildly
furious.
vie.
AUGUSTUS B.


HAVE- YOU Rheumatism?
The Rheumagnetic Bing' (Patd.) gives
almost immediate relief. It is guaranteed
to be a genuine magnet possessing great
curative properties.
THE W" TAKE NO IMITATIONS.
Rheumagnetic Ring
(Patented)
Highly Polished Steel, nickel plated, 7/6 post free.
Cures Rheumatism, Gout,
Neuralgia, Sciatica, etc.
ibtainable
Booklet FREE on Request.
HE RHEUMACNETIC RING
0., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart, Tas.
u
Every bottle of Cl 1 a 111 f> ci‘ 1 <llll s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy is warranted to
do all that is claimed for it.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
These RIDING TROUSERS
WE don’t believe you can get anything- better anywhere.
No other ready-to-wear Riding Trousers could approach
these in any respect.
The material is Grey and Fawn Riding Twist, and the
tailoring and finishing are absolutely high-class.
These trousers are well shaped in the leg—close fitting at
knee, and have two buttons for straps to hold them in
position.
We have not advertised them for some little time owing to
the demand for them, which we were afraid would run us out
of stock. We now have a new supply in, and can fill orders at
once.
PRICE 18/6 a Pair
POSTAGE
9d. EXTRA.
ORDER FORM.
When ordering- please state waist measurement Measure-
ment above knee Under knee Calf....
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET,
... SYDNEY.
“K.” sums the ease up :
Truth is stranger than fiction, but the State infant is
more unaccountable than either of them. One of her
(a-red was recently sent out from a N.S. W. institution
and the performance she put up is equal to the best
records of any of her predecessors. She had runaway
from several previous situations. Why she bolted from
them isn t very clear. Something may have startled her
or perhaps a piece of paper blowing along the road made
her shy ; but whatever it was, she cleared right out from
every billet her parent, the State, dumped her into
When the matron of the institution sent her out
to her latest job, she warned the bolter that It was her
last chance. The hardened bolter of 13* departed to her new
home and got along all right until one day when, during
the absence of her employers, she went to look for a six“
pence she had dropped in a dark corner. (This dropping
of sixpences in dark corners and leaving them there until
3*oll ve time to gather them up suggests gorgeous
opulence.) The maiden then says she lit a match and as
soon as it began to burn, threw it over her shoulder
(Presumably she had found the sixpence and had no
further use for the light.) Next she went outside for
half-an-hour, leaving the burning match where it fell At
the end of thirty minutes she returned to her room and
saw smoke. The remarkable infant took no more notice
of the smoke than if she was a beautiful lady in a poem
wandering about in a hazy state with her hands full of
withered roses and her hair down. She drifted aim-
lessly into another room, and when at last she drifted
out again she found the curtains burning. Instead of
pouring water on the flames she selected a stick, and tried
to slap them out. After a while she gave up the attempt
and put on her hat(!). Having made her toilet, she went
out to find someone whom she could tell about the fire.
The first people she sighted were a man and a boy, but
she didn t like the look of them, and let them go.
After that she saw a woman, but didn’t tell her
either. Just here the newspaper report gets dis-
organised and starts to recount the story she after-
wards told to the police, so it is reasonable to
suppose that, having journeyed a long distance without
discovering a suitable person to confide in, she simply
turned around and went back to the blazing premises.
The owner and his wife returned in time to save a few
handfuls of their property. Under cross-examination,
the interesting child reeled off a little of her brief, bolting
past. She said she had heard girls say that if they had a
place they didn’t like they would kill somebody or set
fire to the premises. Also, she had been at one place,
and there was a fire for which she got the blame, but she
didn tdo it. The Court said the case was suspicious, but
that it wasn’t sure, and it gave things up as a bad job.
So a combustible girl of 13* is waiting for another billet.
* * * *
The Law is a wonderful beast. In Mel-
bourne, the other day, a Judge put his hand in
the bag where sentences are kept and drew out
an item of four years for a very ordinary case of
larceny. Compare this with the case of Nurse
Clayton, of Preston, adjacent to the same city.
During January, when the mercury was climbing
up to the ceiling of the thermometer, humane
Nurse C. was playing mother to 12 babies in a
house built to hold five. The inevitable hap-
pened, and several of the dozen succumbed. At
the inquest, the evidence showed that the poor
little wretches had practically starved to death.
Some trenchant remarks were made bj r the
Coroner, and nasty things were said about
poor nurse. The last punishment that has
fallen upon her must have overwhelmed her. She
was actually tried before a magistrate, and,
instead of being given 10s. per kid from the poor-
box, as one would have expected, a hard, cruel
Bench has fined her £1 per defunct child
for twc of the children, and the sum of
£3 3s. costs. Truly, the way of the hired
mother is hard and strewn with tin-tacks. And
inlCarlton, the other day, a man killed a monkey,
and was fined £5 ; in default, something like a
life’s imprisonment. Monkeys are amusing little
cusses, and must be protected.
A GIRL AND A BOY.
“ I do wish you'd put your hat on straight.
You look perfectly ridiculous with it on the
back of your head."
“ B.” : So Madge Clayton, nurse, of
Preston (Vic.), who had 12 infants in her care,
And, according to the evidence taken at a Coroner’s
Court after six of them had died, treated them
■with revolting cruelty, has been fined altogether
£5 3s. ! It’s a savage sentence, and tots up to
17s. 2d. per dead child ; and children surely aren’t
■worth that in Australia ?
rH<J he P olice aro still sanguine of
teEfcWUJ*" ties wanted in connection
were ‘ « Balhlrat n ‘7 s tery. Last December thev
were just as sanguine of running across .Tames
from Vn lnsa n e tram-wrecker who had got away
from Yarra Bend Asylum. The other day, an
S? R?IH» rP c ° nsta * ,le noticed Ryan strolling along
hacUneli ad ’ and , th , en wa s learned that he
lolTl k wee ! <s begging in Melbourne. It
wrson in h °A yOU re Pretty safe as a “ wanted”
Esauas”* 1 ' you
SO SUDDEN.
MOVER OF RESOLUTION: "No w— er—er
Mrs, Chairman — er—I propose”
CHAIRMAN : “O, my goodness! Not before
all this crowd !”
Raymond Wilson, aged seven, whose body
was found in a waterhole at Parramatta (N.S.W.),
belonged to a “nature study” class, and had
been learning about the peculiarities of bull-
frogs. By the side of the waterhole was found a
dish containing a bull-frog, which the youngster
had caught just before his own death. The bull-
frog was also dead. Nature study has its risks for
seven-year-old infants, and for bull-frogs.
* * * *
The Victorian Wharf Laborers’ Union is
by way of teaching a useful lesson to vapid gas-
bags like J udkins, whose sole deeds in the
cause of temperance reform have been
achieved with the tongue. Last June,
the union found the money to start a club
where lumpers would find superior attrac-
tions to those of the public-house, and the
weekly receipts now average £4O, as
against £2 4s. for the first week. A three-
course meal can be had at cost price right up
to midnight, and there is a smoking-room,
bathroom and temperance bar attached.
Also, the society makes its own hop beer,
and runs waggons up and down the wharves
all day, serving the lumpers at 2d. a pint.
Now it is going to form branch rooms and
supply meals from travelling waggons, as
it finds the men prefer a decent dinner to a
“ long-sleever and counter-lunch,” if they
can get it handy to their work. That
society is a better temperance advocate
than a whole churchful of Jugfulls or
Woodkinses.
* * * *
The slow and stately ways of the Law
were anticipated in Victoria lately, in con-
sequence of which the little townships of
Sunbury and Riddell threaten to come to
civil war. A while back Sunbury tapped
the perennial springs on Mt. Macedon and
carried off most of the fluid. The rest of
the flow —a stipulated quantity—it was
ordered to send down Riddell’s Creek to
supply stock, etc. Sunbury duly sent a few
buclmtsful down, but when the warm
weather came it collared the lot. Riddell
protested, but Sunbury ignored the protests.
Then Riddell threatened law, but Sunbury
still “lay low and said nufifin !” Then
Riddell appealed to the Board of Public
Health, which strenuously urged Sunbury to
* be a man and a brother—again with no visible
effect. Next Riddell went to Minister Swinburne
and told him, whereupon Swinburne arose and
gave the Sunbury Water Trust 14 days’ notice to
pass Riddell its share of the liquid ; failing that,
the department would do the work and charge
the cost to the Trust. For 10 days Sunbury con-
tinued its policy of masterly inactivity ; then
somebody with more energy than manners went to
a spot where the pipe lies exposed, and wrenched a
length of piping awav with a crowbar. Since then
Riddell’s Creek has been flowing merrily, but
Sunbury is about the drouthiest and angriest
place in the Commonwealth. Though he was a
hastv and ill-regulated person, there is a lot to be
said for the methods of that man with the crow-
bar.
“ Hassan ” : A French doctor, George
Dumas, has been exercising his ingenuity in the
matter of finding a formula for the “ odor of sanc-
tity.” He started on the well-known fact that
defunct saints have a distinctive smell, one whom
he examined smelling of roses, one of wall-
flowers, seven of gin, and two of red herrings.
From this he deduces that the “odor of
sanctity” is due to butyric ether C 6 Hl2 02.
Well, 'perhaps so, but I have smelt a good
many samples of sanctity, having reported Jud-
kins meetings, the Presbytery of Melbourne
South, Dowie, and a dozen other Beastly Sunday
Afternoons. My investigations lead me to the
conclusion that the “odor of sanctity” is partly
moth-ball, and partly old, damp, cotton umbrella,
and the rest cheap imported boots and brimstone.
Hie Ballarat murder is the third in a few
months which has baffled the Victorian detectives.
There was previously the Albert Park lagoon
affair; then the slaughtering of diamond mer-
chant Bauer in Collins-street. It is a record that
ought to lead to some very serious inquiry into
the Victorian defective detective system—a
system based on such niggardly pay that” the man
with a genius that way shudders at the bread-
and-cheese prospect, and passes on to broking or
burgling, or some other better-paid business
N.S.W. Health Board has just said a
much-needed stern word to Moree (N.S.W.)
Municipal Council. In 1906 the Health Board
had a look at the back premises of Moree, and
thereupon told the Municipal Council that the
sanitary arrangements of the
town were just awful, or
words to that effect. Also
the Board told the council in
exactly what way the sani-
tary arrangements were
awful (or some words to that
effect), and explained what
should be done in order to
make things ship-shape. Six
months later the Council
politely informed the Board
that it had remedied all the
old faults, and tittivated
everything up nice and clean
and beautiful. A few months
ago Moree produced an out-
break of typhoid, which is
still going strong—so far
there have been 35 cases—•
and the occurrence induced
the Board to send one of its
medical officers along to in-
vestigate. Dr. Willis, ac-
cording to his report, found
the cause of the typhoid in
the same old back premises
that had been harshly spoken
of in 1906. “ The condition
of almost all the sanitary
conveniences in the town,
including those at the princi-
pal hotels, was disgusting.”
All the old evils were there,
only, if possible, rather worse,
and suspicion arose that the Councirs polite com-
munication had really been a dilapidated lie.
Then the Board resolved to tell the Moree Council
that another inspection would be made shortly,
and if things weren’t beautifully clean by that
time, the Council would explain its ideas on sani-
tation to a legal functionary, sitting on an elevated
piece of furniture with a big fine in his hand and
some other animal’s hair on his head.
« * ■* m
Wired from Adelaide ;
Norton’s Summit residents felt highly favored on Sun-
day afternoon, when the Governor (Sir George Le Hunte),
in the absence of the rector, conducted divine service at
St. John’s Church, Morialta. The occasion was a harvest
thanksgiving. The seating capacity of the church was
taxed to its utmost. The problem of “ How to get the
people to church ” was solved.
Now’ if the Early Christians had only thought of
that! How fashionable Jerusalem would have
flocked to hear Pontius Pilate in the pulpit!
“ Adelaide ” : Our Adelaide sharks really
have all the gentle lovable qualities which
Hassan ” (B. 23/1/08) claims for some on the
eastern coast. Alongside the city, we have a ■
stretch of 15 miles of sandy beach, and all of it,,
from Largs Bay to Brighton, is alive with bathers i
in hot weather at dusk and daybreak, and during
much of the periods in between. I have myself
dived from each of the six jetties that occur in thei
15 miles. I have never been eaten by a shark..
There does not seem to be any record, during the'
A years that the white man has been here, of any/
such attack. The sharks are here all right. They
are often seen in comparatively shallow water;,
and near to bathers in the open. Then there is ai
mighty scare ; yet the fact that the beast comes;
in among humankind without biting, them is thw
surest proof that he doesn’t want to bite them.
TRYING TO KEEP 'EM QUIET ,
It is better that the Commonwealth should exhibit
patience and tenderness to the susceptibilities of the
States.—AGY.
Stick of lolly here, pat on the head and banana
there, docs wonders sometimes.
The mixed race horror seldom breaks out
so violently as in the following Sydney advt.:—
"Y"N6. Lady, 27, des. acq. Japanese Gent., in fair
pos., 30 to 35, view Mat. C. R., Newtown P.O.
She deserves to get him, and it is hard to say any-
thing much worse about a girl of 27 than that.
THE KINGLY WAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rh °' I l ' morning there had been born in the
Chateau lOrmby a male child, who Was to be named
Phihppe Henry Francois Marie Delacroix, his mother
~e int; Blanche Zehe Josephine Delacroix, and i he father—
l "known ? " asked the local Mayor gently. The doctors
in attendance smiled, and murmured, “Not exactly
unknown. Then, turning to the Mayor, the spokesman
added, Simply put down, ‘ Father not declared.’ ” The
mother of the child, Blanche Delacroix, is, of course, the
atest favorite of the King of the Belgians. Daily paper.
M hen the fav rite of a monarch in his early seventies
(A fav’rite who is young and very sweet),
Has an infant, the Court etiquette for such an event is
As rigid as it’s rational and meet.
First the doctors gather round the child, likewise a.
may or or two,
And mark the color of its eyes and hair
(The latter, recollect, is not an easy thing to do,
The kid’s head for the most part being bare).
The KimJ hurr ‘ v to a bureau > and they telephone their
And with difficulty smothering a cheer,
Let sin" kn ° W the s ' ladsome tidings, and a few Hosannahs;
The while the new arrival’s made a Peer.
Follows next a little writing in the Archives of the State?
(There are forms concerning parentage to fill).
A " a crate ard momerlfc this > T ou ’ n say, requiring a whole
Of tactfulness and diplomatic skill.
Will the Royal Court be shocked to have things down in
black and white
That are tabu ordinarily? Will there
Be grief and widespread horror when the sad fact cornes
to light
That the fav’rite of the sov’reign’s had an heir?
Not at all; no decent courtier would dream of making
moan "
About the lady—even if he dared.
All the King and those who love him ask is that it should
be known
That the father of the kid is “ Not Declared.”
N.S.W.
“ 10-2-4.”


IRRIGATION.
NEW PLANT FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
TANCYE COUPLED COMPOUND CONDENSINC ENCINE, 16in. x 26in. x 32in. THREE THROW TANCYE-
HOLMAN PUMP, capacity one hundred thousand gallons hourly up to 200 feet lift.
Full particulars from LIQUIDATOR, Box 117, Sydney Post Office.
Fraser $ Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITttD KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS ana
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:- U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; CERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
' VIA PACIFIC ” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offloes
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with tn
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams,
with special wire to Gable Terminus at Southpo •
At this office all Standard Code-Books nia}
consulted. At all other places in
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ”_are ac , oe P ]n
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4Ad. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accep
at all Telegraph Offices.
ices. , ~
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, ana
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD-
-40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queenslana-
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
N.S.W. Miners’ Accident Relief Fund
Carried
Ex- to Re- Re-
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. serves. serves.
1901 .. £31,906 £6,821 £lOl £24,984 £24,984
1902 .. 39,036 11,096 1546 26,394 51,378
1903 .. 45,559 14,520 1050 29,989 81,367
1904 .. 48,288 17,587 1146 29,555 110,922
1905 .. 51,775 22,583 1253 27,939 138,861
1906 .. 55,188 28,476 1298 25,414 164,275
1907 .. 63,315 30,792 1488 31,035 195,310
This fine fund, the nearest approach to State life insur-
ance known in Australia, was established in 1900 to give
three classes of benefits : (1) Maintenance of the miner
during incapacity caused by accident; (2) decent burial
and a bit for the family to go on with in case of death ;
(3) a pension for the widow and the dependents.
Worked by even the very best of private enterprise
organisations, one-half—possibly more, and certainly
not less —of the contributions would be absorbed by
expenses, first in pursuing the miner, and then in col-
lecting his pence. The State, however, goes about it
differently. It enacts that every miner shall be a mem-
ber ; that the owner shall collect the contribution (4£d.
per week, or 9d. a fortnight) when he pays the wages ;
that the owner shall add 50 p.c. to the collections, where-
upon the State adds another 50 p.c. Only the very
smallest mines are exempt. The results can only be de-
scribed as magnificent. Nobody (the miner least of all)
feels the contribution ; and the advantages of it are seen
at once from the fact that last year relief was given to
the dependents of 48 men killed during the year in the
mines of the State, as well as to the surviving dependents
of 346 previous victims, and to the sufferers by 5960 non-
fatal accidents. Per 1000 employees, this shows some of
the history of the fund :
Claims Claims
Fatal Non-fatal through through
Acci- Acci- Fatal Non-fatal
dents, dents. Accidents. Accidents.
1901 .. 2-39 130-45 £24 17 5 £276 15 5
1902 .. 5-79 146 T 8 111 4 2 356 18 7
1903 .. 1-45 164-9 177 8 7 431 3 6
1904 „ 2-08 170-76 209 16 2 496 3 0
1905 .. 2-02 195-45 257 1 2 602 2 9
1906 .. 2-34 218-7 315 6 8 764 6 0
1907 .. 1-63 202-34 317 7 11 727 19 2
On the average, then, a N.S.W. miner’s chance of being
killed during the year is 395 to 1; his chance of being
injured is about 5 to 1. A business carried on under such
conditions can very well demand a subsidy for the acci-
dent fund out of the pockets of the proprietors ; and
when their pockets won’t stand it, the business had better
shut up. Still, there is practically no rebellion on the
part of N. S. Wales mine-owners, who, with a very few
exceptions, have throughout looked on the fund with
favor.
For the contributions mentioned above, the
members get the following benefits: In case of fatal
accident — 10s. per week to the widow while unmarried,
and 3s. per week to each child till 14 years
of age; if the deceased was a widower with child-
ren, a guardian receives the widow’s 10s. If the
deceased was unmarried, dependent relatives are treated
in the same way. Also £l2 is paid in cash at once.
Where disablement only occurs, even if it be disablement
for life, the unfortunate miner draws 15s. per week, with
3s. per week for each child under 14 years. That is all at
a cost of 4Jd. per week—4£d., by the way, which he never
sees, and often doesn’t know he is paying, because the
owner retains it out of his wages, and hands it over to a
local committee. These benefits are from 20 to 25 per
cent, more than were originally provided: they were
put up as the result of an actuarial investigation by J. B.
Tiivett in 1905.
In connection with friendly societies, there is a
serious waste because the funds are scattered far and
wide, and can’t.be invested to the best advantage. This
Fund gets over that difficulty. The miners’ contributions
(one-half of the total) are paid to local committees, which
see to the disbursement of the weekly accident relief—
work that couldn’t be attended to by a central office, if
only because it would be victimised by malingerers. But
the other 50 per cent. —the owners' and the State’s —is
paid to a central Board, and is the fund out of which the
pensions are paid. The miners’ contributions are gener-
ally just about enough to pay the weekly accident bills ;
and at the end of the year all that the committees had
on hand was £123. This allowed of the investment of
practically the whole Fund : and on the average a return
of £3 10s. 9d. per cent, is shown. The securities are all
Government stock, with the exception of a small bank
credit.
• • * *
The Union Bank of Australia :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Feb., 1902.. £96,714 B p.c. =£60,000 £25,000 £1,036,213
Aug., 1902.. 93,931 8 ~ „ 60,000 50,000 1,020,144
Feb., 1903.. 109,649 8 „ ~ 60,000 50,000 1,019,793
Aug., 1903.. 126,330 10 „ ~ 75,000 47,000 1,024,123
Feb., 1904.. 112,182 10 ~ „ 75,000 10,000 1,051,305
Aug., 1904.. 115,830 10 ~ ~ 75,000 25,000 1,067,135
Feb., 1905.. 100,374 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,082,509
Aug., 1905.. 100,767 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
Feb., 1906.. 100,879 10 „ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,114,355
Aug., 1906.. 152,251 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,151,406
Feb., 1907.. 227,904 14 „ ~105,000 70,000 1,204,310
Aug., 1907.. 146,560 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,235,870
The remarkable profit for the previous half-year was not
sustained ; and it was only the fatuously optimistic who
expected that it would be. Those extraordinary figures
were, in fact, the reward, or part of the reward, for years
of abstinence. Warned by What happened in the early
’nineties, and knowing the awful capacity which Aus-
tralian pastoral and other securities have for shrinking,
this bank wrote down such assets so hard that when Aus-
tralia again boomed properties of that class, the bank was
able to sell out at a big profit; and the great figures of
the previous two half-years were more or less due to these
“ recoveries.” At the same time the London market was
eager after Australian or any other money, wherefore
exchange business was unusually profitable, and current
account money not ordinarily made use of by this and
other banks was no doubt put to highly profitable use on
call in London. These latter conditions ruled also in a
modified way during the half-year covered by the last
line in the table above. Altogether, then, the figures for
the past 18 months or so have been the product of excep-
tional circumstances. Nevertheless, this and other banks
ought to score in the future through having released a
considerable amount of money, hitherto locked up in
property ; and that ought to improve their profits.
As to some details, here is a comparison :
Aug., 1906. Aug., 1907.
Notes .. .. £520,612 £514,431 Dec., £6,181
Bills, etc. .. 1,867,164 1,666,605 Dec., 200,559
Deposits .. 18,176,249 19,153,423 Inc., 977,174
Liquid Assets .. 9,401,028 9,437,391 Inc., 36,363
Advances .. 13,283,680 14,325,971 Inc., 842,291
Premises, etc. .. 635,723 611,967 Dec., 23,756
In the matter of deposits the Union is remarkably well
favored ; it has the use of a shade under £8 of the public’s
money for every £1 of its own. On the basis of its own
funds' (capital and reserves combined) the profits are
therefore naturally large, just, of course, as the
risks (which have all to be borne by the
shareholders) are large. For the past half-year
the profits show a return at the rate of £lO 16s. 9d. per
cent. But in comparing that high return with some
other banks’ figures, and also in comparing banks’ re-
serves, a difference in various bankers’ methods has to be
remembered ; some banks, instead of writing off, add the
provision for depreciation to their reserves, which are
swollen in consequence. Banks which adopt the latter
practice thus show big figures in the balance-sheet, but
the rate of earnings suffers. The Union’s cash position
is strong ; over 44 per cent, of all debts to the public
(deposits, etc.) is represented by liquid assets—a larger
proportion than is generally regarded as necessary. But
as against that must be set the fact that this bank’s pro-
portion of public debt to shareholders’ funds is rather
larger than is generally considered prudent.
* * * *
Howard Smith and Co., Ltd. :
Dividends
(5 p.c. pref. Depreciation
Dec., Profit. 10 p.c. ord.). Written off. Deficit.
1991 .. £57,734 £18,782 £20,668 £21,716
1902 .. 50,435 28,864 19,626 19,771
1903 .. 51,443 29,133 19,536 16,997
1904 .. 52,418 29,721 20,466 14,766
Reserves#
1905 i 57,348 30,344 22,436 / jg 993
) Profit on wharf resumption 27,181 ( ’
1906 .. 57,488 30,792 25,728 17,961
1907 .. 65,827 31,814 33,785 18,189
This co. was formed in 1901 to take over the business of
Wm. Howard Smith and Sons, Ltd. The latter was a
private co. The new co. was in 500,000 shares ; the
vendors received 162,500 pref. and 162,500 ordinary
shares. There are now 190,459 cumulative pref. shares
fully paid to £l, 59,541 cumulative pref. paid to 55.,
218,171 ordinaries fully-paid, and 31,829 paid to ss. The
preference shares are entitled to 5 per cent. ; they' call at
present for £10,267 a year. Anything earned beyond
that belongs to the ordinary shareholders. The co. has
power to issue a further 500,000 shares. The form of the
published accounts has been altered twice already. In
the earlier years depreciation was written off the assets.
The steamers and plant cost the new co. £262,519 net.
By the end of 1904—in four years—additions had been
made bringing up the total cost to £373,144, of which
£85,607 had been written off out of profits. Down to
that year provision for contingencies (including insur-
ance) had been lumped with ordinary trade debts. After
that a general reserve item was introduced, and the
aggregate depreciation allowance was transferred to it;
but the leaseholds were still shown as written down. For
the past year the leaseholds are in at cost, the aggre-
gate depreciation allowance having also been transferred
to the general reserve fund. So we can dig this out:—
Total Reserve
Transferred Unexplained for
to Reserves additions to Depreciation,
from P. &L. Reserves. Insurance, etc.
1905 .. £22,436 £219,731
1906 .. 24,365 £31,323 275,419
£5824 (Leasehold and Share Depreciation Fund)
transferred.
1907 .. 33,785 27,688 342,716
In the past two years, therefore, in addition to the sums
shown in the first table as written off, £59,011 has been
provided net to cover insurance and contingencies ; and
all this has to be taken into account when considering the
small size of the reserves shown above. How much of
this £342,716, accumulated in seven years to cover de-
preciation, etc., is true reserve it is impossible to say. It
has to cover seven years’ wear and tear (but overhauls
and repairs have been charged to working expenses); it
has also to meet possible future losses of vessels, their
insurance being taken by the co. itself. The principal
assets (at cost) have moved this way
1901. 1906. 1907.
Goodwill .. .. £40,000 Nil Nil
Real estate .. .. 26,890 £7,600 £6,906
Leasehold .. .. 22,779 15,140 13,170
Steamers, etc. .. 271,901 534,211 613,656
Shares 23,744 143,465 194,421
Stores 31,200 21,848 17,723
Liquid assets.. .. 101,134 127,909 96,981
In 1901, the debts, lumped with provision for contingen-
cies, were £73,508; as the co. was then in its first year,
the provision for contingencies would be small. At
December 31 last the debts were £134,144. Meantime
also £49,444 of capital has been paid up. The excess of
revenue over outgoings (including dividends) has been
about £400,000 —
Depreciation and Contingency Fund .. £342,716
Goodwill wiped out .. .. .. 40,000
Undivided profit 18,189
Total £400,905
Of that, and the new capital, and the realised freeholds,
£341,755 has gone into ships and £170,677 has gone
into shares. The latter is to a very great extent
the co.’s investment in the coal business, in which it is
now verv largely interested.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Co.
Dividends on Added Nominal
Capital to Re- Re-
Profits. Actually Paid, serves. serves.
June, 1902.. £16,015. 9£ p.c. = £3,000 £13,015 £93,710
Dec., 1902.. 15,090 13| „ „ 4,500 10,590 104,300
June, 1903.. 10,501 17£ „ „ 6,000 4,501 108,801
Dec., 1903.. 7,885 8 ~ „ 3,000 4,885 113,686
June, 1904.. 12,881 12 ~ ~ 4,500 8,381 122,067
£47,067 Reserves written off ; £75,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1904.. 13,374 10 p.c.= 3,750 9,624 9,624
June, 1905.. 10,767 10 ~ ~ 3,750 7,017 16,641
Dec., 1905.. 8,767 10 „ „ 3,750 5,017 21,658
June, 1906.. 13,675 30 „ ~11,250 2,424 24,082
Dec., 1906.. 9,187 10 ~ „ 3,750 5,437 29,519
June, 1907.. 18,202 30 ~ ~ 11,250 6,952 36,471
Dec., 1907.. 13,117 15 „ „ 5,625 7,492 43,963
The reserves are described as nominal; and the profits
might almost be described the same way, seeing that
some deduction must be made from them to cover wear
and tear. The reserves are the sole provision for depre-
ciation ; nothing is written off ship or other property,
which is maintained in the balance-sheet at cost to the
present co. That is to say, the property taken over at
a valuation in 1904 remains at that figure still. Ship
property, freeholds, works, lighters, etc., are all bundled
into one item, which now stands at £177,008 ; and if 4 per
cent, per annum were written off, £3540 per half-year
would have to come off the profits as set out in the fore-
going table. Four per cent, might be too much to cover
depreciation of a mixed item including freeholds ; but
£9210 of the reserves consists of an Insurance Fund, and
as the co. six months ago was running its own fire and
marine risks to the extent of £60,000, something sub-
stantial must be added to ordinary wear-and-tear allow-
ance to cover that hazard. Even so, however, there
seems to be a very fair margin of actual net profit over
and above the dividends which have been paid during the
last few years. Nominally, of course, the half-year’s
dividend is at the rate of 7J per cent, per annum, the
capital having been doubled out of reserves 3£ years ago.
The co.’s financial position is easy : before providing for
the current dividend the liquid assets (including stores)
\,ere £21,600 in excess of liabilities.
The Balmain New Ferry Co. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902.. £272 7Ap.c. = £616 £4,993
Profit on Sale of Forfeited Shares £247 5,240
June, 1903.. 309 5 p.c.= 410 5,139
Dec., 1903.. 643 5 „ „ 410 233 5,372
June, 1904.. 753 7£ „ „ 616 £4675 834
Dec., 1904.. 972 7£ ~ ~ 616 125 1,065
June, 1905.. 932 7$ ~ ~ 616 316 1,381
Dec., 1905.. 958 7£ ~ ~ 616 342 1,723
Premiums on New Shares .. 3294 5,017
June, 1906.. 1726 10 p.Cr= 1419 307 5,324
Premiums on New Shares .. 5000 10,324
Dec., 1906.. 1046 10 p.c. = 2000 9,370
Premiums on New Shares .. 262 9,632
June, 1907.. 2022 10 p.c. = 2000 22 9,654
Dec., 1907.. 2069 10 „ „ 2000 69 9,723
This co.’s profit and loss account is a mere skeleton now-
adays. Not only are all expenses heaped into one pile,
but they are mixed with the allowance for depreciation,
and there is no way of telling what the allowance
amounts to. Twelve months ago ship property stood at
£39,999 ; it now stands at £47,562, an increase of £7563.
During that 12 months the steamer Lady Carrington, with
a carrying capacity of 700 passengers, has been built and
added to the co.’s navy ; so whatever this vessel cost over
and above £7563 has apparently been paid out of profits,
written off to cover wear and tear. The directors six
months ago announced that, since that half-year had closed,
they had sold “ the upper portion of the Pearl Bay estate,
which will have the effect of releasing more than half
the capital previously locked up in this property.” What
amount was locked up in this property wasn’t, however,
mentioned : and, anyhow, the freeholds still stand at
£34,991 (as against £38,096 six months ago), with
£3500 due on mortgage. Apparently that explains the
transaction. The co. hasn’t therefore been relieved to
any great extent, and its overdraft and loans raised on
mortgage amount to £35,559 —practically the sum repre-
sented by freeholds. The purchase of these harbor-fore-
shore titbits looks like turning out all right in the long
run, but for the present they have mostly been laid hold
of to keep others out, and‘there can be precious little
profit in them, and probably there will not always be
enough to pay the interest. Two things, then, have to be
taken into consideration in connection with this co. :(l)it
doesn’t tell what it w'rites off to cover depreciation, so it
can’t be said whether or to what extent the disclosed
profits are over-stated or under-stated ; and (2) the co.
is a very considerable land speculator on borrowed
money, as well as a harbor-ferry co.
* * * »
Toohey’s, Ltd., the brewery you smell with
the right nostril when you get out of the Sydey railway-
station, while the left is busy sniffing up the rival
Tooth’s: —
In reduc-
Net tion of
Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
July, 1902.. £11,416 £11,416 £79,189
Jan., 1903.. 25,606 6 p.c. = £16,500 9,106 70,083
July, 1903.. 18,603 6 „ „ 16,500 2,103 67,980
Jan., 1904.. 17,233 5 „ „ 13,750 3,483 64,497
Julv, 1904.. 10,440 4 „ „ 11,000 65,057
Jan'., 1905.. 15,554 4 „ „ 11,000 4,554 60,503
July, 1905.. 11,842 4 „ „ 11,000 842 59,661
Jan., 1906.. 9,930 4 „ „ 11,000 -- 60,731
Reserve funds (£18,000) written off ; capital
written down from £550,000 to £400,000
(goodwill reduced to £22,500), leaving .. 16,231
July, 1906.. £12,128 5 p.c. = £lO,OOO £2128 14,103
Jan., 1907.. 11,528 5 „ „ 10,000 1528 12,575
July, 1907.. 13,471 5 „ „ 10,000 3471 9,104
Reserves.
Jan., 1908.. 19,964 5 „ „ 10,000 9964 860
Early in 1906 this co., whose probable business and pro-
fits had been much over-estimated, decided to have a
cleaning up, though the co. was then only a little more
than four years old. The trustees of the tw'O Toohey
estates surrendered 50,000 of the 375,000 shares they got
as vendors, and then the whole remaining 500,000 shares
in the co. w’ere written down from £1 to 16s. The
writing down was—Capital, £150,000 ; reserves, £lB,OOO ;
total, £168,000. The goodwill, originally £85,000, was
written down to £28,000, less £5500 reserve, or £22,500
net. Thus apparently (the thing has never been made
very plain) £lll,OOO was written off properties,
plant, brewery, eta, and £57,000 off goodwill.
Even then it looked as though not a low
enough level of values had been reached, and at
the end of 1906 the 16s. shares were being sold
down to - 10s. and 10s. 3d. From that point, however,
there has been a great improvement, at first slow, but
rapid during the past few weeks, till now a shade over 14s.
6d. is on offer for the shares. Evidently somebody knew
that the published accounts would show a bloom that
they haven’t worn for many a day. Just what produces
the bloom isn’t apparent. The profit and loss account
shows “ profits on brewing, sales of wines and spirits,
malt-house etc., after making provision for bad and
doubtful debts and trade discounts, £50,039,” as
against £36,395 for the corresponding half of
1906-7 and £41,040 for 1905-6. That £50,039 is
a fair average seems very doubtful. There
may possibly have been recoveries of debts which had
been written off as bad in less prosperous times. The
Union and some other banks admit having been able to
publish bloated figures on that same account. Nor can it
be safely argued that the profits of previous years were
unduly depressed to make unnecessarily large provision
for contingencies ; because the provision probably would
not have been any too large but for the subsequent run of
extra-prosperous years. The future, anyway, is doubt-
ful. There is nothing to definitely explain the spring
in profits. There is nothing, either, to indicate how much,
if anything, is written off to cover depreciation, apart from
the £2500 which is, as a rule, formally appropriated
every six months. That, however, is only to cover wear
and tear of “ plant and machinery,” and doesn’t apply to
hotel properties, many of them leasehold. Apparently
there has been an increase of business ; book debts are
now £112,954, as against £102,368 twelve months ago.
Only on the assumption that there has been a con-
siderable increase in the trade would such an increase in
book-debts be justified under recent conditions. The only
liabilities are sundry creditors, £89,709, an increase of
about £35,000 during the half-year ; most of this has gone
into merchandise stocks.
The Equitable Building Society (Launceston,
Tab- ' > ’ Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1901 .. £3Bll £3282 £529 . £13,062
1902 .. 3630 3342 288 13,356
1903 .. 3674 3363 311 13,667
1904 .. A 3650 3270 380 14,047
1905 .. 3264 2946 318 14,365
1906 .. 2774 2445 329 14,694
1907 .. 2431 2155 276 14,970
With that read this comparison of the three chief items
in the balance sheet:
1901. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Capital .. £50,883 £46,904 £39,633 £44,404
Deposits .. 83,677 61,959 63,135 59,044
Mortgages 140,453 114,162 111,809 . 111,975
The capital is represented by three classes of shares—
contributing, paid (maturing at from five to 21 years),
and deposit shares. In 1901, the mean of the capital for
the year was £52,965, and the interest or dividend paid
or accrued was £3282, which meant an average of £6 4s.
per cent, all round. The mean capital for the past year
was £42,018, and the dividend averaged £5 2s. 6d. per
cent. The paid-share capital has been reduced ; the other
has been slightly increased. For 12 months recently
the issue of shares was stopped, so as to give the manage-
ment an opportunity to get rid of shares carrying a high
rate, replacing them with lower-rate shares, with a cor-
responding reduction also in the rate of repayment of
loans. Mortgages, which had been shrinking for some
years, are now again steady, no doubt partly on account
of the better terms offered. The issue of shares having
been resumed, capital has also moved up ; and probably
on that account deposits have been reduced. These
deposits are limited by the Tasmanian law to two-thirds
of the amount of the advances. Thus the law allows
about £75,000 of deposits instead of the £59,044 actually
held ; so the security for the depositor is over 25 per
cent, better than the law insists upon.
rt * * *
Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.): —
Pro- Bonus to Written Re-
Dec., fits. Dividends. Suppliers. off. serves.
1900 £2460 10 p.c. = £92 12 p.c. = £685 £4Ol £3771
1901 2370 10 „ „ 94 15 „ „ 1010 307 4730
1902 3482 10 „ „ 94 25 „ „ 2313 390 5415
1903 2609 10 „ „ 95 25 „ „ 2000 368 5561
1904 2898 10 „ „ 98 30 „ „ 2525 295 5541
1905 4073 10 „ „ 98 33J „ „ 3130 342 6044
1906 4929 10 „ „ 99 35 „ ~ 3862 373 6639
1907 4221 10 „ „ 99 35 „ „ 3450 165 7146
Of the year’s profit £2357 was made in the first and ais„,
in the second half. The reserves are substantial but rh
need to be, for, while the paid capital is onlv’i-qsfi
liabilities amount to £19,223. On the other side the
sundry debtors, £11,753 ; cash balances (before
div. and bonus), £13,811. The position is strong- • yetis*
turnover is large, and in less prosperous times the hn i
debts and risks will increase heavily. The bonus
cent.) is a refund of commission and is practically FiT
dividend which co-operation pays to the co-operators-!
is the profit which comes to them instead of going iT,
the pocket of Private Enterprise under the proprietar
system. No doubt under the proprietary system Privat
Enterprise frequently gives large bonuses nowaday
wherefore many Cow-men and others who ought to kno ’
better say there isn’t much to choose between the tw •
but let Co-operation die, and then they’ll know all about it’
The cable mentioned the other day that Ger
man and Belgian spelter producers were fixing up an "
agreement to limit production, and thus firm the market-
and the market for Broken Hill shares actually sprang 1
few shillings on the strength of the news. The Bcuetik
remarked that the most probable result would be that the
B.H. cos. would shortly have a difficulty in placing their
zinc concentrates, as they depended entirely on these
Germans and Belgians. Now already the Sulphide Cor-
poration has eased off at the zinc works— eased off so
much that on one recent day 140 men had to put their
coats on, and other coats have gone on before and since
The Broken Hill Prop, exhausted its own
resources in trying to make a profitable separation of the
lead from the zinc concentrates, and then turned hope-
fully to the Ullrich magnetic machine. This is the pro-
duction of the German engineer and metallurgist who for
10 years has been working patiently on the zinc tailings
most of the time as manager for the Australian (German)
Metal Co. Yet, though Ullrich’s machine was pretty
well known, the Zinc Corporation has set up a floor of 20
Wilfley tables to get the lead out. A peculiar feature of
the case is that the Zinc Corporation owns half-a-dozen
Ullrich “magnetics” of the older type; but, as they
were previously tried and found unsuitable, the’manage-
ment is not inclined to give the improved machine a trial
This all goes to show that there is still a wide field in
Broken Hill for the metallurgical expert to swing his cat
in. Also, it suggests that, even though it be a good
machine in its way, the B. H. Prop, has not got hold of
anything sensational.
* * * *
Chairman John Darling, at the Broken Hill
Prop, meeting in Melbourne, did a bit of prophesying:
“ Although abnormal prices may not be seen again for
many years, yet a steady market at about £l4 per ton for
lead and 2s. 2d. per oz. for silver may be reasonably looked
for.” The financial crisis in America, he argued, had
caused a contraction in trade and commerce, but the
heavy pressure had passed away, and renewed confidence
would be followed by a revival. But chairman Barling
didn’t point out that something else generally happens,
In times of tremendous activity buildings and works
are carried out far beyond current requirements;
also high prices stimulate abnormal production. There-
fore the slump finds a poorer demand than the average,
and more producers struggling to supply it, and gradually
expiring in the attempt. The silver-lead boom of the late
’eighties was followed by a swing-back, till in 1894 lead
averaged £9 11s. 6d. per metric ton. The boom of 1900,
when the same metal averaged £l7 3s. 7d., was followed
by a slump to an average of £ll ss. 3d. in 1902. Tough
copper, which was run up to £B2 in 1888, was down to
£43 within six months. Spelter, £2B 10s. in May, 1899,
had swung back to £l6 11s. in March, 1901. Ab-
normally high prices are practically never followed
by a steady market. If from £l3 10s. to £l4 is the
lowest that lead is going to reach after last year’s dizzy
climbing, then from £l3 10s. to £l4 isn’t the normal
price. If £l3 10s. to £l4 is the normal at which “a
steady market can be looked for,” then it is pretty certain
that before that “ steady market” is arrived at, a much
lower level than £l3 10s. will be recorded.
* * * *
While metal prices were high the Broken Hill
mines rushed on development work ; and the high costs
that resulted are now worrying a lot of people. On last
half-year’s figures, for instance, the B. H. South only pro-
duced lead for £l2 Bs. 9d. per ton ; and as five years ago
lead was £2 per ton less than that, the people who were
lately rushed into Souths at £8 are anxious. If the
South can’t produce lead under ordinary circumstances
at £ll, the.v well may' be anxious. The immediate outlook,
in any case, is sick enough for these people ; but things
are really not as bad as they' seem on the bald figures of
the last report. Take this comparison :
June, Dec., June, Dec.,
1903. 1903. 1907. 1907.
Mining.. .. 11/2f 10/0f 13/4J 12/-
Development.. 6J 9J 3/0£ 3/8}
Total .. 11/9 10/10 16/5 15/8}
In 1903 lead averaged £ll 19s. Bd. in the first, and
£ll 3s. Bd. in the second half; last year, £l9 17s. Id. and
£lB 6s. sd. The development work done in the low
metal market averaged 7fd. per ton ; last year, with
metal markets high, it averaged 3s. 4 3-Bd., or about
2s. BJd. more. As it takes a fraction under nine tons of
ore to yield a ton of lead contained in concentrates, it
follows that, if the South had done only as much develop-
ment work in 1907 as it did in 1903, it would have pro-
duced lead last half-year at approximately £1 4s. 2d. less
than the £l2 Bs. 9d. per ton mentioned above. Or, put in
another wa.y, costs would have been reduced by £14,650.
* * * *
In its half-yearly report the Broken Hill South
was silent about ore reserves, and the bears knew a good
reason why—the developments at the bottom level had
been unsatisfactory. It certainly is a fact that the first
crosscut proved the body at what looks like its very widest
part. Still the management never humbugged itself into
believing that it had a regular lode of that vast width.
So the reserves six months ago were put at a very modest
3,000,000 tons, and -at the meeting in Melbourne
it was given out that the latest estimate was
3,500,000 tons. The latest B. H. Prop, estimate, made
nine months ago, put the quantity in that mine at just
under 3,000,000 tons. Still, with a lode like the Broken
Hill to work on, these figures are not of much conse-
quence ; for this body isn’t a mere pipe or shoot of ore,
Moreover, the reserves of a mine, for practical purposes,
are governed by the metal markets ; if lead fell to £9, for
instance, it would reduce the payable reserves of every
mine on the Barrier to very small proportions.
* * * *
“It is with regret your directors report
that operations have failed to disclose any appreciable
body of payable ore, such as they (before the mine wss
unwatered and an inspection possible) were led to Tiehe'e
existed in the co.’s mine.” Thus the Blayney (N.o.rw
directors in a circular to shareholders. Indications a
not even favorable enough, they say, to justify fu™
exploration. It is, for all that, pretty certain tn ,
whether this co. does it or not, there will be further ■
ploration, if only on the strength of the considers
quantity of copper which was leached out of son
where, and held by the mine water. Howev j
having on their own admission made a mess


CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY: Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Street
BALLARAT : Lydiard Street.
, BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND
IN STOCK— Windin
Sole Agents of F.
LERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
. E„ri”, iir Mining >Vinoh«, (jumper BnUeri,., Pu.np, .or nil
° ° Mining purposes, Miles of Piping, all sizes. .. ~
Reddaway & Co.’s Cenuine Camel Hair Belting; Ransomes Sims, and deffer.es Ltd s
Keuuaway «x vu. o stationarv Ensrines.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
o°-' er 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
sev ere tests, and have amply demonstrated
hi w , h , a "' ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
Blek hert' * of Melbourne, who represent A.
till rt & C e o- ’ of London > the largest firm in the world
or the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
cent ?n fn^ e l U S a “- V ofcher - U save » *«>m 20
’ keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
easifv amohed *" fh**" P ‘ Pe ’ i V’ ery h ? ht in "’eight, and
thfiii apphed - 1 ba S cov ers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
ini ni’ Pnce 2 ° B, per bag> Wm - Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
„ "{° Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
Belton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
A copper smelting furnace, designed to embody
the recommendations of the best Australian and American
experts, has just been constructed for the Great Fitzroy
Gold and Copper Mines Ltd., Queensland. The furnace is
of large capacity, being capable of turning out 100 tons of
matte per day. It is rectangular in shape, and is higher
in column in proportion to its hearth area than is
customary. By this means both the roasting and
oxidisi ng operations will be conducted in the same furnace,
the oxidising being done in the upper portion and the
smelting in the lower. The furnace has two tiers of mild
steel water jackets. The lower tier rests On a c.i. plate
supported on c.i. standards, or, should hearth plate be
removed, the tier will be swung on girders ; the upper
tier of jackets is always swung from girders supported on
columns, The.columns are held together by a strong c.i.
frame. The air blast passes from a pipe encompassing
the furnace through Hustle pipes to the tuyeres. The
Austral Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne,
nave designed and built this furnace.* [1
The Joint Stock Companies Journal, of
London, in its July, 1907, issue, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited “It is
writing well over £1,000,000 of new business every year
in Australasia, the United Kingdom, and Africa ; it has
accumulated funds which are within a little of £3,000,000
sterling, invested with due regard to security, but,
nevertheless, in such away as to return substantial in-
terest ; and in the last five years alone it has paid to
policy-holders £1,328,000 in settlement of claims.’’*
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Aocident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £630 000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £594,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
J. R. Godfrey, Mining Engineer, Broken Hill
Chambers, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, No. 21, Fourth
Floor. Mines inspected, reported on, and managed.
Late Government Inspector of Mines for N.S.W.*
Suitable belting is a very important factor in
successful battery practice, and a belt that will grip and
is least effected by grit or damp, is Absolutely the best for
all mining drives. Reddaway’s genuine Camel Hair Belts
are easily first in these respects, and will outlast any other
belt on the market. Sole agents, Cameron and Suther-
land, Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo, and
agencies.* ri
* * • • 1
P. W. Tewksbury is prepared to look into
legitimate Gold or Tin Dredging propositions in any part
of the Australian States. Properties reported upon, and
estimates furnished for Dredging plants. Arrangements
made for Legal Management of Companies on up-to-date
lines, Office No. 6 Room, sth Floor, Equitable Buildings,
Collins Street, Melbourne.*
* . * »
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or flotation. Must stand close expert investigation.*
If you wish to have the most up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
We stock these Balances and supply at American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
Furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
* * * .
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
just now. We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. ; also fluming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’ iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 620
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 48in. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water supply, a contract for which has been signed.*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each With superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia. *
• * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison &Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
The business of Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd.,
of 7 Bent Street, Sydney, has of late years reached such
proportions as to suggest the advisability of opening
offices in other States. The first step in this direction has
been made in Melbourne, where they are now installed at
128 William Street. They feel they are considering their
best interests and those of their Victorian clients by being
“on the spot,” and they anticipate that it will lead to
still more extensive business in the southern State.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables,
Large Stocks Always on Hand. .
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [1
things as mine-buyers, the directors ask shareholders to
put up more money so that they may have another shot
at the same business. They propose to add 10s. liability
to each share, and buy a mine near Wellington to helia
feed the premature plant erected at Blayney «Un to
the present, sufficient work has not been done’ to demon-
strate the exact nature of the ore occurrence ” at this
proposed new show ; “ but it has the appearance of bein<-
a huge deposit of altered limestone, intersected bv
proph.vry dykes. Practically no work has been done on
it.” Having the Blayney smelters, probably something
of the sort is the best the co. can do, if, as affirmed the
new show can be proved at small expense. But it is a
poor best.
■**■**
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) crushed 348 tons for
9150 z., including gold and concentrates. Amongst the
lot was a trial crushing of 23 tons from No. 18 level
which did not pan out too well. The market has been
weak. One explanation is that a big 1 shareholder is trying’
to realise ; but bursting ground has given renewed cause
for alarm, and that probably is the true reason. Bursts
are always more likely as the ground is opened up and
exposed to the air. There are two theories. Most miners
believe that the “explosions" are caused hy chemical
action set up by the air ; but the geological explanation is
that rock explosions are due to released pressure. Two
levels (16 and 17) are being stoped, and a winze is
down 62ft. below No. 17, on 6in. of payable stone.
No. 18 is well advanced, and is in over 216 ft. from the
crosscut; it is being driven on a vein 4in. wide. Smith’s
reef lias always been small, and in old days the rich
crushing stuff looked like a heap of slate. A parallel reef
—called “ the big reef,” though only a few inches wide in
places—was proved in a crosscut of No. 16, and it is now'
being prospected for by driving into the hanging wall of
No. 17. So far the little reef has been the most consistent,
and, judging by the high average value of the last crush-
ing, No. 18 should get into a richer zone before it reaches
the boundary.
* * * *
Girilanibone (N.S.W), which for years has been
a handy peg to hang many a little gamble on, served its
old purpose a few months ago, when the word went
round that it was going to be sold once more. But the
copper market refused to stay up till negotiations were
finished, and now everything is off, including the men
who were lately working there. Even at the high average
ruling for copper last half-year the co. went £2lBO to the
bad. The revenue (including value of product on hand)
was £8176. Of that, £2894 w'as the estimated value of
stocks in hand at the beginning of the half-
year, leaving £5282 as the revenue proper for the
half-year ; and the expenses were £7462. Financially
the co. is in a shocking way so far as shareholders are
concerned. On December 31 the excess of liabilities (in-
cluding debentures, £12,400) over liquid assets was no
less than £14,832 at least—probably more, because the
stores in hand at that date are not likely to bring book
value if they have to be realised.
* « * »
The proposed amalgamation of the Araluen
Central and the Araluen Redbank dredging cos. (N.S.W.)
is off for the time. The Redbank people reckon they
have something worth £4OOO more than the Central, and
on this rock they split. There would be something to be
gained by amalgamation, but it really isn’t as pressing in
this case as in a good many others. The little dredging
co. can play a lone hand better than any other sort of
mining co.
• * • *
So far the Lobb’s Hole Co. (N.S.W.) has done
practically nothing but construction work at its claim
near Kiandra, but T. W. Horton, the chairman, and
A. W. Freeman, the general manager, conclude from
what little development work has been done that the
stopes will yield more ore than the estimates in the pros-
pectus. The co. has reason to hope that they will, because
the prospectus estimates of profit were based on £BO a
ton for copper. Admittedly, owing to the extreme
irregularity of the vein, it is difficult to make estimates,
but every 100 ft. was expected to give 700 tons of copper
and a profit of £35,000. Even cutting £2O a ton off,
£21,000 would be left; and that is worth going for. The
co. has called up 10s. per £1 share, and by the time that
is exhausted the reverb., now being built, should be talk-
ing to some purpose.
■* * * •*
Associated Northern Co. (W. A.) has written off
the rather large amount of £25,593 in connection with
the subsidiary Northern Blocks Syndicate and its sickly
wild cats. In 1903 the parent co. had three worthless
blocks at Kalgoorlie that it wanted to get rid of, and it
hit upon the plan of forming a pup concern to take them
off its hands. The Associated Northern itself subscribed
£17,500 for one-half of the share issue, and distributed
the balance, share for share, among its shareholders. Some
of the capital was sunk in the blocks mentioned, and the
remainder was absorbed in the purchase and development
of the Leviathan at Southern Cross. The latter, as re-
marked in B. 31/10/’O7, only gave promise of paying if
everybody worked for nothing and nobody charged any-
thing. Realising this ominous fact, the Northern Blocks
Syndicate liquidated, and the w’riting-off by the parent
co. of the amount alluded to probably marks the last that
will be heard of its ill-fated pup.
* * * *
A lot of old plant has been, or is being,
scrapped on the Golden Horseshoe (W.A.), to make
room for some new “ cannot-be-made-in-Australia ”
machinery. Latter includes a 70-drill Ingersoll Rand
rock-drill compressor, on which the new' tariff levies
£3OOO, to the horror of the co.’s low-tariff friends. Other
substitutions include an imported hoist, installed at a
cost of £9OOO, and a German-made electrical turbine
generator, which it is estimated will effect a considerable
saving in the cost of power.
* * * *
Provisional directors of the reconstructed
Callion Co. (W.A.) have issued a circular covering expert
Allen’s independent report. This report speaks of
“thousands of tons left in the stopes of the old workings,
which should pay to treat ” ; and, apart from this asset,
there are 3000 tons of 695. 6d. and 4500 tons of 435. ore in
sight. This reads well ; but after all the fantastic fairy
tales already told about the Callion, one still wonders
why it doesn’t go and do something.
Some details of the financial position of the
Associated Northern on the day of the meeting in Lon-
don : On deposit at bank, £36,000; Consols, £70,000 ;
Bank of England stock, £42,000 : and local loans, £20,000.
There was a total liquid reserve of £166,816. Then there
is-the “profit in sight’’ (already reported) to be taken
into account.
* * * *
Ore alleged to contain “gold, lead, aluminium,
platinum, tin, etc.,” has been found in the bucolic neigh-
borhood of Katanning(W.A.). Discoveries of the same sort
have frequently been reported from this part of the West,
but when put to the test the ore—despite what the local
papers said it contained —has always proved worthless.
This latest find will no doubt prove to be the same.
* * * *.
Great Ophir (W.A.) is not to be handed over to
the undertaker just yet. Its affairs are “to be placed on
an entirely new basis." The mine is to be sampled by an
independent expert, the much-ridiculed plant is to be re-
ported on, and several other moves are on the tapis.
Failure of the property is now ascribed to ignorant
management, and tales of past bungling are being told in
order to work on shareholders’ feelings and egg them on
to put up more cash. The books of the old co. show that
£25,000 has already been expended in plant and develop-
ment ; and certainly all there is to show for it is a very
mediocre equipment and a feeble attempt at mining in
shallow ground.
* * * *
Wheal Ellen (W.A.) was rushed in Melbourne
by men who really don’t deserve much sympathy. They
heard that a few marvellous specimens had been brought
over, they probably heard that there were some satis-
factory reports, they were told that the co. was going
into Peacock’s office. There was, anyhow, a profit in the
shares—everything pointed that way—and so the shares
were wolfed. It wasn’t till long afterwards that they sat
down to consider the matter. J. S. Read, a Perth broker,
had introduced the thing to Melbourne : now, when the
thing is more or less proved to be a failure, they want
their money back. James Hamilton, who was the Mei-
bourne broker, has handed over the £475 cash and 500
paid shares he got; but Read will not budge, and, on the
Hamilton*doesn't- H ' gh 0ou “ wiU discuss the matter.
Hamilton doesn t compromise Read ; the weakness of his
didf thom'h" by Ukinjr money and shares he
nromorer g .nnH h f Wa ? t 9.P r l ov » de the »'), he was in law a
E[eS.?lv in taking t n n ot dlsolosln £ the transaction acted
at the time 1 k g the money > though he didn’t know it
* * * ■*.
nn'^n e fvpk a^00ma w^ose claims are away
up in the remote parts of Kimberley (W.A.) had its
? e „ c , ond , meetln £ ln Adelaide the other’day. The co. has
|l d a [| ea P trouble. Miners are hard to get there
stores have to be laboriously hauled out either from
Derby or from a landing on the coast 26 miles awav, and
r k » S wu en The climax came "’hen fever gripped
Dick Wilson, brother of Andrew, on whose report the
was fl / Jat ,? d \ He was taken into Derby, where he
died. Hugh Ward a well-known prospector, was then
P.'S- and he thinks more of the chances than
Dick Wilson apparently did. All the same, he admits
that the w-ork so far done has been of no value, and he
ca,n still only judge the claim as a surface prospect; and as
8U „ f* T* Woodward and others had already spoken
well of it. During the few weeks Ward has been in
charge he reports the discovery of a sft. lode, going 30
per cent, copper and 2dwt. gold, and making larger, and
that is the most cheerful thing the co. has heard in
nearly 18 months.
* • * *
From the man who expressed the good opinion
of Carrington No. 1 and 2 East, Charters Towers, in B.
23/1/08: “The mining authority, who on February 13
discussed the paragraph re the Carringtons, quotes from
the No. 1 and 2 East manager’s report for January last.
This is. manifestly, unfair; for, being only a progress
report, it is insufficient evidence on which to condemn the
property. As to the manager’s reports regarding quality,
it is worthy of note that the battery returns have more
than substantiated his statements-—rather a rare occur-
rence on Charters Towers—and show the value of the ore
in a much more satisfactory manner than any number of
assays The length of the claim admittedly is not great;
yet there are no shoots of gold on the field which approach
in length the ground held by the 1 and 2 E. Carrington.
Further, all the gold taken from the Carrington United
mine, which is considerable, was won from a length
of a little over 60ft., the 1 and 2 E. boundary proving the
barrier in that direction. There is plenty of room for a
good shoot in the 1 and 2 E., and judging by the
manager’s report, which is just to hand, there is still
good gold in both level ends, with a reef which
is increasing in size. So long as mining continues
there will be failures, but these aresometimesbrought about
by mismanagement, due either to ignorance or dishonesty.
Should 1 and 2 E. prove disappointing, the contributing
shareholders will have consolation in knowing that they
have had a good run. Should the same thing happen to its
big neighbor it will have been caused to a great extent
by mismanagement. The 1 and 2E. has, it would appear,
adopted the very wise policy of developing the mine on
profits (hence the small crusbings), and is awaiting the
solution by the Carrington United Co. of the all-important
question of treatment.”
* * * *
An application has been made for labor ex-
emption by the Ambrose Silver and Copper Co. The
property is at Gowrie Creek, 90 miles from Charters
Towers (Q.). Carried away by the high returns obtained
from a few tons of ore won from a very small pipe, and
without reasonably assuring themselves as to the pro-
bable quantity available, the promoters were unable
to await the expiry of their option, but floated
the co. three weeks ahead of - that time. The
capital is £30,000, in 120,000 shares of 55., 60,000 of
which were issued as paids. This capitalisation is absurdly
high when the size of the deposit is taken into considera-
tion. The prospectors, or vendors, received £3OOO, and a
few thousands in paid shares. Almost on the very day
that the option ran out, so did the rich pipe on which
the float was made, and it has not since been picked up.
Hence the application for exemption. The output has been
practically nil, but this deficiency has been made good by
high assays, which have appeared in the puffs and reports.
The vital point as to quantity has been carefully
omitted. The experience of the Ambrose Co. will
perhaps be a lesson to co. promoters in future
to exercise to the fullest their options, more
especially when they are working options, as was this
one. Had the promoters adopted that policy in this in-
stance, there would most certainly never have been any
Ambrose Silver-Copper Co., with 50 per cent, of its
capital in the form of paid shares.
* » * *
The past eighteen months’ results of Smith’s
Creek tin mine (N.Q.) :
Pref. Ord. Written De-
Profit. Divs. Divs. Off. ficit.
June, 1906 £11,263
Dec., 1906 .. £2135 £538 Nil Nil 9,666
June, 1907 .. 6184 549 Nil Nil 4,031
Assets written up .. £4031
Dec., 1907 .. 3502 555 2500 Nil 447
This mine, owned mostly in Adelaide, made a sensation,
and then got into the low water that North Queensland
mines have a habit of drifting into. Capt. Warren, who
had refused to regard it as anything big when the market
was losing its head about it, was sent to look at it again
when it was apparently at its last gasp, and he reported
that he thought he could make a profit out of it. He
took it in hand, and the foregoing is the result. Peter
Brander, formerly of Chillagoe, is now in charge. Last
year the mine results were :
Ore. Black Tin.
Ist half .. .. 6,382 tons 176 J tons
2nd half .. .. 8,200 „ 198 J „
Total .. 14,582 tons 375 tons
The profit for the year was £9686, or about £25 17s. per
ton of black tin. Taking black tin to be 70 per cent, fine
tin, this was equal to about £36 19s. per ton fine tin. For
the first nine months of the year tin (fine) averaged
£lB4 15s. 2d. ; it is now about £127, which was
£2 above the average of the six years before the
recent boom. For the whole year it averaged about
£l6O, or £33 above the present price. Under those
circumstances, one finds some difficulty in following
manager Brander in his concluding rhapsody —“I have
much pleasure in congratulating you on the splendid
outlook for your mine.” It is quite obvious that costs
must come down heavily before it has any outlook worth
mentioning—especially for ordinary shareholders, as the
pref. div. is cumulative.
* ■» * •
From a speculator’s point of view, Ravenswood
(Q ) is out of the running ; yet the returns last year take
a lot of beating : 24,203 tons were crushed for £147,949.
Nevertheless, with one of the highest average yields in
Australia (£6 9s. lid. per ton), Ravenswood seldom
fio-ures on a dividend list. The big show is the New
Ravenswood Limited, mostly J. Bull’s. This co. has
built up a reserve of £3B,B76—last year it crushed 15,431
tons for £74,631. That doesn’t come up to the average
of the field, but is excellent, and gave a net profit of
£l2 318, out of which a 25 per cent, dividend was paid.
For once in a way the paid-up capital of a Queensland co.
is moderate. The Grant and Sunset Extended, a neighbor-
ing show, ought also to pay something, for its return on
190 tons averaged over £9 a ton.
* * « •
Mt Mollov (Q.) has closed down entirely pend-
ing the raising of more capital. Those who knew some-
thing and sold forward are now busy wvering at good
profits hence the comparative firmness in the shares, it
is pretty certain that Molloy will become a customs
smelter—news which will bring joy to the crowd of small
men who are working their own shows, and who have
been sending their ore to Chillagoe. These little men
have got little benefit from the recent high metal prices,
and there is a lot of dissatisfaction. The Anrm-ersarj
Herberton-a decent copper property-will send its ore
to Molloy (output estimated at from 306 to 400 tons a
month) the Independence and North Australian
(Watsonville), and the Hecla and Hamburg (Irvin,ebanlt).
Should Molloy decide to erect a lead furnace, there is a
big chance that Montalbion and the Orient camp will
have their ores smelted there. At present the first- D iade
Chmagoe hiPPed t 0 Eur °P e - and the seconds are sent to
* * * *
to,^fnr7o^^'^i? r . f ? ur weeks put through 1070
a3d f ,?; v 7O w S f? dd .i 0f tln ’ worth £435 °- This won’t pay
wavs sinop th ® d,rec ; torB have seen the error of their
Tnd are hniM ey Spent the £3oo ° of tixed deposit in divs.,
show a d b eeenJ K up a reserve. Next balance-sheet should
have to he ba,an ° e - At the same time it will
be will 1e n. ber6d C, ? at the balance, whatever it may
Ce’rJi v b thel aCCU "' ulated Profits since November.
* * *
Developments at Mungana (Chillaeoe. 0.1 will
noU<m < tha < t ln t -erest; so far the y seem to refute the
notion that these mines are surface deposits. In Mexico
a ff™at fc denth° rm t> tlo f n haS rried copper and lead ore to
mfnes pt n - Professor Dav ‘d has studied the Mexican
mines, so, when he gets back from the South Pole his
be‘wnr n ti ab ° Ut Mun S a "f and the Chillagoe district would
limestone secur ‘Vf- The ore follows the contour of the
'' ear /he contact of the older rocks. Both car-
ri SU P I deS , have V ee “ " lined 400£t - deep, and
dl l lf 18 dow " helow 500 ft., it should soon
d .fP en ? u » h £ or anew level. Good copper and lead
Tflnf h 0 be ‘u" ra,s i ed from the 320 ft. level in the Lady
<Brofla Vhere the ° re b ° dy ' S Slnaller but richer than at the
r ? at N f? r * he r n , Gympie (Q.), reports don’t
read too well lately A rich reef in disturbed country
Z Lh f b n ks f n , d displacements is apt to make the miner
wish foi a solid reef of comparatively poor stone. With
so many slides and displacements, development of crush-
thrnnth"! f H 0 .^ old was g°t after, passing
through an intrusion of felsite, in a rise east of the slide—
good gold all the way,” but that only means a few feet,
with a width of 6in. No. 3 level has slate floors overhead
and a lot of prospecting has to be done. The south drive
carries a few feet of good crushing stone averaging 15
!.ar, b ,i? Wide. Both good and bad prospects change
rapidly in broken country ; there may be a chance of a
rich development near one of the main crosscourses,
ine shaft is 545 ft. deep, and penetrated much slate
rocks^’ sandwicbed in w >th conglomerates and other
* » * *
Reported up North that Philp and Co. used
their opportunity to grant some sort of a concession to
Mt. Molloy Co. of 90,000 acres of scrub land at the head of
Rifle Creek, with a monopoly of the timber rights at a
royalty. If so, Molloy may pay divs. on its export of
cedar, silky oak, etc., and the smelting plant may be
transformed some day into a sawmill.
* * *
Minister McLeod (Vic.) has the tributing horror
again before him. This time he is working for the miner •
before, he was battling for the call-paying shareholder.'
lhe United Devonshire, Bendigo, wanted an agreement
that would practically abrogate all that Parliament
decided shall be done for the worker underground. Ben-
digo managers and directors desire to beat McLeod’s
tributing policy, so that the United Devonshire tribute
form no doubt really represents their views. Amongst
other things it provided for no liability for accidents to
tnbutors ; tributes to be annulled if a man be found else-
where than at his tribute block, except on a special permit"
and no extension of a tribute agreement to be given. It
meant putting the co. on velvet with a vengeance, and
McLeod was prepared to fight to a finish over it. But the
worst is that if the co. likes to be nasty, the Minister is
helpless ; for the co. is fulfilling its own labor conditions,
and can stop tributing, and no one can force its hand. As
it is, the co. politely withdrew its form of tribute agree-
ment, leaving McLeod to rub his chin and wonder what
next.
< *• * * *
Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.), goes on doing good
things for the lucky Baillieu crowd that got hold of it
eight years ago. Four divs. were paid in the last six
months, making a total of £114,300 since the beginning
of 1901, all on a capital of £36,000. From first to last the
stone has averaged Bdwt. 12.8 gr. ; but it is down now to
6dwt. 10.3 gr., worth 265. Even on that grade £7664 of
profit was made out of £21,732 worth of gold ; that is to
say, 35 p.c. is profit. They are working now at the No.
14 level, and are down more than half way to the 15th.
At No. 14 the stone averages 4Jft. wide, the co., which
is frank enoug'h about costs, shuts up tight on the question
of reserves and values; stone is “of good, payable
quality,” and you have to be satisfied with that, and it
isn’t much to be satisfied with when you are asked to
pay 435. for the shares.
■* * * *
The Tasmania gold mine, floated by “Billy”
Jones, known to fame as the owner of Bravo, a Mel-
bourne Oup winner, has had a troubled career; and its
work for the year ending September 30 last gives no pro-
mise of any change. W. T. Jones and the Rothschilds
underwrote the capital in return for paper, arid as the
issue failed they got nothing out of the float. Scrip
promptly went to a discount, and has stayed there. The
latest quote for £1 shares in London was Bs. 6d., and
there are 500,000 of them. In twelve months 60,000 tons
were crushed for 30,5120 z., say lOdwt. per ton. The gross
expenditure was £llO,OOO, or about £2 a ton. Estimated
ore reserves are 40,000 tons, worth (at lOdwt.) 20,0000 z.,
or £BO,OOO. If it costs £2 a ton to get out, profits won’t
materialise, and Bs. 6d. seems high for the scrip. Pump-
ing charges last year ate up £21,044, and it looks as
though the mine adjoins a subterranean watercourse ;
hut whether it is a lake or a river cannot be told until it
is pumped dry. That’ll be about the Greek Kalends. At
bottom levels a poor zone of ore is being worked. The
co. has bought the North Tasmania Mine for £l,OOO, and
great things are anticipated from it; but winning a Cup
is a much easier job than making a damp low-grade mine
pay-
* * * *
New Wyengetta (Tas.) has a small vein carrying
a short shoot of gold. But the shoot is rich, running up
to lOoz. to the ton ; so a co. took the Wyengetta, for-
getting that it costs a lot to work a vein, and that veins
have a nasty habit of getting poor. Now the Wyengetta
co. has hit a side reef 20 inches wide. If it has half an
oz. there will be joy in some plain households, for, though
Toorak hasn’t touched it, the Melbourne public has taken
kindly to the little stock.
* * * *
Purdue’s tin mine (Tas.) is near the Gladstone,
and consists of terrace ground. Some of the Gladstone-
Ringarooma people were generally thought to be up to -
their neck in it; but that could not be, because Adelaide
swallowed the claim on its own. Water has to he
pumped, and, as the ground is easy, it melts away like
sugar before the nozzle. Last six weeks run gave lep-
tons, so a nice profit was netted. The average value
would be over lib. per cubic yard. Therefore a discard
of the regular tin-dredging crowd is turning out to be a
right bower.
* * * *
Some people will get a shock in a few weeks ;
for, if the auditors don’t discover anything, the directors
of the Emu Bay Railway are going to pay a trifle on
account of the accumulated divs. on the pref. shares.
The co. was floated with a tremendous boom in 1898, and
shares were rushed to a premium. Some were ordi-
naries ; some were 8 per cent, pref., 4 per cent,
being cumulative. Not a fraction has, thus far, been
paid, so the arrears at December 31, 1907, were
£31,206. However, £8750 will now he divided, as the
result, of course, of the recent metal boom and the con-
sequent activity on the Tasmanian West Coast. As for
ordinary shares—well, the latest quotation is 35., or 100
per cent, more than it was four years ago ; and they seem
to be pretty sanguine people who have put the price up
like that. There is also over £200,000 outstanding on
account of debentures.
* » * *
“Toad” (W.A.) : He “Bullfrog’s” par (B.
16/l/*08). The insinuation that W. J. Loring (8., M. and
Co.) loves cheap labor is uncalled for. Loring has always
been a strong barracker for high wages, and the promi-
nent part he played in the settlement of the labor diffi-
culty in the West is proof of this. As to being a party to
making Henr.v Gore the scapegoat for the blunders of
other people, Loring is not built that way, and anyone
who asserts he is doesn’t know him.
The Solomon Islands Development Co., which
Burns, Philp and Co. are to manage, floated with 600
shares (£lOO each), applied for, out of 1000 offeredL
Kubber is the objective, with bananas to go on with
* • * «
H. : Big doubts about it F.G.R.; Past half-
year s hgures are no guide ; it was a mere patch.
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 32).


POSTAL EDUCATION
BEARS GOOD FRUIT
§s
£5O
S&
y>
/<?
High Salaries and splendid prospects are
opened up to those young men and women
who use rightly their spare evening hours
» in mastering our courses ol Postal
Besides all general educational
S subjects we teach by easy and simple
R yet thorough methods:—
Bookkeeping, Business Penmanship and
' Correspondence, Arithmetic, Shorthand,
Typewriting, etc.
'Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, etc.
"HOME STUDY.”
•STOTT H OARE'S
w BUSINESS COLLEGE
100 R E STREET
SV D N E V
Many lives are saved every year by Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy.
For sale everywhere, Is, (id.*
Once you realise that if you can rely on
your memory, others will rely on you, you have
made a big stride towards success in life. A good
memory begets self-confidence, and reinforces
courage, determination, and mother wit. The
Pelman System is based on natural laws; it is
easily acquired, interesting, permanent in results,
and makes recollection certain and prompt.
Taught by correspondence. Booklet (64 pages),
“ Memory and Success,” sent free. Write the
Secretary, The Pelman School of Memory, 3
Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne.*
Bowel complaint is sure to be prevalent
during the fruit season. Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy gives. prompt
relief.*
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Gilrooney ”: The bush is full of weather
signs. Last week I met a man who forecasted
rain within three days because his corns were
aching. Another predicted an early downpour
because his rheumatics were troubling him again.
Another, because the fowls and turkeys were
preening their feathers. Another, because the
new moon came in on its end. Another, because
the jackasses were laughing late at night, and the
curlews were extra restless. Another, because
“ the wind was soundin’ holler
through the oaks.” Another,
because the frogs were croaking in
the lagoons. Yes, verily, the bush
is full of rain signs ; and they all
come true —if you wait long
enough.
UTTER RUIN.
FIRST SUNDOWNER: “I had the most disastrous
fire! Burnt completely out! The whole of
the estate habsolutely gutted !”
SECOND DITTO: “ Were you insured?”
FIRST DITTO: “ No; it belonged to the State! I
sleep in the bush!”
“ Quan ” : From December 13 to January
26, Geraldton (N.Q.), which claims to be the
wettest place in Australia, had 70in. of rain. Philp
visited the district to speak in support of his
friend, Pritchard, of the Q. N. Bank in its worst
days, and over the pair of them the skies promptly
wept ll|in. in 24 hours. Still, this 70in. in 44
days isn’t Geraldton’s best performance ; it scored
80in. in 12 days once. Its best recorded effort for
a year is 245 in.
“Ess”: The overseer had purchased a
pack of cards, at Ballarat, to relieve the tedium
of travel. Just before the train started again we
were joined by a well-conditioned priest. The
overseer, who had been directing our attention to
the joker, dropped some cards in his hurry to
conceal them. The priest smiled. The overseer
blushed, and when he had awkwardly gathered
up the cards he put them in his pocket. Then
said his reverence : “ Don’t let me interrupt you,
gentlemen. I rather like a game of cards myself.”
In two shakes whist was elected, and the cards
dealt out. The priest whispered, with a roguish
twinkle in his eye : “ I’m only a novice, but I’m
a good loser. We’ll make it a shilling a head if
you like, just to give a little zest to the game.”
We liked nothing better. We played while the
train roared along; we played on our best be-
havior, feeling the fascination of the gambler
and the influence of the Church. The priest won.
We were pleased at his success. We had secretly
engineered the game to that end. Now we played
our best, each one endeavoring to scoop the pool
for himself. We considered one victory an hour
would be sufficient tonic for the good father. It
was more exciting than the first game, but less
satisfactory. The priest won. We were a little
chagrined on starting again. We were also less
honest, and tried to work points on his reverence
by telegraphing to one another. But we were a
scratch team, and didn’t understand one another’s
cheat code. Play became still more absorbing.
The scenery was forgotten. Everything was for-
gotten. Even conversation dropped in our des-
perate efforts. The priest won. I never did see
a novice play so well against old hands. His luck
was wonderful. When he at last departed hence
with his bag and brolly in his hands, a jovial
smile on his face, and a final “ God bless you,” we
were the most flabbergasted crowd in the train,
We had played ten games by that time. The
priest had won them all!
* * * *
“ Cross Nibs ” tells a tale in hieroglyphics:
T’other evening, whilst engaged in spraying the domes
tic horticultural patch, my side-head was assailed by the
following peculiar phraseology:
“ ’Ow goes it, Spawt? ”
“ Blister me blanky character, Yapper, if I ain’t bin up
ter me neck in sadness.”
“ Well, cough y’r complaint careful, ole cock, ’n’ let’s
take delivery ov the wail.”
“ Been puttin’ th’ larst munce rent on th’ deadwood
page t’ keep Johns jiggin’, Yap.”
“ Strike me energetic, ’n’you a bloke thet labels’em
garbage all th’ time ! Well, I’m willie-willied.”
“ Garn, wire that blither t’ Buckley. Enny’ow, are y’r
sound-flaps fixed t’ th’ ’phone?”
“ Spill y’r speech, Spawt. I’m mute f’r a moon.”
“ Righto ! Git set! Larst ’oliday me ’n’ Ohooker
Casey, mockered in our classy cloth, shazzied down th’
wet stretch t’ Cion’, trackin’ up gay millinery. When we
struck th’ wharf we bumped Puddin’ Byrnes with ’n’
’amper uv brewery trickle. Pudd ladled it out with a
free ’and, ’n’ after we pouched th’ poison told us th’ strong
uv two tricky toms. We won ’em away dead easy fr’ni a
couple uv tugs who wuz circ’l’r twistin’ ’em along th’ tal-
lowed timber.
“ ‘ Chuck th’ toe turnin’ ’n’ ’ave a sway uv th’ pendu-
lum !’ chips in Chooker.
“ ‘ Wish y’r meant it,’ tittered the tarts.
“ In ’alf a mo’ we wuz in th’ swingin’ boats ’n’ bustin’
’em up t’ th’ speed limit. I went strong with my bit uv
frill f’r about 10 minutes, ’n’ then th’ shicker started t’
climb th’ tube. I tried t’ crack ’ardy, but it was no good.
To unload before Chooker wuz t’ git chatted a lifetime,
so I bounced fr’m th’ rocker t’ do a silent strain. ’Ook
me often, if th’ old Jaok-’n’-Jill who runs th’ boats ’adn’t
th’ plank in ’is ’ands iz I jumped. I ’it th’ plank, an’ ’e
’it th’ island with ’is paws pinched under th’ wood. Th’
old ’ide wuz screechin’ a million when ’is offsider bucks
t’ business ’n’ swats me a boshter jolt on th’ grin-gash.
That froze enny affection I ’ad f’r th’ cow, ’n’ in ’alf-a-
dozen jabs I ’ad ’im slogged t’ a snivel. I ’ad ’im fixed,
when two Johnnops ripped inter th’ game ’n’ bounced
me f’r th’ booby-’atch.”
“ ’N’ didn’t Chooker postage-stamp y’r over th’
journey, Spawt?”
“I beg yours, Yap? No! ’E squibbed it, like a
rattled raw-’ead. I’m goin’t’ glance over ’is cady f’r all
th’days that’s cornin’. C’n y’r spring us a puff-paper?
I’m perishin’ t’ draw smoke. What, th’ box? Good
e-nough.’ ”
* * * *
“ Bunny” : How the N. S. Wales Police
Department loves to keep its officers buried Out-
back once it gets them there ! It is quite
common to find troopers and constables
who have done 10 to 15 years of Outback
exile, in spite of appeals and protests.
Another “Medi-Cuss” (God be good to
him, the brave, unselfish, big-hearted
battler !) is needed to trumpet forth the
hideousness of condemning the police
to decades of damnation in the West-o’-
Darling country. The constable from
Pooncarie has been transferred, after
years of service, to Tibooburra—the
furthest-out township in this State.
After a devilish decade in Tibooburra,
he will probably be instructed to take
charge of a station on the Hobs of Hades,
which, however, compares favorably with
Gibberburra as regards little luxuries, and
is much livelier in a social sense. I don’t
know the promoted Pooncarie peeler, but I
do know a few Members of Parliament who
ought to be stranded for a year or two in the
sand and saltbush for the good of the public
service.
The buzzing squatter crowd that has been
booming the Danysz microbe, having been
knocked out by the inter-State conference of
medical experts, now turns its attention to the
“ Yalgogrin ” microbe—the basis of a rabbit dis-
ease which has been known to exist in N. S.
Wales for years, but has made no headway. For
all the years that it has been known to exist no-
body has had the Yalgogrin microbe on the chain;
it has been at perfect liberty to do all the damage
it could, and it has done practically none. Now,
however, these Anti-Socialists pretend that they
want the State to cultivate the microbe, and ap-
parently give it some sort of bonus for every
rabbit it catches. But even if the State won’t
oblige them they still seem determined to talk
about the Yalgogrin microbe at every opportunity.
It is hard to believe that reasonable squatting men
want to merely kill a freezing and export business
which clears the country of millions of rabbits
every year, but this firm determination to get
rabbits and deadly microbes mixed in the public
mind is unintelligible on any other assumption.
* * * *
Asia gives notice in the Geraldton (W.A.)
paper that it intends to quit:
TO THE PEOPLE OF CARNARVON.
T HAVE been fishing in this place for Nineteen
Months and I have spent £2OO. and all the people
in Carnarvon won’t help me by buying my fish, and I
THINK I WILL CLEAR OUT in eleven months’
time.
AH MING, Fisherman.
Unfortunately Asia takes a good deal longer to
crawl out than it does to creep in.
A BIG CONTRACT.
LITTLE BILL: “Hi, Mister! Please, mother sez
will per come an’ hold father, while I run
fer the perlice!”
“ Erolb. ” : “Pilgrim”. (B. 6/2/’08)
was not necessarily “under the influence”
when he saw his sprinting fish. They are
fairly common in Northern Queensland and in
similar districts where the festive mangrove
sprawls its spreading sprouts. They are known
colloquially as' mudskipperS,” and their scientific
name is—hut no, it is too awful ! An allied
species is the “ hand-fish ” of Tasmania. This
creature has gills which exude enough moisture to
enable it to live for a while on its own dampness.
* * m *
“Agricola”: Be “ Entiac ” (B. 13/2/’08)
and caterpillars. Nearly all caterpillars depend
for defensive purposes on the acrid fluid they
exude. There is a grey caterpillar, about an
inch long, which is commonly attacked by meat
ants. When possible, he promptly retreats back-
wards up a stalk of grass, to get his defenceless
and more vulnerable end into safety. Then any
ant which seizes his front end gets a dose of ,the
stinking burning acid. The stricken ant retreats in
great haste and rubs himself against sticks and
other sundries to get rid of the offence. With his
front legs he frantically brushes his face, and his
look of disgust is very ridiculous. As a rule,
when he is free of the affliction, he takes up a
position in the rear, and violently urges other
ants to go in and win fame and glory while he
picks them up. But the ant to be really pitied is
the one which attacks a snail. The snail retreats
with him inside the shell, and what unholy rite is
practised there I cannot say. After a space, the
ant is carefully passed out and laid aside while
the snail proceeds on its breakneck way. Usually
the ant stays just where he is put until the ambu-
lance comes along. He is covered in a hideous,
yellow slime, from which he cannot free himself,
and in which he appears to be choking. It strikes
me that only young ants attack snails.
There is some excitement to be got out of
a trip on the new Cloncurry railway in North
Queensland, during these days of tropical rains.
So as to let the mines reach the copper market
before it burst, Kidston had the line rushed
along, putting the rails down anyhow so long as
they would carry traffic, and letting the perma-
nent bridges, etc., follow at leisure. But this wet
season has been something extra in wetness, and
when a train leaves for Cloncurry now, or as far
towards Cloncurry as it can get, it usually takes a
boat with it, and a lifebuoy or two tucked under
the seat. When Commissioner Thallon went
up he took a boat and two trolly cars to use
when the train couldn’t swim any further; but
the trollies were swept away, and only the boat
remained between Queensland and the need for a
new Commissioner. Still, Thallon paddled
through in the long run. Another party had
worse luck. When it left the train because the
train couldn’t go any further it took a coach, and
when the coach stuck up it took a railway-length-
man’s trolly. Bug a creek stuck these people up,
and when they looked round another creek had
broken through behind them, so they were on an
island —eight of them—with only a couple of
“Johnny cakes” to keep them company. The
“island” several times threatened to also turn
itself into a creek, and the water rose over
the top of the trolly. But they prayed hard (all
North Queenslanders can pray hard), and the
water fell, and they got through in three days.
“Pom-
Pey”com-
plains
Will you
send some-
to that
",°, hn s°n
b'oke that
bas charge
of the trains
down here
and tell him
ffet his
brains seen
to and re-
form the
"'hole eon-
founded
system? He
b 1 o o ni e n
"'ell busted
11 P the
"hole show
U P here at
W armasell.
I’ ather was
finding the
cash for a
trip to the
ci t y a t
Christmas,
but the
blasted
train
wouldn’t
stop, and
Dad got
his hair off
and jibbed.
We have
to board
the rattler at a
dog-kennel that the
Government kids it-
self is a platform.
Nobody in the dis-
trict was su re
whether the train
went thatdayorthe
next, so we got to
the dog-box before
sunrise to avoid
missing the ’bus.
As it happened, we
must have just
about missed the
last, for the whole
bloomingday passed
and left Mother and
the girls sore-eved
from watching 200 de-
grees of sun reflected in
the steel rails. The heat must
have affected Mother, as she had
visions of steam-emrines every
five minutes. It was lucky we
brought the water-bag. ‘ The
blamed lamp that Johnson picked
up somewhere and left at War-
masell to signal the boss’of the
train to put on the brake didn’t
even smell of kerosene, and me
and Bill had to travel three miles
to borrow a bit of candle, and we
turned white and felt faint every time we thought we
heard the rattle of a locomotive. You know it was a
risky job me and Bill had on. When we got back, Dad
said to leave the train in charge of him, and he’d stop
the adjective thing, so he lay out on the platform along-
side the lamp w th that good intention.
Gettin’on about daylight, the express came thundering
down on the ole man, and he rose from his slumbers
mighty sudden and knocked the spout off the verandah
with his head in his hurry to let the driver see the light.
But she passed him like a streak of greased lightning and
left him wondering, until he discovered the candle had
burnt out.
Next night we made a fire, so as to catch the attention
of the man on the brake, but our luck was out. They
just whizzed past us like a Gehenna motor-car. Mos’
likely the driver was asleep, or el«e took us for tramps.
Murder was in Dad’s eye, and he started to pull the
place down ; but Mother asked him for God’s sake to stop,
as the baby was asleep inside. He felt inclined to put a
log across the rails and capsize the whole cursed show
next time, but logs were a bit scarce, and on second
thoughts he made tracks for home. We followed along
behind like mourners at a funeral.
You might tell that Johnson chap when you see him
that if the Ole Man had millions and million's he’d never
spend a fraction on trains. He’d rather walk.
OPEN-AIR TREATMENT FOR YOUTHFUL
PRISONERS.
THE OLD 'UN: “ Why should all the open-air
go to the youthful prisoner !”
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) mine has been on
the “burst” again—which is an ancient and
seemingly-incurable vice of the creature. In its
latest outbreak the violent thing injured two in-
offensive miners who weren’t saying a word to it
—only slinging mullock. To get down to par-
ticulars —the reef in the mine lies generally
between slate walls, which (of course) are left
standing after the removal of the ore. Every now
and then the slate walls explode with a loud
report, or, as the miners say, there is a “ burst ;
and knife-edged splinters bombard the sur-
roundings promiscuously. Occasionally a big
“burst” dislodges a hundredweight or so of
country, and some time back an extra-sized one
killed a man, his body being almost cut in two.
The cause of all the rumpus doesn’t seem clear,
hut there are many local theories. A prominent
one is that the explosions result from carbonate
of lime in the slate swelling on contact with moist
air. Anyhow, there is no doubt about the fact
that the mine indulges in a lot of reckless
shooting.
THE VAIN COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A post-mortem examination made on Monday afternoon
on a cow belonging to Mr. J. Pearce showed that death
was due to the busk of a corset having penetrated the
animal’s heart. — Daily Paper.
All is but Vanity, you’ll allow,
Hear, then, the tale of a foolish cow.
She was a heifer tall and sleek
And grazed all day by the running creek,
And she chewed the cud beneath the trees
To the drowsy hum of the toiling bees.
Her heart was tranquil—her soul in tune
With the golden peace of the afternoon.
She smiled to herself, reflecting that
She held the record for butter fat.
And her bovine heart was strangely stirred,
For she was the proudest of all the herd.
But Fate decreed, on a summer’s day,
The farmer’s daughter should pass that way.
And the farmer’s daughter the landscape graced,
For she was blessed with a tiny waist.
And as she tripped o’er the waving grass
She rather resembled a slim hour-glass.
The cow, forgetting her butter-fat,
Moaned, “ Oh, why am I not shaped like that? ”
While in her optics a wild light shone.
She said, “ The woman’s got corsets on! ”
And late that night, when the whole farm slept,
The cow went in where the clothes were kept.
And in a minute a beast forlorn—
A pair of stays on one crumpled horn —
Went forth to the fields, and tried in haste
To get the corsets around her waist.
But though she wriggled and kicked and rolled
The corsets would neither stretch nor hold.
So, in despair, she insanely tried
To put the vanity on inside !
With fatal results. The wretched beast
Was found next morning to be deceased.
And—this is the most pathetic part—
A bus/c was sticking in her young heart !
And now, ’neath the trees, you hear the moans
When the story’s told by the chaperones.
And all of the heifers have got it pat
And keep their minds fixed on butter fat.
The farmer’s daughter she passes by
But none of the herd will raise an eye.
When she trips along o’er the waving grass,
Tho’ her figure’s still like a slim hour-glass.
They just keep feeding, or move aside
And sadly think of the cow that died.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
AN ENERGISING CORDIAL.
RING MAKERS,
NO MIDDLEMEN’S PROFITS.
The BEST aimed at always —at LOWEST PRICES.
Small Diamonds and 2 different
colored Sapphires, £10; All
Diamonds, £18; Rubies and
Diamonds, £l6 ; Diamonds and 1
Pearl, £ls'los.
1 Pearl and Diamonds, £l5 ,
Ruby, Diamond, Sapphire and
whoie Pearl, £lO ; 3 Golden Sap-
phires, 1 Blue Sapphire, and
small Diamonds, £7 7s.
Diamonds, 1 pink Tourmaline
and Pearl, £l3; Diamonds and
1 Pearl, £'2s ; 2 different Sap-
phires and small Diamonds,
£8 Bs.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
London Office: 36 Basinghall Street, E.C.
“Cicfc ”: Since the advent of bunnv to
the Tumbarumba (N S W.) district the kangaroo
rat has retreated further and further until now
he is a rare animal indeed. Wire-netting and
palings were of little moment to him, as he lea nr
the one and tunnelled beneath the other • but
around here his hop is hopped no longer, and the
cocky is glad such is so. During his soiourn
among us, vast numbers of him were devoured by
the settlers, and his meat was considered a high-
class edible; but that was years ago, and the
flavor of him is remembered only by the most
ancient. He went out of fashion. Owing to his
weakness for potatoes the Pastures Protection
Board valued his scalp at a tray-bit per time, and
of yore the junior cockles were wont to amble
in with a score or more as their season’s catch but
his ears nowadays are seldom presented.
* * » *
“ Flinderino : ” When arranging a dance
ora night out,’ country folk invariably study
the almanac so as to pick on a moonlight night
But in this part of our continent (coastal Mortli
Queensland) there is another important item to
be considered That is the rise and fall of the tide.
Scarcely a mile of the coast can be travelled with-
out meeting with a river or a creek running into
the sea, and these streams are all more or less
influenced by the ocean tides. In the sparsely-
populated districts many of the water-courses are
not bridged in any way, and have to be forded.
Ihe crossing-places can be easily negotiated at
low water, but to attempt crossing at high tide is
about as exciting as tobogganing down Kosciusko,
especially when the ebb has set in. Conse-
quently, the squatter’s daughter and the sugar-
grower s son, in their going to and coming from
the dance must of necessity consider the tide
which, with its pal, time, waits for no man—or
woman. I lie bushman camped alongside a coastal
stream must also take precautions. What would
otherwise be a fresh-water creek is, at high tide,
as salt as Lot’s missus. The experienced battler
always fills the billy before the tide begins to
* * * *
“Sr”: There they go again. “The
eucalyptus leaves stop bleeding ” (B. 6/2/’08).
Smoke it in your pipe and it cures colds, sciatica,
and lumbago. Rub it on your waistcoat and it
removes heart disease. Drink the oil with beer,
and it tones up the nervous system, kidnevs]
bowels, and liver, stops toothache, headache a'nd
earache, and mends broken arms. Used as an oint-
ment, it alleviates concussion of the brain and
paralysis. If poured on the coffin it is the best
remedy for death. If rubbed on the outside of
the bank it is good for overdrafts. If you are in-
terested in a measure before Parliament, pour
eucalyptus down the chimney of Parliament
House, and the result will be beneficial or other-
wise. A case of it, dropped on the right person
from a sufficient height at the correct moment, will
prevent burglary. It is good for fast women and
slow horses. It will cast out devils pour
it over your devil, and he will leave in
haste to get away from the smell. Also it dis-
perses ghosts ; break the bottle in a sufficient
number of pieces, and leave them where the
ghosts will tread on them. Eucalyptus oil allays
storms if poured on the troubled waters in suffi-
cient quantity. It is a valuable weapon of defence ;
fill a tin with it, and when attacked hit your
enemy with the tin. It makes the sun rise 'and
the world go round. It raises prices, the wind,
Cain, gehenna, and the patient’s spirits. It is a
fair illuminant; if Moses had had it when the
light went out he needn’t have been in the dark.
And it has a remarkable effect on wooden legs ; if
the wooden leg is soaked with it and then put in
a clear fire it burns beautifully.
THE GLUTTON'S POINT OF VIEW.
SKINNY: “ Ruvimy game, chasin’ a little hall
like that all over the country, ain’t it!”
FATTY: “ Yes ; wot’s the use of chasin’ anything
you can’t eat?”
The Law doesn’t wear any frills at Swan
Reach, on the Murray. The other day three
men from a river boat were charged with shock-
ing the Swan’s sensitive ears. They just called in
at a J.P.’s house, and various parties made a few
remarks, and the J.P. thought it ought to be
£2 15s. or seven days. Subsequently it was dis-
covered that only three men had been fined,
whereas somebody alleged that Swan Reach’s
ealm had been disturbed by four ; so the fourth
man was lined up at the J. P.’s store, and while a
customer was waiting for 31b. of sugar and a box
°t puls at one end of the counter, the J.P. was
handing out a prompt fine at the other. Then,
having wished that customer good-morning, he
bustled along and reached down the patent
medicine.
WOUNDED DIGNITY.
MANAGER McPHEE: “ Hae ye a match i’ yer
pouch, Billy?”
B ILLY: "Mine not it tarn kangaroo, boss!”
“Cobbler”: Again I hear of the new-
chum Chow who knows no English, and whose
presence in the Commonwealth can’t be accounted
for. A friend of mine had occasion to visit a
cabbage-rearing establishment run by some Chows
in Townsville (Q.). Having a thirst for know-
ledge, he a;4ked a question of Ah Sin, who was
chopping wood, whereupon Wun Lung, watching
proceedings from a distance, called out: “Him
no talkee English.” The curious one then interro-
gated another Chow, but Wun Lung shouted :
“ Oh, him deaf.” My friend left about this time.
“F.H.R.
The rabbit in
some parts of
Westralia is
seriously han-
dicapped by a
bed of cement
which lies from
an inch to a
foot beneath
the surface,
and prevents
him burrow,
ing. Natur-
ally, one would
think this
would stop
bunny from
breeding. But
the bilby, be-
ing indigenous
to the country,
is supplied
with greater
digging" pro-
clivities, and
penetrates this
hard substance
at will, and
then bunny
steps along and
chums in with
bilby, who is a
sort of hirer-
out of residen-
tial chambers,
and all is well.
Mr. William
Bee is a miner
of no ordinary
merit, and is
to the rabbit
what a hard-
ground man is
to an alluvial
fossicker. In
fact, he is a
veritable ma-
chine drill, ex-
plosive box
and trucker all
in one, and if
disturbed at
bis work has
been known to
smother three
men and two
dogs in five
minutes with
the earth he
threw back with his hind legs. Knew one, when
caught by a sinew of the hind leg in a rabbit trap,
to dig a hole big enough to bury the Common-
wealth army in, and all in less than eight hours.
This ferocious beast is no doubt accountable for
the disappearance of many prospectors in the
West. He pours earth on them with his back feet
while they are asleep, and they perish miserably
under the superincumbent mass. “ Superincum-
bent ” is a good word.
* * * *
“Rapids”: Have read with interest the
remarks of “ Pine Scrub,” “Brad” and “Gip”
concerning “triantelopes.” I have seen many
“ triantelopes ” as dwellers in houses, but cannot
remember having seen their webs indoors. But
let us visit the “ tri ” before he makes his home
in the abode of man. We must find a tree or
stump that has been dead only a few years, so
that the bark, while remaining intact, leaves a
space between itself and the trunk. When this
is pulled off, the “triantelopes” are generally
found in great numbers, and in every case, with
them, a soft, grey, silky web, scant indeed and
much more delicately woven than thatof the spider.
Adhering to the wood, or sometimes to the bark,
will be found a tough, white, and flat membrane,
abou t the size and shape of a shilling. When this
shilling-like membrane is cut —for it stands out in
the centre from the wood—small “triantelopes”
scamper in every direction. I have reason to
believe that the web already mentioned belongs to
the “tri,” but I have neverseen him settle himself
in it, nor have I seen him supported by it. Then,
again, is this “tri.” exactly identical with the
one so often met with in the house ? I am sure
that he is. It is rather a common custom for
settlers, in some districts, to catch these long-
legged fellows and to bring them into the house,
as free lodgers, for the purpose of banishing cock-
roaches.
“J.G.”: Be sheep improving a forest
(B. 30/l/’08), agree with “Polstan” that the idea
is all bunkum. The reason why so jnany Vic.
forests are supposed to be played out is that for a
few shillings a year the Government allows a few
big landowners to run their stock on the land to
eat the bit of grass growing there ; and, although
the condition generally is that no sheep are to be
allowed in, sheep do get there all the same. If
they are found, the graziers are not at a loss for
excuses—the sheep must have broken out and
followed the cattle to the forest, or the fence has
tumbled down, or something. But cattle alone
will ruin any young forest, and prevent any old
one from being renewed. In November, 1906,
when travelling through some of the forest areas
in North Vic., I saw millions of box, gun), and
ironbox seedlings springing up with the grass as a
result of the heavy September and October
rains of that year. But when I had another
look through, a month or two later, the forests
were swarming with cattle, which had eaten up
all the grass, and along with the grass had also
eaten up the seedlings. In some patches where
sheep had been grazing the land was as bare of
grass or seedlings as the top of G. Reid’s head.
There would have by this time been thousands of
acres of good young trees growing in our State
forests if the cursed system of letting the forest
areas for grazing purposes had been abolished
years ago —or, better still, if it had never been
introduced.
THE OLD HOMESTEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, dear old homestead, lying- white,
In paddocks drenched with dew,.
To-night my heart flies over miles of memory to you,
So silent, save when overhead there wails a lone curlew,
All round the ring-barked timber stands,
The guardians of my dream,
With locking branches flung on high
Where shafts of moonlight stream,
And tint the network of their arms
With threatening, steely gleam.
Around the house the shadows flit,
Like restless, roving ghosts ;
The gnarled vine-branches clench and grip
The low verandah posts,
And ’gainst the curtained windows beat
The moths in countless hosts.
I see the garden’s sandy bed,
The fruit of loving toil,
Where through long days the banded bees
Swing, drowsy, to their spoil,
And yellow butterflies dance by
In glad and gay turmoil.
The red-soil path dips to the creek,
Then climbs a ridge of pine
Where tangled, seeding grasses grow,
And gold-dust wattles shine ;
With, here and there, a lone, tall tree
Against the far sky-line.
Beyond the slip-rails, huddled close,
I see the white sheep lie ;
While, overhead, the big white moon
Sails slowly, smoothly by ;
And pallid stars faint in her wake
Across the cloudless sky.
Oh, dear old homestead, lying white
In moonlight, drenched with dew,
Far, far across the parting years
My sad heart flits to you,
The moonlit mists of memory
And maze of absence through.
And in my dreams I wonder if,
Some night, from Heaven’s walls
I’ll turn, with weary-lidded eyes,
From happiness that palls,
And peer thro’ drifting star-dust to
Where Earth’s own moonlight falls
On my homestead, lying whitely in the paddocks drenched
with dew,
All silent, save when, overhead, there wails a lone curlew.
QUEENSLAND.
C. E. H.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iV o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Jay : Implicitly believe your story re the
’possum which fell from a tree and broke its neck and
died. Almost anything which breaks its neck dies.
“ Unanderra ” wrote of ’possums which fell from trees
and onutted to break their necks... .The Toothspector :
Don’t believe your yarn of the yellow alien whose dray
horse was harnessed to the swingle-bars by its tail. Jib
also at further anecdote re Chow' who put the collar and
harness on upside down.... A. S. Wagman : View with
suspicion your information that “ Sydney has an Irish
Parliament, consisting of old pensioners, diggers, land-
lords, publicans, navvies, stone-breakers, and remittance
men, which sits all the year round on a row of seats be-
hind ‘ The Stinkpot,’ Hyde Park.” It has never been in
session when The Bulletin passed that way G.C.K. :
“ Stampede in Kanzas ” of no account, and no stamps for
return.... Mallap : The difficulty is old and insoluble.
Capable Bible experts hold that it—or something
dashed like it —induced the original scrap between
“Kid” Abel and “Ginger” Cain, of the desert....
C. : You write obscurely, and at great length. For
example : “ The womb which has given them birth—has
caught them with vomitions. Your senses disturb you
not, with the research melt you not. ... With vomitions
you start —and with them you likewise end.” Inthename
of Mahomet, what are vomitions?... .Jamison : Trio of
faint uncertain pencil wanderings labelled respectively
“Miner,” “Manager,” and “ Shareholder,” and headed
“ Humorous Sketch ”to hand. Never do anything of the
sort again... .Homo : Your “real ghost story,” even
though “ soberly vouched for by reliable and respectable
witnesses,” failed to make this office shudder. Your
drawing, on the other hand, caused the staff to tremble like
a leaf Poleaxe : That joke about “ Who keeps the pub
there now ? ” was first hatched in the time of the Pharaohs,
and people have been sending it to the papers ever since...
Wang : Four times are you driven to use “ solemn ” as a
rhyme to “ column.” It rhymes well enough, but it
becomes a very solemn column before you’ve done with
it....Vass: “Rabbit Horde” very poor R.D.H. :
They are of a mild and gentle badness... .Natus : Thanks
for your appreciation. Sorry your verses would not
stand print... .H.T. (M.L.) : Has good points, but is very
watery in places... .Leslie R. : Overstrained and affected.
....W.D.K. : You seem to have a nucleus of idea, but
your execution is very clumsy Dog-growl: Poem not
quite up. Other items too long. Thanks for good
wishes.... Madge A. : Well-written, but too vague and
implicative. People don’t like to have to puzzle-out a
meaning Saphead : “Reflections” hardly brilliant
enough.... Wanderer : Metre very faulty... .Christopher
D. : That’s the kind of anti-sectarianism that is itself
sectarianism. The old story of the pot and the kettle....
Dick Morris : Reasonably amusing, but rather crude....
W.H.F. : A good central incident, swamped by superflu-
ous description....M.M.D. : Of no Australian interest
Phil Random : Spirited in form, but otherwise not worth
print D.J.G. : Feebly conventional in tone, and
rather weak in execution... .Jay-Pen : Interesting, but
too roughly thrown together. W.G.F. : Pretty, but too
trifling —Rufus D. : Versification stiff and wooden
Alf N. : Lamentable doggerel.. .. Antiac : Recognise some
very old friends among your pars., and that makes us
suspect those we don’t recognise as being steals a 150....
Denyah : Your parody ranges from lively to lamentable.
G.H. : Crude, pretentious, and ill-written... .Brob :
No style, no distinction —no anything Zealandia :
Very commonplace and twaddlv.... W.B.S. : Not bad
verse, but the incident is out of date... .Joan : No,you’re
not wasting your time. You have a poetic touch, though
you lack breadth and power so far B.W.G. : No point
or weight.... Dew W.: You never seem to get quite on
the mark N.J. H. : Yousurely didn’t expect us to print
such fulsome praise of ourselves. Short story no g00d...
J.S.T. : interest too purely local.. ..Ire : Too vague and
fragmentary.... Wills : Some of it is good, but there are
too many side-episodes, and it slumps badly towards the
end Sidney Melboure: “Robert’s Foot” is appro-
priately fIat....V.E.T. : It couldn’t well be worse.,..
Kenara : Good idea, but work too crude L.R.S. : One
horrible (no need to specify it); the other possible
Coolabah : Those Lone Hand quotations were to show
that Mr. Ward didn’t know what he was writing of; and
they fairly well proved that Comrade: Probably not
read yet. ...A.8.: Can’t remember, and it is a large
matter to hunt up the earmarks of a compara-
tively small person who died 30 or 40 years ago.
Myra P. : Stories rather smart, but not strong
enough. Poem of indifferent quality.... Pearl P. :
Follows a very beaten track Brobenah : Inclined to
be dull and prosy Skylark: We haven’t any use for
parodies... The Cynic: Unequal inequality, and you
don’t make your point clear enough... .F.J.L. : Spirited
in form, but very poor of quality . Truro: Poems
addressed to The Girl Who Has Gone must be XXX.
Yours are just X N.J.P. : N stands for “ Not,” and P
stands for “ Poetry,” but what does the J stand for ?.. An
Australian Girl: Mere abuse San Remo: Twenty
inches is too much space to occupy in telling “ Hamer ”
how much more drunk you were than he... .Subscriber :
The things that may happen to a man and his property
when caught in a gambling den vary in different States.
Writer was only caught once, and that was in M.L.,
where the ruie is to fine each culprit the exact amount of
money the police find on him. But do not think that in
any State the police seize pipes, knives, or jewellery
F.A. : Clever in a way, but too violently improbable....
Prospector : The subject is a well-worn one, and the
verses are not too good Christopher Dunne : “ Dis-
illusioned ” is the best of a rather weak lot Mac.:
Magniloquent, but unintelligible. Try simplicity of ex-
pression .... Kate M. N.: Smart, but rather slovenly and
slipshod in style Roble : Vigorous, but crude and in-
artistic .... W. H. : Musically expressed, but too long, and
rather commonplace of idea... .Slowheart: “ Villanelle ”
promising. No name or address on copy ...Agag:
Expect they were bad. Don’t remember them. Impos-
sible to answer pars (presume they were pars)... The
Chiel : Read that yarn long ago, and have reason to
regard it as considerably exaggerated Hammond:
Don’t know what you are driving at or what your griev-
ance is. Cut out any items that appear and send to the
Accountant Bulletin office, and he will remit. What do
you mean by saying'you are “ euchred in the matter of
claiming payment”? Who “euchred” you? . Mooney
Mike : When a yarn is four months old it is rather late to
reply Fred E. (Auckland): Where did you find the
spreading chestnut tree ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
O.S.K. : Drawing quite impossible, and joke puerile.
Don’t bother about what pens to use. Join a life class,
and use charcoal for the next two years, and by that
time you will have discovered what pens to use Stan
(or Star): Not good enough by a considerable distance.
Charles F.: Drawing fairly good, but no point in
joke Henry C.: Collection of very bad illustrated puns.
... .V. Peerman : Joke very poor and picture not affluent.
Childers : Pencil portrait of yourself rebuking disso-
lute-looking female afflicted, seemingly, with elephanti-
asis of the right fore-arm, is unsuitable.


An A N.A dep«fslTon
WAS informed by
dU+ be could
JP's f or
xbolitton of %
method of .-
SV« Mo^rnorj.
fs(«rse Bent -
'fslo 1 yo«/l We
dfc old golly
—So "ttjere !
\^ / Old :— ‘ WeM, my
w litHe > w t[A^V« y°fi
* db be w/l]en you grov/
tom nr? y . 0OIr?\ot S A te C
6.11 lies ! ’
r >s»
% 6.11 is beinc drafted
-for "Itjc Prime Ptiniiter, Accef>'fir7s?
Control oj- & responsibility f 0 1"
Northern Territory
o ,C^o f
/^T^vcici
Hew doctor System - I ■
/AyA'tc fever -L bat"i'll see w'Hat'lCAn do for bun
. .. |
Uncle S A n • .
]|- J. ft it^
i po!
% l iitfe
[£*£+'3
f yoyJ'fc
HilriniV 11
Premier f*]oore (of.W-A*)
be will .fioVt"
Strenuously /or w. A
"To retain m f^n^ement-
of own lc^ns
M r fwr. s liKe ifte
"tried "fe hr >^T ei ' .
JU'rr)j)\*)jy Into b'S I.Kfc /l #H« do^j
*7 C A^ u 0
Nt &A r ker— Tlje CAt I ton Brewery (flelb)b^d
imbdrfed lo } ovo Twsbels of rr>Alt~ -f'rom Germany
If-'ll)e 'good Victoria notp-ood eno«ot»
ifyt feople it”to t"AKe t>eei- lter« als*.*
THE PASSING SHOW.


THE LABORER AND HIS HIRE.
Archdeacon Abbott, of Tamworth, has
handed In his resignation. In a letter
to the parishioners he says:—
“For five and a half years I have
struggled on, paying out of my own
pocket over £3OO a year out of the
£350 given me. 1 have no private
means, and it has become intoier- .
able. It seems difficult when one
looks at the annual balance-sheet
to believe that a man in an
excellent business position can
only give 10s. a year, or a
well-to-do farmer is doing his
best when he subscribes an-
nually as. 6d.”
f'/Ew
' Wf«> &')'} re-
fhecf'a.lile l (CTff .
il tl t~ Qip f*>
Qotrjt u *) t~° C
W) t
A LEAN SHEPHERD AND A EAT FLOCK.
Rev. Carr Smith, at St. James’s
Church: “While at a harvest thanks-
giving there bad come under his obser-
vation a school where 36 boys belonging
to the Church of England were de-
barred from attendance at their parish
. The only reason ne could
Tel tor ms unchristian., he attitude
las that they were State ch.ldren,
and the congregation objected «
nresence at divine service. This state
of affairs is a scandal and a disgrace.
r Uoid’s defence speech has only raised a faint amused reply or two Soon
0. Jeid wiH be reduced to answering himself. Fortunately, he .s tra.ned for a.
>O> » A
Vj «/> v • x» V <>
\ tAVo>\\
' %'% ‘ ■>
°- ■**. ,« \ V
f r \ ® c
/
4. •
O r Vj A, <J>. *
\
V» * / J
<s
V- *
* *
AN OVERHEARD FRAdfIENT.
Average Sydney flan : *• What’s the
score? ”
Official at Inquiry Window: “ Score t
What score ? ”
Indignant Sydney Man: "What Score I
And you cali this an Intelligence
Office I ”
BETWEEN SHOTS.
First Confirmed Bowler : “ I see some*
one has discovered water on the
planet Mars.” ‘ V
Second Ditto: *' Well, It’s now up to
somebody to discover something
to put in it,”
IN SYDNEY AND ADJACENT PARTS.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
'"PHIS old-established and popular
A Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321,
F, O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
Give Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
othen* fJea Remedy a tnal - and y°» will use no
Infantile colic is promptly cured by Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera, and LJiarrhcea Remedy.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Reach’s Limited, Agents,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The amalgamation of the M.L.A. and
Citizens’ assurance offices cost the life of
as big a man as J. C. Remington, of
Sydney, general manager of the M.L.A.
*t was an old-fashioned office, run on lines
of tremendous respectability, and when it
proposed to combine with the hustling Citizens’
there were rows and innuendoes, and some people
whispered round the corner that Remington had
been fixed up with a comfortable life sinecure as
“managing trustee.” Remington had been so
unused to remarks of that kind that, coming on
top of a spell of hard, anxious work, they worried
him: and the capsized brain of a man, against
whoi the finger of suspicion hadn’t been
poin ed during over 30 years of an honorable
care< r, rushed him into suicide. Until Gov.
Rawson took on the job, Remington had for a
long while been a fixture as Grand Panjandrum of
Freemasonry in N. S. Wales, and could buzz on
the subject at the rate of about 311 words a
minute. He was unkind to the reporters, and to
hardly anybody else.
IN PARACHUTE TIMES -“ COPS!”
An Australian pioneer, A. McKenzie,
who died recently at Narracoorte (S.A.), aged 70
wasone° f aremarkaWe party of overlanders in
his early days. in 1 ebruary, 1854, with his
K r n ,‘rt n? 8t ° f f T> mlly ’ he star ted from the
C , larenc f Rlver (N.S.W.) with a drav
and i 6 bulloclis, and reacned the mouth of the
Glenelg River (Vic.-S.A. border) in July same
year Father and mother did the jaunt (1400
miles) on horseback. v v
ACHILLES AND HIS MENTOR.
Incidentally the leader of the Opposition described the recent series of articles in the Daily Telegraph
dealing- with the scheme as very able, and said they had been of great assistance to him in his labors in work-
ing up the facts on this question.—SYDNEY TELEGRAPH.
D.T. MILLITARY EXPERT: “ You see, General, an affirmative-negative-advance-to-the-rear
system of defence is our best plan.”
General NapGRENERAL NOPOLEON REID : "Thanks, awfully. Them's my sentiments exactly.”
A Maoriland paper confidently publishes a
rumor, said to exist in legal circles, that High
Court Chief Justice Samuel Griffith is about to
resign office. On June 21 the Chief will be 63
years of age, and it is 41 years since he was called
to the Bar in Brisbane.
Mrs. Mary Ann Clarke, formerly Wels-
ford, and widow of Mr. William Joseph Sayers
Clarke, celebrated her 83rd birthday on Thursday,
the old lady, who is still hale, arrived in Port
Phillip in 1840. There a son was born, in 1843,
William Clarke, formerly member for Orange in
the N. S. Wales Assembly, and Minister for
Justice under Henry Parkes, 1887-1889. He went
to England as director of the Standard Bank of
Australia, and subsequently toS. Africa, where he
died some years ago. He was familiarly known
as “ Ginger” Clarke.
In the general cemetery at Cornelian
Bay, Hobart, is a stone cross on which is the
following inscription :
Erected by B. Molloy and Samuel and James
Weir to the memory of that brave but unfortunate
Irishman, Martin Cash, who died August 26, 1878
aged 67 years. R.I.P.
Cash was a native of Wexford, Ireland
When about 18 years of age, he was
transported to Botany Bay for seven years
for a deliberate attempt to murder his'rival
in a girl’s affections. He came to Sydney,
per Marquis of Huntley, and was assigned
to Mr. Bowman, of Richmond. After many
escapes he finally went to Van Diemen’s
Land with a woman who passed as Mrs.
Cash. He was at Port Arthur for some
years under John Price. He escaped from
there and took to the bush, and a reward
was offered for his capture. His wife having
been arrested, he forwarded a threat of
reprisals if she were not released, and the
Grovernor, who seems to have been a mild
sort of person, liberated her. Cash was once
condemned to death, but was sent instead to
Norfolk Island, where he again met Price
Lventually he got back to Hobart a free
man. How he could be deemed “unfortu-
nate, considering his luck in dodging a well-
earned gallows, it is hard to explain. Mrs.
Cash was found dead in the streets, and for a
time occupied a pauper’s grave, but eventu-
ally husband, wife and a son were crowded into
the one tomb.
“ The Listener ” writes :
Sydney Tklrgraph, whiskered and barnacled, and with
the curse of an irremediable provincialism furrowing its
anxious old brow, reached its apex recently in a leading
article, where it summoned the soul of the great David
Syme on to its ragged little bit of carpet, even before the
body was cold. The date of the article is worth pre-
serving, as giving the future historian an opportunity of
t 0 hls i |i°r e enlightened generation a proof of
the paltriness of the press in these days. On Monday
February 17, said D.T. accused the late David Syme of
narrowness of view,” and of being “apt to concentrate
Ihr n v, a , partlc " ,ar Part-and a relatively" mail
Part,, " f the whole moving picture of contemporary life "
, ¥ r - me was not a man of wide sympathies ”
♦ hm ’ So,ely by his paper > il is impossible to"sav
that he was a great Australian, in the widest and fnlleJt-
sense of the term. He was not.” . . “ Where is the
Australian, in the fullest sense of the term, before Henrv
Parkes Then this perfect specimen of a low-down crilf
cism of an infinitely greater colleague concluded with the
a- 1 -"- CO,K ' USlv s s °, far as the walnut-shell brain of
Wade-Insect convenience spluttering it- p.reV"'n.'|7
soul out over criticisms on “ narrowness of views-’ and
concentration of gaze on a small part Of the whole ”
One can shqt one s eyes and conjure up the writer of the
diatribe determined to utilise the solemn occasion for W
plainly and simply and sordidly “another cut at Victoria ”
When Anderson, Director of the N.S.W.
Intelligence Department, was made
Under-Secretary of Agriculture,
Percy Hunter was appointed
Acting Director. Now, just as
Percy has moved his traps into his
new office, he is sent on a State-
paid trip to the Shepherd’s Bush
Exhibition in London to assist
Joseph G'arruthers in doing nothing
in particular. From London, Percy
goes to Canada to learn how to
toboggan down Kosciusko, and then
to Switzerland to study the Alps
and see if he can’t make Kosciusko
any higher. All this is very fine
for Kosciusko and P. Hunter, but
where does the Intelligence De-
partment come in? Shorn of its
Director and bereft of its Acting-
Director, who is going to keep it
in a reasonably intelligent condi-
tion ?
J. J. Cohen, Chairman of
Committees, probable Attorney-
General and possible District Court
Judge of N.S.W., is not only a
barrister of heavy form, but an
architect of considerable reputa-
tion. His architectural work is
to be found most in Queensland,
north and south. He is also an in-
ventor of certain sugar-mill appli-
ances. He carried a large port-
folio of suggestions to the meeting
of the Institute of Architects, the
other day, the chief of them being
plans to aggrandise the Institute.
Cohen was a political wobbler for
years, but has settled down to be
out-and-out anti-Sosh. He does
not weigh tremendously in Parlia-
mentary debates, but would be
glad if looked upon by those he
addresses as a second Bruce Smith.
He is fond of remarking that he
distinguishes between popularity and esteem.
The late James Munro, of Victoria, was a
malevolent teetotaler. It was he who presented a
bowling-green to the Armadale club, on condition
that no intoxicating liquor was ever to be sold or
consumed on the ground. As a result of this
vindictive bit of Rechabitism the Armadale
Bowling Club is the thirstiest institution on the
Australian continent, and veteran bowlers avoid
it as they would the Great Sand Plain in mid-
summer. It was a Sydney patriarch who, on
hearing of the conditions under which the ground
was held, said to Munro : “ The man that would do
such a thing would present a barrel of salt
herrings to waterless castaways on a raft in Jhe
Indian Ocean.” Yet Munro’s action recoiled on
himself. If the Armadale club fell away and laid
in a keg of beer the grant was to become forfeit,
and then the ground would revert to the donor!
A time came when that bit of land would have
seemed a fortune to James Munro, but the club
remained virtuous and dry. It is hard to sav
which was the more pathetic—the club perishing
for a drink or its old patron perishing for the club
to have a drink.
James Munro, of the Victorian Boom h 3
passed out, aged 76. He was a Scotch optimist
like Duncan Gillies, and so he fell in while the
other kind of Scot—the Scotch pessimist like
David Syme—kept out. Munro went to Viet -m
in 1858, and left the printing trade in ’65 to create
the Victoria Permanent Building Society Tt
still survives—what is left of it. Munro'loved
the term “ Permanent”—invented to distinguish
the new kind of concern from the old terminating
society. Ihe .idea took on, and permanent
evanescent building societies sprang up ij] {e
mushrooms. Munro also founded a woollen mill
co. and the "Victoria Permanent Fire Insurance
Co. —he had the Permanent complaint so bad that
it even spread to his fire insurance co. The
co. had a paper capital of £1,000,000, of which
£lO,OOO was paid up, and it muddled along for
five years and then died. Munro founded the
Federal Bank, which is dead, and the Real Estate
Bank, which is very dead. It is difficult, indeed
to remember any financial institution for which
Munro was responsible that isn’t dead. He was
20 years in Victorian politics, and was two years
Premier. Then he resigned and appointed him-
self Agent-General in England, but his banks and
companies were breaking with so notorious a
crash just then that in very shame Premier
Shiels recalled him. Munro was a big, weak
man with none of the rebounding qualities of
Bent. Bent got out from under the ruins of the
boom, and after bouncing two or three times be-
came Premier. Munro got out from beneath the
wreckage and became a small, elderly suburban
house agent. He was worth a million or so on
paper at one time.
Alfred Deakin’s staying capacity stands
out well when the death of any prominent politi-
cian, such as James Munro, causes a glance back-
wards at bunches of men who made history. At
the First Convention leading up to Federation
over eighteen years ago, Alfred Deakin sat with
Duncan Gillies as representing Victoria. Duncan
was then a chubby, cheerful little man, while
Alfred was described as in “only moderate
health,” but the chubby little man passed over
long ago. At the same Convention Henry Parkes
and William McMillan sat for N.S.W.; one is dead
and the other out of public life. In the next
convention Victoria had eight representatives,
Deakin being the only one who can now be said to
flourish, though still his “ health is not too good.”
N.S.W. had seven, but Parkes, Abbott, Dibbs.
Suttor, and Jennings are dead. Barton is “up
above,” and McMillan buried in calico.
“ E.J.M.,” from Melbourne :
The late Janies Munro, one time Premier of Victoria
was a political weakling. He was a big, droning, kirk'-
voiced person, who was guilty of saying a good many
silly things and doing very few wise ones. When I was a
mere lad, travelling one day on the Caulfield line, I re-
member ponderous Jimmy, the new Premier, getting 1
in at Armadale. Jimmy greeted an old tee-
totaler who was in the “ kerridge,” and soon
began to yap with huge importance about railway
mismanagement. “ Ah’m going to see about this mahn
bpeight,” said Jimmy. “He gets into his office about XI
o clock or later. After looking through some papers he
lights a se-gah and strolls down to the Athemeum Club.
Then he marches up to the Australian Club for lunchA
meets his pals up there, I suppose. Perhaps he looks in
at the Railway Department on his wav home. Oh, it’s
arful, it’s scandalous, it’s uncon-shon-able. I tell you’ I’m
going to see inter it; I ah’m.” Poor old, tactless Jimmy !
At his heavy-footed worst, he always had the love and
veneration of the gingerbeer crowd to keep him up.
SENATOR SOAPY GRAY.
Victoria’s old politicians took to dying off
rapidly last week. The men who passed out were
ex-Premier Munro, ex-Minister of Defence Bell,
and ex-Water-Supply-Mines-Agriculture Minister
Charles Young. Young was 80, Bell 72, and
Munro 76.
Carl Bruggman (“ German Charlie ”) died
at his residence, Parramatta (N.S.W.), on the
Wednesday of last week. There were several
“German Charlies” who “professed” medicine,
but Carl was the great original quack. Some 20
years ago he resided at Riverstone, where he was
thronged with patients. In those days he was
only approached through a private secretary,
who collected the fees. The German, like
“Scotch Mary ” of Waverley, very long ago, was
credited with many cures, and was a craze for a
while. Many years ago he retired from business,
invalided. Rumor has it that he was rich, but
his star had faded a good deal befere he left off
practice, and his alleged great wealth is pro-
blematical.
TO A SMITTEN GLADIATOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The daily press of six months back :
“ In Jones we have the finest captain Old England could
have sent. There is no one in his class in this regard in
the Commonwealth.
“ Jones, an experienced—one may say—a great captain.
... A sport to the backbone.
“ The captain, probably, of the century. We prophesy
big things for the sportsmanlike band under Jones’ con-
trol.”
The daily press to-day :
“ It is useless to conceal the fact that Jones is a poor
captain. As we prophesied at the beginning of the tour,
the Englishmen are handicapped by their skipper.
“ Jones ... an inefficient captain.
“Jones in purposely knocking his wickets down may
be said to have ‘potted the white.’ He is no sportsman.”
Say, Mister Jones, dost rub your eyes, amazed?
Does wonderment appear
Therein ? And are you feeling rather dazed
Brooding on yester year?
Only six months ago, and you were hailed
A marvel among men ;
The perfect sport and skipper you. All were assailed
Who dared you to contemn.
Then things began to happen ; plans went wrong,
And England bumped defeat
(Because —so we were told—you were not strong,
And had not yottr land feet).
Another match was lost; faces grew grave,
And stout old Britons cursed
Audibly right and left, and wailed “ Lord save
Us ! ” and seemed like to burst.
A month passed, and again England went down.
It was a bitter blow
To your supporters, who began to frown
And say “ I told you so.”
When failure came once more protest broke out
At such incompetence ;
Wise souls appeared who “ never had a doubt”
As to your lack of sense.
Now, you’re “ no sport,’’they say, you “pot the white’
And do not “ play the game ” ;
The expert gibes at you with all his might ;
He smothers you with blame.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


- ;
MM
.
...
*
mm? ■
V
&
\
■
.
*
‘W
e
rS2&
■»■
* «?*■>
9K
&
. rJW
»*£
.at?-/;
•» ■•■ <• v.sia^sir-
■
w
*■
'
SB
. -•
t
'
#*', *r>-‘ .
E* ,
iwrv” >
v/ Writer.
L,J.
SM
.-•■*.'7
J?§r
Mfe-
\ :v l'
-
Si ji
-
-If ■ '■ ■'
' f M W*Xs
tm
■
- . l .
-, - * l* :,2i
-;. , .
• w ,a
Three Castles Cig'arettes
Are Treasure Trove.
“ There's no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia and no better brand
than the 4 Three Castles/ ”
Thackeray.
—•• The Virginians. ”


At the first unusual looseness of the bowels
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Kemedy should be given, and all danger will be
avoided.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantasd.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent M.in.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ALLIANCE ASSURANCE CO.
TEL. 47. AN OLD AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION. ESTB. 1862.
Fire, Marine,
Fidelity, Accident
261 George Street, SYDNEY.
MODERATE RATES. G. B. SMITH, Manager
™Ek! CATIONS FOR AGENCIES in
TOWN and COUNTRY INVITED.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
GO TO HEBLL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Hageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Lists Gratis.
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, andDiarrhoea
Remedy is the most successful medicine in the
world for bowel complaints.*
DENYERS Emasculators
45/-
EACH.
For Castrating Perfectly Horsts, Bulls, etc.
Crushes before it cuts. Haemorrhage impossible.
DENYER BROTHERS)
281 George Street (opp. Hunter St.), Sydney
and at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The bedrock horror of Freetrade England
is poverty ! In a recent London begging case,
the arresting constable stated that accused (a re-
spectable working man) appeared to be hungry,
as, prior to his applying at a house for food, he
had seen him eagerly devouring the oats dropped
from a horse’s nose-bag in the street! The unfor-
tunate wretch told the beak that he’d been dis-
missed, after 14 years’ continuous service, through
lack of work, and for thirty hours had tasted
nothing but the horse-fodder already mentioned.
A WADE IN THE COTTER .
S. FRIGHTS: “Ain’t the scenery grand — ain't the
water deep ?”
WADE : “O rapturous site!! Magnificent!!
Sublime!!"
On February 26, Brisbane Courier pub-
lished this alleged letter from a Darling Downs
storekeeper to a Brisbane trader :
We have had ample rain, and the outlook would be
first-class if it were not for the hostility which has been
shown towards the farmers by a larg’e section of poli-
ticians. There are farmers about here who are uncertain
as to what crops they should put in, and barley and
wheat growing present less attractions, with Wages
Boards looming in the distance. And the dairying indus-
try* 8 not progressing as it should. Many will pin their
faith to lamb-raising, as in this they will be less dependent
on labor.
After reading this, one would naturally expect to
hear of a startling decrease in land values on the
Downs. Well, on the same date the Courier
published this item of news from its Clifton—
Clifton is in the heart of the Darling Downs—
correspondent:—
A Maorilander who purchased a farm here the other
da.y has been offered 12s. per acre on the price he crave,
but he is not inclined to sell.
S. M. Herald, the other day, published a
list of N.S.W. pastoral properties thrown on the
market for subdivision last year, and showed that
1,000,000 acres had been, or were being, offered
for sale. An analysis of the sales already effected
shows, however, that a formidable percentage of
land sold has been purchased by residents of the
district —nearly always by the people who own
the land adjoining that sold. The big estate that
is cut up into a dozen pieces thus goes to enlarge
a dozen properties that are mostly too large
already. All the voluntary land sales on earth
won’t supply the place of that much-needed
graduated land-tax.
When Minister Chapman recently said
that he looked forward to the time when the
Commonwealth Government would provide
farmers with telephones at a shilling a week he
was laughed at. Yet, as a matter of fact,
telephone services are already being supplied
in farming districts for as little as £22 10s.
a year where there are ten connections or
more, which works out at 10£d. per week per
’phone. Farmers in the Ma State asked for 80
such lines between Jan. 1 and Feb. 6 this year.
And probably the first message each will carry
will include a wail about the encroachments of the
Federal Government.
Joseph Keenan, now visiting Melbourne,
went to the Northern Territory (where the white
man can’t live) 34 years ago, married an Aus-
tralian girl, and has since reared three sons as
big, lusty and healthy as himself. They have
roughed it over thousands of miles —mother and
all—and are fine samples from the “place that is
only fit for Chows.” Keenan stands 6ft. high,
and weighs l ist.—bone, sinew and muscle. He
tells the old tale : “Unless the Territory is imme-
diately taken over by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, it will soon be no place for a white man.
The white miner is being shouldered out all over
the place. The Territory is fast becoming like
the Straits Settlements—a place where the Chow
is boss and knows it, and makes everybody else
know it.” There is only one way of meeting the
danger—the taking over of the Territory by the
Commonwealth and its speedy settlement. And
that means a railway right through, liberal land
laws and liberal mining regulations to white men
only, and the maintenance of sufficient gunboats
to effectively patrol the coast and keep Asia out.
Mere laws without gunboats won’t do it.
All the practical result that the now dead
and decayed State Rights League had in Westralia
was to flick some enthusiasts into promoting
“The Australia League”—a vigorous young
party whose business it is to barrack for—
1. The promotion of a self-reliant spirit of Australian
nationalism.
2. The defence of Australia b3 r Australians.
3. A White Australia.
4. Reduction in the cost and machinery of State Govern-
ment.
5. Protection.
6. Federal control of immigration and lands policy.
7. The taking over by the Federal Parliament of State
debts and Federal control of borrowing.
8. The support of any movement having for its object
the advancement of Australia.
The committee, whose secretary is J. J. Simons,
Hay-street, Perth, has hopes that some of the seed
will blow over to the Eastern States and grow up
into leagues there.
The S. M. Herald still endeavors to kill
Australia’s transcontinental railway (Adelaide to
Port Darwin), and clamors for an
enormously long curved line from
Sydney via Bourke, wandering
through Western Queensland,
and running parallel with the
southern shore of the Gulf of
Carpentaria to Palmerston. The
Herald might as well cease this
uproar about the need to bring
everything to Sydney. The com-
pletion of the Adelaide-Port
Darwin line impart of the bargain
for the transfer of the Territory,
and the need for that transfer is
so immediate that Australia can’t
afford to tear up the agreement
and start the whole weary
negotiation afresh. Further,
Australia doesn’t want to build
500 miles of extra railway ; and
it wants a line that will open
up the Federal Government’s
own property—the Territory—
to the very best advantage, not
a semi-coastal line which will
open up a whole lot of Queens-
land and some of N.S.W., but
only touch a corner of the great Federal estate.
Extract from the official summary of the
new Victorian Factories and Shops Act, as
supplied by Minister of Labor Peacock :
If an organised strike is about to take place, or has
taken place, in any trade subject to a special Board, the
Governor in Council may suspend the determination for
any period not exceeding twelve months.
Which is a mighty handy weapon for the Tory
boss. He can get cheap blackleg labor if a strike
is on, or even if it is “ about to take place,” and
he can always so fix things as to make sure that a
strike is “about to take place” if he thinks it will
pay him to do so.
State Premier Newton Moore says he will
fight to the bitter end, and perish in the last
ditch, so to speak, before he will allow the Com-
monwealth to interfere with Westralia’s borrow-
ing powers. If these blessed powers are inter-
fered with, says Moore, “it will be good-bye to
developmental works.” Moore sees no prospect,
even on the farthest horizon, of Westralia—with
the biggest revenue on earth in proportion to
population—ever paying for the culvert out of its
own cash. He is a barren and helpless Moore, to
whom loans are the whole secret of progress, and
if loans are cut off he can see nothing for
Westralia to do save close up like a worn telescope
and die. In the eastern States people are
getting rid of that old loan delusion, but back-
number Moore stills hangs on to it as his only
political asset.
Some neat and telling riposte in the Senate
(D. Telegraph 28/2/’08) :
Senator Dobson interjected, apropos of a reference to
the farming interest, and the little sympathy it got in the
tariff, “ Let the farmer go to the Devil. That is the
Labor party’s policy.”
The remark incensed Senator M‘Gregor.
Senator Neild complained of Senator M'Gregor’s vul-
garity, and called Senator M'Gregor an ass.
Senator M‘Gregor retorted that he did not regard
Senator Neild as a serious human being.
HUMANITY v. MAMMON.
The farmers are still agitating against the
200lb. limit on cornsacks.
FAT FARMER: “ What! You mean, selfish, heart-
less wretch! What I Reduce the size uv them
cornsacks I Why, in the friction caused by
extra ’ andlin', I’d lose fully three grains
per bag!”
It would really seem that Robson,
Britain’s fool Attorney-General, who publicly
threatened Australia for proposing to practically
“exclude” British ships from the Australian
coast, hadn’t taken the trouble to even read the
Federal Navigation Bill, and really imagined that,
instead of putting British and Australian vessels
on exactly the same level in Australian waters, it
was proposed to penalise the British person in
some way. One of his colleagues—the one in
whose department the matter lies—has seen the
Bill, and pronounced it fair and reasonable ; but
apparently Robson didn’t consult his colleague
before firing off his loaded head.
“Ant” : I wish to give my vote for
Dalgety or that locality for the Federal capital
site. I spent last week there, and did the
Thredbo and Snowy, and spent a few hours on
the top of Kosciusko. To those who have not
been there, it is almost impossible to convey an
idea of the attractiveness of the district, with its
charming scenery, its abundance of clear, running
vvater, and its pure health-giving air. I am a
bushman and have lived for the past 14 years in
Western N. S. Wales and Queensland, so I know
what it means to be short of good water. How
there can be two opinions on the subject of the
capital site I can’t understand, unless it be
through ignorance, or cussedness.
“ J.D.R.” : The great cry of the anti-com-
pulsory service person is: “in time of war the
manhood of Australia will be only too ready to
shoulder a rifle, and defend their glorious heritage.”
It sounds all right, but the point these folk miss is
that, in time of war, the majority
of the manhood of Australia would
then handle a rifle for the first
time, and would be too busy finding
out how the thing worked to have
any time for the enemy. I was a
member of a militia corps for seven
years, and I know. This corps
consisted of about 200 men, who
attended in a desultory fashion on
parade nights, but in no uncertain
fashion on pay nights. Of these
200, some 20 went in for systematic
rifle practice ; the rest kept their
weapons in a handy little corner
at home, and only took them out
when they had a fancy to attend
a parade. These men certainly
received a certain amount of train-
ing, but the worst feature that
struck me was the vast number of
flat-chested youths, with hands in
pockets and cigarettes protruding
from their faces, who, when the
corps was paraded in the open air,
gazed on the proceedings with an
expression that clearly indicated
their wonder that “ blokes could be such chumps
as to take that game on.” I found their facial ex-
pression to be a correct index of their minds I
asked several why they didn’t join. In each case
I received the same reply, “ That’s no good to
me. And these are the manhood (?) who, in war
time, without any previous training, are going to
defend their heritage.
It is practically settled that when Gover-
nor Le Hunte leaves his post this year, theS.A.
Government will ask that Chief Justice Way be
appointed. By way of making a start, Ministers
have already asked that no more costly vice-
royalties shall be sent from England.
The Senate victory has gone to the heads
of 8. A. Tories, and the very commonplace Joseph
Vardon is beginning to believe that he is the man
who saved the Empiah, so to speak. On every
occasion when two or three Fatmen are gathered
together Vardon is referred to as the savior of the
Constitootion, and allusions are made to his
alleged British bulldog pluck, etc. One humor-
less shopkeeper compared his victory to the
battle of Waterloo, and insinuated that Joe’s
heroism put that ancient scrap in the shade. It
is proposed to make a presentation to the unblush-
ing Senator, and it is probable that he will b e
given something expensive to mark the occasion.
There was a screech of joy from the Tory
crowd in Queensland when the Darling Downs or
“Blacksoil” bunch of electorates turned against
Kidston at the elections —the only place where he
lost ground. But the “Blacksoil” electors,
mostly farmers, having had time to think about
it, don’t feel as comfortable as they might.
Kidston and the Labor party can now apply the
Wages Board principle to farm labor without
losing any supporters, for the farming crowd has
left them already. The Blacksoil rats realise that
their members don’t count a straw-and-a-half.
On the other hand, if they had gone on returning
Kidstonites their members might have had some
influence in modifying the Kidston policy with
regard to farm labor. So still another section of
Queensland is speaking in blistering language
about the Brisbane press, which fooled it.
T. Bent will bring in a “Lands Valuation
Bill,” so he says. Its object will be to force the
Victorian shire councils to revalue their land at
something like its real figure, which will mean
that the poor, oppressed backbone of the sod will
have to carry a fairer share of the local expendi-
ture. But it’s ten to one the measure will be for-
gotten to-morrow, and the cry of the cadger be as
loud in the land as formerly. The buzz of the
pernicious local member is at all times rapid and
continuous. He it is who settles upon Bent’s
ponderous lug. Maybe he is a supporter—and
that’s the end of the matter ! Yet that Bill
is pressing—very pressing. Here are a few cadges
presented one day recently in Melbourne:—
Deputation from tiie Shire of Phillip Island and Wol-
lamai : Asked refund of subsidy of £25 made by it
towards the planting of marram grass around Swan Lake.
Reduction in pro rata amount it had to contribute in
connection with the expenditure of £l5O on the Queen’s
Ferry foreshore. Request that sum to he expended on
Swan Lake should be increased to £5O.
Deputation from the Shire of Berwick : Re neglected
condition of drains at Bunvip and Kooweerup. No
money. Would the Government oblige?
Deputation from Somewhere : Request for £3BOO to
build a road from Tambo Valley over the Tongio Gap to
the Livingstone district.
The Council of Bacchus Marsh : Asking grant of £250
to construct a road to connect the Staughton Vale Settle-
ment with Bacchus Marsh.
Deputation from the Shire of Narracan : Asking
grant of £3OO to construct a road. Also grant of £6O
towards the construction of a bridge over Shady Creek.
That’s very moderate for one day.
Before A. W. Craven, Chairman of Com-
mittees in Vic. Assembly, set out for his trip to
America last week he carefully put in his pocket-
book a document handed him by the Canadian-
Australian steamship agents, in return for the
sum of 16s. It runs :
Alien Head Tax Guarantee.
Melbourne, 13th Feb., 1908.
To U.S.A. Commissioners of Immigration.—The Cana-
dian-Australian Royal Mail S.S. line hereby guarantees
payment of head tax in the case of alien A. W. Craven,
who arrived at Vancouver on the 18th March, 1908, per
s.s. Moana, who desires examination prescribed by the
U.S. immigration laws for aliens seeking entrance to the
U.S. from Canada.—W. B. Coulsen, Agent.
Craven is a person of some tonnage in Australia,
but when he seeks to cross the American border
he becomes just “alien A. W. Craven,” and has to
undergo examination before he is admitted. He
doesn’t kick, either; he just pays and looks
pleasant—he knows that he won’t be excluded,
but that the U.S. wants to keep track of all im-
migrants, so as to block undesirables. Now, what
sort of a row would the Stinking Fishmongers
and State Frighters make if the Commonwealth
Government were to put a white American Par-
liamentary officer through an examination, and
charge him a 16s. fee before he was allowed
ashore ?
THE TORY PAPER'S DREAM.
Bread, of course, no one need go wholly without in a
country like the United Kingdom —Argus.
“The Chief Commissioner of Railways,”
said Bluffer Bent to a deputation lately, “i n ‘
forms me that he pays his painters the rate of
wages fixed by the Wages Board, so I cannot
interfere.” Then the factories inspector, who was
present, remarked that there wasn’t any Wages
Board in that trade —and the Bluffer sat back and
tried to think of something else.
A DIVISION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ South Australian,” in the S.A. Advertiser (14/2/’08)
A great authority states . . . that the only way of
settling the matter (the native difficulty in Natal) will be
by a fair and equitable division of the country between
the white and dark races, each race confining itself to its
own lands, under heavy penalties. It seems possible that
Australia will. . . have to be divided in the same manner.
However we Australians may dislike the idea, we may
have to submit. If it comes to that, a definite line would
have to be drawn, over which no one might pass without
a Government permit. Our telegraph line would have to
be moved, and the chief, if not only, safety of the
southern portion of the continent would be the entire
absence of railway communication. Large numbers of
men could not cross the desert at one time, and if they
attempted to do so we might defeat them in detail. If
we are forced to part with the northern portion of the
continent, why should we not sell it instead of giving it
away, as we may have to ?
If Mr. Hoki-Poki comes and beats his horn and blows his
drums,
And says he wants a bit of us, why ever should we make
a fuss?
In countries like South Africa they know a better way
by far
To keep the nigger in his place than firing pistols in his
face 1
They take a map from any school, a pencil, and a nice
foot-rule,
And draw a line across it, fair, and say “ Please don’t
come over THERE 1
For, Mr. Blackman, if you do, we shall be very cross
with you,
And will, without an hour’s delay, take all our railways
right away 1
And, if that doesn’t cook your goose, we won’t indulge in
low abuse,
Or angry words and vulgar chaff, but just remove our
telegraph 1
And if you even THEN decline to keep outside our pencil
line,
Just come across in twos and threes, so we can kill you
as we please 1 ”
Now that’s the way WE ought to do—just cut Australia
right in two,
And shift our rails and telegraph, and give Japan the
upper half 1
S.A.
NIL.


PALING’S
Thousands of Instru-
ments to select from
AT EXCEPTIONALLY
. . . LOW PRICES . . .
TALKING MACHINES.
Gramophones from £4/10/-
Columbia Graphophones from 15/-
Edison Phonographs from 50/-
Flutes from 4s, 6d,
Mandolins from 12s, 6d,
Guitars from 15s,
Clarionets from 40s,
Autoharps from 12s, 6d,
Strings from 2d,
VIOLINS.
Boy's Violin, with bow and case, 16/-
School Violin, with bow and case, 21/-
Student's Violin, with Bow and Case, 31/6
Orchestral Violin, with bow and case, 42/-
Solo Violin, with bow and case, 67/6
Artist's Violin, with bow and case, £7/7/-
U-71 W.
GERMAN CONCERTINAS.
Single-toned from 3/6
Organ-toned from 9/-
ANGLO-GERMAN Concertinas,
from 25/-
Steel Reeds from 31/6
ENGLISH CONCERTINAS.
From 70/- to £2l
CORNETS BY
BOOSEY & CO. from £5/15/-
BESSON & CO. from £6/12/6
COUESNON & CO. from £l/10/-
METRONOMES
from 12/6
CATALOGUES
Post Free.
When Writing please
Mention Which One
You Require.
WINDSOR NICKEL RIM BANJOS, from 21/-
WINDSOR WOOD-RIM BANJOS, from £4/10/-
WINDSOR ZITHER BANJOS, from 25/-
AMERICAN BANJOS, from 25/-
WASHBURN BANJOS, from £5/5/-
W. H. PALING ®. CO., Ltd.,
And at Brisbane and Newcastle.
338 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
• • •
RIDING BREECHES
38/6
--= To Measure.
mm
. *-«
Mi
M
*««
THE ACME OF COMFORT.
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.-A PERFECT FIT GUARAN-
TEED for Knickers and Coats of every description. Our Self-Measuremen
Forms, Patterns, Post Free on application. Write Now to ...
BucKley & Nunn
LIMITED,
300-310 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
HOT
OR
COLD
LIQUIDS
REMAIN
SO IN
THERMOS
.BOTTLES.
THERMOS
PRICES:
PINTS from 21s.
QUARTS from 425.
mt:
POSTED ANY-
WHERE, Is. and
I Is. 6d. Extra.
Invaluable to Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists, Military Men, Excur-
sionists, &c. No need to boil the “ billy/' Take your tea or other
liquid refreshment with you, and simply pour out Hot or Cold as desire .
THOS. WEBB SONS
236 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


the best is
Peter F-Heerinj’
Purveyor by Appointment to ,
H.M. the Kina of England , /j
Royal Danish and /I
Russian Courts.
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
H °gg. Robinson & Co., Propty. Ld
Sydney and Melbourne. ’ ’
Max Beerbohm’s Essay. Some years ago
now, Mr. Max Beerbohm wrote a charming- essav “In
defence of Cosmetics,” which (Mr. Beerbohm ' being
threatened with the reputation of a humorist) was not
taken seriously. That was a pity. Now, no reasonable
limit can be set to a woman’s right to be beautiful. The
woman who charms is the woman who makes the most of
herself and her natural endowment. Some things con-
demned by the crabbed few are wholesome accessories of
the toilet. Take, for instance, the Valaze Face Powder,
2s. a box. If there was any bloom on the fruits in the
Garden of the Hesperides, this powder is as delicate as
that. Invisible itself, it makes beauty visible. It is one
of the excellent light weapons in beauty’s armoury.
Another delightful weapon is the Valaze Rouge Tenao'e.
It is of a delicacy that, defies detection : Is. 6d., Special Bs.
Valaze Lip Salve is a natural lip radiance in tint, and not
a vulgar chemical red, 25., and Special 3s. Of leading
chemists, or direct from Mile. Helena Rubinstein and Co.,
Valaze Massage Institute, lf>B Pitt Street, Svdney ; 274
Collins Street, Melbourne; and 9 Brandon Street,
Wellington, N.Z.*
TO CURE ANAEMIA: MORE BLOOD.
If anaemia be a condition in winch people suffer
from having too little blood, it is plain that what
is needed is more blood. Without sufficient blood,
men and women become pale, sallow, languid,
suffer from indigestion, headaches, and heart
palpitation, and are never fit to enjoy life.
Anaemia opens the way for consumption and pro-
vides the victims for almost all diseases. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People have one
great mission—to make blood. They must and
they do combine with food and air to increase the
supply. We have yet to hear of a case of blood-
lessness in Australia which they are not able to
cure. A Victorian woman tells how they made
blood for her :
“ When I was twenty-eight the doctor told me that I
had poverty of blood,” said Mrs. Timothy Reardon,
High Street, Rutherglen, Victoria. “All of a sudden I
seemed to fall away. I lost my appetite and only fancied
sour things, such as vinegar and pickles. I constantly
had throbbing headaches over the eyes. I had to wear
smoked glasses when I went out, as everything was hazy
and dazzling before me. I could onlv sew or read with
difficulty. Across the small of my back I had a cruel dull
pain so that I could hardly bend—and if I stood upright
for any length of time I longed to lie down flat. I simply
hadn’t any strength and only wanted to lie about the
house all day. At night I tossed about and got little or
no rest. I had fainting turns and used to go right off
without warning. I dare not go to church, for I might
have to be carried out in the middle of the service. I was
white faced with pale gums and moist skin —even on a
cool day I was always mopping my hands. I couldn’t
have been much thinner—you could just count my hones.
If I stood for long my ankles puffed up. After forcing
down a morsel of food I’d have such dreadful pains in the
back. My heart was in a bad way, I dare not hurry to
catch a train the way it used to thump. After ailing like
this for twelve months I picked up a little book and saw
how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills had cured others who had
been ill like me, so I started them. Less than half-a-
dozen boxes gave me excellent health. I haven’t had a
single thing the matter with me since they cured me.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills make new’, red blood that
builds up the brain, muscles and nerves. Thvy have
cured anaemia, general weakness, influenza’s after-effects,
indigestion, eczema, rheumatism, sciatica, St. Vitus
dance, nervous disorders, paralysis, etc. Sold by all
dealers (but insist on having the genuine pills, for sub-
stitutes never cure). If in doubt send to the Sydney
office for one box 2s. 9d., or 15s. 3d. for six, post free.*
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCEPS IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 3, 1908.
My Dear Arint,—
The ex-Empress Eugenie, who, with a suite of
impressive size, joins the Mooltan at Colombo, is
staying near Adam’s Peak with Sir Thomas
Lipton, her great friend. The champion tea-
purveyor is a frequent visitor at Eugenie’s Cap
Martin villa, and is understood to give the old
lady much good business advice. Fog-bound
Australians will have a unique chance aboard the
Mooltan of observing the pathetic absurdities
that hedge the ex—or potential—Royalty. Not
at Wood Norton itself, the lair of the exiled Bour-
bons, is more state kept up than in whatever
part of the globe the lady who was once Miss
Montijo deposits herself.
It is a good thing the odor of sanctity is not a
solid substance, else the Victoria, from Auckland
(M.L.), would have sunk below Plimsoll mark,
and the captain would have been fined such an
amount that he would have had to take his brass-
bound clothes to the “ Monty Peet.” There re-
turned by that vessel Cardinal Moran and eight
inferior but hefty R.C. ecclesiastics. Four of
them were archbishops or bishops. They had all
been helping to dedicate the new cathedral at
Auckland. The Bishop of Auckland, Dr. Lenihan,
came back with the party, and will go on to visit
the Pope. Talking of the Cardinal, I see that a
Dublin paper has been referring to his Eminence
as one “in distant exile.” Sydney is certainly a
good distance from Ireland, but the “exile”
here can do himself very well. Besides, the man
in Ireland is in distant exile because he is so far
from Sydney, and when I think of the dukes in
London, pining in distant exile from Brisbane, I
always weep. Also I always grin over Kipling’s
version when I hear of exiles from Erin : “ There
came to the beach a poor exile of Erin ; the dew
on his thin robe was heavy and chill; ere the
steamer that bore him had passed out of hearin’,
he was Alderman Mike, introducing a Bill.”
When J. F. Archibald wrote in his memoirs in
The Lone Hand
Listen to that well-beloved Australian governor as his
wizened form lies on the masseur’s couch : “ I have almost
everything in the world that a man could covet —a beauti-
ful, loving and popular wife, an exalted title, a good
education, some brains, many dear friends and the con-
fidence of my Sovereign, but there is one thing I lack, and
that is—Fat.” He didn’t exactly say Fat; he expressed
himself in four letters ; but he meant it all the same.
Everybody recognised in the picture, Lord Hope-
toun. In truth that unhappy nobleman vjas a
good sort, in spite of an hereditary weak consti-
tution that would not allow him to digest decent
food, and kept him a thin, anaemic ghost at life’s
banquet table ; and many in Australia will feel a
genuine sorrow at his death.
Australians who knew Lord Hopetoun as
Governor of Victoria were sadly affected on see-
ing him enter Sydney, with the pomp and blare
of an official procession, as Governor-General of
the Commonwealth. Hopetoun was very ill on
the voyage out. He wished to land at Ade-
laide and recuperate before facing the strain
of a big official programme in the midst of the
Sydney summer. But the Sydney Government, in
its mad provincialism, insisted that the sick man
should be dragged round to Sydney by sea lest
his foot be contaminated by touching the soil
of any other Australian State. Arrived in Syd-
ney, the patient (he looked in his official
uniform, with his ghastly, heroic official smile,
like Napoleon 111., when he painted his face on
the morning of Sedan, so that his white disease-
ravaged countenance might not look like the face
of Fear), was dragged around in procession, as
a victim to the slaughter, with the official butchers
in attendance. It was a dreadful spectacle.
The manner of Hopetoun’s leaving the Com-
monwealth was unhappy. He misunderstood his
position, and attempted to set up a lavish
Imperial Court. Parliament refused to find
the money for this, and the first
Governor-General resigned. The misunder-
standing was not altogether his fault. With
more courageous advisers he would have been
warned of his mistaken course; certainly he
would not have been led into facing the rebuff of
having his request to Parliament for an increase of
salary refused. Returning to England, Hopetoun
set himself up, not as a fetinkmg-Fish critic,
but as a consistent friend and champion of Aus-
tralia, and, as recently as Deakin’s visit to Lon-
don, he went much out of his way to show his
liking for this country and its people.
The death of her lord leaves Hersey Alice,
Marchioness of Linlithgow (Lady Hopetoun) a
widow of barely 41 years. She was a very tall,
handsome, dark woman when she first came to
Australia with her husband to govern Victoria. On
her second term, when Sydney saw her with the
royal Yorks, she looked more subdued. The
diplomacy with which she stayed in the back-
ground of the picture at the Government
House coruscations, and left off wearing her
finest Jewels, made one think a little over one’s
ice. If Duchess May liked her hostess to look
Jane Eyre-ish and trusted-governessish, then
Duchess May must have liked the wav the showy
Hersey Alice extinguished herself." She had
a heart, although a lot of folks denied it. During
the Hopetouns’ last term of office, a nephew (or
other near relative of the Lady) died in
Melbourne. A girl in that city, who was de-
votedly fond of him, went nigh crazy with
grief. When Lady Hopetoun sent the body
Englandwards, the only wreaths she allowed to
go with it were her own and one from the girl.
The second Hopetoun boy was born in Mel-
bourne, and is named after that city.
A man sends me this—possibly under the mis-
taken impression that it was my hat:
Was sitting- peacefully staring at a variety show the
other evening when a stout woman, wearing a hat
composed of the latter ends of three ostriches, sailed
in with a swish of silk and steered herself into
e °\ y m front of me ' After divesting
herself of several wraps, she came to anchor with a loud
jingling of bracelets, anti i knew the show was all over
for me unless the hat got burnt to the ground or the lady
went out. Just as I was looking: round for the usher to
find me another seat the wearer of the fowls’ clothing:
turned round and asked me, “ Is my hat in your way ? ”
I managed to control my emotion. I didn’t tell her that
her hat was big enough to hide the Day of Judgment
from mankind. I didn’t even tell her what an injustice
she had done to three bare ostriches. I simply answered
in a humble voice that it was in my way, and from the
indignant snort she gave, as she proceeded to keep the
awful thing on and do nothing, anyone would have con-
cluded I had said something horrid to her.
Miss Harrie Ireland in “Lured to London”
shows, an amazing versatility in shriek-raising.
When the haughty and landed (in property, not
on the jaw) villain lures Harrie, disguised as a
sweet young country girl named Lily, to a thief’s
shanty she has every cause for outcries. The villain
misuses her something shocking when she
tries to escape. He seizes her by the
back hair and the third button of her
blouse, and drags her towards the footlights, she
screaming more fearsomely than the priina donna
in the two mad operatic roles, Lucia and Ophelia.
In fact, she sustains the note E in alt (also on
edge) for several minutes, while the “ gentleman”
is dragging her opposite the conductor of the
orchestra and muttering “ Kurz-z-z yough,” and
rumbling in his throat like a croaking bulldog.
As he hurls her back on the thief’s table
amongst one beer-glass she emits a mar-
row-freezing F in alt, garnished with little
squeals in no known musical notes. When
she is flattened on her spine on the table,
the villain stares in her face with burning eyes
and a face like a canvas mask, and says,
Gurr-r-r.” Harrie then descends to the deep
Contralto register, and, with the landed pro-
prietor’s hand on her throat, she yells a tempo
cdmodo, as the orchestra conductor would say.
Thereabouts, Lily’s father comes in, and after a
terrific “mill” is stunned, to the accompaniment
of more screams from the heroine, who is too
flurried to remember to stick a hatpin into the
villain’s neck as he is doing his fell deed. She is
indeed a screamer is Lily of London—Lily the
Lured.
Ada Crossley, writing from Torquay (England)
on January 10 : “I have sung to a packed house
here this afternoon with my party—Evangeline
Florence, John Harrison, Hamilton Earle, Same-
tini (violinist), Percy Grainger, and accompanist
Liddle. I’ve had some tea and toast, and changed
my ‘Paris confection’ (as the Society papers call
my platform garb) for a cream cloth skirt and
cream and pale-blue lace blouse, and here
I am.” The contralto goes on to say that
she and hubby (she calls him “Don”) are over-
charged with happiness at the prospect of coming
home again, and are liable to split down the back
at any moment through trying to put a quart of
joy in a space only calculated to hold a pint. “We
are simply not living in England now, although
departure for our own land is still eight months
off. I’ve had to cancel my engagements for the
Musical Festival at Norwich for September and
October, Sheffield, Bristol, Worcester, and scores
of winter engagements extending into next year,
but Mr. Williamson was not taking any postpone-
ment till 1909. Curiously enough I had within
three weeks four offers from Australian managers.”
In mentioning the crowded hour ahead of
her, Miss Crossley adds, “but Good Friday will
be my record day. I sing at the Crystal Palace
in the afternoon, at the Albert Hall' (‘ Messiah ’)
at seven o’clock, and at Queen’s Hall sacred
concert at 9.45. Great fun! Mr. J.C.W. is
negotiating with the artistes who are to come
with me to Australia. I hear that Mark Ham-
bourg will be touring Australia in July, and I
believe Mr. and Mrs. Mallinson are going there
to give some of their own charming song
recitals. Next year Paderewski is going, and
Sarah Bernhardt. Aren’t they all tumbling over
each other to visit my country ? I saw Bernhardt
in Paris, during New Year week, as the Prince in
•Sleeping Beauty.’ Her little protege, aged 15,
was the Princess—a genius. And their love-
making was something thrilling.
“ In some paper, I saw a statement that we had
oought our house in St. John’s Wood from Marie
Tempest. This is not correct. We bought the
place, which is freehold, from a Mr. Pearson, an
ecclesiastical architect, who built one of the most
oeautiful churches in Maoriland. He lived in and
modernised the quaint old house to his own ideas.
There is an acre of ground which is a fairly rare
thing in old London, and we have a beautiful
garden with black and white grapes, and tomatoes,
and I made crab apple jelly from our two trees,
and had a fine yield of mulberries. (N.B.—The’
last time I climbed a mulberry tree was when I
was living with dear old Mrs. Simonsen at
‘Cambo,’ St. Kilda).”
When the contralto lady was at Leamington,
Marie Corelli motored over from Stratford with a
party of twenty tosee her. The “ mighty atom ”
novelist has a jittle Scotch girl protege, to whose
voice she was anxious Miss Crossley should
hearken in a judgment sense.
Concerning the domestic servant problem : A
friend of mine, living at Potts Point (I mention
the locality to prove that it is a place of no in-
exorable discance from the city Saturday-night
crowd and the music halls), advertised fora house-
maid. She pleaded in the Wanted column for
three days, but got no applicant. Then she
determined to abandon the quest of the
golden girl, and advertised for a young
man to assist in housework. Twelve men had
applied for the billet before 9.30 the morning the
advertisement appeared. The sentence deserves
italics, for it suggests a startling state of affairs.
Women are deserting domestic service and taking
to men’s work, and men are taking up women’s
domestic work. Mj; friend tells me that the
majority of the applicants were under 40; they
were very presentable in appearance and had un-
deniable references. The thirteenth man—he
called too late to have a chance—was 35 years of age
and also had capital references. He had been
doing housework for some time. He kept the
garden and yard in order, scrubbed, swept, cooked
the meals, waited at table, took the children out
walking, and on washing days put the clothes in
soak for the wash. And the wage he asked was
bs. a week. JVlost of the twelve men who pre-
ceded him asked 6s. or Bs.—none more than 10s. a
week. The man who got the place has proved
a treasure to the hitherto worried lady. He is
so quick, quiet, and thorough in his work. The
damsel problem no longer interests my friend.
If her present parlor-maid leaves, she says she’ll
get a parlor-man. The thirteeenth applicant
would have been just Him, she thinks.
The writer does not attempt to solve the
problem. “ Only the force majeure of events as
they march can decide.” The editor of this paper
will most certainly begin to advocate three
years’ compulsory domestic service for girls as
soon as compulsory military training for men
becomes the law of the land.
Hutchings, the beauty man of the English
cricket team, has a more than average tenor voice.
The girls liked to get him into a motor launch in
the ivory moonlight, and then beg him to hoist
his gift of song. Urawford used to baritone with
good effect. Just before the flannelled persons
left, the Tremayne Rodds gave them a launch
picnic to Clifton Gardens. Mrs. Sydney Jamie-
son, the two Anderson pretties, Miss Brady, of
the crinkly fair hair and the Amy-Sberwin-
trained voice, and some more nice girls who, no
doubt, had some other nice qualifications, helped
to make the players wish they were naturalised
Australians.
Mr. Philip Newbury’s winged words about the
bunch of Australians who sit in the seats of the
mighty (in the Arts) in London have been wired
from Fremantle. He instances the two Castles
girls, Carrie Moore, Hilda Spong, Oscar Asche,
and Rose Musgrove as if they were unhonored in
their own country previous to getting crowns and
laurels and good fees in London. London, as a
fact, took them up because they went there with
their names already made here. London’s six
millions didn’t know them, of course, but its
theatrical managers did. And, judging by the
derelict “ leading ladies ” and little squeakers that
London has palmed off on J.C.W. and us, at
times, the Great Wen has need of the talent Aus-
tralia sents Wenwards.
Aubrey Nigel Herbert, son of the House of
Carnarvon, has gone up to B'urradoo to stay with
the Consett Stephens for a few days. Then he
departs by the Ophir. Presumably the Carnarvon
property in this State (it is managed by the
knightly W. P. Manning) is in a satisfactory con-
dition. Quite a lot of coroneted brows in England
pucker over property lying in this continent.
Quite big pieces of N.S.W. are owned by Lord
Rosebery.
Mr. “Ted” Simpson, of the Simpson-Minter
combination, has gone a trip to Japan and else-
where, and his smart consort is touring around
Hobart. The Union Club gave him something
extra special in the way of dinners, and friends in
other directions also gave him formal and elegantly
prepared nourishment. This habit of over-feeding
your departing friend may be most friendly, but
it sends him to sea in an unseaworthy condition.
The H. R. Dennisons are back from Hobart,
and go up to Mudgee this week for a ten days’
visit. Suppose it’s correct to say “up ” to Mud-
gee. The temperature is always higher (in the
summer) than Sydney, so it must be “up.”
Though the hottest of all places is supposed to be
down—somewhere.
Miss Emmie Lee, youngest daughter of our
Minister for Works, has become engaged to Cap-
tain Harold Carstairs, at present in Pretoria. He
was at the Bar in Melbourne, and will return
there and practise his profession.
One of the finest glad-garment shows Sydney
has witnessed was that of the “Prisoner of
Zenda,” revived on Saturday night at the Royal.
Manager Ramaciotti is said to have cried and
foregone his lunch of one banana, one peach, a
biscuit, and a glass of soda and milk (that’s what
it always consists of, so he didn’t forego much)
when he saw the bills for those same glad garments.
A good many—twelve I think—of the Court trains
and gowns were made by the theatre wardrobe
chieftainess, Miss Emily Natliam, but a good many
were created at David Jones’s. As Princess
Flavia, Miss Ola Humphrey (who looks as Helen
of Troy might) is white-robed all through the red-
headed piece. Her coronation gown is heavy
white satin, with an overdress of net embroidered
with white silk roses and fish-scales. The
corsage is draped with opal and gold fringe.
Her train from the shoulders has the Bedouin
or hooded (or jelly-bag) back, with a long gold
tassel. When Princess Flavia condescends to a
walking gown, it is of white cloth with draped
skirt embossed in bus relief —otherwise very
plumply embroidered in thick white chenille.
One of the coats she wears is of white
chiffon velvet, edged with sable, and outlined
with curly, narrow gold braid. Another coat is
of Irish crochet, and yet another white frock is of
chiffon satin and ninon, as simple as an American
girl’s graduation frock. A hat of grey chiffon satin
with white feathers and an Oriental buckle puts
the top-dressing on the fair American’s beautiful
red wig—the same wig she wore 10 years ago,
when she first played the part in her own land.
Also the same wig that she poured down her back
here when, as Glory Quayle, she had to subdue
the crazy John Storm with the hair that came
down like the waters at Lodore.
The frocks worn by Miss Elsie Wilson as
Antoinette de Maubin in this gorgeous series-of-
fashion-plates play will surply get the flattery of
imitation. One is a black and white striped
achievement, and the stripes are most quaintly
and ingeniously managed, so as to make variety.
The arranger of those black and white lines
might have been burnt to death as a witch if
she’d lived long ago.
A novel little evening affair was given in Phila-
delphia a while ago. The host was James W.
Paul, and he jubilated in honor of the dibut of
Mary Astor Paul, his daughter. The entertain-
ment took the form of a quiet hop in one of the halls
of the city, and cost £25,000. At a given moment
3,000,000 butterflies, specially imported from
South America and the West Indies, were
released, and began fluttering over the guests.
Women cried out in pleased admiration, and
several men clapped their hands, while
others incontinently vanmsed, the pretty creatures
appealing to their alcol«fsed intellects as the first
harbingers of D.Ts. Thereafter the butterflies
began dying, for some reason, with rapidity and a
sickening disregard for the feelings of the revellers.
The cold consommd became filled with them, they
plunged by hundreds into the champagne, and
executed their death rattles on bald and tiaraed
skulls alike. An army of broom-wielders was sent
for to make the ballroom fit for use, but they
failed to cope with the pest. The entertainment
degenerated from a ball for 300 to a sweep for 30.
The would-be dancers waded back to the recent]
abandoned supper-room. Here they found ti'
imported pest had taken complete charge. Xhe' 6
host sat stupefied and torpid, facing an
vol-au-vent, which had become completely snnuJj
up by the W. Indian breed of fliers, and gazing
upon the bowed head of his weeping lady-wifi*
who grew more brilliant momentarily, owing t'
the myriads of S. American lepidoptera which
were expiring upon her. Shortly afterwards »
lane was cut through the corpses to the street, and
the roysterers went home. Now several of t |,
city aldermen, with no sense of the pageantry of
life, are muttering darkly of having James W
prosecuted for making an ass of the peace or
something, and anyhow all are agreed that
original though the show was, it was dear at the
price.
I heard an original idea the other day f or
choosing a baby’s name. It was a first girl-babv
and the mother wanted something quite out of
the common. She couldn’t find anything suitable
in books or newspapers, so she dragged her
husband round a big cemetery and studied the
names on the tombstones till she found one she
liked. And the first girl-baby of the house of
Smith was duly named after that tombstone.
“ Mario,” from Brisbane :
Brisbane society has sustained a loss, the bonnie Du
Cane, accompanied by her small, elegantly-mannered
nephew, having sailed for England. Everyone misses
pretty, silver-haired Du Cane, with her ready tact and
smile, and her lively sympathy.
On Friday afternoon the vice-regal pair turned up at
the cricket match, Past v. Present Grammar School at
the Woollongabba ground, and spent quite a time watch
ing the youngsters throw the ball at the waistcoats
of their predecessors. The attendance was as poor as a
cocky’s dog.
Lady C. laid aside her frigidity on Saturday, and, don.
ning a simple muslin and a pink hat that might have been
home-made (and she looked very well in them), put in the
afternoon as the guest of the Brisbane Ladies’ Rowing
Club, at the club carnival. The proceeding happened on
the shady river bank, at the New Farm Ferry, next
the pretty home of Chiefest Justice Griffith, and
was quite a special success. The guests totalled
close on 400, and I was real proud of my fellow citizen-
esses for the way they ran the affair. They had, it is
true, some assistance from a few rowing men, but
the actual organisation fell upon the valiant
little secretaryess, Miss Isobel Roberts, Mrs. D.
R. Eden, and the crew of the ladies’ shed!
They toiled so womanfully that they began to show
signs of wear, and Miss Roberts collapsed in the pair-
oar event, and had to be taken on board a yacht and
revived. Later she rallied, and won the last event
with Miss Gailey in gallant style, and amid
tumultuous applause. Very smart and business-like the
club womervlooked in navy skirts, cream flannel blouses,
and rag hats with the navy and white band; and the
promptitude with which they got the events away might
be copied with advantage by some of the male clubites.
“Tryphena,” from England
What a country this is for politics ! The male person
is never off the subject in all his hours of speech. The
she-kind is becoming as crazed. It is the cult of good
Mrs. Bull in the circles of clotted cream. It is the fierce
bone of contention lower down the scale. Only the Smart
Set eschew it, as they do old age, religion, and the pro-
prieties. A nonentity in this land who can talk subtly on
politics wins the ear of the Marchioness and the attention
of his Grace. It’s a topic that never comes amiss. The
Radical Dame is a power in a County. The Unionist
Marm is her rival. Each has her followers. Politics are
a greater factor in all the County’s eyes than clothesor
beauty. Frills and dimples are not in it with hard, nun.
gety fiscal faiths.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENHI.


HARDY
By Appointment
BROTHERS,
LTD.
Vice=Regal Jewellers
Watchmakers
Silversmiths
WEDDING COMPLIMENTARY PRESENTS
THE LEADING HOUSE
LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE
m
i;
■...1
Velvet-lined Mahogany Case, containing 12 pairs Ivory Fish Knives and Forks,
1 pair Fish Carvers, 12 pairs Pearl Dessert Knives and Forks, 2 pairs Nut
Crackers, 2 Fruit Spoons, 2 Nut Picks, and Grape Scissors, £l5/1 5/m
VISITORS ARE INVITED TO INSPECT THE SHOWROOMS AT
13 Hunter Street, SYDNEY
118 Queen Street, BRISBANE
London Address * 19 Charterhouse Street
wm
rv«v»*»
fc,,.
7*?
, .*. -«*
ISKife
Wmw-
.. m m
s
m
> V
a
issas
nro
i
£££2
TO
E. ®. A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND and
PORT DARWIN.
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada, United States of America, and Europe.
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, (SLc.,
£> forwarded to any address on application,
\ -
H
l.
<o?>>
- -
m
fill
2ie»
if
-
&
V
■M
\
m
£
x
Ue
mi
S*]
wan
m
IvC
o
l
L
m
i(=i
six_
oo
Makes you look manly
Before
f!
After
CAPILLARINE is Powerful
but absolutely harmless. It is a strong:
preparation for the coaxing of a moustache,
and THERE IS NO OTHER ARTICLE IN
EXISTENCE that will do its work so well.
CAPILLARINE is
A MOUSTACHE
PRODUCER of the
FIRST WATER.
PRICE. 10/0
POST FREE UNDER SEALED
COVER ANYWHERE.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 65 4 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic. Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS]
MAGNESIA/
M
A
Compare Vibratory
Massage with Hand
Massage!
The CRESCENT VIBRATOR is a
massaging instrument giving 2000 to
20,000 vibrations per minute, as com-
pared with the old-fashioned method
of hand massage.
IT IS DRIVEN BY ELECTRICITY
by means of the ordinary electric light switch,
or from a battery which we supply with the
instrument.
It imparts a delightful stimulus to the body,
and is soothing and health-giving.
It cures the cause of the disease, and pro-
motes a full, rich flow of blood.
It relieves and cures everything that massage
is good for.
BOOKLET FREE.
as
Type B.
Late
JERDANS LTD.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.


JR
j •
.. v^-
*
4
r?
?' *
rs'/sd<rH
:sfsf
v'
#
1
4 1
VICTORIAN INFANTS REARED ON
Faueresphosphatine
ife Kft . FOODx/'fcf^vt
'' IM PORTANCE
AWellDryjed L&dyMvji
n&Ve&Good Figure,
bx\V&^rii\o
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 2, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie,—
“Manie” Fox is back in Melbourne with a
sheaf of canvases under one arm and a bright
little auburn-haired wife on the other. They
have been spending a honeymoon—relieved by
work —in Europe. The lady is also an artist;
and she painted, instead of pouting, when her
enthusiatic hubby transferred his devotion to the
easel. Mrs. Fox (Miss Ethel Carrick) intends
showing some of her work in Melbourne later.
In the meantime, Fox himself has a fine “ view ”
at the Guild Hall, which will be open for a fort-
night. There was a purchaser or two before the
pictures were even hung, which seems a good,
healthy sign. It is seven or eight years
since Fox left Melbourne. He and Tucker
—poor old Tudor Tucker ! —had a school
together. Then, in London, their studios were close
together. Tucker died rather suddenly, but his
health was so wretched for months before the end
that he could scarcely drag his weary length into
his studio.
Fox had, also, a big, gay Bohemian class out at
“Chartresville,” Heidelberg (Vic.), a large estate
with a fine house built in the early days by
McArthur. In boom-burst-time it got into the
hands of the banks, and was left to the tender
mercies of a caretaker. The place had a wonder-
ful garden and shrubbery, stretching for acres
down the slope of a hill to the river. A pack ( f
girl pupils, with a matronly chaperone, took
possession of the house. Fox built himself a
cottage on the crest of the hill, and started work
at daybreak every morning with his Arcadian
following.
Fox's paintings, at the Guild Hall view,
show amazing variety. Fox is an impressionist;
he is also a portrait painter of note. The detail
that an impressionist lacks, he packs into his
portrait painting. Not only that, but he curi-
ously varies his landscape work. And Fox
always had “atmosphere”—a firm grasp of
the intangibles of mist and light and heat
and coolth. He’ll stand a yard from his canvas
and pitch into its life a hunk of the very
air he is breathing. There are crowds of little
sketches of Venice—bursts of sunshine and a gay
hurrah of color. It was springtime while he worked
at Venice, and there is the sunshine epitomised.
His Paris work—the Seine and the Boulevard —is
soft, delicious and impressionistic, filled with the
purple shadows of autumn.
Saturday, the first day of the Autumn meet —
and it rained. Naturally. The habit is so
patent—Caulfield fine, first Flemington wet —that
I wonder sporting women don’t indulge in a short
white rubber suit for “ that appearance only.” The
women folk did not stay long ; teams of Draggled
Ones streamed up to town in mid-afternoon, and
sadly cabled and motored away. The Talbottles
went out, and the curved Premier., The Frank
Maddens were in evidence, and the Frazers,
and the Chisholms, and the Warrnambool Allans,
and the usual wedge of Westerners. The
Winter-Irvings are down in a huge bunch.
The froeking was extremely stupid for a wet day.
Mrs. Seton Williams wore mignonette green silk,
with very wet feet, and a hat flopping with the
rain. Mrs. Frocky Raleigh pirouetted round in
the shortest and smartest of check tweeds and
high tan boots, and her thick, wavy hair crinkled
bravely in the damp.
Mr. Poore and his intricate surrounding titles
(the combination that takes the place of genial
departing sailor Fawkes) has been staying
at Guv’ment House, and St. Kilda Road has been
dazzled to blindness by the unbroken stream
of Gold-lace—officially visiting. “The P’ahf’l ”
has been in our Bay also, and St. Kilda pier has
been overwhelmed with tenders that land be-
corded and bedizened Howlers, who tram round
to pay devoirs to their commandant.
The Fawkes gentleman said a batch of good-
byes at the last Caulfield races. He departed on
the Orontes, which took Melba and so many im-
portants.
The lady who was “ Tryphena, ” and is Lady
Doughty, is a-going it in England. She made
three political speeches the other day in the
cause of Unionism —Liberal Unionism, not Trades
Unionism—and christened two ships. They say
that the Pope—through Father Aytkins, the parish
priest of St. James’s, Manchester Square, who
married her—has conferred on Lady D. a very
special blessing, and also a photo, signed by his
own hand.
The handsome daughter of a well-known
Hebraic house in St. Kilda is rather proud of the
promptness of her most recent admirer. He is a
business man from India. She was introduced to
him on one day ; he went to Sydney on the next;
and on the third she received from him a telegram,
which ran : “ Will you marry me ? Reply paid.”
Vivienne Noel, the Queensland lass who
flaunted her hour in the Brune Co., and after-
wards married Harold, son of the Tramway
Clapps, is a newly-announced mother. A girl
baby happened last month. Her sisters-in-law
have gone over from London to ’Frisco in order to
say “goo-goo” to the new arrival, and a swarm
of local relatives invest in the elaborate rattle and
silver cup suitable to such occasions. The Brune
Tittle sponsors the infant.
T’other day there was a public meeting at the
Vienna to consider Marshall-Hall’s approaching
orchestral concerts. About 22 culchawed dames
and a whole half-dozen men turned up. It was
decided to do nothing in particular, and the
meeting had some cakes and coffee.
The Philip Russells have hired the Grice house
at Hawksburn. The Russell pair commence
entertaining forthwith, and the Grice family
“flats” it for a month or two at Melbourne
Mansions.
Mrs. Charlie Wallace and her sister leave for
London in three weeks. Some people who like
the blonde beauty, and have sympathy for her,
will regret her departure, as also that of the
musical Mrs. Parker.
A pretty little scandal is being misinterpreted
by the malicious. The sudden departure for
fresh fields of a popular little Miss is accounted
the result of some unsuspected misdemeanor. In
truth the damsel was deported on account of
her dashing sister’s pranks. The maid who
stays behind conceived a romantic affection
for a beautiful young man, whom poppa wouldn’t
for a moment consider seriously. In order to con-
tinue the day-dream of calf-love, small sister was
pressed into service, and used as a dainty screen.
Poppa discovered the lovers and the small girl’s
complicity. Therefore is the small girl packed
away under strict chaperonage, while the chief
offender remains behind under a severe maternal
eye that knows no relenting.
Came across a copy of the Eugerdine Express,
a sheet published in some Scottish hamlet, where
a hydro flourishes in grandeur. On the visitors’
list of the spa, which the Express prints, I found
quite twenty Australian names. Every one of
them was labelled “ London.” The score or so of
Americans on the list described themselves every
time as from Kansas City, U.S.A., or Ohio.
What subtle snobbery possesses our rag mer-
chants and coal vendors, one wonders? What
prestige do they think is lent them by the magic
word “London”? After all, London’s only a
place where Australians get overcharged—and
overlooked.
A sportive young person tells me she went to see
Mrs. Isa Bell, the matron who challenges the rest
of the universe to contest the pedestrian champion-
ship of Australia. According totheS.Y.P. : “I
went into the wilds of Port Melbourne and struck
a side street, where I inquired for Mrs. Isa. The
whole street escorted me to her weatherboard
establishment. There I saw the lady in
the bosom or chest of her family. The family
amounts to five olive branches and the
paternal trunk. All the feminine shoots were
garmented in white silk. Papa was adorned
with an aureole of pride, and the sitting-room was
a blaze of trophies. Mrs. Isa, who for domestic
purposes is Mrs. Newman, was confidential.
She’s 37, and heads her contribution to the Aus-
tralian population with a daughter aged 19. She
recommenced running two years ago at a trade
picnic, after having walked in the slow way of
matronhood for a long time. Ever since then
she’s kept on hustling for the sake of certain kit-
chen clocks, birthday cakes, jewellery and orna-
ments which now figure among her household gods.”
The lady is full of “ peds.’” jargon—talks about
“ even time,” the relative merits of grass and cin-
ders, and her own “performances” over 440yds., as
though she’d spent her life getting hot for the
purpose of being rubbed down. A sportsman
is her business manager, and he prophesies that
Geo. Blake will take to motoring once Isa takes
the track. The first contest is announced for
March 25. Mrs. Isa explains that that date is a
halt-holiday and her 20th wedding anniversary
(two good reasons for the lady fleeing swiftly
round a cricket ground in pursuit of a trophy).
The other night there was a boxing match, which
was watched by 4000 men and one woman. The
woman was Marion-Bill (or Bilarion) Edwards.
The man who sat next to her says she made the
oddest picture. She sat, sac-suited, with her
chin on her twined fingers (a most feminine pos-
ture), her eyes glittering, her lips parted over
cat-like teeth, and now and again she’d shout a
gibe, or a cheer, in a boy’s treble. At the close,
she was yelling with the crowd, arguing with her
neighbors, and being a man with the best of them.
And she states that her favorite reading is
books by dear old Borrow !
Prof. Beard’s management announces his first
concert for April. Season tickets are selling like
ice in perdition, and subscriptions roll in with
beautiful frequency. Melbourne commences to
take its High Arts very seriously.
A personage, who patronises music and painting
with much ostentation is credited with being the
man behind the gun who captured our prize
restaurant. Viennese cooks, consuls and cos-
tumiers may be depended upon to invest their
commercial enterprise with some impressment—
therefore our cafe is to be ornamented with
culinary frills and much dignity forthwith.
“ Hiphen ” sends me this :
Mt. Macedon is the rural Toorak of Victoria. It is the
dressiest mountain south of the Line. All the Very Best
People have their humble little summer cots there. Said
cots (which are electric lighted) contain, among other
things, ball and billiard rooms, tennis courts, croquet
lawns, diabolo dens, swimming tanks, garages and
etceteras. They are alike in one respect —all of them are
red roofed. There is a legend concerning a man who,
once upon a time, erected on the Mount a cottage that
was not red-headed. Feeling ran so high that he had to
pull his house down to save it. He left the country a
shamed and broken man, and has not been definitely
heard of since. Rumor says that he changed his name,
and died fighting in a Central American revolution.
Blending in harmoniously with the Australian scenery
one sees silk-clad Society flutterers and their flannelled-
fool attendants. They look dreadfully out of place. One
gets accustomed to connecting Billjim with the usual
gum-tree setting, and feels somehow that silk, side and
society assimilate not at all with bracken, bees and burrs.
Certain denizens of a remote Melbourne suburb,
where the disreputably infrequent infant is a
horrid reflection upon the carelessness of its
parents, relieve the tedium of the Sabbath in a
curious fashion. Each Sunday, one of Bent’s slow
trains deposits, at the local station, a load of she
and he mummers from a certain Melbourne
theatre. These folk, whose English is, like the
ladies’ color and appointments, somewhat thick
and pronounced, invariably make for a rather
decrepit pub on one of the main highways—there
to engage in prayer. As soon as the train arrives,
the suburb jettisons its lethargic calm and acquires
a tragic excitement. Mr. Childless, who has
probably been sprawling upon the verandah in his
pyjamas or else yawning over the front gate,
hastens into Mrs. Childless with the scared ex-
pression of one who has viewed the nude. While
Childless grasps the telescope and climbs to the
roof, Mrs. C. speeds for a convenient fern-tub
with the binoculars ; and, from their respect-
ive and hidden vantage-points, they follow the
band of alleged Thespians to their destination.
And, while the deceased chop and taters get
burnt in the cooking, Mr. and Mrs. C. and neigh-
bors hold a meeting of protest over numerous back
fences. Between what they do see and what they
don’t but would like to. the folk of the childless
suburb feel that the end of the world can’t arrive
too soon. Altogether, it seems a profitless amuse-
ment sitting on hot tiles in pyjamas, and weaving
Paul de Kock romances with the aid of a tele-
scope and a rich imagination.
Melbourne women rolled up to aid the Women’s
Hospital. The foundation stone of the new ex-
tension was laid last Wednesday, and somebody
with Judas’ job of carrying the bag mentioned
that he had £ll,OOO in hand. Most of that
has been raked together by the shilling subscrip-
tion, whipped into working order by many women,
with Mrs. Railway Fitzpatrick notably in the lead.
Part of the sum was a Government grant. The
locum tenens Moderator of the Presbyterians, who
has an accent he could stand on, discoursed at the
stone-tapping. He said feelingly that, whatever
hit up against Bent at his “ latter end ” (and he
“ was na shoore but there wad na be a gr-r-reat deal
against him at th’ Judgment ”), Tammas’s chari-
ties to hospitals would be a weight on the right
side of the balance. In the meantime, Bent sat
grilling on half a brick, with his spectacles pushed
up on his bald perspiring head, waiting for his
‘"humorous turn.”
Doctor “Bill” Aitken dances a Highland fling
of delight on his Collins-street steps. Dolores
the Adorable posted the favored young man a
huge package of shortbread —all the way from
“ Glaskie.”
Mrs. Captain Hall and Mrs. Peters gave a tea-
party on Friday on the blessed green lawns of
the Botanical Gardens, with the kiosk to back it
up. Kiosk parties are the correct thing nowa-
days, and much more popular since the ascension
of the new caterer. A few more steps and we
may approach the civilisation of the Brisbane
Gardens, which boasts a Food Hovel, with a real
chef. There have been times when the giving of
a luncheon thereat has been the most swagger
form of feeding.
News cables through of the marriage of Fred
Holder, son of Federal Speaker Holder. The
bridegroom is doing big things in electrical
engineering in Buenos Ayres. The bride was Miss
Peters, a Sydney girl, who journeyed all the way
to South America for the ceremony.
Sister Rawson, who led ten Victorian nurses to
the front in the Boer War, and stayed ahead till
the very finish of the slaughter, is back in Mel-
bourne after many vicissitudes. The energetic
lady has been matroning some hospital in Wes-
tralia, and now intends starting a nurses’ home in
Melbourne.
From “ Rosna,” in Adelaide :
Melba has come and gone, and left behind her a hollow
and empty blank, and a void, and an unoccupied space
with nothing in it. Cautious Adelaide grew madly im-
provident during the five or six days of her stay, and
squandered its si.ekels over her concerts till every square
inch of Exhibition barn was occupied. Also, it flung
gorgeous roses at her, and then fled after her in thousands,
begging her to fling- them back as souvenirs. For
the first concert the Voice was arrayed in a lovely
raiment of sequined chiffon over flesh-tinted silk,
with diamonds, orders, and other decorative trifles.
She’s a thinner, jollier Melba than of old ; and
she brought with her a fund of good humor that
declined to be ruffled even when the audience exhibited
its usual awful greed in the matter of encores—a greed,
by the way, that ought to be put down with a clenched
foot. Their Exes, and Miss Clowes came down from
Marble Hill for the fray, and went behind afterwards to
express vice-regal appreciation of the Voice, and ask it to
lunch. The Chief Judicial Ways also decorated the
scene, with Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Rymill in tow ; also
there were present Mr. and Mrs. Robert Kyffin Thomas
and their musical girls, Mrs. Arthur R.vmill and her
sister, Dr. and Mrs. Harold Davies, Miss Guli Hack and
her sisters, Dr. and Mrs. Barlow, the Jim Hacketts, and
so on ad unimportantem.
The second concert was so thronged that extra gal-
leries had to be built beneath the balconies, and even the
presence of a heat-wave 6ft. high didn’t prevent the audi-
ence going in for violent gymnastic exercises in order to
get as much Voice as possible for its paltry moidores. The
programme was certainly a gem. It included “ Lo, hear
the gentle Lark,” the Mad Scene from “ Hamlet,” and the
Pregihera from “LaTosca.” For one encore She (don’t
tell me the capital S isn’t justified) sang Tosti’s “ Good-
bye,” and those ultra-superiah persons who say Melba has
no soul ought to have been there to hear that audience
howl with delight. Melba looked considerably' tired at
the end of the evening, but the crowd
had no pity. It stood in the hall, like a great
rock in a thirsty land, and refused to budge.
It howled and shrieked and called ; it waved chairs, hats,
fans, umbrellas, handkerchiefs, and infants (which it
whirled round its head by the leg), at the pro-
testing Voice. It waved the building at her. It seized
itself by’ the back hair, and whirled itself round its own
head. Finally she sat at the piano and sang Tosti’s
“ Mattinata ”to her own accompaniment. Then the
crowd took its shrieks, waves, umbrellas, etc., out to her
carriage. The audience was much the same as that of
the first night, only more so and oftener. The more so
included the Downer dame, some of the Stirlings, Mrs.
Schomburgk, Mrs. Stewart (she who lost and recovered
her jewels), and the Wanborough Fishers.
A great throng rushed to the station to see the last of
the Voice on Thursday morning. Among it was Dr.
Harold Davies and his Bach Society, who surrounded
Melba and her chums what time they warbled “ The Song
of Australia” (which is Australia’s National Song. So
there !) and “ Auld Lang Syne.” The Major Pattersons,
who are connected by' marriage with Melba, were also on
the scene ; and Mrs. Herbert Rymill took a lingering
farewell of the pretty Armstrong dame. Our chief
Nightingale seemed genuinely weepful at leaving her
’Roo country.
Matters matrimonial are rather busy and hurried here
at the moment. Old Hymen is getting ready for the
knotting of clever Ida Viner Smith, B. A., and Rev. A. B.
Lloyd. This event happens on March 10. Also Hymen
is getting his second wind for the marriage of Annie,
daughter of the Speaker Coles, and lawyer George
Gunson, LL.B., which event will occupy a corner of
April.
Engagements are also rife. Just announced is that of
Margaret, the charming eldest daughter of the G. F.
CHelands, and Fred Partridge, who is a brother of Sy dney'
Partridge, the scribe (not Pharisee). Surveyor-General
Strawbridge’s eldest maiden, yclept Ethelwyn, has
bestowed her heart, and will shortly bestow her small
white hand, upon Mr. Frank Giles, one of the Gileses, a
numerous elan well known in South Oss from pioneer
times. And news comes from Edward Vll.’s little island
that Gwen Pelly, who is a daughter of barrist-p n
Pelly of this town, and who carted her fiddlp j ert
Elder scholarship to the Cold Countrv some v ant * an
has decided to drop her profession down the coal a> ii as °’
thereabouts, and marry Mr. Sidney Mullock, of CaldM 0r
straightway Adelaide’s opinion of her went 7 k ’. an(i
bound. The play may be maudlin, but at leasr* T th a
her a chance to show her powers, which is more th 8 ' Ves
be said of the popular “ Madnight Wedding,” “
V 'b 3 " l ’” such. Some folk di?
B raneHarcou^S
Adelaide lost one of its clever daughters w y ‘
the death of Miss Margaret Lipshamt 8.A., who'f
years had been helping to train the’vourig idea at tt°
Methodist Ladies’ College. She was only 26, and a nnn,' e
an • Her 'I?®?? arose , in the first place
from ptomaine poisoning, which has been ce
numerous in this State during recent times The to °
sity for hanging somebody grows very conspicuo "T®’
timber is very dear these times. H ns ’ but
y.,.,. ,
k
JOHANNA.
t.
. . ston has done the
right thing in removing from the commission of
the peace the horde of J’s.P. that Philp appoint J
during his brief term of office. Philp got from I
. , .. . . ,uln tne
' ‘ " p ra e no ices to 9 uit - He was
refused Supply, and thereby he was plainly in.
formed that if he went to thecountryeverypennv
he spent on the general election would h
illegal expenditure. Nevertheless, being aided
, , s' . ’ K<wueaand
abetted by a most incapable Governor, he got a
dissolution of Parliament. Then he created
over 300 J’s.P., some of them mere beer-
chewers, who proved most useful to the Phil n
pilrty j n hunting up the postal votes whirl, l!
„» „ i _ • •, t , , 1,111
such a huge majority of cases proved to be votes
or ■Bhnp candidate. By wiping out this
crowd Kidston has done well partly because it
a ? n £ much of a crowd, and partly because
Philp si remiership was such a glaring outrage
on I arliamentaAV Government that his acts ought
.e abolished as a warning to other cheeky
lories who may try to do likewise.
Melbourne Herald lately gave an instance
r r .
°f the disgraceful treatment of \ ictonan school-
teachers. At Woodstock West, near Maldon,
the department provides its teacher with a “resi
dence,” for which it charges £5 a year-rent It
wouldn ’ fc make a bad niansion for a and
“ ight do ,f t a pinc \ for a 110 « - Tt c <“ a
lean-to against the school-house wall, and the
slanting cavity is divided into two “rooms," each
Bft. 6in. by 12ft. Leaning against the lean-to-
leaning-three, as it were—is a portable iron shell
of two rooms> each 10 f t . square. As the teacher’s
c , c
V,f ? and fami ’ y threatened to die in this place,
be bad to send them to Melbourne. But the
department still charged him the £5. The teacher
is described as a first-class man, who has
passed several stiff exams. ; he has been 21 years
in the Education Department-and he is paid
£lOB a year ! And then Education Minister
S ac hse wonders why people made such a fuss
because he wanted to spend a few thousands on
imported pianos. And Bent wonders why he
can’t send three pals to London at the public
expense without people calling him unpleasant
names.


■ '
.> ...
X"X.
N,
4 ‘
s
ii ■■rtinacsgr
xzr
m
Ltek
V£
X-
’ 7** ***•*-
&
m§m
7N
t .
*m
■
\
X V -
%
:
? m. •*
■ s . ; , ■.■■,.
i^-vxx’V:
&>
3?
5
%
r»
4/
Q:
o
<
X?
■ -
p
r
< •
p
•2
/\
v-^N.
3.
1 w
VV\TH
e>
<o
o
N/
*V
► A
cotA?x«k
O
In terstate Mail
Steamship Lines
SSEQB
usS
“cracked up” as
it deserves, “beau-
tiful, blinding
Adelaide” has
some few things
to be proud of.
Here the visitor
will find the finest railway station
in the Commonwealth —and one that
takes a high place among the crack
stations of the world. It is so arranged that,
should Adelaide grow indefinitely, practically no
alteration will be required. A few more lines and
overhead shelters for the platforms—that is all.
No remodelling or purchasing of fresh areas.
But proud as the Adelaidean may be of his railway
station, he goes into ecstasy over his Parliament
House of white marble, and the inhabitants have
maintained that tone of chastity, so that when one
looks down King William-street and sees the ala-
baster purity gleaming against the great masses
of green foliage at either end, he wonders if he
lias been suddenly translated to another and
better place. Could Mahomet come to Adelaide
he would refuse to enter King William-street,
even as he refused to enter Damascus, on the
grounds that a man may not enter Paradise twice.
Anyhow, that is what the Adelaide people think
of it, and as they live there they ought to
know. But the city is in every respect most
admirably and beautifully laid out, and for this
it has to thank the late Colonel Light. I
Colonel was a Heaven-sent genius in whom the
scientist and artist were so delicately mixed that
his like only visits earth about once every three
centuries. Adelaide is his eternal monument, and
it is his glory that it is now admittedly the best-
arranged city world.
The other things that Adelaide is proud of are
its Gardens, which are also the best, although the
smallest, in Australia. There the arranging of
flowers has been brought to the dignity of a fine
art and the. landscape effects are worthy
of Italy at its best. The most beauti-
ful portion of this most beautiful Aus-
tralian city is North Terrace, in which stands
the superb Art Gallery, which the Government
erected to house the pictures bought bv the
£25.000 bequest of the late Thomas Elder.
B very lover of art in Australia should take
a run round to Adelaide to see that
Gallery, for he will find then? some of
the best examples of the work of
the leading English and Con-
tinental masters to be found
south of the Equator. The
collection of statuary is also
well nigh perfect, and both
the collection of paintings and
statues are far above those of
Melbourne and Sydney in
their quality and representa-
tive character.
When the tourist has done the city he will find
a charming watering place at Glenelg, where an
ideal beach, blue cloudless sky, warm dry air that
exhilarates like wine, and salt waves that, like
the moon or strong waters, maketh mad. So well
does the stranger feel after a day spent at Glenelg
that it is not unusual for him to wrestle with any
stray bull met on the homeward journey, just for
the love of breaking the animal. In the opposite
direction lie the homes of the mighty, out Mt.
Lofty way, and as he drives out there the traveller
will see unfolding beneath him a panorama of
beauty equalled only by that he saw outside
Brisbane and running through the Hinchinbrook
Passage. Further afield are other beauty spots,
chief among them being Mt. Gambier, where he
will find extinct volcanoes and other weird plu-
tonic creations set in scenery essentially English,
and covered with wild flowers famous all over
Australia for their variety and beauty.
G 3?
Like almost every other part of Australia. S.A.
has its caves. This is the best cave-stocked por-
tion of the world’s surface. Those of S.A. are
situated some eight miles from Narracoorte, m
the south-east, and consist, as far as at present
exploded, of a baker’s dozen of immense and won-
derful chambers. They have been handed over
to the care of the Woods and Forests Department,
but are only just being explored and opened up.
When developed the South Australian fondly
hopes to eclipse both Yallingup and Mar-
garet ’ River, in Westralia, and Jenolan and
Yarrangobilly, in New South Wales. Probably
some of the old Dutch navigators got into
those caves, for they went back to Europe and
wrote across the maps on the part now marked
South Australia, “This land is infested by devils!
But that was a mistake. It is infested with a
particularly virile stamp of Australian who turns
out some of the best wine and brandy of the world,
and who have left their mark on the legislation of
the whole British Empire, and who have a finger
in every mining pie in Australia.
The foregoing completes the brief account of
the Australian capitals and the attractions of
their environments. Owing to limitations ot
space, it has been impossible to do the attractive
spots justice, and, indeed, many have been abso-
lutely omitted. But, brief as it has been, the
summary should be sufficient to convince
the man in the street that the Australian,
through the services of the Five Companies,
has a range from the tropical pearl-
paved waters of the far North to the ice-
bound fiords and gigantic glaciers of southern
Maoriland. He can begin the week in the
tropical loveliness of Cairns, where winter flowers
bloom all the year round, and spend the end of it
in the temperate valleys of Tasmania, eating
English fruits. He can stand on Monday morn-
ing on the top of Kosciusko, the oldest mountain
in the world still above water —a veritable, if
crumbling, monument of almost eternal durability,
and eat his Sunday dinner at Rotorua., where the
solid earth rocks and swings perpetually in
the midst of the youngest inhabited land in the
world, and where the forces that first heaved it
above the surface of the waves are still in fairly
good blast.
Summed up, the attractions offered by the Five
Companies are first and above all: safety. No
coastal marine in the world has such a low pro-
portion of wrecks and accidents as the Five Com-
panies. It is a lifetime since one of the com-
panies lost a liner on the Australian coast, and
that is a fact that ought to weigh considerably
when deciding how to spend a holiday. In Aus-
tralia steamer travelling is much safer than that
by railway. Second, the class of steamers now
in commission is up to date, and specially built
for the climate, and the traveller gets first-class
hotel accommodation at a very reasonable rate, and
his travelling thrown in. It is an astonishing
thing that a man can go to Fiji, or North Queens-
land. or Tasmania, Maoriland, or any other part
of the itinerary of the Five Companies, and live
on the very best for what it would cost him to
stay the same time in a first-class hotel in Sydney
or Melbourne and see nothing. But it is a solemn
fact that he can do so. Under such circumstances,
Australians ought to explore their own coast from
one end to the other. Third : The facilities for
travelling are so thoroughly organised that,
when a traveller takes a ticket from any
one of the companies, the whole fleet of
that company and the whole of the fleets of the
other four companies becomes immediately at his
disposal. Should he wish to land and break his
journey for a week at any desirable spot he may
do so. That particular company may not have
another boat calling at the port for a few weeks,
but one of the other companies will have one in a
few days, and the same old bit of paper will give
him the right to accommodation and attention
just as if it were issued by
the company owning the
steamer. The advan-
tages of this conces-
sion are incalculable,
and, so far, are not
apprehended by the
travelling public.
But it is beginning
to be realised and
taken advantage of.
A
ol
'C
<0
i
5C
*4
T
>
<
V
a:
■w
Kr
\7
ifi
&
SD
3 th
A/AVIGPC
z/£j
Q
as


AFTER
MEALS
MOTHERSEIGEL'S SYRUP
cures Indigestion, Bilious-
ness, Constipation, Head-
ache, Wind, Palpitation,
Loss of Appetite. Dizziness.
It is a purely vegetable pre-
paration, and cures, in all
cases, by aidingand strength-
ening the stomach and liver
"My digestion broke down,
I lost appetite, and the
little I ate caused me
hours of agony. I be-
came so weak and thin
that I could hardly put
one foot before the other.
Nothing helped me till
I got Mother Seigel's
Syrup. That cured me."
—From Mr E. Earles,
98, Moray Street, South
Melbourne, Victoria.
April 27th, 1907.
Have you a dull, heavy, oppressive feeling
—a feeling that you have eaten too much ?
If so, indigestion is at work. You may
not have eaten too much for your bodily
needs, but you have eaten more than your
stomach can dispose of. For comfort’s
sake you will probably eat more sparingly
in future. Then your strength will suffer,
and your stomach, like every other organ
of your body, be further weakened That
method can only end in ruined health. The
real cure is to strengthen your stomach, and
to do that you should
TAKE
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP.
OSTRICH PLUHES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
■I POST FREE
IW/ V to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER
SHOP,
corner of Strand Arcade,
i Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
BALANCE SHEET, 3lst AUGUST, 1907.
LIABILITIES.
Capital, £4,500,000 ; less
reserve liability,
£3,000,000.
Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund—lnvested
in the names of trus-
tees (as per contra),
£1,000,000 ; not speci-
> ficallv invested,
. £200,000 1,200,000 0 0
Balance of undivided
j profits 140,870 3 3
£2,840,870 3 3
Circulation .. .. 514,431 0 0
Beposits (including in-
scribed stock deposits) 19,153,423 5 0
Bills payable and other
liabilities (including
reserves held against,
doubtful debts.. .. 1,666,604 15 0
21,334,459 0 0
I
£24,175,329 3 3
ASoETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances ..£4,225,819 13 4
Bullion and advances on bullion .. .. 167,077 0 1
Money at call and short notice in London 915,000 0 0
Investments. Reserve
Fund Consols,
£654,166 ; local loans
(Imperial Government
s t o c k), £195,834 ;
national war loan,
£150,000 £1,000,000 0 0
Other In vestments.—Con-
sols and other stocks
of or guaranteed by the
Imperial Government,
£268,699 12s. ; India
Government sterling
stocks, £221.572 ;
colonial Government
and municipal stocks
and debentures,
£188,789 6s. 6d. .. 679,060 18 6
£1,679,060 18 6
Balance of remittances and drafts in
transitu, and bills receivable at London
office 2,450,433 15 10
Bills discounted, loans and other securi-
ties at the branches and in London .. 14,125,971 2 5
Bank premises and pro-
perty in the colonies ..£500,279 11 5
Less appropriation from
profits 10,000 0 0
490,279 T 1 5
Londonleaseholdpremises £142,304 19 4
Reserves against same and
accrued interest.. .. 20,617 17 8
121,687 1 8
£24,175,329 3 3
STATEHENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on 28th February, 1907
Less dividend and bonus—July, 1907 .. .. “ '' ‘‘ ” ''
Leaving a balance of. .
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad and doubtful debts £293,256
Less :
Remuneration to the local directors and salaries and allowances
to the colonial staff .. .. .. # # # # £B7 763 17 7
General expenses in the colonies, including rent, taxes,
stationery, etc... .. .. . # gy 698 3 2
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors, salaries of
London office staff, rent, taxes, stationery, and general
expenses.. ...
Income tax
..£139,310 8 4
.. 105,000 0 0
.. £34,310 8 4
9
15,600 11
5,633 18
7
6
-£146,696 10 10
Deduct:
Appropriation to write down bank premises and property in the colonies
Transfer to reserve fund
-£146,559 14 11
£180,870 3 3
.. £lO,OOO 0 0
.. 30,000 0 0
40,000 0 0
Balance of undivided profits at this date
..£140,870 3 3
ARTHUR FLOWERI
A. P. BLAKE I
W. P. PERCEVAL f Directors.
H. P. STURGIS J
London, 7th January, 1908.
\
\
\
A. C. WILLIS, Manager.
C. M. C. SHANNON, Accountant.
AUDITORS’’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of The Companies Act 1900, we certify that all our require-
ments as auditors have been complied with. icipuie
We report that we have verified/the cash, investments, bills of exchange, and other assets in
London, and have had access to the accounts sent to London from the various branches in the
colonies and having examined the same, and the books and accounts of the London office we are of
opinion that the above balance sheet is a full and fair balance sheet, properly drawn ud so as
to exhibit a true and'correct view of the state of the compa-ny’s affairs as shown by the books of
the company. J U 1
T „ , T WHINNEY, SMITH AND WHINNEYI A
London, E. 0., 7th January, 1908. Charterer Accountants. [Auditors.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle. j
Under Vice>Reg'al
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Workfrs&D 161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
_ & 9 Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
m~ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
" Getting' A MOVE ON
But this move is to obtain a more commodious position in
PITT STREET, where we can show to better advantage our
Sf
New Decorations for Interiors
Both. for Wall and Curtain Hangings.
. t
ARTHUR GILKES (El CO.,
KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Bc Known for a. few days longer ; then it will be
ARTHUR GILKES & CO.
176 Pitt Street, Sydney
Business, Robbery, etc.
“GET WORK!”
[For The Bulletin.]
Partner wanted, with £3OO. Constant work guaranteed.
— Adot. from, daily paper.
In a calm frame of mind have you ever reclined
And endeavored to think,
All that money would do for a fellow like you
If you had it to clink ?
Enough of it, mind you, to set up a jingle
More healthy in tone than when coppers commingle.
You dream what a lot some fellows have got,
And call it a crime
If they do not see fit with their “dry little bit ”
To have a good time.
But, please to observe, a “good time,” as you view it,
Maybe I’d call “ rotten ” before I was through it 1
Bill dreams of the joys he could have with the boys
And the horses and wine ;
Of the way he would strive to clandestinely drive-
With some Hebe divine !
Bill’s ideal in life is to have a large frolic,
Built up on a base more or less alcoholic !
But to come down to me, I could never agree
Any pleasure came in
In such capers as these ; they provoke the unease
That follows on Sin !
And subsequent maladies discount the plea-ore
One buys overnight with his good golden treasure ;
Had I enough pelf to buy fun for myself,
With longing I’d throb
To traverse those streets where the pulse of Trade beats,
And purchase a JOB ! !
Not a cheap one, you know (for cheap jobs are an evil),
But one where I had to buck in like the Devil 1
MAORILAND. SI.N’C. S. CLARK.
■*■*•**
An energetic Solomon Isaacs pushed himself
into Carlton (Vic.) Courr, lately. In the first case he had
lent £5 and charged £2 a week interest, and in the second
he had parted with £6 at £2 15s. a week interest. The
transactions took place on Jan. 27th, and on Feb. 6th this
fearful cormorant calmly asked the beaks for orders for
£6 15s. and £8 —ss. and 15s. respectively having already
been paid. Even the Carlton honorariums were surprised
at the swiftness of this Shylock, and when they had got
over the shock they knocked the interest down to 2s. 6d.
and ss.—another beastly interference with Private Enter-
prise.
■* * * *
“Samey” writes: “ Croson ” (B. 6/2/’08)
argues through the hat. Before rushing into print with
his marvellous statistics, it would be an improvement if
he made a few inquiries. Eucalyptus oil is sold to the
chemist at anything between Is. 9d. and 3s. 6d. the lb.—
as “Croson ” can see if he takes the trouble to turn up
the price list of Felton, Grimwade and Co., the largest
wholesale chemists out here. He can get some at
6d. the lb., but it is used solely for veter-
inary purposes—perhaps that is what he does use.
What is more, the chemist gives 2Joz. for 6d., and
his bottle costs him, roughly, ljd. To this add such
trifles as cork, sealing, label, and wrapping, and the 500
per cent, profit fades away in the distance. And, by the
way, cannot somebody find a decently fair word to say
for the chemist, the most maligned man in the com-
munity? He serves a long apprenticeship, with a maxi-
mum of work and hours, and a minimum of pay. He has
difficult exams, to pass, and when qualified is about
the most sweated individual in our midst. Suppose
he has a shop of his own. Then his huge profits (vicie
“ Croson ”) are cut down by his working expenses, which
are seldom less than 20 per cent. If “ Croson’s ” asser-
tions are true, why is it that the majority of pharmacists
are struggling from one year’s end to the other, from
early morning until late at night, trying to make both
ends meet? People expect advice from a chemist gratis
—advice that the medico would charge half-a-guinea
for. And the Chemist must look as if he liked giving
it too. And to be told he’s a bloated money-grabber!
It is too much !
Some men miss no chances. The pane™ ,
ported in connection witn the Ballarat mysterv~7i?ri 6 "
William lies had occasionally been “ financed ” tn V lhat
extent by widow Young ; (2) that Isles had cleared oi,?®!
left the widow. Thereupon, while the widow’s strict nd
still fresh, she got this letter from Footscrav- « t M
you have been disappointed in reference to a marli 866
with a man who cleared out. lam looking for a sni>u !
woman to be my wife with £2OO to £3OO. I am in l •
ness, and have a farm, and we could buvstock Yo ° USI '
have it in your name. I don’t drink or eamhi* ll
smoke.—C. Smith.” Alas! widow Young didn'i >1 0r
any £2OO or £3OO ; so the prospective engagement is off 6
One day in the middle of February BrisW
got a cable to say that Queensland butter had wT?!
m London for 138 s. per cwt., the highest price # ■
realised for Australian grease. Yet not a fortnight n
viously the Queensland butter-farmer was being imitla
to brand himself as a poor toiler who couldn’t posm'S!
allow decent hours of labor to his workpeople ■ anrt '
some districts he was assured that he couldn’t’pos Vi"
make butter good enough for Europe, wherefore k
would have to rely upon the trade with China and a.
if he didn’t elect Philp, who would foster the Chine I
trade, there was starvation ahead of him. lese
* * * *
“Nulla” : Nearing the junction, the last of
a mountainous pile of steel trunks, dress-basket ’
rabbits, staghorn ferns, tents, and portmanteau! ■
was slowly removed, and barring five or six s . .
artists who, with a collection of picks
and tucker baskets, monopolised the front s’
the tram was practically' empty. Guard 001 0 f Th ’
corrugated countenance, spake : “ Blime, they do mV
it hot. Those pills on the front are sayi’n’ things ahnm
me now, because I fastened to a bloke for trvin’ to swar
on with a couple o’ casks o’ cement. The department'll
have to put on special luggage trams by next Christmas :
It’s doin’ the lorries out of a crust, that’s what it is Whi-'
there’s a butcher out our way that has sacked two carter
since the trams started, and yet he nearly took a fit off
the footboard when I asked him for some rent for tl
half-a-cow he was lumpin’ t’other mornin’. I nearly did
me dash twice yesterday climbin’ over and
things, but one o’ these days I’ll take a risk. l’ m on v
waitin’ for someone to come climbin’ on with an armful
of pianos, and then something’ll happen.”
* * * *
If the work of the Commonwealth trawler and
the Fisheries Department is to pan out 20s. in the £ steDs
will have to be taken to overhaul the marketing and dig.
tributing of the fish when they are caught. Lately the
Fishermen’s Union, Queenscliff (Vic.), decided to continue
to limit the catch of barracouta. Its members find that
when they catch little they realise as much as when the
haul is big, so they keep the market just “nicely
stocked.” As long as the fish ring lasts, there will be little
advantage to either fishermen or public in increasing the
supply ; and all the trawlers and fish experts in existence ;i
will not improve matters.
The Australian Government is getting its
heaviest boot ready to put down on certain foreign boot- *
machine manufacturers, cash register cos., etc. ; and the
attempts of some of the foreigners to crawl out ol
danger are amusing. Section 87 of the Federal Patent!
Act says, in effect, that unless these machines are either P
made in Australia or licensed to Australian manufac-1
turers and others on fair terms, the Government may I
grant compulsory licenses for their use. For years the
terms upon which these machines have been hired out
have been mostly monstrous, and have hobbled Aus-
tralian industry in several directions. In some cases the
patentees, who hold the rights of certain machines essen-
tial to certain manufactures, refuse to sell them at any
price. They merely hire them out at high rates, and
retain the right to inspect the hirer’s premises at all
times, and if they find the hirer using any machines
besides their own, their bargain gives them the power to
take away their hired-out machinery, and thus close the
business. Now, scenting danger in section 87, certain of
the monopolists begin to notify, by obscure little advts.
in obscure little patent publications, that they are ready
to “satisfy all reasonable public requirements.” Of course
this is bluff—the advertisers know very well that the public
won’t see these obscure little notices, which might just as
well be hung on the tail of a polar bear for all the prac-
tical good they are. Still, the foreign hustlers who for
years have been bleeding Australia evidently expect that
these notices will serve to choke off the Australian
Government.


Your Fine-Looking' Imported
Piano is being' Torn to Pieces.
It may look well enough.
It may sound well enough.
It may have lasted you some years.
But it has a wooden wrest-plank, and it is being torn to pieces.
You see, there are no less than two hundred and sixteen levers in it. Each lever is banged into a hole, a trifle
smaller than itself, in a wooden plank.
Each lever has a steel wire attached to it, and every wire is at high tension.
The to'al pull of those two hundred and sixteen wires on
the two hundred and sixteen levers is nearly sixty-seven
thousand pounds (67,0001 b.).
No wooden wrest-plank, even though it be made of many
plies of timber, can stand such a strain. Not even if the strain
was only on one lever.
What happens then when the plank is fairly honeycombed
with levers P The wood, of course, gives way ever so little, and—
your piano is out of tune.
The tuner calls.
He twists those two hundred and sixteen levers about,
straining the wires up to pitch again.
But the same thing occurs again.
And again.
And again every time the piano is tuned, till at last the wood
splits, as shown in Fig. 1 on this page.
The piano cannot then be repaired, except at
great expense.
But this is not so with the Beale Pianos.
In the Beale Pianos there is a solid iron plate,
instead of the usual wooden plank.
See Figs. 2 and 3.
That iron plate will stand any strain that can
be put upon it.
Consequently Beale Pianos will last a life-
time, and they will require tuning only when the
wires stretch, at long intervals.
Hence we guarantee Beale Pianos for twenty-
five years.
And OUR guarantee is worth something, for
we are the largest distributors of pianos in Australia,
having branches throughout the Commonwealth.
Our catalogue will be sent to you free on
request.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 2.—The Beale-Vader
Patent Piano-frame, re-
moved from the piano,
and the end of the wrest-
plank cut off to show the
wrest-pins in the solid
iron frame.
[fl
#
4* w — -ffl
• • # #
* * * •
•■-. 7*
-Pt
Fig. I.—Part of the wooden wrest-plank of an imported piano. Note
how close the lever-holes are. The wood has split, and the piano cannot
be tuned. This is an average wooden wrest-plank, neither better nor
worse than is usually found in an imported piano, ALL of which have
wooden wrest-planks, and consequently they are ALL subject to the
above fault, which cannot be remedied except at great expense.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 3.—A nearer view
of the Beale-Vader frame
shown in Fig. 3. Note
the wrest-pins and ten-
sion-screws co n t ained
entirely in solid iron.
It is important for
piano-buyers to note
that these pins can be
adjusted to ANY ten-
sion, tight, medium, or
loose, by means of the
tension screws at the
back. We always
adjust them to resist
the pull-round of the
strings, but at the same
time they are easily
turned by the tuner
WITHOUT TOUCH-
ING' THE TENSION
SCREWS. Our Pianos
are tuned in the ordinary
way. BY ONE MAN
ONLY, FROM THE
FRONT ONLY. Be
sure to note this, and
when you go to compare
our pianos with the im-
ported you will know
what to think if you are
told otherwise by un-
scrupulous competitors.
Nine
Thousand Eight Hundred and Eighty Beale
have already been manufactured in Australia
Pianos
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES:
Trafalgar Street, Annandale, N.S.W.
Australian Piano
Manufacturers,
_ _ c+r*>**t Svdnev• Hunter Street, Newcastle; George Street, Bathurst, N.S.W. ;
SHOW ROOMS “l ”\l2Zne 2 4 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Vic; 127 Bundle Street,
z:z:z *«*.«*., —— .—
(our only address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
Por the eradication of worms which infest the
human system, Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pallets are a safe and reliable remedy. They no
only kill the worms, but destroy the embyro,
without causing injury to the bowels or affecting
the most delicate constitution. Children from
four to twelve years of age are most subject
this complaint, although all ages are affected, fro
earliest infancy to old age. Mothers should ?°
the symptoms of their young children, and nth 6
is a disposition to grind the teeth during sleep,
excessive flow of saliva, and sleep disturbed j
sudden frequent starts, you may be sure your cm
is troubled with worms. , m
• Obtainable at all chemists and stores, or tr
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt street,
Sydney. Price, Is. 6d. per box (six boxes, os.J.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Exoellenoy the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Measr». E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Breweky and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFEKN, SYDNE*.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Australasian Amateur Athletic champion-
ships meeting commenced at Hobart, Tasmania, at 2 o’clock
on Saturday afternoon. As usual, the N.S.W. team to
take part therein left Sydney sometime on the
previous Wednesday, and a steamer voyage is not the
best of preparations for athletic contests. N.S.W.
governing bodies always do this sort of thing, and the
only apparent reason is that it keeps down expenses. But
it is a fool policy, and causes the State to lose many
championships. It is more than possible that it was the
same fool policy that cost N.S.W. the swimming
championship at Claremont, Westralia, week before
last. F’rank Beaurepaire, wonderful boy as he is,
could hardly hope to beat so strong a swimmer as
Cecil Healy by a margin of 10 hideous yards if Cecil was
right. But Beaurepaire was a splendid force well handled.
He had got over to Westralia three weeks earlier, and
completely recovered from the effects of the sea voyage,
got accustomed to the water, and grasped the full benefit
of the change. Cecil hadn’t.
It was very similar at Hobart on Saturday. An
exceptionally strong team was sent over, and N.S. W. men
started on the day’s programme quite unrecovered from
the effects of the voyage. Of the 10 events the3’ managed
to annex three and dead-heat in one. It was a good
performance, but had the team had a show it could pro-
bably have done better. The Cornstalk was usuallj'
about third. In the mile walk he hunted two Maori-
ianders home in front of him, Kerr beating Stubberfield.
In the 100yds. Nigel B.arker, after a desperate effort, just
managed to throw himself at the tape ahead of L. R.
Morgan, of Victoria, and the judge said “ six inches.” In
the running high jump, Maorilander C. L. Orbeil beat
Queensland by one inch and N.S.W. by two. In the mile
run, N.S.W. man Retford drove Clemes of Tasmania and
Burrows of Victoria home before him in that order. In
the 120yds. run, Wise, of Tasmania, ran so fast,
and another Tasmanian and a Queenslander chased him
so hard, that N.S.W. was left right out. O’Reilly,
of the Ma State, with a wild whirroo, sent the
161 b. shot Sft. 9in. further than anyone else, his distance
being 38ft. lOin. In the 120yds. Hurdles, Steward, of
N.S.W., and Davis, of Victoria, dead-heated. Tasmania
won the Two Miles Handicap from a start of 240yds. per
medium of J. Morgan. In the 440yds. N.S.W. was again
represented by the holder of the Australasian record,
Nigel Barker, and he maintained his title. His own
record was 48£sec., but this time he took 51 sec. to get
over the distance. Still he was much faster than the
others, and the second man was Byds. behind the
champion.
But it was on the Monday that the bad manage-
ment of the N.S.W. team found it out. Of the ten
events the Maorilanders, who had been in Tasmania
about three weeks getting fit, won five. Barker was
defeated in the 880yds. by Trembath of Maoriland, and
N.S. W. scored in only two ev,ents —the 220yds. and the
Mile Handicap, won by Barker and Smith respectively.
On Saturday N.S.W. was leading on points, but at the
close of the meeting on Monday it was second on the list,
Maoriland haring won with seven points to N.S.W.’s
4J. Victoria was third with 3J points, and Queensland and
Tasmania had one point each. Maoriland’s list of
successes comprised, on Saturday, Mile Walk and Running
High Jump. On Monday, Three Miles Run, Pole Vault
(in which L. M. McKay broke the world’s record of lift.
Jin. by clearing lift, ljin.), Three Miles Walk, 880yds.
and 440yds.
* * * *
The representation of Australia at the Olympic
Games in London is likely to be badly bungled. The
trouble is lack of money to send the men away
promptly, so that they may become acclimatised, and
have time to recuperate after the long journey.
Beaurepaire is able to go, and would gladly do
so; but, unless subscriptions come in promptly, he
will not be able to get away sufficiently early to do
himself and his country justice. Pomeroy’, the amateur
champion runner, Swain, of Toowong Harriers (Bris-
bane), Springfield, the Bananaland swimmer, Blake, the
Victorian runner, are all spoken of. And the money
question crops up in every case. Evidently it is necessary
to form a Continental Athletic Board of Control to arrange
the representation of Australia in Olympic and other
big meetings. If the country cannot be represented by
men able to train properly, then it had better not he re-
presented at all. The Bulletin doesn’t particularly
hanker after athletic glory won abroad, but if the blessed
glory is sought, let it be done in real earnest, and in a
manner “ commensurate with the dignity of this great
nation,” as the politicians say.
W. F. Trembath, the Maorilander who beat
Nigel Barker in the 880yds. championship race, hails
from Gore, Otago. He has never yet been beaten in a
half-mile race, not even when, on one occasion, he raced
the Waimea Plains railway engine for the crossing. He
is just in his twenties, and has won over all distances
from 100yds. upwards. At Dunedin on January 1 he
covered the half-mile in two minutes, against a heavy
wind and on a grass track, leaving the rest of the field
standing still.
* * ■* *
When the Round-the-World motor raee was
first mooted, the track or route ran from New York to
Chicago, thence across the Rocky Mountains to Seattle,
where it was confidently predicted trouble would begin.
For the line then led over the snow-clad mountains of the
glacier coast of British Columbia to Skagway, where the
cars were to strike the formation that lies between
Skagway and Dawson in the Klondike. After Dawson,
the route lay through a wilderness of silence, the place
where people are not, and where the only sign of life is
the solitary bear, some deer of sorts, and the swift wolf
that races the car by day and eats the motorist
by night. In fact, the route lay along the Arctic
circle right away to where Cape Prince of Wales looks
down on Behring Strait. Explorers who went there by
ship describe the scenery as charming, and the promoters
of the race were originally anxious that the competitors
should have delightful scenery. The cars were to cross
Behring Strait on the ice, and as the strait is, at its
narrowest, 36 miles wide, there were some cheerful possi-
bilities. Had The Bulletin entered it would have taken
a car that would have swum and flown as well as run.
Across the strait the adventurers were to enter the
Russian province of Anadir, climb the stupendous
Sta,navel Range, make down through Yakutsk and
Manchuria, and thence over the Peking-to-Paris
route followed by Scipio Borghese. Then the pro-
moters began to consider. The motor trip through
British Columbia had been tried before, and the record-
breaker, Emile de Lamare, a French Canadian, got stuck
400 miles from Dawson City, and narrowly escaped with
his life. Moreover, even supposing the cars had got
across Behring Strait, they had no chance of traversing-
the trackless wilderness of deep forests, awful morasses,
and thick undergrowth, out of which the Stanavel Range
rises like a wall. And on the Yakutsk side the motorists
would have been blocked by the mighty rivers that pour
down from the Stanavel to the Arctic Ocean. So the
route and conditions were changed.
The revised conditions allow the motorists to
take their cars over the Rockies either on their own
power or by transport. The passage of the glacier coasts
of British Columbia and Alaska can be made by transport
till the Alaskan roads are reached, where the coun try is less
rugged. Then the motors are to mote down to Cape
Prince of Wales. Behring Strait can be crossed either
on the ice or by transport, and the real struggle does not
begin till Russian Asia is reached. Then the travellers
strike it hard, and, in the language of the classics, will
find themselves right up against it. The crossing of the
Stanavel Range has been cut out, and the motorists will,
it is proposed, run westward along the ice on the
edge of the Arctic Ocean till they reach Nijni Kolimsk,
where they will get on to roads that will lead
them to Irkutsk. After that it is easy. But this writer
doubts if there will be any “ after that.” For although
the worst of the original features have been cutout, there
are still some awful problems to be faced, and not the
least of these is how to keep the water in the cooling
jackets from freezing. The Yankees have developed air-
cooled engines, and these may possibly be installed. But
it is possible that the very petrol itself will get frozen,
and add another terror to the already huge list of horrors.
Anyhow, whatever 1 happens, this attempt is one of the
most interesting things in the history of Mud, as this
planet is known abroad—abroad being used in a stellar
sense.
* * * *
After all, the motorist doesn’t have it all his
own way. A party out quail shooting in Victoria ran into
a free-tight between a crowd of dogs, some 15 miles out-
side Ballarat. According to all precedent, the dogs
ought to have got the worst of it, but the unexpected
happened. Two brutes, breaking out of the melee, got
under the front wheels, overturned the car, stunned the
owner, bruised one passenger, and shook up the other
very badly, leaving him pinned down under the car.
■7C * *
Sydney meeting of the Cyclists’ Union has
resulted in three new N.S. W. motor ' records. G. J.
Doherty, the sandy-haired dare-devil, from a flying start,
covered one mile in lmin. 84-ssec. ; three miles in
3min. 31 l-ssec. He also' established a new Australasian
record of five miles in smin. 36 2-ssec. The Mile
Australasian Cycling Amateur championship went to P.
Mutton, of N.S.VV. Mutton flew over the distance in
2ntin. 10 3-ssec. But in the Five Mile championship
Mutton was beaten by H. W. Thompson, who cut it out
in Umin. 58 4-ssec. In spite of the rain and the frequent
postponements the Union had a good meeting, and got
off some excellent racing.
Evidently Maoriland emptied itself on to the
banks of the Wanganui to watch Webb down Tresidder.
The result of the gate was £2OO to each man, “in addi-
tion to the stake money.” This is said to be more than
double the profits of the Wehb-Towns match in Sydney,
and apparently means that Tresidder gets £2OO after pro-
vidin';- his stake money. On the other hand, it may mean
anything.
W. WEBB , Champion Sculler of the World.
One of the features of Victorian racing meetings,
big and little, has always been “ the unattached female.”
Since the introduction of the late Anti-Gambling Act she
has certainly increased and multiplied in the land.
Under the aforesaid legislative enactment a bookmaker’s
license prohibits him from betting with a female, yet 99
per cent, of the unattached do bet (by the interposition of
a male), and mostly upon some such system as following a
jockey, a stable, the number of a horse or its colors, or
(worst of all) newspaper tips. Whether she be desirable
or not, the increased unattached female is certainly
among us, and is a direct product of the Act. The
aforesaid Act, which was intended to decrease betting,
has proved, after 12 months’ experience, a dismal failure.
It has concentrated and increased betting amongst the
classes it sought to protect against themselves, without
regulating it, and by its childish prohibition of publica-
tion of the odds before a race, it has forced the backer
to take whatever the guileless bookmaker chooses
to offer. By the bye, it is difficult to know
why the charges of “publishing information as to
the betting ” on certain races were withdrawn
against the Age and Argus upon their promising
to he good and not do it again. The Herald boldly pub-
lished a list of the odds offered on last year’s Newmarket
and Cup, and was promptly prosecuted and fined. On
appeal, the conviction was upheld, after a long legal
technical fight. But why the distinction ? If ever there
was a case where the press protected the public it was in
the publication of the odds. Even Bent recognises it,
and has promised to risk the displeasure of Jud and his
disciples by bringing in a Bill to repeal the provision.
But then Bent’s list of promises is as long as a fashionable
divorce case.
« * * *
Scotland, who won the Newmarket, and started
at 2 to 1 in a field of 29, was a had horse for the rainbow-
nosed race. For quality, the field was above the average,
but the number of starters has been exceeded on seven
occasions. The winner is a five-year-old hay horse, by
the famous sire Wallace, from Key. The time (lmin.
14fsec.) has only been twice excelled in the last few
years. - The owner (J. Brennan) is one of Fortune’s favor-
ites, and is not unpopular with the punters, as
he made no secret of his opinion of Scotland’s
chance for weeks past. Fortunately for Ikey, quite a
number of punters who knew Scotland was a good thing,
hut would not take such a short price, backed other
starters, because they had the “ office ” from a second
cousin of the wife of the trainer of their particular fancy.
Mother Goose duly laid the golden egg in the
Sires’ Produce Stakes for her breeder and owner, J. V.
Smith, and, to the dismay of the Judkinites, heat The
Brewer by a head. Mountain King had an exercise gallop
in the Sb Leger, and won easily. It looks as though his
owner will not regret having recently refused bookmaker
Sol Green’s offer of 5000 guineas for the long-striding son
of Wallace. Apologue landed the Essendon Stakes in easy
fashion, and gave the lie to the croakers who predict
failure for a Cup winner ever afterwards, and the bon
vivants concluded the proceedings by backing Sivori
because it was reminiscent of Savoury. The Grafton-
Cello colt duly arrived, and scored for that straight sport
Agar Wynne. It was a great day for the progeny of
Wallace, and Carbine’s best son looks like topping the
list of winning sires for the current season.
* » * *
Skuthorpe’s “ juck-bumping ” entertainment at
Melb. Cyclorama is becoming quite fashionable. It is, in
the language of some of the young city-breds, “such a
.novelty, you know ! ” “ amusing enough to have been
Imported,” and so on. One day it will occur to someone
with managing ability, to take abroad a troup of “ juck-
bump ” riders, boomerang throwers, stock-whip crackers
and log-cutting and sawing chip and sawdust accumula-
tors. Then it will occur to the same individual to ad-
vertise it abroad as Australian, bring it here, and put it
in the programme as imported. And he will make much
money.
* * * •*
The walloping of the English cricketers has
roused a sudden public interest in Mary Ann Noble, and
there is wild collection of shekels towards a testimonial.
Exactly what form the testimonial will take is not clear,
but whatever it is, judging by the enthusiastic- reception
of the idea, it is going to be something magnificent.
Noble deserves recognition. He is probably the world’s
best all-round cricketer ; and the fact that his tail is
never observed dragging in the dust makes him a man to
be admired. The only trouble is that when he’s in the
wrong the same tail-lifting quality makes him pig-headed.
"With the wreck of England’s cricketing glory
lying around, Sydney people took only a languid interest
in the local competition, which resumed last Saturday.
It was a languid, drowsy day, and batsmen and bowlers
were in a friendly mood. All was peace. With the
exception of J. O. Barnes, of Redfern, no one violently
assaulted the ball ; but Barnes was in baresark mood,
and smote it hard and often, accumulating 124 against
Glebe. C. Gregory seemed to be suffering from energy,
and hit 84, while Docker, of University, made 75.
Among the howlers, J. Meaney, of Callan Park,
took seven for 46 and six for 55 against Gordon. Hill, of
Waverley, took six of Balmain’s for 53, P. Docker (Bur-
wood) three of Middle Harbor’s for 22, and Minnett, of
North Sydney, five Sydney wickets for 44. After that all
was mediocrity.
The result is to further accentuate North
Sydney’s commanding position, the wild hillmen now
leading with 18 points, while the runners up, Glebe and
Paddington, have only eight each. The rest of the com-
petitors are nowhere —or at least their address is quite
uncertain.
The system of “ district ” cricket under which
Victorian players suffer got another slap lately when the
V.C.A. refused to lift the leading club out of the second
grade and drop it in the first grade, and to move up the
leading third-rater to second grade. The blessed com-
mittee said that “ the presence of any more
clubs in the first grade would cause the
district scheme to develop into a farce.” The
absurd committee doesn’t perceive that the object of the
“ district cricket ” scheme is to produce hundreds of
good and dozens of first-class players by creating a healthy
spirit of emulation among genuine local clubs, and
the essence of that is to arrange matters so that the best
club shall be able to work its way up from grade to grade
right to the top. As things are now a third-grade club
might produce an Australian eleven, yet it can never get
any further than third grade ; and, worse still, the stars
could play for no other than their district team, except
the M.C.C. That is the juice in the cocoanut. Anyone
but a fool could see that if the best club of the inferior
grade steps up annually the numbers could be equalised
bv the worst club in the superior grade stepping down.
* * » *
Somebody writes from Broken Hill inquiring
the correct and exact meaning of “ amateur status.”
Here’s a pretty conundrum. In the plain vernacular, any
man who receives more money than covers out-of-pocket
expenses has wrecked his amateur status, but in practice
it works out very differently. If he is a cricketer playing
in Australia he can get a daily allowance of about 15s. for
out-of-pocket expenses and £25 per match in addition,
and still keep his amateur status unscratched. When
the same man goes to England to play in an Australian
XI. he gets a share of the gate in addition to out-of-pocket
fees, and some of the cricketers of the past are said to
have scooped £7OO or £BOO for the trip, clear profit, and
had never a dent on the amateur status. But if the
amateur is a footballer he gets a paltry 3s. per day to
cover train fares, hotel bills and all the rest of it; if he
asks for any more he loses the valuable amateur status
altogether. Apparently “ amateur status ” is akin to
female virtue and differs amazingly in the various spheres
of life.
* * * •
“Micawber”: South Sydney Football League
doesn’t mince matters in circularising its constituents.
A circular handed to me makes quite pleasant reading.
An extract: —
All Footballers in the District should join this club.
For these Reasons :
Play for yourself and your club’s advantage ;
Or,
Play for the Union to their advantage, and no return
for yourself.
SAVEEI
* * * *
The Vic. Football League delegates put in two
evenings lately considering the matter of quasi and
straight-out professionalism, and after sundry sultry
exchanges left matters no forrarder. The trouble
started through a ’Wood delegate moving that “ any
player receiving payment, either directly or indirectly,
must be registered as a professional, or be disqualified as
long as the League thought fit.” That being defeated
unanimously, the chairman said a Geelong repre-
sentative wanted the League to “ take power to
call on any club or player to make statutory
declaration that he was a strict amateur.” This
evoked enthusiastic expressions of dissent from nearly
every delegate, though one and all, with quaint logic,
averred that “ they all knew that professionalism existed,”
but that “ it should be put down at all costs.” Each club
seemed to be quite sure that the recognition of the paid
player would mean the capture of the best players by the
richest clubs ; they were all equally certain they had
already suffered severely from the same purchasing
tactics ; yet they took no adequate steps to keep the
game from descending further into sub rosa professional-
ism. This semi-paid playing exists, as the League
admits one could easily name a dozen players
who must be in receipt of either direct or in-
direct payment and it is so unfair to the
genuine amateur, that the League is hereby advised to
get control of it in the only possible way—by inaugura-
ting a system of genuine district football, one year’s resi-
dence to qualify (the player being allowed during the year
to play for his old district if he feels that way), and by
having every club’s balance-sheet audited by skilled
“ outside ” accountants. But chiefly the League should
insist on one full year’s residence in a district as a neces-
sary qualification for playing. That would put the
kybosh on the paid player. Undoubtedly the
League was wise in setting its face against open
professionalism, for were that once countenanced, the
Melbourne Club, which is really the M.C.C. Football
Club, could buy up every star player in the State—and
the “gates” of a leading football club are huge com-
pared to those of cricket, excepting Test cricket.
Last season the three clubs which are understood to
spend most on this indirect professionalism were
at the top of the list ; the three which had
least loose cash to splash round adorned the pro-
cession’s tail. Now Richmond and University come
in. Richmond has a few pounds which it can, if it
likes, place where they will do it most good ; but ’Varsity
has all along been strictly amateur—it had to be for lack
of means to be otherwise. ’Varsity may do well this
season, or it may not; but, if it is to have a chance to
keep any place it may attain, it must be allowed to keep
its own players—and strict district football is the only
way to assure that.
The League also abolished the absurd A and B
section caper, and will in future play 18 home-and-home
matches, two semi-finals and a final, with a challenge-
final if necessary. Moreover, it decided to increase its
field-umpires’ fees from 30s. to £2 25., and the boundary
and goal dittos to 15s. and 10s. each. The delegates
weren’t overburdened with generosity, but perhaps
they reckoned the palings and blue-metal occasionally
handed in as part of the Umpire’s' wages. Then they
threw out on its ear the renewed application of “Nni-ik»
and “ West ” to join them, these two clubs having- h
previously fired out of the Association for daring tom?
that application. As there has been no loud call f 6
any other body for these two clubs, they are hereby 101 } 1
vised to form a little league of their own, and plav ef?
other every Saturday on the North Melbourne Glue m
There might not be much “gate” in the business h?;
at least they would only be slaying one another and th
would avoid the charge of professionalism. ’ tne^
* ♦ * *
Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron and Svdnev
Sailing Club both made desperate attempts to engage
racing on Saturday afternoon last. But the- enH
absence of wind caused the affairs to degenerate inf 9
mere drifting matches, in one of which the Awanui whil
trying to catch stray cats’-paws, drifted against th
Rawhiti, and retired owing to having smashed the rul
It was a great pity, and deprived the contest of all interest'
It is well known that Awanui can beat its big rival t
sailing, and quite a number of people were considerably
interested in the question of which could drift the fast ™
As it was, the race was a fiasco, and the Rawhiti floated
over the winning line in advance of the Magic and Cul
wulla, while the shades'of evening were falling fast a
“Excelsior”putsit. Thesamecircumstancebroughtabour
a victory for the hitherto impossible Eileen in the
Sydney Club’s 18-foot race. This craft seemed to be able
to get along with practically no wind at all, and atone
time had a break of a whole 6min. on the fleet. Then
absolute stillness filled the air, the Eileen’s sails hum?
limp, and the rest of the fleet crept up on the tail end of
the breeze. When the tail reached the Eileen, it floated
across the winning line.
* * * *
That muscular Melbournian, “Clary’’Weber
has resolved to somersault on his decision to quit the
grappling game. He is matched against Peter Bannan
an Englishman, at the Cyclorama or Melbourne A.C on
Monday, March 23. The couple will catch-as-catch-can
with a time limit of lj hour, for a share in the gate re-
ceipts. Geo. Watson will referee. Bannan easily settled
Bert Woods, a week or so back, but the victorv
isn’t much recommendation, as Woods can’t ’rastle a
trotter off a dish by comparison with Weber. However
Buttan Singh couldn’t do anything with Bannan, though
the latter was obviously out of nick at the time so
Weber has a stiff proposition to handle. He admits it’ll
be the contest of his life—which, by the way, isn’t a very
long one, as the tall Clarence is only 26. 1
* * * *
Mrs. Isa Bell, the Albert Park (Melbourne)
female who aspires to pedestrian honors, is to don
athletic clobber ’gainst Miss Ivy Evans, Windsor (Mel-
bourne), provided Miss Violet Leigh, of South Aus. doesn’t
turn up or is merely a myth. The match will be
over three distances—7s, 150, and 440 yards— at the
South Melbourne cricket ground about the end of the
month. The Melbourne suburban park and sea-beach
prowler is confronted in the early morning by vigorous
females precipitating themselves through space with the
elegance of cows. These antics are occurring with the
hope of striking form or something, with a view to tearing
over the landscape with Mrs. Bell later on. Generally
speaking, women and cows should be debarred from in-
dulging in rapid pace, as their actions are anything but
artistic. Mrs. Bell, however, is an exception.
* * * *
A curious affair happened out at Rockdale
(Sydney) last week, when the Rugby League organisers
went out to try to form a club. The hall was crowded
with footballers, and fiery speeches were delivered in
which the speakers denounced the meanness of the Rugby
Union in making players buy their own uniforms, and pav
their own expenses, as well as pay their own medical
and surgical fees. The sentiment that footballers should
be placed on the same footing as cricketers was wildly en-
dorsed. Then a motion that a League Club be formed in
St. George district was carried unanimously. The pro-
moters smiled, and asked the footballers present to come
up and enroll. Then another unanimous movement took
place. It was for the door, and the delegates who had
held a most successful meeting departed without securing
one member. Was it irony, or a sudden failure of courage,
or what?
• * * *
Record-breaking in tbe water is evidently a
characteristic of the Beaurepaire family of Victoria. On
Saturday afternoon, champion Frank’s sister established
a world’s record for women by swimming 100yds, in
lmin. lOsec.
* * * *
The Motor Yacht Club of Great Britain has
challenged the Motor Boat Club of America to defend the
ownership of the British International Cup which the
U.S.A. boat Dixie won last year. That cup is evidently a
desirable sort of utensil, as France, Italy, and several
other countries have also flung challenges at the U.S.A.
boat.
* * » «
“S.S.” : It was the inevitable that happened at
Melbourne Cyclorama the other Monday evening, when
Ed Williams, the long, lathy South Melbourne middle-
weight, added to the laurels he won in beating Arthur
Cripps, by outing Ted Nelson in 20 rounds, after out-
pointing him in at least 15 of the other 19 rounds.
Williams has youth, height, reach, strength, sobriety, de-
corum, domesticity, a steady job, enthusiasm, total ab-
stinence from tobacco, and the most destructive left in his
division, all to his advantage, and as his cleverness was
little short of that of his brightest adversary, it was
only a matter of time when he should down comparative
elders like Cripps and Nelson. “As cold as a ballet
dancer,” said a wise Frenchman. “As virtuous as a
successful pug,” promises to become one of our popular
proverbs.
* * * *
“Tommy” Burns, who rifled Australia’s Bill
Squires of his punch, and madeMoir, England’s champion
heavyweight, look like an amateur six weeks ago, doesn’t
seem to be wholly and entirely panting to try conclusions
with Jack Johnson* the large streak of midnight.with the
smite like a falling tower. “ Eighty per cent., win, lose,
or draw,” are the terms Burns says he will hold out for.
If he doesn’t get them he won’t meet Johnson, and the
feeling grows that he rather hopes he won’t get them.
Johnson, when out here the other day, made an immense
impression amongst local judges of the fighting game.
He is as quick as the hogs of Gadara, and the owner of a
bewildering collection of novel and murderous “hits,
and his build and physique are alike extraordinary. In
America it is reckoned that if any man licks Burns it
will be Johnson. Johnson thinks that, and Burns seems
to have a suspicion of it. Johnson is willing to give
Burris 80 per cent, of the fighters’ share of the purse if he
fails to knock the champion out in 20 rounds, or he will
give Burns 20 per cent, of the fighters’ share and cut the
remainder in two if he succeeds in putting Burns away,
thus making Burns sure of 60 per cent, of the profit.
Either seems as reasonable a proposition as the haughti-
est of champions could expect.


DEAFNESS
HEAD-NOISES
RINGING IN THE EARS
it r ta •*• *»* *«•
trouble, however slight it mav be remember u„t Ea ™’ Discharging Ears, or any other Ear-
stone Deafness. Do you know what total Deafness mems? B^'^ olllB e^ d to E>ea^ness i ar >d very often to
human intercourse-the world business T»S ,/t means a living: death. Shut out from all
this untold misery and loneliness when you may have your W '| H yOU sufle . r
cure yourself completely with the “ EAROSCOPE”? y lullsense of hearing, quick and acute—and
assistance 1 of® 8 ancP'wßhou^t^^east 8 interf Cd by youree,f •* own home, without the
social duties. Endorsed by the htt Sneefnl-i!" 6 " 06^ 0 y °T daiiy routine work - business, or
Treatment for Deafness, Head-Noises, Ringing in the Ears, etc.? etcV Safe ’ SUre ’ a " d efifectlve Home
Read these Unsolicited Testimonials,
and Piease note • * we eouM «U <*» „,e„ 6 in
Mrs. Eliza Uncles, of 257 Riley Street, Surry
Hills, N.S.W., writes:—“l got the Earoscope
from you on the 28th of August last, which is
now two months, less four days, and I am
delighted to tell you I cured myself completely
with your Earoscope. The Noises have all gone,
and my hearing is perfect now. I thank you
very much, and will always speak highly of
the Earoscope. I have told some of my friends
already about this wonderful cure.”
0. R. Sewell, Esq., 29 Morrah Street, Park-
ville, Melbourne, writes “ For 18 months,
prior to using your Baroscope I was continually
troubled with frightful Head-Noises and Ringing in
the Ears, and my hearing was anything but good.
I am very pleased to inform you that after a few
weeks’ treatment with your Earoscope I was en-
tirely relieved of both noises and deafness, and am
indeed grateful to you for the success of the treat-
ment, and 1 shall only he too pleased to recom-
mend the treatment to all persons I may meet who
are similarly afflicted.”
THE REV. H. GAINFORD, of Adelaide, says:—“The Earoscope you sent me
has wrought a marvellous change in my hearing.”
All it will cost you to get full particulars of this great boon to humanity is the postape stamp Send
us ycmr name and address, and we will forward to you FREE OF CHARGE** the “ FAROSCOPF
REVIEW/* with abundant testimonials from patients successfully cured with this “ EAROSCOPE ” after
all other treatments having failed to do any good in their complicated cases of many years’ standing.
“ EAROSCOPE INST.,” 90 Pitt St. (Dept. 26) Sydney, N.S.W.
THE KEEN Cutter!
The PLUM RAZOR is a keen cutter and it stays keen.
The Finest of Steel makes it so. It has the REAL
SHAVING EDGE that men so much appreciate.
PRICE 10/6> Post FREE Anywhere.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor In Leather Case, 10 6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKIN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
The HOUSEWIFE’S FRIEND
How often have you tried to sharpen the knives on a steel
—seemed just as blunt as ever, eh ?
How often do you struggle with the ordinary tin opener?
—tearing your fingers. We want you to try our Patent
Combined Knife and Scissors Sharpener and Tin Opener.
It’s very simple—to sharpen a knife just insert blade, draw backwards and
forwards, and the speedy result is a bright keen edge ! The Sharpener is
guaranteed to sharpen hundreds of knives, etc. , , . ,
The Can Opener is very simple ! No forcing, no jagged edges, insert
point in centre of lid, adjust the sliding bar to fit the required size, draw
round in a circle, and you have the top cut clean out 1 . .
Full directions accompany each article. We positively guarantee it to
do its work—if you are dissatisfied with your purchase, just return it ana
we will immediately refund you your money.
MUST BE GOOD ! or WE COULDN’T MAKE THIS OFFER.
The j&
Price is
II-
each, or 3 for 2/6.
Post Free Anywhere.
Send for our Large Catalogue—illustrates hundreds of other articles.
Catalogues Post Free. WHOLESALE and RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.
HEAD DEPOT:
710 George Street, Haymarket, Sydney.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1. Branch: 25 & 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
H. L. Hutchinson,
Manager.
RUGELMANN’iS
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid*"
fr.ee
SAMPLE
lent o n
Receipt of
Twopennjr
Stamp,
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUQELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
LOVERS’ ENGYGWMIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts the Lovers’ Encyclopedia will supply the art.
the knowledge imparted by this book unlocks the gate. It
considers the whole subject from the time you meet until
you two are one. Valuable chapters about dress, personal
appearance, cure for bashfulness, many things heretofore
secrets. Iteproductions of curious love letters and Fifteen
Hundred tit bits in prose and poetry that you can find
daily use for. P.N., 2/6; posted, 2/8 (stamps, 2/10) will bring the
book by mail,and happiness with one you love. ANGLO-AM-
ERICAN Pub’NGCo. George St. Sydney. Mention this paper
WHAT IS CATARRH?
ICATARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
| of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgia, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4 months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
f®N|,op
ror
Easy
Walki-
ng
r
OUTWEAR
others
None
Accept
DVNLOP
t«Oi> Eq Ua .
and Comfort. Qua,i *y
brani >
RUBB «co,, llSutMM4)<z
PURE
RUBBER—
as embodied in Dunlop Heels—is far
more comfortable —besides being cheaper
—than walking on hard unyielding leather
heels—which jar and rack the nerves —
DUNLOP HEELS
are made of better Rubber than any other
Heels on the market—consequently give
better wear —and more elasticity than in
the hard, cheap compounds—which can be
obtained for a few pence cheaper than
“Dunlop’s.”—For satisfactory results you
“ cannot go wrong ” by “Dunlop s, ’
for—
THEY ARE EASILY THE BEST.
Various types —obtainable all Boot Shops.
The DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and New Zealand.
Died at Gore (M.L.), recently, Donald
M’Leish, one of the ancient pioneers who occasion-
ally remind Maoriland of the old, gold-scramble-
some days. M’Leish was a baker and went to the
Dunstan rush (Otago) in 1861, where he started
business. His flour cost him £l2O per ton—£2o in
Dunedin plus £lOO cartage to his bakehouse on the
diggings. He in turn charged 10s. for a 41b. loaf,
which is probably well up towards a world’s record
as far as bread is concerned.
The various State Ministers of Agriculture,
in conference assembled in Sydney, have passed a
resolution damning the Federal Government for
thinking of starting a Federal Agricultural
Bureau. This for several reasons, the chief being
that they were hanged if they knew what
the Federal Bureau was wanted for, and
they didn’t wish for Federal interference, anyhow.
Then the State Frights Ministers settled down to
a protracted wrastle with the conflicting and
divergent sets of State regulations governing the
inter-State passage of the various State fruit
worms. These regulations are different in each
State, and having spent much time over the
tangle, the conference broke up with the hope
that in the near future the different Governments
might perhaps see their way to approach the sub-
ject with some idea of an arrival at ultimate
uniformity, or something hopeless like that.
Poor old Bob Philp, of Queensland, is now
regarded by his own party as a sort of Old Man of
the Sea. Aided by the Courier, which publishes
anything that is written or said concerning his
ineptitude as a leader, portion of his alleged fol-
lowing is trying to get rid of him. The other
night, at an entertainment given to Macartney,
who was defeated for Toowong by a Kid-
stonite, Jenkinson, a discontented member
of the Philp gang, said that a younger
man was wanted for ieader. He also said that
an effort must be made to find another constitu-
ency for Macartney, who, though out of Parlia-
ment, was regarded as the leader of the Liberal
Progressive Party. (That’s what the Philp push
calls itself.) Philp is not looked upon with favor
by a section of his own crowd since he made the
appointments to his short-lived Ministry chiefly
from the old brigade. Jenkinson appears to have
been one of those most hurt over the matter, A
split in the Philp multitude seems imminent.
Melb.” : Donovan, an original fireman
of our brigade, reminisces in the Advocate.
There was no Melbourne fire brigade till 1852,
when Money Miller, of the Victoria Insurance
Co., formed one in which Donovan figured. Its
quarters were in Collins-street, east of the present
Argus office. Then the City Corporation formed
an opposition brigade, with quarters at the Town
Hall. Brigades were slow in getting to work, and
would even haul out with a team of bullocks.
Water had to be carted from the Yarra. Fires
were disastrous in those days. The Yan Yean
water supply, in 1857, improved affairs. The
brigades united under Superintendent Bencraft,
followed by Superintendent Joe Hoad. The
present Stein followed Hoad as superintendent.
Stein came from Margate, England. There was
much criticism on his lack of experience, which
he had to live down. Donovan retired to be fire-
man in charge of Melb. Public Library. He did
one foolish thing. That was jumping from a high
parapet into a sheet, just to show off on a f@te
day. There was no accident, but he felt the
effects of that holiday side-show business ever after.
London Naval and Military Record
(19/12/’O7), commenting on Deakin’s Defence
speech, says:—
It is plain that the Commonwealth flotilla will be too
weak to stand alone for many years hence, hut one may
see in this coming flotilla the nucleus of a real Australian
Navy, which may ultimately be built and equipped in
local waters, and may come to be fully manned by the
colonists. That- prospect may appear remote, hut the
scheme will become practical with the natural increase of
population and the development of its wealth.
The theory of the Stinking Fish person in these
parts that Australia Can’t Do Things has evi-
dently not reached the Naval and Military
Record.
William Walker, poet, legislator, and his-
torian —also the oldest solicitor on the N.S.W.
rolls—had his 80th birthday last week. William
Walker earned a reputation as a metre-builder
over half-a-century ago, and it was common to
hear his verses sung in musical circles to melodies
composed by Isaac Nathan, a celebrity of the day.
It is as a historian, however, that he may, if he
choose, make himself useful to the future. He
has stacks of manuscript matter on hand, only
casual bits and scraps of his experiences having.so
far gone into print.
Not long ago a well-known Melbourne
athletic teacher, a veteran on the mat, interfered
with the amour of a swaggering, cigar-chewing
sport who wears a face like the seven unpardon-
able sins. The interference was very much called
for, and was an act of common decency, but it
bred an antipathy on the part of the defeated
ruffian, and led to an interview with Jubber, a pro-
fessional middle-weight and a man-eater. Jubber
is not his name, but it will serve. Said the sport:
“See here, Jubber, I’ve got a billet for you
if you can do up Brown.” Brown is not
the name, by the way. “ Oh, I kin do him inter
knots all right,” said Jubber, confidently,
“ s’posin’ it’s considered worth five jim.” Jubber
was paid £3 down, and was to get three more on
completion of the contract. That night he met
the athletic teacher in a bar. “Hello, Jack,” he
said, “Ferguson’s just give me three quid t’ pass
you a ’ell iv a ol’ hidin’.” “Has he?” said
Brown. “ Halves ! ” Brown took half, and there
the matter rests. And even now Ferguson, the
sport with the face like the seven deadly sins
doesn’t see the joke.
A wandering pressman
The new road up Mount Kosciusko is nearly finished,
and frantic telegrams have been hustled through to the
men in charge bidding them keep the way closed at all
costs until the official opening. Works Minister Lee—
Solemn Lee, the fierce mountaineering grocer of Tenter-
field—or some other kingpin, must be the first to go to
the top ; so a troop of light horse will probably be de
spatched to guard Charlotte’s Pass. Why such a pother
and turmoil over a barren honor? A man might be
proud to battle up the big hill before there was any
track. But to motor up a well-made road—great
Scott! It would be worth while if some smart motor
men managed to sneak past and welcomed the procession
when it reached the top. Anyhow, if someone is going to
lead the band, it might well be one of the old-time Monaro
men. Say Surveyor Betts—he is still living, the first
man to drive a trap up the old track to what is called
Betts’ Old Camp. He turned off at Boggy Plain, and
worked up and along the top of the Main Divide, over
Pretty Point. That was an achievement. There is one
consolation. Billjim, who is making the road, will pass
along with his dray first in the natural order of events.
So the lustre of the Minister will be dimmed.


YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS IS ALL WE NEED
to mail you a copy of our Illustrated Catalogue, wbicb shows all tbe latest
ideas. You can purchase by mail from tbis catalogue witb as certain satis-
faction as if you visited Sydney personally. All goods delivered carriage
Free to any address.
OPEN
FACE,
OPEN
! FACE
10 -
86
*
Y
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, «'<»■
Higher grade, 10/, 12/6,
15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
Nurses’ Lever, 25/,
yu 4
dFIIJLJI
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, set rubies,
pearls, and turquoise, or
all pearlis, £3/10-
Rubies, olivines, and
pearls, £4/l©>/.
A. SAUNDERS..
ISct Gold 4-Hoop RING,
diamonds and rubies
or sapphires,
£3/10/.
Five diamonds, £3.
A. SAUNDERS..
15ct Gold 2-Heart BJCOGCFT,
Bet opals and diamonds, ’
£2/ iO/.
Larger size, £3/10/.
POCKET-BOOK, Morocco
leather, silk-lined, pure sil-
ver mounts and lock, 10 /«.
With shield, 12/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/.
SOLID
SILVER,
2/-/-
SOLID
GOLD,
6/10/-
.vVv • •
gar
m\
\ .
•a
> m
Mi
ml
m/ ,
m .
Xf A
-
*vV
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
WATCHES, fully jewelled, £U.
£2/10, £3, £3/10, £4, £5, £6, £7...
Gold-cased, £4/4, £5/5, £6/6.
Solid Gold, £6/10/, £7/10/,
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £20,.
£5O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years...
A. SAUNDERS,
9ct Gold Bee BROOCH,
set opals and amethyst,
8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Shamrock Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £l2/55/.
BM
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set pure double-
cut diamonds and opals,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pearls and
amethyst. £J{/10/.
Tourmalins and pearls,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold ’Xmas Bell
CHARM, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamond, and
Rubies or Sapphires,
30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, set
pearls and rubies or sap-
phires, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS,
12/6
15ct Gold, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set pure white pearls, olivine, and
rubies, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BRACELET, set diamond and rubies
sapphires, £4/ 10-
All Diamonds, £5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold,. Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphires,
£lO
Emerald centre, £l2/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphires,
S/ ‘ <)/•
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, Diamond and Rubies
Sapphires, £3-
15ct Gold, £4/15/,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold-band RING,
Opal, Ruby, or Sapphire,
3 7/6.
15ct Gold, Opal, 30/.
18ct Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold RING, Nu
gets, 25/.
loct Gold, £2.
18ct Gold. £2/10/.
asoii
wElSlfss
bal k
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with safety
chain, £3/5/.
Smaller, £2/5/, £2/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT and NECKLET,
set pure double-cut diamonds
and fine opals, £45-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bird BKOOCH,
set pearls, JiO/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Heart and Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £3-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, 5 fine opals,
£3/10-
Laree ODals. £3.
ge uyais,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pure pearls and
amethysts, £4. 15ct Gold,
£5/10/.
Set pearls, tourmalines, and
peridots, 15ct Gold, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold “Dinna Forget”
CHARM, 10/.
Smaller, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds, and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£2.
! i
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar Wishbone
BROOCH, set pearls and
ruby or sapphire, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Oval LINKS,
22/6.
15ct Gold, £2. Initials
engraved free.
SOLID
SOLID
SILVER.
GOLD,
25-
£3
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES,
Fully Jewelled, 25/.
30/, 35/, 40/, 50. Solid
Gold, £3/, £3/10, £4/,
£l/10. £5, £5/10, £6/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold Harp BROOCH,
set fine white pearls
£3/10/.
•D-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £lO-
- centre, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, set fine pearls
and turquoise, £25/10/*
PURSE and CARDCASE
combined, Morocco, leather,
pure silver mounts and
lock, 8/0-
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6.
OPEN
FACE,
7/6
EXTRA
QUALITY.
10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES,
7/6, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
Higher grade, 25/.
All Guaranteed.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician-
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George=street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney-


r Pzl<
L
• isf I '•
leer
£>on y
HUH\j
m
4v>--« —■ —
ft NATO'S
y
ME W"
■ •
A zestful relish
- of luscious tomatoes-7
picked fruits fresh froVn the garden, fairly
bursting with ruby ripeness— only these are
gpod enough for DyasoV to use in the
making of his Tomato Sduce :: :: All the
delicacy and daintiness of\a Home Made
preserve—and yet more choicely flavoured, ■
owing to a score of years’ experience in
‘•.-' condiment making. •
•Without peer as an
appetising reWsh —
DYASON’s\
TOMATO SAUCE
Soli by all Grocer i —but
mind “DYASON’S.” ;It'* a
matter of health, you UnoW •
.
M
wsm
ft
a mm
■
IfffCll®
DESTROYS
i SIMt
m i
i- «uu«Mer
INSECTS
<4M
i : *
INSECTIBANE
THE
WORLD RENOWNED RECORDS BY
MADAME MELBA
OUR SPECIAL OFFER
The MELBA OUTFIT
£7:ls[-
DELIVERED TO ANY PART
OF AUSTRALIA
MELBA
Gramophone
Record^
THE OUTFIT INCLUDES:
MUSIC LOVERS ARE TO BE CONGRAT-
ULATED ON THEIR OPPORTUNITY TO
ACQUIRE SUCH AN OUTFIT AT SO REASON-
ABLE A PRICE. IT GIVES YOU AND YOUR
CHILDREN AN OPPORTUNITY OF HEARING
THE WORLD’S VERY BEST ARTISTS AT
HOME, AND THEREBY OBTAINING AN
EDUCATION THAT UNTIL NOW WAS NOT
POSSIBLE OUTSIDE THE GREAT MUSICAL
CENTRES OF THE WORLD. : : !
PURCHASE THIS OUTFIT NOW, AND HAVE
A PERMANENT RECORD OF THE SINGING
OF SUCH ARTISTS AS—
MELBA CARUSO
AMY CASTLES, Etc.
1 Machine with all Latest Improvements including Tapering Arm Etc.
I Mrfba Record and twelve (12. 10 inch Columbia Records
.. 13 Records to play on it, including one by the Greatest Singer on Earth,
g Beautiful Machine, w th 13 Records to Bailway staljon for £7 : ,s : 0.
All AN’S PHONO DEPOT, 300 Little Collins Street,
ALLAH O rnv ‘ MELBOURNE, VICTORIA


Was Hot and Irritated Dreadfully— 4
Doctor’s Medicine Failed Utterly
*-Completely Cured by One Set
of Cuticura Remedies and Now
RECOMMENDS CUTICURA
TO SUFFERING FRIENDS
“A few weeks before baby was bora
I came out with a bad rash on my
chest, back, and arms, which after a
little while irritated me dreadfully. I
showed it to the doctor, but he said
my blood was out of order and gave
me some medicine, but I did not lose
the humour. Seeing a Cuticura adver-
tisement, I bought a set of the Cuticura
Remedies and tried if it would be suc-
cessful. They stopped the itching
almost at once, but I only used one box
of the Cuticura Ointment and one box
of the Cuticura Resolvent Pills, and
they took every mark off me, leaving
my skin clear and bright and stopped
the hot irritation. I cannot speak
too highly of Cuticura Remedies and
I recommended them to several ladies
who came out with nasty sores, and to
three relatives whose babies had been
troubled with rashes and crusts, and so
make Cuticura known more. I think
that Cuticura Remedies ought to be
known well, as they would save many
and heavy doctors’ bills if used in time.
Mrs. F. Popkin, 74 Glencoe Avenue,
Seven Rings, Ilford, Sept. 8, 1906.”
DISFIGURED FOR LIFE
Is the Despairing Cry of
Thousands of Skin Tortured
And disfigured victims of humours,
eczemas, tetters, and rashes, who have
tried and found wanting the usual
remedies, and who have lost faith in
all. To such Cuticura Soap, Ointment,
and Pills appeal with irresistible force.
They are absolutely pure, sweet, gentle,
and wholesome. They afford immediate
relief in the most distressing cases, and
point to a speedy cure when all else
fails. They may be used on the young-
est infant as well as adults of every age.
And lastly they are within means of all.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults con-
feists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
&Co„ Sydney: Lennon,[Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
WATCH.
GUARANTEED IN WRITING FOR 12 MONTHS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
The “Dreadnought” is an exceptionally strong,
polished steel cylinder watch, with high-grade
jewelled movement, with nickelled dome. It is
wound up and the hands set without opening the
case by the latest keyless mechanism. You can have
the case either GUNMETAL or NICKEL. Both are
practically dust-proof, and have a strong bevelled
crystal glass face. Every, watch thoroughly tested
and regulated before being offered for sale, and
guaranteed in writing fo* 12 months. Sent post free
anywhere for 10/-
Your money returned jn full if you are not satisfied.
Write for Catalogue, Post Free.
10/-
10/-
DUNKLING, m JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
N'
115,000
Tine Wayback iSeries*
Australia laughed 11!' No. S.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
II - S 'Jl
jllliiilt
th- iliiilffS
I'M [‘ii’lti
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
Stylish
Gentle-
man’s
Glace
Balmoral
22/6
There’s guaranteed
worth in every line of
this boot —of the finest
Glace Kid, it is very
pliant and shapely. And
soled with a wide welt.
Broad or narrow toe for
choice, 22/6.
If ordering m Victoria,
add 9d. for postage;
other States, 1/-
Our new Booklet “ Shoe-
light” (beautifully illus-
trated) is free on re-
quest.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
Do You
Use Batteries?
The EDISON Battery delivers the
greatest amount of energy for the
least cost. Its voltage and internal
resistance are constant throughout
its life.
For Stationary and Portable. Gas
Engines, Slot Machines, Fan Motors,
Signals, Phonographs, Electro-
Medical use, Telephones, Fire and
Burglar Alarms, and all other classes
of work, the Edison is supreme—
the battery that reduces expense.
1 .
1
WRITE FOR DESCRIPTIVE BOOKLET.
EDISON MANUFACTURING CO.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
(Selling Agents).
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney,
The First Subdivision of 7,700 Acres
BRISBANE
(35,000 Acres),
QUEENSLAND.
On the Upper Brisbane River, 75
miles from Brisbane, 8 miles from
EBk Railway Station, and 8 miles
from Nestle & Co.’s Cressbrook
Milk Factory and Stud Farm.
47
Choice Agricultural and
Dairy Farms (and Township)
Each Farm having large per centage
of Rich Alluvial River Frontage Flats,
equal to the Best Lucerne Land in the Commonwealth;
enormous supplies of water for Irrigation ; Rainfall 40 ins.
well-distributed; plenty of Fencing Material; Good Roads;
every facility for inspection—Horses and Guides Free.
TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION at Esk, on
Saturday, 4th APRIL, 1908, at 2.30 p.m.
20 Years Terms at s%, with Bonus for prepayments*
Write to-day for Illustrated Plans to
ISLES, LOVE & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
BRISBANE
—
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointeci
Pens,
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s Birmingham, " Cngrl^nd,
These series of
Pens neither scrateh
nor spurt; They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pendl-
Attention i 9 also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re.
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 1902 ..£llll 4p.c.=£1050 £6l £5829
June, 1903 .. 1328 4„ ~ 1050 278 6107
Dec., 1903 .. 1584 4 „ ~ 1050 534 6641
June, 1904 .. 1403 4,, ~ 1050 353 6994
Dec., 1904 .. 1655 4 „ ~ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905 ~ 1315 4 ~ „ 1050 £5OO 7364
Dec., 1905 .. 1147 4,, „ 1050 97 7461
June, 1906 .. 1134 4,, ~ .1050 84 7545
Dec., 1906 .. 1550 4,, „ 1050 500 8045
June, 1907 .. 1143 4,, ~ 1050 309 7829
Dec., 1907 .. 1743 4 „ „ 1050 800 7722
From the fact that considerable sums are now being
written off for depreciation, part of which has to come
out of reserve, it is pretty obvious that previously-
reported profits were inflated, not enough being written
off to cover current wear and t“ar. Portion (£2112) of
the existing reserves consists of a contingency fund, and
it is highly probable that that is also a direct provision
for renewal of special works or appliances ; in that case
about £7O per half-year ought to come off the reported
profit, that being the average addition to that fund.
This co., besides £50,000 of capital, has now £35,178 of
debentures ; so the capital has to protect that investment
also. In other words, the allowance for depreciation has
to be 70 per cent, more than it would need to be if
only the shareholders’ money were in the business,
and it is very doubtful whether enough provision
has hitherto been made. Altogether the co. is on a poor
wicket. Electric lighting (supplied by the municipality)
is very cheap at Launceston ; and there is so little, if any,
margin left for the gas co. after paying its 4 per cent,
that, when coal got dearer 12 months or so ago, this co.
had to ask its customers to pay another penny per thou-
sand. This no doubt explains part of the improvement
in the half-year’s profit.
* « * *
Tamworth Gas Co. (Tam worth, N.S.W.)
Written Toße- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
June, 1903.. £623 10p.c.=£500 £lOO £23 £l9BB
Dec., 1903.. 571 10 „,, 546 25 2013
June, 1904.. 642 10,, ~ 546 100 2009
Dec., 1904.. 631 10 ~ ~ 546 85 2094
June, 1905.. 635 10,, ~ 546 89 2183
Dec., 1905.. 597 10 „,, 546 51 2334
June, 1906.. 595 10,, ~ 546 49 2283
Dec., 1906.. 660 10 ~ ~ 546 100 14 2297
June, 1907.. 618 10,, „ 546 72 2369
Dec., 1907.. 632 10 ~ „ 546 100 2355
The amounts shown as written off are very poor. True,
some depreciation is alleged to be charged direct to profit
and loss; but the extent of the provision is unknown.
Presumably this provision is represented by revenue used
in buying new mains, plant, etc. Yet there is a mysteri-
ous item in the balance-sheet—“ New mains account.”
This was £3lB six months ago, and is £254 now. It looks
very much as though renewals had been charged up to
capital account, and the item is now being wiped off out
of revenue. If so, then hitherto depreciation has not been
sufficiently allowed for, and mains had not been written
down to nothing by the time they were worn out; which
would mean that the true profits were less than the pub-
lished figures. The Tamworth municipality now supplies
electric light to private consumers, and, though that
must be a check, the co. reports record gas sales for the
past six months.
* * * *
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.)
Written Toße- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June,’o3.. £372 10p.c.=£375 £4O £742
Dec.,’o3.. 459 10 ~ ~ 375 £B4 826
June,’o4.. 471 10 „,, 375 96 922
Dec., ’04.. 524 10 „,, 375 149 1071
June,’os.. 418 10 ~,, 375 43 IH4
Dec.,’os.. 554 10 ~ „ 375 179 1293
June,’o6.. 516 10 ~ ~ 375 141 1434
Dec.,’o6.. 508 10 „ „ 375 133 1567
June,’o7.. 488 10 „ „ 375 113 1680
Dec.,’o7.. 543 10 „ „ 375 168 1848
Of the reserves £1740 is to cover plant and gasometer de-
preciation ; and as this depreciation has no doubt actually
taken place, it isn’t a true reserve at all—it is merely re-
placement of worn-out capital. Whether anything be-
sides is written off or provided to cover wear and tear
can’t be said for certain ; but there is no sign of it. In
that case it is doubtful whether the dividend is being
really earned ; it looks probable that it is only being paid
at the expense of capital. The co. owes £5OOB on
mortgage.
* * * *
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Written duce De-
Profits. Dividends. off. Deficit, ficit
Dec., 1902.. £5lB sp.e.= £437 £44 £37 £14,583
June, 1903.. 344 5 „ „ 437 14 676
Dec., 1903.. 410 5 „ „ 437 14*703
Loss.
June, 1904.. 99 Nil 14,802
Profits.
Dec., 1904.. 120 Nil 120 14 682
June, 1905.. 465 sp.c. = 437 28 14 654
Dec., 1905.. 390 5 „ „ 437 14*701
Loss.
June, 1906.. 640 Nil _ k
Profits. M4l
Dec., 1906.. 503 Nil 603 14 838
June, 1907.. 770 sp.c.= 437 209 124 14*714
Dec., 1907.. 738 5 „ „ 437 215 86 14*628
In the foregoing the goodwill paper asset, £15,000, is dis-
regarded ; hence the deficit shown. No attempt is being
made to get rid of this paper item ; yet obviously a lease
is a wasting asset at best, and goodwill in a hotel is
something too intangible to measure in a pint pot or
weigh in scales. The share market long since wiped out
the paper asset ; the shares, 15s. paid, are quoted at about
2s. Id. After paying the present dividend the surplus of
liquid assets over liabilities will be £lOO9 ; and the only
other asset is furniture, etc., £2o79—total £3OBB less
£215 now written off. That means about 2s. 2d*, per
share (there are 26,250 shares); so, as remarked above
the market has scored the goodwill off entirely.
* * * *
The Bulletin hears from an Australian now
in Tierra del Fuego, of all places in the w'orld. The letter
has taken just 12 weeks to crawl round from that wildest
part of S. America “ The much-boomed dredging ven-
tures in this country have not been a success so far, but
the end of the present summer should furnish conclusive
proof as to their worth. The shortness of the season
(October to May), the shallowness of the ground, the
over-capitalisation of most of the cos., and the numerous
over-salaried drones who hang around, all tend against
dividends, &nd Bull, Jonathan, and the Buenos
Aires Cohens are beginning to look glum. At present there
are eight dredges working, three building, and two hun«-
up One of these last struck a patch of immature coal?
and now' stands solitary and deserted in the middle of an
island. All the dredge-masters and w'inchmen are Maori-
landers. The majority of them are returning home as
soon as their contract expires, disgusted with the con-
ditions of life in Chile. Writer came to the country 18
months ago, thinking the place was a second Klondike
and has been trying to get out ever since. Though
fossickers have been working the rivers and beaches for
the last 20 years, the place was never a poor man’s field.
The mining laws are peculiar. One man may take up
a score of dummy claims and peg out half the
countryside. It is the same with the stations, where by
the way, the employees buy their own tucker. Hundreds
of square miles of splendid stock country are owmed by
or three huge syndicates. The trail of Fat is over ali
Add to this the steady depreciation of the Chilian dollar
n ow 25 to the £l, and going down, as also are wao-es’
which have fallen about 40 per cent. The island, which
is a Sheol for wind, is overrun by Austrians, against whom
it is hopeless to compete. Also, a decided feeling against
the employment of ‘ gnngoes ’ is setting in. Altogether
the Land of Fire is a good place to keep aw'ay from?”
* * * .
F.H. from Bundaberg (Q.): “I’m a pros-
pector, just over here from the West. Went to the
Courthouse for a Miner’s Right. Got that all right.
Then asked for a copy of the Mining Act. ‘Go to the
news-agent,’ I was told. Went, and was charged 4s. 3d.
for it. Four-and-three ! I wonder if Queensland is groins:
to encourage me and other prospectors like that all
through. If so, I’ll get back West. For a start, any-
how we can get a copy of the Mining Act over there for
a sfnlhng, and don’t have to risk getting it at a news store
either.


Arnott s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE. CHILDRENS FOOD."
The Melbourne rag magnate, who was
wont to present a Bible to each of his employees,
and whose firm was one of the first to defend
itself on a charge of sweating in the clothing
trade, recently shook the Australian dust from his
feet and hied him England-wards. Over the
portal of his mansion were the words “ This is the
Abode of the Just.” The “Abode of the Just”
has now passed into the hands of a successful
Eublican. and the rooms in which at one time the
eathen Chinee learned the Gospel may possibly
be now devoted to Bridge parties or euchre tour-
naments—both of which were abominations to the
translated ragger.
It is said in quarters where such things
are known, that British Premier Campbell-
Bannerman’s illness is dilation of the heart, and
that the danger attaching to any excitement or
worry will shortly force him to lay down the
Premiership. He had an attack of angina pec-
toris before going abroad the other day, and has
never been the same C.-B. since. His successor
will apparently be Asquith, Morley, or Haldane,
with a shade of odds in favor of Asquith.
Haldane —an almost maudlin worshipper of the
Royal family—is regarded by his party as some-
thing of a snob, and is accordingly unpopular,
while failing health handicaps Morley.
The new Queensland Assembly has 13
members who did not sit in the last Parliament —
Barton, Airey, Murphy, Cottell, and David
Hunter (Kidstonites); Huxham, Winstanley,
Mullan, McLachlan, and Coyne (Laborites);
Appel, Thorn, and Barnes (Pliilpites). Airey,
Murphy, and Thorn, however, sat in previous
Parliaments. The 13 who have gone are Cameron,
Stephens, Macartney, Blocksidge, Bouchard,
Pauli, Millican, McMaster, P. J. Leahy, and
Plunkett (Philpites); Mclntyre and O’Sullivan
(Kidstonites); and Creagh (Independent).
Cameron and Plunkett did not contest the
elections.
Amusements.
GILHOOLEY’S AUSTRALIA
ORCHESTRA plays for every leading
Society function in Sydney, and is always up-to-date ;
latest music. W. R. CILHOOLEY, Tel. 3931,
84 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Theatre royal. Sydney.
Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening at 8, and Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
The Famous Romantic Play,
THE PRISONER OF ZENDA.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices as usual.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In the Farcical Musical Play,
THE DAIRYMAIDS.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CITY, BONDI.
FANNED BY OCEAN BREEZES.
CONCESSION I Admitting Adults for 2s. 6d., and
TICKETS | Children for Is. 6d. to all Attractions.
SENSATIONS UNPARALLELED.
MIRTH UNENDING.
MUSIC UNRIVALLED.
BEAUTY UNEXCELLED.
THE JOLLIEST SPOT ON EARTH.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
CONTINUED SENSATIONAL SUCCESS of
EDWIN GEACH’S POPULAR DRAMATIC
COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF LURED TO LONDON.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7,
A MODERN ADVENTURESS.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, and 1/- Plan at El vy
pALACE THE AT RE, SYDN E Y.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
THE FINEST ARRAY OF PICTURES EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES—2s., Is., and 6d.
Plan at Paling’s.
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden.
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
KALOPERMA-SOAP * KALOPERMfI-JELLY * KALOPERMA-POWPER
RMBi
■ -
fr 1
¥/ ■ \
V
, KALODERMAEWOLFF&SOHN
l6setl 'i ch Karlsruhe.
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers.
Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents s
LOHMANN & CO.,
Melbourne (St Sydney,
Amusements.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
The Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES (“ The Best of All ”).
Everything: New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Tivoli thea t r e, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE SISTERS KLOS, the Most Graceful, Skilful, and
Daring Aerialists Extant.
TERRY and BENTLEY, Refined Comedy Sketch Artists.
Instantaneous Success of IKE AND WILL SCOTT, the
Celebrated Comedians, in their Latest London Successes.
SYLVO, London’s Quaint Comedv Juggler.
THREE CUNARDS, Expert Dancers.
MISS ALMA GRAY. Mr. FRANK HARWOOD.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
P E R A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor <fe Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
First Appearance in Melbourne of Mr. EDWIN BOYDE,
London’s Celebrated Singing Comedian.
KAUFMANN TROUPE, World’s Greatest Bicyclists.
MISS MARGARET PARKER & CO. in
UNDER THE SEAL.
Mr. TOM BURROWS, World’s Champion Club Swinger.
CHARLES DUMONT, Expert Diabolist.
MARTIN HENDERSON, Blind Musician.
FOUR EUGENES, Stage Gymnasts.
Plan at Allan’s. XW PRICES —3s. 2s fid, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY 5, FRIDAY 6, MARCH.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF HUMPTY DUMPTY.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7,
GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
MOTHER GOOSE.
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, BERT BARTON,
HARRY PHYDORA, FLORENCE YOUNG,
MAUDE THORNE, IRENE DILLON.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
“On the Trail of the Trust” is an im-
portant book to Australian Nationalists. Taking
as a text the revelations in regard to the Yankee
Harvester Trust raid on Australia, it puts the case
for Protection from all standpoints brightly, suc-
cinctly, forcibly. No Australian should be with-
out it. Price is. post free from this office.*
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
Messrs. Mevnell and Gunn's Powerful Co.,
Including' Famous English Actress,
MISS MAUD HILDYARD
.... IN
A WARNING TO WOMEN.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7,
MR. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMEDY CO.,
Including MR. THOMAS KINGSTON and MRS.
ROBERT BROUGH,
IN
BREWSTERS MILLIONS.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Day Sale at Palmer’s.
WIRTH'S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES IHE S,?V.
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
NEW songs;?- 2
ONLY 7d. EACH. LIST.
I Words with Full Piano Accompaniment.
,12 for 6s. 3d. Post Free Anywhere.
‘Ain’t yon gwine to say “How-do?”—Alice,
where art thou going?— All for the sake of Finnigan—All I want
is a girl—All the girls are I .ov-er-ly-ov-er-ly—All that glitters isn't
Gold—All through a Gee-Gee Gee—All you’ve got to do—And
his day's work was done—The Angel of my Dreams—Any old
thing will do—Arrah Wanna—At a Minute to Seven last Night—
At the Football Match Last Saturday—At the Seaside—Baby
Mine—Back to Baltimore—Be as you used to be—The Beat of
the Drum—Beautiful. Beautiful Bed !—Beautiful Kate—Bedelia—
Ktc, Our Music lists & Illustrated Novelty Catalogue posted free.
STAR NOVEL lY CO.. 229 Collins St. Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
ROYAL EASTER
SYDNEY SHOW.
grand exhibition carnival.
THE LARGEST AND GREATEST SHOW IN AUSTRALASIA.
TUESDAY to WEDNESDAY, April 14 to April 22, 1908.
FNTRIE.S CLOSE —Export Batter, March 10 ; Wines, March 11; Special Cheese Prizes,
March 16; Wheat, March 17 ; Horse’s (all classes), March 18; Cattle Sheep and Pigs, March 19 ; Poultry,
March 20 : Pigeons, Canaries, and Cage Birds, March 21; Dogs, March 23 ; Farm and Dairy Produce,
’ f March 24 ; Coachbuilding, March 26 ; Miscellaneous, March 26.
Prize Schedules Now Ready
and will be posted, with Entry Forms, on Application.
Royal Chambers, 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
H. M. SOMER, Secretary.
Legal Notice.
■WHEREAS ELIZABETH SMITH late of Hobart in
'' Tasmania Widow deceased died on the eighteenth
day of November one thousand nine hundred and seven
and Probate of her Will has been granted to WILLIAM
TODD of Hobart aforesaid Civil Servant NOTICE IS
HEREBY GIVEN that all persons having claims on the
Estate of the said ELIZABETH SMITH are required to
send in to the Registrar of the Supreme Court of Tas-
mania the particulars of such claims in writing on or
before the first day of July one thousand nine hundred
and eight otherwise they will be excluded from any
benefit of the assets in the hands of the said Executor.
The attention of HENRY JAMES SMITH a stepson of
the said ELIZABETH SMITH who was last beard of in
the year one thousand eight hundred and eighty eight as
an accountant and land agent at Narrabri New South
Wales is specially directed to this advertisement as he is
a legatee under the said WilL Any person having any
knowledge of the whereabouts of the said HENRY
JAMES SMITH or of the date and place of his death is
requested to communicate with the undersigned.
DATED this fifteenth day of February one thousand
nine hundred and eight
NICHOLLS & STOPS
94 Collins Street Hobart
Solicitors to the Estate of the said ELIZABETH SMITH.
m
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tn use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask vour chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
'l' li o Ideal
HAIR.DYEING CORIB
Restores color to faded or grey hair at once by
SIMPLY COMBING IT. Black or any shade of
brown. Darkens auburn hair. Easy to use, does
not discolor hands or scalp. Warranted free from
injurious chemicals. Improves growth and appear-
ance of hair. Color can be changed gradually if
desired to avoid notice. Price 7s. 6d., complete
with Fluid and full printed directions, Posted
securely nacked to any address, THE UNION
COMPANY. 239 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
BOILERS, ENGINES, DYNAMOS, Etc.
FOR sale cheap.
apply EMPIRE ELECTRIC LIGHT CO., LTD., Margaret Lane.
1907/8.
1
2
PER. CENT.
WOOL.
We have much pleasure in announcing that on and after the Ist July, 1908, our consolidated Wool
Selling Charge will he 2 per cent., in place of 2\ per cent, as at present.
Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Co., Ltd.
M L. & F- Co * Ltd >
WOOL,
PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
STOCK and STATION AGENTS,
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
z
•6/8061
PER. CENT.


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.—Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial Mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield,
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP
UNCALLED CAPITAL ..
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
.. .. £2,000,000.
.. .. £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—.
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
IF"
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress' Usury.
3NT.S.W.
|l|ontdepieteo.a!ii|.Co.,[t(l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
oC* PAN Accident and Guarantee
W W 1 Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen’
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.’
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
\ AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 0
Directors: F. It Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANI)S,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. Gd.
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
„ PASSENGERS BOOKED to Eyypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
£ r °’" SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. loth MARCH.
PRINZ SICISMUND {via Sainarai).. 7th APRIL.
MAN,LA sth MAY.
< So V" BUrpa f!' d Sea£ ' roir W Qualities Maximum Speed
safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars app?y
to the Agents, J
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
TjIMITKIk ”
Capital Paid-up £475,041 0 0
keskrvk Liability of Shareholders .. 174.350 0 0
Keserve PuNDlIn vested in Government Stock) 70,000 0 0
„ , £719,391 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd.D. Day. Chief Aoct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E C.
1J Branches m Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
• Thrmuihaut the World.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Pit/ month, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
SALAMIS .. . IR. McKilliam .. I Noon. Mar. 27
a DAMASCUS .. j 11. A. Sehletnan .. I Noon. April 24
*MILTIADES .. jA. Douglas, R.N.R. ' Noon, May 22
♦ Twin Screw, a Third Class onlv.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £i>7 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and. Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, to sail about 17th March.
PERSIC, to sail about 11th April.
TROPIC (Cargo only) to sail about
16th April.
RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Amplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DaUjetij and (ompattt/.
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
13y Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c
Bank of ||eui South (Dales.
Kstaulishkd 18X7.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. £2,425,400 0 0
In course of Payment 74,600 0 0
£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1.530,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ~ ~ 2,500,000 0 0
£6,530,000
Directors:
The Hon. C. K. MacKkllae, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Tiiomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
Auditors • ) Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
| Wllliam Harrington Palmer, Esq.
0 0
London Office—64 Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United.
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the woild.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,410,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,610,000
London Office: 4 Tlireadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire insurances
Marine Risks . ■
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
l'i:o;,IAS JI.TINLEY, Manager.
Banking.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
£1,246,175 0 0
1,219,235 0 0
1,250,000 0 0
£3,715,410 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. 11. L Rater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. F. T. Humpherv, M.L.C.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager: T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector;' A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H. S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New Soutn Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS
TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoomfiald Parade
ST. KILDA.
tpHji Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
rain*
riEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports, ’
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A., Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Grantala, Saturday
March 28. ■■
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Innamincka, March 7.
S.S. Marloo, March 14.
Bent and Clieapent Haute to Oold/lelda.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after it
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on In
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertains
on application at the Company’s Office ea
Q. s. yuill & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
/yjESSAGER/ES jyjARITIIVIES,
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
■mts SAGE MONEY ’ £25 t 0 £B2 / 10 /-, including Table
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
57 Pitt Street.
Tel. 378.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 5 p.m., FRIDAY
March 6.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY
March 14.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other VY.A. ports.) ,
RIVERINA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, March 14.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNOABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR.
GAY, March 7.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
March 10.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 14.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application
ge's'r O S«e’? OES EWIT * BLE edS5 >“«.®
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.-H. A.
For Durban, Capetown
and Condon.
The Fine Steamer,
“RENT”
9500 Tons. A. G. McGIBBON.
Will be despatched from Sydney on MARCH 19, 190 S.
Has excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-
class passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists
of all two-berth cabins on the upper deck, situated
amidships. Steerage accommodation is on the main
deck. Surgeon and Stewardess carried. Electric Light -
throughout.
FARES—
DURBAN
CAPETOWN
LONDON
Saloon. Third Class.
£22 £lO £ll £l2
£24 ss. £lolos. £ll Us. £12125.
£49 10s. £l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
Cargo and passengers’ luggage received at F.H.S.
Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, 7 Macquarie Place,
Managing Agents.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, (id.


oc
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to plunge into a chemist’s
and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent medicine. Failing to get more than temporary
relief from this they then consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely
calls for the same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken. The same
result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that the doctor did not diagnose the case
right, and then goes to another with the same result. And so on.
Our modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay our doctors to
keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health, BUT ON OUR SICKNESS !
To-day very little is known of medicine and its use. The wisest doctor can do but
little more than clear out the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has
done these thing's he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT.MAKE STRENGTH!
The failure or breaking-down of any organic function means that it has not the strength to do its
work. If there was any nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know
there is NOT. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not food. Food is
needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life. No pain or debility can exist in a
body charged with Electric Fife ; you can have no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheu-
matism, Indigestion, Constipation, or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your body with
it because the life generated by this grand force gives health and strength to every organ, and
DR. MeLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT is the newest and most successful method of
applying it. It is a series of small batteries that you wear about your waist. It works while
you Sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing, adjusted
in a minute , and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator.
With it you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your
ankles, feet, arms, shoulders, head or any other part of your body. It has Special Attach-
ments fop Men and women. We have fixed a price for it which is within the reach of
everyone. It is Guaranteed to give a powerful current ; no charge for repairs, and
will last a life-time. Beware of cheap imitations.
1/
t
%
&
%
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated book, which every
man and woman should read. It shows how and why
our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who
write us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your case free. All
communications are treated with strict confidence. Write us or send the coupon
to-day. Delays are dangerous.
The McLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10, Castlereagh and Market Sts.. Sydney.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAM
the McLaughlin co.
Dept. 10, Castlereagh and Market Sts. Sydney.
Please send me your FREE IREUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
1
If privacy is desired, address: SECRETARY, M. E. B. CO.
You Want a Good Watch
THE ONLY THING YOU CAN PAY CASH
FOR, AND YET HAVE “ON TICK."
nv
W
Gentleman’s 10-ct. Solid Gold Hunt-
ing Cased Keyless Elgin Lever Watch.
Buy now, as the duty is up 10 per cent.
Price, <£B 10s.
We show here some of the best and most popular
styles of Watches now made. They combine Neat-
ness, Elegance, Quality, and Strength. Send along
your order now, you canh do better. Remember
money back if the Watch you buy does not open
up to your satisfaction. You run absolutely no risk
when you deal with STEWART DAWSON & CO.
The Thinnest 12-Size American Watch
made. A 1 Elgin Lever Movement,
14-ct. Gold Case. For a man who
appreciates smartness this is the watch.
JSB 10s.
Ssi®
*3
This is a specially fine 10-ct.
Gold Full Hunting Elgin
Lever, and we can advise
any lady to wear it, as it is
good both in case and works.
Free and safe by post for
<£s lCs. ,
25 YEAR
*'•
This shows our 14-ct. Gold.
Filled Watch for Women.
Sqund, Serviceable, and
worth three of any cheap all-
gold watch. 10s.
Our Special Thin Model Keyless Steel Crystal
Front Lever. The Best Guinea Watch in
Australia. £1 Is.
DON’T
DEL A Y,
WRITE
TO-DAY
TO
sT BANP CORNER ,GEOftGF<
Gentleman’s 25-year 14-ct.
Gold-filled, Hunting Case
Elgin Lever Watch. Im-
mensely superior to a cheap
all-gold watch. £5 10s.
25 YEAR
WRITE FOR OUR
FREE
CATALOGUES.


Oatine
is the great face cream
that is making so
many English com-
plexions clear and
beautiful.
A year ago Oatine was unknown in Eng-
and, now it is used by every woman who
values a good complexion.
Merit alone has built up its enormous popu-
larity. Oatine is a pure face cream, cooling
and refreshing, free from animal fat and
dangerous minerals. It removes the dust
and dirt that soap and water cannot reach
from the pores, and keeps the skin soft,
delicate and clear. It does not grow hair.
Being made from fresh pure oats, heat does
not cause it to go bad.
It is the ideal face cream for Australians!
and will enable any woman to keep a fresh
clear complexion in the dry Australian
climate. Men use it after shaving-.
In jars 1/9, or large size, four times the
amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists,
stores, etc., throughout Australia.
Get ajar to-day.
ANDERSON’S
A certain cure for
Broken Knees, Sore
Shoulders and Backs,
SAFE
HORSE
CURE.
Cuts. Swelling's, and fresh wounds.
ANDERSON’S MANGE CURE is the
latest remedy for Mange, Scabs, Itch,
Ringworm, etc. Testimonials from
leading Sydney Horse-owners.
Sample bottle 2s. 9d., post paid 3s. 6d.
Sydney Depot—3o P.O. CHAMBERS.
PITT STREET.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blairs
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Heuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT ft Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
j
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antisepticaily cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
| Calvert’s
| 20 % Carbolic Soap,
lt is also pleasant and refreshing for
> bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
> against infectious diseases.
' Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
(Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
I
*
#
(fIORRISS
IMPERIAL
°ihtmemt
3 CUBES 0
£IA DAY EASILY
Made by liye Canvassers, (ladies and gents.) whole or
spare time, selling Household Labor saving Special
lties, Novelty Farm Tools, Ladies Hat Fasteners,
Cheap and Novelty Watches, Scissors Sharps, Games,
Magic Polish Cloths, Novel Thimbles, Im’n Jewellery
Sets, Music, Medical, Joke Books. Sole Agency
given Success certain. Particulars, Catalog 90 ex-
clusive, fast-selling New Lines. Home Kep. Co.
Hunter’s Chambers, George St. Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervonsConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oporession immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bv all Chomisfu.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
Capital
,000.
G
py
our Rates are the lowest current*
OUR PoLicy conditions
THE MOST FAVORABLE';'
OUR Bonuses the highest obtainable-
our Claim Settlements
are liberal a prompt
A "Pußfty Australian (©MpANy I
TRANSACTING FIRE,MARINE,
& Accident Insurance
' N O.
Branch
/ Established in
W. i sps,
'with Branches all ove *
AU3TRALAJIA.
Central
B Ranch'.W^^
South Q’land K:*:
B ranch. '{Brisbane
. South
Australian
Branch.
Dr strict #*:
Office /&■:
Head % m^str e
OFFICE
VICTORIA
Branch-.
.T#
West Australian
rerrn\m Branch.
I
\ Branch
J Hobart.
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The Immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their sple u ;d curing power,
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to tak_.
Proprietor Is
They cure
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who v«as a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “ Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got some from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froc-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
*
“For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am—that‘Frootoids' are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. |am feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M'CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For saTe by leading Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If" your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them for you. If not obtainable locallv
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. ’
NOTICE.—The materials In FROOTOIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY and consist,
amongst other ingredients, of the active principle of each of FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS
and ROOTS, so combined and proportioned in a particular way that a far BETTER result is
obtained than from an ordinary anerient.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
s
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN Si HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON, * Bridge Sts., Sydney


The Farrell family, of Watson’s Bay
(N.S.W.), makes a little gallery on its own
account Father and six sons wear medals of
various kinds for life saving—with, perhaps, the
exception of William, who bases his distinction on
having acted as orderly to Major-General Hutton
on a battlefield. Father holds a gold medal for
saving wash-aways at South Head. Son James
holds a bronze medal and certificate from the
Royal Shipwreck Relief Societv. Edward has
dragged several swamped mortals ashore. Thomas
and Ernest put off lately,when the Southern Cross
got into difficulties outside the Heads, and were
just in time to rescue the second officer. George,
who is one of the pilot lifeboat crew, has several
heroisms to his credit.
Mr. H. E. Pratten, of Sydney, has been to
Japan, and gives to the Sydney papers some in-
formation about the tricks of our yellow brother :
The mining regulations of Korea allow the Minister for
Agriculture there, subject to the direction of the
Japanese Resident-General, to reject any application
nf°nnfri ?) re ° eiv :, d at his office in the morning, in favor
of one (Japanese ?) received in the afternoon of the same
daj. In Yokohama, there is a tax of 12 yen (245.) vearl v
verW9s C i eS ow . n . ed ln , the European quarter, but only one
.yen (25.) on those in the Japanese quarter. No dis-
crimination is ostensibly made against the foreigner, hut
the tax is adjusted by the local authorities, who have
discret'on as to the area and amount to be taxed, and it
so happens that the area subject to the 12 ven tax is
almost exclusively European, whilst in the one yen dis-
tncts no European residents are found.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
1 ' HMS " K '’ For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
Freehold and C P rComhm»rfA „ , Clty or Suburban Properties, or on
of Government OebenTur e B ins«fh»rt a L an u Agri s ultural Lands, or on the Security
tralian States or New SnH ,° r Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
, e Zealand .dG* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Dl „ cro „,
rs wbmbsj awasaff,
BEAD OFFICE, „ PITT SYDnI?.'
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.’
Post Free 6d, from "The
Bulletin” Office
Shipment Just Arrived
THE HIGH-CLASS
b'.ZK
SPECIAL
SMOKINO MIXTURE
An original and fascinating example
OF OUR MOST RECENT ACHIEVEMENT.
This Speciality is a hlend of rare Tobaccos which
have been stored in bond by us for many years. It
has been our custom in those years which produce
the finest Tobaccos, of special merits, to secure a
reserve stock. Some of these stocks we have now
decided to amalgamate and the result is a unique
blend known as
“ARDATH SPECIAL”
Sold Everywhere.
Manufactured ii
LONDON by ARDATH TOBACCO CO.
r.MiinAkiTf
ES
Smß
are omoked
all over
Australasia
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
I
' 4 o~£ ST *■
It acts like a charm in
MARRH<EA.
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA & “
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World, in bottles, Is. 1 \d. ; 20z., 2s. 9c?. ; 40z., 4s. 6c?. each.
Every bottle of the CENU,NE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
Elephant,” on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where •• Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain. f .
Of Imitations I The great .success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally
NOTlCE.—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Benger’s Food is. sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
s ’he LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia ott all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the Value Of 50s, ot more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s, or more.
Our SPECIAL
.. .SNAP...
CANT
B
BEAT
$9
ir- -
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6f to 7lb. ; of 16-gauge, 6£ to ... Bs,
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, ana therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
Look (op Mature and illustrated
Marriage GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiif.
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d, Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is : post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions wtTH Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d, Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d» Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
IN StoNET, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., IS post.
Rosario, 2s, Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. SaNDow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. His Tory of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain tor the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
IS
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both ih and Out of matriage. No man of woman who
anticipates a bright fdtiirfe, and wishes to enjoy niarfied life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEE!). Complete, unabridged;
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
HotE to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp ON Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is, Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d; French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Like in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prloes Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my pricos with others and
save your cash. gWf~ Established, 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK GAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
Remit in stamps, money order, or
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT RY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1*
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret His Tory Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About INcubators, lsi iki Morgan's
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all* Degrees, 1900
Edition, Is posted. est Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology. 7s 6d post, Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
WINCHESTER
M
m
&
i.
•8 .</«
IF i
%
;
./Av?
rUPf
& .w
/•vf'.y
am
m
~ r £“vW A"
Mr: •'■/ ~ vr
»/ //1
L... =ty
Vl‘“ : '
%
gngjij
“REPEATER”
Smokeless Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Repeater” cases are
carefully and accurately
made and loaded with
high grade powder, shot
and wadding by exact
machinery. That’s why
they shoot so strong and
so uniformly and make
such even patterns.
Pries considered no shot
gun cartridges on the
market equal them.
Try Them. Sold by All Dealers.
rjIHE BULLETIN POST (J ARDS—New
I Series, IV.. V,, VI, Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten. Bid,
D
YSON'S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s.
lightful and wickedly true. ’*
6d.
“De-
WHY DON’T
YOU BUY A
WINCHESTER?
6/- per 100 ;
57/6 per WOO
Winchester Repeating Rifles
1892 Model, \32 Calibre, Central Fire, 6 shot, ( KCi /
24-inch Octagon Barrel, Weight about 7 lb. 05#/ m
Winchester Repeating Carbines
1892 Model, *32 Calibre, Central Fire, 6 Shot,
20-inch Round Barrel, Weight about 5f lb.
PRICE 56/6
THUMB TRIGGER S.S. MODEL, ’22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long,
22 Long Rifle Cartridges . .
1902 S.S. MODEL, '22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long, 22 Long Rifle Cartridges,
1904 S.S. MODEL, '22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long, 22 Long Rifle Cartridges,
1903 REPEATER, '22 Cal., takes 15 '22 Cal. "Short Cartridges
15/-
20/-
25/-
45/-
JAMES MARTIN & CO.
683 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
STUDY YOUR HEALTH.
DRINK ONLY .
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
Britisb=flustralasiait
T*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
DIRECTOR
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter :
Copy of Testimonial.
GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY.
Lady Mary Lygon wishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied with the two costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well,
(Signed) C. JARDINIER.


axo
To be obtained at all Chemists.
Price I/O
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
21^
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price <£l 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
watches, jewellery, Etc, 2to Queen St., Brisbane
FIELD-GLASSES
WITH
ENHANCED
- Distance between
* - Oculars.
Increased
STEREOSCOPIC
EFFECT.
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL
SPORT.
STALKING.
Feature!
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision,
Stability.
, Tropic Proof.
Obtainable
from all
Opticians.
distance between Objectives.
NEW MODELS.
CARL ZEISS, JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH-29, Margaret St.,
Regent St., London, England.
New
Catalogue
T 78
Post Free.
i
ii
•■s'
EXCESS FAT
.S SO UGLY!
Why do you allow yourself to lose your
graceful curves ? Why fall into fat ?
Obesity adds years to your looks and
takes years off your life.
“FAT CU RE”
reduces weight safely and permanently.* It
is absoluletly harmless and non-poisonous,
and leaves no unpleasant or ill after-effects.
Many cases lose over a pound a day.
Mrs O J. MURPHY, of Padding-ton, N.S.W., writes Three months ago I weighed list. 41b.
After taking the first month's course of ‘ Fatcure ’ I lost 161 b. The second month I lost in weight 111 b.,
and began to feel immensely better in general health. I have now, in the middle of the third month s
course lost another 101 b., which brings my weight down to Bst. 91b., and I have discontinued the treat-
ment. lam very much pleased with the results in every way, and will always recommend fatcure.
OUR TREATMENT IS GUARANTEED.
Our last words to you now are Remember that the purity of “Fatcure" and its freedom from harmful,
poisonous or deleterious substances is absolutely guaranteed. Chemical analysis shows it to be absolutely
harmless, and its efficacy undoubted.
SEND 2d. STAMP or call for FREE TRIAL SAMPLE
Cali, if convenient, and get a Free Sample, or write— enclosing 2d. stamp—and we will send sample
and our interesting booklet “ Corpulency.” Write or Call without delay. Hours . 9 a.m. to 5 daily.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also in Market Street. Take lift. [2
The Man I Might Have Been.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY eyes seem like to fill with tears,
At times, when looking aft
Along the score of wanton years
That I have had to graft,
I think of how I might have shone
Throughout this earthly scene ;
And muse in solitude upon
The man I might have been.
If I had worked a trifle less
And schemed a trifle more,
And never ventured to transgress
Convention’s rigid lore ;
If I my strength had always lent
To sordid tyranny,
I might have been a corpulent
And Tory M.L.C.
With less respect for those who toiled,
And more for those who preyed,
I might have easily despoiled
The creditors I paid.
If I had only learned to prate
Their praises, crawling prone,
An office and a big brass plate
I might have called my own.
If I my chances had foreseen,
I should have got to work
And taken round the plate, and been
A pillar of the kirk—
Denounced the devious ways of sin,
And, by judicious “kid,”
Have done some trusting widows in
For fifty thousand quid.
I might have been a banker great,
A king of high finance,
If I’d pursued the highway straight
And scorned the song and dance ;
If from my aim I’d never swerved
I would not write this tale,
For if I’d got what I deserved,
I might have been in gaol.
I might have been the sort of bloke
Who always takes the chair ;
Resplendent in a ’possum cloak,
I might have been a mayor,
On Empire days to loudly bounce
About our kin and kith,
And, in excited tones, denounce
The Petriana myth.
If I had stilled my throbbing heart,
Nor breathed a passioned sigh,
Nor turned to “ word” the rosy tart
Who winked a rolling eye ;
Nor joined the wild, exultant band
That yelled for William Squires,
I might have had a motor grand
With eighteen-guinea tyres.
I might have had a business big,
A swell emporium,
Where all the Extra Naice to rig
Their padded forms would come.
I might have had a yearly sale,
It I had got the cheek,
Employing eighty women, pale,
For twelve-and-six a week.
Still, gazing on the joys of earth,
The fallacies of fame,
I fancy that the candle’s worth
A bit more than the game.
No praises raise the press to me,
Financially I’m broke ;
But, still, I much prefer to be
An ordinary bloke.
Remembering the girls I kissed,
The friends I number yet,
I think those leaders proud have missed
A lot they must regret.
I reckon small the things they got
To joys they’ve never seen,
And thank my lucky stars I'm not
The man I Might have been.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACGREGOR.
Over the Garden Wall.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ONCE upon a time there was a girl who had
the usual duality of lovers. One was the
usual charming ineligible ; the other the
usual dull but prosperous probability. The story
suffered not a little from this banal usualness
until Arthur Mowle came into it. Nothing that
Mowle did, either consciously or otherwise, can
ever be charged with this distressing quality.
His pictures were so out of the common that the
critics unanimously abused them, for, if there be
one thing which the public —from which the critic
springs—will never forgive in canvas or tale or
song, that one thing is personality. Mowle’s
views of life were as strange as his art, for they
were honest even unto the rankest materialism,
and “to be honest, as this world goes, is to be
one man picked out of ten thousand.” It is not
the way to popularity, though. One gains a few
staunch friends and a host of interesting enemies.
What Mowle would say behind a man’s back was
curiously similar to what he would say before his
face, and—there is a distinction here—what he
said before one’s face he did not fear to say behind
one s back. You or I will dare the former ; the
latter, which leaves us open to the reproach of
cowardice, we will not. Mowle was not even
afraid to speak evil of the dead, if he thought they
deserved it, and some of them did, despite the
statements on their tombstones.
The most adhesive of his disciples was a young
journalist, named Luker. It is not a pretty name,
but we cannot all have pretty names, and Luker
rose above his. His admiration for Mowle one
must take as a testimonial, for there could be
nothing petty in the character which dared to
stand against the cold blasts of bitter truth turned
bj the artist upon friend and enemy, upon the
just and the unjust alike. Not content with
merely standing against them, Luker actually
liked and encouraged them, which is the more
amazing when one considers that this misguided
young man was in love. Few lovers find the
bracing wind of semi-elderly cynicism to their
taste, perhaps because they fear the weakening of
their amorous resolution ; but Luker used to let it
blow upon a plant hardy enough to survive. He
even sought to communicate to his adored his
admiration of Mowle, and found to his surprise
that honesty is not popular with women unless it
is carefully wrapped in pink tissue-paper. “ I
hate that man Mowle,” she said, one day. “He
has such low views of life. Fancy an artist say-
ing that men are only animals, and will do more
for fear than for love ! I suppose he meant
women too. I don’t think he’s a nice friend for
you.”
It has been hinted that the girl had another
lover. She had, and the balance had not yet
swung finally to either side. She, in common
with most of her sex who have been well brought
up, believed in Love, the sort of Love which one
expects the printer to dignify with the capital
pertaining. And yet her belief was not the
robust conviction of a strong spirit, but rather
that pathetic clinging to hope so often mistaken
for faith amongst good souls who go regularly to
church, and who are too intellectually incapable,
or lazy, or cowardly to honestly examine them-
selves.
There is but one test of love —experience. So
the girl, uncertain, leant toward Luker, but mis-
trusted this instinct of mating which had trapped
so many women into unworldly matrimony, and
then, vanishing like fairy gold, betrayed them to
poverty. Poverty could never be the fate of the
wife of John Lawton. He was the owner of the
largest and ugliest drapery store in the town, was
almost indecently rich, and quite commonplace.
As far as he was able he loved her, and had more
than once asked her to marry him. Here was the
problem she had set herself—certain riches plus a
small esteem, or poverty plus a problematical
wealth of what that most untrustworthy class of
mankind, the poets, declare will sweeten poverty
and sickness, and even take the sting from death.
To one of little faith, the solution depends largely
upon circumstance.
Circumstance took a turn unfavorable to Luker,
for it bejel that he quarrelled with her upon an
afternoon when her decision hung upon the wind,
and forthwith she hardened her heart until it
became of the hardness of that of Pharaoh.
Here it is that the story is divided into two
streams of events by the wall. The wall was
primarily built to divide John Lawton from the
public. It was a solid affair, eight feet high, and,
stretching a hundred yards along the highway,
fulfilled its mission admirably. But a wall may
be over-officious, just as may a human servant,
and this one magnified its office of division until
it divided a man from the thing he wanted most
in the world, just when he had stretched out his
hand to gather it in.
Under its shadow John Lawton sat with the
girl who had hardened her heart. She had made
up her mind, and, as he was summoning up his
courage to tell her for the fifth time that he
couldn’t live without her —which was untrue—
she was summoning hers for the sacrifice. He
leaned forward, and she had ado to hold back her
laughter as she noticed the little hairy wart on his
nose. A wart on Romeo’s nose would have
killed the love of Juliet, she thought ; how absurd
it made the passion of this man to whom she was
about to give herself without love ! Without
l ove i— s he felt her maidenhood protest in the
quivering of her flesh. And, in cruel accentua-
tion, a vagrant pencil of sunlight flickered through
the dusky roof of swaying pines, and touched the
farcical thing upon his face delicately, turning the
hairs to glistening threads of gold. In another
moment she would have shrieked, but that he
took her hand. That sobered her hysteria. The
sacrifice was very close now.
“ Ellen,” he said, not without a certain dig-
nity, “ I’m plain, I’m unpoetic, I’m not half good
enough for you —and yet I have the cheek to put
myself in the window. I’m a trader, nothing
else, but a trader’s a man, after all, and a trader
can give you more than a poet can of what makes
life worth living. I never did believe in that sort
of love that romantic chaps talk about, and I’m
afraid most women do, but I give you my word
that I’m about as close to it as I will ever get,
and that I’ll be a good husband to you. And,
after all, romance won’t buy dresses, nor leisure,
—nor pay the baker's bill. I don’t think 111 ever
have the face to ask you again if you turn me down
this time ; one gets a bit tired of being turned
down. P’raps if I were romantic I wouldn’t, but
you see I’m not. Do consider it, dear, and, if
you can, make me happier than Pve ever been
before in my life.” . .
His speech hit her like a club. A marriage for
dresses, and leisure, and due payment of the
baker’s bill! Still, her lips were shaped to the
sale, when Arthur Mowle passed, like Pippa, to
set things right. Fie and Luker walked outside
tjie rich man’s garden, and, as they passed the
spot where the bargain was being concluded, the
(Continued on next page.)


A Professional Nurse Gives Bile
m
-o
N#
■'/A
Beans Great Praise.
PROFESSIONAL NURSES, and
others similarly qualified to
judge, are unanimous in their
praise of the curative virtues
of Bile Beans, and their re-
markable suitability as a
medicine for family use.
Nurses invariably recommend
Bile Beans to their patients,
and hundreds have adopted them
as their family medicine.
Nurse Baldwin, residing at 106 Bourke Street,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney, writes : —You have my
heartfelt thanks for the benefit I have received
from Bile Beans. About seven years ago my
health began to break up through overwork and
worry. My liver was sluggish in its action,
and I suffered from Indigestion and
and, finally. Decline. Several doctors pre-
cribed for me, but, strange to say, I derived no
benefit from their treatment. I also tried several medicines advertised as a cure for my
complaints, but still failed to improve in health. Bile Beans were recommended by
a friend, and although I had little faith in their doing me any good after all the
others had failed, I still determined to give them a trial, and purchased a box. Their
effect was marvellous from the first few doses, and, continuing the course, I was quickly
restored to health. Since that time I have never been without Bile Beans in the house,
and have recommended them to scores of my patients, and in each case they have derived
great benefit. As for myself, I cannot speak too highly of them.”
CAUTION !
Bile Beans for
Biliousness are
never sold in bulk,
by the dozen or
hundred, but in
sealed boxes bear-
ing- the signature
of the Proprietors,
“The Bile Bean
Manfg. Co.” written
in red ink on out-
side wrapper.
Be sure you get
the Genuine.
/Z,^S
£-ANSi&
VL/OUSMESI
Ikon, ilvjr Affections
clear* the complexion
PRICE • 1/1 £. Per Box.
A DOSS -ito 3 Pills
at BedtiTae.
of
OR.
t+?e^'Si
each
A
BILE BEANS
are the product of a
modern scientific research.
They prompt the liver
and digestive organs to
act in Nature’s normal
way. They produce a
gentle action of the
bowels, cleanse the
stomach, rid the system
of all impurities, and
PROMPTLY CURE
biliousness, liver troubles,
constipation, impure
blood, bad breath, de-
bility, piles, and tone up
the system by restoring
Nature’s healthy func-
tions. Price 1/1* and 2,9
per box, of all Chemists
and Stores.
9
m
i/
dddm.
Qy& d d d#/dfr
and ddd/madt d
d fid dwt/tad.
clear voice of the artist broke in upon the girl’s
answer.
“Fine trees!” he said. “Fine wall, too!
Must have cost a deuce of a lot to build. I
wonder if he’s going to paint it pea-green, though,
to match the house. He must have the soul of a
pork-butcher, whoever he is.”
Another voice expostulated in an undertone.
“ I don’t care if the suburb hears me. If the
owner does it may do him good, though one can’t
make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear. A pea-
green house amidst those beautiful trees ! And
upon the wall one suspects cheap oleographs, and
in the music-room a three-hundred guinea grand,
upon which he picks out dance-tunes with one
finger, in the intervals of selling pork. Bah !
The vulgar rich, my friend, are part of the price
we pay for civilisation, and I’m inclined to think
we pay too highly.”
The words died away in the distance like the
music of “The Turkish Patrol,” and the two
upon the seat looked at one another stonily. The
man found his voice first.
“ Well ?” he said, hoarsely.
“ The house is green— pea-green” she answered
wildly.
“What does it matter? Ellen, you’re not
going to let ”
She bit her lip and choked into her handker-
chief. “Do you pick out dance-tunes with one
finger ?” she asked, a catch in her voice.
He stared at her, and, at his look of bewilder-
ment, hysteria mastered her. “ You are a pork-
butcher,” she cried, laughing in his face. “How
can I marry a pork-butcher ? ” ■
“ Ellen ! ” he pleaded.
“ Oh—-go away from me—please, pork-
butcher! I cant marry you. What am I saying?
Go— go ! Why don't you go?”
He went.
* * * *
A week after this painfully ridiculous scene
Arthur Mowle swore as the door of his studio
was flung open from without. Luker dashed in,
and there was a skurry of pink as the model dived
f rom the dais for cover,
“ Look here, my young friend ! ” flamed the
painter, “ you're old enough now to know that
d s manners to knock, even if this ts only an
artist’s studio. The ancient Bohemianism is
dead.”
Luker grabbed Mowle’s hand and shook it
wit -h fury. “ It’s all settled !” he cried. “ She’s
*Le best ”
Th e artist dragged his hand away. “My poor
young man!” he condoled. “Hooked! Why
can’t they let the boys alone, at least ? ”
“ What a cynical beast you are, Mowle! I tell
y° u she’s the ”
“ Spare me these jejune raptures, for Heaven’s
sake, and don’t put ideas into my innocent
model’s head. But if you feel you must , come
up here after five o’clock and get it off your chest.
Now, run away, like a good boy, and let me get
some work done.”
dhe artist took Luker by the sleeve and guided
him firmly out of the studio. But, on the edge
of the landing, the young man turned, and,
coming back to the door, opened it to see Mowle
take up his palette.
“Mowle !” he called, and the other faced
> und furiously. “ Your horror of pea-green
houses is the finest point in your character.”
HASSAN.
THE SHOAL LIGHT
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE’S many a quiet place on land,
But ne'er a one can be
So lonesome as this rib o’ sand
Set longwise in the sea.
’Tis shining sky and shining sea,
The glare ’most turns you blind ;
Yet here I be, and bound to be,
For there’s the light to mind.
My God ! ’tis still past all belief,
As smooth as any lake ;
Here on the sands inside the reef
The seas don’t hardly break.
The lighthouse throws a bit o’ shade,
’Tis all there is to see.
I Watch it till I’m half afraid
’Twill rise and come at me.
My mate he bore it half-a-year,
And always frightened o’t ;
But then he’d got so mortal queer
He up and cut his throat.
’Twas in his bunk, his face was white,
But all the clothes was red ;
It put me in a kind of fright
To see how much he bled.
I dursn’t put him to the tide,
There’s sharks too nigh at hand,
I had to dig a grave outside,
And lay him in the sand.
I dressed ’im in his finest clothes,
And to the grave I’d made
I carried him, and filled it close,
And smoothed it wi’ the spade.
QUEENSLAND.
I nailed two boards to make a cross,
And wrote thereon : ‘ ‘ Here lay
The bones of Richard Henry Ross
Until the Judgment Day.”
I set a line of oyster shell,
And then I made it two ;
I planted each one firm and well ;
What more like could I do ?
For three long days—’twas mortal hot-
lie rested quietly,
But on the fourth one up he got
And followed after me.
I never seen him getting out,
I never seen his face,
All coward-like he lurks about
In every corner place.
He creeps behind me out of sight,
But well I know he’s there ;
He lays a hand as light as light
Upon my lifting hair.
He’s close as I go up the stair,
And, turn I ne’er so fast,
Still he’s behind me—God knows where
Or how he slithered past !
He passes quicker than a flash
As I go out and in,
But I can see the fearsome gash
That gapes beneath his chin.
By day and night my watch I keep
Upon that creeping fear ;
I dare not lay me down to sleep,
Lest it should draw too near.
And bend above me in the dark,
And whisper me to rise,
And lift upon me, grim and stark,
The horror of its eyes.
A.W.


“I was troubled greatly with
pimples on the face and neck,
which so-called blood medicines I
used did not remove. I then,
about two years ago, began with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and I have
not been troubled with the pim-
ples since. You can use this photo
and testimonial as you like.”
Miss B. Johnson, Adelaide.
Blotches, rashes, pimples, eczema, boils, are not sim-
ply signs of a little trouble on the surface of the body.
The real trouble is down deep in the blood itself.
Sarsaparilla
purifies the blood and brings back to the skin all its soft,
natural, and healthy condition.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Look
outfor imitationsthat will only disappoint you. Get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CRCIUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Con'assions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and ovelties
Madame Panza,
• Box 913 , G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
A
T>
■ 0
_j£
’OCSCJ&j,
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
ecery home, we are giving away prizes such as MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES’ and GENT'S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded tor use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES’
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER,
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US VOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward you 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette,
Cdndytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return the seeds if not sold,
thousrh you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every case
positively as represented in our illustrations.
K^OOOOO:
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY
Co 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
*■< a
mi
m
*2-
% *
vl
m
mmmm
's. T ; : 1!r .
Jj' u'^fer S*> '< 3-"'
/>•**
/*-
; x>7 ■ : 77
ft
11
m
»;
Rtf*
tf
K
....•
W:
m. 3
M
f'vSJ, ••■■■■
pfc
>~£<*
???
«
. .
€6
f
SpJIOM UIB{ < j[ M
you see ’
Jmean,'
FREE TRIAL/!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Live , and St mach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC
Please mention this paper.
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof liis best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the Fame
diseases '' iti.out
inconvenien'e
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
MEN
A NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &c.
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours; 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“ The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a oopv will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different, to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. A o similar book has ev„r been published.
pecimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations andcolored plate,
o-ivini» i a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on Special Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is (id (stamps). 531 Note Address :
A 50-page spe<
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Dn this paper when writing.
"Elmley House,” 151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.
THE BOOK-YARD.
One of the innumerable useless books pro-
duced by the Japanese war is With Togo,
by an English war-correspondent, H. P.
Seppings Wright. The account is stated to
be the result of seven months’ active service
with Togo ; but during those seven months
Seppings Wright contrived to see surprisingly
little ; and the dullness of the narrative is
enlivened only by numerous photographs
of the author, and some extremely bad
drawings by the author. Of course, he was
not on board at Tsu-shima—where even his
dull testimony would be of value. He ends
on a hopeful note —for Australia.' “By
this great victory. . . new ports will be
thrown open to the world, and territory
whose inhabitants have been crushed
beneath the weight of a Russian
occupation will come under the bene-
ficent sway of Japan, and the light of
civilisation, peace and prosperity will shine
over the land. Banzai ! ” It seems, judg-
ing fro,m the accounts we have from Man-
churia and Korea, that H. Seppings Wright
is even a worse weather-prophet than he is a
war-correspondent.
Progress, a scientific illustrated monthly,
published at Wellington (M.L.), is devoting
much space to the question of aerial naviga-
tion. A useful summary of the present
situation, called forth by the fact that Henri
Farman has flown under test conditions by
means of an aeroplane, is given in the two
recent issues, with technical elucidation and
numerous illustrations. Progress is a re-
markably well edited and produced monthly
for scientific readers.
The Australian Photographic Journal
(Harrington, Sydney) is a publication that has
evolved from a mere compilation of extracts
from outside periodicals into a journal essen-
tially Australian —written, not scissored. In
the last two numbers are accounts (with well
reproduced illustrations) of two devotees of
the higher photography, L. W. Appleby
and F. Styant-Browne. Australian camera-
workers can hardly afford to overlook the
A.P.J.


perdriau
FOR
GARDEN HOSE and
SPRINKLERS.
Price Lists Fosted Free cn request
270 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to everv home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, ana all places where tii s
among whom are
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, a ill
not eoil or injure
anything, uue
lasts the emire
seas n.
told by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Groceis and
Hardware
Dealer s,
Sydney— Anthony Hordern &Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St.: F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 2CB Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O'Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung& Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co, Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill ror
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv cornm essed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART— Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS:
§L J.
503
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Water!
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our /
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES.
sy
A-
*
*
<C
*
.o.
Rider.
Write for
“B” i
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
■-ICIENCY.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
K Celebrated
) PLATE and
) CUTLERY
.C■ M ~
MARK
C0O0&1Q
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
tohlF
Mbs
WOLF
or
At the Showrooms —
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street
Also at SYDNEY
THE BLOCK 99
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffielc
JOHN HURST & CO.
WatchmaKers and Jewellers,
HAVE REMOVED FROM
321 George St. to 4 Hunter St., Sydne
Sheep
Shearing
Machinery.
An'S
i:.
FOR FULL PARTICULARS, ESTIMATES, Etc., APPLY-
When you are after best results and thorough SATISFACTION
at shearing time, YOU WON’T fully succeed unless M-V
Machines are in your SHED. Regardless of hard usage, they
will give you the BEST RESULTS.
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machine Co.,
VICTORIA : D. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. 7 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing- Co., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Federal Sheep Shearing Co., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing Co., Melbourne Road. Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
Catalogues Mailed
FREE.
• •
LTD
♦
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JSu
m
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles,”
FERRODOR
Manufactured by
GRIFFITHS BROS. <&L CO.,
... LONDON.
not S “ d ' Tin " ,er ’ Eriok ‘' Sto " e 0r Ce ” ent - AII «*» •" *»* The only Paint which thoroughly adhere, to Galvani.ed Iron _
— two p " nlins " wtt,, " y oiher 0,,, “” d ir °" p,iated *»>—** * «<*>
It withstands Acids, Salt Spray, etc., and does
MARYBOROUGH GAS & COKE CO., Maryborough, o.—We have used “ Perrodor ” over five years for our Gas
luouters, prefer it to other good and highly-recommended paints.
S. L. FURNEP General Storekeeper, Coulburn, N.S.W.—After four years’ wear the “ Perrodor” on my stores
at Gap'. Hat seems as good as ever. It is the only paint which has given me satisfaction on
Cap
Galvartis,
SOUTHOW 830 Contractors, Waratah, N.S.W.—We consider “ Perrodor ’’ the best paint we have ever used.
hovering capacity is enormous—about 1000 square yards per cwt.
|" 0 A, J.* ,c n’ Crool l we| h N.S.W.—Any person once using “ Perrodor” will use no other paint.
J. P. FRANXI, Mort s Dock & Engineering Co., Sydney.- 1 ' Ferrodor ” stands heat and exposure, and remains
linn ana intact. It does not crack or scale off, and covers more surface than ordinary paints.
MELRO ? f f * « NW, , CK > 9-“ Ferrodor ” has proved far ahead of anything previously used,
although the climate and salt air is very severe on such goods. 6 F J
C ’nn'r '! , E " gm ® er > Brisbane, Q—“ Ferrodor ” forms a close, hard and tenaceous skin, which neither
,-, P k Jt a PP ears to become part and parcel of the metal itself, probably due to some
, betwpen the base of “Ferrodor” and the metal. . 1
CA ? p°” La “." cest °"' Tasmania-We have used “Ferrodor” for some five years on our Gas
d rfr f ’ Condensers, Washers, etc., and have found it better than anything tried
m' vionsh , It stands remarkably well, and resists the action of ammonia srdendidtv
INTEBffATiOFAL LIGNTINC ASSOCIATION, Hay, N.S.W.—I have used “Ferrodor” on weatherboard cottages and
i '-\ 01 k, and find it the best paint I have used It covers well and finishes a nice surface.
tt . ma "J other Works rc««uuun nas neei useca on tne ronowing:—
nee:i usea on tne following
Fort Scratchley, Newcastle. ,
A,I Storekeepers, or Direct from R. A. HERVEY, Corner Clarence & King Streets, Sydney, Solo Agent for Australasia.
HANDY MINE- PUMPS
bor all rough service, low-lift pumping about the mine, such as draining shafts, galleries,
vatei from one level to another, elevating tailings, slimes, etc., there is nothing equal to
THE PULrtSOMETER STEAM PUMP =
Discharges no exhaust steam, requires no engine, belting, oil, packing, or special foundation
Grittv' l JV3 f HaS S° ? sily dera ” ged inside or outside mechanism.
w/ITEy, IViu,d -Y Water does not hurt it. Simple to instal. Simple to operate.
-t
Write for illustrated descriptive
catalogue telling all about them.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Agents ,
SYDNEY and MELBOURNE.
