

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—“ DEWAR’S.”
R. G. WikTE£ligS C 30.»
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND ...
123 William St, SVielbeurne, Vic.
gQBART.
Hadley’s Orient |jotei.
PIONEER
LEATHER
every belt guaranteed.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
ft
Take
back
it
have
must
s
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
m
S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
A Paying Investment
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P.
Fairbanks Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
qM ,
u ■#» fte&t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
PERSAN TYRES and Punctures are Strangers!
The SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO., 279 George Street, Sydney.
BOWIE'S
fii
HOUSE OF LOROS”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE in AUSTRALIA,
LYSAGHT BROS & CO. LTD.
.
30 I*IXX STREET, SYDUEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. V
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC ICNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
GHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesc o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
► :
THE
ONLY
Roofing
WITH
PATENT
fire
JOINT.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER, THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
THE
ONLY
4IMPCOUB.SE
WITH
' PATENT
FIRE
JOINT.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON spa water
HEJLIDON SPA WATER
is a Perfect Table Water.
GOLLIN & CO.
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1492.]
[Thursday, September 17, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS. Oeorge Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET
SYDNEY.
Dyson, E., The Missing- Link, wrapper Is, post 3d..
Anatole France, Mother of L’earl, cloth 6s, post 6d.
Anatolc France, Tiie Red Lily, cloth 6s. post 6d.
Viebiir, Absolution, a novel, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Bennett, Into the Primitive, a novel, illus., 8s 6d, post 6a.
Horner, Plating and Boiler Making’, Its, postage 9d.
Ay ling, Abattoirs : Their Planning, Design, etc., 10s, p.
Redinayne, Mod. Practice in Mining Coal, 7s, post 6d.
Elementarv Wood Carving, illus., Is 3d, post, 3d.
Coleman, Re-inforced Concrete Diagrams, 4s. post 6d.
AUSTRALIAN ARCHITECTURE,
A Technical Manual for all thoge engaged i" Architectural
and Building work. By ROBEhT J. HADDON, Architect.
Illustrat dby 94 Original Plates by the Author. Price 15s, Postage 9d.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
§PgT- AN IDEAL REMEDY.
UDSO/V
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing: No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug:.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says : “Proved to be effective bactericidally,
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES "
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on receipt of
G. HUDSON, Manufacturing Chemist , 5 <SL 7 Queen’s Place,
The RED PAGE
Anatole France.
f sumptuous edition of the works
of Anatole France, which John
Lane is bringing out, will come as
a boon to the bloke who has forgotten
his French. Anatole is one of the most
popular of French novelists; he has
written thirty books, one of which was
“ crowned ” by the French Academy in
1896, while two have reached editions of
110,000 copies. But this uniform edition,
price six shillings each, is the first trans-
lation of Anatole, with the exception of
one novel, published in England. The
first two books are The Red Lily ( per
Dymock’s Library) and Mother of Pearl
(per Lpckley Library) : others will be
published immediately.
The Red Lily is rather French. It is
a story whose slight plot consists solely
of a married woman discarding an old
lover for a new. The rest of the
book consists of the experiences of her
soul (and her body) during the process.
The husband of the lady who likes
variety is scarcely mentioned; in the mod-
ern French novel and play husbands do not
count. The book is one of the innumer-
able novels that would never have been
written if married women had some work
to do. Women who do no work, either
in looking after a home or in bringing up
children, have too much time to think.
They think and think and get bored and
want distraction. And they usually look
for distraction in the eyes of another
man. (This unprecedented outbreak of
morality upon this blushing page is quite
inexcusable.)
Anatole France is an expert in the
analysis of this rather uninteresting kind
of love; and the lady’s joys and griefs,
her delights and her jealousies, are subtly
and delicately pictured. Here, as a
sample, is his exegesis of jealousy, spoken
by the man :
Man is a god whose creature must be his
alone. From time immemorial woman has
shared her possessions. For a woman
jealousy is merely the wounding of her self-
love. In man it is an agony. .. . You ask
why ? Because, in spite of my submissive-
ness and my respect, in spite of the fear
with which you inspire me, you are matter,
lam thought; you are the chattel, lam the
soul; you are the clay, lam the potter. Oh,
you need not complain. What is the rude
and humble potter by the side of the rounded
amphora bewreathed with garlands ? She is
calm and beautiful. He is miserable. He
is in torture : he wills and he suffers ; for to
will is to suffer. I know what my jealousy
is. When I analyse it, I find it com-
pounded of hereditary prejudice, savage
pride, diseased sensibility, a mingling of
stupid pride and cruel weakness. But it is
useless for me to contemplate it in all its
nakedness : it is, and it tortures me.
\t>
In the description of a (hired) bed-
room Anatole is more detailed than an
auctioneer’s catalogue. And the book
throughout is gay and ironic and genial;
the style is lucid and polished, and lit by
lightning shafts of phrase.
Of the Paris moon, the lady says :
“This Paris moon I should not wish to visit.
She cbuld hardly mix in good society. Think
what she must have seen all the time she
has been shining on the roofs! ”
And he allows one of his talkers to
dissect Napoleon:
He was violent and frivolous, and thus
profoundly human. By that I mean, like
other people. He aspired to enjoy un-
limited power, which is what the ordinary
man esteems and decries. .. . Concerning
life and society he held about the same
opinions as one of his grenadiers. He never
lost that childish seriousness which takes a
delight in sword-play and the beating of
drums, and that kind of innocence which
makes good soldiers. He had a sincere
respect for force. He never had a single
thought that did not express itself in action ;
and all his actions were grandiose and yet
ordinary. Heroes are the product of this
vulgar greatness. And Napoleon is the per-
fect hero. . . A poet, he knew no poetry
but that of action. His great dream of life
was earth-bound. In his terrible and
pathetic puerility he believed that man may
be great; and time and misfortune never
robbed him of that illusion. . . This absence
of any inner life is particularly noticeable in
Napoleon. Hence that lightness of heart
which enabled him easily to bear the weight
of his misfortunes and his mistakes. His
soul, ever new, was born again every
morning.
\l/
Interesting, in view of our recent pour-
trayal of the untruthful woman on the
stage, is Anatole’s definition of a frank
woman :
She said, very sweetly, “I am frank.”
“ What do you call being frank ? You know
that a woman is bound to lie.”
She hesitated. Then :
“A woman,” she said, “is frank when
she does not lie uselessly.”
The translation is admirably done;
though Anatole himself says, through
one of his characters :
What does the reader make of my written
page ? Either wrong sense or nonsense.
To read, to understand is to translate.
There may be fine translations ; there are no
accurate ones. What does it matter to me
if they admire my books, since they always
put into them what they admire ? Every
reader substitutes his ideas for ours. All we
do is to tickle his imagination. It is horrible
to have to furnish material for such a pro-
ceeding. Ours is an infamous profession.
Which is psychologically true ; but, for
the Australian, this translation will give
sufficient of the French social atmosphere
as to make its perusal worth while. Of
special interest, too, is the caricature of
the poet Yerlaine. Anatole is much more
than a French Corelli.
v!/
Bis Mother of Pearl is a collection of
short stories, which are, on the whole,
too religious in tone to interest. One of
them, however, is classic. In The Procu-
rator of Judaea Anatole tells us of the
meeting at Baise of a Roman official and
a gouty old gentleman whom he recog-
nised as Pontius Pilate, ex-Procurator of
Judaea. He is now a prosperous country-
gentleman, a little bitter against the
officials who had blocked his career, but
otherwise, with the exception of his gout,
in vigorous health. The old gentleman
talks over his experiences in Syria, and
has much to say about his claim for pro-
motion over his treatment of a rebellion
of the Samaritans. But, through court
intrigues, he was passed over.
“ By the order of Yitellius I was forced to
send the insignia back to Caesarea. That
disgrace I had certainly not merited. Before
the immortal gods I swear that never once
during my term of office did I flout justice
and the laws. But I am grown old. My
enemies and detractors are dead. I shall
die unavenged. Who will now retrieve my
character ? ”
His friend, reviving old memories,
praises the Jewish courtesans, and
describes one lovely girl.
“ Qnq day, however, she disappeared. . .
I learned by chance she had attached herself
to a small company of men and women who
were followers of a young Galileean thauma-
turgist. His name was JesUs ; he came from
Nazareth, and he was crucified for some
crime, I don’t quite know what. Pontius,
do you remember anything about the man ? ”
Pontius Pilate contracted his brows, and
his hand rose to his forehead, in the attitude
of one who probes the deeps of memory.
Then, after a silence of some seconds—
“ Jesus?” he murmured, “Jesus—of
Nazareth ? I cannot call him to mind.”
4. :
The cold cheerlessness of a hospital ward
is not the least of the afflictions of a patient,
and lack of color presses especially heavily
upon the child-patient. But for the kiddies
in the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Syd-
ney, there is a feast of humor and color pro-
mised by the gift of Harry J. Weston of a
series of panels in oil, thirteen in number,
depicting, with all that artist’s humor and
clarity of color, nursery rhymes, and inci-
dents in the life of an Australian child.
There will probably be a rush of children of
this city to become patients.
Bernard Shawl’s Common Sense of Muni-
cipal Trading, with a new Shawian preface,
is now obtainable at 6d. (A. C. Fifield,
London). It is a fine and serious defence of
municipalisation—if such a long word needs
any defence.
Some hieroglyphics on the wall. The two
leading articles in the August Nineteenth
Century are devoted respectively to “The
Insecurity of Our Home Defence To-day,”
and to a graphic parallel between the posi-
tion of the dying Roman Empire in its disas-
trous experiment in Free Trade and the
present position of Britain.
The Bulletin Poets: 3.
Hemy Archibald
Lawson, 41 years
old, though
hardly of age
yet. Habits :
persuasive.
Religion:
Australian.
Grievances:
various.
Business :
existing—
and a fairly
strenuous
life it is.
Office Hours :
9 to 12, Satur-
day morning,
Bulletin office.
A shilling edi-
tion of the well-
known Bulletin
Reciter, with
“ Hop’s ” illustra-
tions, is now issued
by the N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.
With the exhor-
tation to us to “ be
kind to me,” Sam
Deed (with por-
trait), of Broken
Hill, sends
Whims and Fan-
cies of a Savage
Dreamer. The
only way wecan
be kind is to
mention that
the patriotic
Australian
sentiments
of the writ-
er are bet-
ter than
their ex-
pression.
In fact, if
poetry was
patriotism,
this would
be It,
An Australasian Marseillaise.
Sydney Sunday Times has discovered that
Australia has a national anthem ; and it
prints “Advance, Australia Fair” as the
song that rises spontaneously to our lips
when we remember we’ve got a continent of
our own. This alleged anthem, written and
composed by P. D. McCormick some thirty
years ago, expresses our national ideals
abjectly thus :
Stanza One mentions some geographical
facts in prose. Stanza Two promptly forgets
Australia, and upholds “British Courage,”
“Old England’s flag,” and “Britannia”
ruling one wave.
The awful thought is that N.S.W. school-
kiddies are drilled into singing this piffle.
Which shows that it is time to provide
Australia with a national song. But it will
not be an anthem. Australia does not take
cheerily to anthems. If we need an anthem,
there is the South Australian “ Song of Aus-
tralia,” written by Mrs. C. J. Carleton, com-
posed by Herr Carl Linger. This song has
been taught in all the South Australian
schools for years, and is regularly sung at all
Governors and other decorative beings. So
universal is it in that slice of the continent
that most South Australians believe it is the
national song of the whole of Australia, and
will be pained to learn that the other States
know it not. As a song, it is infinitely
better than “Advance Australia Fair” ;
but big Australia needs a bigger anthem. It
runs thus:
This obviously has good lines ; but it is a
bit too explanatory, too geographical. It
seems almost to apologise for Australia’s
existence ; and Australia needs no apology.
No ; the song we want must be a patriotic
Marseillaise; and the circumstances that
will produce such a song are not yet here.
But, for the purposes of our competition, it
will be necessary for the poets to step for-
ward a few years and imagine Australia
in jeopardy, about to fight for her very
existence as a White country. The peril
that will descend upon us need not be
definitely specified; all that is wanted is a
song that will stir Australia in that hour of
darkness with a fierce determination to win,
or die supporting the last verandah post.
The poets of that not far distant date will
probably be too busy in their flight to the
geographical centre of the continent to pause
to write that patriotic song. We had better-
have it now.
Marseillaises must be addressed to “The
Bed Page,” must not exceed 40 lines in
length, and must reach us by October 31.
A prize of two guineas will be allotted for
the best Marseillaise ; the copyright of
which, should it be found good enough to
arrange for its setting to music, will be the
author’s possession. On no account, for the
present, must music be sent with the song.
Any song in the remotest degree resembling
“Advance Australia Fair” will go to its
last lone rest without the services of an
undertaker ; and any bard advising Aus-
tralia to Advance is hereby warned.
«.
Mr. A. C. Rowlandson, the proprietor of
the N.S.W. Bookstall Company, is tackling
the question of the encouragement of the
Australian author in an eminently practical
way. He does not consider it advisable at
present, when our literature is in its infancy
when contrasted with the literature of over-
seas, to invite competition with the higher-
priced novels imported from America and
England. So he is pinning his faith to the
shilling volume. His argument —which is
backed by his experience—is that the Aus-
tralian will buy a shilling Australian novel
in preference to a half-crown imported novel.
And his recent shilling issues are well-
printed, adequately illustrated, and attractive
in appearance. And the quality of the work
shows a slow but undoubted improvement.
The latest issue of the shilling Australian
novel is The Missing Link, by Edward Dyson.
The humor of this loafer, Nickie the Kid, a
“ smoodger ” of a familiar type, is peculiarly
Australian ; and his adventures as a Missing
Link in a travelling show are delightfully
told. Perhaps the most happy of the yarns
—while most Australian books of this
type are mere isolated short stories, this is a
novel bound together by a slight plot—is
that in which an adventurous woman,
‘ * with the indurated face of an old-established
lodging-house-keeper,” allured by a pound
offered by the showman, enters the cage
of the ferocious Missing Link. The Missing
Link is cowed by the lady with the umbrella,
and refuses even to growl. It happens that
the savage animal recognised her ; he knew
that resistance was useless. She was the
wife he had deserted ten years before. The
book is illustrated by H. J. Weston.
An appreciation of the bush-paintings of
Hal Waugh, recently exhibited in Mel-
bourne, is one of the several interesting
features of the latest number of Art and
Architecture (W. Brooks, Sydney).
Australia’s sons, let us rejoice,
For we are young and free ;
We’ve golden soil and wealth for toil,
Our home is girt by sea ;
Our land abounds in Nature’s gifts
Of beauty rich and rare ;
In history’s page let ev’ry stage ,
Advance Australia fair.
In joyful strains then let us sing,
“ Advance Australia fair ! ”
When gallant Cook from Albion sailed
To trace wide oceans o’er ;
True British courage bore him on
Till he landed on our shore ;
Then here he raised Old England’s flag,
The standard of the brave ;
“With all her faults we love her still,”
“Britannia rules the wave.”
In joyful strains then let us sing,
“ Advance Australia fair l”
There is a land where summer skies
Are gleaming with a thousand dyes,
Blending in witching harmonies,
And grassy knoll and forest height
Are flushing in the rosy light,
And all alive is azure bright
Australia !
There is a land where honey flows.
Where laughing corn luxuriant glows,
Land of the myrtle and the rose ;
On hill and plain the clust’ring vine
Is gushing out with purple wine,
And cups are quaffed to thee and thine,
Australia !
There is a land where treasures shine
Deep in the dark unfathorned mine,
For worshippers at Mammon’s shrine,
Where gold lies hid, and rubies gleam,
And fabled wealth no more doth seem
The idle fancy of a dream—
Australia!
There is a land where homesteads peep
From sunny plains and woodland steep,
And love and joy bright vigils keep ;
Where the glad voice of childish glee
Is mingling with the melody
Of Nature's hidden minstrelsy,
Australia !
There is a land where, floating free,
From mountain top to girdling sea,
A proud flag waves exultantly,
And Freedom’s sons the banner bear,
No shackled slave can breathe the air,
Fairest of Britain’s daughters fair,
Australia !


TOOLS OF
PRECISION
Famous Low Prices.
AT
The “Little Tiger”
Boring Machine.
Essentially for boring in Coal ;
one of the cheapest and most
effective Machines. Easily set
—very rigid—all the principal
parts are made of steel, ensur-
ing great strength combined
with lightness.
Tl. Wo. 1 Type (height extended, 4sft.), 3 Drills,
50s. ; Approximate Total Weight, 521 b.
T 2. Wo. 2 Type (height extended, 4ft.), 2 Drills,
455. ; Approximate Total Weight, 401 b.
Extra lengths of standard, ss. per foot.
Screwing
Machine.
Green River Bolt Thread Cutter, IMut Tapper,
and Pipe Threading Machine, for Bench. Machine
complete with Taps, Dies in Collets for Bolts, £, 5-16, §, 7-16, f,
f, 1|» an( i ljinch ; also for Pipe with adjustable Dies
in Collet (right hand), J, f, 1, IJ, U and 2 inch, £3B.
Weight, packed ready for shipment, 4cwt. Oqrs. 21b.
The same Drill filled for power, £42 lOs.
Extra steel dogs are attached to the vice to secure large smooth
pipe which might sometimes slip into the jaws. These are both
made to cut exact Whitworth threads.
Star Screw Cutting
Engine Lathe.
New Model Lathe fitted with Treadle and-with Compound Rest.
The Lathe has a 9in. swing, anc is invaluable for light Manufacturing,
Toolroom, Experimental, Laboratory, Technical School, and Repair
Work, wliere.-accuracy, durability, and convenience are essential.
No. 1. —The Star Scr
ew Cutting* Engine Lathe,.
Treadle, with Compound Rest.
Will cut threads from 3 to G 4, without combination, and by combining
the gears; almofet any thread required.
MOD^
SB
is
, JMI.,
Self Acting
Hand Shaping Machine.
The Self Acting Hand Shaping Machine has a stroke
up to Gin. ; Traverse Sin.
Feed Automatic Reversible. Tools |in. square ;
Table 6 x Bin. Bench Space required, 16in. x Tin.
Fitted with Vice and Set of 6 Tools.
£9 17s. 6d.
“XL” Vertical Slide.
This useful little tool is an invaluable accessory to every
lathe that doubles the capacity of the Sliderest. It has
been designed to develop the capacity of the sliderest by
enabling all classes of light milling’! boring, slot-drillin°"
etc., to be quickly and accurately effected on an ordinary
lathe. It is bolted on took post of sliderest, and
may be used facing, or at any angle to the centres. By
using the combined slides almost every desired' combina-
tion of motions may be attained, The vice will be found
of great value for holding all small (articles, and may be
- instantly detached.
Size 0 .. Table 4in. sq. .. For 3
Size 1 .. Table sin. sq. .. For 4
Size 2 . . Table s£in. sq. .. For S
Size 3 .. Table 6Jln. sq. .. For 7
to 4in. centres .. 40/-
to sin.> centres .. 42/-
to 7in. centres .. 52/-
jto 9in. centres .. 65/-
Borthwick’s Patent Stationary
Saw Sharpening Machine,
Price, without
Emery Wheel,
545.
or Emery Wheel
Gummeif.
wwm
Carborundum Wheels
Gumming and
of Superior Quality,
Sharpening Saws.
for
HORIZONTAL DIVIDING HEAD.
wmMm
■■■
% ■
-JX:>
These tools are essential for the accurate manufacture of taps, reamers, cutters and all
divided work. The division plate is marked in any number of divisions to order, but
the standard numbers are 2,3, 4,6, 8. The chief improvement on the ordinarv type is
the replacement of the usual spring catch by the screw lock, which will be found'much
superior for accurate work in steel. They can also be supplied with a vertical adjust-
ment, for milling tapered articles, backing off tapered taps, cutters, etc.
Size 1, 3 in. centres, length of bed 16in., £ 2 12s.
Size 2, sin. centres, length of bed 19in., £4 17 s. 6d. Other Sizes to Order.
Slot Drilling
Carriage and Vice
I. '
This attachment as shown above forms a distinct
improvement on other types of slot-drilling vice.
The vice, being separate from the body of the
siide, can be reversed, removed for large work, or
replaced by a horizontal or vertical dividing-head,
this enabling many intricate forms of duplicate
machinery to be effectively carried out. It is an
indispensable adjunct to both large and small
drilling machines, etc.
Size 1, Table sin. sq., Traverse 4in., 44/-
Size 2, Table 6in. sq., Traverse 6in., 58/6
Size 3, Table 7m. sq., Traverse 9in., 92/-
Write for Illustrated PRICE LIST
OF TOOLS FOR ALL TRADES.
Posted Free on application.
Self-Acting Power Shaping Machine.
I ■ \
Stroke up to 6in. Traverse 12in. Feed, Automatic Work''
Table, 6 x'Bin. Width‘.of Pulley, 2in.
No. 2 fitted with Bracket JGI2 17s. 6d.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
■r* : l
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
*
t
N.S.W.


UtHT
and other
SKINS;
Also BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send t®
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
LtLl.
B YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent *' GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS
Dr. Foote’s Plain Hour Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248 pages, 400
colored plates and engraving's, 7/6
posted. Dr. Faulkner’s Original
Book of Nature,, 1908 Edition, 4/-.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Comic Reciter, 1/-. Billiard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
King Koko, Conjuring Instructor,
1/3. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/-.
Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
How McDougall Topped tiik Score, 1/3. Lover’s
Letter Writer, 1/-. Boccacio’s Decameron, 2/6.
Heptameron. 2/6. Bride ok the First Night, 1/3.
That Rascal Gustave, 1/3. Love Under the
Tiles, 1/3. My Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Bill Edwards, 1/3. Percy Ramage, 1/3. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3. New Tricks with Coins,
1/-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-to-
Datk, Easv Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Corda<re, 1/3. How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Astrology, 1/-. Fruits of Philosophy, 1/-. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 90 illustrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit, 2/-. Reynold’s Court of London Series, 2/-.
PLEASE MENTION THIS
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. How to_Bk-
comf. a Clairvoyant, 1/6. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Cay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen of Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, 1/-. Wife’s Guide and Friend, l«y Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture, lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
lOd. Kreutzeii Sonata, 1/3. ■ Zingara Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/-;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise, and all Zola's, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, 1/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, 2/- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. How to Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/3. Australian Bushranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3. Smiler Hale’s
Novels, Bd. each.
t3gr~AND ANY ROOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
UNO’S ‘FRUIT SALT’ assists the Fnnctions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
bv Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
C Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION .
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
rr * s J J S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
WgrTrrvit.i
MUSiC, as you like it,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home—one
would charm Yours —Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
ALLAN & CO.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS ■■■”
Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
I; ,
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES n« But BrmuU Only of SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, Ac.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
It*
CORSETS
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Plinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE
t „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
’j. BUNTING, Central House. BNn
flnhsnn Stpcftt. AUCKLAND#
DINNEFORD'S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
• The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
&
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 1908.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 2*7 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Calakder, Hordern Street,
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLINL.
Results of Drawing' will be advertised in this paper on November sth.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
i results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns,
; or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
Kidney Troubles,
Flatulence and
Biliousness.
A COMPLETE. CURE.
“ In the background of my memory there is a
distinct recollection of many days and weeks of
physical adversity, such as I almost dread to re-
call,” said Mr. Frederick William Martin, of No.
51 Pitt-street, Waterloo, when-requested to give
an outline of his infirmities, now happily over-
come, “But,” he went on, “since anything I
tell you may prove a source of comfort and en-
couragement to other poor mortals, I’ll gladly do as
vou wish. Yes, I was ailing for a very long time.
A more bilious subject than I used to be you
would have to travel a long way to find, and then
I doubt if he could speak of as many disappoint-
ments connected with his illness as I can—how I
gave first one medicine and then another a trial,
meeting failure after failure, till one could scarcely
believe there was anything in an apothecary s
shop that had not been resorted to, and all to no
purpose, when I would give all the drugs and pills
and things up in digust, only to start again later
on, through the demands of my sufferings, and go
through the same experience again. At Jast i
consulted a doctor, a vain hope it appeared to me
after what I had taken already, and so it proved
to be, for my health was no better than before.
To get up of a morning and feel that there is no-
thing pleasant to be done or thought of during the
day, may not seem in itself a very serious affair;
but it indicates that a person’s health is not what
it should be, and if allowed to go unchecked
through neglecting to take some good medicine,
the consequences may prove more serious than
you would imagine.” , , , ,
“You believe, then, that if you had taken a
remedy when you found yourself suffering from
lassitude and inability to eat and sleep properly,
you would have avoided the sickness you en-
CO “ n Mo r s e t d decidedly I do. I verily bel ievethatif
I had taken a bottle or two of Clements Tonic at
the outset it would have saved me P ound f a *\ d
pounds, besides the intense misery I endured.
Es is what I always tell my friends, to attack
their ailments at once with Clements Tome, not
fo waft tTll they get a firmer hold of the system,
because the troubles then take longer to eradicate.
My appetite faded, till it had completely vanished,
and I simply forced myself to eat; my nights be-
came more restless, and I got up feeling that 1
did not care whether I stood on my feet or sank
to the bed again. A dimness affected my eyesight,
a bitterness spread on my tongue, which was
always coated wdiite, and from daylight till dark
I was never free from headaches. Small amounts
of food made my stomach most uncomfortable,
and between the shoulders it felt like a sharp-
pointed instrument tapping there every now and
then. And how fearfully dizzy I used to get be-
fore Clements Tonic got to work, besides which
my nerves were as shaky as could be. Anyhow,
I was not much good for work in those days, and
felt as wretched as though I were dead to the
world, which I practically was. Thanks to
Clements Tonic, though, I quickly had some life
and energy infused into me, and felt that I wanted
to live and enjoy the world’s blessings, like any
other person —the reverse of what I had been be-
fore using Clements Tonic, which braced m>
nerves and invigorated the system throughout, in
a manner that astonished all who had observed
my frail condition a little while previously.
'“Have you had a return of any of your old
troubles, Mr. Martin?” .
“I can safely say that since Clements ionic
completed my cure at the time I speak of, no
body could wish for better health than I have en-
joyed, which shows that there was no patchwork
about that wonderful remedy’s way of doing
things. If I hear a person say a headache is at
work, I recommend Clements Tonic, because it
cured mine ; should the complaint be about giddi-
ness, flatulence, kidney troubles or drowsiness, ot
discomfort after eating, I tell them to use Clements
Tonic, as it cured me of those ills, and the proot
of the pudding is in the eating thereof.”
“So we can publish what you say? ’
“My permission is yours—in any way you like
to conceive.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, FREDERICK WM. MARTIN, of 51 Pitt Street,
Waterloo, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declarei that: Ihave
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which 1 S*
voluntarily, without receiving any payment \ an " 1 ” ia
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act. 1000.
Subscribed and declared at Waterloo, this twenty*
sixth day of March, one thousand nine hundred
and eight*, before me,
7]
D. p. WILLIAMS, J.P.


Vi.
Why be bald headed and old look-
ing before your time? Neglect of
the hair causes dandruff, and dan-
druff is the forerunner of falling
hair and baldness. The remedy is
Niger’s
%air Vigor
A gentleman residing at Dunedin,
N. Z., writes under date Jan. 7,1907:
“It is with gratitude I write you that I
have now a splendid head of hair, both thick
and very soft, all owing to my having used
your wonderful Hair Vigor. I was almost
bald headed before I used the Hair Vigor. I
still use it once a day, rubbing it well into the
roots of the hair. I used to wear a skull-cap,
and I am very grateful to Ayer’s Hair Vigor
for the improvement it has made in my looks.”
Be warned in time. Use Ayer’s
Hair Vigorand preserve your youth.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cvcle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
MODE S LB £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hnbs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Brakes, variable gears
and all lates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
APTIME Jlf'CMT’O wante d in each district.
HO I let Hutls I O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our « necial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO a, Uept. 280 Liverpool «
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street Svdney.
“My little daughter Linda, aged
2\ years, was
troubled with
bronchitis, and
although I
tried many
preparations,
did not get
any better ;
very often I
was kept
awake with
her all night.
After the first
bottle o f
SCOTT’S
Emulsion, her
jlfilp
LINDA MCKELLAR
cough was almost gone, and she was
eating and
sleeping wen
I continued SCOTT’S and now she
is quite cured, and twice the size she
was before.” MAY McKELLAR.
91 Princes Street, Church Hill, N.S.W. 29/7/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facts. Here is
Proof in the Reason Why : The reason is
that of the numerous competitive emul-
sions (all copied from SCOTT’S which is the
original), none is made of the same in-
tensely nourishing ingredients by the
unrivalled SCOTT process. The advan-
tages secured by the SCOTT process are
perfect digestibility and absence of nauseous
taste and smell, both supremely important
points where delicate children are con-
cerned. Therefore, when purchasing, don’t
ask for “ Emulsion; ” ask for and get
SCOTTS
Emulsion
—the difference between them means a cure
for you! See that the Fiehman with the Fish
is on the package. Of all Chemists and
Dealers in medicine.
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, jfi
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
Allcocks
Porous Piaster
For pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Weak Back.
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there Is pain apply
Allcock's Plaster.
A universal remedy
for pains in the back
(so frequent in the case
of women). They give
instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is a
pain a Plaster should
be applied
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, Ac. &o.
INSIST UPON HAVING
All cock's
For Rheumatism, or
Pains in Shoulders,
Elbows, or elsewhere,
or for Sprains,
Stiffness, etc., and for
Aahing Foot. Plaster should be cut
size and shape required and applied to
part affected as shown above.
REMEMBER —Allcock’s Plasters have been sold by the millions for over 60 years.
Like all good things they have been imitated, but only in appearance. Allcock’s are
guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium or any poison whatever
For Sale by Drugg-iats throughout -the World. j
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established ITSS.
Underwear
MARK
Made in
England
MARK
3QVUX
The “BIRD MARK” on your
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
f. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE * BIRD MARK ’ MERINO UNDERWEAR
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accord eon come
so near perfection as the Celebrated . j
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6a f
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments*
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fiddle the King.
There’s a brave,,bro.wn King, of, a..thousand dreams
In a realm that is strange and fair ,
Where Hell inhabits a strand■ of string ,
And Heaven a hank of hair.
And in the Dominion of Yesterday the set sun
rises anew,
And nothing can fall from its pedestal, and the
stars stay up in the blue ;
And the Brown King calls to the ears that hear,
and gives to the hands he guides
The skill to find what they left behind—the
visions To-day derides.
The pilgrim sees there are children there, and
though he has drifted far
From his childhood’s days and the children’s
ways, yet days to the Brown King are
No bar to the road to the rainbow’s foot, nor the
path to the Elf-king’s throne.
For he holds the key to the mystery in the heart
of a child—his own.
But the path goes on, for the tune must change to
the tune of a song half sung,
And out of the years the pilgrim hears the sound
of his sweetheart’s tongue ;
Till under the ashes the embers glow, and his
heart is a flame that burns,
And he is a king till the dream takes wing—for
the love of his youth returns.
The pilgrim brushes the years aside where the
shadowy phantoms lurk.
While the Brown King tells, in a tone that swells,
of the wonder and worth of work—
The strong proud song of accomplishment, the
psean of deeds well done.
Of how a knight went into the fight, singing—and
how he won.
And the pilgrim sees in himself the knight; and
hammer, or brush, or pen.
Whichever he wield, the world is his fielt}, and he
■ is a king of men. !
The hammer that was is a gleaming sWord, and
the brush is a lordly lance,
And the pen in his hand is a champion’s brand, by
the spell of the King’s romance.
Treasure and pleasure and toil he knows, taking
his toll of all,
But under the rune of the bravest tune there
echoes a distant call;
And far from the field where the lists are set, and
the waves of the onset surge,
And the lances thrust in the sunlit dust, he hears
an eternal dirge.
Though it erst be heard with a steadfast hope,
yet resolute eyes grow dim,
As its burden swells like burial bells,' or lulls like
a sunset hymn;
With every beat of the pilgrim’s heart it beckons
him nearer home,
And the Brown King calls as the even falls—and
he is content to come.
So the glorious realm of a thousand dreams
Is ruled by a brave Brown King,
And Heaven is held in a hank of hair
And Hell in a strand of string.
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.
Bluemud Bay.
When the long white waves are booming in the
bights of Bluemud Bay ;
When old Ironsides, the coal-hulk, goes squelch-
ing down the seas,
I can hear the cowbells tinkling by a township
far away,
Where the soft and simple people sit at home
and take their ease.
When the motley fleet trails eastward, with its
spoil of beche-de-mer,
And the long Macassar prahus reek with turtle
and trepang,
I can hear the organ hymning to an old and
homely air—
Two thousand miles to south’ard I can hear the
church-bells clang.
But an alligator’s bellow breaks, uncouth, across
my dream;
A distant emu’s drumming comes, persistent,
to my ear ;
And the grunting of the swamp-hogs, as they
wallow in the stream,
Disturbs the treasured music that my subtler
senses hear.
There’s a tribe of skulking myalls in a bend along
the creek;
The gins, in chorus keening, are lamenting for
their dead ;
And about the flat mud islands, wheeling clouds
of sea-birds shriek,
And the myriad-swarms of insects hum about
the river-bed.
There’s a huge old mother-prahu with its clutch
of mongrel boats—
The sampan, and the lugger, and the whale-
boat, clinker-built—
She has mothered all the riff-raff, every kind of
craft that floats,
And she sends them forth to nuzzle with their
divers in the silt.
An evil-looking prahu fleet comes beating up the
coast,
With its yelling crews of Javanese, and Orang
Laut and Klings ;
As an Arab dhow glides landward, like a dark and
furtive ghost,
A fat, fantastic negro at its tiller sweats and
sings.
And I, I dream of wheat fields, and a township far
away,
While the smells of half the nations drift across
the tropic seas;
While the long white waves are booming in the
bights of Bluemud Bay
I am musing on the Southern folk who sit at
home in ease.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.


/
o
°O.
o
BW
LL lH
It Stands for Wunderlich Metal
Ceilings—The Safest and Best.
These famous steel ceilings represent the most modern development In house building
end add a distinctive charm to the home that Is pleasing to every person of taste.
Theyare permanent, adaptable, fire-resisting, and do not harbour dirt or microbes.
And they cost so little for freight, too I The expense of sending the lime and sand
for ceilings of a house is over four times as much as that for Wunderlich Metar
Sheets. Is that not worth considering ?
Send for our new catalogue, which tells you all about these beautiful steel celling!—
the moat artistic form of interior decoration yet devised.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Postal Address
Box 474, G.P.O.
Sydney Showrooms: 56 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Showrooms: 243 Collins SL
TheVEsseince qf’VitsHitv
CADBURY’S
COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
Vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
%
liti
■ii*
SUPPORTS
MILLIONS
0
f.
Y(K
0.
0
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889.
London 1862, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
f] Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH, i
7 V ROTH E AMS
l o n Id o n
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
An Imperative Need.
Until you are free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms —torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss , of appetite, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishness, and the rest. In your condition
< Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
\ speedily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
j recruit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
j and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic purgatives.
O
KLES
WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert opeMtors treat the house without inconvenience to those living n it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
5 Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
THE U.S.A, SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop
the most
vicious
dog (or
man)with-
out. permanent injury.
Invaluable {or cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, a=nd
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates, great amuse-
for both ydung and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is '• one of the most useful,
durable,, reliable and econoinical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, or post free anywhere for 3/-
Quite Shocking:, but not Naugrhty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOGRAPH.—A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show.' It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a micros-
copic lens i fitted into one end. While the
victim isabsorbed in admiration of the pretty
picture, and turns the button in the con-
fident expectation of seeing something ini
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in
the vest,pocket. Fuji directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue —
,; t just pupliqhed. Wholesale and Retail.
: .
The “JoKer" Trick Matchbox.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening- the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared- A great joke on cadgers, who, up'on
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price, with full directions,
7d. post free.
w
NEW YORK, NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney. |
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address : Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
The Carrington Hotel,
Ratoomba, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Ideal Winter Climate.
r , ' . • '. • . .•, •• j
Winter Terms, Bs. per Day; £2 2s. per Week.
:? A. L. | PEACOCK, Proprietor.
is,
1311
m
liT
5*
m
JiT.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club aml Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TAELIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may fee secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application 6o The Manager.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied' respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HICCS, Local Director
f r
ISi®
RUBEROID DAMPCOURSE
m
-
Ei.Rich, & CP
ney & B risbane
m mms mmsm wfe
& -Kmm
•■: ■ : : • -SO :; ■■■
Sill s , * IlliiwlSii iill
SSSIS
sks®w
V
f yf.i’S »f|
- /:
• in
\, :
masm
*/' */<« f iWM
tiilHlll
mms
mm
zm
llpjgl;
mm
ma
■■/:. ■■■■-:


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1492.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1908.
PIIIOK 6>J
ANOTHER CASE OF "DROPPING THE PILOT.” —(After John Tenniel —many years after.)
At the meeting of the new Freetrade League in Sydney (about 23 persons attended and they were mostly hostile) the principal speaker said
that there was no hope for the Freetrade party until it got rid of Mr. G. H. Reid.


The Bulletin
The NationaT Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. JN'.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiir Bulletin 0/Bee Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have . Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every tveelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
11 oil' to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would l oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard, to subscriptions • advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good, thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the gropes
superscription for "'copy." Delay, and even loss, if
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead or
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Spec iat Hot ice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence. ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the. form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, SQPO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or JV ewspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential. ,
Tin? Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
a,re observed. When j)tS. is forwarded, without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. _ The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not. responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amu fours in. til node, un ft II hif e.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest aiid adapted for direct reproduction, oi
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-,
taining a good -idea, but, unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be jmid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central Mews Agencif, Capetown,
Dawson and Son, Capetoivn ; The Central Neivs Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., V ancouver, 8.C.,
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
CanadaC. 11. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt, —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer ami Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Sgteci.nl Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x Vein.,
will be. forwarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied, if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 1908.
N.S.W.’S INTERESTS IN THE FEDERAL
CAPITAL, ALSO THE INTERESTS OF
THE OTHER STATES.
This week, it is understood, the clamor over the
Federal capital site begins afresh. In one respect,
things are no further advanced than they were a
fortnight ago—or three years ago, for that matter.
That great body of public opinion which allegedly
exists in N.S.W. against the site selected by the
Australian Parliament remains as unfindable as
ever it was. It has been searched for wjth detec-
tives and bloodhounds, and by the aid of Diogenes
with his lantern, and it has been advertised for,
and told that if it turns up it will hear of some-
thing to its advantage; and, despite all this
effort, there is never a sign of it. The Sydney
dailies sav it exists, but then they also say that
the “great Freetrade party’ exists m great
force ; and yet the other day, when the great
Freetrade party was called together in Sydney to
organise and assert itself, it gathered an
audience of about 23, mostly scoffers, and the
only public man it could rope in was an ex-if ederal
politician who was badly beaten at last election by
a new beginner. And the alleged party which is
said to shudder at the idea of a Federal city on a
great breezy fertile upland and alongside a sp en-
did river, and issupposed to crave for a capital on
a drv spot, where it will depend for its water
supply on a tiny creek five miles away, and wil
have to pump up even that supply to a height o
500 ft. in order to get a drink at all that party
doesn’t even make such a show as the great Free-
trade crowd did last week. All the floggin,,,
yelling and shouting of the Herald and lele-
GRAPH and News and Star cantt get tog,ether an
anti-Dalgety meeting of protest that is large
enough to fill a dog-kennel These papers
the NSW. members that they will be
struck by the wrath of the community if they vote
for the Snowv River site. So far as the evidence
goes it seems'quite.Kkely *»« they w,U .be_.tn.ok
hv the popular wrath if they don t. .LONSDALE
and Pumpkin Smith were struck by it at last elec-
tion, and G. Reid narrowly missed it.
About ten years ago N.S.W. was badly fooled
by the same crowd of State politicians which s
trying to fool it now, and by the same Sydney
Telegraph that is trying to fool it now. The
original Federal scheme, as drawn up by the
people’s elected representatives, provided that
unless the Constitution was altered by the consent
of a majority of the voters and a majority of the
States, three-fourths of the tariff revenue would
be for ever either paid to the States or set aside for
the service of the State debts. The people of
N.S.W. were assured by George Reid and the
papers which shouted for him that they would
never be satisfied unless this proviso were cut out.
They didn’t know that they were in a condition of
wild exasperation about it, but they were told that
they were, just as they are told now that they are
boiiing mad about the selection of Dal-
gety as Australia’s metropolis. And, with-
out any mandate from the people, and without
any reference to the Convention which the people
had elected, things were re-arranged, at the
instance of the Reid Ministry of N.S.W., to pro-
vide that after 1910 the Commonwealth may keep
all the Customs and Excise revenue, and leave the
State Governments to pay their interest bills out
of the proceeds of an income-tax of 4s. in the £
and a land-tax to correspond. The N.S.W.
Government, when it had fixed up this arrange-
ment, was as proud as a brass god with a new set
of false teeth. Five or six years had scarcely
passed before the same N.S.W. Government under
a new leader was demanding that its own act
SNOWY RIVER, ABOVE DALGETY, THE SELECTED SITE FOR THE
AUSTRLIAN CAPITAL.
Photo, by Kerry, Sydney.
should be undone, and that the proviso which it
had previously declared to be utterly ruinous
should be restored. And when George Reid was
asked why be did the absurd and childish caper,
he is reputed to have replied, with a laugh, that
he “liked to Vie top-dog.” Apparently the
States are exposed to the risk of losing about
£7,000,000 a year in order that a cynical
jester might show his importance for a
moment by over-riding the Federal Convention,
the 218,916 voters who had accepted the original
Bill by a majority of over two to one, and all
other parties concerned. And to-day the same
game is being repeated, only it is Wade instead
of Reid who desires to demonstrate his capacity
for being top-dog, and it is the capital he wants
to shift in order to show his importance, instead
of the Braddon clause. Probably, if he gets his
way, in another ten years he or his successor in
N.S.W. State politics will be clamoring to have
the capital put back to the original locality on
Monaro, just as he and Carruthers have been
clamoring, to have the Braddon clause put back
on to its old site.
V * * *
The Wadk-Carruthers crowd has never even
made a serious pretence that it has a better site
than Dalgety to offer. It hardly even pre-
tends that among all its proposed sites
there is one that is worth sticking to except
SNOWY RIVER AT DALGETY, THE SELECTED SITE FOR THE AUSTRALIAN
CAPITAL. TAKEN DURING THE GREAT DROUGHT WHEN THE
RIVER WAS AT ITS LOWEST.
out of cussedness and contrariness. So it
has been, at different times, for Lyndhurst and
Yass and Tumut, and for a place with a name like
Muckhole somewhere on the Southern line, and
for Canberra ; and if time admits it will probably
yet be for Dubbo and Inverell and Cootamundra
and Tam worth and Botany, and maybe By rock.
So long as the Wade Government can show its
blastiferous importance by overruling Australia,
even as the Reid Government did when it proudly
arranged, all on its little own, that the Common-
wealth need not pay the States a copper after
1910, it seems to be content. But all the time it
can’t getaway from the fact that, when a previous
N.S.W. Government appointed a trusted officer,
high up in the N.S. W. service, to select the best
possible site within the limits of the Constitution,
that officer recommended the Monaro tableland
as the very best place. And his recommendation
brands the Wade-Carruthers-S. M. Herald-
Telegraph gang as a crowd that is fighting from
disreputable motives to prevent the best place
being selected. No one could be against the best
place save for disreputable motives.
* * ' *' *
It is a curious instance of narrowness and parish
pump vanity that the idea of the Australian
capital being placed where it can have a port of
its own should cause the Minister heathen to
rage so furiously together. It was stated only
the other day by a N.S.W. official of some im-
portance that within 20 years the policy of
dragging everything to Sydney must collapse
because the Sydney wharves would be too con-
gested to carry the traffic. Still more recently
there was a demand that Byron Bay, in the
extreme north of N.S.W., should be con-
verted, at vast expense, into a port for
foreign shipping, in order that everything
might not have to go to Newcastle and
Sydney. Now the south of N.S.W. is in as much
need of a port for oversea shipping as the north,
and the Australian Government proposes to make
such a port of Twofold Bay. Under I ederal con-
trol Twofold Bay would become a cheap and
handy and convenient outlet for the Riverina
country. It would be connected by railway, at
Federal expense, with the N.S.W. interior. The
establishment of a prosperous Federal capital at
the back of it would bring a great population, and
the population would want goods. So the'Tas-
manian fruit cargo, and the cargo of produce from
the other States, would land conveniently at Two-
fold Bay, on the Federal wharf at the end of the
Federal railway, and so would the Tasmanian
legislator and the legislator from the other States.
All these men and goods would arrive right at the
front door of the capital. The idea of a Federal
city and Federal territory with no sea communi-
cation of their own is based on the idea that the
N.S.W. producer on the spot should have the
first, if not the sole right to supply the popula-
tion of the Federal city, while the produce of the
other States, having to crawl at great expense
round by Sydney, would be hopelessly left. Yet
the scheme is likely to defeat itself. A wholly
inland capital like Canberra, dependent for its
water supply on a mere creek, the water of which
would have to be constantly pumped at great cost
to a height of 500 ft., might raise 20,000 population
and stick there; and the business of supplying
that shred of population wouldn’t make the local
N.S.W. producer, even if he had a monopoly of
the business, fat enough to burst any of the
fastenings of his waistcoat. A capital planted
beside a river which would supply water power
to make it the greatest and cheapest manufactur-
ing city in Australia might easily collect 500,000
people within a few years; and however much the
Victorians and Tasmanians and South Australians
poured in produce through the great port of Eden,
the adjacent N.S.W. producers would still be on
a much better wicket than if they had a mono-
poly of the furnishment of cabbages and potatoes
to a dry hamlet at Canberra.
* * * *
Twofold Bay is already a port of call for large
inter-State vessels, as distinguished from merely
coasting craft. The boats of the Union Company of
Maoriland look in there occasionally on their way
from Sydney to Hobart; and so do the boats of
the Melbourne Steamship Co. on the run between
Melbourne and Sydney. It only requires a little
more population and, consequently, a little more
inducement, and the A.U.S.N. and the Adelaide
companies’ boats, and those of other shipping con-
cerns, will also include Twofold Bay in their
itinerary, and when the Bay is a Federal
port and is connected by a federal
railway with a great Federal city ? n
the Snowy River, the inducement will be
there. The idea of a purely inland Federal
capital with no Federal port whatever is a device
for shutting out Victoria, Tasmania, S. Australia,
Westralia and Queensland from all the advantages
of trade with the Australian metropolis, these
other States are to land their produce at Sydney,
and send it down a great distance to th «
by the N.S.W. railways, at any charge which the
N S W. railways choose to make ; and are thus to
be hopelessly handicapped as comparedwith the
N.S.W. producer in the immediate neighboihoocl.
It is in short, a scheme of perpetual blockade
against the other States. But if the
minded device succeeds, it is likely to be a
nrievous disappointment just because of its
success There are abundant evidences to that
effect. The N.S.W. producer has practically the
sole .right to supply Nyngan and Dandaloo with
goods because of their geographical situation,
but all the same he doesn’t grow rich out of the
monopoly of supplying Nyngan and Dandaloo,
because their geographical situation makes them
so small that their trade is hardly worth mention-
ing. On the other hand, the N.S.W. person has
to compete with all the other States for the job of
supplying Sydney, yet because there is a lot of
Sydney lie does grow rich on the business. It is
exactly there that the parallel between Canberra
and Dalgety comes in, if the foolish crowd which
wants to shut out the products of Queensland,
Tasmania, S.A., Victoria and Westralia could
only get a wide enough outlook to see the point.
THE CRY OF FREETRADE ENGLAND.
Fob the first time in many years the cry of the
British unemployed has assumed the dimensions
of a public and national roar in the summer time
when things are supposed to be at their best.
During the winter months the starving millions
are always there, but summer is commonly sup-
posed to give temporary surcease from the voice of
misery in the land of Freetrade and huge land
monopolies. A few weeks ago preliminary nates
of warning began to drift out this way. According
to a Reuter’s message
The Lord Provost of Glasgow states that the number of
unemployed in the city is beyond all previous experience.
And recently the London Daily Lxpress had
this to say :
The increase in the number of our unemployed is one
of the most alarming symptoms of the day. From all
the chief centres of industry comes the same sad story.
Works are closing, workers are discharged. Trade
depression, collapse of prosperity—such is. the report on
all sides. There are all the indications possible that a
period of sore distress is coming on Great Britain this
next winter. The consequent misery must be widespread.
This is not a climate in which men and women can face
privations with equanimity, knowing that at least there
will be warmth in the sunshine and shelter everywhere
available by night. The chill rains and penetrating winds
of the mildest of English winters are terribly trying to
those whose bodies are enfeebled by want of food and
half-exposed through lack of clothing. And now, during
the time that all workshops and factories should be busy,
and all shipyards full of bustle and work, we hear of
enforced idleness and of men fruitlessly seeking employ-
ment.
Both wails are fully justified by later intelligence.
In Glasgow the starving hordes seem to have
started rioting on a small scale ; they made an
attempt to storm the cathedral one Sunday, and
they have organised mysterious and dangerous-
looking midnight processions through the wealthy
quarters of St. Mungo’s city. A stupendous
relief system for the feeding of children is
announced, but the hungry elders still make
trouble. At Birmingham, the factories are said
to have discharged thousands of hands lately,
and Birmingham six months ago was one of the
very few towns in the kingdom that had not been
losing trade. The places further north in England
were then already full of poverty and dark fore-
bodings, but the output of Brummagem goods had
not noticeably slackened. Things must be very
bad in the Ma Country when its cheapest manu-
factures begin to be a drug on the market.
The slump in trade is next door to incredible.
For the first eight months of the current year
Britain’s oversea commerce was £85,990,140 less
than for the corresponding eight months of 1897.
“A stunning deficit, a falling revenue and
depressed trade ” were expressions used only the
other day bv the staggered Chancellor of the
Exchequer, "and when a Minister speaks
like that of his own finances things must
be bad indeed. And plenty of people talk
in the same strain. A week or two ago the wife
of Major-General Luard was killed, apparently
for the sake of a trifle of loot, in a friend’s grounds
in Kent. (Kent is the hop country, and thanks to
free imports of American hops and the refusal of
the besotted Asquith Ministry to save the local
industry by means of a duty, the area under hops
has dropped in recent years from 70,000 acres to
about 38,000, and Kent is full of men who would
almost eat a major-general’s wife for lack of food.)
The bereaved husband wrote to the papers on the
subject, and his words were so startling that the
cablegram man sent them out—to this effect :
Has not the time arrived for clearing from the roads
and lanes and woods the many thousands of unemployed?
There are many desperate from want who may yield to
the temptation to commit the worst sins.
And apparently the only way to get clear of these
starving thousands of Freetrade sleepers-out is
to find them work. But so great has become the
rush of free imports that work is just the thing
that is hardest to find under present tariff
# * - *
As regards the reason why the mighty slump
should have arrived just now rather than at any
other time, there is room for a lot of diverse
theory. The most probable theory is also the
simplest. The real competition between Free-
trade and Protection only began about 20 years
ago, and only reached a serious point about 12
years ago. It is 20 years since the first real
beginnings of Protection in France and Germany,
and about 12 or 13 years since really high Protection
arrived in the United States. Japan joined in
the industrial struggle still later. These new rivals
reached out vigorously for the world’s manufac-
turing supremacy, and two of them have already
passed Britain in the industrial race. But
for a while the opening of new markets
kept pace with the increase of production. Since
the beginning of the great struggle of Freetrade
v. Protection, Britain has annexed Wei-hai-wei,
North Borneo, Sarawak, the Transvaal, the
Orange River State, Rhodesia, Nyassaland, East
Africa, Uganda. Somaliland, Zanzibar, Pemba and
Nigeria, and practically annexed Nubia and
Egypt. Thev are all fairly new markets and
many of them are good ones. And other
countries also annexed vigorously and opened
new markets. But the immense increase of pro-
duction has apparently overtaken the capacity
even of the new markets, so somebody had to
suffer, and naturally it was Britain. For all goods
which they are capable of manufacturing for
themselves the United States, France, Germany,
Japan, Austria and a few other countries have
their local markets secured to them, and each
of them has also as much of the British
market as it can grab. Britain has
onlv as much of its own market as
these rivals leave to it. The situation didn t
matter very much so long as the world s supply of
manufactured goods wasn’t ahead of the demand ;
but if it has now definitely got ahead of the
demand, then the weight of the disaster must fall
principally on the country which hag not one dead-
sure market anywhere, and which is open to be
exploited by everybody. No one can tell when
the world’s supply of manufactured goods got
beyond the world’s demand, but there must have
been an exact moment—perhaps 10.25 on an un-
identifiable Tuesday morning—when the starting
of one extra loom, possibly at some place that
hardly anyone ever heard of, definitely turned the


scale and set the catastrophe going, and then the
starting of one extra steam-hammer somewhere
else gave the industrial avalanche a fresh shove
and got it into vigorous motion. Of course, the
opening up of more foreign markets may avert
the avalanche for a while, but it must start again
some day unless Britain gets a sane fiscal policy,
and so gets out of the road of avalanches.
Still, there is some consolation in the fact
that a country like Britain, with its immense
income from foreign investments, can stand a lot
of this sort of thing, and yet remain rich in the
aggregate. It can become as a country what Bath
is as a city—the national old woman with an
annuity; the haunt of innumerable people who
don’t work, but live on their incomes from abroad.
But the shutting up of industries means a hope-
less, cruel time for the multitudes who have no
investments abroad to live upon—the hand-to-
mouth millions who must work or starve. Old
Freetrade Borne got over the difficulty when its
industries were killed by levying a stupendous
tribute of' grain on its conquered provinces, and
giving the whole Boman populace free rations and
a gratis ticket to the circus, but that sort of
remedy is out of date. Besides, Borne had to
export something after all in payment for all this
grain—it exported legions to enforce the col-
lection of the tribute. After it had exported its
last legion the whole Freetrade show burst.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Port and the Interests of Queens-
land and Tasmania and the Other States.
Probably when the final shindy arrives the
point that will be most bitterly argued in the
matter of the Australian capital will be as to
whether is or is not to have a Federal port-
attached. The small but noisy parochial party in
N.S.W. has always aimed at cutting off, as far as
possible, all commercial connection between the
Federal city and Queensland, Tasmania, Victoria,
and the other States. Its idea is to have (1) a
very small Federal territory, so that there won’t be
room to grow the Federal vegetable, and (2) a Fede-
ral territory so situated that no, vegetable save the
N.S.W.; vegetable will have much chance to reach
it. It isn’t a noble or liberal or brotherly policy,
but it is mighty business-like. The idea of the
Australian Parliament is to create a Federal
port at Iwofold Bay, and a Federal railway
leading from the port to the Federal capital. The
port and the railway and the capital will be the
common property of Queensland, N.S.W., Vic-
toria, Tasmania, S.A. and Westralia. The people
of these States will all have a voice in fixing the
freight charges on the Federal railway so as to get
their goods to the Federal city with the least
possible cost, They will be able to send their
goods by the cheapest mode of transit—sea-transit
that is—to be landed at their joint and several
port, and sent by their joint and several railway
to their joint and several city. The same mode of
trahsit can land the Queensland and Tasmanian
and other Federal legislator close to the scene of
his mental labors with a minimum of dust and
inconvenience. That is the Federal idea. The
un-Federal idea is to place the capital at a spot
like Canberra on a purely inland site. Then the
apple and the “ spud ” and the cabbage from
Tasmania will be humped a needless 250 miles to
Sydney, and afterwards sent back by a N. S. W. rail-
way a needless 230 miles to the Federal capital. The
N.S.W. railway authorities will decide how much
it is to cost to land the Tasmanian apple or the
carcase of Queensland beef at the capital, and
how long they are to linger on the road. And,
naturally, these goods won’t have a first-class
chance of competing, when they do arrive, with
the apple and cabbage that were grown on N.S.W.
soil, just outside the Federal territory, and
which had only an hour’s journey to make, or
with the local bullock that could walk from its
native pasture to the Federal city in one fore-
noon. And the Queensland and Tasmanian and
other legislator—who is sometimes old and fat
and quite unfit to stand long, jolting railway
journeys—will also arrive, by reason of the super-
fluous circuit, in aneedlessly deteriorated condition.
The un-Federal scheme would almost certainly
over-reach itself, for the strictly inland capital,
with a poor water supply and other drawbacks,
would be a small place, the trade of which, even if
N.S.W. had it all, would be scarcely worth
having; while a capital with a good port, a
splendid supply of water power and fertile sur-
roundings, would be a big city, and even N.S.W.’s
share of its trade would probably be worth a great
deal more than the whole commerce of the other
but there is small consolation in that.
Tasmania and Queensland and the other States
want a big city conveniently situated, so that
they can put their apple and their early straw-
berry before the population in a fresh condition
and do a good cash business. And if they fail to
get that kind of city they will probably take a
depressed view of the situation.
«
Another “ Blizzard-Swept ” Capital Site.
It is a curious fact that the party which professes
to weep so bitterly about the “ blizzard-swept ”
Dalgety region has now suddenly started to boom
Glen Innes as the ideal capital of Australia. Glen
Innes is 860 ft. higher than Dalgety, and conse-
quently the more blizzard-swept place of the two;
but all the same the S. M. Herald, which is
bitterly anti-Dalgety, published an enthusiastic
statement last week to the effect that, “In point
of accessibility, climatic conditions and geographi-
cal situation the tableland of Glen Innes would be
an ideal position.” This item, by the irony of
things, came immediately after a fresh curse about
“the blizzard-swept Monaro.” The Glen Innes
point of view really lies, it would seem, in the
things that are not mentioned rather than in those
which are alluded to. A capital city there would
have no Federal port—in fact, there is
nothing thereabouts save some very awful
and impracticable bar harbors—and there would be
no Federal railway from it to the coast. Therefore
the produce of North and Central Queensland and
Tasmania and S.A. wouldn’t be landed cheaply
at the Federal door. The place would be a N.S. W.
commercial monopoly save for such produce as
might come down from South Queensland by
rail after being unloaded from one train and
loaded into another at the border. And these
facts apparently counterbalance the little matter
that Glen Innes is 860 ft. higher than Dalgety, the
elevation of which is said to make it “ blizzard
swept.” They are also, no doubt, held to com-
pensate for a rather unfortunate water scarcity
thereabouts. Dalgety is 2650 ft. above sea levei,
but at the back of it is a range of mountains
4000 ft. higher still, and these mountains send
down unlimited drinkables. Glen Innes, 3518 ft.
above the sea, is pretty nearly at the top of things
thereabouts, and when you are right at the top of
things all the water you get is what you can catch
in your own hat, so to speak, or what you can
pump up at great expense from below,
The Illogical Conduct of Anti-Sosh.
A public meeting was held at Hockley (N.S.W.)
the other day, to discuss ways and means in con-
nection with boosting up the fortunes of that
wilted district—preferably by means of a railway
between Bathurst and Burraga. Delegates from
the centres interested attended, and many things
were said. Here are a couple of speeches by well-
known Bathurst residents, as reported in the
Bathurst National Advocate (3/9/’08)
Mr. A. Amos said that Rockley was never in such a
state, and it was absolutely necessary that something
rnua be done to reme ?y the present state of affairs.
The flats on Campbell’s River were second to none in the
western district for lucerne-growing. There were hun-
dreds of acres of land now carrying sheep which were
eminently adapted for lucerne;
. Mr. VV. H. Webb said he believed that some of the flats
in the district would return £lOO per acre if put to proper
use. Some of the flats about Bathurst and along the road
to Rockley would grow cabbages, cauliflowers, etc.,
luxuriantly. So far as production was concerned, they
had one of the finest districts in Australia. (Applause.)
If there was any place where people should be put on
the land it was in districts like theirs, where they had a
good rainfall, and where they rarely had to send away for
food for their stock. They could grow English grasses,
oats, wheat, vegetables and fruit in the district.
These speakers, like all the others, wound up with
the pronouncement that the one thing needed to
bring prosperity to this ill-used and wasted dis-
trict was a Bathurst-Burragarailway. Neithersaid
(and in this regard they resembled the other dele-
gates) one word about a heavy progressi ve land-tax
as a means of getting the sheep and desolation off
and human beings and prosperity on to the land.
Both the speakers quoted are prominent locally
as perfervid anti-Socialists, Tories, and barrackers
for the maintenance of the status quo. When
elections happen along in their part of the world,
they are wont to support the candidate
who is in favor of sitting down and doing
nothing. His opponent they accuse of being
a revolutionary Socialist, or anarchist or
something. They regard—and herein they typify
a huge class in every up-country centre—any pro-
posal for compulsorily throwing open the big
estates of the Commonwealth to settlement as the
invention of Belial. Such legislation appeals to
them, and to thousands like them, as “experi-
mental,” “ ill-considered,” “crudely foolish,’’ and
a thousand other vague things. They look at
their native town, and they see its population and
its business shrinking, and they look at the rich
acres which rim that town, with no population on
them to shrink, barring sheep ; and they com-
ment mournfully on the indubitable fact that things
are bad. And all they can think of is to clamor, like
the sturdy anti-Socialists they are, that the State
shall bring prosperity to their sheep-inhabited pas-
tures by running a railway line through them, so
that the jumbuck may take a second-class return
ticket for Sydney, and thus make things boom. The
Bathurst-Rockley-Burraga districts afford crying
examples of the need for more than a railway line.
Their rich acres are in the hands of half-a-dozen
men. Here and there the evil old tenant-farming
system obtains. The system is bad; still its
effect—in that it populates the land and throws it
open to cultivation—has points of merit. But
even tenant-farmed fields are rare circumstances.
Mostly, wherever the eye of the passer-by rests it
meets sheep and sheep and again sheep. Yet it
doesn’t see a quarter of the number,'of sheep that
the land could carry if one man hadn’t so much
land to look after. The rich river flats near
Bathurst carry some sheep; the downs country
further afield carries a certain number of sheep';
so do the best of the Rockley lands, despite
their eminent sub. ability for growing “oats, wheat,
vegetables and fruit.” A railway is an excellent
thing in its line. But it is not going to bring any
measure of prosperity worth delegating about to
a district in-which the greater part of the arable
land is under sheep instead of under wheat or
barley, and is in the hands of six men instead of
6000. It is a vital point that anti-Socialistic
clamorers for a Socialistic railway might with
advantage paste in their belltoppers for future
reference.
♦
The Gauds of Militarism.
Uniform was necessary to comply with the rules of
war; and, though convenient for training in peace, was
not absolutely necessary. Whatever uniform was sup-
plied to the National Guard should be of the simplest,
serviceable type, without any attempt at show, and with
plain badges to denote ranks and arms. If anything were
to be sacrificed on the score of expense, he would advo-
cate the withholding of uniform in peace. A continua-
tion of the present system of uniforms would mean an
additional expenditure of at least £30,000 annually, or the
price of 6000 new rifles.— Lieut.-Colonel Legge (a sensible
soldier), lecturing in Melbourne recently.
When universal military training comes in Aus-
tralia —and it should come within this or the
next year; if the Deakin Government is true to
its pledges—there will have to be faced the
question of uniform. It seems on first
glance a small and ridiculous question, this
matter of a man’s clothes. The average
man, when drapery and passementerie and things
of that sort are mentioned in his presence, smiles
in a superior way as though to indicate that such
frivolities concern women, but bother not the
lofty intellects of her grown-up male relative.
Unhappily that is not a truth. Given a little
encouragement, and the cock bird of the human
family proves just as eager for gay plumage as the
hen bird ; and the military system of to-day offers
him more than a little encouragement. The
result is that the average officer on a ceremonial
parade looks like a second-hand bird of para-
dise, or a pawn-shop in a theatrical neighborhood
out for an airing. All this garish magnificence is
useless, and worse than useless. In the last big
war, even the smallest bit of a brass button had
to be dulled with paint or acid, because it was
an added and needless danger to the wearer.
The rainbovv “clobber” is persisted in partly
because it is a survival from other days, but
mainly because of a paltry masculine vanity
which leads a fat, red-faced man, or a
spindle-shanked sallow man to imagine
that he will look aesthetic in gold and silver
trimmings. Some years ago reform was
promised in Australia. All troops were to be
garbed in serviceable khaki, officers and men
alike, with simple badges to show differences of
rank and regiment. To some extent the reform
was carried out. Then regiment after regiment
began to sigh for its old glories of millinery and to
surreptitiously. reach out after gold lace and
scarlet cloth and rooster plumage; until to-day
things are as bad as they ever were. The
argument is used that the glitter and the
gorgeousness are useful in the way of attracting
recruits. That argument, whatever its value, will
fall to the ground when the law makes military
training compulsory and universal. And the
Australian Government should take courage and
deal firmly with the glowing uniform disease by an
enactment which will absolutely forbid the wear-
ing of the old-fashioned and absurd dresses. As
a matter of equity, the Government might
arrange to purchase all the old bird-of-
paradise raiments that officers have acquired
for themselves, and make a bonfire -of- them,, or
re-sell them to Blandolt. If, however, officers
now in the service are allowed to retain their sun-
set clothing “ until it is worn out, ” it will be found
that the new men will sigh after it, and will some-
how or other get it, and there will never be an
end to it. The compulsory resumption of all glitter-
some uniforms, and a forcible swearing off from
the intoxicating pants and the coat-tail that in-
ebriates are the only remedies that will meet the
case.
A Westralian Election that Makes No
Difference.
Westralia has had a State election that makes
no difference worth mentioning. Apparently,
Newton Moore will wind up with a couple of
seats won from the Labor Opposition, and the
Labor Opposition will wind up with four seats
won from Newton Moore, and Newton Moore
will have a majority of about eight in the Assem-
bly. The general election made no difference to
speak of because, apparently, the State couldn’t
see. enough difference between the two lots. The
big trouble threatening Westralia is financial;
Westralia is the one State which frankly and un-
ashamedly owns up to an annual deficit, and at
the same time cheers wildly because absentees are
dragging dividends to the extent of a couple of mil-
lions or thereabouts a year out of mines that
are rapidly becoming exhausted. Meantime the
State, which is being sucked by the absentee, is
borrowing every penny it can from the absentee;
the absentee, in brief, makes a couple of millions
or more out of the State, and the State then
borrows the money back at interest. Instead of
setting its face against this sort of thing, the
Labor party is tied to the same old borrow-and-
boom policy as Newton Moore. All its platform
says on the subject is—
Limitation of State borrowing except for the purpose
of reproductive works.
Possibly that doesn’t mean what it says; most
likely it means, not the limitation, but the actual
stoppage of borrowing for unproductive works.
On the other hand, it evidently does mean that for
reproductive works the party doesn't propose to
put any limit at all on the State’s borrowings ; and
it doesn’t attempt to define what “reproductive”
works are—whether they are to pay full in-
terest and sinking fund, or whether they are
reproductive as long as they pay £or 1 or 2 per
cent. Westralia has a whole lot of the - latter
class, including the great Goldfields Waterworks.
This latter undertaking would be reproductive—
that is to say, it would pay interest and the statu-
tory sinking fund—if the mostly-absentee com-
panies were charged enough; but they squeezed
and squeezed, and the water rate was re-
duced, and now the big cos, get cheap
water at the expense of the general tax-
payer. It would not be so bad if the general
taxpayer of to _ day gave the big cos. a bonus
like that; but the annual deficit means that
the bonus is being partly passed on to the next
generation—which, with exhausted mines, will
have troubles enough of its own. Neither the
Labor party nor any other partv can therefore
limit borrowings to “ reproductive ” works unless
it can guarantee that there will always be enough
people to use the works, and that, even if there
are enough of them, they will always be charged
enough for the service ; and no party can guaran-
tee those things. In a dozen respects the Labor
policy is a cut above the vague, misty Newton
Moore policy ; but mostly where the Labor policy
is ahead of the other it is in regard to things that
don t hit the public hard in the eye. In regard
to the big thing it missed the vehicle, wherefore
Newton Moore stays where he was. and is now
prepared to issue lOU’s at the old address.
-
A Large Man and a Large Job.
“ F.C.,” from Melbourne :
The long-delayed report of British electrical expert
Merz on the electrification of the Melbourne suburban
railways reached this country the other dav, and Adolphus
Bent straightway rushed it before the Cabinet and later
announced his intention of asking Parliament to put the
first part of the scheme in hand quicker than immediately.
Briefly, Merz recommends the transformation from
steam to electricity of the whole suburban system, at an
estimated cost of £2,227,050; but advises the Govern?
ment only to commit itself just now to a first
instalment of 20 miles—comprising: the Port Mel-
bourne, St. Hilda and Sandringham to Broadmeadbws
lines—at an estimated cost of £BOl,BBO, until it gets a
little more experience. Mkrz says that even if steam is
still used it will be necessary to spend £149,945 on re-
furbishing these lines, so the extra cost involved in
electrification will be only-£651,935. Further, he figures
out the operating costs per train mile of electric traction
at 12Td., as against 19'06d. for steam traction, and anti-
cipates an ultimate surplus, after paying 4 per cent, on
capital outlay, of £40,251 per annum more than was ob-
tained from those lines when operated by steam in 1906. He
bases his calculations on an average schedule speed 20
per cent, faster than the present rate, and a 71 per cent,
increase in the frequency of service.
Before the Cabbage Garden gives its boss gardener
authority to bog in and whirl thing's round on a gorgeous
scale, it would be as well to recollect a few items. Mel-
bourne has for years been inadequately served by its
suburban transport systems, both tramway and railway,
and the electrification of both is a crying? necessity. Now
“electrification” is a soothing word, and, like charity,
may account for a multitude of “expenses,” if it isn’t
watched; but, boiled down, the electrification of Mel-
bourne’s suburban railways merely means the provision of
sufficient power, the con veying of the same some slight dis-
tance, and the transformation of perhaps half the present
railway carriages into motor-coaches, and the making of
some slight alterations, as to brakes, etc., in the re-
mainder. A year or two back Adolphus Bent hired an
electrical expert named Bradford, who set to, and without
any fuss, and with the aid of the Vic. Railway Depart-
ment and workshops, built and equipped five miles of
electrical railway from St. Hilda to Brighton at a cost
almost infinitesimal compared to Mkrz’s figures. Though
that little line has a separate power station in a neces-
sarily expensive situation, and has other difficulties to
contend with, it has nevertheless paid its way handsomely.
The alteration of the rolling stock and equipment and the
extension of that line from St. Hilda to Melbourne city is
a little contract that almost any engineer would cheer-
fully undertake. That finished, the transformation of the
two miles of the Port line might be carried out. With
the experience thus gained, the alteration of the San-
dringham to Broadmeadows line would be a com-
paratively simple matter. And while these lines were
being extended, the same railway' department could be
building a power station.
Judging? by Mkrz's estimates and the figures showing
the cost of constructing the Brighton to St. Hilda line,
for which a new permanent way had to be laid down, it
looks as if Adolphus were going to plunge into an outlay?
vastly more gorgeous than necessary. Likewise, be-
fore deciding?, it might be well to consider the wages of
Mkrz. For the present report, including the two time-
tables, Mf.rz got £2lOO and travelling expenses up to
£350. Should his report be acted on and the three first-
named lines be built as he recommends, his little bill may?
tot up something like this: —If tenders be invited before
the end of 1909, Merz is to analyse and report thereon —at
a remuneration of J per cent, on the recommended
tender or on his estimate, whichever is less ; on the
acceptance of the tender, he is to prepare the contracts
—for another f per cent.; and as the work proceeds, he
is to prepare any further drawings or specifications
needed, advise as to material and test it, and employ a
competent representative in Melbourne during the pro-
gress of the work and for two months after completion—
for another 2£ per cent. ; total, 4 per cent, altogether.
Now, 4 per cent, on the estimated cost of these three
lines —£801,880 —is roughly £32,000, which is altogether
distinct from the £2400 the expert has already
received. That is for 29 miles of line where the per-
manent way is already made ; the five miles of Brighton
line over a metalled road and a swamp were built for just
about that figure, without any? fuss, or foreign expert, or
report. And the Brighton to St. Hilda electric tram
delivers its passengers to-day just as swiftly as the St.
Hilda to Melbourne steam train, and could deliver them
a heap faster if it was allowed. It looks as if Merz were a
high-priced investment, and a rather needless one.
Re a Bill that Died.
Now and then State Parliaments get a chance to
achieve really useful legislation. Such a chance
came in N.S.W. last week. Broughton’s Gun
License Bill appeared on the business paper—and
in the shortest possible space of time was ruled
out of order and into oblivion. So the dailies will
not be denied, after all, any of their oft-recurring
gun-casualty items, and the dirt-cheap im-
ported fowling-piece will still pervade the land.
Owing to the inadequate tariff on imported Brum-
magem arms, the Commonwealth is bombarded
with cargoes of cheap weapons and “parts”
thereof that are built in the United Kingdom for
export purposes,alone. Mostof these horrors go
to the West Coast of Africa and such-like indis-
criminating regions; Australia gets the remainder.
They undergo no “safety” tests. At the price
asked—two or three sovereigns—it would be pre-
sumptuous of the customer to talk of “tests.”
As a fact, the average buyer of these articles,
knows little of the fine points of gun-buying,
and cares less. The daily paper doctrine
of the blessedness of extreme cheapness is
imbedded in his foolish skull, and he rushes
blindly on to his explosion. If he has luck
his gas-pipe bursts near the muzzle ; in the other
event it blows itself to atoms about the hind-
quarters, and either kills the user or disfigures
him for life. Any legislation that tends to dis-
courage the maniacs who go in for these deadly
wares is advisable. The type of man who wants
a dirt-cheap Brummagem gun is likely to jib
at the idea of paying a stiff annual tax
on the same. It is possible that it may
occur to him that if he has to pay an annual tax it
is bad economics to pay it on something that
doesn’t even claim to be worth while. Again, it
is possible that a gun-tax may stave him off buy-
ing any sort of lethal weapon at all—which may
conceivably he just as well. The Anti-Sosh
opposers of Broughton’s Bill in and out of the
Assembly held that the measure would amount to
“ an interference with the liberty of the subject.”
It would —even as (in a far greater degree) milk
inspection, plague preventive measures, and by-
laws against motor-hogging interfere with the
subject’s liberty. But subjects who do things
which threaten their own and other people’s lives
need to be interfered with.. Pending the good
time when a heavy duty on foreign-made fowling-
pieces and rifles will be imposed by the Australian
Parliament, such half-measures as Brough TON
aborted Gun License Bill are desirable in the
States. Australia needs population too badly to
throw it away in this fashion, though ..it may be
mentioned as a redeeming feature that it is gene-
rally people of a low order of intellect who are
killed by cheap guns.
♦
T. M. D. Mundle, the S. M. Herald’s newly-
found anti-defence expert, has been supplying
more argument against an Australian navy.
Writing (on Sept. 11), he says :
For the benefit of the public, and in order not to get
out of niv own depth, I will give as simple an example as
possible to uphold my idea that a ship built in Australia
would be far more out of date than a similar ship built
in England, although they might be launched the same
day.
Herewith his example :
I happened to have the pleasure of seeing the Dread-
nought’s projectors manufactured, and personally tested
them before'they left the contractors’ works, and it is a
fact that from the time the contractors received the
order to the time they were mounted on board (about
eight months) the specifications were changed in detail
almost daily, and even then the type was condemned
before they had been on board a month.
It is an unusual sort of instance to trot forth in
support of the overweening superiority of British
naval methods. British contractors undertake to
mount a British ship with projectors. They change
The Notable Discovery of Edwards.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wyong, Thursday.—A lecture was delivered last night
in the School of Arts by Mr. VV. T. Edwards, entitled
“ Who are the British ? ” Ihe lecturer claiming that they
are the lost tribes of Israel.— Sydney Telegraph, 11/9/’ftS.
You have hit it, Mister Edwards ;
It’s a point of social lore
This of yours about the British
• That had not occurred before
To me. Yet, now you suggest it,
It is clear as crystal. I
Recollect a horde of Britons
Whom I knew in years gone by.
Sturdy patriots, Empire Leaguers,
Maffick-makers, and the like—
When I come to think about it
They were nearly all called Ike.
I have never gone Freetrading
In the Land of Frozen Fog,
But the hall where we assembled
Looked like some vast Synagogue.
Earl tie Verb (n<k .Judah Cohen)
Chaired the meeting. Jacobstkin
Spoke at length, and some one followed
With a name like Rhenish wine.
If I did a day's flat-racing,
Raphaels, Joels, Rothschilds snared
All the stakes worth laying hands on.
I would not so much have cared
Had not every single bookie
Hailed direct from Palestine ;
As I think of how they spoiled me
I grow faint and sick, and pine.
In society Bischoffscheims
Sterns, Sassoons, and GolDsmids reigned;
The observance of their riches
Aye my gentle spirit pained.
With dull envy in my bosom
I proceeded once to wend
To “MacHaggerston, Financier,
A young Scot with cash to lend.”
It turned out Mac’s name was Solly
Really ; he had never spent
A week-end in bonny Scotland.
And his terms were cent, per cent.
Yes, my Edwards, you have hit it.
Israel vanished in the past;
She has found herself with interest
In old England at long last.
N.S.W.
JOHN POLDING.


CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are Headquarters for above, and represent
the Greatest Makers of the World. We have
an Extensive Stock to select from.
NEW FILM SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
Write or call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane^
The state of politics in Vic. as disclosed
by the no-confidence motion shows Democracy
will never succeed in kicking a goal until a
Seddon-like leader, inspired with wisdom by
D. C.L. Whisky, gets a clear run with a s^ ron S
following. A combination of D.C.L. —the brand
of Greatness—and a great leader is Australia s
only hope.*
them “in detail” every day for eight months. And
when the projectors the eyes of the vessel,
without which she is a blind, helpless thing by
night—have been four brief weeks on board, the
authorities condemn them as useless. It is a
dark mystery how Mundle comes to reason that
this (alleged) hideous instance of British incom-
petence is an argument against Australia aspiring
to ship-construct on its own. It ought to do
a good deal better than was done in the case
quoted ; and it couldn’t possibly do worse. By the
MuNDLE-ite way of thinking, the fact that a British-
built battleship fell, within an hour of being
launched, into 27 different pieces, all of which
promptly sank and were for ever lost, would con-
stitute a solid evidence that Britain is the only
place that can build ships.
: 4.
The humane Federal law prohibits the importa-
tion into the Commonwealth of wheat-bags calcu-
lated to hold over 2001 b. weight. When the
regulation was issued, there was wrath and
cold fury on the part of certain State
Premiers. They declared, with froth on their
whiskers, (1) that the Federal proceeding was
“unconstitutional,” and that they would take
steps to get it annulled by the High Court;
(2) that it was a gross encroachment
upon State Rights; (3) that it was unneces-
sary as they—the State Premiers —were quite able
to abolish the big murderous bag themselves by
prohibiting its conveyance per rail or by other
means. These wild protestations set a lot of
people to get up arrears of thinking. They
noticed that the State Premiers, though years
had elapsed since the advent of the monster bag
which broke the lumpers’ backs and hearts, had
neither interfered in the cause of humanity or
showed a sign of any tendency to interfere. Then,
though these State Premiers declared positively
that they would be able to knock out the Federal
anti-big-bag regulation in the High Court, they
showed no sign of passing any anti-big-bag law or
regulation of their own to take its place when the
knocking-out event happened. Further, so far as
concerns grain that is grown locally and bagged
for local use, the Australian Parliament and
Government have no power to do anything —the
purely local bag may be any size it darned
well pleases; and the cantankerous State
Premiers, with all their protestations, make
no attempt to interfere with the purely local
bag in the cause of humanity. Now there
are announcements about the starting of a
local industry in the manufacture of big bags,
and even yet the State Premiers, who were so
dead sure that Federal intervention was quite
uncalled for, show no more sign of interference in
the cause of humanity than if they were dead.
Wherefore the toiler thanks God that this country
has an Australian Parliament and an Australian
Ministry which have some sense of compassion
about them.
Now that the Victorian closer settlers —the chil-
dren of Bent’s Golden-haired Girl —are growing
up, their opinion of their parent is only-
middling. Many delegates from the differ-
ent settlements met in Melbourne lately,
and, after telling each other their troubles,
interviewed Minister Mackey on the matter.
There was at first an idea that these settlers were
following the example of older and tougher Vic-
torian farmers, and trying to pass the bill on to
the State'; but they don’t seem quite the same
as the tough old lot. Their chief trouble is that
the fool Act demands the heaviest payments
in the earlier years, and charges interest up to 16
per cent, bn overdue payments. Also, they
allege that the „municipal councils value the
settlers’ holdings at their purchase price, while
valuing adjoining-properties, mostly in the hands
of rich landlords, at a quarter or a third of that
rate, so that their own contribution to local .taxa-
tion is three or four times greater than that of their
rich neighbors. Taking one thing with another,
several of them allege that if things are not
altered they will he squeezed out, and that the
land-grabbers will once more get possession—unless
by that time there is a stiff graduated land-tax
to keep the big estates from re-accumulating.
Melbourne is a hard-swearing place, and a recent
ease was a shade harder than usual. Spinks, a
butcher, was accused of having traded after hours
at the P’ran market on 24th June last. According
to the law, Spinks was forbidden to trade after
1 p.m. on that date (it being a Wednesday), but
Payee, a salesman working at a neighboring stall,
swore that Spinks’ stall was serving customers at
1.45 p.m. This statement was corroborated by
Maudsley, yet Spinks’ three employees swore
emphatically that their stall was closed at
1 o’clock ; while two at least of them furnished
the gratuitous declaration that Fayle was
drunk. The case was dismissed, the Bench
remarking with great wisdom that perjury
had been committed. Fayle was proceeded
against on a charge of perjury. The three
former witnesses for the defence had now
become witnesses for the prosecution, and repeated
their original statements. Whereupon Fayle
produced two witnesses who corroborated his
declaration that the Spinks stall was serving at
1.45 ; three more who stated that meat was sold
at 1.25 or 1.30 p.m., since one of the three had
bought steak there ; and a crowd of neighboring
stallholders who asserted that they heard Fayle
yell out to the Spinks crowd that it was
after one o’clock. This settled the case
right there, and the jury, without retir-
ing, brought in a verdict of “Not guilty.”
Now, apparently, the case drops, though in the
common logic of things one would think that the
Law might now have a shot at the Spinks crowd
on a perjurv charge. It seems to be simply a case
of which side gets the most witnesses, and by
prosecuting the Spinks crowd and the Fayle
push, turn about, something definite must happen
at last. Every time the Fayle party is prosecuted
the Spinks party must do a fresh swear, and the
Fayle party would have to do a new swear every
time the Spinks element was tried, and the Law
could lay fresh informations over these new swears
till it arrived somewhere. If it means to suppress
perjury it will have to arrive somewhere.
Last week there went forth on. urgent business
the first locomotive ever made by State enterprise
in N.S.W.—a loco, of the best and most powerful
class, the kind that hauls the Melbourne express
and other fast trains. The Victorian and Maon-
land and S.A. railway departments have been
building engines for years, and in the case of Vic-
toria at all events the work has been done below
the imported price. But N.S.W., hampered by
insane Foreign-trade Governments, has been
reluctant to even give locomotive contracts to
private firms in its own State, and has de-
pended mostly on the imported article. Now,
thanks to the advent of Protection and federa-
tion and the decay of the McMillan variety
of influence in politics, N.S.W. begins to grow
a national spirit, and to Do Things. ItJias dis-
covered that it can make as good engines by state
enterprise as it can purchase anywhere on earth,
and can make them as cheaply as anybody else,
and it wonders a good deal why it didn’t throw
its Foreign-trade and Private Enterprise press
overboard, and start work long ago. Meanwhile
the S. M. Herald blows such a big trumpet over
the matter that one might think it had been
clamoring for N.S.W. enterprise for the past
25 years or more.
»
The Foreign-trader has to extract joy out of very
scant material these days. The garment of con-
solation is skimp in the hem and'scarce in the tail,
and it doesn’t come high enough, nor will it meet
at the back ; still it is the only clo’ the wearer
possesses and he has to make the best of it.
There was “an international Freetrade rally” in
London a month or six weeks ago, and last Satur-
day the Sydney Telegraph wrote up the belated
subject all over again in a leading article, presum-
ably in the hope that it might thereby smother the
tales of starvation and riot and dreadful misery
that are pouring in from Freetrade England. It
quoted Yves Guyot, the old lone Freetrade
dodderer of France who was left over from the
shoddy Freetrade days of Napoleon 111. It
said that in Germany there is “frequent scarcity
of good food in families,” which was a
very mild remark to make, seeing that in
Great Britain just now there is such an
enormous proportion of the population with no
food at all. In fact, it was very limp and uncon-
vincing in its efforts to persuade its readers of the
advantages of letting in all the cheap labor goods
of the world, and so fixing things that the only way
in which our own people can hope to get any work
will be by being still cheaper; the article was
evidently written to order by someone who knew
that Freetrade was utter and complete rot, and so
there was no soul in it. Nothing feebler could be
well imagined than this curse at the United
States:—
The Americans have so heavily handicapped their
industries that they can only manufacture things in
which competition can be staved off by the tariff.
It is very sad, no doubt, but the Yankee takes
comfort in the fact that even if his factories are
“ handicapped ” the last official return (1905)
declared that they turned out £3,300,000,000 worth
of goods in the year, while the free, unhandi-
capped Bull only did about one-third of that
business. In fact the U.S. record licks the
whole British Empire. And the Yank manages,
in an average year, to sell £130,000,000 worth of
his goods—much of them manufactured goods
made in “handicapped” industries—to Bull in
Bull’s own market, so Jonathan is clearly able to
sit up and take nourishment to some extent.
Adelaide, which owns a live Chamber of Manu-
factures and a fine lot of healthy Australian
sentiment, has been enjoying a “Made in Aus-
tralia ” week—a week during which practically
every big and little shop in the city filled the
windows with “ made in Australia ” goods, and
labelled them with placards containing all manner
of good advice. It was the time of the Agricultural
Show, which brings the country to the city as
nothing else in S. Australia can ; and thousands
of people got the best idea of their lives of the
vast number of things that Australia can do
besides minding sheep and growing wheat.
Roaming round with the honorable wild-oats
of a fat season still in his whiskers, the
man from the country found out that Australia
was making blacking, blacklead and Brunswick
black, furniture polish, fire-kindlers, starch,
boxing gloves, candles, stationery, portmanteaux,
boots, umbrellas, fiddles, pickles, bicycles, whisky,
nails, stockings, ropes, olive oil, paint, varnish,
cigars, blowpipes, lamps, polo implements,
ploughs, tweeds, perambulators, bats, and about
19,642 other things. In some cases the little
manufacturer who is battling away in the begin-
nings of a factory in a little back street was given
a lift-up by somebody who didn’t have any goods
to sell—by carrying firms, office people, and the
like ; and in a few cases the little manufacturer
exhibited himself at his special job as a guaran-
tee of good faith. Altogether it made a
tine show, and from one point of view almost
the cheerfullest feature about it was the way in
which the largely-importing person beamed and
smiled upon it. For in S. Australia the wholesale
importing person years ago struck hard Protec-
tionist propositions like C. C. Kingston with his
Customs tariff and his brief “ Penalty, £100,”
wherefore they accepted the inevitable and
went in themselves for manufacturing. Conse-
quently, what were purely importing houses 20
years or so ago are to a great extent manufactur-
ing houses to-day, and as such are interested in
whooping up Australian goods—which is one con-
siderable reason why it’s a comparatively .easy
matter to run a “Made in Australia ” carnival
like this in Adelaide.
+
A CRY from Queanbeyan (N.S.W.): —
Queanbeyan Pastures Protection Board recently
shouted loudly into the ear of the Attorney-General’s
Department concerning the ways of the local J.P.
(who is also a landowner) in cases under the Rabbit
Destruction Act. Put bluntly, the Board’s shout
amounted to a broad charge against some people of a
strenuous readiness to give a leg up to each other in
cases arising out of the alleged non-obliteration of bunny.
The Attorney-General’s Department anchored a cold,
legal eye on the subject, and the other day announced
what the optic had discovered during its interior burrow-
ings. The Department remarked that since January 1,
1907, five cases under the Rabbit Act had been decided in
the Queanbeyan district. In two cases fines had been
imposed ; the other three cases had been dismissed. In
one of the cases wherein fines were inflicted, Hoggett,
J.P., had sat with the P.M. ; in the other, Hoggett, J.P.,
was defendant, and landowner All wool, J. P., and other
J’s.P. (who were, seemingly, also landowning J’s.P.) sat
with the P.M. Allwool, J.P., dissented from the verdict
which fined Hoggett, J.P. The dismissed cases panned out
this wav (1) All wool, J.P., was defendant; Bench—the
P.M., Hoggett, J.P., and other (seemingly landowning)
J’s.P. The P.M. dissented from the verdict. (2) Bench —
the P.M., Hoggett, J.P., and another (seemingly land-
owning) J.P. The P.M. again dissented. (3) Bench—the
P.M., Allwool, J.P., and other (seemingly landowning)
J’s.P. The P.M. dissented some more. Having suc-
cinctly set forth the above happenings, as discovered
by the cold, departmental eye aforesaid, Attorney-General
Wade made a cold comment or addendum to the effect
that as Allwool, J.P., had wanted to dismiss the case
against Hoggett, J.P.; and as Hoggett, J.P., had over-
ruled the P.M. in dismissing the case against Allwool,
J.P.; and further, as Hoggett, J.P., had been fined on
February 19, and bn March 18 had helped a brother J.P.
to dismiss another case ; and moreover as Allwool, J.P.,
since his case was dismissed, had sat in two cases and
helped to dismiss both ; and as in two other cases where the
P.M. sat alone fines were inflicted—as all these things
had happened, the land-owning J.P. was laying himself
open to suspicion, and had only himself to blame if people
made nasty remarks about him. •
♦
S. M. Herald last week printed a London cable
to the effect that a British cruiser squadron was
voyaging to South Africa, and then proceeded to
give its readers some information in a footnote:—
No word has been received whether the cruiser squadron
now on its way to South Africa, will continue its voyage
to Australia, but there is a possibility that it will do so,
a matter which will depend very greatly on the foreign
outlook when the time for its departure from South Africa
arrives.
In other words, if there is any sign of trouble
when the time for departure from South Africa
arrives, the ships will be rushed back to the North
Sea in readiness to defend Britain. And the
blessed squadron whose visit to Australia de-
pends on the foreign outlook ” consists of four a
whole four —cruisers ! Well, if Britain wont
allow even four cruisers to be absent from the
English Channel in time of peace, what sort of a
chance has Australia of seeing even one British
warship in time of war? Yet there are some
cheerful optimists who say that Australia has no
use for a fleet of its own, because “ It’s all right;
the British navy will be around, you know.’
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Mrs. Wiggs.”
Theatre Royal “ Peter Pan.”
Criterion “ The Belle of Mayfair.”
Palace “The Private Secretary.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Mark Hambourg (19th).
Glaciarium Real Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Red Mill.”
Her Majesty’s “The Truth.”
Theatre Royal “The Lily of Killarney.”
King’s “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Wirths’ Pleasure) *« The Jesters,” etc., etc.
Park (Princes Court) (
Bijou “ Mrs. Lee’s Lodgers.”
Town Hall. The Oherniavskis.
Glaciarium Ice Skating-.
«►
“A small souvenir of my Plebiscite
Recital, August 22nd, 1908.” It is a post card
picture of Hambourg leaning his thinking apart-
ment on his left hand and his elbow on the key-
board of the piano. No word but “ epic” will do
justice to the rapt and awful sublimity of his
expression as he glowers into the Unseen right
through the vitals of the instrument, past the
walls of masonry, beyond the continent, into the
space that soars above sun and star systems, and
finally focuses the great eye of the mind
upon the winged pianist in the Company of the
Nine Choirs before the Throne. The Celestial
ivory smiter is playing a composition by one Mark
Hambourg, and Mark, listening critically, thinks
that, considering how the Player has Inspiration
on the spot, so to speak, he might have played
more in’accordance with the composer’s intentions.
To-night (Tuesday) Mark will come out of his
post-card trance, and start a farewell season at
Sydney Town Hall. The season will close on
Thursday, and later the tremendous pianist will
tour Maoriland. Thence he goes to Europe.
“ Peter Pan ” grows steadily in favor with
its audiences at Sydney Royal. It is a rest to the
weary mind as well as to the weary feet. It
makes old men feel younger—if they are healthy
old men who haven’t become mere battered mental
shells through long pursuit of the flowing bowl
and the professedly fleeing Flossie, and therefore
feel that all things are ashes. It makes young
men _ w ho often feel older than old men, where-
fore the youth calls the other youth “ old
man ” while the dodderer calls his fellow dod-
derer “my boy”—feel not quite so venerable.
In fact, it has an appeal to almost every class of
person save the young man who was born old, like
grandfather Smallweed’s heir. For him there is
no remedy, and the best thing he can do, if he
only knew it, is to throw coal at himself till the
process ends fatally.
MISS GRACE SINCLAIRE, principal in “ The
Belle of Mayfair," to he staged in Sydney
next Saturday.
“The Belle of Mayfair ” commences busi-
ness at Sydney Criterion on Saturday, “Miss
Hook” being due to reluctantly tear herself
away the previous evening. Advance reports
have spoken well of “The Belle,’ - and this paper
has it on good authority (and also on horrible
authority ; in fact, it has the information on all
kinds of' authority) that there is much to be ex-
pected from the new show.
# * *■ *
Mr. G. H. Reid took the armchair at the
meeting called to lay plans for the musical future
of the two young Dickerson girls. These young-
sters are respectively labelled Edith and Vera.
Both are pupils of Kretschmann. Edith is a con-
tralto and Yera a pianiste, and cold, case-hard-
ened critics thawed and were raised to a warm glow
when they inclined their ears to the most prom-
ising performances of these children. The meeting,
which was called by Mr. D. R. Hall, M. H.R.,
was addressed, after Mr. Reid had shot his winged
words, by Mr. Holman, M.L.A., and everyone
was unanimous that a big concert should be
organised to enable the youngsters to go to Europe
and further study. Arrangements for the benefit
were inflicted on Mr. H. N. Southwell, Mr. Reid
takes the chairmanship, and Mr. Holman and
Captain Webber are the hon. secretaries.
** * *
“ The Private Secretary” continues to lose
his bath-bun and luggage at Sydney Palace
to the great delight of large audiences, and up to
date there is no sign of the pathetic parson enter-
ing into the peace that passeth understanding.
* *
Spencer’s Theatrescope threatens to make
public functions in Sydney more or less deserted
affairs. No one with sense now bothers to suffer
the crush of a mighty crowd. He looks at the mob
from a tramcar, and takes a quiet side street while
the affair is in full blast and blither, and later on,
when all the excitement is over, he leads his best
girl down to the Lyceum, where he sits in quiet
comfort and watches the moving show.
In this wise Sydney people are still
watching the frill and circumstance that
attended Governor-General Dudley’s arrival in
Sydney. It was thus that sensible people watched
the arrival of the White Armada. And the idea
is good for Spencer and the public alike. It is not
generally known that Spencer was out in ’49 and
“ took’’"the pioneers as they crossed the plains,
but as the camera can’t lie and the whole scene is
on view it is evident that Spencer is a much older
man than he looks. The chronomegaphone is the
star performer, and sings and acts well, and Harry
Lauder is still singing about a girl he used to be
fond of, and requesting Jock to stop his ticklin’.
The “Merry Widow” Waltz has been revived
in view of the approaching arrival of the
Widow in Sydney, and appears as popular
as when it previously filled the Lyceum and
threatened to bring down the roof. The travel
department includes Russia, which seems a good
place to keep out of, and the Parisian wood
supply ; and the fairy-tale branch is as bright as
ever. The modern kid is a lucky creature who
has all his fairy tales told realistically on the moving
screen, whereas we in the days of old had to be
content with vain repetitions by aged ladies who
were not ideal storytellers. ,
One more week, and then “The Merry
Widow ” will bring her wardrobe to Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), and “Mrs. Wiggs” will take the
atmosphere of the Cabbage Patch to other parts.
** * *
The twelve revolving Arabs boss Sydney
Tivoli programme these nights. The present
scribe enjoys most the finale, when each Arab
leaps, tangles and twists by himself, and
the stage is filled with a bewildering mass of
whirling Ishmaelite, suggesting that someone has
cut an infuriated sea serpent into a dozen pieces,
and each piece is working off its reserve of energy
before perishing. After the Arabian tornado,
the Rigoletto Brothers are revolving on their
ladder in a long, last circular farewell, and
the Miles Stavordale people are cheerfully
twanging away the few nights that remain
to them. Mr. and Mrs. Meymott add a light,
cheerful touch to the bill with their comedy-
sketch ; Austin Rudd represents ye Olde English
comic song at its best;, Fanny Powers tacks one
or two new impersonations to her list, and a num-
ber of other performers are present. The first
gloss of novelty has now worn off the opening
ceremony performed by the lady choristers, and
the management might begin to plot something
new.
The Sydney Stage Society, which has been
incubating for the last few months, on the model
of the London Stage Society, has determined to
give its first performance (in the second week
of October) in aid of the Pure Milk
Dep&t Fund, under the patronage of Miss
Rawson and a big committee of ladies.
The society has Ibsen’s “Doll’s House” in
active rehearsal, the part of Nora being taken by
Madame Buhrow. Though there is nothing much
about pure milk dep&ts in “The Doll’s House”
(which must not be confused with “La Poupee”),
the performance of this striking woman’s-rights
play, last seen here when done by Janet Achurch,
promises to be an Event.
* * *
“The Truth, ’ ’ which started a 12-nights’ run
at Her Majesty’s (Melb.) last Saturday, might well
have been chosen for the initial production of the
Margaret Anglin season in preference to “The
Thief.” Coming as a second course of food for
the mind of intelligent playgoers it suggests
mutton cutlets and tomato sauce in succession
to plain sheep chop. The humor of the
present play is the sauce. The meat is
the same mutton as before, rather differently
served. Becky Warder is an instinctive liar who
doubtless would have excelled Marise Voysin in
larceny had her husband been a poor man, but
being able to get all the money she needs without
lapsing into criminality, Becky is only a liar and
an unaccountable coquette. Marise was repre-
sented as reconciling an ardent affection for her
husband with a passive acceptance of love-protesta-
tions from a youthful bachelor. Becky also adores
her husband whilst permitting another womans
husband to make amorous advances to her. In
both cases the husband is blindly credulous up
to a certain point, and utterly distrustful when at
last his wife tells the whole truth and arouses his
jealousy. Also in both cases the reckless, shifty
woman with a moral (i.e., immoral) kink in her
character is supposed to be suddenly strengthened
and uplifted by humiliation. She is a very mis-
chievous baggage before she’s found out, and a
thoroughly reformed young person afterwards.
In short, a study of female human nature in the
Ibsen style—irritatingly interesting as a surface
effect, but strictly inhuman to the discerning eye.
Nevertheless, one is glad to wink a discerning
eve at such bright brainy plays as “ The Truth
plays worth the acting that is put into them, and
worth the outside discussion they provoke. I hey
are oases of art in Melbourne’s spreading desert
of bellow'd rama. To rail at the popularity of
bellowdrama is a waste of breath, whereas if one
gets a sore throat through proclaiming the merit
of good stuff one feels some satisfaction in being
hoarse.
Miss Anglin portrays the varying character
of Becky Warder with the same quiet force of
realism that made her so successful in “ the
Thief.” She is not physically "'ell suited
to the impersonation, but she puts her-
self into the part, and wears it as though it
had been made expressly for her. Where there


CINEMATOGRAPH Filins for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdah’s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney,*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
. is a point of difference between Becky in this play
and Marise in the previous story the actress
makes it apparent. On the other hand, Henry
Kolker, as the husband, repeats himself without
seeming quite true to the author’s idea.
The other man—the mild villain of the piece—is
more naturally and picturesquely presented by
Cyril Mackay. He has the smile and the curly
hair that one expects of a conventional
snake in the boudoir. His only obvious
fault of acting is in his jaunty laughing
way of making up his mind beforehand to kiss
Becky the moment she enters the room. A
practised seducer of women takes the business of
his life more seriously, and he doesn’t arrive at a
momentous decision as though it were a casual
happy thought. Patchiness of construction is a
peculiarity of the play. The villain aforesaid
and his jealous young spouse (admirably,
though rather jerkily, acted by Miss Alma
VaUghan) disappear from the field of action
at half-time. Another lady (Miss Warren)
is heard of no more after the first act,
except when Becky telephones to her. Titheradge,
in the most important of the man parts, makes a
brief first appearance during the second act, and
is busy in the third and fourth when Miss Susie
Vaughan gets her show, and when Kolker is only
conspicuous by his absence. Tith. and Miss
Vaughan the elder represent the comedy’s claims
to the consideration of those people who com-
plained that “ The Thief ” was gloomy. Tith. is
the spineless old waster from whom Becky
inherited her talent for lying. His lineage is
somewhat haughty, but he himself will con-
descend to borrow money from his land-
lady. Miss Vaughan is the landlady, who
fain would marry the old waster because
his faults are “swell.” She over-accentuates
the aspiring widow’s vulgarisms, otherwise her
performance is as good in its way as Titheradge’s.
Seeing that the nights of this estimable entertain-
ment are limited to twelve, and the matinees
thereof will be only two, the audiences ought to
be large all the time.
At Melbourne Princess’s “The" Red Mill ”
continues to deserve a prize for good conduct in
its orchestra and elsewhere. The humor, which
is Gonkiddersome when it isn’t Kidconnersome, is
in no danger of being wonderful. John Ford
and Fred Leslie, however, keep it in violent
commotion, even if it displays, towards the
finish, the perspective characteristics of beginning
with a cyclone and ending with a breeze. Never-
theless those two young men together with Miss
Dango, Miss Barber, and the rest, offer no just
cause and impediment to a repetition of unmiti-
gated praise. By the way, the last night of this
Dutch musical play is in sight. It may now be
dimly perceived on the horizon as a mere point,
which, unlike a certain politician, has as yet no
parts and equally little magnitude. Also by the
way, the nimble Ford sprained his ankle last
week, but ere now he has presumably replaced
his commendable understudy.
** * *
The Chirniavskis introduce their youthful
Russian talent to Melbourne notice at the Town
Hall on Saturday next (19th), and will give four
concerts, supported by a Marshall-Hall orchestra
in the first instance. The same M.H., with 75
instrumentalists confronting him, is to be associ-
ated with Mark Hambourg in Beethoven and
Tschaikowski concertos on the 26th, and a week
later the Welsh Male Choir will have the plat-
form. The Town Hall is about to be busy again.
*
At Melbourne Royal the thirdly and lastly
week of “Les Cloches” ends on Friday. On
Saturday the new company, including some
strangers who were not presented in the French
work, will be heard in “The Lily of Killarney,”
which Anglo-Irish ballad opera, by Julius
Benedict, has some pretensions to be called
“grand,” and should prove an attractive
experiment in musical revivals. Meanwhile
the advt. is painting “The Lily” in rainbow
colors.
*
Concerning “Robbqry Under Arms,” at
CAPTAIN STARLIGHT alludes
to his mother. ("Robbery
Under Arms," at Melbourne
King's.)
Melbourne King’s, this
paragraph hastens
to correct an allega-
tion in last week’s
to the effect that
the fire-irons
which appear in
the bush drama
are' not loaded.
Some of them go
off in the loudest
possible manner,
and one ex-
plosion at least
has a grati-
fying result.
The boss
policeman is
wounded. He
calls upon
Starlight’s
gang to sur-
render, and is
properly-
potted for his
interference.
* *■
At Mel-
bourne Opera
House the bill
is much the
same as be-
fore. Clever
Kokin dances
and sings in
a pleasing
variety of
frocks. Osborn and Brooks confirm the first good
impression they made ; the baboons continue to
earn Galetti’s salary, and Baby Watson, Bluett,
Tod Lovven, Tisdale the tenor, and many other
people address the meeting, tunefully or other-
wise. Also Burt Shepard has acquired new
importance from the fact that these are his last
nights. There is always a pathetic interest
attaching to any performer who is about to go
away. Life is uncertain, and one never knows
what may happen to a vaudeville artist.
** * *
High falutin Romance in long blonde
curls, plush furnishings, lace, feathers, swords,
and sundries, generally occupies a large, callow
place in West’s picture show. At Melbourne
Olympia, last Saturday night, the audience had
to gaze upon quite a slab of it in the otherwise
uninteresting courtship of a cavalier and a maid.
But the formality of them! Their beautiful
manners shrieked like an anatomical chart, their
togs were an oratorio—yet it is a dillusioning fact
that those personages are probably hard-up
mimes, posturing in a cardboard or ‘papier machd
castle for the sake of a living. Also, on Saturday
night, the audience beheld the Yankee winner of
the Marathon race borne round the Stadium at
Shepherd’s Bush upon a table, four proud compa-
triots supporting below, while the Stars and
Stripes shouted above.
* * *
Utterly needless rain, combined with a
coolth that leant to Antarcticausterity, left a damp-
ening impression upon the proceedings at Princes
Court (Melbourne) last Saturday night. The
dampness was the more unfortunate, in so far that
the management had nailed down the fleeting
hours of the previous six days in an effort to get
the New Open-Air Theatre ready for business.
Still, though the heavens remained a lagoon and
the breeze whined a dog’s requiem, the programme
was as bright as it could be under the conditions.
Avalon Collard’s concert company, under the
self-styled and somewhat jejune title of “The
Jesters,” gave several items. Each member of
the team —two ladies and two gentlemen—has a
good voice, but the absence of anything like
cayenne or sauce in their menu gave it a rather
win try aspect. Their capable warbles were mainly
confined to pleasant, but decorous numbers.
Miss Lottie Kay (late of the Opera House, etc.)
and Avalon Collard himself were especially com-
mendable. The foregoing, with Hagenbeck’s wild
animals, Ilket and Jenny, immensely attractive
in their new surroundings, and a good brass band
made a show that even J. Pluvius failed to
suppress.
DAN MORAN, at Melbourne King's
(“Robbery Under Arms”).
Miss Florence Baines and her Lodgers,
who come and go what time that vigorous variety
lady is not running the “Parisian farce”
on her Lancashire own, are still happening at
Melbourne Bijou. At one time or other Miss
Baines occurs in skirts, pants, big boots, and
different disguises. She is, perhaps, most loudly
appreciated when she appears as a coster lydy in
a long coat, and exclaims “Lord luv a duck ! ” a
weird English expression hardly inferior to
“ Dicken ! ” or “ Blime ! ” in mirth-raising effect.
-* * -*■
“ Adelaide ” : Tuesday, September 8, was
a day to make one proud of one’s own people. The
S.A. Chamber of Manufactures had proposed a
“ manufacturers’day ” for the display of locally-
made goods, and the shopkeepers came at the idea
with enthusiasm. Adelaide is far from being the
mere centre of a farming community that many
imagine'. It makes locomotives and mining
machinery and cement and fire-bricks, and practi-
cal things of that sort for use in other States.
But .the shop windows were a revela-
tion. Anything Australian was reckoned in,
but for the most part S.A. itself was a wide
enough field. Jewellery, rugs and blankets (from
Lobethal), stoves, portmanteaux, boots and cloth-
ing of every kind, iron and tinware, high-class
furniture—all were there. The grocers had soap
and candles, biscuits and fruits dried and tinned.
The chemists made an unexpectedly good showing
with drugs and essences of local extraction. The
fruit, flower, meat and fish shops had only to be
their ordinary selves. Then there were - local
products one hardly expected—ink, billiard-tables,
glass bottles, surgical appliances, cricket and ten-
nisware, paints and ochres, and 20,000 sundries.
Governor Le Hunte and a party went on a round
of inspection in vehicles entirely Adelaide-built.
Premier Price and one or two others were clothed
from head to boot in locally-made things. The
man who makes a living by fetching out of a boat
goods that outsiders have made took a back seat
for the day—and indeed for the week, for most of
the display was left intact for the view of the
country contingent at the Show.
* il:- # -;!r
Adelaide has been full of miscellaneous
entertainments for Show week. The country
visitor had a choice of eight attractions every
evening, to say nothing of the train-fake,
which all day long gives brief moving-picture
glimpses of a railway journey in Ireland. Fleet
pictures still hold the screen, but the Tivoli
eclipses them with its authentic reproduction of
the Burns-Squires disturbance. Maskelyne and
Devant continue to crowd the Town Ball with
their display of the girl that always is (or isn’t)
just where it seems impossible for her to be (or
not to be). At the Royal Julius Knight is now
doing quick-change business as the two Rudolfs.
The revived “Prisoner of Zenda” is a far better
play tharn the much-boomed “Scarlet Pimpernel,”
but it is not as good as the novel it was taken
from.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Mummer ” : Your “Akenehi ” is not altogether correct
when she states (B. 10/9/’08) that Maisie Le Sceur will
play the chief rdle in the coming l “ Belle of Mayfair ”
production at Sydney Criterion. Gracie Sinclaire has been
imported from London expressly to play the Belle. The
willowy Maisie understudies the imported demoiselle.
Until such time as Gracie either drops dead, retires from
the stage, or refuses to play further in the Commonwealth
owing to the grinding effect of the tariff on her art.
Maisie will hurl all her stock of vital energy into inter-
preting the r6le of a stage bridesmaid.
“ Harrison O.” : It is announced by cable that Harry
Lauder, the much-boomed Scottish comedian, has been
engaged in New York, to sing for twenty weeks at a wage
of £lOOO (not dollars) per week. This "is the sort of rot
that the Cable Trust delights to send us as “ news,” and it
is, furthermore, the sort of news that causes one to lose
all faith in the sanity of mankind in general. It is abso-
lutely absurd to suppose that any comedian (however
facially grotesque), by the intoning of a couple of medi-
ocre (and probably vulgar) comic songs, earns £166
nightly. Apart from his face, Harry is a very ordinary
sort of comic citizen. His songs, too, are very ordinary
songs. There is nothing exceptionally humorous about
his gags, and he is not above telling a yarn concerning the
ancient and damnable “lodjer.” Lauder’s best and most
popular melody is “ I’m fu’ th’ noo.” It is the ordinary type
of hilarious “ drunk ” song that has been sung by numer-
ous tight gentlemen since time immemorial, and its chief
humor lies in the information which is imparted to the
audience by the singer at the conclusion of each verse, to
the effect, “ I’ve a wee drap in th’ bottle far tha marning.”
Now there is nothing very remarkable about Lauder being
drunk to-night and having some whisky left for the morn-
ing, and I flatly refuse to believe the £lOOO-a-week tarra-
diddle.
“Stargazer”: I don’t know why Mignonette Kokin, of
Rickards’ show, should remind me of Thackeray’s Md’lle.
D’Entreehat—real name Smith. Anyhow, Mignon of the
blast furnace or limekiln name is confoundedly clever,
and utterly utter in the way of novelty. She appears
first, in Scotch rig, as a boy. When she goes off, a sheet
descends, and the biograph shows her untrussing,
so far as necessary, and donning her rig-out
for the next change. The pladies come off at the
hands of two lady assistants, who are lightning-change
artists. A gown is slipped over Mignon’s head, and she
bounds on the boards for her second song. That done,
the sheet comes down again, like that in Peter’s vision of
Heaven, and you see more change. This time her white
stockings are pulled off deftly, showing black ones under-
neath. An old gentleman rushed out from the middle of
the stalls at this point. He was afraid of dying of joy,
like the aged bloke who won a half-crown sweep on Flem-
ington racecourse. It will be remembered that Henry
Lee, the Protean artist, showed his actual making-up.
Knowles improved on this with a biograph of himself iri
his dressing-room. The next sensation will be the Parisian
one of the young lady going to bed.
“Scene-shifter”: “Peter Pan” in Australia differs a
lot from the London production. Wendy, originally a
big part, is greatly shorn, and mo,st of Wendy’s lines are
given by Peter. In Act V. two scenes are bodily cut out,
and one of them—the Lagoon scene, a costly thing to
stage, where Captain Hook meets the white bird—used
to be a big feature in England. Also the Australian Pan
does not fly half so much as the original one. One of the
most effective bits is not done. On the pirate ship is
seated Hook, near a barrel. Down flies Peter and squats
on the cask. Hook gets annoyed and kicks the keg away,
but Peter remains, cross-legged, in mid-air above where
the firkin used to be. The situation always brought
down the London house. In the last scene Eiiza used to
appear and fly away, leaving Peter and Wendy in the
house on the tree-top. Here Eliza is non est. Wendy
does the palpable wire act, and Peter, in all the glory of
the limelight, is left alone as the rag falls. Wendy would
monopolise too much of the audience’s sympathy.
Dion Boucicault Brough’s partner of yore has
astonished the Parisians with his production (under
Frohman’s management) of “ Peter Pan.” He showed
them something new in the art of staging a fairy tale.
“The lighting methods of the French stage hitherto
have been simple,” writes the Paris correspondent of
London Referee. “ When a star or a scene needs a little
extra light, a hot and excited man operates a ‘ Tinker
Bell ’ lime, and hits the stage or the back of the orchestra
stalls with it, just as it happens. You should see the
superior airs of the French stage hands at the Vaudeville
now, and hear them explaining to colleagues who have
not yet come under the Boucicault influence ‘ how we do
these things in America, we others.’” This first per-
formance of Peter Pan ”at a French theatre was in
English, but a French translation will follow shortly.
Meanwhile a translation of Pinero’s “ His House in Order ”
is being played at the Vaudeville, and “ Sherlock Holmes ”
is a power in the land. France begins to talk patro-
msingly of English plays, especially those that have been
constructed in America.
0.K.” : Cabled, last week, that Marie Lohr (the Aus-
tralian-born daughter of L. J. Lohr and Kate JSishop)
made “ a tenaer and charming* Marguerite ” in
Tree s production of a new dramatic version of “ Faust.”
In the art of presenting naturalness on the stage, even a*
Margaret Anglin can give no points to “ Daddy ” Lohr’s
f^ ir j! au shter. Marie Lohr is just It. Her performance
idealises the character she looks to perfection. Four
months ago I saw her play the youthful heroine in “ Her
rather,” at the Haymarket Theatre (London), and it
seemed to me that the illusion of unstudied naturalness
m her acting was not more remarkable than her matter-
of-fact manner of expressing emotion. The story
7|? er Fafclier ” has some resemblance to “Little
Lord Fauntleroy,” and in the London production the fond
mother was Henrietta Watson, who was an Australian
favorite not so many years ago. Miss Watson had, it
appeared, been deserted or abandoned, or put aside by
her husband, Arthur Bourchier, soon after or sh’ortly
before the birth of her daughter Marie Lohr, and the girl
bemg now 18 thought ditto to everything her mother
said .about the worthlessness of the male parent. The
loving companionship of mother and daughter was inter-
rupted by a demand from the long missing husband and
father. He had inherited a title and a pyramid of money,
and he wanted to settle down to a life of calm respecta-
bility with his daughter as mistress of the household.
The summons had to be obeyed. The daughter went off
on what was understood to be a trial trip—an experi-
mental visit-promising her mother to make herself so
unpleasant to father that he would gladly send her back
to her old home. For a time the damsel was ail icicle.
Arthur Bourchier (a quiet, easy aetor of the stodgy type)
laid himself out to conquer his child’s natural disrespect
for him, but he carefully refrained from obtruding
the paternal relationship. His policy was to treat
the damsel as a princess, and leave his watchful kind-
ness to plead for recognition what time he was
making her visit a dream of luxury. And, of
course, the reformed father brought his daughter to a
proper filial sense of the difference between having a
great time as princess in a baronial mansion and a dull
time in a five-roomed villa with mother. She put her
arms round his neck in the fourth act, and then she
brought mother upon the scene, and put her arms round
both necks at once. A cleverly-written play, confined
almost entirely to the three principals, and resting the
bulk of its weight upon the girlish shoulders of Marie
Lohr. Her artistic triumph was a recognised thing in
the profession. The first theatrical authority I met in
London asked me at once whether I had been to see Marie
Lohr. The combination of youth and beauty with the
ability to perform a youthful character beautifully is the
rarest of all combinations in stage life.
The most wasteful item on the Commonwealth’s bill of
Fleet costs is the charge for Melbourne theatre tickets,
whereof 2000 and more were issued to the youthful
mariners, and less than 200 were ever presented by men
in uniform. The sailors, in 95 cases out of a hundred,
either destroyed the unsought bits of pasteboard or gave
them away to ragamuffins who were properly’refused
admission. This distribution of theatre tickets for a
given date necessitated the reserving of rows of empty
seats which might have been filled in the ordinary way of
business. One or two managers of attractive shows got
more bother than profit from the festive fiasco, whereas
at another popular house hundreds of seats pur-
chased for “guests of the Commonwealth” were
ultimately sold again at the doors to people who
wanted them. But a portion of the Government grant
for theatre tickets amounted practically to a charitable
offering, seeing that there was no outside demand for
some of the space that remained empty all the night
Deakin’s Government was the only buyer, and the absence
of the Government’s guest made no difference to the size
of the audience. The seats would have gone begging
even though they hadn’t been reserved for sailors who
stayed away. No blame attaches to the Deakin Ministry
for having intended a kindness which missed the mark:
all the same the introduction of a system of subsidising
places of amusement was obviously unwise. It offered a
suggestion of jobbery to any other Government whose
Premier or Treasurer might at some future time want to
chuck a nice little cheque in the direction of a theatrical
friend, and already the man in the street wants to know
whether the Adolphus Bent Ministry didn’t devote a sum
of public money to the benefit of one Melbourne show in
particular, by purchasing hundreds of tickets for un-
willing “ guests of the Victorian Government.” The alle-
gation of jobbery in connection with one theatre is so ex-
ceedingly scandalous that its truth or falsehood should be
proved without delay.
“Jean”: In Australia, as in America, the waltz in
“ The Merry Widow ” has burst into ball-room popularity.
In Yankee society it has ousted the cakewalk and other
dances of the sort. Couples everywhere are said to be
learning its “graceful movements." Judged by illustra-
tions, the positions held by the partners are similar to
those pertaining to it as it is danced on the stage. The
gentleman faces the lady, and, clasping her somewhere
about the north temperate zone, steps slowly forward
with great deliberation, while carrying or shoving her
backwards ahead of him. During the progress of this
preliminary the lady seems to have attained a state of
mental blissfulness combined with much physical dis-
comfort. Her head, thrown back as far as it will go,
demonstrates that her face has an unconcealed yearn to
be kissed, while her body between the waist and neck
endeavors to remain strictly vertical, despite the efforts
of her necessarily bent legs to upset the equilibrium.
While she gazes upward with slightly-parted lips, her
partner gazes downward, absorbed by her beauty and
proximity ; and if he be the possessor of a large aquiline
nose he gives one the impression of a bird about to peck at
its food. He also gives one the impression that the bird
eats hairpins. In shoving the lady away from him before
he begins to smell her hairpin he doesn’t quite suggest a
man pushing a barrow, because a barrow with bent legs
and a skirt instead of a wheel, and with its load tipped
back at that angle wouldn’t shove—it would capsize.
And even when he drags the lady towards him it isn’t
quite a love scene, for though the lady holds up her
mouth to be kissed, she isn’t kissed. In a general way,
the male reminds one of a pelican bird looking for a fish
in the mud—the lady being the mud—and she suggests a
whirlwind with bent legs and its nose in the air.
TO A SEXAGENARIAN MUMMER.
(A FEW WORD OF COUNSEL AND ENCOURAGEMENT.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Reginald Barlow, an American actor of 30 years
standing, is entering the ministry, having joined the
Episcopal Theological Seminary at New York for training.
Mr. Barlow is of the opinion that every actor when he is
50 or 60 years old should become a minister.—S. M.
Herald’s Religious Notes, 7/9/’OB.
When your hair grows thin and white
And your vocal cords won’t work
As they used to “ on the night ” ;
And you find you have to shirk
Parts that once were your delight—
Parts wherein the Fat did lurk :
Parts that now involve a fight
With stern Nature, —seek a kirk,
Your time has come.
No more “letters from the front ”
Will come your way now (alack !),
You’re right out of Love’s swift hunt.
Eros turns on you his back,
And seeks mimes who do the stunt
You did years ago. You lack
Youth the God, so the “gods” shunt
You in haste to that strait track
That leads to Home —
To that Home where Peace and Grace
Dwell like twins in amity.
Do not swear. Compose your face,
And make up your mind to be
Righteous for the little space
That is left you. Flee, O flee
From the boards, and make the pace
As a cleric ! Let all see
How good you are.
Things won’t really be so drear.
You’ll still be before the crowd,
And although you may not wear
Swords and wigs, you’ll be allowed
Albs and stoles and all the gear
With which preachers are endowed.
You’ll by candle-light appear
’Stead of limelight; when you’ve bowed
To your audience no cheer
Will occur to make you proud. . . .
Yet, old friend, don’t have a fear.
That you’ll boom, I’ll bet my shroud :
Crowds will fill the house to hear
The Parson-Star.
N.S.W.
J.D.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :
Previously acknowledged .. £47 18 6
DF 3 0
K.W 26
E.A.J. 50
W.R 2 6
W.J.R 2 6
A -Q 2 6
O. C. Cabot 50
J. F. Corns 10 0
Toiler' 2 6
R. R. McLean .. . 10 0
G.H.S .. .. 5 0
£5O 19 0
“ Vulcan ” tells a solemn truth :
In a recent Melbourne assault case, wherein a father
and son were jointly tried for physically danwii -• tl
alleged paramour of one of their women-folk, the" " .■
successfully pleaded the United States “ umu it 1
in extenuation, and were discharged. Later, a -
was obtained against the father on the ground
should have been convicted on the evidence at the i..
and the same “unwritten” foolishness was again
advanced last week as a reason why the verdict at"the
trial should stand. Justice Hood reckoned the case of
such public import that he reserved his decision. The
scandalous and far-reaching effects of this “un-
written law ” business, if once recognised, should
stir the authorities to swiftly and decisively jump on
it at sight. It is this same “unwritten” horror that is
responsible for the gross and repeated miscarriages of jus-
tice that besmirch America’s records, and has made
Yankee legal methods a byword and a scoff in the mouths
of nations. (In some parts of the U.S. the “ unwritten
law ” seems to be that the alleged offender shall be burned
alive without trial in the presence of a large and fashion-
able audience.) If the dishonor of our women is to justifv
homicide, or attempted homicide, let us at least have the
courage of our opinions, and make the murder of the
seducer a legal remedy of the affronted family, and have
done with it. Failing this, the seducer, however bad
should be legally assured the same protection from mob
violence as the murderer, the sneak-thief, or the home-
wrecking bogus bank promoter, and the “ unwritten
law ” plea met in every case with all the penalties of
written outlawry.


COOL SUMMER HATS.
We recommend our Panamas for
the man who likes a light, cool
hat for Summer wear.
Panama, as illustrated, crown 34
inches, brim 3 inches, medium
texture.
Price
Of finer texture, 25/= ; extra fine
texture, superior finish, 35/=
These hats are particularly suitable for country wear, and are sent carriage
paid throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES Ltd., Sydney.
An Excellent Camera
At the MODERATE
PRICE of
5 Oh
complete.
Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; Inter-State, 2/2.
The Folding Victor No, 2
For Photos. 4|in. x 3Jin. (J-plate).
It is fitted with a “ Rectimat” Rapid Symmetrical
Lens, Bausch & Lomb Simplex Auto-Shutter, and
all up-to-date accessories.
Other “Folding Victors” are No. 1 (for i-plate),
30/-; No. 3 (i-plate), 80/-, etc.
Send for New Illustrated Catalogue.
The Australian Photographic Journal keeps
you up-to-date in Photography. Full of Pictures
and Good Reading ; 4/6 per annum, post free.
HARRINGTONS LTD.»
Photographic Merchants and Manufacturers,
384 George S>. (Near G.P.0.), Sydae, ; 179 Colli.. Sl» Meltoar.e; 93 Qaeea St., Briabaoe^
SOCIETY
TWO BIRDS.
The Government left the more substantial portions of
the Fleet decorations in position for the, arrival of Lord
Dudley. —Daily Paper.
N.S.W. Divorce Judge Simpson lately
arrived at another of his amazing decisions about
“collusion.” By putting a great strain on the
word “ collusion ” Mr. Simpson seems to make it
apply to every case in which there is reason to
suspect that both parties are willing to be sepa-
rated. The scene of his recent exploit was a case
in which' the husband had disappeared ten long
years ago ; therefore there was some ground for a
suspicion that he didn’t mind being cut loose.
Then Simpson asked the wife, in his most impos-
ing voice, if she wanted to find her husband, sup-
posing such a thing were possible, and live with
him again. She said she didn’t; and, considering
that he had left her to maintain the children
for 10 years, and that previous to that he
beat her and drank like a whale, no other
answer was to be expected. Thereupon Mr.
Simpson refused the divorce on the ground
apparently of good old “collusion ” —the kind of
collusion that exists between a person who is here
and another who can’t be found anywhere and
'who is very probably dead. Decisions of this sort
have made the Simpson Divorce Court such an
incentive to immorality—for when the Law ties a
woman for life to a missing man and debars her
from honorable marriage it simply incites her to
dispense with the marriage ceremony—that it is
up to the Australian Parliament to make haste
with a workable Divorce Bill and knock this kind
of “collusion” theory so hard that it won’t be
able to get up inside the regulation 10 seconds.
Those eager Melbourne constables who
rounded-up Fleet stragglers and deserters —three
days’ straggling constitutes desertion —in the hope
of annexing the reward of $lO per man are not feel-
ing too good just at present. They got quite a squad
on board the Kansas, which stayed behind a few
days to pick them up ; but when a sergeant went
along to collect the greenbacks, a lean young
officer informed him that the reward couldn’t be
paid till the men were put back on their
respective ships, and that “ the men who arrested
the deserters would have to go on board and
identify them, sure.” As the constables can t
rush round the world on this errand, they find
they have been firing a number of more or less
desirable immigrants out of the country to no
personal advantage. Also, among the men who
were run aboard the Kansas was one who didn t
belong to the American or any other navy, and
when he fully woke to the position, he talked
Law, compensation, and damages, and so forth.
And a matter of that sort will mop up a good
many times $lO.
* * * *
A lately issued fragment of the Victorian
Year Book (1907-8)) gives some particulars about
Leongatha. After the big boom drunk of the
early ’nineties, when Australia woke up with a
shocking bad head and decided that there was no-
thing like the simple life after all, Leongatha was
among the crop of farm colonies whereon the sick
devil resolved to become a saint. Five thousand
pounds of ill-spared State money was mopped up
the first year, and 1013 men were given tickets up
to help to spend it. Leongatha was a poor patch
at the best; and in 1903, after it had cost, from
first to last. £33,811, and when most of the
beautiful simple-life ideals were shattered, the
“ colony ” was formally abolished, and the
settlement —such as there was of it—passed
over to the Lands Department. Since then
the concern has been kept going as a straight-
out labor colony, much on the German farm-labor
colony lines, and for the last couple of years it
has pulled through on an annual grant of less than
£5OO. On the average, there are 48 men “in
residence ” —city deadbeats mostly, who have got
full-up of deadbeating, and want to get gradually
back again into the habit of hard graft. The
derelict stays on the average a shade. under three
months, and then, if he hasn’t got a job to go to,
he leaves to look for one with £2 in his pocket,
mostly a decent swag on his back, and with some
knowledge at least of how to chop down a tree
and feed a pig—the two principal industries,
apparently, of the settlement.
» * * *
A Sydney lady, with a turn for practical
philanthropy, tells a sadly humorous story of
Christian Science. She heard that a widow,
whose only visible means of subsistence were a
few music pupils, had been reduced to the verge
of starvation in her endeavor to make
both ends meet, so she called at the house
of the struggler to see whether the case
was as distressful as had been reported.
On the front verandah of the poor little
villa she found a band of Christian
Science sisters praying for the starving
widow, whilst inside the house the widow
was trying to feed herself with scientific
argument. She was so far gone in empti-
ness that she no longer felt hungry—-and
was, in fact, mad. The good Samaritan
brought some refreshment and a medical
man upon the scene, and in due course
the raving patient (who had developed a
homicidal turn of Christian Science) was
removed to an asylum. But the Believers
on the verandah persisted awhile in their
devotions, Faith was the only effective
treatment for a case of starvation, in
their opinion. When they had com-
pleted the cure by singing a hymn, they
dispersed to their respective homes in
quest of beef and pickles, or what not,
for their own interiors.
A tale of marine retribution -
The story of H.M.S. Cambrian’s recent South Sea cruise
and its efforts, at Malaita, to avenge the murder of Cap-
tain Mackenzie, killed therein December, 1907, made the
big, grey cruiser look a futile tank. It dropped anchor in
Bina Harbor, where the murdered man’s schooner was
lying when the lonely tragedy happened many months
ago. A message Was sent ashore to the chief demanding
the surrender of the murderers, but the chief thought
the affair much too ancient to worry about, and he simply
urged the cruiser’s captain to “ get work.” Thereupon
belated authority sent 70 armed men ashore at the
breaking of the day—the witching hour when the
grenadiers of Austria took Cremona—and they hoofed
it for 10 miles through dense scrub. Then they
found a village where human bones were numerous.
The ensign of the Minota (Mackenzie’s schooner) and a
quantity of trade bore witness that the residents had had
something to do with the slaying, but as they (the resi-
dents) had retired to the scrub, Authority, by way of
retribution, could only fire the huts and shoot several
inoffensive pigs. Then the expedition hoofed back again
through apparently uninhabited bush, and on the way
another village was’burnt. Later the party took ineffective
long shots at certain cannibals. That was the only
glimpse the sailors of the landing party got of the
islanders while on land ; but as soon as they were
back on their ship the scrub gave up its disre-
spectful cannibal, and he danced and howled on
the beach, and derided the might of Bull’s navy
with gestures described in the respectable daily press
as “remarkable.” The cruiser then ambled round
to Maravo Lagoon, the scene of another months-old mur-
der. But, in this instance, the cannibals had removed
everything that could be burnt, shot or otherwise de-
stroyed, and six boatloads of men-o’-warsmen rowed up
and down the coast in heavy tropical rain for three days
without even slaying a pig. If British authority ever in-
tends to get level with the people of Malaita, the best
way is to send over 1009 timber-getters and fell all the
bush on the island, barring one acre. Then his Majesty’s
ship should shell that acre real hard while the timber-
getters stand round and hit the fugitives with their axes.
SHE HAD NOTHING TO BE ASHAMED OF.
“No man is afraid of the dark; in fact, many
prefer it.”
“ Well, when you look at the faces some men
have ”
The Crow-eater policeman is apparently
too tired to follow William Sikes to his lair and
has got into the habit of waiting for the lair to
wheel itself to the detective office, or come on
crutches. It took the S.A. police nearly a month
to catch murderer Coleman, who had not strayed
more than 20 miles; and even then they might
still have been searching if he had not casually sat
on the bank of a creek and awaited arrest. The
Coleman incident confirmed a suspicion the S.A.
public had that its policemen and detectives are
not so sleuthish as they might be. Safes appear
to be blown open pretty regularly, and latterly
highway robberies by masked and armed men
have been taken as a matter of course. Unless
any are caught asleep while this par. is sneaking
past the waste-paper basket the desperadoes are
still at large. Meanwhile the force is having a
great time among itself. At Port Pirie, the other
day, the Sergeant-in-charge signed an information
against himself for having ridden a bicycle with-
out a light, and was duly fined 10s. and Costs.
* * * *
“Moana”: Apropos par (B. 13/8/’08) re
the hatlessness of several members of the Anglo-
Welsh toeball crowd. The fact that the hoof-
bailers rushed along the streets with
their locks waving freely in the
wind was no proof that they had
been Blue Coat Boys. More pro-
bably they belong to the Modern
Order of Hatless Men. Quite a
big lump of Maoriland regards any
kind of hat with horror. The No
Hat Brigade is particularly strong
in Napier, where most of the men,
and a good proportion of the unfair
sex, appear to have forsaken head-
gear. Those of the bare-headed
band who possess an abundance of
hair declare wildly that fresh air
is a splendid tonic for the head ;
while those who are bald tell you
that they are in full pursuit of a
further lease of thatch, and that it
is customary to leave your hat be-
hind when you are running after
anything. Writer has heard of
several instances of baldness being cured through
abstaining from hat.
* * * *
At last Sydney Quarter Sessions a prisoner
confronted Judge Backhouse on a charge of
uttering a forged Bank of N.S.W. note. The
Judge refused to hear the case because he held
shares in the Bank of N.S.W. It shows the un-
wisdom of Judges holding shares in public com-
panies. Assume (and the assumption is a perfectly
fair one as legal assumptions go) that all the
N.S.W. Judges held shares in the Bank of New
South Wales. Presumably, in that case, the
accused would have to linger on in gaol indefinitely
till one of them chanced to sell out, or died, or
retired, or was fired and replaced by a share-
less Judge. One of the main reasons for giving
Judges big pension rights is to save them the
necessity of making investments and creating the
situation for which Judge Backhouse was re-
sponsible.
There are almost as many uni-
forms in the N.S.W. gaols these days as
there are in the British army. First
there is the lower grade, in which “or-
dinary prison dress” is worn. If you
are in the penal division you wear a
canvas jacket as part of the ordinary
dress; if you are not a “penal,” you
don’t. Then, having started in the
lower grade, you can climb. When
you have clomb half way, you get a
drab coat, with the letters “ H.C.”in
white on the left breast. Then, con-
tinuing to clamber like the woodbine
—clambering is encouraged so long
as it isn’t the wall or a ladder—
you next reach the dignity of blue
clothes; and by this time you get
“ H.C.” in red letters instead of white.
(“H.C.” no doubt stands for “Highly
Commended” —the award they give at
the shows to the big pumpkin that isn’t
quite big enough to get a prize.) Then,
when you have shinned up until you are
but little lower than the angels, they
will dress you in blue, with a coat of
special cut, and you will wear two chevrons
on your right sleeve. And finally, last stage
of all, they will provide you with a brown
felt hat and put a red star on your collar ;
but they will take them from you, alas! if
you don’t earn full marks. But you will pro-
bably try for 100 per cent, when you find
out that the prisoner who has, two chevrons
on his right sleeve gets an hour’s extra light in
his cell in the evenings. And finally, after you
have scaled the Alp of the felt hat and the red
star, they take all the pretty decorations from
you and throw you right out at the front gate.
* * * •
The papers that allege they are Australian,
but yet have a sneaking regard for anything that
is yellow or black or brindle, wept bitter tears,
the other morning, over a poor little boy
who hadn’t been allowed to come to JN.S.W. and
settle down with his father. A harrowing picture
was drawn of a bad, unfeeling Commonwealth
bent on bursting up a ’appy ’ome, and preventing
a son from getting the benefits of the parental
roof ; and Australia was asked to consider whether
there was any hope of selling wool and things to
China when it was guilty of such un-Christian
behavior. When that picture of a bad, unfeeling
Government had soaked in nicely, one or two
other things came out. Hirst, it transpired
that the poor little boy whom the Common-
wealth had separated from his father whs
something over 21 years old; and the father
from whose arms the bad Government had
torn the infant had himself left the infant in
China no less than 21 years ago and had gone on
leaving him there ever since. Also it transpired
that the virtuous father, who was now represented
as bubbling over with honest indignation, had
presumably attempted to get the 21-vear-old
infant into Australia by a trick;' anyway,
the 21-vear-old infant had been booked for 1 iji,
where he admits he never intended to go, so the
object presumably was to fool the Customs into
believing that he was going to Fiji, and then to
fool them again by hiding hi;m away in Australia.
When the trick didn’t come off, and the 21-year-
old infant was “torn” from a father who had
voluntarily allowed the tear or rip to continue for
21 years, and when he was sent on to the place
where he alleged that he wanted to go to, the
papers cried bitterly, and wanted to know how
many dogs the country was going to.
THE LANDING OF THE NEW
EXCELLENCY.
SMALL BOY: “ Hulloa! ’Nother assisted
immigrant.”
The sturdy I)illite is a diverting circum-
stance as a logician. In the two Bathurst dailies
a controversy has been raging between one
“Truth” and a local Methodist Gospel-vendor.
“Truth ” quoted some statistics by Mulhall which
happened to be up against the cleric’s polemical
hen-house. Wrote the latter, blandly, the next
day :
I asked “ Truth ” a plain question about Michael b.
Mulhall, F.S.S.—was he or was he not a Roman Catholic.
There has been no answer !
There will undoubtedly be sturdy Dillites who
will decline to pay any attention to the Last
Trump when it blares over a quaking world, on
the good and sufficient ground that some people
told them that they had it on good authority that
the musician was of the R.C. persuasion.
THE ONE THING WANTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ We have got everything on board you could mention,”
remarked one of the American sailors, “ everything
except”—“Except ladies,” I ventured. “Yes, that’s
it; except the girls,” remarked the sailor with earnest-
ness. “If we only had girls on battleships we’d never
want men for the navy. But, as it is—well, never mind,
they’re not here, anyway .’’—Sydney paper ,
Food, didger say? Yep, stranger, all we need.
Waffles, and purikin pie galore ;
And likewise clams (biled, fried, and fricasseed).
Nope—we’ve no grievance on that score.
Our officers are kind, considerate ;
They do not rubber-neck what time
We deal a pokerdeck aboard. They’re great.
In,fact, I may say, they’re sublime.
Regarding rum you’ll never hear us growl;
Tarnation, no ! you suttinly will not.
Nor yet concernin’ gin. (We Yanks don’t howl
Fer drinks our stooards haven’t got.)
Yet (whether seas are ca’m or run crest high,
While fears o’ dissolution clutch
All hands) a Longin’ gleams from each man’s eye;
Disturbin’ the eye-owner much.
It turns his punkins into Dead Sea fruit;
And causes him to shrink aside
From clams with loathin’. And it makes him scoot
Ashore in droves, and there abide.
Why should I hide it, Sirree ? On our ships
No gentle females cast the spell
Of their society. We see no lips
Save male ones—which is perfect h —l.
And so we yearn and yearn. You’ll have observed,
Where’er a U.S. ship unfurls
The Stars and Stripes, how mournfully she’s served?
Pard, the sole cause is Dearth of Girls.
n.s.w. .
10-2-4.


When one thinhs of the fact that not
millions, but milliards, of microbes and bacteria
of which this actual photograph of a minute
drop of tooth moisture forms a specimen—are
living in a neglected mouth, it seems nothing
less than disgusting to allow such destruction
to continue in our mouths and teeth.
It is simply incredible that there still exist
many educated people who refuse to realise
that it is an
absolute ne-
cessity not
only for the
preservation
of the teeth,
but also for
the general
health, to
take regular
care of the
mouth and
teeth.
Odol arrests
>v*
\>>
%
Z
>7
7-i
Bacterid found in the human mouth,
000 times magnified.
most thoroughly and effectively all fer-
mentation and decomposition in the mouth.
Everyone who uses Odol regularly every day
insures the greatest protection for his teeth
and mouth that scientific discovery has up to
the present time made possible.
This liquid antiseptic dentifrice is daily used
by thousands of doctors and dentists them-
, selves.
You cannot be happy and gay
If ill-health holds you in her sway ;
Laxo-Tonic Pills take,
They her sceptre will break,
And drive all your ailments away.
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.»
“From the Old Dog,” by Frank Fox,
is at once a text-book on Australian Radicalism
and a bright, witty, interesting yarn. It deals
with the big and the humorously small issues of
political philosophy, from “Titles” to “White
Australia,” “The Good Man Candidate,” and
“The Disadvantages of Being Too Serious”
Published by T. C. Lothian. Melbourne. On sale
at booksellers and at this office, postVree 2s. 9d,*
It is no use to say anything more about the
September number of The Lone Hand. , It was
sold out the day of publication, and an extra
demand totalling 3000 could not be met.
We are sorry that so many people were dis-
appointed. But it does not pay us to over-print
The Lone Hand on the chance of an extra
demand. We give the public the fullest
possible value for their shilling ; the cost of pro-
duction is brought very close to the wholesale
price. To have any considerable over-supply
would thus involve loss.
Will our Australian friends please note, and
order The Lone Hand in advance? You may
send 12s. direct to the office (in which case, when
convenient, we pass the subscription over to the
nearest news-agent), or you may order direct from
your agent. It’s the only way to make sui'e of
your copy.
Now about October. A good bill of fare has
been made ready for readers.
In the Beauty Quest, N.S.W. and Victorian
awards have been made, and special photographs
of the winners on fine plate paper are published.
O. H. Kirmess begins his absorbing forecast
romance, “ The Commonwealth Crisis,” No one
interested in Australian racial development should
miss one sentence of this fine story.
Louis Esson, The Lone Hand’s special Com-
missioner to Asia, continues his series of articles
on the Asiatic Menace. E. J. Brady’s “River
Rovers” is continued. It is a fine yarn of the
Murray River, redolent of the Bush.
And about other features we’ll speak next Week.
.. .. . ■ .. j
TmeFowe
214 Geokge Stkeet.
The Yankee Fleet, has found this country’s
delights (whereof Girl loomed large) very deadly.
For the first time in the cruise the Fleet left port
(Melbourne) a tail-joint short; the Kansas re-
maining behind, ostensibly to follow with a mail,
but in reality to essay the pretty hopeless job of
collecting a large missing slice, of Sam’s navy. The
official list gave the casualties as 221, but it ? s Sus-
pected that this was generously short, as the Fleet
authorities weren’t troubling greatly over a large
number of men whose times had almost expired.
With practically the whole pity preparing holes for
Jackie to dive into, ’twas a mighty forlorn sort of
collecting job from the first, and though the
patrols haunted the byways like dust, the battle-
ship left on Thursday morning with only about 50
dejectedly reclaimed tars under hatches, as the
result of the most strenuous efforts, Sydney’s
experience was similar. No official “ missing ”
lists were published, but the local U.S.
consul, after forwarding a half-hundred Jackies
to Melbourne per boat and 'train, was still so un-
satisfied that he eagerly interviewed another
hundred alleged repentant tars, who, in plain
clothes, weren’t quite sure whether a propeller
was a torpedo or a funnel. These were obkious
frauds pining for free passage to Melbourne, but
the fact remains that the men they were supposed
to be but weren’t are still in Australia somewhere.
Altogether, a safe computation gives this country
between 200 and 300 extra pairs of hands to
manipulate the gun when the gun may want
manipulating pretty seriously.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A Splendid Two-Piece FLANNEL SUIT.
We are justified in calling it a “splendid” suit, for it is
practically impossible to improve on it as a comfortable
Summer buit ready to wear.
It is light and ct>ol, and quite the correct thing for lounge 1
picnics and out-of-door wear on hot days. The material is
dilated flannel which will launder beautifully.
Clad in the Suit you will be dressy and smart, yet com-
fortable and neglige. The patterns are fashionable, "the coat
is built with the open roll collar, and the trousers are well cut
and shaped.
Plain Grey with Stripes, 255.
Grey and Brown Herring Bone Stripes, 30s.
Plain Grey with Long Roll Collar, 375. 6d.
Double=Breasted Plain Grey with Stripe, 355.
Plain Grey, 425.
PEAPES & CO., Ltd.,
“ MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A serious-minded Melbourne importer,
Arthur Ehrlich, has had a shocking run of bad
luck these last few days* Ehrlich and a friend, a
country honorarium, were leaving a Spring-street
hotel at 11.30 p.tn. on the Sunday after the Eleet
arrived, when several friendly ladies who parade
thereabouts fell on their necks and bestowed their
mature affections promiscuously. These being
scornfully rejected, the damsels promptly charged
Ehrlich and his friend with stealing their purses,
followed them into the Grand, and caused them
to be locked up. It was a dreadful thing
to happen to an importer and an honorarium,
but Still dreadful things are liable to happen
whem you meet a Flossie at 11.30 p.m.
After a remand P.M. Cresswell listened to the
narrative of the ladies and the arresting con-
stable ; also to the tale of the importer, the J.P.,
and several “respectable citizens.” Then he
opined that, as no jury would convict on the evi-
dence, it would be no use sending the case for
trial. Also he passed on the similar charge
against the honorarium to another magistrate,
apparently in the hope that he might arrive at
the bottom of things with some certainty.
Having rescued himself from that imbroglio,
importer Ehrlich escorted half-a-dozen Kansas
men to a ball, and about two the next morning
, S ent them back to their ship under the care
of his chauffeur. But the chauffeur, instead
of taking the western track on St. Kilda-road,
went slithering down the centre, where he ran
; into a flock of sheep. When the passengers had
been picked up, and the chauffeur dusted down,
and the hides, lambs’ fry, and other matters
scraped off the motor, they counted up one
broken finger, three severe gravel-rashes, two
torn uniforms, one damaged motor-car, 18 slain
ewes, 16 deceased lambs, and an acre of dislocated
wool and skin. It was the American men-of-
warsmen’s first taste of carnage—and they didn’t
seem to appreciate it. Neither, for that matter,
did importer Ehrlich.
NEGLECTED.
The London DAILY NEWS, commenting on the enthu-
siasm of Melbourne’s welcome to the Fleet, reminds Aus-
tralia that Japan, as Britain's ally for many years to
pome, is also the Commonwealth’s ally.
JOHN BULL : “ Wot, my poor little Jacko, wouldn’t
they 'play with you? "
According to police court evidence Mel-
bourne suffers from a woman, the wife of a man
doing six years and the “housekeeper” of a
notorious thief, who makes a business of bailing
out accused persons. It wasn’t stated what her
charges were, but she has a Savings Bank account
'l° cre dit up to £2OO, and when bail is wanted in a
hurry she deposits the pass book as security. She
. on a bail bond of £5O the other day ; but
it iSn t impossible that the absentee arranged that
before he departed. It wouldn’t be healthy to
take down a woman so well-connected profession-
aHy. According to the police, her transactions
amount to five or six weekly ; and they cheerfully
accept her bail, though they know all about her
habits, customs and friends.
THE TERRIBLE RESULT.
PROUD GODGATHER: “ And what is the name of the child?"
NURSE: “Burns Squires Connecticut Kansas American Fleet Jones , please."
“Flinderino”: The small steamer Bar-
ratta is making itself notorious by its unwilling-
ness to leave Queensland waters. It has been
engaged for many years dodging about Ross
Creek and Townsville, harbor-lightering large
steamers at the anchorage, and doing other odd
jobs. Recently the craft changed hands, and the
new owners engaged a captain and
crew to take it to the Gilbert Islands.
The trip was commenced some
weeks back, but the little vessel was
rather small to carry the large
quantity of coal required to make
the trip, and it went outso heavily
laden with fuel that the deck was
almost awash. Once outside the
Barrier Reef the baby vessel be-
haved so badly that the skipper
returned to port. He and the crew
carried their oilskins and dunnage
ashore and said good-bye to the
Barratta. A month or more elapsed
before a new crew were persuaded
to sign articles, and then a fresh
start was made for the Gilberts.
This time the vessel carried con-
siderably less coal, and was to re-
bunker itself at the Solomons. How-
ever, it again returned to Towns-
ville within a few days, the pumps having re-
fused to work properly in the open sea. Another
start is to be made as soon as repairs are effected ;
but the Townsville beachcombers are betting con-
siderable beer that even then their old friend will
come back once more.
* * * * •
The usual ructions- over the annual choos-
ing of mayors happened in Victoria early this
month. Ac Ballarat, old Isaiah Pearce, ex-miner
and battery-owner, whose turn it was to wear the
rabbit-skin necklet, was nearly bluffed out of the
job; but the ancient showed his teeth, and
the opposition dropped suddenly. Pearce, who is
a cold tea-ite, but no bigot/had made some re-
marks about “ those miserable, skinny creatures,
the local Methodists ”; but finally he proffered
the olive branch by inviting the whole council to
attend the Methody church with him next
Sabbath. Bent, at Brighton, protested that
he didn’t want to be mayor, and that .his
Ministerial colleagues also objected; but, it
being Brighton’s jubilee year, he yielded
a wobbly consent. Camberwell council had
a strenuous argument as to who should collar the
“allowance” this year, and selected one of itself
by four votes to three; whereupon the minority
departed and left the council minus a quorum.
As the rest of this council happens to be out of
the country temporarily, Camberwell’s gutter and
culvert business is at a standstill. Also St. Kilda
nearly got into holts because the new man’s
“ allowance ” was raised from £2OO to £250. The
quaintest episode transpired at another town
where Councillor Blank was expected to wear
the rabbit-skin. A few days previous to the rabbit
skin the Council of Churches called on him and
assured him that it knew a lot of dreadful
things about him, and if he persisted in
putting up for mayor it would “tell all.”
Thereupon Blank resigned from the council, and
became a private citizen. Afterwards, when he
showed signs of repentance and threatened to be
mayor anyhow, the holy men spoke to him pri-
vately, and as a result of their conversation Blank
promised to be sorry for what he probably hadn’t
done, and decided not to stand for mayor till next
year. At that the parsons extended their bless-
ing and snuffled out something about a “happy
consummation.”
From the “ Old Soldier ” :
British India is slowly and painfully learning- its lesson
—the lesson of the inscrutable Asiatic mind that it has
now been learning-for more than 150 years. One Norendra
Nath Gosain, an approver who had “ rounded on his pals ”
has been shot dead in the Alipur gaol hospital. Says the
cable:—“His assailants were two fellow-accused, who
concealed revolvers supplied to them bv visiting friends.
They shammed illness and so were sent to the hospital.
The gaol authorities have frequently protested against
the number of people allowed to visit prisoners in gaol.”
Quite so. But then there are the mysteries of caste and
Hindu ritual, of which every high official has his own
reading. I can remember, in the old pre-Mutinv days,
the doctrine that the Rajput Sepoy from Oude was the
prop of the State. Colonels liked him, and there was no
doubt the old Bengal regiments looked well on parade.
Sikhs didn’t look half so well. They wouldn’t have their
hair cut, and they persisted in carrying those disreput-
able old swords in their waist-belts. But the old Rajput
army broke in their hands. It was only a rotten stick
and then they had to put up with the Sikh, long hair
sword and all. Caste had to go by the board in the armv
after all. And so it must be elsewhere. These prisoners
are all Brahmins ;so are their visitors. It would be a
“ desecration ” to allow the sacred person of a Brahmin
to be searched, even when going into gaol. Hence this
last trouble. The officials say it’s a religious question.
But it isn t. It’s purely social.
* * *
Two Port Melbourne (Vic.) honorariums
made a sad mistake the other day in dealing with
the customary wife-beater. The lady had suffered
18 years’ walloping, but the chastisement under
notice had been so strenuous that a neighbor
intervened, broke open the door, and introduced a
constable. The Bench listened to the tale of how
the wife was hammered and punched and
threatened with a tomahawk, and of how the
house furniture was smashed up and the neighbor-
hood turned into a bear garden ; and then, instead
of handing the poor fellow a donation from the
P°or ; box to console him for the annoyance and
publicity, the Court got flurried in the rush of
business and actually fined him ss.
* * * *
“ Theo. Philus ” writes :
Outside the ’Pole Hotel I met Dirty Dick, and listened
to his tale of woe. Itsorl bunkim this ’ere welcomin’
o the Merican Ileet. The arrival o’ them Jackies wus
singkronus with ther greatest disarster wot ever befell us
blokes. Immeejitly they wus sighted ev’ry counter-lunch
deck in ther city wus cleared fer action. Ther evil nooze
travelled like lightmn’. I ’eard, but couldn’t, berlieve me
ears.^ Irushes inter town with er tray-bit I’d preserved
ovei Friday night. Steerin’ straight fer ther bar, I ’uskilv
arsks fer er pint,. I takes up me beer, an’ sidesteps ari’
as a look. Spare me days, ther rumor wuz too true !
rimshin ther pint, I steps outside an’ arsks meself • ‘ls
this ther way ter welkim our cousins ? ’ I reckernises at
oncet that it meant ’ard work fer tucker wile they wus
ermong us. I rushes inter Little Flin’ an’ seizes er packin’
case w ich I sells to er fat lady wot wanted er gran’ stari’
fer ther procesh. In this way I makes er few bob. Orl
the ash foundries’ad doubled the entrance fee. Still I
ad opes. As the Jackies say, I manmuvres about until
four bells in the afternoon, and ergen I tries with no
better hick. Strike me, them Yanks will never know wot
sufferin they caused. Thank ’evins they’re gone and
ther Jap navy ain’t cornin’ erlong jist yet. I reckin if it
appens ergen, us blokes orter strike, er else get outer this
roitin country with our bit er capital.”
The unmasking of Captain Vanderbilt-
Astor, otherwise Astor-Vanderbilt, was an awful
revelation to his Melbourne dupes. One pair of
social climbers in particular suffered a most pain-
ful drop. The captain wits the guiding star of
their Fleet week revellings, and whilst the wife
plumed herself on the evident, sincerity of the
gallant stranger’s admiration, the husband was
the happiest of men in the thought that the
family was advancing to distinction under the
best Jonathan patronage. At the Newsboys’
Ball the joyful little man told his friends in confi-
dence that the captain had asked him to prepare
a list of Melbourne charities suitable for benefac-
tions from the U.S. Government, he (the captain)
having received instructions to distribute a few
million, or thousand, dollars among hospitals,
and sich. Then the couple of energetic
climbers gave a costly Sunday dinner in honor of
their Vanderbilt hyphen Astor, or vice versa , but
to the distress of the hosts and the disappoint-
ment of their minor guests, the gold-laced million-
aire couldn’t keep the appointment. . The
Governor, he said, had also invited him to dinner,
and an invite from an Excellency was a command
that admitted no disobedience. But the hosts
were buoyed up bv'the hope of getting him later
in the evening, for he had promised to tear him-
self from the vice-regal presence before nine
o’clock, if possible. Meanwhile, Captain Vander-
bilt-Astor was seemingly- tearing himself into
oblivion, for already a warrant had been issued
for his arrest on a valueless-cheque charge.
GONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pull fourteen blessed days and nights have sped
Since last we listened to the measured tread
Of live marines. But yesterday we shed
The maudlin tear over the depart-ed.
Once more we toil for bread.
The Yankee tars were fed and over-fed,
What time the local bloque went off his head
To do them honor ; painted Melbourne red,
And filled his guests with many a gorgeous spread.
Two of them lie entombed with our dead ;
Another one has wed.
The speeches that the men had learnt to dread
Were hurled at them full oft; the same things said
That they had heard in Sydney and N.Z.
Long since. And now the ships we coveted
Have gone. The city’s sadly crawled to bed.
The Fleet has fled.
N uff said.
VIC.
W. ROCK.


ROBEY STEAM ENGINES
ROBEY’S
(MANUFACTURED AT
LINCOLN, ENGLAND).
nROP VALVE COMPOUND STEAM ENCINE for Mine, Mill or Factory—the lngh-
water mark of Engineering skill. Catalogues and full particulars from
Sole Agents
(except In W.A.)
Arthur leplastrier & Co., 64 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
hold full stocks of all
including Air Compressors, .
iSL, an K d ron® o Eolls, Concentrating
Machinery, etc, and for the SIMS -
M -Z' «s* , awr-" • ;
. j:SUS- .mo, «-iaagg» — o -
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Modern Permanent Building and In-
vestment Society (Melbourne): —
Interest on
Deposits
Trading Loss on Written and De- Nominal
July, Profit. Sales. Off. bentures. Deficit.
1899.. £2Bl £15,750 2J p.c. £638
1900 .. 9 5,593 2* „ 6,222
1901 .. 1591 6,548 2J „ 11,179
1902 .. 2383 834 2£ „ 9,630
1903 1822 5,377 £2OOO 3 „ 15,185
1904 .. 421 711 1500 3 „ 16,975
Loss.
1905 .. 1423 1,256 3£ „ 19,654
1906 .. 958’ 5,215 3£ „ 23,911
1907 .. 255 1,397 -4, „ 25,053
1908 .. 537 4,809 5 „ 29,325
But that needs a word or two of explanation. The in-
terest on locked-up deposits and debentures is payable in
May and November, and not at the end of the society s
own half-year. Three per cent, is paid as a regular thing:
whether the creditors get anything more depends on cir-
cumstances. For last year 3 per cent, has been distributed
already ; but, though it has been decided to pay an extra
2 percent, for the year, the amount is not payable till
November. Hitherto the extra payment has not been
added on to the total deficit, the exact amount not being
always known. For the past year it would amount to
£2806; and after paying that sum the deficit would
be £32,131. The 5 per cent, which the creditors are to
get as for the past year is the highest rate provided for
under the scheme re-arranged about 12 years ago ; the
larger payment is due partly to an increase of revenue
from city offices and partly to fewer repairs, etc. ihe
chief job of the society is to get rid of the properties with
which it was left after the boom burst, and to pay off
debt with the proceeds. This shows how it is shaping
1896. 1907. 1908.
Australian deposits, etc. .. £169,416 £53,440 £42,541
British ditto 307,689 124,556 100,709
Mortgages, etc. .. .. 30,000 Nil Nil
Total debt .. .. £507,105 £177,996 £143,250
And for the same period the assets (book-value) have
shown these changes
1896. 1907. 1908.
Advances .. £660,083 £251,263 £212,559
Premises .. 78,000 78,000 78,000
Other assets .. 1,125 24,258 23,950
The debt has thus been reduced by £363,855 in 12 years ;
and in the same period £22,825 of “ other assets ” (mostly
cash) have been accumulated, and £447,524 of “ad-
vances ” have been got rid of. Put in another way,
£447 524 of advances (really foreclosed properties, as a
rule) have paid off £363,855 of debt and left £22,825 avail-
able to pay off more debt. Deducting the “ other assets
from the present debt, we get£120,425 still owing ;and if
£447,524 of advances have got rid of £386,680 of debt,
then it should take about £140,000 of advances to pay off
the other £120,425 of debt. This would leave the share-
holders with about £70,000 of advances, besides the
society’s premises, which cost £78,000. In the period
covered bv the first table above, losses of £47,490 have
been made in realising £350,700 (book value) of advances,
etc., ahd that works out at about the same rate. Interest
is however, larger nowadays, so that the society may
not get much assistance from current profits ; also, in
view of the higher interest paid, the society will not be
able to buy deposits, etc., at the old discount. Yet the
position isn’t at all desperate, and it has improved very
considerably of late ; and altogether it looks as though
there will be something substantial for shareholders out
of the wreckage—though they may have to wait a good
while to get it.
* * * *
The Melbourne Permanent Building
Society
Business Loss on Total Dividends Re-
July, Profit. Property. Loss. (2fcp.c.) serve.
1899 .. £1913 £7122 £5209 £5,033
Profit.
1900 .. 2614 603 2011 7,044
Profit.
1901 .. 3423 841 4264 11,308
Loss.
1902 .. 4733 10 4723 in’nnfi
1903 .. 4460 485 3975 20,006
Capital written down from £177,164 to
£7O 866 : £257 being added to Reserves .. 20,263
1904 4012 4012 24,275
1905 " 2617 - 2617 £1741 25,151
1906 *.'. 2874 - 2874 1737 26,288
(3 p.c.)
1907 3244 3244 2087 27,445
Profit. (4 p.c.)
1908 .. 4012 1172 5184 2786 29,843
In 1903 when the capital was written down to two-fifths
of the total amount paid, provision was thereby made for
reducing the book-value of the property in hand by about
6s 8d in the £. Since then the sales have shown a
steady surplus in excess of the written down values.
Hitherto that surplus, or profit, has been used to further
write down properties in hand, thus forming really an
internal reserve fund. Apparently, however, it is now
believed that bedrock has been reached ; wherefore these
profits are now transferred direct to the formal reserve
fund. Though the figures can’t always be traced in the
accounts; on the directors’ statements this is how the
sales have panned out:—
Total Profit on Properties
jnlv Sales. Sales. in hand.
1906 .. £18,258 £1544 £218,837
1907 21,061 1916 201,485
1908 .. 33,640 1173 173,169
Besides the properties in hand, the society has £77,506 of
loans outstanding on mortgage ; and evidently a few pro-
perties have fallen into the society’s hands during the
past three or four years. The position at the first balance
after the cleaning-up compares with the present in some
respects as follows :
Debenture New Ad-
Debt. Deposits, etc. vances.
1904 .. £175,577 £1,608 £31,325
1908 .. 133,794 15,030 77,506
As properties are realised, the old debt is thus being got
rid of : and at the same time a very serviceable new busi-
ness is being built up. The total debt is now £148,824 ,
capital and reserves are £99,495. The creditors are
therefore very well protected, the more so as, judging
bv the sales hitherto, the reserves are real; that is to say,
the assets are worth all their book value. Yet on the rental
return of those that remain one certainly wouldn t judge
that the balance was much undervalued; for on the
average of the property in hand (including vacant land,
£l5 763 on July 31) the net rental was only £3 11s. per
cent Even excluding the vacant land, the return is a
shade under 4 per cent. That suggests that no very
larire surpluses from sales can be looked for in future.
On the other hand, the steady increase of new business is
very promising.
The Wellington Investment, Trustee and
Agency Co. (M.L.):— , ~ , , T ,
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves
1899 .. £2909 9p.c. =£2115 £'94
Premiums on new shares 3750 ld,b»i
1900 3444 9 p.c. = 2469 975 14,556
1901 . 3344 9 „ „ 2475 869 15,425
1902 .. 3585 10 „ „ 2750 835 16,260
1903 4061 10 ~ ~ 2750 1311 17,5/1
1904'" 4116 10 „ ” 2750 1366 18,937
(£19,250 of Reserves capitalised I 435
1905 .. -J lO p.c. = 2762 /
1906 .. 4708 6 „ „ 2989 1719 2,104
1907 .. 4779 6 „ „ 3000 1779 3,933
190 S .. 4917 6 ~ „ 3000 1917 5,850
This co. formerly the Wellington Building and Invest-
ment Co., has a capital of £50,000 in 10s. shares, with a
calling power of another 10s. Of the paid capital £19,200
was transferred from reserves four years ago ; on the
amount actually paid the dividend is, therefore, about Jj
per cent. The co. trades largely on borrowed money; its
liabilities on June 30 were £183,445, of which £162,0/2
was money received on deposit. _ The liabilities thus
amount to £3 6s. for every £1 of capital and reserves. Put
in another way, the advances, freeholds and leaseholds
stand at £225,873 ; so that for every £1 of their own
money the shareholders have £4 Is. at risk. That calls
for substantial reserves. To have the use of other
people’s money is profitable, no doubt, while things
are going right; but when they go wrong the
trouble is that, no matter how the securities may
slump, the lenders expect to be repaid 20s. in the £. Pre-
sumably the deposits are fixed ; even so, the cash posi-
tion is weak. There are £12,988 of corporation and other
debentures, certainly but the cash balances .amount to
only £1637, which is very little till money for a co. that
owes £162,072 to depositors. Presumably the object in
changing the name of the co. a couple of years ago was
to encourage the profitable trustee business, though
whether any of it has arrived isn’t obvious. It certainly
should not arrive. Attention has several times been
drawn to the loose state of the law in Maoriland as to
trustee cos. ; apparently there is nothing to prevent
them doing an advance and deposit business, and
that is a most dangerous association. This mort-
gage business is essentially speculative; it is more
speculative than ever when the advances are made partly
with deposits. No company with a speculative basis
should be permitted to canvass for trustee-business ; for
the trustee has to look after your affairs after you are
dead and when you can’t look after him, or sack him, and
so he shouldn’t be a person liable to these risks. Also,
he shouldn’t be liable to the temptation of sticking a
trust estate’s funds into his own concern at a time, per-
haps, when he is desperately in need of deposits. Fortu-
nately Maoriland has a Public Trust Office, to which
people can turn. Perhaps it is a mistaken feeling of
chivalry which keeps the State back from putting private
trustee cos. on a proper basis. It shouldn’t be necessary
to say that these remarks don’t apply in particular to
this co., but are meant for the trustee business in general.
The Victoria Life and General Insurance
00. (Melbourne) : _
N Funds
(apart
Ex- from
June Income. Claims, penses. Dividends, etc. Capital).
1898.. £15,899£12,132 £2219 12J p.c. =£5,000 £318,381
1899 15,298 11,244 1615 15 „ „ 6,000 314,820
1900 14,062 8,735 1594 25 „ „ 10,000 308,553
1901 14,050 11,506 1484 25 „ „ 10,000 299,613
1902.. 13,068 8,179 1419 25 ~ ~ 10,000 292,083
1903.. 12,434 10,146 1535 25 „ ~ 10,0001 262,836
Written off securities, £20,000 J
1904.. 11,976 9,776 1426 25 „ ~ 10,0001 2 43,610
Written off securities, £lO,OOO J
1905.. 11,587 14,294 1330 25 „ ~10,000 229,573
1906.. 12,270 13,193 1540 25 „ ~ 10,000 217,110
1907 11,468 9,525 1281 25 ~ ~ 10,000 207,772
1908" 11,478 10,490 1308 25 „ ~10,000 197,452
Formed just 50 years ago, this co. has long since ceased
to take any new business. It isn’t the hustling sort, and
there are no proprietors’ profits in life insurance nowa-
days except for the hustler. The co. is, therefore, wait-
ing for the last claim to turn up, and meantime it is com-
forting itself with 25 per cent, dividends. Back in the
long ago it sowed £40,000, and it has reaped £90,000 in
the past nine years. And there appears to be a good deal
more of the same thing in store ; for, apart from the
assurance fund, which no doubt covers all liabilities under
policies, there is £33,661 of funds after paying the present
dividend, and that also is independent of capital. Pos-
sibly some of this £33,661 may, however, be required to
cover depreciation. Ten years ago, for instance, the
total, apart from the insurance fund, was £91,240. the
difference has been mostly written off. On the other hand
that means that the great bulk of the dividends during
the past 10 years has come, not out of reserves, but out
of profits ori the insurance business and interest from
investments. Down till recently the amounts transferred
to profit and loss from the assurance fund were ascer-
tainable ; for instance
1900 .. £6,000 1903 .. £B,OOO
1901 .. 10,000 1904 .. 10,000
1902 .. 7,593 I 1905 .. 12,000
In 1906 it was stated in the balance-sheet: —“ The liabili-
ties under life policies have been reduced during the year
bv £14,160, leaving a total liability of £128,160 on all
policies, including bonus additions.” At that time the
assurance fund was £183,807. It the £128,160
was the then present-value of policy liabilities
there was thus a surplus of £55,647 apart from the
contingency and other funds (totalling £33,303 after pay-
ing the dividend); if the £128,160 was the face value of
policies, then the surplus was still more. In any case, it
is obvious that there must be a very big sum for the
“ Money ” Millers and the few other shareholders to cut
up But, after all, it is killing the goose that lays the
dividends ; because the profit that, in ordinary circum-
stances, would be going into the pursuit of new business
is being’ either steadily pouched or laid up for pouching
presently. *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quinlan,
Gray and 00., Ltd. (Brisbane):— ( , , , , T .
Added Nominal
Written to Re- Re-
Julv. Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1898.. £5,965 Nil £8,591
1899 8,614 Nil £5,854 £2760 11,351
190010,981 Nil 7,757 3224 14,575
1901 9,538 Nil 22,863 1,250
About £90,000 Capital written off.
1902.. 9,026 Nil 0026 10,276
1903!. 7,499 5 p.c. = £3750 3749 14,025
1904.. 4,311 5 „ „ 3750 - 561 14,586
1905.. 3,983 5 „ „ 3855 128 14,714
1906 4 177 5 „ „ 3855 322 15,036
1907:: 5 025 5 ” 3855 - 1170 16,206
1908.. 5,106 5 „ „ 3855 -120 l 17,457
Just 10 years ago the directors reported that things
really had gone quite far enough, and “ they therefore
assumed the responsibility of recommending a reduction,
probably of half, of the paid capital ” ; but it took two or
three years niore to complete the job, and reduce the
150,000 shares from 255. to 12s. 6d. On most of these
shares at that time ss. remained unpaid ; but a few calls
have been made since then, and now, except for about
13 000 fully-paid, and 500 that are paid to 10s. 6d., all
shares are paid to 10s., leaving half-a-crown uncalled. In
the old boom days the co. made the usual liberal ad-
vances, and when’there wasn’t a boom any longer, it had
to nurse the usual number of babies—expensive babies
that cost a lot for paint and repairs and rates. As late as
1898 the co. still owed the Q.. N. Bank £51,783 on account
of special hotel advances. At the cleaning-up in 1901 a
£Ood strong* broom was used, and most of the froth was
brushed off. That largely, explains why the first column
in the following looks so unlike the others
1898. 1906. 1907. * 1908.
Capital .. -1. £150,000 £77,101 £77,104 £77,147
Liabilities (less _
cash balances) 133,314 63,646 63,513 67,047
Premises, plant, _ „ OA
etc 140,709 89,770 88,984 90,180
Hotels '.! .. 67,846 16,500 18,700 18,700
debtors & a ”. d 83,351 51,538 51,161 54,797
Revenue .. 28,273 24,054 26,949 25,006
Expenses .. 22,308 19,877 21,924 19,900
Somehow or other, though, business hasn t increased as
one might haveexpectedfrom the general improvement ,n
Queensland. At least the published figures haven t shown
the change. One, of course, doesn’t know what provision
has been made year by year for depreciation—the profat a,nd
loss account simply lumps the outgoings into one line with
“ bad debts, charges, etc.” Prom the fact that occasion-
ally the “premises, plant, goodwill, etc. item has
shrunk, it looks as though something may be written oft
—in the comparison above, for instance, there was a
shrinkage from £89,770 in 1906 to £88,984, apparently
written off out of profits. It is impossible to say, how-
ever, whether this provision is sufficient to cover depreci-
ation apart from reserves. In fact, the published figures
are so inadequate that almost anything might be happen-
ing : the co. might be stuffing away profits, or again it
might be charging all sorts of renewals up to capital, and
thus inflating its profits. And when it is said that
these directors wouldn’t do such things, it ought to be
remembered that quite honest directors have in the past
done both of those above-mentioned things with the best
of intentions, and doubtless are doing them still.
The Brisbane Gas Co.
Dividends and To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Dec., 1902 ..£9,688 ll£ p.c. = £8446 £1242 £21,916
June, 1903 .. 9,054 11 „ „ 8085 969 2^,884
Dec., 1903 .. 11,762 ll£ „ „ 8452 3310 26,194
June, 1904 .. 11,042 11£ „ „ 8452 2590 28,784
Dec., 1904 .. 11,634 Hi „ „ 8452 3182 31,966
June, 1905 .. 10,309 lli „ „ 8452 1857 33,823
£20,000 of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 13, bm
Dec 1905 .. 10,898 10 p.c. = £B4OO 2498 16,321
June, 1906 .. 10,768 10 „ „ 8400 2368 18,689
Dec 1906 11,227 10 ~ ~ 8400 2827 21,516
June, 1907 " 11,223 10 8400 2823 24,339
Dec., 1907 .. 12,011 11 „ „ 9240 2771 27,110
June, 1908 .. 12,253 11 „ „ 9240 3013 00,123
The reserves are lumped in the balance-sheet; they con -
sist of formal reserves, and reserves for renewaHol
holders, retorts, and meters. During the half-year £2676
has been charged to profit and loss to make additions to
these reserves ; and as the reserves have been increased
by £2676, it looks as though current renewals and repairs
have been charged up to ordinary working expenses, and
that the additions to reserves are to meet future special
renewals. Also something beyond that may possibly be
provided for depreciation ; it is mentioned that an allow-
ance is made to cover depreciation, but this may be only
the co.’s way of saying that it has been paying for
renewals, etc., as it went along. In any case, the
reserves apparently have to provide for the big renewals
of the future, and are therefore not wholly
real reserves; and ditto as to profits. It is a
case in which the published accounts are silent about
several things that the investor ought to know. It isn t
much use knowing* at any time what the so-called profits
are unless you know also how much of those profits ought
to be written off to counterbalance the wear and tear of
plant partly used up in producing those profits. In this
case no doubt, the reserves are substantial, and ought,
anyhow, to be more than a set-off against the deprecia-
tion of plant, etc. ; and if so, then something more than
the dividends have been earned so far. In noting that
the present dividend is 11 per cent., and that a while ago
lli per cent, was paid, it must be remembered that
the present dividend has to be paid on £20,000 of what
were formerly reserves which carried no dividend ; conse-
quently 11 percent, is now equal to £l2 11s. 3d. percent,
on the capital actually paid. The co. has practically no
debt; its liquid assets exceed its liabilities by £43,703.
This comparison shows the recent progress in that respect:
June, 1903. June, 1908.
Liquid assets.. .. •• £34,£>75 £47,802
Liabilities . 3,545
Surplus £31,030 £43,703
No capital has been got in meantime. Thus the busi-
ness has paid not only the dividends, but also the cost of all
additions and repairs and renewals, and besides has in five
years put up £12,673 as a further cover for depreciation.
That looks all right. It even looks as though the co.
might do a bit for the consumers without seriously im-
perilling its £l2 11s. 3d. per cent.
* * *
The Ballarat Gas Co. (Vic.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Jan., 1903 .. £4214 14 p.c. = £4725 £64,359
Ju1y,1903 .. 5044 14 „ „ 4720 £319 64,678
Jan., 1904 .. 4554 14 „ „ 4720 64,507
July, 1904 .. 5012 14 „ „ -4725 287 64,794
Tan 1905 4438 14 ~ ~ 4720 • 64,507
Jffiv 1905 “ 4800 12 4050 750 65,257
Tntv 1906 4112 12 ~ ~ 4050 62 65,724
S£:i»:: « 76 12 ;; „ 4050 326 66,050
July, 1907 .. 3971 12 „ „ 4050 - 65,971
Jan., 1908 .. 3680 12 „ „ 4050 - 65,601
July, 1908 .. 3413 10 „,, 33/5 38 65,639
The co, has been steadily slipping back, and the high
price of coal has lately given it an extra shove down-hill.
In the January-July half of 1903 coal cost £3591 to pro-
duce £10,595 of gas receipts ; in the past half-year the gas
receipts had fallen to £10,305, and the coal cost had
climbed to £3893. Thus the co. has been hit both ways—
first by the higher price of coal; then by the general
decay of Ballarat mining, coupled with the inroads of
electric lighting, with which the city is also provided. Of
the reserves £62,747 is a fund to pay for the renewal of
works, and to provide for contingencies. The greater
part of this fund has, however, been invested in new
works. The following shows some movements for the
January-July half of the past few years, including the
sums written off (that is, spent on repairs, etc., out of the
depreciation fund): —
Trading Written Depreciation
Profit. Off. Reserve, etc.
July, 1902 .. £5999 £634 £62,471
1903 .. 5541 751 62,650
” 1904 .. 5792 1068 62,762
” ions 5519 1093 62,758
” 1906 .. 5521 1749 62,844
” 1907 . 5623 1734 63,045
” 1908 .. 5348 2066 62,747
It is obvious from this that, though there has been a fall
in revenue, the worst part of the shrinkage in the net
profits is due to the greater amount which has had to be
spent latterly in renewals, etc. Fortunately, in its good
days this co. made provision for that; but there are
younger cos. that are not doing it. Seven years ago the
co’s liquid assets exceeded its debts by £20,041. They
now exceed them by £19,691. This shows that after
paving for renewals and additions, the co. has not quite
earned the dividend paid in those seven years. The further
reduction of dividend which has been made is therefore
wise. *
Watson’s Bay and South Shore Ferry Co.
'(Sydney B / Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, selves.
1903 £1564 6 p.c. = £464 - £llOO 1240
1904 .. 1208 6„ „ 433 - 770 2015
i:: Ii e I :i; s
1908.. 1668 6„ „ 433 - 1235 443/
The reserves consist of depreciation fund £2868, contin-
o-eney account £9OO, and undivided profit £669. As the.
depreciation fund apparently covers actual wear and
teai', these are not wholly true reserves-they are,
to a greater or less extent, a set-off against
above^are^^ot 1 ' wh“wu’e profit f earner
„ the depreciation »“ b »“ tom “ .
seem excessive, then £683 must oe u , wr >nld
£1668. Even then, however, a handsome su p
remain over and above D- ctsiderably
“ apparent profits, show n m t3o 3 0 the variable
from vear to \eai. This , The r>aid share
amount spent on repairs and renewals. h futures
capital amounts to only £7221, but there
for £6OOO outstanding. This of course VS?£oOoK
risks which shareholders have to carry, for th's £'6o«) is a
first mortgage on capital, and the in terestpai able to the
creditors is a first mortgage on the gross profits. £jwt
from that the liabilities are, however, smail, amounting
to only £756. This is an increase of £lO9 for the j ear.
Meantime a leasehold for coaling purposes has been
secured at Neutral Bay, which stands in the books at
£1250 ; the undivided profits (depreciation fund addi-
tions etc.) have been put into this property. The co.
hasn’t got the most profitable part of the Harbor traffic,
for it serves a district that is also served by the trams.
But you can’t get cheap return tickets on the trams, so
Bill and Lizzie, not to mention Adolphus and Ermyn-
trude, make the round trip ; and hence there is no reason
why the Watson’s Bay Co. should be downhearted.
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Svdney)
Writ- lo Ke-
ten duce
Profits. Dividends, off. Deficit. Deficit.
June, 1903 .. £344 5p.c.=£437 - -
Dec., 1903.. 410 5„ „ 437 - - 14 -' ud
- - U ’ m
D. 0., ISM . P "S*' sn - I*;S
June, 1905.. 465 5 p.c. 437 14’701
Dec., 1905.. 390 5„ „ 437
LOSS. 1 r 04 1
June, 1906 .. 640 Nil ’
n iQfifi Nil 503 14,838
Dec., 1906 .. 503 INU ■ oinn 19 , 14 714
June, 1907.. 670 sp.c.= 437 £lO9 124 ,714
Dec./ 1907.. 632 5„ „ 437 109 86 14,6-8
June, 1908.. 726 5„ „ 437 109 180 14 - 4
In the foregoing the amounts appropriated during tne
last few terms to provide for bad debts are dedu ’
profits, and are not shown as written • • debts^is
about £lOO a half-year; the total of thebookdeDtsis
now £568 The goodwill and other paper assets -tin
stand in the books at £15,000 ; in «-he tabte thi*
of course, is not reckoned an asset. Before payment
of the current dividend, the substantial assets total £3099
net, and include furniture ’mprovemente (which
most properly are now being written down at the rate ol
10 per cent, per annum), stock, and cash (£42 fj ld
viding for all debts). Five years agothedebtseMeeoea
cash by £416; but stocks were heavier then. Stdl,
though the prodigious paper asset is absurd, th
many signs of more prudent maijageme .
capital is £17,500 ; but most of that, as mentioned a
is paper. . * *
The Adelaide Co-operative Society
Divi- Wnt-
dend Bonus on ten Be-
Profits. (4p.c.) Purchases. off. serves
Feb., 1903.. £2427 £715 3| p.c, = £1466 £329 £1309
Aug.’, 1903.. 2286 720 3| „ „ 1459 242 1234
Feb., 1904.. 2433 iO4 3| » >» oa 1322
Aug., 1904.. 2529 719 3| „ „ 1385 304 Mg
Feb., 1905.. 2680 754 Bft „ 44^ 4 \ m
Aug., 1905.. 2399 780 3§ „ „ 1531 251 1334
Feb., 1906.. 3128 789 3ft „ „ 1560 623 15
Aug., 1906.. 3150 808 Bft „ „ 1597 4.3 19m
Feb., 1907.. 2898 845 3ft „ 1590 282
Aug., 1907.. 3989 877 4J „ „ 1955 gg
Feb., 1908.. 4138 935 5 „ „ 2385 010 2883
Aug., 1908) 4711 960 5 „ 2450 581 3603
This 40-year-old society has a basis of its own. Inter
or dividend is limited to 4 percent.; and
can withdraw when he likes. and what
etc., are included with the appiop ?.. nex t
they amount to for a half-year -nT known t.U tin nex
accounts are published, *or many y . . fc gai( j
ment set its face against reserves , lTtonianism was
to withhold any of the profits. T h at «^°f v ‘e check on
very admirable ; but it was also a ' er J explains why,
expansion, and it was risky as well. J’ reserves
in spite of so many years of good come to have
were so small three years ago, and h y erB
doubled since then. Except to its . Qn q o.D.
society owes nothing at all; it works are COn-
principles, so far, anyhow, as its own -n others ,
cerned ; and it encourages the sa , V P .£6364 A further
wherefore its book debts amount to only £63b4.
comparison Expenses to
Turnover. Expenses. Turnover.
August, IMS Ag gjrff-
August, 1908 .. 62,071 9271
It is excellent progress.
Berrima District Farm and Dairy Co.
(N.S.W.): writ-?
Bonus to ten Be-
Dee., Profits. Dividends. Suppliers. off- J 3 ' 77 i
1900’ £2460 10 p.c. = £92 12 p.c. =£6Bs £4Ol
1901 2370 10 „ „ 94 15 „ „ 1010 5 415
1902 3482 10 „„9425 „ „ f 5 561
1903 2609 10 „ „ 95 25 „ „ -000 5 541
1904 2898 10 „ „ 98 30 „ „ 2520
1905 4073 10 „ „ 98 33J „ „ 3130
1906 4929 10 „ „ 99 35 „ „ 3862 373
1907 4115 10 „ „ 99 35 „ „ 340 U
June, 53 io,lll
1908 3124 ,
As usual at the half-year the highly
balance is carried forward. Busin -
profitable, and the turnover larg . SUp-
are £19,057, of which £15,357 was au £
pliers, presumably for the preceding a nd
ments: against that the paid capital
book debts were valued at £12,255. ii P g wh ich
on which this very big business is done and
shows from what small l Xder° big
marketing has grown. Under Ifcemrou last half-
reserve fund is indispensable .for even <llB amoUllted
year—a time of general prospentj —bad a g
to nearly one-fifth of the entire capi - { more
easily be a time when bad debts will arrive ia
heavily with no current profits tojprovide *
The Farnham Cheese and Butter Factory
Co. (Warrnambool, Vic.): —
Divi- Bonus D
dends to Sup- Written
Profits. (7 p.c.) pliers. • £3781
July, 1903 --£426 £|6 300 3728
Jan., 1904 .. 333 86 __ 3739
July, 1904 .. 228 86 £l3l __ 3820
Jan., 1905 .. 1073 86 906 3827
July, 1905 .. 449 86 206 wo 416 f)
Jan.,1906 .. 1637 86 1163 _ 4180
July, 1906 .. 305 86 204 _ 4269
Jan., 1907 .. 329 86 154 39 7 1
July 1907 .. 382 86 194 40U 4177
Jam, 1908 ..IH9 |6 827 _ 4401
Of profits for deprecation ; noth Kat «^ her word> ,
written off during the past 1 niach iner.v,
the co. has had 12 ninths the l 2
buildings, horse, waggon, , e d a penny for it;
months’ operations haven t been cha d p worth
consequently if the plant, horse, then the
£lOO or £5OO less than thej wer j ess than the
profits are £lOO (or £5OO as the however, it can be
accounts allege. In favor of t -’ s , nost i y for
said that the liabilities are (£2l«b w
current milk supplies), while cash in hanu
£2310 and book debts to £545. ,
Ballina ’
1904 .. 827 5„ „ 148 2-9 1476
1905 .. 1549 7 5 „ „ -42 g 531 1793
1906 .. 1269 5 „ ~ 163 810 1712
1907 .. 913 5 „ „ 184
June, _ 308 2942
1908 .. 1538 , npcember
The distributions are made only a gur
balance. Of the half-year’s profit £453 b a me q{
pluses on the butter-export busmess-an


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; CERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
li\ Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office alb Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC’’are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4Jd. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
F. H. LLOYD & GO. Ltd.
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers,
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
CHARTERS TOWERS.— Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in. Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Oollins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than.any other. It' saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet I inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
All philosophic works, and Holy Writ itself,
teem with warning of the uncertainty of life. Deaths by
natural causes have been pushed far down the years of
civilised life, but with the increase of that very civilisa-
tion the liability to accident has enormously increased.
The railway, the ferry, the tram, and the murderous
motor car inevitably cause thousands of people to place
their lives and limbs in the hands of entire strangers, of
whose ability they can have absolutely no knowledge. It
would seem, therefore, to be only common-sense to guard
against the financial consequences of misadventure by
taking out an accident and sickness policy with the South
British Insurance Company Limited ; £5OO Death, £3 per
week Accident and Sickness Compensation for £3 per
annum. Head Office for N.S.W. : 12 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney. Geo. H. Moore, Manager.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, line chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspond! nee invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Five copper converters are being manufactured
for the Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Co., of Port
Kembla, N.S.W., which will be the largest in use within
the Commonwealth. They are 10ft. 6in. long ; 7ft. Gin.
diameter ; hold 8 tons of copper matte ; and when lined
and'charged weigh 29 tons ; they are turned; by a rack
gear operated by electric motors. The work is being done
to the order of the manager, Mr. B. Magnus, by the
Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, which
firm has made a speciality of copper smelting and con-
verting, in addition to all other methods of ore and metal
treatment.* ■ 13
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issue
of 7th August, 1907, writes regarding the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ It is a go-ahead con-
cern ; its operations are planned on a large scale ; its
connections are planted over a vast area —Australia, New
Zealand, Africa, and the British Isles. The Society moves
with the times in adapting its contracts to the changing
needs of new generations ; it is progressive, up-to-date,
and in a condition of well-organised activity.”*
»■* •*•*
Users of steam power will be interested to
know' that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a depfit in N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having acquired the business of J. W. Glentield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves' and water, gauges,
can now' be obtained in this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
* * * *
Cameron and Sutherland claim to carry the
largest stock of machinery of all kinds in Australasia, and
in support of this they ask all in want of mining
machinery, motive power, lathes, drilling machines, and
mining supplies, to inspect the stock in their warehouses
in Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, and Bendigo. Quality
and price are right. Send for latest catalogue, post free.*
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Go., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; ,87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
The section of the American Fleet which has
arrived in our waters has eight battleships which are
fitted with the Babcock and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler.
Five of these ships are of the Connecticut class, including
the flagship itself. Engineers will be interested to note
that these five ships hold the record for economical
steaming from San Francisco. This is another strong-
argument, in favor of the adoption of the water-tube boilers
in the' navy and the mercantile service, as not only do
they save fuel, but they economise in space and very
materially in weight.* r *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
» * * «
Visitors to the Mephan Ferguson Engineering
Works, Melbourne, will notice that large additions have
recently been made to the premises, and new machinery
laid down in order to carry out some large contracts
which have been undertaken for the supply of railway
girders, water supply and irrigation pipes, etc. The two
largest boilers ever manufactured in Victoria have just
been completed and tested for the Melbourne Harbor
Trust, and amongst other works in course of construction
the most interesting are the patent spiral riveted pipes
and electric welding machinery.*
*■*•*•»
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained.' Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
«** - *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining, requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
To procure the most steady running power at
the lowest expenditure in working cost is a consumma-
tion devoutly to be wished by all users of machinery, and
no form of power yet discovered has reached this con-
summation so nearly as the “ Ruston ” .Suction Gas
Engine. In this plant, which works equally well on coke
orcharcoal, no steam boiler or gas holder is required :
there is no risk of fire, and as it is kept below atmospheric
pressure the possibility of gas escaping is eliminated. Its
running cost is about Id. per hour for 10-b.h.p. Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney ; and 128
William Street, Melbourne, will send an illustrated cata-
logue of this plant free on application.
LOHMANN <%L COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating &. Ice MaKing Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne;
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Mater.als of all kinds. L 4.
profit due to the steadily rising market. This surplus is
passed into profit and loss account; it would be better,
as the business is so speculative, to carry it to a reserve
fund, where it isn’t so likely to be mopped up for bonuses.
The co.’s capital is small, wherefore as business has ex-
tended fast there is now an overdraft of £3825. Apart
frpm that everything is very satisfactory—especially the
provision for depreciation.
» * * *
There isn’t as much truth as there ought to have
been in the report that Tooth’s, of Sydney, were con-
sidering the early issue of some more capital at par.
Whatever may be done in the future, the matter hasn’t
been considered so far ; and in view of the unrest in the
liquor business, through special license-reduction courts,
etc., the present isn’t regarded as an opportune time to
deal with the matter.
♦ * * »
The Australian Newspaper Co., which publishes
the Star and Sun (Sydney), has made a revaluation of .its
assets, and ascertains that half the original capital
(£40,000) has disappeared. But though this deficit has
been discovered, the directors have not yet decided to do
the proper thing, and wipe out half the capital. Jhe
shareholders have, however, been informed by circular of
the revaluation.
* -jfr ft *
Capital and Labor have begun sparring in a
half-hearted way at Broken Hill, and interested parties
are trying hard to persuade the ancient antagonists to
. warm up and make a good scrap of it. But there is very
little to scrap about, and still less inclination to scrap.
There is no consuming desire on the part of the Broken
Hill worker to go out on strike, and the mining directors,
on their part, are not in the business to keep the ore
underground. Owing to the greater part of the labor on
Broken Hill mines being done on contract, the 12£ per
cent, rise in wages, granted during the boom* isn’t the
mountain it appears ; when you get up to it you find it
more of the size of a mole-hill. Eighteen months ago the
12J per cent, rise may have made a considerable difference
to the cos., but things have altered since. In every mine
contract prices have been so trimmed down, mainly
througu competition, that the average earnings of miners
and truckers are considerably below what they were
eighteen months ago. By increasing the labor effici-
ency on the field (and the weeding out of the
less skilful hands has brought that about) what is
tantamount to a reduction in wages has already resulted.
The men know that, and so do the managers. In the
case of the wages-men, the increase of pay has, of course,
been maintained ; but there has been the same weeding
out in these ranks too. And even for unskilled men, what
manager will have the stomach to suggest going back to
7s. 6d. a shift? There are other places in which men can
starve much more comfortably than in Broken Hill.
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, it seems
that for Broken Hill the best way out of the difficulty
will be to adopt a sliding-scale of wages. This, if based
on reasonable lines, would no doubt be acceptable to
both men and managers. The trouble will be to arrive at
a standard from which the upward movement will start;
but that shouldn’t be beyond the capacity of the confer-
ence which will probably sit in October.
* , * * *
The plans published by the Broken Hill Prop,
these days are pretty doleful literature. The co. owns
three blocks, Nos. 11, 12 and 13. The monthly and six-
monthly reports often mention what is happening at the
1100, 1200 and 1400 ft. levels ; but, as a matter of fact,
there are no stopes at those levels anywhere but in Block
11. In the south end of Block 12 there is a shoot of ore
away to the east at the 900 ft. level, but nothing below
that, so far as anyone has been able to find. For the most
part nothing has been found in this Block 12 (the central
block) below 650 ft. ; and in the northern block nothing of
anv consequence below the 500 ft. level. In fact, in the
northern half of this north block there has been nothing
of much value got below the 400 ft. level. Lately,
in the hope that the lode might make again lower
down, a great deal of prospecting has been done at the
1000 ft. level. From about midway in the property a drive
has been sent away north towards Block 14 for no less
than 1528 ft., and from this level, 1988 ft. of boring has been
done; hut nothing that could even be described as en-
couraging has been found. A bit of ore is being picked
out here and there, but the mainstay of the mine is now
Block 11; in fact, “mainstay” hardly expresses the
mine’s dependence on this block. And a co. with an out-
put of close upon 600,000 tons a year makes a tremendous
annual hole in one 40-acre block. On May 31, according
to general manager Delprat’s estimate, there were3,ooo,ooo
tons above the 1400 ft. level; and that only means five
years’ supply at the recent rate of extraction.
One serious result of this contraction of ore-
supplies at the Broken Hill Prop, is that exploration on
a large scale is being forced on the co., and the develop-
ment of the lower levels in Block 11 has to be hurried on.
Hitherto the bulk of this class of “dead” work has been
done in good times, but it has now to be pushed on
whether times are good or bad. Consequently exploration
and development ran last half-year to no less than 2s. 6d.
per ton of ore mined ; which supplies part of the explana-
tion why costs nowadays are heavy and profits corres-
pondingly small.
n * * *
Lead hangs round somewhere in the neighbor-
hood of £l3 2s. 6d., and more than one of the Broken
Hill mines must be suffering from a very empty feeling
in the money-box. For lead is getting no help from
silver ; that erratic metal hasn’t shown its head above 2s.
for weeks past. Block 10, for example, even with silver
at 2s. 2id., didn’t produce lead at under £l3 17s. 6d. a
ton in its last half-year (to March 31); and if the co. had
got 3d. less for silver, leaving so much more of the costs
to be carried by lead, the latter couldn’t have been pro-
duced for less than £l4 ss. The look of things may be
improved, no doubt, by charging more of the expenditure
up to capital and writing off less for depreciation ; but
that is simply postponing trouble. The wonderful thing
in the circumstances is the strength of the share market
in Barrier stocks ; nothing but a. very solid belief in the
early recovery of the metal markets could justify the
present prices unless people are buying the shares as a
lock-up. And even then they must have faith in a metal-
market recovery, or they would hold off in order to get in
at a lower figure.
* * * *
If either Bewick, Moreing and Co. (who have
an option), or the new proprietor of the Broken Hill Pin-
nacles mine develop the property on sane lines, it will
be like snatching a brand from the burning. So far, it
never has lived up to its promise, and now it will cost a
lot of money to put the old mine shipshape for pro-
ducing ; but thereis a man at the helm who isn’t going to be
bluffed out of his course because there a few breakers on
the lee bow. Bulk samples of the ore are at present being
put through the South Blocks mill and the Zinc Corpora-
tion’s Elmore machines, and the result of the tests will
probably decide Bewick, Moreing and Co. on their course.
But even if the big firm throws it up the mine will still be
worked.
» * * *
A new co. is on the stocks to take over the
Christmas Gift and adjoining claims at Wyalong(N.S.W.).
The proposed capital is £15,000, in 40,000 shares. It is
proposed to cut down the shaft on the Gift and sink it
100 ft. from the present 350 ft. It is reckoned that the
shaft will cut the shoot worked in the upper levels, where
it was from 6in. to 2ft. wide. The principal property,
the Gift, was opened in 1897, and has yielded roughly
900 tons for 2000 oz. gold, worth £3 16s. per oz. The reef
was followed to a depth of 200 ft., when the hard country
beat the owners. The money will probably be put up,
and the show is worth it; but the prospects don’t justify
any waste or any frills. A reef that is often a 6in. thread
in hard country only runs to plain necessaries—and Wya-
long has had a taste of other things lately.
*** - *
Cobar township (N.S.W.) has a kick left in it
yet, and uses it to give a start to a little co. which it is
proposed shall tackle some country north of the English-
owned Cobar Gold Mines’ area. Further, J. Bull having
thrown over the old name of the mine—the Fort Bourke
—the new co. has collared it. The prospectus is one of
those vague things that have made Cobar almost famous.
Cobar Gold Mines have driven north towards these blocks ;
but how far the boundary is from the English co.’s work-
ings, or what there is in the north end of the English
co.’s workings, isn’t mentioned. All that the proposed
co. has to go on is that, if the English co.’s
formation goes far enough, these blocks will very
likely get it; also the “electric ore-finder”
has given a reputedly satisfactory test—whatever that
may be worth. For putting up enough money to knock
a hole in the property, and prove it one way or another,
the public is permitted to get 225 shares out of 350 at
£l5 each ; the vendors collar 125 —paid-up, of course. If
the public doesn’t take the shares it will probably be
because it has got tired of feeding Cobar with big wads of
paid shares in return for the exhausting labor of driving
in four pegs and making a scratch or two on paper.
The record of the Harden, the one regular div.-
payer among Australian-owned N.S.W. gold mines:—
Written
Profits. Dividends. off. Reserves
Dec., 1905 .. £468 Nil £468
June, 1906 .. 4,589 Nil £327 4,730
Dec., 1906 .. 6,028 £2500 545 7,713
June, 1907 .. 10,263 7500 562 9,914
Dec., 1907 .. 10,413 7500 829 11,998
June, 1908 .. 7,367 5000 797 13,568
Reserves in a mining co. are, however, always of a more
or less doubtful character, being mostly represented by
plant (which will be of little value when the mine is
worked out) and development work (which will then be
of no value at all). This co.’s reserves are largely of that
character; for its liquid assets on June 30 totalled only
£2363. There were no liabilities. The co. is in 50,000
shares of £1 each ; and the dividends to the end of the
half-year totalled 9s. a share. The past half-year has been
rather less profitable than its predecessors; and this
explains why:—
Tonnage Revenue Working
Mined. per ton. Costs. Profit.
June, 1906.. 2376 £3 610 £lB 2 £1 18 8
Dec., 1906.. 2880 313 6 111 8 2 110
June, 1907.. 5795 219 2 1 311 115 3
Dec., 1907.. 6461 216 2 1 311 112 3
June, 1908.. 5369 3 4 7 117 2 175
All costs have been higher. Apart from development,
mining costs have been 14s. 7d. per ton, as against 10s. Id.
in the previous half-year—partly the result of a strike,
partly because the ore has taken more getting. Develop-
ment is now written off at the rate of ss. per ton (2s.
hitherto). Slimes are now being cyanided ; that brings up
the revenue, but also bumps up the costs. (It has cost Bs. 6d.
per ton to put the slimes through.) Twelve months ago the
reserves were estimated at 9909 tons worth £4 14s. 2d. ; six
months ago, 7115 tons worth £4 10s. and 5924 tons worth
£2 18s; now, 4130 tonsvvorth £4 11s. and 4500 tons worth
£3 9s. Nothing is valued below No. 3 level (300 ft.). Since
the half-year ended No. 4 level (450 ft.) has been explored as
far as the water would allow ; and low-grade ore has been
found. The. value of the mine at this depth has not yet
been decided, but it is at least proved that the ore ex-
tends to that depth; moreover, judging by the upper
levels, good ore could not be expected until operations
get further east. This will call for more boiler power,
which is now being supplied.
* * it *
Lobb’s Hole, in the Kosciusko country (N.S.W.),
is making as good progress as heaps of difficulties—transit
and others —will allow. The co. is in 60,000 shares, half
of them contributing ; 10s. has been paid on these, and,
as the prospectus mentioned that that ought to be enough
to make the mine a producer, the directors are trying to
squeeze through without further calls. But it is a
squeeze, for by June 30 the co. had an overdraft of £1637,
and probably £3OO or more a month has been added since.
A small reverb, is, however, ready, and an early start
should be made on the ore. This furnace will handle
300 tons a month. The vein is very narrow, but looks
like a fissure, and if it doesn’t go down to great depths
some good judges will be disappointed. The ore runs up
to 28 per cent., and an average grade of 16 per cent, is
looked for. The output will never be large, but it should
be landed at Sydney for little over £3O per ton ; and if
that can be done even the little reverb, should make
£l5OO a month profit with copper at anything over £6O.
The ore will be heap-roasted before smelting. A small lot
(40 tons) has already been experimentally burned, with
cheerful results.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan (Q.) has had the most dis-
astrous accident of its life; seven men have been
crushed under a fall of 1500 tons of stone. For the
greater part the ground in the big mine is “ good hold-
ing ” ; so it is worked by chambers, on the underground-
quarry system, in cuts 60ft. wide, with the help of “ pig-
sties” or piles of logs, followed by mullock-filling.
Apparently there was a greasy “ head,” close up against
a bar which runs across the ore body, and the roof came
away from this greasy head. Most of the victims were
Gympie men, driven out of that distressful field by hard
times. One of them was a son of the lately-deceased Syd-
ney Shepherd, the oldest member of the Gympie Stock
Exchange, and an identity of Lambing Flat, of the “roar-
ing days ” of N.S.W.
* * * *
Whether it comes from an excellent system of
inspection or otherwise, it is a cheerful fact that the
mining “ butchers’ bill ” in Queensland is better than the
average. Last year, in the metalliferous mines, only
eight men per 10,000 were killed. That certainly was the
finest record since 1883 ; yet there have been good records
as a rule, and only twice in the last 18 years has the
average butchery gone beyond two per 1000. Mt. Morgan
has had as good a record as the average. Though the
underground quarry system which it adopts never looks
very safe—and, in fact, isn’t safe, unless the roof can be
constantly “sounded” by the men—only eight
men per 10,000 were killed last year, and 13
per 10,000 in 1906. In N.S.W. coal mines the
average annual butchery is 24 per 10,000 ; in N.S.W.
silver-lead mining only a shade less. ( Apropos the
alleged undue interference with enterprise in N. S. Wales,
it is worth noting that the fatal-accident rate in the coal
mine 3 of Great Britain averages only 15 per 10,000
as against 24 per 10,000 in N. S. Wales, from which
it seems probable that there is a good deal more
“ interference” in Britain so far as this industry is con-
cerned.) The worst Australian record in this matter of
mine accidents is put up by Westralia ; last year, among
underground men, it had the shameful experience of
killing 37 per 10,000. Even including all surface hands,
.25 lives were lost per 10,000 employees. On the Murchison
the black record underground was at the rate of 86 per
10,000 —more than 10 times worse than the Mt. Morgan
rate. Westraljan mine conditions evidently want over-
hauling. The trouble is worst in the districts where the
smaller mines prevail. Perhaps a careless manager or so
might be hanged ; possibly also a director or two, who
would rather risk a miner’s neck than buy £2 worth of
timber.
Three Ballarat district shows mop up £14,000
of Bent’s £lOO,OOO in aid of the Victorian mining industry.
Peacock and McLeod seem to look after that special plot
in the Cabbage Garden. Analysis shows that, of the three,
Charlotte Plains is the most deserving. About half a
million has been liquidated in that quarter, and now the
mine has fallen into a Victorian co.’s hands with a poor
£30,000 capital. £ for £is being put up by the Victorian
stickers, so no one can say, after so much call-paying,
that they don’t deserve a little bit of help. South Star
and Glenfine South are the others. They are two mining-
dreadfuls. Glenfine South has even been abandoned by
some of those who last took it in hand. Yet it gets
£3OOO. Not that so much money ought not to be spent on a
mine with its record, but ought men of wealth to be re-
lieved of call-paying obligations? South Star needn’t be
described. It is head over heels in debt to the Bank of
Victoria. The mine has been a stringer of the worst
class for 15 years ; yet it is to be bon used to the tune of
£5OOO.
* « * *
Victoria Quartz, Bendigo, having got to 4550 ft.,
cut a new saddle ; but it was not rich. A lot of 21 loads
from the cap only gave in all loz. 6dwt. amalgam, which
wasn’t enough to pay for the boot leather of the men who
had broken out the stone from so near the nether regions.
Cap stone is generally low grade, so the winze is going
deeper to try if other stone, with moregold in it, is below.
Some of the good features of centre-country exist, and
that is all that can be said to-day.
* * * *
Catherine Reef, Bendigo, puts up a miserable
total for the six months—ll,96o loads for 24430 z. In-
cluding pyrites the average runs at about 4jdwt. per ton.
On this the manager has wiped out a debit balance and
put the claim in credit £740. These are small figures, but
so are the gold contents; and to break and haul 2200 ft.
for such low costs is better going than most mines can
show. One inquiry is persistent. Where is all the good
stone that the late manager chirruped about ?
* * * *
Prentice and Southern, Rutherglen (Vic.), has
the Cosmopolitan Proprietary for a backer ; the Cosmo-
politan, having more funds than formation of its own,
planked down cash in order to gain experience of Vic-
torian deep- ead eccentricity. The J. Bull who consti-
tutes the Cosmopolitan was being fed up with yarns of the
immensity of the lease and the width of the lead at the
very moment application was being made to Bent for a
few thousands to shove the old mare along. The claim,
London shareholders were told, would extend from Win-
chester House to the Franco-British Exhibition, and is
big enough to provide work for several cos. True,
no doubt ; yet so far about £200,000 haa
gone into the claim, and it has never paid
a div. It has hit investors harder than almost any other
show at Rutherglen, and a big sum is also owing to the
State. What it wants is gold ; and if things in that
respect do not pan out a bit better, J. Bull will find he
has been as much astray over the Prentice and Southern
as over other deep leads that he knows too well.
* * * *
The Wallaroo and Moonta Co. (S.A.) doesn’t
publish half-yearly accounts, though it holds a half-yearly
meeting. Instead of accounts it issues a statement of
assets and liabilities as at June 30. And this is how
things have g-one with the co.: —
. Divs.
Liquid During
Assets. Liabilities. Surplus. Term.
Dec., 1904 .. £150,996 £71,749 £79,247 £B,OOO
~ 1905 . 184,956 66,869 118,087 8,000
~ 1906 .. 268,830 67,434 201,396 80,000
„ 1907 .. 136,634 24,553 112,081 140,000
June, 1908 .. 151,362 16,067 135,295 Nil
On what may be called a cash basis, therefore, the profit
for the past half-year was £23,214. But a result as good
as that could not have been arrived at if development
had not been practicallv stopped. No dividend was paid
during last half-year, but Is. (£8000) will be available this
month.
* * * *
Vulcan (N.Q.), whose shares were passed on
wholesale to southern speculators during the tin boom, was
out of the div. last all last half-year. The tin product
was worth £15,509 ; but expenditure ran to £15,296, so
only £213 profit was left. Exploration costs were, how-
ever, fairly heavy during the half-year. The new 1400 ft.
level ought to do something substantial this current
term, and a dividend or two may be added to the total of
£162,205 already paid. Obviously, however, the south
didn’t get into this deepest Australian tin show till too
late. It actually took it as a recommendation that the
Vulcan was the deepest tin mine, instead of realising-that
what had happened was that the mine was worked out to
a greater depth than any other show of the same sort in
these parts.
« * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers,
crushed 169 tons for £94o—a remnant of the shoot which
caused so much excitement. A lot of blank ground has
been passed through, so the sudden improvement at the
end of No. 7 may be viewed without excitement. These
changes from riches to poverty are characteristic of the
Eastern Day Dawn. Still No. 7 has produced 1000 tons of
stone averaging about £5 per ton in 400 ft of driving—not
a bad record for development work. A trial lot from
No. Bisto be crushed. Four levels are being driven from
Mills’ United boundary into the N. B. Freehold, two on
the branch or hanging-wall reef, and the others on the main
footwall formation. The latter has been considered the
more important, but a better idea is being formed now of
the rich shoots in the hanging-wall reef. East Mexican
has the continuation of the upper levels. No. 6, near the
boundary of the N. B. Freehold, has fair prospects ; but
No. 5, although it has been driven 67ft., has not yet met
with payable stone. *
There wasn’t enough substance at the back of
it to keep the lively share-gamble going at Charters
Towers ; so, from a turnover of 404,264 shares in June,
the local Exchange’s record fell to 267,875 for last month.
* * * *
Aldershot being definitely out of the business,
the mostly English-owned Mt. Perry has set out to give
the Ohillagoe Co. a run for the custom-smelting business
of North Queensland.
Ooolgardie Redemption (W,A.) has struck a
new lay to get the public in. Hitherto it has relied on
newspaper puffs and the exhibition of a few lumps of
stone. But in connection with a fresh issue, a pub-to-
pub and store-to-store canvass of Coolgardie has been
started, and offers have been made to guarantee several
shillings for every shilling share applied for. It might be
worth asking who guarantees the guarantors.'
Ex-Governor Jerry Smith’s friend,.-Darlington
Simpson, unsuccessfully tried to turn thaitables on the
Peak Hill Goldfield, Ltd., in the Londomppurts recently.
It had been held that Simpson was trustee for the
co. of a lease in W.A., known as Margaret ting, and as
such trustee Simpson claimed to hav4 expended moneys
of his own on the property. The lower court found
that he was entitled to £5lO. Simpson contended that
he had not been allowed enough, but his appeal was
unsuccessful, and the respondent co. was allowed to
set-off the amount which it-owed against £l9ll, the
amount of the taxed costs of the action.
« * * *
Princess Royal (W. A.), in spite of much recent
hifalutin and market-rigging, has again got to the end of
its tether, and reconstruction has arrived once more.
There are 112,000 issued shares, 7000 of them preference.
The scheme is to issue share for share, with an assess-
ment of 6d. and calling power of 9s. 6d.—which will be
something nice and solid in the way of new liability for
shareholders to think about. There are 60,000 tons of
sands on the surface, and it is reckoned that, with a profit
of 2s. per ton from this lot, there won’t be need for calls.
But the shareholders have surely got beyond building any
hopes on Princess Royal promises.
( il Wilcl Cat ” continued on page 26).


EDUCATION BY POST. T o t
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
A Tsar of old, who caught a cold,
Sent for his Empress, who was told
It was her fault! Then he laid hold
Of his poor wife, and slew her 1
The tyrant’s crime was quite absurd ;
She’d done her best, upon my word !
But in those days folks had not heard
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure !*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the
cause. Used the world over to cure a cold in one
day. E. W. GKOVE’S signature on box. Is. ljd.
There’s a pill that will never go wrong,
’Tis sung of in Limerick song ;
“ Laxo-tonic ” its name.
Like a bright star its fame,
Its career will be brilliant and long.
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, Io*d. and Is, 6d.*
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
4 TarcooLi ” : In reply to “ Henry Phelt-
hatt” (B. 13/8/’08). One Jim Kelly, a bov of 18,
walked from the becalmed Darling trader Enter-
prise to Wentworth (N.S.W.), a distance of 40
miles, in 13 hours, on one occasion. The glass
registered 117° in the shade during most of his
tramp. James took this extremely long step in
order to be home for Christinas. Moreover, he
carried a lady named Matilda on his back. And
she was a well-conditioned lady, as distinguished
from the fine-trained racing-blueys that assist in
the record-making feats of the average long-
distance pacer from the hindquarters of the
Remote.
COUNTRY TYPES.—THE SURJANT
OF P’LEECE.
“ Sapphire ” : Here are the long distance
riding feats of which lam proudest. In Decem-
ber, three years hack, I steered a big Queensland
horse from Glen Innes to Grafton, 108 miles, day-
light to dark. Said horse was then about 12 years
old. I saw him six months ago, and he was still
in rude health. The same year I rode a three-
year-old 13.1 pony from Wellingrove through
King’s Plains (New England) and Newstead,
thence to Tingha by way of Elsmore and Stannifer,
and back cross country to Newstead in the one
day—distance 75 miles, and temperature 102° in
the shade. I remember riding a pony from Coff’s
Harbor through Grafton to Inverell in three days,
and those who have climbed Buccarumbi and the
Big Hill above Leather Jacket will reckon that
the mere distance (203 miles) does not tell the
whole tale.
“Bruno”: Par
re sisal hemp (B.
13/8/’08) is rather
misleading. The
sisal is not the or-
dinary or Chinese
banana. That is
Manila hemp. The
sisal plant is an
aloe something
like a huge pine-
apple plant. When
mature, it throws
up from its centre
a long pole, bear-
ing a large num-
ber of young
plants, which fall
to earth and even-
tually take root.
Two varieties of
this aloe can be
seen in Brisbane
Botanic Gardens—
agave rigida (var.
/S' is alona) and
Fourcroya gigan-
tea. The bow-string
hemp plant, also
grows well there.
Latterisa mottled-
leaf plant—techni-
cal name Sansi-
viera. The sisal
plant has been
growing for years
on St. Helena
Island, Moreton
Bay, where a small
scutching plant for
extracting the fibre
has been in use
also for years. The
St. Helena fibre
has been exhibited
locally at the an-
nual exhibition
ever since 1904. A
lot was also sent
to the Anglo-
French Exhibi-
tion. The fact that
the sisal grows well
at Kamerunga nur-
sery is not to be
wondered at, as the plant is a tropical one.
Mexico is, I fancy, its original home. The wonder
is, rather, that it does so well in Brisbane, where
it flourishes famously. Wells, of Farnsborough,
has gone in for sisal to a large extent. Several
thousands of plants have also been distributed to
various farmers, etc., all over Queensland, and a
large number have been planted in Papua.
* * * IT
“Dandalup” writes in an enthusiastic
mood: —
Your “ traveller in the unfrequented parts of the wild
Nor’-Wesfc” (B. 3/9/’08) is wrong when lie condemns the
Newton Moore Government of VVestralia for its intention
to build the Port Hedland-Nullagine-Marble Bar,Railway.
He quotes the antiquated bogey about everybody selling 1
off at boom prices and humping Matilda as soon as the
line is completed. Let me tell him that the long-suffering
and struggling Nor’-West (the land where the smuggled-
in Chow flourisheth and waxeth exceeding rich and fat),
so very seldom receives any “plums” from the ruling
aristocrats of the South, that it is going to make
exceedingly good use of its railway when it gets it—
if it ever does! A great many Australians, I’m sorry
to say, who never seem, to be able to see further
than their own little Southern backyards, imagine our
North and Nor’-West a blight-stricken desert—a veritable
No Man’s Land. It will come as a shock to them to learn
that the Port Hedland district has only experienced one
drought during the last 20 years. That happened along
in 1892, and since that time the average rainfall has been
over 20 inches per annum, which isn’t bad for a “drought-
stricken country.”
Port Hedland, from which the railway will start, is one
of the finest natural harbors in the North, and can boast
a depth of from six to eight fathoms at low tide ! All
steamers bound for the Dutch Islands and China
make it a port of call. Stretching out from Hedland is a
district of over 34,000 square miles, which consists of
some of the finest pastoral land in the Commonwealth,
also a large quantity of first-class agricultural country.
As far back as 1861, Gregory, the explorer, estimated that
he had passed through, in this district alone, 3,000,000
acres of splendid grazing land, consisting of grassy, well-
watered flats, and over 200,000 acres of first-class
land suitable for agriculture. He also con-
sidered the country far beyond the average of
the settled districts of the South. Through this
rich territory flow great rivers such as the De Grey,
Shaw', Yule, and Oakover, the smallest of which could
easily absorb any three of the largest “creeks” of the
South. They are rivers !
As a mineral district, Pilbarra is, to my mind, the
El Dorado of the future. It is destined to be Austra-
lia’s (or someone else’s) richest goldfield of the North.
Over 200,0000 z. have been captured since the field
was discovered in 1888, and yet this rich tract of
country has hardly been scratched by the perspiring
gold-seeker. Besides gold-bearing country, the proposed
railway will open up large tracts of mineral land con-
taining copper, tin, lead, silver, iron, asbestos, and many
other valuable and marketable products. Diamonds,
rubies and other precious stones have also been dis-
covered, but only in small quantities.
In conclusion, let me say, with emphasis, that, in my
opinion, the North should be gridironed with railways, a
larger and more efficient steamship service inaugurated
by the Commonwealth, and an effective, up-to-date Land
Settlement policy put into action. It would pay.
Harry Stockdale : Be “ Poodgeregah’s ”
statement that “90 per cent, of stock sired by
Arabs are unsafe in the legs.” I am of opinion
that such a serious and sweeping assertion calls
for more definite particulars, for should it prove
on investigation that “ Poodgeregah’s ” Arab
sires were not pure breds, then there is nothing to
show that the infirmities he speaks of were not
inherited from the other side rather than from the
Arab strain. There are breeders who have gone
largely, and at great cost, into the importation of
high-caste Arabs, with the laudable view of im-
proving our horse stock, and unproven statements
of this nature may do them serious injury com-
mercially. Perhaps “ Poodgeregah ” would give
the names of the stations, the names of owners
thereof, and the names of the Arab sires he refers
to, as it is to the interest of all concerned that no
doubt should exist about the affair. Latterly I
have been too ill to do this question full justice,
but trust it will be settled one wav or the other’
as it is of too great importance to be allowed to
drop in an indecisive manner.
* * * *
“ Whaffor ” : Be prickly pear. It may be
a curse. But it has its points. At Bandaleer
station, eight miles from Yeulba (Q.), Mr.
Bowman has a pig ranch. Three hundred swine
are fenced in a paddock with prickly pear so thick
that no one could walk in a straight line for
40yds. The grunters live on pear and what else
they can find; and they bring a tidy income to
the station.
NO SCOPE AT THE HARP OF ERIN.
SWAGGIE: " Day, mate. Is there any place about
here where a bloke can have a swim.?”
PROSPECTOR: “ Dunno. Down at the Harp o’
Erin they on’y keep bottled stuff now.”
“ Machete” : None of your fox-chroniclers
seem to have tumbled to the fact that Reynard
has already gained a good footing well up in
Queensland. Within the last twelve months over
a dozen have been trapped or otherwise disposed
of on one station near St. George, in South-
western Bananaland. They are now plentiful all
up the Balonne, having seemingly followed the
rabbit’s track of invasion. Their small clean
pads were a source of considerable puzzlement
to local trackers when they were first noticed in
the district. So far, the brown beasts do not seem
to have been extra heavy on the lambs.
The visiting Scotch fishermen have raised
a big controversy in Adelaide by their confident
statement that they had seen a school of millions
of herrings off Kangaroo Island. Here was a
dilemma. Who should know a herring better than
a fish-curer from Dundee? On the other hand,
why had the local fishermen never caught the sea-
beast if it is there ? The puzzle was solved when
the visitors, in the fish-market, seized upon a
“Tommy Ruff,” the small, bony, sweet-fleshed
prey of every amateur angler, and said that was
the true herring, call it by whatever local name
you may. They say so still, while Zeitz, the
Museum expert, says that structurally the Tommy
is a perch and no herring at all.
* * • •
The peaceful Asiatic, so beloved of Bruce
Smith, has gone on strike in the Port Hedland-
Marble Bar district of Westralia. It is the
Afghan camel-driver who has thrown down his
tools, but the trouble is that he has done more
than that. There is nothing mild or gentle about
the Afghan at any time, but the Afghan on strike
is a holy terror. Our friend Habbibullah is
reported to have got out his rifle, taken possession
of the road, and, with threats of battle, murder,
and unchristian burial, to have cut off the supply
of provisions at Marble Bar. Unless Premier
Newton Moore’s police can disperse Habbibullah,
the outlook is said to be gloomy, for there aren’t
enough weapons at the Bar, even if the kitchen
poker and the carving-knife are included, to shift
Habbibullah off the track.
“ 10-2-4 ” writes :
Sydney Evening News reprinted (31/8/’08) from the
Peterhead Sentinel a “warning"” to fishermen against
coming to Australia. It was signed “An Englishman in
Australia,” and was a truly amazing" document. Some
extracts:—
“ I am an amateur sea fisherman. I have fished for
weeks at a time, both in the Channel, the North Sea, and
off the West Coast of Scotland. The inferiority of the
Australian coast to these three places in the matter of
fish in numbers and quality is most marked. During my
two years’ stay in Australia I have endeavored, with the
most' meagre results, to continue my favorite pastime.
Nothing has struck me more in this country than the
scanty numbers of fish and fishermen.
“ The climate is so hot that when fish are caught they
immediately decay, and it is almost impossible to keep
them in good condition for a couple of hours.
“An animal killed here is flyblown in an hour, and
must be tumbled into salt directly it is killed.
“ As is well known, warm-water fish is a very inferior
article of diet, being flabby and flavorless.” Etc., etc.
One seeking to throw mud at Australia could hardly
have picked on a more lunatic objection than its inferi-
ority as a resort for amateur sea-fishermen. As a fact, it
is world-famed among sportsmen as the home of this
pastime. On any holiday the “grounds” along the
coasts for miles in the neighborhood of big centres of
population are dotted with boats containing line-fishing
enthusiasts. Sydney, Melbourne, Newcastle, etc., have
their fleets of steamers which regularly go “outside” on
Saturdays, Sundays, and Wednesdays loaded with
citizens, whisky, “cobber” lines, and schnapper-bait.
There is not an estuary or arm of any of our
great harbors about whose shores a few houses
are scattered without a boatshed or two and a score of
skiffs for line-anglers.
Compare the line-fishing (sea variety) of the United
Kingdom. I know it of old, and a more boring, hopeless
game it were hard to conceive. The best of it is to be
had off the watering places of the estuary of the Thames,
and at Folkestone, Deal, Brighton, Ramsgate, etc. The
vessel in which the angler takes to the deep water has
been illustrated in London Punch and kindred publica-
tions a thousand times. It resembles a sawn-off
lifeboat. There are never more than half-a-dozen
of these on the shingle beach of the most
populous fishing resort. The aged mariner in charge
knows nothing- of where to cast to best advantage the
mighty anchor he carries, nor of bait, nor of lines, and he
cares less. His job is to row you half-a-mile out to sea
(he would die of shock if you suggested sailing or propel-
ling the craft on your own), and there abide till you have
got sick or sea-sick of the antics of his ill-found property.
With unusual luck, you stand to catch pollack, small bass,
mullet and, very occasionally, sole. (Let it be remem-
bered that the big hauls the fishing-smacks from Grimsby,
Ramsgate, etc., send to the London market are made in
the North Sea, miles out of sig"ht of the British or any
other coast.) I sea-fished for a week on end once, off
Uig (Skye, N. 8.), under the guidance of a native of the
island. The best day’s sport we had would have moved
a N.S. W. schnapper-expert to blasphemy. A few lythe
(they resemble young cod, and run to a pound or a pound
and a half in weight), a couple of dozen herring
about the size of our mackerel, and some conger eel-
made up the average daily basket. Angling as a school
boy in my holidays at Deal (which is highly considered in
England as a fishing resort), I saw the iocal champion
catch two (or three, I am not sure which) dozen bass
(average weight, one to two pounds) on a rod. He
“ trolled,” as one does in Norway for salmon, using some
bright object as a lure. The astounding feat was the
subject of comment in the town for weeks.
The comparison “An Englishman in Australia” draws
between the quality of Australian and British fish is
absurd. “ Warm-water fish ” are not necessarily either
“flabby” or “flavorless.” The Australian sole, which
haunts the shallowest, and hence warmest, parts even of
our warm seas, is one of the firmest (not to say the
toughest) fish that swims anywhere ; the Murray and
Macquarie cod—indigenous to N.S.W.’s tepid rivers—
have been compared favorably in the matter of flavor by
Britishers to the old-world turbot.
The “ Englishman in Australia ” gives away his hysteri-
cal dislike of the country that doubtless gives him a good
living, in his insane statements (1) that fish cannot be
kept locally even “for a couple of hours”; (2) that any
animal killed in these parts “is fly-blown in an hour.” The
fishing-steamers that carry the # amateur schnapper-
enthusiasts to the well-known spots off Long Reef,
Barranjoey, etc., start at 6 a.m. Fish are caught
all daj', and the party never returns till the even-
ing. It is a bad day when there is less than four or five
hundred pounds of the choicest fish to be found in these
or any other waters for division among the excursionists.
And the catch is consumed at breakfast the next morn-
ing for the most part, in a perfectly sound state.
The News’“Englishman in Australia” appeals to the
writer as either a malignant liar or an un-
informed ass. Not inconceivably he is both.
NECESSARY PRECAUTION.
THE WEAK-hEADED YOUTH : “ Waitah, hieing
me a whisky and soda, and a cab to follow.”
“ O.” : If the people of England had the
time sense that Australian bushmen have, there
would be no necessity for anything like a Daylight
Bill. In the bush we seldom use watches; we
know the time in our own way. When a bush-
man happens to have a watch, he sets it by the
sun. If a city dude with a gold watch comes
along and disputes the time, he is simply told that
his watch is astray. And the bushman is right.
Midday is the moment when the sun is highest in
the heavens. But this is not always 12 o’clock. In
fact midday and 12 o’clock occur at the same
moment only four times in the year—24th Decem-
ber, 15th April, 15th June, and Ist September. On
all other days the sun is astray or a good watch is
astray, just as you like to put it. On 11th Feb-
ruary a watch is 14 minutes 37 seconds faster than
the sun, and on 3rd November it is 16 minutes
17 seconds slower. I heard that you have a sun-
dial somewhere about Sydney. If you look at it
you will find the number of minutes to be added
to or subtracted from the time indicated by the
gnomon, to find the time as recorded by watches
(mean time). I intend to raise an anti-Socialist
cry about this subject. It won’t be the first in-
stance in which time thus figured. In 1752 the
British calendar was 11 days astray. The Govern-
ment corrected it, and instead of calling the day
after the 2nd September the 3rd September, it
called that daythe L4th September. For along time
after that a great Anti-Sosh cry was “Give us
back our eleven days. You stole our eleven
days.”
THE PRECEDENT OF GUNTAWANG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whilst the workmen were pulling down the old Public
School at Guntawang they found the lower jawbone of a
curious animal. It was 15in. long, and had 98 teeth. It
has been sent to the Sydney Museum. —Daily paper.
While day and night our eardrums flap
Before the harassing cascade
Of harsh, discordant, endless yap
That pours from Joseph Cook and Wade,
We might—if Fate our lines had cast
Before—have felt a lntlerer pang ;
IBe thankful that, in aions past,
We did not live at Guntawang.
For there, in prehistoric days,
When Dulcie Deamer’s people rude
Did nasty things in shocking ways,
And oft by saurians were chewed—
The most atrocious one of all
That hairy and ferocious gang
Was he who, in the local hall,
Addressed the crowds of Guntawang.
His jawbone measured one-foot-three,
His teeth had large and spiky prongs,
And through the livelong day would he
Discant on Guntawangers’ wrongs ;
While nightly through the deepest cave,
His loud insistent howling rang,
For none could sleep to hear him rave
About the wrongs of Guntawang.
No kindly nocent waterspout
Fell on the earth to silence him :
No hungry dinosaur came out
To makfe a dinner full and grim.
At last the Guntawangers bold
Arose one night themselves to save,
And, in their desperation, rolled
The largest rock before his cave.
The seasons came, the seasons went.
But still his speech was going strong
On Federal mismanagement
And Guntawang’s unrighted w rong.
'They filled the holes between the stones
Till sounded just the faintest breath,
And waited while in sinking tones
He bravely talked himself to death.
Then broke on ancient Guntawang
An era of idyllic peace ;
With dance and song the country rang,
And feasts of pterodactyl grease.
But we, with fifty thousand years
Of learning, stand the same harangue
Forever dinning in our ears—
We’ve not the sense of Guntawang.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACGREGOR.
THE SILENT SHORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Being an answer to “ The Man Next Door.”
—Bulletin, 16/7/’OB.
“ Kodak,” I’ve read the touching tale,
Wrung, in a wild, splenetic wail,
From your “ numbed brain ” by neighbors who
Will try to sing, and ought not to ;
And I would ask o! you, outright,
Why not relieve your mind by flight?
Your angry passions cease to pour
On to that man who lives next door.
Take up your pack, and swiftly shunt
To some lone island water-front,
Like my selection by the sea.
No person lives next door to me.
Safe in my humpy on the beach,
No troubles are within my reach,
So I indite this cheering song :
“ There is a right for every wrong-;
There is a cure for every ill—
And I know one to fill your bill.”
This is an early “ Silent Shore.”
This is the Land of No Next Door.
Over its reefs I merely spy
Atoms of islands, sea and sky ;
Hearing but rustlings that the breeze
Wakes from the ostrich-feathered trees.
On our soft, thickly-grass-grown ground
Barefooted passers make no sound ;
Nerve-jangled author, bring your muse
Here, where the people have no shoes.
Into the Quiet of the Sea
Sail, and a hermit be like me.
TONGA.
TALAFEKAU.


FOR. EVERY EMERGENCY—
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A PURE SPIRIT.
Wristlet Watches
Are the Latest Rage.
THEY HAVE COME TO STAY.
WHY ?
They are so convenient.
Fashion’s decree of no pocket calls
for some safe way to carry a
Watch.
They have a very handsome
appearance.
They are distinguished-looking.
We make them. We set them with diamonds, with pearls, with turquoises, and in plain gold.
We sell only reliable Lever Watches at Bedrock Prices.
4o£J «
5J\ 7 * CD
g w
Dfc. S o « ■■!
»? c
3C 1
Fine Lever Watch, 15 jewels, in the new expanding Bracelet,
from £7 7s. upwards. Set round with Pearls, £ll 11s.
PLAIN FIGURES'!
CASH. J
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
“ Milky White’s ” eel narrative :
We had been wrangling over the question—Do eels
breed in the sea? when Crutchy Joe dropped in. “I
notice,” he said, “ that Professor Hall’s been writin’ to
the Age again about ‘ eel-fares.’ That’s nuthin’ to do with
beatin’ the tram conductor for a trifle, but of young eels
climbin’ up the creek an’ river rapids from the sea. I’ve
seen ’em at it—shinnin’ up the rocks like jim-jams on a
lookin’-glass—and I’ve watched the old uns goin’ down for
their sea trip in the autumn, too. Down at our old
farm at Cockatoo, now, there was a swamp that
useter just ooze eels in the summer time. When
the autumn rains came that swamp connected by
a sorter shaller overflow gutter with the creek. It was
at that time that Miss Eel would hear the call of the Old
Man of the Sea, and of moonlight nights you’d see her,
with her frills up about her neck, makin’ her way with
swift, undulatin’, sinuous strides, like a herowine of a
mellerdrammer, down to the creek. After awhile, young
Eel’d miss her, an’ go in pursuit ; an’, later, Ma and Pa
Eel would toiler, so’s to see that the marriage laws were
not evaded. They’d solemnise the ceremony in seaweed,
an’, after a honeymoon or two, the whole family would
return to headquarters with the little eels a trailin’ on
behind ’em.
“ One drought year, at the end of autumn, when ther’
was no water connection between the swamp an’ the
creek, me an’ my missus was surprised to see a new track
runnin’ through the scrub in a straight line for the
creek. It was slimy, and shiny in the sunlight, and it
puzzled us ; but that night thekiddies from the township
trooped past our humpy singin’, to the tune of the
‘ Keel Row ’:
‘ Come and see the eel-walk, the eel-walk, the eel-walk ;
Oh ! come and see the eel-walk, the eel walk to the sea.’
“Then we knew what the new track meant, an’ we
went down with the kiddies an’ watched the eel marriage
parties chasin’ each other to the creek. After four nights
they’d worn a track wide enough to ride a horse along.
The next year was a drought year, too, and they re-
peated the performance, and how there could be any
reasonable doubt about it I can’t understand, for the kid-
dies down that way useter look forward to seein’ the
eels travel, just as a town boy looks forward to tops.
Why, I can hear their song ringin’ in me ears now :
‘ And the grandma eel said we’ll walk, said we’ll walk, said
we’ll walk;
And the grandma eel said we’ll walk, we’ll eel-walk to the
sea.’
“Still,” concluded Crutchy, “for all the evidence of
that song, I wouldn’t like to say that eels have feet.”
SNOWY RIVER, A GOOD MANY MILES ABOVE DALGETY, THE SELECTED
SITE FOR THE AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL.
“ Flinderino ” : Struck a queer procession
the other day when tramping along the highway
in the vicinity of Cairns (N.Q.). The leader was
a barefooted, cane-hatted, ugly-faced, filthy
Chinaman, clad in a wide-awake pair of slacks,
At the ends of a shoulder-pole he carried a mixed
assortment of fifth-hand camp furniture and joss-
house requisites. Following at his heels was a
full-blooded black gin, wearing an old clay pipe
and a piece of rag. She was attached to a quart
billy, a frying-pan and a nosebag. The rear-guard
consisted of two nondescript, mongrel tykes,
which pulled up suddenly every few yards and
indulged in an excitable flea-hunt. Altogether
the quartet made splendid material for a night-
mare. I should like to have taken a photo, of the
group to present to the opponents of White Aus-
tralia.
ALREADY THINKING OF THE INSURANCE.
AARONS (proud father): “ Aindt it a pretty sight to see ’im at his play! There's a greadt
future pefore that leetle poy. Ve candt keep ’im avay from, the matches.”
“Esse”: In this little South Coast
(N.S.W.) town one day of every week is market
day, and then all the adjacent haybags gather in.
An unfenced road leads up the mountain. Last
market day an old man was having his hair
obliterated when news came that a disabled motor-
car was being pulled with horses up the far side
of the hill. He felt that there was no time to be
lost if his daughters, who were just about leaving
town, were to be saved, for the motor would surely
meet them oh the mountain road ; so with half
his hair off and half on he ran to warn them, and
any others who might be starting. He was in
time to waylay a whole company at the foot of the
hill. Consternation and excitement prevailed.
One mass of hair with a man attached took his
horses out of the buggy and put them in again ;
took them out once more and put them in.
Didn’t know how he could manage them best if the
car came. An old lady, in her haste to get out of
her shandrydan, caught her dress on the wheel, and
was standing on her head with the garment still
caught when someone said, “ Take your time,
missus.” “ Take your time! Take your time !
And that thing coming down on ius ! ’ she shrieked,
still standing on her head. When all who were
travelling that road were assembled, one young
fellow with a gun volunteered to go and stop the
motor at the top of the hill and fire two shots if
the road was clear. The motor was standing
meekly at the side of the road as the procession of
farmers passed. Then the ladywho had been upside
down stood up in her vehicle and harangued all
parties concerned, and urged the young man with
the gun to shoot the proprietor of the motor, but
her bloodthirsty advice was not accepted.
MERE NAMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Referring to the proposed alterations in local names,
the Premier said that settlers were particularly sensitive
on the subject.—Tress item.
Strengthen my jaws, ye Muses, string my harp
With entrails of the lion, fencing-wire,
And other very tough resounding things,
For I would sing a song of Maoriland,
Her rivers, lakes and mountains. Waiau’s flood
Runs equal race with Aparima’s stream ;
Rude Takitimo lifts his rugg'ed brow.
An umpire in their sport. Waitangi sings
To Hakateramea. Kohurau
And lofty Aorangi hear the sound ;
Tekapo dreams, Pukaki slumbers deep,
Each in the midst of Alpine solitude.
Makihi through her cornlands wanders down ;
Arrowhenua, Rangitata, Rai,
Rakaia, Rangitoto, Waiau-ua,
Waimakariri, Taitapu, Kaikorai,
Otakau, Hurunui, Papawai,
Waiwera, Kekerangu, Wakatu,
Takaka, Wairarapa, Timaru,
Manawatu, Ponelte, Pukerau,
Waihora, Wairau, and Kaitangata
Are pleasant places upon which looks down
Through wreathing mists Kohutultnokawan.
I praise in song Tapuauenuka,
Matakitalci, Reina, Tapawera,
Kiwi kai tuna toko marua—
Kohau tapu kaitangita maru
MAORILAXI).
D. M. WRIGHT.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Helen White: Certainly, if you give the
country “five healthy, well-brought-up, decently edu-
cated citizens ” you have done your duty. No one vvas
arguing against that. The trouble is about those married
couples who only present the State with two new citizens
—and these only brought up to buy jewellery for ballet
girls.... Groper : Good idea, but you haven’t done much
good with it... .N.P.E.: Perfectly dreadful. You lack
che rhymester’s gift.... Bushwoman : (1) Cut out and for-
ward to accountant all pars inspired by you no matter
how much they may be altered. (2) We don’t run to
badges R.M. : None quite bright enough M.E.G. :
Grant you that, in certain cases, “ not all the snows of
the Arctic regions could quench the sense of outrage and
wrong' which rages like a volcano in the deserted wife’s
bosom.” And yet vve continue to hold that, when the
said wife goes to much trouble to get the father of her
child gaoled and ruined, she is not the gentle, pity-
deserving creature you make out Black boy : Surely
you are unduly hard on our local noblesse. Consider
these cruel words :
For myself, I confess I am free
I would drink in a Chow’s companie
But I’d sooner make tracks
And pal up with the blacks
Than be seen with the average J.P.
The Wasp: You break new grammatical ground in
your Fleet poem. Otherwise it is a very ordinary piece of
literary merchandise Fritz: “Spring Greetings” says
nothing new, and it is awkwardly worded into the bargain.
Francois: Smartish, but not “up.” You should do
something later on The Wanderer: Neat rhyming ;
but Moloney’s treatment of the pigs is a hopeless subject.
Bororlia : Yes; send along the cutting. As the dis-
coverer of Mohan Singh, his blood-money is yours
Carennga: Strike sketch is (a) belated; (b) bad. ..
Berrigan : “The Men that are Down” is too rough in
form ; also its sentiments are trite J.D.R. : O’Grady
said: “ If the horse can lep, and has the pace, and can
shtay, they’ll have to bate him to win.” Which proves
what plagiarists Spanish humorists often are. The
original fashioner of that safe tip was an Amalekite,
who got it off his chest during one of the.
Spring - Chariot Meetings in old Israel, B.C. 1000.,..
J.W.B. : You can get the Delstancbe masseur at any
surgical instrument maker’s shop. It is advisable to see
a doctor before using it M. A. Leefson : Note your
explanation that you did not mention the name of either
Wilks or Kelly at the recent Freetrade rally or flare-up or
sizzle or whatever it was in the Sydney School of Arts
E.M.G. : Rejected; but not promptly. ...Red Hanky:
Horrible anecdote of the boiled snake course the French-
man gave you cost us “the price of a strong drink for
stomach-settling purposes 1.M.8.: Rhymes merely.
You lack the poetic touch Micawber : Brookes men-
tioned (B. 27/8/’08) is a self-styled drunk impersonator, and
was so presented to Poverty Pointers. Billy Reeves may
be a more finished stage inebriate, again he may not. This
paper’s attitude in the matter is one of blank indiffer-
ence Mabel M. : Fairly promising... .James Garnett:
Your prophecy re universal disarmament at an early date
duly noted.... Frank J. : Eighth verse:—
Or the old iron tramp we took up North
Condemned and bought by Chows.
How we missed the Barrier scarce a foot,
Which scared those yellow cows.
It is vigorous, but it isn’t poetry. “Viking Ship” is
almost poetry, but not quite Cecil W. Tribe : “Love
Lyrics” is privately printed by the author, J. W. Har-
binson, a Melbourne medico. Address inquiries to him...
Querist: (1) George Meredith is alive, in his 80th year,
and in failing health. (2) “ Free Opinions Freely Ex-
pressed,” by Marie Corelli (Constable), 1905... A.M.R.: We
would far rather have a poem upon a flourishing cauli-
flower than upon a dead rose... .A. W.M. and others :
We don’t want anymore “ Simple Lives.” We’re trying
to have one ourselves... .San Lee: Merely out of our
line... .Sprat: Ih%nks for suggestion. May use Mac:
Out of date H.H.': All contributed matter on “ Bed
Page ” is paid for on application being jnade to account-
ant I.H. : “Mizpah” has points, but it’s too sugary
for our taste.... E. H.F.S. : “ Woolgoolgah ” runs in an
old groove—the “ bushlands,” the “ranges,” the “opa-
line waters,” the “blue skies,” the “sands,” the “lotus,”
the “sunshine,” the “peacefulness,” the “drowsiness,”
also the “ spell’’—they are all rather used up.... Riv. :
“Condemned”—well it was... .T.F.M.: Article on Rusden
impossibly long....Hyram : “Lost Soul” still lost
Would-be Artist: A very hopeless lot of suggestions
M. Sbiels: The triolet is the tired person's poem; the
same line can be used upso often,.. .Alexis: A sorrowful
monologue. Only one character in the story, and her
only wild burst of activity is when she gets up and looks
in the glass ...H.D.M. : One joke is very, very old, and
the other is suspected of being old Stan : Thanks for
cutting. Ybur estimate of Cowie is,correct.... Seeeasey :
Rhyming good, satire \veak —and weak satire is worse
than weak liquor.... Wbiporie :An amiable weakness on
the Worker’s part to speak well of a dead man, and we
have no quarrel with it on that score.... W.S.: Lengthy
dirge beginning :
Poor Toby has been lost for many a day,
No trace of him can we find ;
lie must have died or strayed away,
For to him they have been most kind—
and ending (three months later) —
He lay up the creek by the water half covered,
Poor dog he has gnawed his last bone.
He was washed to the house when the creek was flooded,
And that’s how poor Toby caihe home—
is all a dirge should not be, and has therefore gone
home The Exile: “In Exile” misses by a hair’s-
breadth. The bathetic phrase, “claims of work are
urgent,” accounts for the untoward deviation....O.:
No; we will not start a snappy “They Bay” column.
Much columns were stale literary goods when papyrus
was in flower....Gilonie: “The Wanderer” is 105 t....
Lou Diba: Sketch concluding “So ended a one time
bright and trusting life,” too wither-wringing altogether.
Penguyfus: A good deal of poetic feeling
about “In Wanderirig,” but the treatment is
too rough, and the metre staggers badly in places....
H.L.E.: Tne statements have been mostly corroborated
by at least one London paper, and they originally came
from the correspondent in Japan of an English paper.
Therefore, we take the liberty to assume that you may
not be telling the truth. We don’t know you from a bar
of soap, so we can’t tell what your Veracity amounts to.
.L.S.J.C.: Poor verse. Also, “sport” doesn’t rhyme
with “ thought,” and never did.. ..E.M.P. : “Luckless
Bard” just ordinary, and please note 1 that “star” doesn’t
rhyme with “papa,” nor “fire” with “Maria.”
“Ancient Fisherman,” a dog-poor poem... .G. W.P. :
“ Mosquito ’’ very poor and wretched vCrse W.D.Y. :
Ornate yarn of the Perth undertaker, the train journey,
the ice, and the corpse was a chestnut before the Haslam
freezing machine was invented M. Earl: Pretty verse,
but only a scrap, and there are many scraps... .O.G.T. :
“ Drama of the City ” not much good anywhere,
and when you try to rhyme “of course ”
with “Worcester sauce,” it becomes a horror....
Pukaki: Agreeably written, but too feeble of interest.
Ta Lota : The goodness of some of it made us wonder
at the badness of the rest. ...D. O’M. : Rather dull and
dreary. , ..Melville S. : Not well enough put together....
Bert S.;: Contradicts itself in several places, and is a
grievous waste of words anyhow Wimmefa : Would be
good were it not studded with stock phr.ases. Even “ the
psychological moment” (which, by-the-way, should be
“psychic moment”) has become a literary nuisance....
Macnatnara: Your (ale of the shearer on the Bland
(N.SiW.) whom you saw drink, “inside 50 minutes, four
bottles of beer, two flasks of whisky, three bottles of
Worcestershire sauce, half a bottle of neatsfoot oil, one
small bottle of ink, five bottles of cough mixture, one
bottle of hair-restorer, one bottle of castor oil, and a
small bucket of coffee,” we take leave to stigmatise
quietly, but firmly, as a lie... .Refractionist: Article is
(1) too heavy, (2) too technical F.K.: This paper has no
grievance against the Southland (M.L;) or any other
“ Athenaeum ” for relegating it to the smoke-room, or, for
that matter, dropping it altogether. It simply hates
Athenaeums where one sixpenny copy does for 50 people.
Pym : Main fault of your poem is that it isn’t poetry.
Also it contains tinned phrases and fails, in places, to
scanl...W.M.: Verses don’t arrive... .W. H. Smith: You
are a typical poet of Empire. One verse:
For she’s a regular fighter
From bowsprit to the stern
Don’t think that I’m a skiter
When you I’d try to learn
That every man aboard of her
Is a regular fighting tar
In fact they never have none else
On a British Man of War.
Gordalbali : Joke-suggestions are all too clumsily-
worded. A joke that is obviously led up to is a joke
accurst Geo. Christie: Fair rhyming. But the
humor isn’t sufficiently humorous, and the poetry
isn’t sufficiently poetic Reader: The idea is that the
emu has swallowed the lady-help’s spectacles. A French
wit noted that “ There is something intensely diverting
in a contemplation of the sorrows of our dearest lady-
helps.” Hence the humor of the incident... .A.J.D.:
Both poems met with the fate they deserved.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
0.8. : Joke incredibly old, illustration unusually callow.
C.I. : Can’t say “ whether this is better than the last
or not,” for don’t remember what the last was like. But
should fancy this is worse than the last.... JackL. : Your
U.S. Jackies don’t look the least like the real thing.
Other picture doesn’t look the real thing either J.G. :
Not much good artistically. And why should one lady in
evening dress ask another if she had ever heard of the
Stone Age?....Montie : Picture arrived too late, and it
wouldn’t have had much show even if it had arrived
earlier... .A. T. Whyte: Failed badly.. .E.J.O. : Regret
to say that that Hebrew combustible joke was pictured
in this paper long, long ago.
A remarkable craft has been compounded
by a sea captain hailing from Norway. It is the
shape of a ehookey’s egg, and measures 14ft. by
6ft., having seating accommodation for about 25
persons. It cannot capsize. It can weather the
roughest storm without shipping a pint of water.
It is unsinkable ; unless literally smashed to atoms
it refuses to go to I). Jones. This craft has a
speed of six knots, and the inventof and two
friends recently crossed the North Sea in it, sail-
ing from Bergen to London in 14 days. The boat
ppssesses a sliding keel that prevents rolling or
drifting. Entrance is gained through two small
man-holes on the cop of the boat, where there are
a small railed-off deck and a lookout tower. The
strange speck of naval architecture is reported to
sail well in the roughest seas, and its designer
claims that it can be launched in any storm and
can be used where an ordinary ship’s boat wouldn’t
live for a minute.


ijre C*y*-
* Fieefv/eeK
iw&*w vYc
io Y/ork frorr, 3 AM.
fill for no e*fr&
t>*y • " (He^ld;
" T ooK d&l \ils'il to Corvi? out ,
<>ow ca,vi we -tell »f tfe pore justly d one by—
ip we don't" Know wtrat" done f
B ent~ 6. special letter to Ta,+e o f~ttfe R^.'lw&.ysj
I desire to Convey Sincere,
'rfie Qov'e'-nrnent' to y ourself . t
ConitT'iyyoriet'S •for'Jvje. <£'*'s <f« £ i( > '
..
TMt"
The (aW t%riy 'I
\ v>*,lK<, netr lb ifye. I
Govern rr) e*)1" Only t<f
OKdai- -to sca.lt,
Tne -fi opporlunity.
’ £*•■s“ s]
- Here , George Al wa.nt~ -To ,
ne>f ho M r Oea.K'in "lo +XKe care op TiimJiKe'
concerning $«. l'i^Avc>,v c> ,
' W<2 *i° r m he ' 'bu'f' sf»«svKin«
™ e moment, we IvunK
A\ r .
oC- -TwH I i<> „
py I iVient «V«*l .
-$«. "damns' of- fVcnmer &e->+
t*% 4 J
iTh'S A
UorN/ICToR'A;
ley to^ t
NO '
[ADMITTANCE.
OlsT *
oR
qxtt£- p - Wl * -
provide forint
i^ S j,«cflon op
S c *tf° • tlO-
- is bei'ie circ«-
* laf«d I>7
tltjsrs £lr*>s liC
b ft'e»«<«rg&?+
l*isJ>ector ■—. By CJu»i!
recKo* tfis
wactc/lj'ihrc
ovl l '»sVf~ | **
"Adbv'ry /fvrnei* wit^
Cur^e,
£«rr>|jlo-y nr) >IK® C«**ld To"T Coho(o«-'%
witv» Ir«> 1 /\.vr.u|
POLITICS, PIGS, &c.


* The new Governor-General arrives
on Tuesday, but as he doesn’t arrive
officially till Wednesday, he. lies low
(somewhere down among the coal)
until the coast is clear.
He lands at Pyrmont, and is wel-
comed by a disguised Aide—the dis-
guise had been perfect, only the Aide
forgot to discard his cocked hat.
His Excellency, hurriedly disguised as
a bottle-oh man, is driven into town
by the Aide.
Then he resolves to pay an unos-
tentatious visit to the shore—taking
due precautions against premature un-
official enthusiasm,
By an unfortunate collision with a
fruit-hawker’s outfit, the new Gover-
nor-General is prematurely and un-
officially sworn in.
Approaching town, the Aide care-
fully reconnoitres round corners before
turning them. By great good fortune
they get there unobserved.
The Governor-
General and his
trusty follower get
- in at the back door
of Government
House.
As they are not supposed to have
arrived yet, there- is no formal lunch,
but the Aide finds a loaf and cold beef
and pickles, a knife, and a two-pronged
fork.
Means are found (by the
aid of a friendly policeman)
to secure a jug of beer.
They sleep the best way they can,
and next day the Governor-General
comes ashore openly aod “officially."
ABOUT A NEW GOVERNOR-GENERAL.


Mrs. Meehan, 21 Short Street, Bendigo,
writes: —“ My v daughter is subject to attacks of
coughs and colds, and always uses Chamberlain's
Cough Remedy, which invariably cures her.”*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . ♦
Lilt and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprietor
Mrs. H. Stewart, Daylesford, Vic., says :
“My little girl, three years old, was suffering
from a very bad attack of croup, and was com-
pletely cured by the timely use of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy.”*
The presentation recently made to Lady North-
cote by the women of N. S. Wales consists of a hand-
wrought massive 15ct. gold vase, the body being embossed
with sprays of the waratah, and the front bearing her Ex-
cellency’s monogram set in Australian tourmalines and
zircons, surmounted by coronet set with Australian
whole pearls, the obverse carrying in raised gold letters
N.S.W. in monogram form. Round the inside rim the
vase is engraved, “ From the Women of N.S. W., Ist Sep-
tember, 1908.” The ornament stands on a gold-mounted
myall plinth, the whole being fitted into a handsome
green lined morocco case. The work has been carried out
by Hardy Bros. Ltd., Jewellers, of Hunter Street, and is
entirely of local production.*
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure won’t cure
Bad habits or York hams,
Nor would it do in Irish stew,
Or hair-wash or in jams ;
It won’t cure leather, freckles, warts,
For working men or toffs,
But Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure will cure
Your colds and cure your coughs.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Governor-General Dudley intends to be an
Australian while he is here —a better one than
many who were born in the country. He has
brought nothing with him except what was
“wanted on the voyage,” and will purchase
horses, carriages and other necessaries in the
country. When Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland he
bought all his goods and effects in Ireland and of
Irish make, clothing included.
EDWARD WALKER ARCHER , M.H.R., OF
CAPRICORNIA (QUEENSLAND).
A Melbourne Age advt., with a streak of
jpoetrv in it—the kind of poetry that was written
iby Isaiah the bard—until it breaks off to say that
ithe lady was a native of Forfarshire :
ADKINS. —On the 7th September, at her home, Strez-
lleckie, after a long and painful illness, Susan Sinclair, for
■6B years the devoted wife of Thomas Adkins. She bore
A 2 ‘children, and reared 10 of them to men and women.
i§>h,e rose early in the morning, and gave food to her
household. She considered a requirement, and with the
Work of her hands she purchased it. Her worth was far
above rubies, A native of Forfarshire, Scotland. Game
to Adelaide in the ship Forfarshire, in 1848, aged 79
years.
A well-earned rest after a strenuous life,
Resting on the mercy of her Creator.
Long-suffering Australia is threatened
with another apostle of the “ knock-off-the-chains-
of-slaverv” brand. This is a Yankee female —
Emma Goldman, or “Comrade” Emma Goldman
—the American lecturer on “Social Unrest,” who
is to tour this country in the interests of the inco-
herent cause that wears its hair long and wild,
and never supplies particulars.
The Fleet killed George Bennett, M.L. A.
for Richmond (Vic.). He was at the review and
caught cold ; and the following Thurs-
day they laid him away in the Kew
cemetery, beside many of his ex-pen-
sioners. Bennett first reached the Vic.
Assembly in 1889, in the Parliament that
saw so many novices who afterwards
made sizeable marks—Turner, Peacock,
Trenwith, Best, Beazley, Hancock, W.
T. Carter, Maloney, and Taverner
among them. As a politician Bennett
was a failure, but regarded as a bank
on which to draw for sympathy and
help, he was practically unbreakable.
He was born in Banffshire in ’5O,
reached Melbourne in ’54, and almost
before he came of age started brewing
porter in Collingwood and Richmond.
Later he dropped the “ hard tack ” and
confined his attention to soft drinks
only. A dozen years ago he missed a
fortune through not registering his
novelty of kola beer. Like a greater
man long ago, his chief mourners will be
the publicans and sinners, few of whom
ever went to George Bennett for advice
or assistance and came empty away.
Barrister Thomas Ernest Roseby,
of Sydney, who was lately appointed
by the British Government to act as its
Judge in the about-to-be Joint Interna-
tional Court in the New Hebrides, is a
Liverpool (N.S.W.) native; an ex-
Sydney Grammar School boy, and an
M.A. of Sydney University. He was
called to the Bar—not the threepenny
one—in 1896, and was for 12 years an
Imperial service officer at Sydney Mint.
Besides functioning learnedly in the
Joint Court, Judge Roseby will act as
British Judicial Commissioner in the pleasant
locality where the cannibals are, and where
Shinbone 11. and Boiled Missionary 111. used to
be kings.
The Rev. David Laseron, who died the
other day, put in 16 years of misery after he was
shot by Tommy Walker, M.L. A., while the latter
was carelessly whirling a cheap “gun.” The
Rev. David got much sympathy from the church,
the public, and Tommy himself, but he didn’t get
much aid from anybody. He developed a whole
lot of maladies, and was a long time dying. In
the meantime Tommy Walker prospers in Wes-
tralia, both in law and politics.
George Collingridge, artist, of Sydney, has
received a decoration from the King of Portugal
as a recognition of his research into early
Australian geography. The Bulletin has a sus-
picion that there is something of the K.C.M.G.
brand about the decoration; but it is worthy
work Mr. Collingridge has done anyhow.
“M.M.”: The brightest feature of the
laborious mass of speeenmaking which charac-
terised the Fleet’s visit was provided by Franklin
Mathews, representative of New York Sun. The
secret of Mathews’ triumph as an orator is that
he makes no attempt to be impressive, is desti-
tute of self-consciousness, puts his matter to-
gether clearly and without rhetoric, and knows
when to stop. In striking contrast were the
speech delivered by Mathews, at Sydney Town
Hall, and the long, drearysuccession of pretentious
commonplaces laboriously uttered by Premier
Wade, on the same occasion. With all his faults,
Joeetor Carruthers was amusing when he got on
his feet. His remarks sounded like a wild Malay
running amok with a handful of squibs ; the ob-
servations of Wade are like an old-age pensioner
throwing a pound of tripe into a pond.
William Pitt, architect and Melbourne
native, born in 1855, when his father, William
Pitt, was scene-painting for George Coppin and
G. V. Brooke at the Olympic Theatre, in Lons-
dale-street, Melbourne, has been elected Chairman
of Committees of the House of Victoria’s
Rich Landlords ,in succession to Nick Fitz-
gerald, deceased. As an architect Billy
Pitt’s specialty is theatre building. For many
years his parents kept the Garrick’s Head
Hotel in Bourke-street, opposite the Eastern
Markets, and subsequently they had the Cafe de
Paris at the Theatre Royal. When they weren’t
building theatres, the Pitts either kept theatre bars
or else ran pubs named after eminent actors. Also
Pitt senior had a carefully-cultivated resemblance
to Shakspeare, and his hair looked as if it might
have come direct from Stratford-on-Avon.
Victorian legislators and ex-legislators have
done a lot of hard dying of late. Nick Fitzgerald,
M.L.C., is gone; likewise Brunton, ex-M.L.C.,
and Bennett, M.L. A.; and finally old Nathaniel
Levi, a member of the Upper House for 12 years.
Nathaniel was the only Hebrew who ever sat in
both Houses of the Vic. Parliament. As far back
as 1860 he represented Maryborough in the
Assembly, and again in ’66 he spoke there for
East Melbourne. Followed no less than 24 years
of political inactivity and nothingness, but, in ’94,
he shoved into the House of Rich Landlords as
member for the North Yarra province. Privately
he was a busy old gentleman with a slight kink
for un-Jewish speculation. He endeavored unsuc-
cessfully to establish a Melbourne evening paper
in the ’nineties, and dropped £lO,OOO in an attempt
to open up coal fields at Cape Patterson (Vic.). In
addition he ran a distillery, and was the first indi-
vidual in the Bent State to produce saleable beet-
sugar. At his death he was the boss member of
the firm of Nathaniel Levi and Sons, advt. con-
tractors on the Vic. railways and Melbourne
tramways. It seems superfluous to mention that
he pulled a big oar in Hebrew charitable circles.
Almost every rich Hebrew does that. Levi was
78 when he passed out.
Again does The Bulletin’s Oldest In-
habitant talk dreamily about public-houses :
The Paragon Hotel, Circular Quay, Sydney, has had the
name of Watson on its signboard for over 40 years. The
original Watson came from Halifax, Nova Scotia, where
the Bluenoses grow ; and was an enthusiastic backer of
Hanlan and others from that cold country. When he
died the widow continued the business. Now she has
followed the husband. Her will was probated at £18,345,
so there is still beer in Gilead. Mr. Sam Hordern owns
the premises. Sam owns a lot of Sydney.
JEALOUSY.
The Deakin Ministry is merely the puppet of the Labor
caucus. A frequent Opposition wail.
THE JILTED ONE : “ Gam! Y' call y'rself a man ,
’nd let a hussy like ’er boss yer about! Bah!”
The problem of “ the suspension and
claim of Robert Roberts, late bookbinder in the
Registrar-General’s department ” seems like the
brook which went on for ever. There was a
N.S.W. Parliamentary committee and a progress
report in 1901, some more committee and a report
in 1902, another committee and a report in 1905,
and now in 1908 Broughton, M.L. A., proposes the
appointment of yet one more committee to wrestle
with the problem of Robert Roberts all over
again.
Tom Brunton, a 77-years old Scot from
Roxburgh, who was once an M.L.C. in Vic-
toria, died at Ascot Vale last week. He came to
Melbourne in 1858, and built a flour mill on the
corner of Fiinders-lane and Spencer-street, and
sold it in the boom time for £50,000. He was one
of the oldest members of the V.R.C., and was
president of the Caledonian Society and the Agri-
cultural Society. Thomas gave up the M.L.C.
business two or three years ago, when the 48
Rich Landlords were reduced to 35 Affluent Per-
sons.
Mr. W, E, Davey, late of Dubbo (N.S.W.)
and formerly of Parramatta —a journalist whose
work was always in the interests of the People—
is lying ill in Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, and .
little hopes are entertained of his recovery. He
worked in the years past in the city (on the S. M.
Herald) and on the country press; and con-
tributed occasionally to The Bulletin. Before
he left Dubbo to enter Prince Alfred Hospital
the local folk found an opportunity of testifying
their sympathy in a practical way.
A JACKIE'S GRACE.
The dailv work of a man-o’-war begins with a short
prayer.— Daily Paper.
JACKY IN ACTION (as he opens fire): “For what
the enemy are about to receive the Lord make
’em trooly thankful!”
“ C.D.” writes about a notorious charac-
ter
In re William King:, “the notorious negro convict.”
My first memory of William goes back to the time when
he was an innocent burglar without a prior conviction to
his name. I first saw his open, honest face in the old
Richmond (Vic.) skating-rink in 1890. It was on the
occasion of a boxing contest, for the rink had, even in
those days, found skating unremunerative. On this
occasion Chris. Maloney had undertaken to knock out
Herb Synnott in eight rounds, and had failed ingloriously
in the attempt—the winner being, presumably, the same
pug who was hailed two months back by a London
sporting paper as “ a rising young Australian.”
During the preliminary proceedings, and while the
speech-making incidental to fights was proceeding, a
nigger bounced on the platform and announced himself
as Professor King, “ the champion middleweight of the
Southern States of America.” In a multitude of well-
chosen words, he gave further biographical details which
showed him to be a veritable sirocco of a fighter. As the
minutes passed, the Professor was still referring to his
greatness, and the crowd didn’t know what it had struck,
and was beginning to wonder what should be done to get
the discussion over. The chariot of time rolled on,
and the stoush that everybody had turned up to see was
rusting behind the arras. A few malcontents muttered,
an intrepid little hand hammered its feet on the floor, a
brave soul somewhere at the back bade the Professor
“ get work.” But not the Professor. He just talked on.
At last King- observed that he would prefer, out of all
the middleweights that Australia could produce, to meet
Herb Goddard. The words were no sooner out of a mouth
that was obviously made for watermelon than a gorgeous
figure entered the ring. It was the late Joe—or should
we say Hector—Goddard. Joe wore a belltopper shinier
than any I have seen before or since. His collar was a thing
of beauty, his tie was chaste, his massive overcoat was
trimmed with Astrachan fur a foot deep, he wore gloves,
and his cigar was carefully selected so as to harmonise
with the rest of his attire. ' Just as Joe stooped through
the ropes, King mentioned something about fighting
Herb Goddard for £lOO. As Joe stood upright, we gave
him the applause rightly belonging to a champion. He
shifted his cigar to his other jaw and, saying nothing,
proceeded to draw from his breast-pocket handful after
hmdful of pound notes. These he cast at the feet of
King, M.Ij.A. When a sufficiency were on the floor,
Joe remarked, “Cover ’em.” King gave one look
at the heap, turned the same sort of color as he must
have when he scored an indeterminate sentence, and scut-
tled out of the ring.
This was King’s most notable appearance in the ring.
He subsequently fought one or two men, and was igno-
miniously defeated. Then he burgled a house and proved
no better a burglar than a pug. He was arrested and
sent to gaol. His original sentence comprised only a year
or two ; but, owing to his cheerful practice of “ wooden-
ing” warders or fellow-prisoners with hard sub-
stances, he was awarded additional terms, until he
had served almost a life sentence before he was released.
During the last four or five years of his detention, King
contrived to smuggle letters complaining of ill-treat-
ment to the outer world, and certain well-meaning
philanthropists, in and out of Parliament, at times agi-
tated for the cessation of this iniquitous persecution of a
poor black man. As a pressman, it became my duty to
investigate the allegations in a “ stiff ” which King had
managed to send to my office. I read the document, and
was astounded at the excellent handwriting of the con-
vict and the equally excellent English in which he put his
case. There were a few trivial errors of spelling, but the
grammar and composition were superior to those of
many an educated white man whose copy I handled
in the course of my work. I was still more astonished
when I ascertained that King was unable to read and
write when first convicted, and that the whole of his
education had been obtained in gaol.
Otherwise the letter didn’t help his case. It was filled
with much specious argument against the prison authori-
ties ; nut these contradicted themselves in spots. Finally,
King gave the whole show away in one sentence : “ One
day, when I struck Warder Ryan on the head with a
spalling hammer, I was instantly knocked down and
beaten and kicked in the most brutal fashion by a dozen
other warders.” My conclusions, after the fullest possible
inquiries, were that if the Pentridge people had any sense
they would have shot King and faked up a story of
attempted escape.
All the same, the persistent agitation for his release
bore fruit, and some years ago King was discharged with
the injunction to sin no more. He sought sporting
centres, and promptly made a match to fight Fred
Preston. The stories of his terrific encounters in the
gaol yard aroused popular interest, and a big crowd
turned up to see the notorious one in the ring. But the
notorious one was not there. While the crowd assembled
outside the Victoria Hall, he was languishing in a dungeon
on fifteen charges of burglary, all accumulated during
his three or four weeks of liberty. In those three or
four weeks, King instituted a reign of terror in
the houses of the Best People in Toorak, Malvern and East
St. Rilda. There was never such an outbreak of burglary
in the history of Melbourne, some of it accompanied by
horrible doings which showed the perpetrator to be a
degenerate of the most shocking type. Among these
robberies was one at a house at Elsternwick, in which
were two women —the mistress of the house and a
servant. King had these women besieged for a whole
afternoon in rooms at different ends, of the house.
They barricaded their doors, and the nig. spent
his time, between gathering the portable valuables of the
other rooms, in strolling to and fro bawling horrible
threats through the keyholes. At last, the mistress
bought him off by shoving two sovereigns under the door.
As a coon of honor, King was as good as his word, and
left the house with the two thick-’uns.
His release from the sentences acquired at that time
took place only a few weeks back, and as usual, he was
free less than a month when he recommenced his old
games. Now King has the honor not only of getting the
biggest term of imprisonment awarded in Victoria in
recent years, but of being the very first to obtain a
“Kathleen Mavourneen,” under the new Indeterminate
Sentence Act. Twenty years will probably see William
too sere and yellow a burglar to be very dangerous ; still
it would be just as well to apply the indeterminale sec-
tions and keep him locked up for good. Under an intel-
ligent criminal system, King would be classified as a
lunatic and treated as such. Anyhow, the man who
would waste time by talking when people are waiting to
see a fight is an instinctive criminal on the face of it. I
have a personal animus against King - , and don’t feel a bit
sorry for him.
Sydney’s beloved Dan O’Connor tvas the
leading lay figure in the procession of cardinals
and bishops at the Westminster R.C. Cathedral
recently. He led the procession as the Senior
Papal Knight, and his whiskers were marvellous
to behold.
“S.S.”: Vic.’s new Excellency, Gibson-
Carmike, is about the worst speech that
ever ventured to erect himself on two timid,
vacillating legs on a post-prandial occasion.
He has a voice like a rather hoarse mouse,
and the aggressive manner of a bath sponge,
and his command of language is suggestive
of the influence of a fried spatchcock over
a herd of elephants. On the occasion of
the Government’s farewell luncheon to
Admiral Sperry and officers, Gibson-
Carmickie was induced to speak, and
two persons swear they heard him
say : “ Thanks of the community .. .
tramway men. . . police . . . efficient
service,” but to the rest of those
present the operation was merely
spectacular—a vision of a plain,
subdued stranger making ineffec-
tual and painful grimaces in an
attempt to remove a grass seed from under his
tongue. For my part I was reminded of another
particularly bad speaker I once heard, who relieved
the agony at a crucial moment by ejaculating,
sadly : “Forgive me, gentlemen ; it pains me quite
as much as it does you ! ”
Bob Black, old-age pensioner and quon-
dam drover, wool-presser and fossicker, bottomed
the eternal shaft recently at Delegate, on the
Snowy. He had grafted for the last 47 of his 83
winters in the allegedly deadly climate of the
Monaro.
Dr. Stone-Wigg, Papua’s first Anglican
bishop, has resigned his See and taken up quarters
in England, thus following the bad policy which
Anglican bishops in Australia have turned into a
habit. “What is the greatest want of the Angli-
can Church in Australia?” “Bishops’ graves,”
answered the fiery curate. “ There's of
curates’ graves, but the bishops die in England.”
THE KAISER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The German army manoeuvres on the French frontier
have closed. The Emperor was in supreme command,
lirst with the “reds” and next with the “blues,” and
his side always won. Artillery mowed down the enemy
at under 1000 yards.— Cable.
The marshal looked at his chief-of-staff —the chief he
looked at the crowd,
They stood in a group like men of stone, and nothing- was
said aloud ;
And the Emperor went riding by,
A martial glare in his royal eye,
With medals on and his chin held high,
Ferocious he looked and proud.
The gunner winked at his solemn mate and hummed
“The Watch on the Rhine,”
The driver flicked with his heavy whip and grunted a
surly “ Nein ! ”
And the Emperor went riding past
Like one who’s come to his own at last,
In front of his army, silent, vast—
Which respectfully stood in line.
They were two glorious victories—one Red and the other
Blue,
And Wilhelm’s was the master mind that two great
armies slew.
The marshals ordered the lager beer,
They said no word that a soul could hear,
But smiled and drank with a joy sincere
To the conqueror Wilhelm Two.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


'I
1181
/
%?
fee
f^nanwow
/
m
miff 1
r\^
A'.'.,';
X 9 j
ur
fnJ
■ j
nu
*<o^
-,v
s^<\>
Hi
ft ; ,"'-
SS
;s.:.fii
f?:%-
:•
i
.
r
; . ■ ■
0
«
,\
Lord Dudley, a thorough Sport and a good Judge.
CAPSTAN TOBACCO and CIGARETTES, ths brand tHat Has made W. D. OSb H. O. ‘Wills popular tHrougHout Australia,


Walter Bradley &■ Go.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French'Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable andVUp-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
DON’T COUGH ALL NIGHT.
Restful sleep follows the use of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. The best lung remedy in the world. Small
dose. Pleasant to take. Every bottle guaranteed.
Obtainable everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
He tried Port Hacking after fish,
But only caught a cold.
He said, “ Atchoo ! By Jove, I wish
I’d done as I was told.
This is indeed a Hacking cough,
Good name it’s got I’m sure 1 ”
But next day he was right enough
Through Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
VETERINARY
INSTRUMENTS.
u
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emascuiators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS?*;
Also at Melbourne. ______
George St.
. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Under the N.S.W. Local Government
(Shires) Act, for which the allegedly Anti-Sosh
Deform Party was responsible, the City Fathers
of Orange have been sitting in solemn conclave to
decide on the stuff or material of which butchers
and their assistants are to have their aprons made
—this being one of the duties cast on local coun-
cils under the Act. In which connection it is
interesting to meditate on what the S. M. Herald
and Telegraph would have said had a
Labor Government been responsible for such a
gross assault on individualism and the private
rights of the subject as to tell a cow-killer and
sheep-assassin what his apron should be made of.
OUR LEADING COMEDIAN.
Mr. Harry Lauder, the Scotch vocalist and music hall
artist, has been engaged tor a 20 weeks’ season, beginning
in October, at the American and Lincoln Square Theatres,
New York. His salary will be £1000 per week. —
Cablegram.
“I've had some good seasons, but that beats me.”
At every agricultural show held in Mel-
bourne during the last two or three years, the
Bent Government has scattered a mountain of
stupendously-worded literature for the benefit of
the aspiring land-seeker. This stuff sets forth that
the Government has purchased “£56,000 worth
of land, subdivided it into 250 allotments, built
250 houses,” etc., etc., and thereupon invites ap-
plications for the 250 holdings. It did that last
year, with the result that 8000 applications were
received, and it did it this year, when the bulk of
last year’s applicants have not yet been supplied.
And so, apparently, it will go on heaping up
applications for land which it hasn’t got ; and
congratulating the country on the increase in the
number of settlers who don’t get settled.
Mr. Victor Frood, Scotts Parade, Ballarat,
says:—“l have used Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy for colds, and have always been promptly
relieved hy its use, and think it a splendid family
medicine.”*
One highly-popular scheme for helping on
the Wade-Waddell borrowing boom is to show
what great results are flowing from the “perma-
nent and reproductive ” concerns into which
Uncle Bullstein’s money has hitherto gone. And,
of course, that return is being faked—the N.S.W.
Treasurer almost seems as if he must fake some-
thing. The caper is worked through the Public
Works Fund. Renewals and repairs are charged
up to that instead of being reckoned in with the
Department’s own expenditure. Thus, in-
stead of renewing things that want renew-
ing, the Railways, Harbor Trust, Water
and Sewerage Board, etc., pay the
money over to the Treasurer, and he
makes a surplus out of it by calling it
profit. Then the Treasurer brands some
of the surplus “ Public Works Fund,”
and hands it back to the Department,
and the Department carries out the re-
newals. But as that expenditure is
charged up to the Works Funds, and
not to the Department, the Depart-
ment’s expenditure is kept down, and its
bogus profit is inflated. It is to this clever
little fake that the Auditor-General refers
when he remarks that “the inclusion of re-
newals in the Public Works accounts affords De-
partments an opportunity of sinking or attempt-
ing to sink portion of their yearly cost out of
sight.”
From the N.S.W. Assembly press gallery :
Broughton, M.L.A., received an undeserved bump from
N.S.W. Assembly’s Standing Orders when he introduced
his laudable Bill to Prevent the Acceleration of the Death
Rate by the Indiscriminate Use of Pea Rifles by the Very
Young. When the Bill came up, somebody rose to point
out that as it “imposed a restriction on trade,” it should
have been introduced in Committee of the Whole House.
The Committee of the Whole is the same thing as the
Whole itself, only in the case of the Whole House the
Speaker presides. To have introduced the measure pro-
perly, a ludicrously-dressed figure with a fuzzy shirt-front
should have seized the mace and pranced before the
Speaker as he stalked out into the whenceness. Then
the Chairman of Committees would have mounted the
chair, called on Broughton, and the Bill would have gone
on. That would have been the Whole Committee. As it
was, Broughton introduced his measure with the mace
looking on, which, of course, was fatal to all hands.
Being struck with the. abounding loyalty
and toil of their subordinates during the Mel-
bourne Fleet celebrations, the Victorian Railway
Commissioners vamped their praises. Here is the
substance of their vamp
The excellent manner in which the employees per-
formed the heavy task imposed upon them during the
past week in connection with the movement of the un-
precedented passenger traffic created by the visit to Mel-
bourne of the American Fleet, and the Royal Agricultural
Show, and which has earned favorable comment from the
press and the public alike, has been a source of much
gratification to the Commissioners, and they now desire
to place on record their appreciation of the meritorious
services rendered by the staff in the successful conduct of
the traffic arrangements.
Considering that T. Tait, who looks like the
author of that obese, tome-like diction, made a net
profit of £20,000 on the Fleet week traffic, his
gratification and the ioy of the other two Johnnies
appear to be rather superfluous. The “meritori-
ous services ” were, in many cases, hours of hard,
soul-racking overtime, for which no extra pay
was received. The Bulletin prefers to call it
sweating, and, whether Tummus Tait calls it
“ meritorious services ” or no, sweating it was.
There should be some heroic fights in the
Australian Parliament this session. It is pro-
posed, if possible, to deal with (1) the capital; (2)
the taking over of the Northern Territory ; (3) the
Defence policy ; (4) the New Protection, which
was ruled out by the High Court, but which must
be restored, even if an amendment of the Consti-
tution is required. If these things can be done
the second session of 1908 will make history. And
they could be all done in the time if it were not
for the hideously clumsy and antiquated mode of
Parliamentary procedure, which is about the
slowest thing on earth.
As a supplement to the Victorian Land
Valuation Bill, Bent is now bringing in a Land
Taxation Bill—at least, he will as soon as he and
Swinburne get over the present little “censure”
difficulty. He proposes to tax estates whose un-
improved value is from £2500 to £4500 at Id. in
the Jj, increasing gradually to 4d. in the £ on
estates worth £150,000 or over. Up to £4500 the
£2500 exemption is allowed ; but over that there
will be no exemption from tax. Also where an
owner pays income-tax he may deduct the amount
of his income-tax. When the Bill gets through,
this paper will proceed to call Bent more or less
blessed. But it isn’t going to waste any blessings
till the thing is done, for the number of things
that Bent was going to do but hasn’t done is be-
ginning to get oppressive. For instance, Bent
has just chopped up his Land Valuation Bill until
its best girl wouldn’t know it; among others to
go overboard are the provisions compelling shire
councils to adopt the Government valuations and
giving the Government power to resume under-
valued estates at the owners’ valuations.
A letter from the Western district of Vic-
toria, where the Big Landlords are :
dere Bulletin,— the land valyuashion bil makes me
fritend wen i look at the upper house that bent has to
push it threw and hel be rite up agenst it direkly. the
Argus torks like laugfin up its sleave to see bent up
agenst the uper counsel wen it get obstrucshonable too
bents tacks on unimproovd land valu and bent wount bee
able to buz round and flummix the new governer like
kidson done in Qland wen the counsel of ponches
get narked erbout the tacks becas theyl just laugf
wen bent gets rite up agenst it direkly and sit
tite and bentle get funky erbout the land tacks
and appolojis and even if the labr partie stick to
bent with the tacks theyle be rite up agenst the uper
house direkly two and thats torkin strait, the
only way bent coud doge the uper counsel and
the ponchy landlords and disonest shire coun-
sels always smoogin to him fore rods an briges
charety and wount tacks themself that use the
rods and briges and no one else wood be to get bil line to
bullock the tacks you was teling about like he done the
tarif and they woudent flumix Australia’s own oom bil to
bulock the tacks you was teling erbout thrue parlement
like they bunkered mr. bent erbout the weston lands re-
zumshon laitly in the uper house wen he got up agenst
it. if mr. bent got oom bil to do it like the tarif he woudn
have to referend the peple of victoria erbout the subject
on the nextelexshin on the workers vote and have acricis
with the uper house like kidson wen he gets up agenst it
direkly like the argus thinks and get narked.
yure respekfully honerabel servant
S. EVAN.
Lotteries are fiendish institutions, accord
ing to the parson-bossed section of N.S.W.
Cabinet ; and illegal gambles, according to all
sections. Yet an Eight Hours’ art union is com-
mon, and an artists’ art union is frequent, and in
the backblocks hairy men curse and swear over
land ballots ; and in Parliament precedence m
moving resolutions is regulated by gamble, and
the Speaker draws what corresponds • with the
marble. These are lamentable happen-
ings, and it is evident that N.S.W. needs
another God-fearing Ministry.
A PROPUTTY ROW.
There is a difference between the Lands Department
and Mines Department as to the route of the proposed
road between Omeo and Glen Wills.
MINE-OWNER: "It's to develop my mine!”
LAND Do.: “’ Tisn’t! It’s to boom my proputty! ”
The N.S.W. Watchmakers’ and Jewellers’
Association held its first meeting last week, and
in the course of the proceedings it was explained
why the alleged 15-carat gold gaud is so often only
9-carat or merely gold-washed, and is likely to
continue so. When the Australian Parliament
passed its Commerce Act it thereby shut down
hard on the importation of fraudulent jewellery,
but it had no power to do anything with bogus j ewel-
lery manufactured here, or with imported jewellery
on which the marks were altered after arrival.
Hence it was proposed that the whole business
should be transferred to the Qommonwealth, so that
it could prosecute the bogus locally-made or locally-
faked article as well as the bogus imported one.
In other words, it was suggested that when the
sovereign people had a sham ring sold to them
they should instruct Austin Chapman to prosecute,
instead of instructing Kidston, Wade, Bent,
Jacky Evans, T. Price and Newton Moore. But
C. W. Oakes, M.L. A., of Sydney, who is a jewel-
ler himself, consulted Wade, and they decided
that their personal dignity would be bruised if
anyone else did the job. So the matter remains
with the States ; but unfortunately not one single
State has done anything as yet, therefore the pub-
lic continues to be swindled. And when the
States do something there will be six different
laws and definitions, so that what is 9-carat in one
place will be 15-carat or 18-carat in another, and
so on.
In the August National Review (London)
Lieut.-Colonel Pollock blithely remarks:—
Already we have ceased to be a naval Power of the first
rank in the Pacific ; Japan is there supreme, subject to a
temporary or perhaps permanent challenge by the United
States. Some day Japan, may decide that only in Aus-
tralia can she find suitable accommodation for the surplus
of her teeming population. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is already preparing, most wisely, against such an
event by introducing universal compulsory training for
home defence. The Australians realise that in view of
the German menace the United Kingdom cannot possibly
detach to the Pacific a battle fleet capable of preventing
the Japanese from attempting the invasion of Australia
whenever it might suit their convenience to do so.
Mistress of the Seas is clearly a title to which we no
longer have any just claim ; whether we shall prove
capable of maintaining even that which is vital to our
existence as an independent kingdom, supremacy in the
“ Narrow Seas,” remains to be seen.
Another tariff curse will shortly roost in
S. Australia. The Scottish fishermen propose to
start their fish-curing industry there. Salt is the
beginning and end of such an enterprise, and S.A.
produces salt on a large scale. The Foreign-trade
crowd in the Federal House made a determined
effort, during the passage of the tariff, to destroy
the duties on salt, and would have done so (and
incidentally destroyed the S.A. salt industry) had
not the Freetrade reps, from that State (as Free-
traders mostly do) voted solidly for the Blighting
Influences of Protection for their own section of
the Commonwealth.
“ SH-SH!”
The people’s attitude towards politics is one of in-
difference. Only 40 per cent, go to the polls.—Swin-
burne’s lament.
BENT: "Hold your clapper, sonny. It’s lucky
for us so many stay away.”
Maoriland is passing a Second Ballot Bill,
and it would be well if the Australian Parliament
did the same before next General Election.
Apparently the Labor party intends to contest
every seat, and with one Labor man, one Demo-
cratic Protectionist and one Freetrade Tory
standing there is a great chance that in many
places the Freetrade Tory will get in on a minority
vote. With a second ballot in every case where
no candidate secured an absolute majority, Aus-
tralia might be saved from much disaster, for
there are very few places where the Tory can get
in nowadays except on a split vote.
Not content with being successively
“outed” by the District, Supreme, and High
Courts over the McHarg pension matter, Premier
Wade, of N.9.W., now purposes continuing the
foolishness up to the Privy Council. To any but
a head smothered in the back end of a horse, the
economy of promptly and deeply burying the sub-
ject should have been apparent long ago. Put,
while Costs hang out, the passion of the moke-
haired mind for infinity amounts to a disease.
THE CRUISER AND THE CANNIBAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cannibals treated H.M.S. Cambrian with con-
tempt.—News item.
Suppose that we
(That’s you and me !)
Go down and howl upon Circular Quay—
Yes, and yell and shriek of the subsidy?
Why can’t we be
As brave and free
As the coal-black cannibals by the sea
Who treated the tub contemptuously,
And shouted and shrieked in cannibal glee ?
If me and you
Had a war canoe,
We could have a laugh at the cannibal crew
Who shouted and shrieked where the palm-trees grew ;
But ive haven’t a ship that’s ivorth a sou.
So me and you
We just look blue,
And the cannibal in his old canoe
Just yells at the ships Bull sends us to
Patrol the South Sea,
For the subsidy—
The tuppeny-ha’penny subsidy
That brings us the ships of antiquity
At which savages laugh in savage glee;
So I think that we
(That’s you and me !)
Might just as well pocket the subsidy
And buy something decent to sail the sea
With an Austral crew
All dressed up in blue,
The whole kit belonging to me and you.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
THE N.S.W. LAND LOTTERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The system of balloting: for land on resumed areas in
N.S.W. has led to bona-fide selectors being: victimised bi-
persons who apply merely with a view of transferring- for
a cash consideration. As the deposit is returned in the
event of the bogus applicant being unsuccessful, the b.a.
“ stands on velvet.”
Come and have a gamble on the land, young man !
Never mind the bramble or the sand, young man !
It is silly backing horses
On the cleanest of the courses,
And exhausting your resources
Till a run of luck divorces
You from your cash and forces,
A succession of remorses —
Better have a gamble on the land, young man !
Take a little ramble on the land, young man !
Just a brief preamble, understand, young man !
Never mind the “ consultation ” ;
“ Two-up ” schools are degradation ;
Fan-tan dens abomination,
And deserve the execration
Of a righteous generation !
As a.paying speculation,
Nothing beats a gamble on the land, young man !
Boxers often shamble to command, young man !
Horses often amble by the stand, young man !
And although you might be getting
Many other ways of betting
You will never get such petting
In a scheme that’s simply sweating
As the Government is letting
By deliberately setting
Exploiters on the settlers on the land, young man !
Join the merry scramble for the land, young man !
Plenty from Coonamble to the Bland, j-oung man !
When the State resumes a station
You should grasp the situation,
With no sign of hesitation,
As a friendly invitation
To a gainful occupation
And a pleasant recreation !
Come and have a gamble on the land, young man !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
WEAK, LANGUID AND BLOODLESS.
ANEMIA IN ITS WORST FORM.
SYDNEY WOMAN'S HEALTY SHATTERED. SEVEN
DOCTORS FAILED TO CURE HER. DR.
WILLIAMS’ PINK PILLS GAVE HER HEALTH
AND STRENGH. THEY BUILT UP HER
BLOOD SUPPLY.
“ When I was about 24 I became anaemic, ” said
Mrs. Louis Van Praag, “I lost all my color. I
hadn’t a scrap in my face, lips or hands, the latter
were quite transparent. I lost all my flesh and
was as thin as possible. As to strength, I hadn t
a vestige. I never wanted to go out, just wanted
to lie down all day. Often I was too weak to get
out of bed in the mornings. I’d get faint feelings,
everything would go black, and 1 d go right oil
altogether. I had advice from seven doctors, but
I got no benefit in spite of all the tonics I swal-
lowed and the small fortune it cost my people. I
went away to Moss Vale for a change, and came
back as bad as when 1 went. Nearly every day
I’d get nervous headaches that throbbed and
pierced through my head particularly at the
temples. I’d get attacks of neuralgia in both sides
of my face, darting up and down each jaw as if the
parts were on fire. The attacks would come on
about ten o’clock each day and last till about five,
and then go off. My appetite was very poor
The only things I wanted to eat were pickles and
bread; sometimes I had no liking for these. My
feet and hands were always cold as stones. My
hair began to fall out. My heart’s action was
very faint except if I went upstairs or moved
quickly. Then it started to thump. I never had
the least heart to do anything. I was too weak
and languid. Work was beyond me. I’d toss
about for hours at a time when in bed, and in the
morning I could hardly get up. I’d have such
queer ringing noises in my head at times, and I d
have fits of hysteria, laughing, and crying by
turns. If I cut myself quite deeply hardly any
blood would come, and what did come was pale
and scanty. I was ailing like this for about six
months when I started to give Dr. Williams 1 ink
Pills a trial. The first box did me a little good.
Little by little I found my appetite improving.
I lost my desire for sour things and began to fancy
wholesome food, and what’s more I kept down
what I swallowed. I was not nearly so languid,
and I began to brighten up and take an interest
in things. Before I’d finished the fourth box the
color was coming back to my face and lips, and 1
began to put on flesh. I could feel the new blood
in my veins, and my feet and hands were not so
cold. My headaches began to ease off and the
neuralgia was not nearly so bad. I stuck to the
pills and soon I could sleep well and feel quite
brisk when I woke up. I kept on with them,
taking one pill after each meal. Every day I
felt stronger and better. My nerves calmed down
and the hysterics left me. Ever since I finished
the course I’ve enjoyed the best of health and feel
as strong and energetic as anyone could wish.
The pills worked a marvel on me.”
J\lrs. Praag resides at 48 Albion Street, Surry
Hills, Sydney. .
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all chemists
and storekeepers, or may be ordered by mail from
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia,
Ltd., Sydney, at 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
post free. Write for hints as to diet, etc.


<1
QSS
o
§S3li
\
»*»> —
59
„v-
J
REMEMBER, we are SOLE AGENTS for
the Genuine RICH, LIPP (EX SOHN Pianos.
THERE is a subtle charm in the LIPP
PIANOS that is felt by all who
hear them*
Their tone is delightfully full, yet deli-
cate : their touch perfectly balanced*
Durability is a special feature, all ma-
terial used in their construction being the
very best obtainable* They are BUILT
by experts of life-long training, and they
BUILD THEM TO LAST A LIFE-
TIME*
We sell these pianos with our full
guarantee and on easy payments*
If you have an old Piano we will take
it as part payment, and allow you the
highest value for it.
Catalogues post free*
W. H. PALING <& CO., LTD.,
AND AT BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
1
i >:•
m
Btftf
m m
s -■
m
am
'<m
• | -A
UjJiasftS'v
■
nfiBHI
Ssil
\£frt *}'’&s.
■
■ 2
mm
•.--
V * *
- Machine
Manufacturers tr Designers
of Furniture, Fitments Cr
Ffante/pieces.
All the Latest Machines are installed in
Our New & Modern Factory.
Me/aim to grilse Me Lowes/ PossiJb/e Prices
wi/L Me /fax/m urn S/andard of ffiph C/ass WorA.
ESTIMATES & DESIGNS FREE OF CHARGE.
BUCKLEY &• NUNN LT?
MELBOURNE.
50 POST CARDS FOR 9£d.
■ Each card different. Views, Actresses, Children and others. ■ ■ .. -
Biggest value ever offered to the Public since the
beginning of the Post Card craze. Agents Wanted.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO., Post Card Publishers and Importers, 192-194 Castlereagfh Street, Sydney.
Is. o}d
Post Free to any
part of Australia,
Wm. ATKINS & CO. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS,
449 & 451 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TURTLE BRAND
MINERS’ DRILL STEEL.
STEEL FOR EVERY PURPOSE KEPT IN STOCK.
Contractors to New South Wales Government.
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
FILMS and CINEMATOGRAPHS
“AT YOUR
SERVICE.”
JORDAN’S
FOR HIRE.
We have over 250,000 feet of Films on all
subjects, always ready for hire or sale.
No other firm in Australia has so varied a
stock, and we keep it strictly up-to-date by
constant additions and importations.
Cinematographs also for sale or hire. We
have duplicate parts and accessories always
ready, and our operators are at your disposal.
WE MAKE FILMS.
All the famous Australian reproductions were
taken by us—the highly-successful BURNS-
SQUIRES FIGHT being our latest.
SEND US YOUR REPAIR WORK .
(Formerly Osborn £t Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS*”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ...
Packet of Ten ...
... Is
~. lOd


We learn from Reims that the 1900
Vintage of “Charles Heidsieek” Champagne
reserved for Australasia has been nearly all
shipped, and those who have laid down stocks of
this favorite year’s wine will be among the lucky
ones. The Vintage to follow —1904—has been
already seen in London, and at some of the trade
tastings been highly commended for its delicate
characteristics and line bouquet. That “ Cham-
pagne Charlie” is a great favorite cannot be denied,
proved by its being seen at so many military and
prominent banquets, and during last London
season scored at the Royal Artillery, fith Dragoon
Guards, 19th Hussars, Indian Cavalry, and many
others, including the New Zealanders’ annual
-in T„,,r, l.,cf *
“PRICOTA”
LIQUEUR
The Ideal Ladies’Liqueur
If you want a liqueur,
Why not try a “ Pricota ? ”
It is wholesome and pure
If you want a liqueur.
To its praises I’m sure
You will soon add your quota;
If you want a liqueur
Why not try a “ Pricota.”
WHOLESALE FROM —
Him. Robinson & to.. Prcfe, Id.. SvH„„ A M-1h,,....
Under the Stress and strain of modern life all
beauty that is not closely guarded and cherished must
perish soon. Valaze is the mightiest guard against the
ills that mar beauty. It acts as a tonic, a preserver, and
a stimulant, evicting all the impurities from the pores,
and making the skin clear and healthy, as well as
beautiful. 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., 6d. post. Use also the
Valaze Herbal Soap, which is a perfect skin cleanser, and
is pure and wholesome. 2s. 2d. posted. “ Beauty in the
Making,” is the title of an interesting and instructive
book, by Mile. Rubinstein, on the subject of the com-
plexion and skin, their defects and the remedies of them.
Write and send 3d. for postage, or call on Mile. Rubinstein
for the booklet. Mile. Helena Rubinstein and Co., Valaze
Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne ; or 9 Brandon Street, Wellington.* [1
In 18 of the chief towns in Victoria the
Commonwealth Government pays the local post-
masters from £5OO to £235 a year each, and the
average is £313. The State Railway Department
pays its stationmasters in the same towns an
average of onlv £2OB, ranging from £350 to £l5O
per annum. Further, there is seldom more than
one railway S. M., while places like Ballarat,
Bendigo, etc., have two or three post offices, with
a postmaster at each. Yet a number of Vic-
torians have begun to remark lately that there
wasn’t all this commotion about sweating when
the State had charge of the Post Office.
I’m the Robur Tea Girl !
When you are pouring out
a cup of Robur tea you can’t
help sniffing up its lovely flavor
—it isn’t a bit scenty, and
yet it seems to fill a room with
its delightful aroma—you can
feel instinctively that it is pure
tea, that there is nothing
mixed in with it to give it
taste or smell —its flavor is so
natural, so rich, so soft; in
fact, so truly just the real
flavor of tea—the sort of
deliciousness that makes your
mouth water to get drinking
it —quickly.
It’s astonishing what a lot
of people are using our “ No. 1
Grade” just now—you’d be
surprised if you only knew,
and not all rich people either—
poor people are buying it too —
they find they save money,
because it goes so much furtliei
than Ceylon or ordinary
blended teas—and they have
the additional satisfaction of
drinking lovely tea all the
time—Yes ! No. 1 Grade Robur
is great tea.
“The Connoisseur’s Friend.”
“BLACK and WHITE.”
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Is tt\e acme of perfection, and the high-class standard
stimulant of the British Empire.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 15, 1908.
My Dear Arint,—
Mrs. J. N. Osborne (Miss Maud Jeffries) and
hubby are being congratulated on what the stork
brought them. The bird’s luggage is a Son. The
joyous event came nigh lapsing into a tragedy, so
dangerously ill was the pretty mother.
Talking abouts infants. Our one-time vice-
regal potentate, Earl Beauchamp, has, according
to a just-returned Sydneysider, four arrows in his
quiver now—two jolly little boys and the same
number of pretty little girls.
Talking some more about mewling, puking
humans (Sbakspeare). The Dudley twins are not
coming here with the other young radiant morning
faces of that family. They and the heir will be left
behind. But four out of seven “arrows” is a
satisfactory number to land here. The retinue of
governesses and nurses that will harry or watch
over the flight hereward is awe inspiring. So says
a returned Sydneysider. A bunch of officials (in-
cluding the pictorial Captain Rowe), wearing much
gold lace and macaw, are with her Ex. and the
infants, and a large bunch of haughty menials are
already staffing (not stuffing) Federal Government
House in Melbourne. This job of Dudley’s isn’t
going to be a cheaply-run one. He’ll be “ leaning
up against the gold-dust ” all the time, as one of
the IT.S. Fleet said of himself. It is satisfactory
to think that the Dudley coal-mines cannot quite
perish during his term of office. Lately, Sydney
(that section that wears a lot of purchased hair) has
been exchanging opinions about the relative wealth
of Lord Dudley and Lady Northcote. The last got
as dowry £1,000,000 sterling. Miss Gurney didn’t
bring a dowry to her William Humble, but if she
hadn’t any money, let alone a million, she could at
best boast that Pa Gurney failed for about twice
that sum. There is magnificence about a failure of
that magnitude.
The ex-Excellencies and a huge crowd of Sydney
people seemed honestly sorry to part. True, the
majority of the crowd that went to the station
with flowers to see them off was on the ball list,
but even so they must have been disinterested at
that time of day when there were no more balls in
prospect. Probably the greatest mourners (until
the Dudley Countess arrives and starts dis-
tributing custom and gold) are the shop people.
Lady Northcote was a lavish buyer. One shop
alone made her fourteen frocks just to worry
along with until she can reach the next good
frocky port. She said her adieux and wept her
farewells in a grey shantung with a maze of white
soutache embroidery (why won’t the dressmakers
give soutache its English equivalent— braid, and
simplify the scheme of decorative things !), and a
grey hat. The two Alices—her ex-Ex. and Miss
Rawson—embraced warmly, and the flower-
smothered train got away to a storm of applause
and some tears.
A terrifying report is going round that Mr.
Share may not want to return to us—that
he is engaged unbeknownst to an Honorable
spinster with a double-barrelled name who
travelled about this continent, and while in
Sydney stayed awhile with the Northcotes.
Possibly we could get our Agent-General to locate
and sandbag the spinster.
A sane facet to the intellect of the departed
Lady Northcote was the one she turned on any
Australian women’s art work. Prowling in the
Rovcroft Library one day, she pounced upon a
purse bag of tooled leather with the Sturt pea and
some other Australian flora decoration in low
relief. It was the work of Miss Berenice Edwell,
and her Ex. took the pretty thing—in the financial
sense, of course—and ordered some more.
In the time between receiving the loving-cup
and taking the stirrup-cup, the dear, departed
Lady Northcote found time to bejewel quite a
number of Sydney women. Mrs. Mayoress
Hughes is wearing an enamel and diamond brooch,
a souvenir from the ex-Ex. And her portraits,
taken in the famous sable coat, were given freely.
All the servants at Federal Government House
were more or less gemmed by way of being good-
byed. The very smart maid (the ball-listed got to
be optically acquainted with her through her pres-
ence in the dressing-room on ball nights) with the
prematurely grey hair, who was Lady Northcote’s
personal attendant, was entreated by a gilt-edged
shop to remain here and ornament a velvet-
cushioned showroom. But as she departed with
the Departer, she was evidently not taking any
entreaty of that calibre.
What the papers call “some remarkable figures”
were given at the meeting called by Miss
Rawson to discuss the formation of pure-milk
depdts in Sydney. Last year there were over
1000 deaths of infants from intestinal diseases.
Now, deaths from such causes are preventible by
proper feeding. It is mostly the feeding of the
infant with impure milk, or bacon, greens, cheese,
pickles, beer, or “anything we have ourselves”
that causes “ biby ” to get a daisy quilt over him.
All the distinguished medical men present at the
meeting to promote a better milky way deprecated
the use of cow’s milk or any milk but ma’s for the
infant, and one of them told that during the siege
of Paris the death rate of infants went down in
proportion to the great rise in adult mortality.
This was due to the mothers being compelled by
the cessation of work to stop at home and nurse
their infants.
In factories in Spain the factory hand Donna
Isabelle is compelled by law to withdraw at cer-
tain intervals to impart nourishment to her young
Don Alfonso. If she cannot feed him the law
supplies her with pure milk from depots, or dis-
pensaries as the distinguished medical men would
preferto call them. These depOtshave been in vogue
in France and Spain for many years, but only one
was mentioned as getting busy in London—which
looks as if London wasn’t keen on keeping its baby
overground. No one, so far as I remember,
cited Germany, where young Hochderkaisers are
increasing at the rate of 300,000 a year. Surely
there must be some notable scheme at work in
Germany to account for this strenuous increase of
Hoch, junior.
Dr. .Tames Graham was the first speaker, and
he spoke at great length, and didn’t water his
milky discourse at all. Drs. Mackellar, P. S.
Jones, Anderson Stuart, and Mills of Strathfield
all talked milk long and interestingly, and
wore beautifully-fitting frock coats and creased
pants and nice ties. The audience had so much
oratorical milk that in future it will take lemon
in its tea. And as for Captain Wilson, who hung
on to the edge of the discussion, he —well, the
next time he sees a cow in the Cranbrook orchid
house or a calf on the lawn he’s going to chase it
away with language and missiles. And nothing
but the alternative of three months’ hard without
the option will induce him to put milk in his soda.
Dr. Mary Booth moved—“ That the following
committee be appointed, with power to add to
their number : Dr. James Graham, the Mayoress,
Dr. E. W. Fairfax, Dr. Blackburn, Dr. Philip
Sydney Jones, Mrs. Dwyer, Mr. H. C. L.
Anderson, Mr. W. P. Faithfull. Mrs. Fairfax,
Mrs. Hugh Dixson, Dr. Mills, Mrs. Davenport,
Mrs. MacCallum, Mr. W. Epps, Mrs. Sly, Miss
Margaret Harris, Mrs. Parker, Mrs. Docker, and
Dr. Mary Booth, and that Miss Alice Friend be
asked to act as hon. secretary, and Mrs. B. F.
Marks as hon. treasurer.”
And behold the “ move ” was carried, and the
motor-cars began to buzz for their owners.
A beautiful exposition of sunshades was the
most noticeable feature at the swearing-in cere-
mony of the new Governor-General. The day was
blinding bright and rather hot, so the parasols of
the invited women were not unfurled merely for
show. There were Rose du Barri parasols, helio-
trope parasols, cream parasols with blue butter-
flies, crimson parasols, linen ones with hand
embroidery, Liberty-silk parasols with soutache—
the now wearisome soutache. I shan’t say sou-
tache any more, but just braid. The same old
swear was used for the swearing-in, and Major
Steward, the G.-G.’s official secretary, read his
Ex.’s commission in rolling-drum tones that
didn’t suggest he’d been in the habit of wearing a
cassock previous to his assumption of a uniform.
The Governor and Miss Rawson have gone on
a visit to the Harry Osbornes at Currandooley.
This was inevitable. Every Governor of any
social standing goes at least once during
his term of office to stay at Curran-
dooley. It is understood that the Governor who
misses an invitation to Currandooley is cross-ques-
tioned rather sharply on the subject when he
returns to England and reports himself to
Edward VII. at the Tower of London. The
place, which is the ancestral home of the Pat
Osborne family, is large and rambling, and other-
wise well-fitted for the entertainment of nota-
bilities who trail staffs and things behind them.
The present holder is. the eldest of the family, and
he married one of the fair daughters of Victoria’s
Chief Justice Madden.
There has been an astounding rush of Suttorsto
the orange-blossomed altar this month—nine, I
believe ! They include Mr. Francis Suttor’s
daughter ; Mr. J. B. Suttor’s son Bligh (Mr. Sut-
tor is Commercial Agent in Asia) to Miss Nash,
formerly a nurse in the Children’s Hospital;
another Suttor man in the country who married a
Chisholm ; two Mosman Suttors, and some more
that I’ve lost in the crowd and can’t locate. The
Suttors have been raging here for a long time and
evidently don’t intend to let the name die out.
A batch of impending marriages is announced.
Miss Nea Mort, daughter ( of Mrs. Laidley Mort,
and the pretty sister of the lady who became
Baroness Zezza di Zaffoneta a few days ago, will
wed Mr. Arthur O’Connor, whose main distinction
resides in beingasonof Judge R. E. O’Connor. Miss
Macneil, daughter of the almost-champion golfer
of that ilk, will espouse Mr. Evans, R.N., of the
Powerful, when the September gaieties have
simmered down ; and, about the same time, Miss
May Robertson, a stout and rosy young woman,
whose people own a station near Hay (N.S.W.) —
the place which is said by those who know about
such things to be a mean average of 10 degrees
(Fahrenheit) less chilly than Sheol—will journey
to India, and there pilot to the altar one Johnson,
who swashbuckles for a living in a Fusilier regi-
ment.
Mr. Albert Goldie and Mrs. Dulcie Goldie {n6e
Deamer) announce their marriage in an original
way. A circular-like notification addressed to
your “Akenehi,” and printed in pale blue on
pretty paper, is dated from Melbourne Hotel,
Perth, and runs : “If you will turn over this page
you will see an announcement of which we think
you will agree we have reason to be justly proud.
It is with the earnest wish that your happiness
may be as great as ours that we subscribe our-
selves.—Yours very sincerely, Albert Goldie,
Dulcie Goldie.”
Well, I turned over the page as requested, and
found more pretty blue printing (in silver
borders) setting forth in an extract from the
Perth Morning Herald the marriage of the gifted
girl with the “ well-known theatrical manager.”
Short biographical notices of the honeycomb pair
and an account of their enterprises for the near
future are told in the blue ink within the silver
borders; also it is mentioned that the bride was
married from the care of her consignees (I’m not
quoting now), Mr. and Mrs. Michael Joseph.
The whole “circular” is so exuberantly young.
The bride wasn’t 18. I have no idea of the bride-
groom’s age, but I hear he is also young. The
Michael Josephs are quite young (he represents
manager Anderson in Perth). But it’s rather
early days to cry aloud about “ our great happi-
ness ” when a pair are only 24 hours married.
Reminds me of the four-days’ bride who wired
to her mother: “Awfully happy. George quite
unchanged; just the same old kind husband as
ever.” Anyhow, all good luck and best wishes to
the happy brace. That they refrained from
hyphenating Deamer and Goldie on the “circu-
lar” shows commendable modesty.
The big London shops which are patronised by
royalty have a thorny path to scramble over, and
invariably have a separate and rather massive
ledger in which to store royalty’s unpaid bills.
At a recent meeting of the London firm of
Redfern Ltd., a “Sir” prehandled person (by name
Treloar) blew off heavily in this way
The book debts had increased £20,000, because some of
their best customers had not been so prompt in their pay-
ment as they ought to be. Ladies would not pay their
dressmakers' so promptly as they did their butchers, their
bakers, and their candlestick-makers. It always had
been so since dress was invented, and it always would be
so until dress was done away with. At least, one-fifth of
the amount owing to them at the end of the year was
due from families of the various royal houses of Europe.
Miss Gladys Lister-Lister, eldest bud of the
artist who presidents the Royal Art Society,
“came out” at the Society’s ball in Paddington
Town Hall. She “outed” in snowy ereipe-de-
chine and silver.
The Maoriland Twins (from Sydney), Aileen and
Doris Woods, send a programme that announces
them as appearing with Miss Phyllis Dare at
Hastings, in the Bull Country. Miss Maud
Fitzstubbs is the accompanist to the performers.
Another piece (of good quality paper) comes from
the J. and N. Tait pair, and sets forth their en-
gagement of Miss Katherine Goodson, the famous
pianist. Adjective “famous” is not misused in her
case. She is almost as famous as Carreho with the
whirly thing above the “n”; but, personally, I
wish J. and N. Tait had engaged someone who did
something else than amazing things on the
ivory keyboard. The piano as a solo instrument
gets me down, and it and the famous pianist are
as a monument of brass on Sydney’s chest. I note
that Hambourg is coming back to Sydney. If
only that desperate pirate in “ Peter Pan ” —areal
Stevensonian pirate with a face like a ham and an
eye like a fragment of glass stuck in it—could be
set on to club Hambourg, or comb his mane
with the hook that takes the place of a hand on
the piratical right arm !
The A.M.P. Society didn’t have anything in
the way of fuss and feathers at the opening of its
London offices, mainly because it is only living in
hired apartments so far. What opening there
was to do was done by Chairman Meeks and
General Manager Teece. With Chairman Meeks,
his wife and their one daughter travelled to the
Fog, which they are viewing from the colossal
Hotel Russell. Mrs. Meeks has a box-seat in
connection with the Ministering Children’s
League—a useful little body which puts penny to
penny, and thus supports cots in children’s hos-
pitals, and once a month takes its thimble and
needle to a meeting and stitches clothes for the
little heathen in the alley down the street. While
“Empire League” Meath is busy encouraging
the young idea in the ways of flag-flapping, his
more practical wife slaves for the M.O.L. ;
and at latest the lady had been entertaining the
Australian visitors, and showing them the
M.C.L. homes for children at Ottermead—mostly
the gifts of the Meath couple themselves. The
A.M.P. chairman and his family expect to be back
in Sydney about the time the Christmas poultry
gives up the ghost.
Miss Beatrice Day will bring herself under the
ban of the Rabbit Destruction Board, for she is
carrying round on her northern tour a little grey
rabbit in her sable muff. “ Well, there’s a differ-
ence between the value of my pelt and yours,”
says the rabbit to the muff, “ but I’m alive,
though a prisoner, and you’re a long time dead.”
But Polyphemus, the one-eyed cat of the Flem-
ming co., is waiting for his chance to make the
rabbit as dead as the muff.
Mr. H. H. Wallace, who has been engaged by
Mr. George Edwardes to understudy George
Graves, the comedian, writes from London, and
mentions that Miss Celia Ghiloni got together a
meeting of Australian actors and actresses now in
London for a pow-wow at the Pavilion Music
Hall. A gay gathering it was, and full of much
reminiscence. At the Butt concert at the Albert
Hall, Rumford sang the Maori melody he
acquired in Maoriland. It was wildly ap-
plauded. . . . The usual ass with his ringing
“Coo-ee” was present. Melba must be heartily
sick of being coo-eed at, often at inopportune
times. The day after the Derby one of the dailies,
in its descriptive stuff, said “ there were many
Australians and Colonials present who probably
saw a racecourse for the first time in their lives.”
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane :
It has been a real vice-regal week. We had no sooner
butted the in-coming official head of the Commonwealth
up the steamboat gangway than we had to be getting out
our other clothes in order to speed the Northcote couple
upon their northern way, per Monkey boat. It must
have been a trying trip from Sydney for those two poor
tired souls, because at every blessed station, from the
border downwards, there were squads of State school
infants drawn up to sing something “ suitable ” and to
hurtle masses of vegetation into the vice-regal cattle-
truck. I haven’t been over the land journey fora year or
more—preferring the ocean waves—but when I last did
the journey' there were 51 stations between here and the
border—46 stations named Bile Pills and four stations
named Refreshments, and one named Wait Here 20
Minutes. So the accumulation of song and garden pro-
duce must have been considerable. The tired and nearly
dead party was side-tracked at the Central, where the
military'and Jack White’s fine squad of mounted “blue
bottles ” were on hand to show the way to the vice-regal
bough shed.
Next day' (Thursday*) about 1000 specimens of humanity
presented themselveson the vice-regal lawn to say a last
farewell, but they didn’t get much chance. The lady had
evidently been knocked out by' the previous day’s cam-
paign, and neither she nor her diminutive lord (who had
previously been lunched by President John Forrest, of
the Queensland Club) showed up till about 4 p.m. Then
they'just strolled round a bit, said a weary word to the
official set, and to an acquaintance or two, after which the
lady trailed a pale cream chiffon confection with a dash
of lettuce green over the gravel, and disappeared. Mean-
while the crowd tea’d, and congratulated itself upon the
fact that it could always tell those friends who hadn’t been
there about the enthusiastic way' it was received.
Quite a sprinkle of Melbourneites were in the crowd,
and these were duly impressed by the show of gorgeous
bougainvillaea that just now hedges in the vice-regal drive.
It was a feast of color, bud the hats worn literally blew
nature out. They' were frankly' hideous, unbecoming,
and grotesque. Two heroines braved a pile of scorn
trimmed with envy, and wore directoire gowns. Huge
hats made both wearers look slightly' top heavy, but the
evident tights underneath the gowns gave a slither.v,
squirmy' effect for which I confess to a sneaking regard.
A costume the shade of a blatant nasturtium-cum-
raspberry', worn by' a lady with hair the color of a brass
bed rail, was quite a feature of the afternoon ; while Mrs.
H. D. Cohen, in a misty' blue cloth and creamy net under-
gear, was odds-on from an artistic standpoint. One of
our brightest matrons, Mrs. Cecil Palmer, was missed
from the throng. She has been laid by' the heels these
five weeks through illness.
Later on, the same day, the Citizens of Brisbane
Banquet took place. It was backed by a liberal roll-up of
Federal and State Public Service people. Our local
Governor, Acting-Premier Barlow, Messrs. Hawthorne,
Airey, Kerr, the two Mayors, Opposition Philp, the Naval
Acting Commandant and his Military brudder, as well as
the Federal Attorney-General and the German Consul,
had seats with tne guest of the moment at the top table,
and the gathering was full and merry.
Premier Kidston is returning with a motor car. An
excited follower announced with hated breath that “it
is the same as the King’s ’’—but as Ed. VII. owns about 10 of
assorted makes, this didn’t convey much. Eater a pri-
vate wire announced that the vehicle is a Dalmeyer, and
reported that Mrs. K. had already had a run in it, during
which run a cyclist was killed.
Premier Kidston, by the way, has just announced with
a fanfare of trumpets that he lias arranged a northern ser-
vice with the 8.1. Co., the first boat to sail in October. It
sounds very fine, but when you realise that 8.1. boats berth
with more or less regularity at this port anyhow, it simply
means that the Government is paying a big subsidy for a
little more regularity and a call at the impossible Port
Alma. And the 8.1. boats aren’t greyhounds. Also, as a
rule, they aren’t large.
Someone reports an outbreak of suffragette repartee,
which may become dangerous if not checked. Mrs.
Pankhurst, during a recent holding forth in London, was
much harassed by a man in the audience whose perti-
nent queries were disconcerting. Ultimately he became
inflated with success, and made a false move. “How
would you like to be a man ?” he asked facetiously. “ 1
don’t know',” Mrs. Pankhurst replied, looking a trifle
puzzled. “ How W'ould you?”
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LTD
VICE-REGAL JEWELLERS • WATCHMAKERS « SILVERSMITHS
BY APPOINTMENT
SOLID GOLD VASE
Presented to Lady Northcote by the Women of New South Wales.
I m.
DESJGNED AND MANUFACTURED ON THE PREMISES.
I3HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON • ADDRESS -19-CHARTER HOUSF STREET
KRUSE’S li)S?cticid?
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
• V
II
. ' " (* '
\ :
: :1 ; ' •
- •
,-AM
'
wZsm*3
Wmm
■
m
n
■
a
fi’Mjj to' use tkt f;
ST-.f-aftor .U3lr.£ the Po
■KBUSE’SI
f yjS&ilffifcVt' dm iroyfaj P-rt», hit, ■
*xd mtrj other tpK'H<i"
(, * It &u ft* fJvtitiim tfduMituti •"
Nm
■ -
e.ppiletstioK to Htgt, Ch
m
m
wm *#»ulrfoif to
diebctk:
!hw: ■#••'»«. «M§. ttxl *»« U» I s "'
■*! .AM. 4 rail! qu«i»lt7f :, £
«b«f jri'4 n.’t nf|r*» W 1
' \yirjf i»«yi )n ili« M"'ivmp i ■■’
v ?»' tw w*,
mfflsmw* tWAsoanfo! or tro on rrfWfJ
«*« »*:>* wo*» *;•£...
iaaHtej>«fear>m«»t!tr •; „
!?**< »# iWr Do)*}
•■!, im HttfMt letHiJiijW
"> %*s»«¥* -Swb QKRDISSPiCpa^
Ife™ grimwac;
&ft©r us!
KRUSE’S
SB:
M
•* Srt'Vi/.W /» tfatfroyFff? Fi **• *
: “ /i//*, eat? <*/*ry o?w »»'*■ '
- ■ , ApoUtation'JP*: l
' .
'• ‘ * "' #1
Dißr.
I **««f-wum Or.? *’h "»* *•;■*' -
Mafcsiar;^
?®fesj2B«s7:; : -v. .
rjwi: ' '
| mip.Ht Vw • - ” '
?%4 ' r
Bfeg
.... ‘ *r* ...
;■. ~ m sm4M* m
c«a mr- J>2 '* _■
”?SLTO«, ]
SEK'. vm <0 Yk« *•
!U TIKS AT l*« 111
mmm. ;
-x
.. .
A (Srgat Rid to Hgaltb aijd Conjfort.
|g^Cl|p
f R RESIST«^aX
JOCK WHI
KY
/ -■ ■■ .
'
‘l®'
;.feL§V ; v ‘‘*;v V ■'
.
rtrrrrr
Ji
rrrrrrr
m
9
mm
00T
"-a.
m,
«W«A'-
nT5T\LVtqy^uASG°
Nt
(XT
LOCH
n
•*-
ft
%
OV-O
N£S\
svw
NM*V,
tcH
p&£°
SCO
O'flb
R\t'
o"
pH
TtO^°
stcc c
otFOV-C^
OT'T
A MAGNETIC ATTRACTION
TOOTH -s- Co. LTD., PROPRIETORS


m
r>
o
THE EFFECT OF
*€
99
P.D
CORSETS.
The beauty of a woman’s dress, however
costly, is frequently marred owing to the
foundation—her Corset —not being correct
in shape or style. The “ P.D.” CORSET
makes all the difference between satis-
faction and disappointment—giving your
dress or costume a graceful hang, without
revealing its presence through materials of
the softest texture.
“P.D.”
CORSETS
Are the most popular make throughout the
world—their great lightness combined with
strength—their elasticity ensuring any style
of figure perfect freedom and comfort,
yet imparting an exquisitely proportioned
and graceful personality—a charming and
attractive stylishness and smartness to
your appearance. See that TRADE MARK
on every pair—it is our guarantee of
QUALITY—PLIABILITY- DURABILITY.
AH First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers stock them.
TRADE
PD
P.D
MARK.
KANDY KOOLA
TEA
' The teal i' Ike courdr?
Side rfdjlk. ===== .
a a
R
For more than 20 years Kandy Koola has been the
only tea consumed in thousands of homes throughout
the Commonwealth—for more than 20 years we have
been continually improving;the quality and the purity of
Kandv Koola, until to-day experts are unanimous
in declaring it to be without a rival amongst the teas
sold in Australia.
If vou have tried Kandy Koola Tea once, you will be
it now. If you haven’t tried it, get a sample packet
from your grocer with your next order
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 14, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie,—
We’ve got a new Governor-General, and I don’t
believe, in all our previous gubernatorial experi-
ence, did vve reach the altitude of powdered foot-
men. I was so busy looking at six of them, fore
and aft of his Lordship’s carriage, that I missed
more than a cocked-hat glimpse of Himself. They
were six violet-and-gold visions, struck off the
same pattern, and with powdered, croppy hair.
It was like Cinderella and her pumpkin-and-mice
turn-out come to life. There were a few newly-
annexed aides-de-camp, but they also escaped my
dazzled vision. Mine was a most select view,
because, even before the most-advance escort, I
saw his double Excellency’s luggage and valet.
The valet was small, and was buried in the lead-
ing caravan, which was like unto a two-decker
Black Maria, distinguished by the cockaded silk
hat of an immaculate groom. Baggage filled St.
Kilda-road like a circus procession or the in-
numerable caravan of a moving prima donna.
The new Governor-General was toted out in the
evening to see the ’luminations, and a carriage-
ful of Corporation waved its hand blandly and
said “ Look what we’ve done for you,” while ban-
ners gave a last feeble after-the-Fleet kick and
tried to look like two-year-olds. Blazing in elec-
tric lights from the side of the Town Hall was the
legend—
The City Welcomes
The Governor-General.
“The American Fleet” had been carefully erased.
The first half of the lettering blazed in joyful
praise of economy. Reminded one of the Christ-
mas card of youthful years, when last year’s names
were smudgily erased with an “injy-rubber,” and
the card went forth to new fields, as good as ever.
The Victorian girls begin to throw shy, appeal-
ing glances to their land lovers—temporarily
shooed off by the brazen devotion to the men of
the Stripes and Stars. Strange is this abject
worship of a sailor by women. It is such a profit-
less expenditure of sentiment. I never heard of
a faithful sailor. “Devotion” rhymes with
“ocean,” but that is usually the nearest it gets to
a tar. “ Locomotion ” also rhymes with “ ocean,”
and the tar locomotes and leaves his best girl
lamenting.
So the left-behind girl begins to feel a hanker-
ing for a solid, flesh young man. She finds
the brilliancy of “Her Officer” fading into
the intangible haze of a pretty dream. One stay-
at-home maiden missed the joy of meeting even
one star-spangled hero, and had nothing to throw
back when each girl chum gabbled fatuously
about the endearments of “my man.” In a fit of
fury, the out-of-it maiden invented a dazzling
adorer with ten stripes and twenty stars and a
private launch. He is the most realistic thing
left in Fleet-bereft Melbourne, for he is as solid as
he ever was, while the others have faded into
ghosts. And the story of him blossoms and grows
gayer with each succeeding day.
No member of the sex that fastens most of its
clothes behind ever enters the portals of the Savage
Club —the Young Man’s Club, of Melbourne —but
she hears sometimes of its doings. Admiral
Sperry’s birthday (he was 61 just then) was
honored by a special smoke-night and the opening
of Melbourne’s newest theatre—“ Quinks.” It is
a dandy little playhouse, planted at the. end
of the biggest clubroom, and sheltered by a
deep maroon velvet curtain with the
“Savage Seal” in gold in the centre.
There was a marvellous and mysterious
first-night programme, but the Birthday Man put
up with the honor and stayed at other functions.
The club didn’t snare an admiral of any sort,
except budding ones. Practically every Zootenant
and other officers of the squadron rolled in
during the evening. One made a belated call at
three in the morning, and even then no Savage or
Cannibal of them all had thought of putting out
the tiger (I don’t suppose a Savage would have
anything so mild as a cat), or planting the tank (a
mere jug would be of no use to a Savage) out on the
mat for the milk from the morning megatharium
(a Savage takes no interest in a mild, mooning,
loony creature like a cow). Alf Vincent’s sketch for
the 'programme-back touchingly embodied the
sentiment of two countries.
By the way, the Ice Rink whooped up a 30-ply
carnival to farewell the Fleet on the last day.
The Rink felt it had a personal host-y respon-
sibility, since the Squadron spent much time
in isolated squads playing hockey on the cooler.
Sailors can’t play hockey any more than they can
ride, but they whipped up a good time, and the
girls came in hordes just to hear the officers swear
American swears with a nasal accent. The carni-
val was to hold a final hockey smash in the gay
middle of things, but the clock hands had travelled
near to midnight before a scattered and be-dined
Jonathan team was got together. Skating teams
nearly exploded in frantic competition. There
were Red Indians (in full war-paint) for one
“fiver.” The Madden colleens and Nan O’Hara,
driving some high-hatted beauty men within green-
dangled reins, were the freshest things from Ire-
land. Their short dresses shouted in green, and
theirsweetKillarney or Macgillicuddy’sßeeks bon-
nets breathed brogue and drooped with plumes.
Guy the Fat was not beautiful enough to join the
team, but rolled round solus in a grass-green coat
(with tailsthat were plainly looking for a fight), cor-
duroys, and a billyrooster hat. The prize-winners
were a team of girls swaddled in wadding-, star-
bedecked like pantomime-fairies, and led by white
satin dandy-men.
Sybil Nichols, a prize-winning daffodil showist,
made an advertising hit at Fleet time. She stood,
a real live bride, in her flower window—a blush-
ing bride hanging on to the necessary bunch of
white vegetables. She is a fine, stately, healthy
figure of a country girl; and the crowd at the win-
dow was like mud on a rainy-day cyclist. She
really should have annexed a bridegroom—a
Fleeter.
The officers of the Fifth Australian Infantry
Regiment managed to keep cool-headed enough
not to butt their ball into Fleet week. Now cool,
calm invitations flutter out for the annual spurred
and blazoned hop. It wfill hop in P’ran Town
Hall on Friday, October 2.
Speaking of balls, by the way, in last week’s
Chatter some devil of a compositor beheaded a
paragraph and then, in a fit of remorse, crushed
the head into a lower column. It had the effect
of running the descriptions of two separate dances
into one which read comparatively sanely except
to the Elevated Few. For one dance was madly
and desperately “select” and the invitations
were kept in rose leaves, while the other was a
“beastly charity ball,” and any upstart with
half-a-guinea was permitted to rub shoulders with
the dignitaries of the land.
On Saturday night, Miss Margaret Anglin, in a
succession of moods and marvellous frocks, ex-
pounded to a fashionable house of first-nighters-
the policy and value of "The Truth” as an
every-day asset. The feminine half kept one ear
ont for Margaret’s forcible expounding, and both
eyes glued tight to her fascinating clothing. Miss
Alma Vaughan, a clever girl with an ultra-smart
appearance, and Miss Eileen Anglin supplied
more Frock. Miss Eileen Anglin made a good
hit in the color-scheme with a clingsome delight
of a black gown hitting up the copper of her hair.
Fashionable Melbourne makes for the stalls in
Her Majesty’s. Saw the Madden crowd (faithful
first-nighters) there, and Guy Madden gallantly
squiring the Atherton girls. They run in a couple,
the Atherton girls, mostly with Momma at the
whip. Mrs. Beauchamp was alongside her
daughters, Mrs. Allen and Mrs. Thomas, with
their youthful husbands, and Mrs. Raleigh, who
must be tired of posing in a new creation every
first night against a carefully-arranged background
of adoring hubby. Mrs. Tallis beamed from her
box, and the opposite pen held a dazzling row of
Girl—just shoulders and jewels and Girl. Mrs.
Tait’s crepey dress looked like a luscious red rose.
Mr. and Mrs. Langham shone in centre circle
seats, and Mrs. Craven appeared in a modified
shout of green and white.
There is so much frill in “ The Truth ” (of this
sample) that the hidden Hat that Came Home
proves quite an anti-climax. What do the morals
or ethics of a play matter to an audience of
women when they are hypnotised in the first
scene by the star, who proclaims that she
has “just seen the most adorable hat,” which she
couldn’t resist and has had “sent home ” ! They
can’t rest till they’ve seen that hat. When the
messenger brings the box, and Miss Anglin
removes the tissue wrappers with the reverence
of a religious rite, there is quite a hush over the
shemale audience, but instead of wild applause, or
a cry of rapture from the depths of their hat-
haunted hearts, comes a disappointed sigh. Even
a mere man inquired on first night if That was
worth the fuss. There seems no heroism in
sending back that ordinary pretty fluff of silk
and straw. No, the Woman audience concludes
that the Hidden Hat is a fraud.
Miss Bertha F. Merfield, a prominent one-
time Fox pupil, offers a private view of her
Paintings and Handicrafts at The Studio in
Alexandra Buildings from 23rd to 30th September.
The young lady’s handicrafts should be real cute,
as she can punch copper and stamp leather with
the best of them.
Ola Humphries, looking like a brown plumaged
bird (only not with the same kind of feet), flew
through Melbourne one day in Fleet week. She
plays in Adelaide and the Golden West, and
returns to catch the playgoers of Cup time.
The Evans Sisters —those copper-topped light-
footed sprites—were booked to adorn “Les
Cloches” with a gem of a dance. It was
scratched—mysteriously. It is now alleged that a
clash of temper and tears stirred the canvas and
dust of behind-the-scenes, and all because of
the scarcity of clothes. One charmer was
to be dressed “as a stage boy, the other
partially undressed as stage girl. The two
felt too skimpily apparelled for public
appearance, and said so. The management
begged to differ, and ordered the transparencies
to remain. Neither would give in, and the end
of the tug-of-war was the demolition of the
dance.
The Hambourg baby is this time to remain
behind in Melbourne with the nurse whilst Mark
is shaking his mane at his Sydney admirers.
When the long-haired one and beautiful mommer
rejoin their offspring there will be another concert
or two in Melbourne, ere the Taits produce the
Welsh Male Choir at the Town Hall.
Miss Sumner Locke’s comedy is to receive its
baptism of fire at the Princess’s—not at Her
Majesty’s, as was first arranged. The date for the
one consecutive performance of “ The Vicissitudes
of Vivienne ” has not been altered—it is still
September 26—but a change of venue was neces-
sary. On the night of the 26th Miss Anglin pro-
duces “The Taming of the Shrew” at Her
Majesty’s, and as the stage could not be available
for the amateurs in the afternoon, they are to
have the use of the Princess’s for the occasion.
The box-plan will be opened at Allan’s on the 21st.
By the way, Mrs. Wilson Pembroke (profession-
ally known in England as Miss Margaret Carter)
is going to figure among the toney mummers.
Wilson Pembroke, the tenor-baritone of the new
ballad opera company at the Royal, is interesting
himself in the charity matinee show, and his
pretty wife has volunteered her services for a
minor part. She is not to appear as Vivienne, or
any other important person, but she will drop in
as a Vicissitude, and speak a couple of lines or so.
Edward Reeves, a man who elocutes in Ade-
laide with an untamable conflagration in his eye
(which isn’t insured), and draws houses of adoring
women, is to attempt the conflagration of Mel-
bourne Town Hall with a “Dickens Night” and
also a “Military Night.’’ He will expound the
whole story of “ The Cricket on the Hearth ” and
Conan Doyle’s “Exploits of Brigadier Gerard ”
without even a surreptitious glance at notes or a
book. The season commences on September 29.
Mr. Henry Butler, who slipped away from
softgoods and went a-touring, has returned, and
now throws a covetous eye on the peace-
ful benches of the House of Rich Earth-
owners. He prepares to fight for the
corner left vacant by Nicholas Fitzgerald. Mrs.
Butler, a sweet-faced woman, with an “appear-
ance” brought to amazonian perfection by girlish
years of physical culture, carries her wiles and
sweetest smiles to the country to hunt the elusive
vote. The ways of a vote are those of a serpent
on a rock, but the animal is caught by the tail
now and then.
The flutter and blue-bowed fuss of the Austra-
lian Ladies’ Kennel Club Show is afoot, and the
curled darlings of important and distinguished
suburbs are being coddled into show-shsipe. Some
of them are forced into strenuous “ training.” Mrs.
Carlyle Smythe races the trams along Toorak-
road, early these spring mornings, “reduc-
ing” the bulk of her bully little wire-haired 1
terrier, and suffering the yells of the rude small
boy and the grins of the gripmen in the process.
But she has her reward in a steady diminution in
the waist measurement of the terrier.
And so your newly beknighted J. H, Carruthers
finds it impossible to sustain, in this hemisphere,
the name Hector as a moniker of commerce, and
has reverted to that of Joseph. It is an indication
of a delicate sense on his part of what is meet and
propel 1 . “Sir Joseph” sounds less aggressively
proud and knightly than “Sir Hector.” The
latter handle suggests armor, the tented field,
the impact of lance on shield, and other
heroic things that ill accord with whinings
in regard to “tyranny” and “wrongs.”
“ Joseph ” tends contrariwise to reconstruct clearly
before one’s mental eye drains and the disputes
that rage tirelessly concerning their defects
amongst our local alderfolk, ex-State Premiers
and the like. Hector is a cognomen that beseems
the courts of effete Yurrup. Joseph fits like a
glove the type whose pleasure it is to nag and
protest in an obscure suburb. I have it on
good authority that your retired champions
style of Hector is not dead, but is merely sleep-
ing. He will resume it on his return to the home
of grandiloquent titles. In those parts—Bill
Shakspeare to the contrary notwithstanding
there is a very great deal in a haughty name.
This year’s Daffodil Show blossomed out on
Thursday with Titheradge in its heart. Tither-
adge opened the show, and the newest and most-
discussed seedling has been dubbed “ Xith,
instead of “The Duchess Adelaever Pethendge
Snowover” or “Madame Dijon Jointeaux, or
some other simple, easily-remembered name. Lady
Carmichael was to have braved the platform
speech and been bouqueted, hut the poor lady was
home sick a-bed, so the show sent her a basket of
'daffodils to cheer her up.
Anyhow, the “Upper Chamber ’ of the
Athenaeum (where the yellow trumpets were
shown) was no fit place for a headache, that
hall should be blown up by dynamite, or
wiped out of existence by a streak of lightning or
a contractor. It is an unventilated horror, a
smothering box with the deceptive allurement of
a high ceiling. Sometimes it lends itself to a
picture show, and it has been cynical enough to
enclose some hundreds of people listening to
“ Health Lectures.” This haven of a hothouse is
attainable only by clambering up many flights of
steep, stone steps. Titheradge, speeching,
wondered why the old-time Town Hall space was
not called into use, and, as he said it, he struggled
for breath, the same as the rest of the company.
Titheradge speeched most happily on his yellow
hobby. I did wonder if Titheradge, when he was
met and wept over by dozens of horny-handed
horticulturists on his return to Australia, was not
forced into resuming a daffodil pose of which he
might possibly be just a shade weary. He had
been leading the strenuous stage life in those ten
years, and I thought that possibly the worm-
grubbing habit had petered out. But the daffodil
mania is going strong, and is no pose whatsoever.
Titheradge has been a live member of a lofty
London Horticulturists’ Society, and has the latest
password of the Cult. Also, he had spent his
spare time digging up even 7 inch of two successive
house gardens in St. John’s Wood. This daffodil
show par may seem all Titheradge, but then he
was practically all that I saw (except the crowd
and the thickness of the atmosphere). Titheradge
was in sight, mounted on a platform ; the daffo-
dils breathed heavily on benches securely hidden
by the crowd.
The holy calm of the very calmest street in
Armadale, Melbourne’s retired suburb abutting
on Malvern and Toorak, has been rudely dis-
turbed by an architectural scream, which can be
heard as far as the eye can reach. An eminently
reputable and probably amiable family built a
neat new villa in the caimest quarter of this calm
street, and there was a piece of vacant land next
door. The villa-builder then settled down to a
life of early-morning gardening and afternoon
lawn-drowsing. Time passed, and the serpent
stole into Eden, and bought the land next door.
More time and money passed, and a large red-
brick two-storey house went up on the vacant
plot, and the villa-dwellers found that their matu-
tinal sleep was no longer sacred, nor could the
family linen be displayed on the drying-ground
without the possibility of desecration by the
profane glance of Next-door. Thereon, instead
of selling out and building elsewhere, the villa-
people burst into the architectural scream afore-
said ; and there it howls, a vast, buttressed, red-
bricked fortification raising its crest to Heaven
between the two houses, and providing a large
crimson blot upon the landscape, which was but
lately a dream of verdure and rose-bushed loveli-
ness.” And now the villa-dweller again goes
secretly about his work of re-potting the geranium,
or snores unseen in the shelter of the lucerne
hedge ; and the washin’ is once more done at home.
A common Fleet incident—a young sassietv
girl in Oollins-street at most fashionable “ Block”
hour, gushing : “ Oh, I’ve just been speaking to a
dear little sailor’'— as if the Jackie were some-
thing out of a Zoo, instead of an intelligent,
grown-up human on the high road to being an
admiral. But perhaps a sailor doesn’t always
seem very grown-up in his way of making himself
sweet to a girl.
From “ Rosna,” in Adelaide :
Mrs. Bass 6 and Mrs. Pendlebury collaborated in a fes-
tive reception at the Lyric Club the other afternoon,
when a multitude of the sex that suffers from hairpins
was bidden to meet Mrs. Aitkin, of Sydney, who is visiting
this Orow-bitten State. The club’s concert-room was
glorious with botany and tables and lazy chairs, and a
string band concealed itself among the botany on the
stage and played dreamful refrains throughout the after-
noon. There was just enough warbling and eloeuting by
some clever girls, and there wasn’t too much warbling
and eloeuting, and no stupid girls warbled or elocuted.
The flower-hatted and spring-frocked guests who partici-
pated included the G. A. Wallmanns, the Plummers, Mrs.
Fotheringham, the Mayoress (Mrs. Mayfield), and Mrs.
Crawford. Mrs. Pendlebury wore a beauteous light-
colored glac6 gown, and Mrs. Bass 6 a revelation of prune-
colored silk. , , ,
The Bucolic Show had Adelaide by the throat last week,
and Mr. and Mrs. Backblox and the whole enormous
Backblox family came down for a last ride on the horse-
trams that will soon be dead and buried. Consequence :
the local populace walked home from its office, or seized
the muddy back-step of the insufficient vehicle and ran
behind like a dog. The Show secretary, John Creswell,
had his usual luck in the matter of weather (it is under-
stood that he has sold his soul to the Devil on condition
that Adelaide’s Agricultural Show will have fine weather
for 100.000 years, and as the Show will almost certainly
be dead before then, the Devil has fallen in as usual). So
we had several days of balmy breezes that were like unto
the winds of Heaven or the breath of Arabia Felix.
Mr. Cleland and his most deserving Chamber of Manu-
factures persuaded Adelaide shopkeepers to have a
Manufacturers’ Day on the Tuesday of Show week and
exhibit only Australian-made goods. And some of the
dainty and beauteous things that found their way into
the windows in consequence were enough to make any
' importer turn pale with rage. An official party, led by
h s Ex and Mr. Cleland and Premier Price in Australian-
made ‘vehicles drawn by Australian-made ponies, went
round the city on a tour of inspection, and ended with a
smoke and some health-drinking' and rhetoric at Govern-
ment House. The affair is to be an annual one, and the
suburbs and country towns are to take part in showing
the populace what this country can make when it puts
•its mind to it.
Private Secretary Walter Stuart Baillie Hamilton, of
Government House, has had a brother (whose name also
has perspective in it) visiting him from India, where the
brother assists in ordering the ways of Ram Bhux and
Rain Dass. He spent a short time among our girls and
glories, and then hurried back to keep the great nigger
empire from falling asunder.
Certain Scottish fishermen have been roaming round
these coasts with the notion of promoting immigration in
large, kilted hordes and starting a fishing industry.
There was a speck or item of excitement the other day
because they said we had herrings in our seas, and the
local fish people said we hadn’t. The fish Montagues and
Capulets nearly came to blows about it. Finally some-
body discovered that Dr. Ramsay Smith is an authority
on fishv matters, and the disputants appealed to him.
He intimated that the supposed herrings were merely
common “ Tommy Ruffs.” The strangers were taken up
our little bit of tile Murray, and the Murray cod was ex-
pounded to them.
From another Adelaide girl:—
Adelaide streets have presented a kaleidoscopic appear-
ance this week, owing to the vivid hues of the new
spring costumes and hats sported by the numerous de-
scendants of Hayseed the First, who came over with
Governor Hindtnarsh.
It is hard to decide who is more weird—Dad, just on
his arrival, before he has had his annual hair-cut and
beard-amputation, or Miss Pearl Hayseed, the belle of
Booleroo, who has comedown to show the “townies”
that in the North they are sufficiently up-to-date to know
that it is the right thing to wear a fur and muff with a
white frilly muslin, and that a purple velvet dress, a
magenta hat and a bottle-green veil floating in the breeze
stamp her as a lady of quality.
Bill and Tom Hayseed—brothers of Pearl—vie with each
other regarding vests cut low so as to reveal an expanse
of celluloid “ dicky,” and neckties compared with which
Joseph’s coat was as dim as a brown sun.
But with all their little eccentricities, the Hayseeds are
top dogs at Show time, and don’t you forget it!
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


M
« #
■vf
.4;,"
IH&M $*
m
m
Wmm! m
m
m
■
■
$
ir Ht \
‘. n ' ' -5
»■ ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii ii i{ ii j|
ii ii ii Si ii ii ii 5i ii ii Si iiii
ii ii ii ii ii ii ii fi i| §i j{ |g{|
ii ii ii ii ii ii ii if i| {J {§ Jf jj
■i mi ii ii i
ii iiii ii ii *
ii ii ii iiii
C
fe>
to
o
o
<3
H
/*>■
✓ fii ii ii ii n mi
<i ii ii ii ii ii ii
ji ii iiii iiii ii
■laiilifiiiii
■liiiiiiiiiiiig
iiiiiiiiiiiii ii
Melbourne
All
Continental C. ®. G. Rubber Co. Pty. Ltd
NEW MELBOURNE ADDRESS : 185 COLLINS STREET.
DEPOTS:
SYDNEY—22O CLARENCE STREET.
PERTH—64 KINQ STREET.
BRISBANE—2B ADELAIDE STREET.
LAUNCESTON—PATTERSON STREET.
ADELAIDE—6S GRENFELL STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH—BEDFORD ROW.


VNote
Trade Mark
r
o
I
KXMETt, LIVER AM BOWEL*.
ZJJ.
m
■
“NATURES PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Acts Gently. Acts Pleasantly.
Acts Beneficially.
Acts Truly as a Laxative.
Overcomes Habitual Constipation,
speedily relieves
Biliousness, Indigestion,
and all disorders arising from
Sluggishness of Liver, Bowels & Kidneys,
Sold by all Chemists throughout Australia in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
| MOLLER’S |
COD LIVER OIL
For Colds, Chest and Lung
Diseases, the safest remedy.
NO DISAGREEABLE AFTER EFFECTS
so often experienced when using
ordinary oils and emulsions.
Expert Opinions :
Indian Medical Gazette:
“ Superior to any we have seen.’
Medical Review : “ It is qui' e
unexcelled.”
Sold in capsuled bottles only.
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, Hifeh Holborn, londcn.
Factories; Loloten& Cl ristiania, Norway.
H
ORLICK’S
halted mile
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
Horlick’s
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlick’s Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
ness.
*
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Qorlick’s Food Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
Makes you look manly.
*vre
\
JTfter
To Grow a Vigorous MOUSTACHE
:r t. s
least sign of down on your lip the nightly application of
our celebrated remedy' will quickly produce a handsome
moustache. It is entirely undetectable in use and
thoroughly reliable.
USED FOR THE LAST 20 YEARS WITH COMPLETE SUCCESS
Price 10/0.
packed in plain wrapper,
to any part of the world.
CRAIG ADD AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
Palmer Gasoline Motors
MARINE and STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes. 1J to 25 H.P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running. Catalogue FREE.
PALMER BROS.,
Cos Cob
Conn., U.S.A,
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., Agents, Brisbane.
KNOWLES AUTOMOBILE & MOTOR POWER CO. LTD.,
Agents, Sydney.
m
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Biiakkkl),
101 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereaprh Streets.
SUB-
ORDERS BY
TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN
POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
SXOUJY.
Telephone 2138.
MONDAY, 28th SEPTEMBER, at 11 o’clocK,
POST OFFICE AUCTION MART, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
the white rose flour iviill
SITUATED IN BALLOW STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE.
By Order op the Mortgagees.
TSLE3 LOVE & CO. will sell by auction Subs. 4 and 5 of Block 13 of Eastern Suburban
T Abetment 73 Parish of North Brisbane, 36.72 perches with 100 feet frontage to BALLOW
STREET by a depth of 100 feet, with Improvements known as
THE WHITE ROSE FLOUR MILL,
a Ne Ia) 3 BRICK I FLOURSTORE, with two floors 98ft. x 50ft. and 98ft. by 34ft., massively
built for storage of 2000 tons of flour and wheat. .
ii\ bt>tcK FLOUR MILL of four storeys and basement, with 2oft. frontage, Engine
House attached, office, shed, Bft. Mill Verandah, and 20ft. entrance.
NEW MACHINERY.
35 H P. BOILER, 20 H.P. (nom.) ENGINE with 14-inch Cylinder, 30-inch Stroke, 70ft. Belt,
Siißpr-HGiitGr, Donkey etc. t . . . ,
COMPLETE ROBINSON 8 SACK MILL (installed in 1902) with all the latest improvements
and every requisite for the manufacturing of Flour in the most up-to-date manner.
INVENTORY and further particulars, TEItMS, etc., on application to
ISLES LOVE & CO., Auctioneers, Queen Street, Brisbane
W H. Jenkins, Scott Street, Ballarat,
writes “Tor a number of years we have neve
been without Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
the home. It has ever proved a safe and ettect
cure for coughs and colds.
by appointment
TO H.M. THE KING.
try it in your bath
SCRUBB’S
...nweii aiic PREPARATION
marvellous preparation
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
R S Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites. .
Invigorating Yn Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
5 Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Soft ® n !, l^ ard - '
For Sale toy all Grocers and Chemists
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
Otago Farmers’ Co-operative Association
Ltd. (M.L.):—
Dividend
(7i p.c.) Writ-
and ten To Re- Re-
M „ Profits Bonus. Off. serves, serves.
US’.. K m «g *ag
100') 2381 680 bo 1636 3290
ion« " 2626 1225 238 1163 4408
1907 3012 1649 338 1025 5480
(5 p.c. Div.)
1908 .. 3270 889 4110 d/54
For a couple of vears past it has looked as though this
L were getting Rself into trouble, and 12 months ago the
heavy risks, the excessive distributions, and the cheap
jack way in which the accounts were presented w ere once
more alluded to. Some of the expected treuM te
arrived during the past year ; and not onlj 7 was ll " ' d
sary to write off £l6OO of reserves to provide* or
debts, but profit and loss had to be charged wit
another £2510. Probably this loss on debt
ought not to be shown as written off , it ought perhaps.
to be simply at once deducted from profit—so far as the
profitcould stand it. But unfortunately the amount
written off for bad debts is lumped with the other
depreciation • so the figures must stand as shown above,
with this explanation. The complamt hitherto made
was primarily that the co. was carrying on a risky busi
ness on insufficient capital of its own, and that uistead
of strengthening the position, excessive distr but ons
were made. Twelve months ago ±.03,8<9 was owm to
the co. in “ advances against gram, wool, stock, etc. and
amounts at debit of clients’ accounts. The correspond
ing item now is £64,819. On the other hand, a little
m rp capital has been got in ; the total is now
£22,801 as against £20,901. The liabilitiesXfixed deposits,
overdraft, etc.) have been increased from £47,405 to
£65,587 ; and, especially in view of the se e urlt ' '
the money is placed, that is an excessive load of debt tor a
trading co. with so little capital to carry. It may be that
a new manager having arrived, the advance accounts are
now in a better state than they were, partly as the result
of the writing-down ; but otherwise the position has not
improved very much, and on paper the risks are still
large. Certainly, in order to improve the position a
trifle the dividend has been cut down this yeai and the
bonuses have been dropped; but si.ice the dmdends
during the past few years have evidently been declared
on the basis of what turn out to be fictitious profits, not
enough provision having hitherto been made for bad
debts, the dividend might well have been dropped alto-
gether for the past year.
The Warwick Butter and Dairying Co.
(Queensland):- Bonus Wri( ..
Dividend to ten De-
Loss. and Div. Tax. Clients. Off. ncit.
Preliminary Expenses ..
June, 1903 .. £lOl Nil
Dec., 1903 .. 161 Nil - - 703
June, 1904 .. 112 Nil
Profit. IQ7
Dec., 1904 .. 506 Nil
Loss.
June, 1905 .. Nil Reserves
Dec., 1905 .. 1610 8 p.c. = £99 £332 549
June, 1906 .. 789 8„ „ 104 £546 491 167
Dec., 1906 .. 1058 8„ „ 166 ~ 363 491
June, 1907 .. 772 8„ „ 210 330 723
Dec., 1907 .. 298 Nil - - 1021
Forfeited Capital, £24 IJi5
June, 1908 I 2007 16 p.c. = 547 665 769 1071
Approx, f
That is how the matter stands according to the accounts
as they left the directors. But the shareholders did a
shade better, and some of them wanted to do better still.
For a co. that is in the risky butter-export business an
addition of £26 to the reserves was wretched, seeing that
the co. has just had an unusually fat half-year, the fat-
ness being due to the steadily rising market (and the
market that rises is most likely to have a fall next). It
was proposed, therefore, that the bonus should all go to
reserves; but an amendment was carried that shaie-
holding clients should get their whack of the bonus (id.
per lb.). There is no way of telling how much this means,
so for the time it is assumed that the whole lot will carry
bonus Between a small increase of capital (now £6121)
and the fat profit, the overdraft has been worked down
from £3148 to £1390 during the half-year ; but something
will o-o on to it now to pay the div., etc. The div. is
euuaf to 8 per cent, for the year. The working expenses
appear moderate ; and good progress has been made in
the matter of output. The total for the six months was
481 tons of butter and a few odd cwt., which would look
conspicuous on one slice of bread, but don’t count 1.1
these calculations. # ,
The N.S.W. Fruit Exchange Co-operative
Co. (Sydney): To Re . R e -
Tnne Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1901 ’..£1564 10 per cent. =£2so £1314 £6,395
794 10 ~ ,1 250 474 o,ot>y
iSS m >« :: ..» m 7,®
SI - IS IS :: :: “«S S »
mnfi *’ 1397 10 500 897 9,925
!QO7 " 1498 10 500 998 10,923
loos :: 1551 10 :: ;; 500 1051 11,974
The co.’s one asset of any consequence is the f reehold
market building, £29,680. Its own capital is only
£5000; all this, and the reserves, and £13,000
of money borrowed on mortgage, are sunk in this
propertvl Apparently the idea is to reduce the debt as
the reserves accumulate ; £5OO has been paid off during
the year Until about 12 months ago, more than half
the borrowed money was represented by 6 per cent, de-
bentures ; the mortgage is now at 4 or 4£ per cent, bo
there is a saving that way. Repairs are paid . for out of
current revenue ; but nothing beyond that is provided
for depreciation, and that casts some doubt upon the
figures*! If the property is worth any less than it was
when it was new (which seems quite likely), then the pro-
fit have been over-stated, and part of the reserves are
fictitious. But it is a wonderfully profitable little bit of
co-operation, none the less.
Kvloe copper mine, near Adaminaby (N.S.W.),
30 odd miles from Cooma railway station, has been
boomed by Adelaide and Sydney speculators. The last
report says that 105 tons of calcined ore were furnaced
fnr nin tfe estimated to contain 20 tons copper. If Kyloe
can keep on at that, profits should be made ; but they
can’t Ibebio- profits on that output. The main lode at
227 ft from the shaft is rather narrow, and is worth four
HI no ni copper •on the other hand, within 6ft. of
Ducker’s'winze there is a good make ° f t l ° nS ’
.“J „ fortnight averaged 17 per cent. The low-
ffrade ore and requires concentration, which
fLn’t often much of a success when practised on a limited
isn t °tten muc . first-grade ore are short, and
fiTsSnsssst. »u *» «»«•»
feed the furnace.
As a producer Mills’ United is a long way ahead
of the rest of Charters Towers. For the past seven
months its tally was £105,407. A trial lot of 65 tons from
the hanging-wall reef near the New Brilliant Freehold
boundary gave a good return, but it was taken from a
picked spot, and nothing but big crushings can indicate
the real value of this part of the mine. There has been a
pretty general idea that Mills’United is crushing a lot of
the stone from the hanging-wall section ; but the main-
stay of the crushings for the half-year has been the big
stopes on the main footwall level. Very little good stone
has been got below No. 10 ; and No. 13 has proved so far
a will-o'-the-wisp. This level is out about 750 ft. from the
main underlie shaft, so if any development occurs it. will
be interesting to the N. B. Freehold across the boun-
dary, although that boundary is still far off.
* * * *
Starcke’s United (N.Q.), which has got into the
habit of changing the management now and then, has
re-appointed one whose work was scoffed at by a subse-
quent manager. Now, of course, the new man is hitting
back. Work that has been done during his absence has
only created difficulties ; timbering has not been put in
where necessary, and a large amount of quartz carrying
gold has been put over the tip, which necessitates picking.
These are most of the faults he has found out so far ;
but anyhow he has some ore to work on now. ana is
arranging to keep crushing two shifts. The last return was
over 2 oz. per ton.
» * * *
The Bluff colliery, 100 miles or more up the
railway line from Mt. Morgan, has now a powerful neigh-
bor in the Leviathan, which is prospecting 1200 acres of
coal land and 1918 acres of mineral land in the vicinity.
Minerals seem to hug the coal measures in an irregular
wav right on to Capella and Clermont. The Wild Cat
lead, near the township, was traced right down to the
conglomerate sandstone and the heavy water of the
carboniferous formation.
* * * *
The record of the Mararoa (W. A.) since Rutter
Clarke and his friends took it in hand in August, 1906 .
Loss. Written off. Deficit.
Jam, 1907 .. £2709 .. ••
July, 1907 .. 1570 .. •• 4 “ 79
Profit.
Dec., 1907 .. 3518 .. - -
Premiums on Reserved Shares (£1401).. 640
June, 1908 .. 7916 .. £491 .. 80bo
The co. was put off in 100,000 shares of Bs. each but 4100
were not applied for ; these, however, were
sent to market. In all 3s. per share has been paid, mak-
ing the present paid capital £15,000. Of the nominal
reserves (£8065) as at June 30, £4778 was in cash : six
months previously the cash in hand was £2566. The
balance of the half-year’s profits has gone into plant etc.
all development has been charged up with ordinary
working expenses. In the last six months 5668 tons
of ore were handled ; the net proht (including returns
from cyanide) was therefore £1 6s. 3d ,- P e r t° n - lb
is estimated that 55,000 tons of a recoverable value of 465.
remain in the mine above the No. 5 level, excluding anj-
Sin the footwall reef below No. 5 The average
value is probably about 9s. less than that of the ore
handled last term. Per long ton last half-year s ffijne ex-
penses were 235. 3d., apart from development. Assuming
that the estimates of quantities and values are all right
then there ought to be approximately 18s. to £1 per ton
profit on the 55,000 tons. But nobody knows how much
of this, if it is realised, will go to the shareholders, and
how much in the further exploitation of the mine.
* * * *
Extracts fromletter sentfrom Whim Well(W. A.)
to the London Board: “The mine never looked so well
as she does to-day The more work we do the more
ore we see If faces exposed by our operations are
representative of the whole deposit, we have a very large
tonnage of ore above adit level If the deposit lives
in depth in proportion to the promise of grade and quan-
tity of the top levels, the mine will be a big one. Why
not drop sophistry and say that indications are against
the deposit lasting in depth, that the hulk of the ore left
in the mine cannot under present conditions be worked
at a profit, that the Board is hard pressed for cash, and
that the co. badly needs to get rid of some of the unissued
scrip ?
General manager King regards develop-
ments in the Phillips River Co.’s mines (W. A.) as good
indications of the permanent character of the oopper-
o-old lodes of the field. A well-defined lode, which aver-
ages sft. at the 250 ft. level, has, he states, been followed
for 300 ft. in the Elverdton, and in the Mount Catlin good
values have not only been proved for a considerable length
at 350 ft., but have also just been met with at No. 4 level.
Complete concentrating plant for the min thi
under order, and it has been decided tc-erect this
machinery at the smelters two miles away, sc tc.have
all the treatment works at one spot, hlug flatly contra
diets a report that he is retiring, and that some imported
German gentleman is about to step into his shoes.
* * * *
“Holder of over 1000 Shares” writes to the
London Financial Times re the proposed reconstruction
of the Great Tower Hill (W.A.), and briefly traces the
history of the unfortunate cos. that have been absoibed
from "time to time in this equally
Tr aimears that in 1902 shareholders were offered dounie
toe number of 10s. shares held by a
6d per share, equal to ss. in the £. -1-vv }
further^reconstruction took place ; this time double to
number of ss. shares were offered, on payment of 2s pe
share equal to Bs. in the £. Then the name of the co.
was altered, but this did not change the luck, so now
offer is made by the liquidators to give sha^ h ° lde^ are
shares for every five held, on pay.nent o ls. store;
i 4-rw He in thp £ In view of all tnis maiiu3uvnu r
of over 1000 Shares” asks if the liquidators or
directors can expect shareholders to
especially as theytoave entered into contract, ith under
guaranteeing an assessment of £25,000. The proposition
certainly is cheeky, but in this respect it is no worse tha
those that preceded it.
“Ouan”: The failure of the detonator to ex-
-55?355& Z£2
lefr in the rock. The imperfect detonator is withdi >
flred W The iB n iw S inve d nt" 0 n, 8 to
coahmS, is expected to be a valuable safeguard m
general blasting operations.


LONDON OPINION.
JT is a striking fact that on the first occasion on which
Beale Australian Pianos have appeared publicly in
London they should attract unusual attention and admira-
tion ; and it is more striking still that a great British con-
cern such as J. Lyons & Co., the proprietors of what will
be the largest and one of the most beautifully furnished
Feeding London.
Last week Lyons & Co., well-known caterers
here, and the proprietors of some 120 tea-rooms,
besides the Trocadero, the Gaiety, and other
favorite restaurants, held their annual meeting,
Ihe gross profits for the year amounted to
£190,000, with an available balance of a quarter of
a million. A4O per cent, dividend was declared,
and £40,000 was added to the reserve fund, which
now stands at £480,000. On recovering one’s
breath after reading these colossal results of
London retail food supply, in one of its branches,
one was not surprised to find that a bonus of
£3500 had been granted to the directors, in addi-
tion to their ordinary remuneration. A few
thousands scattered more or less promiscuously
did not seem to matter much. Lyons’ tea-rooms
are familiar to all Londoners. They are to be
found from east to west, from north to south—
everywhere— at intervals of a few hundred yards.
In addition, just now the firm has scores of shops,
and some thousands of waitresses, at the Exhibi-
tion, a venture which, judging from the incessant
rush of business there, will send their profits well
over the million for the current year. The organi-
sation of this gigantic concern is certainly wonder-
ful, and not least so at the Exhibition, where in
the tiniest spaces available to them for shops,
Lyons’ produce swiftly, and with unfailing
resource, huge numbers of lunches daily, and light
refreshments of the most varied kind, and every
one of their hundreds of shops seems completely
equipped for whatever contingency.
—S. M. Herald, July 23, 1908.
hotels in London, should consider our
Pianos of such merit as to warrant their
bringing twenty of them twelve thousand
miles oversea for the hotel referred to.
Messrs. Lyons & Co. gave this order
after having inspected the ten Beale
Australian Pianos now at the Franco-
British Exhibition. Those pianos were
not specially manufactured for the
Exhibition, but were just taken out of
our ordinary stock, and are the same as
are sold by us every day in all parts of Australasia.
Perhaps you have been hesitating as to where to buy your
new piano. Does this not help you ?
BEALE’S
"THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 21 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rnndle Street, Adelaide, S.A.;
837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next U.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
and at Maryborough and Rockhampton, Queensland,
Catalogue Free.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth.


hair preserved
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING f
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
able. Also in a Golden Colour for f Stores
Hatton Garden,
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
Dr. Ida Carlson’s
Remedies.
Established 16 Years.
Health for Women.
Why Suffer? Send 2d.
Stamp for this Great
Specialist’s Book on Home
Treatment.
BRITISH DRUG CO.
4th Floor E.S. & A Bank,
Cor. George & King Sts.»
SYDNEY.
RESCN’S
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency tbs Governor-General.
SELECT STOCK ALE & LAufcK
— hmbm jraai A T)titmi7pdv a WTI Oli'Ti'Tf!PS * ✓
absolutely PURE. NO preservatives.
_ „ patucdpii aco. 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
West Australian Agents—Messra. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CU ,
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
This is the dead time between the seasons, when
football has loft the stage and cricket is still in the wings ;
but this year the dead season is enlivened by the impending
shadow of a great fight. “ The Players,” those indefinite
wraiths who have haunted Australian cricket like a night-
mare for the past two years, are making their last effort
to keep English tours on a hoodie basis. Hitherto the
Australian XI. has gone to England practically on its
own, and whatever money was made was divided among
the Players according to their own sweet will. That the
men did not share equally is well known, and that they
shared according to the value of their play is very doubt-
ful. Weird stories are told of young Players going on
terms,” which meant that they were squeezed, and only
got a show in the XI. on the understanding that they
took a sum below what was due them on a lair and equal
division of profits. Certain individuals who considered
themselves the salt of the expedition demanded special
rates, and got them, and were bowled for a duck-egg.
There is a feeling among the authorities of the game that
the time has come to end all this cash scrambling, which
is a degrading business, no matter from what point of
view it is looked at. The Australian Board of Control
was created to manage international cricket, and the
control of the Australian Elevens thatgoforth to raid Eng-
land is one of the things that it has got to tackle sooner or
later. In the interests of genuine sport the sooner the
better. _
It is an open secret that the Board has been
considering under what terms the next XI. should tour
England. Last week the Melbourne Argus made an
effort to draw the Board's fire and to bustle the various
Associations, by publishing some yards of clap-trap
about an alleged “honorable understanding among
the various cricketers who would be sure to be chosen.
But so far the Board has given no sign—like the
people of England in the poem, it has not spoken and,
by the way, it is not likely to do so till it has matured
its plans. Then it will speak briefly and to the point,
with a steel trap in its voice. The case of Australian
cricket calls for a strong tyrant, and The Bulletin hopes
that the Board will prove grim enough for the job in
front of it. It is wonderful what a lot the world has to
thank tyrants for when the right kind—the Benito Juarez
kind—turned up. _
Cash-hunting is obnoxious. The Board was
created to control international campaigns, bo unless
the object of the Associations in creating the Board is to
be defeated, the Board of Control must take charge of the
coming expedition. It must manage the tour, collect the
cash at the gates, pay the hotel charges and railway and
steamer fares, and give each man what has been
upon. And there is no violent opposition to the Board doing
these things. The trouble isover this question hat will
the Board do with the profits? The Players idea, as ex-
pressed in conversation, is that the Board sh uld hand
the profits over to the Players to divide among- them-
selves. The Board has not spoken Probably it hasri t
got its breath yet. Another idea is that the Board should
divide the money equally among the Players. These
suggestions take no notice of the fact that the Players
are all allegedly amateurs, and are supposed to be play-
ing cricket purely in the interests of the game. Obviously
whatever profit there is belongs to the Board of Control,
which, as representative of the Associations, will hav
stand the racket if there is a loss. If in its bounty it sees
its wav clear to give each Player a gratuity after having
paid expenses and compensation for loss of time, vi ell ana
good. But there should be a stern refusal to recognise
the rights of the Players to any of the profits of the tour.
N S.W. Automobile Club holds a race meeting
ijj* JoyMoTsStSySri* if‘STJlS'oouree.' I “otorins
has now reached a stage when there should be an Austral-
asian Club or Council to decide the conditions and so
forth of continental championships. #
The World’s Hour Record for a motor-car hasbeen
achieved bv F. Newton on a 90-h.p. Napier on the Brook-
iands (Eng.) tracks
inline i^i^,^sma^ed
the*hundr ec?when the smash happened. It’s a mad but
fascinating business.
How the Dunlop Warrnambool-Melbourne road
cycle race does grow in popularity! No less than
entries were received, and over 50 came to han< J
to be included in the handicapping, and were therefore
refused. In all human probability something like *
men will start in the race which is now easily the bi 00 ess.
bike event in the world.
* * *
Cycling of the professional track type is in Aus-
tralia right down to bedrock, and the meetings
and Melbourne while the Fleet hummed along the shoie
were very poorly attended by the pub ic, although it wa„
pathetic to watch the rush of wheelers £°‘' tlie b ™
money offered. There is vague talk of importin foreig
stars to boost the game once more into puhlic avor but
it is a forlorn hope-the public hasn’t got the smell out
of its nostrils yet. # „
Thorwald Ellegaard, the Danish wonder of the
cycling world, is the Peter Pan of wheeldom, and gifted.
with eternal youth. For the fifth time th *
blue ribbon sprint event of the earth, the WOO “ etre |
(HOOvds.) world’s professional championship. He capUirea
it by inches from the French champion Pouiam, with Van
Den Born third. The struggle took place in the " oil •
championships meeting at Berlin last month. lhe L ulia
reps., V. L. Johnson and L. Meredith won the Amateui
Sprint Championship and 100 kilometres (62 miles one-
furlong) Professional Championship, motor paced , and.
the gentle German crowd behaved so threatening y that
thev had to scurry off the ground without waiting for
the usual championship wreaths of honor to be placed
upon their lofty brows. Which seems like cairying.
national antagonism to an extreme.
* * * .
The Continental Inter-club premiership, which
was run off under the wing of the N.S.W. League of
Wheelmen at Burwood, Sydney, Saturday last, resu ed
in a win for the Newcastle team, every member of which,
rode Dunlop tvres. This accounts for the success.
*' * *
It is not often that a whole football team is
rubbed out for life, but such a disaster has befallen a
crowd at Castlemaine (Vic.). Its offence began with a
protest, which was lodged by an opposmg teami oni the
irrounds that its goal umpire had disallowed two „oals
awarded by the central umpire. The local Association
heard the complaint and gave the offending club its first
biff by awarding the game to its opponent, f bcieup
the offending club got annoyed, and losing what little
shred of brain it possessed, treated the fi rt ‘^de n t
several delegates to a hostile demonstration, wh ch ended
up in a fusillade of road metal. The president and his
mates had the ordinary objection to such criticism, so
they sat hurriedly and wiped the attackers out foi life.
It was a sudden piece of work, and there is no doubt that
it will do good. The pity is that the club couldn t also be
disqualified after death.
* * * * . *>>
It is over two years since the Rugby Unions of
NSW Sydney Metropolitan District, Queensland ana
Maoriland r alised that the rules of the game required to
be coded and made uniform, and also that the game itself
required reforming. Owing to the vague wording of the
rules the referees of each union had developed their par-
ticular game along different lines, building up a system
of Rugbv Common Law, so to speak, and when a Main-
land XV. met one from N.S.W. there were misunder-
standings and more or less confusion. The rules were the
same, but there was so much latitude in these rules that
the games were different. Various conferences were held
and much talk indulged in, but nothing « as do ' ,e ; f'®
authorities found themselves up against the dead wall of
British indifference. The English Rugby Union is r -
carded as the ruling body for the Empire, and the local
Unions could do nothing till the English crowd came
into line. And the English crowd is cemented over, with
the calm of the caste of Vere de Vere. It is the same
yesterday, to-day, and for ever ; and Rugby in England
has practically gone to the dogs. The Northern Union
broke away ; Association became the chief game of the
three kingdoms ; but the English Rugby Union smoked
its cigar and never deigned to take notice. The Austral-
asian people fooled about waiting for the English R.U.
to finish its cigar, and while it waited the Rug J
League sprang into existence, and, as far as N.b. .
is concerned, ripped the kingdom in two. It
got a foothold in Queensland, and threatens to grow,
and now it has practically spread to Maoriland, where
quite a number of clubs are likely to play under Northern
Union rules the coming season. At last, when it is
almost too late, the Rugby Unions of Australasia have
realised that something must be done, and done quickly.
Unless the something is done before next season
commences, the secession movement will spread, and the
Northern Union will have developed into something like
an Imperial body, receiving visits from and sending teams
to Maoriland, Australia, America and South Africa. And
it must not be supposed that these men are anxious to turn
professional and play for money. As a matter of sober
fact the great majority of Rugby players seem to be
hostile to professionalism. All they ask for is a decent
illowance for loss of time when on tour, and better treat-
menTwhen injured. To offer a man like Bede Smith the
crack N.S.W. country player, £3 when he leaves his busi-
ness for a fortnight to battle for his State on the Rugby
field is more than insulting. And j r et that is what is
done And the provision for injured players is very
inadequate. Also the Rugby Union game is too danger-
ous and the proportion of casualties far too large. The
o-anie itself requires reforming. When a Union player is
e-rassed the forwards of both teams fall on him, and if he
lets go the ball the men on their feet kick at it amid the
maw of struggling players, and occasionally a man s face
kicked in. Also, nine times out of ten, the man
who kicks the ball because he sees he is about
to be tackled, is knocked down after he has
kicked and the fracturing of collar bones and ribs
takes ’place through this objectionable practice.
„ the rules were altered to do away with the roughing
iin rhat usually follows the fall of a man, and
to protect the man who has taken his kick the Union
n-anie would be shorn of three-fourths of its danger. The
heapino- up of players does not make the game any more
interesting to spectators, but rather the reverse. What
the public likes to see is a succession of passing charges
or dribbling rushes which depend for their success on
skill speed, and pretty handling. When a good passing
charge is on in Sydney you. can hear the applause
a mile away, while a scuffle in the mud evokes never a
cheer. . * * *
Saturday last saw the absolute finish of football
in Sydney, when the Rugby Union’s second-grade com-
petition ‘was played off and the championship of the Aus-
tralian division was decided. The combatants in the
Rugby fixture were Glebe and University, and the Glebe
seniors, looking on, saw themselves avenged upon the
blue-and-gold enemies who trod them into the slush and
mullock some weeks ago. The Glebe juniors won by 16
to nil In the Australian competition East Sydney met
Y M C A and went down smash, being obliterated by
% point to 38. It is not true that the Y.M.C. A. crowd
had a parson on an adjacent fence holding up his hands
after the ancient Hebraic custom during the tussle, but
the frood young men won all through the piece, leading
bv six to four at the end of the first quarter, 32 to 16 at
half time and 62 to 32 at the end of the third quarter.
It was a very decisive event. East Sydney is runner-up,
and Newtown third. *
The transitory nature of earthly greatness was
exemplified by the result of the Australian football rules
competition in Sydney. The first year saw North Shore
premiers, and Y.M.C.A. the last joint in the tail. This
vear Y M C A., having smitten East Sydney hip and thigh,
is champion club, and the once mighty North Shore is the
last on'the list of eight. # 0
The NSW League reviewed the disturbances
which disgraced the meeting of Redfern and East
Sydney in the semi-final, and decided that ruffianism
is to receive no quarter in the Australian game.
To drive home the fact, it disqualified two players for the
of the?r“ atural football life. The executive is right
y little firmness at the first saves a lot of l ™uble ln af . ter
,davs and the Australian game has a splendid reputation
in N.S.W., which the executive does Well to preserve.
Thp other dav Vic. Football Association re-
ceived something which it didn't know whether to
accept as a compliment or as a fine piece of lionj.
Briefly, the local Amateur Athletic Association invited
it to send delegates to a conference to deal with above
all things, the universal amateur definition, let,
notwithstanding the naiveness of the suggestion, only
one representative (Port’s) had the audacity to treat it as
a iest He said it was ridiculous, since they were
amateur only as far as their finances concerned them,
and wound up by declaring that it would be a farce
send delegates from either the Asso SJ^' < ??„i cal
attend an amateur conference. Despite his cynical
these days that he'll have to change his name betoie
next season. # *
Melbourne’s Saturday football was confined to
onematch, the first League semi-final between Essendon
and Oollingwood. In its previous three gamei the Mag
a e sirs ,n .rfh
Cricket Ground the collision commenced before a 33,000
house! whTch got a display of boisterous -culen aiul
argumentative excitement up to half-time, lheieattcr
« “ thereafter,” as of “ hereafter,” no man can say
much with certainty. The 'Dons, ]
heavy men and short switt ones, played a concertina
came ; their marking was as irreproachable as Caesar• s
wife and their handling of the ball as sure as the Hay
Judgment, yet all through the first two quarters the
Mao-pies gave the impression that they could beat the
™s if they would. Time and again they ran the ball
round the wing in the old, systematic styi le • <; h ®Pi wnm
how the forwards failed to annex it, and the big Don
backs sent it soaring away again. At.thei spell,, the
hoard showed 'Don, 3 goals 7 behinds; Wood, 3 goals
2 behinds. On resuming, after an unduly long interva
the whisper went round that the Magpies would
either do it at once or sling it. They slung it.
Not till the close of the fourth quarter did they add
another point, and though in the last 10 minutes
they put on a pair of goals and a behind it was only be-
causeEssendon’s position was then safe, with a total tally
of 9 goals H behinds. While the disgusted crowd
yelled” to individual players to “ Get out of your own
i. oac i ” • “get off the field, ” ; “am t yer playing,
?” others bogged in all they knew in a vain at-
tempt to stem disaster. The Essendon 18 were playing
12 or 13 'Woodsmen, and naturally won. Several hefty
punches and elbow-jabs brightened the discussion, and
one well-known man of violence got all the trouble he was
looking for ; but of excitement there was none.
“ F 0 ” : The other day the Vic. Football As-
sociation'notified the public that its receipts for the semi-
final and final matches were £1292, of which expenses
absorbed £45, competing clubs £lB 18s., the
itself £ll6, and sweet charity £6l, leaving £lO5l CICS
for each club. The League has a much larger following,
but by reason of its habit of charging Is. and 2s. pel head,
instead of the usual 6d. and Is., for admission to its semi-
finals and final at the Metropolitan Cricket Ground it
doesn’t get quite as large an attendance, though it col-
lects more. I would like to draw the attention of both
bodies to the fact that, though the said M.C.G
is invariably packed in the paying parts for these
matches, the large space reserved for M.C.C. members
and their lady friends is mostly half empty. Now, is
there any reason why the League and the Ass. shouldn t
hire say, the Carlton ground for these matches? There
is certainly no seating accommodation there worth men-
tioning, but nine-tenths of the M.C.G. spectators have to
stand at present, owing to the men in front of the seats
declining to sit on the asphalt; and, as far as the game is
concerned, the Carlton banked ground gives a vast y
better view than the M.C.G. The Carlton oval can be
reached by train and tram, and is nearly as central as the
other, and there is no mob of deadheads to sprawl all
over the shop. The fact that Carlton would be playing
on its own ground needn’t be considered , so would Mel-
bourne at present if it got into the finals. I am chiefly
moved to these observations by noting the discomfort of
the paving spectators at these finals compared with the
spacious ease of the deadheads, ana the fact that the
M O.C. lately refused to admit another 500 members at
£5 ss. entrance money, and £2 2s. per annum afterwards
because “it didn’t want the present members to feel
cramped.” Now, it is football that keeps that club going
—last year it got £lOOO from the English team and £lOOO
from football! but local cricket would hardly pay the
caretakers—and the League and Ass. have quite enough
deadheads of their own to look after.
N S W. Rugby League, which started out with
leonine’roars to smash and otherwise spiflicate the players
who helped the Maoris, got a sudden attack of decency
and common-sense, and very sensibly ukased that if
players apologised either verbally or by letter the matter
would be dropped. It is refreshing to see that the League
had the courage to do the right thing after having the
foolishness to do the wrong one.
* * *
Saturday last was an important day among
amateur athletes, the Cross Country Championships
(team and individual) being decided at Sydney that after-
noon. The start was from the Victoria Park Racecourse
Leger stand, and the course led aw r ay across increasing
sandhills and w’ire fences till it plunged into the wilder-
ness of Kensington, where the bottle brushes grow and
the snake-hunter pursues his loathsome way. The going
was infernal, being mostly through loose sand, and some-
one was so willing that the pace was made a rush the whole
wav. Many competitors stuck to their work even after
they were hopelessly out of the first bunch, and ploughed
andplodded on over aboutthe longest fivemiles any of them
had ever met. Five miles out Kensington way is equal to
about 12 on decent turf, and the runners cracked up
accordingly. C. E. Suffren, of Ballarat Harriers (Vic.),
won the”individual championship, with C. Weyman, o
Botany (N.S.W.), and G. Richardson, of Vic., second and
third respectively. The Australasian Championship was
contested by teams of six representing the Ma
Victoria, Tasmania and Queensland, and, afteragreat
struggle, the Victorian half-dozen scooped the honor,
with NS W. and Tasmania second and third. In the O.C.
championship of N.S.W., the Botany Harriers got away
with the bauble, closely followed by Essendon (Vic.) and
East Sydney Harriers, in that order.
* * *
The Australasian Lacrosse Council has blown
right up with considerable cursing, delegates from
NS W Vic., S. A., and Westralia having decided to wind
the affair up. The S.A. Association was apparently the
only one that had any beans or energy. It never lagged
in its subscriptions, and paid 50 per cent, of gate receipts
towards inter-State players’ exes., and was generaUy the
bone, sinew, muscle, and main joints of the affair. But
it got tired of keeping the movement going, and decided
it didn’t care a hang whether it had inter-State games or
not The little money the Council had in hand when the
explosion took place will be divided between the various
associations and the S.A. players who represented against
Melbourne in 1906—as many of them as can be found that
is. Some are dead, others gone to a far country, and
others just missing. * # *
Notwithstanding the above, lacrosse in South
Australia is still going strong, and there were more men
following the Canadian sport during the season just
ended than ever before. Curiously enough, the Canadian
style of semi-slaughter has not had the slightest influence
on the game. Sturt, once champion of Australia in
lacrosse and S.A. premiers in 1903-5-6-7, with haidly
a single defeat, dropped from the top to the bottom, and
only "just scraped home ahead of Port Adelaide, a team
that has not looked in for the premiership ever since
lacrosse started in S.A., over 20 years ago. University,
which was once consistently head of the poll, went top
again this year after a lapse of almost a decade.
Crawford Vaughan’s amendment to the new
S.A. Cruelty to Animals Act, whereby he proposed to
prohibit the murder of pigeons, was rejected in the House
of Assembly by a few votes. The Parliament, so it said,
did not want to appear ridiculous and become the
laughing-stock of Australia on account of humanitarian
legislation'of this description. For a time, therefore, the
man who puts up the sign, “Strong pigeons wanted, ' in
S.A., can still count on making money out of his
villainous traffic.
» * • *
Backed up by a section of the United States
press, which refers to Tommy Burns as “ the Canuck, ’ and
jeers at him for “ running away ” from colored bruiser
Johnson, that murky person recently splashed into huge
notices in which he described himself as champion of the
world, and accused Burns of having fled from the glare of
his countenance. And hardly had his posters offended
the sky when the Mclntosh representative called on him
to know what he would take to come to Australia and get
a head put on him. Johnson didn’t seem inclined to
name any figure, and inquired coyly what the Mclntosh
syndicate was inclined to give. At time of writing, the
finessing' which seems to be a necessary part of the bruis-
ing industry is in full blast ; but the Mclntosh, m his
gorgeous eyrie at Challis House, Sydney, waves a satis-
fied hand and says, with the nod of combined omnipotence
and omniscience, “It’ll be all right they 11 fight
Christmas week.” Therefore the pug-follower may
rejoice and be glad.
* * * *
Tommy Burns is one of the most envied men in the
United States just now, and the glitter and jingle of that
£34,000 he has piled up during the last four years threatens
to empty the Uncle Samuel country of its top-notch
bruisers. Jack Johnson is also piling up dollars on the
Parisian music-hall stage, and John O’Hagen-O Brien
made much spoof by crossing the Herring Pond and
bashing his way through the boxers of the li-nglis i
decadence. According to some people who say they know
him, Johnson’s diffidence about bruising with Burns is
due, not to fear of Tummas, but to reluctance to come
to Australia and get half-killed for £lOOO, when lie can
make twice as much by staying in Paris and keeping an
undamaged countenance. It’s against human nature .
Burns’s sparring pard, Pat O’Keefe, is to figlit
Ed Williams, the lank Port Melbourne boy who won the
middleweight championship from Artie Cripps, and lost it
to Jim Griffin when defending' with a damaged hand.
O’Keefe is an unknown quantity here, but he is a con-
siderable quantity, and it will be a surprise if he can
reduce that quantity to the middle limit. Williams is
clever, but he is weakest where the American is fondest
of landing—that is in the dinner plate.
", * * *
Holy Moses confesses that he had a “real good
day” at Sydney Tatt.’s Spring meet, Saturday, and in
view of the well-known modesty of Christian Moss even
when things go almost wholly his way the latest har-
vest was probablv close to a record. Punters swarmed in
their thousands, and, encouraged by very favorable results
at Warwick Farm the previous week, betted freely,
as if assured that the turn of the long, disastrous lane
travelled for months before had been reached. Slaughter
began with the first race, when the ancient 13-year-olrt
Rvde, who didn’t show out last season, and
accomplished nothing the year before, was _ served
up like a 2-year-old by astute Donovan, who since he
bought the nag for £ll, has appropriated five races
through his agency. Long-kept Malt Rose, Sir Ayiner,
Black Mark, the late W. P. Crick s Borodino, and Lady
Ruenalf carried tons of coin for the Tramway Handicap,
but a2O to 1 chance—Black Mark’s stable chum Melo-
drama —won handily from Borodino, while the rank out-
sider Malsterdelle was third. Melodrama, in consequence,
is now neck and neck with lolaire as an Epsom Handicap
favorite. The w.f.a. Rawson Stakes saw the last. Mel-
bourne Cup winner Moolian, Legation, and Monobel
more fancied than the winner, which was the well-
bred tliree-year-old Perkeo, by Malster from Gavotte. It
put up an Australian record (Imm. 52Jsec.) for the nine
furlongs, beating Marvel Loch’s time of three years ago
bv Isec Perkeo will have troops of supporters for A. J.O.
Derby and, possibly, other subsequent big events. People
froni Hunter River district and elsewhere unloaded
largely on Musician for the Novice Handicap, and be
started sto 4 against. Azurine, Airs and Graces and
one or two more found strong support, but the mostly
unthouo-ht of Trenchmore nailed the boodle with such
ease that the alleged shrewd ones wondered whether
thev really did know the least little bit about
the game. That “sure thing,” Musician, was never
prominent at any time. The Spring Handicap proved one
bright thing on a very black ground. The books made
J O Williamson’s Blue Book a warm first choice, and
cuddled him closely all the time, never risking much,
with the result that he started at 7 to 4, and scored like
a thorough good one. It is questionable whether Moses
lost a cent over the race, as money was piled on three or
four others, and he never went within a hair s breadth of
“ gambling ” against the favorite. The concluding race,
the Welter Handicap, was similar to four of the other
five events— crushing. Kumalo, at 20 to 1, Rist P’PP e
the equally overlooked Five Crown. Last Saturday at
Randwick will be talked about for years by the bag
person and his prey, but with widely different feelings.
THE COMPLETE HOG.
Blue wrath-flame filled his rolling eye,
The color flared his gills upon,
And as he watched the speed-cart fly
Ahead, his face with anger shone.
He swelled with rage as though he’d burst,
And then he simply cursed—and cursed.
He cursed them up the dusty hill;
He cursed them down to where the creek
Flowed viverwards —he cursed until
The crimson stain upon his cheek
Turned blue. He cursed them left and right
Till they had chug-chugged out of sight.
And then, still cursing, on he bowled,
On through the huge white cloud of dust
The rushing motor left, and told
His horse a few thoughts yet uncussed. .
He drove his buggy on—a man
In wtyose huge veins hot passion ran.
He picked me up but yesterday
As pensively I mooched per boot;
And, as we shortly gathered way,
His honk-machine remarked “ Toot-toot .
Then “ Blurr ! ” it said, and “ Toot ! ” once more,
And Bogg himself let forth a roar.
The buggy-driver there in front
Pulled off the track to let us pass,
And, as he pulled, an angry grunt
Came from old Bogg : “ The silly ass !”
With flooding red his fat face glowed.
“ These blessed traps want ALL the road! ’
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
FIVE STOMACH WORMS
PASSED BY A CHILD ONE YEAR AND TEN
MONTHS OLD.
“For six months,” states Mrs. C. A. Madden,
of Kurrajong, N.S.W., “my little bov, now aged
one year and ten months, has suffered from
stomach worms, which the doctor attributed to
the use of impure water. Until he was sixteen
months old he enjoyed very good health, but
subsequently he became very irritable and cross,
and later on he was examined by a doctor who
stated that the cause was stomach worms.
Various treatments were tried, and on one occasion
a stomach worm was passed from the bowels.
The evacuations from the bowels were always
stained with blood, and the motions were quite
unnatural. On three or four occasions the child
was almost choked and went into convulsions, and
almost black in the face through the worms
passing up to the throat, and I had to force my
finder down the throat to remove the worm.
“ Only last week I was strongly advised to try
Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets, and
having obtained a box I gave the child a dose in
accordance with the instructions, and the same
evening five worms varying in length, the longest
being 15 inches in length, were expelled.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
obtainable at all chemists and stores, or will be
forwarded by post (postage paid) on receipt of re-
mittance. Price, Is. 6d. per box (six boxes Bs. Od. •
The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.


WHY
REMAIN
OR SUFFER FROM...
HEAD-NOISES
OR ANY OTHER
Ear Complication ?
7 ? u relnain deaf or suffer from ear troubles such as HEAD-NOISES RINGING in the EARS
DISCHARGING or INFLAMED EARS, NERVOUS HEADACHES, or any compSnts
the imperfection of the Aural construction, which, sooner or later, kre sure to lead to deafness ? ”
Perhaps you have tried many treatments in vain, or the doctors may have failed to do you any rood
This is no reason for you to give up in despair. Should not the following letters convince vou you
may be cured same as thousands of our successfully cured patients, who were declared hopeless and ready
never expected to be cured ? This treatment consists only of Pure Natural Aural Kinetics and ?s used by
all sufferers at their own homes (wherever they may reside) without the necessity of a doctor. J
DEAF ?
DAVID LINDSAY, Esq., 11l
Nkw South Head Boad, Sydney,
writes“l thank you heartily for
your treatment. My hearing is
good and the noises have dis-
appeared. You have made a new
man of me entirely, rather
surprising- after all the doctors
could do nothing more for me.”
The Well-known and Highly-
esteemed Rev. CHARLES D.
HOPKINS writes:-“For the
last 25 years I have been paying
doctors’ heavy bills, until I was
proclaimed incurable. I have now
used the Earoscope for three
weeks and am simply delighted
with it.”
MRS. JENNIE STUART, 62
Bondi Road, Sydney, writes:—
“ I am happy to tell you that I
am now completely cured. The
doctors who treated me are
simply amazed at the wonderful
success of your treatment.”
Call or write for full particulars, with abundant testimonials, given or posted Free of Charge. Address
“ EARQSCOPE INST.” 90 Pitt St. (Dept. 26) Sydney, N.S.W.
You can be
like this.
DON’T STAY THIN.
THERE is no reason why every man or woman should not acquire or
regain a Perfect Figure. It you want to add flesh, be made
plump and rosy, gain weight, strength and beauty, send for Free
Booklet and a Free Trial Treatment of the “Miracula”
ufH®. o°° d J 1"? F| e. Bh Developer. This newly-discovered
Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing Agent and Flesh Builder.
It will soon put your nerves right, tone up your digestive organs ; and the
alteration in you will astonish yourself and friends. Attenuation, be it in
man or woman, is due to a lack of flesh where flesh ought to be and the
prominence of bone where no bone should be visible. Would vou like to
have perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all scraggi-
ness ? You can easily obtain this blessing. There is no time to
lose. Every day you delay means possibly further decrease in
weight, so write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps, to pav
postage on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet. *
If You are
like this*
London Specialities Agency, Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh St., Sydney
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF
MRS. WIGGS OF THE
CABBAGE .PATCH,
By Anne Crawford Flexner and Alice Hegan Rice.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, THE MERRY WIDOW.
Advance Booking Applications will be received
until Monday, September 21.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING.
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star, MISS TITTELL
BRUNE, supported by a
SPECIALLY SELECTED COMPANY
—in—
PETEK PAN.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell and Gunn’s Season.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 19,
THE BELLE OF MAYFAIR.
Music by LESLIE STUART, composer of “Florodora.”
Prices as Usual.
Th e LYCEU M HALL, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s,
PAL A CE THEATRE, SY D N E~y7
■ Direction of Edwin Geach.
FRANK THORNTON’S
“GOOD-BYE FOR EVER” TOUR.
Every Night at 8. Matinee Wednesday, 2.30.
FRANK THORNTON
—AS—
THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.
As played by him 1500 times.
Prices 55., 35., 2s. and Is. Plans at Nicholson’s.
MARK HAMBOURG
SYDNEY' TOWN HALL,
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 19.
Prices as usual.
MELBOURNE TOWN HALL,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON,
SEPTEMBER 26,
With Orchestra.
Conductor—Prof. Marshall Hall.
PRICES—7/6, 5/-, 3/-, & 2/-.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
THE SEASON CLOSES SEPTEMBER 30.
REAL ICE SKATING.
DAILY : 10 to 12 ; 3 to 5 ; 8 to 10.30.
ADMISSION 2s. CHILDREN—Morning and Afternoon
only, Is. SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
SATURDAY MORNING Admission, . CHILDREN, 6d.
THE GLACIARIUM, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poolk, Manager.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 17, FRIDAY, SEPT. 18,
LAST >2 NIGHTS of LES CLOCHES DE CORNEVILLE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPT. 19,
THE NATIONAL OPERA CO. in
Sir Julius Benedict’s Famous Work,
THE LILY OF KILLARNEY.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG OAST.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Cole’s Book Arcade.
Amusements.
Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mit. Harry Pickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
12 ABDULLAH'S MOORISH ARABS. 12
TED KALMAN, Eccentric Patter Comedian.
THE MEYMOTTS, Comedy Sketch Artists.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
HARRY ROCHFORT and HARRY HART.
GEO. BENTLEY. IRVING SAYLES.
Miss NIT A LEETE. EILEEN LYONS.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., Is. 6d., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
O P E , R A H ° U s E . MELBOURNE.
w Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
#
MIGNONETTE KOKIN, Comedienne Dancer.
BURT SHEPARD, Comedian Raconteur Pianist.
OSBORN AND BROOKS, Musical Comedv Artists.
GALETTI’S PERFORMING DOGS & BABOONS.
TOD LOWAN, Quaint Comedian.
Plan at Allan's. £ST PRICES-3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
B-l ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ ■ , Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
GREAT SUCCESS.
MISS MARGARET ANGLIN in Clyde Fitch’s
Brilliant Comedy,
THE TRUTH.
RE-APPEARANCE, AFTER TEN YEARS’ ABSENCE
OF MR. GEO. S. TITHERADGE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
THE RED MILL,
A DELIGHTFUL DUTCH MUSICAL PLAV.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
TO WN HALL, MELBOURNE.
■ SEPTEMBER 19, 22, 24, and 26.
Mr. Edward Branscombe will Present
THE RUSSIAN WONDER-CHILDREN,
JAN CHERNIAVSKI piano'
MISCHEL ’CELLO
in a Series of Concert Recitals.
Vocalists—Madam Marie Hooton and Mr. Percival Driver.
Reserved Seats, 5s ; Second Seats, 3s ; Admission, 2s.
Plan at Glen’s. Day Sales at Ronald’s, Florists.
F. G. Robson, Manaerer.
E A L -I CE S KATING.
MELBOURNE GLACIABIUM.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
POPULAR PRICES EVERY EVENING,
ONE SHILLING.
SCHOOL CHILDREN, SATURDAY MORNINGS,
SIXPENCE.
WIRTH’S PLEASURE PARK
(PRINCES COURT, MELBOURNE)
AVALON COLLARD’S New Comedy Concert Coy.
mGENBECfrS.: PERFORMING WILD ANIMALS.
LLKET and Equilibrists and Iron Jaw Experts
CODE’S CONCERT MILITARY BAND.
GENERAL ADMISSION ONE SHILLING,
Includes Chute Trip and other Concessions.
A Remarkable SHILLING’S WORTH. ’Phone 1113 City.
Amusements.
£gIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PACKED HOUSES NIGHTLY GREET
MISS FLORENCE BAINES,
the Girl who Set London Laughing,
—in —
MRS. LEE’S LODGERS.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES THE ?,| S I LL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Ahy Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Missing Friends.
NOTICE.
WEST, STEPHEN JOHN (son of Mary Ann
West), born at Franlcford, and late of
Launceston, in Tasmania, will bear something to
his advantage by writing at once to the
Rev. JOHN O’MAHONY,
The Deanery, Launceston.
Nickel Lockets, with Name Stamp and Pad, 2/6
OPEN
This Wonderful Outfit,
Only Is• 6d.
Pen, Pencil and
Rubber Stamp.
Very handy and compact.
You can have nothing more use-
ful than this splendid article.
Consists of Pen, Telescopic Pen-
cil, and Folding Rubber Stamp
of your name m any style of
type, fitted with self-inking Pad,
always ready for use. Beauti-
fully nickelled, and very compact.
Send for one. You cannot possi-
bly be disappointed. The PRICE
IS ONLY 1/6, post-free anywhere.
If name and address is desired
on the Stamp, 6d. for each extra
line must be added.
INDELIBLE
Marking Ink.
for clothing, with
Pad, 9d. per bottle,
post free.
A. J. SMITH & CO., 14 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
115,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! A'o. S.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
For an alleged churchgoer in the last ex-
tremity of the habit, Victoria’s Mr. Swinburne
seems to have a remarkable capacity for blissful
half-truths. The other day lie told a Castlemaine
(Vic.) audience that during the last four years
the Water Supply Department had spent about
£1,350,000 in plant, and, as far as he could make
out, not more than £10;000 went out of the country
for imported articles. Therein he wanted to show
how patriotic the Bent Government had been in
its regard for local industry. But when it was
hinted that £1,350,000 had not been spent on
plant alone, George left the roof-garden and came,
down to the street. Then he mentioned that
what he meant to say was that the amount had
been spent on “ the Waranga Basin channels,
plant, labor, local trusts, and pipes, and on fill
sources of water-supply whatsoever.” Since"he
For Big Yields.
NS*.:
THE “ SUNSHINE ” HARVESTER.
THE “ALBION” BINDER.
Write to any of the following addresses for Handsome
New Illustrated Catalogue MlO (posted gratis) of
Harvesters, Binders, Mowers, Hay Hakes, Drills, £>isc
Ploughs, Mouldboard Ploughs, Subsoilers, Disc Culti-
vators, Horseworks, Oliaffcutters, Corncrushers,
Harrows, Gates, Trucks, Bag Loaders, etc.
SYDNEY : 42 Engine Street.
MELBOURNE : 102 Spencer Street.
ADELAIDE : 56 North Terrace.
PERTH, W.A. : SANDOVER & CO.
TOOWOOMBA, Q.: MOTT & BARLOW.
H. V. McKAY,
Sunshine Harvester
Works,
Head Offioo & Works : SUNSHINE,
PORTFOLIO WRITING CASE
Given Away
You may have one in
return for a couple
of hours of your
spare time.
Absolutely
FREE
Size
when open,
nearly 16in.
by 9ins.
Send for
Pai ticulars.
Posted Free.
A Patent INKLESS PEN. that Writes with.. Water, Given
with each Portfolio.
The Union INfg, & Agency Co. f
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
couldn’t have imported the Waranga Basin or the
water channels, even if he had wished to, his (and
Bent’s) patriotism had very little room for action
in the matter.
What is wanted in N.S.W. instead of
Broughton’s amateurish Gun License Bill is a
measure to make illegal the sale of inferior and
dangerous firearms. There are explosive imple-
ments exposed for sale in shop windows in Sydney
that no person of understanding; unless hewere
suicidally disposed, would dare to discharge. It
is the person who doesn’t understand who buys
the cheap, adulterated gun and looks down the
muzzle to see if it is loaded, which it is. Then
he points it at the rabbit and fires, and the rabbit
goes home to tell his Mrs. Rabbit how one
of those perpendicular objects made a great noise
and then lay down.
DUNLOP TYRES
Unapproached for Speed and Durability.
That’s why 80 per cent, of the Cyclists of Australasia
ride them. Accept no Substitutes. Specify “Dunlops”
and see that Cover and Tube bear this <W
DUNLOP RUBBER CO..
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY. ADELAIDE, PERTH. BRISBANE, and CHRISTCHURCH. NX.
Artistic
| Booklet—
“ All About
Free oo Application
DUNLOP RUBBER HEELS
Always Outwear all Others.
Absorb all nerve jar and vibration. Ensure comfortable walking
on hard pavements. Obtainable all Bootshops. Accept only DUNLOP Brand.
R CO . m.lbournc, Sydney. ao.laioe, p««th, ma chrutchurch, n.i.^
m


OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and Spray
Heart CHARM,
7/G
Shall we mail you a copy ? It contains over 3000 illustrations of Watches, Clocks, Jewellery, Silverplate, Leather, and Optical
Goods, and is yours for the asking. Write for it now, even if you are not buying for some time to come. With it you
CAN BUY IN PERFECT SAFETY through our UP-TO-DATE MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT.
OPEN
PACE,
S'
M
£ n
v.
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphire,
£4/10/
All Diamonds, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set Pure Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, with Safety Chain, >
£3/10/-
• ! i
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
CHARM
Amethyst
Thistle,
12 «
u
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set Fine
White Pearls,
£4,
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open-face, Keyless
WATCHES, Short-wind, stem set, per-
fectly regulated,
TT . u 10/
Higher Grade, 12/6, 16/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDEKS.
Oct. Gold, 2-Bar “Dinna Forget” BROOCH,
Garnet centre,
, 10/<»
cvi
MM
w
I
wb
SOEr<
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold GROSS, set Nine Pearls,
35 -
15ct, Gold, £2.
4
A. SALNDEKS.
9et. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
'J. 1 /
15ct., Gold, 40/; Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDEIIS.
9et. Gold, set Onal,
Ruby, or Sapphire,
17 /<>
15ct. Gold, 30/; 18ct.
Gold, £2.
H
9ct. Gold, Fancy Curb Padlock BRACELET, with Safety Chain attached,
£l2-
Larger, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/. Plain, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 45/, 50/, 60/, 70/, 80/.
9ct. Gold Signet RING,
20/. 15ct. Gold, £2;
18ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold PENDANT, set Fine
Pearls and Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
SOLID
SILVER,
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct. Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pearls and Tourmaline
or Peridot.
£2-
A. SAUNDERS.
loot Gold “Lily of the Valley” Spray BROOCH, set
Fine White Pearls,
£4-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct, Gold, set
Fine Golden Sap-
phire, £3, £4, £5
according to size
of stone.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine Dia-
monds and Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l5
Diamonds and Emeralds,
, £l7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold NECKLET and PEN-
DANT, set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst, £4-
15ct. Gold, £5/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Five Pure Golden Sapphires,
£f»-
Diamonds and Rubles or Sapphires, £l2/10/.
All Diamonds, £l5, £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set fine Pearls and
Turquoise,
£2/10/-
am
mss
A. SAUinOERS.
15ct. Gold, Diamonds,
and
Rubies, ; or Sapphires,
£l5-
All Diamonds, £27/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set Fine,
Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£2O
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield and Dumb-bell
LINKS,
iii/6
loot. Gold, 25/; Silver, 3/6.
SOLID
GOLD,
£l2/10/.
'M
HIGHER
GRADE,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting, Keyless
WATCHES, Fully' Jewelled, Perfectly
Adjusted,
Jit O 1 '
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/. 50/. Solid
Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/,. £5/10/,
£6/10/, £B/10/. Guaranteed 1,2, 3,
and 4 years.
HR
r*'
S’.
gH
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Bee BROOCH, set Fine
Pearls and Opal Body,
£4-
All Pearls, £5. ■
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set
Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2-
Green or Golden Sapphires, £5.
afg
PAPICStt
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BAMBOO BRACELET,, Half-chased, with
Safety Chain attached,
£2/15/.
Smaller, £2/5/. Larger, £3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold EARRINGS, set with
Tourmalines,
£3-
For Pierced or Unpierced Ears.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/,
25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct. Gold, Hunting, Keyless
Waltham LEVER, f-plate, fully jewel-
led, compensation balance, perfectly
adjusted, - extra heavy case, hand-
engraved,
£l2/10/-
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in Free Repair for 6 Years.
OUR
“UNRI-
VALLED
ff
rv
bs
ft
HIGHER
GRADE,
A! SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH,
set Pearls and Tourmalines,
or Peridots.
£2.
A. SAUJNUJiiIS.
lSqt. Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£3/10/-
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et, Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
Ali Diamonds,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT, set
Fine Pearls and Amethyst,
£2-
mmm
sr®©®’®
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold BROOCH, set Fine White Pearls and Tour-
malines or Peridots,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Clus-
ter RING, set Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£lO
Emerald Centre,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set Pearls, Ruby,
and Turquoise, or all Pearls,
£3/10/-
Olivines, Rubies, and Pearls, £4/10/.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/.
m
m
.
Our System of Free Car-
riage oil Goods to any
part of the Country means
a big saving to you.
3
With the exceptions of
Clocks and Chinaware, we
send all Goods Carriage
Free to any part of Aus-
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel, Open-face, Keyless WATCHES,
-f-Plate, Shortwind, Patent Adjusted Balance,
Dust and Water Proof Cases,
120/
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/,
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Double . Curb ALBERT, made in our own workshops, £3. Heavier, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £7/10/. 15ct. Gold, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/. In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 20/. In 14kt Patent Gold-filled, Guaranteed, 20s, 25/, SO/. Any Special Design of Albert to order.
A. SAUNDERS
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver, Hunting, Keyless
LEVER, f-plate movement, fully jewelled,
£2-
Higher Grade, £2/10/,. £3, £3/10/, £4,
£5, £6. Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/,
£lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £l7/10, £2O, to
£75. Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, 6, and 7 1 ears.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N’.S.W.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
I,ON DON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual CKe
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hf.ad Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hor. C. .1. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
™ e [{ankof |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.), LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. ,370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Escj. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agrents: LONDOri & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
|ank of Qeui 2ealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. £500,000
'Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and ocher places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security - mum -
fair interest.
EAST TERMS.
WE
c#»
$
a
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
dXT.S.'W .
[l|ontdepieteQ.ii| < (!o.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLUKhAGH: S J., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. :
S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY -
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coiims-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Deberitures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R'Godfrey,'Esq., Chairman R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORIiOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
HERCULEB CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steblk, Sole Agent.
Shipping.
N. D. L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
~PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles. Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Steamer
•GNEISENAU
*SEY DLITZ
♦BREMEN
*ROON
*YORCK
* FRIEDRICH D.
*BREMEN ..
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, YAP, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ SICISMUND 22nd SEPT.
MANILA .. .. 20th OCT.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 17th NOV.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For lurther particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LJMITKD. “
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £485,003 10 0
Reserve Liability of Siiarkiioldhrs .. 167,857 10 0
RKSKRVEFuNDfIn vested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd.D. Day. Chief Aoct.,E. 11. Matthbws
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, GANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Aaents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
A
POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd.'from The Bulletin Office.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
. September 30.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 26.
AFRIC, SUEYIO and PERSIC to follow.
FARES —Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of" Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other In,tormation
on A indication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety mid < ompomi. Ltd.,
Agents- in-Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth ■, and,
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. 1
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd .Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to- £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia
y HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
Bjr Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES, C
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron'*
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,470,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,670,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches -throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of |)eui Sooth (Dales.
Establish ed 1817.
Head Office GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. ..£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. . . .. ... 1,560,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... .. 2,500,000 0 0
> >. - . £6,560,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. 0. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MagLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax. Kt.
, ... . ( Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
Auditors . -j \y IIIUAM Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., £.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world. _ ,
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
Hotels, &c.
(GEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL;
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen's Mansions, f to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rPHjS Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
■ ■ the'Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards' etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
Keeps
the skin
soft and
smooth and, by
nourishing it, eradi-
cates lines or wrinkles.-
Made by Mrs. Pomeroy
Ltd., 29, Old Bond Street,
London, England.
p
o
M
E
R
Q
SKIN
FOOD
Of all
Stores or
Chemists
VERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR AND SHIRTS
are a safeguard against
COLDS AND CHILLS
during the change of seasons.
VERTEX CELLULAR should always be worn next
the body.
Recommended by Doctors and Scientists all over
" ', the world.
Write for Pamphlets and Illustrated Price Lists
Post Free.
Sole Agents in N.S.W.:
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT P[RIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhinpinsr at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
October 10.
S.S. Riverina, Saturday,
October 24.
BRISBANE,
MACK AY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Innamineka, Sept. 26.
• S.S. Yongala, Oct. 3.
Jtest anil ('Heane.it Houle to llohliehlH,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other in ter-State-Companies on 'all
•services subject to conditions, which can be ascertaiiied
on application at the Company’s Oilice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Asrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSAGERIES jyjjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, i£27/4/~ to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines. ■;
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates. 1
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 375. 67 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and oarjro for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
COOMA, 2 p.m.
KYARRA, 12 noon
SATURDAY,
Sept. 19.
PEREGRINE. 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, September 26.
-A*.
KYARRA, noon, SATURDAY,
September 19.
f h
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUN DA BERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBAEiA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 19. ■ \
, BUNIN YONG, 5 p.in.,TUESDAY,
September 22.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
September 26.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.,B..Companies. Ml particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET. (
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Traiu).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE
the: best route to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw*’ Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE-
UNIOH STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF H.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-streec, Sydney.
F.—H. —5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. SOMERSET.
11,300 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - September 20th,
„ ~ SYDNEY - September 2<}th,
„ MELBOURNE- September 30tlj,
~ ~ ADELAIDE - Oct.olier nth.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, sitnated-amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation" comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining roo. on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabin-, and spaciods decks.
Third-class passengers supplied witii fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVEim)OL d l £49 10s ' £l3l3s ’ £islss - £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed every four weeks bv other fast twin-
screw passenger steamers. For futher information, illus-
trated pamphlets, etc., apply to,—
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sidney and Brisbane ;
MeiLWRAiTU, McEagharn & Co., Ltd., Melbourne 1
ELDER, SMITH & Co,, Ltd., Adelaide.


Hotelkeepers ! Chemists ! Confectioners ! Storekeepers !
Make Your Own AERATED WATERS
with an
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine,
at a cost of P er Dozen,
'
mmm
Used in over
1000 Hotels
throughout
Australasia.
Produces
300 doz.
Superior
AERATED
WATERS
per day.
Requires no
Skilled Labor
and no
Special
Bottles.
PRICE :
and upwards.
CASH
or
TERMS.
Provide tbe Public witb Ice-Cold Drinks
from a
“GLACIER”
Soda Fountain.
Constructed of
FINEST
ITALIAN
MARBLE.
&
Handsomely
mounted with
Nickel-Plated
Fittings.
■er
Fitted internally
with our
Patent Cooler.
■or
Produces a
WELL-MIXED,
ICE=COLD,
EFFERVESCING
DRINK.
CATALOGUES and FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION FROM THE SOLE PROPRIETORS :
ECRERSLEY & SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Queensland Agents: Elliott & Hancorne, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
West Australian Agents: Wm. Sandover & Co. t Hay Street, Perth.
PRESENTATION
lECES
v. . i .
If you have a Presentation in view and want something of the
best quality, then the goods we show to=day will be of
particular interest, as they represent the Newest and Best of
their kinds—shipped to us direct from the already world=famed
TREASURE HOUSE of STEWART, DAWSON & CO. in London.
J a/Uu
umcvit
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd
[»E
Order by Mail, as we pay carriage to any part of Australia. If
by any chance the goods do not please, we exchange or refund the
money without argument. Write for our big FREE ART
CATALOGUE of 112 Pages.
■
CO
No. F43B7.—Richly-Chased Full-size A 1
Quality Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 15s.
i.
No. G 2652. —Richly Hand-Engraved At
Quality Silver-plated Full-size Tea Pot,
£2 12s. 6cl.
SL2CV A A rfil lffl»MBraare
No. Fso'J9. Richly Hand-Engraved and
Eluted A 1 Quality Silver-plated Full-size
Tea Pot, £ 2 10s.
No. (14227. Richly Chased A 1 Quality
Silver-plated Afternoon Tea Pot, with
Sugar and Cream to match, .£3/17/6.
No. Gsll2.—Handsome Plain Tea Pot,
Afternoon Size, A 1 Quality Silver-plate,
with Sugar and Cream to match, ,£3/12/6.
Sill" 1 »m mmtmmwnwvv
iijjiiiiiiiiiilii.iijiiiiiillji
Solid Silver Presentation Service, with Inscription complete, 4H#i 10s.
•ksuSi
No. Gr5760.—A1 Quality Silver-plated
full-size Tea.and Coffee Service, £9.


Australasian
Interstate Mail
Steamship Lines
m' l 4 ' all the States
in the oorn -
rn on wea Ith,
Westralia has
been the
slowest to
deve 1 op in
accordance with its size, though it
is, in point Of settlement, a fairly aged
circumstance. As far back as 1829, one.
Captain Sterling, arrived on the Westralian pre-
mises with a few settlers, who toolc up land, and
grew things, and waxed pretty prosperous. But
the tide of immigration, which was never very,
brisk, slackened off after a few years, and in the
early ’fifties almost ceased—the crowds and
crowds of fine, prospective colonists going east to
Victoria, then in the fitst years of its gold boom.
If somebody had found that the metal was lying
in immeasurable quantities in.Westralia at that
time, the State would not have stagnated for
just about sixty years, but would have
thrived and collared population, and pre-
sented possibly a much more decent record
to-day. Still it wasn’t to be. For years gold and
other metals were known to exist, and the Govern-
ment did all it could, by rewards and similar
expedients, to stimulate the search for workable
and. payable fields ; but nothing resulted until
1884, when the Kimberley goldfield was dis-
covered in the Far North. After that the yellow
metal began to be found rather often, the
Southern Cross, thePilbarra, Ashburton, and Gas-
coyne fields being opened up in quick succession.
Following, came the discovery of the Murchison
and Peak Hill fields, which were probably the
greatest up to the time when Bayley and Ford,
after enduring considerable privations, unearthed
the world-famous Coolgardie Bonanza.
Then the stream of eager gold-seekers set
in from the east, each incoming boat of the Five
Companies being packed. The new arrivals were
not always experienced miners-+-many had thrown
up sedentary jobs—but all had tjhe firm purpose
of becoming millionaires. So they set but for
th'e new earth-wonder on foot, bicv'cle, or
any conveyance that could move; had
pobr food ; had to scratch for their
water or buy it for as much as 2s. (id.
a gallon ; and for months had a
generally rough time. But such
as stayed, arid dug, and tore
the gold out of the earth, and
endured —were the founders
of a new order of things for
the State. Where they
stopped, there grew habita-
tions, first of canvas and
hessian, then of iron, and
finally of permanent wood
and stone. Where they
stopped is now the fine city
of Coolgardie, electrie ; lit,
modern, and just about sixteen years old. It
seems all very wonderful. '
fSS?
From 1892, when the Five Companies began to
empty miners and other people into Westralia
each week, the State has jumped in its develop-
ment, and has become a place of which the
Commonwealth is commencing to be proud. The
population, which in 189 D was about 40,000, has
grown to 2(55,000, and is increasing year by year.
Westralia is now an interesting place to the
tourist, who, by virtue of the increased facilities
"in travelling to and within the State, can spend a
holiday with as much comfort as he can in the
east. The accommodation provided in the trip
across by sea has been alluded to and enlarged
upon again and again on this page and needs no
further reference; while transportation within
the State is well up to the high standard of the east.
The first place at which the eastern traveller
disembarks after his trip over is Fremantle* ’
which has got to be a town of some circumstance.
Before the goid-rVish in 1892, the port wasn’t dis-
tinguished e ther by picturesqueness or by superior
anchorage for oversea vessels ; but, with the rush
and the troops and troops of men coming in every
week, official attention was firmly clamped on to
it. So that some big efforts were made to improve
it for the occupancy of the largest steamships,
with the result that it is now Westralia’s chief
seaport, with the additional advantage of being
the' port of call for all mail steamers plying
between Sydney and Europe via, Adelaide and
The Bight. Fremantle isn’t oblivious of its
importance now, and is rather inclined to crow
over Albany, which used to have the honor of
receiving regular calls from the boats carrying
his Majesty’s mails. And the advantage is all in
favor of Fremantle. While Albany, if it grows at
all, will be slow in bxpansion, Fremantle, on
account of its increasing shipping trade, due to its
being both the port of the capital and of the big
goldfields, will inevitably push quickly ahead. Its
population is now a matter of 27,000, and possess-
ing a complete electric-tram service linking up
the outlying suburbs, it can be considered quite as
modern as Melbourne, at any rate. It has excel-
lent hotel accommodation, hut, as it is oniy ashort
distance from Perth, visitors prefer to movestfaight
on to the capital. To reach the capital, passengers
have the choice, of either tram or boat. There is an
half-hourly service by rail between the-two places,
but the wise traveller, \yho has been, primed by
previous visitors to the State, will tumble his
baggage on hoard the s.s. Zephyr, which comes
down the river to meet every incoming steamer.
The trip up to Perth by that steamer, though
short and swift, is decidedly worth while, as it
furnishes some rarely charming hits of river
scenery. The Swan River isn’t over talked about,
but the vegetation and arboreal growths on its
banks are assuredly delightful, and supply a
general all-round picture) that simply yells for a
picnic basket, a'-summer •girl, and an accordion to
make it complete. The scenery along the Swan
shouldn’t be missed even if the traveller hasn t
time to see anything else.
?
Perth, the head city of a State of 975,020 square
miles, is quite a large place of 53,000 people, and
is noteworthy, irrespective of other valuable
virtues, for its highly salubrious climate, hoik,
who have sampled temperatures in other capitals,
declare that Perth takes the pastry for the bunch ;
and it is certainly true that the temperature for
the greater part of the year is remarkably even,
thus arguing appreciable climatic conditions.
However, apart from its consideration in that
direction, it has other good qualities. Like
Fremantle, it has a first-class electric tram service,
which will give the visitor from Melbourne qualms
of envy. Trams whizz all over the place, and to
anyone who has been brought up beside the
funereal tramway relics of Melbourne Perth s
trams look like the result of extraordinary
advanced ideas. On them the traveller can go
anywhere in the city, and bring up within a short
distance of such picturesque resorts as the King’s
Park, affording a most attractive view of the city,
South Perth, and Melville Water.
From Perth the trips and excursions are, of
course, innumerable; but, if the enterprising
traveller wants to make a selection, he cannot do
better than run down to the wild flower and
•Tarrah timber districts, which, in the season, are
things of beauty. Bunburv, which is 8(1 miles
south of Fremantle, and which is the principal
port for the Jarrah timber, will, on account of its
healthy situation, repay a stay of a day or two.
Biinbury is, indeed, the place where all the fagged
anri well-circumstanced residents of the metro-
polis holidays. Other places of exceptional
interest are M,undaring Weir, head of the great
goldfields water scheme;
Busselton, near to the
well-known Yallingup
Caves; and, natur-
ally, the fine mining
towns of Coolgar-
die, Kalgoorlie, and
Boulder City. Alto-
gether, the only
difficulty with which
the traveller will
collide will be too
little time to see so
many'things.


WAS DELIRIOUS
WITHECZEMA
On Chest, Back, and Head—Pain,
Heat, and Tingling Were Excru-
ciating-Nerves in Exhausted
Condition—Sleep Badly Broken.
CURE BY CUTICURA
SEEMED LIKE MAGIC
“Words cannot express the gratitude
I feel for what Cuticura Remedies have
done for my daugh-
ter, Adelaide. She
is fifteen years of
age, and had never
had anything the
matter with her
skin until four
months ago, when
an eruption broke
out on her chest.
The first symptom
was a redness, and then followed thicken-
ing and blisters, which would break and
run matter. I took her to a doctor,
and he pronounced it to be eczema of a
very bad form. He treated her, but
instead of being checked, the disease
spread. It showed itself on her back,
and then quickly spread upwards until
the whole of her head was affected, and
all her hair had to be cut off. The pain
she suffered was excruciating, and
what with that and the heat and tin-
gling her life was almost unbearable.
She became run down in health, and at
times wap very feverish, languid, and
drowsy, and occasionally she was de-
lirious. Her nerves were in such a low
state that she could not bear to be left
alone. In suite of the cold weather
she would insist on having her bedroom
window open, and would lean out on
the window-sill. She did not have a
proper hour’s sleep for many nights.
The. second doctor we tried afforded
her just as little relief as the first, and
I really do not know what we should
have done if we had not read how
Cuticura cured a similar case. I pur-
chased Cuticura Soap, Cuticura Oint-
ment, and Cuticura Pills, and before
the Ointment was three-quarters
finished every trace of the disease was
gone. It really seemed like magic.
Her hair is coming on nicely, and I
still apply the Cuticura Ointment as I
find it increases the growth wonder-
fully. Mrs. T. W. Hyde, 1, Ongar
Place, Brentwood, Essex, Mar. 8, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue
de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney;
Boston, U.S-A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props.
The
Nan on
Pianoforte
To those who desire an
excellent instrument at a
modest price we cannot do
better than commend our
NANON PIANOFORTE.
It possesses a full, rich tone,
a light touch, and is perfect
in construction and design.
We will be pleased if you
will call and hear this splen~
did little model.
WE CAN ARRANGE EASY
PAYMENT.
OLD INSTRUMENTS
TAKEN IN PART
EXCHANGE.
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
A PERFECT WONDER.
Just arrived.
The luuest European ereation from the‘famous
factory of Ferd. Miilhens. The marvel of the age.
Extrait DUMIDI Perfume
in four scents —Violet, Rose, Jasmin and Hyacinthe.
Obtainable at k>ur Store, 160 Pitt Street, Sydney,
at 7/6, 12/6 arid, 22/6 per bottle. Washington H,.
S >ul & Co., J.tdi. :
Try No. 4711 EAU DENTIFRICE.
Satisfaction guaranteed.
When you do spend your money it is just as well to
get the best. Therefore insist on getting LAXATINE. It
is undoubtedly the best, lieware of imitations.
GOOD—“
DIGESTION
MAKES GOOD HEALTH.
The surest way to have good health is to keep your digestion healthy
and active. All the nourishment of your body must pass through your
stomach, and if that is not in a fit state to digest it properly, it stands
to reason that your health must suffer. Undigested food will not yield
its nourishment. On the contrary it sours in your stomach and clogs
your system with impurities. Mother Seigel’s Syrup puts your stomach
right, and keeps it right. Here is an instance. Mr. Harry Dunn, 187,
GoulburnStreet,Sydney, writing on March 4th, 1908, says: “I suffered
from violent pains in my stomach, frequent sick headaches, and bilious
attacks every few days. I took all sorts of medicines without the least
benefit until at last I was persuaded to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup. The
result was complete cure, and I have been well ever since.’’
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP
ENSURES PERFECT ACTION OF THE
DIGESTIVE ORGANS.
I
Have you grot “Shoe-
light,” our illus-
trated booklet, des-
cribing, with prices,
our very finest
Footwear ? You
should get a copy—
we’ll post it free on
receipt of name and
address.
LEEMINC’S Boot Stores, lOSSwanston St., Melb.;
1& 3 Errol St., N. Melb. ; 303 Chapel St,, Pfahran.
This
Comfortable
and Stylish
LADY’S
SHOE
at
One
Guinea.
You could tell -at a
dance that this Shoe
combines style, com-
fort and good wear.
It is an Enamel Kid
Derby Oxford, with a
Welted Sole, and is
certain to prove one
of the most popular
Walking Shoes for
the coming outdoor
season.
Because it is strongly
built, and at the
same time stylish in
appearance, we guar-
antee it, and price it
at One Guinea.
Add 9d. for postage
if ordering in Vic-
toria, or Is. if from
any other State.
FAT PEOPLE
LET US CURE YOU OP OBESITY
AND REMOVE YOUR EXCESS
FAT,f“
ac
"TT7H have cured many
' * thousands offobesity
sufferers. We have the
only non-poisonous and
harmless remedy
ever known.
•FAVCURE”
acts mildly, gradu-
ally and effectively.
No matter whether
the fat has attacked
your hips, stomach, or breasts, “ Fatcurk” will
hunt it out and remove it. The remedy aud treat-
ment are the results of years of careful study, and
are absolutely perfect. Not the least harm can
resu.t from its use, and its power to do good is
unlimited. . . . From five pounds a week to
over two stone a month has successfully re-
moved with perfect health following the reduc-
tion. . . . Send two pence in postage, stamps
aud let us send you a Frer Sample and our
Booklet under sealed cover and free from prying
eyes. Our remedy is certain, and no successful
imitation has ever been created. CAnnot be had
•f chemists. Write or call for Sample.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
Entrance also from Market Street. Take lift. [l3
MILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ Length, 12 Inches.
/ = POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Millki;.'
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Comer Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDHEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swaniton Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tills Bulustin.J [4
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“XJMOA.”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ness and kindred ailments,
-
Others are being cured while
you are thinking about it.
These Rings are scientifically made from
specially-prepared metals with four zinc
and three copper coils, forming a complete
battery, which have an affinity for drawing
the uric acids to that part of the finger
that the ring is worn oil, and causes it to
leave the body, and at the same time
freeing the system from Rheumatism and
other kindred ailments.
PRICES, POST FREE—Silver, 55.; Gold=
Filled, 55., 7s. 6d. and 10s. each.
When ordering cut hole in piece of cardboard for
size required, or send for measurement card.
DUNK.LING,
The Jeweller,
315=317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemise or’ Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester. Eng.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ I tan”: A wave of co-operation is surging
about. Australia and Maoriland. The Dominion butter
factories have at last linked themselves together to get
out of the grip of the Tooley-street (London) middlemen.
Many of the Victorian grease producers are already
dividing the profits of such a scheme. The Auckland
milk suppliers are quite tired of the distributing shark,
and are going to oblige the public by doing their
own delivery work. N.S.W. co-operative butter fac-
tories go on springing up ; but co-operation among the
co-operative factories is still weak. Probably the most
down-trodden class of producers at present are the apple
men. They have not yet co-operated worth a kettle-
repairer’s malediction. Just now their vulnerable limb is
being pulled by the agents who are busy telling the
papers how many thousands they have lost this export
season. They remind one of Holy Moses after the Mel-
bourne Cup each year. Even in T .smania, where the
game of export has been running for some years, the
growers have made no decent attempt to put their heads
together. They know how to grow apples, but evidently
don’t know the first thing about selling them, so they are
fleeced by the buyer, the agent, and the selling Shylock
in the Cold Country. There are even octopuses
or commercial, squids who buy up the space in
the steamers and farm it out to the shippers.
If the Commonwealth had its own line of steamers there
would be no difficulty about helping these apple-growers ;
but the chances are that nearly all of them said that a
Commonwealth line of steamers was Socialism, and
howled at,it,accordingly. It takes the citizen on the loam
along time to distinguish between those who want to
help him and those who want to squeeze him.
* * # *
“Machete”: The Childers man mentioned in
B. (13/8/’08) isn’t by any means the pioneer of the sisal
hemp industry in Bananaland. Two years ago several
tons were grown at St. Helena penal settlement, in
Moieton Bay, and marketed at £34 a ton. The real
pioneer of the sisal hemp idea is A. J. Boyd, editor of
Queensland Agricultural Journal, who has for years
been advocating its cultivation. The price is about £24 a
tou at present. The plant, an agave of aloe, will grow on
any soil, even the rockiest. The preparation of the fibre
is a matter of a few minutes with simple and cheap
machinery. Each plant lasts some seven to 10 years and
yields leaves during all that time.
* * * *
The importer is a cynical sort of cuss. During
the Comparatively Drunk week.there was on exhibition
in Collins-street, Melbourne, two different brands of type-
writers. One was supported by a large notice board
stating that it was the only typewriter used on the
U.S.A. ships. The other sported a hoarding insisting
that there were more typewriters of its sort used by the
Yankee fleet than of all the other machines in the world
put together. Importers of goods and exporters of souls
(indenters and parsons respectively) will stand each other
out more valiantly on matters of unprovable assertion
than the representatives of any other callings on earth.
* * » *
“Hamer” : According to evidence in the recent
prosecution of a manufacturer for neglecting to fence
around dangerous machinery, between 30 and 4Q finger-
tops are lost annually in Sydney by this same disregard of
factory regulations. And just so as to emphasise the fact
that a finger-top is a small thing and that the ordinary
person has eight of them anyway, Barnett, S.M., let the
negligent manufacturer escape with a fine of 30s.
**. * *
W. A. Gullick, Government Printer of N. S.
Wales, makes a hobby of photograph}’, especially of color
photography ; and between the job he is paid for and the
hobby he isn’t paid for, some remarkably fine color work
is turned put nowadays from the State printer}'. The
limit'was (reached lately in soihe reproductions' of the
marbles and decorative stones of N. S. Wales ; in what is
technically known as “three-color work” probably the
whole world can’t show anything more effective. Cer-
tainly no single country in the world can show a greater
variety of beautiful rock ; and the Stinking Fish brother-
hood is hereby urged to get the pamphlet and comfort
itself therewith.
* * * *
“ Stony ” : The fried fish industry is certainly a
fearful and wonderful one, and full of weird anomalies and
of coarse and fearsome creatures torn from the bosom of
the vasty deep. If one hankers for fine, fresh fish of the first
class, one should refrain from going to the seaside in the-
fond hope that there the scbnapper will prevail. The'fish-
sellerk of Fort Phillip’s watering-places invariably provide
the local consumer with flathead and barracoota—cheap,
plenteous fish ; and the ranker of these is the barracouta.
The ffish-finders would probably shoot in a line of
shark if it were possible to do so without giving
offence. The better .class of fish—such as the schnap-
per afore-mentioned, and the flounder and whiting—are
sent up to a miserable, dusty doom in Melbourne. And
the retail city rates ! A shilling for a crayfish, snared by
the ton down the coast, and wholesaled accordingly ; 9d.
for a whiting that wouldn’t make a full, fish-course for a
cat ; while the rare, lone, lean flounder,and the “Sydney
rock ’’ are distributed »at retoil'prices which should mean
high living for somebody— most likely the fishmonger’s
landlord. With prices as stated, what must-be the class
-°f sea-provender offered for sale, ready cooked, in the
Dago’s window at 3d. a piece ? By all means let us have
another kind of Fish Commission—this time to start with
the fried fish on the plate in the costly food-shop, and
work backwards from that point to the sea. The astute
Sherlock Holmes always starts with the dead body and
works backwards. That is the way to find out things.
THE OLD MAN’S LOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have no objection to choosing- patterns, etc., for m.v
husband to select his-clotliing from, but I draw the line
at doing ditto for my grown-up sons.— “A Mother of
DSzens,” writing dotvn the Saturday half-holiday move-
ment in Melbourne Argos.
She wore a face like nine o’clock and a pair of out-size
feet,
And up she stood at the butcher’s block and bought five
pound o’ meat.
She picked five pound o’ mutton-flap and her eye was
fierce and hold
As she watched the lively butcher dash her purchase on
an old,
Grey, time-worn newsrag. “ Yes, ma’am, that the lot?”
‘‘That’s all to-day
I’m off to look at a line of hats, an’ I’ve no more time to
stay.”
“For Sunday mornin’, ma’am?” he said, and grinned.
“ That’s good ! ” said he.
She looked at him, and her nose was red. “ It’s for my
Ted !'” said she.
Her face! was hard and her eyebrows faint, and her chin
was square and strong—
Her skirt was troubled with some complaint that made it
short-and-long
In the places where the well-bred skirt is nothing but
long-and-short ;
And she was built with an eye alert like the eve of a
terrier-sport
That sees ten rats inside a cage. And her hat was just
a gem
That could not well disguise her age. The plain, un-
garnished hem
About her simple handkereher set forth her point of view,
And the way she’d done her short hack hair was simple,
and striking, too.
Sh<? stepped into the busy street, on cadv-business bent,
And as she strode her great, quaint feet were very
evident;
Her iron-clad waist was not the kind which admiration
brings
In her you wouldn’t have thought to find a knowledge of
smarter things ;
But soon enough, with Ted’s new tile, she left the shop
behind,
And, meeting Mrs. Smith, awhile she spoke her house-
wife’s mind :
“ Why, how d’ y’ do ? And where’ve you been?... I’m
off, myself,” she said
“To choose a coat and skirt—l mean a suitable suit—for
Ted ! ”
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
'<SUfc\
“ Eden ” tells a story of, the blessings of Private
Enterprise:—
A few weeks ago the Melbourne Steamship 00. entered
the lists against the Illawarra Co;, trading between Eden
and Sydney via ports. The Melbourne Co. was received
with open arms and liberally patronised by the South
Coast, when, without any warning, the cool announce-
ment was made that an agreement had been fixed up be-
tween the two cos. to raise the freight 10 per cent, on
all incoming cargo, and to “ revise ” the freight on out-
going goods; and the “ revision ” means an increase of
anything up to 100 per cent. The cocky “on his own,”
who is not fortunate enough to be near a butter factory,
and consequently can only ship in small quantities, has
had the charges raised from 25 per cent, up ; the princely
sleeper-getter, earning eight bob a day, is told he
may choose between paying an extra 6* per cent, or
leaving the cut timber to rot; while the bloated
wattle-barber is asked to share his riches with the com-
panies to the tune of a 66§ per cent, rise, or go to the
Devil. In fairness, however, to the two cos. that have
formed this ring, let it be added that they have gener-
ously cut down the freight on fowls. True, fowl freight
means only, say, £5 a year; still it is enough to talk
about. However, in spite of the reduction on fowls, the
cos. have made the South Coast think : and it begins to
ask: “ What about co-operation?” Already a meeting has
been held in Eden, and steps have been taken to form a
co-operative shipping co. to trade between Melbourne
and Sydney, and intermediate ports ; and the whole dis-
trict is now being canvassed to see what practical support
the idea is likely to get. Probably when Twofold Bay
becomes a Federal port the movement will get assistance
from a new quarter.
♦
“Simon’s” letter
I am a leather-goods manufacturer. Some two years
ago I conceived the idea of making braces. They had
never before been produced, so far as I knew, in N.S.W.,
and only in a desultory kind of way in Victoria ; also the
idea was new, and a new idea is generally better than an
old one ; also there was a kind of a tariff. I got out a
wide range of samples and went direct to the warehouses,
where my prospects were post-dated for twelve months in
one act. They had already placed their indents for the
next half-year (six months ahead), hut they said they
didn’t mind comparing my lines with the imported
samples they were ordering for delivery the half-year
after that. I came again later, and was told my stuff
didn’t look “ English ” enough, and many similar things ;
but one departmental head was good enough to tell me
the real reason. “Look here,” he said, “your braces are
all right, and I’ve told the manager so, and he promptly
got down my neck. ‘ What do we keep an office in
London for ? ’ he asked. ' 1 Buying in this market is not our
business at all.’ ” And neither it was, as witness the result
in the boot, clothing, shirt, collar, hat, cap and tie
industries. Once the local article gets fairly on the
market, it reaches the retailer direct, and the warehouses
lose their job as middle distributors, and their 33 per
cent, profit. Soon along game a better tariff, and things
changed a little. I was then told that if I dropped the
retailers I could do business with the big warehouses.
There are no great points' about this, however, as retail-
house orders are more regular and less spasmodic ; also
the retailers don’t yearn so much after imported goods,
and don’t view an Australian manufacturer as if he were
mere dirt. I believe theye werp many cases in which the
old tariff would have been sufficient if it had only been a
cise of giving the local article the same show as the
imported one. But that was not the case. The
whole existence of the big importer and warehouse class
depends on keeping Australian goods out of the market,
for when Australia manufactures for itself, the manufac-
turer and the retailer presently come in direct contact,
and then the great, superfluous, loafing middleman, with
his 33 per cent, profit, is knocked out, to the vast benefit
of both the producer and the consumer. That loafing
excrescence will only give up importing and give Aus-
tralian industry a fair deal when the tariff is heaped up so
high as to make importing a sheer impossibility.
“AUSTRALIA TO-DAY,” 1908.
£5O
is offered (in two prizes of £25 each) by the Proprietors of
the Patriotic Journal, “ Australia To-Day,” for
1. The Best Poem on “THE DEFENCE OF AUSTRALIA.”
2. —The Best Popular Prose Essay on “ SOCIAL LIFE
IN AUSTRALIA; Its Advantages and Outlook.”
Maximum length of Poem, 1000 words, and of Essay,
7000 words.
The accepted works to become the sole property of the
Proprietors of “ Australia To-Day.”
MS. to be signed with nom de plume only, and to be
accompanied by sealed envelope containing full name and
address.
Unsuccessful MS. can only he returned when necessary
stamps have been forwarded.
MS. should be typewritten, and must be in the hands of
The Proprietors of “ THE AUSTRALASIAN TRAVELLER ”
and “AUSTRALIA TO-DAY,” 190 Flinders Street, Mel-
bourne, on or before 2nd November, 1908.
To Users of Acetylene
&
Cm
Gas
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN (S, CO. Ltd,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNES
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convinoing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in Enaiand—im, 2/9, 4/6.
n
SWO-AMMUNITION
Big Stock of GUNS by all the
Leading Makers
Cashmore’s D.8.8.L. Hammer Cuns, cross
bolt, £6.
Cashmore’s D.8.8.L. Hammerless Cuns,
£l7 10s.
Holloway D.8.8.L. Hammer Cuns, cross, £B.
Holloway D.8.8.L. Hammerless Cuns,
£l7 10s.
Hollis’ D.8.8.L. Hammer Cuns, £6 ss.
Remmington D.8.8.L. Hammerless Cuns,
£7 7s.
CARTRIDGES :
New Club, New Rival .. 7s. 6d. per 100
Eley’s Smokeless .. .. 9s. 6d. per 100
Eley’s Amberite .. .. 12s. 6d. per 100
ALCOCK&Co piw. iip.
155 ELIZ 3T MEJB.
=3= REFEREE TOBACCO
, . GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
. ' V ‘ | '
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
r .' ' r . Wi \; y ...
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY,
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
Sydney.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
LYONS,
256 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
W/Ss/s/A
YOUR NEED
is met in these Splendid VIOUN OUTFITS.
ALU the VIOLINS, even in the very"
Cheapest Set, are HAND-MADE, and of
Superior Quality. Good Case, Bow,
Extra Set of Strings, Bridge and
Instruction Book, FREE, with every
Set.
PRICES:
Student’s Set 21/-
Scholar’s Set 42/-
Conservatorium Set 63/
University Set _/~5 ss.
The Ideal Set Bs.
LYONS
HAS
REMOVED
to larger
premises at 25f>
Bourke St.,where his
fine stock of Musical
Instrumiints can be
shown to advantage.
A Welcome awaits old and
new Customers.
Send your address
for Best Musical
Instrument Catalog
in Melbourne.
066080
tflfzon
THE MEZON
ACCORDION.
The name is sufficient
guarantee that you are
getting the WORLD’S
BEST.
PRICES:
Organ Mezon 35/-
Wonder Mezon 427-
Grand Organ
Mezon 66/-
Chromatic; Mezon, 90/-
Musical Instruments Carefully Packed and Forwarded to any adtjrpss.
m
.y7*
EFI
59S
mm
i
BY^P.OST
mi
HI
km
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training' within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENCLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWINC
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which vou are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE, 428 H COLUNS S STREET, S MELBOURNE.
A Razor Really Worth 10/6.
The PLUM has a host of good points missing in the every-day Razor-
For instance, it is extra hollow-ground with a very keen edge. But
the principal advantage is its durable, Pure Silver-Steel Blade, that
will keep its shaving edge longer than any other raz.oo; known.
We guarantee and keep it in order for two years free of eo'st>
Price 10/6, Post Free anywhere.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6 Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6 All Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
&k
0
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
ROT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
I>n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England
Ag»nts— Elliottbros., Sydneyj Felton, Grlmwade & Co., Melbourne
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Post Free 6d. from “Th<
Bulletin ” Office
For Your
Sick Friends.
How ofteft have you longed fori
some means of entertaining your sick
friends ? You would willingly spend
an afternoon or evening with an in-
valid if you could keep the weary
one entertained.
Did it ever strike you that an
Edison Phonograph would help you
out of the difficulty ?
With one of these machines and a
good selection of records you could
supply many an entertainment to
those of your friends who are de-
barred from going out.
The cost is slight and the pleasure
you derive from doing good will
amply repay you.
Write now for lists of machines
and records and the name of your
nearest dealer.
The Edison
Phonograph.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. 8., 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
m
p
CARTRIDGES
For Rifles and Pistols
Winchester make of
cartridges in all calibers
from .22 to .50 are accu-
rate, sure fire and relia-
ble. In forty years of gun
making we have learned
many things about am-
munition that no one
could learn in any other
way. When you buy
Winchester make of
cartridges you get the
benefit of this experience
Buy Only Winchester Make
CZERNY’S
CONJURING CARDS.
Oomplete set, with full directions.
Three splendid Tricks easily done by anyone.
Post Free ONE SHILLING (Postal Note).
CZERNY, P. 0., Hawthorn, Vic.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fra*, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, Is.
Sfnd Stamp for Illustrated Lifts of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMACURE
I GHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NerrousCoufths,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT <fc Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
ETTES. Sn d by all Chemists.


2
PER. CENT.
DON’T FORGET!
Our Capacious New
Stores containing
over Five Acres of
Floor Space, and
one of the Finest Show Floors in the Commonwealth, are completed, and ready
to receive your growing clip.
OUR CONSOLIDATED WOOL SELLING CHARGE IS 2 Per Cent.
Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Go., Ltd.
(A. M. L. & F. Co. Ltd.)
WOOL. PRODUCE- and GRAIN BROKERS,
, STOCK and STATION AGENTS,
BEIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
2
PER CENT.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
■ • i
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR . PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
u
RN’S
99
ATOR
RAZOR Guaranteed
A High-Grade Razor, Fully Hollow-
Ground. Electrically Tempered.
Always Keeps the Edge. Each
Razor in a Case.
In Black Vulcanite Handle.
In Real Ivory Handle.
7 in Case, one for each day of the week.
TO BE OBTAINED OP
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney. [2
Nikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS &. ALL OTHtR INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; 1 »ng-esiablished,safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seeusmen,florists, country chem-
ists. storekeepers, and by E. J>. MORRISON,
.Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street. >ydney.
Sample bottles and full particulars, by poet,
18.4 d. t stamps t to make 5 gallons spray.
* A \
mORRISS
IMPERIAL
.EYE,
OIHTMEHT
eyes
£6 WORTH OF MUSIC FOR 3/-.
Universal Song Folio, No. 1.
224 pages of Songs—words, air and full
piano accompaniment, not simply the air
alone—sent, post paid, to any address in
Australia, Tasmania, or New Zealand, for
omy 3s. (It’s ab g book—weighs over 2lbs.
—ana costs us 9d. postage; we only self it
as an advertisement.) The book is well
bound in extra heavy boards, with cloth
back and handsome illuminated front cover.
Makes an ideal present; and we can send
it direct to the address of a friend anywhere
for you, if so desired.
Contains 82 Songs which, bought separately, would cost
pounds. Order a copy at once, and don’t miss the oppor-
tunity of securing a musical library for only 35.. carriage paid.
The list of contents will convince you of its value :
Angels ever bright and fair—Annie, dear, good-bye—
Answer—Arab’s farewell to his favourite steed—Army and
Navy duet—The auld house—Au d lang syne—Baby, yer ma
honey—Ben Bolt—The better land—The bonnie banks o’
l.ocli Lomon’—The captive Greek .girl—Charity—Cockles
and mussels—Come into the garden, Maud—Come o’er the
moonlit sea—A day dream—The diver —Dreams — 1 he gaunt-
let—The gipsy countess (duet)—God save the Queen—Good-
bye, sweetheart, good-bye—The good Rhine wine— l he
hallowed season—Hearts and homes—Her bright smile h,units
me still—He shall feed His flock—Home, boys, home—Home,
sweet home—A hundred fathoms deep—The Irish emigrant
—Jessie’s dream —Juanita— Katey’s letter—Killarney—The
land o’ the leal—Last rose of summer—List to the convent
be.ls (duet)—Love not—Maid of AtnensL-Many happy re-
turns of the dav—March of the Cameron' men—Marguerite
—Mill Wheel—Murmurs of the shell—My mother bids, me
bind my hair —My mother dear—Nazareth —Norine Maurine
-O'er the hills, Je,sie— The old arm-chair—The old folks
at home—O, rest in ihe.Lord—Phillis is my only joy—The
pilot—Plymouth Sound—Rbcked in the cradle of the deep—
Sal y in our alley—Scenes that are brightest—Sentenced to
death—She wore a wreath of roses—Shells of ocean—Simon
the cellarer—The Storm-Sweet bells are ringing—Sweet
bunch of daisies—'Sweet Genevieve—There is a tavern in
the town—T hree fishers went sailing—To Anthea—Truth in
absence—The village blacksmith—What are tue wild waves
saving (duet)—What tho’ I trace—What will you do, love—
When sorrow sleepeth - When the heart is young-
Wlien the swallows homeward fly—Where are the friends
of mV youth?—Will ye no’come back again?—Won’t you
tell me why, Robin?—Whisper to me—The young recruit
Send amount, 35., by postal note (if stamps are sent, 3d
to be added for exchange) to
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, 10d.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as ea&y of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN <& HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON, * Brdsre Sts., Sydney
PLASNIO
nA A l
COOK
PLASM ON
WITH
YOUR
FOOD,
PLASMON is the whole nourishment of pure milk, and added to your ordinary
food will render it
More DIGESTIBLE, more DELICIOUS, IO TIMES more NUTRITIOUS.
Ask your Grocer also for the following preparations ready combined with PLASMON;—
PLASMON LTD., LONDON. Australian Depot: 5& 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Rupture.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
RUPTUR
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Varicocele Can Be Cured!
THE CAUSE OF MORE WRECKS THAN ANY OTHER DISEASE.
IT CAN BE CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
j \ _ ' _>. ",
Thousands of men have Varicocele and are ignorant of the harm which may result. They only know that something is
draining the vim and ambition from their bodies and brains, and'know of no reason to account for it. This terrible
affliction is the most treacherous, silent and certain in its work of all known ailments. It comes on without apparent cause,
and never ceases in its destructive influence until it robs a man of all his vitality and leaves him a physical and mental wreck.
*
m
m
W A
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
for the cure of Varicocele and its,concurrent or attending weaknesses. Applied exter-
nally or .internally drugs usually prove either ineffectual or injurious. There are many
ways of treating it, but none is so sure of success as properly-applied Electricity. We
have devoted twenty years. to the study of Electricity for the cure of this and‘ kindred
ailments, atfd have cured 5000 cases of Varicocele. We have cured cases of thirty years
standing, where the patients had exhausted all other known treatments without relief,
and who came to us in a state of complete debility. DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT and electric suspensory—our method —has cured after the
knife, injection, ligation and every other known means had failed. We have cured
physicians, lawvers, ministers, merchants and laborers. We use a method of our
own; one which is the result of vast experience during the past twenty years. We have
an electric body battery which can be worn comfortably while the patient sleeps at
night, and which gives a powerful yet soothing current that is always under control.
It pours its vitalizing energy into the body for six to eight hours every night in a
manner which dissolves the congestion, assists the circulation, gives contraction to
relaxed cords and restores strength. If you are tired of useless drugging and have spent
your time and money without benefits, write to-day. We have made over 50,000
people strong and vigorous, and they never tire of praising our wonderful remedy.
It is a positive cure for all Weaknesses, Nervousness, Varicocele, Loss of Vitality, Stomach,
Kidney and Liver Troubles, Rheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago, and when used with our
newiy-patfented electro-plastic truss, is a certain cure.for Rupture. . . . It is easy to use; no Sting,
burn or shock; put it Oil when you go toKbed, and you get up in the morning feeling like a two-year-old
colt. They are guaranteed to give a strong current, instantly felt, and have special attachments for men.
They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up. Bewsire of cheap imitations.
We have published an illustrated'
book which every man and woman
should-read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write us, and our
specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your case free. All
communications ars treated with strict confidence. For private
address, address: M. E. B. Co.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R CORCORAN
. k' 1 , *'
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
The McLaughlin go., Dept. 10,
Castlereagh & Market Streets, Sydney.
•'Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
9


“ We;s£fiy Willie ” : What with the new
ankle and tlfe''latest waist, the follower of nfiascu-
line fashions is kept shopping these days. It is
interesting to note how alert the male hosier and
hatter is? to exploit the fleeting fashion as it
passes. One finds that a tie of shot-'siik in a
subdued tone is very proper, also an all-one-color
sock to cover a visible ankle between a turned-up
trouser and a low-cut shoe. However, the most
exclusive articles of masculine dress are not ex-
posed to the. vulgar gaze of the common
street horde. The other day I paid a visit to my
hatfellow. His shop-window was filled with the
new shipments of: early- spring headwear—hats
whereof the brims were quite moderate; just a
shade narrower thaft those of last year, then re-
garded aS being altogether thenarrovvest advisableJ
But on arriving in the inner hat-parlor, after, a
few minutes general conversation with the
manager,! be took me to the fitting-room and
called fori “ George ! ” George immediately came
along with an assortment of the most striking and
ingenious; hats it has been my lot to examine.
The. usual fairly-high band was there, of course,
with the flourish in the middle of the back, and
inside the crown was a line of rubber elastic to
keep the hat from, touching the head. But the
brim ! To speak the honest truth, there was no
brim at all—not worth mentioning. These hats
were for private sale only, and after trying on I
selected a couple out of the final dozen, No more
are to be imported this season, I learn, only three
dozen having been secured in the first instance.*
These are being sold to people of the highest
standing;—and they have practically no brim at
all, and the, hat doesn’t touch,,the This is
the kind of thing which makes shopping worth
while.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
mnr '
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or “on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers'the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
‘Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe M.L.C.;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The SPRING is approaching, and with it comes the SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do'it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
■ 1 ’ them at the •’ * ‘ ■ "
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
1 Telephones >
4349 Central.
29 Katooinba
Fall Details at CITY OFFICE,
38 Castlereagti Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
On the Trail of the Trust
v. ‘v-' ) ■. . >
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
%
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT’ 4 LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
I Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
The Famous Remedy for
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA
Cured by i
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment hadf Failed. 1
Mr. W. G, Hearne. Dear Sir, —From a strict sense
of duty I feel that I should publish the fdllowing state-
ment, so that others may know what to do when the
awful fact is evident thaf a life is in danger of being
lost;: —In September, 1906, my little girl, ! aged at that
time 3 years, contracted Measles, and in the following
October was attacked by Bronchitis, Pneumonia and
Congestion of the Lungs. She' was attended by a
legally qualified doctor of high standing, but his treat-
ment was not successful in arresting the progress of the
illness. On Saturday, the 21st October, 1906, he said
that her life was in danger—that there was very little
hope.for her. For eight days and nights she had been
prostrated by Cough,. Pain and Fever, and was lying
like a statue, unconscious. At this stage I was per-
suaded by a friend to obtain Hearne’s IBronchitis Cure,
with its auxiliary, medicine for the Fever and Conges-
tion of the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue of
Medicines which accompanies each bottle of the Bron-
chitis Cure. I gave the medicine as directed, and there
was : an improvement from the first dlose of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure, The improvement continued after
each dose of the-medicine. In a week! she was perfectly
free from the Pneumonia, Congestion, Cough, Pain and
Fever, and was well, except that she was still weak. In
a fortnight she was quite recovered, and is now in
splendid health, and stronger than ever. Any person
asking for information about this grand medicine can
be supplied by me, or by any of my neighbours who have
witnessed its wonderful effects. It absolutely snatched
my child from an early grave.—Yours gratefully,
D. GARDINER, „
Police Station, Geelong East, Feb. 5, 11008.
BRONCHITIS. J
j!
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age.
Thoroughly Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief—Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I was very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me imme-
diate relief, and after taking the second bottle-I am
thoroughly eured. Its effect op me has been most
wonderful. I am 73 years of age, i I trust you will
make use of this statement by publishing it for the bene-
fit of humanity generally. Youts mdst respectfully,
THOMAS R. TRFZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
PNEUMONIA ?incl PLEURISY
cured by _> j
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
I, Prudence M‘Kee. of Carr-street, South Geelong, in
view of the importance of a person making it quite cleat
what treatment was successful in curing. a serious and
complicated case when the medicine, directions and treat-
ment of a legally qualified doctor had failed, state as
follows:
My son, Henry M‘Kee, then aged 8 years, been
attended by a legally qualified doctor, who pronounced
him :to be suffering from Pneumonia, Pleurisy and' a
stoppage of the passing of Urine. Under the doctor’s
treatment the child gradually got worse, and the doctor
pronounced the case hopeless. He told me that the
child could not live. At this stage I obtained from
Mr.' W. G. Hearne, Chemist, of Geelong, a bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and gave it to the child, ac-
cording to the directions which accompany each bottle
of it. The child improved after the second dose of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. He continued to improve
each day from each dose Of Hearne’s Medicine alone, and
within three days he .was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and .the Pleurisy, and the Urine was passing satis-
factorilyi He was out of bed at the end of a week,
completely recovered, and he is now in perfect health.
PRUDENCE M'KEE,
Carr-street, South Geelong, Feb. 6, 1908.
CONSUMPTION.
Too 111 to Leave His Bed.
A Complete Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. |
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonder-
ful cure your medicine has effected in my case. About
three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough
was not severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became
very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my
chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several oc-
casions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I
had been treated by a doctor who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. . When it arrived, I was too ill
to leave my bed, hut I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually imnroved. I am glad to say that the two
lots of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure,
for which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
BRONCHITIS and PLEURISY.
A Severe Case Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
After Other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir,—Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered
from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to
my room for about a week, at the end of which time,
feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact
my business as usual. But I got up too soon, for the
very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from
what the doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis.
The pain from the former in my chest’and shoulders
Vvas frightful, and for four long weeks I was confined to
my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor,
and all the time his medicine gave me but temporary
relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where
I resided, told me of a medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure —from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad at-
tack of bronchitis and pains in the chest, and begged
of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude
to you, tell you that, after the second bottle, my cough
had ceased; but what is more astonishing, the pains from
pleurisy entirely left me, and in about a week I was able
to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully,
J. BRAHAM.
Melbourne “ Punch ” Office, Melbourne.
ASTHMA—A 17 YEARS CASE.
Previous Treatment Failed.
Cured by Three Bottles,
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, wrote: —“ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine I quite got rid of the asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883 —fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it.
The medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure
in recommending it.”
Speaking in February, 1908, he states:—“ I am keeping
very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
“ Hearne’s Medicine cured me of Asthma, from which
I had been suffering for twenty-five years, during which
time I had used almost every patent medicine on the
market—including asthma inhalations —without getting a
cure. It was- 8 years ago that the cure was effected
by Hearne’s Medicine.' and I now feel stronger than I
have felt for years—in fact. I f'-'d splendid.”
C. WISEMAN,
Meredith, Victoria.
Beware of Xniitat>iOHS ! The great success of HEARNE'S Bronchitis Cure has induced a number of
unprincipled persons fcf make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving
the unsuspecting, and so getting a sale,for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARWE’S
Bronchitis Cure has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you
in your own interests to be particular to ask for NEARNESS, ana see that you get it.
: j " i ' 1 - • 1 _ 1 —, ■ -
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS QURE, Small Size, 26; Large Size, 46, Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locaEly.
NOTICE —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1a does NOT contain any Morphia or any Opium whatever. It is equally beneficial
for the youngest child and the most aged person.
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N..S'.W.
E6g LEADING
HOUSE "*•
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
CANT
B
BEAT
Our SPECIAL SNAP
Best Selected SilKworm Gtit. Hand Polished.
The “ RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable
Ketrular 12in, 9d.; Padron No. 2,14 in., lid. ; Padron NO. 1,17 in., Is 6d ; Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 6 ,
’ Marana No. 1,14 in., 4s : Imperial No. 2,12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
No. i2SC.-SparrOW Catchers’ Nets, fitted complete with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets—
-5 x 12, with ropes, pegs and sticks, 22/6 each
6x15, do. do. 27/6 ea.
6 x 20, do. do. 32/6 ea.
5 x 25, do. do. 40/- ea.
5 x 30, do. do. 43/6 ea.
No. 13BF— Bat Folding Sparrow
Catchers’ Nets, for night use,
fitted in long handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 30s. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
\
m-
Bridles
f\£>.
s
!! 11 .Mi
1
H
i
Hi
im
H
ft
m
%
AULDJOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Du. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged .edition, 40 .engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boon d.y De Foe, Is posted.
Tiicrston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.,
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. M\ r Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, ls’3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 600 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6a.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here.are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddEn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. HAP -- Established 25 cat's.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
«.
Write for my
gig illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
KEMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. • NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. SArruo, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. . The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
are Smoked
all over
Australasia
Obtainable from aII Tobacconists
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series ] V., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. IHE BULLETIN Oflxce,
214 George Street, Sydney. .
Free
2-ft. High
Vi lW^rffir.
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR ft BOY’S RIFLE
The Life-sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks,brown eye , and represented with flesh-coloure 1 body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby s Clothes will fit Doll y.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highlv
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of best material rapid in i ts action, and
com ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver W»TCH
CHHIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the DoU or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
I Seeds at 3d per packet.
1 NO MONEY WANTED.
, We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
* return the money 6/-, and we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable Prizes to those wh
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents—a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
“seTid your name aud address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by rfjj'ni
Windsor Wright &Co., Seedsmen, 10 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Boy’s Rifle.
On
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens. -
Seven
Prize Medals,
Works : t ßirrri.irijgH.arr»»,~ England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
L h i Britisb=Australasian
&
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Prir-** /\rl POST FREE, £t per year,
VJU* in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the Bbitish-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


AN EARNEST PLEA.
TRADE ■^WjMARK
Co (Tcfi^lS
C° LD §|
C R O U g*
Consumption
AND ALL
Bronchial
i
i
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
OF THE
Throat, Lungs
and Chest.
mm
prepared by,
_
SHELDON DRUG C?
Boston U.S.Ar
Sydney n.s.w.
COPVIMCrfT t D
S£
You are earnestly urged, if sick, to try,
without dangerous loss of time, the merits of
that successful remedy,
DR. SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
For Goughs and Golds.
It will, without danger to you, destroy every
variety of these weakening death-dealing dis-
ease-germs, and drive them quickly out of your
system, so that life becomes more rosy. It is
a great mistake to allow these microbes to work
away undisturbed in your delicate bronchial
tubes and lung tissues, when but a few doses of
this pleasant, restorative, curative medicine
will get rid of them, and relieve your system
from their baneful influence. Take DR.
SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY for
COUGHS and COLDS, and you will never
regret it. If unsatisfactory, money back.
Read the following letter from Mr. GEORGE
BARRETT, Countess Street, Mosman,
N.S.W.
Countess Street, Mosman, Sydney.
To Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —After vainly trying doctors’ prescrip*
tions and all the advertised medicines without
getting any relief, I was induced to buy a bottle of
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY for COUGHS
and COLDS, and I am very pleased to state that
one dose relieved me, and one bottle completely
cured me. I have much pleasure in recommending
it, and would never be without a bottle in the house.
Verv gratefully yours,
(Signed) GEORGE BARRETT.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery can be
relied upon to cure all LUNG- TROUBLES.
It has proved a blessing in thousands of
homes, and has been energetically endorsed
by many of the most prominent citizens and
professional men in Australia.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is not a
patent medicine, or an ordinary cough mixture,
but a scientific discovery that will make sore
lungs well.
To be obtained everywhere at 1/6,
3/-, and 5/-, or will be posted upon
receipt of price by the
SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.,
15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
NORTH COAST DAIRY FARMS.
CA SIN O—LISMORE.
SUBDIVISIONAL AUCTION SALE OF THE WHOLE OF THE
SPRINGROVE ESTATE:
(By instructions of the owners, the Springrove Estate Limited).
Saturday, 17th October, 1908, at 11 a.m.,
At THE MASONIC HALL, CASINO.
4500 Acres (Freehold, Torrens Title). Subdivided into 28 Farms, areas from GO acres
to 500 acres. Average rainfall 50 to 60 inches.
SPRINGROVE is situated between Casino and Lismore Townships and railway
stations, about seven miles from Casino and 12 miles from Lismore, the two most important
centres on the North Coast, at both of which there are large Butter Factories producing over
150 tons of butter per week. Also only three miles from deep navigable water, viz., Tomki, from
which point freight to Sydney on all farm products is only 20s. per ton.
Good roads in every direction.
Paspalum is well established all over the Estate.
The whole area is deep rich volcanic soil, and every farm has a large proportion of land
suitable for cultivation. Stock fatten quickly.
Lucerne, maize, potatoes, and all crops grow luxuriantly.
The water supply is magnificent, every farm being abundantly watered by permanent
running water from creeks and springs. Water also is obtainable anywhere at shallow depths.
On each block dairying can be commenced and returns obtained therefrom immediately on
taking delivery.
Good local markets at Lismore and Casino, the populations of the police districts of which
are 13,326 and 6124 respectively, and growing rapidly.
A Goverment school is established in the centre of the Estate.
On five of the farms there are all improvements necessary for dairying, including the home-
stead, which is magnificently improved. .
The railway connecting the present North Coast railway with Sydney and Queensland is
now in course of construction, and must vastly increase the value of these lands.
Buyers driven to inspect from Casino or Lismore.
Ten years terms for payment.
Lithographs and all information obtainable from
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY "
CO., LTD., Sydney, and all branches;
C. H. ANDERSON, Casino;
J. B. McDOUGALL, Casino ;
HINDMARSH & JOHNSTON, Lismore, J
N.B.—Commission allowed to any agent introducing buyers.
Auctioneers
in
Conjunction.
mJk
n
oo
r
Congo is “Never-Leak” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING 00., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
; ; ; ~ i Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
Nocturne.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LISTEN! The Sea!
Out where the moon shadows creep
Eerily, pallidly, dree,
Phantomlike over the deep ;
HSon-long dreams vigil keep.
Winds sigh their thin threnody.
Listen ! He stirs in his sleep.
Hark to the Sea !
As to a shrine
At eventide toilers repair
From the sheepfold, the cornfield, the vine,
Seeking solace in prayer ;
So the great Pagan Sea in his lair
Breathes an essence divine ;
And the night with the stars in her hair
Hears the Sea at her shrine.
“Thy son hath grown grey,
O Darkness, eternal, sublime ;
For long and grief-stricken the way,
Trodden first in the prime
When from thy black scabbard flashed Time.
I endure, yet I pray
Forgive, if so birth be my crime,
For thy son waxeth grey.
“ More wonderful far
Then parched, perished, arrogant land,
The realms of these wide waters are
Where I only command.
Pulsing deep the vast oceans unscanned
Saved by storm cloud, and star,
And my harbors in majesty stand
Through great gates left ajar.
“ Look South and look North ;
My waves and white winter at grips ;
The blizzard yells past in its wrath
A fury of pitiless whips ;
Aurora with blue, frozen lips
Sees my ice navies put forth,
And illumines the path of my ships,
Pale bergs of the North.
“ And sweetly the stars
Come on watch as the eventide fades, :
And the sail bends the tapering spars
To the breadth of the trades
Where no harrying tempest invades,
Where rio thunder peal jars,
And my host of blue billows parades
’Neath the tropical stars.
“Black revel I hold
In the storm when the death lights glow red ;
When the fiends, scattered loose from their fold,
War with chaos gone mad overhead,
And my soul from its cavernous bed
Is in wrath on my bosom unrolled,
While my deeps take the wrecks and the dead
To have and to hold.
“ When aeons were whirled
Into life at the dawning of things ;
When in spaces from spaces unfurled,
Gold-gleamed first the seraphim’s wings;
To the throne where the life sceptre swings
Was I beckoned; then hurled
As a grey-bearded ocean that clings
To a lone spinning world.
“ Great Night, if so birth is my crime,
Forgive while I pray
And back to its scabbard thrust Time,
For thy son waxeth grey.”
MAORILAND.
FRANK HUDSON.
Lovely Jones.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GK. HAZELL came to Australia
because his relations didn’t like him.
* He was a very bad egg in the Old
Country. He drifted at last to Bardojinnie
station, where he was assistant storekeeper,
butcher for the house, and many other things, at
a salary of £5O per annum. Although he lived in
the house, he was of little better status than the
men in the hut.
He was not a success, and old “ Jacky” Rowe,
his owner, a rough old chap and a widower, was
about to discharge him when he discovered that
the despised new chum had made himself indis-
pensable to his only daughter Lotty.
“Jacky” assaulted “Mistah” Hazell, insisted
upon a speedy wedding, and then sent the pairoff
with an emphatic intimation that the few hundred
pounds he handed them at the end of the ceremony
was all they must ever expect from him.
Twelve months later, however, the old man fell
into the washpool and was drowned. He did not
leave a will, so Mrs. Hazell inherited Bardo-
jinnie and a good cash balance.
She made no changes in the running of the
station. Hazell was utterly incompetent to
manage anything, so she appointed Sandy Hogg,
her late father’s overseer, as manager. Although
Hazell disapproved of many things done, yet for
obvious reasons he wished to please his wife, and
so never interfered with her arrangements. Until
his wife’s death, which occurred ten years later,
he was on fairly good terms with his neighbors,
who considered him a thorough and harmless ass.
When his wife died, he found that she had left
him everything, excepting a few thousands settled
on their one child, a daughter. Then he came into
full bloom. He sent his daughter to England, in
order that a sound English education might
remove the “colonial taint” ; and a year or so
later he followed her. Hestayed away for five years,
and spent a great deal of money. During his ab-
sence, he ordered that the old homestead should
be pulled down, and a close copy of Hazell Hall,
the home of his family in England, should be
erected in its place. This work was so well carried
out, by people sent from England, that he was
able to see with complacent pride, on his return,
a bit of the dear old land in the heart of the Aus-
tralian bush —English architecture, English ser-
vants in the family livery, an English garden and
gardeners, and an English kind of stone wall
surrounding it all. The only blemish, in his eyes,
was that there was too much Australian timber in
his English park. After his arrival in great state,
he drew a fine old English social line in dispensing
hospitality, and soon his neighbors learned that
their proper place was outside an English gentle-
man’s house. He started, too, to run the station on
English lines. One of his first reforms was in the
direction of putting his employees in their proper
places.
Sandy Hogg, for instance, had always been
received in the house whenever he came to the
homestead, both in “Jackj T ’s” time and in Mrs.
Hazell’s. Hazell had never liked the overseer,
and still resented his free manner of speaking his
mind. One evening, when Sandy came in after a
hard day’s work on the run, he was left standing
at the door, and was informed that “ Master is at
dinner, and will be out by-and-bye.” Sandy
waited a few minutes, and then went off in a
huff, and came back next day to say a few things
to Mr. Hazell, who was very angry indeed.
Sandy was discharged on the spot, and, being
known as a first-class sheep man, was in a billet
on a neighboring station within a week. His
place was filled by a “ gentleman.” The “ gentle-
man ” came of a good family in England, and had
been recommended to Hazell in the highest
quarters. True, he lacked station experience, but
that was more than made up for by his university
training, and he had managed a large estate in
England, where there were several hundred sheep
and cattle. There are plenty of books on sheep to
be obtained too. It was not long before all the
old hands had left, for various reasons, and by
the second year of the new English regime only
Brydie, the bookkeeper, remained of the old staff.
In “ Old Jacky’s ” time the shed was bossed by
Sandy Hogg, and mainly because he was a good
judge of men, shearing had always gone on
smoothly. Most of the men engaged were either
selectors and their sons, or else men who came
back year after year because they knew that if
they did decent work they would be treated
decently. In common with his class, Mr. Smalley,
the “gentleman” from Enerland, looked upon
workers as being something of less value than the
sheep on the run, and showed it plainly in his
dealings with them. His shed arrangements, too,
were bad ; and there was frequent vexatious de-
lay in fine weather, owing to the sheep not being
kept up to the shearers. There was, conse-
quently, much friction. One result was a “cut”
so bad that it was the talk of the district. Smal-
ley laid the blame of the trouble on his predeces-
sor’s mqthod of employing the same set of men
year after year, and thus stifling the free compe-
tition which, as all Englishmen know, is the secret
of England’s greatness. He thought that, with a
large number of men present at a roll-call, he
would have a much better chance of picking a
good, obedient team. It was always so in the Old
Country, and why not here ?
To that end he advertised widely that roll-call
would be on a certain date, before which no ap-
plications would be accepted. At the roll-call,
consequently, nearly 500 men were assembled at
the woolshed, and, as it was : early in the season,
most of them were destitute. Only 70 of these
were required to fill the shed, and Mr. Smalley
smiled complacently as he and the bookkeeper
rode up to the office through the waiting crowd.
When they were seated in the office, and Brydie
was arranging his papers on the table before him,
Mr. Smalley said :
“It is just as I thought, Brydie; the supply ex-
ceeds the demand. We shall dictate this year,
instead of being at their mercy, as I learn my pre-
decessor was.”
“ Ah’ve seen fower-an’-twenty shearin’s here,
Mr. Smalley,” said Brydie, “and Ah’ve seen
varry little trouble until last year, and Ah hope
there’ll be none the day—but ” —he shook his head
and continued, “Sandy Hogg aye kenned when
to be dictator. 'He wis aye a man for the essen-
tials, the things which count. There’ll be many
disappointed men, and they’ll be hangin’ roun’for
a week, or until they’re driven off. I don’t like
it.”
“Nonsense,” said Mr. Smalley. “We require
seventy shearers and rouseabouts, while five hun-
dred at the least are offering. The inference is
obvious.”
“When you’ve had mair experience o’ a big
crowd o’ hungry men, ye’ll have learned that the
poseetion is not obvious. Ye’ll lear-rrn, too,
that in shearin’ matters there’s no lah of supply
and demand. There’s only Union lah, and ye’ll
hae to abide by it. Sandy Hogg engaged his men
aforehand. He didnawant all the wastrels o’ the
deestrict at his shearin’. It’s a bad sign when ye
see deevils like Lovely Jones attendin’ at a roll
call.”
Mr. Smalley said sharply. “ Your business is
to keep the books. Be good enough to attend to
your —ah—propah work,”
“Yarryweel. Gi’me your orders.”
“ You must get the shearing agreements ready.
I am varying last year’s agreement in two parti-
culars. First, tlie price of shearing will be 17s. 6d.
instead of £l. Secondly ”
“Excuse me, sir,” said Mr. Brydie, in astonish-
ment. “Surely ye’re not tlienkin’ o’ cuttin’ the
price o’ shearin’ ?”
“ Yes. it is time that these fellahs were brought
to their bearings, and I flattah myself that I can
do it. The old method of filling the shed played
right into their hands. Make the beggahs believe
that there are plenty more of their own sort wait-
ing, and you have them on the hip.”
Mr. Brydie arose from his seat and said
earnestly, “ In the interests of my employer, Mr.
Sriialley, Ah protest. Ye canna get the shearin’
price down in this way. Tt has been tried by the
whole body o’ the pastoralists, actin’ as one man,
and they couldna succeed. What chance hae
you ? Ah winna see my employer wranged by a
fellow-employee without a protest.”
“ Let me tell you that Mr. Hazell is quite—ah—
cognisant of my intentions.”
“ Then he is a bigger dommed fool than you,”
said Brydie, hotly, “ seein’ that, if anything goes
wrang in the near future, he’ll be in a deeficult
poseetion. Ah’ll see ye through wi’ the shearin’
—when ye hae it—and after that, Ah’ll leave the
auld place wi’ less regret than Ah ever thocht
possible.”
“ For that matter, why not go at once ? ”
“ Do ye mean that ? ”
“Oh yes. You are not the—-ah —only pebble
on the beach.”
“Right. Ah’ll hae the books ready for inspec-
tion at the week end.”
Brydie collected his books, and, making his way
through thecrowdwaitingbeforetheoffice, mounted
his horse and rode off. Smalley went to the door
and addressed the expectant crowd :
“ I have—ah —just discharged my bookkeeper
for insubordination, and consequently I am not
prepared to.sign on for the shearing just now. I
will choose the men I want, however, and to-
morrow early we will sign the agreements.” He
looked at the crowd, and addressed a decently-
dressed man: •
“Are you a shearah ? ”
“Yes, sir.”
“Did you sheah heah last yeah?”
“ No, sir.”
“ Then you can have a stand. Last yeah I had
a lot of trouble, and this yeah I intend to stand no
nonsense. Stand ovah thah,” he said in a lordly
w .ay.
(Continued on next page.)


Spring Ailments.
Blood Impurities, Lassitude, Debility, and
that Run-down, “ Out-of-sorts ” Feeling .
It is well to remember that at this season, of all others, the human system
needs toning up and putting in thoroughly healthy condition. The human
system, after the long siege of Autumn and Winter, is weakened through over-
work-overwork of all the digestive organs, which have had
to cope with the extra food consumed (a necessity during
the cold months), and overwork by resisting the attacks of
colds and chills. In Spring you should feel so full of life
and vigor—your energy should be just
bubbling over. If, instead, you feel only
equal to walking at about a snail’s pace
—feel out of sorts, without appetite, or
have blood troubles, such as blotches,
pimples, boils, rashes or eruptions—
depend upon it you are ‘‘liverish,”
your system is out' of order, your blood
is impure—you have Spring-fag. Bile
Beans are the finest medicine known
for the ailments of Spring. Being
purely vegetable they purify the blood,
cleanse the stomach, regulate the liver
and bile, and tone up the Whole system;
and with your system thus toned
up you are in a condition to with-
stand the health dangers that lurk in
the Springtime.
r,
V2r.
/
“Bile Beans'are an ideal Spring medicine,” says Mrs. E 4 E. Johns, of Victoria
Street, Lewisham, Sydney, “ and a box of them should be in every home. I have used
Bile Beans for myself and family for a number of years, and can highly recommend them.
A friend of mine, residing in Victoria, first sent me a. box of the Beans some years ago,
and now I would not be without them in the house. I have a. large family, and at
Springtime give them Bile Beans, which ensure good health.
The Best Change-of-Season Medicine.
Bile Beans are a speedy cure for biliousness, headache, indigestion, costiveness, piles,
aneemia, nausea, belching, bad breath, disturbed sleep; and are invaluable as a Spring
medicine for debility, lassitude, loss of appetite, bad blood, eruptions, spots, rashes, and
purify and tone up the system. Obtainable from ail Chemists and Stores at Is. IJd. per box,
or 2s. 9d. special family size (containing three times the Is. lid.).
:
Y 2,
m
This was a new method of procedure to the
assembled crowd, and there was some good-
natured chaff bandied about as Mr. Smalley pro-
ceeded to choose a board of shearers by inspection.
He soon filled the list, and turning to the crowd
said, “ I have now filled the shed for the present,
but I may want some more men latah. Will you
please go away.”
The man who had been picked first stepped for-
ward and said respectfully. “ I suppose it is the
usuAl agreement, sir. Rations cost price, 10 per
cent, and carriage added ?”
Not a word as to the price of shearing ; indeed
the thing never entered the men’s minds. Mr.
Smalley noticed this, and with a little trepidation
he said : “I have—ah—varied the agreement in
one or two respects this yeah. We have decided
to put the rations in at cost price, and have low-
ered the price of mutton to ss. for good wethers
and 4s. for ewes.” This was received with cheer-
ful nods of appreciation by the men. Mr. Smalley
continued-: “On the other hand, we have decided
to pay seventeen shillings and sixpence for shear-
ing. I intend to be very firm on —ah—that point.”
There was a general gasp of astonishment.
Several were beginning to speak, when the first
man chosen interposed :
“Wait a bit, chaps; we all want shearing
pretty badly. Don’t let’s do anything rash.” He
winked at them, and then turned to Smalley with
a smile:
“ It’s a bit sudden, sir, and we want time to
elect a chairman and consider the matter,” he
said. “There is only one thing I am anxious
about personally, and that is—can you spare it ? ”
Smalley had an uncomfortable feeling that he
was being chaffed. He said sharply: “ Spare it
or not doesn’t enter into the question. 1 If you
men do not take the price, there are,many, doubt-
less, in that crowd who will.”
“I.am afraid you are right, sir; nevertheless
you must allow ns to hold a meeting among our-
selves, and appoint a chairman. You will get an
answer in an hour at latest.”
He turned to the others, who were sullenly
listening, and said to them, “Now, chaps, you
have heard this gentleman’s offer. Let us go and
consider it.” He led the way towards the hut,
and was asked by one of the crowd, “ Blime,
Lovely, why didn’t yer tell ’im strite that ’e
’adn’t a ’ope? If we didn’t know yer so well,
we’d ’a’ thought you was scabbin’, and was tryin’
ter make us scab too.”
“I’ll tell you presently, Cockney. Can’t you
see that he’s a poor innocent. What we have to
consider is—how much can we get out of him
before he finds out what he has bumped against?”
A look of relief showed on most faces at this, and
no more was said until they reached the huts.
They immediately went to business in due form.
Cockney Gibbs arose and said, “ I propose that
Lovely Jones is made Rep o’ this ’ere crowd. I
don’t need ter tell yer that our int’rests an’ the
int’rests o’ the Union is safe in ’is ’ands.” This
was seconded, and duly carried.
Jones did not lose any time in getting to work.
He seized an old tin dish, and presently the
clatter he made brought all hands on the ground.
He leaped on the butcher’s block which stood
before the cook’s galley, and holding up his hands
for silence said, “ Gentlemen—l have been elected
Rep by the shearers engaged here, and I have to
inform you that we are offered 17s. fid. per
hundred for shearing ‘ Mistah ’ Hazell’s sheep.”
There was a roar of derision at this, which was
only stayed when the Rep held up his hand. He
continued, “ This isn’t the beginning of a real
fight, for I have already signed on at a shed in
August, and there’s not the slightest sign of
trouble. The mild infant’s doing it on his own,
and he is simple enough to think because
hundreds more are here than he requires that he
can do as he likes. Old Brydie knows what the
chances of a win for the station are, and must
have spoken pretty strongly about it, for he is
sacked, as you all know. With him and Sandy
Hogg out of the way, this shed is ours to do with,
as we like in a gentlemanly sort of way. I have
an idea. I am going up to ‘Master,’ and I am
going to get free tucker for everybody. Anybody
want to speak ? All right, Brummy, up you get.”
An old whaler mounted the stump, and after
the applause evoked by Jones’ speech had died
away, he said : “ This sort o’ thing ’ll have ter be
stopped. This is the first time fer years I ’ave
come on ter this beat, an’ the change is somethin’
awful. In ‘ Ole Jackv’s ’ time a cove could go up
ter the ’ouse, an’ without question arsked out
comes a pannikin o’ dust, .a pinch, an’ a banjo or a
weskit o’ mutton ; an’ if the ole lady was there,
why yer bags’ud be full'yet. Yesterday I goes
through the big gates an’ into a garden, where I
was fair bushed fer a bit, till I bumped agen an
old cove with braces on potterin’ about with a
barrer an’ a rake. When ’e seen me an’ Matilda
’is face fell nearly in ’alves. ’E said : ‘My Gawd !
Wotcher doin’ ’ere ? If tow’d master sees tha’,
’e’ll give ’ee six months.’ I got frightened an’
cleared. It’s too like the old stingo. I a’most
expected ter be arsked fer me ticket an’ be sent
up fer twenty-five fer not ’avin’ it. You covies
that’s laughing don’t know wot it means. Ido;
an’ you’ll be sorry you was ever born if it gets a
holt. Next thing the traps ’ll be ”
Here he was pulled down impatiently by the
Rep, who mounted again and said, “ Mention of
the police reminds me that these huts are built on
an old road. It didn’t matter to us when Sandy
Hogg was here, but now it is a useful bit of in-
formation for you.”
When Jones reached the office, Mr. Smalley
was explaining to his employer that Brydie was
insubordinate and abusive to both Mr. Hazell and
himself. He turned as Jones came to the door,
and said, in his best manner, “Well, my man?
I hope you and your mates are going to be sen-
sible.”
Jones shook his head mournfully and said : “ It
is difficult to deal with a big crowd of hungry
men, sir. They envy us our chance, and are in-
clined to play up. If you could only send down
some tucker to them, I am sure we could come to
some arrangement. I can only speak for myself
and those whom you were good enough to pick
out of the mob. Anything I say goes with them.
Besides, we know that hundreds of them would
jump our places in an instant if they could.”
Smalley had been somewhat doubtful of his wis-
dom since Brydie went off ; consequently he was
elated at this confirmation of his own opinion in
regard to the doctrine of supply and demand.
He looked triumphantly at Hazell, and said,
“ Exactly—that is what Mr. Hazell and I thought.
Will you and your mates take it on at 17s. fid. per
hundred ?”
“ Will you send down free tucker to the huts
for the mob?” asked Jones.
Smalley looked inquiringly at Hazell, who
nodded assent, and Smalley said “Yes; but I
X—ah —want some assurance that you will sheah
if I do so. Why not sign the—ah—agreement
first?”
“I will, for one, and I can get the others, too.
You must keep it secret, though, or we shall be
torn to pieces.”
“ What is your name ? ” asked Smalley.
“Frederick Montresor Bingham hyphen
Daveney,” said Jones, without moving a muscle
of his face.
“ Phew-w-w ! ” whistled Smalley, while Hazell’s
eyes opened to their full extent. “ Who gave you
such a name as that ? ”
“My godfathers and my godmothers in my
baptism, wherein I was made a member of-’’
“No, no,” laughed Smalley, “ I mean how is it
that a man of your evident education and breed-
ing is mixed up with canaille such as those others?”
Jones shook his.head and said, sadly, “The old,
old story—wild youth, hard father, and all the
rest.” Tears came in his eyes as he spoke. He
wiped them away impatiently and said, brusquely,
“ The agreement, if you please ! ”
It was handed over to him, and he scrawled the
name in full at the foot, and said, “ Give me the
others, and I will undertake to get them all
signed by the morning.” The other agreements
were handed over, and Jones said, “ And now,
sir, what about the promised tucker? If you will
lend me a cart and horse, and give me an order
on the storekeeper, I will take the trouble off
your hands of taking it to the huts.”
Smalley wrote instructions to the storekeeper
that he must let the bearer have what he,required
in the shape of rations for all hands, arid also a
cart and horse to take them to the huts.
Jones found Mr. Brydie busy in the office with
his books.
“Good day, Mr. Brydie.” ]
Mr. Brydie looked over his glasses, and said
drily, “What will ye be wantin’ of me, Mr.
Lovely Jones ? ”
“ I have an order for rations which 1 will thank
you to fill at opce, as the men are waiting.”
“Wh-a-a-t?” 1
Jones handed over the order, and after Mr.
Brydie read it he said triumphantly, “Then he’s,
payin’the pound ? ”
“No—not yet-—but we are in hopes. In the
meantime Mr. Smalley is giving rations for the
whole crowd.”
“ Without a signed agreement?”
“I have signed on, and there are thirty-four
waiting to follow my lead.”
Mr. Brydie looked at Jones in astonishment.
“ You ! ! ! Lovely Jones ! ! ! The stormy petrel,
o’ the sbearin’ sheds, scabbin’! ! Na, na, I canna .
believe that, There is a trick somewhere.”
“It is true, ’ and 1 have signed in full too—
Frederick Montresor Bingham hyphen Daveney,”
said Jones.
Mr. Brydie broke into a cackle of derisive
laughter. “ Freederick — hech — heck — heck, — ]
Freederick M-Mum-montresor Bingham hyphen
(God Almichty ! ‘hyphen,’ no less) Daveney.,
Heck—heck—heck. Ma- conscience ! D’ye hear'
him? Bingham—hyphen—Daveney. O that,
Saunders Hogg wis here the noo ! . Weel—weel —
weel!” The old man suddenly sobered down ",
and said : “ Ah’m not sure that I ought to gie ye ;
the rations. Ah’m still a sairvant o’ Bardojinni.e.”
Jones said, earnestly : “ Look here, Mr. Brydie,;’
if you or Mr. Hogg had been there, I would not
have had the front to try this or any other game
on, but when Mr. Smalley informed us that he
had sacked his bookkeeper for insubordination,
and then told us he was lowering the price of
shearing, we thought that it would be well tb-‘
teach him his place in the scheme of things. You
know well that he will get a pretty good lesson.
We all know why you were sacked.”
“ Did he really tell you all publicly that I am a
dischairged sairvant ? ”
“ He did.”
“ Then come awa ! I maunna be insubordinate
a second time on this day of our Lord.”
Within a couple of hours, a full supply of rations
-wereatthehuts, and the men were fed and happy by
sundown. Next morning, Mr. Smalley came oyer
to the shed with Mr. Hazell, and the men marched
up in a body, with Lovely Jones at their head.
Mr. Smalley received Jones warmly, and even
went so far as to offer his hand. .It was re-
fused deprecatingly by the Rep in, such a manner
as to convey that it was only a sense of utter
unworthiness of the honor which led to the
refusal.
“Did you succeed in getting the agreements
signed?” asked Mr. Smalley.
“Yes, here they are,” said Jones.
“I’ll see the men at once,” said Mr. Smalley,,
cheerfully. He went to the door and said to the
men, “ I ami informed by youah leadah that
he has succeeded in getting my agreement
signed. That is sensible; for the law of
supply and demand acts as inexorably heah in
the wilds of Australia as in the crowded Old
Country. I will now call over the names sub-
scribed to these agreements, and the ownahs of
the names will stand aside ovah thah.,
“FrederickMontresor Bingham-Daveney ! He
is heah, I know. Stand ovah thah, Daveney..
George Maltravers Ponsonby ! Is Ponsonby
heah? Apparently not. Fritz Von der Blichen
Stoffenheimer.”
“Dot’s me,” said a voice from the crowd, and
there was a cheer. There was no appearance of
the owner of the name, however, and Smalley
said, impatiently, “ Stand ovah thah with youah
worthy leadah. William Bolsover Cholmdri,-
dely. . . . Eh? What?. . . Guelph. . . . Oh,
dammit all, this is” He hurriedly looked at
the rest of the signatures, and found that repre-
sentatives of most of the great families of Britain,
Germany, and Spain had signed on to sheaf at
17s. 6d. per hundred. A roar of laughter greeted
his oath.
Pale with anger he turned to Jones, who was
still standing “ovah thah.”
“ You infernal scoundrel,” he said. “ What is
the meaning of this ? ”
“One pound per hundred,.and rations at cost
price, with 10 per cent, and carriage added, ” said
Jones, laconically.
“If I have to pay it, I will take care that the
men here who refuse shall not get it.”
“ You’ll have no others, Mr. Smalley.”
“We shall see; and in the meantime I will
send for the police to turn every man off the
ground. I will prosecute you for obtaining goods
under false pretences,, and I will ”
“Listen to me, Mr. Smalley. You are the
manager of this station. I am Jones, native of
Mudgee. You saw in me a man who was to turn
dog on his mates and do your dirty work, and I
saw in you a man blinded with prejudice. I deter-
mined to open your eyes. You will be laughed at
even by your own class for trying to down our
Union on your own. , I was just as surprised as
you at finding so much good blood amongst the
canaille, as you call us. I could have got two
hundred or more names just as good as those you
have on your agreements there, including a mag-
nate of Hungary we call ‘Brummy.’ Know that
we are men, and have the feelings of men. You
cannot get shearers under the pound. The men
you picked out yesterday, and a good team really,
must have the stands, for you will get no others.
If you try to turn the men out of the huts you
will meet more trouble, for the huts are built on
an old road, as Mr. Brydie can tell .you. Don’t
bother about me, for I’m off. So long.”
The battle ended there. Next day the British
and foreign peerage started to shear at £1 a
hundred.
TABBOY.


O'
mm
90
lilivui
m
wm
m
"■>■■
L«vuU»mW»»jm<
V:
-r-s;:?:
W.
The Leader of Them All!
That is, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla; not
some other kind, but “Ayer’s. ”
This grand old family medicine
has stood the test for over sixty
years. That’s the kind you
should take. You cannot afford
to experiment, your health is
too precious.
You may not now be really ill
from some well-defined disease, and yet
you know you are all run down, your
nerves are unstrung, and you feel weak
and discouraged.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
is the strongest and best medicine you can
take to remove this tired and exhausted
feeling. It brings cheer, hope, courage.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disap-
point you. Be sure that you get “AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
NO
■Ha
EY
WANTED
CARDEN SEEDS
Tn order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
1 into every home, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHE> and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES MUKF
CHAINS, SOLID GOLD KINGS, JEWELLERY, eic , FREE
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUND.-,. All >Oll have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDREsS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLAKDIA, etc.: Se,l-the packets at 3d.
per packet, send us our money (6/-; and we will send you by
return mail any present you mav select from our grand list.
WE TRUST YOU-THE RISK IS OURS You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
MSN ‘A3 NO AS iS QNQQ ZS'QQ AlddHS Q33S SISIHOU
y*%%
Superior to
INJECTIONS #
iCUBEBS and #
I COPAIBA. J
Cures the fame
diseases without
inconvenien-e
48 hours tayj i
Each Capsule bears the name *W" ®
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
euer Fail
Aiwa
Cur
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
GOUT
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
manufacturf.es of
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
Tn use since 1596.
CURES
-ArdMlTi Blight,.Falling We?k Sight
Ask j. ur chemist tor its history—the ho .k is free—or write
S. GREEN, AlOy Lambeth lLoaa, Loudon, Eng.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
FOR
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
CUM
eOLQßED^^cffiw
and
: s 1/
©o
m
GOOD LUCK
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high'art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have so.d the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will setid you for your trouble any
present you may choose tr m the list of jewellery which we lor ward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCILand CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAM LIRA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete wiLh every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your'district. Our
post cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
every case positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY - . Your name and address are all we want.
REGAL POST CAR PC?, 126 oCONHELLST, ONEY.
'-SF
m};
D
EST resufts t
UT_
WJHOTOGRfIPHY
are ostam.ec) whervyou
are &efing £ looking well
[Therefore the Best Policy t&>
kdopt to obtain- good results is
kbssss) t 6 get a d ox. ©P
□
EECHAMS
ILLS
hey will
soon take away that foggy
efouded appearance, the complexion
will fresnen, the eyes brighten.
&r you will look and feet the
PICTURE <f HEALTH.
• ...
m
ISpS
mm
S©! ■
Any Wind, ill
or otherwise,
will turn the
“Steel Wings” Windmill
whilst other mills are idle.
They work so easily by reason of the Bearing 1
on each side of the Wind-wheel and the
large sail area. The Balaneed Pump Rod is
another simple but effective feature.
Back Gears and complicated parts are
unnecessary, and are not to be found in our
mills.
Steei Wings Windmill Go., Ltd.,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY,
Dept. C posts Catalogues and Estimates for
complete installations free on application.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
Or. Jehu Martin, M.D.&o.
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaxlia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo similar book has ever been published..
j£T ET To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
* Bf'fe £«. a t iiis great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement, cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments”
on receipt of this ad'versisement. /Mote Address i
555
men
///'< J AIV O
/WOMEN
DR. MARTIM, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing;.
“Elmiey House,”
• ■
151 Elizabeth “St.,
__ HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


The 11 Buckeye ” Vapor
Bath Cabinet, 21/-
Reduced from 25/-
Medical men everywhere recognise the splendidly
invigorating qualities of the vapor bath. The ad-
vantage of it over ordinary Turkish Baths is that
you can have it in your own home at a very slight
cost.
It keeps the pores of the skin in a healthy eondi-
tion, cleansing it from all impurities and doing away
with the poisons that get secreted there.
The “ Buckeye ” is a folding cabinet that can be
adjusted in a few minutes. It is well made and
finished and certainly splendid value for the price.
Usually it costs 25/-, but we are making a special
offer for a little while at 21/-. Freight paid to any
railway station or port in N.S.W. Get in your
order now—at once.
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“ The House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
EXTRACT FROM LETTER.
THE TYREE oO°‘TvL“?' On ' IBOS *
Drar Sirs,—l am anxious to introduceyourßabbit
machines to a friend of mine in Victoria, and with
that view I have written him highly recommending*
same as the best means of destroying* rabbits.
I have worked the machines on the worst portion
of Mr. Haley’s run, and can say with the best possible
results. In fact, where rabbits were in thousands and
not a blade of grass to be seen,
THERE IS NOW GRASS GROWING ON TOP
OP THE WARRENS.
I have felt so enthusiastic over these machines from
the first that I thought I must congratulate you on
the success of the in vention, as l am certain that when
properly tried, it will be a boon to landowners who are
infested with rabbits.—Yours truly,
_ , . (Sgd.) J. W. FINLAYSON.
For further particulars apply to
TYREE LTD., 314. GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVE 20 H.P. IN EVERY 100 H.P.
V
HYATT FLEXIBLE ROLLER BEARINGS.
Agents—W. & J. LEM PR 3 ERE, Melbourne.
Water 5
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
$
Write for
•B”
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider,
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
MARK
CSESO3Q
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
Abb
WOLF
or
itLu
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
aiso at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
Jo & J. fflaxfield, Ltd.; Sheffield
LEATHER PRESERVING BOOT POLISH.
it doubles the wear of Boots. Send 6d. in stamps for large sample
tin. Dept. B, DURBAR, 18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST AND
All Users
CHEAPEST.
Satisfied.
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY.
Head Office:
MOFFAT-VBRTUE
7 Bent Street,
Sydney.
m
(Small Case) MACHINE.
Sub-Agents :
VICTORIA : D. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND : Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street. Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearifig(W.A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Murdoch Bros., 77 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Duplicates and Supplies obtainable from all Agents.
Price.
1
J
.. ~ * ... i.' ’
Guaranteed.
FOR . . .
Boiler Feeding,
Tank Filling,
Shaft Sinking,
Cyanide Works,
Tanneries, etc.
W#gPpaBBs|g
Single & Duplex.
High & Low Service.
A LARGE STOCK
ALWAYS ON HAND.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA
PARKE & LACY CO., Ltd., 60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S
Selling Agents: BEYAN & EDWARDS PROP., Melbourne; SAUNDERS & STUART, Perth, W.A.
The
PICKERING (Registered) GOVERNOR
Suitable for ail classes of STATIONARY and PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES,
including ENGINES for ELECTRIC LIGHTING.
The Pickering 1 Governor was first introduced by us into Australia, and the number supplied since, for New Engines,
and to replace unsatisfactory Goveimors (?) has run into a considerable number of hundreds. We have the Pickering
Governor working successfully on Engines engaged in every imaginable industry. The Governor is manufactured
expressly for us by the PICKERING GOVERNOR COMPANY. The words “Pickering Governor” have been
registered by us, and we sell Governors made by the Pickering Governor Company, that is to say, we sell the
ORIGINAL PICKERING GOVERNOR, not a Governor only made on the Pickering Principle. The Original has the
words “The Pickering Governor” cast on valve chest. All others are imitations.
SOLE AGENTS for N.S.W.-
74 CLARENCE STREET,
Large Stocks of all Styles always carried.
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
GAS AND OIL ENGINES,
Manufactured by FAIRBANK, BREARLEY LTD., England.
Buyers will serve their own interests by enquiring: into the merits and prices of these
plants before placing' their order.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Agents, Sydney and Melbou rrte,
