

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—“ TVBrOT A sat
95
R. O. WATKINS «SC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
f —FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
See their fine Exhibit of
Machinery at the
Royal Agricultural Show.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .. .
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
EEO^ArtT,
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son. Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
back
Take
it
have
must
*
5
Pirn Apple Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
FOR JEWELLERS.
linolite
(LINE O’ LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical Illumination for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES, ADVERTISE-
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current
Sole Agents for Australia :
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Victorian Depot: 45 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
QMm all, &£o^uJ / f(jLf u ~&db fy&t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
are
TELEPHONES
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE “ SILVERTO WN ”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branchi
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
BOWIE’S
H
OUSE OF LOROS”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
30 PITT STREET, SYDWTBY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. c
SIMPLEX
THE WORD'S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AITS STATIC
SATISFACTION COARANTEEO.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
CCONONICAL.
RELIABLE.
BURABLE.
CHAS. BURR-ILL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Snfuatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso ©
E. COULSON,
116 a’BeckettSt., Melbourne.
m
&
fishing tackle is the best.
SEND FOR ALL OCR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
4
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MCDONALD. 63 *»ITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA
HELSDON SPA IS A MOST
TABLE WATER.
‘nuaSy
oo « Nmoo
The Bulletin
Voll 29.— N0. 1470.]
[Thursday, April 16, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Important to Every Stock Owner and Farmer.
Encyclopaedia of Agriculture and the Land
BY THE MOST EMINENT AUTHORITIES.
To be completed in Four Volumes by the issue of a Volume every three months.
Price 245. each ; Postage Is. extra. ™ e L n i S s H u a * JUBt
Write for 16-Page Prospectus, giving Specimen Pages and Lists of Subjects treated" 3 " |SBUB '
George Robertson & Co/ Prop. Ltd., 71 Cast/ereagh Street , Sydney
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS.
jpRACTSCAL LESSONS IN HYPNOTISM.
containing- Complete Instructions in the Develop-
ment and Practice of Hypnotic Power, including much
valuable information in reg-ard to Mental Healing, Mind
Reading, and other Kindred Subjects, by WM. WESLEY
COOK, A.M., M.D. Nearly 300 Bvo. pp., 12 illustrations.
Price 55., ss. 4d. Post Free.
TNSSMAS C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., MM.BOUW*
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and th’
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION
The Lancet says ProyoH '
bactericidally as is creosote*/” 4 b effectlve
A.
C 5
D.
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung:.
A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
c. HUDSON, lt frC ° °" reCeiPt * 1/6 rtampB -
- f v ’ Queens Place, Sydney. Agencies in all the Australian
states, xNew Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London. _
THE RED PAGE
The Simple Life
Hw could an Eve, whose interests are
beunded by mail days, a cat, a garden, and
an Adam, write anything interesting about
one day in her heme ? I live in a two-
Among the many series of reprints, that
produced by Chatto and Windus, under the
title, The King’s Classics, has at least
the claim of giving to the student at a re-
markably cheap price works at present rare
or unavailable. These dainty volumes are
expertly edited, beautiful in print, and handy
in f®rm, and the contents list shows works
and translations that are t#-be found in no
similar series. For one-and-sixpence each the
student can have Six Dramas of Calderon,
Fitz Gerald’s Polonius, Peg Woffington, Bliss
Carmen’s Sappho, The Song of Boland, and
Symond’s Wine, Women and Song.
Eve in
Paradise
roomed slab humpy on a Hat
beside a creek, and am sur-
rounded by dark, stony ridges.
There is a cosily latticed
verandah and a garden. I am enthusi
astic about the garden. Six hundrec
words are no use to me. I should star
at the mignonette near the low step
make my way through the sunflowers
and hollyhocks, stray slowly down the rose
and carnation-bordered path to the hedge o
sweet peas at the end, and I should say
lot about the lovely scented things in be
tween. Besides, if I were to
at all I should have to enthuse abou
Adam’s cabbages and things—he is perfectl
ridiculous about his edibles.
The cat cannot be passed over. H
is called anything from Babs to Diabolo
Once a week it is my painful duty t
administer a dose of castor oil or sulphur t
the fiercely resenting Babs-Diabolo. Adam
is always consumed by a fear that h
may have worms. Adam fastens a towe;
round his neck and holds him firmly, whils
I, murmuring comforting and explanatory
words, force open his teeth and pour th
medicine down his throat. Lately Babs
Diabolo has added to his other accomplish
ments that of rabbit catching. His catche
are made, as a rule, in the middle of th
night. Adam has spoilt Babs-Diabolo, anc
insists on all windows and doors being lefi
open for him. It is the only thing abou
which we quarrel, but' to be wakened sud
denly in the advanced night by a large
proud black tom-cat standing on your head
waving a full-grown and struggling rabbi
in the air is too much excitement for me
When Babs-Diabolo has plopped the rabbi
several times in Adam’s face, Adam awakes
and positively gushes. “’S clever, liT girl
My word. Tell y’ mother. Real clev’°\\’\
girl this is.” Why Adam persists in calling
Him a girl I really don’t know, but it’s the
loss of sleep which troubles me most. Id(
my work like any other woman. An irate
lady once shook at me the fowl in her hat,
aisd asked why I hadn’t a family “ like any
other woman,” and the expression has stuck.
But one day in my home ! Dear editor of
the K 2, F 4 page, one day would never run to
six hundred words. There’s washing day,
of course ; but the remembrance of kneeling
in the damp (d-a-m-P, you know) sand by the
creek, rinsing Adam’s previously scrubbed
and heavy nether garments in very
hard water makes me peevish. There are
three joyful days in the week—mail days.
What we should do without the papers
Heaven alone knows. I should collect Adam
and Babs-Diabolo and go on the wallaby.
When it isn’t washing-day I give some slight
attention to the cooking. My cooking is
still a bit primitive, and mostly perpetrated
in keresene-tiris. Adam is sick of adven-
tures, and tries anything new on Babs-
Diabolo, whilst I stand by full of interest
and expectation.
If not occupied gazing blankly at the
landscape, or listening to the lone horse-
men who, riding by, cast their troubles
on the unoffending atmosphere, I seem
to be washing up, or mooning about
the garden, my back somewhat bent to
accommodate Babs-Diabolo, who invariably
takes up a position there. Adam is away
at his work, and won’t be home till dusk.
There is no human thing to talk to.
And we grew to maturity in the heart and
roar of a city ! But when curtains are
drawn, logs blazing (Kosciusko’s at our
back), two easy chairs and one home-made
ottoman grouped cosily, the lamp burning
brightly, work-basket and papers close at
hand, in spite of its lowliness and loneliness,
there are worse places than our two-roomed
slab humpy in the bush—though I might
mention that there are also better.
E. A. ALCOCK.
Merejkowshi
Dmitri merejkowski has
completed a stupendous task—a
triology of historical novels to
which the epithet great can be deliber-
ately applied. By this achievement the
Russian has finally placed himself in the
ft out rank of modern historical novelists.
liis work is strange, diffuse, barbaric,
mystical, often vague and incomplete;
yet beneath the crude, rough, harsh sur-
face a pulse of greatness is always beat-
ing. He takes great periods of history,
and, discarding personal heroes as too
limited for his task, he aims at summing
up in a series of elaborate and labored'
tableaux the spirit of an age. His methoc
is. patiently scientific, his style garish anc
vivid, his learning immense, his depen
ence on documents openly avowed.
_ The Death of the Gods he took fo
his nominal hero Julian, the Apostat
depicting in a hundred apparently di
connected scenes the vain effort of tin
emperor to revive the worship of th
ancient gods. In The Forerunner h
protagonist was Leonardo da Vine
scientist and artist. Julian was a grea;
man born too late ; Leonardo a geniu
born too soon. And each of these figure
were Hamlets—men with the power i;o
do, self-thwarted by the insidious doul
of the worth of doing. So in his thin
work, Peter and Alexis (Constable, pe
Sydney Book Club), Merejkowski take
the stark, crude figure of Peter, the Grea
and contrasts him with his feeble son
Alexis, whom he disinherited and ult-
mately murdered. Alexis is thus th
third of Merejkowski’s Hamlets. He
too, is paralysed by his inability to b
lieve in himself; he, too, is sacrificed b
a world that will not turn back.
v*/
For this book Merejkowski takes hi
usual large canvas—that enormous in
choate empire of Russia in the birth
pangs of nationhood, convulsed by th
shock of the impact of the new upon th
old, torn and tortured beneath the ster
driving will of that grotesque genius
Peter, the Carpenter. And it is a pictur
frightful and grim. We see the buildin 0
of St. Petersburg on the mud flats of th
Neva; the tremendous efforts made by
Peter to modernise his chaotic and bar
baric empire, to bring Russia by force
into the circle of civilised nations; w
see the awful corruption of the church
the break-up of all the ancient standards
the father’s long bitter conflict with hi
reactionary yet well-meaning and gener
ous-hearted son. And here, as in hi
other works, the death of his nominal
hero does not end the book. In The
Forerunner, that vivid picture of the
tendencies of the Renaissance, Merej
kowski’s hero, an obscure student o’
Leonardo’s, is incontinently killed early
in the book. In Peter and Alexis the
real hero suddenly emerges from the
crowded stage toward the close of the
book—a poor student who seeks for the
true religion, and, in a passage of mysti-
cism, finds it revealed to him by a shock
that leaves him for ever dumb.
v»>
The unity of this great trilogy is indi-
cated by the setting up in the new gar-
dens of St. Petersburg of a recently
discovered Venus of Praxiteles :
Aphrodite Anadyomene, the Foam-born,
and Urania the Heavenly, the ancient
Phoenician Astarte, the Babylonian Mellita,
the Mother of Life, the great foster mother,
she who had scattered the seed of stars over
the blue vault, and shed the Milky Way
from her breast.
She was the same now as on the hillside in
Florence, where Leonardo da Vinci’s pupil
had looked at her with superstitious fear;
or, yet earlier, when in the depths of
Cappadocia in the forsaken temple near the
old castle of Macellum, her last true wor-
shipper had prayed to her, that pale boy in
monk’s attire, the future Emperor Julian,
the Apostate. She had remained the same
innocent yet voluptuous goddess, naked and
not ashamed. From that very day when
she rose from her millenial tomb far away in
Florence, she had progressed further and
further, from age to age, from people to
people, halting nowhere, till in her victori-
ous march she had at last reached the limits of
the earth, the Hyperborean Scythia, beyond
which there remains nought but chaos and
darkness.
And having fixed herself on her pedestal,
she for the hrst time glanced with a look of
surprised curiosity around this strange new
land, these hat, inoss-oovered bogs, this
curious town, so like tire settlement of
nomads ; at this sky, which was the same
day and night, these black, drowsy, terrib e
waves so like the waves of the Styx. r I 1
land resembled but little her radian,
Olympian home; it seemed as hopeless
the land of Oblivion, the dark Hades. Ye;
the goddess smiled as the sun would ha
smiled had he penetrated into Hades.
v»/
On horrors the reader can sup gene
ously in this work. The picture of Pete
regarded by peasant and prelate
Anti-Christ, is drawn with a maliciou
detail evidently founded on documentar
evidence. This pleasing little anecdot
of the Tsar’s inherent callousness anc
cruelty is but one out of many :
In the anatomical theatre at Leyden h
was one day watching how the exposec
muscles of a body were being saturated wit 1
turpentine. Noticing a look of extreme r
pulsion on the face of one of his Russia
companions, the Tsar took him by the colla
bent him over the table, and insisted on hii
tearing the muscles off the body with h
teeth.
The descriptions of the drunken feast
of the Tsar and his companions—bishop
and buffoons, and of the doings of th
“ Most Drunken Conclave ” —a burlesqu
of the Pope’s Conclave—are terrible i
their veracious detail. Here is a pictur
of the conditions prevailing in Russia a
that period. A court lady is on her wa
to a court festival :
Before the Senate on the Trinity Squar
rose those gaunt poles, bearing the sam
(human) heads as in May at the time of th
masquerade. They dried, grew wet, froz
again, and still they had not disappeared.
A huge moon was rising from behind Trinit
Church, and the black heads stood ou:
sharply against the red glow. A crow perched
on one of them, cawing and pecking at th
skin. The vision was before me all th
evening. Asia was casting a shadow ove
Europe.
\l/
But for the climax in horrors the
reader must turn to the descriptions o !
the ceremonies of the various religiou
sects that flourished in that time of uni
versal turmoil, universal doubt. The
book is certainly not written for the
delectation of the “young person.” Bun
as a psychological study of Russia at the
beginning of the eighteenth century it is
of absorbing interest; for the Russia of
that period is not essentially different
from the Russia of to-day. And the
reader will quickly divine that, in the
character of the weak Alexis, Merejkow-
slci has made an incisive study of the
present Tsar of All the Russias. For the
understanding of the strange complex of
barbai ism and intelligence that make?
up the modern Russian this novel is
more than necessary. It stands in the
first class of historical novels.
——«. ___
There are two kinds of books—books and
birthday presents ; and Tobacco in Song and
Story , by John Bain (Caldwell, New York
P er Roy croft Library, Sydney), hastens to
locate itself in the second class. Daintily
bound, and packed in an imitation cigar-box
the book relates the usual lies about Raleio-h’
and collects some cheerful verse about
smoking, of which Calverley’s “Ode to
Tobacco ” is the neatest.
In a country where every inhabitant, on
the average, eats over two hundredweight of
meat yearly, it is evident that there is need
for such a bulky book as Dr. Philip E
Muskett’s The Attainment of Health and the
1 1 eatment of Disease by Means of Diet (W
Brooks Sydney). The volume is packed
with information ; it aims at the improve-
ment of the general health of the population
a greater variety in the food of the Aus-
tralian, and, concomitantly, a greater ex-
pansion of our food industries. Dr. Mus-
ketts mam and self-evident propositions are
that Australia is a semi-tropical country, and
that the Australians are the only people of
the world who do not choose food suited to
their climatic conditions. The book treats
in detail all the diseases of the Australian
A^i;S° s h, State Frights and Bruce
Smith. It is a book that should be in every
Australian home. *
The Tin Wreath
The future Australian poefc-laurcafa r,
a resurrected Don Quixote, came ' ai ,,’u 6
along the straight in the Mount Parnaj
First Claimant—
Roderic Quinn
Stakes bestride a *<**_,
Pegasus suffering from in
cipient locomotor ataxk
and just a soup^on^
pareisis of the wings. The spectators n a l •
the face and palpitating with excite,"?
surged forward to get a glimpse of the »
ner’snumber. Yellsof approval,orexecratl
or silence, or something, rent the n/Ji
The Bulletin laurel wreath (tin) was
down from its nail and duly delivered unH
protest, to Roderie Jos*nh Quinn to h?
and to hold or wear for the term of v*
natural life. The judge, with youth, a s„m?
constitution, and careful nursino- r » 11 j
round. Will Ogilrie was
the starting gate for not being more cart
ful m the choice of his parents and h,Vn
place.
Quinn, the winner, is never likely to b
mistaken by fervid admirer or carping critic
for a Byron or a Shelley, or have an orchestra
stall kept warm for him among the noblp
army of immortals.
He handles his subjects daintily, and n OB
sesses an instinctive rightness of toueh which
covers a multitude of sins. His style bristles
with subtlety of suggestions and tone and
his imagery and skilful word-painting appeal
to the ear, if not to the heart, of the dis
criminating reader. There is such animation
and suppleness in his adroit turn of phrase
and his color sense is so well defined and
true, that one can overlook the absence of
profundity and Promethean fire, at times so
apparent, and be content to sit back lulled
to rest by the sweet melody of his singing.
_ Moreover, he is of Australia, Australian.
Not in the blatant, State-rights, Wild
Colonial Boy manner of some of our popular
balladists, but in a more dignified and sub-
dued style, which forecasts the advent of a
newer and more refined phase in the evolu-
tion of our national literature. There are
three verses in his “Lotus Flower” which
always appeal to me as a typical sample of
his work :
“The Lotus dreams ’neath the dreaming skies,
Its beauty touching with spell divine
The grey old town, till the old town lies
Like one half-drunk with a magic wine.
“Star-loved, it breathes at the midnight hour
A sense of peace from its velvet mouth.
Though flowers be fair—is there any flower
Like this blue flower of the radiant South?
“ Sun-loved and lit by the moon, it yields
A challenge-glory or glow serene.
And men bethink them of jewelled shields,
A turquoise lighting a ground of green.”
As there appears to have been only sufficient
surplus hardware to make only one wreath,
and as that has been well and truly laid on
the noble brow of Roderie Quinn, let us
offer consolation to les autres; for, as the
Scripture sayeth : “ Many are called, but few
get up.”
KAHUNA.
“Nym” claims the wreath for himself,
because, he asserts, the Muses love him.
“Nym” for
Himself
“ Some day, when all the
giant gums are laid to rest,
when cicadas cease to sing,
my name will hover on the
breeze, the ripples will taunt back the
theme :
“ The gew-gaw made of painted tin—
That crown the B.’s ink-den within,
Was won, but never worn by him—
The laureate, bust-bardlet ‘Nym’!”
And now “Nym” waits to hear his rivals
gnash their pens.
»
In Asiatic Impressions, by H. E. Pratten
(Fergusson, Sydney Is.) the reader gets an
informative view of the dirty fringe of
Asiatic nations that border the white gar-
ment of Australia. Pratten is a Sydney
business man who uses his eyes. His travel
impressions are admirably written from a
patriotic White Australian standpoint. He
points out the clamant need of Australia
advertising herself abroad, and mentions two
facts that seem noteworthy : The total im-
port and export trade of the Commonwealth
(including inter-State trade) is little less than
that of India ; while the import and export
trade of Japan is actually smaller than that
of New South Wales. He suggests the im-
mediate appointment of White-Australian
Commonwealth commissioners at Calcutta
and Shanghai.


A
a
AUTUMN & WINTER
FASHIONS shown, at
Our AUTUMN and WINTER FASHION PORT-
FOLIO illustrates the latest styles in Tailor-Made
Costumes, Modish Millinery, and Dainty Footwear.
Send for a Copy. & Posted Free on application.
We offer an unrivalled variety of Stylish Autumn and
Winter Costumes, Perfectly-Fitting Skirts, Smart
Motor Coats, and Dainty Evening Gowns, and our
enormous resources enable us to fit almost any figure.
No. 1037—NAVY CHEVIOT SERGE
TAILOR-MADE COAT AND SKIRT,
trimmed fancy Braid ; sizes, S.W., W. and
0.5., 945. 6d.
No. 1876—GIRLS’ SERGE DRESSES,
Navy and Cardinal—
Length 24 27 30. 33 36 39 42in.
17/6 18/9 20/- 21/3 22/6 24/-
Similar Style in Navy, Wine and Brown
Cloth— 71- 7/6 8/- 8/6 9/- 9/6 10/-
No. 1428 —GIRLS’ NAVY SERGE
SAILOR DRESSES, trimmed Navy or
White Braid, or Stitched Navy—
Sizes 22 24 27 30 33 36 39
12/9 14/- 15/3 16/6 17/9 19/- 20/3
Lower qualitv, No. 1426
11/6 12/6 14/- 15/3 16/6 17/9 19/6
Best Quality, No. 1430
17/6 18/9 20/- 21/3 22/6 23/9 25/-
No. 1036 NEW STRIPE TWEED
TAILOR-MADE COAT AND SKIRT,
Brown, Green, Navy, fancy mixed colors,
trimmed fancy Silk Braid ; sizes S.W., W.
and 0.5., 90s.
No. 1033-FINE CLOTH TAILOR-MADE
NEWMARKET COAT AND SKIRT,
trimmed fancy Silk Braid, Navy, Wine,
Petuna, Dark Green, Brown. Black, £5 10s.
No. 553—MAIDS’ NAVY SERGE ETON
COAT AND SKIRT COSTUME, for
Girls 14 to 18 years —
Sizes 6 7 8 9
27/6 29/6 32/6 34/6
Plain Eton style, No. 3335 —
27/6 29/6 31/6
Sacque style in fancy Tweed Grey, Brown,
Green shades, No. 548-
Sizes 5 6 7 8
16/6 18/9 21/- 23/6
No. 550-MAIDS’ FANCY TWEED
SACQUE COAT AND SKIRT COS-
TUME, for Girls 12 to 18 years, Brown,
Green and Navy mixed colors—
-7 Sizes 5 6 7 8
21/- 23/6 25/- 27/6
Navy Serge with Plain Skirt, No. 1092
19/6 23/- 25/6 27/6
No. 1038-TAILOR-MADE COAT AND
SKIRT, self-colored Cheviot Tweed, Navy,
Brown, Grey, Green shades, trimmed Silk
Braid, sizes, S.W. W. and 0.5., 755.
SMART WINTER COATS at Anthony Horderns
FAMOUS
LOW PRICES
r
■» *
SJ
I*2
1870
1036
TVin/erJfyove/fzes
1037
A
isi-'
v
550
7055
jfORDER}g
At
io
<^amouyJ^o^
rices
«•
IM7
2821
90 #
2288
3565
Smart Coatj
9591
891
or
a n I Sy *
Anthony Horderns' Ihmetis o’riccs
3529
try
Stylish and Seasonable
No. 3629—MAIDS’ FANCY WINTER
T WEED THRE E-Q UARTER
JACKETS, for Girls 14 to .18 years, as-
sorted dark mixed colors, sizes 6,7, and 8—
All at 10/9.
No. 2288 —GIRLS’ TWEED PALETOTS,
with Strap at back, light and dark Winter
shades, trimmed fancy Braid, for Girls 7 to
15 years —
Length 27 30 33 36 39 42 45in.
9/6 10/3 11/- 11/9 12/6 13/3 14/-
Empire style, Piped Velvet, Dark Grey
shades only. No. 1213
9/6 10/3 11/- 11/9 12/6 13/3 14/-
No. 1217-GIRLS’' CLOTH PALETOTS,
strapped Self Cloth, Navy, Cardinal and
light fawn shades —
Sizes 27 30 33 36 39 42 45 48
17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6 21/9 22/6 23/6 24/6
Similar style in warm Winter Serge, Navy,
and Red—
Sizes 27 30 33 36 39 42
13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6
No. 891-GIRLS’ FANCY WINTER
TWEED PALETOTS, Green, Brown,
light and dark Grey mixed shades—
Sizes 27 30 33 36 39 42 45
•12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6
No. 3565-MAIDS’ WINTER CLOTH
THREE-QUARTER JACKETS, for
Girls 12 to 18 years, sizes 6,7, 8,17 s. 9d.
all sizes.
No. 904—GIRLS’ WARM WINTER
SERGE PALETOTS. Navy and Red—
No. 9591—GIRLS’ CREAM MOHAIR
REEFER JACKETS, for Girls 5 to 14yrs.
Sizes 12 3 45678
14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6 21/6
No. 2821—GIRLS’ WARM WINTER
REEFER JACKETS, for Girls 5 to 14yrs.
Sizes 12345678
8/6 9/3 10/- 10/9 11/6 12/3 13/- 13/9
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


uniT
and other
SKINS;
A 'so BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE,
Winchcombe, Carson & Co.,
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
send to
Ltd.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape - BOOKS.
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
East, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How-
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron. 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is;
postl/3. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/- ; post 1/3. Manning’s
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipst For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
Is. 3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3 Merrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
{3f“ AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FREE.
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted*
This Picture Puzzle represents a Lion and liis
Keeper—Find the Face of the Keeper, and return to
us with your name and address, and we will give a
genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free; only one answer is
allowed. We make this marvellous offer to advertise our
Mending Tissue. Mending Tissue is an article used for mak-
ing invisible patches and repairing clothing, gloves, furs, or any article of cotton, wool, silk,
linen, &c. It will hem any cloth much quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A
boon to bachelors. To all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 12 sample packages of
Mending Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated, we
require you to collect, from each person, with whom you leave a sample, 6d. (half the selling
price of same). You then return us the money, and for this service we give Free, and in
addition to the Fountain Pen, Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments,
Silver Ware, Purses, Bags, Dinner Sets, &c. This is at least worth investigating. It costs
nothing to try, and you take no risk. We simply ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us
your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send you the 12 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according
to instructions and we will send you, Free, the prize you choose. Could anything be fairer?
This great offer is only open for a limited time. We will only accept answers from those who
did not answer our previous puzzle.
Write at once. THE GPTTA PEItCHA TRADING CO.. 120 Ash St., Sydney.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
| a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
} Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
i Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels Skin and Vid™™
U f r o l d MeanB- -A here is no doubt that, where it has been taken intheSiest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness 4
CAUTION. Examine the Capsule and see that it is m a Thai EEO'S % "FTtTTTT
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION.
SA it;
Prepared only by J. C.ENO Ltd ~‘FRUIT! SALT ’ WORKS London,
b.e., Eng., by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
’ X * C> DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES
The Best Brands Only of
SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, <fcc.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Freel
2-ft. High.
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL, CTD CE" I I
OR H BOY’S RIFLE " r\ EL CL ■ >
The Life-sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks,brown eye-, and represented with flesh-coloure i body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of best material rapid in its action, and
ccin ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WATCH
CHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the monev tJ/», ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents —a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and vve will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return,
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, m Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
/
Boy’s Rif e
CD. TAILOR-MADE O D
D CORSETS. W D
Aro the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
2-4
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands cf
women that here is a' type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty In procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to:
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS (8b CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE; 16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY;
and BRISBANE.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
DINNEFOR
D’S
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician's
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA
Does Residence Abroad
tend to Deterioration
SI of the Hair? i
have been spent in the Colonfes suffe? vLrv S ° Ut ° f ten those whose lives
hair degeneration. Compare the avlrage held nf'h* ( rom prions forms of
dweller in the British Isles, and you will find i? f ‘J 16 Colonist with that of the
hair more abundant, and also that the scalD
rarely met with in the home country. Extremes of i lc ,l? n °j S d , e f re , es of hair deterioration
less settled habits of life, have all a more or less an( J < t°i ’ °hangesof temperature,
conditions; and both men and women alike are l" ®u e? lce in producing these
WhXr regirded 0 f f rom n a da soc an , d h h ealthy , ofhair° dlstressin 8 and marrin «
neglected hair is nothing more f SS po * nt . of view, unhealthy or
r "t° ta ke prompt and efficacious measures and , lt Proves anyone so
re-vitalising of such a prominent feature S *° r the stren^tlieni ng, preserving, and
>
m
Scanty locks resulting from Colonial life
can be avoided. J
Yet, in the case of both women
and men, what is generally done?
I here is either a total indifference
or neglect of the hair, or an injudi-
cious resort to doubtful methods of
resuscitation. Generally speaking,
apathy is the more pronounced.
It cannot be too well known that
all weak hair conditions, all lack of
hair urility, all form of hair disease
F. an ,P® remedied by the adoption of
the Harlene ” treatment.
Edwards’ “Harlene” is the
greatest of all hair tonics and
... restoratives, and no matter whether
hair is patchy, falling out, brittle, lustreless you are or grey, whether your
upon to renew all the former healthiness abi’m^ y ° r § reas y' , lf can be implicitly relied
Edwards' Harlene ”is the popular « an ? g 0 lo ° ks of ‘he hair.
all iuaireL !, froS*hal?d“a“nd wSn“?Sfd f b r ‘’“■’■'“'“■'S' are wishful that
s 55SS KSSS
Afterwards you can purchase -


*
"*t
Eft
j;
T
T\
1
K-'
Wealth of
hair is wealth
indeed, espe-
I dally to a wo-
' man. If your
hair falls out, is
too thin, or is los-
ing its color, use
yiiier’d
Jiair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff,
and will give you thick, long,
glossy, and beautiful hair.
Accept no substitute. Be
sure you get Ayer’s Hair
Vigor, and preserve the rich-
ness and luxuriance of your
hair to an advanced period
of life.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
la allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
If uot perfectly satisfactory. Bighest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
MODELS £3 010 to £9
Coaster Hnbs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Brakes, variable gears
and all iates. improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
• nTIIIC APCMTO wanted in each district.
HU I IVC HuCli I O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and onr tvedal offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., Dept. 280 Liverpool.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
“ SCOTT’S Emulsion has put new
life into my son Sydney, aged 13. He
has always suffered with his throat and
chest, but since taking SCOTT’S his
cough has entirely gone, he has been
quite free from nasty chills, and looks
bright and
well
I had no difficulty in getting him to
take SCOTT’S and he is now quite
fond of it.” (Mrs.) M. GRANT,
43 Merriman Street, Millers Point, Sydney, N.S.W.
21/9/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why:
SCOTT’S Emulsion is so agreeable that
young people and all delicate palates quickly
grow very fond of it, and at the same time
SCOTT’S Emulsion has been proved by
actual experiment (conducted by medical
men) to be three times more curative, bulk
for bulk, than the plain oil. This is the
result of two causes :
1. The finest quality Lofoten cod liver
oil, of which SCOTT’S is always made.
2. The original perfected SCOTT
process which makes this finest oil perfectly
digestible and pleasant.
No other emulsion possesses these advan-
tages and this is why no other emulsion can
cure throat and chest weakness either so
surely or so fast as SCOT I’S. Therefore,
when purchasing, don’t ask for “ Emulsion
ask for and get
SCOTT’S
EMULSION
—the difference between them means a
cure for you !
See that “ the
Fishman
with the Fish ”
is on the
Package.
Of all
Chemists
and
Dealers
in Medicines.
(gA
IRISH MOSS
GEOROfe^BONNINGTON
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
PuiMn P-f Postage to any Address
■ * ■ ® • ■ in Australia, 2/ 6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price JEI 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
It
\*
y
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL ANP
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSOUITOES. Sols Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Ayunts-Elliot-t Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co.,' Melbourne.
SUFFERED FOR THREE YEARS.
HAD TO PUT ANOTHER. MAN ON TO DO HIS WORK.
BODY BECAME SO DENUDED OF FLESH
THAT CLOTHES HUNG LIKE A SACK.
Clements Tonic
•* LIFTED ME FROM THAT SORRY STATE.**
Mr. Y. BORWICK, Storekeeper, of 286 and 288 Crown Road,
Ultimo, relates his COMPLETE CURE to a Sydney reporter.
“ It is six years ago now since I got all right
again,” Mr. Bor wick remarked, and I think it
was about up to me to have a change of luck, con-
sidering that I had been suffering for fully three
years. The pains that ran along my gums and
reached up to the top of my head were something
terrible, and half my time I did'not know what I
was doing. My adversities set in when I was
“running the plank,” as they call it, on a boat
discharging blue metal, and I can assure you that
I was so broken down in health that I had to put
another man on to do my work about every other
week. Talk about neuralgia. lam sure nobody
could have it worse than I had, and as I found
such'a grand cure for it, the least I can do is to let
humanity know all about it, for I daresay my ex-
perience will prove very helpful. Well, out of all
the medicines I tried to cure neuralgia, the only
one that was of any lasting benefit was Clements
Tonic, and when I say that after keeping going
with that remedy for a few weeks the fearful
pains all left me, and have never returned all these
years, it is the honest truth I am telling you.”
“ Is that the only ailment you have had ?”
“Indeed, no. All the time the neuralgia tor-
tures were at me I had other troubles to deal
with, for my digestion was just as bad as it could
be. Both from want of appetite, and also owing
to the pains about my jaws, eating was almost out
of the question ; but what was still more unfortu-
nate was the fact that the little I did force myself
to take to keep body and soul together had the
unhappy habit of disagreeing with me. And you
must remember that I was getting no sleep.
Neither night nor day—for weeks at a stretch
sometimes—could I get any rest, and, as you may
well imagine, the result was disastrous. I got so
terribly weak that ultimately I had to give up my
work altogether, and my body was so denuded of
flesh that my clothes hung about me like a sack.
Indeed, I was just going to have some of them
altered about the time that I started on Clements
Tonic, and by some means or other the idea was
shelved for a while, for which I was afterwards
very glad, as in a few months I was as stout as
ever. Yes; it was quite a matter for regular
comment how well I was looking, and, thank
God, I felt well, too. For three years
previous to using Clements Tonic I was nothing
but a total wreck, for every part of my body
was adversely affected in some way or other. It
was my first experience of indigestion, and I sin-
cerely trust it will be my last, for I would rather
be dead and out of the world altogether than go
through such misery again. I got to feel as shaky
and uncomfortable as if everything in my
inside was going to pieces, and was so disturbed
and unsettled mentally that the least thing made
,me irritable. My eyes always felt heavy and
swollen to such an extent that I could scarcely see
to read, and I felt so discontented and restless
that I could not stay indoors. Consequently, I
often wandered about outside, hardly knowing
what to do with myself, feeling as though death
would be a thousand times more welcome than the
wretched life I was leading, for I was in agony
everywhere. The pains in my chest were really
cruel, and I thought I had strained myself or
broken something between my shoulders owing to
the pain that was there. It was like getting hold
of a piece of meat, and tearing it in two—that was
the kind of feeling I had between the shoulders,
and my loins ached badly into the bargain.”
“And have you never had a return of any of
those symptoms during the past six years ? ”
“No; upon my honor; and I have not had
that nasty bulged-out feeling in the stomach
either after eating my food. No, Clements Tonic
removed everything, even to the bitter taste of a
morning, and the fur that used to cover my
tongue, besides which it gave me permanent
relief from the many attacks of giddiness that I
had previously been subjected to. How much my
nerves accounted for the misery I had endured is
hard to say definitely, but they undoubtedly had
their fair share of responsibility, for I must tell
you that I was so highly nervous that I could not
stand the least excitement without getting all of
a tremble, and I had also contracted an uncon-
trollable practice of measuring the future with
nothing but trouble and worry in store. All I
could see before me was a continuance of my suf-
fering, only to be added to my misfortunes of
other descriptions, and now that you understand
the gloomy frame of mind I was in, you will
readily conceive why I speak so highly of Clements
Tonic for lifting me from the sorry state to the
happy and healthy condition I am now blessed,
with.'’
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, VICTOR BORWICK, of No. 286-288 Crown Road, Ultimo in the State of New h Wales, CommonwealtK,
of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed doc i » p K f
folios and consecutively numbered from one to five, and that it contains and is at T u .® R , statements—
illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to pub ish in any w. y ny statements
which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and ' n ;? ke . t f l ® *°' eIII "„‘ i^: VICTORBORWICK X
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of, the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900. (Sgd. >V C .
Subscribed and declared at Ultimo this twenty-tbird day of August, one thousand and
before m«.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Beauty.
Shy beauty of the virgin bush, she won me with a
glance—
A glance, and more or less of grace
(And then, there was her face !)
She looked at me, and forthwith smiled, nor
scorned my warm advance ;
And soon I had her promise true, and kissed her
tenderly;
But, when I spoke of divers rings
And different stones and things,
She said, “ 00, di’monds, half-hoop style, is good
enough fer me ! ”
“Say emeralds, sweet!” I softly urged with all
my lover’s art,
And see in them, dear lady mine,
In their green depths, a sign
Of young love, burgeoning within my green and
gentle heart!
Or, if not emeralds, dear, perhaps an opal rain,
bowy, >
Flashing with purple, crimson, blue,
All merrily, for you ! ”
She grinned and said, “00, di’mond rings flash
good enough fer me ! ”
The sunshine decked her yellow hair with points
of burning gold,
And, as we wandered hand-in-hand
Across the gorgeous land,
I said, “ P’r’aps rubies would not look —you know,
so hard and cold.”
(Pearl-splendors, shimmering white, from out a
distant tropic sea,
Were just a bit beyond my range)
Her smile was slow and strange
As, shy, she said, “00, di’monds’ll be good
enough fer me ! ”
We wandered through the lonely bush, my arm
about her waist,
And she annexed me hard and fast
Before the day had passed,
And gave me points on makeshift German goods,
cut-glass, and paste —
And as she wreathed her naked arms, like creepers
round a tree,
About my neck, she smiled—and smiled
A smile both strange and wild,
And sighed, “00, ye-es! A di’mond ring’s quite
nice enough fer me ! ”
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
At Lunch.
Bother that waitress, she chatters,
Anything does for a theme ;
“ Hurry up, miss, with the platters ! ”
Deuce take the girl, she’s a-dream !
“ Fillet of ! ” “ Peaches and cream ! ”
Patience is routed and scatters ;
Frowsy old buffers blaspheme,
“Bother that waitress, she chatters ! ”
Old gent in picturesque tatters
Searches for bones in a bream,
Clerk in new walking coat flatters—
Anything does for a theme ! .
Out in the kitchen a scream,
Crockery smashes and clatters —
Something at least to redeem ;
“ Hurry up, miss, with the platters?”
Lunchers are madder than hatters,
Patience is at its extreme ;
What in the world is it matters ?
“Deuce take the girl, she’s a-dream ! ”
Thridding the tables she patters—
turtle, a-steam.
Entrees and souffles and batters—
The chef is a monarch supreme !
Bother that girl, she’s a-dream !
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
How Drift the Sands!
The hopes of Him—the Pioneer,
They rose and swelled with every breeze;
For every prospect shone as clear
As Luna’s face on moonlit seas;
In every breath that stirred the trees
He saw the sway of bending grain,
He saw—and dreamt of laughing leas—
How drift the sands of yonder plain !
He smiled at first at every fear,
But fears they grew by slow degrees,
As seasons grim came year by year,
And caused his hopes to fail and freeze ;
No prayer availed from bended knees,
Nor yet his daily toil and pain.
Nor yet his nights devoid of ease—
How drift the sands of yonder plain !
It was not his to shed the tear
Nor wail aloud in Misery’s keys;
His simple soul held Manhood dear
And could not play such tricks as these;
The angry skies whom nought could pleas
They drove him fiercely forth again—
Could nought their bitter wrath appease ?
How drift the sands of yonder plain !
The desert wind in fury flees,
And madly lifts a fierce refrain ;
And, with the hum of billion bees,
How drift the sands of yonder plain !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


15
n
%
o
c>
f~S~W
WUNDERLICH
@(&ART METAL & '&
CEILINGS
ORIGINATED BY EXPERT DESIGNERS.
Modelled by first-class Artists « «
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists
Erected by competent Tradesmen «
Decorated by skilled Colorists • •
Who arc thoroughly conversant with
the many Varied Forms of Artistic
Effort Classic and Modern. •• «
Write for Illustrated Catalogue.
W6e XD underlie‘Patent
SYDNEY: 56 PITT ST.
Veiling § Roofing (Boy., Istd.,
MELBOURNE: 123 QUEEN ST.
ECKERSLEY'S
EUCALYPTUS
Purest dt Strongest
Analyst e Certificate
on Every Bottle.
Mail us your order direct for a 16 ounce bottle of
ECKERSLEY’S EUCALYPTUS. You get double the
strength and eight times the quantity of oil contained in
ordinary bottle (16 ounces).
Posted all over Australia for 3s. 3d.
ECKERSLEY (EL SONS,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
FIELD-G
WITH
ENHANCED
Distance between
Oculars.
STEREOSCOPIC
EFFECT.
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL
SPORT.
STALKING.
Features
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision.
Stability.
Tropic Proof.
increased
distance between Objectives.
Obtainable NEW MODELS,
from all CARL ZEISS, JENA.
Opticians ENGLISH BRANCH—29, Margaret St.,
Regent St., London, England.
New
Catalogue
T 78
Post Free.
English Watches
Prize Awards- London 1851, Paris 1889,
London IB6Z, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 189/
Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH, j
I
HAMS
DON
ROTHE
LON
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue
JVEVER f/Ui_ s
HEAD OFFICE - MUTUAL LIFE BIHLDIHQ / MARHN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
/ all cyclists the world over
Sole makers :
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
Of all Dealers.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisbane.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
ms
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers:
If you cannot get
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile 'reduced) of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
SBBTB IJLS
HOTEL
HETROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay>
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may bo secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Managkb.
$
c
1
AVENARIUS
Prevents White Ants, destroys dry rot.
and doubles the life of all timber.
ALL STOREKEEPERS.
Wholesale t E. RICH & CO..
Ltd., Sydney & Brisoane*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 29.—N0. 1470.
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 1908.
Prick 6d
FEDERAL POLITICS AS THEY STOOD LAST WEEK.
On the night when the vote re the Federal Capital site was to have been taken the House of Representativ es was switched oil on to a row
about the alleged want of ventilation in some post office presses, and since then all has been like the above.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Thk Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobeaddressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Hon) to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Thk Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay * and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing ivith Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is foi'warded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in. ltlach and. White.
Anyone supplying to Thk Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Lndgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
U.S.A. —Jones News Co., New Orleans, Lo.’
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. — Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
7Re~^xxHeiz7i.
THURSDAY, APRIL 16, 1908.
AUSTRALASIA’S SHOCKING EXAMPLE.
It is sometimes good for a country to keep a
Horrible Example on the premises, always pro-
vided. that it profits by the Horrible Example.
In that way Tasmania does a service to the Com-
monwealth. Tasmania represents Toryism in the
most aged and decrepit form that it has assumed
in this locality, and the poverty and stagnation
that come of Toryism are its reward. It is to
Australia what Turkey or Portugal is to Europe—
the place that tells us what, but for Providence
and good fortune, we might ourselves have been.
In this respect it (and Victoria in a less,degree)
answers the same purpose as the opium-eater and
the confirmed drunk. Old Toryism, the dead
weight of land monopoly, an incurable respect for
‘‘vested interests,” a yearning after the bogus
flesh-pots of Private Enterprise, an Upper
House that sits like 20cwt. of damp
clod on the chest of progress, a craving
after Freetrade, and cheap labor, and old tradi-
tions, and squires, and such-like, and a slow-going
press that urges the sleepy community to beware
of hasty legislation, even as it might urge a snail
not to gallop—these are the earmarks of the island.
Tasmania wants somebody halfway between a
Mirabeau and a Kingston to shake it out of its
apathy.
• * • *
Providence has been fairly good to Tasmania.
It has a fine rainfall, and a healthy climate, and a
fertile soil, as soils go in Australasia. Last year
it raised 1986 bushels of wheat to every 100 acres
that its big landlords allowed it to cultivate, while
the best mainland crop (that of N.S.W.) was 1170
bushels. It raised 3560 bushels of oats per 100
acres, while Queensland had the best mainland
record with 2337 bushels. It grew 2663 bushels of
barley per 100 acres, while Victoria topped the
Australian record with 2377. It grew 544 tons of
potatoes and 161 of hay per 100 acres, while
N.S.W. showed 310 tons of potatoes and Queens-
land had 146 of hay—these being the best results
Australia could boast of. And that was when
the mainland was enjoying a really good year.
Australia has many bad years while Tasmania
has none. In 1902-3, for instance, Tasmania’s
wheat crop was per acre more than ten times the
Australian average. Yet it was the Cinderella
among the States all the while. Nothing seems
to get Tasmania out of the Cinderella habit.
*** 4 *
And in other ways Tasmania is no mean country
if its rulers and its foolish old traditions would
give it a fair chance. It produces per inhabitant
a far greater value in minerals than Australia or
Maoriland does. It has great timber resources.
Its capital stands beside the second finest —if not
the finest—harbor in the Commonwealth. It was
settled very early, and had many years’ start of
Victoria, Queensland, S.A., Westralia, or Maori-
land. It is commonly regarded as a small place,
yet its area is 26,215 square miles ; therefore it is
nearly the size of Scotland, is almost as large as
Holland and Belgium put together, and is almost
twice the size of Denmark or Switzerland. A
State of these inches has no reason to
think it doesn’t possess a future. Yet in
density of population it is far exceeded
by Victoria and Maoriland; and N. S. Wales—
though N.S.W. could wipe off almost all the
country west of the Darling as a bad debt, so far
THE SNOWY RIVER.
Above Dalgety, the selected Capital of Australia.
Photo, by Kerry & Co., 310 George-street, Sydney.
as population goes—is rapidly catching it up. In
fact, every mainland State is moving ahead in the
matter of population—even Victoria, with its
landlord-cursed Western District, progresses—
while Tasmania stagnates, or retrogrades.
The latest available figures for the fertile island
are sorrowful. In 1898, the area under crop was
258,542 acres; in 1906, it was down to 244,744
acres. It has shown spasmodic increases and
spasmodic decreases for half-a-century, but though
there has been improvement, on the whole it has
been a very humble sort of improvement. Indeed,
the Year Book of Australia estimates the
area under wheat in 1907 at only half that of 1851.
The population at 30th June, 1907, was reckoned
up as less than that of 1902. The principal recorded
years of decrease of population in Tasmania have
been 1827, 1837, 1839, 1852, 1854, 1869, 1875, 1904,
and 1907 ; but the real trouble has been, not the
few years of actual decrease, but the many years
when the increase amounted to about a dozen, or
50, or 100 people all told. As for the years when
departures from this thinly-peopled but fertile isle
exceeded arrivals, Tasmania began to publish
figures on this subject in 1847, and the outward
TWOFOLD BAY.
The port of Dalgety, the selected Capital of Australia.
movement began in 1851, and has been fairly
steady ever since. Tasmania’s total trade per
head is the smallest in the Commonwealth. Its
revenue per head is the smallest in the Common-
wealth. Its capital city, despite the unrivalled
harbor at its feet, is the smallest in the Common-
wealth. It is notoriously a low-wage State—
the average of wages and salaries in the
island is the bottom record of the Commonwealth.
It is the State of all others that the enterprising
youth wants to get away from early and to stay
away from long. Yet at the latest computation
of the private wealth of Australasia, Tasmania,
with all its poverty, showed more wealth per head
than any other State of the Commonwealth. Its
trouble was that a bigger proportion of its wealth
was represented by the unimproved value of land
than in any other State. The man with only
£lO,OOO of actual capital, but with brains and
energy and opportunity, may drive along a manu-
facturing business that employs 100 men, and
maintains, directly and indirectly, perhaps 600
people ; and he may distribute immense sums in
wages, and keep a busy little town on the run,
and be the main support of a church and a branch
bank, and a school of arts, and many other things.
And the Tory squire person, with a long useless
pedigree and £lOO,OOO worth of rich land, may sit
down hard on his dignity, and give a steady job
to half-a-dozen ill-paid employees at most. It
is the Tory disease, and the squire and big
estate and sitting down diseases, and the old
traditionary complaint that make Tasmania the
poorest State in Australasia, while Providence
has made it the richest.
* * * *
Tasmania’s trouble is the existence of a sordid,
unpatriotic and immovable property-elected Upper
House which blocks all progress, and keeps the
island a mere dead institution. The Upper
House has to choose between big estates—huge,
uncultivated, ill-managed areas, which serve
chiefly to feed the vulgar pride of big
landed magnates —or the men and women
who are made in God’s image. Caring much
for grass, and nothing at all for God, it sets its
face against every attempt to break up the big
estates, and to turn Tasmania into a busy land of
prosperous towns and of small, independent
landholders, each cultivating his own bit of
soil. The Tasmanian Upper House is the
immovable representative of the sauirearchical
idea. Apart from revolution, the Australian Parlia-
ment is the only power that can shift the Tas-
manian squire and the dreadful big landlord of
the Victorian Western District, and it is in the
hope that the Australian Parliament will move in
this matter that Australia possesses its soul in
comparative patience. If the Australian Parlia-
ment levies a graduated land-tax, so heavy as to
make the holding or the acquisition of big estates
just plain ruin, there is no reason why Tasmania,
in addition to checking the ruinous outflow of its
own people, should not presently be advertising
in the United Kingdom for 50,000 immigrants to
come and people its waste spaces. There is also no
reason why Hobart should not be a greater
city than Amsterdam, or why Launceston should
not outshine Brussels. And when these things
come to pass the Tasmanian capitalist, who now
has much land but little income, will be a man
with little land and much income, and will marvel
at the ancient stupidity which once made him
think that the way to prosperity was to make his
island a desert. If there is any State in Aus-
tralasia which should have realised by this time
that Toryism and stagnation don’t pay, it is
Tasmania.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
J. C. Watson’s Capital.
The speech of J. C. Watson on the Federal capi-
tal site, unless he was shamefully misreported,
was an effort that was wholly unworthy of the
Watson that this country used to know. Nowa-
days the ex-Labor leader is a wildly reckless and
fairly unreliable barracker for the Canberra capi-
tal site, which he views from a purely State stand-
point, and some of the things he said in his advo-
cacy were worthy of Bruce Smith in his wildest
moments of pro-nigger fury. For instance, he is
reported as stating that
There were published pictures of the Snowv River
above Dalgety, but the advocates of that site were care
kept o\it°of sSht! any ° f Da,gety itself - That Place was
The gibe was a silly one at best, for it is not pro-
posed to place the capital exactly where Dalgetv
now stands, therefore the actual township bf
Dalgetv has nothing to do with the case. But the
gibe wasn t even plain ordinary accuracy. The
very first picture of The Bulletin series
(6/2/’08) represented Dalgety bridge just at the
township, and three weeks later it published
photo of the township itself, which photo Mr
Watson has possibly seen. In view of this fact
the argument was a poor, unworthy affair. The
person who refused to produce a picture of
Dalgety was not any advocate of that site, but
that eminent Canberra-ite, N.S.W. State Premier
Wade. As regards Canberra’s water supply Mr
Watson enthused over the vast quantities of fluid
which there would be in Barren Jack reservoir
a fair number of miles away. But he
didn’t draw attention to the fact that
Barren Jack would be on State territory, and its
contents would be exclusively State water, and
that water is intended for the irrigation of ex-
clusively State ground. Neither Reid nor Wat-
son nor anybody else offered a guarantee that, if
the Australian Parliament were foolish enough’ to
plant its capital at Canberra and rely on Barren
Jack as a reserve fund, the State Government
would allow it to take even a pint of water from
the big reservoir. And without that assurance
the argument was a case of political false pre-
tences. He also forgot to state that Mr. Car-
rutheks had declared the Murrumbidgee water
which will fill Barren Jack reservoir, unfit
for human consumption. The bleak climate of
Dalgety, as compared with the Italian soft-
ness of Canberra’s beautiful atmosphere, was
dealt upon at great length, yet the two degrees
difference in the winter temperature of the two
places doesn’t seem to justify all that whoop.
Then Watson almost wept about the alleged
£1,250,000 it would cost the Victorians to carry
their railway from Bairnsdale to Dalgety, and
declared that “no through traffic would go that
way,” and he asked wildly “was this railway to
be built just to take a few members of Parliament
to the capital ?” Yet Watson has no reason to
care, and probably doesn’t care, whether Victoria
spends £1,250,000 of its own money on the East
Gippsland railway or not; and he is probably
aware that the railway isn’t intended to carry “ a
few members of Parliament,” but to carry
on the general trade of East Gippsland;
and he is doubtless aware that, if through
trade bound for Brisbane can climb 4400 ft.
over Ben Lomond, and if traffic can get
up nearly 2500 ft. to Canberra, the 2650 ft. to
Dalgety can’t be an insuperable obstacle.
Further, Watson declared, according to the
S. M. Herald report, that the statement that
water would have to be pumped to Canberra over
hills hundreds of feet high was an absolute fabri-
cation. This simply shows his ignorance of the
situation of Cotter Creek. The report of N.S.W.
engineer E. M. de Burgh, of September, 1907,
ordered by the Senate to be printed (Nov. 21,
1907), submitted two alternative plans. One,’
which would convey water from a reservoir miles
above the junction of the Cotter with the Murrum-
bidgee, was condemned because it entailed pump-
ing water through a steel pipe for a distance of 45
miles. The scheme finally recommended by Mr.
de Burgh was a pumping scheme “to impound
2,688,000,000 gallons, with a maximum depth of
130 ft. and top-of-water level of 1684 ft. Proposed
to erect at the dam pumps capable of lifting
5,830,670 gallons per day six days a week through
a main 27in. in diameter, and 3| miles in length,
to an auxiliary service reservoir, situated at level
2100 ft.” This means, as water is always pumped
from near the bottom of a reservoir, that Canberra
water, according to the recommended scheme,
would have to be pumped nearly 546 ft. to the
auxiliary service reservoir. Altogether Watson’s
speech was a poor, angry, illogical piece of special
pleading, quite unworthy of the man—or the man
that used to be.
The Great Smith Railway.
The interesting and frock-coated Bruce Smith,
advocating Canberra as an Australian capital, and
holding forth about the unsuitability of Dalgety
(though he admitted that he had seen neither
place), made some memorable and w'orld-shaking
remarks. The world-shakingest of his observa-
tions were probably these :
Dalgety would mean a trip from Melbourne equal to
the time taken to go to Newcastle, and he did not look
upon the line via Bairnsdale as within the bounds of pos-
sibility.
Here The Bulletin stops to ask Mr. B. Smith
if all this weeping about Victoria isn’t a silly and
unmanly piece of pretence ? Not only Smith but
various other members lamented about the alleged
or bogus or imaginary or sham sufferings that Vic-
torian members and other bad characters would
have to undergo to get to a Federal city beside the
Snowy River. They professed that consideration
for oppressed Victorians was one of their great
reasons for opposing Dalgety. Yet, with this
same class of people, the other principal cry and
lamentation against Dalgety is that all the Vic-
torian members favor it, and that it is, in a general
way, a Victorian Conspiracy. These things seem
like a miserable mixture of hypocrisies that ought
to be sorted out. And the other outstanding
example of the great Smith intellect is the assur-
ance of Bruce that he doesn’t look on the line via
Bairnsdale as within the bounds of possibility.
This makes one wonder whether Smith should see
i doctor, or a clergyman, or an engineer. Pro-
oably the engineer is the man he should see. The
problem of the line from Bairnsdale to Dalgety,
to complete the route to Melbourne, is a simple
matter of building 169 miles of railway by
the shortest route, or 216 by the longest.
In that distance the line will have
to climb 2600 ft. The N.S.W. Western
line climbs 3658 ft. in 88 miles; the N.S.W.
northern line climbs 3469 ft. between Wingen and
Llangothlin (188 miles); the N.S.W. southern
line climbs 2357 ft. in 91 miles. On all these rail-
ways express trains are run, and these railways
have proved quite within the bounds of possibility.
The line from Dalgety to Bairnsdale (Vic.) via
Bondi (216 miles, of which 147 lie in Victoria) has
been surveyed, and the official estimate is that it
would cost £4500 per mile (or not much more than
one-third the average cost of the existing N.S.W.
lines), so easy is the gradient. When a man like
Smith tries to assure the public that he is in favor
of the unpromising Canberra capital, not because
of parochial selfishness and greed, but because
of his sympathy for the poor Victorians who,
if the Federal city were planted beside
the ever-flowing Snowy, would have to build
an absolutely impossible railway, it is calculated
to make this country sick and ashamed of one at
least of its representatives. And when N.S.W.
remembers that, for nearly 15 years, part of the
control of its railway construction business was in
the hands of a man who is apparently so ignorant
that he regards a cheap, simple work like this (a
cheaper work than any part of the line from
Sydney to Albury) as “not within the bounds of
possibility,” it has reason to believe that it had a
great escape. Such a person as Smith seems
capable of regarding the William-street (Sydney)
tram-line as outside the limits of human capacity
on account of the mountainous nature of the
country.


The Six Men Who Met in a Small Room
and Made a Secret Agreement.
All through the debate on the question of the
site of the Australian capital there arose persist-
ently the ghost of the Secret Agreement made by
the Six Men in the Small Room. It is now nearly
ten years since this disquieting scrap of paper was
created to be a curse in Australian politics. The
first Federal Referendum had just been taken,
and each of the States which dealt with the
question had accepted the original Constitution.
But the N.S.W. State Parliament, by an amazing
breach of faith, annulled the popular acceptance,
and then it was that the six Premiers met in a
room to maul and paw the deed of union drafted
by the people’s representatives, and to make
alterations in it. They made sundry small
changes, and one big one which has
made trouble ever since. They disqualified all
Queensland, Victoria, Tasmania, S.A., Westralia
and the Northern Territory as possible sites for
the Federal capital, and fixed that it must be in
N.S.W. but not within 100 miles of Sydney. All
the rest of the State, from Tenterfield to Albury
and from Sil verton to the sea, was left available as a
possible site, but that one bit was barred. That
was the agreement put before the people as a new
clause of the Constitution, and the people accepted
it. But in addition it seems that the six Premiers
—Braddon (deceased), Dickson (deceased), King-
ston (very sick, though still in Parliament),
Turner (out of politics), Forrest and Reid (in
politics, but out of office), signed a memo wherein
they expressed the idea that the capital should be
within “ a reasonable distance of Sydney.” This
view of the case wasn’t put in the Constitution ;
the people were never consulted about it; very
few ever heard of it; and even such a common
and popular work of reference as the Year Book
of Australia had no mention of it in its report
of the proceedings. The memo was practically
buried in oblivion till 1904 or 1905, when Joseph
Carruthers found it in a pigeon-hole somewhere.
And it appeared that, until then, even the Sydney
daily press didn’t know of it, for one Sydney
morning publication spoke quite wildly when it was
brought out of its hole, and said it threw an en-
tirely new light on the position. Yet ever since
then the advocates of a capital that would be prac-
tically a suburb of Sydney, and a means of
swelling the already disproportionately bloated
population of Australia’s biggest city, have pro-
fessed to regard the document gravely, as some-
thing that must be held as sacred as if it were part
of the Constitution, and as an agreement binding
upon 4,000,000 people. The vast majority of these
people never heard of it ; none of them, bar the
six, accepted it, and none of them ever got a
chance of voting upon it. No one dared to attempt
to put it in the Constitution. No one dares now to
propose that the people should be asked to vote
on an amendment of the Constitution with a view
to the inclusion of the statement that the capital
must be within a “reasonable’ distance of Syd-
ney. The men who signed the memo had no
authority to make secret bargains behind the
backs of'the people, and the people are no more
bound by their scrap of paper and the expression
of their private views than W. Kelly, M.H.R.,
is bound to pay the bills of »T. C. Watson,
M.H.R. The men who signed the document
made no attempt to define a “ reasonable ” dis-
tance, and in these days, when motor cars run
from Pekin to Paris, reasonable distances are
very large things. Of the signatories to
the document who are still in Parliament
Kingston and Forrest say that Monaro
is a “ reasonable ” distance from Sydney,
and only George Reid says it isn’t. George
Turner is out of politics, and doesn t seem to say
anything. Therefore, the balance of evidence,
even from the men who wrote the memo, is that
it doesn’t bar Dalgety as a capital. Yet, amaz-
ing as it may seem, this scrap of paper is one of
the chief weapons of the people who aim at a
purely suburban capital. With ineffable im P u :
dence they demand that it should be regarded
as law, and be viewed as a binding agree-
ment entered into by the people of Australia ;
and that the word “ reasonable ” in its text should
be held to be what they say is “ reasonable and
nothing else. Probably no such utterly unimportant
bit of paper ever made so much trouble in Aus-
tralia before, or was put to so many unscrupulous
uses.
-♦
The Federal Capital.
A letter from “ Indaba ” :
Whv not, I ask in all seriousness, select a site for the
Federal Capital in the Northern Territory? .
I have never yet been able to discover wherein Aus-
tralia, as a whole, would benefit by yet another capital
within the coastal belt upon a (comparatively speaking)
well-settled section of this continent. An adequate water
supply, an equable climate and picturesque scenery
appear to be the chief, if not the only, advantages urged
in favor of the several sites suggested. The disadvantages,
so acrimoniously insisted upon, have been a rabid fear
lest one or other of the localities should unduly benefit
either Melbourne or Sydney at the expense of er
ne No b thought, so far as I can discover, has ever been
bestowed upon the desirability, or urgency, rather of
selecting a site out in the Great Beyond, where the land
ii crying aloud for population. Yet, in a vague irre-
sponsible, don’t-matter-now tone of voice everyone admits
that the North must be peopled.
“People your North,” said President Roosevelt,
and he sees very clearly from Washington what the man
in Sydney and Melbourne streets cheerfully ignores. The
advice was commented upon by the Australian pre.s for
a brief period, and then placidly consigned to the
SCr At P thep P resent juncture the Australian Government is
endeavoring to formulate a comprehensive defence
scheme : but, I submit, the most important phase < Df any
effective defence scheme is the question—how to preserve
the North from a possible invasion of Asiatics. JNot
necessarily an armed invasion ; but
influx which might be even more difficult to eope with.
The influx, it is conceivable, might come abo " t ‘ hrOUgh
treaty rights which I do not purpose to dwell upon
It will of course, be urged that the climate in the Nor
them Territory ifso unsuitable that no further point is
that of many Asiatic centres that are f * h f ° Ft ance Or
with whites-say Hong Kong or“f Isthn ius,
now being turnedtnto a gooTcltmatei Amen-
populating of our Far North is to us. the money
wo?ld™ wSnnKd!' AwWK™
should be worth paying a high price for. af £ er fche
Aninvading army would appear artisans> and
with munitions of war—but of ’ e t 0 conquer
laborers equipped w'ith implements o p
nature and develop her resources. . . opening-
It would be useless speculating upon what rimopemn^
up and exploiting of the f ar North nsid erable population,
it did no more than maintain a consiw ,|- ect
the scheme tyould have attained its primary b) t {ar
Details such as the Seat of W^“ e ™ o^0 g taie n t e d
distant from populous centril s /® 1 “ times of wire-
upon for the reason that, in these scie &re nea ,. er
less telegraphy, light railway li , > t 0 our
the Gulf Country than our fathers in bjuney
unties in Melbourne.
Papua.
More is being made of the “ Papuan land scan-
dals ” than the circumstances justify. There has
not been any actual dishonesty, no “boodle” or
“ corruption ” ; but the lax and demoralised state
into which the civil service has been allowed to
drift under the past regime is being made mani-
fest by grave acts of official impropriety. In
brief, these are the facts. Officials of the Lands
Department considered they had the right, in
common with the general public, of taking up
land for use or speculation. Obviously that idea
was based on a mistaken sense of official responsi-
bility. If it were correct, the outside members of the
public would possibly find themselves at a grave
disadvantage in securing land, for on searching
out blocks and applying for them, they might find
that Lands officers put in applications over their
heads. This question being raised, it was made
clear that Lands officers had not the right to take
up land. But a trace of doubt, it appears, was
still left as to whether they had the right to
be members of syndicates applying for land. It is
extraordinary that this should have been so ; ordi-
nary common-sense should have suggested that
what Jones-Smith could not properly do as
Jones-Smith, he likewise could not do by bringing
in Brown-Green, and the two calling themselves a
syndicate. But it was so ; and one Lands official
has been suspended, and the position of other
officials is under inquiry. The Bulletin does
not wish to palliate any official misconduct in this
matter. There cannot be too rigid a standard ot
honesty insisted upon in public affairs. But it
is well to keep in mind that the Lands
scandals” in Papua are not any outgrowth of
the new Australian administration, but a legacy
of the previous disorganised regime,
Robbing the Country.
The Victorian wheat-harvest figures for 1907-8
are out, and they tell the old story. The season
was a good deal of a failure ; the total crop was
12 100,780 bushels, compared with 22,018,04.3
bushels in 1906-7, and the average was 6'55 bushels
per acre instead of 11T3. But it was only in the
far-back districts that the crop failed—and failed
so badly as to affect the whole average in the way
just specified. There is no other county in Vic-
toria with so large an area under wheat cultiva-
tion as Karkarooc, in the Malice. IniMOft-ji the
average there for 326,998 acres was B !5 bushels
and all was joy—and it was alleged that wiffi
yields like this there wasnt any need for
a land-tax to force open the Western lands .
But last year the late rains that so often don t
come to the Mallee didn’t come—in fact, it seems
on lv an accident when they do come-and down
the" wheat average went to 2'51 bushels. Next
door Tatchera (269,058 acres) has an even more
heart-breaking record ; from nine bushels in the
year, when the accident happened and the late
mfns came, the average fell to L'o2 bushel for the
past year. Between them these two counties
hold nearly one-third of the total area under
wheat cultivation in Victoria- In the well-watered
but landlord-cursed Western district there are
nine counties, and only one of the lot—Ripon
—has enough land under cultivation to be
worth recording in the Government Statist’s
summary ; the others are lumped as “remaining
counties.” But mark how Ripon and “ remain-
ing counties ” fared ! While the men who had
been crowded out into the Mallee districts were
reaping their poor bushel of wilted grain, Ripon
gathered 15'05 bushels, and “remaining counties”
12'86. There was no drought, no disaster in those
favored parts. In fact, the 1907-8 yield was a
shade better than that for 1906-7. Yet, in spite of
the fact that these counties can yield the
biggest crops in the State, and in spite of
the fact that drought is practically unknown
there, farmers are driven out into the Mallee.
It is no use saying that these Mallee men
don’t know the nature of the gamble. They do.
But the only terms upon which they are allowed
to till the Western lands (when they are allowed
to till them at all) are so outrageous, that it pays
them better to “chance things” in the Mallee.
Nature may rob them there of the bulk of two
crops out of three ; but even in this ferocious mood
Nature is kinder than the Western landlord, and
leaves them more for themselves in the end. But
there is another point of view—-that of the
country. What a shocking waste it is, men reap-
ing one crop when they might and should reap
three !
♦
The Vessel that Tipped Up.
In days to come, even after its loss is fully ex-
plained, the N.S.W. steamer Bega, now at the
bottom of the sea, will probably be remembered
as the Ship that Tipped Up. At time of
writing, the manner of its loss hasn’t been officially
investigated, but the current tales are just a
record of remorseless Tipping Up. The ship is said
to have been sound. It was presumably in good
hands. There is no news of a leak ; it is alleged
that the below or inward part of the craft was in-
vestigated when it began to Tip, and that it
proved to be quite dry, barring the usual pint or
two of bilge-water. There are no audible state-
ments about overloading and no definite out-
cries about bad stowage. Whatever was
the cause of the trouble, it wasn’t such
a visible and aggravated cause as to force itself on
the attention of those on board —or rather
of those who have so far given their views to the
public. All they could see or hear or trace was a
fiendish Tipping Up. On a dead calm night,
the Bega seems to have left Tathra on its ear —at
least more or less on its ear. It had come up
from Merimbula in the usual fashion, but at Tathra
the unaccountable ill-luck began. Having once
got on its ear, it seemed that the
luckless vessel couldn’t get off it, or at least it
only got off one ear to get on the other. The
habit of Tipping Up became incurable almost
immediately, and that was the end of the Bega.
The other troubles —the confusion and haste, the
alleged leaky boat, etc.—were, comparatively
speaking, side issues. What the public de-
mands most of all when it goes down to
the sea in ships is that the vessel
won’t Tip Up in calm weather, and without visible
cause. It is disquieting, eerie and unusual, and
suggests the hand of the Devil, shoving hard but
invisibly on one side of the craft. Therefore,
a load will be lifted off the minds of many
people when the cause of the Bega catas-
trophe is fully explained. Leaks and rocks
and storms and shifting of cargo the travel-
ling public can understand ; it knows about being
run down, about collisions with derelicts and
floating timber, about fire and about explosion.
But if it was also liable, apart from all these
things, to be Tipped Up, the sea would acquire a
new and shuddery terror.
♦
Sa-a-lute!
“ F.D.” writes :
Right-hand, Sa-a-lute ! Left-hand, Sa-a-lute ! Sa-a-lute
well and Sa-a-lute often, and so tread the road to good
times and promotion—always remembering that the
would-be promotee’s ambition must not soar to the stars
of a commission, but shall remain content with the non-
com.’s stripes. , , ,
Sa-a-lute! How many thousands of men have been
lost to our citizen defence forces because of Sa-a-lute t
Yet Sa-a-lute has done nothing to justify his existence.
He has never made a good soldier out of a bad one and
will die hard—but he will die, nevertheless.
The Oat was difficult to kill. The wise men said that
without flogging discipline could not be maintained, but
the logic of facts has proved otherwise. The discipline of
the British army and navy has, since the Cat died, been
of the very best—that is, the discipline worth bothering
about, the discipline which makes an army or navy
effective in the face of the enemy. And that is the only
kind of discipline Australia needs.
The officer who needs Sa-a-lute to hold him up had
better go. If he hasn’t got the stuff in him that com-
mands respect he’ll be an expensive officer to Australia.
The sergeant-majors of the forces need no Sa-a-lute to
stiffen them. They can chum with the men one day, and
order them to Hell the next. And, what s more, the
men will go. “The backbone of theA.rmyis the non-
commissioned man,” sings Kipling. No Sa-a-lute for
him, neither does he need it. Nor does the commissioned
officer, but being used to it, he has grown to like it-and
Now y Australia is in for something like universal mili-
tary service—and compulsory at that. Why not shear it
of as many objectionable features as possible-and when
chopping off, chop off Sa-a-lute. More especially the
Sa-a-lute that is expected and demanded when the private
meets the officer at odd times. A Sa-a-lute on duty
during official intercourse is one thing, but quite another
brand is the Sa-a-lute that must be given at every chance
moment when the two parties meet-on the street, at
the railway station, or when Private Brown, with them
all on,” and, having done his day’s drill, is taking his
TS Houses will, when «h.
Defence Bill is under consideration, kll '
dead thev will do two good things. First, they will
make military service more palatable to Australians;
secondly, they will show what a bag of wind Sa-a-lute is
and always was. Right hand Sa-a-lute I Left hand
Sa-a-lute! About turn ! Quick march!
The Same Old Land-Hunger.
During the Compensation Court’s inquiry into
the value of the Konong-Wootong estate, near
Hamilton (Vic.), some rather interesting evidence
was given. This estate is being compulsorily
resumed for closer settlement, and the Court is
sitting to assess its value—in the hope that it
won’t ultimately cost the State more than three
times what it is really worth. Amongst these
witnesses was Thos. H. Laidlaw, auctioneer, old
resident, and Scotchman, and the testimony of
this witness included the following items :
Since 1903 land in the district has risen from 20 to 25
per cent, in value. ... ,
There are many men in the district able and anxious
to buy ; and not a week passes that men from the Wim-
meraare not in my office asking for land. . . .
The Wimmera farmers now in the district have spread
out towards Bolac and Narrapumelap. They have not
had the chance yet of getting on to the better country.
At the present time Hamilton, where Laiduaw
has his headquarters, is completely locked in with
squatters. Hardly any cultivation is done. All
around Hamilton, Pensliurst, and Dunkeld are
huge holdings, where there are nothing but sheep.
From Penshurst to Dunkeld is 18 miles, over a
fine road, and there is one house on the road.
There was once a railway line from Dunkeld to
Penshurst, but it was such an utter failure for want
of population that the Government pulled up
the rails and the planking of the bridges. On
either side of the line, there is a vast expanse
of fine, arable land, which would support scores of
farmers. Yet it never seemed to occur to the
Government that pulling up the squatters might
be a more economical process than pulling up the
rails. Two or three months ago the Dunkeld
people, whose town is smothered by squatters,
humbly approached the owners of one of these
large estates, Devon Park, 32,000 acres, with a re-
quest that it should be sub-divided, and were met
with a curt refusal. All the time, men are besieging
the auctioneers’ offices “asking for land ” ; while
a handful of squatters, who spend most of their
time —when they are awake—on polo ponies, are
allowed to block the progress of a whole country.
♦
The Justification of Lyne and Co.
Again has Time, that good but rather slow-
moving and leaden-heeled Democrat, come to the
vindication of Kingston, Lyne, Deakin, Watson
and co. One of the bitterest complaints made
against these statesmen was that they didn’t
“encourage immigration” in quite the large,
comprehensive Canadian fashion. In this matter
it must be admitted that they were rather too
slow. If they had pushed the tariff earlier, and
had broken up the great estates with a huge
Federal graduated land-tax, and thus made sure
of having work and land to offer, and had ap-
pointed a High Commissioner in London to inform
desirable British, German, French and Scandi-
navian immigrants that work and land were
both waiting here, they might have done
considerably more than they did. But
this is not the question at issue. The men
who most wanted Australia to adopt the
Canadian immigration policy, and who raved
hardest on the subject, were, in very many cases,
individuals who didn’t want to see the big estates
broken up, and who didn’t want to see Australian
industries created. Their idea was to pour men
into the country indiscriminately—cheap men;
ignorant, coarse, brutalised, semi-animal men;
hulking beasts of burden from the Turkish, Bul-
garian, Servian, Hungarian, and Greek border-
lands, and such-like places, where centuries of
conflict with the hordes of Asia has brought the
European to the lowest point of degradation he
has yet attained ; men from Asia and Africa;
also men who, regarded as an intelligent and
reliable garrison for Australia, would be worth
about as much as so many cattle. Their idea, in
short, was not to build a strong, solid Australian
nation, but to flood the labor market
with dirt-cheap labor. And they said en-
thusiastically, “Look at Canada!” Canada,
for a while, took all comers so long as they walked
on two legs. It even imported a sect of religious
maniacs from Russia —folk who now and then
throw away their clothes, and march off naked
in search of Jesus Christ. Canada got the
filling-up disease so badly that it would rather
shovel manure into a cathedral than see the
cathedral empty, and Lyne, Kingston, Deakin,
Watson and co. were reviled by foolish or
villainous Tories, because they wouldn’t do like-
wise. Meanwhile the influx of all this bad com-
pany into Canada has produced the usual result.
Thousands of solid, reliable English-speaking
citizens moved over into the United States, and
thus got away from the savages from the
Turkish border and the naked people who went
on migrations, pushing hand-carts in front
of them and looking for Jesus Christ. a°w
Canada is driven suddenly to drastic proceedings
such as Australia has never had to resort to, and
seems afflicted with something approaching panic.
It seems to be passing hurried, distracted laws for
shovelling the manure out of the cathedral—laws
which couldn’t possibly have been necessary but
for the frenzied way the fertiliser was shovelled
in. Certain British immigrants refused the first
jobs that were offered them, and not only they but
all their families are sent back to London. A
curious report comes along about an immigrant
who was ordered to Vie deported and turned adrift
in his own country because he met with an acci-
dent a year or so after his arrival in Canada ;
persons who seem likely to become a burden on
the public are now liable to be fired out
of the Dominion at any time within two
years of arrival, even though their inca-
pacity to earn their own living may
arise through injuries received in Canada.
There is a proposal to shut out all immigrants
whose passages are paid by charitable organisa-
tions, and all immigrants who don’t come direct
from the country of their birth. And British
Columbia is in a state of unarmed revolt over the
immigration question, and is fining and imprison-
ing Asiatic immigrants under Provincial laws
which have been disallowed, and are thus really
no laws at all. In many ways the curse of in-
discriminate immigration is coming home to roost,
and every time it roosts something extra the
wisdom of Australia’s Federal leaders receives
further verification.
Going on Strike.
The threat of the Sydney Labor Couricil, that the
N S.W. unions may refuse to take any action
under the complicated and incomprehensible new
Arbitration Act, and may prefer to depend on the
strike as an argument, is calculated to make good
democrats weep for the opportunities that the
party has missed. For Labor had a hundred
chances to become the party in power, and to make
its own Arbitration Acts, and thanks to its inept
leader McGowen and its evil genius Holman it
missed them all. If the N.S. W. Labor party had
come out as a strong, enthusiastic anti-borrowing
party—as a party which proposed to pay ' }°?
all new works out of revenue, and to establish
a sinking fund for the repayment of the
public debt—it could have gathered in thou-
sands of votes which it never got, for the
anti-Monte-de-Piete party is growing strong in
the cornstalk State, and only wants a leader. It
it had come to the front as the Federal Party—
the party that was opposed to the CaRRUTHERS-
Wade policy of snarling quarrelling, and eter-
nally finding fault over everything that the Aus-
tralian Government did or didn’t it could have
acquired tens of thousands of supporters, it
could have swept the polls on those issues, and
come into power with a huge majority. But its
narrow and parish-minded leaders preferred to be
a pick-and-shovel party pure and simple. In the
matter of finance they had no policy that could
distinguish them from Parkes or Dibbs or Reid
or Lyne or See or Waddell or Carruthers or
Wade— they were everybody’s echo and anybody s
doe And when the Australian sentiment was grow-
ing and strengthening, and N.SAY was ready fora
State leader who would help on the feeing that
Australians were all one people, instead of being a
soured institution dragging, with curses and wild
resistance, at the back of the car of progress, the
Labor leaders preferred to be a joint in the tail of
Carruthers or Wade rather than strike out for
themselves. They might have had the support of
Casual.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I delight to join the roar
When our side
Slogs ’em to the fence for four.
Hill’s our pride.
Hooray ! What’s the bloomin’ score ?
I’m Australian to the core.
Business is a beastly bore ;
Let it slide.
What! You’re frightened of the Jap !
Terrified
Lest he wipe us off the map !
Go and hide !
Nonsense ! Don’t annoy a chap !
What about a game of Nap?
I don’t want no gory scrap ;
Let it slide.
Meant to join our Rifle Club !
Shootin’ wide
Ain’t no good in times of trub.
I’d have died
To defend my patch of scrub,
But the butts are—here’s the rub—
Far too distant from the pub—
Let it slide.
Save ? Can’t save a bob a year—
Often tried.
Tell you what, it’s mighty queer
(Come inside !
What yer drinkin’ ? Mine’s a beer !)
How one’s dollars disappear
(Fill ’em up again, my dear) —
Let ’em slide.
Never yet got out of debt.
Never tried.
Bills accumulate, you bet,
Every side.
Not a thing to make me fret;
Time enough to pay ’em yet;
Give’s another cigarette !
Let ’em slide.
That’s my house ! It’s rather small —
Rough inside.
Apertures in roof and wall
Open wide.
Might collapse in any squall—
Doesn’t trouble me at all !
If the darn place wants to fall
Let it slide.
Mashed a girl I chanced to meet,
And inside
Half-an-hour that maiden sweet
Was my bride.
Hitchin’ up was all complete
When I lost my Marguerite,
Missed her somehow in the street —
Let ’er slide.
I’m Australian ; that’s my boast !
This great wide
Continent from coast to coast
Is my pride.
When I’m givin’ up the ghost
This is what ’ud please me most,
Just to lean agen a post
An’ let it slide.
WESTRALIA.
JAMES SATERS.


SI
ft®
US
r
Esteb.
1818
By Special Appointment to
Ji i s JHaj e sty The Ki ng.
Those distillers of pure spirit, The D.CL
Go., welcome the inquiry into the quality of the
Snr ; vhlskles -, I fc is because of its purity
that D LL is sought by so many leading minds
and why it has mspmed so much wise achieve-
ment. Even Tommy Bent has his inspired
intervals after consulting the brand whose letters
— stand for intellectual attainment as
well as for the purest ot whiskies.*
If the Australian capital is planted at
burg haS bben decided t 0 call it Rabbit-
STUDY YOUR HEALTH.
ti
drink ONL v ,
—fffl w t^mm^
FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER
fresh shipments always arriving "
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
e are the largest Importers of above in Australia
w 6 i^T e J^ r ents * or t^le Best film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films every week, and ouf
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
, oe „.,„.,£U otographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
: 93 Queen Street, Brisbane,
he trades unions first and the rest of the enlight-
ened community second ; and thus made a cap-
able, intelligent and progressive trades unionism
the controlling force in N.S.W. They preferred
to pose *s the representatives of trades unionism
only, and thereby they set up the impression that
trades unionism had no financial policy, and no
Federal policy, and no policy at all except trades
unionism, and that unionism was a thing apart
from everything outside of it. And in that
respect they did a grievous wrong to
their constituents. The trades unionists repre-
sent the most intelligent of the working
classes, and in Australia the working classes
stand for a degree of political intelligence that no
other class possesses. The strongest support of
Federalism and the most earnest desire for public
solvency and honest finance are probably to be
found among the trades unionists. In the main
they would gladly support a large national
policy that would presently put their party in
control of the destinies of N.S.W. But a mis-
taken idea of loyalty prevents them throwing
McGowen and Holman on the political scrap
heap. Therefore, Gregory Wade had the job of
building the new Arbitration Act, while the
Labor party, as a minority that is perpetually in
Opposition, considers the advisability of dis-
regarding the confused measure and going on
strike.
The Stone that Tries to Look like Bread.
Every day now the doom of the Victorian rich
landlord of the Western District—almost the
most awful specimen of his class in Australia—is
written larger on the wall, though great efforts are
being made to avert it. The land question has
become so urgent in Victoria that a good half of
Bent’s roar is devoted to it, and now his col-
league, Swinburne, the man who looks like a boa-
constrictor balanced on its tail, conies out with an
announcement that, so far as he can see, one of
these three alternatives must be adopted :
(1) Compulsory selling.
(2) Heavy probate duties on landed estates.
(3) Graduated land-tax.
Swinburne puts the graduated land-tax last be-
cause the Bent Government still longs to avoid
the only remedy that is likely to meet the case.
The compulsory sale idea is the anchor that Swin-
burne clings to, and what he means by it is
simply this : The Government is to have power
to direct any big landlord, whose princi-
pality of grass blocks settlement, to sub-
divide his property and sell to farmers,
and if the farmers haven’t the money the
Government is to guarantee their payments and
hold a lien upon the land. The idea has possibly
something to recommend it, but its good points
are few, and its bad ones are as conspicuous as a
burning city at midnight. To begin with, it leaves
the outrageous and impossible price of land where
it was before. Land in Victoria has been boomed
to famine rates by artificially-created scarcity.
That is quite possible with any commodity ; if
a community requires 100,000 tons of wheat,
for instance, to keep it alive, and there are
1,000,000 tons in the country, but 975,000
tons of this are kept off the market by greedy
monopolists, it is quite possible that, even with
ten times the required amount of wheat in exist-
ence, grain will become worth its weight its gold.
Then, in addition, there is a further bogus value
given to land by exemption from its fair share of
taxation, and by the construction of country roads,
bridges, railways, culverts, etc., at the cost of the
town worker. The price of land is high because
there is sold with it a fraudulently-acquired ex-
emption from taxation. It is proposed bv Swin-
burne that the Government may give a landlord
notice to sell if it feels that way. But it may not
feel that way, and it may not give notice. And
even if it does the deed, it may only give notice to
one landlord at a time, and may let a very long
time elapse between landlords. By thus supply-
ing the land-famished people very slowly it may
still keep up the old iniquity whereby a bit of soil
honestly worth £2O an acre fetches £5O or more,
and is rushed by buyers who can only hope to
extract a bare living out of it by making their
little children toil from jackass to jackass as
unpaid slaves. Also the Government may find
itself in the amazing situation of guaranteeing
payment of £5O per acre for land only worth £2O,
and when the bill comes home to roost the city
worker will have to pay most of it, as usual; he
will stand the loss while the big landowner gets the
profit. Moreover, there is nothing in Swinburne’s
compulsory sale scheme that seems likely to keep
the land subdivided, or to prevent the formation of
new big estates. It is a futile business, devised
apparently to direct public attention away from
the only real remedy. Australia demands a de-
vice which won’t be applied spasmodically, and
just as the Government pleases, but which will be
working all the time ; which will hit every
big land-grabber regularly— not one occasion-
ally; which will not only divide up the
lar }o, but also keep it divided; which
will bring in revenue instead of loading
the btate with absurd liabilities ; which willbrin<y
down the bogus and absurd value of land to a
figure at which it is possible to live on it; and
which will apply, not to one State only, but to all
the States. That is why Australia demands a
heavy Federal graduated land-tax ; and all the
eloquence of Swinburne, the Victorian gentleman
who looks like a boa-constrictor balanced on its
tail, won’t divert it from its purpose.
The Post-Office.
The Post Office administration was a very small
matter to make a crisis about. It was a “Bill’s-
dirt-money ” issue obtruding into national politics
to dislocate vital national business. As a matter
of truth there are many faults of administration in
the I ost Office. Zeal for progress has a little outrun
capacity. It is as if it were attempted to run a 60-
inile3*an-hour railway service on a permanent way
ballasted only for 30 miles an hour. Since Aus-
tralia became united, successive postal adminis-
trators have sought to cheapen and extend the
services under their control with almost feverish
anxiety. Telegraph rates were cut in many
cases down to a quarter of the old tariff,
telephone rates were reduced enormously, whilst
the facilities were correspondingly increased. New
ideas were brought into the postal service, such as
that providing for express letters. Mail conveni-
ences were multiplied. And all this was done
whilst the great financial reform of no-borrowing
was strictly adhered to. Whilst the old State
administrations gave a vastly poorer service at
vastly dearer rates, and borrowed hugesums to keep
things going, the Australian administration has
borrowed nothing, whilst improving the services
and wonderfully cheapening the rates. It is quite
natural that all this vast reform should not be
effected without some jolting and jarring, particu-
larly as the old State officials had to carry through
the new system. And it is just within the nature
of things that the public should forget the huge
reforms and should note only the jolting. But.
honestly, the Post Office administration, with all
the faults it can be found guilty of, is one of the
triumphs of Federation. Any business man, any
newspaper proprietor, any citizen who uses civi-
lised means of communication would recognise
this if he had common honesty. But common
honesty isn’t often brought to the judgment of
I ederal affairs by commercial men.
4.
Blind Leaders.
The matter of inducing a steady flow of desirable
immigrants to the Commonwealth, and the pro-
vision of means whereby the said immigrants are
to exist when they get here, has advanced a few
steps during the last week or two, chiefly by
reason of Iceberg Irvine’s exposition of “how
not to do it.’’ The lamentable Iceberg, oblivious
of the fact that he is a back number, whose
legislation as Premier of Victoria proved so
disastrous that practically the whole of it has
been repealed since his departure from that
otate s legislature, upended himself with wis-
dotn written all over his countenance, and
proffered Prime Minister Deakin what he alleged
was a “definite immigration policy.” Boiled
down, Irvine wanted a High Commissioner
appointed immediately, with a head office in
Eondon, and branch offices in all the large Cold
Country cities; the spending of as much as
£200,000 in advertising the Commonwealth and
inducing immigration, assisted passages to be
handed to persons of good character, and the
contract clauses ” of the Immigration Re-
striction Act to be repealed. That was all.
Ihere was no word as to where the £200,000 was
to Come from ; nor, far more important, as to what
these assisted and enticed immigrants were to do
when they got here. Doubtless the Iceberg was
obsessed with the old Tory notions, and fancied
them original and brilliant—the notions that
begin and end with the leaving of large areas of
land in the hands of rich landowners, and the pro-
vision of abundance of cheap labor for the better
creation of a rich squirearchy and a poor, subser-
vient tenantry called Giles or Hodge. Even
Bent knew better. " Immigrants ! ” said Thomas,
with his best Sunday roar—“it’s no use bringing
immigrants unless we have land to put them on.”
And there Thomas roared, not merely for his own
State, but for every State in which the big land-
lord is a conspicuous feature. It is no use bring-
mgin immigrants till there is work for artisans
and land for agriculturists. In the very old days
it was fairly good policy to import heaps of loose
humanity and dump them at large on the wharf,
ihe railways were just beginning ; the gold rush
was young; many goldfields towns were
just being built; the big land-grabber
was only commencing to eat up the land
and he wanted dummies to steal for him and men
to fence in his steals. There was even a fair
opening in the bushranging business in the earlv
free immigration days. But to talk of applying
the old methods to present-day conditions is
something that only the backest or hindermost
kind of political back number would be capable
°P going to Normandy and preaching
tns doctrine that any industrious able-bodied
JN orman can easily go over to England and peg
out a farm for himself because his ancestors did
that sort of thing with some success in 1066.
The Bulletin goes to press early this week, bein<*
driven to come out a day ahead of its usual period
on account of the Easter holidays, and at time of
writing the I ederal capital question was hung up.
Webster, the man who can’t stop talking, and
who must start talking the instant he thinks of
three columns of remarks to say, got in the road
just when a division was about to be taken
on the capital question, with a demand for a
royal commission to inquire into the Post Office.
Webster was offered a chance to do his talking
next night, but he couldn’t wait. The result was
a night of blank chaos, something like a
± lnistenal crisis, and a week’s postponement
of all business. Mauger, the man of fermented
and spirituous language, who bosses the Post Office
is a hard and capable worker, but things
and Insects have been against him. For three or
four years the shriek of “ Federal Extravagance ”
was incessant; if the Australian Government did
for 2d. what cost 21,d. in the State days, the row
among the anti-Federal Insects was terrible
because it didn’t do it for The Commonwealth
reduced the cost of almost all the Post Office ser
vices, and got no thanks for it from the State
Insects but many curses. By trying to please too
many bitter Insects, expenses in the postal de-
partment were cut too fine, and overwork and
other evils set in. Then all in a day the parish
Insects left off the cry of “Federal Extrava-
gance, and proceeded to shout “Federal Sweat-
lnS- Jrlence tile Present trouble which has fallen
on Mauger, of the fermented and spirituous
language. It is all reminiscent of a certain old
man in a fable, likewise of the old man’s friends
and the ass.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty.”
Criterion “A Beggar on Horseback.”
The Royal “ The Lady Dandies.”
Palace, Maskelyne and Devant’s Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
The Glaciaricm West’s Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirth Bros. Circus & Menagerie
Town Hall Good Friday Night Concert.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Peter Pan.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Bijou “ The Southern Cross.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
-♦
Julius Knight and Ola Humphrey revived
“ The Lady of Lyons ” at Sydney Royal, as a
wind-up to their Sydney season, last week, and
played it astonishingly well. This piece is one
which hovers, most of its time, on the edge of a
steep place of bathos. An intonation awry, a
false cadence, an over emphasis, however slight
and the ribald laugh of the discriminating modern
galleryite will follow as surely as though some
comic relief expert had remarked “damn,” or
picked one of his friends. It calls insistently for
careful handling, The acting enthusiast will
always flock to “The Lady of Lyons,” which
affords scope for the widest variety of treatment.
He knows that if his dramatic sense isn’t grati-
fied his humorous sense is sure to be. Melnotte
may either appear as a posturing and tragic
ass—or as a quite convincing Man. Pauline is
(as the actress may be) a female so
stilted, snobbish, and weepfully idiotic as to
be an anomaly even in the Early Victorian era
wherein she was conceived —or an attractive and
natural young woman.
* * * *
Sydney folk know Knight’s Melnotte of
old. It is a fine study by a matured actor who,
in this class of part, easily surpasses any male
mime that has played in Australia during the
past decade. Interest centred in the question as
to what sort of Pauline Ola Humphrey would
supply. She gave a delightful realisation of
the character. Too often have the Paulines
of our nonage played their opening scenes
in a faint, sad minor key, as though ob-
sessed by a premonition of imminent doom.
From their first entrances the hideous tragedy of
alliance with a gardener’s relative seemed to loom
over them like a black cloud. Their prescience
was uncanny. The American star brought to the
scene in Deschapple’s garden a light atmosphere
of glittering comedy which was altogether seemly.
She impersonated to the life the normal girl
happily in love with the normal young man. And
when in Act IV. realisation came, she was nothing
more stagey than the same girl, grievously de-
ceived, and suffering a recovery from the
shock of finding herself no princess, but a
mere plebeian Mrs. More artistic work hasn’t
been done in Sydney for quite a while. Susie
Vaughan was excellent as Mrs. Heschapple,
and looked so nice one almost forgave the un-
pleasant ways of the character she represented
Dudley Clinton (Damas) and Leslie Victor (Glavisj
did well, but R. Denniston was unhappy in the
awful rdle of Beauseant. Ever and again he
found himself unable, seemingly, to be convinced
by his banal lines and business, and the effect was
painful.
M R . LARDELLI , MUSICIAN AND
MONOLOGUE ENTERTAINER.
The builders of musical plays don’t rob
History of anything much but its clothes Thev
grab the period they think will suit them niil
ts pockets of one or two facts, steal a few of its
names, and make off with all its garments
sstss"*,*
ficence goes on from eight till about inan^v, 1 "
which hour the resources of nisi™ fc 10 f 40 ’ b >'
and the eye is dazed TW p 1 6 exbaus ted
of some recent productions ® tnor ?
Florence Young scinAS, 8
and Edmund Sherras (Lagorille), with whom t
has several fine duets, has quite established himlit
in the estimation of local playgoers. Illyrine IP
Dango) is beautiful in white satin and oramf"
blossom, and husband Dorlis (Roberts) continues
to be a most tuneful refugee. Bantock rJ]
and Percy do creditably in the humorous demo
ment, and the rest of the co. calls not for th
deafening bellow of reproach.
** * *
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) is closed this week
to the. public, and the weary wayfarer he'
within sounds of hammering" and the
bustle of preparation. On Saturday the vreai „. U j
baffling problem of “ Humpty-Dumpty ” will he
presented to the thoughtful multitude. Philos
phers of every shade of thought are lookin'?
forward with eagerness to the event. . > °
* * # He-
On Wednesday next occurs the regretted
departure from Sydney Criterion of °Woulfe
Curzola, the doyen of Dalmatian vampires. Lily
Dam pier and Alfred Rolfe have of late heel
satisfactorily filling the parts in which Harrie
Ireland and Max Maxwell originally opened—the
latter twain being required in Adelaide to plav j n
a Blandholtian thrill there. (Where the gore is
there Harrie and Max are generally to be found
gathered together.) Woulfe has been driven to
give over blood-drinking in these parts, for the
time being, so that Meynell and Gunn may get a
chance to produce “A Beggar on Horseback”
upon the scene of his excesses.
** * *
When one has got over the bewildering
effect of the empty box that seems full, or the fuU
box that is proved to be empty, at Sydney Palace
it is to discover that there are some other items on
the programme that are not mysteries. Barclay
Gammon is a man of genuine humor, and a first-
class character-sketcher. The Japanese juggler is
a good, working trickster, but he is not the largest
pebble that has rolled along the Austral beach
Although Simon Magnus played some bewilderin '
illusions in Antioch, he did not visit Sydney, and
among the illusions this young country has seen
there is only one that surpasses Maskelyne’s box—
that was the device by which a seriesof ancient
humbugs managed to make the country believe that
the best way to get rich was to get up to the neck
in debt. Barring that bit of conjuring, Maske-
lyne’s box-trick is easily first. That is his ham-
bone. All the rest is mere frill on the pointed
end of the thing.
** * *
Easter and Agricultural Show time being
the occasion on which Gum Leaves, Esq., and
Cow Spanker, senior, come to Sydney, the manage-
ment of West’s Pictures gripped opportunity by
the heels and smote the bucolic, on Saturday
night last, just where he lived. Having given
him some idea of the joys of life in town, with an
elaborate series showing carnivals at Nice, the
whirring wheel reeled off some thousands
of feet of views showing Modern Agricul-
ture. All the latest inventions in agricultural
machinery were shown at work, and Hay-
seed found himself suddenly initiated into the
art of running a farm practically without
labor. He saw a man careering across a paddock
on a steam plough, rooting up something like a
dozen furrows as he went, with the harrows travel-
ling behind, apparently on their own, making it
look like a bed for asparagus planting. Then seed
drills and fertiliser distributors fled across the en-
chanted canvas, and instantly he was gaping at
crops that waved delightfully for a moment in the
autumn winds. Next moment more labor-saving
machinery came whirring along, separated the
corn from the straw, sewed the one up in bags,
and left the other carefully stooked as it reeled
past. For the rest, there were excursions through
Morocco, a chamois hunt among the Alps, a trip
through a Chinese port, and the usual assortment
of sundries. > '
** * *
The cosmopolitan procession that marks
the opening of Wirth Bros. ’ huge circus and zoo
duly eventuated at Prince Alfred Park, on Satur-
day night. An immense audience gaped at sacred
bulls from India, the elephants, with and without
ivories, from the parts vaguely described by the
late Mr. Milton as the Gorgeous East, camels from
various lands, a fearsome looking object like a
shot-tower made of meat, but described on the
programme as a giraffe, Bengal tigers, lions
majestic arid lions dejected, Jap contor-
tionists and other wild animals from all
parts of the earth, and the dominant white man
towering majestically over the lot. The huge
tent is huger even than of old, and the programme
is so packed that the various turns come tumbling
in on each other’s heels in a manner reminiscent
of the way that the waters came down at Lodore.
Philip Wirth recently pervaded the earth in
search of fresh novelties, and, the result is a series
of startling turns, anyone of which would serve
as the backbone of a vaudeville theatre for weeks,
provided it were backed up with a few songs and
da-nces by pink girls in short frocks. Pro-
minent among the new turns is that ,of
Les Crottons, which consists of physical cul-
ture brought to an exact science. It is
said that the more muscular of the pair received
seven offers of marriage from wealthy widows
immediately after the performance. A shivery
item is the trapeze work of the Rodriques Bros.
Lp among the twinkling lights swings a flying
trapeze, and across the bar of this, which
is about as thick as a man’s wrist, the
Kodriques place a ladder and slowly work
their wav to either eßd, counterbalancing each
other. Then one rises upright to maintain the
balance, while the other fixes a second flying
*° le trembling ladder, and on
this he gyrates and revolves with easy and finished
gra.ee. 4-t the last the trapezist, after having re-
volved in a fashion calculated to make an ordinary
man as drunk as an owl of ill repute, suddenly
stands on his head on the swaying bar that hangs
from the svvaying ladder, with his hands held out
on either side, and his feet moving slowly in the
air s£ft. above. It is a great and shuddery act..
Ikel and Jennie, Neapolitan balancers, defy gravi-
and reverse the natural order of things.
Ihe three Gamon Bros, make weird acrobatic
sport, assisted by a dog which writer intends to
get down upon ” at the first opportunity. To
steal or acquire a dog like that by any means is a
laudable action on the part of any man who is of
the dog doggy. The Wild Beast School from
Hagenbeck s Circus shows six full-grown lions,
a ■^ ]^ sslan bear, a leopard, sundry wolves and
a boar hound, all seated on pedestals and
undergoing religious instruction at the hands
of a trainer and his wife, neither of whom


The [ome Hand
THE APRIL NUMBER IS
THE EASTER NUMBER.
No Easter holiday will be quite the pleasantest
possible if you have not The Lone Hand to
help while away an occasional lonely hour.
Buy it. Read it. Pass it on to your friend.
Post it abroad to give someone the bright, cheery,
optimistic view of our great Commonwealth.
The Lone Hand at One Shilling is the
cheapest collection of good reading and art
matter in the Commonwealth.
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The end of the waterside difficulty, which
threatened to convulse N.S.W. but didn t, came
suddenly at the last. The coastal shipping com-
panies have agreed to go back on their policy
of insane economy, and agree to pay the same
rate of wages to the wharf-laborers in
their employ as are paid by other com-
panies. As a set-off to this, unionists and
non-unionists are to work amicably together—in
theory. But, all the same, the non-unionists will
go in the end, for the great qualification of the non-
unionist is his cheapness, and when he ceases to
be cheap he gradually ceases to be employed.
The unfortunate coastal shipping officers, how-
ever, seem to have got little or nothing out
of the affair, and considering the slave con-
ditions under which they work they deserved
better fortune. A Wages Board for the marine
officer, who sees so little of his kiddies, through
being out at all times shoving his boss’s boat-load
of eggs and vegetables through the sea, that he
hardly knows his own offspring when they meet,
is one of the most urgent demands of our civilisa-
tion.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
“tin Clarion”
Randolph Bedford’s Paper,
will appear Monthly from 15th MAY.
PRICE - - 6d.
A MONTHLY OF A NEW KIND.
Illustrated in Colors.
A. NEWSPAPER in its Political, Mining,
Financial, Social, Theatrical, Musical, Art,
Literary and Fashion pages, and in its
Articles and Cartoons; and
A MAGAZINE in its Story Matter, Verse
and General Criticism.
“ THE CLARION ”
for 6s. posted to any Australasian address
for a year.
There is space for ...
Paragraphs—Personal, Mining, Financial, Trade,
Political, Theatrical, Literary, Social and
Fashions.
Cartoons, Humorous Drawings, Kare Photo-
graphs, Leaderettes, and General Articles,
Stories and Travel Notes.
Liberal Rates of Payment.
“ THE CLARION ” for a year 6s.
New ! Distinctive ! Individualistic !
Address—
RANDOLPH BEDFORD, “ Clarion ” Office,
Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
carry as much as a walking-stick. But the great
novelty of the show is the Sydney Bros’, perform-
ances on bikes and motor bikes. One Sydney
rushes down a steep place from the roof of the
tent in a manner that the Gad arene swine would
have envied, bounds over a chasm, lands crash on
a plank, on the other end of which the other Syd-
ney arrives simultaneously on a motor bike. The
impact sends the plank-end skywards, and the
other brother (not the Gadarene-like one) turns a
back somersault, bike and all, and landing riglit-
way-up on a mat placed to receive him, rides off
round the ring as though he always started in that
remarkable manner.
* * * *
Circuses are as old as history, and emperors
have run them. The juggling with wild beasts
has come down from the ages, and the tricks on
horseback were ancient when Justinian collected
the cash in his uncle’s circus in Byzantium. But
these physical culture tricks which depend upon
strength of wrist and ankle, and the possession of
a backbone as tough as wrought steel and as
pliable as indiarubber, are the product of to-day,
and mark a new era in circus economy. A new
tribe and order of circus performers has appeared,
and makes much wealth by discovering a new
method of missing death by a hair’s breadth. And
that is the phase of circus evolution that is kept
well up against the public eye by the combination
that the Wirth Bros, have brought along for the
Easter-tide in Sydney.
** * *
Kubelik, the animated violin, or the incar-
nation of cat-gut music, arrives at Brisbane on
May IG, and opens his season in Sydney. Then
he will proceed to Melbourne, tour Australia
generally, skip across to Maoriland, and take in
Tasmania on his way back. He will be assisted
By Miss Erna Mueller, the Bendigo mezzo-soprano,
who is now on her way from London. Kubelik
himself is at present in the U.S.A. on his third
tour in that chaotic country, and notwithstanding
the financial smash and swirl, his box-office
receipts are larger than on any of his previous
tours. In fact, Kubelik, once heard, becomes a
vice, like opium, Sydney harbor, and the girl with
small bones well and plumply covered with flesh.
** * *
For the usual Good Friday night concert,
at Sydney Town Hall, John Lemmone and H. N.
Southwell are striving to eclipse all previous Good
Friday records. Reginald Roberts will sing, by
arrangement with J. C. Williamson, and many
other favorites will do likewise. The Newtown
Band will perform, and the great organ will make
a noise like the rolling of a huge ocean on a
universe of shingle set to music.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli programme has been
strengthened somewhat by the addition of the
Kaufmann troupe of trick cyclists. Also Mar-
garet Parker and co. have a new sketch called
“ Under the Seal.” Otherwise the bill, which is
much the same as last week’s, consists mostly of
Gharles Mildare, Ike and Will Scott, J. P. Ling,
and Fred Bluett, and it has no special cheerful-
ness about it.
GEORGE LAURI, JESTER.
George Lauri has now amused the Aus-
tralian public for 17 years. At his first coming he
had a stern fight to win the favor of a public
devoted then to Billy Elton as its chief comedian.
But steadily, in r6le after rdle (Lauri has played
(50 parts, and created 32 in Australia), the new
man won his way to recognition as Chief Jester of
Australia. Now a serious break-down in health
■compels a long—a very long—rest. The Sydney
public will have a chance of saying “ Good-bye
and good luck ” to Lauri at a special complimen-
itary matinee on Thursday, 23rd inst., when he
'will appear as Lurcher, in “Dorothy,” and both
tthe J. C. Williamson companies will co-operate to
awake a great afternoon’s amusement.
** * *
An urgent demand for something more
cheerful leads this week to the withdrawal of
“The Little Bread Winner” from Melbourne
Royal. Having no pretensions to literary value,
and being indigent of everything but tears and
unreasonable religion, its departure comes as a
welcome event. For three weeks the Royal had
worn the appearance of a tabernacle, in which
something dire and fearsome was being performed
to mournful organ accompaniments. For many
things had been banished from the premises.
Sanity had departed with the seat out of its pants.
Joy was a bankrupt creature shivering in a fig-
leaf. Verity was a howling mendicant on the door-
step of the Argus ; while Humor remained gibber-
ing, and wore straws in the thatch of its dome of
■ consideration. And about all was gloom, soggy,
and tomb-y, as material as river ooze, in which
splashed strange, frantic spectres in flapping gar-
ments, chokers, and shovel hats, each waving a
gamp, each fanning the flame of righteousness
which sputtered in the murk. And all within
was misery, anguish, and empty stomachs but
really this is becoming too imaginative ! Accord-
ingly The Bulletin drops the subject to an-
nounce “Miss Hook of Holland” as the Easter
attraction. The lady is expected to restore to
■the Royal its lost repute, and will be clad
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how —write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
Ltd., Cinematograph Specialists and Electricians,
-393 George Street, Sydney.*
in wide garments and huge foot-receptacles—or
otherwise. With the aid of landscapes, wind-
mills, dykes, and sundries, she and the indigenous
inhabitants will make their first remarks on Satur-
day night next, 18th instant.
** * *
Miss Florence Baines has shifted her man-
taming performance from Melbourne Bijou, leav-
ing nothing but a huge cavity, which Bill Ander-
son will presently endeavor to fill. Bill’s Easter
appeal to the multitude is entitled “ The Southern
Cross,” and was born of Edmund Duggan. Its
premier scintillation is timed for Saturday night,
at 8 p.m.
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia, T. J. West, pic-
ture man, continues to shed his ceremonies
and other incidents without any noticeable
decrease in his resources. Each week, he
changes his bill with the artistry of a woman
changing her age—and it may be said that the
result equals the female in visible picturesque-
ness. For the Easter holiday season, he is pro-
viding extra animated fare, so that such of the
population as finds itself unable to migrate with
gun, tent and accordeon on to the green, damp,
ant-haunted bosom of Nature may go to West’s
Emporium and gaze at as much of the said bosom
as any lady could be expected to exhibit in the
evening.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the last
nights of “ Brew'ster’s Millions ” are announced.
However, Montague, the prodigal, won’t be re-
placed till after the Easter holiday-makers have
seen him spend his money. Observing Brewster’s
antics for the fourth time, a special suitability to
the Lenten season may be discerned in this farce.
Its length is a period of mental abstinence for the
intelligent playgoer.
** * *
The J.C.W. firm, after eliciting from the
public that that hydra-headed idiot likes fairies,
announces “ Peter Pan ” for next Saturday night.
The beloved T. Brune will play Peter at Mel-
bourne Princess’s.
** # #
Two or three concerts of a sacred nature
will transpire in Melbourne on Good, Friday
night next. The Butt-Rumfords appear in
the oratorio of “ The Messiah,” at the
Town Hall ; mixed pictures and music will
be provided at the Opera House; while at the
Royal, Mrs. Blanche Arral, assisted by numerous
local songsters, will warble in a manner befitting
the occasion.
** * *
The Melbourne Opera House show has
replaced its latest departures, who were athletes,
with more strong men. This time the Ahlbergs
expound the possibilities of muscle. They’re
cute hand-balancers and neat acrobats, but they’re
not amazing. Alma Gray, Fanny Powers, and
the Artois are the only people who make a
Rickardian night tolerable at present.
** * *
Adelaide has at last consented to part,
with “ Humpty Dumpty.” As seen in Adelaide,
it has been without the railway-station scene,
which should round it off. Its first half-hour—
mostly Gilbert and Shine—is intensely funny ;
after that it is mostly merely splendid (for want of
the scene aforesaid). Gilbert and Phydora have
worked up two long, long passages of threats of
personal violence, alternating with the violence
itself, and these might be blue-pencilled with
advantage; they sing a verse about women going
to gaol for demanding votes—and every white
female in S.A. over 21 has a vote ! Queen and
Le Rrun do good work as a sudden, unexplained
elephant in a palace, and are unexpectedly funny
in their own persons as a kind of twins, who are
all too little seen. The Tivoli is going along
quietly after the Tom Burrows boom ; it is not
likely to be ever again in its life packed as tightly
as it was at 11.45 on his record-breaking night.
Pearson’s Pictures have made way at the Town
Hall for Peacock’s Pictures. Adelaide, in-
toxicated, so to speak, with biograph-swallowing,
says recklessly “ Film up again ! ”
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Star ” : Again, in “ Brewster’s Millions,” the drama-
tist gives expression to the antipathy which I find under-
lying the actor-man’s and the actor-manager’s specious
air of good fellowship towards journalists and writer-
people of all sorts. In this play Monty Brewster is repre-
sented as having administered “ a father of a bating ” to
the party or parties responsible for a journal that ad-
versely criticised his obviously insane and palpably
shameful prodigality. Possibly he had whaled the whole
staff, as authors of pars are not immediately identifiable
in newspaper offices for the convenience of visitors seek-
ing vengeance. There is talk, too, of seriously damaging
another editor or two. This stuff is superfluous to the
comedy, as Montague Rooster, knowing he is guilty of
the wildest folly, couldn’t decently expect to escape
criticism, and certainly shouldn’t resent it.
William Anderson has an idea of marking the initiation
of the electric tram system in Adelaide by the erection
of a second theatre in that city. The residents of the
suburbs can’t get in and out of town in comfort (some-
times they can’t get in and out anyhow) by the derelict
horse cars, and so they stay at home of nights, and up to
now haven’t required any more theatre. With a live
tram instead of a defunct caterpillar on wheels drawn by
a dry cockroach, things will be different, Anderson fancies.
“ S.S.” : Two lions roaring along a shore, rival prima
donnas, a woman scorned, or any of the familiar figures
typifying antagonism pale into mild inepitude beside two
competing comedians in one company. Their vin-
dictiveness is deep and never resting. The two funny
men in a show in a certain Australian city interlard their
lines with sotto voce objurgations directed at one another
right through the performance, and when one gets in a
fresh gag, and raises the loud laugh of the vacant-minded,
the other’s vituperation becomes almost audible. When
one of these comedians is not in the piece and the other
is, the first sits all the evening in the theatre, hating the
second with an obvious and insatiable hatred.
“ Hamer ” : The “ rogue drama ” referred to (B. 12/3/’08)
must follow inevitably on the “ sainted father and inno-
cent che-ild drama ” when one comes to think of it.
The melodramatic rogue—Raffles, Stingaree and the like—
sounds the public taste to see if there is any weariness of
the molasses-sweet hero and his posturing family. With
any encouragement a craze of stage rogues will set in
virulently. There are regular recurrences of these crazes,
and the astute showman is generally starting a new craze
what time the unenterprising mummer is killing off the
old one.
“ Threadbear ”: Re “an Australian theatrical manager ”
(B. 26/3/’08) and his objection to buckjumping as cruel,
it would be interesting to know if he thinks the employ-
ment of stage infants is worse ? There is far more cruelty
in exploiting infants as “ star turns,” etc., than ever there
is in a bit of rough horse riding.
The coming of Maskelyne will recall to those who knew
London showdom 15 years ago that quaint little place of
mostly afternoon entertainment, The Egyptian Hall.
There, for quarter-of-a-century, Maskelyne and his ally,
Cooke, lived and had their being. Their show was one to
which the child of the period could securely take his
maiden aunt, nor fear lest the blush of shame be sum-
moned to the space between the lady’s nose and her ear.
The theatre resembled a large deep well. Pasted against
its sides, as it were, sat in serried rows the audience.
Away above them towered an organ. A regular turn for
about a decade was the representation of “A Storm at Sea ”
on this instrument. The lights went down, tin things
clanged (indicating thunder), the wind howled like a
large dog in a small world, blue flashes zigzagged across
the stalls, and through it all the organist wrestled
frenziedly with “ A Life on the Ocean Wave.” Anon the
lights shone forth once more, and “ Will, the Witch and the
Watchman ” enthralled kids whose parents had been
enthralled by it in the bygone past. The rise of the
Music Hall, which discounted the thrill of the Egyptian
Hall show, is mainly responsible for the rather sad sight
of one of Britain’s Fixed Institutions taking to the long
trail.
“ N.” : Ellen Terry, in M'ClOrf., just to hand, makes
copy out of her second husband. I condense her: “Un-
der Hare’s management, at the Court, I married again.
I had met Mr. Charles Warded, who acted under the
name of Kelly, before, but it was at the Court that we
found out we liked each other. He had not been bred an
actor but a soldier. He was in the 66th Regiment, and
fought in the Crimean War —been wounded, too ; he was
no carpet knight. His father was Vicar of Winlaton,
Northumberland, a charming type of the old-fashioned
parson—-a friendship with Sir Walter Scott in the back-
ground, and many little possessions of the great
Sir Walter’s in the foreground, to remind one
of what had been. Charlie, owing to his lack
of training, had to be very carefully suited
with a part before he shone as an actor. But
when he was suited—his line was the bluff, hearty,
kindly, soldierlike Englishman—he was better than many
people who had 20 years’ start of him in experience.
This is absurdly faint praise. In such parts as Mr. Brown
in ‘ New Men and Old Acres,’ the farmer father in
«Dora ’ and Diogenes in ‘ Iris,’ no one could have
bettered him. His most ambitious attempt was Benedick,
which he played with me when I first appeared as
Beatrice, at Leeds. It was in many respects a splendid
performance, and better for the play than the more
polished, thoughtful and deliberate Benedick of Irving.
Physically a manly, bulldog sort of man, Charles Kelly
possessed as an actor great tenderness and humor. We
were married in 1876, and after I left the Court Theatre
for the Lyceum we continued to tour together in the
provinces when the Lyceum was closed.”
“S.S.”: I was one of the victims at a Shakspearian
recital the other night, in which several youthful Aus-
tralians competed for laurel leaves with the “ Seven
Ages ” speech, and for the life of me I could not tear my
mind from the poultry yard, possibly because the budding
Irvings and Bernhardts would insist that “They have
their egg-sits and their hen-trances.”
A company of Sicilian actors is making a sensation in
London in “Cavalleria Rusticana,” and similar plays.
Critics praise them for being so unaffectedly natural.
“ There you have it. They are that,” savs a less friendly
writer. “ I have never seen anything like it. There is
nothing of artistic reticence. The acting is a perfect
frenzy—indeed, they all act as if they were possessed of
devils.” But all critics agree that there is a curious
fascination about Mimi Aguglia, a heavy, dark little
woman who plays leading parts. Her realism as a
heroine in an epileptic fit—caused by blighted erotic
impulses—is said to be appalling.
“ Intoni ” (from W.A. ; he maybe telling the truth) :
Hylands’ Circus tent hasn’t been raised for quite a while.
Reason is the troupe is after gold in its uncoined state,
having struck Sandstone, the W.A. mining town,
while it was booming somewhat. The co. has
pegged a claim near Sandstone. The horses, mules,
and other tame live stock connected with the circus
cart stone to the battery; the clown toils peace-
fully by the side of his enemy, the ringmaster, in the mine,
and at night the lion-tamer lies down in amity beside the
acrobat. The female performers run a supper-room and
squash foundry in Sandstone. So w'ell is the new venture
panning out that “ Hylands’ ” finds it as profitable as a
circus.
“ Harrison O. ” : “ Brewster’s Millions ” as played here
resembles a flower that has lost its freshness through
being transplanted in an uncongenial soil (that looks like
a metaphor ; in fact, I think it is one). The play jars
upon the nerves of those who have read the book.
McCutcheon laid the scene of his book in America, and
all the characters and the whole atmosphere are essenti-
ally American, yet before it was played in the Cold
Country, the adapters must go to work and change the
whole scene to Hingland. They make New York into
London, Wall-street into Lombard-street, Fifth-avenue
into Park-lane, and so on, with the result that the play
is, from beginning to end, one stupendous anomaly..
Thomas Kingston—painstaking man that he is—has.
evidently read the book, and his conception of the part
of Monty Brewster is as a breezy j’oung American, which,,
of course, is another anomaly when projected into an
English setting. The play has suffered because of the-
obstinacy of the people of the Cold Country in refusing to
tolerate anything which is not horribly English. The
dramatised “Brewster’s Millions” resembles one of those
old Cockney jokes so often heard at Rickards’, in which
Footscray is substituted for Margate, and Flemington for
’Ampstead ’Eatb.
“A. Wood ”: I called in at the Tivoli at 1 a.m. the
other morning to see Tom Burrows swinging clubs.
What an intellectual show ! He had been at it for 39
hours, and had another 22 odd to go to break the record.
I expected to see the place empty at that hour, but was
surprised to find a large audience, mostly composed of
drunks. Some were asleep, others were eating pies,
pasties, and pickled onions, and cheering at intervals.
Four ladies in one of the boxes were singing snatches of
anything, to a piano accompaniment. I sat next to a
chap who smelt strongly of lemonade. He seemed greatly
interested, and remarked to me, “ Doncherthinkswondful
swingin’ all them shclubbsh roun’ ? ” He was surprised
when I told him Mr. Burrows was only using two clubs.
He rubbed his eyes, and after muttering, “ Dontspose-
smattersmuch, ” fell off to sleep. Burrows was still alive
when I left. The sight made me tired. I went home and
had a good night’s sleep.
“D”: Barclay Gammon, who does a Corney-Grain
act in the Maskelyne and Devant show' at Sydney
Palace, demonstrates very skilfully on his Stein-
way how a cakewalk (“ I wouldn’t leave my Little
Wooden Hut For You”) may be slid into, and
rendered almost undistinguishable from one of Mendel-
ssohn’s “ Songs Without Words.” It is a musicianly trick,
which none but an expert may satisfactorily perform..
Chevalier, who knows almost as much of music as;
he does of London costers, has worked whole pas-
sages from Moskowski into his song accompani-
ments (compare, for instance, the chords in “ My Old*
Dutch ” with some of those in “ The Spanish Dances ”):
Beethoven revelled in the same sort of thing ; so did
Schumann. The latter Master was billed in the hey-day
of his fame to play the latest of his compositions in
Vienna. The Marseillaise was at that time for-
bidden by law in Austria; to perform it in public
was to ask at the top of your voice for a term of
imprisonment, and get the goods delivered at
once. Schumann chafed at official interference with art;
he was an instinctive anti-censorite. By way of protest
he played his famous “ Carnival Joke ” on the authorities.
Subtly, insistently the French national air steals through
“The Carnival”—rousing the amused admiration of
musical humor-lovers to this day.
“ Yarrum” : What to do with our boys ? Don’t spend
a lot of money making doctors, lawyers, and the like of
them, but get them all merry-go-rounds. A merry-go-
round is the best paying thing I know'. Here, in a little
three-pub town, I saw, last night, £1 Bs. taken in a three
minutes’ spin ; and later on the goround man assured me,
over a couple of rums, that his average daily scoopings
for the six days of show-week were £73 odd. At Inverell,
last year, the same man took £BO the first night he
opened, and in a week he pouched no less than £370.
Think of it? Expenses are a pony costing 12s. per week
for board, a boy to flog pony at 10s. a week, and a man to
play the organ, or rather to turn the handle, at £1 a
week. Quite a lot of people are beginning to do without,
lawyers and doctors, but they must have merry-go-
rounds. Get all your boys merry-go-rounds, likewise-
razzle-dazzles, and hang University education. It’s;
throwing good coin away.
At the first performance in English of Wagner’s;
“ Gotterdammerung ” (under the less-horrifying English;
translation of the title it was “The Twilight of the-
Gods”), by the Moody-Manners Opera Co., at Covent.
Garden, London, the curtain rose at 6 p.m. in order to>
get the show over by 11.30. Between the acts soup arid
other comestibles were served in the theatre to those-
w'ho wanted them. One needs sustenance to stand 5£
hours continuous Wagner.
FOR OLD TIME’S SAKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
James was a grand old actor man,
A good, grey pro. was he ;
He’d dragged a toe on many boards ;
He glowered eerily.
About that corner pub he’d posed
For many years. I fear
He could not bear to stray beyond
The grateful smell of beer.
His hair was long, his chin w'as rough
With stubble, and he wore
The tragic sable garments of
His splendid days of yore.
And, oh, the stories that he told
Of triumphs on the stage.
There were no other actors lived
In that lamented age.
One day a market woman came,
And sadly looked on Jim.
Her heart was touched. Three nice, fresh eggs
She kindly offered him.
Jim bowed. His ancient spirit stirred.
He posed with kingly ease.
“ God bless thee, lady,” said the pro.
“ Wilt throw them at me, please ? ”
VIC.
S.
MISUNDERSTOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bill Pride of Stringy came to town,
And went at night to see the play.
’Twas called “ Tannhauser.” Its renown
Had travelled all up Billy’s way.
Old Piper said—and he should know—
“ Tannhauser ” was a hoshter show.
The orchestra it stormed a while,
The chorus screamed some fifty Strong—
The stout soprano raved in style,
The basso thundered loud and long ;
And then the tenor howled a bit.
Bill Pride sat waiting in the pit.
For two long hours they battled so—
The singers screamed, the fiddles rasped ;
Then William Pride arose to go.
“ It ain’t no kind o’ use ! ” he gasped,
“ They’ve got each other set all right.
We’ll see no bloomin’ play to-night 1 ”
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.


SALE =
Furs and Furniture.
9
m
This, of course,
is only one of the
many Purs. It
is a White Arctic
Fox Boa, 44in.
long. Reduced
from 6 Guineas
to 5 GUINEAS.
We are having a big Sale of Furs and Furniture.
There are genuine price-saving opportunities.
Our whole stock of Furs and Furniture is marked
down, every item shows a reduction.
If you cannot call and see for yourselves the
reductions we are making, write for our large page
of bargains. We send it post free.
The Sale lasts until April 30th.
DAVID JONES Ltd
SYDNEY.
HARRINGTON’S
The Largest Importers of
CAMERAS and
PHOTO MATERIALS
in the Southern Hemisphere.
The “ Crackshot ” Camera, 7s. Gd. “Victor” Cameras
from 30s. “Kodak” Cameras, various style.
Goerz Anschutz Cameras, Studio Cameras, Keflex
Cameras.
Dallmeyer, Goerz, Voigtlander, and other famous
makers’ Lenses. . , ~
The New Adhesive Dry Mounting Machines and a
accessories. .
Photo Materials, an immense stock in every depar -
ment. Our Hew Illustrated Catalogue now ready.
The “Australian Photographic Journal,” enlarged, up-to-datei
4s. 6d. post free for a year.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd. Photographic MerchantSi
386 George Street, Sydney ; and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane, _
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
A REAL SON OF THE SEA.
During- the next three years it is proposed to purchase
nine submarines for Australia.
“ Peaceful swimmers’ lives ain’t safe in these
days of scorching watermobiles!"
The Hill-Ziymark litigation, which has
kept the wolf from the door for quite a crowd of
the Sydney legal profession, seems to have
struck a snag. The parties are ma-in-law and
daughter-in-law, and before Costs came on the
scene they were well-to-do. The man who was
son and husband respectively to the pair is dead,
and it is over his affairs that the two dames are
quarrelling. For the second time, recently, the
matter crawled up to the High Court. Two
K.C.’s were on each side, with juniors and solici-
tors in their tail. In giving judgment the Aus-
tralian Chief Justice registered an order that
litigation must stop as the mother had no further
grievance at Common Law or in Equity. It’s the
nastiest interference Costs has had to suffer for
many a day.
By The Bulletin’s Official Wrecker ;
On the night of Sunday, April 6, the steamer Bega,
belonging to the Illawarra Steamship Company, mysteri-
ously filled and sank off the coast of N.S.W., and, only
that Providence was working overtime, there would have
been a long, ghastly death-roll. However, as it hap-
pened, the sea was calm, and the ship obligingly remained
afloat until the boats and raft were well away. Then she
slipped gradually, bow first, into the depths, and the
little band of people toiled away in the direction where the
land was supposed to be. The various accounts of that
perilous shoreward journey—more especially those given
by the occupants of the two boats—leave many impres-
sions on the reader’s mind. There appearstohave been a
lot of quiet heroism and just a hint of something else—a
knife passed along in the dark and an argument about
cutting the painter of the boat in which were some of the
women. Fortunately the Voice in the Gloom was over-
ruled, the knife was passed back, and in the morning a
severed strand was the only evidence that the devil of
Fear had gained a temporary hold on one of their number
during the blind, helpless night. But the great
fact that stands out and overshadows everything
else is the wonderful luck of the whole ship’s
company, from the moment the steward saw the
pool of water near the bathroom door and tried
to stop the ocean coming in with bits of waste.
There seems to have been a good deal of uncertainty on
the Ship That Couldn’t Stand Up Straight. When the
vessel was lying over at such a fearful angle that it was
impossible to stand upright on the deck, lifebelts were
asked for. Apparently there were insufficient of them on
view, for there was a dreadful fumbling search before the
chief steward “ recollected ” two boxes. In these the
lifebelts were eventually discovered. If the Ship That
Couldn’t Stand Up Straight had been in a
hurry to sink, possibly those belts would
still be in their boxes at the bottom of the
sea. Luckily, the Ship That Couldn’t, etc., was
content to go leisurely to its death, and waited patiently
while willing but unfamiliar hands fumbled some more
with the boats. Finally, all got clear away, even includ-
ing the man who had died on deck of shock, and the ports
—pinholes of light in a waste of darkness —glimmered and
blinked at them till they were far on their journey'.
Through the night • their wonderful luck clung to those
almost helpless boats while they crept, and struggled,
and drifted shorewards —one weakly towing and the other
sagging along at the end of a scrap of rope. Providence
shepherded them faithfully until day' broke, and, at 7
o’clock on Monday morning, with the sea still calm, they
landed almost dry'-shod on the beach. The final act of the
drama was when the overwrought women joined hands
on the sand, and sang a hymn of thanksgiving to Provi-
dence for having brought them safe to land. And Pro-
vidence deserved it.
*«■*•*
There were eight drunks before the
Broken Hill Court the other day, and the previ-
ous convictions, yer Warship, came to 128, not
out. The top score was 49, and there were two
others of 30 and 28.
* * * *
“What is the matter with the Church of
England ? ” asked Archdeacon Hindley, respective
of the present and recent troubles in Vic. Anglican
parishes. He went on to explain. “ The Devil
appears to have been loosed, and is making his
presence felt in many centres.” These parsons
are hard to please. Now that the Devil is setting
men a good example by going to church, they are
not satisfied. Possibly, however, it is a moot
point whether the Devil is going to the churches
or vice versa.
“J.Gr.”: “ Melb.” didn’t carry his remi-
niscences of Melbourne’s fire brigade (B. 5/3/’08)
far enough. He said that the rival Melbourne
brigades united under Superintendent Bencraft.
But a good many years after Beneraft’s time, there
were still two brigades in Melbourne. D. J. Stein
bossed one, run by the insurance cos., whilst Sam
Mauger, the present Postmaster-General, was
super of the other. When they
both turned out to the same tires,
Stein’s men were liable to pull
Mauger’s hoses off the plugs,
while around the corner Mauger’s
men might be doing the same to
Stein’s hose. Also, at times, a
fire was required to stop blazing
while Stein and Mauger argued
which was the proper way to
attack it. After a while, as a few
badly-brought-up fires declined to
stop blazing as requested, the
rival brigades were amalgamated,
and the present Metropolitan
Fire Brigades Board was estab-
lished. Superintendent Stein was
placed in command, and the fire-
station on Eastern Hill was
erected. Superintendent Mauger
was appointed to organise the
country fire brigades, a special
board was established to look after
them, and the country brigades
were placed on a workmanlike
basis. The high watch-tower in Little Bourke-
street, now used as a branch station, was the
site of the Insurance fire brigade’s head-quarters.
* * ■* *
The ungilded youths of Otago (Maoriland),
searching wearily in a dull, pubiess land for
surcease from boredom, have taken to marrying
each other’s mothers. Thomas M'Caughan, aged
21, got a fit of the blues six months ago, and so
wedded the mother of one of his male con-
temporaries. After three days’ joy the bride-
groom became depressed and downcast and intro-
spective ; so he told his wife he was “ full up with
it,” and departed gloomily, and took a job
at a distant dairy-farm. Then the deserted
lady’s son married M'Caughan’s mother (thus
becoming the stepfather of his own stepfather)
and abided with her. After five months
of loneliness, Mrs. M'Caughan decided to sue
the absent -Thomas for maintenance. An
astounded magistrate implored her “to take the
boy home, and look after him,” and shooed all
parties out of the court. It reveals a strange
state of affairs. In Otago, seemingly, if you are
at a loose end you marry a cobber’s mother.
STOPPED SUCCESSFULLY.
ANXIOUS SECOND : “Be careful, Bill; see if yer can't stop some of them hits."
BILL (who has just stopped another with his nose): “ Did yer see any o' the blanky hits go parst!”
“ Boh ” writes from Melbourne :
There w'ere many pathetic sights at the Old Colonists’
Tea. Every second man and woman was white haired,
but they had come out to have a “ good time,” and they
were having it ! As we went in two little ragged boys
were holding a high-pitched conversation in front of the
doors. “Wishtl could get inside, Jimmy—don’ you ? ”
“Naw,” answered Jimmy, scornfully; “me granny’s
inside, an’ she’d chuck off on me fer not havin’ on me
dress clobber.” Then he threw away the cigar stump he
was smoking, and cake-walked away, his bare feet
pattering on the asphalt. Inside the great tables were
deserted, for the “ tea ” was over, and the old people were
seated in the concert hall singing. On the platform the
prize old lady—who numbers 103 summers, and doesn’t look
it—kept time to the music, her still-bright eyes shining
with excitement. When the little black boy “ Robert ” was
singing an old lady in front of me exclaimed: “He can
sing, but how' dirty he looks!” “He’s black, gran,”
shouted the old lady’s grand-daughter. “ I said he was,"
shouted back grandma with triumph. And to hear those
old people laugh at the moving pictures would have done
a pessimist good ! Nearly every old lady clasped a wilt-
ing bunch of the table decorations, and one old man had
his buttonhole —a huge yellow rose—pinned on his
shoulder. “ Keep it from getting crushed,” he explained
to me. Just as a violin solo was being played, a little
husky voice breathed behind me, “that’sall right, that’s
tip-top.” It was bare-footed Jimmie —his hands full of
cake. “You got in all right?” I asked him? “You
bet,” he grinned; “and look here ”—he pointed to his
bulging shirt front—“tucker.” Then, as the violinist
commenced again, he tip-toed nearer to the platform,
with light shining in his eyes. A real* love of music,
always gets me, and 1... Jimmie accepted my offering
with a knowing wink. “ I’ll get a hansom home now,
thank you, Miss,” he whispered.
* * * *
The old Britannia Hotel, Paddington,
Sydney, is to be closed by the edict of the Local
Option Court. The old house dates from the
earliest days of the Victoria Barracks, and was a
notable house of call for soldiers. Its best days
were those when the barracks were occupied by
Imperial troops, who made the place a “night
cap ” house. Close by, in the ’fifties, Thomas
Baynes kept the “Colonel Bloomfield” Hotel,
named in honor of the colonel of the Xlth Regi-
ment, in which Baynes had been a non-com.
That gallant publican afterwards became con-
nected with the volunteer forces, and grew to be
a full-blown beer-colonel.
» * * *
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant :
There will be demolished presently, by virtue of the
City Council’s resumption scheme, an ancient Sydney
landmark in Parramatta-street (now George-street West)
—the old house on the corner of Athlone-place. A
memorial stone in the gable tells that it was “ Erected by
M. O’Byrne in 1841.” In 1831 the land belonged to
Thomas Inglis, who was connected with the Australian
Mercantile Co. In the mid-’forties Michael O’Byrne is
described as a land-owner in Athlone-place. O’Byrne
died in 1854, and left this, with other property in Sydney,
to his nephew, James O’Byrne, of Elpbin, in the Irish
County of Roscommon, on condition that James O’B.
emigrated to New South Wales within three years of the
old man’s death. James arrived well ahead of time. Sub-
sequently the corner and other properties are said to have
been left to the R.O. Church, on condition that a Bible
Hall was erected on part of the property, in William-
street., Woolloomooloo. This was done, Father Kelly,
S.J., being the first “ Bible expositor,” as provided in the
will.
The utterly gruesome feature about the
story of the Bega wreck is the statement that
some of the people on the raft had to sit on the
dead body for want of room elsewhere. This
writer, at the age of about seven, read of the
coroner “sitting on the body,” and took it so
literally that he didn’t enjoy his food for a week.
He afterwards found that it was only metaphori-
cal, and then he had a square meal. But this
Bega wreck story doesn’t seem to have been
metaphorical; it seems to have been just plain
horrible.
IN REDUCED CIRCUMSTANCES.
MELBOURNE, Wednesday.—Some remarkable statements
were made by a deputation of employees in the under-
taking trade to the Chief Secretary to-day. The wages
ranged from 30s. to £2. They were supposed to dress
like gentlemen, but their remuneration was not sufficient
to enable them to buy new clothing. They had known
men to purchase their hats from rag and bottle
gatherers.—D.T.
‘ Lumrae, Halbert, woncher introjooce us to your
rag and bottle gatherer?"
“ Shellback ” gives an account of a black-
leg-manned boat getting away from Sydney
On her departure it took an hour from the time she
backed out from Darling Harbor wharf before she
squared up on her way down. A passenger who was on
board informed me that the time thus occupied was
spent in getting the lines aboard, also the skipper hau
personally to come off the bridge. On getting away two
seamen (!!!) were told off for wheel and lookout respect-
ively. The lookout seaman approached his confrere anu
plaintively asked, “ Say, mate, where’s the lookout r im
a bricklayer. lam not a bloomin’ sailor.”
However, the gods were good and the weather one,
but woe betide the unfortunate passengers if the boats
had been required that trip.
THE SOCIALISTIC SWIM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the colder weather, when sea-bathing- is out of the
question, the women’s section of the Melbourne cit.v
steam-heated swimming-baths is patronised by rich and
poor. The bathing garment is supplied on the spot, and
is uniform.
The golden girl that lives in ease at the top o’ the lovely
rise
Where old Toorak squats high and stares at the world
with languid eyes ;
The girl that rides in the Brunswick car with a feather-
bunch down her back ;
The dark-brown girl that used to chase the waves on the
sunset-track ;
The girl that climbs on the Malvern ’bus and chatters to
Driver Bill;
The pride o’ Fitzroy, with the fatted limbs and the won-
derful floating-skill;
The thin, thin Vera de Very- Smart, with the legs that
look like laths,
They scream and plunge and splash from scratch at the
social City Baths.
The Naiads who descend head first with bags on their
billowing hair,
They bubble along in the crowded deeps, and rise to claw
the air
And laugh and shriek and gasp, with never a murmur of
“ That girl here ! ”
And never a hitch as the works go round on their
socialistic gear ;
And if you went to the City' Baths with a fair and open
mind
And a holy' thirst for the simple truth (if they let you
in !) you’d find
All sorts and shapes of girls that tread all sorts of social
paths—
A bunch of pleasing nymphs at play in the socialistic
baths.
The lovely pearl on the plunging-steps—just a girl of the
crowd is she ;
And she looks a gem in the clothes she wears from grace-
ful neck to knee.
And the charming slip of a girl that springs as the
bucking board goes high,
She draws her cash by making skirts and sewing the hook
and ey-e ;
The girl o’ the languid smile, and the girl that burbles
right out loud,
The girl that owns the brewery shares, and the careless,
moneyless crowd,
The factory girls and the girls that cut uncommon social
swaths,
They meet in a swarm of Just Plain Girl when they swim
at the City Baths !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


THIS RING
CURES RHEUMATISM
SMaSS&S ® CSSS
and we shall be glad to send you testimony to prove
it. Imitations do no good-don t accept
Their only recommendation is cheapness.
Ask for the GENUINE RHEUMACNETIC RINC
fPatd.)
u
Made of Highly - Polished
> Steel, nickel plated, 7/e.
Booklet Free on Application.
the BHEUMACNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. 2
&
\
<
iJOJti
j£S
Here's a WINTER SHIRT.
Here’s a splendid Winter “Shirt —made of wool,
and shaped to fit the figure perfectly.
The man who likes to look and feel “ n6glig6”
during the Winter will find this Shirt just what
he is looking foi. It is the essence of comfort,
and we have it with or without the soft, loose
collar as shown.
The materials are very fine, being in Green, Red
and Brown Stripes—ail the very iatest.
Price, with Collar - - Bs. 6d,
Price, without Collar - 7s. 6d.
Please state Size of Collar worn when ordering.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
This advt. from Melbourne Age suggests a
desire to marry, from pure affection, some person
unknown: —
WIDOW, with no means, would like to meet re-
spectable working man, with no means, 40-45,
view above.
When there is no money on either side, the only
possible motive is love—love for almost anybody,
provided he is male, and respectable, and aged
between 40 and 45.
A BAD SEASON.
HIM: "Hallo! Miss Oldgirl's got a fellow at
last! ”
HER: “Yes; isn't she late this leap year ?”
Adelaide police claim that the new S.A.
Act for suppressing disorderly houses the Act
calls them by an old Saxon name of two syllables
—has just about done its work. So far as a town
can be made moral by Act of Parliament, Adelaide
has been made; at any rate, immorality in future
will have to be strictly amateur. The lady 1
a Past need not look for any presents in the Oity
of Churches.
* * * *
“ Wusslean ” : Adelaide Register, in re-
porting a recent suicide, said, “ Marks was
dressed, with the exception of his clothes, hat an
boots.” Now, what did Marks have on !
“Troides ” : All Israel was subpoenaed in
a larceny case at the City Court (Melb.), the other
day. One had to dodge between two huge noses
to get in through the little swing doors, and, once
in, looked down toward the box between a regular
avenue of fine, large features like the towers
which look toward Damascus, or the avenue of
winged Sphinxes at Luxor. One by one these
noses gave their evidence, with much declamatory
wagging of hands and display of lovely gold watch-
chain. And when the accused had been duly sent
up for trial, and the court orderly cried “ahl wit-
nesses come for-rward ! ” the fountains of the
great were broken up, and the
court became as the Temple of Jerusalem. It was
the most probosculous day ever known at the
dirty old dispensary. The regular loafers were
crowded out, and threaten to go on strike if the
police fill the place with noses like that again.
* * * *
A plaint from Bent’s city :
Melbourne learnt with a shock the other day that at
Yarra Park State school, where 900 of Richmond’s young-
sters attend, the quarters of the caretaker, a man with a
wife and four children, consist of two dilapidated rooms,
each 12ft. by 15ft. The departmental thrift has extended
to quality as well as quantity ; for the two “ spaces” are
worm-eaten, worn, ill-ventilated, damp, and altogether
disgraceful. And this is almost in Melbourne’s centre.
More than a score of times has this abomina-
tion been inspected—the cost of those inspec-
tions would easily have paid for another room
or two—but nothing has been done. Apparently, no-
body wanted anything to be done. A department takes
its cue from its Ministerial head, and when the Minister
is a mere talker of platitudes and drawer of wages,
the department speedily becomes ditto. The
Director and the Secretary of Education say their
staff is overworked, and that they are doing all the} 7
can to cope with the demands for decent school and
housing accommodation —yet Public Works Cameron de-
clares that, though he had furnished estimates for certain
school residences as much as two years ago, it was only
last month that his officers were told to go ahead. Ap-
parently “ Education ” Sachse just sits tight in his salaried
chair, and doesn’t care what happens; but it is remembered
that Bent long ago referred to the Education Department
as the one that “brings in nothing.” Bent being incapable
of seeing beyond his lower waistcoat button, naturally
can’t perceive that education is in reality a most remu-
nerative thing for a State to spend its money on—and
there is a suspicion that Sachse’s inertia and incompetence
are chiefly due to Treasurer Bent’s close-fistedness where
primary education is concerned. Anyhow, as soon as the
State Parliament meets there should be a massive row on
account of this disgraceful and dangerous niggardliness
in the matter of education. * *
“ Brad ” : The Victorian State school
teachers are at present wailing like banshees over
their grievances; and rightly so. Here is my
own case as one example among hundreds. Eleven
years ago I entered what should be, but isn’t by
iong odds, one of the noblest of professions. Put
in the first couple of years
on £3O and £4O respectively.
For the next 12 months graft
£5O dribbled my way, and
finally, after much stewing
and consumption of the mid-
night oil, I managed to
struggle to the dizzy pin-
nacle of £6O per annum. Put
in two years on £6O, and, as
I was living away from home,
had to feed and clothe myself
and buy all the prescribed
books for study. At 20 years
of age I was appointed to a
small country school on £ll2.
Bucked in like the d 1 to
obtain good inspectors’ reports
from men who don’t trouble to
inspect much barring their sala-
ries. Now, although my years
have moved on to 30, my screw
still marks time at £ll2, not-
withstanding good reports on
which I should have been promoted. Last in-
spector’s report stated: “This teacher appears
to have lost all interest in his work He
has, and, what’s more, he is shortly chucking
the job in order to go to Queensland, where
the white man can’t work. Also his coat is
coming off, and he is going to tackle a bit ot
hard graft in order to rake in something for him-
self before ossification of the bones sets in.
* * * *
Australia had fondly hoped that Mrs.
Gamp was dead, but it learns with grief that she
is alive, and that her untidy bundle and unwhole-
some brolly and her thirst for demented and
inspiriting liquors are still flourishing. the
N S W. Legislative Council for once did some
good in its day and generation by appoint-
ing a committee to take evidence re the
Nurses and Private Hospitals Bill, and to
find out what class of woman helps Aus-
tralia junior into the world and also, at
times, helps him out. The details are too vast to
be fully gone into, but the committee unearthed
in surprising numbers the drunken nurse, the
hopelessly incompetent and illiterate midwife,
the hulking amateur, and other undesir-
ables. Over an immense area of rural and
pastoral and bushy and desert IS. S. Wales,
and also to some extent in the cities and towns,
the woman who dispenses with a doctor and
supervises the arrival of Australia junior on her
own—frequently, it would seem, on a very beery
and incompetent own—seems much too preva-
lent. And this Gamp is qualified in the
cases of still-born children to give certifi-
cates on which burial takes place without
further inquiry. The Law just takes her
word that the child was stillborn, and her word
appears, in some cases, to float to a quite needless
extent in beer. At times the certificate she gives
is almost illegible, and occasionally the autograph
at the foot is simply “Gamp X her mark
Some of these Gamps run private hospitals
of a shuddersome kind. In one case, at
Lismore, a room used for the r e °®P tlon ° f
natients is described as being 10ft. long, 10ft.
broad, and less than 10ft. high. And at Lismore
the thermometer has been known to climb o
113° and on an average it rains 133 days in the
year. What kind of chance has Australia
junior, born in a 10ft. room, in that atmosphere?
The slump in the price of metals has
caused a great reduction in the number of men
employed at Broken Hill, and, as regards a large
number, it has caused something not far removed
from sudden starvation. Wages arefaidygood
at the Hill in prosperous times, but the cost of
Hving is high it is difficlt to build »P much
of V |i reserve against , dry day Then when the
disaster comes, the terrible isolation assei ts itsel .
The next probable job for a miner is about 200
miles away in one direction and 300 miles in the
other, and the stranded pick and at
Broken Hill, if he is a man with a family, might
almost as well be the last survivor of a wreck
camped on two square feet of rock in th ®, , oc ,® a £'
The P present demand for assistance sliouldn t be
regarded as the ordinary cry of the unemployed.
IHs rather the appeal from castaways on a raft in
the middle of a sea of dust and lmpecumosity.
Chamberlain’s Tablets will brace up the
nerves banish sick headache, prevent despondency,
and fnVigorate the whole system. Much easier to
take than pills.*
APROPOS OF THE AMERICAN FLEET VISIT.
" Thou blessed, yon know, drink nothing but iced water alt day."
“ Goth, Bill! What awful frightful livers they must have" 'Ave another?"
Apparently in the opinion of certain people
anything, so long as it is fluid, is good enough for
the inhabitants of an Australian capital to drink.
Over and over again, during the capital site
debate (which, when it became fairly probable
that Dalgety would win, Webster, of N.S.W.,
interrupted with what was practically a vote of
censure), it was mentioned that the proposed
Canberra metropolis would never be short of
water, for there was the State’s reservoir
at Barren Jack to borrow from. Yet Barren Jack
is to be fed from the Murrumbidgee, and there is
much settlement, and much ox and horse, and
some pig on the upper banks of that river, and no
one even professes that it is clean water. It was
just because it was dirty and undrinkable that the
Cotter was proposed as Canberra’s source of
supply. The Cotter flows into the Murrum-
bidgee, and the Murrumbidgee is nearer to
Canberra than the Cotter, and also a far more
copious stream. But the ’Bidgee was regarded as a
promising source of typhoid, so it was ruled out.
To quote this already-rejected supply as some-
thing that a Canberra city might fall back upon
when its Cotter failed was playing it low down on
the public stomach and intelligence.
* * * *
The Broken Hill advt. again :
"PUBLIC NOTICE.—I am the man who had a few
words with Charlie Falls. He did not chase me
with an axe, nor did he hit me.
C. JONES, West Broken Hill.
* * * *
The Ballarat “ mystery ” is causing incon-
venience to a lot of people besides William lies
(who is now committed for trial). Ballarat’s
habit of tossing round unjustifiable insinuations
separated Arthur Deever, who discovered the
remains, from his wife, though the pair have since
made it up. Then the widow Young found life a
weariness through having to repeatedly deny that
she knew more than she said. Now Michael
Hickey is in difficulty. Michael is alleged to have
told a constable that a lady friend had told him that
the deceased woman had died at a nurse’s house in
illegal circumstances ; he is even said to have gone
so far as to assert that the dying woman had bitten
the nurse, and that if the nurse was inspected the
bite would be found. The ’tecs proved that Mr.
Hickey’s lady friend had misled him, and the
nurse wants £5OO damages from Michael. Ballarat
doesn’t often get a sensation like the Vale Park
murder, so its tendency to lose its head over it is
excusable—though it is likely to be a trifle expen-
sive.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
AUSTRALIA’S ANSWER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
According to Mr. Deakin, co-operation with the States
lay at the ba9e of his proposals. He intended to bring
the matter before the next Premiers’ Conference, and if
negotiations failed, he would then make an appeal to the
country in order that it might decide as between the
States and the Commonwealth.— News item in Sydney
Telegraph.
Now at last you’re acting sensibly, friend Deakin ;
Affability is all right in its way ;
But the time has long gone by for idle speakin’,
Let the men who are The Country have a say.
From afar in silence we have watched you toiling—
There were many things we did not understand —-
And we’ve seen the State Frights interfering, foiling
Your endeavors. Now it’s time we took a hand.
Once before we spoke. The Mother’s voice had called us.
From the Gulf to Tasman’s fringe the message ran ;
And the shackles of the petty tyrants galled us ;
We replied, “ We’re for Australia to a man ! ”
We have seen the dreams we fondly cherished shattered
By the petty-minded worshippers of Pelf;
Seen the golden years flung back while weaklings chat-
tered
Of imaginary wrongs to State and Self.
We have striven hard at times to gloss the sinning—
Things are done in heat we fain would disregard ;
There must ever be mistakes in the beginning,
Time alone will smooth the path we make so hard.
But the building of the Nation seems a tardy
Work that threatens to outlast the century,
Let us put our house in order ; cease your wordy
Strife, it’s time to mould Australia’s destiny.
East and west when you want backing you will find us —
Though we love the States, our Motherland is best,
And the slanders of the puny will not blind us
When Australia puts her children to the test.
North and south will ring the answer, clearer, stronger,
As the list’ning leagues repeat the welcome call:
“ Burst the weak provincial barriers. Wait no longer—
We’re Australians, now and ever, first of all! ”
N.S.W.
VELDT.
THE HISTORY OF THE CASE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Anna Jay Gould, second daughter of the American
millionaire, was born in 1875, and married in 1895 Count
Paul Marie Boniface de Castellane, the well-known
French Nationalist Deputy, and there is issue of the mar-
riage three sons. Last year she obtained a divorce ; and
it was soon afterwards announced that she intended to
marry Marie Pierre Camille Louis Helie de Talle3 r rand-
Perigord, Prince of Sagan, eldest son of the Duke of Tal-
leyrand, and a cousin of her divorced husband. At a
memorial funeral service for Lady Errington, nee de Tal-
leyrand-Perigord, at the church of St. Pierre de Chaillot,
Paris, on January 2 last, the Prince and the Count met as
they were leaving the church. An altercation arose, pro-
voked by the Count spitting in the face of the Prince of
Sagan. ‘The latter replied by hitting the Count with his
stick, whereupon the Count, with his stick, struck his
opponent a blow on the forehead. Legal proceedings fol-
lowed, and the Count was fined 100 francs (£4), and
ordered to pay 1 franc (10d.) as damages. Under the will
of Jay Gould, members of the family marrying without
the consent of the other members, suffer a reduction in
the money bequeathed them .—Daily Paper.
Goodness ! how do the people stare
When the girl of the millionaire
Jilts Paul Marie for Marie Pierre !
Count Paul Marie Bmiiface de,
Gallic National Deputy
(Just as well-known as you or me !),
Married, eighteen-ninety-five,
Anna, sure as you are alive ;
Later —three boy babes arrive.
Count Paul Marie Boniface de,
Fond of going upon the spree ;
Anna makes trouble. Do you see ?
Count Paul Marie is wild—perhaps
Keeps on going out with the chaps.
(In this way twelve years elapse).
Anna’s dreadfully wild, of course.
Tears, reproaches, sneers, remorse.
Finally Anna gets divorce.
Very soon afterwards announced
That on Marie Pierre she has pounced.
(Paul Marie says he’ll have him trounced).
Then later on they all repair
To Saint Something’s—ev’ryone’s there,
And Paul Marie meets Marie Pierre.
One moment culture, ease and grace,
But—alas for the human race !
Paul Marie spits in Marie's face !
Marie’s stick hits Paul Marie’s brow.
Paul retaliates 1 What a row !
Here come the gendarmes ! Look out! Yow !
Later on, court case. Let us peep
In. . . . Society packed like sheep !
Damages tenpence. Very cheap !
Reckon it up now and tell me,
If he was anxious to, could he
Spit on a king for one-and-three.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


EXTRACTS~FRSh 'pARuIHeNTARY INQUIRY HELD
ON L.YING-1N homes.
William Richard Eury. Inspector , n
Children’s Relief Board, was examine . H district the
the majority of e.ae. in the « qualified
matrons or keepers of lyi g defective. One room at
th' O receptloh' o. patieul. »aa .0... aquare.
and not
cat’ed J2= 3om.°r Jry -T--*
and often signed by persons who make their
mark.
A deputation yesterday desired the Premier to bring
In legislation to prevent Sunday funerals, excepting In
special cases.
Mr. Mould (to mate): “ Now, could any reasonable body
object to puttin’ off his hobsequles for one day for
the sake of giving us a little recreation like this
’ere ? ”
Mrs. Gamp : “1 says to Mrs. ’Arris, 1 says, all We nurses
’ave to do in these cases is to assist Natur’ I ”
Extracts from a blood-curdling
interview by a Sydney “ Tele-
graph ” scribe with one of the
rescued passengers from the ill-
fated S.S. Bega : "My wife
Is now with some friends of
mine, a few miles out. She is
a big woman, and would make
about three of me. ... 1 thought
the vessel was going over, she
had such a list on, and 1 climbed
up on top, and, with my wife on
my back, caught hold of a rope.”
Fancy view of Barren Jack reservoir. This Is to be filled from
the Murrumbidgee, which isn’t generally regarded as a drinkable
river. Also, it will be purely State property, and the State may
decline to part with the water. All the same, It was freely quoted
..as quite good enough to supply an Australian capital at Canberra.
{nriM* / i' cls^L
/W* +^i<L
Rev. W. G. Taylor, president of the
Mission, said it was to be hoped the
late Mr. Vickery could see them at that
assemblage, but they could not say with
certainty it was so. But God could see
them, and they knew that Mr. Vickery
was in the presence of God. Therefore
he would very soon know all about it.
He for one felt certain that Mr. Vickery
would see the result of his great gift,
and know that they thanked God for
such a man.
“ Hop,” though by no means an angel,
can "see” in imagination the reverend
sneaker as he said this
SETTLEMENT OF THE STRIKE.
United chorus of Labor and Capita!
“ Now here’s a hand my untrustworthy friend,
And gie us a hand o’ thine ! ”
WATER AND OTHER TRIFLES.


WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
an ENERGISING CORDIAL.
The Lucky OPAL BLACK
The opposite of White Opal, of which Marion Crawford
wrote as under in “Soprano
“ I wish vou good luck,” he said lightly. “ Thank
you,” she answered. One can never have too much
of it. Never. Get a talisman, a charm, a “ Jadoo ...
A Black Opal is the best, but if you choose that you
must get it yourself, you must buy it—find it, or earn
it, otherwise it will have no effect.
We hold the finest stock of this beautiful gem
in Australia. We receive it in the rough from the mines
Sydney. We export it largely,
at half London retail prices.
We cut it. We mount it. We set it in
le rougn irora me uuum. we cum.. .
We retain some of the best for our Sydney reta.l trade, and sell It
We retain some o PLAIN FIGURES CASH.
Choice Black Opal and
Australian Diamonds,
£l2.
wSm
Exquisite Black Fire Opal
and Diamonds, £25.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Vee Bee” : At Port Macquarie (N.S.W.)
week before last, a young man named Souter
killed a huge, black snake. The reptile was
bulky to a large degree. Feeling curious, Souter
made investigations. From the mouth of the
black snake came forth three young ones, about
15in. in length. Seeing what looked like the tan
of another but larger snake protruding about an
inch from the mouth of the black snake, Sou ten
hauled vigorously, and extracted a fair-sized
brown snake. From this snake issued lb young
brown ones all alive. This is respectful >
advanced as an example of tight packing, seeing
that the original black snake contained 20 other
snakes. We have all heard of the cannibal who
eats the missionary, but surely no human
cannibal ever contained 20 large and small mis-
sionaries simultaneously.
TWO KINDS OF CHILDREN IN
COWVILLE.
KIND LADY:“ And how many are there of you
at home , my dear?"
CHILD (promptly): “ Oh , there's us two and Fire
thai milks.”
N. Burnewell, of the North Queensland
Railway Service, has designed a grass and weed
burner, in which vaporised kerosene is use , 01
the purpose of clearing vegetation along the sides
of the railway line. Sufficient kerosene can he
carried on a trolly for one day s use, and 10 to JJ
miles per day can be covered. The idea is to
the work during the wet season, ''heu ‘v
is green, so as to prevent the spread of nres. .
alleged that by this invention Queensland will
directly save many thousands a jear of K > f
indirectly save many thousands more in '
grass tires. The calculations seem “•
guine, but possibly they will workout all right.
“ Cict ” : Be “ Itan ” (B.
26/3/’08) and his oyster-beds of
Broken Bay. I have never or?/vy
seen them, but I have struck
the shell-fish lessees’ shingles on the
South Coast—at Jervis Bay and Sussex
Inlet. There the usual slab of tree pro-
proclaims the doubtful fact that a cen-
tury of yards of oysters is the sole asset
of Mr. Sydney Cove or Mr. Dago
Acropolis, and warns trespassers to
keep off the grass. This leasing
system helps to pave the abori-
ginal’s track to Hades. A swarm
of tourists alight in the vicinity
of the Dago-ruled oyster in-
cubator, and are kind of
timorous of breaching the
law. Next King Billy
XXX. heaves in view.
Almost before he has
done heaving he is
urged to supply a bag
of the shell tribe at
2s. 6d. per sack.
His sombre majesty
ambles forth while
the itinerants re-
cline and wait.
After scarifying
his feet somewhat
on rocks and other
handy objects, the
monarch passes
over his produce,
is paid off, and
retires. His em-
ployers now legally
possess a hempen
instrument groan-
ing under the pres-
sure of oysters.
They know fairly
well that the fish
were stolen from
the lease of Mr.
Dago Acropolis,
but they are con-
tent with the
knowledge that
they didn’t person-
ally do the steal-
ing. The results
are (1) some tour-
ists with indiges-
tion (almost imme-
diately), (2) an in-
furiated Mr. Dago
Acropolis (some time later),
and (3) a very drunk King Billy
XXX. (as soon as he can reach
the pub). And all' this because a
paternal Government handed over the nigger’s
rightful fish to Mr. Sydney Cove or Mr. Dago
Acropolis.
* * * *
“ Cirkus ” : How’s this for casualness ? A
man went into a pub in Lilydale (Vic.) recently
and called for a drink. While abolishing the
liquid he happened to remark to those in the bar
that he’d been bitten by a snake. Someone said :
“ W’y in thunder don’t yer go an’ see a doctor ? ”
“Too much trouble,” replied the other. He
summoned two more beers before him, and
executed the same with appreciative gusto.
Then he went gently and reflectively outside and
died —just died.
* * * *
“Katta,” on his travels :
I am struck hereabouts (Shepparton, Vic.) by the
criminal tolly of Cocky in ringbarking every tree on his
place ; also any trees growing on the adjoining roads, if
they are likely to interfere with his wheat. This belt of
country (east side of Goulburn River) promises to claim,
as its brother, that desolation that tortures you ’twixt
Peniliquin and Hay. The country a few years ago was
thickly-timbered with box trees ; it is fast becoming a
wind-swept plain. Two inches of rain are required to
make mud ;an inch used to make grass. And Cocky
wonders why. /
“ Arsemo ” : Be “triantelopes.” I am
sorry to have to disagree with “Rapids” (B.
5/3/’08). He mentions the tough, white, and flat
membranes which are found adhering to the wood
beneath a strip of loose bark, and adds : “ When
this shilling-like membrane is cut . . . small tri-
antelopes scamper in every direction.” He’s
wrong—small spiders do the scampering. Young
“tris.” are innocent-looking little, grey, fluffy
chaps, longer in the body than young spiders. I
don’t deny that these nests are often found under
a piece of bark beneath which there are also
“ triantelopes but a close observer will also find
spiders there. The nests really belong to either
the common black spider, or to the black and red
spider. If “ Rapids ” cut them at the right time
he would often find Mrs. spider inside—pre-
sumably she is depositing eggs. I recently handled
a stack of posts, which had been cut green and
allowed to dry, with the result that the bark had
all become loose. Under the bark were hundreds
of nests and hundreds of spiders, but not a single
“tri.” The Murray pines, along the fringe of
the mallee, which have very thick bark, are very
fashionable boarding places in “tn.” society.
Have often pulled the bark off one
of these and found dozens of “tris., and,
very often, a few rows of small brown eggs,
each about the size of a grain of wheat. These 1
have always understood to be the eggs of the
“triantelope,” and I believe most bush men hold
the same opinion. Also, “ Rapids alleges that
the soft, grey, silky webs which he found were
“ much more delicately spun than those of the
snider” which is remarkable, since they are
spun by spiders. “ Rapids ” ought to shoot him-
self. As to whether the “ triantelope does or
does not spin a web, here is some circumstantial
evidence : (1) Anyone who has watched a tri
hunting flies knows that he is no fool. (2) Ihe
“ tri ” when he wants to come down stairs and the
lift is engaged, just falls down. (3) Any web-
spinning spider in the same circumstances
himself a thread to come down by. If the tri
could do the same, and doesn t, he is a bio 1 —am i
I said before that he is no fool. Therefore (4),
I conclude that the “tn doesn t know how to
spin a web.— Q.E.D. I have spoken. Let there
be peace.
AT THE LENDING CLOTHES LIBRARY.
MURIEL JONES : “If it's in, I want the red
costoom wiv the blue fishoos that I seen Ruby
Cassidy mashin' Benno Jones in las'
Saturdee .”
“H.S.R. ” : Be Bulletin par. (12/3/’08)
as to the publess state of The Oaks diggings
(N.Q.). There is another “ dry ” field in Queens
land—the Silver Spur. The big mine there has
been at work for nearly 15 years. The nearest
pubs are at Texas, five miles distant. In this
case all the property round about is held by pri-
vate landlords, who have tabooed tanglefoot.
* * * *
“Cict” : Be “Oxo’s” (B. 12/3/’08) deer,
which, after doing Gippsland, have rambled as
far north as Poowong. Don’t know the latitude
of Poowong, hut do know that deer are browsing
on the northern shores of the Murray.
Around Howlong they may be observed in
ingles and spairs ; in fact, I saw several
as far back as 1904. Despite the fact that
they are usually greeted with a brace of '
bullets on first sight, they appear to be
doing fairly well, thanks. In no place
in “ Noo South ” have they been wel-
comed, and still they exist, and are
slowly increasing. Reckon the ldots
who desire their preservation
should be made to incubate their
pets on their own crops and
grass, whereupon their enthu-
siasm would soon flicker
and go out. Fences, barbed
wire or plrun, <ire mere
trifles to the deer, and
simply afford them pleasant jumping exercise.
Unique advt. from the Northern Times
Carnarvon (W.A.) :
NEW INDUSTRY.
Shark Oil and Fins.
To Stand the Season at “ Boolbarli.”
ITIHE pet shark, “ Big Ben,” O.K. brand. Anyone
-L having any she sharks to mate, can rely on every
care, but no responsibility. Apply for terms at the
Aquarium. „ _ „,,
Bill Smith (in charge), or Dad, Carnarvon.
* * *
“ Sr.” : “ Itan ” (B. 12/3/’08) reckons that
the weather prophet is an Australian institution.
There’s an Australian institution who declaims
Sundayly, on Melbourne’s Yarra bank. This in-
stitution stutters, so I won’t attempt to report
him verbatim . He foretells that in 1914 A. 13.
there will bean awful flood in Melbourne, and that
Collingwood and Richmond will be under water
for eight months. He knows all this from reading
the spots on the sun. He also foretells that a
depression will occur somewhere in Australia in 10
months’ time, but he cannot give the details till
the following Sunday. Whilst he was backing
and shying at his meteorological phrases, a lad
exclaimed, fortissimo, “Rats!” The institution
then got mad and howled :
May G s-s-strtke me d-d-dead ! I-I-I k-know what
I-I-I’m torkin’ ab-b-bout, but some of these Collingwood
blokes—l beg your pardon, 1-1-ladies and ge’mmen, I
meant coves— d-d-don’t kn-now enythin’ about the
w-w-weather.
I reckon the weather prophet is an Australian
freak. The only sure prophet of wet weather in
Australia is rain.
“ Agricola ” : The londly canine chained
up on the road is by no means confined to Maori-
land. Scores of the wretched creatures may be
found scattered through Riverina. In my
travels, I have lately seen several round
about Germanton and Culcairn. The K 9 is
generally placed at the end of a run, and a
rough brush fence is put up to narrow the
road to about 20ft. The dog’s domicile is
rarely so grand as a box—usually it con-
sists of a sheet of bark propped against
two stakes. On two occasions the only
roof I noticed over the poor brute’s head
was space, but there was plenty of it.
The thermometer was well over 90°.
The dog’s duty is to keep the sheep
from getting over the boundary. Like-
wise it comes in handy when the
squatter is charitably engaged in feed-
ing off the local travelling stock routes.
As a rule, the dog is a fine, intelligent
collie that tries its best to:talk to anyone
who pulls up for a yarn with it. It
always prefers a yarn with a human
to its tucker. It lets the hunk of meat
lie untasted at its feet and sadly watches
until the visitor disappears in the dis-
tance. I am in favor of all penalties
for dog-stealing being suspended in these
cases.
‘ ‘ Nym ” : One of the marvels of Nature out-
iack now is the carrying capacity of the water-
holes that mark where expansive sheets of water,
known by courtesy as rivers, used to be. The
inland streams are now chains of pools, mostly
only a few feet deep, yet into these dwindling
liquid receptacles the shrinkage produced by the
long spell has huddled the myriad forms of aquatic
life hitherto spread over wide areas. In the
daytime the pools are apparently lifeless, no fish
at all being discernible. But at dusk hundred-
weights may be caught, and of nice breakfast size
too ; and night-lines, properly baited, rarely fail
to lure a big, old-man cod or colossal golden perch.
The latter is rarely catchable when plenty of
feeding room is available. Limited water space
seems to make for short commons for the fish, in
spite of the fact that yabbies, mussels, shrimps,
and other forms of fish food are also concentrated
in the limited space. Fish bite ravenously when
the shades of night fall. Where they get
to during the daytime, seeing that the
waterholes are almost devoid of waterweeds
and snags to afford concealment, is a puzzle.
Water-birds, too, are invisible during the day,
and the refuge of the water-rat and platypus
tribes is a dark mystery. The Campaspe is in the
lean straits that marked the worst of the drought
years, yet very few specimens of dead river and
water-side life are visible. Snakes have been
scarce all the season, but yabbies and shrimps
were never in greater evidence. Turtles, how-
ever, have troubled the angler but little. King
Cod and his fry are very cute, and rarely get
stranded unless a deep hole is entirely unavail-
able. On the other hand, black and golden perch
are loth to leave their shrinking haunts, and often
loaf till too late. The absence of frogs since flood-
time in September, 1900, has been very marked.
A plague of them was experienced about 24 hours
before the big Campaspe flood swept over the
northern areas of the Kyabramapootra fringe.
The frogs were big fellows, and seemed in mortal
terror of the deluge following in their wake. This
year there are hundreds of scared cookies who
would give their last guinea to hear a green frog
croak, for frogs mean water nearabouts every time.
THE SYDNEY “TELEGRAPH ” WALLOPS
ITS JOSS.
The Opposition remains incapable of checking the
Government and the caucus combined, because it is a dis-
integrated force that has no leader whom it can follow,
and because the leader whom it ought to follow has no
inclination, or will, or anxiety, to lead it. The sort of
leader who lets somebody else sow the seed while he
waits to be called in to reap the harvest will not suit the
Federal Parliament. The leader who cannot lead ought
to cease to pretend to lead. The leader who cannot lead
ought to ask himself whether he ought not to be content
to follow'. It is easy enough for Mr. Reid to float down
from Sydney—when he has nothing to do in the courts
and return when he has made a speech or two.
“ D.H.R.” gives one reason why up North
“ we can’t get white men to stay ”
The accommodation provided for mill and field hands
on some of the plantations is a scandal. A small,
draughty, broken-windowed hovel, 8 x 12—and in come
cases less —is made to hold four beds. The beds con-
sisfc of canvas or cornsacks stretched on a wooden frame.
Very often they are dilapidated and alive with vermin.
The occupants of these rooms are expected to keep them
clean • but when a man has labored from six to six in the
field or mill, he isn’t much in a humor for using broom or
brush ; consequently the one great insistent feature of the
whole wretched entertainment is DIRT. You smell it in a
thousand subtle varieties of stench, all superlative ; you
see it in a hundred different disguises—animal refuse,
stagnant water, suds, and reeking slime ; you feel it in
and on and over everything. It is no wonder that
tvphoid and other diseases are occasionally rampant on
some of the plantations ; it is no wonder decent white
men won’t stand it. If every plantation were compelled
by law to employ hut-keepers, the sanitary condition and,
consequently, the health of the employees would benefit
greatly • and if Parliament could only see a few of the
existing'places, the Act would go through unanimously.
THE CHANGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All day the enervating north wind blew,
Until good folk were crabbed, cross, and crusty ,
And ever more unbearable it grew,
Till everything was dingy, dull, and dusty.
The asphalt pavements oozed beneath the glare
That shimmered in a heat-haze on the city ;
Like furnace-blasts roared past the arid air,
Till all the world was grimy, grim, and gritty.
It seemed old Nick had given holiday
To all the demons in his wide dominions—
As though he’d let them all come out to play
Uncanny gambols on their flaming pinions.
Oh, how those unseen devils took delight
In whisking up the dust in antics airy ;
In desiccating nature in their flight ;
In snatching headgear from all heads unwary .
: lot haste, with fiery breath and sullen roar,
Came footless fiends around the corners swooping ;
\tid flowers and shrubs, that stood so straight before,
Were wilted all, with leaf and petal drooping.
Ynd so the North Wind blustered all the day,
While man and beast and flower and tree wer
shrinking,
When, towards the sultry eve, it died away ;
The whiles a huge, red sun was westward sinking.
Then fell a sudden calm, as still as death ;
A hush expectant! Then a distant humming.
A faint air sighed, like some sweet, wearied breath—
And far away was heard the South Wind coming !
The high trees heard it, whispered it, and stirred,
As far away the topmost leaves were dancing;
And suddenly broke out the trill of bird
At those great legions of the South advancing.
And then the strong South Wind, the cool, sweet wind,
Swept throngh the jaded town, new vigor giving
With welcome freshness, brisk, and keen, and kind,
And woke in living things the joy of living !
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
12s. 6d. per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
A bad taste in the mouth arises from a
disordered stomach, and may be corrected by
taking a dose of Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver
Tablets. They cleanse and invigorate the stomach,
improve the digestion, and give one a relish for
food.*
“Jimmie Pannikin” : One thing - that
has helped to discount the value of goats’ meat is
the fact that in times of drought only the ancient
goats were killed for coach passengers who had to
travel the heart-break tracks of the Dry Remote-
ness. The weary and worn veterans of the goat
flocks were killed off first, for obvious reasons ; so
a false idea of the flavor of goat-mutton entered
and abided in the minds of the travellers during
droughts. On my first journey down the Lower
Darling we reached a mail-change just at dusk.
As the coach dragged in sight of the humpy I saw
a man hurriedly lift a carcase from a small tree and
run inside. About an hour later we sat down to a
frugal meal. “ ’Ave a bit a baked mutton, mister?”
asked the groom, who ran a sort of meal-house.
“ No, thank you, I’d sooner try the galantine of
galah,” I replied. “Ho,” he snorted, “the
mutton’s good enough for me an’ Coolibah Charlie;
but it tain’t fit for a city toff like you, eh?”
“Now, you misunderstand me, my friend. I am
very partial to good goat mutton, especially when
it’s baked, but 1 don’t care for it when its late
owner had been in the habit of wearing a Dan
O’Connor beard.” The host put down his knife
and fork, and smiled widely. “Cripes, I didn’t
think ya wuz smart enough to notice Billy’s bosker
beard, as I run in with him tu th’ kitchin. I
meant tu cut ’is ’ead orf, before I ’ung ’ini mup.
Never mind, ’ave a bit a galah ; it’s orlrite ! ” It
was.
THE SECTARIAN ISSUE.
“ Look here, St. Paul wrote an Epistle to the Romans, didn't he?"
“ Well, what about it?"
“ Well, did he ever write an Epistle to the Presbyterians? ”
“ Flinderino ” : Re the numerousness of
goats at Charters Towers (B. 12/3/’08). The Towers
is not the only place where billy and nanny con-
gregate in countless multitudes and dangle their
beards in at dining-room windows. Nearly every
Queensland town possesses an extensive assort-
ment of goats of all nationalities, various colors,
and miscellaneous odors. Many methods are
adopted by the town and shire councils to keep
the pest in check, and in most places there is an
annual rounding-up of stray, homeless, and un-
registered goats. The inspector of nuisances
enlists the services of a dozen or so boys, who,
armed with whips, scour the district, and drive
everything resembling a goat to the pound. A
crowd of dogs, mostly volunteers, assist the youth-
ful drovers ; and the barking, shouting, whip-
cracking, bleating and sneezing that accompanies
a drive can be heard miles away. The owners of
registered goats must keep them locked in or on
the chain while the rounding-up is on, or
else they have the trouble of visiting the pound
and drafting out their property from the herd of
captured animals. Mrs. Jones takes advantage
of the opportunity to work off old scores by slyly
opening Mrs. Smyth’s back gate and letting loose
the Smyth goats, which are captured by the
drovers and driven away with the common herd.
Mrs. Smyth, assisted by a straw broom, pursues
the mob of goats and makes desperate efforts to
recapture her source of milk supply, using the
broom indiscriminately on goats and drovers.
When the round-up is completed, an auction sale
is held, and prices ranging from Is. to £1 each are
realised. The goat broken into saddle and harness
fetches the top figure. All the unsold and un-
claimed goats then go to their just reward.
KODAK.
RISING TO THE OCCASION.
MR. BIGGS: “ Anythin' doin' at the Council lars'
night ?”
ALDERMAN BOGGS: “ Anythin' doin'! By cripes,
we arst the American fleet to Muddy Gully."
“Dux” : At a M.L. meeting, the other
day, met the devil-may-care jockey who rushes
unknown horses at fences and risks his own life
and other people’s. There were 15 runners in a
maiden hurdle race. My friend introduced me to
his friend—call him Brown—who had the mount
on Blue Fly. Asked what chance the horse had.
He told me he didn’t know ; in fact, he didn’t
know whether the blank could jump or not.
“ But,” he concluded, “I’ll know when we get
there,” pointing to the first hurdle. Stationed
myself at the jump, and anxiously awaited events.
My friend was riding. They got off to an even
start, and tore down the straight like three-
furlong racing machines. At the first obstacle
there was a great crash. Six horses fell, including
Brown’s. Brown came down with the thud
you’ve read about. I rushed in to gather up the
corpse, but was astonished to see his smiling face •
and as he carefully felt himself all over, he
laughed—“ The blank can’t jump, sonny. I don’t
think he ever saw a fence in his life before.”
The first well-boring plant introduced into
Queensland is still in working order at Nobby, on
the Darling Downs. It was originally used on
Westbrook station, 35 years ago.
* • • *
“ Wyung ” goes a-fishing :
I never knew what excitement was till I went fishing in
Hobson’s Bay. We went after scbnapper, starting from
Port Melbourne, and punched out against a south-westerly
to the outer reef at Altona Bay. I had heard pretty
strong stories of sharks, so took a carbine on the chance
of a shot. The boat’s armament was a harpoon 12ft.
long with a staff that appeared to have once been a mast.
We anchored on the reef and caught small schnapper for
the cat. Then Whiskers, who was in the bow, hooked
something that he at first thought was Australia, but it
became detached and came up looking like a 401 b.
schnapper. We just saw the gleam of it near the sur-
face, when a submarine rushed past with a swirl that
stood us on our combings. Whiskers hauled up the end
of his line and began to talk in terms suitable to the
occasion.
Then the Boy in the Stern hooked a heavy fish, and
hauled up like mad. But the submarine shot past again,
and only the face of the schnapper came aboard. The
boat had another narrow escape.
Next I got a fish, and at the same time the Judge
hooked one on the other side. We hauled up till there
was no more slack, and then I paid out and he pulled,
and we found the “bows” of two long schnapper, cut
clean through as though with knives, together at the
ends of our lines.
Then Charon ordered “ All in,” hove a fish overboard,
and hauled out the harpoon. He stood up on the side of
the well and lifted the weapon with both hands. In
about three seconds two submarines rushed past the boat,
upsetting the harpooner in the box of entrails that we
used for bait, and the fish was gone. Another cold, grey
specimen went over into the same place, and the
harpooner got to work again. I judged it was time
to chip in with my artillery, and loaded up. Charon had
his 12ft. of spike aimed at the floating bait. A huge
brown body slid up to it, and showed a broad white
streak of belly. Allowing for the refraction I fired, and
Charon fell back into the bait-box again, with his harpoon
atop of him. He rose, dripping entrails all over the
boat, and seeing the water churning white with the
struggles of a ten-foot “Johnny,” he gripped his har-
poon some more, and drove it straight into the middle of
the muddle. The main-sheet was fast to the pole of the
weapon, and when they hauled it in the shark w’as
spitted through the middle. Then they hoisted Charon
out of the entrail box, into which he had once more
tumbled.
By this time, the Ghost of Banquo was not worthy to
be compared with Charon. He was all entrails. “What
yer think of that?” he demanded savagely ; “six men in a
boat and one box of bait, and one blanky man falls into
that box every time and gets it all! What sort of luck’s
that ? ” I said I thought it was habit, but Charon didn’t
hear. He had slit the shark up, and was lifting our
schnapper out of it—one whole fish and two headless
ones.
“ use here any more,” said Charon. So we moved
and got on to the fish again. The Boy was having a tug-
of-war with one that nearly pulled him into the wet
when something bumped the bottom of the boat like a
torpedo, upsetting all hands. When we got up Charon
was sitting disconsolately in his accustomed box, scrap-
ing entrails out of his hair with a bait knife, and cursing
himself in a wild and dreadful fashion. By this time the
Boy’s fish was 60yds. astern, comfortably housed in 10ft
of shark. We could see the combing of the shark’s roof
sticking out of the water. We threw a dead fish astern
and I covered it with the gun.
Whilst we were waiting the Judge hooked a fish, and
had it out of the water and looking into the boat when a
shark jumped right out and snatched it, bumping the
side of the boat so that it shivered. I nearly missed my
shark watching the Judge trying to get up the mast, but
I got him, just in time. He panned out five fair
schnapper. There was another dorsal fin showing 60yds
abeam, and there were two more beyond that. I pro-
posed that we should do the rest of our fishing with
the gun and the spike. And we did. We had no
bait left anyway except what we could scrape off Charon
We got two more sharks. One was an inward blank •
the other yielded three schnapper and a whiting in a
good state of preservation. By this time there were
sharks all round the boat, and I used up all my ammuni-
tion without any further captures. Charon said it was
the blood that brought them round. He added that it
.'Y 0 " ld , h f ba £ if two or three of them attacked
the boat. We judged it was time enough to
leave, sfo we hauled up the kellick and slid.
1 dreamt that night that I was alone in a small boat in a
great wide ocean—alone with a keg of beer, and a Saha-
ran thirst; anti that just as I raised the keg to my face
a ‘ ld J elt * bo cold, beautiful beer on my countenance, a
shark as big as a St. Patrick’s Day procession gulped the
whole outfit. If you want to go fishing, go where the
sharks are in the schnapper season. That is fishing.
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the
cause. Used the world over to cure a cold in one
day. E. W. GROVE’S signature on box. Is. ljd.
THE VICTORIAN RAILWAY GUARD’S STORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Why th’ blazes should I stop it
Anywhere but at this station ?
When it comes in here I’ll cop it 1
This place is its destination ! ”
So we waited at the end, sir,
And we yarned upon the siding,
Till she crawled around the bend, sir,
And came slowly, gently, gliding.
Like a footsore centipede, sir,
With exhaustion almost dropping,
And we noticed then indeed, sir,
That the blessbd thing was stopping.
You can therefore understand, sir,
How the station-master caught her,
By the foot-plate, with one hand, sir,
And right to a standstill brought her.
Hake it up into a rhyme, sir ;
Tell them how I saved from glory
The express. (A hob a time, sir,
People give me for the story.)
N.B.W.
I was guard of the express, sir,
Mountain road—nowhere a level.
Rate two miles an hour. Oh, yes, sir 1
Travelled like the (oldest) devil!
Lord 1 but it was good to thunder
Like a snail along the ridges,
Arid to see the depths yawn under
When she whirled across the bridges !
One day I observed a jolting
(Heavens ! shall I e’er forget it !)
Told a passenger, “ It's bolting ! ”
And he said in anger, “ Let it! ”
Out upon the footboard then I
Edged to where the engine spurted,
And I gasped in horror when I
Found the blessed cab deserted.
Had no notion how to check her,
So I scratched my head and wondered ;
And I thought the pace would wreck her
As ahead she blindly thundered.
Then I leaped from off the train, sir,
And rolled over on the metals ;
But I rose in haste again, sir,
For I’d lauded on some nettles.
Punctured as I was, and shaken,
Onward straight for help I hurried ;
In a flash I’d overtaken
The express that clawed and worried.
By itself along the track, sir,
Round the hillside curve that slanted.
And as running, I looked back, sir,
Uallantly the old thing panted.
Far behind me, in the distance,
Once I saw her headlight gleaming,
And 1 rushed on for assistance,
Till I couldn’t hear her steaming.
Through the bush I went on striding,
Ev’ry minute going faster.
Till I found a sort of siding,
And a rustic station-master.
Then I breathlessly advised him
Of the train beyond control, sir,
And the news it quite surprised him
And he said, “ Gord bless me soul,” sir.
“ We must hurry out and stop it !”
I said, tugging at his shoulder.
But he only answered “ Drop it !
You’ll be wiser when you’re older.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken
communications insufficiently stamped. Name
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, wheth '
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will h
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany *
H.E.W. : Not reasonable to suggest that The
Bulletin should boycott the advertisements of forei r
manufacturers. The protection of local industries isn't
matter to be safely left to private firms ; it is the business
of the Government. And you can’t but admit that Tns
Bulletin, irrespective of all advertising considerations
"barracks” solely for the local manufacturer.. ’
S.B. : But the new Industrial Disputes Bill provides (or
supervision of rate for piece-work Geo. C.: Thank
you ; but we can’t devote space to printing the congratu
lations of our friends ; all the space is wanted for scarifying
Australia’s enemies.. . .F. VV. Downs: Far too prolix.
C. : It’s merely prose, and not good prose either
D. Ben man : There is imagination in it and it has a good
swing, but it is too shapeless and incoherent... .Jloobal-
No, it isn’t hopeless ; but the style is too languid and
there is too much preliminary description.. ..J.Pn .
“ Muck-a-hi-ya I No savee 1 Whaffor!” Exactly—that’s
what we said when we read it ...Emanuel A.: Hope-
lessly unintelligible H. J. Mack: Good second-rate
stuff Alf N. : “ Disappointment” is the best of the
three, hut not good enough at that M. : St. Patrick’s
birth not of much Australian interest. Send along bio.
graphical facts about the men who make iron and ploughs
and pianos in Australia—its industrial saints a.B •
It was Luscombe who first held that billet, and h e '
was appointed to it by George Dibbs Melville S.: The
effort to be funny is too apparent Alicia: Tooflimsy
for print E.U.H.: “ Tour first offence.” Oh, well; it
might have been a lot more heinous Willie W. T.: We
weary of the Butt-Itumford-family joke. At the
best it was never more than a one-tour joke...
Rhadamanthus : It’s wrong every way—rhyme, reason
and metre Wilinot: They don’t suit us; but though
you say "basket,” they are too good for that, so we
return them.... Ralph VV. T. : You label the thing as in-
tended for another publication, and then send it to us.
Well, it’s no good, anyhow.. . .Ajax : They don’t quite
run-up. The best of them has the worst form, and the
worst has the best form F.R. : The verses don’t screw
on properly to the refrain J. Rowe : Bad verse and
worse philosophy... .Bertie : Quaint and distinctive, but
weak here and there in words W. H. Romm;
You are a “trier,” anyhow. Sorry they don’t get
a place. Your illegibility is not in your favor....
J. Frizelle : The main part of it is good, but there is too
much lead-up, and the ending is flat... F.J.H. : Spirited,
hut unsatisfactory... .Griffo: Atrociously bad verse. Also,
no “suggestions” would give you the literary faculty...,
R. 8.8. : There is a poetic flavor in all of them, and
“ Fragment ” nearly persuaded us. You would do better
with more simplicity and directness James McC.: You
aim high, and your fall is all the harder. The faulty
metre would have blocked it, in any case Clyde: Not
easy to tell what you are driving at Show N.:
Correct in form, but rather feeble of impression.,..
Bon: Bad metre, founded on mispronunciations.
Instance, your second line will scan only by accenting
“Pegasus” on the second syllable. That spiral egg
is very common in Sydney' waters. It is the produce
of the “Port Jackson shark.”... .Crutch: Sorry for
the weak spots that spoil an otherwise striking piece of
verse.... Bosker : A weak little stave... .Redem : Too
bumpy and irregular.... Mepho : Well meant, but ill-exe-
cuted... Onward : Couldn’t blast any meaning out of it
R. Quaker: Very naturally told, but the interest is
hardly strong enough Alf. N. : You don’t seem to be
able to hit it... .Fortunatus : Not enough of the trumpet-
blast about it. .Tarry : Not impressed with any of them..
Gertrude A.: They are fairly well written, and show some
ingenuity of plot, but their general quality isn’t up to
standard Elsa M. : Hardly worth print The Rover:
We admire your spirit ; but, alas ! your stuff has no show.
H.A.E.H. : Sorry we cannot use it M. : “How
shall we define the meaning of the word Socialism?” We
shan’t define it again ; we’ve done it too often already.
For some points read the Ten Commandments, the
Hebrew land policy, and the Sermon on the Mount....
Nano : Why should England “ give us a battleship?” We
ought to be able to build our own battleships, and certainly
won’t have them until we do Euroa : Humorous, but
unpublishable... O. (Nerrigundah): Thanks for cutting
but if we referred to all the papers which steal pars from us
we would need to come out in directory form W.:
Thanks for par re lunatics who let lodgings at Coburg.
Willavoid Coburg N.G.: Jest re the Saviourno g00d....
N. (Tas): Jest re lady who wanted to travel half-price
on the tram because the conductor pointed out her boy
had long pants, and hence must pay full fare, rejected as
over-blushful... .Alastor : A commendable feature of
your religious par. is the impartiality with which
you bash Roman and Methody alike. Unfortunately,
that is the only commendable feature in them....
Punter : The, remarks about “ * Shicker ’ boshtering
‘ kip ’ for the next ‘ spin,’ ” and “ Sahara thirst near the
Adam’s apple ” are too technical for us... .Barney : You
forward one interesting bit of information, viz.: “This
place, which is to be submerged by the great Trawool
water scheme, claims that it secured the pardon of the
famous French officer, Dreyfus,’’ but you don’t give the
name. “ A town in the N.E. of the Bent State "is too
vague.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
K.J.M. : Declined. The wretched thing cost us 4d.
because you put on N.S.W. stamps and then postedit in
another State P.C.T. (Rockhampton): Both joke and
drawing are somewhat immature 0.8. : “Anchors
Wade ” joke has been used before. And you don’t apply
it we 11.... F.M. : Picture hopelessly out of drawing. As
for telling you “how to do it better” it is too large
a contract.. ..A.W.W. : Fairly humorous, and the
drawing suggests that you might do good work
some day. But you haven’t arrived yet....
O. : Pictured joke about the man who wished he
had a cold is too deeply hidden, and the vote for
deep-sinking is used up....W.M. : Hot cross bun joke
was born dead and remained so Charley F.: Most
insane picture of a priest who looks like a huge porcupine,
and a drunk who suggests Captain Flood Ireson after he
had been “ tarred and feathered and carr’d in a cart ’ b\
the women of Marblehead... H.V.J. : One feeble joke;
one dirty joke ; two inefficient pictures Gore:
Unsuitable.
This is the address which a candidate for
a northern N.S.W. Shire Council sent to the local
paper for publication. The hand-writing can tbe
reproduced, and the name is altered, but the spell-
ing and grammar are all there
to the Elactors of Shire Riding Cir having been
requested by a number of ratepayers to contest a seat at
the forthcomming election i have decided to do so ana i
shall do my best if returned to satisfie the raitpayers in
general needls to say i ain against rasing the taxes any
higher than is needed one itim i ameded a gainst if returnea
is any move to enter with the sise of tyres as i consider it
will be putting more takes on the poor man and I con-
sider he has enough to pay at present.
FERGUSPOS MOBAEREH.
Blank’s river.


ve
-ttfe Itf^+Ton
in Vic
E&tli
on V'S \o
Brifay.m, becomes
oui- *
(Ar^s)
MCAV* w 'sr, Occurred lb rrje , W^<,
b, Splendid nrjvi to as He^^uC
A* fb whetfer V VIII a successful
leader w| II
|sfor7« of We
Jo till We ty.
Quality 'tfTat were
latent Manifest ibp«,selves
of-Ten vibe*
f A
jvgn^er?
v
V/^icV]
Qorrie in , l.ttle \>oy-
"llie WK^ r s lovely
Public • U
W<y> ,n
Ows'tT'^ 1 ?
me Re'fx» , 'nino A<dv.. On no
- Only V»fl v
AS<v»i"r ?
litres oj'^-.e^.h
vivfe-t R fi
Cti + ls ±° n % '2. ''
Ms 6^^
- -He niM a.
- wolf- S>iee|>s c |o^|r, S' 7^^
fIU-wW* V c;k s **> l » Ay * XC
■forced fo See a ~^ b '"S y*.
linan in t»ubllt, W(? dCtr,*r>4 & P rO P
Im " b*\lic Ch^es'-
; /A< s e )
r| r I
sta+e IV li **?**> + s A*-e +he I>t£+tvcsSe> I
e(' ifje
•• V.r t?e -TU7 tsc Sc^M.ne^l
<?« c4 \ d rrr.' -i
Tbo P&>ly - E><? 1| •
'•The C(W r AD*I ; /S+ S*ys ".Ns
xs+onivHinp -Kjacf
SV,ouU "b« V lO A*eoWV —
TVy AS
**7i*c/b
I A^e^Tjecr
fir "The offer of- Si*»eU>l r—7
An H Ker To broV.de The.
necess^ r Y labour JkvniYe'' l * "f® t*,* ae j S
Various ♦'Cf-ercnces+o "Truly *’
oeUroSity"*'.*■ W «’»T ro^d-^et^fe
B&4 of t£e Co^l
o*l gV •^ ee| '
«*-*« s-jv o» iCc
■l<tr»\? trance. W)CoM*>% *•—" C.
FEDERAL AND UN-FEDERAL ITEMS.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming- Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321,
Fm O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
See “THE CRITIC.”
Obtainable all Newsagents
or CORDON & COTCH.
GIGANTIC COMPETITION. £12,000 in Cash Prizes.
Ist Prize, £5OOO ; 2nd, £2000; 3rd, £lOOO, and others.
Chamberlain’s Tablets prove highly bene-
ficial in all liver troubles, entirely removing bilious-
ness, and in so doing will clear away all slnn
eruptions, such as boils, pimples, and eczema.
PERIONAL
ITEMS
Thomas Bent has added another to the
long list of his youthful accomplishments. He
now modestly confesses to having played football
in his early days. With this he should have
about exhausted his reminiscences. Apparently
he has done, seen, heard, smelt, tasted, and felt
everything except one ; hence his silence about
the time when “ Jehovaii and me ” made Creation.
SENATOR GUTHRIE, President of Australian
Federated Seamen’s Union.
An ex-Australian financier died at Cannes
(France) last month. Prideaux Selby came to
Victoria with his parents in 1840, and made the
acquaintance of the great Australian ox under the
auspices of his father, who, with the late James
Dawson, went into the cattle-raising biz at War-
randyte, on the Yarra. Prideaux joined the
Bank of Australasia in 1858, and climbed to an
inspectorship in this country. He was appointed
London secretary in 1879, and, later on, became
boss manager. He held this position till 1898,
when he reckoned it was up to him to rest after
40 years’ hard banking, so in the last ten years of
his life he was merely an honorary director.
Tom Mann came to Sydney from Mel*
bourne last week—possibly with a view to putting
an intrusive paw into the Maritime Strike situa-
tion ; and really things are quite bad enough
without Tom Mann.
Victoria’s new Governor— Thomas David
Gibson-Carmichael—should make a good orna-
mental boss for State insects. He is notable
chiefly for two things: he is the author of several
papers on centipedes and spiders, and he suc-
ceeded Gladstone as representative of Midlothian
—just as the mosquito followed the elephant into
the Ark.
One M‘Gregor, o’ the Scawtish Gaelic
Society, recently complained, at a meeting of the
clansmen in Melbourne, that “ it was to be deeply
regretted that his ” (the late Lord Linlithgo'w’s)
“ health was undermined by the cruel manner in
which he was treated in Australia as first
Governor-General.” Generally understood that
the M‘Gregor was referring to the Common-
wealth’s refusal to just about double the huge
salary that the noble earl bargained for. It is a
fearful thing to ask for a rise of screw and have it
refused, and die in consequence, and The Bulle-
tin can only hope that whenever one of M‘Gregor’s
employees asks for a big rise he gets it at once,
for if he doesn’t it seems that he is liable to perish
at any time, and then his blood will be on
M‘Gregor’s head.
The perennial J. S. Butters bobbed up
in Melbourne again t’other day. Some painters,
renovating the two-storey brick building almost
opposite the Law Courts, used as officesfor the Food
Inspector and the Vegetable Pathologist, came
across the words “Royal Hotel,” in faded letters
over the door. Nobody remembered a pub ever
having been there ; even Councillor Dynon, who
has been in business in the street for 60 years,
recalled it not; but Butters searched the dust-
covered pigeon holes of his memory, and turned
out a memo whereon it was recorded that he and
sundry friends had left the old Queen’s Theatre
one evening in the early ’fifties and stepped over
to the Royal to see a man about the dog that
existed even in those remote times. Butters is
recognised as immortal, but he seems to be im-
mortal backwards as well as forwards.
“ Drake ” writes :
The would-be Society dames who have lately hitched on
to Miss Sutherland’s slum work, as a committee, are
wanting to shunt that benevolent old soul. For 20 years
Miss Sutherland has labored among the neglected urchins
of Melbourne. At first, the Government House push
would fold its skirts tightly around its walking parts
when it passed Miss Sutherland in the street. She wore
a shabby, out-of-date grey dress, and an old little felt hat
with one feather in it. Her strong, kindly face did not
appeal to the grand dames. But then her work became
known and was praised. That was the opportunity for
the cats to rqsh in and form a committee, and it rained
cats for 40 days and 40 nights. A new home for the
strays was built on Sydney-road, and a Governor’s wife
used a gold key, or something of the sort, to open it.
Now that everything is rolling along smoothly, the com-
mittee objects to the control ekercised by the founder,
and wants to get rid of her. But the torrent of cats will
find that it is up against no ordinary woman in the little
party with the odd ha t and the solitary feather.
“Wy ” : So The Bulletin (2/4/’08) does
not know M‘Donald, of the Gippsland Rabbit
Suppression League. Writer does, and hastens
to state that M‘Donald is a violent Anti-Sosh
party on all matters excepting those relating to
rabbits, on which he is a red-hot Socialist. For
eight years Mac ran the original Gippsland
Rabbit Suppression League, that used to
meet sadly every month in the municipal
barn at Bairnsdale, and receive reports from
“inspectors” regarding the steady advance of
the animal. It was a slow League, and the
good old maxim, “ Time is Bunny,” was lost upon
it. Its reports covered reams, and they all read
like this : “ Visited Pig Flat and found traces.
Rode along the creek to Jumbo Crossing and found
traces.” . . . When it appeared that pretty well
all Gippsland was showing substantial signs of
traces, word arrived that the rabbits were at
Bruthen. Then Omeo, the League’s heaviest con-
tributor, dropped out, and started killing rabbits
instead of paying inspectors of Mac’s League to
report “traces.” The other municipalities fol-
lowed suit, and Mac went home to Maffra to
clamor for Government netting. Meanwhile, the
battle against Bunny is being waged all along the
line, but apparently it started too late.
William Macgregor (aged 61), who has
caught the Prime Minister’s eye for the Papuan
appointment, merits the appellation of Journey-
man Administrator, just as Henry Wrenfordsley
was a Journeyman Judge. The dour but con-
scientious Scotch medical student entered the
Imperial Service in an irregular or casual sort of
fashion, and the fact that he didn’t go through the
usual routine was apparently scored up against
him. So, despite his success as an administrator,
he passed his life in the outposts and by-
ways of the empire. His decade of strenu-
ous pioneering in Papua was to have been
followed by the Governorship of an Austra-
lian State, but when the time arrived he was
shunted off to Lagos. Le Hunte, his successor in
Papua, earned the Governorship of S. Australia
after a mere fraction of Macgregor’s good service.
Then bleak and impoverished Newfoundland,
where fish is the chief characteristic, wanted a
cheap Governor, and Macgregor got that job.
Now he is out of the British Governor industry
and living on a pension, but he still hankers after
work, and he reckons the Papuan climate a
healthy one for an old man.
“Spring” on certain financially bloated
landlords:—
I am a little bit mashed on the three big landlords in
the “ House of Nainty,” as my dear friend, Lady Molly-
new Parkes, calls the Ma State Assembly. Having been
reared in a district where it was, and is, the custom of
the loyal tenants to bow down and worship the “ Master,”
I thoroughly understand the genus landlord as he is when
petrifying in his native cavern. I know him to
be an abhorrent person, puffed out with his
own little tinpot local importance, swollen with
bucolic adulation, a condescending individual who culti-
vates a species of garish charity in order to feast on the
gratitude of the unfortunates who need charity, and have
nothing to give but gratitude. But since landlords
Ryrie, Onslow and Downes have brushed shoulders with
sturdy old Alfred Edden and other “working men” they
have considerably changed. They are a little bit
aughty still, hut they are on the way to lose some of that
attitude of contempt for others which induces contempt
from the others. At first they frequently came together
to the House from the theatre, dolled up in dress suits
and fried shirts, and sat cold and alone in a fixed aspect
of overdressed boredom. Now they are ashamed, and
always come dressed in useful clothes which cover their
nakedness without making a deafening row about their
superiority. So great is the change indeed, that I expect
the gilded 001. Onslow to come in some night dressed in
one of Alf Edden’s suits. He might discover a plug of
black tobacco in one of the pockets, and it would pro-
bably do him a heap of good if he did.
THE DEFENCE OF EXPENSE.
The compulsory training system that Mr. Deakin pro-
poses will involve huge expenditure, the amount of which
no man dare venture to estimate. —Argus.
FAIRY STORYTELLL ER: “ First , there's your jewelled
riftes to pay for; then there's gold-mounted
cartridges; and a pearl necklace for every
man. Where’s all the money for these things
to come from ? ”
F. T. Humphery, M.L.C., who died at
the Hotel Australia (9/4/’08), had been mixed up
in Ma State politics for the past quarter-of-a-cen-
tury. His was the stolid, unimaginative, honest
mind which characterises the born official. He
became Official Assignee a few months after
reaching his majority, and retained the billet (one
which, at the time—it was the epoch of the old
Insolvency Laws —was not over-highly esteemed)
for years. His political views were unticketable,
he being that baffling thing called an Independent.
Very often he didn’t know his own views. He
had as many directorships as a State Premier has
grievances.
“Adelaide”: A strange inscription ap-
pears on a 20-year-old tombstone in
West-terrace cemetery, Adelaide. All
but the end is the usual thing, about i
someone’s Beloved Husband. But "
at the finish the widow breaks out
into fierce (alleged) verse :
Never trust, but hold fast your own,
That no one can break up your home.
I thought at first that it must be a
hit by the widow at some other
women, or else a violent and prema-
ture iittack on the Socialists. But no.
Inquiries show that there was a long
insolvency business, and deceased never
got over it. So the “trust” his widow
warns all comers against is j ust plain credit.
“A Labor Sympathiser ” writes :
Am much afraid that Prendergast, Leader of
the Labor Opposition in Bent’s political estab-
lishment, has done his dash. It’s up to him
to hand over the reins to one of the others and
go and sit on the tail-board for a while and
have a smoke. Prendergast knows Parliamentary routine,
is well informed on general political questions, is popular
with his party, yet wit.hal he lacks the main attributes of
a leader. Hear him addressing- a hostile audience—one
that he wants to convert. He begins in a quiet jog-trot,
but before you have time to have your preliminary
cough he is galloping all over his subject, and, instead of
forceful criticism and practical policy, his speeches
usually degenerate into .diffuse harangues. Prendergast
would never convince an opponent. He’s all political
circus talk—extravagant, unconvincing, bickering and
garrulous. In the essential quality of forceful, convinc-
ing criticism he must be counted out. Bromley had his
shot. Prendergast has had a good show. Both of them
have been unsuccessful. Why not let someone else have
a turn now?
Melbourne Argus, discoursing with some
dolor on the resignation of Reginald Talbottle,
finds a portion of consolation in the idea that that
lengthy gentleman’s advocacy of Australia in
England will be of enormous value. “This ser-
vice in itself,” says the respectful daily, “ is reason
enough why we should always be glad to welcome
a King s representative sent from Britain to our
shores.”
Excusing loyalistjc fuss,
The Argus has to say
Imported Govs, are good for us
When far enough away.
To justify their coming here,
This reason is not plain,
Although it is a most sincere
Excuse for asking them to clear
For England’s shores again.
The new members of the N.S.W. Assem-
bly greatly miss the guidance and encouragement
of the pleasant D. O’Connor. In olden days the
picturesque old hero was wont to greet the newest
member with a glad hand-shake as he stepped
into the arena of spout, to sit beside him and
whisper experienced instructions down his ear
when he (the newest member) wanted to catch the
bpeaker s eye and deliver his maiden effort
to pass him a drink of water when he
grew weary in well-speaking, to pounce upon
him and overwhelm him with congratula-
tions at the finish, to inform him that he (the
silver-bearded nobleman) had sat in that chamber
for 19L years and was 20 years and two days a
Minister of the Crown, and that in all that time
he had never heard a more eloquent, more instruc-
tive, more cuhured speech. Then he would place
his hand fondly upon the shoulder of the new
member, and they would arise and go forth to-
gether into a cool room and smoke the cigar of
heavenly peace. °
A correspondent writes :
That huge heap of sailor’s terror. Constable Mick
Holden, who has carried three intoxicated and fighting
tars simultaneously to the watch-house (one under each
arm and one in his mouth), and who is commonly
reputed to have moved over 1000 gallons of rum (inside
sailors) from the wharf to the lockup, has been mistaken
for a cigarette box. The mistake was made by—
After that the paragraph grows dangerous, but it
is a fairly descriptive item so far as it goes.
“ Javelin ” : Iceberg Irvine has been con-
siderable of a failure in the House of Reps. He
stood for Flinders as a moderate Protectionist
and managed to defeat a weak opponent because
the farmers and business people swallowed the
marmalade of his press barrackers to the effect
that he was a Heaven-sent legislator who would
step straight into the shoes of the Prime Minister.
Irvine himself was more modest, but he apparently
quite believed he would be elected leader of the
Corner party. He reached the House to find that
nearly all the members of the Corner party
aspired to the post of leader, and that he was
more ignored than disliked. He has made
strenuous efforts to keep himself in the limelight
by criticising the Government, and has been
much assisted by the fact that his speeches are
always fully reported in the Argus. The un-
kindest cut of all, however, is the indifference of
Deakin, who never pays him the compliment of
answering his strictures. Irvine is rapidly
becoming a disappointed man, and the Flinders
cookies and business people have become dis-
appointed, and pleat plaintively that their desire
to be represented by the Prime Minister is no
nearer realisation than when the heavy dead
weight of Gibbs sat for the electorate. The
Iceberg is frozen, in fact.
“ Moorabinda ” writes :
Regarding your remarks to “Coalopolis” (Corres-
pondence column of B. 2/4/’08), re so many places being
called Devil-something for no visible reason, perhaps the
following will supply “ C.” with the information he
requires. The name “Devil’s River” was given to
the Delatite River by the early settlers, because
attempts to occupy the country ended so disastrously.
So far as I know, a station was formed on the river by a
Mr. Walsh, the author of “ Three Years’ Experience in
New South Wales,” a book which was in circulation in
England about 1840. Its description of the pleasures and
profits of sheep farming in Australia was so attractive
that it induced many people to emigrate to the colony
when they would otherwise have stayed at home. Yet
the author himself, in the end, met with nothing but dis-
aster and ruin, and on this very river. He did well until
he entered on this station, at that time almost isolated ;
then his misfortunes began. The catarrh attacked his
sheep, committing terrible ravages amongst them, and
those that remained alive decreased in value. His ex-
penses at the same time were very heavy, owing to the
high price paid for every kind of labor. In order to
isolate his healthy sheep he formed a solitary out-station
six miles further up the river, to which station he sent
the greater part of his remaining sheep and three men.
They had been there but a few weeks, when, on his pav-
ing the place a visit, he found the bark humpy in which
the men lived burned to the ground. The watchman lav
dead near it, killed by the blacks. The two shepherds
were never found, nor any remains of them. The sheep
were scattered in every direction by the blacks, and but
few' of them were ever recovered. Walsh then sold the
station and improvements for a mere trifle, and left the
place for fresh fields and pastures new.
A.S. W. PREMIER WADE SAYS THE
BURDEN OF OFFICE IS BEGINNING
TO WEIGH UPON HIM.
A deputation of unemployed waited upon the Premier
yesterday, and complained that everywhere there was
work for boys and girls, but none for able-bodied men.
NEW SOUTH WADE: “Not get work! Well!
can’t understand it ! Now, just look at ME!”
Everybody knew Michael Mayne in Queens-
land mining circles, and his recent passing out
evoked widespread regret. He rushed to Victoria
in the ’fifties, to Maoriland in ’64, to Port
Darwin in 70, to Charters Towers in 75. There
he in turn managed the Dan O’Connell, the New
Livingstone, and the Brilliant, beginning at the
time when sensationally rich stone was struck.
He was associated with the Brilliant until it paid
nearly £750,000 in divs. The disastrous fire
occurred in the workings the very week he
decided to leave, four years ago. A popular and
cheerful man was Mayne, and his outlook w'as
always optimistic. “It was a great time that
winter on the Thames,” he once told the writer;
“1 recollect paying 255. for a bullock’s head.”
And he seemed to really consider the payment of
255. for a bullock’s horns, skull and countenance a
cheerful circumstance.
“ D.,” his protest:—
It is the English fashion to jeer at every moneyed Yank
as a vandal and a boor. The tendency seems to me to
show a pitiful lack of knowledge and discrimination.
Sydney Telegraph (all of whose views and ideals
come from England) publishes <4/4/’08) a cartoon repre-
senting a villainous-looking, bagman-like person sitting
in a palace, clad in the violent check clothes of some fifth-
rate bookie, an out-size cigar protruding from the side of
his face, above the news-item that “ Pierpoint Morgan
has purchased the Aldobrandini Palace, Rome.” A
horde of Dago shades hover around Pierpoint in an out-
raged state observing “ Malediction ! ” I rise to challenge
the reasonableness of this sort of thing. When the Earl of
Newburgh took up his residence at the Palazzo Altieri,
Rome, the other day, no papers had a word to say in protest.
If a British banker or financier decided to buy an Italian
mansion, it is safe to wager there would not be any com-
plaints from Sydney or elsewhere. And yet Pierpoint is
infinitely more fitted to run a high-class Palace in credit-
able fashion than most British earls or bankers. He is
far from being the uneducated upstart the vulgar British
mind conceives him. The master of half a-dozen languages,
a graduate of Gottingen University, the most skilled
amateur art-collector along certain lines in the world,
a fine and impressive speaker, and one of Americas
biggest idea’d men, he is about as far from the awful
Bunko Brown of Chicago that the Telegraph limns
him as it is possible to conceive. The Telegraph cartoon
is an interesting manifestation of the fixed British idea
that it is not meet for anyone to own old-world treasures,
except genuine “aristocrats,” and that an aristocrat is
necessarily a screaming joke, unless of British or conti-
nental European breed.
THE FURNISHED GHOSTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Victorian Association of Spiritualists celebrated
the 59th anniversary of the advent of modern spiritual-
ism the other Sunday. Mr. O. Waschatz presided, and
Mrs. O. Waschatz gave interesting testimony. She stated
that she was a strong sceptic “ until a table actually ran
after her.”
The lady disbelieved in ghosts,
A most persistent doubter,
Although in grim, perturbed hosts
The spirits pressed about her.
She gibed at “ Geordie,” hurled at “ Mose ”
A villainous aspersion,
Until in fierce, disdainful throes
The household furniture arose
To hasten her conversion.
Did she imply the spirit land
Was nothing but a fable?
She brought about a hand-to-hand
Encounter with a table.
It chased her round and round the room,
To point a ghostly moral;
It threatened her with grisly doom,
And e’en involved the tongs and broom
In its unearthly quarrel.
Expressing honest disbelief
When recently she read Stead,
Engaged her in a fierce, if brief,
• Encounter with the bedstead.
The plates resented any doubt
Re Fox’s quaint romances,
The hallstand promptly knocked her out
Had she the impudence to flout
The evidence of trances.
The lady and the horsehair suite
Were bickering and fighting
For hours, because she saw a cheat
In automatic writing.
The chairs assailed her tender shin,
Until, in consternation,
She tearfully confessed her sin.
Once more the household goods are in
Suspended animation.
vie.
SILAS SNELL.


wp IS Si®-“Xf *4
,
' .* •' ‘ *•'* , ,
»■ m .
-
.
, r*
> ;
m
r ‘ rva
.. .
iw
. s v-
e -ji.
» i.m \
w
S#s
4
, ■ - M
A
m
m «
til
:• '
a
*
- v > .
i
▲
,
Jm
Mm? , S
£B«


ATTRACTION OF ALL ATTRACTIONS.
ROBEY’S
Improved Compound Traction Engines,
also Portable Engines, Oil Engines.
Address during SHOW WEEK-MAIN MACHINERY AVENUE. City Office-64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER (Bb CO.
CORLISS VALVE ENGINES
for Mining. In many of our mining di»
.. . , , firewood is becoming so scarce that eo ° i
of fuel is of the first importance, so that the old-fashioned “steam chewers ” have to stand aside in l avo
modern engines that will give the most horse-power with the last expenditure of fuel. ,
EB 1 " THIS IS WHERE A CORLISS ENGINE “ COMES IN.
Cameron & Sutherland
have several of these engines in stocK ironiiw .•£
to 200 h.p. They are practically new, and W«P 1
is low. Also a large assortment of high pres
Aririr-000 •>„.+ n« 77 . _Boilers suitable for all requirements. ..
Chambers, SYDNEY ; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard Stree^BALLARA^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
In some quarters the recent N.S.W. £3,000,000
loan was described as a failure, while other quarters
declared indignantly that it didn’t fail. Various reasons
are brought forward on one side and another, but the
point is hardly worth discussing. As a matter of fact,
there was no failure in a cash sense, for N.S.W. got the
money ; but there was a serious warning. The warning
wasn’t so much for N.S.W. as for some of the other
States, but it applied fairly well to all the States. The
problem may be set forth as follows :
(1) If N.S.W., the richest of the Australasian
States, the one with the biggest revenue and the
largest surplus (on paper, anyhow)*; with a debt
which is less per head than that of Queensland, S.A.,
Westralia, or Maoriland, appears on the money
market after a spell of such unusual respectability,
that it has even reduced its debt a little, offers a
bigger rate of interest than usual, and then sees one-
tenth of its loan tendered for by the public, and
nine-tenths left on the hands of the underwriters —
(2) What are the prospects of States with a bigger
debt, a far worse reputation, a smaller revenue, less
surplus (paper or otherwise), and a more recent
record of extravagance, when they are forced to go
on the money market through the falling due of
loans which must be renewed unless the State is to
burst ? How much may they have to pay to get their
loans underwritten ? And how long may it be till
they can’t get them underwritten at all owing to
financiers being full of undigested Australian securi-
ties ? And what ghost of a chance will they have in
a money market such as N.S.W. struck unless their
loans are underwritten?
There is nothing to be gained by one State or
politician throwing bricks at another, or discussing the
value of “ our ” credit as compared with “ your” credit.
Nor is there any need for Premier Wade to defend
N.S.W. against a charge that' its loan “ failed.” The loan
didn’t fail, but there seems a serious probability that
some future ones (not necessarily N.S.W. loans) will. No
matter what good reason we may show, by careful
finance, that our credit should be first-rate in London, it
may at any time become utterly bad because (1) John
Bull may not have the money to lend ; or (2) he may (in
fact, it is almost certain he will) become less and less wil-
ling to lend it to Australia, as the Pacific—so long an un-
ruffled political lake —becomes a centre of disturbance
and possible war, and haunted by fleets that may collide
at any time ; or (3) “ colonial ” loans may simply go out
of fashion for no visible cause. Of these the most dan-
gerous considerations are Nos. 1 and 2. If John Bull
begins to think he sees war ahead, and Australia has no
serviceable fleet of its own, and John has so far
lost confidence in himself as to have doubts whether
he can defend this country and his investments
here —well, when the loan falls due it may not be
renewable at any price. Australia has got into the
lamentable position that—unless it finds some perfectly
new method of financing—its solvency depends, not only
on its management of its own finances, which it can con-
trol, but on John Bull’s management of his finances,
which it can’t control at all, and on international compli-
cations, in which also it has no say. For it has bound
itself—unless it finds some new method of financing—to
borrow at fixed dates immense sums from Bull in order to
repay old loans falling due, and has done this without the
slightest guarantee that Bull will lend these sums at the
time specified.
And there is another trouble. The federated
States, in the aggregate, have loans falling due every
year, but some of them have no very immediate liabilities
while others have. Thus Queensland has peace ahead of
it till 1912, while S.A. has a loan to renew or pay off every
year till 1920, and Tasmania has one every year till 1914.
There is nothing to prevent such a State as Queensland,
if it should start a new razzle, going to London to try and
float new loans (which are a mere luxury), whereby it
might swallow up the small amount of available Bull
money which the other States want for the renewal of old
loans (said renewal being a dire necessity). This chaotic
state of things doesn’t improve the outlook.
Under the circumstances, The Bulletin again
■ urges the adoption by the Commonwealth of the Canadian
banking system—a device which has been tried for many
years in its own country and found a great success. Its
main point is that the banks are compelled to hold at
least 40 per cent, of their cash reserves in Federal paper
money. The Federal Government, of course, keeps a gold
reserve against its notes in case of emergency, and every
bank can get gold when it needs it; in other words,
every time its cash reserves diminish by £lOO it
can demand gold from the Treasury for £4O worth
of its notes. But, in practice, this privilege is
never availed of, and the Canadian banks really hold far
more of the Government’s notes than they are legally
bound to do. Such a system, if adopted in Australia,
would give the Federal Government the use, without
interest, of nearly £10,000,000, and even after laying
aside £2,000,000 as a reserve there would be £8,000,090
available. That would enable the Commonwealth to take
up and renew at (say) 3£ per cent, all the old State loans
falling due in 1909, 1910 and 1911 ; if the States were able
to repay a part of the loans themselves out of surplus
revenue, so much the better. Thereby Australia would give
Bull in London a much-needed rest ; it would take a heap
of Australian securities off the over-loaded English
market; it would relieve the States of a serious present
anxiety ; it would leave the banks as rich as they are now ;
and it would leave the Commonwealth the richer by
£8,000,000 worth of State securities, bringing it in
£280,000 a year, which annual sum would be available for
the purchase of more State securities. Between this
accumulated interest, and the State surpluses (if any), and
local private subscriptions, it should even be possible to
pay off, or renew in Australia, all the State debts falling
due in 1912 and 1913 ; and thus give Bull a long period of
recuperation before he sees another Australian I O U
rushing down Threadneedle-street. And by 1913 Aus-
tralia should have devised new ways and means whereby it
would keep away from London for good. The profits of a
Federal tobacco monopoly, and possibly of a Federal
drink monopoly, are two items which, by that time,
should be available to meet the difficulty.
These suggestions have nothing at all to do with
any scheme for the taking over by the Commonwealth of
the State debts. They need neither hasten nor retard
that negotiation. They merely represent a plan for re-
lieving the rush to London for mone3' at a time when
Bull seems rather short of breath in the purse, for be-
ginning what amounts to an all-round Australian
sinking fund, and for making a great deal of wealth out
of nothing.
* * * »
Some revenue returns for March, 1908, with
comparisons with the corresponding month of 1907 :
Revenue. Revenue.
March, 1907. March, 1908. Increases.
N. S. Wales .. £1,006,898 £1,248,690 £241,792
Queensland .. 297,715 370,039 72,324
Tasmania .. 62,849 78,435 15,586
Westralia .. 304,926 316,285 11,359
Victoria .. .. 682,610 680,853 1.757’
South Australia is not included because that economical
State, being anxious to save ink, only publishes its figures
four times a year.
And so far as the financial year has gone, this is
the situation :
Revenue. Revenue.
9 Months 9 Months
to 31/S/’O7. to 31/3/’OB. Increase.
N. S. Wales .. £9,715,380 £10,660,403 £945,023.
S. Australia .. 2,231,586 2,705,552 473,966
Victoria.. .. 5,990,739 6,312,494 321,755
Queensland .. 2,989,006 3,283,011 294,005
Tasmania 688,391 757,457 69,066
Decrease.
Westralia .. 2,491,213 2,485,396 5,817
There are a few other figures available, but they
are scrappy and not at all numerous. At time of writing
these further details had emerged from the general
chaos:—
Revenue Expenditure
9 Months 9 Months
to 31/3/’OB. to 31/3/’OB. Surplus.
Queensland .. £3,283,011 £2,706,442 £576,569
N.S.W. .. 10,660,403 10,494,401 166,002
Westralia .. 2,485,396 2,398,266 87,130
These figures, insufficient as they look, still don’t look so
insufficient as they are. There are these further com-
plications :
(1) Victoria, Tasmania and S.A. are missing. Tas-
mania publishes no expenditure accounts, except at the
end of the year. The otfher two States publish them in a
backward and behind-time sort of fashion.
(2) The N.S.W. expenditure includes £1,258,409 paid
into the Public Works and Closer Settlement Funds.
These two funds had, on 31st March, £1,005,679 on hand,
including money brought forward from the previous
year, so the real surplus for the nine months is much
larger than appears. Roughly speaking, it is about
£670,000. Of course this is really created out of land
sales, which shouldn’t be properly regarded as revenue.
(3) Queensland pays the interest on its debt in two solid
lumps at the end of December and the end of June. The
Queensland surplus, therefore, means that the State has
£576,569 in hand by way of covering the interest for the
quarter just expired. A quarter’s interest is rather under
£390,000, so Queensland’s real surplus at present stands
at about £187,000.
(4) Westralia commenced the year with an old deficit
which is now reduced, by deduction of the nine months’
surplus, to £121,602.
As regards loan expenditure, these are all the
figures available :
—Loan Expenditure— N
9 months to 9 months to
31/3/’O7). 31/3/’OB. Increase.
N. S. Wales .. £996,842 £1,606,421 £609,579
Queensland .. 462,923 762,063 299,140
No figures are available from the other States, but these
are sufficiently startling to go on with.
(1) As regards N.S.W., the great problem is why a
State which has over £166,000 surplus on revenue
account, and over £1,000,000 at the credit of its public
works and closer settlement funds, and which professes
that its total cash on hand—money standing' at the credit
of one fund and another —is over three millions(£3,000,000)
should need to spend loan money at all. And it is extra
marvellous that a State in such a position should have
exposed itself to the unpleasant experience of asking
London for a loan of £3,000,000, and being offered by the
public a miserable £300,000, thereby leaving £2,700,000
in the hands of the underwriters, and gaining the State a
very disagreeable advertisement. It is alleged that the
surplus at the end of June is likely to reach £2,400,000,
and for a State in that position to be borrowing, and
spending loan money, and having clods thrown at its
credit on the London Stock Exchange seems wildly foolish.
(2) P.remier Kidston, of Queensland, isn’t floating any
new loans as yet, but he is beginning to spend the old
loan money, so long locked up in the reconstructed Q. N.
Bank, in a way which suggests that the country will
shortly have to speak to him very severely. Kidston’s
spell "of honesty, so far as loan money is concerned,
looks as if it were likely to be as short-lived as Seddon’s
was in Maorilan'd.
* * * *
Because Australia has abundant iron ore and
coal there was some effervescent talk to the effect that
the iron industry could get along without Protection.
Messrs. Hoskins, of Lithgow (N.S.W.), do not take
that view, but candidly admit that under present
conditions there is no profit in the production of
pig iron. Australian enterprise and capital are
at the back of the iron and steel industry, and
if the Commonwealth will hold to its own trade, there is
no chance of failure. But enthusiastic projectors who
pictured a big production of pig iron at a low cost have
been disillusionised. The trade is in the making, but
it is not easy of accomplishment without a solid
background of secondary manufacturing industries.
The difficulty of a producer who handles relatively small
quantities of crude ore, coke, and fluxes in competition
with those handling millions of tons, is easily seen. Costs
per ton are so much greater on a small output that com-
petition is out of the question. For a week’s run the
blast furnace at Lithgow has produced 800 tons of pig
iron, but that is a record ; probably the average is nearer
600 tons a week. This is a small output compared with
an American blast furnace—The Lucy, at Pittsburg, for
instance, turned out 500 tons a day as far back as 1902.
* * * *
Gr. H. Knibbs, Australian Statistician, has com-
menced to issue his publications, and so far as they have
gone, they suggest that the appointment of Mr. Knibbs
as a Federal Statistician was a very good one indeed.
His first little volume deals with finance, and these figures
relating to the Australian public debts are dug out of
it: —
Debt, Debt,
1906. 1907. Increase.
80th June, 30th June,
Westralia .. £18,058,553 £19,222,638 £1,164,085
S. Australia .. 30,082,635 30,526,718 444,083
Tasmania ... 9,800,631 9,923,083 122,452
' Victoria .. .. 53,079,800 53,104,989 25,189
Stationary.
Queensland .. 41,764,467 41,764,467
N. S. Wales .. 85,641,734 85,607,832 33,902
That is one year’s record. The record for six
years stands as follows: —
Debt Debt
30th June, 30th June,
1901. 1907. Increase.
N. S. Wales .. £67,361,246 £85,607,832 £18,246,586
Westralia ~ .. 12,709,430 19,222,638 6,513,208
S. Australia .. 26,448,805 30,526,718 4,077,913
Queensland .. 38,416,514 41,764,467 3,347,953
Victoria .. .. 50,071,275 53,104,989 3,033,714
Tasmania .. .. 8,511,005 9,923,083 1,412,078
Total Increase 1901-1907 .. £36,631,452
It is a lamentable increase, and suggests again the rather
threadbare old questions : Is there any point at which
the State Governments will leave off borrowing?
Is there any revenue which will enable the profligate
State Governments to depend on themselves, and cease
to hold out the tattered belltopper to Bull in London?
And is there any State Premier who is capable of realising
that it is worth while to owe no man anything, as men-
tioned in Romans, chapter xiii., verse 8.
The debts of the Federated States increase
spasmodically. There are years of comparative honesty
and years of profligate “bust.” This is the record since
1901
Aggregate
Debts. Increase.
30th June, 1901 .. £203,518,275
„ 1902 .. 214,255,209 £10,736,934
„ 1903 .. 222,871,765 8,616,556
„ 1904 .. 227,747,612 4,875,847
~ 1905 .. 230,738,671 2,991,059
„ 1906 .. 238,427,820 7,689,149
1907 .. 240,149,727 1,721,907
Total Increase 1901-1907 .. £36,631,452
These figures should set any honest, intelligent citizen
thinking hard. There is no doubt that the Australian
States were vastly more prosperous in 1907, when they
only borrowed £1,721,907, than they were in 1902, when
they “blewed ” loan money to the alarming' extent of
£10,736,934. And the question may fairly be asked,
the States could do with £9,015,027, less out ® ,d ® ,
1907 than in 1901, could they not puti on an extra spurt
to the extent of another £2,000,000. That would abohsh
new loans altogether, and furthermore provide,*2B< ,09d
per annum towards the extinction of old debts. If tne
reduction of the financial drunk from over ten millionsto
well under two millions has resulted in increased pros-
perity, the chances are that the total extinction of tne
drunk would make the country still more prosperous.
Drunks can’t be left off too completely.
* * *
The Co-operative Credit Bank of Y
(Melbourne), a little financial side-show attached to tne
Civil Service Co-operative stores :
Deficit
Preliminary Expenses ....
Carried to
Profit. Dividend. Reserves.
Aug., 1906 .. £4 Nil £ * “
Feb., 1907.. 11 6 per cent.=£B 3 Reserve 2 8
(42 6 ~ ~ 23 19 17
Aug., 1907 • • Forfeited capital 5
147 6 per cent. =£44 3
Feb., 1908 .. Forfeited capital 8 33
It is a very quiet little concern so far, but as it may swell
up and become another Bank of N.S. W. some day, its
beginnings are noted. * *
Says a visiting mining engineer with experience
of three continents (his Australian explorations have run
over 12 months) : “ Kalgoorlieis the field I like best. Of
course the cream is gone, but as a low-grade proposition
it has years and years in front of it. And there are sucn
men there ! I speak as an outsider, and one who knew
practically nothing of Australia or Australians down to
1906, and I admit that all the finest achievements in
metallurgy on that field have been the work of young
Australians or Europeans who have come young to Aus-
tralia—men like Sutherland (who introduced the filter
press), Roberts, Moss, Klug, Nicholson, and Taylor,
not forgetting Hamilton, of the truly wonderful
Boulder—l think, by the way, that that is the
most remarkable mine in the West, and is putting
up a world’s record at its deep levels. The workmen are
a fine lot, too. I have made the most careful inquiries
and comparisons, and I am sure that the labor efficiency
is nowhere in the world so great as it is at Kalgoorlie.
Managers with American experience, working these men,
have admitted that they know no camp in their own
country where such work is done. At the other end of
the scale in Australia I should, without hesitation, place
Broken Hill; the labor efficiency there is lower than on
any other field. Probably my inquiries were made there
at a rather bad time ; yet, on the figures which were
made available to me, it was clear that the position had
been still worse. The result is that costs are abnormal;
and in a weak metal market the field could not compete,
worked as it is at present. No, wages are not high ; it
is mainly a matter of the bad habits the field has got into.
» * * •
When Bishop Moorehouse, the man who was
unable to digest great masses of food, advised the scoop-
ing out of tanks and dams to conserve water, he
could hardlv have imagined the Cobar (N.S.W.) reser-
voir, with a capacity of 180,000,000 gallons, and with only
2ft. of soupy fluid at the bottom. If rain fell and filled
the dams, there would be a few months’ supply, but the
dam doesn’t get filled, and the simple expedient of scoop-
ing holes in the ground is a hopeless failure at Cobar. It
has been suggested to pump water in pipes from the Dar-
ling, or from an artesian supply, but the nearest bore is
134 miles away. There is probably a vast water supply
underground, but condensing mineral water, where fuel is
scarce, is too slow' and expensive. The future of Cobar
depends on handling enormous quantities of low,
grade ore in a cheap w ay, so the water supply is impor-
tant. Last month the Great Cobar smelted 15,024 tons
for an average extraction of nearly 2j per cent, copper,
1 - I7dwt. gold, and 7dw't. silver. The bulk value would
be, say, 355. a ton. This certainly seems a low return.
Great Cobar expects eventually to double its output.
The railway revenue is benefited a lot by freight to Cobar,
but if the statement attributed to general manager Blake-
more is correct, that the co. pays £5OOO a month for rail-
way freight, transport charges must be a big element in
the cost of producing copper. Construction work has,
however, increased the railway cheque.
* * * *
The strike at Wyalong (N.S.W.) has been
settled by the owners agreeing to the demands of the
miners— viz., eight hours from bank to bank, and in-
creased wages to engine-drivers and machine-drill men.
The True Blue had previously conceded the demands, and
has been working all the time. The strike was on for
eight weeks, and 130 men ceased work, causing a loss of
some £2OOO in wages alone. The affected mines—Neelds’,
Junction, Golden Fleece, Shamrock, Brookman’s, and
Homeward Bound —have suffered considerable damage
through the influx of water, and it will be some time
before they are in proper working order. The early
settlement of the dispute is, in a large measure, due to
the exertions of Mr. Andy Kelly, M.L.A., member for the
district.
* * * *
Although the lode at the 1400 ft. level of the
B. H. Proprietary is narrow, there is some consolation for
shareholders in the reflection that it was also narrow on
the 600 ft. level, but widened lower down. Drives are
being carried north and south on the ore body, such as it
is, and the faces of these drives are now about 70ft. apart.
The idea of using mules in place of the horses now employed
underground has been abandoned, and the mules are
doing useful work on the surface. The mule is not
credited with having sufficient intelligence for work
below, and his kicking apparatus cannot be brought
under the severe discipline which governs the rest of the
mine.
A few comparisons of the work done by Broken
Hill mines last month : The North mine produced 1706
tons of concentrates and employed 485 men to do it, or
an average of 3 - 5 tons of concentrates ’per man. The
Junction North produced 1294 tons of concentrates with
a pay-roll of 408 men, or 3’l tons of concentrates per man.
Block 10 produced 1992 tons of concentrates with the aid
of 681 men, an average of 2'9 tons per man. The South
Blocks produced 1340 tons of concentrates and employed
239 men, an average of 5'6 tons per man. The discrepancy
in costs is very noticeable as between the Junction North
and the South Blocks, the latter mine getting nearly
twice the value for its money. Considering that the
South Blocks is a young mine depending for its ore
mainly on one level, while the Junction North is
splendidly opened up on at least three levels, with a
fourth coming on, and has every facility for getting a
good tonnage, it is difficult to understand why the eggs
are in the other basket. Taking the comparison a little
further, while the South Blocks is earning about £53 18s.
for each man employed, the Junction North is getting a
return of only £37 6s. per man.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 14 is still a bit hazy about
its development at the 750 ft. level. Better prospects are
now coming in at the 4Coft., where the north drive, which
is probing for the ore shoot coming down from the 300 ft.
level, has shown enough metal to incite the manager to
go down and gaze thoughtfully at the long-silent mill.
There is one thing to be said in favor of Block 14, how-
ever : The directors have kept the flag flying as long as a
shot remained in the locker. A tremendous quantity of
carbonates is in sight between the surface and the 250 ft.
level, but a large proportion is valueless at present, be-
cause, if it is taken out, the surface buildings may fall into
the mine. The smallness and comparative poorness of
most of the sulphide bodies in Block 14 has proved a great
handicap when combined with low metal prices, and
haughty ore-buyers.
* » » *
One of the most prolific causes of blasphemy in
the mills along the Broken Hill line of lode is the care-
lessness of miners in leaving steel—that is, drills
hammers, etc.—lying about among the ore that is being
trucked to the surface. The other day a short, stout
drill was sent up in a truck of ore at the Junction’ North
mine. It passed through the jaw-breaker, travelled
along unnoticed, like a stowaway, on the crude ore belt
conveyor till it reached the mill, and eventually tried to
get between the Cornish rolls. It didn’t succeed, but the
argument was in its favor, for it burst the roll shell »nH
broke the main pulley-wheel in two pieces. At the Roms
Blocks a huge magnet is suspended over the crude o r
conveyor, and snaps up any stray bits of steel left around
loose by careless workmen.
* * * *
New Hillgrove Proprietary (N.S.W.) return for
March will be read with mixed feelings; 187 tons from
the rich shoot next door to Baker's Creek mine returned
4400 z., worth £1650. Including gold from concentrates
the average will be about £9 a ton. On the other hand
the return from the Eleanora, 816 tons for £953 j 8 d j“’
appointing. It was hoped, of course, that large profits
from the Eleanora would soon pay for construction work
So far, however, profits have not been large. Hones
are now raised by the discovery of a new reef
parallel to an igneous dyke, and to the Bmal
rein known as Smith’s reef which has proved so
persistent. Whether No. 2 vein, which was opened from
a crosscut at No. 13 level, will continue to unexplored
depths is a matter for conjecture ; the work immediately
in hand is to prove the vein, which carries coarse gold
and is highly payable at higher levels. This reef was
intersected at No. 12 on April 2, so the next report will
be awaited with interest. The geology of Hillgrove
shows that stupendous forces have played a part in the
formation of fissures and their enrichment with gold
Chillagoe railway revenue has attained a record
for 12 months ending March 31. The gross return was
£114,246, or £26,619 more than in 1907, and £48,453 more
than in 1906. This shows an expansion of over 70 per cent,
in two years. The cost of working the line was £24 592
in 1906, and £26,474 in 1907 ; so in the latter year ’nee
revenue amounted to £61,153. Allowing for a larger in-
crease in expenses, the net revenue this year should he
about £BO,OOO. Kails, sleepers and rolling stock have
been bought, so probably something substantial will have
to be written off for depreciation. Railway profits have
not only to carry interest on cost of construction, but
as the smelting works continue to cost large sums
for alterations and improvements, the railway is practi-
cally responsible for all the debenture interest. There is
an uncertain feeling as to how the collapse in the copper
market has affected Chillagoe. Large stacks of matte
have accumulated lately, and the converters are now
dealing with this. Chillagoe has adopted a bold policy
by improving its smelting works and extending the
railway to the Etheridge. Such a policy just now suits
both borrower and lender, because it puts a prosperous
and progressive face on everything.
Blister copper now figures prominently in the
Chillagoe smelting returns. Last month the converters
produced 218 tons of copper, containing 24,0170 z. of
silver. No less than 169 tons of the copper is credited to
the Mungana Co. Mungana overshadows all the other
North Queensland mines as a lead producer. Last month
it was credited with 277 tons of lead, containing 16,7000 z.
of silver, from 1966 tons of ore, an average extraction of
nearly 14 per cent, lead and Boz. silver. The lead
sulphides mostly contain a low percentage of copper.
This is recovered in matte from the lead furnace, and
subsequently appears in the copper returns. The smelters
produced 218 tons copper, 450 tons lead, and 63,3480z.5i1ver.
Chillagoe has as much as i t can do just now to deal with the
ore it has contracted to smelt. With the opening of the
railway there will be the output of the Einasleigh mine to
smelt —about 50 tons a day. As a consequence of so much
ore coming forward things are pretty busy at Chillagoe.
At the moment it looks as if the capacity of the
works was insufficient, but big operations are not
started like turning a tap; the roasting, smelting,
and converting all involve elaborate preparations. When
run on full time these works should deal with a larger
tonnage.
• • • *
The Tornado tin case, in which John Moffat
and C. B. Alexander, joint holders of the Tornado mine,
sued the tributers, has apparently come to an end after
wandering round Herberton, Cairns (N.Q.),and Brisbane.
The Full Court has decided that there was no binding
agreement between the owners and the tributors, that
the latter are therefore entitled to the ore they won up
to May 2 (less the 5 per cent, due to owners for royalty),
but that the ore won since May 2, when the owners
notified the tributors they must quit, shall be the
property of the owners of the mine. The case
was curious. John Moffat, of Irvinebank, certainly
granted a tribute, in his usual casual, trustful sort of
wayq to one Sheppard. In effect, John Moffat said to
Sheppard : “ You work the Tornado, and pay us 5 per
cent, royalty.” Sheppard worked it, and did no good.
Then, it is alleged, Brodie, one of John Moffat’s men, dis-
covered a rich patch on the Tornado, and in about two
seconds a brother of the original tributor, Sheppard,
came on the scene and worked the rich patch with a fine
enthusiasm. Asked what he was doing there, he, of course,
explained he was “ workin’ for his brother.” As many
men as possible were rushed into the mine, and, working
seven days a week, about £7OOO worth of tin came out ere
the law stopped proceedings. As a result of the Full
Court’s judgment, owners and tributors will get about
half each and pay their own Costs. Which means that, in
a great measure, the tin goes to the devil —or the devil’s
brigade, which is much the same thing.
* * » •
Ruby P.C., Charters Towers (Q.), has attracted
attention because of the development of payable stone al
a vertical depth of 300 ft. The shoot of stone now being
worked was opened last year. No. 5 level, starting from
the main shaft, was driven 170 ft. to the east, on a leader
that gradually increased in size and value. At this point
an underlie was started, and has been carried down iOOft.
to No. 6 level, and recently this underlie has been sunk
another 100 ft. The shoot of stone has been proved 200 ft.
deep on the underlie, with a length of between 200 ft. and
300 ft. Sometimes the vein is narrow and faulted, but
at the bottom level there is a foot of good stone.
The average quality is between 2oz. and 3oz. to the
ton. For the past three months there have been two
erushings—a total of 307 tons for 833 ounces. Residues
are sold, but are not included in the mill return. The
Ruby depends mainly on the development of its little
shoot at greater depths. The extension of No. 6 and
No. 7 levels 170 ft. to the west will bring them under the
main shaft and facilitate the working of the mine. The
last crushing of 160 tons pans out £9 14s. 6d. per ton.
Although it is good it is below the expectation that was
created by a few lumps of ricu specimen stone.
• • * •
The Oaks rush, North Queensland— also called
the Kidston rush —is maintaining its reputation. The
chairman of the Progress Association states that the
miners intend to make the Oaks an ideal city, and have
applied for a school, field hospital, telephonic service,
post office, State hotel, reserves, and the removal of tn
police. That argues, at least, lOoz. to the ton in the nn
of moral endeavor.
• * * *
“Bill” writes: Gympie (Queensland), where
gold mining interests are ill, looks down a new vista
hope, opened up by a rich discovery of manganese a f
miles out of town. The property also carries cobalt a
uranium. The association of these minerals is unic l u ®
Queensland. The lode is 100 ft. wide. Some specmie
yield 78 per cent, of manganese and the uranium Dei
6in. wide.
“ M.C.” : Mount Morgan ore reserves were
roughly estimated at 9,000,000 tons. This was, howe ,
based on systematic diamond drill measurements,
leviathan could not have increased its ore reser i:, v
quickly by ordinary mining development work, yu v
is more uncertain than quantity ; it is known that,
are immense amounts of low grade silicious ore
would not pay to treat under present conditions,
lowest smelting costs are shown by mines using py
fluxes. Many Peaks ore is very dense, e o|
little silica, but there is in it more copper than in s
the low grade silicious ore from Mount Morgan,
been reckoned that the fluxing ore from the Many „
can be put into Mt. Morgan’s furnace bins for IDs.
and a nice calculation of increased profit is basea
decreased cost of fluxes, together with the in (
metal recoveries. But Australia has in Mt. Lyeu
the best object lessons in pyritic smelting and w v
cut fluxing ore, which at one time contained fair
values, is now down to about J per cent. Apa > .
ever, from its copper value, pyritic fluxing saves
the calorific value of sulphur, and gives a cleaner »•


Fraser & Chalmers,
LTD.
(Tho English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office —
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
Said, on good authority, that David Syme
has left over £2,000,000.
The Adelaide Critic wants more subscribers;
’tis a universal complaint. It wants thirty thousand
in fact, and wants them badly. To help along’ it puts
up the very sporting offer of sixty-three cash prizes,
beginning 1 with one for £5OOO, and down to the humble
tenner. The offer looks good, smells all right, probably
is all right. Anyway the proposition is worth in-
vestigation.*
Wanganui (M.L.) has broken out in anew
place, and is now in the throes of a Fasting Epi-
demic. One poor old chap had actually fasted 30
days, and still declared that he felt quite well.
Dr. Bakewell, who examined him, bluntly in-
formed him that, no matter how well he felt, he
had many symptoms of shocking bad health.
Maoriland, with its five-meal, meat-fed popula-
tion, is an unlikely place for a fasting epidemic.
Fasting is a vice usually found ‘only among vege-
tarians. Vegetarianism cools the blood, and the
capacity to live long without food is characteristic
of cold-blooded creatures—frogs, snakes, China-
men Hardshell Baptists, etc. The athletic
capacity of the cold-blooded is expressed in ability
to endure ; in the hot-blooded it takes the form of
speed. Both these expressions are to be found in
women, some of whom can endure two hidings a
day for years, while others are as swift as race-
horses. These fasting folk of Wanganui will
almost certainly turn out to be religious cranks,
and religious crankyism is mostly a matter of dis-
ordered liver.
LOHMANN (Sl COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
sole aoents for_nTTfiß AERIAL ROPEWAYS.-
Manufactured by. J. Pohlio, Cologne, as
“supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY- Excavators and Dredging Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [3
Queensland Menzies leases and plant were
auctioned, the other day, by the bank. The Bulletin
said, when the attempt was made to put hope into
shareholders by statements about improved prospects,
that this property was a duffer, and it stuck to that
opinion right through the piece.
* » • *
Mines Minister Gregory once ordered a series
of unit stamps for prospecting in Westralia. They were
finally arranged all in a row as a complete battery'on one
of the fields, but did not give satisfaction. Two units
have now been bracketed, and erected at Mt. Margaret
Lake View mine, near Lake Carey, the motive power
being supplied by all h.p. oil engine. As the stamps
still work as units, each little box has a separate
plate, so that two separate parcels may, if desired, be
crushed simultaneously.
* • * *
Forty-five tons of nitro-explosives were con-
demned recently by the Westralian Government analyst
and destroyed, because the starch-iodine test showed the
presence of free acid in the compound. Presence of acid
was for a long while suspected, but the addition of one
200,000 th part of perchloride of mercury to the explosive
destroyed the efficacy of the starch-iodine test. There
was till lately no reliable chemical test known to the
analyst for detection of this mercury adulterant; but
the Kalgoorlie miners claimed to have discovered the
mercurial presence, and through their representative,
Jack Scadden, raised a hullabaloo about it in Parliament
just before Christmas. The miner appears to have got
home before the scientist that time.
At Marble Bar (W.A.) early last year wages-
men could not be obtained even for £5 per week. Cause
was the activity and prospects of alluvial digging for tin
at Moolyella. The collapse of the tin market has altered
all this, and now a wages-man may “ pad the hoof " from
one end of Pilbarra to the other, seeking in vain for work.
The railway from Port Hedland to Marble Bar may possi-
bly—when made —produce a mining revival, but the
Moore Ministry apparently thinks it is better to work at
the Port building a jetty for which there is no crying
need, and let the laborers thin out in the mining centres
inland, which centres will assuredly vote the Labor ticket
at the forthcoming elections.
* •* * »
Perth Morning Herald and Westralia’s Minis-
ter for Mines are hopelessly at variance over the admin-
istration of the new Mines Regulation Act. Said Act
requires all mining companies to furnish, periodically,
plans of underground work, and the Minister interprets
this mandate to mean that the information therein fur-
nished is to be treated as “ confidential,” and to be kept
under lock and key in the archives of the Geological Sur-
vey until such time as the mine has been abandoned and
re-pegged by new owners, who may want to know what
underground work was done by the former proprietors.
The abuse which has grown out of this Ministerial inter-
pretation is, that whole mines are now let out
on tribute, and neither shareholders nor the pub-
lic know what is doing for—as in the case of
Boulder No. I—whole years perhaps at a stretch. The
Westralian Government announces a new Bill in prepara-
tion to deal with tricky mine managers who suppress
information which it is required of them to make public
for the benefit of all shareholders alike. To this end,
progress-development surveys will be required, and there
will be power to have same checked by re-survey and
assays if considered desirable by the Minister.
* * * *
Acting Government Geologist Woodward is
now making a geological survey of Westralia’s boss copper
field at Phillips River. The work is, perhaps, a necessary
one, and may be of distinct advantage to the Kaufmann
syndicate, which holds some 500 acres of mineral ground
there on a 99 years’ lease. It cost Kaufmann £20,000 to
acquire these leases from the original prospectors, and a
further£ls,ooo to take over the Government smelter with
stocks, ore, etc., on hand. The Westralian Government
spends about £BOOO yearly on its geological department and
its State mining engineer’s office, but for six years past no
publications have been issued in regard to the Kalgoorlie’s
lodes and mineral deposits. The mines there are now
1000 ft. deeper than the geological publications know of.
* * * •
President Hamilton, at the annual meeting of
the Westralian Chamber of Mines : “ The list of mines
treating ore worth less than Bdwt. per ton—among which
are some of the largest gold-producers in the State—
brings home to us very forcefully the fact that mining in
Westralia is getting down to a low-grade proposition, and
reminds us that, unless working costs can be still further
reduced, we cannot hope to maintain employment for the
number of men now working in gold mines, since many of
the mines are reaching that point where there is little or
no margin of profit.... The men would be well advised
if, instead of agitating for increased wages, they would
try and co-operate with the employer in his efforts to re-
duce working costs.” Why not say straight out that the
greedy foreigners who grab most of the Westralian divi-
dends are bringing pressure to bear on the Chamber of
Mines to secure a reduction in wages, and that it is a case
of needs must when the devil drives.
» * * *
Last year Ivanhoe Gold Corporation (W.A.)
showed a working profit of £253,000. The revenue was
£6OO less than for the previous year, but a saving of
£6oooin working costs more than compensated for this.
All going well, the dividend distribution for this year will
again run out at 245. per share, but the mill has now
reached the limit of its treatment capacity, and as the
installation of additional plant is not contemplated, the
distribution for next year may, on account of a further
drop in grade and the impossibility of reducing costs
much lower, be a trifle less.
* . * • *
The Westralian Mines Department is about to
test the sulphides in the Transvaal mine, Southern Cross.
This is one of the mines which the local paper has a great
admiration for, but, so far, it has not made much money
lor its owners. The ore contains a high percentage of
arsenic, and up to date nobody has had courage enough
to put up the necessary capital to grapple with the pro-
blem.
* * * *
Last year Great Boulder (W.A.) earned a
revenue of £565,050, against £554,797 for 1906 ; while the
working profit showed an increase of £12,000, which
brought it up to £348,248. Mine continues to open up
well in the bottom, and although the shoot is not so long,
and the grade not so high as in the top levels, values are
more uniform.
* * * *
The Cosmopolitan mine, at Kookynie (W.A.) is
to be kept dry to the No. 8 level in the interests of the
tribute parties among which the mine has been parcelled
out. The tributors are obtaining fair results, and the
grade of ore has jumped up to the old-time standard once
more. The ore is now selectively broken, and tons upon
tons of barren stone are no longer sent to the mill in
order that “ working costs per ton” may be averaged
down. The folly of using up £50,000 or £60,000 worth of
high-class machinery simply in crushing barren rock to
show low “ working costs ” is about dawning on a section
of Westralian mine managers. #
“ Blister ” : The geological side of the Mines
Department of Victoria wants waking yip. A , r S I®r 1 ® r
expose of the muddle resulted in the appointment ot pro-
fessor Gregory to the post of Director, in 1901. By 11
the Department was reorganised and rejuvenated.
Works of scientific and general importance were
issued. Gregory also personally conducted one ot
largest surveys—that of Ballarat East—undertaken
in the State. His capacity for work and ms
energising power were tremendous. In an,
bulky memoirs, a score of bulletins, and sev ® ra *. rec -j
were issued, together with plans, etc. Under his guiu-
ance University students also conducted surveys at
various places, and the results were handed over to the
State and to the scientific societies. In 1904 Gregory
left, and since then the issue of information has been
reduced to a trickle. A couple of belated “ reports ” —a
departmental description of bound volumes—have been
achieved in four years. A memoir on the deep leads of
Victoria was reported to be in the press about IS months
ago. It appears to have died there. Meanwhile, works
of national importance have been stopped. The surveys
of the coalfields were suspended, while a fuss was made
over the occurrence of marble in an isolated corner on
the boundary of the State. The public can only be pro-
tected from the boomster and bogus company promoter
by the dissemination of accurate information, and if
Dunn isn’t the man to disseminate it, the right man
should be looked for.
* * * ■*
Of existing Bendigo cos. the old Garden Gully
still takes an easy lead in the matter of dividends paid,
with a score of £848,818 to the end of 1907. Great Ex-
tended Hustler’s is a poor second with £455,350. The last
two or three years have lifted South New Moon right up
into the third place with £424,4oo—almost exactly half
of the Garden Gully mammoth’s record. In these days
of vast capitalisations, it is interesting to note that the
Garden Gully has a paid capital of £66,534 ; the G. E.
Hustler’s is £100,300, and the South Moon’s £28,133. All
told, there are only about a dozen Bendigo cos. with a
paid capital of more than £lOO,OOO.
* * * *
The London and West Australian Exploration
Co. has had a very bad time of recent years. It is now
despatching O. H. Wray to the Malay States to seek out
a tin field. Wray works under the immediate direction
of Bewick, Moreing and Co., in Westralia and his present
mission is to find something, or secure some options,
which H. C. Hoover can examine with a view to a market
float. Wray has been 12 years sampling Westralian pro-
perties, and has in that time turned down more than
400 properties. He goes sheep farming near Perth when
he returns from this trip to Malaysia.
* » * •
Dodder : If you mean the Comptoir National
d’Escompte of Paris, it is quite above suspicion.
* • * *
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken’ Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * ■» *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
Felton, Grirmvade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
• * * *
A double 12in. suction dredge plant has just
been supplied to the Tekka Tin Mining Company of
Perak, Federated Malay States, by the Austral Otis
Engineering Company of South Melbourne. The plant
consists of two boilers, two 12in. gravel pumps, gravel
pump engine, air pump, surface condenser, feed pumps,
service pump, steam exhaust and other piping and
connections ; also Oregon barge and housing. The engine
is a marine type vertical coupled compound 350h.p.
The gravel pumps are both fixed on the same shaft, and
can be driven independently of each other. The boilers
are return tube dry back type. The barge is 50ft. x 45ft.
x sft., which gives ample room and sufficient floating
capacity.* » *
The Citizen, London, in August, 1907, writes
regarding the last annual report of The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society' Limited : —“ The new business of
the Colonial Mutual went ahead at a great pace last year,
the sums assured completed once more exceeding a million
after a lapse of many years, and a total being reached
which has not been approached since 1891.”*
* * * •
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £690,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1907) £642,759.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
• * * *
Suitable belting is a very important factor in
successful battery practice, and a belt that will grip and
is least effected by grit or damp, is absolutely the best for
all mining drives. Redda way’s genuine Camel Hair Belts
are easily first in these respects, and will outlast any other
belt on the market. Sole agents, Cameron aid Suther-
land, Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, Be'.digo, and
agencies.* , , •
P. W. Tewksbury is prepared to look into
legitimate Gold or Tin Dredging propositions in any part
of the Australian States. Properties reported upon, and
estimates furnished for Dredging plants. Arrangements
made for Legal Management of Companies on up-to-date
lines. P. W. Tewksbury, Equitable Building, Collins
Street, Melbourne.*
* * * •
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silbbrberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain; prospectors
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ,
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgans crucibles,
chemicals ; etc.*
* • * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Oastlereagh-st., 74,Sydney,and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.
*
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
iust now We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. f also fluming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops
and every description of contractors iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multipl
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 520
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 48in. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water supply, a contract for which has been signed.
* * * *
Ptarkr & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke) Stofk and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.
*
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their or^ er
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two inducea
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock a " d e avell
also received an order from the same firm for a Reaveii
Air Compreasor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.* . . *
• • *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
Collln & CO., 483 Collins-street Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us fo
Inventors’ Guide.* + * *
latest information on the field.*
The “ Sarco” C0 2 Recorder has come to stay.
Engineers have realised that by analysis of the flue gasses
in their boiler plant an almost incredible saving in fuel
can be made. The Recorder analyses the flue gasses for
C0 2 and records the result of combustion on charts. This
automatic check on the boilers and stokers will effect a
saving of as much as 20 per cent., which means a
tremendous difference in the annual coal bill. Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, are sole
agents for this machine in N.S.W.*
British Prime Minister Asquith.
A London correspondent writing under date
6/3/’OB
Asquith, the present Chancellor of the Exchequer, is
the Iceberg Irvine of England. The two men have much
in common. Both are cold, careful lawyers, without any
democratic faith or .fervor ; both have a chilly manner
and a precise method of speech ; and both are at heart
Jingoes. Despite the reputation the press thrust upon the
Frozen Person after the railway strike, he was not a man
of any personality, and w'as a gloomy failure as a Premier.
Wisely he threw up the job as soon as he could. For the
same reason Asquith is not a popular leader here. Though
a Liberal by profession, he is at heart a Tory, and his
Liberal Imperialism is most distasteful to the majority of
real Liberals and Radicals who want the Government to
push on with social reform.
Campbell-Bannerman, now an old man of 72, has been
ill ever since his return from Biarritz, and it is now only
a question of weeks before he hands over the reins of
office to Asquith, who is already acting as Deputy-
Premier. “C. 8.” is not a lawyer, and hence not so
narrow in his views as Asquith. Besides, he is one of the
most genuine humanitarians that have ever been in
British politics—a man of the kindliest disposition, and
the beloved leader of a party that has the chance of doing
great things for England. With the advent of Asquith
to the leadership, it is expected there will be friction,
even a split, between the Liberal Reformers and the
Liberal Imperialists, of whom Asquith shares the leader-
ship with that exploded political force, Rosebery. The
genuine Liberals distrust Asquith profoundly, because he
is mixed up with too many great vested interests.
And what is the secret of Asquith’s success? Well,
Mrs. Asquith is one of the most charming and gifted
women in London society, and her political gifts are con-
siderable. A hard-working lawyer, with only the cold
enthusiasm of the man who means to rise, and a wife
with a pretty talent for social tactics—that will be the
new Iceberg Premier of the Cold Country. But the
representative of Liberal Imperialism and vested interests
as Premier will not be received among the real Liberals
so kindly as in certain West End drawing-rooms.
♦ '
Piston-ring ” writes :
It came out over the Bega wreck inquiry that the
engineer in charge at the time of the foundering of the
vessel was a raw youth, whose chief experience was at
mining work up in the Inverell district, and who had not
been to sea, save for one trip, in his life. This revela-
tion came as a shock to the public; but it
is in strict accordance with the law. The Act deal-
ing with shipping demands that coastal passenger
boats shall carry one engineer with a certificate not lower
than second-class. This man can’t keep watch round the
clock, and while he is asleep his place is taken by his uri-
certificated partner. If the owners of a steamship take the
responsibility of placing an admittedly incompetent, un-
certificated man in charge of the watch, they do not break
the law, which is satisfied if there is on board and asleep
one officer holding a certificate. A similar state of things
obtains on deck. According to the law, a passenger boat
under 100 tons—and there are many on the coast with
room for 20 or 30 passengers—need only carry one officer
with a certificate, and that the master. It is quite possible
for a coasting passenger ship to be left, through accident
to the certificated master and engineer, without a man
aboard who really knows the least thing about the manage-
mentofthevessel. Ordinarily owners don’t take these risks,
but at times like the present they are apt to do so. It is
not suggested that the loss of the Bega was in any way
due to the fact of the country lad being on watch. What-
ever the cause, it apparently did not arise in the engine-
room ; but, at the same time, the law which insists on
duplicate vital parts of the machinery being carried,
might extend that view to duplicate engineers.
♦
A few days ago Prime Minister Deakin, speak-
ing on the immigration question, complained that
the Commonwealth was handicapped by having
no land on which to place the immigrants. Also,
Dkakin added, his Government had very little
information on this most important subject from
the State Governments. This request was met by
Premier Bent with a loud yell to the effect that
I have told Mr. Deakin that we have 1,000,000 acres of
land ; what more does he want?
After he had got his breath again, Bent went on
to mention, next day, a few particulars
I intend to tell him that there are more local applicants
than there is land available.
Then, coming apparently to the conclusion that
this hardly harmonised with his first yell, he
added :
But we are about to open up in the Mallee and else-
where over 1,000,000 acres of land, which will be available
both for our own people and desirable immigrants.
This 1,000,000 acres is far away from railway com-
munication, and has no water. But, said Bent :
We are going to run a line from Ouyen to Pinnaroo,
and from Eureka to the Murray.
Two days later, on being further questioned in
the matter, Bent said that “there were 15,000
acres now available in the mallee. So the net
result of his loud howl to Deakin is that, in the
hazy future, when railway lines not yet surveyed
are made, there will be a number of wheat farms
available. But at present there “ are more local
applicants than there is land available. borne
day, surely, Parliament will realise the ne-
cessity of a Federal graduated land-tax to bring
into use the millions of fertile acres close to rail-
way lines, at present held by the big land-owners.
♦
Thus far Victoria’s Bent Government has re-
sumed a miserable 205,000 acres, at a cost of
£1,442,537; and only 1216 conditional-purchase
leases ’have been thus provided. In face of the
fact that the well-watered Western District itself
contains over 6,000,000 acres of monopolised land,
of which over 93 per cent, lies in exactly the same
uncultivated condition as it was when the hungry
Hknty people grabbed the District more than
half a century ago, this achievement is too melan-
choly for words. Bent claims to have settled
4800 people on the land, but he omits to mention
that from 1891 up to the end of 1907 nearly
160 000 Victorians were driven out by the bloated
squattocracy, and that over 12,000 of them are
now helping to develop Maonland—a country
where they have sense enough to smite the land-
monopolist with a progressive tax. He also omits
to point out that during 1904, after the Iceberg s
panacea (which is also Bent’s) had been at work
for six years, Victoria lost 9646 persons by excess
of departures over arrivals ; and the silence of the
remarkable Thomas with regard to the circum-
stance that during 1907 Victoria only gained
about 500 fresh citizens, amounts to a positive
miracle. A land policy that only helps the popu-
lation along at the rate of 1000 persons for every
two years is of no use to Victoria. Any country
that offers a fair inducement to the British immi-
grant can get him nowadays by tens of thousands;
and the fact that Victoria is only receiving the
merest dribble of immigration casts a lurid light
on the ineffectiveness of its land policy.
«
“K”: I notice that a list of subjects for dis-
cussion at the coming State Premier’s Conference
has been published as being suggested by Wade, of
N.S. W. There seems to me to be something wrong
and incomplete about the list. At any rate, out
of 15 “ subjects for discussion ” there are at least
ten that have nothing to do with the States, as
States:—
(1) Northern Territory.
(2) Transcontinental railway.
(3) Quarantine.
(4) Federal Legislation re corn sacks.
(5) Federal proposals re Agriculture and Immigration.
(6) Tokio, Brussels, and Shanghai Exhibitions.
(7) Old age pensions reciprocity.
(8) Pollution of the Murray.
(9) Braddon Clause in the Australian Constitution.
(10) Commercial agencies abroad. Proposed establish-
ment by Commonwealth.
And, of the remaining five, only one deals ex-
clusively with State matters. The subjects evi-
dently omitted in the message are the following:—
(16) The Kaiser’s letter to Lord Tweedmouth.
(17) The Behring Sea fishery trouble.
(18) The United States Presidential election.
(19) Chinese labor on the Rand.
(20) Tim Russian naval estimates.
(21) The’ German railway system.
(22) The locust plague in Argentina.
I feel certain that these grave and weighty State
questions are on Wade’s notice-paper, though the
papers conceal the fact. As to the following I
can only hazard a conjecture, and say that if they
are not there they ought to be.
(23) Is Mars inhabited? If so, should the Common-
wealth be allowed to communicate with it first?
(24) Are State and Federal Ministers admitted by the
same door into Heaven ?
(25) Original sin.
<%>
By the Omrah there have just reached the Com-
monwealth three advance agents of “Empire
Builders Ltd.” The concern with the magnifi-
cent designation seems to be a London shindykit,
whose object is to plant “moneyed English
farmers ” on land here, and set them going in
that great primary industry. Each farmer must
pay into the concern not less than £5O ; if he have
extra capital he may take up a farm on arrival,
when he will have “workers at his disposal, the
use of implements and horses at cost price, the
constant advice of experts, and a capable manag-
ing committee.” Inexperienced members will
herd together on the home farm for three
years, “ under supervision.” The said “home
farm” is a 200-acre paddock at Ballan (Vic.),
belonging to one W. S. Bromhead, who is under-
stood to be the local managing director of Empire
Builders Ltd. It looks a large and wide scheme
till one gets down to the little 200-acre farm, and
the fact that the Universe Builders want assisted
passages for their immigrants and cheap land on
arrival. Seeing that Premier Bent is already
bellowing fiercely for the land he says he can’t get
for his own people, and that Agent-General
Taverner can arrange cheap passages for all and
sundry who are desirable, there doesn’t seem any
necessity for Empire Builders Limited —or un-
limited either. Still, it is a fine large title.
+
“ Sr ” : When you term Sachse, Victorian Minis-
ter for Education, a “ loafing failure ” (B.
26/3/’08) in connection with the administration of
his department, the term fits him all over. Al-
most at the door of the Department offices exists
a condition of affairs, in connection with the
rotten, inadequate accommodation provided by the
Department for its employees, that would make a
fat landlord take a fit with shame. In Richmond
—Melbourne’s adjacent suburb —the caretaker of
one of the State schools, with his wife and five
kids, live in a two-roomed tenement benevolently
provided by Sachse. At another school in the
same suburb the caretaker lives and has his being
in a palatial mansion about the size of the ordi-
nary cottage bathroom. A school that was built
to accommodate 700 Australian youngsters is
crammed to seat 900, and the poor nippers have
to eat their lunch out in the open plav-ground
in winter and summer, there being no shelter-
shed provided. In the early months of 1906 this
deplorable state of things was brought under
Sachse’s notice, and it is still, presumably, beneath
that object. It’s about time you stripped and
walloped into the Bent crowd solidly. Bent’s
non-borrowing characteristics are redeeming, un-
doubtedly, but his skim-milk, patchy, inefficient
Lands and Education administration offer enough
evidence to convict him. Sloppy Swinburne is
reported in the Age to be working up a company
to take on the business of cold storage—un-
doubtedly a State’s job—and thus bolster up
Individualism. But as for Sachse, give him the
sack ! Sack him now ! Sack him for eternity, and
give him a piano to amuse himself with.


// c
HERE'S
GOOD LUCK
Charles Heidsieck
V CHAMPAGNE,
\ HA
HAS THE KING'S
ROYAL WARRANT
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO.. LONDON
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Prontv. I ri
Sydney and MelbournY. ’
V\
vS '
Q
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
To make Robur tea properly,
you must put fresh water
into your kettle each time
(never use water that has
been boiled before, because
the more it is boiled, the
harder it gets)—thoroughly
warm your teapot—put in
the required amount of
leaf pour on the water
immediately it boils—let it
draw for 5 or 6 minutes —•
then it’s ready. Whatever
you do, don’t let it draw too
long, or you’ll spoil it, and
it is a shame to spoil good
tea like Robur.
The No. 1 Grade Robur is
beautiful tea.
By Royal Warrants of Appointment tn mo m • *
t to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCE PS
SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 14, 1908.
My Dear Arint,—
The Clarke to whom Miss “Lute” Mackenzie
has engaged herself is not, as the papers have
stated, “ heir to the Rupertswood baronetcy.” He
is merely what is known as “second heir,” the
genuine goods being the tall ex-naval bachelor
brother, Ernest. Only in the event of Rupert
expiring in a sonless state, and Ernest passing
over prematurely, will the Sydney girl get the
chance to attach “ Lady ”to her last name. The
Mackenzies are a military family. The male
parent was stationed at the Victoria Barracks for
some years as Colonel of the R.A.A. ; a brother
did well in S’Africa; and an aunt married re-
cently into the most lethal arm of the British
service— viz., the Medical Corps.
On Wednesday, Conductor Slapoffski, acting
for the first time as successor to Hazon,
took baton - swinging exercise before the
Sydney Amateur Orchestral Society, which
produced as its piece de resistance Tschai-
kowsky’s stupendous piece of orchestration,
the “Symphonie Pathetique.” The execution of
this Alpine work occupied fully three-quarters of
an hour. Included in the programme were the
Overture to “Die Meistersinger,” and the ballet
music from “Faust,” while Mrs. Slap—aspangled
lady, touched here and there with rosy pink,
and in splendid voice—gave Elizabeth’s Greet-
ing to the Hall of Song from “ Tannhauser ”
and the ever-acceptable “King of Thule,”
likewise the Jewel Song from “Faust.”
All Sydney was there, barring a few tramloads of
people, and some Goths, and some folk who were
working, or drinking, or making love, and certain
impoverished terrace-dwellers and a few indi-
viduals whose sentences haven’t expired. But the
carpet was bare of vice-royalties, who are still in
the country getting up the necessary energy to
carry them over the coming Easter frivolities and
other things. Musical Suburbia was likewise in
full force ; but why will it persist in tying its head
up in “fascinators” that do anything but fasci-
nate ? “Evening dress, ”as commonly understood,
it does not wear, but is invariably clothed in high-
necked garments of the year before last, a cape of
cream cashmere decorated with chook’s feathers,
and the woolly fascinator. Is it afraid of losing
its head over the performance, or is it a sign of
Soul ?
The Lady Dandies ” show, which boomed in
London, has had a forceful effect on the female
fashions of that city. There is a riot just now of
Directorate clothing effects. The restaurants are
full of people in short-waisted confections; and
tunics d la Diane and d la Ceres and d la Minerve,
and so forth, are as common in places where
people feed expensively as 20s. a week chorus-
ladies. The mode in hats, on the other hand,
harks backs to the days of the 4 6 Terror. 5J .A.
Charlotte Gorday mob cap, which looks (appro-
priately enough) own sister to the garments
affected in these parts by bathers, has been manu-
factured and publicly worn by one greatly daring •
and another headpiece, which resembles (but for
a towering green ostrich feather at the side) a
seasoned plug tile of the brand mounted daily and
nightly by Dan O’Connor, is on the market.
Prince Victor Dhuleep Singh, the stout nigger
who married Lady Anne Coventry, daughter of
the earl of that ilk, offered his many unsecured
creditors 10s. in the £ last month. Victor ex-
ploded financially as far back as September, 1902,
and has been wrestling with sordid money pro-
blem 3 ever since. Hot that his difficulties have
affected his mode of living much. He still does
himself as remarkably well as is the wont of the
average Debretted insolvent. But the constantly
recurring interviews with the representatives
of people who want money from him for goods
supplied years and years ago—goods which
are now worn out or lost or moth-eaten—are
understood to bore him. Also they bore his
spouse, who believed, when she married, that she
was capturing one of great wealth. It is astonish-
ing how trustful the British female is when a
colored person of title happens along. Dhuleep
m his own land is not a “ pukka ” potentate ; and
his financial outlook is, and always has been, as
appalling as that of a State Treasurer in drought
time.
One of the most persevering of swains gets his
reward in June—which is the month wherein Miss
Alice Wade-Brown has consented to marry Mr.
Connie” Laidley. For protracted years this
particular Laidley has been wooing his Alice.
Ihe pursuit has been, since earliest boyhood
something more than a hobby with him ; of late
years he elevated it into a life-work. The better
to pursue the same he abandoned the delights of
Sydlney, and took up a selection on the Queens-
land station where the lady abides with her
parents—becoming even as the humble cocky for
her sake. And at long last she has capitulated
Ihe young man s main occupation is thus wrested
from him ; but, in mitigation, he now knows the
subtle joy of the- forlorn-hope medisevalist who
after years of dogged hunting, stumbles unex-
pectedly over the Grail.
Mrs. Forsythe arrived on the Mongolia from
her Indian trip last week, looking as tall and
graceful and fit as it is possible for woman that is
born of woman to look. She at once boarded a
.Newcastle train, and fled towards Dudley, home
and the horses.
Po P e Cooper, Queensland’s festive Chief Justice
spends the coming race week with the Herbert
Marks at Woollahra. This particular legal light
is never far distant from the State capital which
happens for the moment to be jubilating. He is
the flagship, as it were, of the judiciary.
Stacy Waddy, Christian athlete, booked dates
for the dehverance of the midday Lenten sermons
at fat. J ames s, Sydney’s smartest kirk. The idea
was that the cricketing multitude would thus be
lured to the salving in its lunch hour. Youths
and elders with bat on the brain would appear
however, to prefer to smoke a cigarette and dis-
cuss scores in right-of-ways, without pulpit
accompaniment; for the congregations were thin
and spare as a Good Friday dinner. The Rev.
Stacy s tongue is smooth—even slick. He quotes
Tennyson and S links pea re in deft confirmation of
the Gospels, and otherwise fills the bill as a
thoroughly up-to-date society cleric. But he
doesn t make many runs in the pulpit. The man
vvho strikes cricket balls rarely strikes imagina-
tions.
The “draw” of the coming Ada Crossley concert
company will be the beauteous Percy Grainger.
This young Australian has gone unscathed through
persistent association with English and Conti-
nental duchesses, so that he is now recognised as
the greatest of British-born pianists. He has all
of Leonard Borwick’s technique, and adds to it
the fire of a rare genius. The youth is, in fact, a
credit to his native land, taking rank with Melba,
Montague Noble, Bent, and other immortals.
The filmy gossamers that lend enchantment to
woman’s headgear just now are exceedingly
beautiful, and their beauty is only exceeded by
their danger. A Surry Hills girl recently opened
a letter, and commenced to read it by candle-light
without waiting to remove her hat. The trim-
mings caught fire, and, before she could rip the
pins out, her head was a mass of flame, from
which it was impossible to wrench the burning
hat. When the flame was extinguished the girl
had received mortal injuries; she died in a few
hours. The filmy headgear is just about as
dangerous as the flannelette underskirt, and both
are abominations. One might as well wear cloth-
ing saturated with nitro-glyeerine. When Hor-
dern’s Emporium was burning a girl’s hat was set
on fire by a drifting cinder that descended amid
the feathers. Fortunately a rude stranger threw
his coat over it and smothered it before any
harm was done.
From “Tryphena” in London
There was something extremely pantomimic about the
Royal Opening of the British Parliament. In the streets
the John Bull populace jammed itself tight into all the
niches commanding a view around Westminster and
cheered when there came the Royal pair—the small,
queenly head, with its crown and neatly-fringed brow,
bobbing, bobbing, bobbing, with an automatic regularity
of bob, at the hat-waving populace, and her jolly mate
sitting bolt upright in his massive braid and metal fur-
nishings, and with a friendly, good-tempered smile in his
observant eyes.
How small the Queen looked from the gallery heights
in the House of Lords, and how precise and pathetic !
The large, protruding eyes, doing double ddty by reason
of the impaired sense of hearing, are cast around pen-
sively, and the face bears no expression of critical or
deductive or pleasant or casual regard. It is locked
securely and the key secreted. No living phrenologist
could hazard a reading of that closed countenance, or
gather a hint of the thoughts at the back of those wide
alarmed eyes. But the King, despite his weight of ar-
morial fixings, showed an alert, business-like aspect. He
looked a cheery soldier getting through an important
ceremonial with precision and despatch.
In a quarter of an hour the pantomime parade started
back home again to a cheering multitude. “ The Queen
looks 30—not a day more,” quoth an excited old patriot
to his street neighbors. She did—such is the art of the
magician of the toilet table.
This January is an eerie month to be turning out bare-
chested and sleeveless—a chill time to step out of a polar
day-wrap to don the night party chiffons. But Fashion
decrees that it is the season, and so the powdered flunkevs
of Mayfair fling open the hall door in the haunts of the
coroneted. On Wednesday the Marquis of Lansdowne
couple started the whirligig with a grand crush. Through
half-a-dozen ornate apartments, profligate of art treasures,
of Academy gems, of statuary, the crush spread’
babbling, laughing, sparkling confusedly, with gems on
dress and head and neck and shoulders. One of the most
eminent scientists of the day bore along with the great
current, beside a scraggy wife of abnormal length but
exceedingly luminous from train-edge to tiara-top. Her
bony chest was as a rack on which hung strings and
festoons and garlands of pearls, while a barbed-wire wall of
diamonds enclosed her lean, sinewy neck, and a rabbit-
proof fence of the same stones shut" in the thatched rolls
above her learned brow.
Mrs. Chamberlain, less lengthy than some of the
giantesses and a little less lean, smiled and talked with a
frank cordiality and a peculiar huskiness to ever-fresh
relays of Unionists. Some of them talked of “Joe” so
affectionately that there was an apology in the familiar
tone. Others referred to “ our dear leader,” and didn’t
mind hinting that “ Balfour was right enough, but ”
and the fair dame shrewdly blushed aside the reservation
and talked Party concerns generally. Her pleasure at
being the centre of Unionist worship this night, was
honestly obvious. One left her glad presence reluctantly
to join the circle round Arthur Balfour who had given a
junket earlier in the evening to his cronies
His pale face and Quakerish head loomed up dismally"
and his mystic eyes and high intellectual brow were
markedly strange in that dazzling, gay crush. Yet some
of the biggest dazzlers talked Tariff Reform as solidly as
the weightiest political battler, for in this gathering were
all the leading political guns of England, and the long
sparklesome trailers forgot to flirt in their effort to
bandy fiscal faiths with the Churchills, the Asquiths and
the Balfours.
I saw an old friend, the Earl of Shaftesbury, battling
with the tide, not in the least changed since he aided
the Brassey Excellency, but just as blithesome and
good-looking. The countess is a soft and mild edition
of the Madden clan, and might pass for Mrs. Vallanve
if one were just a trifle short-sighted. Also struggling
in the crush was the wide-whiskered Henniker Heaton’
just back from ’Roo-land, and talking loud cheerful
nonsense to all and sundry.
Mighty is the appeal that the tenor makes. Fair
maidens adore him from afar; the while their
swains, bitterly envious, curse him below breath—
which state of things is the height of many men’s
desires. Philip Newbury, who sang at the Town
Hall last week, may not possess the “ sympathetic
throb ” of the departed yet still adored Dani, but
his method nears perfection, and the voice he
displays that method with is gorgeously tuneful.
He sang “ The Requital ” (Blumenthal) on Thurs-
day night like an archangel; and then “Jean
my Jean,” and Lehman’s “Ah, Moon of My De-
light.” Over a couple of trivialities by Landon
Ronald, the audience went quite wild. But then
the audience would have gone wild over anything
this artist had handed them. Emily Spada
trilled sweetly, and later Sydney Scott unloosed
the mightiest tones of the mighty Sydney organ
in the “ Ride of the Valkyries.” He con-
trived to suggest all that a player may
of a band of demented brumbies hurling them-
selves with lunatic neighings along an endless
macadamised road, and brought great joy to his
hearers, so that he was encored violently. Lilian
Appleby, Hilda Aiken and J. Edward Sykes con-
tributed to a programme which was mostly New-
bury and altogether excellent.
Kubelik, who stands first among the violinists
of to-day, reaches Australia in May and opens a
Sydney season during that month in the Town
Hall. Miss Erna Mueller, the Bendigo mezzo-
soprano, is to assist the great violinist in his con-
certs. A happy sign of the growing importance
of musical Australia is that, nowadays, if the chief
“star” is not Australian the minor twinklers of
the constellation are. Few impresarios of any
wisdom would think these times of bringing a
complete concert co. to this country.
Edward Vll.’s yacht Osborne is advertised to
be sold to the highest bidder, A writer in London
Chronicle comes brightly forward with the
remark that “ now is the chance for some Ameri-
can millionaire to secure a royal yacht.” He
glozes deftly over the fact that the Osborne is
about 40 years old, and has given trouble ever
since it was first built at Pembroke to take some
of the burden off the scuppers of the poor old
Victoria and Albert; and drives home his argu-
ment in favor of moneyed America crowding to
the auction in one smashing sentence, viz. :
It was on the deck of this Royal yacht that his Majesty
lay and recovered his health after the accident to his
knee at Waddesdon Manor in 1898.
The sea-going Yankee who can resist an allure-
ment like that is unworthy the name of Chicago
pork-packer.
Mr. Lachlan Beaton, who was not re-appointed
to his Harbor Trust Commissionership, the other
day, because Mr. Keele had to be shifted from the
Water and Sewerage Board, departs on the India
(9/5/’08) Paris-and-family-wards. Mrs. Beaton and
her two children left a couple of months ago, and
now that the latter are immured (the correct term,.
I believe) in convents, the way is clear for a
long-projected tour of Austria, Italy, and other
old-world lands.
Pretty Miss Constance Brandon-Usher wedded
her Simpson-Baikie, R.N.R., last Thursday, at
St. Mary’s Church, Waverley. Being Lent, there
were no special frills on the ceremony. Where-
fore the young musician started on the most im-
portant duet of her life in an atmosphere of un-
obtrusive and markedly holy calm.
I dug this tale of a survivor out of the story of
the Bega wreck :
“ My wife,” said the bridegroom to a Sydney Telegraph
reporter at South Bermagui, “is now with some friends
of mine a few miles out. She is a big- woman and would
make about three of me. ... I thought the vessel was
going over, she had such a list on, and I climbed up on
top and, with my wife on my back, caught hold of a rope.”
Who says the race of heroes is extinct ?
A disillusioning fact was made public at Windsor
(England) last month by General Raitt, C. 8.,
commanding the S. Midland Territorial Army
Division. The wine-drinking guardsman, he said,
was as extinct as a fossil remnant; at the Guards’
mess at Windsor “minerals” were drunk almost
exclusively. This astounding specimen of a
General went on to confess that “Ninety-nine
days out of every hundred he himself drank nothing
but water at luncheon.” His dinner beverage was
milk and soda. Among the wealthy officers of
the Royal Horse Guards champagne was
no longer asked for; these gorgeous young men
mostly absorb plain water. “At the present day it
was considered ‘bad form’ in the Brigade to
take strong drink during the daytime.” And so
on. It is the sort of thing that makes one really
sorry for poor old England. But a few years
back, and “Ouida” was giving us alluring por-
traits of the ideal Guards officer. He reclined
all the morning in a colored dressing-
gown, puffing at a Nargileh, and quaffing
bumpers of Chartreuse. Having quaffed and
smoked enough to give a mere day laborer
nicotine and alcoholic poisoning, he rose languidly,
donned his rowing shorts, and stroked the ’Var-
sity eight to victory at Rotherhithe. After a
magnum of Chateau Y’quem had been drained to
the triumph, the young aristocrat dressed,
and escorted his maitresse, Lady Paralysis,
to the opera. In the foyer, vintage champagne
flowed and the military man, as a matter of
habit, attached his face to the nearest spout and
drank deep. At supper he really began to drink,
lapping priceless claret and unnumbered B. and s’,
with extreme vim. Next morning he either
rode his skewbald cab-horse Diabolo to
victory in the Grand Military, or knocked out
feayers with a single biff of his be-ringed and lily
white hand. And this paragon’s successors have
become loathly Judders ! ! No wonder “ Ouida ”
died. She probably learned what her idols were
up to, and . decided that life hadn’t enough
pageantry in it to be worth living any longer.
“Mario,” from Brisbane:—
Th e general hospital made its yearly moan the other
day, with his long, pale Ex. in the chair. The report
was a bit mixed, but some people who understand re-
ports reckon it disclosed considerable extravagance in
maintenance, the lack of a proper hot-water service or anv
sort of sanitary system, a roof and several walls threaten-
ing to fall upon the unwary patients from sheer senile
decay the arrival of anew pathologist in the person of
Dr. Jack Thomson(who resembles a youthful photo of Sven-
s'. I')’ 1 ')’ and a heap of debt. These seem to me a good many
things to crowd into one report. The meeting took place
on the lawn in front of the Nurses’ Home, and a thunder-
storm kept the 300 or 400 befeathered women folk awake
during the business. The most distressing feature of
the gathering was the white-faced, delicate-looking
nurses, some 40 of whom hung over the balconies, and
later handed round tea.
A new she club has raised its head in our midst Tt
calls itself the^ Progressive Club, and is an offshoot of the
Conservative Woman's League. In the pretty room, with
its green walls and hangings, Mrs. F. Little, the presi-
dent, held a big crush on Thursday evening, and there
seems to be lots of life in the concern
Lady Chelmsford has arrived back from your harbor
city, whither she had fled to buy a frock or two.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Glenelg: (S.A.), where Joe Coleman slew
Constable Ring, is a casual sort of spot, also its
sense of humor seems to be Over-developed Tho
murderous Joseph having been liberated from
Ef (n Z US s H d T lld ’ on
Ring. No one took him seriously. In fact
shrieks of amusement greeted his remarks. About
11.30 p.m he charged an old muzzle-loading min
and went forth to the slaying, telling his wife ‘‘sfe
would soon be a widow.” She didn’t take him
seriously. Arrived in the street, Coleman met
severa! people, and told them he “ was after Con-
stable Ring. They were convulsed with amuse-
merit. Ihen Coleman hied him to Miller’s
Corner Railway Station. He spoke to two men
who , noticed him trailing his gun like a walking’
stick, and told them he was waiting for Ring- to
‘‘do for him.” They smiled and left. This
tragedy arose mainly from the fact that a large
proportion of the population persists in regarding
a semi-tnamac, with a fancied grievance and a
loaded gun, as a good joke.
The “ Miscellaneous ” part of the N K W
Statistical Register for 1906 has jw' 7 W ‘
issued by the State Government, and it shows s' 1
more how Ma has suffered from the pernY° me
influences of Federation-especially in the S
and Telegraph Department, where the man-
ment is something terrible now that “ evprviiv’ 6 *
is controlled in Melbourne.” N. S. Wales
become so disgusted with the telephone servi
for instance, that, in order to properly exnr 06 ’
its disgust, it used and paid for 20,373 telenlL 658
at the end of 1906, as against 12,197 in 190(1 A "a 8
as for telegrams, the ravening Victorian wr>if ■
1906 actually charged N. S. Wales £5OO 308
4,452,506 messages, while in 1900, under the soivf
kind State lamb, 3,219,907 messages, or ] rAI
less, cost £518,401, or £18,093 more. ’ ’ ™
A Maoriland citizen abroad in Asia to th„
Lyttleton Times
To-day the hateful Hindu Babu is swelling- his t
with the phrase “our British Empire,” and demandin'
equality, fraternity, and all other qualities granted tn,
by our cousins within the British Empire. 10us
It has become imperative to know exactly where
ship of State lies in this troublesome sea of Imperialism
In other words, it is time we knew the relative value nf
the self-governing colonies and the Crown colonies
Quite recently, at meetings held in Madras, Bombav ami ;
Calcutta, the tenor of the speeches distinctly inriieoVea
the feeling of equality which the Babu has in his chest ee
breast. The Transvaal has set the question and 1 1
watching with absorbing interest for the answer Indi"'
is our stumbling-block for preference. Once it is defi
nitely decided that there is a British Empire and »
Asiatic Empire, quite distinct and apart except at th
common meeting point, London, we can answer a
objection to preference raised by Imperial authorisation
at the last conference. The more I see of the Asiatic the
more determined do I feel to do my very best to keep
country white. -'
The Secret of Youth has been sought in all
ages. By warriors and saints, by sages and coquettes hv
priests and laymen, by queens and milkmaids, bv Door
and rich, by the good and the ignoble. In the quo, f
empires have been overthrown, and the world drenched
with blood and tears. And yet it’s very simple The
secret of youth is to keep young. The thing to do is to
get the better of time in the great game. Every woman
can do it, and every woman wants to do it but so few
know the way. Now, Mdlle. Helena Rubinstein has been
showing the way for more than five years. It’s wonderful
how blind people can be to their own interests. Thewav
then, for all wise women, lies in Valaze, the infallible
Russian Skin Food, 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. a jar. Associated
with Valaze in the ministry of beauty are the Valaze
Skin Tonic, a banisher of wrinkles, 3s. 6d. a bottle and
the Valaze Herbal Soap, pure and economical, 2s. a cake
All leading chemists, or direct from the Valaze Massaze
Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274 Collins Street
Melbourne ; and 9 Brandon Street,Wellington, N.Z.* q
Premier Bent’s reply to Deakin’s re-
iterated query as to what the State Government
is prepared to do to assist immigration boils down
finally to promise of (1) some dry and hopeless
State lands, mostly in the far-back Mallee, that
may be available in a couple of years ; accommo-
dation for 250 settlers, which may also be available
at some distant date ; and (3) a promise to increase
the man-carrying capacity of certain northern
lands in the hope that the private owners thereof
will sell to all-comers at a moderate price—which
they won’t. It is all dreadfully vague, incompe-
tent, and trifling. And Bent, with his tongue
in his cheek, knows well enough that every
acre of land he may have to offer in the next
few years will be rushed by the landless Vic-
torians who cannot get an acre at a decent price,
and are even now leaving the State for that very
reason. It is sad to hear that Alfred the Affable
has characterised this Bent reply as “ most
encouraging.” If Alfred were speaking sarcasti-
cally, the remark would be interesting; hut
Alfred is far too affable to say sardonic things like
that.


HARDY
BY APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS LTD
VICE- REGAL 'JEWELLERS • WATCHMAKERS • SILVERSMITHS
SOLID SILVER
PHOTOGRAPH FRAMES
The Largest Assortment in
the Commonwealth.
Owing to the constant change in
fashion with Photograph Frames,
it is impossible to adequately
represent the large assortment
kept in stock.
A selection will be sent on
approval if these shown are
not the style required.
100 different designs to
choose from.
r
Photo Space sin. x 3Jin., 18s.
Photo Space sJin. x 3Jin., 12s.
Photo Spaoe 4in., 15s.
Five per cent. Cash Discount.
Catalogue Post Free.
I3HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON • ADDRESS 19-CHARTERHOUSF STREET
Makes you look manly
va m
manner
m
Befor
APILLARINE Works Wonders*
In a few weeks it produces a long- handsome Moustache
that you will be proud of.
It is harmless and undetectable in use—easy of application
—sure and permanent in its results—and guaranteed to
do what we claim for it.
POSTED FREE IN PLAIN
WRAPPER FOR
10 6 a Jar
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
Wonderful Massage Instrument.
SB!
m
Type B.
HE CRESCENT VIBRATOR
is operated by electricity. The current
can be obtained from the ordinary
electric light switch, or from a dry
battery which we supply.
It is NOT electric treatment—the electricity
is simply the motive power—the vibrations
being produced by purely mechanical means.
The stimulus imparted to the body is most
pleasant, soothing and health-giving. It re-
moves congestion —the CAUSE of the disease—
and promotes a full rich flow of blood. A good
circulation is the CURE of disease.
Vibrator and Batteries are self-contained in a
portable case, and the Battery is inexpensive
when it requires renewing.
The Crescent Vibrator gives from 2000 to
20.000 vibrations per minute, and is therefore
infinitely superior to hand massage.
THE CRESCENT VIBRATOR
for SCIENTIFIC
MASSAGE.
WRITE FOR EXPLANATORY BOOKLET-
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Do You Use
UM
CO
COLUMBIA
RECORDS?
If not, you are not getting the Best
Results from your Machine.
lOin. New=Process Disc Records (to fit all Disc Talking
Machines), price 2/6 each; 12in. Disc Records, 4/- each;
Cylinder Records (New Process) for all
Phonographs, 1/3 each.
Complete New Catalogues free on application.
Make COMPARISONS and you will soon be convinced that no
other Records equal
COLUMBIA RECORDS
in any single
point
Smoothness, Sweetness, Volume, or Durability.
Send for latest Cylinder and Disc Catalogues “ B.”
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. Gen’l,
255 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find everv comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBI NS,
Queen’s Mansions, ‘1 to 5 Beaconsneltl Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boardinsr-house in
-L the Colonies, llaynificent situation, facinir Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, J-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
1
M
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
TF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
X. can’t keep current with Australian Ar ,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many ,r . .
stories and sketches. Send in a year s su s>cr P
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
V
m.
/'«*:**
tf u -
fcj
L it
*4
K
/i
£
CADBURYSI
Milk Chocolate.
A concentrated sweetmeat-food of the highest order.
More nourishing and sustaining than any other.
Doctors and Analysts are unanimous in their praises
of its purity and food value. Refuse to accept sub- %
stitutes. CADBURY’S is the VERY BEST IT 7
IS POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN. Prepared in a
scrupulously clean factory situated in the open green
fields of the “ Old Country,” by the Manufacturers of
Cadbury’s Cocoa
of which “ The Lancet ” says
it is “ The Standard of high-
est purity,” while “ Health ”
calls it “A Perfect Food.”


KcconnrriDro •
&T Tnt'LAMCfT
HCPICAL
fACULTr»-«
o=o=o
We - would -like.
yoD-rp -try-<o
36jnple - hr\
of- oor-expert
Rj
Oer\d • Pcdccxrd •
tor • Dqqk lct= •
PADiO^^
j? Ftcu> -I ntr\”
• O-OO- ■• •
JOUBERT & JOUBERT,
Flinders St., Melbourne.
CLAUDE HEALY & CO.,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. E. JOUBERT,
Perth, W.A.
mjerd y&mwm
“THE FOOD THAT MAKES THE BABY GROW,”
THE SECRET
=-■■■.. of a =====
GRACEFUL
FIGURE.
r« *
affiraa
rs £
CORSETS
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Apbil 13, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie,—
A war-boat dance is almost as good as a sea
voyage for bringing about engagements. The
recent visit of the British ships to Tasmania and
Melbourne heralded quite a lot of engagements.
Miss Smith, a niece of theChomleysand Manifold-
Smiths, a Warrnambool girl, is to, marry Mr.
Graham Officer. Another engagement holds Miss
Mackenzie (daughter of Colonel Mackenzie, one
time in charge of military forces in Hobart) and
Mr. Russell Clarke —Russell “Sunbury” Clarke.
The approaching marriage is announced of Miss
Ennis Gwendoline Reed, daughter of Mrs. Tessie
Reed, of “Kenyon,” Elsternwick, with Mr. Tom
Stone. Miss Reed is a niece-in-law of “ Try-
phena” Doughty, and the prospective bridegroom
is brother to the bride’s step-mamma. Which
little complication of relationship will give them
something to think about in odd moments.
Another engagement announced is that of Miss
Kate Reidy—a very handsome Tasmanian—with
Mr. John Moore, of “Moorelands,” Moree,
N.S.W., a gentleman of obviously alliterative
tendencies. Miss Reidy is visiting her sister,
Mrs. Marsh, at “ Cressy House,” Balaclava, be-
fore tripping to Europe. She is the daughter of
the late Governor of the Convict Prison in Hobart,
Mr. Reidy, who helped Marcus Clarke in the col-
lecting of facts for “ His Natural Life.”
A rotund politician is dogged by an assertive
haze of rumor respecting a prospective marriage
with a widow. Rumor has waved phantom fingers
over the turtle doves heretofore, but is definite
enough now to point to the may-be horieymooners’
future residence. “Rippon Lea,” Sargood’s old
home, is spoken of as being furbished up for them.
The Surrey Hill Golf Club has been moved on
by the march of civilisation. Its former haunt is
being rapidly covered with the Mary Anne villa,
and its club has acquired-a lease of an extensive
triangular piece of hill and dale at Riversdale. A
brand new club-house has been reared, and the
institution has taken to itself a brand new name.
It is Surrey no longer, but Riversdale. The open-
ing presented two novel features. There were no
speeches, and nothing to drink. The members
simply trudged off in twos or threes, and swished
savagely at the harmless little white globe, and
then solemnly stalked after it to give it another
swipe.
A settled visitor at Menzies is Lady Trafalgar,
widow of a great grand-nephew (or something like
that) of Nelson. The lady is an Australian,
daughter of Dalgetv, founder of Dalgety’sof solid
wool-bale renown. Two of the Nelson family
married Australians ; the Hon. Horatio Nelson
married Miss Ellen Petty.
Widow Blackwood trails fetching weeds at
Menzies. Old John Blackwood left a huge pile of
over-weight goods as a consolation when he
departed hence. The young wife benefits, but
the nieces didn’t. Uncle John announced quite
forcibly that Australians who thought Australia
not good enough would get no Australian gold.
The two pretty nieces both married Honorable-
younger-sons in the Ma Land, to the great annoy-
ance'of Australian Uncle John.
The officers of the Catinat elevate eyebrows,
moustache, and questioning hands over the dear
freedom of Melbourne damsels who accepted
tete-Ytete invitations on the boat, and arrived
with charming smiles and no chaperones.
Commodore Buchard’s wife followed the de-
parted Catinat by Sydney express on Thurs-
day. Mrs. Hector Wilson waits in Melbourne
another week with her son, Mr. Pierre Belew, and
his little wife. They all stay together at
the Australia for Easter Races week. Another
early Sydney frivol bird on the train was Miss
Annie Macleod, who packs for Medlow for a
mountain-air zest before joining Papa and Sister
at the Australia.
The old Colonists’ Home at Clifton Hill is a
community that often breaks the monotony of its
peaceful, aged and gossipy existence with Fetes.
A Ffite breaks out. on the slightest provocation.
New cottages are often added, and the “ laying of
the stone” and subsequent opening all call for
Fete. Three cottages were blessed and opened
last week. They were built with Mrs. Fairbairn’s
generous donation, and the F£te turned to a posi-
tive Frivol in her honor.
The capacity of some women for being unreason-
able is immense. Melbourne Telephone Ex-
change recently asked for the services of a Ma
State officer to go down and find out why its sub-
scribers couldn’t hear each other. The officer
during his rambles got along to the Windsor
exchange, and there discovered one of the causes
of the trouble. Most of the girl attendants were
wearing bangles, and, as their hands moved busily
about the switchboard, the jangling gauds would
hit the switch keys and cause disconnections
—so that Smith and Jones, who were yelling
amicably together one moment, were, the next
instant, howling furiously apart, also ringing
their respective ’phones like mad, and asking why
they had been cut off. The borrowed official
reported to headquarters, and an order was
promptly issued forbidding the wearing of bangles
and bracelets while on duty. There was a certain
amount of anger and secesh talked, but, when
next morning came, only one woman was suffi-
ciently foolish to defy Authority and come to
work with her gilded shackles on her rounded
fore-paw. “ Just to show them,” she had loaded
one limb with no less than four bangles, and,
as she persisted in keeping them on, she
was formally reported to the manager, who
“ threatened her with immediate suspension ” un-
less she unloaded the auriferous implements.
A little while afterwards she took her place at the
board in quite a nude condition—so- far as brace-
lets were concerned.
The love some girls have for bracelets —espe-
cially the sort that have coins and other odds
and ends of metal attached —passeth the male
understanding. A friend of mine was once
in a shorthand speed class in which were a
number of haughty young women. One of
them—she was of the drooping lily type—had
the bracelet mania badly, and, whenever she
moved her hand, there was a rattle of metal that
almost drowned the reader’s voice. The in-
structor was a patient man, but finally he
exploded and the lady cast off her clanking
.jewellery with heart-broken sobs. The sound of
it falling suggested Bazaine’s army laying down
its arms. Once I went to an evening party, where
they told me I would meet “a really splendid
pianist, my dear.” The lady against whom the
accusation was levelled was fat and a Perfect Mass
of Bangles. Every time she was asked to
play (and she was asked to play about every
ten minutes, because she was enormously
wealthy and expected it) she dragged off the
bangles, one by one, and dropped them in a heap
in her companion’s lap, telling us as she did so
the history of each one, and all about how many
times she had lost it. Then she would proceed to
hit the piano in the wrong place at the wrong
time,, and make night hideous generally. Finally,
she would get disheartened and angry, and, after
banging the bass in the eye, and uppercutting the
treble, would whirl round on the music-stool, and
say wildly that she “really couldn’t play any-
thing without the music.” Every woman there
was aware that she couldn’t play any-
thing with it either, yet the fascination
of the bangles was so great that they wouldn’t
admit it even to each other. The evening was
blighted by that fat woman and her bangles.
When she wasn’t dragging them off she was haul-
ing them on. The only enlivening incident was
when she dropped her leading bangle into the
hinterland of the piano, and wanted the instru-
ment turned upside down and held that way till
the gaud dropped out. It took the combined
efforts of fourteen women and two men to keep
her and her hostess apart.
A quaint little romance, with a taint of tragedy,
stirs this city of sordid divorces and financial
scandals. A handsome personage with some
gorgeous masculine attributes met a maid in an
adjoining State, back at the beginning of this
century. He was then unknown, but he was
enterprising. The lady loved his knightly port
and his flow of fluent sentiment, and would have
married his beauteous presence with great joy.
But in the background of Ulysses’ fate was a
Penelope—and Pen, in this instance, was a dis-
obliging creature, who wouldn’t dream of
divorcing her wanderer, or even dying to please
him. The romance hung fire until a recent day ;
then Ulysses reckoned he had found grounds upon
which any reasonable Judge could grant the de-
cree nisi. The romance seemed like to end in
happy realities for the devoted maid. But in-
stead, Ulysses paid her back the amounts she had
lent him, and faded gradually away. The love-
lorn lady then discovered that her hero had paid
her back out of the dot of another trusting
female. He’d availed himself of one faithful
creature’s fortune in order to gain another
woman’s. He’d borrowed money from one
lady to buy himself a divorce. And while his
financier was waiting for her turn of wedded con-
tentment, he quietly skipped into matrimony
and a motor car with a person with a huge in-
come. Now there are a disillusioned wife, a
stricken spinster, and a divorcee as the results of
his enterprise. And Ulysses is paying back debts
and making large purchases. Which is the end of
most histories in which figure a woman, her in-
come, and a man with an abounding chest.
A Melbourne man goes to Sydney to collect one
of vour Harbor-side beauties —Miss Maclurcan.
The pirate is H. O. Egan—one of the Egan
Brothers who planted the Austral Flour Mills
where the Parramatta flows. This brother runs a
branch of the wheat-grinding business in Mel-
bourne ; so we shall probably annex the lady.
The University squabble ’twixt Chancellor and
undergrad, has provided lots of food for public
fun. The boys have held indignation meetings
with much ecldt. At this undergraduates’ meet-
ing a willing young chairman was elected. With
beautiful enthusiasm he spoke at length to every
motion. He was Irish, the lad, and very ebullient.
(So is Mr. John Madden ; but age has perverted
him into decorum if not silence, the students say.)
The boys and girls present a good argument.
They say that they sit under dull lectures the
year round, and the Council’s invitation amounts
merely to an admission card to an additional
imposition of melancholy eloquence. The one
thing which till now has made a University
function tolerable for anyone except the gor-
geously adorned speakers has been the burlesque
antic-show of the youths. And the undergrads,
refused to be hauled into the sepulchral gloom of
Wilson Hall, and sit quiet beneath it, twiddling
their thumbs with all the quietness expected in con-
stitutionally delicate curates. Their show always
preceded the serious business of the day, though
sometimes a scrap or two slopped over into the
middle of a Madden period. The other side of the
momentous question is argued from a very
different standpoint. The Council infers that
the students are more noisy and un-
nmnagable than a herd of baby elephants in a
tropic pond. The ruffians drown the voice of
wisdom, and make a jeer of carefully acquired
dignity. The whole business seems up to this :
John Madden wants to talk impressively at a
much-advertised meeting, such as the Commence-
ment. The students think he should be a little
less long-windedly pompous, and consider the
public prefers horse-play.
The University function this year was less in-
spiriting than two years on a milk diet. The
Chancellor repeated his most familiar admoni-
tions for the tenth consecutive year, and everyone
except Mr. John Madden felt his very soul
yawning.
It’s interesting to see the vanity of one orator
destroy the gaiety of over a thousand people.
After the “ Shop ” council had experimented with
this phenomenon once, they decided to implore
the absentee youths to once again interrupt every-
one, and raise Hades generally.
The latest Butt concert was not altogether an
artistic success, but a crowded house compensate
to the artists for any deficiencies in that direc-
tion. The audience and the star were frocky to
the last degree. The great big Butt scintillated
in port-wine tulle over gold tissue, with a vinous
design in broidered grapes. In the balcony, Miss
Rita Kiddle wore a Grecian head-dress and a
coat of appropriate intention. Mrs. Ernest
Brook wore a- pergola of gold net, over
which silken roses climbed profusely, ancl
beside her Mrs. Morell-Motor-Kelly posed
in cielblue velvet drapings, and a maidenly chiffon
frock. Harcourt Beatty, on his way to hydney*
had the V.R. balcony seats, which he shared with
a picturesque party.
The Voice sang “O, My Redeemer,’ and filled
the remainder of her programme with insults to
our musical intelligence. She sang about three
children who tried the patience of their nurse.
She sang the categorical description of an infa,nt
that apparently possessed all its organs. Also
she warbled a good-night effusion by Mrs. Peter-
son and Annie Rentoul. The words of this effort
are quaint and creepy, and the music should never
be sung outside a nursery. Colossal Clara rather
spoiled her effectiveness in pathos a.nd passion by
singing from the script. It’s an anti-climax to see
a large lady shrewdly scan her music, and then
raise her eyes and voice in pretended sincerity of
feeling. Himself sang two Brahms songs delight-
fully, and he did Alfred Hill proud with his
rendering of the Poi dance song.
Some incidents of the concert were entertaining
—the Butt bow to the organ seats, which makes
her look like a double-fronted villa; the sighs and
gyrations of the girls who overflowed on to the
stage when Mr. Butt had sung a desolate song
(they all seemed to be panting to console him);
the elevators which disorganise his balance and yet
don’t make him level with the conjugal thatch ;
and a small, sweet girlie’s comment: “Mamma,
don’t you think Mrs. Butt’s low notes sound like
a bit of her husband’s voice, tacked on to her
own ? ”
Clara Butt has run the gamut of clothes emotion
in her five most recent Melbourne concerts. One
night it was white—severe and simple as the
garniture of an acolyte, with tears of pearls shed
silently. Then came the grey of a west-wind,
stormy sky with the wild gleam of diamonds and
emeralds as in a gale-swept sea. Another night
her dress, shimmery and soft with an abandon of
rich roses embroidered, was like a garden in moon-
light. On Friday night she was a very Circe
in wine color.
Great things are anticipated of eight-year-old
Fedora St. Ledger, daughter of the Senator of
that name. The little lady is a pupil at the
Catholic Ladies’ College, East Melbourne, and she
has already composed three pieces of music, which
were favorably criticised by experts. “ The Nun’s
Prayer ” is her latest effort, and it is to be played
for the first time at an Easter celebration at the
college.
The Beard concert on Saturday was an unequi-
vocal success as far as the programme went, but
the prejudices of the Germanic clan made gaps in
the audience. It was amusing to note that those
of the Marshall Hall coterie who did attend
the concert hid themselves from each other witli
care. His R.C. Grace nodded in the balcony- -
in fact, he slept when Dean Phelan wasn’t looking.
Mrs. Burrell, gorgeous in a pastel frock, sat near
the Pinschof dame who signified her disapproval
of the whole proceedings in sombre black. For
the rest, sincere music-wooers assembled, and were
joyed by sincere music. The enterprising Beard
passes on much of the kudos allotted him to his
orchestra, whose services on Saturday were
honorary.
From “ Rosna,” in Adelaide :
Mrs. Jule Wendt gave a frilly at home at the South
Australian, last week, to meet Mrs. M. Heuzenrceder, of
Tanunda-in-the-wilds. The guests were received in the
upper vestibule and afterwards despatched to the balcony,
which was closed in for the occasion and made beauteous
with verdure and tea tables. A young heat wave that
had strayed from its mother was abroad in the land, but
a judicious distribution of ice, together with a soulful
string band and some gorgeous frocks, went far to remedy
matters. Mrs. Wendt, who is a tall and graceful dame,
wore cream silk voile with smatterings of dreamful passe-
menterie, and a royal blue, be-pluraed hat. Mrs. Heuzen-
roeder sported a pretty biscuit-colored garment with a
cream-lace vest and sleeves. Also there were present in
the frilly throng the charming Bray dame and her
daughter, Mrs. Koeppen Wendt, Mrs. Magarey and the
pretty little Henderson damsel, singer Meta Btiring and
her sister, Mrs. Norman Malcolm, and Mrs. Fox, Mrs.
Toms, Mrs. Otto, and a crowd more.
Blanche Arral has been doing her great frock-changing
act at the Town Hall, and incidentally warbling some
tuneful ditties. She arrived quite quietly one day, and
went to dwell unobtrusively in North Adelaide. When
the populace awakened to the fact that she was actually
in its midst, it promptly fainted on its front-door mat.
We had been disappointed so often that we had
almost begun to regard the jolly star as a
myth. Both shows secured good houses, and both
houses secured as many encores as they could lay hands
on, after their usual greedy manner. But the frock-
changing grew distinctly unpopular when every male in
the audience turned a baleful eye upon his’ feminine
partner, as much as to say : “ Why can’t you dress as
quickly as that?” Mrs. Blanche’s chief chiffony triumph
was a beauteous black garment with a panel
of the flowers that look exactly like molten
metal. But the Frenchy type of warbler is dis-
tinctly at a disadvantage in the plain glare of the
concert platform. She wants accessories. For instru-
mental interjections the warbler depended upon local
noise-makers. Chief of them was that picturesque fiddling
damsel, Nora Kyffin Thomas, who dispensed much sweet
melody on the cat instrument. We were even able to
produce a local flautist for “Sing, Sweet Bird,” which
item, by the way, showed us that the little star has made
strides with the British language since her last visit to
this Eden.
A tender has been accepted at last for the long-lost
electric trams, and the Trust has given its solemn oath
and covenant that we’ll have the first of them in
November. ,
Gawler, which modestly calls itself the Athens of the
South, is beginning to wear its head in the air and
behave in an otherwise haughty manner over the fearful
eminence that is being attained by sundry of its sons and
daughters. When a Gawler boy won the Rhodes Scholar-
ship t’other day, the town threw up its collective hat, and
a large proportion of the hat is still up. When Muriel
Cheek, the damsel with the beauteous voice, won the
Elder Scholarship at the Conservatorium, the town used
its belltopper as a football, and kicked it afar in its joy,
and the belltopper never came back. And when yet
another son of Athens 11., an Angas Engineering Scholar,
came home from the United States with his laurels thick
upon him, the town went out and recklessly purchased a
new hat several sizes larger to fit its increased intellect.
Fiddler Eugene Alderman is the latest to join the
throng of local musicians and melodists back from Euro-
pean study. He’s a sane boy, with hair of normal length,
beautifully-polished manners, and heaps of soul. He has
been manipulating his instrument for the past year or
two under the direction of Caesar Thompson, the com-
poser and violinist in Brussels. The great Caesar no
relation to him of the ghost—intends to tour the Common-
wealth soon, and has asked the Australian to form one of
his company. Also has he presented to him the original
MSS. of some of his compositions. The clever youth
intends to fiddle to his native city somewhere about the
end of this month.
The Butt-Rumfords will only give a paltry matinee in
this city of hollow calm. They rush over from Melbourne
on Wednesday of Easter-week, shed their smiles and
presence on the Fox-Robertson wedding in the afternoon,
give a matin6e next day, and hurry off again by the
Melbourne express with all their goods and chattels.
They are to sail from Melbourne, which gratuitous insult
to our new Outer Harbor will yet be wiped out in Blood
or red ink or something.
Adelaide .has almost been in the throes of another
melodrama.’ T’other day a female, carefully guarded by
five males, trudged warily down the platform of the
railway station and made a wild dive into a carriage of
the Broken Hill express. Her bodyguard of five then
surrounded the window, and passed into her numerous
tokens of regard, including a fine fat Bible. So far, all
had gone well, but two minutes before the train started
a slim, well-tailored youth, who had meantime been
peering into the train with frenzied glance, caught sight
of the damsel, and, springing towards her, called on the
porter to unlock the door. The five took the intruder by
the scruff of his neck and shook him off, and the tiain
steamed out of the station mid cries of “ Lord, save me ”
from the maid, and shouts of “ Leggo ” from
the male. It appears that she was originally
engaged to the hurried youth who said “Leggo”
but they parted because he didn’t sport the blue ribbon.
She was on her way to marry another man who abhorred
the very mention of beer. One rumor has it that the
youth meant to shoot her, and the five men, and the rail,
way station, and finally himself ;but a calmer report has it
that he only intended to drink a pint of beer in her
presence by way of scoff or protest, and then go away.
A third and stili tamer version of the case alleges that he
intended to travel one stage with her and urge her to
reconsider her hard decision, and if he failed it was his
fell purpose to get out sorrowfully by the wayside and
pay eighteenpence for a bed at a coffee palace. It is all
very unsatisfactory.
A letter from Brisbane: —
You have doubtless often heard of the strong-minded-
ness of our vice-regal lady, whose finest gift is that of
putting down.her foot with a firm hand. Recently a
reporter confided to me that at a certain meeting the
lady constituted herself a press censor, and blue pencilled
out of the copy of three scribes every word relating to a
little friction between the sitting committee and that of
an affiliated body. The onslaught upon the press
table was so sudden, so overwhelming, so masterly
that she mowed down all possible opposition, and
most carefully bowdlerised reports of the proceedings
decorated all three dailies next day. It’s no wonder
the Chelmsford household runs on oiled wheels, and that
its lordly head has an air that is not the air of a dictator.
Which reminds me that his Ex., in a pensive mood, dis-
tributed several hundred certificates to industrious
students at the South Side Technical College on Wednes-
day evening—and, as usual, when upon the subject of
education, let fall some words of practical wisdom. A
similar handing out of cardboard, in which the City
College is chiefly concerned, will take place at
the Exhibition Hall next Wednesday. Meanwhile the
Ohelmsfords have departed for the Albert River, where
they will be the guests of Mr. and Mrs. De Burgh Persse
for the Beaudesert picnic races.
Several of our croquet women are looking for New
South Wales ashes at the Easter tournament in Sydney.
Mrs. Laurie Fraser departed thither by the last Orient
boat to get into form, and our champion, Mrs. E. T.
White, follows on Friday next.
At last the Brisbane women are going to take a hand
in something that really concerns them. This will take
the form of a mighty upheaval towards the establishment
of pure milk depots throughout the city, for the proper
feeding of the infant army. The Government is to be
asked to take the first step, and the members of the com-
mittee bind themselves to see that the various cow pro-
duct storages are kept in a fit and proper way. Whether
this will prevent Mrs. Gamp giving the said pure cow to
the wailing baby in an unclean bottle is another matter,
but the proposed step is in the rightdirection anyhow.
Thus a male person from Adelaide: —
S.A. Society of Arts’ annual show is lacking in distinc-
tion this year. Power is away, and Will Ashton does not
outshine James his father, whose seascapes are always
reliable. The Hambidge sisters have done better portrait
work before. Speaker Holder’s daughter has painted him
satisfactorily in the wig and gown of office. Hans
Heyseh has a good moonlight effect, but probably his
absolute best is a bit of Venetian architecture in black
and white, of which kind of work he is a master. Miss
Bessie Davidson has a lady in flounces (there is a marked
French influence about the clever piece of work), and
Sinclair, back from North Wales, has a water color of
bracken and mountain-tops that is the real thing. The
rest is the usual show of exquisite flowers, fair landscape
bits, and dubious figure-studies.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA


.
- .* 100* '
*@ss
.
r.#'T
r
§Pf
' r "
rr
■s
■"■-
•4* : '
.
■P®
i -
- ■ • •
■
f Mt
i
:
$
~ L 1 Constance The balloon part of the Airship was entirely constructed at the Continents, or ' s ’ “ Zeppelin” holds the record for long distance trips, and went as far as 220
The above illustration represents Count Zeppelin s Airship over L< , ' f The balloon in question took three months to build, and has the enormous length o• PP carriage of the balloon is a specially constructed
specially woven fabric, coated with rubber and made thoroughly water anc. gas proof. itself mechanically 900 ft. high without of or gas. and are the only sp e C! alists in
f'ull particulars of can be had
L/ UIN 1 J ,. . Ci i/i„ y Street Perth 28 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
_. s.dnev 65 Grenfell Street, Adelaide. 64 King Street, Pertn.
46-48 MarKet Street, Melbourne. 220 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Patterson Street, Launceston.


If you will give Chamberlain’s Tablets a
trial, and experience their mild and pleasant
effect, you will never wish to take another dose
of pills.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ALLIANCE ASSURANCE CO.
TEL. 47. AN OLD AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION. E STB. 1862
Fire, Marine,
Fidelity, Accident.
261 Geor B'e Street, SYDNEY.
MODERATE RATES. O. B . SMITH, Manager
tnS/ I^ CA T ,0 K S FOR AGENCIES in
TOWN and COUNTRY INVITED.
4w
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr?d. Nagerj, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Cratis
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Strip*-
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
A fistrft tin.
n »A e nLT d „!l e Z ementS F ° rmS 0n A PPM««on.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
COMMON SENSE TO CURE RHEUMATISM
Rubbing Won’t Clear it out of the BlooD.
But Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, which act on
the Blood, will ; Crippled Melbourne
Man Cured by their use.
The trouble with men and women who have
rheumatism is that they waste much time in trying
to rub the complaint away. If they rub hard
enough they make a certain amount of friction
that causes warmth in the affected part, but in a
short time the aches and twinges are as bad as
ever. It’s in the blood—that’s why. Rubbing
won’t remove the acid that causes the pain. But
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills will, because they are a
blood medicine acting on the blood. That’s why
the aches and pains and the stiff swollen joints of
rheumatism disappear when they are used. That’s
why sensible people take them to cure rheumatism.
“ I was almost driven mad with rheumatism,” said Mr.
Arthur G. Kelso, 72 Stanley-street, West Melbourne.
“No one in this world but myself knows how I suffered.
I could not move hand or foot for months. I was sick
and tired of my life. I was attended by two doctors, but
they could only ease me for a while. I used to dread
ni<rht coming on, I went through so much agony. I could
not bear anyone to come near me. All my joints swelled
out of shape, and I could no more put my boots on than I
could fly. I had given up all hopes of ever getting cured
—one of the doctors said I would never get rid of the
rheumatism, as it had settled in my body. One day I was
reading that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills would cure rheu-
matism—l thought I would try them, though I must
confess that I had many doubts. But I am glad to say
that after taking ten boxes I was perfect!}’ cured. My
joints had gone back to tneir natural shape, and now to-
day lam in the best of health. I state without fear of
contradiction that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured my
rheumatism, and I feel that they would do as much for
anyone else if only they would give them a fair trial as
I did.”
Mr. Kelso’s symptoms—stiff swollen joints—are char-
acteristic of rheumatism. Sometimes there is a creaking,
cracking noise when the patient attempts to walk. Rheu-
matic pains are usually worse at night, and they are
aggravated by cold and damp and changes in the weather.
The swollen joints are usually tender to the touch, and
the pains often vary between a dull ache and a sharp,
severe cramp-like pain.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all medicine dealers,
or _ if you cannot get them locally, send direct to Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Australasia Ltd., Sydney, 2s. 9d.
for one box ; six boxes for 15s. 3d., post free.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emnsculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENVER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
While Premier Bent is supposed to be
almost perishing in the struggle to find land for
Victorian settlers, it is casually mentioned that,
at Wilson’s Promontory, 23,000 acres of moder-
ately good country are let for £4O yearly—about
one-third of a penny per acre per annum—and
have been so let for the best part of half-a-century.
And this is only one of a multitude of cases. It
is understood that an agitated Bent will probably
“ do something.”
I N THE SHADOW.
A by-election to fill a vacancy in the House of Com-
ons resulted in a victory for the Unionist Tariffist.-
requent Cable.
The hop-pickers of Kent join with the hop-growers in
demanding tariff protection against the dumping of
American duty-free hops into Britain. Their livelihood is
at stake. —Recent Cable.
A vision of the end.
Premier Wade of N.S.W. recently in-
dulged in a yelp to the effect that there was a
grievous want of consideration for State interests
on the part of the Commonwealth. This is news,
and good news. Hitherto, Alfred’s awful affa-
bility has been the cause of many good Australians
getting d wild, and it is good to hear that the
truculent State persons are being made to feel sore
somewhere. For several years the Common-
wealth held out; the olive branch, and the boorish
State Frights took it as evidence the Common-
wealth was afraid of them. Perhaps, if the States
evidenced some little consideration for the Com-
monwealth, their good example might prove even
more catching than their bad one.
A most interesting contribution to the
Federal capital debate was the enthusiastic an-
nouncement of Bruce Smith that he preferred
Canberra to Dalgety, but he hadn’t seen either of
them.
One objection raised to a Federal graduated
land-tax is that “the revenue is not needed,” and
it is triumphantly asked, “What would the Com-
monwealth Government do with it?” What’s
wrong with using it for defence? Let the big
landlord insure against invasion up to something
like his risk.
r Prime Minister Deakin announces that the
New Protection is to be carried through whatever
may be the decision of the High Court as to how
it fits in with the present Constitution. If neces-
sary, the Constitution will be amended to make
the New Protection legally possible. But sup-
posing amendment is necessary, the Common-
wealth should not worry about the present
roundabout method of New Protection, but ask
straight out that the control of all industrial
matters shall be vested in the Federal authority.
“ Belar,” from Riverina :
Almost every day one reads in the daily press of
protests from branches of the Farmers and Settlers' Ass.
against the “Chapman sack.” What one does notread
is the fact that the vast majority of bona-fide agricul-
turists are thoroughly in accord with the reduction of
the brutal bag which for so long has helped to warp the
bodies of the slaves who handle it. In Riverina, at all
events, even the members of the alleged Farmers and
Settlers’ Ass. are not by any means unanimous in their
opposition to the Federal reduction ; the other day one
of them declared that a 701 b. bag was big enough for him.
And even supposing theF. and S. Ass. were unanimous, it
would still be no more representative of the voice of the
farmers of this State than G. Reid or the lamentable Wade
is representative of dominating Australian sentiment.
There are only about 3000 members of the Anti-Sosh body
which masquerades in the guise of the F. and S. Ass.,
while there are close on 70,000 farmers with holdings of
less than 400 acres each. The great majority of the mem-
bers of the F. and S. Ass. do not reckon their land by the
hundred acres, but by the thousand. One pore farmer of
this body holds about 90,000 acres between Albury and
the Upper Murray, and 50,000 acres not far from the
Murrumbidgee, and the other day, feeling, perhaps, that
he did not command a living area, he bought up another
few thousand acres from one of the estates that were cut
up for closer settlement. This “farmer’s” troubles
about the weight of the bags which mere workmen have
to drag around !
S. M. Herald (8/4/’08) announces in its
commercial columns that Australia has gone
rotten, and that at no distant date the world will
have to hold its nose :
The main centres of commerce will know about the
industrial troubles of Australia in a few weeks’ time—if
they have not already learned of them. The letters
despatched yesterday by mercantile firms told of the
deplorable effects the continued industrial unrest had
brought about, and predieted the possibility, at no dis-
tant date, of a general upheaval.
Yet the revenue is booming, and there are every-
where signs of prosperity. And almost every day
the cable brings news from the outside world
of Labor troubles a hundred times bigger than our
own. But the pampered Australian merchant
ranks with the hysterical servant girl, who can’t
see a strange kitten in the garden without rush-
ing in to report that the premises are infested
with 10,000 new cats. When he has laid his large,
sleek carcase on his bed, and found a crumpled
rose-leaf there, you can’t see his feet for dust as
he races to the telegraph office to cable to Eng-
land that Australia is in a state of revolution, and
that the end of all things has come.
Enabling, M.L.C., told the St. Kilda
(Vic.) branch of the Australian Women’s League
that if the unification of Australia were accom-
plished, and Dalgety governed the Common-
wealth, in a few years the people would cry out
against it.” Any kind of tripe conversation is
considered good enough for a Tory Women’s
League, seemingly. As a matter of fact, Dalgety,
with its small population, would not govern Aus-
tralia in any sense, whereas in present circum-
stances congested Melbourne comes close up to
governing Victoria, and may actually do it yet
unless the great estates in the Western District
are broken up, and room made for country popu-
lation. If sending a people’s delegates to any
particular locality means heaping the power upon
that central place, there is no alternative for
Enabling but to insist upon every electorate keep-
ing its member at home chained by the leg in its
own back yard.
A brief letter from “ Fuze ” :
Allow me to make a few remarks in reference to Mr.
John McLachlan’s letter re the Australian capital. I
cannot claim to be a late manager’s son, nor to have gone
to school much in any place. But I know a bit about
Canberra and Duntroon. I have also known Duntroon
horses to fetch £4 a head in Sydney yards about 25 years
ago. Also have known Duntroon cattle to have to live on
oak for the want of grass. Also walked on dead sheen
across where the water should have been—where James
Pannikin now says foxes are worrying the fish. About
Duntroon fat bullocks, I think a camp of navvies would
speedily eat out all that were ever fattened there. Pos-
sibly Mr. McLachlan has never got out of his boy worship
of Duntroon. I would like to know Canberra’s most favor-
able spot Is it the junction of Mugga Mugga Creek or
is it the junction of Narrabunda Creek ? I know a bit
about the other site, Dalgety (or Bucklev’s Crossing) and
about Bibbenluke, also about Twofold BaV, and I consider
Canberra should easily get Buckley’s show for the capital.
I will ask as a favor of Mr. John McLachlan that he will
leave poor old Canberra sleep till Gabriel toots his horn.
Perhaps Mr. McLachlan knows more of Gabriel than I do!
On Thursday, Willie Kelly, M.H.R., in-
quired if Prime Minister Deakin would try to
obtain returns showing the lands within 20 miles
of Dalgety and Canberra including these details :
(1) The persons to whom such lands have been alienated
since January 1, 1902.
(2) The persons to whom real estate other than Crown
lands has been transferred.
(3) The present owners of real estate.
(4) The present owners of leases.
The Bulletin urges Mr. Kelly to continue in that
line of research, which may prove interesting.
Further, it suggests that the investigation should
be carried 30 miles outside each town, lest there
should be something of interest just 26i miles from
one of them that would otherwise be missed. Also
inquiries should be made about purely nominal
holders who are trustees for others, and where
anybody represents a syndicate the names of the
syndicators should besought for.
The number of soap and candle factories
remained practically the same in N.S. W. during
the past ten years—4o in 1807, and 41 in 1900 as
shown in the latest Statistical Register. But
the soap factory employees in 1900 numbered 351,
while in 1900 they numbered 002, and the output
of soap was, for the former year, 147,515 cwt., and
for the latter 221,834 cwt. Also the output of
oandles in 1900 was 2,073,4271 b., and, in 1900,
5,070,0481 b. Wherefore Protection seems to have
given these two industries —especially candles —a
big shove. Candles represent light, so they and
Protection naturally go together.
“Sr.”: It isn’t the Act so much as the
administration of it that tells in the long run.
Victoria’s factory laws are generally com-
mended as most exemplary. So they are—
on paper ; but owing to the way they are
administered they very often fail to do
much good for the operative. Factory
inspectors in Victoria are rarely intimate
with the details of factory work, and they
confine themselves to asking questions
which display an ignorance that the em-
ployer doesn’t enlighten, and the em-
ployee dare not enlighten. The drafting
of long and rambling ieports takes up a
great deal of their time, and conceals a
whole wealth of ignorance. .1 know of
factories in Melbourne that are flagrantly
out of accord with the conditions laid
down in the Act, but although they are
inspected regularly, the haw-haw in-
spector, who usually strolls round with
the boss, has never yet managed to notice
the fact. I know one factory where
many of the girls and children employed
are conspicuously and glaringly under the
statutory age; but apparently the in-
spector is not skilled in judging ages.
Amateur inspectors would kill any Act.
“ Yarri ” asks a riddle :
In “ Plain English ” (B. 30/l/’08), “ How England Pro-
gressed,” you quote Ireland as a good example of the bene-
fits of Freetrade in depopulating a country. Can you give
any satisfactory solution of the curious anomaly exhibited
bj r two Westralian Irishmen, both journalists, one a
member and the other an ex-member of the Federal Par-
liament, one a Labor man and the other a Conservative,
yet both ardent Freetraders? I refer to Mahon, Labor
member for Coolgardie, and Kirwan, ex-member for Kal-
goorlie. Neither of them had any local inducement to
become a Freetrader, as there is no doubt that a large ma-
jority of the electors in both electorates are Protectionists.
Kirwan, though now out of politics, is part owner of the
most jaundiced, bigoted,.and illogical Freetrade paper in
the Commonwealth. A little light on the kinks which
drive these two to have the same fiscal religion would be
interesting.
The present session of the Queensland
Parliament has put up a record for business-like
procedure. Bill after Bill has been rushed through
at an alarming rate. Ministers, when moving
second readings, have practically limited them-
selves to saying : “The Bill is the same as that
introduced last session ; I move that it be read a
second time,” and left the talk to others, and
others were so flabbergasted that they couldn’t
talk. This, of course, drew a protest from Joe
Lesina. But Lesina is only a Yap at the best.
The Bulletin would like to see other Legislatures
acquiring the good habits of Kidston and co.
The Federal Labor party has announced
that it wants for Federal Old Age Pensions all the
funds that William Lyne’s Surplus Revenue Bill
will make available. No person with a spark of
humanity could object to that, but in the interests
of Australia it is a fair thing to ask the Federal
Labor party if it is going to do anything in return
for this concession ? Money is wanted for an Aus-
tralian army and navy, for the taking over and
settlement of the Northern Territory, for the two
transcontinental railways, for a sinking fund to
obliterate the State debts, quite as badly as for
old age pensions. Will the party put the same
energy into these matters, and if not, why not ?
Those State Frighters who are just now
railing against the Commonwealth Post Office and
its ways, might quit bellowing for a while to re-
member some of the benefits that have accrued to
them as a result of Federation. Here are a few :
a reduction in fees for private; bags and boxes ; a 50
per cent, reduction in charges on inter-State money-
orders ; a 20 per cent, reduction on foreign postage
rates within the Empire ; the abolition of inter-
state poundage on postal - notes; a very
large reduction of the license fee for ’phones
in country districts ; the abolition or reduction
of various ’phone charges in cities ; the abolition
of special cable charges to and from Tasmania •
the reduction of charges for the use of public
’phones, etc., etc. Before the Commonwealth
came along it cost 4s. to wire 10 words from
Queensland to Tassy, now it costs Is. to send 16
words. One can ’phone a short message round
the big cities now for a penny—the States never
charged less than threepence, often more. And all
this has been done without borrowing a farthing
whereas the States were continually using Bull’s
coin to keep their systems going.
H. E. Skinner writes :
Eats and be damned to John McLachlan and his “spirit
of the Constitution.” Where was this alleged spirit when
we voted over 70,000 strong for the first Bill, which did
not contain one syllable with reference to the capital
being placed in N.S.W. ? It simply stated, as J.M. is well
aware, that it was to be somewhere in Australia. When
voting for the second Bill, where again was J.M.’s
myth If there was a suspicion of a spirit it
was one of vexation and retaliation after Premier
Iteid s treachery in going back on his 50 000
majority vote compact. As to any understanding about
the capital being placed within a reasonable distance of
the hundred miles limit, we heard nothing about that
f!! Vn em u“n tll four ° r five y eai- s after we had voted
for the Bill, so that J.M.’s assertion that everv
elector who voted Federation honestly believed
that the federal Constitution demands' that the
capital be in the sphere of N.S.W. influence
v! S m / e , llbel ' ate invention of bogus evidence’
S he°il d S i ,Uk t 0 • ean " !? stoek - As a recorder of his-
ew em - nent success - and in themanufac-
tuieof that commodity, though affording ample scone
for his inordinate powers of invention, he would find him-
self crowded out of the market by the dailies and our
microscopic Premiers Once more-Rats and be damned
detractors fraternity of Commonwealth
A significant circumstance in C orm« *•
with S. Australi an politics is the fact CT
Farmers and Producers political union r l tl)e
considered a foal of the National Ass h’ , " er to
its last annual meeting, in Adelaide ? n f d «
the compulsory repurchase of lL° f
But the ass anr ] f ia nd.
ass are still abon c al ,? f t! *
of the stiff srradn y B hy
tax that gradated l a J
these re- ou niake
schemes Purchase
unnecessary,
MAGNANIMITY!
Senator Vardon, who was recently elected in South
Australia, took his seat in the Senate on Tuesday H
said it was not his intention to advocate Freet[?]
Recent News Item.
THE POLITICAL MOVICE: “ Well , sir, to begin
with—l’d like to put you at ease by mention-
ing that you need fear no attack from me!”
That mighty wobbler before the Lord
Gregory Wade, State Premier of N.S.W., has made
many variations in his Industrial Arbitration Bill
Practically everything that was in the Bill at first
is now out of it, and almost everything of im-
portance that was out of it originally is now in it
Nobody is satisfied except Costs. The employers
have gained nothing but delay and worry; and
the employees reckon they have gained little save
anger and procrastination. The Herald, the
Telegraph and the Labor party all yell at Wade.
He is the boiled feather that tried to look like iron!
It is promised that during the coming
recess the Australian Parliament House shall be
connected with the Melbourne sewer reticulation.
It is time that this elementary sanitary reform
was carried out. A monument of the boom
times, when '“show was the thing,” and nothing
mastered so much as grandiose effect, the great
building in Spring-street was equipped with
great halls, corridors and marble stairways, but
no drains. It was suggestive of the grand old
medieval castle, where you looked upon priceless
carvings whilst you were infected with typhus
germs, and acquired small-pox from tapestries
worth a fortune. The Australian Parliament
will have to sit in Melbourne probably for another
two or three years, and, when it leaves, the build-
ing will probably be put to some use. So by all
means let it have its drains.
THE CARDINAL ISSUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The keynote of the contest for the St. George seat will
be the abolition of the sewage farm, and it is believed
that this is the principle that the majority, if not all, the
candidates will rely on.-— Sydney Telegraph.
The crowd that erstwhile Joke Carruthers knew
Is forced to find another in his stead,
Wherefore St. Georgeites raise the cry and hue
Seeking a member—Joseph being fled.
No one much cares what sort the member is ;
His record will not matter worth a durn ;
Brains do not count —mainly a taste for fizz
Is needful, and some ready cash to burn.
Given these last, and it won’t signify
Whether his views on politics are clear
(Your true Deformer can see eye to eye
With any person who will buy him beer).
’Twere well that he should touch upon the Wrongs
Of Ma, or steal some netting from the Quay,
Curse Melbourne and denounce the Fed’ral thongs
Which bind the Commonwealth in unity.
Also, if he heaves dreadful threats at Rome ;
And wildly argues the Dalgety site
Means Rockdale’s downfall, and the scorn of Home-
Land folks, his show may be a thought more bright.
Yet these are not the issues paramount,
By raising which shall Labor come to harm :
There is one point ’side which they do not count—
The Abolition of the Sewage Farm !
N.S.W.
“10-2-4.”


BUILT of the
very best . .
material by
experts of life-
long training,
RONISCH . .
PIANOS are
grand wear
resisters.
They have a
beautifully . .
full tone .
quality, and
an extreme
delicacy of
touch.
The case worK
designs are
unique and
refined.
They are . .
guaranteed to
stand true in
any climate.
RONISCH PIANOS
■
:
- ■.
“ .
"'i;;
W. H. PALING Co. Ltd
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
We Have a •
fine display of
these Pianos,
and shall be
delighted to
shew them to
you.
They can be
bought either
for Cash or
on our Easy*
Payment .
System.
Catalogues .
are free fo
the asKing.
Satisfaction Guaranteed
in our
£3/3/-
SUITS.
Write for Patterns and
Self-Measurement Forms.
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
"V
a^RGAJ/\/^
IN
A . 2nd hand encines
1 1 Ruston Prodor, C^yion
\ jyiarvers > Shuttleworth. Roby. Mar-
shall. Hornsby. Aveling OP. Porter, etc.
V TVPI7Q ) STEAM—Portable <Vi Traction
Ili E- 0 ) OIL- Portable ro. Stationary
a (ALL GOOD- Many First-Class
Present. \ with years of satisfactory service
Condition ( before them.
ALL MUST BE SOLD before our Annual
Inventory, May 31st, 1908
PRICES therefore are VERY LOW and
Terms EXCEPTIONALLY EASY
Lists
Descriptive
giving
forwarded on application
Engine Buyers who do not write to
us PROMPTLY miss the
OPPORTUNITY OF A LIFE-
TIME.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER'
COMPANY OF AMERICA
( incorporated)
BOMA ST. BRISBANE; 37 BROADWAY. SYDNEY;!
- t 545 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE; BANK ST..j
~ ADELAIDE; AND 75 YORK ST. *'
LAUNCESTON
« A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from "Th*
Bulletin" Office


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
A NURSE’S RECOMMENDATION.
A duly qualified nurse admittedly ranks next to
the doctor as an authority on the treatment of
general ailments and womanly weaknesses. She
is therefore able to judge and competent to speak
of the wonderful efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills as a remedy for all complaints origin-
ating from disorders of the stomach, liver and
kidneys, and other ailments, from whatever cause
arising. Nurse Johnstone, of Hackett Terrace,
Charters Towers, Q., writes:—“l have much
pleasure in re-
commending your
splendid remedy,
Dr. Morse’s Indian
Hoot Pills, the
merits of which
are supported by
my own personal
experience. For
ten years I have
used them oc-
casionally, and
they have assisted
Nature in the
fulfilment of her
functions during
my advancing
years. lam now
60 years of age,
enjoy wonderful
health, and am
entirely free from
ache or pain.
During the past
ten years in mv
capacity of a nurse I have always recom-
mended your pills, and I still do so, as
they are a gentle, but sure and effective
medicine, suitable for young or old. lam sure if
the young women would only use your remedy
occasionally and study their health there would be
far less sickly and ailing wives. They would do
well to take a course of these pills and endeavor to
overcome their weakness, and thus they mightlive
in comfort, free from the ailments which so many
are afflicted with in their declining years. Again,
I heartily recommend your remedy to women.”
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
lnvi*A«r " ays u he £V. ltation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Gleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water,
ivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
one Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
RESCN’S
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agenta-Measre. E. H. FOTHERGILL & 00., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
On February 13, 1908, Mr. E. F. Millar, a Vic-
torian motorist touring N.S.W., drove his ear to the
summit of Kosciusko, tooted in triumph, and drove down
again. A little later the thought struck him that he had
achieved something a bit out of the way, and that the
performance was worth ear-marking. Instead of merely
swearing a declaration before a J.P. that he had done the
deed, Mr. Millar—who appears to be a thorough-going
person—on Feb. 17, put a well-known J.P. in his car and
drove to the summit again, where an empty petrol tin with
the names of the party inside it was left tied to the
flagpole. Three days after Mr. Millar’s second trip,
Sir Harry Rawson, State Governor of New South
Wales, was driven to the summit (there seems to have
been a regular stampede up Kosciusko lately), and the
news was blared at the public that the car that rushed
him up was the first to arrive at the roof of Australia.
The statement was apparently made without sufficient
inquiry, and, as there seemed to be some doubt in the
public mind as to which car actually was the first, Mr.
Millar produced his well-known J. P., and offered to pro-
vide declarations galore that he was the first to leave a
petrol trail on the snow-capped heights. As the other
side has nothing beyond the bare assertion that it was the
first, and a plate with the assertion attached to its
motor, the honor plainly belongs to Mr. Millar. The
moral of this story is as follows : A J.P. is a handy thing
to have about the car.
* * * •
A new interest attaches to the New York to
Paris Motor Race by virtue of the fact that there is an
opposition run. When Lf, Matin made its announcement
that the race would actually take place, a valiant Mossoo,
called Le Louvier, hied him to the office of Lb Petit
Journal, and offered, if that paper would supply the cash,
to race against the other six. He had a choice crew of
wanderlust companions who could be relied upon, if the
thing was humanly possible, to push it to a successful
conclusion. Also, he undertook, with his two companions,
to drive his car through Alaska, and give the other
crowd the benefit of a sea trip up the glacier coast.
Le Louvier himself is a mighty wanderer, and
has walked round the world, been to Central
Africa on a topographical mission, and explored
Siberia from end to end. His companions are
Drieghe, who spent four years exploring Alaska, and
Hohmann, who was at one time a trapper in Northern
Canada and a cowboy in Oregon and Montana. They are
driving a Werner car, and have undertaken to beat the
other six. Their only journey by water will be from
Seattle to Skagway and across Behring Sea. All the rest
of the horrible way they will depend upon their car.
The European competitors in the New York to
Paris race assert that the Yankee car is not driven by
sportsmen, nor even by individuals who have the most
shadowy ideas of fair play. They assert that at Buffalo
the Yankee car was so knocked about by the hard driving
that it was put into a factory a dilapidated wreck, and
emerged a practically new car. Still they didn’t mind
that so much ; what broke them up was that, when the
Amurkan farmers on the way to Chicago cleared the snow
off the track for the Yankee oar, they shovelled it all back
and more too, to impede the foreign ones. They also
allege that the Thomas car was frequently pulled by
teams of horses, and sometimes carried along on sledges,
and that farmers, armed with wire-cutters, waited for it
at various parts, and, cutting the fences, sent it over
short cuts to enable it to get that break on the field which
made the snow-shovelling development, or devilment,
possible.
* * * *
The Dunlop Rubber Co., with a fine disregard
of its own cash interests, has issued an instructive sheet
illustrating how to properly fit pneumatic tyres to narrow
gauge rims without pinching and nipping the inner tube.
It is safe to say that fully one-half the tyre troubles are
due to the fact that the men who fit the inner tubes do
their work carelessly and by incorrect methods. There
is only one way to fit a tube, and that is the right way ;
and, when it is faithfully followed, it doubles the life of a
tyre. Cyclists can obtain a copy of the document above-
mentioned from any bicycle agent, or direct from the
Dunlop Rubber Co., Clarence Street, Sydney.*
* * * *
For some time the patriotic section of Australian
motor boatists has been hoping that Mort’s Dock would
build a fast boat to recover the Australian Championship
from the Fairbanks, but so far there has been no sign of
the big co. doing so. And yet it pays to build that kind
of craft. It is the building of fast cars and boats that has
made the Napier co. the mighty power it is in the scheme
of wheels. All the lurid advertising in the world is
powerless against a record like that of the Napier Co.,
which can boast that it holds more speed records than all
other makers of cars put together. Here is a little list
which carries more weight among buyers than all the
posters that printer’s ink could create :
World’s Records.
Record. Time.
I kilometre standing start .. .. 27 2-ssecs.
1 mile standing start 37 2-ssecs.
10 miles standing start .. .. 6min. 15secs.
50 miles flying start 35min. 7.36 secs.
100 miles flying start .. lhr. lOmin. 31secs.
150 miles flying start .. .. lhr. 46min. 6T7secs.
1000 miles standing start .. 14hr. 54min. 15 2-ssecs.
Distance.
1 hour 85 miles 555 yards
2 hours 169 miles 615.6 yards
12 hours - .. 799 miles 1600 yards
24 hours 1581 miles 1310 yards
British and European Record.
Record. Time.
1 mile flying start 37 3-ssecs.
★ * * •*
“ Parkside ” : Talk about the way the American
pugs fight with their mouths. The fact that the football
season is approaching is trumpeted forth in every railway
carriage, tram-car, street corner and pub in Melbourne.
You may not be the least interested, but perfect strangers
will appeal to you to say whether there is any earthly
hope of Esse’dun coming to the front again, and you are
most earnestly beseeched to declare your candid opinion
of “Jumper” ’Arris. If you are indiscreet enough to
profess no knowledge of Mr. Harris, you’re just plain Mud
to the scornful assemblage. If the Australian does not
take his pleasures sadly, he at all events takes his football
seriously. Now is the time when secretaries and com-
mittees" are scouring the metropolis for “ talent.” A
good ’bailer is worth anything from half-a-dollar a
week to five “jim,” and he is very coy and hard to
please. Sometimes, as a lily-white amateur, he declines
haughtily the proffered monetary inducement, but, on
being pressed, he admits that his present job of carting
sand is not to his liking, and that his ambition has
always been to set up in a tobacconist’s shop, or as fifth
assistant-caretaker of a bowling green. Of course, a nice
easy berth is provided. Employers of all sorts who, for
business reasons, must support the local club, are worried
by presidents and secretaries to make room for “ Wing ”
Smith, or “ Centre ” Jones, and the room is duly made.
It not infrequently happens that a good workman is
tossed out in order to supply a job to the leather-chaser,
whose capacity as an employee is usually in inverse ratio
to his skill on the field. Still the League and Association
lift their hands in mock horror at the mere suggestion of
professionalism. So the item, “Players’ boots, £274
15s. 9£d.,” will continue to figure in the balance-sheets.
The N.S.W. Football League (Australian rules)
is again in difficulties regarding- playing enclosures. Sydney
has hitherto boasted of its numerous recreation grounds,
but just now they are not nearly sufficient to meet the
demand. Someone recently boasted that in Melbourne
they got much bigger crowds at sports meetings than
they do in Sydney, and argued therefrom that Mel-
bournians are the more athletic people (though why the
man who looks on at sports should be of necessity an
athlete i 6 is hard to say). But even the theory about the
crowds is wrong. In Sydney attendances are small
because more people are playing, and a mere fringe of
2000 or 3000 people at Sydney Cricket Ground is more
than compensated for by the fact that, on every piece of
open ground in and around the city the youth are
playing four different kinds of football, also hockey,
hurling, lacrosse, baseball, and any other old game which
means stretching the legs and whirling the arms. Sydney
is just about ready for the advent of some genius who
will make about twice the present park space available.
Coming back to the Australian players’ lack of accommo-
dation : The premier team of South Australia, Norwood,
is coming to Sydney in June to play three matches, and
where the matches will take place is a mystery. Although
the Metropolitan Rugby Union, which has first call, is
quite willing to give the other body the use of the Sydney
Cricket Ground, the trustees refuse, for some unexplained
reason, to allow it. Whether the trustees are dissatisfied
with the proposed terms, or are merely acting in the can-
tankerous spirit natural to a body which keeps onty two
brands of whisky in its refreshment pavilion, it is hard
to say.
* • • •
Messenger, the Messenger, returned home
last week, and Double Bay, Sydney, heaved up suddenly,
and extended him the paw of public greeting. The
mighty kicker was the star of the team that played the
Northern Union, and seems to have had something like a
triumphal progress through the Cold Country, where the
crowd always demanded that he should show himself.
Occasionally he gave kicking displays, and some of them
seem to have been of a high order. It is understood that
he will play for the Rugby League’s East Suburbs team.
His kicking will be an attractive feature of the rebels’
play.
* * * *
The Riverina (N.S.W.) Football Association
(Australian rules) has arranged to receive visits from
metropolitan teams during the coming season, and
shows signs of becoming a body of wealth and importance.
The Austral game has completely wiped the floor with the
other brands of leather-kicking in Riverina.
* •» * *
Rugby Union season starts in Sydney on Satur-
day next. The League opens its competition on Easter Mon-
day. Despite all obstacles, the new body has succeeded
in getting some grounds, and as it has adopted the
Northern Union style of play in its entirety, it willlhave
a spice of novelty to make it attractive to the general
public. The G.P., no matter what its feelings are, will
probably attend a few times just to see exactly what sort
of an animal the Northern Union game is.
* * * *
S.A. Football League has again refused the
application of Adelaide University to enter a team.
Professor Darnley Naylor headed the students’ deputa-
tion, and pointed out that the University is allowed in as
an “electorate” in lacrosse in S.A., in cricket in Mel-
bourne, and in both cricket and football in Sydney. But
the League reckoned it would be a wanton blow at the
electoral-district system, and declined unanimously.
* * * *
The various Sydney Metropolitan grade cricket
competitions all ended on Saturday last, and North
Sydney District holds the premiership in all three divi-
sions. Which represents a great performance and great
luck. In the First Grade the final day’s play was not
marked by any wild enthusiasm. Paddington and Bur-
wood scored a draw. Petersham heat Gordon on the
first innings by 33. Balmain scored a first
innings victory over Redfern, with a margin of
20 runs. North Sydney asserted its premiership
by trampling on Waverley with a margin of 381 runs in
the first innings. Glebe downed Middle Harbor by 235 runs
on a one innings engagement. Only two century-makers
lit up the last day, Hopkins making 128, and
Deane scoring 105 for North Sydney. Among the
bowlers, Bowden, of Glebe, took seven wickets for 29 runs,
and his club-mate, Grounds, battered down two for seven.
Barnes, of Redfern, smashed up three wickets for 17. All
the rest were mud and desolation.
* * * *
The inter-State lawn tennis match between
N.S.W. and Victoria filled a large space on the tennis
players’ horizon till word arrived that “ Brookes is
coming.” After that, interest died out, and it is assumed
that there is nothing left that is worth arguing about.
+ * * *
Veteran Secretary C. S. Guest brought off his
36th autumn meeting of the Hawkesbury Racing Olub at
the club’s own course at Clarendon (N.S.W.). The
weather was exquisite, and the club, which has had a
cold experience for the last few years, was blessed with a
bumper attendance and good fields. There are few
better managed courses than the Hawkesbury Club’s,
and on Saturday last everything worked with
exceptional smoothness. The racing was interesting by
reason of the fact that certain Doncaster and Sydney
Cup horses were engaged, and their performances were
expected to throw some light on the tangled question of
what to back for those events. And the net result was to
make a confused problem somewhat darker than before.
In the Stewards’ Mile, The Climax, starting at 5 to 4
against, humping Bst. 81b., was not pitted against
anything that looked very dangerous. The Queensland
mare, Dixie, was in the race with Bst. 81b. also, but, getting
away badly, she never threatened at any time to do any-
thing, although at the finish she showed a neat turn of
speed, and moved up from last to fifth. In the Flying
Handicap, Malt Queen got over the six furlongs in
Imin. lo|-sec., and easily disposed of Felicia—her fourth
win in succession. The big event of the day was the
Hawkesbury Autumn Handicap, which drew a field
of 10. Queensland gee-gee Togo, winner of the Stanley
Plate, was a hot favorite at 7 to 4 against, with Welcome
Trist a bad second at 4 to 1 against. Other Cup horses
were Melodeon and True Light. From the very start the
Queenslander was among the first, and shortly after
passing the mile post drew clear with appar-
ent ease, winning by six lengths. Welcome Trist
was beaten by Outbreak for second place. True
Light was fourth, and the ill-starred Melodeon could get
no closer than seventh. Welcome Trist’s failure to beat
Outbreak suggests that Mr. White’s horse is not in a
record-breaking condition, and his chances of making a
splash in the A.J.O. seem remote. On the showing,
Melodeon also looks poor meat. The race was no cri-
terion of Togo’s powers either, as he walked away from
his field, and won as he liked. He carries 7st. 4l’b. and
6st. 121 b. in the Doncaster and Cup races respectively,
while on Saturday he humped Sst. 61b.
* » * *
Onkaparinga Racing Olub, which has its one
day’s racing in the year in the hills behind Adelaide, on
Easter Monday, has sold its “ gate ” by auction, realising
£675 for it. This is well above last year’s record, and
nearly £lOO over the average. All the purchaser buys is
the right to collect Is. from every race-goer that enters
the course. The club keeps its own stands.
* * * »
Out at Randwick there are small boys who make
a fairly good thing by “whispering.” Sidling up to
someone who bears about him the Mark of the Mug, they
tell him what horse to back, and when the horse romps
in and lands anything like a decent swag, the whisperer
stands by with an expectant expression, that generally
changes to one of satisfaction. He is usually a well-
informed kid, and if the race lies among three or four, he
carefully places a gentleman on each one, and then shep-
herds the one who received the right tip. The practice
of whispering requires some skill in the art of
keeping four men in sight at once, and that is
no easier than it sounds. At Brisbane a new sort of
turf guide appeared recently. He got hold of two
young men who wore the Mark, and explained that
he was a trainer with large opportunities of “ stiffening.”
Having expounded that the favorite was dead, he per-
suaded them to invest a tenner on a rank outsider, and
said that if they gave him the money he would see it was
put where it would bring the biggest return. They gave
it, and then the tout nearly died as his outsider streaked
away and won easily. The investors asked for their
and profits. He begged them to stick to him and grow
rich by investing the original tenner and all it had ' v on
on another cert. They declined, and when he failed to
produce even the tenner, let alone the winnings, they got
angry and called in John Hop. Some men have no idea
of sport.
r *
Said Sydney Telegraph, last week, in discuss-
ing- the lowering of the jumps at Morphetville, S.A.
“ This alteration has made a difference to the height of
the fences, and the highest is now 3ft. lljin., so that the
course can hardly be styled formidable,” etc. It is a per-
petuation of the foolish old idea that low steeplechase
fences are less formidable than high ones. The reverse
is the case. Low fences attract half-trained jumpers,
which gallop over them as though they were not there.
A journey on an experienced jumper is comparatively
safe over the biggest of steeplechase obstacles ; on a tyro,
it is deadly dangerous. As a class, steeplechase-riders
throughout the Commonwealth would welcome the raising
of all regulation fences by two or three inches. That
would mean slower-run ’chases, and also that owners
would only ask them to ride properly-schooled horses.
* * * *
In Melbourne Age and Argus, 3/4/ 08, there
appeared this tiny advertisement, tucked away comfort-
ably in the sporting columns :
TO-NIGHT.
RECORD ENTRIES.
FLEMINGTON RUNNING GROUNDS.
Best Conducted Sports in Australia.
OPEN BETTING. North Melb. Trams Pass Gates.
NEXT MEETING.
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON, APRIL 8.
261 Collins-street. G. Cook, Manager.
Yet here is Section 22 of Bent’s Amended Gaming Act:
“ Every person who prints writes exhibits publishes
sells circulates distributes gives away' or posts up or
causes to be printed written exhibited published sold cir-
lated distributed given away or posted up any placard
handbill card writing sign advertisement or notification
(whether published printed or written in Victoria or else-
where) or who is registered as the proprietor printer or pub-
lisher of any newspaper whereby it is made to appear
that such person or any other person will if re-
quired bet or give information or advice directly
or indirectly as to the probable result of any
intended horse race or pony race or trotting
race in any part of the Commonwealth of Australia or as
to the betting odds on any such race or whereby any in-
formation or advice is given or purported to be given
relating to the probable result of any such race or as to
the betting thereon or as to totalisators or any unlawful
game shall be guilty of an offence. Provided always that
nothing herein contained shall prohibit the publication
in a newspaper by the printer or publisher thereof of a
forecast of the probable result of any race but not by way
of advertisement or for valuable consideration.”
The Act is direct enough in its prohibition. Why is it
not enforced ?
♦ * * *
Mrs. Drennan, a lithe brown lady in athletic
garb—she comes from Rockdale (Sydney)—made an effort
to outpace sprinter H. Kiley, at Gurney’s running
grounds (Melb.), one time the hot bed of mighty peds
and heavy betting, on a recent Wednesday afternoon.
There was merely a collection of Ikey Mo and peds, and a
dash of female to view the pair career up the track.
Kiley stood the lady 25yds. in 100, and Ikey Mo yelled
“ take 3 ter 1 on Kiley.” Ikey was a sound judge, as
Kiley fairly smothered Mrs. Drennan 10yds. from home and
passed the judges three clear yards in front. The clockist
said 10 2-ssee. The lady, arrayed in black togs, ran
elegantly, and looked a sound 10 to lon when she had
about 20yds. to go. But the man’s reserve power beat
her. Compared with the Evans-Bell brigade, the Sydney
product has undoubtedly the best idea of how to cover
the cinders ; but, like Mrs. Bell, she’s on the wrong side of
30 summers, and consequently isn’t as swift as the 14 to 20
year old girleen. Mrs. Drennan and Miss Evans meet for
the alleged ladies’ championship of Australia during
Easter week. In the meantime other females are
clamoring for a chance to test their pace.
* * * *
Victorian amateur long-distance peds., George
Blake and Victor Aitken, leave this week to engage in
the 26 miles English Marathon race. The Amateur Asso-
ciation sub-committee—Barrett, Smith, Adams and
March—is responsible for the aforesaid Australian repre-
sentation. Prime Minister Deakin and Premier Tom Bent
were approached for some assistance, but failed to respond.
Aitken and Blake will career along crowded thorough-
fares with a conspicuous “Australia” on their chests,
and if Olympian Blake repeats his Athenian performance
and clears out from the field —which on present form he
stands a chance of fioing—quite a number of people will
discover Australia. On this occasion the State howl
will be buried and the peds will hang out the ’Roo sign.
Though a handful of private enthusiasts are paying, the
man in the street will do the howling if any glory is won.
Manager William Hill, who puts in his own dollars,
makes the trip with the athletes. Apart from the run-
ning, Blake will try his hand in the lightweight pug
section provided opportunity offers.
* « » „
The downfall of mighty Hackenschmidt at the
hands of ’rastler Gotch can be accounted for apart from
the reported wild-cat tactics of the ’Murkan. Continuous
music-hall performances, interspersed with matches, have
played “ Old Harry ’’ with Hack off and on. 1 It was owing
to his being run down that he came to Australia—-which
turned out a picnic engagement, and consequently the
Russian left hereabouts a new man. If Hack had struck
a really strong opponent early in his Australian engage-
ment he would have gone under for a certainty ; he could
never have lasted, owing to his knee and elbow trouble.
Writing to a friend in Melbourne, Hack stated that
he wanted a rest, but, up to the time he met Gotch, he
was hard at it with engagements. The ’Murkan £2OOO
offer was snapped up, and the Hack that made the trip
wasn’t the world’s champion. The best man that ever
grappled—if out of form—stands a chance of a defeat,
and Hack proved himself no exception. Compared
with other ’rastlers, Gotch cannot, on paper, be included
in the world’s best half-dozen, but, apart from the
grappling, a ’Murkan referee is often a whole “proposi-
tion ”in himself, and takes a lump of beating. Without
a strict referee, the noble ’rastle amongst big men is
brutal, and it doesn’t take two to make it so.
• * * *
The final of the bowls struggle for the Rawson
Cup was contested between City and-Parramatta, Satur-
day last, on Burwood green. In the first and second rinks
City established a lead of 13 and 21 points respectively,
and although Parramatta managed to win the third aiid
fourth by the margins of eight and six, the original lead
was fatal, and City won by 20 points.
The dreary business of club swinging « PPmo ,
have gripped N.S.W. by the hair and neck. This timo n
is not the eternal Tom Burrows who has broken all '
vious records, but John Griffiths, of Cobar. y e au P re '
his timber for 62 consecutive hours in a Methodv
hall at Newcastle, and during the whole of that p ° n
according to the daily papers, never moved off
measuring 2ft. by Ift. This Griffiths seems to be an mi 1
ordinary sort of machine. Friends and admirers eathe a
round him and sang songs and Methodv hvmns to k d
him up, and he is reported as having finished on> P
fresh ; and yet surprise was expressed that this ma
who was quite fresh, was able to make a little awlth
The worst of the business is that Burrows will now at
out and swing two clubs for 62 hours Omin. S9sec anrt
the whole dreary business will start over again. ’ ana
* * * *
“ S.T.S.” : I never have thought The Bullet™
quite courteous in using the term Monkey for the tvniral
Japanese. But a matter-of-fact remark in a Londn
paper makes one thoughtful. It is describing th»
wrestling victory of a Jap over an Austrian last month •
“ Yamato’s cleverness with his feet was verv noticeah e
Using them like an extra pair of hands he keni
fastening them round his opponent’s right leg in a verv
threatening and disconcerting fashion.” Eventually he
crippled the white man, and was declared a winner. * 6
* * * *
‘‘Peter Pan”: Wanganui’s excitement when
Webb brought home the sculling laurels to Maoriland a
year ago, wasn’t in it with the frenzy of the Adelaide
mob the other night when Tom Burrows added two
minutes to the world’s club-swinging record. The ponu
lace shook its hands excitedly in the street, and it was
only the presence of a few policemen that prevented a
collection being taken up on the spot. The cheering and
yelling were deafening, and continued intermittently
throughout the night. Horse trams were run on all the
lines after midnight, so that the deadly enthusiasm of the
Amen City can be accurately gauged. Burrows stood the
strain pretty well, and the capacity of the managerial
pocket was so severely taxed that it has been decided to
let two men club-swing together at the Tivoli to
thoroughly smash up all the globe’s records. The event
will probably come off this year. Had occasion to look
in at the show at 2 o’clock one morning. The boxes
were packed with Flossie and other ladies in gorgeous
raiment. In the body of the hall several hundred white
faces were lit up by the glow from the stage. I have
been behind the footlights on “ first night ” many a time
but the appearance wasn’t half so impressive as the
mass of mostly unemployed who gazed stolidly at the
strong man sweating his soul out to achieve the com
paratively useless feat of adding two minutes to the
world’s timber-flourishing record of 61 hours 44 minutes
Occasionally the crowd broke into song, and when not
thus engaged it hunted through its pockets for any re-
maining crumb of sandwich for its supper. A dancer
and a phonograph enlivened the proceedings somewhat
Don’t know if the crowd stayed all night, but the cease-
less revolutions of the three-pound clubs made my head
whirl, and I left.
A little measure that might be run through
by Alfred Deakin in a couple of half hours is a
Bill to impose a tax on crests and coats of arms.
Those vanities are growing in number. They are
a Crown rrght, and the Federal Government
could therefore make a uniform charge. By an
Act of 1869 England imposed such a tax and the
license fees come to a tangible sum annually. At
present vain people spread their peacock’s feathers
gratis. “Itis so English, you know, to have a
crest,” they say. It is also English to pay for the
crest, but that fact is never mentioned.


cmd all CAR DISEASES
Permanently Cured at Your Own Home
With the “EAROSCOPE”
To pursue your duties and pleasures with a cheerful, strong, spirit, fortified
against all contingencies in mind and body, you must have acute hearing and a clear
head, free from any pains.
The race is for the swift, the battle for the strong. The world nowadays has no
time, no use for those suffering from nerve-trouble, headaches, or any aural com-
plication. Acute hearing and a clear brain is the gateway to all success in life.
If you suffer from ear trouble, however slight, it is well to be cured at once,
and avoid further complications. If you have let the matter develop into total
deafness, do not despair, but write for particulars of a remarkably reliable treat-
ment that has restored the hearing of hundreds of cases even worse than yours.
Pure Natural Aural Kinetics.
This treatment consists of pure Aural Kinetics applied by yourself at your own home, without the
assistance of any physician, and without the least interference to your daily routine work, business, or
social duties. Endorsed by the highest Aural Specialists as the only safe, sure, and effective Home
Treatment for Deafness, Head-Noises, Ringing in the Ears, etc., etc.
THE WELL-KNOWN AND HIGHLY-ESTEEMED REV. CHARLES D. HOPKINS, writes
“It is the only treatment that will cure deafness or any internal ear troubles. lam more
than delighted. When all other treatments have failed, yours stands alone a great success.”
THOUSANDS OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS ON FILE AT OUR INSTITUTE
All it will cost you to get full particulars of this great boon to humanity is the postage stamp. Send
us your name and address, and we will forward to you FREE OF CHARGE the “ EAROSCOPE
REVIEW,” with abundant testimonials from patients successfully cured with this “ EAROSCOPE ” after
all other treatments having failed to do any good in their complicated cases of many years’ standing.
“ EAROSCOPE INST.,” 90 Pitt St. (Dept. 26) Sydney, N.S.W.
Once more comes the warning to Australia
to “get ready.” Thus A. Lyttelton, ex-British
Secretary of State for the Colonies, in London,
last week:—
I feel that though the Colonies may be able to maintain
that position for 20 or 25 years, it is doubtful if we would
be able to support them indefinitely in a policy of Asiatic
exclusion.
With Australia it isn’t a matter of noting the
Writing on the Wall merely. There is a notice
scrawled on the pavement in front of its house ;
and the front gate carries a warning ; and there is
one hung on the door-knob; and the back fence
has “Make Ready” in luminous, ominous paint.
“ Broadaxe ” is sarcastic :
The N.S.W. Forestry Commission has held its sitting
at many centres, and collected voluminous and useless
information, which the Government Printer will be called
on to set up in type. We were much interested this way
(Bega) in the Commission, and though we watched its
movements closely, we never once caught any member in
or near a forest interviewing a sawmiller, and cross-
examining him at his work of destroying some of the
State’s most valuable assets; or tracking the sleeper-
cutter into the wilds, and inquiring from him, in a loud,
angry voice, why he dared to cut 9ft. or 16ft. only out of
a log that was good for many feet longer, and why he
wasted good, sound wood, and reduced it to chips which
littered the forest, and fed bushfires, that in turn
burned the growing sapling and the tender seedlings.
Nor did they visit the leaseholder, and inquire harshly
why he had ring-barked all the good trees as well as the
bad in the service of Cow. We saw none of these things,
but we did see a party of respectable-looking old gentle-
men travelling the best roads only, behind the best of
coaching teams, staying at the best hotels, and gaining
“ voluntary ” information from various men.
of Cold
Occurrence.
WILLIAM BRADFORD, Mining Reporter, first-
class references, late Specialist in matters of Lode
Structure in its relation to Gold Occurrence for the
Victorian Mines Department under Professor Gregory.
Twenty-five years experience in mines and mining fields.
Photography—on surface and below. Line work—
contours and vertical sections.
OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT (Press or otherwise)
EARLY IN MAY.
Ambbss-BALLARAT EAST.
Reduce your
CARBIDE
BILLS
and increase
your light by
using our
ACETYLENE
Gas Burners.
Send for sample dozen, assorted patterns, post free
10/- Catalogues for all classes of Gasfittings for
the asking.
ROBERT C. SWAN (Sb CO. Ltd.,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
(243*
\. o\
•zm.
A
-V.
*
*
'h,
<s.
7*
C-.
<
%
<t-
/>
c
•z
V.
OE
J-
c
O
❖
<ft'V
❖
&
s^/
o
k.
mis touches
YOUR
PURSE
We are
selllna,
•/' while stock
on hand lasts,
our well-known
"HAMILTON” DISC
MARROWS, at un-
heard of Prices, 1.e.:
S disc, 16* dla. £6/15/-;
12 disc, 16* dia. £.7/15/-;
14 disc, 16* dla. £B/15/-; 14 disc, 18" dia. £9/5/-;
14 disc, 20* dia. £9/15/- ; 16 disc, 20 dia. £ll/5/-
Prlces Include for carriage. Transport, truck. IS/-extra
EASY TERMS-£3 down and Balance by P/N due February
Ist. 1909-No Interest.
FREIGHT FREE at your nearest Railway Station (North
Queensland. Northern Territory, and W.A. excepted.
New Goods Fully Guaranteed. Thousands now at work, and
divina highest satisfaction.
Send for Pamphlet and full particulars.
International Harvester Company of America
(incorporated)
Brisbane. Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide and Launce.lon
KUGELMANN’S
©
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
‘Beauty's
Aid."
<B FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopennjr
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEIf
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The Yic. Full Court’s decision in the case
of Louis Horwitz seems to show that the gaol
regulations are a fraud. Regulation No. 83
provides that: —
Every sentence will be reduced to marks [admittedly
totalling 18,720. in Horwitz’s case) nine of which marks
will represent an ordinary day, three for labor, three for
conduct at work, and three for conduct beyond labor
hours. If a prisoner behaves well and works fairly he
will be given nine marks ; if not the number of marks
may be reduced by one-third ; and if his conduct be very
good, and he works willingly and well, the number may
be increased by one-third.
If that means anything it means that a prisoner
may earn 12 marks per day. Also,
The Inspector-General may grant to any prisoner who
may have been particularly diligent and trustworthy . . .
one extra mark per day for every day employed.
That obviously provides for the additional earn-
ing of a mark a day, or 13 altogether. (Sundays
and holidays only permit of the earningof six marks
per day.) Under that regulation Horwitz might
easily have earned the necessary 14,040 marks by
now; in fact, a prisoner sentenced to six years might
earn his freedom in three years, seven weeks and
three days. But the Full Court decided that if
the regulation had the force of law as to shorten-
ing a sentence, it must also have the same force as
regards lengthening it, and thus a prisoner origi-
nally sentenced to three years might be kept in
gaol ad infinitum. Which looks an exactly
logical statement on its face, but isn’t quite so in
effect. For it so happens that under Victoria’s
antiquated “ system ” a prisoner can even now be
kept in gaol—for habitual laziness or general
obstreperousness —as long as his gaolers think fit.
(They have but to lay a charge, and the visiting
beak will call in due course and increase his sen-
tence, on the gaoler’s evidence.) Anyhow, a
regulation that purports to grant a prisoner his
liberty in 3| years, yet refuses to carry out the
promise until years have elapsed, is a fraud.
Some recent sales at Warrnambool (Vic.)
show how desperate is the rush for the very few
bits of land which the great landlord curse is
willing to part with. This was the record —
published in Melbourne Age :
48 acres at Illowa at £69 per acre.
10 acres at Crossley at £46 per acre.
26J acres at Killarney at £BO per acre.
The land in question is probably worth honestly
£lO or £l5 per acre ; the other £55 or so is the
result of a “ corner.” Land has been cornered in
Victoria by the grasping landlords of the Western
District, and the cornering of land is far more
villainous than the cornering of the wheat that
grows on the land. A wheat corner lasts a
season; the cornering of land in Victoria has
already lasted half a century. Of course, in a
State which has only 14 people to the square
mile, land is nominally abundant; there are at
least 1,000,000 acres for every 200,000 that are
wanted. But when 975,000 acres are held off the
market, and the people who want 200,000 acres
are rushing madly for 25,000 acres, then, by a pro-
cess of sheer villainous swindle, soil which is
worth £lO is run up to £6O, to the ruin of the
community, but the great profit of a most dis-
graceful gang of public enemies.
DUNLOPKELLY
VEHICLE TYRES
i?,9 "«*<■ <»•—» rL°-r;::r:':
NO NOISE. •« » NO VIBRATION.
Last for year.. Fitted from £.5 per Set
Illustrated List on Application
NO REPAIRS.
nd upwards.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.. I 0» FLINDERS ST MELBOURNE, .nd al_Sydney —
Q
k'C
3
J-ftC
DONLOPnOfORTYRES
Hard Wear, Reliability and Economy.
NO more out ana chipped Wearing: Tread.; "o more .plit “»'"*• J^Al^on


RELIABLE RUBBER GOODS
We specialise in Rubber Goods. That is why we are able to give such satisfaction. It stands to reason
that we can serve you better than a general store, doesn’t it? Here we quote a few seasonable lines: —
Ladies’ Macintoshes.
A beautiful feather-
weight material, white
rubbered surface, full
length, new style, 30/-
Post. free.
Quote height and chest
measurement when or-
dering overcoats.
Waterproof Driving'
Rugs.
With rubber or patent
oiled proofing, 7/6, 8/6,
10/-, 12/-, 15/- to 30/-.
Freight extra.
Buckskin Tobacco
Pouch.
With silver shield for
monogram ; pure rubber
lined, 3/6. Post free.
Two-letter monogram,
1/- extra.
Rubber Sponge.
In various sizes, at 1/-,
111 ViUIUUS BlttCS, iiL 1/-,
1/6, 2/-, 2/6, 3/-, 4/- each.
Waterproof Leggings.
Strongly made and
finished, 4/- Post free.
These are splendid for
keeping the legs dry.
Bath Cabinet.
“The Household”
Cabinet, complete, with
lamp. A health restorer
and body cleanser, 25/-
Carriage paid to any
railway station or wharf
in N.SAV.
Rubber Boots.
Light Weight Short
Boots, a special line,
sizes 5 to 8, 12/6. Postage
extra.
“ The Beacon,” for
Men, 4/3, 4/9, 5/3; for
Women, 3/3, 3/9; for
Misses, 3/-; for Children,
2/6. Postage extra.
Hot Water Bottle
with safety filling-
stopper, 12in. x 6in., 7/- ;
covered, 7/9 ;12in. x Bin.,
8/-; covered, 9/-. Post
paid.
O
Celluloid Collars.
Nice to wear, easy to
clean. Newest shapes,
1/- each. Postage 3d.
extra.
Rubber Heels.
Fixed heels, with nails
for fastening—Men’s, 1/3
per pair ; Women’s, 9d.
pair. Revolving heels,
Men’s, 9d. pair ; Women’s
7d. pair. Postage 3d. ex.
ft 000000(
000000(
C^OOOOOOI
LcSdoooooc
Rubber Mats.
Sanitary and Neat.
18in. x 12in., 6/-
24in. x 18in., 12/-
27in. x 20in., 15/-
White Rubber Coats.
The “ Talma,” li<rht
and comfortable, 25/-
The Sydney, full length,
25/- Post free.
Elastic Stocking's.
A new stock and per-
fecting fitting. Kneecap
or Anklet, 3/6 ; Stocking
with footpiece, 5/-; Leg-
ging, 4/6. Post free.
Tennis Shoes.
White or Brown Can-
vas, with leather fittings,
fin. red rubber soles, 15/-
pair; others from 7/6 to
19/-. Postage extra.
j] ---=3
Calf Feeder.
Complete with rubber
teat, metal pipe and
strainer, 2/- Spare teats,
1/- and 1/6.
Ask for our Catalogue—specifying the line of Gooc/s wanted.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD., 270 George Street, Sydney.
DON’T MISS OUR EXHIBIT AT THE R.A. SHOW.
. 0
n
'
, j MS
-
m
If 4 t •
gat*-
Eb
v/uf iam
DESTROYS
1U mom e'
INSECTS
fjSp
n o
fO
lUJ
O Vo
■
of luscious tomatoes —
picked fruits fresh froWi the garden, fairly
pursting with ruby riYeness—only these
ire good enough for DyVson to use in the
making of his Tomato Sauce. All the
delicacy and daintiness of\a Home Made '
preserve and yet more choicely flavoured,.-;
. bvung to a score of years experience in..*>•
condiment making.
.'Jir
m
(Vftt & GEN!
preserva
hatever in
DYASON'S
TOMATO SAUCE.
Tomato Cmutney.
Tomato Catjsup.
Sold by Grocers- every where.
I-- 1
J *
r
The Inky Way.
“ Alba ” : During- the recent naval manoeuvres off Spit,
head I commissioned myself to write a series of articles"
“ From Gunboat to Battleship,” for a certain London’
daily. Three hours after mailing my M.S. from Ports-
mouth, I learned that Frank Bullen was aboard the
Dreadnought in the interest of the same crowd, My
matter was very promptly returned. At the Press Club
two days later, I met a sub-editor, and ques-
tioned him about the battleship copy I had sub-
mitted. He remembered it, and was good enough to
volunteer a bit of advice. “ Your articles "were
read with interest,” he said ; “but we noted that you
used the word ‘ hell-prisms ’in the second line. Now
Bullen,” he continued, “ had the words ‘ Almighty God’
in his first paragraph ; also the assurance that Christ is
watching the British fleet at sea. Still,”he added naively
“ we’ll take your hell-prism stuff if you like and use it
later in connection with the forthcoming German naval
manoeuvres.”
* * * *
“ Harrison O.” : Hereabouts there is published a paper
called the Watchman. You may not believe this, but I
can assure you that it is a positive fact. I have myself
seen a copy of the Watchman. What it watches, nobody
cares ; why it exists, nobody knows. The copy that I
happened upon, the other day, contained three leading
articles. The first was an attack upon Edward VII,
because he attended a Mass out of respect for the dead
Carlos, late of Portugal. The third was a tirade levelled
against Queen Alexandra, because her bedroom is fur-
nished too much like “the sleeping apartment of a
Mother Superior”—this leader-writer, whoever he is
seems to have a remarkable knowledge of feminine
bedrooms. The Watchman has a suspicion that
both of them are “ playing false with their Coro-
nation oaths.” Wedged in between these two
articles, is one entitled “ The Conscription Craze.”
The Watchman opines that if Alfred Deakin’s compulsory
training scheme is adopted Australia will become a
Roman Catholic nation, and will be governed by the Pope.
Heavens ! What sort of a brain must the man have who
arrived at this conclusion? The Watchman also says:
“Mr. Deakin is doubtless a well-meaning man, but
there is only too good reason to fear that in this
instance he has been led astray- by The Bulletin and its
anti-British following Unfortunately for Australia,
not a few of her politicians have been consciously or un-
consciously inoculated with Bulletin virus.” It also
shouts : “ Great Britain has guarded this country through
all the changing and perilous (!) years of its life.” And
this it considers is a good and sufficient reason why we
should allow ourselves to be guarded by Britain for ever.
A mother guards and protects her child during its in-
fancy, but when it grows to manhood it breaks away—
not in a spirit of rebellion, but rather in a spirit of self-
reliance —and strikes out for itself and protects itself, and
does not rely upon the strength of its aged parent. I
must apologise for wasting so much space upon such a
rag as the Watchman. lam aware that at ordinary times
its insignificance would be its salvation, but it is just as
well that such organs should sometimes be exposed, even
though it does seem like waste of good powder and shot.
* * * *
“ Solar Plexus ” : Unless the poetic license held by Mr.
O. O. Cabot is a document of the same nature and power
as that issued to the original Ananias, the aforesaid Mr.
0.0. C. owes the Sydney Evening News an apology. He
tags it with :
Much it cares about Australia and the nation,
And it wouldn’t mind a black or brown relation.
But the Evening News is an energetic advocate of a
White Australia, and of a White Canada, too, for the
matter of that. Also, it is the only Sydney daily that
believes in compulsory military training. It may, as
alleged, possess a bilious humor and a plentiful supply of
sneer, but so does everybody else. The sainted Peter of
the Gate is renowned for his old and matured stock of
those qualities, and even the urbane Archangel Gabrielis
suspected of keeping some in reserve in a pocket of his
nighty.
INK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of all the fiends the worst I think
Is he who first invented ink
(The man who made the pen was bad
But still “ his Nibs” no venom had
Until there came the bottled gall
To help his wretched tool to scrawl).
Just pause and for a moment think
How sweet were life devoid of ink.
Romance would only live its hour,
From lip to lip amid the bower.
How safe would lovers’ vows be if
They were not put in hieroglyph ?
Love letters, more accusing things
Than barrow loads of curls and rings,
The foolish script of violet ink,
The Breach of Promise “ missing link ” ;
And as they read them through—and after
The court is all convulsed with laughter ;
It makes one think of “ swine and pearls”—
Such letters are but meant for girls.
Nor would there be for Judges’ eyes
Tnat other thing to compromise
Admission of the debt o’er due
The ink’s ill offspring I O U.
No bills, no bonds, and, oh dear me !
None tempted unlo forgery ;
I’m sure that crime was not so rife
In early days of savage life,
Because instead of Ink to spread
They then had only blood to shed ;
Now, tempted with more means to ill,
On every hand what sin we spill!
Those worth}- folk who fight ’gainst Drink
Should turn their fusilade on Ink.
How but for its infernal capers
We’d be uncurst by books and papers,
The Journalist would ever be
A mute impossibility ;
And free from greedy creditor
We’d lack as well the Editor
Who seeks to be our Overlord
His inkpot mightier than the sword ;
Historians would spin-no lies
Of fallen kings and dynasties,
No Hansards make our vision blue
With drivel of the ruling crew,
And “ patriotic ” Freetrade clack
Of bounding fraud and spurious quack,
No fossil speech of fluent men
Perpetuated by the pen ;
No verse like this with nothing in’t
Would know the dignity of print;
No quarrels rise Episcopal
On what to call Apocryphal,
And what to hold as Holy Writ —
God’s undiluted Word to wit—
For had the Ink Fiend never made
His foul concoction of the Shade
There had been made for suffering men
But the bare-ribbed Commandments Ten ;
Since they alone were writ, I think,
Without the agency of Ink.
Hard Fate herself could not have set
The pathway of the tears and sweat,
Had Ink not subsidised her might
And helped the Book of Doom to write.
One more regret, the last, the worst
(Deep the Inkmaker should be curst),
But for his grievous chemistry
No record of our sin could be.
The angel of the feathered quill
Would have the Book before him still
Virgin, instead of blackly spilt
With ghastly record of our guilt.
Most evil, so I say again,
Of all the hosts of mortal men
Is he, the Traitor, as I think,
The Fiend who first invented Ink.
Vic.
ALPENSTOOK.


Look at tHe PHotograpHs
On this Page. They tell a Graphic iStory.
Number 1 shows the wooden wrest plank of an imported piano, with the first layer of wood removed.
That wrest-plank has split, and the piano is now useless.
Why did it split?
Well, the wrest-plank of an imported piano is a block of wood into which no less than two hundred and sixteen steel spikes are driven. To each one
of these spikes a steel music-wire is attached, and the spike is wrested round with a key, thus tightening up the wire.
When all the wires are at full tension—that is to say, when the piano is in tune at concert pitch—the total strain on the two hundred and sixteen
steel spikes is nearly sixty-seven thousand pounds (not quite thirty tons).
No block of wood can stand such a strain, especially in the trying Australian climate. So, of course, the wood splits, and the piano is then useless.
Photo. No. 2is a slightly enlarged view of the steel spikes in the wrest-plank. The wires have been removed. Note how the tension of the wires has
enlarged the holes until, instead of the spikes being held securely by the wood, they are quite loose. Note also how the wood has split.
The only way to repair this piano is to take out the wrest-plank and put in a new one—an expensive proceeding.
Now look at illustration No. 3. There you see a section of the wrest plate of the Beale Australian Pianos. The steel pins are contained entirely in
solid iron. They are easily moved by the tuner, yet they will resist for ever the pull-round of the strings. This wrest-plate is a portion of the usual iron
frame. It will remain quite unaffected by any strain that can be put upon it. It is not affected by climate.
Don’t you think that the
BEALE is the piano for you ?
We guarantee every Beale Aus-
tralian Piano for twenty-five years, and
we have sold over ten thousand of them
throughout Australasia, and in India,
China, Mauritius, Fiji, Samoa, New Zea-
land, and South Africa.
BEALE PIANOS are
sold oi\ly direcfl from
factory to family.
Mi
■-'**»•**«%m
THE BEALE=VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 3.—A sectional view of the Beale-Vader piano
frame. Note the wrest-pins and tension screws
contained entirely in solid iron. It is important
for piano-buyers to note that these pins can be
adjusted to ANY tension, tight, medium, or
loose, by means of the tension screws at the back.
We always adjust them to resist the pull-round of
the strings, but at the same time they are easily
turned by the tuner WITHOUT TOUCHING
THE TENSION SCREWS. Our Pianos are
tuned in the ordinary way, by one man only, from
the front only. Be sure to note this, and when
you go to compare our pianos with the imported
you will know what to think if you are told other-
wise by unscrupulous competitors.
-K '*
.iff?
mw.
*
■
£
i
Fie- I—A nearer view of part of the wooden wrest-plank of an imported piano. The first layer of the wrest-plank has
been removed. Note how the timber has split under the strain of the wires. This is an average wooden wrest-plank,
neither better nor worse than is usually found in imported pianos. The above fault cannot be remedied except at
great expense.
m
m
m
ms~-
ft
.A
/
**
S*
*t*
■t
*
V
*
TT,V 9 Sliffhtlv enlarged photograph of part of the wooden wrest-plank of an imported piano, with the wrest-pins ir
olace The timber has given way under the enormous strain of sixty-seven thousand pounds and the pins are so loose tl.a
P ' they are pulled round by the wires. The piano will not remain in tune.
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
. ■ zt "" r“-. e r„rj jst “s
Adelaide, S.A. ; o«>7 nay ’
address in Queensland). t
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


WATCHES FOR the MULTITUDE!
WERIT alone Has secured for A. Saunders’ Watches the public's appreci-
ation of tbe perfect watch. Whatever you’re prepared to pay, you’ll find
that for strength, accuracy, durability, A. Saunders’ Watches stand supreme.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Amethyst centre,
25/.
BUYING BY MAIL.
NO MATTER WHERE
YOU LIVE, YOU CAN
SHOP BY MAIL WITH
AS MUCH SATISFAC-
TION AS IF YOU
VISITED OUR SHOP
PERSONALLY. ALL
GOODS SENT CARRIAGE
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
CIRCLE BROOCH,
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Two Heart BROOCH,
Set Fine Opals and
Diamond.
£2/10/.
Larger, £3 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Fine Pearls and
Sapphires or Turquoise.
£4/10/.
OPEN
FACE.
HIGHER
GRADE.
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open Face,
Keyless WATCHES, Short
Wind, Stem Set, Perfectly
Regulated and Adjusted,
Splendid Timekeeper.
15/.
Higher Grade, 20/, 25/, 30/.
Kept in free repair for 1 Year
FREE
CATALOGUE.
SEND US YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AND
WE WILL MAIL YOU,
POST FREE, A COPY
OF OUR LATEST CATA-
LOGUE. WRITE TO-
DAY. ITS YOURS FOR
THE ASKING.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Bird BROOCH
Set Diamond and Ruby. ’
35/
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
“LYRE” BROOCH,
Set Fine
White Pearls.
£3.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Pearls, Ruby and
Turquoise, or all Pearls.
£3/10/.
Olivines, Rubies, and Pearls, £4/10/.
'A, SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
heart brooch.
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.
£2.
SOLID
SILVER.
2 51-
SOLID
GOLD.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES,
Richly Engraved Case,
PI ate ' Lever Movement,
Fully Jewelled, Patent
Adjusted Balance.
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 50/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
£5/10/, £6/10/.
Guaranteed for 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphires.
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£3/10/.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS;
18ct. Gold
CLUSTER RING,
Set Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
HEART CHARM,
Raised Forget-Me-Not
Spray.
10/.
- -»
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP,
2/6.
Engraved, 3/.
9ct. Gold, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Half-Chased Curb Padlock BRACELET,
with Safety Chain Attached, £2.
Smaller, 30/, 35/. Larger, £2 10/, £3, £3/10..
OPEN
FACE
15/-
HIGHER
GRADE
20/-
/
pH
A. SAUNDERS.
t S Open Face keyless “GUARD”
LRVER, Short Wind. Non-Magnetie
Patent Adjusted Balance, Dust and
Waterproof Cases, Fine or Bold Dial.
15/.
Higher Grade, “Railway,” 20/
Guaranteed for 10 Years
and kept in free repair for 1 Year.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold
Pure Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Half-Hoop RING,
Set with Double Cut
Diamonds and
Emeralds.
£lO.
*
INNA
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
pHARM.
12/6.
Smaller, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Raised Floral Spray,
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP,
Solid Silver,
2/6.
Extra Heavy, 3/6.
18CT
GOLD
£l2 10s.
higher
GRADE
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct Gold Hunting
Keyless WALTHAM LEVER,
Plate, Fully Jewelled,
Compensation Balance, Per-
fectly Adjusted, Extra Heavy
Case, Hand Engraved.
£l2/10/.
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in free repair for 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray
Cluster BROOCH, Set
fine white Pearls,
£2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Scroll BROOCH,
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£2/10.
OPEN
FACE.
25/-
HIGHER
GRADE.
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless WATCHES,
£-Plate Movement, Non-Magnetic, Patent
Adjusted Balance, Dust and Waterproof
Cases.
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/.
Guaranteed for 15 Years, and kept in free
repair for 1 year.
Cheaner Grades, 10/, 12/6, 15/. 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
SEAL PENDANT.
Bloodstone and
Sardonyx.
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
HEART and
DUMB-BELL LINKS.
12/6.
15ct. Gold. 25/.
Silver, S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT
ancf NECKLET, set Fine
Pearls and Amethysts.
£4.
15ct. Gold, £5 10/.
Set Pearls and
Tourmalines, £6 10/.
Thi
Between
Thee
\%
Min
AIBEN-
.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah
HfiART CHARM,
8/6.
Smaller, 5/6, 6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
OVAL LINKS.
22/6.
15ct. Gold, £2.
Initials Engraved
Free of Charge.
SOLID
GOLD.
SOLID
SILVER.
£2.
m
f \
A. SAUNDERS. ,
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Eey less
WATCHES, Stem Set, JdPlate,
.Jewelled, Compensation Balance, Ten l
Timed and Adjusted.
£2.
Higher Grade, £2 10/, £3 10/, £4 10/>
Solid Gold, £7 10/, £8 10/, £12 10/,
£15, £20, £25.
Guaranteed 2, 3, 4, 5. and 6 iears.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sidney, '


THE
SECRET OF THE POPULARITY
OF
WALKER’S
WHISKY
IS
INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., hold the
LARGEST STOCKS of PURE MALT
SCOTCH WHISKY in THE TRADE,
amounting to
Over 3‘/ 2 MILLION GALLONS.
These stocks are an absolute GUARANTEE
of QUALITY, AGE, and UNIFORMITY.
Kilmarno ck, Scotland
CONJURING TRICKS,
PUZZLES, SURPRISE
& JOKE NOVELTIES.
The Look and Laugh Glass.
See the Passing-
Show .Y our friends
grotesquely Photo-
graph ed-s tout
people look thin—
thin people look
stout. The Laug-h-
-in- Camera fur-
nishes all this, and i
more. By getting
a focus on passing
pedestrians, horses,
waggons, trains,
trains, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures
The Laughing Camera.
PUZZLE. PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market. Even
our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled. Three
entirely different moves before the purse can be opened.
It is made of superior leather, with inside pocket, and
strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated directions en-
closed. Post free, anywhere, 2/-. Do not miss this
chance of obtaining one of the best and most
useful puzzles ever produced.
are witnessed. All grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly made, and cannot get
out of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Quite Shocking-, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOCRAPH.—A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a
microscopic lens fitted into one end. While
the victim is absorbed in admiration of the
pretty picture, and turns the button in the
confident expectation of seeing something,
interesting, a spring syringe is brought intoi
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, and can be carried
in the vest pocket. Full directions with
each one.
Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue-
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
✓
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Strbkt, Sydney.
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
Here's a Bargain I
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT-
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Hunch O /
Post Free, “
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE,
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
m
V
Pale Blue Bead Necklets, 1/- Each.
The very Newest Novelties. Worth more than
twice the money. Only a limited quantity in stock,
jjgp- Write early if you wish to secure one.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Also at Corner of Bourke
Mention The Bulletin.
Cor . Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
The Bulletin Post Cards
SERIES, IV., V., VI.
NEW
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. Is,
Packet of TEN, lOd
THE CELEBRATED
X
JAY
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened by patented improvements, and there are no
irritating seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this mark
on every garment.
ANY GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters.
<S"jAY f7iv>
k. <S/
ISADt
o,
MARK
Wholesale, only —l. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
27 <XV> S'. ■&<&»
l*4l con
Thoughtful Treatment
of such everyday ailments as biliousness, sick headache and
indigestion, does not involve the added discomfort caused by
rash and drastic purgatives. Give Nature a chance.
Just try one or two Cockle’s Pills. They will give a fillip to the
sluggish liver. That, in nine cases out of ten, is the cause of all the
trouble. Physicians have prescribed Cockle’s Pills for more than one
hundred years.
Q
3
jmA
m
.PILLS.


The Edison
Primary Battery
There is no doubt that the Edison
Battery is the cheapest form of electrical
energy.
The Edison Cell does not give rise to
noxious gases, nor do salts from the
solution corrode iron fittings or machinery.
For Stationary and Portable Gas
Engines, Slot Machines, Fan Motors,
Signals, Electro-Medical use, etc., the
Edison is un?qualled—the battery that
reduces expense.
Write now for descriptive Booklet.
Edison Manufacturing Co.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
(Selling Agents),
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney,
I*s '\Y -p .r'jii' JF
IMgC s
|s/5 -‘L, •■asar'
~• ;:, 'v '.* ,4 /* •/ 'AV.*g» A V. *
ML , Jnfi#O.,,
:-SO' Mi!/ l!<
--~r,.> - - -~c
I iiCi v-fJ- ;
Ml
“REPEATER”
Smokeless Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Repeater” cases are
carefully and accurately
made and loaded with
high grade powder, shot
and wadding by exact
machinery. That’s why
they shoot so strong and
so uniformly and make
such even patterns.
Price considered no shot
gun cartridges on the
market equal them.
Try Them. Sold by All Dealers.
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
JDlall RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail. B|||e
They Always Cure, JL 1110
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
LOVERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
the knowledge imparted by this book unlocks the gate. It
considers the whole subject from the time you meet until
you two are one. Valuable chapters about dress, personal
appearance, cure for bashfulness, many things heretofore
secrets. Reproductions of curious love letters and Fifteen
Hundred tit bits in prose and poetry that you can find
daily use for. P.N., 2/6; posted, 2/B(stamps, 2/10) will bring the
book by mail,and happiue6s with one you love. A.NGLO*AM*
ERICAK Pub'NO Co. George St. Sydney. Mention this paper
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
THE GEM OF MQNARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil Is equally
rich—growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptional EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
Further information may be obtained from the Secretary, Mount Cooper Estate, Ltd., 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney ; H. A. Merewether, Royal Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney ; The Manager, Mount Cooper
Estate, Holt’s Flat, N.S.W. ; or The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ...
Packet of Ten
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre
venting the attack of these and othej
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert's
20 % Carbolic Soap,
, It is also pleasant and refreshing for
\ bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
> against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
>M ade by F. C. Calvert & Co., M anchester, Eng.
fk Uo \Aortxet sEou\4EeW\ttiouVrt. \ sev\t rHEt ox\ reauesE.
w
Ap/vp/ess/ve d/eta/y adapted to t/?e grow/?? d/pest/Ve porters
Milk Food N9I
/rom/t/rt/ to 3/nootAs
Milk Food N? 2
from 3 to 6 mottos
Malted Food N*?3
fro/7? 6 months optvorfs
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
WITHOUT DRUGS!
\
X
J
Sv
V/i^.
Every man who is weak and failing knows that there should be
“some 1 that will restore that “old-time vigor” to his body. He has in-
variably tried all kinds of medicine and found them a total failure. He
finds himself worse instead of better. If you have been paying money to
doctors and taking nasty medicines for years, and have derived no benefit
from it all, do you not think it is time to stop ? . . Twenty years
experience with Drugs and Electricity has confirmed us in the know-
ledge that Electricity alone, without any other material aid, will
replace and renew lost energy and vitality, and that our appliance is
the only practical, commonsense way of applying it. Thousands of
grateful letters from cured patients tell us that medicines failed
to cure them, and that Electricity as given by
did cure them after they had tried everything else and Had given up Hope. It is
the grandest invention of the age for weak people. ... No weak, sickly, delicate person will ever regret
giving it a fair trial, It has special attachments for men and women, and is within the reach of all. The prite
is as low as £ 1 in many cases. We are the originators of the Electric Belt system of home treatment
in Australasia. Our Belt is the standard. . . . It is a quick and certain remedy for all cases of Debility-,
WeaKness of all kinds, Nervousness, BacKache, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Vari-
cocele, Indigestion, Constipation, and Stomach, Liver and Bowel Troubles.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire ; your eyes clear; your mus-
~les strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
.-very man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
iO help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
iKe BEING a man. . . Send the COUPON to-dav.
or CALL for Pree Consultation.
THE McLAUGHUN CO
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagb and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
" L s Office Hours —q a.m. to 5.30 p.vn.
The MoLAUCHUN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
3
§
§
&
4 o t ** *
It aets like a eh arm In
DIARRHEA.
Aiio uuijf iviiuwn opecinc iop Bjg
CHOLERA &
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age/
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS & ASTHMA
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism. Gont. „ J. niVAA.
Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &c.
ritten testimonials of its wonderful efficacy. ** P mctlce ’ at Home and Abroad, who have given
It is the . ___
It is extensively >jj iusui«u irxeu m meir omcia
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World, in bottles, Is.
CAU e! p w?; Marfc “ The
AgenfSfor ***** Rocke, Tompsitt & CO., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
; 20z., 2s. 9d.; 40z., 4s. 6d. each.


/z
fi
is
lU
in
So you’ve come bacß! I must say
Gowing'*s Have improved you.
I liKe tHe way tHey’ve turned
out my last year’s clip! ”
38
■
*3
w
Hi!
40k
C* ENTLE READER.— Let’s do the same for you—a Marrickville Suit,
hand made, of Pure Australian Wool for 705., carriage paid to any part of
Australia. We will send you patterns and self-measurement forms.
What about a Rug? We specialise in Marrickville Rugs and Blankets of
Pure Australian Wool—the “ Bosker,” 100 x 80, 20s. ; Pure Merino Woollen Rugs,
235. 6d., 305., 355.
Marrickville Blankets —warmth without weight —Single, 15s. 6d. ; Three-
quarter, 21s. 6d. ; Double, 275. 6d. ; Extra Large, 325. 6d.
Autumn and Winter Overcoats. We “star” the “Rutland” rain-
proof 355., in the newest stripes and clerical grey mixtures, also all wool tweeds, light
and dark shades.
But perhaps you had better send for our booklet about our Autumn and Winter
Overcoats, Waterproof Overcoats and Oilskin Clothing.
We were almost forgetting to emphasise our Pyjama Suits Japanese Crepe
and Ceylon Flannel, 7s. 6d. ; Crimean Flannel (heavyweight), 11s. 6d.
Our Goods are carriage paid to any part of part of Australia, and we are,
Yours very truly,
GOWING BROS.,
486 to 490 George Street, Sydney.


w
m
D
r>
□
j
m
m
X
7S
%
f
L
/
V
wm
t--
LIFE IN THE STOCKYARD.
The Australian combination of Champion Riders and Rurkiumr,
Show Ground, and every evening at Prince Alfred Park nwc appearin S dail y at the Sydney
close, for they have decided to open in Melbourne earlv in JVIfJ u d s ? ason is drawing to a
Australasian States prior to departing for England ,UmperS wi “ tour al ‘


ft
i
-
\
K
4
o
ft
d
■/ cr
U
£>
o
n
■2
r\
*y
1
res
-
\
mam
&
6
V.
'o
4/
o
<
<V
in
Interstate Mail
Steamship Lines
as
is a generally ad-
mitted fact that what
is known as the
North Queensland
Winter Tour takes a
high place in the re-
gard of the traveller.
And justly so. Possibly in no
tour in or around any portion of the
Australian continent, are there such oppor-
tunities for recuperation and rest. They that have
already accomplished the tour have returned and
have spoken —and they have spoken in no mean
voice. What they have seen they have described
fittingly and without embellishment. They have
left their records of balmy days passed in luxuriant
ease upon the deck of a steamer; they have
excited their less fortunate brethren by descrip-
tions that seem fabulous distortions. Yet their
statements bear the impress of truth.
Now, allied to Queensland’s natural beauties,
and its wealth of mineral riches, is its increasing
tourist traffic, more especially that from the
southern capitals along the coast to Cooktown or
Cairns. It may be said that this traffic, already
of considerable advantage to the State more
immediately concerned, owes much of its growing
influence to the admirable facilities provided in
travelling by the steamships of the Five Com-
panies. These steamships, all fitted with the
comforts and conveniences that people have
learnt to look for in the best hotels, have inspired
a totality of regard for their safety and general
excellence that is scarcely exceeded in any other
part of the world. That statement might seem
to be unduly magnified ; but they that have had
occasion to make use of the service are sponsors
for the truth of it. Their attitude is not one of
patent disregard of any faults that may be, but
rather one of frank recognition of the merits that
are. Having settled that point, it is hoped to the
satisfaction of the reader, a general survey of the
innumerable advantages of the North Queensland
Winter Tour might be made as a sort of intro-
duction to a more detailed description of the
resorts, etc., which last will be dealt with in a
succeeding article.
In the first place, the tour opens up to the in-
quiring visitor a country that is climatically
unfamiliar to the Southener. While in Mel-
bourne or in Victoria, for instance, one
experiences the variations in temperate
conditions to which one is accus-
tomed ; in Northern Queensland,
one is transported to the novel
charm and delight of the tropics
with their luxuriant vegetable
arborescent growths. Here,
where flowers and trees owe
much of their vitality to unre-
mitting care and attention;
there they flourish in untrained
and unassisted grandeur. Here,
where, at this season of the
year, the sky may be overcast and the days
be grey and suniess, there they are revelling
in tropical sunshine from blue skies, flecked
with scarcely a cloud, for days on end. Here,
where our nights may be chilly and un-
appealing, there they are pleasantly cool and
have all the seductiveness of a dream.
The contrasts are legion and interesting ;
but the significance of that remark will only be
appreciated by the northward-bound tourist.
That fortunate individual steps on board one of
the steamers of the Five Companies at, say, Mel-
bourne, and about ten or twelve days afterwards
is breathing the bracing atmosphere of Cairns,
while enjoying to the full the inestimable scenic
resorts of the surrounding country. Yet,
the passage up is itself, by no means, the
least of the attractions; for to laze upon
a steamer for ten or twelve days and just
eat, and sleep, and talk ■ — indeed, submit to
a glorious indolence amid the ever-changing
effects of sea and sky—has its appeal for all. In
truth, the trip is not too long to be monotonous,
especially as the frequent ports of call along the
route provide opportunities for little jaunts
ashore to view some of the chief objects of in-
terest in the neighborhood. Neither is the trip
too short to prevent the formation of those little
shipboard friendships ; the exchange of views and
opinions; and the arrangement of pleasant little
parties for all manner of excursions. In fact, this
sideofthequestionisof .no inappreciable impor-
tance. One consorts with one’s fellow-men vvith-
out the restraints to intercourse that are rigor-
ously regarded in the cities; one acquires
the knowledge that Australia is not one s
native State, but a great island continent waiting
to be explored and be understood. I hat inex-
pressible parochialism that comes from long resi-
dence in a spot; that instinctive narrowness that
is bred by an unchanging environment; each
ceases to be, each is scarified out of the being, so to
speak, by the influence of travel. The parochialist
becomes a patriot, almost a cosmopolitan ; the
Victorian, the Queenslander, the Westralian,
each representative of his State, with his
State’s characteristics full upon him, loses his
title and becomes an Australian. On such a trip
as this, one mingles with the other ; one sees in
the other much to admire, much to interest, much
to respect —the barriers of foolish misconceptions
and misbeliefs are down. The fact that these
extensive trips further the great ideals of national
amity and unity is not the smallest recommenda-
tion of the North Queensland Winter Tour.
It is after the steamer leaves 'Brisbane, with its
head turned northwards, that the traveller enters
the ocean within the Great Barrier Beef, and,
amid placid seas and bright tropical sunshine,
passes, for a few days, an enviable existence that
is all too short. Ever and anon a bold rugged
headland grows from an indefinite blur ; assumes
shape and color; then glides past, to be succeeded
by long stretches of glittering white beaches, backed
by verdure-clad slopes. Again, numberless islands
complete a succession of marine pictures, scarcely
excelled in picturesqueness in any part of Austra-
lasia, if not in the world. And, as the steamer
ploughs its way ever northward, the traveller may-
be reflects that it is well to be alive and possess
faculties sound enough to appreciate such delights.
Eventually, of course, he disembarks, regretfully
retrospective on the charm of the last few days,
perhaps even ready to assert that the steamer has
been over hasty in its passage. But this feeling
soon disappears as he becomes acquainted with
the beauties tropical Queensland has to offer.
Here is a land that is, in some ways, ineffably
strange. Here he sees, growing in tropical
profusion, the fruits that he is accustomed to
purchase in the shops of southern cities ; here is
the home of the banana and the pineapple ; here
are thousands and thousands of acres of sugarcane,
under cultivation by stalwart white Australians.
Here is tropical Queensland as itis. Watered by
broad and plentiful watercourses; indubitably
wealthy in timber and mineral resources ; unsur-
passed in climate at this season of the year; mag-
nificent in ics abundance of mountain and river
scenery, it supplies to the jaded visitor a northern
Paradise and a refuge for health, rest, and recrea-
tion. Tropical Queensland —indeed much of
Queensland that is not strictly tropical—must be
seen to be realised as a potent factor m the
growth of the national life.
Within the limited scope of the present article
it is not possible to refer to the countless sights,
trips, excursions, etc., that the North Queensland
Winter Tour makes possible. As an instance,
only a mere passing comment is made upon the
cedar industry, or upon the mining industries with
their ever-increasing outputs of gold, copper, silver,
tin, and lead. Nothing is mentioned about the
maize plantations, or about the objects of interest
in and around the towns along the route. In a
succeeding article, many of these things will be
touched upon according to their
interest and popularity.
Meanwhile, the differ-
ence between the re-
ality and the written
description only ap-
peals forcefully to
the intelligences of I
those who go north- J
ward in one of the f
steamships of the |
Eive Companies.
V
vv*™
K?
P
ft-
-0
•v
rs
OwT£&|
S'
<*
<o
v
cc
--7
Yr
a/avigS
*
a:
<c
U
D
4
SD
,——


N.S.W. Treasurer Waddell has on the
stocks an amending Bill to alter the present rule
that all steamers must be surveyed twice yearly,
and make an annual inspection suffice. This is to
please Private Enterprise, and to make the law
agree with the slipshod enactments of other
States. The recent loss of the Bega, however,
will probably prevent any alteration as far as
N.S.W.-owned coasting steamers are concerned,
and the disaster is a better argument for half-
yearly surveys in the other States than for annual
surveys in N.S.W.
The Date is Fixed.
St. flubin’s Estate,
Scone.
The Pick of the Hunter District. St. Aubin’s
Estate contains 20,000 Acres of the Richest
and most Fertile Land in the State, and is
now Subdivided into Town Allotments,
Farms and Grazing
Blocks.
Subdivision No. 1 contains 70 FARM
BLOCKS, from Bto 400 Acres. Terms for
this Subdivision : 10 per cent. Deposit, 10
per cent, in 3 months without interest, and
the Balance in 10 Yearly Payments, with 5
per cent, interest added.
Subdivision No. 2 contains 16 FARM
BLOCKS, from 40 to 1360 Acres. Terms
for No. 2 Subdivision : 20 per cent. Deposit,
10 per cent, in 3 months without interest,
and the balance in 5 Yearly Payments, with
6 per cent, interest added.
Subdivision No. 3 contains 40 TOWN
ALLOTMENTS AND FARMS. Terms
for No. 3 Subdivision : 20 per cent. Deposit,
and the Balance in 12 Quarterly Payments,
with 5 per cent, interest added.
FOR AUCTION SALE
ON
TUESDAY, MAY 5,
AT THE
Oddfellows 7 Hall, Scone,
AT 12.30 P.M.
Lithographs are now ready, and can be obtained from
the Auctioneers, and from Messrs. Andrews, Moseley
and Manning, Solicitors to the Vendor.
AUCTIONEERS : Messrs. J. A. Simpson and Co. :
Messrs. Edward Higgens, Parkinson and Co ; in con-
junction with Messrs. Snape and Co. ; Messrs.
Rowlands and Dodd ; Messrs. Norman Ebsworth, and
Mr. H. H. Brown, of the Paterson.
W. BAKEWELL, St. AUBINS, SCONE.
Come and See ME
about Your Eyes.—
OSBORN,
The Optician
(Late of Osborn & Jerdan),
176 PITT STREET (4 Doors from Her
Majesty's Theatre), SYDNEY.
I have the skill, the latest appliances for EXACT
SIGHT TESTING, and the most perfectly appointed
Testing Rooms in this city.
NO ONE CAN MAKE YOU GLASSES TO SO
EXACTLY SUIT YOUR SIGHT AT SUCH
MODERATE CHARGES AS I.
I have had over 20 years’ experience here, and
have tested THOUSANDS of Eyes. Why not yours ?
JADIES, turn your SPARE TIME imp MONEY
Start a HIGHLY-PROFITABLE BUSINESS^
r. Ur ° Wn A' HOME in Sof Arctic,
nterestmg, EAS\ \V ORK. Very tyfatAiin demand nd
greatly admired by every on most GENUINE
OPPORTUNITY M „“er
r J er B 9 ifffi ,0 # di i^ Ofil >' SMALL OUTLAY. Splen.
! *"*jJ A r^ / FREE, and with Specimen
of Wo#, DECORATED SATIN, by Post, Three!
Pence (Stamps of any State.) The Union Manu-
facturing Co., 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne
Missing- Friends.
WOULD M. M. T., who left his home the
24th February, 1908, communicate with
his friends. They are anxious. GOOD NEWS.
All private.
Amusements.
GILHOOLF.Y'S AUSTRALIA
ORCHESTRA plays for every leading
Society function in Sydney, and is always up-to-date ;
latest music. W. R. CILHOOLEY, Tel. 3931,
84 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
OWN HALL, SYDNEY,
GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT CONCERT,
Under direction of JOHN LEMMONE
and H. NTSOUTH WELL.
A GREAT ARRAY OF POPULAR ARTISTS, including
Mr. REGINALD ROBERTS
(By arrangement with J. O. Williamson. Esu 1
THE NEWTOWN BRASS BAND
(Champions of Australia),
THE GREAT ORGAN etc., and
SYDNEY’S BEST SINGERS.
Prices—3s. (Reserved), 25., and Is.
All tickets at Paling’s and at Hall on Good Friday.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee and Manager: J. C. 'WILLIAMSON.
Evening? at 8. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
COMIC OPERA CO.
. ,'ln the Charming Comic Opera,
iTH K LADY DANDIIiS.
Pyices,.as, usual. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.
• tN t, iji i
Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ * Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings at 8. Wednesday & Saturday Afternoons at 2.
THE GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 18,
CLYDE MEYNELL & JOHN GUNN
Present for the first time in Australasia, the romantic
historical play, by Edward Ferris,
A BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK.
Interpreted by their PREMIER DRAMATIC CO.,
Including HARCOURT BEATTY & MADGE McINTOSH.
Prices 45., 25., and Is.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
THE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
■ Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30 t
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s,
WIRTH BROS.
yyiRTH BROS.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY,
NEAR RAILWAY STATION.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES : WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
The Biggest show ever seen in Sydney. New and
Wonderful Attractions, specially engaged by Mr. Philip
Wirth during his recent tour of the world.
Among these Dazzling Artists are the following, who
will appear for the first time in Australia :
THE SIDNEY BROTHERS
JILKET AND JENNY
THE LES CROTTONS
BROTHERS RODRIQUES
THE BROTHERS GAMON
BEBE AND PASTORE
OTTO AND EMIL.
HAGENBECK’S MARVELLOUS WILD
ANIMAL GROUP, in charge of HERR BATTY.
Also, Reappearance, after six years, of
JOHN WELBY ' COOKE,
the World’s Greatest Jockey-act Rider.
4 FOUR MENAGERIES IN ONE. 4 *
HAGENBECK’S, BOSTOCK AND WOMBVVELL’S
FITZGERALD BROS.’ and WIRTH’S HUGE ZOO
The Greatest Collection of Wild Animals since the Ark.
WONDROUS SIGHTS.
A Geographical and Zoological Ocular Object Lesson.
PRICES : Reserved Chairs, at Paling’s, 4s. ; Back Chairs,
3s. ; American Back Folding Chairs and Carpet Seats,
2s. ; Gallery, Is. Children Half-price, except Gallery.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
r Direction .. .. HENRY HAYWARD.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
MASKELYNE AND DEV ANT’S
MYSTERIES.
(Late MASKELYNE and COOKE.)
Which for 34 years has been the leading entertainment
in London.
Admission—4s., 35., 25., and Is. Children Half-price.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
THE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
The Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES (“ The Best of All ”).
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Millioh—6d. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manasrer—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Immense Success of MISS MARGARET PARKER and
ENGLISH 00. in UNDER THE SEAL.
KAUFMANN TROUPE, World’s Greatest Bicyclists.
Mr. CHARLES MILDARE, England’s Greatest Whistler.
J. P. LING, London’s Celebrated Mimetic Monologuist
and Versatile Entertainer.
Miss NELLIE MAHER. Mr. FRED. BLUETT
Mr. FRANK HARWOOD. LEONARD NELSON.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manasrer, Mr. Harrv Rickards.
TWO AHLBERGS, Comedy Acrobats.
Mr. EDWIN BOYDE, London’s Celebrated Singing
Comedian.
THREE CUNARDS, Step and Clog Dancers.
ARTOIS BROTHERS, Comedy Horizontal Bar Act.
ALMA GRAY, Vocalist, Dancer.
SYLVO, World’s Greatest Comedy Juggler.
DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
|JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 18,
MISS TITTELL BRUNE & CO.
PET E R PA N,
By J. M. BARRIE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Day Sale at Palmer’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 18,
MEYNELL and GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
IN
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By PAUL RUBENS.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
B IJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 38,
MR. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO.
IN
EDMUND DUGGAN’S New Australian Drama
THE SOUTHERN CROSS.
Well Written. Strong Cast. Beautiful Scenery.
Prices as Usual: Plan at Allan’s.
\A# IR.TH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES THE ?£ S *
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand M.litary Band
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
THE
Natural
Memory
Is not Easily
Confused.
THE NATURAL MEMORY.
The
Natural
Memory of a child grasps readily, and holds
tenaciously that which he thoroughly understands.
The extent of his memory is only limited by his
intellectual capacity, and the measure of his experi-
ence. It is as the years roll by that dry study,
uncongenial tasks, and faulty training confuse the
mental processes, weaken the perceptions, and make
the memory poor.
A
ym*.
s
THE P ELM AN SYSTEM OF MEMORY TRAINING ■
The Natural Memory re-
mains, however, to a
greater or less extent, in every individual. It is capable of development to a very high degree; indeed"
there is no function of the brain more easily trained and developed if only the right principles are
adopted. The Pelman System organises the mental faculties ; it makes study of any kind easy and pleasur-
able ; and it makes recollection certain and prompt. Because it is based on natural laws, it is simple
easily acquired, very interesting, makes the memory meet all demands on it cheerfully and readily, and’
above all, its benefits are permanent.
A GOOD MEMORY is the foundation of success. We do not belittle the qualities of
grit, determination, and trustworthiness; but given these, without memory, you fight
a hopeless battle against the world, and failure is inevitable.
TAUGHT BY POST.
The Pelman Course of Training is given through the Post in five simple
and interesting lessons. Half an hour daily will enable the student to
master the entire Course in six weeks. Improvement is apparent after the First Lesson, and distance
is no hindrance whatever to success.
Hundreds of Pupils in Australia have joined the School since the founding
of the Australasian Branch, less than twelve months ago. On our roll are
members of every profession, business and occupation followed in Australia.
The PELMAN System
of Memory Training'.
Write to-day for Free Booklet, “ Memory and Success ” (64. pages),
sent FREE on application to 7' he Secretary:
PELMAN SCHOOL OF MEMORY, 3 Stock Exchange Bldg,, Melbourne.
KNOWLEDGE IS POWER.
T HIRIY years of assiduous study of The Hair and its Treatment, and all
1 Capillary Diseases as they affect the Scalp and Hair, have given me the
means of Preserving the Hair, and producing a new growth after all other prepara-
tions have failed. lam now in a position to treat advanced cases of Baldness with
every possibility of success. Almost impossible cases are now yielding to my skill.
*
CONVINCING TESTIMONY..
Gentleman writes, ffonii
St. Peters, S.A. : “I
P. N. for ns. 6d. lifer fw©'
months’ treatment of your
Hair Rest orer. This has been
brought under my notice by an
utter stranger, who, seeing the
bad state of my hair, sympa-
thised with me and told me he
had been cured by your pre-
parations. ”
Here is a case of Scalp
Trouble :
Mr. Coolstad writes
from W.A., stating that the
PARASENE and Exemo sup-
plied to him has removed the
irritation of the scalp, and is
producing a splendid growth
of strong, thick, healthy hair
on his bald head.
Mr. Rodgers, W.A.,
writes : After using your pre-
parations for a few months,
my hair is showing every sign
of being as good as ever it was.
One of the Melbourne
Doctors says : “If anything
will make the hair grow, these
preparations will.”
Another Doctor says:
“ Mr. Holland has treated
my wife and daughter's hair
most successfully. I can re-
commend his preparations
with confidence, knowing
them to be of the most genuine
character.”
l*ks ssMas
m ,l nc f e postage, two months’treatment • Victoria
10/6; four months, 20/-. Other States, li/6and 22/-
NATURAt'tnf " falllng OUt should a PP ] y RESTORER at night and COSMO LOTION in the morning.
pRK jy S S Hair,
v CE A ictoria, with postage, 6/3 ; Other States, 6/8.
£. HOLLAND,
Hair £>
Specialist,
105 Collins Street,
..MELBOURNE.


<*
~ , *
■
■
*
#
/
11
M
MOST EXCELLENT”
%


Little Girl’s Whole Body Covered
Watery Matter Formed ,T hen Scabs
Could Not Rest Night or Day
—Suffered Three Years —At Last
USED CuficUßA AND
THAT CURED HER
“My little girl had rashes coming on
her at times like nettle rash, since she
had vaccination on her arm. They
would rise at times and she would do
nothing but scratch them until they
bled. She could not rest at night or
day when they were on her. It was
a pity to see her. I spent a lot with
doctors and could not get rid of the rash,
so one of the neighbors told me to try
Cuticura. The rashes were all over
her except the face. You know they
were hard like a stone first, and then
they would fill with water, and then
turn into a great scab. She suffered
with the ailment for three years and
we used Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment, and they did clear it. We
bathed her twice a day with Cuticura
Soap and we used one box of Cuticura
Ointment. The doctor gave medicine
for a while, but it did no good, and we
left the doctor and used Cuticura, and
that did cure her. I am very much
pleased to tell you of the cure, and
can recommend the Cuticura Remedies
to everybody, and wish I had known
about them sooner. Evan John Thomas,
Penallta Terrace, Ystrad Mynach, via
Cardiff, Wales, Feb. 1, 1906.”
INSTANT RELIEF
From Eczema in a Single
Application of Cuticura,
The great Skin Cure, preceded by a warm
bath with Cuticura Soap. This treat-
ment, when followed in the severer forms
with mild doses of Cuticura Resolvent
Pills, affords instant relief, permits rest
and sleep, and points to a speedy cure
in the most torturing and disfiguring of
itching, burning, and scaly humours, ec-
zemas, rashes, and inflammations of skin
and scalp, from infancy to age. A single
set is often sufficient to cure. Cuticura
Remedies are guaranteed absolutely
pure under United States Food and
Drugs Act.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London,27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de laPaix; Austra-
lia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India, B. K. Paul, Cal-
cutta; China, Hong Kong Drug Co.; Japan, Maruya,
Ltd., Tokio; Russia, Ferrein (Apteka). Moscow;
South Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.: U.S.A.,
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.. Boston.
Post-free. Cuticura Booklet, 48 pages.
PEOPLE OF
MODERATE MEANS
cannot afford to buy
cheap pianos.
Cheap pianos are con-
structed cheaply.
Their frames are weak
—they will not stand
the strain and pull of
the strings.
They need frequent
tuning.
Their hammers are
covered with cheap
felting.
Their action is a cheap
action.
The touch is never ac-
curate.
They are short lived.
THE STEIN WAY is
the bkst constructed,
and the most lasting
on the market.
It is the CHEAPEST IN
THE END.
Our Catalogue describes
its merits in detail. May
we send you one ?
NICHOLSON & CO.
LIMITED,
342 George Street, Sydney.
CCCGJXfc
hriWiu* *•**<>
um vßxaae
'D
£>
BRIGHTEN THE HOME LIFE
FUN FOR THE EVENINGS
NUTS TO CRACK
fend DRAWING-ROOM MAGIO
A Collection of Coin and Card Tricks,
Parlor Games, Practical; -Puzzles, the
World’s Best Riddles, Tongue. Twisters
and Home Entertainments, with numerous
Illustrations. too pages. Price, |/3
posted to any address. The ION
Co.. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
115,000
The Wayback Series.
Australia laughed l ! ! No. S.
and keeps laughing . Red Harry Is.
Your complexion, as well as your temper,
is rendered miserable by a disordered liver. By
taking Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets
you can improve both.*
INDIGESTION
Digestion is the foundation of health, and the very ground-
work of life itself When it fails you cannot be well, because you
have not the same desire for food, and what you do eat fails to
nourish vou Of course, you become weak and ailing, tormented
with stomach pains, wind, headache, perhaps biliousness and
constipation too. Don’t go on suffering. Mother Seigel’s Syrup
will cure you by putting your stomach in order, and purifying
your whole system.
PAINS AFTER EATING, WIND,
HEADACHE
ARE ALL CURED BY
“ The little I ate lay on my chest like lead ; my strength
dwindled, and I became nervous and irritable. But at last I got
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and was cured. Three years later lam
still well.”—From Mr. D. Mitchell, Caxton. Street, Paddington,
Brisbane, November 25th, 1907.
MOTHER
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP.
This Very Stylish Balmoral
for Gentlemen - - 27/6
Gentlemen whose tastes rest with pood footwear will find this
hoot of the very host workmanship throughout. Of Patent
Enamel Kid, welted, it makes a very stylish Dress Boot, and,
on account of its material, will not soil with the dust.
Price 27/6. Add 1 - for postape if ordering in Victoria—
-1/8 if in other States.
Drop us a Post Card for our Booklet “Shoe-
lijrht,” beautifully illustrated with our
finest footwear. We send it FREE.
LEEMING’S Boot Stores
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 303 Chapel Street,
Prahran ; 1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
Stay Fat
IF YOU will:
But if you follow our advice we will reduce your
weight rapidly and permanently. Our method
is absolutely safe and harmless. Our remedy is
absolutely Non-PoisonotjS
and is always effective.
“FATCURE”
reduces excess fat by as
five pounds a week. No
drastic dieting nor killin';
exercise. The simplest
dietric rules are obser-
ved, and our patients
are not starved. Would
you like to lose one or
two stone, or maybe
four or five stone, of
uncomfortable and un-
healthy fat? If you
would, come to us and we will tell you how. If
you cannot call send a 2d. postage stamp and let
us post you a Free Trial Sample, sealed and free
from prying eyes. No marks on package. All
communications are strictly confidential. We
have treated thousands of cases successfully.
“ Fatcure ” is not a oatent medicine, it is a
scientific treatment. Write or Call at once.
WE GUARANTEE that Fatcure will
not injure the health while reducing the fat,
and that there are no ill after-effects.
THE WATWORTH CO. Suite J,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street. Take lift. [l6
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
(POSITION
ig mcwis <y
)<Ji> splendid
System y
BOOKKEEPING.
ACCOUNTANCY.
SHORTHAND.
•PENMANSHIP,
ENGLISH,
LANGUAGES. AC.
A GRICULTURAL.
SO.IL MANAGEMENT
DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATION.
BREEDING AND
MANAGEMENT' OF
LIVE STOCK. AC.
QOMMERCIAL art
DRAWING,
LLUSTRATING.
ADVERTISEMENT
WRITING.A*
DESIGNING. AC
POST
Monty.
HIGHER SALARIES and
splendid prospects await
those who take advantage
of our system of POSTAL
INSTRUCTION. We teach
wherever the mail reaches,
and our methods ensure the
acquirement of MONEY-
MAKING KNOWLEDGE.
Our instruction is thorough,
practical and complete, and
our instructors are men of
unquestionable ability and
experience. Every student
receives careful individual
attention, and the instruction
is private. We prepare
candidates for all PUBLIC
EXAMINATIONS.
It costs nothing to
Write TO-DAY for FRF;-
copy of PROSPECTUS E
and state subject in which
you are interested.
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
56 HUNTER ST SYDNEY
**2B COLLI NS ST MELBOURNE
if ™"~"~
WELSBAGH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete
Extra Mantles
Extra Chimneys -
ss. each .
6d. „
2\d. „
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBAGH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
43Q-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERCUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
The indigo planter was an arrogant man. The
market for indigo was practically unlimited, and
the supply was very limited indeed. And he had
the cheapest labor in the world. When his indigo
got to Europe it was largely mixed with dirt, and,
worse than all, was never of a uniform standard.
The manufacturers complained and expostulated.
For the indigo planter was an arrogant man. If
they didn’t like his indigo they could leave it
alone. Cheap labor meant big profits, and he
didn’t grow indigo as a hobby or as a fine art. If
they could get indigo elsewhere they were wel-
come to it. He admitted that higher-priced
labor would probably have kept the indigo a lot
cleaner, and made it of a more uniform quality.
But the increase in price would not altogether
wipe out the increase of wages, and if the
beastly manufacturer thought the planter was
going to reduce his profits to benefit the manu-
facturer, that manufacturer was making an
amazing error. So the arrogant indigo planter
went on employing the cheapest of cheap
labor, and sending dirty and unequal lots of indigo
to Europe. One day a German chemist, who had
spent half a lifetime studying catalysis, bought a
small quantity of indigo and commenced experi-
menting. He bought more and still more, and ex-
perimented hard for two or three years, and then
one day his company commenced in feverish haste
to erect a huge plant on the banks of the Rhine.
To-day that plant is turning out synthetic indigo
—and the amazing part of the business is that it is
pure indigo, which the stuff the Indian planter
sends out is not. Now the arrogant planter is
humble. He is employing more expensive labor,
he is improving his methods, he is doing everything
possible to retain the trade that is slipping away
from him. But the German has a long start, and
his mighty plant on the banks of the Rhine is
turning out more and more pure indigo every day,
and the indigo planter in India, with the cheapest
labor in the world, knows his industry is doomed.
It cannot hold its own against the high-class stuff
turned out by the highly-paid chemists on the
banks of the Rhine. So much for cheap labor !
♦
GOSFORR is another of the rich N. S. Wales coastal
districts that lie under the curse of the lazy land-
lord who is satisfied to loaf while land values rise.
Much of the country thereabouts was specially
made for fruit-growing ; but the depth to which
the average orchardist has fallen through careless-
ness and laziness is immeasurable; and the man
who got his land ready for cropping isn’t much
better—in heaps of cases it is again overgrown
with timber. The owner’-s-troubles ! He knows
that the demand is steadily sending up the
value, and that suits him better than work.
Some of the large estates have never been under
any sort of cultivation ; yet blocks of that land
are now being quitted at £lO per acre, although
the buyer will have to spend up to £3O per acre to
get it ready for orcharding. The figures show
what kind of land it is. Then there is the timber-
getter, who certainly makes a home for his family
on his 40-acre block, but is only a Saturday-and-
Sunday resident, and is content, as a rule, to leave
his area in its natural state ; yet the block, being
good fruit country, would probably support four
families if put to its best use. A stiff graduated
land-tax is the only cure for this paralysis. The
district is so convenient to Sydney and Newcastle
that there is a healthy demand for every inch of
productive land ; and if the wedge were applied
hundreds of families would quickly fill the spaces.
♦
“Vigilans”: Ten years ago the Flinders dis-
trict (Queensland) was practically a wilderness,
and held in immense tracts of country by Bull
companies. The stock was very small in compari-
son with the area To-day we find the country
being cut up into 40,000-acre and 60,000-acre
selections, carrying a sheep to every three acres.
Huge plains that were waterless have been con-
verted into stock-carrying localities by the sinking
of bores. Each selection has one or more bores,
and the homesteads and general surroundings
have a better appearance than the old stamp of
station. Bore streams are now to be seen all over
the country, from Mackinlay to Hughenden.
Marathon has ten, and depastures 100,000 sheep
on 800 square miles of land. On this country the
lessee pays 3d. rent per acre (£8 per square mile);
on the Barclay Tableland (N.T.), which is much
better country, with a regular rainfall, the rental is
Is. fid. per square mile, and the Tableland is held
by absentees in blocks the size of Tasmania. The
Commonwealth should hurry and take over the
Territory from the boodler.
*
The Bulletin lately referred N.S.W. State
Premier Wade to the Paris municipality’s hos-
pital administration as an example for his con-
sideration. The idea seems to have struck Andy
Kelly as likely to come in when Greater Sydney
eventuates. But the way Paris deals with the
unemployed is even more shockingly socialistic
than its treatment of the sick, and yet its method
rests on the soundest scientific basis. The mere
fact of destitution gives a right to immediate
relief. There are two night refuges for men in
Paris. Tickets for admission must be applied for
during the day, and the holder attends at 7
o’clock in winter, and 8 o’clock in summer. He
goes to the lavatory, gets a bath, and puts on a
suit of clean, white drill, has his supper of lentil
soup and bread, and goes to the dormitories at
8 in winter, or 9in summer. On an average
750 ft. of air space are allowed per bed. Each
bedstead is of iron with metal springs, on
which are placed a mattress of seaweed, and
another of wool. The bedding consists of
cotton sheets, brown double blanket, and a
coverlet and pillow. Beds and bedding are dis-
infected every day. In the morning the men are
given their own clothes, which have been disin-
fected, get a wash, and a breakfast of soup and
bread. They are then at liberty to go and look
for work, but their tickets entitle them to two
more nights’ lodging. A great many of the men
are supplied with work in the refuges, and are paid
as much as Is. 9d. a day for it. They can stay as
long as 20 days, but the average stay is only seven
or eight days, which is long enough to enable
them to amass a little working capital. The
curious thing about these Parisian night refuges
is the remarkably small proportion of habitual
vagrants who are found in them. Not more,
according to the authorities, than 3 per cent, can
be classed as habituals, and no difference is made
with regard to them. Contrary to British and
Australian ideas, the luxurious appointments of
the refuges don’t seem to tempt men to abuse
the kindness of the municipality. It may be the
other way. Men who are down on their luck get
fed and rested and gain courage to make a fresh
start —such courage as the casual ward of the
workhouse would never give them.


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
What The Bulletin fancied would happen
when that cute civil servant Captain Collins de-
cided that he would like to live in London has
duly come to pass. Collins was to go to London
on a strictly temporary basis, pending the appoint-
ment of a High Commissioner. Now he has settled
there comfortably, has built around himself a
rampart of allowances, and his presence in London
(quite useless from a point of view of national
representation) is taken as an excuse for the delay
in appointing a Commissioner.
The Times of India, one of the ablest of
the Imperialistic sheets, and a paper which is in
close touch with the military authorities in India,
declines to see eye to eye with G. Reid and the
Sydney Telegraph’s alleged “ military expert.”
Thus the Times (15/2/’08) re the Deakin Defence
proposals:—
A strong Australia would be a great assistance to India
in a military emergency which called forth every atom of
our strength ; a weak Australia might not inconceivably
be a source of embarrassment in grave Imperial crises.
m
M
Particular Shavers
Prefer the
PLUM RAZOR.
It glides comfortably over your face, leaving a clean chin behind—
no dragging or scraping with the PLUM. The reason is the
PLUM’S blade is silver steel —the very best on earth—and gives
a keen cutting edge that very seldom wants sharpening.
POST FREE 10/6 Anywhere.
We Guarantee it
for 2 Years.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
Kc rr~
TCt
;• .
■Jsi
»i!
rr r
II B Ebl
IS g®Gag|j
il D2® oCB|
WiUieciii
f r rrF
' * r f rr
r r r
r rr
rr K f rrr ff r
Slxil rr nr f r
r r
rr *fr r
o
ROOJFIJVG
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or the
pin-holed metal with Congo and end the trouble !
It won’t take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it down !
Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to remind
you of it.
We call Congo the “ NEVER-LEAK ROOF.” We mean it.
Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London
For Sale by C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney ; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
. Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri _
EH Jarrah Co., Perth. West Australia. H
Sample
WriteToda*
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
J. Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
| MOLLER’S |
GOD LIVER OIL
For Colds, Chest and Lung
Diseases, the safest remedy.
NO DISAGREEABLE AFTER EFFECTS
so often experienced when using
ordinary oils and emulsions.
Expert Opi' ions :
Indian Medical Gazette :
“ Superior to any we have seen.’
Medical Review : “ It is quite
unexcelled.”
Sold in capsuled bottles only.
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, High 1 ondcn.
Factories : Loioten & Christiania, Norway.
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
Unrivalled for the Complexion. •’
-.KALODERMAtSOAR'* KALODERMA-JELLY* KB LODE RMfl-POWDER
u
-■«
Mwpwiiilifl
Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
OF all Chemiats, Perfumers, Drapers and Storekeepers.
dole Agents i
LOHMANN & CO.,
Melbourne (EL Sydney.
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Price 6d.
Posted Bd.
I
-
Gentleman’s 10-ct. Solid Gold Hun*«
ing Cased Keyless Elgin Lever Watch.
Buy now, as the duty is up 10 per cent.
Price, JBB 10s.
You Want a Good Watch
THE ONLY THING YOU CAN PAY CASH
FOR, AND YET HAVE “ON TICK." ’
We show here some of the best and most popular
styles of Watches now made. They combine Neat-
ness, Elegance, Quality, and Strength. Send along
your order now, you can’t do better. Remember
money back if the Watch you buy does not open
up to your satisfaction. You run absolutely no risk
when you deal with STEWART DAWSON & CO.
The Thinnest 12-Size American Watch
made. A 1 Elgin Lever Movement,
14-ct. Gold Case. For a man who
appreciates smartness this is the watch.
£3 10s.
This is a specially fine 10-efc.
Gold Full Hunting Elgin
Lever, and we can advise
any lady to wear it, as it is
good both in case and works.
Free and safe by post for
"»
m
This shows eur 14-ct. Gold*
Filled Watch for Women.
Sound, Serviceable, and
worth three of any cheap all-
gold watch. <£4: 10s.
Our Special Thin Model Keyless Steel Crystal
Front Lever. The Best Guinea Watch in
Australia. <£l Is.
DON’T
DEL A Y,
WRITE
TO-DAY
TO
'ax/scTit
Gentleman’s 25-year 14-ct.
Gold-filled Hunting Case
Elgin Lever Watch. Im-
mensely superior to a cheap
all-gold watch. £ 5 10s.
25 YEAR
8
WRITE FOR OUR
FREE
CATALOGUES.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mblrournk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413.296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64.000 0 0
Interminable ueposit Stock ..3,116,621 a 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £'3,000,000;
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The IJon. C. J, Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
(Established T 888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of new Zealand.
r* SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&>
$
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.W.
f|)ontdepietefl.?!i|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre), •
74 CASTLEBEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John Skk, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
OCEAN
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY' - COMPANY LIMITED
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. . . £27,500 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. Gd.
Shipping.
KT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen,
via Ports.
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA sth MAY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 2nd JUNE.
PRINZ SICISMUND 30th JUNE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMITED.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £475,041 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174.350 0 0
Reserve FuNDdnvested in Government Stock) 70,000 0 0
£719,391 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd.D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
TROPIC, 8000 tons (Cargo only), to sail
about 16th April.
CUFIC, 8000 tons (Cargo only), to sail
about 2nd May.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about 13th
May.
MEDIC, AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l-5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 ® t 0 l o
New York, &c. .. 25 50 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
a DAMASCUS
*MILTIADES
MORAVIAN
I W. Burge .. .. I Noon. April 24
j A. Douglas, R.N.R. 1 Noon, May 22
.| H. Schleman .. 1 Noon. June 19
* Twin Screw, a Third Class only.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridga decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dalyety and. Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
# HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.).
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES. H
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining ■ a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. ..£1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,470,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,670,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of |)nui South (Dales.
Established 1817.
Head Offiee-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... £2,425,400 0 0
In course of Payment 74,600 0 0
£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. ... ... ... _. 1,530,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... ... 2,500,000 0 0
£6,530,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. O. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax. Kt.
Auditors • i ALFRED G. MILSON, Esq.
Auuitors . -j \y IIILIAM Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
V ; / v - |
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
Business Announcements.
THIS
RAGING WATCH
(CHRONOGRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
/
S 3
•»*
THIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and I
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
tune. It counts the minutes on tbe small top dial,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. The
.Chronograph is only in use when wanted—the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train
compensation balance, polished l steel regulator and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the case, and the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
the to P‘ Tlle uase ’ s the finest quality GUN-
,h I Al.. perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white'dial
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed in
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not giie
complete satisfaction, I will return your purchase
money in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any ten
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day I 'have
GoW S c n ases W ° rkS Sterlingr silver cases and solid
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
B (some illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2id.
SAILLE, 20, Rue de la Michodiere, Paris.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO
/ ' (LIMITED). U|
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian
Victorian and Queensland Ports,'
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
Is.s.
Grantala, April 25.
BRISBANE,
MACK AY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S Yongala, April is.
S.S. Wollowra, April 25.
Best and Cheapest Koute to (ioldHehu
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable ’iftl «.
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies L h n
services subject to conditions, which can be umu a i
on application at the Company’s Office. ttamed
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
M
ESSAGER/ES
I^/aritimes.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
abkfwines. MONEY ' t 0 £B2/10 '-> «**>%
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS .TO COLOMBO, interchan™
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
57 Pitt Street.
Tel. 378.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
April 18.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY
April 25.
ADELAIDE \
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers (
and cargo fbr S.A., i
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) )
KANOWNA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, May 2.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE. 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, April 18.
GABO, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
April 21.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, April 25.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.=
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
FOR
Durban, Capetown, London,
and Liverpool.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLHA
11,300 Tons. G. T. Dbith. \
Will be despatched from Brisbane on the 4th May, 1
„ Sydney „
~ ~ Melbourne ~ 14bh
~ „ „ Adelaide ,', 19th May,
To be followed by other fast i ass
Excellent accommodation for saloon and tniro-
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists
two-berth cabins on the upper deck, situatea
ships. The Third-class accommodation oompris > >
and 6-berth cabins, all of which are situated on t ,
deck. Electric light throughout. Surgeon ana * te J
carried.. Return Tickets issued. Prepaid passages ar ss
Third Class.
flllis. fl 3 13s. £15155.
fl 3 13s. £15155. £17 178 -
Saloon.
£22
£24 15s.
1 | £49 10s.
FARES—
DURBAN
CAPETOWN
LONDON and
LIVERPOOL
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
For further information, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney. .
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Ltd., Melbouri
ELDER SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.


In the Bent State a further distribution of
hard cash has been made among the loafing
country shires which won’t, or can't, keep their
roads and bridges in repair without assistance.
The complete list of gifts comprises in all (il items
and totals £16,870. Of this amount the rural
cadger absorbs nearly £15,000, the balance going
to suburban councils. The distributions have
been made with the proviso that thp various bodies
interested raise some of the wind themselves. It
is safe to say that they will carry out their part of
the programme with great success. They gener-
ally do. They are always stone-broke until they
receive a grant, conditional on their contributing
themselves. Then their sudden acquirement of
the necessary money is masterly. It ought to
strike Bent that, if they can so readily raise what
lie demands, they ought to be able to do it when
he doesn’t demand. But, then, these days nothing
strikes Bent except reminiscences and comic songs.
p
o
M
E
SKIN
FOOD
Of all
Stores or
Chemists
Keeps
the skin
soft and
smooth and, by
nourishing it, eradi-
cates lines or wrinkles.
Made by Mrs. Pomeroy
Ltd., 29, Old Bond Street,
London, England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1549. n - '•' --------- *
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND 2-1 Security or Freehold or Leasehold
" City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
ot Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
TT _ . _ /J™,-ItV al !l General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OhFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
JZJf. c.
NEW C\ub Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT, CONN.. U. S. A,
i NEW CLUB
CARTRIDGES'
9
ANDERSON’S
WILL NOT
BLISTER.
SAFE
HORSE
CURE.
Is the finest remedy for Broken Knees,
Sore Shoulders, Flesh Wounds, Burns,
and Scalds, Swellings, Sprains and
Rheumatism.
If not obtainable of Storekeeper or
Chemist, send for sample bottle 2s. 9d.,
post paid 3s. 6d., to Sydney Depot—
-30 P 0. CHAMBERS, PITT STREET.
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
I>elightfulPipes
Thais what
W-
CUARANTtt^
weans
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable From all Tobacconists
HEARNES“Sr
The Famous Remedy Tor
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA
Cured by
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —From a strict sense
of duty I feel that I should publish the following state-
ment, so that others may know what to do when the
awful fact is evident that a life is in danger of being
lost:—ln September, 1906, my little girl, aged at that
time 3 years, contracted Measles, and in the following
October was attacked by Bronchitis, Pneumonia and
Congestion of the Lungs. She was attended by a
legally qualified doctor of high standing, but his treat-
ment was not successful in arresting the progress of the
illness. On Saturday, the 21st October, 1906, he said
that her life was in danger—that there was very little
hope for her. For eight days and nights she had been
prostrated by Cough, Pain and Fever, and was lying
like a statue, unconscious. At this stage I was per-
suaded by a friend to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure,
with its auxiliary medicine for the Fever and Conges-
tion of the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue of
Medicines which accompanies each bottle of the Bron-
chitis Cure. I gave the medicine as directed, and there
was an improvement from the first dose of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure. The improvement continued after
each dose of the medicine. In a week she was perfectly
free from the Pneumonia, Congestion, Cough, Pain and
Fever, and was well, except that she was still weak. In
a fortnight she was quite recovered, and is now in
splendid health, and stronger than ever. Any person
asking for information about this grand medicine can
be supplied by me, or by any of my neighbours who have
witnessed its wonderful effects. It absolutely snatched
my child from an early grave.—Yours gratefully,
D. GARDINER,
Police Station, Geelong East, Feb. 5, 1908.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age.
Thoroughly Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief-Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I was very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure.. The first dose gave me imme-
diate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am
thoroughly cured. Its effect on me has been most
wonderful. lam 73 years of age. I trust you will
make use of this statement by publishing it for the bene-
fit of humanity generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
PNEUMONIA and PLEURISY
cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
I, Prudence M'Kee, of Carr-street, South Geelong, in
view of the importance of a person making it quite clear
what treatment was successful in curing a serious and
complicated case when the medicine, directions and treat-
ment of a legally qualified doctor had failed, state as
follows:
My son, Henry M'Kee, then aged 8 years, had been
attended by a legally qualified doctor, who pronounced
him to be suffering from Pneumonia, Pleurisy and a
stoppage of the passing of Urine. Under the doctor’s
treatment the child gradually got worse, and the doctor
pronounced the case hopeless. He told me that the
child could not live. At this stage I obtained from
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Chemist, of Geelong, a bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and gave it to the child, ac-
cording to the directions which accompany each bottle
of it. The child improved after the second dose of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. He continued to improve
each day from each dose of Hearne’s Medicine alone, and
within three days he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy, and the Urine was passing satis-
factorily. He was out of bed at the end of a week,
completely recovered, and he is now in perfect health.
PRUDENCE M'KEE,
Carr-street, South Geelong, Feb. 6, 1908.
CONSUMPTION.
Too 111 to Leave His Bed.
A Complete Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonder-
ful cure your medicine has effected in my case. About
three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough
was not severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became
very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my
chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several oc-
casions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I
had been treated by a doctor who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill
to leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two
lots of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure,
for which accept my very best thanks. Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
BRONCHITIS and PLEURISY.
A Severe Case Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
After Other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered
from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to
my room for about a week, at the end of which time,
feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact
my business as usual. But I got up too soon, for the
very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from
what the doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis.
The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders
was frightful, and for four long weeks I was confined to
my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor,
and all the time his medicine gave me but temporary
relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where
I resided, told me of a medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure—from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad at-
tack of bronchitis and pains in the chest, and begged
of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude
to you, tell you that, after the second bottle, my cough
had ceased; but what is more astonishing, the pains from
pleurisy entirely left me, and in about a week I was able
to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully,
J. BRAHAM.
Melbourne “ Punch ” Office, Melbourne.
ASTHMA-A 17 YEARS CASE.
Previous Treatment Failed.
Cured by Three Bottles,
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, wrote: —“ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine I quite got rid of the asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it.
The medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure
in recommending it.”
Speaking in February, 1908, he states: —“I am keeping
very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
“ Hearne’s Medicine cured me of Asthma, from which
I had been suffering for twenty-five years, during which
time I had used almost every patent medicine on the
market—including asthma inhalations—without getting a
cure. It was 8 years ago that the cure was effected
by Hearne’s Medicine, and I now feel stronger than I
have felt for years—in fact. I feel splendid.”
C. WISEMAN,
Meredith, Victoria.
|}p W n |T in of Imitations! The great success of HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure has induced a number of
aeware UI .* each caUing his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,'- with the object of deceiving
unprincipled persons to make imitations, jmitat ion which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S
the unsuspecting, and so ge mg become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you
Bronchitis Cure has. Consequently it has become necessary r
fn your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S, ana see tnat you B et it.
es.eu O/«. I nro-P 4- 6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
HEA p™. R r?w C a T H E SRI;| to any AUOress, when not obtainabie ioeaiiy.
NOTICE-Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1a does NOT contain any Morphia or any Opium whatever. It is equally benelicial
f or the youngest child and the most aged person.
Food
4
4
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Fjcnger’s Food is sold in tins by Cheitiists, &c., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
t3he LEADING
HOUSE ™
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS'.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
"WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
"THE rtAINE
ff/f/e
:<!hp.ijjinQ PiflQflpsrr
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
CANT
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2|lb„ fitted with plain V back sight 12/0
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards ...
15-
Postage on one Rifle-ls 3d, N.S.W. ; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrir
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism. Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, ls 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d.' The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and . My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chroraos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of ypung and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted t 6 innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or wonian who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How TO Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hotle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter, Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. £of~ Established, 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only^
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY,
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How ro Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 64
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is,
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, 84
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 19 fid, Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all) I*fcgrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. IV.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Univkrsai
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
'FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free sou writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
r
* w p
%
*kUn G
*h
4
DYSON’S “ Faet’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d.
lightful and wickedly true.”*
“De-
WHY DON’T
YOU BUY A
WINCHESTER?
61- per 100 ;
57/6 per 1000
Winchester Repeating' Rifles
1892 Model, - 32 Calibre, Central Fire, 6 shot,
24-inch Octagon Barrel, Weight about 7 lb.
PRICE 59/
Winchester Repeating Carbines
1892 Model, '32 Calibre, Central i’ire, 6 Shot,
20-inch Round Barrel, Weight about 5f lb.
PRICE 56/6
THUMB TRIGGER S.S. MODEL, -22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long
22 Long Rifle Cartridges ... ... ... . ’
1902 S.S. MODEL, ‘22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long, 22 Long Rifle Cartridges,
1904 S.S. MODEL, ‘22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long, 22 Long Rifle Cartridges,
1906 REPEATER, ’22 Cal., takes 15 '22 Cal. Short Cartridges
15/-
20/-
2 51-
45/-
JAMES MARTIN & CG.
683 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakker),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereach Streets *
m~ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS Etc IN ST(W
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
%£ Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Prir’P* f\f\ POST FREE, £1 per year,
* A ivC "ll« j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters rnay be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR J. E. SOANTLEBUBY
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COST UM IE RES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received y
our head cutter
Copy of Testimonial. gqvernmeNT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY. (
Lady Mary Lygon wishes me to say ta
she is thoroughly satisfied with the two cos u
you have made for her, ivhichfit very wel •
(Signed) C. JARDINIER-


Note
Trade Mark.
Sr
22
i
a
In Nature’s Service.
Men, women and (especially) children need at
times a corrective, laxative remedy when Nature
is sluggish in her duties. Biliousness, headache,
indigestion and flatulence generally indicate a
constipated condition, and the surest, safest and
pleasantest help to Nature is
ttl
?hllfilliii) I
m
! S t
This ideal household laxative has gained its
great reputation by sheer merit, as it is quite
opposed to old-time ideas of drastic purgation,
and acts thoroughly but gently and naturally
upon the liver, stomach and kidneys without any
discomfort at all. Be sure, therefore, that you
ask for California Syrup of Figs.
Emphasise the word CALIFORNIA when purchasing, and look for the circle Trade
Mark in Blue at top of package. From all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
these rnrr
prizes inLL
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us to sell more we offer FREE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id. each, or 6d. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
we will forward you 6 Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Filled Mutt
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
Books, Dressing Cases and many others. The more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don't send any money—just your name and address.
BOOKSTALL GO.
/ Post Card \
V Department /f
476 George-street, SYDNEY.
• •
STOP THAT COUGH ..
BY TAKING
MRS. MACLURCAN\S
COUGH CURE.
All Chemists and
Storekeepers, « /:
Price *' U
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia) until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
422 GEORGE STREET.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed,
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medal:
Birmingham, England.
Works s
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotflng Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Humping of the Cross.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AKE up your cross and hump it—what tho’
I the way be long.
Go ! seize your heavy burden, nor heed
the jeering throng.
Yhat tho’ a thousand Peters your mateship
should deny,
lake up your mournful gallows—march on to
Calvary !
When Pilate’s bones are rotten and Caiaphas is
still,
The world shall chant your praises in anthems
loud and shrill!
Yea, priests shall bleat and palter—shall fashion
from your creed
A gospel vain and crawlful to suit the Lords of
Greed ;
Put man shall rise and spurn them, shall sift away
the dross —
March on, ye Christs sad-hearted—tramp forward
with the Cross !
'The fools shall roar their laughter, the pedants of
the schools
:Shall mock your Credo simple—shall cite ten
thousand rules
From sophists old and modern; yea, liars great
and small
Shall pile aloft their falsehoods in mountains
brave and tall!
The friends of yester-even shall creep like worms
away,
And none shall stand beside you when Pilate’s
flunkeys bray ;
Yet grasp your cross and haul it with calm,
unflinching mien—
Aye, bear it forth with courage as did the
Nazarene !
Go forth, ye Saviours, bravely ; nor count it bitter
loss
When none will heed your message—tramp on-
ward with the Cross !
They stumbled down the ages, the Christs who
went before,
Their shoulders galled and bleeding, their fore-
heads crimsoned o’er ;
They won the world its freedom, nor grudged the
price they paid ;
Go, drag your gibbets onward—be ye no more
afraid !
Let Judas clutch his pieces—’tis but his soul’s
small hire—
For him no chant shall echo, no hand shall build
a spire !
The priests and scribes may threaten, but lo !
when in the tomb
Your thoughts shall move the shuttles in Reason’s
tireless loom !
The Great Sanhedrim, wailing, shall patch its
broken joss;
For Truth at last shall triumph—march onward
with the Cross !
Fat Pilates robed in purple shall ye cross-bearers
see,
And hear the cry, “ Barabbas ! ” ring out re-
morselessly !
The thief ye shall see chosen for freedom in your
stead,
And Justice, blind and shackled, shall hang in
grief her head ;
The mob shall roar derision, and yet —though
deaf their ears —
Your words shall ring for ever athwart the waste
of years !
The altars old shall perish—the lies of priestly
thieves
Shall blow athwart the ages like winter’s scattered
leaves !
Yea, men at last shall hearken —shall leave their
idols gross ;
All lands shall hail as Saviours the men who
humped the Cross !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.
By Rail and Semaphore.
THE OMAPERE MYSTERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FLIJTER was away on sick leave when the
first news catne of the Omapere mystery,
and the Old Man seemed to think that
Fluter must have arranged the trouble in order to
test his ability to cope with a conundrum. He put
his head on one side and assumed a thoughtful
expression.
“Look here, there’s too much blasted red tape
about these fellows. Just go through this heap
of vain repetitions, boil ’em down, and let me
have the summary. One loses the thread of the
business in the mass.”
Then he went off to the Club to fortify himself,
and I settled down to the dreary task of condens-
ing the story of the mystery. The first letter was
from the S.M. It was brief and to the point. It
consisted of a large sheet of handwoven linen fep,
and ran as follows :
Omapere Stn.,
Sept. 30, 18 —.
District Traffic Manager,
Romahapa.
Sir, — . .
I enclose the attached papers for your informa-
tion. Personally, I can throw no light on the matter,
as Mr. Mclvor was in charge at the time.
Your obedient servant,
Francis Dennis Malone,
Then came Mclvor’s report. It was more ver-
Omapere Stn., 30-9-
S.M., Omapere.
I regret to have to report a most painful matter.
This morning-1 made up the cash for the bank, arid lodge
the same in the safe till after the departure °f the ® "
press, as I make a practice of banking the cash on y
way to lunch. When I went to the safe I found the Dag
containing the money had disappeared. I have maae
careful search, but failed to discover any trace of it. uniy
members of the staff were in the office during the penoa
in which the bag was taken. I shall be very graceful i
you can give me any hint as to what I should propose
do. I need hardly say that I consider that I "
sonally responsible for the money. I have an aged
and two young sisters to support, and will be glad if you
will bring the fact under the notice of the Manager. I
would venture to suggest that search warrants should pe
taken out, and the homes of those members of the staff
who were in the office during the time the money w
taken, systematically searched, as some of them must
have taken it. I believe that if this were done the money
would be recovered. It consisted mostly of Bank of New
Zealand notes, a small sprinkling' of silver, and a few
half-sovereigns,
Awaiting your instructions
I am, your obedient servant,
Archibald Mclvor.
The next letter was a copy of a brief note from
Malone informing Archibald Mclvor that he was
suspended pending the Manager’s instructions.
In the fourth document John Arbuthnot Mason,
in charge of the Goods, explained that he entered
the office at 12.45 p.m. and found everybody in a
frantic state, searching for the vanished bag of
cash. He heard a lot of recrimination, during
which Mr. Mclvor accused everybody of having
taken it, and declared that he was hopelessly
ruined unless that money was restored instantly.
He left at once, thinking it was a good place to
be out of.
William Maddocks Smith, telegraphist, next
filled four sheets of foolscap with the statement
that Mr. Mclvor discovered the loss of the bag at
12.28 p.m., and called him a “ thieving cow.”
Then he added a postscript that filled two more
pages of foolscap, and declared on his honor that
he knew nothing of the affair, and was honest, and
not a cow.
Frank G. Gilmore, junior porter, filled several
badly-soiled sheets with reiterations that he knew
nothing of where the money had gone, and gave
lurid details of the exact language which Mr.
Mclvor had used. He concluded with a pathetic
statement to the effect that he had a wife and two
small children to support, and that his salary was
totally inadequate for the purpose.
Charles Henry Perkins, telegraph messenger,
filled one sheet with the information that he had
been four years in the service without a “ stane ” '
on his character, in spite of which Mr. Mclvor
had taken 1 him by the neck and threatened to
shake the internal machinery out of him unless he
instantly restored the missing money. He con-
cluded with an earnest request that his boarding-
house should be searched at once. In a postscript
he admitted that he had £5 17s. 9d. in the Savings
Bank, but had banked none of it after the loss of
the money.
John Henry Egley, chief porter and shunter,
supplied a small two volume history of his antece-
dents. Also those of his wife. He furnished
the information that his family consisted of three
girls, his own boy, and an orphan boy whom his
dead sister had left him to rear. He only poked
his nose inside the ticket window and asked what
the rumpus was about, but did not go inside at
all, and knew nothing of it. He admitted having
said to Mr. Mclvor, when he was making up the
cash two hours previously, that he could do a beer
ai.d didn’t care a who paid for it; but he
swoie he had no hand in taking the cash. With
his family and the adopted boy he could not afford
to dream of such goings on. He hoped the Mana-
ger would acquit him without a stain on his
character.
After reading all these letters I summarised the
matter in a little thing of my own :
D.T.M. Romahapa.
Sir, — Re lost cash at Omapere.
The Sub-S.M., A. Mclvor, had made up the bank
cash about 9.30 a.m., put it in the bag- he used for the
purpose, and left the bag in a safe, the door of which
he neglected to even close, let alone lock. At 12.28
it was found that bag and cash had “ walked,” and
just there history ends and conjecture begins. The
subordinate officers supply no information apart from
the fact that they have a remarkable number of
small or aged relatives to support.
Your obedient servant,
* * * *
Two hours later Jones was on his way to
Omapere to investigate. He arrived there at
9 p.m., and 30 minutes later had the whole staff
of the place on the highway to a glorious drunk.
The only man not present was John Arbuthnot
Mason, who excused himself on the ground of
liver.
At midnight Jones and the S.M. adjourned to
the office, whither Mclvor had preceded them.
The S.M. smoked one of Jones’s cigars. Mclvor
was unable to smoke for weeping over the effect
of the discovery on his aged mother. He was
anxious to discover what Mr. Jones thought the
Manager would make him do.
“ Bay it off at the rate of a quid a week, and by
the end of that it will have been forgotten. You’ll
be all right. Buck up!” .
Next morning Jones commenced his investiga-
tions. He fortified Mclvor with a solitary
whisky, and then commenced to ask him questions.
“ Pray God your books may be all right, old
man. The auditor will be here to-night. Have
you any debts outside?”
“ Only about £5,” said the unhappy Mclvor.
“Who do you think took it?” inquired the
Labor Saver. , . , ,
Mclvor placed his hands on his mouse-colored
hair and thought hard.
“I really cannot suspect any one more than
another,” he said wearily. ,
“ Did any of the fellows who were in the office
between 9.30 and 12.28 leave the station, or might
they have left it without your knowledge, do you
all begged to be searched, and I am
afraid I lost my head and searched them all. 1
don’t think they could have been away for more
than five minutes. Still they might have passed
it to a confederate outside.”
“ I think not; this is a case of sudden tempta-
tion following quickly on good opportunity. Who
had the most opportunities to approach the safe .
* ‘ Smith, the telegraphist. No one else had any
reason to go to the safe ; but his telegraph forms
lie on top of it.” .. ,
“ And this johnny, Smith—what are his clan-
destine vices, or has he none ?
“No I don’t think he has any. The only man
here with vices is Egley, and his vice is free
drinks : but he wasn’t inside.’
“Well, about John Arbuthnot Mason—good
Lord, what a name ! Has he any vices ? ”
“Oh, no; he’s a regular church-goer, and
teaches in the Sunday-school.”
Jones swore.
“ He has it, I’ll swear !
“ But he didn’t come in till after the loss had
been discovered.” . , . ~ , a ...
“Then he worked it with this bloke Smith.
I’ll cross-examine Smith. Where did Mason
stand when he came in, did you notice.
“Yes, against the door. Then he handed his
kev to Gilmore, who looks after the shed in his
lunch hour, and went off. He was carrying his
coat over his arm.” „
“ What sort of a coat was that !
“ A mackintosh. Here is one just like it. You
can’t tell the difference between them. As a
matter of fact, now I look at the collar I find this
must be Mason’s coat. Mine has my name on it;
his hasn’t and he’s taken mine in mistake.
Then Jones strolled off down to the shed. He
talked to the men loading the trucks, and
gradually wheedled out the fact that when Mason
left the shed the day before he was carrying in-
voices in one hand and a walking stick in the
other. The coat had left no impression on the
man’s mind.
(Continued on next page.)


HOW ZAM-BUK BALM
Aids the Missionary
Grateful Acknowledgment fre -i the Islands.
The following letter from Missionary Brother Alphonsus provides yet
another typical example of the vigorous crusade against skin-troubles and skin-
diseases Zam-Buk Balm is effecting.
More convincing proof of Zam-Buk’s
unique healing and curative powers
would be well-nigh impossible, and the
hearty testimony of such men as the
Rev. Brother should convince even the
most sceptical reader that Zam-Buk is
the ideal healing Balm.
Thb Mission, Nukualofa,
South Sea Islands.
The Zam-Buk Co.,
Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—l beg to express my sincerest
thanks and heartfelt gratitude for the good
Zam-Buk Balm is doing out here.
My superior, The Right Rev. Dr. Olier,
S.M., Bishop of Tipasa, and Vic. Apostolic
of Central Oceania, has been suffering from
a severe attack of rheumatism and numb-
ness in one of his knees for some months,
and although he has tried all known reme-
dies, he was unable to get rid of the pain. I
gave him a small pot of Zam-Buk Balm and
told him to try it. He did so, and gained
great relief. On finishing the first pot the
pain and numbness was completely
banished. He says it is a wonderful Balm
and is sure the second pot which I gave him
would completely cure.
When I came over here to Tapu
last August, I found one of the Natives _
suffering from a ‘rotter. ’ ankle. It was ulcerated and swollen to the size of a duck’s egg.
I took it in hand and treated the wound with Zam-Buk Balm, which has checked
the ulceration. It is now drying up splendidly and healing rapidly. I hope to
have it completely cured a week hence.
The Rev. Father Bellwald, S.M., Director of the College here, was suffering
from a severe cold in the head, resulting in copious discharges from the nose. I
gave him a small pot of Zam-Buk, and told him to follow the directions and use it.
He did so, and was completely relieved of the distressing complaint after two inhalations.
Heartily thanking you,
Yours very sincerely and gratefully,
(Signed) REV. BROTHER ALPHONSUS, S.M.
' (/m xfM
&
4
■Tih
Zam-Buk isaßalmof sterl-
inff merit. By virtue ot
its remarkable'healingand
antiseptic power over all
injured and diseased con-
ditions of the skin, a pot
should be in every home.
Price 1/6 per pot, or 3/6,
family size, containing
nearly four times the 1/6. .
9
m
f j/?.
c
/
Vt
V
Then on to Mason in his little office :
“ Tell me all you know of this unfortunate busi-
ness, Mr. Mason ? ”
“ I know nothing of it,” said Mason. “ I left
here about 12.20, and when I got to the office
Mclvor was accusing everybody. I put my coat —
my mackintosh, I mean—on, and went home to
lunch after giving the key to the porter who looks
after the shed in my absence.”
“Did you meet anyone coming away from the
office ? ”
“No, the only man I met was Bishop, the
bank manager, in the shelter shed waiting till
the rain stopped. I really know nothing about it.”
“ Was it raining very heavily ? ”
“Yes, it was. A shower came on just as I was
half way to the office.”
“ Um, lucky for you you had your coat! ”
“I did—yes, it was.”
Jones looked dreamfully across the shunting
yard, and, lighting a cigar, moved off without
saying good-bye. He strolled leisurely to the
station.
‘ ‘ What bank does Bishop manage ? ” he asked
Mclvor.
“ The Colonial. Why ? ”
“Oh, nothing; I want to call on him, that’s
all.”
* * * *
The bank manager sat in his parlor. He had
heard of the violent Jones, and was astonished to
find such a quiet, well-mannered man. What
could he do for him ?
“ You can throw some light on the unfortunate
affair at the station, I believe ? ”
“I! Good heavens, no ! ”
“ Yes, I think so. Mr. Mason tells me he saw
you just outside the booking-office yesterday when
he was going in.”
The speechless manager laid a hand on Jones’
arm, and glared at him.
“ What on earth ”
“ Don’t misunderstand me, please. These men
are so excited that they have forgotten what really
happened. Whom did you see go in and come out ?
This money was taken by one man, and passed
out of the office by a confederate.”
“Well, I was waiting there a good half-hour,
and saw only Mason go into the office. The rain
was coming down heavily. He rushed in, wiping
his arms with his handkerchief, and came out
wearing his macintosh. He nodded and went on.
I saw no one else.”
“ I suppose you are sure about him donning the
coat inside ? ’•’
“Can swear to it! ”
Then Jones streaked back to the office.
“Mclvor, did you search your coat pockets—
your macintosh pockets—when the coat was first
missed ? ”
“No; not right away. Smith seemed to think
it a joke, and behaved for all the world like a man
who had hidden the bag. Later on he seemed to
realise how serious it was, and made efforts to dis-
cover it. He searched the pockets of the macin-
tosh hanging behind the far door, and seemed
certain that it was hidden in that for a practical
joke?”
“ This thing is as clear as mud. Send Smith
here ! ”
Smith came in looking uncomfortable.
“ Let’s go over to the pub. Could you do some
whisky, Smith?”
Smith opined he could, and they went out
together.
J ones led the way to a private room and called
for drinks. When they were assimilated, he
offered Smith a cigar, and turned to Mclvor.
“ By the way, Mac, there was a tall, fair lady,
with blue eyes, called for you while you were out
this morning. I met her at the door as I came
back from the Goods. Wants you to go round
and see her at this address.”
And, as he shoved across a piece of paper. Smith
said, “Mr. Mclvor was inside all this morning.”
“ Well, I thought he was out, and told the lady
so. So you’d better go and see her.”
When Mclvor had gone, Jones poured out
some more whisky, and drew his chair closer to
Smith’s.
“ Yop’ve made a mess of it, Smithy ! Was it
only a joke, or did you work in with Mason ? ”
Smith turned suddenly sick. He stared at
Jones in hopeless terror.
“Joke, wasn’t it?”
“Yes!” whispered Smith. “Has Mason got
it ? How did he get it ? ”
“Tell me exactly what you did, and I’ll
explain.”
“I thought I’d have a lark. We’ve been tell-
ing Mclvor he’d lose the bank cash for a cert,
some day, with his silly habit of leaving the safe
door open. He had his macintosh on, and the
pocket was open, and I slipped the bag into his
pocket. Later on, he took the macintosh off and
hung it behind the door. When I heard the bag
was missing, I laughed, and when I saw he was
nearly mad with terror, I rushed over to his coat
to get it out of the pocket, and, my God ! it had
gone. It wasn’t there !”
“Very good reason why. Mason had walked
off with Melvor’scoat instead of his own, and the
cash was in the pocket. The coats were hanging
alongside each other. You silly Juggins.”
Then Jones went down to the Goods office with
a light heart.
“ Got your overcoat here to-day, Mr. Mason ? ”
“Yes, why?”
“ Well, you will find it is Mclvor’s coat you are
wearing—his name is inside the collar, and his
lost cash is in the pocket.”
Mason took the coat down and looked inside the
collar.
“ There’s the name, right enough. Now for the
cash.”
Mason drew his hand out of one pocket and
then the other.
“Nothing here,” he said, passing the coat to
Jones.
Jones examined it carefully, and then he turned
to Mason, but before he spoke he looked round
cautiously to see they were alone.
“Well, I guess it will pay you to find that cash
in the pocket inside the next twenty minutes.
It might be impossible to prove it, but whether or
not your days in the service are numbered—unless
that cash is found. Smith can prove he put it
there for Mclvor to take to the bank. Bishop
can prove you were not wearing a coat when you
went into the office, and were wrapped in one
when you came out. Better find the cash, Mason !
So-long ! ”
Ten minutes later Mason, who was out of breath
and seemed to have been running, made the
startling discovery that he had inadvertently
taken Mclvor’s coat, and what he thought was
his pet novel in the pocket turned out to be the
missing cash. When Jones inquired the distance
to Mason’s boarding house he reckoned that
Mason might just have done it in the time if he
took all the available short cuts.
When Jones went back he told the Old Man
about it in confidence just in case anything of the
sort cropped up again, and the Old Man, in a
burst of moral indignation, sacked Smith for being
a fool who played practical jokes; dismissed
Mclvor because he was a fool, who left his safe
unlocked ; and discharged Mason.because he con-
sidered his conduct eminently unsatisfactory.
Later on he threatened to sack Jones for insult-
ing language, when that officer told him how
pained he was at this wicked abuse of confidence.
C. A. JEFFRIES.
The Bible.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ West of Dubbo there are townships without a Bible.”
Bible-Society-man’s lament.
LT chanced, when afternoon was late,
And the children homeward ran,
That there paused beside the farmhouse
gate
A meek and holy man.
He was, without the slightest doubt,
An extremely holy man.
He met the farmer with a smile
And a glance that was full of glee;
It seemed suggesting, all the while,
“ Will you ask me in to tea ?
My Christian friend, do you intend
To ask me in to tea ? ”
The farmer bade him sit right there,
And he called his wife aside;
No beef was on the bill of fare,
Though a cow had lately died
(’Tis acause of grief to be offered beef
When a cow has lately died)
But he bade her boil the new-laid eggs,
Bring linen from the press,
And he ran the children off their legs
Hunting for watercress ;
For chicken cold looks well, I’m told,
Garnished with watercress.
And he donned a collar and a coat
Ere he carved the juicy ham !
He talked of crops, and the Guv’ment vote,
And never a once said Damn ;
With a holy guest the host had best
Refrain from saying Damn.
The kiddies sat as dumb as smoke,
And clean as a row of pins ;
They were much too awed by the holy bloke
To kick at each other’s shins.
They were used, I own, when they dined alone,
To kick at each other’s shins.
The Pious Chap had the squarest feed
He had had for many a day ;
And he said, “ Give thanks to the Lord indeed !
My friends, shall we read and pray?”
The kids looked blank when they heard him thank,
And offer to read and pray !
The farmer was red, and his wife was pink ;
They scrambled and scraped around ;
They searched the corners, but —what d’ye think ?
No Bible could be found !
There was never a cleft (since grandma left)
Where a Bible could be found !
The Holy Man threw his eyes aloft,
And his face was a sight to see ;
His voice was oily, and smug, and soft
As he gently sighed, “ Dear me ! ”
A professional touch ; you can mean so much
With a softly-moaned “ Dear me !”
“Oh, what do you do” (his voice forlorn
Was like water down your sleeve),
“ Oh, what do you do on the Sabbath morn,
And what on the Sabbath eve ?
Do you never pray on the Sabbath day.
Or kneel on the Sabbath eve ? ’’
“Well,” said the farmer, “I prunes and digs
In the garden over there ;
There’s always the ’orse, or else the pigs,
If I got an hour to spare ;
I tell ye true, there’s lots to do
When you got the time to spare !
“ The kids likes ’elpin’ with the cows
When there ain’t no sports nor school;
The missis is busy round the ’ouse,
And you see that she ain’t no fool;
It ’elps a lot when you know you got
A missis that ain’t no fool ! ’’
But the Pious Cove he knelt and prayed
With a calm, long-suffering look,
For each separate soul in that house dismayed
Which hadn’t the Holy Book.
Yes, that was a word which oft occurred :
He was Nuts on the Holy Book !
There was Whisky and Milk, sweet, cool, and fat
(And the glass filled up once more),
Ere the Saintly Party grabbed his hat,
And moved to the farmhouse door.
The missis was glad, and the kids weren’t sad
When his coat-tails passed the door !
And in the city I heard him prate
(His eloquence at its best)
Of the terribly shocking Heathen state
Of the folks who lived out West:
In his deepest tone he fetched a groan
For the Pagan homes out West.
But—never a word of the new-laid eggs
Or the honey as amber clear.
And never a word of the chicken-legs
Did he let his audience .hear ;
Of the milk made nice with a bracing splice
That gathering did not hear !
And I think that I, on the whole, preferred
The kiddies come home from school,
The farmer who dodged the Bad, Bad Word,
And the missis who weren’t no fool;
’Taint parsons’ tales helps New South Wales,
But the missis who ain’t no fool!
VIC.
PRIAM.


“Four years ago I had to stop shearing, as I suffered
so with rheumatism, caused by the damp sheep. As the
liniments and medicines I tried
did me no good, I thought seri-
ously of going to the hospital,
but was induced to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. From the first bot-
tle I began to get better. I took
seven bottles in all, and I now am
free from pain, and can eat and
grandly. I feel like a new
man.” A. H. Watson,
Gawler, S. A.
a
This is one ®f very many letters testifying to the value of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla in cases of rheumatism. Keep your blood pure by using
AYER’S s arsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. There are many
imitations that will do you no good. Get “AYER’S."
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., TJ. S. A.
&
i
Garden Seeds
0
I
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving away prizes such as MUSICAL
LADIES’and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS. SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER,
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward you 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette,
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we wi'l send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every case
positively as represented in our illustrations.
m
'O
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
[CUBEBS and
[COPAIBA.
J Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
The Standard Ttemedy which has outlived the Centuries
SrjBLETQN'S EYE OINTMEHT.
In use since 1596.
cures
Australian Blight, Falling Eynlashes.Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
JUDGED BY RESULTS
It is no wonder that BEE CHAM'S PILLS enjoy the popularity
they do. In both hemispheres they are the favorite medicine
in countless thousands of households, and their value in
correcting trouble appertaining to the Stomach, Liver, Kidneys,
and Bowels is a matter of common knowledge.
BE£CHAM'S
pt US
are specially useful in the early stages of disease. Directly
any symptoms of Indigestion, Flatulence, Biliousness, or
Constipation show themselves, the sufferer should at once
commence a course of these pills; and he will find that in
the immediate improvement, rapid cure, and consequent
saving of time and trouble, they
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold Everywhere in boxes, price 10%d. (36 pills), 1/1)4 (56
pills), and 2/9 (168 pills).
P
are
amon
Sydney—Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St.; F. H. Faulding & Co., 0 Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattmson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ,
Austral,an Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers A V>rt
Proprietary, O’ConneU St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St..
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd.
Manufactured by Harold Somers. Brook)yn,;.N.Y., U.^.A
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Buei.etin. The two represent the
complete Austin ' i an reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office . -14
George Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNES
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Conuine)
the best remedy known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England — lll%, 2/9, 4/6.
Tremendously Powerful
Long Stroke, Automatic
WINDMILL.
Australian Invention
QUOTATIONS SENT ON
APPLICA TION.
WINDMILLS can be in-
spected working at Bay
Road Railway Station,
North Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
mm pills am
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLO KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 „ G.P.0.. SYDNEY .
ASTH MA CURE
ERlWWIirs INDIAN CIS&RETTES 1
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Cough*.
t? ' a’ire Ro'd bv all Chemists-
<¥ MENahoXt
WOMEN.
Or. John Martin, M.D.&o.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
« The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Sw, over 600 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work pushed. It is a true guide for all
the diseases ” Men and Women It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the Sc It is a complete Encyclopaedia ef information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing chron c, nervous exhausting, or painful diseases. .Vo Mar book has ever been published.
sufferi * R frem any ailment, Dr. Martin Will send a Copy of
FREE* this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
ouG r t m FRE£ 0F CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men's special Ailments
on receipt of this adversisement fST"ffote Address s
DB. MARTIN, M.D., “**»*>y House,-’ 151 Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


“Watershed” Oilskin
Thi s is undoubtedly the finest coat made for use
when walking-, riding or driving. It buttons over
to tne side, thus giving a seamless front—quite
rainproof. 1
~ sleeves are fitted with elastic cuffs inside :
the skirt is cut full, allowing ample room for leg
movement. s
When used for riding the skirt falls over both
sides of the saddle, keeping the legs quite dry.
°f the saddle is also covered.
‘ Ougong ’’Watersbpd, in Yellow or Black,
s sent carriage paid for 27/6. It is light in weight
leather-stayed, and has shoulder epaulets.
u jie Rainbow ” Watershed is a heavier make of
medium weight, and a splendid coat for very
ro ”2f wear. Sent carriage paid for 22/6
When ordering, please give height and chest
measurement over coat.
Ask fer details of other Oilskins with samples of
materials—post free. r
PER.DRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD,
270 George Street, Sydney.
Ll
■ ' ■■■■
• Ll
RABBIT
DESIROYERS
will clear the run in
a few weeks. Now
used all overN.S.YV.
SPRAYERS
will save a Pastoralist 10 per cent, of his
breeding ewes if sprayed before lambing.
TYREE LTD., 314 GEBRGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
-V_-.
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about XSlbs. Operated bv eemnressed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Brills.
SOLE AGENTS:
W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
596 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Water S
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES,
:*■
$
Write for
“B"
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
Scissors )
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mark
©OSOQ
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
WOLF
At the Showrooms-
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
...... SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK.”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
OHN HURST & CO. „ „
. n « jeweiur,. 321 Qeetge St. to 4 Hunter St., Sydne
,
Mat-virtue
Catalogues Mailed Free.
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINERY
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE,
Seventeen Years ’ Service,
Fully Testedand found in-
comparably the BEST.
WILL our valued Pastoral
Friends kindly note
altered style of our FIRM
when sending orders or
enquiries.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED
VICTORIA : D. A. Skene, 484 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
7 BENT STBIET, SYDNEY.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing: 00. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND : Federal Sheep Shearing: Co. Ltd., Marg;aret Street, Toowoemba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep A.)Co. Ltd.. Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
N. B.—Duplicates and
Supplies obtainable
from all Agencies.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
P All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock,
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, andiron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/'
44
METALLIC TUBING”
out affitog th:&UittsX rto rS ““ totS«r len » th ’ r 0l f led Sp i? lly r d ~ that «* •<*»> instock, with-
packing of Lbbec or Asbestosth ead which £ SiLS a S™» v f « for the reception of a specially prepared
from internal or external wear. This ’ S, a/tab T^t* 8 iV',t° lled ’ k«P“* it fully protected
flexibility in the smaller sizes equal, and in the larger sizes far s im. id,, !!,,bf mterlockln S 1 feature induces a
It is made capable of carrying Steam at all SSL.™2 ?“^=. H ? Se ef,W>e tame size and strength.
It is made capable of carrying Steam at all nrpwiihnq 't >nl!n! <,r t 0 LtU , ,er tlose of the same size and strength.
Gasoline, Naphtha, Compressed Air, and Hydraulic purposes also^- he best Hose for oils > Gas,
perfectly flexible at all temperatures. It will not Char Kink or rnuh by e , xtl ' e “ e Heafc or C °ld, and remains
per square inch. -Made in all sizes from 4-inch \n 10 in l *Z a c \ can be su PP bed to stand pressure up to 20001 b.
not reduce the capacity as in other Tubing.——^— Soeciallv arl-irToHf' ternal bamete *_- Connections being fitted outside do
Cranes—Locomotive and Tender Connections Air Brakes -mil FT r Air Bock Drills—Steam and Hydraulic
Hose-Gas Tubing for Laundries-KirSfil" Tabe Cleaners-Fire Engine Suction
—Oil
Refineries
spcuhiug Tubes, OH rue.
All Storekeepers,
er direct from
R. A. HERVEY, C,4g”“- Cer. Clarence & King Streets, Sydney.
■ Vi
Z
\ - *•>. '
CENTRIFUGAL SWIVELLED PUMPS
Of the VERY HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
PULSGiETER ENGINEERING CO., ENGLAND
GUTHRIDGE. LTD.. Syiwy m
So/©
