

to the Wise is sufficient
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND ...
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
HOBART.
[jadleys Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
ir
ggiwmi
Ms
Take it back*
I must have
HUTTON S
PincApplc Braad
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
♦
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring; St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. *€3l
all u)(ZU{j&uj > u ihrt.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
are . . . . .
TELEPHONES
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
instructions
Free.
THE “SILVERTOWN»
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch:
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYD3NTBY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit*Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Royal
Dutch
is the Queen of &II Cocoas
FOR,
B\romutrei\gtK^Purit>:
WRITE
EfISTWfIY’S, SYDNEY.
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, {Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
engineers,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA WATER.
Helidon Spa Water prevents a vitiated
state of gastric functions.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1479.]
[Thursday, June 18, 1908-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


™NEW E BO(?KS. George Robertson & Go. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Burke Maxims and Reflections, Is 3d, post 3d.
Hueffir, Fifth Queen Crowned, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Whiting, The Complete Cook, 7s 6d, postage Bd.
Conder, The Rise of Man, 14s, postage Bd.
Dutchfield Charm of the English Village, 9s, post Bd.
Paullsen, German Education, 6s, postage 6d.
Oliphant, Salim Chapel, cloth 9d, postage 3d.
Low, America at Home, illustrated, Cs, post Bd.
Wilson, Norway at Home, illustrated, 6s, post Bd.
Cook, Gardening Made Easy, Is 9d, postage 4d.
Elwell, Practical Bridge, 7s, postage 6d.
Tarkington, Monsieur Beaucaire, etc., cloth 9d, post 3d.
Mentor, Self Instruction in Gas Supply, 6s, post 6d.
Moon, Gas Engineers’ Price Book, 4s, post 6d.
THE BOOK FOR
BOOKFELLOWS,
TOASTS AND MAXIMS
A Book of Humor to pass the Time, collected from Various Sources, Is. 3d., posted ks. 6»1,
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
C. HUDSON, Manufacturing: Chemist, 6 & 7 Queen’s Place. Sydney. Agencies in all the Australia::
States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
THE RED PAGE
The Poetical Drama.
The poetical drama—about which our
theatrical managers permit us in Australia
to know nothing—shows signs of life overseas.
It died gloriously with Shakspeare, and after
a long period of coma has once again been
revived. Three recently published plays
testify to its health. Of these, two, Lawrence
Binyon’s Attila and W. B. Yeats’ Deidre,
are typical of the dramatic renaissance.
Deidre is the more poetical, Attila the more
presentable. Deidre reads beautifully; Attila
must play better than it reads. And as the
poetical drama must be dramatic rather than
literary—for a play must be played—
it is to the type of Binyon’s tragedy
that we must the more hopefully look. Percy
Mackaye’s tragedy of Sappho and Phaon
is too elaborate, too antique, to instruct
us. It is an attempt to do what the Greek
tragedians did—and did rather well. As for
Swinburne’s The Duke of Gandia, it is
neither poetry nor drama.
W
The scene of Deidre (Bullen) is set in a guest-
house in a wood, in an imaginary country,
that may be described as Maeterlinck, and in
a land where it is always Celtic Twilight.
But this setting-forth of an old legend is too
inevitable to be dramatic ; the end is told
at the first entrance of the lovers, and all
that is left for the audience is to watch the
on-coming of the predestined tragedy. Yet
Yeats has the beautifying touch of the poet.
His is a mind
Fed on extravagant poetry, and lit
By such a dazzle of old fabulous tales
That common things are lost, and all that’s strange
Is true because ’twere pity if it were not.
He loves
Some old time not worth remembering,
And all the lovelier because a bubble.
The play is a slight thing, vaguely beauti-
ful ; it is an opal whose milky softness is lit
by flashing, significant phrases such as these :
You speak as women do that sit alone,
Marking the ashes with a stick till they
Are in a dreamy terror. ...
Do you remember that first night in the woods?
We lay all night on leaves, and, looking up,
When the first grey of the dawn awoke the birds,
Saw leaves above us. You thought that I still
slept,
And bending down to kiss me on the eyes,
Found they were. open. Bend and kiss me now,
For it may be the last before our death.
And when that’s over, we’ll be different;
Imperishable things, a cloud or a fire.
And I know nothing but this body, nothing
But that old vehement, bewildering kiss.
Charming and effectively dramatic is the
song of the musicians with which they greet
the entrance of the two lovers :
“ Why is it," Queen Edain said,
“ if I do but climb the stair
To the tower overhead,
When the winds are calling there,
Or the gannets calling out,
In waste places of the sky,
There’s so much to think about,
That I cry, that I cry l ”
But her good man answered her:
“ Love would be a thing of naught
Had not all his limbs a stir
Born out of immoderate thought.
Were he anything by half,
Were his measure running dry,
Lovers, if they may not laugh,
Have to cry, have to cry."
[Deidre and Naisi Enter.]
But is Edain worth a song
Now the hunt begins anew ?
Praise the beautiful and strong ;
Praise the redness of the yew;
Praise the blossoming apple-stem.
But our silence had been wise.
What is all our praise to them,
That have one another’s eyes ?
But delicate and haunting as is the melody
Yeats plays on his Irish harp, the modern
stage can give us more robust music, larger
harmonies, a more complex tone-coloring.
And in Lawrence Binyon’s Attila (Murray)
we have the big theme, the dramatic note.
Binyon has been wise in selecting as his
theme legend rather than history. Of
Attila, the Hun, all that is necessary to
know is that he was killed by a Burgundian
woman named Ildico, just as the conqueror
was about to descend on helpless Rome.
Indeed, it is George Meredith on whom
Binyon has cunningly drawn for plot and
detail. That stirring poem, The Nuptials of
Attila, with its haunting refrain,
Make the bed for Attila !
is closely followed by the dramatist. Chants
Meredith :
Flat as to an eagle’s eye,
Earth hung under Attila. . . .
On his people stood a frost.
Like the charger cut in stone,
Rearing stiff, the warrior host.
Which had life from him alone,
Craved the trumpet’s eager note,
As the bridled Earth the Spring. . ..
O, for the time when God did cry,
Eye and have, my Attila !
He breathed peace and pulled a flower,
Eye and have, my Attila !
This was the damsel Ildico,
Rich in bloom until that hour :
Shyer than the forest doe
Twinkling slim through branches green.
Yet the shyest shall be seen.
Make the bed for Attila ! ...
Iron-capped and iron-heeled,
Each against his fellow’s shield
Smote the spear-head, shouting, Live,
Attila ! my Attila !
Eagle, eagle of our breed,
Eagle, beak the lamb, and feed !
Have her, and unleash us ! livp,
Attila ! my Attila ! .. .
Still the woman holds him fast.
As a night-flag round the mast. ...
\t>
And on her nuptial night the woman stabs
her brutal lord ; and, infuriated, the horde
of Huns break into the palace.
Name us that,
Huddled in the corner dark.
Humped and grinning like a cat.
Teeth for lips I—’tis she ! she stares,
Glittering through her bristled hairs.
Rend her ! Pierce her to the hilt!
She is Murder : have her out!
What ! this little fist, as big
As the southern summer fig ! ~.
She that was his nuptial rose, ,-: x U
She was of his heart’s blood clad ;
Oh ! the last of him she had !
Could a little fist’ as big
As the southern summer fig
Push a, dagger’s point to pierce
Ribs like those ?. . .
She, the wild contention’s cause.
Combed her hair with quiet paws.
Make the bed for Attila ! . . .
So the Empire, built of scorn,
Agonised, dissolved and sank.
Of the Queen no more was told
Than of leaf on Danube rolled.
Make the bed for Attila !
Upon this stirring theme Binyon has built
a robust drama. But while the dramatist
has contrasted the crude strength of the
barbarian conqueror with the flower-like
beauty and Western meekness of the con-
quered Ildico, he has missed the full dramatic
significance of the situation—the' contest
between the discarded Hun odalisque and
the new favorite for the dominion of
this triumphant barbarian. Indeed, he mini-
mises the dramatic effect by introducing a
third woman, a Roman princess, who sends
Attila her ring as a pledge of her love. And
it is patently not patriotic fervor, but
feminine jealousy of this unseen rival, that
causes Ildico to slay the Hun on their nup-
tial night. Yet the tragedy is triumphantly
barbaric, huge and simple in its onset, emi-
nently actable. The language is not literary ;
it is meant to be robustly declaimed. How
well this speech should sound on the stage !
Slaves to a woman !
That Attila ever cast eyes—O gods,
This should be the Alps, and yonder Italy,
Vines, towers clashing all their bells in fear,
Rich cities quaking, walls to leap, and Rome.
And equally dramatic is Attila’s defiance of
failure.
We’re not taken, spite of Fate
And all her gins; we’ll make her omens laugh,
You and I, boy. You shall surpass me yet,
And we will war down everlasting Rome—
The weak can never wait, but I am patience—
Your son’s son shall inhabit Csesar’s house,
The ships on all the seas shall be his ships :
Far into Time I see them .. . sons ! My sons !
That is the stirring theatrical finale of one
act. Contrast it with the greater dramatic
art of another finale :
Attila : If the world is mine
To break within my hands, shall I renounce
The spice and sting that’s at the core of it ?
Onegesius :
Ay, better so, when the gods give you Rome.
Attila :
Onegesius, hark ! We that rode over earth
And trod it down, we are masters ; shall not we
Invade these powers that lurk within the cave
Of Time to be, and mock and baffle us ?
Show me the thing that boldness cannot quell!
I swear, did we burst in, our swords should find
Fate cowering there.
Onegesius : As perilous a world,
Perhaps, you are invading now.
Attila : What mean you ?
Onegesius : A woman’s soul.
Attila : O women, women, women !
Flowers to be plucked,—what force is in a flower
To harm or to be feared ? Flowers to be plucked !
It is a robust drama, showing good work-
manship rather than great dramatic art.
But the poem upon which it was founded is
greater art.
\\>
Very learned and archseologically exact is
Percy Mackaye’s tragedy of Sappho and
Phaon (Macmillan). It is “ set forth with a
prologue, induction, prelude, interludes, and
epilogue ” ; and is ingenious enough to prove
bewildering to its audience. The scene is an
excavated room in Herculaneum of the
present time, and the action is started
by an American archseologist discovering a
bronze box which seems to have been
a “make-up box” of an ancient Roman
actor. This is followed by the finding of a
scroll, which appears to be the “prompt-
copy ” of a tragedy called Sappho and Phaon,
written by Yarius, the poet, and enacted —in
the actual theatre upon which the archaeolo-
gist and his laborers are now at work—before
no less interesting people than Yirgil and
Horace. So there you have the play ! Med-
bury, the archseologist, is left upon the half-
excavated stage of the ancient theatre, and
idly toying with the make-up box, says :
“Actius, you sat here; your eyes looked
out of that mirror ; this dust was your paint.
You dipped your brush there—so fashion ;
touched your face—was it so, like that ?”
[ Here , without pausing, the modern actor, who
plays Medbury, continues to speak the words of the
Induction.']
The lights go up, and the room appears
perfectly renovated, devoid of tufa, or sign of
ruin, its wall-frescoes undimmed. You are
back in ancient Herculaneum, and this actor
is now Actius, the Roman mime, preparing
for his part of Phaon. And there, before
Horace and Yirgil, the actor rehearses his
part of Phaon. But the play is yet not be-
gun. There is first the prelude :
To Caesar where he sits in Rome bur Emperor,
Remembrance! and through him unto the
mightier gods,
Be incense evermore !.... We,
Therefore, who meet this hour, expectant to
behold
Long-perished Sappho and her antique age awake
To life, ourselves are ancients of a time unborn,
Shadow-enactors of an audience of shades,
And as this little smoke of incense, so are we
On the altar of the immortals ! —What are they?—
Ourselves
That were, ourselves that will be ever : Ancestry,
Posterity— they are the gods, of whom we are
Both seed and loins: one race, one lineage of love,
One continuity of passion and of pain ;
And unto them this fleeting breath and smoke of
us
Goes up in prayer. Vale! Our tragedy begins ;
And if the play shall please,—-shadows, applaud
yourselves i
\l/
With great skill the dramatist has con-
trived to weave within the action the frag-
ments of Sappho’s verse that have survived.
The story is of Sappho’s love for Phaon, a
public slave, with a wife and children. There
is one exquisite scene—for Mackaye has the
dramatic instinct, and is, moreover, a poet —
between Sappho and Phaon, where love
tangles them in the meshes of a fisherman’s
net which they hold between them. But the
tragedy is, of course, consummated by the
inevitable death of Phaon’s two sons ; and
at the end Sappho makes her great appeal to
the silent priest of Poseidon ;
God of the generations, pain and death,
I bow to thee. —Not for love’s sake is love’s
Fierce happiness, but for the after-race.
Yet, thou eternal Watcher of the tides.
Knowing their passions, tell me 1 Why must we
Rapturous beings of the spray and storm
That, chanting, beat our hearts against thy shores
Of aspiration—ebb? Ebb and return
Into the songless deep ? Are we no more
Than foam upon thy garment ?—flying spume
Caught on thy trident’s horn, to flash the sun
An instant —and expire ? Are we no more ?. . .
Another wave has broken at your feet,
And, moaning, wanes into oblivion.
But not its radiance ! That flashes back
Into the Morning, and shall flame again
Over a myriad waves. That flame am I,
Nor thou, Poseidon, shalt extinguish me.
My spirit is thy changeling, and returns
To her, who glows beyond the stars of birth—
To her, who is herself time’s passion-star.
Beautiful Sister, goddess of desire,
Come to me ! Clasp me in your wings of sunrise
Burning, for see ! Igo forth to you burning
Still. —Aphrodite !
And the play closes with the scene changing
into the modern excavation, to show us
Medbury waking from his dream.
It is a fine play, well-wrought ; but it is
too ingenious. By this device of placing
plays within plays the dramatist weakens the
illusion that is necessary for the stagg. You
are too apt to recall that the actor is Med-
bury reincarnated as a Roman mime, re-
hearsing the part of Phaon ; and your
interest in the character is divided between
the three incorporated personalities. Yet
the drama is a well-executed effort to recon-
struct a type of tragedy which, as has been
remarked, the Greeks did rather well.
Of Swinburne’s latest playlet, The Duke
of Gandia (Chatto and Windus), all that
need be said is that it is a quite unworthy
addition to his five volumes of collected
tragedies. Its sole merit is its dramatic
terseness ; but the thing is so slight that
Swinburne in his old age, ought, for the sake
of his reputation, to be forcibly restrained
from further publication.
The June Trident (Lothian, Melb.) is an
interesting literary sixpenny-worth.
In Unwin’s Half-Crown Library of History
and Biography, good value is given by a re-
-print (rather cheaply produced) of the life of
Charles Bradlaugh, written by his daughter.
Bernard Shaw’s new play, Marriage, will
be in one act—two hours’ long.
The Tin Wreath
So far, only a few scattered votes have
come to hand for the balloting of the best
living Australasian poet. It is necessary to
state that dead poets will not be starters
The position of those heading the poll at
present is :
H. Lawson. 8 votes
H. McCrae 7 S ’
M. Forrest ... ... ... 5
R. Quinn 5
G. Hervey 4
A. H. Adams ... ... ... 4
“Priam” 3
B. O’Dowd 3 ”
W. Lawson 3
H. M. Green ... 3 ”
In her scholarly and authentic history of
the Christian Scientists, in McClure’s
Georgine Milmine now reaches the astound-
ing apotheosis of its high priestess, Mary
Baker G. Eddy. It began by her rise to
wealth, owing to the huge fees she charged
for classes in her new religion. She took a
large house, costing £BOOO, in what she de-
scribed in her Journal as “the most fashion-
able locality in Boston.” The loyal Christ-
ian Scientists believe that the Bible and
Science and Health are one book—the Sacred
Scriptures, that Christian Science, by a new
immaculate conception, was the offspring of
Mrs. Eddy’s direct communion with God,
just as Jesus was the offspring of Mary’s com-
munion, and “that the result of this
second immaculate conception was a book
rather than a man!” “You may ask,”
says the Journal, “why this child did not
come in human form, as did the child of old.
Because that was not necessary. As this age
is more mental than former ages, so the
appearance of the idea of Truth is more
mental. . . . Mrs. A. Eddy is God—sent to
the world, as much as any character in sacred
writ.” Throughout the first ten years of the
Journal there is a running parallel between
Mrs. Eddy and Jesus Christ. “Christian
Science is the Gospel according to Woman.”
And the old lady took good care that
no heterodoxy should creep into her church
by ordaining that her students should
read no literature upon the subject of mind
cure but her own. As for the success of the
new religion, the Journal contains to-day the
professional cards of over 3000 healers. And
it requires only three weeks’ terms to become
a healer. The church grew so rapidly from
the fact that every patient cured was practi-
cally a new Christian Scientist made. But
the real secret of the church’s extraordinary
progress seems to be that it is a woman’s re-
ligion. Mrs. Eddy evidently thought that it
was time that women, who are the main sup-
port of our present churches, should have a
religion of their own. At her last public
appearance at the Chicago Convention in
1888 she was worshipped as a god. It is all
very curious.
To the habits of the culicidse W. J. Rainbow,
entomologist to the Sydney Museum, has devoted
a useful book (Lothian, Melb.). The culicidse are
the fierce and combative foemen who once com-
pdled Sapor, King of Persia, to raise the siege
of Nisibis; and since then they have recorded
other victories. In Australia they are called
mosquitoes.
“Steele Rudd” rebuts: “‘C,’ in last Red
Page, impudently asks if I’m prepared to go
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth
on the inspiration and authorship of my
book, For Life? Well, I am. That
yarn, with the exception of names and a
touch of ‘ coloring,’ is true. The names of
the two trackers who were attached to our
escort I, however, retained in the book.
Further, I am prepared to call upon a whole
police force and most of the inhabitants of
Southern Queensland and Northern N.S.W,
to say how and where I obtained the material'.
And I defy ‘ C ’ to bring along the friend
who ‘ told him the story in course of con-
versation in a Salvation shelter shed,’ and
let us have a look at him, or even a piece of
him. Unless the said friend had access to
my notes, filed in the Police office, he could
not have told ‘C ’ the story. Furthermore,
I don’t believe he did, or that such a person
ever existed. There are quantities of un-
reliable paragraphists of the ‘O’ type hanging
about; and a shelter shed is a great place
for him. It’s his salvation. He should be
collected and put on the land, and harrowed
in with a steam roller.”
A timely authoritative account of the
Explorers of East, Centre and West of Aus-
tralia has been compiled by Ernest Favenc
(Whitcombe and Tombs, 12s. 6 d.). This
book gives in compact form, and with a pro-
fusion of excellent photographs and maps, the
achievements of our early explorers. It is a
work that can be strongly commended to all
Australians.


No. 98.
FaH Front Desk and Bookcase Combined, 3ft. 3in. wide
dig. Cabinet at top with colored gflass panelled doors
writing- slope with pigeon holes and shelf above fancy
brackets at side for books or ornaments, long drawer and
two shelves underneath, locks, etc.,
Solid fumed Maple.
£6/15/-
Solid Oak, Walnut Finish, Single Pedestal, Cutler
Roll Top Desk, Finished Walnut, 3ft. 6in. wide, 2ft.
6in. deep, 4ft. 2in. high, similar to illustration, but
with 3 rows of 6 pig-eon holes, 1 pedestal fitted
with 1 rest slide, 1 drawer 9in. deep, and three
drawers 3iin. deep, with patent
lock and key.
£ 9/12/6
Our Illustrated Price Lists place the
vast resources of The New Palace
Emporium at the command of the
most distant settler. Write for copies,
posted free anywhere.
m i!y"i
:T
I"!'---
ft
•)K
m
3
m
o
7h
... u
Hd
-rO
Dwarf Bookcase, in Solid Tasmanian Blackwood, or
Queensland Maple, 3ft. wide, 4ft. 9in.
high, fixed shelves.
With Fixed Shelves, glass door and lock,
35jm
59 6
for
Office
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
|PURNITURE
A Library (£1
No. 94 —“—moss v
Pedestal Table, 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. Bin., cloth top, 9 drawers, locks, knee hole, etc.
Solid fumed Maple. £8 17 6
Solid Oak, Walnut Finish, Cutler Double Flat-top Table, sft, wide 4ft deep
consisting- of 2 double pedestals, each fitted with rest slide, 1 drawer 9in deen’
and 3 drawers 3iin. deep, with patent lock and key, knee
hole in each side.
£l4 10-
TERMS
s c
No. 99.
Office Table, 4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in., with
cloth top, 5 drawers, locks, knee hole,
etc. Solid Maple.
87J6
Top
Quality
at
Bottom
Price,
No. 115.
Office or Study Chair, in golden Oak,
wood saddle seat, revolving
and tilt back.
37/6
We are Family
Drapers, Com-
plete House
Fur nis hers,
A us t r alian
Manufacturers
and Universal
Providers, and
our unique sys-
tem of trade
presents at-
tractions no t
to be found
elsewhere.
No. 114
Office or Study Chair, in golden Oak,
cane seat, revolving and
tilt back,
40
Fall Front Desk, 2ft. 6in. wide, bookshelf on top, small
cabinet with glass doors, writing slope with pigeon holes
2 long drawers underneath.
Solid fumed Maple,
£5/12/6
Solid Oak, Walnut Finish, Cutler Roll Top Desk, 4ft. 2in.
wide, 2ft. 6in. deep, 4ft. 2in. high, with 3 rows of 6 pigeon
holes, 2 large and 2 small book pigeon holes, sliding and
fitted trays in centre, 2 drawers under pigeon holes, patent
3 ink wells and blotting pad, 2 pedestals fitted with 2 rest
slides, 2 drawers 9in. deep, and li drawers
3Jin. deep, with patent lock and key.
£ 12151 -
Many other designs are illustrated in our
GUIDE TO FURNISHING. Send for a
Copy, posted FREE on application.
Revolving- Bookcase, 4 tiers, 4ft. 3in. high, finishec
walnut color, ©3/
In Solid fumed Maple 92/6
In Solid Walnut .. .. .. .. 95/-
With 3 Tiers ; Finished Walnut Color, £2/161-
In Solid Walnut .. .. .. ... £4/4/.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


MINT
and other
SKINS;
A,so BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent "GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape « BOOKS.
KKEUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Datk Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. Tiie
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Hkptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/8. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is;
postl/3. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/-; post 1/3. Manning’s
PLEASE MENTION THIS
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions. Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins,ls. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring- Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made F.asy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3 Merrif, England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .22 caliber repeater ever
offered. It’s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It’s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
natural
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £,900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES 17,8 Bes> of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, Ac.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Freel
2-ft High.
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR R BOY’S RIFLE
I I
The Life'Sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks, brown eye , and represented with flesh-col >ure body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of best material rapid in its action, and
ecu ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver W3TeH
CH?UN and PKNDaNT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
I We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money to/», am. we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seed.- in the World—lmitated but Unrivaffea.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
* Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return
Windsor Wright &Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, ft.S.W.
1/
Boy’s Rif e
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
tlT*
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 3/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Fllnder’a Lane, MELBOURNE.
„ „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
The Brake ot\ your Bicycle.
For your safety the Brake on your Bicycle should be efficient
under all emergencies.
There iis nothing adds to your enjoyment so much as a supreme
confidence in your Brake Control—nothing detracts therefrom so
freely as a feeling of false security.
The EADIE Coaster
embodies the most perfect system of Brake Control extant.
It links simplicity and security in an ideal manner—a slight back-
ward pressure of the pedal is all that is necessary to bring the
brake into operation—it is capable of the most gradual application—
yet on the steepest hill no emergency can arise to which it is not
equal.
You should write to-day for Brt Booklet describing this device, and
remember it is obtainable from all dealers.
Bddress your enquiry—
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
B'ham Small Arms Co. Ld.,
4 Stock Exchange Buildings.
MELBOURNE.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
/ held in highest favour by
f all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.


ic
"«i
/a
m.
There’s nothing so
bad for a cough
as coughing.
There’s noth-
ing so good
for a cough
as Ayer’s
Cherry Pec-
toral.
When you
have a genu-
ine cold or a
hard cough,
or when there
is iniiamma-
mation in the throat or lungs, then
you need
■Cherrii 9eetoral
It is a carefully prepared, accurately
compounded medicine for all diseases
of the throat and lungs. It contains
strong and active ingredients, such as
are extensively prescribed by the medi-
cal profession. It is the oldest, strong-
est, and best medicine for coughs and
colds you can possibly buy.
Accept no cheap and worthless sub-
stitute. Be sure you get Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. It contains no narcotic or
poison of any kind.
frepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded with' utqufstion
if not perfectly satisfactor 3 . Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year , despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest, manufacturers’ prices.
LATEST
MODE',B
£3,10 to £9
Coaster Hobs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Kim brakes, variable gears
and all iates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our sutdal ojftr on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., Dept. 280 Liverpool -
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
After taking two bottles of
SCOTT’S Emulsion my little son
Henry, who was suffering from a
nasty cough after a severe attack
of measles, was
completely
cured
He is now stronger and better
in every way.” (Mrs.) G. Purcell.
140 Wilson Street, Redfern, Sydney, N.S.W.
20/8/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why :
Nothing else could have cured this little
lad so promptly and thoroughly as
SCOTT’S, because nothing else is made of
the same finely curative and nourishing
ingredients by the same perfected SCOTT
process, which makes them both palatable
and digestible.
Therefore, when purchas-
ing, don’t ask for “ Emul-
sion ; ” ask for and get
SCOTT’S Emulsion the
difference between them
means a cure for you ! To
safeguard yourself, see that
“ the Fishman with the
Fish ” is on every package.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in
Medicine.
Scott’s
. Emulsion .
rw
D
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
:|l|f
m
1
..
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Mlt BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATtK.
Hunyadi Janos
For GOUT and RHEUMATISM.
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years."
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAPTION.
Hot* the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
• ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label. J
BOVRIL
Should be in every home as well as in every hospital.
When you are worried and cannot eat well nor sleep well, you will
find a great help in BO VEIL.
BEWARE OF CHEAP IMITATIONS.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the Ling.
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET CF TEN. 10d.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Hotice
' .1 '
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
Ltd.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lazy Day.
This shall be my lazy day ;
I’ll sit beside the river’s brink
And watch the water-insects play
Not even shall I deign to think,
But Lethean waters shall I drink
Till carking cares shall fade away.
The busy city’s rush and roar
Comes not to this sequestered spot;
The din of bartering shop and store.
Exchange and bank, disturbs it not;
Apart and peaceful and forgot,
An unfrequented river shore.
I’ll be as idle as the trees
That trail their branches to the stream ;
I’ll feel a friend to passing bees
And butterflies that flirt and gleam ;
And in the rustling grass I’ll dream
That all my days are sweet as these.
The birds with undulating flight
That, with unerring pinions, dip
And skim the river’s surface bright—
Kingfisher, robin, wren, and whip—
With me are one in fellowship
And irresponsible delight.
Within the grass, a forest maze,
I see the lesser living things ;
A burnished beetle goes his ways
And spreads his armored opal wings ;
And on the blades to which he clings
A clumsy, long-legged mantis prays.
And you, you gaudy dragon-fly,
So straight of body, slim, and still,
Quadruple-winged and large of eye,
Of sunshine drinking in your fill—
I’ll drink the self-same nectar till
I feel a part of earth and sky.
I will not even cast a line,
Lest I betray some finny friend,
And break this halcyon peace of mine
By watching his untimely end ;
Such clemency do I extend
To all, as idly I recline.
For this shall be my lazy day !
In rustling grasses shall I dream,
And watch the water-insects play,
And bright kingfishers flash and gleam ;
Till, in the gliding, peaceful stream
My worldly cares are washed away.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
“The Honest Woman.”
Miss Kitty Moran—“ Pincher’s Kit ”
Lives in a den in Eden lane,
Of style she hasn’t got a bit,
Her features are absurdly plain.
Her morals ! —well, in Kitty’s set
They’re not quite up to morals yet.
Our heroine will pick and steal,
She’ll pinch a brolly in a shop,
“ Go through ” a drunken man, or deal
It out to an obtrusive cop,
And in her time she’s uttered lots
Of coins contrived from pewter pots.
By these things Kate was not distressed,
But she a brace of babies had,
And to her neighbors oft confessed
It made her feel extremely bad,
And left her reputation shady
That she was not a married lady.
Then came the gallant Smike to woo—
A sober burglar and a bold,
Who did a bit of coining too.
Now Kate is his to have and hold,
And she’s content. “ Bill’s made,” says she,
“ A honest woman out of me ! ”
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.
The Prodigal Son (New Version).
The prodigal made moan and sigh.
(Husks are unappetising cheer.)
He even lacked wherewith to buy
The humble counter-lunch and beer.
“ They’ll surely kill the fatted calf
If I return,” at length he said.
“ In any case cold beef and half
A loaf were better than no bread.”
Homeward he took him then apace,
Urged on by dreams of sumptuous fare.
He looked into his father’s face ;
No hint of fatted calf was there.
“ Father, I’ve sinned ! ” He wiped an eye.
Swift came his father’s utterance.
“You made the bed whereon you lie ;
You called the tune and you must dance.
“Long since your hand forsook the plough ;
You took your share, you went your way.
Think you no shame of it to bow,
A suppliant, at my door to-day ?
“ Eat now, and go, but take this word,
The world is yours to lose or win.”
The son his faltering manhood spurred,
And turned his back on friend and kin.
Long wrought he in the wilderness,
His sinews and his manhood grew.
His worldly fortunes waxed no less ;
And still one debt remained, he knew ;
One which his credit far outran,
Since all his wealth could not requite
The deed which made of him a man
Who else had lived a parasite.
QUEENSLAND.
WYBEN.


WUNDERLICH
ART METAL
CEILINGS
Originated by expert Designers « *
Modelled by first-class Artists « «
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists. «
ERECTED BY COMPETENT TRADESMEN.
Decorated by skilled Colorists « «
We furnish complete plans with
each consignment, so that the
Ceilings or Walls can be fixed
by any Competent Tradesman.
“Write for Illustrated (Catalogue.
W6e Wunderlied Patent Veiling § Roofing -(Soy., Jbtd. f
SYDNEY: 56 PITT ST.
MELBOURNE: 123 QUEEN ST.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. Director.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between .Elizabeth and Oastlereayh Streets.
S*“ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
9
Coco
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures
robust health.
(s)[fie tJoy
of Living
V'\'v
V £
100 Tons of Ore are
Smelted Every Day
in the most modern and perfect system of smelters of their
kind in the world, to produce pigments used in the' manu-
facture of Sherwin-Williams Paint Products. These
plants are owned and operated by The Sherwin-Williams Co
One plant is the largest of its kind in the world. The other
is a very extensive one also. In addition, The Sherwin-
Williams Co. own extensive lead and zinc mines, the whole
forming one of the largest and most important industries in
raw materials in the manufacture of paint products.
Controlling, as they do, all important paint
ingredients from their very source to the finished
product, The Sherwin-Williams Co. has a very great advantage over others
in the manufacture of good paint. It will pay you to use Sherwin-Williams
paints. There is a special product for each particular purpose.
When you have need for Paint or Varnish in your Home,
Shop or Factory, or anything in them, ask your dealer for
Sherwin- Williams.
Write to-day for valuable little booklet, “Who Makes the Best Paints and Varnishes?”
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. Morrison, Sydney, New South Wales.
J. GRAHAM & SON, Wauerly, Sydney, New South Wales.
A. Parsons & Co., Wollongong,
D. COPELAND & CO., Wagga Wagga,
Frederick Ash, Ltd., Newcastle,
Charles Regan, Tamworth,
T. J. Phillips, Dubbo,
bracey's Limited, Lithgow,
John Meagher & Co., Ltd., Femora, New South Wales.
BrookB, Robinson & Co., Ltd., Melbourne, Victoria.
Crooks & BrookEß, Port Adelaide, South Australia.
COUCHE, CALDER & CO., Perth, West Australia.
ROONEY & CO., Townsville, Queensland.
R. S. EXTON & CO., Brisbane, Queensland.
HOCKLEY & CO., Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. FRED C. DONNISGN, Lock Box 811, Sydney t New South Wales.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L‘o"U*l*S Velveteen
I
tours
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living in it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuilding's, etc., and get our price
5 Mutual Life Building's, MARTIN PLACE., SYDNEY.
+>
w
-
■■■
\
3NI
m** ;
i 3
i?
V
btf
«*> -m
wm
ARTHUR R. LOMAX, Maxland,
Mungindi—
“ My contractors say it is the best wire
they have used. By this mail I am
ordering a further three tons.
H. L. M. CROSSING, Keelendi,
Pilliga—
“ Have proved it to be in strength all
that is claimed by the makers.”
A
N
5
W. B. PERRY, Compton Station,
Narramine-
“A vast saving' in cost ... A
better fence than ordinary wire.”
CHAS. L. BADGERY, Binda-
gundra, Coulburn-
“ It gives the greatest satisfaction.
Please forward another ton.”
E.RICH & C 9. LL? '
SYDNEY & BRISBANE
SAMPLES FREE
ON APPLICATION
...


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1479.
THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 1908.
Prick 6d
THE MAN ON CRUTCHES.
This is a view of Lithgow (N.S.W.) as it apparently will be unless it gets more Protection. Lithgow is the place which first returned Joe
Cook, the boss Freetrader ; and the electorate returned Joe Cook, the boss Freetrader, as long as he cared to apply for its vote,.
It is still a Freetrade electorate, but it demands Protection “ something awful ” just the same.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Tii’k Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. AVales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A AVEEK.
TEH MS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(in Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... r£l ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Ttik Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
H out to .4 Jdress Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bullktin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for- “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed -Bwt no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To .4 inntciivs in Iliads. and II Hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—t.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Ootch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency\ Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
U.S.A. —Jones News Co., New Orleans, Lo.’
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Breiver and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TTie'^xxlleixm,.
THURSDAY, JUNE 18, 1908.
AGAIN THE LONE MAN ON CRUTCHES.
I went to Melbourne with a view of endeavoring to get
the Bonus Bill passed. On arrival I proceeded on my
crutches up the steps of Parliament House, and was met
at the doorway by the attendants, who asked me what I
wanted. As I evidently appeared like a mendicant—
which I truly was—l told them I had come from New
South Wales to beg on behalf of the iron and steel
industry—the greatest industry the world had ever seen.
The attendants were very good to me, and told me to come
in and sit down. This was the first time I had been
inside Parliament House. It is really a magnificent
building, and doubtless was one of the factors in caus-
ing the Parliament of the Commonwealth to be located
temporarily in Melbourne. The main hall is a magnifi-
cent room. It was evident to me that having the offices
in Melbourne gave an enormous advantage to the manu-
facturers of Victoria, and I was told chat as many as
200 persons, representing the manufacturers of Victoria,
were at one time in that room to advocate their claims.
There was I, a lone man on crutches, from the Mother
State. Truly a contrast between the manufacturers of
the two States, and showing the advantage possessed by
Victoria. —The wail of Hoskins, of Lithgow(N.S.W.) iron-
works (9J6/'08).
There could hardly be a more graphic illustration of
what Federal government, as carried on in Australia,
means than that contained in the story of Mr. Hoskins,
the New South Wales iron manufacturer, who went to
Melbourne to ask for assistance to his industry, as related
yesterday by himself in these columns. The fact that he
limped up to Parliament House on crutches was a detail
supplied by a fate which seemed determined to make the
picture graphically complete in every respect. When
Mr. Hoskins got there he found himself a stranger in the
lobbies of the great building which had been clamorous
with demands for Protection for various exotic
industries, all of which had been attended to by
a duly obsequious Government. But iron manufactur-
ing is a New South Wales concern, and involves the
development of a great natural resource in the principal
Australian State. There is no local industry with
stronger claims upon the taxpayer’s consideration, yet it
was the only one which the Victorian Government of the
Commonwealth could find no time to assist. A bonus
had been promised, but Parliament was too busy passing
a tariff for coddling every little factory with Victorian
influence at its back to bother about such a thing as the
development of the great natural deposits of iron ore in
New South Wales, whose one solitary representative
appeared in the lobbies of the Federal Legislature, where
he found himself as much out of place as if he
were a stranger from Cappadocia. And he came
away empty-handed, but filled with hope of some-
thing being done for him in the vague political hereafter
of next session,” to which long-suffering supporters of
every Government are told to look for the reward of their
patient fidelity. If Mr. Hoskins’ iron works were in
Melbourne instead of in Lithgow he might have had a
bonus or a duty or both for the asking, but being where
they are they have no interest for a Government which
has always treated New South Wales as a more or less
alien State.— Sydney Telegraph (10/6’08).
That the Messrs. Hoskins have not had fair play from
the Federal Parliament, their employees should not be
slow to recognise, and in the position where they now
find themselves we think they will have the sympathy of
the great majority of the people of this State. They and
their associates would never have taken up the burden
which Mr. Sandford found too heavy to carry had they
not had definite assurances from the Federal Government
that their enterprise would be encouraged either by a
bonus or a duty, and for that Government to have broken
faith with them in the way it has done, amounts to an
exhibition of political callousness which it would be hard
to parallel even in the history of the Commonwealth Par-
liament. —S. M. Herald (10/6I’08).
Last Wednesday, the S. M. Herald and Sydney
Telegraph each rose, with an infuriated leading
article in its mouth, to complain because Still
further Protection—the thing each paper has de-
clared all its days to be ruinous and accursed —was
not given last session to Hoskins, of the Lithgow
(N.S.W.) iron industry. And there arose also
the old appeal to the old, foul, degraded anti-
Victorian prejudice which the two miserable
rags have tried so hard to create, and which, in
these days of union, they still strive to keep afloat
lest their chief political asset should depart from
them. And Hoskins, whining miserably about
his crutches, as if they had any bearing on the fiscal
problem, and as if he were the only manufacturer in
Australia with trouble in his feet, also tried to make
capital out of the alleged anti-Victorian prejudice
under the mistaken impression that it is a big
successful disease these times, instead of being an
anaemic little thing that only survives in one or
two newspaper offices and among a few wretched
and unpatriotic importers.
The Hoskins row had its real beginnings away
back in the dim past before there was any
Hoskins on the scene. For very many years
N.S.W. was, in theory, the one real Freetrade
State of Australasia. Its Sydney Herald and
Telegraph and Evening News were tremendous
in their contempt for the benighted States which
believed in Protection, and the scoff of Parkks
and Reid and Pumpkin Smith and Spruce Myth
and the Wilks and McMillan tribe was like unto
the spiritual pride of the small sect that meets
down a back lane and possesses the only true
gospel. In those days Victoria was regarded as
the most distinctly Protectionist State in Austral-
asia—not that its tariff could compare for massive-
ness with that of some of its neighbors, but
because it possessed the one big influential daily
paper in Australia which preached Protection
with its whole soul six days in the week and 311
days in the year. The Sydney dailies then de-
voted an immense amount of misdirected energy
to drawing wild parallels between allegedly Free-
trade N.S.W.—which heavily and directly pro-
tected its beer, wine, tobacco, sugar, newspapers
(mostly Freetrade newspapers), its timber, fruit,
bacon, hams, confectionery, galvanised iron, bricks,
candles, cement, cheese, preserves, fish, milk,
wire-netting, paints, etc., etc., and also protected
almost all its industries indirectly by differ-
ential railway rates —and allegedly Protectionist
Victoria, which had a very long free list at
that time, and didn’t even begin to compare in the
rigor of its tariff with Tasmania or Queensland.
There were years in that bygone Freetrade period
when the Protectionist tariff of allegedly Freetrade
N.S.W. produced more revenue than the Pro-
tectionist tariff of Protectionist Victoria, but still
the huge Freetrade lie and fraud and confidence
trick was kept up, and it is more or less kept up
even to this day.
• * * *
That same lie and fraud and spieler’s game
being still in full or partial blast, the N.S.W.
importing press is in a curious position. The
Herald and Telegraph and Evening News
declare that Protection is a Curse generally, and
a disaster to the community which tries it, and
that it undermines the industries which it is sup-
posed to support. Therefore it might be supposed
that they would be pleased that Victorian indus-
tries should get an undue share of the Curse (if it
was true that they did get an undue share, as
alleged), and that industries which are practically
confined to N.S.W. should get, by accident or
otherwise, something of the Blessing of Freetrade
instead. Unless these daily papers have been
for many years the most awful swindles, de-
lusions and false prophets that can well be
imagined, the prosperity of (say) the N.S.W. iron
industry under Freetrade, when contrasted with
the feebleness of some Victorian or S. A. industries
under Protection, should result in the triumph of
the Herald and Telegraph, and enable them to
whoop at great length, and hang out flags, and
make converts galore, and cover their enemies
with confusion. But these papers are in the same
situation as when, many years ago, they preached
Freetrade as the one sure road to affluence, and
savagely denounced the Government which
deprived them of the little 50 per cent. Protection
which they used to enjoy under the N.S.W. postal
regulations. They say bitterly that Victorian
industries are getting too much of the Curse of
Protection, and that N.S.W. industries are not
being Cursed enough. They say the Curse is un-
fairly distributed. They demand more Curse, and
they feebly explain that they are still strong in their
Freetrade convictions, but that they want fair play,
and if there is any Curse going they demand all
the Curse that is coming to them. The Herald
and ’Graph, with their picture of Charles
Hoskins, of N.S.W., climbing on crutches up the
steps of the Australian Parliament House demand-
ing Curse, and being basely done out of his Curse
after all, are deeply bathetic, yet they are only
a small part of the bathos of the situation.
This is a time when N.S.W. might do well to
take stock of its amazing Freetrade Parliamentary
representatives as well as of its amazing Free-
trade daily papers, and ask itself .seriously if
there is any more remarkable community than
itself on all this illogical earth. Lithgow is
in the electorate which used to return Joe
Cook, the boss Freetrader and virtual Freetrade
leader in the House of Representatives. It re-
turned him till he deserted it, and apparently it
would be returning him to-day if it had the
chance. It politically created Cook, and
adhered to him for 15 years. Lithgow wants more
Protection, and Cook, the boss Freetrader, wants
more Protection for Lithgow, and raged bitterly in
the House when ic didn’t arrive. If Cook gets
Protection for the Lithgow industry he will still
be a Freetrader in theory ; he will still be a super-
cilious nuisance, with a tremendous and silly and
irritating scorn for people who vote Protection
because they believe in it; he will still try to shove
the Deakin-Lyne Government out of office
because it believes in Protection ; and he will still
vote against Protection for every industry save
this one. He is in the same absurd category as
Wilks, the wild, tremendous Freetrade sham who
demands Protection -for every industry which
hangs out in his own town of Balmain ; who pro-
tests against Protection for every industry that
isn’t in Balmain ; who says Protection is a Curse,
and demands all the Curse for his own electorate,
and won’t leave any Curse for anybody else ;
and who votes against the Deakin-Lynk
Government, and lectures it largely on its
folly and ignorance for being Protectionist.
Then N.S.W. returns six alleged Freetrade
Senators, who all, or almost all, profess to believe
strongly in the Disaster of Protection for important
N.S.W. industries such as the Lithgow iron busi-
ness ; who don’t believe in Protection for any
industries which have their headquarters in the
other States; and who vote against, and scoff at,
and try to expel from office the Deakin-Lyne
Government for being Protectionist. All these
and a lot of other dreadful Freetrade characters
from N.S.W. declare that Protection is a Horror,
and yet demand all the Horror for their own
State, and would fain not even leave the tail of
the Jim-jam for any adjacent community. And
behind them stand the Freetrade S. M. Herald
and the Freetrade Sillygraph, furiously denounc-
ing Protection, and saying that N.S.W. is
wronged and outraged and conspired against be-
cause it doesn’t get more of it, and alleging that
the uneven division of the Disaster and the Ruinous
Influence is a gross injury. If the Deakin-Lyne
Ministry gives these people and papers the Pro-
tection they demand its only reward is their
hostility and abuse and muddy insult for being
a benighted and ignorant Ministry which
hasn’t the sense to understand the beauties
of Freetrade. And if it doesn’t give them the
Protection they want it will get the same
hostility and abuse, combined with further
insult on the charge of being a “Victorian
Government ” (though out of the seven salaried
portfolios N.S.W. holds three and Victoria only
t W o)—in fact, it will get that last insult in any
case. And it will be charged with stealing the
fiscal Jim-jam for Victoria, and accused of base
embezzlement of the Fan tod.
Therefore the people of N.*S.W. are invited to
consider their Freetrade members seriously.
These members get in partly by the support of
the political machine, partly by the support of
the Sydney daily Freetectionist papers, partly by
declaring themselves sincere Freetraders each of
whom will howl to the last gasp for Proteiition for
the industries of his own electorate. Balmain would
throw Wilks, the alleged Freetrader, on the
political scrap-heap if he didn’t promise to clamor
for Protection for Balmain industries. The old
electorate of Joe Cook, the bogus Freetrader,
would have bounced him any day if he had
declared against Federal aid of the most
liberal kind for Lithgow iron. The whole
six sham Freetrade Senators would almost cer-
tainly have been rejected at the first time of asking
if they had declared for the abolition of the long-
standing Protection on N.S.W. sugar, wine, beer,
tobacco, etc., for exactly equal railway and
wharfage charges on local and imported goods,
and for pure, unadulterated Freetrade all round.
The points of difference between Cook and Wilks,
the N.S.W. Freetraders, and Mauger and Jabez
Coon, the Victorian Protectionists, are just
these : (1) Cook and Wilks vote for Protection
because they say they don’t believe in it, while
Mauger and Coon vote for it because they
do believe in it; and (2) Cook and Wilks
demand Protection for the industries of their own
neighborhood, and think Freetrade good enough
for everybody else, while Mauger and Coon are
willing that everybody else should have the Pro-
tection they demand for themselves. And the S.M.
Herald, clamoring for Protection for N.S.W.
only, and declaring at the same time that Protec-
tion is a delusion and a Horror, and denouncing
any proposal that Victoria should have a share of
the Horror, is only Bill Wilks over again. The
difference between it and the Melbourne Age lies
in the brute selfishness which makes the Herald
want all the Protection for its own State, and the
poor, thin hypocrisy which makes it denounce the
thing it craves for and reaches after with both
hands. There is probably no means by which
N.S.W. can get rid of .its remarkable daily papers,
but it has a chance every three years to get rid of
Cook and Wilks and their kind, and it is an un-
utterable disgrace to two presumably civilised
electorates that these two politicians survive.
* * * *
Last session the Lithgow iron industry lost
its chance of what the Sydney Telegraph calls
“coddling,” when it is speaking of Victoria,
for two reasons. First, certain Freetraders
who mostly want Protection for industries
in their own electorates, clamored for so
many months against Protection for anybody
else’s industry, that when the Tariff was finished
there was hardly time left for any other work.
And, secondly, when the special Bill for helping
the ’ Lithgow Iron Works was reached, on
the last day of the session, an enthusiastic
Freetrade member from N.S.W. got in the
way with loud demands for still more Protection
for N.S.W. industry ; and the delay he created
tired the Senate out, and it refused to wait any
longer. In fact, it went home. Still, the measure
will almost certainly pass when Parliament meets
again in September. Meantime Lithgow is en-
joving the blessings of Freetrade, which Cook
and Wilks and Reid and the two Sydney
morning papers allege to be wholly beautiful. The
thing which, according to Reid, makes the com-
munity jolly and fat, has come upon Lithgow.
It has come in the shape of a reduction of
wages, with the alternative blessing of the sack
and no wages at all. And the eminent Freetrade
authorities above mentioned make no special dis-
guise of the fact that they didn’t expect their
horrible blessing to arrive in any other
shape. Some of them are so mad that they fall
back on the old weary gag about the existence of a
Victorian conspiracy to give N.S.W. the advan-
tages of the splendid policy that it is alleged (by
the Herald and Telegraph) to be demanding at
the top of its voice all the time. They profess to
believe that Victorian politicians basely put
their heads together to bestow on N.S.W.’s most
important industry the dreadful and degrading
advantage which so many of the States
newspapers and politicians declare to be the
only thing that will make N. S. W. really contented.
It is a bewildering situation, and calls for deep
thought. Perhaps N.S.W. had better ponder
steadily over it till next election, and then ask
certain of its members to give a logical account of
their attitude, and failing that it can’t do better
than bid them quit.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federal Capital and the Stuffed Lion in
the Way.
The Federal session closed without anything
further being done in the matter of the Capital
Site Bill, and now the question arises whether
anything will be done during the recess, despite
the absence of the Bill. There is no apparent
reason why some action shouldn’t be taken. The
sice has been already chosen—on Southern
Monaro. The choice was strictly according to
the terms of the Constitution ; and, in addition,
the locality selected is the one which was recom-
mended by the N.S.W. State Government’s
specially-appointed official as the best that had
come under his notice. The people of N.S.W. —
except those who have other alleged capital sites
m their own back yards—make not the slightest
objection. It is true that certain Sydney
papers and some frantic parish-pump politicians
say that the people are just boiling
over with objections, but they aren’t; there
hasn’t been a single big meeting of protest,
nor a petition, nor a row, riot, shindy or
excitement of any kind, nor a handbill on the
walls—in short, though certain Sydney papers
and State politicians have tried furiously for four
years to lash the people of N.S. W. into a frenzy
of protest re the Dalgety capital, they haven’t
raised even a visible ripple. The people of the
other States also seem perfectly well content with
the selection. The matter has been hung up for
four long dreary years, because first Carruthers
and then Wade, and certain papers which sup-
ported these two men, have chosen to be lawless
and cantankerous, without having any real
following even among their own community
to back them up in their lawlessness and
cantankerosity. It has been all bluff—gigantic
bluff. The Capital Site Bill which didn’t
happen was supposed to confirm the selection
of the site which has been already selected,
and which really needs no confirmation ; and to
authorise the Commonwealth to take legal pos-
session of what it can just as well take possession
of in any case. There seems to be no real reason
why the Australian Government shouldn’t dis-
pense with the Bill that got mislaid, and act on
the one that was passed four years ago, and pro-
ceed to take possession of the selected site, and to
lay out the Federal city, and to serve notice of re-
sumption on the private landlords thereabouts.
Then State Premier Wade could rush to the High
Court with his case, if he has a case ; and by the
time Parliament meets again the case might be
knocked out, and the State Frights shindy might
be over and done with, and the long-drawn-out
row might be ended for good and all. If there is
any reason why this shouldn’t be done, it is a reason
that isn’t visible to the naked eye. In this matter
the delay has already been far too long. Australia is
growing weary of the excessive affability that has
made Prime Minister Deakin put up with the
obstructiveness of a handful of blatant people and
institutions with neither law, equity, nor popular
feeling behind them. The lion in the path has
been so obviously a stuffed animal with the straw
sticking out of the rents in his hide that the long
lingering begins to suggest cowardice. After
waiting four years for the stuffed lion to get out
of the way, it is almost time for Australia to
tramp over the moth-eaten animal and go on its
road with a howl of laughter.
The “ S.M. Herald” calls itself an Ananias.
On Saturday last the S.M. Herald came out
with this scare-heading and ample shriek
SIDNEY’S SUPREMACY.
Recognised by America
Consulate-General to be Here !
And thus the Sydney Morning Herald blandly
gave the lie to the statements it has been making
in its leading columns during some years past.
“ This transference,” the paper notes, “ has been
forced upon the American Government by
business and commercial interests, as disclosed in
consular representations. The work at the
Sydney Consulate has increased enormously
during recent years. Sydney is now the leading
centre of commercial activity in the Common-
wealth.” And so the wail concerning the im-
minent ruin .of Ma, as a result of coming under the
Federal Protective tariff, is an acknowledged men-
dacity at last—acknowledged in a quarter whence
it was once most vigorously promulgated. Whoever
complained that, owing to Victorian selfishness
and greed, abetted by corrupt and Ma-hating
DEAKiN-ites, trade was being reft wholesale from
Sydney and concentrated in Melbourne, said the
thing that was not. Sydney in the Separatist
days played second fiddle, and Uncle Sam found
it good enough to have a branch office there, while
his chief department was in Melbourne. Now,
under Federation, the position is reversed, and
Sydney’s progress and supreme importance stick
out like a bowsprit. Melbourne has not ‘‘seized
octopus-like on every avenue of profit ” to the
detriment of Noo South’s capital. On the con-
trary. The more of Federation and Protection
Ma and her capital has, the more the pair appear
to prosper and grow fat and annex new tram}.
Also, the tariff isn’t destroying the sea-traffic
between Sydney and other lands worth a cent, as
witness this from the same paper on the same
date :
There are now three distinct steamship services between
New York and Sydney, and as one is conducted by a com-
bination of three powerful corporations it may be saia
that five steamship companies are directly interested in
° U Then, again, news has been received in Sydney that the
managing agents of the new line of steamers which com-
menced trading between San Francisco and Sydney
the abandonment of the Oceanic Company s service con-
template doubling the fleeb-an increase from five to ten
St Sy l dney P trade with the Philippines has extended in a
marked degree of late, etc.
It is so rarely a paper has the frankness to rise up
and admit itself, of its own free will, to be a howl-
ing Ananias of the worst sort that the s.
Herald’s new attitude calls for attention.
-♦
How G. Reid “Saved the Country.”
Telling its pitiful little disruptionist lie with re-
gard to the N.S.W. iron industry and the failure
of the Australian Parliament to authorise a bonus
last session, Sydney Telegraph said that i the
DeakiN-Lyne Government was too busy cod g
every little factory with Victorian influence at its
back ” to think of N. S. ■ Wales; also- If
Mr. Hoskins’ ironworks were in Melbourne ms
of Litkgow he might have had a J» nu *,
a duty or both for the asking, but being
where they are they have no interest for
Government which has always treated - • •
Wales as a more or less alien State,
mischievous chatter really deserves .no more
serious notice than the vicious gossip
leery trollops backbiting their neighbors over t
back-fences of Blue-mud Lane; but, unfortunately,
it is poured into the ears of some people v
to believe something of the sort. On
circumstances, then, it is just as well to
and see what this Government, that; has
interest in N. S. Wales, did actually propose
the matter of the iron industry. First, take th^
particular branch of the industry in
Hoskins firm has been most prom men
pipes, cast and wrought.” This Govern men,
which has no care for N. S. ‘ ’ ro i] e d
posed 30 per cent. Protection On rolled
iron and steel beams, joists, and K ,• ess-
other principal branch of Hoskins business ;
the Government proposed a duty of 17? P 05
on wire, 10 per cent. On plate and sheet iron
per cent, was proposed; on corrugated - fl
uer cent. There were Protectionists, clneny
among these frightful Victorians, who wgßedJ g
give this iron business of the Messrs.
and other N. S. Wales firms even moreiProtec
tion. But the S. M. Herald and the Telegraph


sent to the House a party which sat behind
vr. H. Keid, and G, H. Reid, on this very
question of Protection for the iron industry, told
the House (Hansard, p. G 145)
If there were a chance of saving the country from the
otectwnist policy by talking and fighting for months, I
should be one of the first to do it.
And if G. Keid wasn’t often at the House to talk,
Joe Cook, and the two Smiths, and others of the
same sort were, and they talked and talked, until
they lulled all chance of doing the very thing that
they now allege they wanted to do. They talked
and talked to “ save the country from Protection,”
and, now, having saved the country in the one
small particular of the iron bonus, they are
appalled, and the daily papers are in hysterics—
just as a small boy might be who set fire to the
house, and then awoke with horror to the fact
that the food-cupboard was being’ burned. But
this “Victorian Government,” which is alleged
to have no concern for N. S. Wales industries,
went even further than is set out above. A
schedule was proposed, to come into operation
“ so soon as it is certified to Parliament by the
Minister that the manufacture has been sufficiently
established in the Commonwealth.” Under this
provision pig iron, iron and steel bars, ingots,
slabs, blooms, etc., were to be dutiable per
(l ent - This paper didn’t approve of the provision.
The Protectionists on the Government side gener-
ally did not approve of it. But G. Reid and
G. Reid s party did approve of it. Said G. Reid
(Hansard, p. 0145)
The duty will not be imposed until the industry has
been established. I wish that we could have a similar
provision in comiection with duties relating to a number
of other industries. We have in this case a duty which
is not to be applied until it is certified that the industry
has been fairly and satisfactorily established, so that the
prices of articles relating to it will not be unduly raised.
That was the judgment of the leader of the N. S.
Wales party the party that was returned mainly
through the influence of the S. M. Herald and the
Telegraph. It was returned to “save the country
from the Protectionist policy.” The Protectionist
Government, however, went ahead, in spite of
the Herald and the Telegraph and the Reid
party. It introduced a Protectionist tariff, run-
ning up to 30 per cent., for various branches
°f the iron industry. Yet now the Herald
and Telegraph curse the Government because
it didn’t give Protection to a N. S. Wales
industry—because it didn’t give the very thing
which these papers sent G. Reid to the
House to “save the country from,” and
despite the fact that, in the teeth of the N.S.W.
Freetrade opposition, it succeeded in giving some
branches of the N.S.W. iron industry as much as
30 per cent, of a Protective duty.
Australia, “The Common Enemy.”
It is high time this community took the anti-
Federal press firmly by the hair, and knocked its
head two or three times against a gum tree to
attract its attention, and asked it to give up its
purely destructive criticism—if such stuff can be
called criticism—and try to build something.
Take, for instance, such specimens as this from a
recent S. M. Herald leader, which is a fair
sample of many others :
There is a deep undercurrent of dissatisfaction amongst
public men and thoughtful observers throughout Aus-
tralia, and the question will be asked again with menac-
ing olearness how much further the present Federal
Government is to be allowed to go. . . . It has almost
seemed as if the Federal Parliament had made up
its mind to fly the black flag with the Federal
Treasurer, and to aggrandise itself at any cost.
For the rest, we realise now that
the battle has largely been left to the State Premiers.
In recess they are forced to consider their financial obli-
gations, and, in the light of recent happenings, they must
be prepared to do what the State representatives in the
Federal Parliament should have done for them. They
must make a united stand against the common enemy,
and, if necessary, rouse the country to their aid. Queens-
land, it seems, has already made direct appeal to the
oentral Government, but has received no reply. Mr.
Lyne is apparently waiting for action, and has no'time to
spare for paper protests. He has practically issued a
declaration of war, and the States must fight or surren-
der. At such a juncture the lack of leadership in the
Commonwealth Parliament finds very definite demonstra-
tion. There ought to be a marshalling of forces, both
inside and out. The States are not proposing any attack
upon union by demanding their own, but will be most
effectively fighting for union as they secure what is theirs.
Consequently they have every reason to look for sup-
port from the Federal Houses, and especially from some-
one who can rally the fragments of Opposition into a
strong body in defence of the Constitution. Whether or
no, the coming three months must be full of preparation
for battle, and in some directions the battle must soon be
actually joined. The States have to begin their struggle
row, and the sooner the better. An appeal to the High
Court should be arranged without delay, and the wider
appeal to the people of the Commonwealth should be
taken in hand through State organisation, and by per-
sonal canvass, This, at all events, is the people’s battle,
and it cannot go hy default.
That represents the regulation State Frights
whoop of the moment. And, to get down to
details —wfiat is the whoop about ? The grievance
is that the Australian Parliament, being forced to
provide for defence, to take over the Northern
Territory (which would Otherwise almost certainly
be some day resumed by Britain, to which it
still legally belongs, and made a nigger-infested
Crown Colony, and possibly an appanage of
India), to build railways to connect the south
with the isolated west and north and to make
them accessible and capable of defence, to pro-
vide some £750,000 for postal, telegraph and tele-
phone extension, to overhaul and put in order and
maintain the lights and beacons round 7750 miles
of coast, has intimated that it will require a little
money for all these new undertakings. The
Herald hasn’t the pluck to propose that the
undertakings should be abandoned—that the
Northern Territory, which is legally, until the
Commonwealth takes it over, a British Crown
Colony, administered on sufferance by S.A. and
liable to be resumed at any moment and made a
black and Chinese labor settlement, should be
allowed to slide; that there should be no
defence, no transcontinental railway, no old-
age pensions, and no post or telegraph
extension, and that the lighthouses should
simply be allowed to fall to pieces. It dare not,
for the sake of its poor miserable soul, propose
that. Nor does it even profess to go into details
and show how, if it were Prime Minister and
Treasurer, it would find the money for the
great works that it admits to be absolutely essen-
tial, except by the methods that the Australian
Government is adopting. It doesn’t do that be-
cause it can’t, and the ohances are that even a
paper with ten times its oapacity couldn’t either.
The outrageous proposal that the State Go-
vernments should have all the land, rail-
way and direct tax revenue, and a
first claim to the extent of £6,000,000
or £7,000,000 a year on the Customs and
Excise revenue, and a first mortgage to an
almost impossible amount on the remainder
of the Customs and Excise money; and
that out of the precarious scrap that re-
mains—the mere third mortgage on one
solitary source of income—the Australian Govern-
ment should pay its own expenses, pay old-age
pensions, provide for defence, pay many millions
for resumed properties, extend the postal and
telegraph system, settle the Northern Territory,
build transcontinental railways, pay bonuses
to the Lithgow ironworks, light 7750 miles
of coast, and do many dozen other things,
m such an outrage on sanity that the
Herald dare not attempt to put the possibili-
ties of the case into figures. Also it doesn’t show
how the Federal proposals constitute a breach
of the Constitution, because it can’t. But it
toils with vague adjectives and loose denunciation
to rouse the ignorant to fury against “the common
enemy —who is, apparently, Australia. In that
expression anti-Federalism and parochialism find
their true level, and it is difficult to imagine a
lower level outside the place whereof the name, if
shouted at the street corner, constitutes profane
swearing, and qualifies the speaker to a fine of
10s., with the usual alternative.
The Friends of the Backbone.
In S, Australia, the backbone of the oountry
(which is always understood to be the agriculturist)
s beginning to have larger suspicions than ever
about the Fat gentlemen who have for years past
been inviting him to bury the Labor Party beneath
his curses. On and off, for two or three months,
a Commission has been inquiring how it comes about
that theS, Australian backbone has to sell his wheat
for 2d. or 3d. per bushel less than (say) the Sydney
quotations. Early in the proceedings it was
indignantly denied that ex-Opposition leader John
Daeling and the other Corpulent gentlemen who
handle wheat wholesale formed a “ring,” or an asso-
ciation, or anything of the sort; but subsequently
it was admitted that there was an “honorable
understanding.” Eventually the gentleman
who acted as secretary to the “ honorable
understanding ” was put in the witness-
seat ; and the number of things he didn’t
know was amazing. There wasn’t any association,
and there weren’t any minutes, and when the
“honorable understanding” had a meeting there
wasn’t any chairman, and the members (whom he
begged to be excused from mentioning) merely
indulged in “chaff.” Also they didn’t pay him a
salary—what he got, he mentioned later, was an
“honorarium.” But being cordially invited to
go deeper into the matter, he admitted that the
.members of the “honorable understanding”
agreed by telephone upon a maximum price, and,
after that, if any member dared to offer a higher
price and make a deal, any other member who
liked to lodge a complaint had the right to take
the parcel at the fixed price. That is to say,
if Brown offered 4s. 2d. a bushel when the
price fixed by the “honorable understanding ” was
4s., and Jones, another member, found it out,
then Jones had a right to take that lot of wheat and
pay Brown 4s. for it—in which case Brown, of
course, would be fined 2d. a bushel. Moreover
he admitted that the rule was enforced. Of itself
that cheerful system is calculated to takea good deal
of the stiffening out of the backbone ; but another
witness explained still another interesting little
caper or two. According to this witness, who is
an old wheat-buyer turned farmer, the backbone
is (or was) invited to send his wheat to an agent
for storage, one inducement being that an
advance would be made on the grain. As
soon, however, as the stuff was lodged with
one agent, the agents for the other members
of the “horrible understanding” were prohibited
from bidding for it; and that would practically
work out to this —that the horrible understander
who first got his claws on a farmer’s crop could
dictate the price; in short, so far as that farmer
was concerned, there was only one buyer in the
market. Other tricks of the same sort have been
described, and some of them have been shame-
lessly admitted. On the strength of these alone
the S. Australian backbone of the country will
most likely invite the once-reviled Labor party to
do for wheat what it has already done for frozen
lamb. If it doesn’t issue that invitation, the back-
bone s brains must be in its boots—the ones that
it threw away last year.
« .
The “Telegraph,” Pulsford, and the Unique
Position of the Leader of the Federal
Opposition.
Sydney Telegraph recently made a severe assault
on Pulsford, of N.S.W., for his infrequency in
the Federal Senate during the just-concluded
session. Pulsford was absent from more sittings
than any other Senator. The paper’s bitter re-
marks cut the dejected old Foreign-trade crank to
the heart. “You say,” he wrote, with anguish in
his ink, “that when a representative of the people
finds himself, ‘ from any cause,’ unable to cope
with his duties ‘ there is only one fair
course open.' Evidently resignation /” That
was just what the paper said and meant.
But far more interesting than what it said about
Pulsford in this matter was what it didn’t say
about G. 11. Reid on a similar matter. Pulsford
was absent last session from his Parliamentary
duties (the duties he is paid to perform) on 96
occasions. It should be noted in explanation that
he was ill all that time—so ill as to be practically
incapable of serious work. Reid (who is also paid)
was absent during the same session 73 times.
But he wasn’t ill. Far from it; he enjoyed robust
health—as did his bar-practice, which has, in fact,
never been better in its life. There was the
same co-relation between the good-health of Reid
(and that of his bar-practice) and the scarcity
of Reid’s attendances in the House of Reps., on
the one hand, as there was between the ill-
health of Pulsford and the scanty attendances
of Pulsford in the Senate, on the other.
And whose case was the more deserving of
censure ? The most notable circumstance about
the episode is the garishly suggestive light
it throws (albeit obliquely) on the curious
situation of Reid. Reid hardly raised a curse
from the Anti-Sosh press. The fact that Reid,
ex-Prime Minister of Australia and leader of the
party which stands, among other vague things,
for “Responsible Government,’’should fulfil the
party ideal of Responsible Government by hardly
ever being findable when wanted was taken by his
own side for granted. It thus appears that the
Leader of the Opposition in the Australian House
of Representatives has actually won, amongst his
own crowd, to the status of being below reproach !
His own party papers did not hesitate, after the
session that closed in October, 1906 (when Reid
also put up the record in the matter of attendance-
shirking), to smite him hard and often ; but they
smite no longer. It is sheer waste of good smite.
The time when his own followers joined with
Ministerialists in deliberately talking him down,
on the occasion of one of his rare appearances in the
House —this by way of protest against his cynical
neglect of the National Parliament—has vanished
many months since. Now, when he visits Parlia-
ment, he is wearily disregarded. Reid is, in
effect, in the. glorious position of the chronic
drunk whose incorrigibleness silences the magis-
trate, the police, his friends—everybody in fact.
He is immune from rebuke because it is felt that,
in a case like his, rebuke simply isn’t worth while.
The Pulsfords and such like, who are ordinarily
more or less well-behaved, bring down surprised
magisterial and other reproaches when they go on
a “tear.” That is not the case with Reid. He
is a political “ habitual”—a misdemeanant beyond
all hope of argument or redemption. If Pulsford,
who is, judging by his weepful letters to the press,
in the depth of misery at the treatment accorded
him, regards things in their correct light, he may
grow more cheery. The Bulletin offers him the
correct light for what it is worth.
—♦ —
The Irregular Little Assets.
In Paris they have come solidly to the conclusion
that, though from the point of view of the mother
who doesn’t know what to do with it, the irregu-
lar arrival may be a little incubus, yet from the
national point of view the small stranger is an
asset, and therefore not to be wasted. Conse-
quently, these means have been provided by the
municipality to save the asset and the possible
mothers of more assets
(1) A night refuge for women. Homeless women with
their children are taken in and fed ; their clothes are
passed through a steam disinfector, and they are kept for
three or four days.
(2) The Industrial Refuge. Those who want more help
are passed on to this from No. 1. Here the woman is em-
ployed in sewing, or in the laundry. Children are
allowed to stay with their mothers, and are carefully
looked after and educated.
(3) The Michelet Home of Rest for expectant mothers.
Here, as in the other asylums, the inmates are asked no
questions, but are simply expected to rest, do a little
light housework, and make, in the well-fitted workrooms
provided, such preparations as they can for the expected
national asset. The diet is liberal, and two midwives are
constantly in attendance. The object of the Michelet
Home is to save infant life by relieving the mother, as far
as possible, from the effects of overwork.
(4) A lying-in hospital.
(5) The Ledru-Rollin Convalescent Home. Mothers
remain here with their infants from five to 30 days. The
mothers and babies are carefully attended to, and
liberally fed—the cost of food per inmate is Is. 3Jd. per
day. One of the chief duties of the directress is to help
the inmates to get employment. If no job is found and
the inmates have no homes to go to, they are sent to the
Pauline Roland Home.
The element of clerical influence is shut right out,
and with it the penal element in discipline. If
the inmates are asked to work, they are paid for
it. The penitential washtub of the Salvarmy
and the Rescue Work societies of Australian ex-
perience are unknown to Paris. Instead, that
city has a well-considered and scientifically com-
plete system, handled by experts, and the results
are remarkable. Only 14 per cent, of the inmates
have to be relieved a second time, and less than 3 per
cent, are classed as habitual vagrants. In short,
those who, under our unorganised, slipshod system,
develop into habitual vagrants, would in Paris
nowadays be picked up and put on their feet
before they lost their self-respect, or got a per-
verted taste for the vagrant life.
Sydney’s Protracted Bridge.
The Royal Commission, which is struggling afresh
with the half-century-old question of communica-
tion between Sydney and North Sydney, is hang-
ing fire over the ancient problem of bridge versus
tunnel. Probably the simple explanation is that
both are required. The tram-cars might bob
down into a tunnel on the Sydney side, and bob
up again on the comparatively low ground at North
Shore, and then proceed up the bill as per usual,
and drop the wayside passenger at the old address.
The railway, starting from a central station about
Wynyard-square—it seems impossible to make
Owe’Sullivan’s Folly at Redfern a workable part
of any scheme of communication with North
Sydney—could take off from the high ground near
Miller’s Point, and scoot per highdevel bridge to
the hills above Milson’s Point. Then the Wynyard-
square station could also serve as the centre of a
suburban railway system which would relieve the
strain on Sydney's narrow and corkscrewy streets ;
and the main line into the city would itself be a
huge relief, for it would save the ugly tram rush
along Pitt-street to the station, and the maddened
tram-scoot along Castlereagh-street from the sta-
tion. The Owe’Sullivan idea, that Sydney is the
one great city on earth that doesn’t require a rail-
way, or that can be adequately served by a mere silly
little branch or extension, just as if it were Bre-
warrina orGundagai, was always a fool of an idea,
as The Bulletin pointed out at the time, and
with the constant increase of traffic it has become
a bigger fool of an idea every day since. Also the
Owe’Sullivan Folly will be a sizable bad debt,
but that can t be helped. Being a bad debt, it
may as well be written off to-day as to-morrow or
any other day.
♦
“A Series of Unfortunate Circumstances.”
Sydney’s Tramway Department is still deploring
that “series of unfortunate circumstances” owing
to which it is expected that, when the arrival of
the American fleet puts a special strain on things,
the whole tramway show will break down miser-
ably, and make us a scoff and a subject of mirth.
These “unfortunate circumstances’’ consist of a
succession of incidents which have prevented the
delivery of new machinery intended to double the
present output of power. The existing plant at
the power house is just sufficient to drive the cars
now on the lines —provided the department
doesn’t recklessly plant too many cars on
the lines. The Carruthers-Wade Govern-
ment seemed to realise a few months back
that it might be hit with something hard
unless it moved quickly towards improving
tramway matters, and, accordingly, it arranged
to double the plant at its power house ; but it had
been so busy denouncing the Australian Govern-
ment that it left the master too late. Then it
muddled things horribly. There are hundreds of
engineering shops scattered over the Common-
wealth, but in its devotion to the old cause
of importation the N.S.W. Ministry decided that,
instead of having Australian machinery made from
Lithgow iron by Australian workmen, it should
send to the other end of the world for the plant. So
it placed the order with some firm in the North Sea,
and placidly sat down to wait for the contractors
at the other end of the world to deliver the goods.
It has been waiting ever since, and, according to
all indications, it will go on waiting for a long
while to come, while the population of Sydney in-
creases, and the passengers take to riding on the
roofs. “ Easter, ”it is admitted, “taxed the ser-
vice to the breaking-point.” Yet, with the
chances of an influx of population, exceeding ten-
fold that of Easter, when the American fleet
arrives, there will be no more trams on the lines
than there are to-day—all through the sublime
devotion to the anti-Australian fetich which
impelled Carruthers and Wade to give
their work to any old individual save
the people whose interests they are supposed to
watch. The excuses put forward to account for
the absence of the additional plant would be
ludicrous were they not tragic. First, the English
people muddled things and there was a defect in
an important casting ; then “a strike of operatives
in England” prevented the contractors getting on
with their work ; then “a considerable portion of
the machinery was lost in a wreck,” and is now
lying, a mass of rusty scrap, somewhere on the
rocks of the Gulf of Guinea. The meaning of all
this is that, instead of having the power increased
by June, as promised, it is now only promised
for September, and in all probability another
six months will find Sydney still waiting.
Meantime, the Addison-road-Dulwich Hill line,
which passes through a thickly-populated district
for part of the way, has to lie idle when it might
be earning money. The lines to Bellevue Hill will
also lie out in the cold for the moth to corrupt, and
keep on doing so for an indefinite period. Here
the position is even worse than at Addison-road.
Since the construction work was started, dozens
of houses have gone up along the route, and as
these, without the tram, are right out in the wil-
derness, the foolish people who put their trust in
anti-Federal politicians will have to buy motor-
cars, if they want to inhabit the desirable edifices.
If they don’t, they will have to pay care-
takers to look after them until the engineer,
10,000 miles away, decides to get a move
on; or else they can leave their premises
to the tender mercies of the picnicking
push, or to the dead-beat who makes a fire on the
drawing-room floor with timber culled from the
green-stained over-mantels. Meanwhile the coun-
try will be paying interest on the construc-
tion work already accomplished, and by the
time the new plant is installed the interest and
the lost revenue will be sufficient to cover several
times over the sum which an unpatriotic Govern-
ment thought it had saved by depriving Aus-
tralian artisans of a job.
*
Collingwood Rises to the Occasion,
The honorariums of Collingwood, the Melbourne-
suburb whose council was lately told by Dr.
Norris, of the Board of Health, that it thought
more of bricks and mortar than it did of human
life, lately had to deal with Thomas Baldwell.
This citizen has a son of years, who, being
threatened with a thrashing for breaking a
window, betook himself to his aunt’s house in
South Melbourne. Having recovered him, the*
father marched him the four miles home, then
stripped him, tied his hands and legs, and with a
whip-handle soundly thrashed him for 40 minutes.
Neighbors had heard sounds as of someone
being beaten and hammered, and while one
“went down her yard so as to be as faraway
as possible,” another sent for the police. Before
the Law arrived the child had twisted his le?s free
and escaped into the street, in a state of nature.
He was taken to the hospital in such a damaged
condition that it took five days’ nursing to patch
him up. The hospital doctor stated that “the
lad was covered with bruises from head to foot;
there was a mark on his chest as of a kick from a
heavy boot; his face and mouth were swollen and
bleeding; there were also old scars visible,
apparently of some years’ standing, as if
the boy had been beaten with the buckle-
end of a strap. Face, head, arms, legs,
chest, and back were covered with the.
marks of scourging.” In defence, father Wallop-
well and his wife, the infant’s mother, said the-
boy was “ wild,” and did a lot of damage ; having
heard which explanation, the honorariums ob-
served that it was a charge of aggravated assault
—the penalty for which runs up to two years’
hard labor—and then fined father Wallop-
well twenty shillings As the Bench con-
sisted of Collingwood’s mayor and two coun-
cillors, it looks as though Dr. Norris had
accurately gauged that body’s idea of the relative
values of life and property.
Have Ye Forgotten?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VIC.
What time the Moorish reign
Ousted the arms of Spain,
Opulent, rotten ;
What time the Frankish bands
Wept their dishonored lands ;
What time Napoleon’s horde
Ravished with fire and sword ;
Have ye forgotten ?
What time the Boers left hold.
Borne down by steel and gold,
Fell back, and perished ;
When the strong legions drew,
Surging the whole land through.
Taking, by force of arms.
Cities and fields and farms—
All that they cherished ?
What time the Japanese,
Leaping the narrow seas,
Red conquests urging;
Seizing, with greedy hands,
Russian and Mongol lands ;
Swarming through fort and post,
Till the huge Western host,
Backward went surging?
Hear ye the stringent call—
Build ye a moving wall
Would ye be freemen !
Train ye Australia’s men
Not all to plough and pen ;
Tutor your stout cadets,
Lest the old line forgets
Still to be seamen.
Not in false faith to rest,
Ports of the East and West
Fit the defender;
Ports of the South and North,
Send each your quota forth ;
Strong men behind your rights,
Teach them the nation fights
Not to surrender !
Rouse ye, O inland towns,
Far flung across the downs,
Fall not to slumber !
Form each your mounted bands—
Keen eyes and steady hands
Skilled to deploy and shoot—
Rally your horse and foot,
Each to your number.
Guns of the newest type,
Lest ye be caught unripe,
Each to your station !
This not for pride or boast,
But that from coast to coast,
Sternly the world be told,
“All that we have, we hold
Strongly, a nation ! ”
C. G. A. COLLES.


Why Remain
DEAF
Or Suffer from Head Noises, &c. ?
when you can cure yourself quite conveniently of
the most serious Aural Diseases. No Medicine, No
Electricity, and No Eardrums, but Nature’s own
remedy of pure Aural Kinetics, applied by yourself
at yourown home. Endorsed by the highest Medi-
cal Authorities. Cal 1 or write for FREE particulars.
The EAROSCOPE CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W,
25,000
More Signatures
required to monster petition to
Federal Parliament re One Parlia-
ment for all Australia Referendum. Who will
volunteer to get some ? Write AT ONCE for
petition forms to
“ NATIONAL COMMITTEE,”
192 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY.
CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS.-g^ Y nvED
Important Reduction in Price of Films.
New Shipments arriving Every Week from all
the Leading Makers.
We are the Largest Importers of above in
the Commonwealth.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Is It Worth While?
“They” (viz., Australians) “expect to get our
navy for nothing.” jeered London Truth, the
other day. It is the obvious gibe to which the
existing Defence arrangement lays the Common-
wealth open ; and a gibe which the anti-Australian
newspapers in the United Kingdom are now • ur u
ing at this country unceasingly. The British
person holds, and rightly so, that any mere con '
tribution ” Australia may make to the up-keep ot
the Imperial navy is as nothing. Yet since it is
understood that at the first sign of trouble so much
of the fleet as happens to be in Australian waters
will be withdrawn instantly to the danger zone,
the situation seems to be that the contribution
isn’t much, and the value received for it isn t
much either. The whole arrangement is unsatis-
factorv. When the Briton is in affable mood
he allows the George Reids and B. Smiths of
these parts to deceive themselves and to try to
deceive others into thinking that the policy
which they identify with “loyalty to the Empire
is one in regard to which he also deceives himself.
Scratch him, however, and you learn the truth.
It turns out then that the barrackers for the sub-
sidy system are not high-souled loyalists in his
estimation ; they appeal to him, on the contrary,
as plain, mean, sordid cadgers, or worse—as
confidence tricksters who seek something for a
thing of gold-brick worth. There is no more
unpleasant spectacle than that of the person who
splurges and skites and talks big on someone else s
money ; which remark applies with equal force in
national matters when the splurger is a politician
who is prominent enough to have his splurgmgs
printed in the newspapers and disseminated
abroad as national splurgings. Australia has an
undue collection of splurgers ; and they are all
passionate “loyalists,” and are all frenziedly
enthusiastic on behalf of the policy of hiring a
fragment of the “grand old British fleet as
opposed to building the nucleus of an Australian
fleet—entirely on the grounds that the British fleet
arrangement is “cheaper.” There are, after all,
other considerations besides cheapness. Thereisthe
consideration of national self-respect. The things
London Truth says or hints once a week in this
regard, the Daily Mail and kindred sheets are
saying or hinting once a day. What Australians
whose instincts are not those of the gold-brick
expert want to ask themselves is: “Is it worth
while ? ” We pay little for naval defence, and we
get a defenqe which is worth little, and get insult
along with it. The thing doesn’t seem worth
while.
♦
Monkey Morals, Commercial and Otherwise.
A man long resident in Kobe writes :
Though this may be thought a threadbare subject, yet
the views and actual experiences of one who, as a resident
of the country, has studied the question concretely, and
at close range, may still prove interesting.
Among the Japanese, truth for truth’s sake has not yet
obtained the distinction of a well-established principle.
As a rule, truth is viewed as a matter of expediency
only. Men will unblushingly admit that they have got
the better of you through deception; and even when
convicted of lying, will not only reveal no sense of shame,
but will smile at your unsophisticated credulity, as much
as to say : “ The joke is on you." In Japan almost any-
thing that is inconvenient is excusable. Manners are
morals ; etiquette is ethics.
In dealing with the average Japanese merchant it is
never advisable to pay for an article until after its
delivery. When you order a piece of cloth in a shop a
sample must always be taken ; even with this precaution
there will probably be an attempt’to palm off on you an
inferior grade to what you ordered. Some time ago
I ordered from a tailor a navy blue coat. The article was
fitted, and finally delivered at night, when the difference
between blue and black is not easily noticeable ; hence
when the new coat was put on next day, behold it was
black. The tailor had a remnant of cloth he wished to
work off on someone in this way. A foreign rogue would
have tried that trick on a stranger ; but the Japanese had
the face to work it on a resident whom he sees almost
every day.
Recently a Kobe foreigner, suspecting that there was
something wrong with his coal dealer’s scales, paid a
visit to the yard to see his next order weighed. Knowing
his own weight to a pound, he thought it a good test of
the accuracy of the scales to jump on and weigh him-
self. He was much surprised at his increase of weight.
Noticing, however, that a man was standing suspiciously
near the scales, he asked the fellow to remove ; the latter
refused. He attempted to shove the fellow' away, but
found he could not, as the man’s foot was tied to the
scales. A policeman was called and noted the facts ; but
the authorities refused to prosecute the man who was
thus openly robbing the public. Giving bad weight is
practically not within the jurisdiction of Japanese iaw.
Indeed the longer one lives in Japan the more one
wonders whether it is considered the province of the
courts to see that justice is done between man and man.
A few days ago a mob broke into the premises of a foreign
firm in Kobe, brandishing revolvers, and demanding an
interview with the manager. When informed that Mr.
Hornstein was out, they disputed the fact, and fired into
the office where the manager was supposed to be. Luckily
for him, he was not there to receive the bullets. The
offenders were finally arrested, and then let out on bail ;
and the only punishment, after weeks of delay, was
three months’ imprisonment for one of the gang.
Lying and miscarriages of justice, which naturally go
hand in hand, are not confined to the commonality.
Japanese politicians are constantly charging each other
with bribery and corruption. Embezzlement is one of the
commonest crimes discussed in the vernacular press, and
Government officials themselves are often involved. The
scandalous disregard of the rights of foreigners in the
matter of trade marks has been the talk of the com-
mercial world. No one thinks of trusting tax officials ;
and With good reason. It is the law of Japan that
foreigners can be taxed only after a year’s domicile in the
country. Nevertheless tax officials, taking advantage of
the newcomer’s ignorance of the law, send him a tax bill
after he is but a few months or even weeks in the empire,
in which case the money will very probably be paid
without question. Money collected in this way is very
easily retained by those who thus unlawfully collect it.
Indeed, there is a good deal of reason to suspect that that
is what happens.
There is another scheme whereby officials attempt to
collect money from non-residents of cities. A foreigner
living outside the city corporation was sent a bill for city
taxes. He appealed to his consul, who informed him
that the money could not be legally' collected. When the
consul went to see the tax officials about it, he was given
to understand that, though such bills were always sent, it
was not the intention of the officials to enforce payment.
This simply means that officials will collect money illegally
if the victim is not sufficiently acquainted with the law
to protect himself.
Foreigners often make contracts to come into the ser-
vice of the Japanese Government, and then find out that
8 or 9 per cent, of the salary agreed upon is deducted for
“ income-tax.” Many know this by bitter experience.
A great number of persons in the country live by purely
dishonest means. Take the “ Gorotsuki,” for example.
These represent a class of parasite that thrives simply on
threats and blackmail. They are the special plagues of
the servant class, though even merchants are not exempt
from their threats. They prey unmercifully upon women
who are earning; a smail income. Sometimes they are
employed by an unscrupulous tradesman to assist in sup-
pressing a prosperous rival. This system of brigandage
is well known to the police, and it ought to be an easy
matter to run down the leaders. The fact that they are not
run down leads many to believe that it is a recognised cus-
tom in Japanese society. Thousands of Japanese girls are
bought like chattels, and kept in slavery by means of
these wateh-dogb ; and in certain cases the police have
been suspected of being in league with the Gorotsuki.
—
Glimpses of the truth re the loyalty fetich
appear now and then, and about the latest is the
story sent by Henry Lucy to the effect that the
real cause of the death of poor old Campbell-
Bannerman was the barbarous methods of Court
etiquette. During the German Emperor’s visit
last November, the old fellow felt himself bound
to attend all the State functions. He was present
at the reception at Windsor, and, on returning to
his room, said to the Secretary : “ I have been
standing for two hours, and I must have rest.”
That was the beginning of C.B.’s fatal
illness. Lucy adds that the wife of another
Cabinet Minister who shared the torture
on the same occasion, was, in consequence, taken
seriously ill. The custom of making people who
attend such functions stand as long as they last is
a bit of German etiquette, imported with the
Hanoverian drones. There never was such a rule
in Britain under the Tudors, though they were a
fairly despotic crowd, nor under the Stuarts,
who, poor things, like the last of the French
Bourbons, didn’t quite know their own minds, and
were, besides, shamefully ill-served. Hereditary
monarchy seems to console itself for the loss of the
substance of absolute power by imposing gratuitous
pain and humiliation on the unfortunate whose
sentiment of loyalty or need for the pay makes him
or her serve it in its palace.
+
While Premier Tommy Bent is howling for
people to come from the four corners of the earth
and grow fat and prosperous in the State where
the Big Landlord curse is rampant, this is what is
happening to the yeoman who is already toiling on
the shares system in Victoria: —
At the Benalla police court to-day Henry John Coulter
and his two sons, Thomas and George, were charged with
having stolen four sheep, the property of Angus M'Leod,
near Mansfield. The family had since February last been
living on a farm at Dueran, a wild and mountainous place.
Constable Sullivan stated that on May 21 he saw the
accused Thomas and George Coulter, and they admitted
having killed the sheep. On the following day Henry
Coulter made a statement. He said that he met a
person in Beechworth who owned land at Dueran. This
man entered into an agreement under which Coulter
and his family should go on to the land and improve it,
the owner supplying them with food and tools for 12
months. Under this agreement Coulter, with his wife,
two sons, and little girl, went to the place, and they were
supplied with some food by the owner of the land. They
worked honestly while it lasted, but the landowner sent no
more, and thefamily had nothingleftbut a littleflour, and
were on the verge of starvation. They then commenced
to kill sheep for food. The family were two or three days
without food before the first sheep was killed. They had
no money whatever. On former occasions witness visited
the place and found the family in a state of semi-starva-
tion, and Henry Coulter was smoking tea. When ar-
rested, the boys, Thomas and George, had no shirts on
them,’and their clothing was very ragged. They said
that they had lived on wombats during the previous
year. Accused were committed for trial.
If Bent intends to continue along these lines, he
will need to establish wombat farms in the areas
where he proposes to dump his immigrants, or at
least try and encourage the wombat to become
more numerous than he is at present. The wom-
bat isn’t a particularly large animal, and, if he is
to be the sole support of Victoria, he will have to
occur frequently. Will Bent please see to it that
the wombat occurs frequently ?
♦
In connection with the recent Empire-Day flag-
flapping, Spruce Myth sustained one severe
shock. It travelled down by post from Hillgrove
(N.S.W.). As usual, the Hillgrove Council had
been called upon by S. Myth, on behalf of the
Empire League, to leave off looking after the local
drain, and give its undivided attention for a while
to the greater things that Mr. Smith talks about
at such appalling length. But the Hillgrove
Council reckoned that the local drain was its
business, and, annoyed at the interruption, it pro-
ceeded to say a few things to Mr. Smith for the
good of his health. It therefore ordered a letter
to be sent to him telling him that the councillors
were a loyal lot, and regarded the upholding of the
Empire as a vital matter; but they had their
grave doubts about Mr. Smith. Wherefore their
letter continued :
As Australians we (the Councillors) assert that loyalty
to our own country will afford the best proof of our
loyalty to the Empire. And we consider your advocacy
of your Black Brother (for whom, on your own admission,
you have a soft spot in your heart), and your evident
desire to flood this fair country with the colored alien to
the danger of the purity of the race, and the detriment
of the people of Australia, is not an evidence of loyalty to
the Empire, and certainly not an act of patriotism to
your own country.
In conclusion, Mr. Smith was implored to turn
over a new leaf, and “ show your patriotism to
the country in which you live before you ask
people (no doubt for your own aggrandisement) to
show their loyalty to the British Empire.”
♦
A lawyer writes :
The administration of Ma State’s Law is a curious
irrational animal sometimes. At the Newtown (Sydney)
court (10/6/’08) five boys, of ages ranging from 17 to 20
years, were convicted of playing “ two-up ” the previous
Sunday in Erskineville. One pleaded guilty, the other
four swore they had not been playing at all. According
to the police evidence there were 17 youths in the
“ school” at the time it was first sighted. It broke up
immediately afterwards, and “ a lively chase fol-
lowed.” As a result, the five accused were roped
in. There was a good prima facie case that
the four who pleaded “not guilty” were telling the
truth. The police did not attempt to identify any one of
them as a player ; and “ two-up ” is a game at which, as a
rule, at least 50 per cent, of those gathered around the
“ kip ” are mere spectators. That fact should have told
in favor of the lads. Also, they held unblemished records.
Yet. the magistrate passed the whole lot the astounding
sentence of 14 days’ hard labor apiece without the option
of a fine. On the same day a hopeful youth named
Frederick Stacker stood his trial before Judge Rogers at
the Quarter Sessions. He pleaded guilty to stealing in
company from one Thomas Trott, of Narremburn, on
May 15, and was “ bound over to come up for
sentence when called upon.” On another charge he
pleaded guilty to stealing (again in company) 36 bottles
of hop beer, the property of Margaret Witt, at Narrem-
burn, on April 5, and for this pretty large steal he was
“bound over” yet again. And finally he pleaded guilty
to a further charge of stealing further beer on his own
account. This time he wasn’t bound over, presumably
because his Honor had run short of rope and couldn’t
bound any more, but he was sentenced to six months’
imprisonment, the sentence being suspended under the
provisions of the First Offenders Act. “Two-up,”
whether played publicly or otherwise, is doubtless some-
thing of a nuisance. It is a form of gambling that the
law, which smiles upon racecourse betting and railway
carriage Bridge and land “ ballots,” elects to dis-
countenance; and to that extent it is reprehensible.
But at its worst it is not half such a public
nuisance as the stealing of 36 bottles of drinkable
fluid. The law administration which results in the
blasting of the characters of five boys by placing the
hard labor stigma on them in connection with so trivial
an offence as “ two-up,” and releases a persistent criminal
like the Stacker person aforementioned, suffers from in-
growing toe-nail in its sense of proportion, and needs to
have the thing extracted.
“Ricardo” writes from Brisbane :
I accumulate the price of my daily bun in the rag-
trade, and have always been puzzled as to why the great
majority of business men, especially the retailers, are
Freetraders at heart and importers in practice. If there
is any class which would reap benefit by keeping in the
country the vast sums of money now sent away for
foreign goods, it is the shop-keeping class. Yet their
contempt for Australian industries is in the mass terrific,
and the only time it does not stick out in an aggressive
manner is when some patriotic customer blows m with a
loud demand for Australian-made goods, and nothing
but Australian-made goods. Then, in the interests
of business, Australian industries are cracked up
till after the patriotic customer has gone, when the
glib but disgusted merchant hies him to the tap to rinse
out his mouth. I can understand the wholesale mer-
chant’s objection to High Protection. It forces him to
get work, as the small boy says. He yearns for the
Simple Life in a small, palatially-furnished office, making
out lists of goods to be indented from the “markets of
the world.” And High Protection is forcing him to go
out and buy up factory sites, talk over buildings with
architects, arrange about machinery, and hustle
generally. Here, in Brisbane, he is being forced in sheer
self-defence to become a manufacturer, and he doesn’t
like the extra trouble. But the pressure of High Protec-
tion is inexorable, and, in spite of his squealing,
he has been driven to erect hat, shirt, and
clothing factories, and to employ hundreds of employees.
Almost every wholesale house in Australia now has
its own clothing and shirt factory, and some of them
have their own straw hat and boot factories. And the
difference between running that sort of business and
sitting in an artistic room writing out orders is just the
difference between hard graft and camping out. Another
reason the wholesale importer has for disliking the tariff
is that under it the larger retailers are erecting their own
factories and workshops for the making of simple articles,
and are buying only the more elaborate lines from the
wholesaler.' If the present tendency continues, many of
our large warehouses will be compelled to open retail
establishments of their own, and that will be more worry.
The importer wails about driving capital out of the
country, but, as a matter of fact, it is capital that
threatens to drive him out of the country. And that
would be a capital thing for capital to do.
-♦
At last the English commercial classes are be-
ginning to have doubts about the wisdom of the
alliance with Japan. The case of Buchanan and
Co. has made a tremendous impression in the
Cold Country. The makers of the famous House
of Commons whisky found that a Jap wine and
spirit merchant was making a fortune by selling
an awful compound under a fac-simile of their
label. They went for the pirate in the Jap
courts, and the defendant pleaded guilty. But
the Judge seemed to fail to notice the plea, and
inquired whether the impostor’s whisky was of
better quality than the Scotch. Both liquors
were produced in court, and the Bench sampled
them,' and called expert evidence, and learned
that the Jap compound was not whisky at all,
but a horrible fraud. Then the Judge sat back
and explained learnedly that the case must
be dismissed, as a superior and honorable
whisky like Buchanan’s could not possibly
be injured by such a vile imitation. Had
the Jap’s whisky been better than Buchanan’s he
held that the plaintiffs might have succeeded, as
the competition would then have done them
harm, quite forgetting that, had it been better,
the Jap would not have required to steal
Buchanan’s label. So the Jap continues to sell
whisky in dark bottles, bearing the honored
Scotch label, and the Briton is powerless. And
other Japs are following in this pirate’s footsteps,
and the commercial and manufacturing classes in
Britain are inquiring if this is all they get out of
the alliance. Diplomatic pressure is being brought
to bear on the Nippon Government, but, so far,
that august body declares it is powerless to inter-
fere with the independence of its Bench. The
trouble is that where foreign trade-marks are con-
cerned the Jap Bench seems to be pure highway-
man.
“ Hamer ” gets drunk again :
There are a lot of styles to get drunk in ; but I think
the aristocratic inebriation I enjoyed one night was the
pleasantest in my short but varied career. An individual
who had tapped us for a small donation had called me
“ My lord,” and christened my companion “ Your Grace ” ;
and we didn’t see why we should moult the pomp and
dignity of the titles when we turned into our next three-
penny bar. After we had duly impressed the inhabitants
and ordered our second round, my friend Confided to me
that it wasn’t such a joke as I imagined, as I would
realise if I knew who he really was ; but he delighted
in going round in disguise and enjoying himself.
I thought that effort was worth another drink, and over
it I invited my friend to come down to the corner with
me, where my motor-car would be waiting. As I was
going through the door an idea struck me, and I called
back airily to the barman to fill them up for all hands.
My motor-car wasn’t at the corner ; but whilst we waited
there (I couldn’t make out what was keeping it), a youth
came rushing up, and demanded payment for the drinks.
It appeared that the barman had filled them up for all
hands. I handed the youth my card and told him to put
the drinks down to my account; and then, as I realised
that it was somebody else’s card, it struck me that we had
better wait for my motor-car at the next corner. Before
we reached it, however, I was thrilled with a desire to
show my friend my yacht, and I took him to Point Mac-
quarie on purpose. On the way, he gave me a pressing
invitation to visit his station in Queensland, and then he
referred to his ancestral home in Britain, and hinted at)
the devotion of old Martin, one of his servants. In return,
I requested that he should visit my “little place” in the
Riverina, and I talked about the hard condition (relieved
by my beneficence) of several pensioners of mine. I was
beginning to feel really rich and good and power-
ful. 1 analysed the life, characteristics, and misdemeanors
of 'my servants, and every pub seemed to give me
inspiration. I promised him that I would show him the
Koh-i-nor when he called to see me ; I mentioned otherin-
terestinggems. Every pub seemed to give him inspira-
tion too, and he told me about many family heirlooms.
By the time we reached Circular Quay we were both mil-
lionaires, and connections of the Royal family. No doubt
we should have gone on feeling good, only, unfortunately,
the sixpence my friend tendered at the last pub was bad,
and as I didn’t'have even a bad sixpence left, the barman
threw us out. In the scrimmage I missed my friend,
whereupon I walked home to Woolloomooloo.
We understand that Mr. Roberts, the
plaintiff in an action recently heard against this
paper, feels aggrieved at the paragraph relating
to the action that appeared in our issue of the
12th March. We regret the publication of that
paragraph, which we now unreservedly withdraw,
and we desire to make it clear that we apologise
to Mr. Roberts for having stated that he was
“sacked,” and withdraw the statement and ex-
press regret that his feelings were hurt by it.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Mother Goose.”
Theatre Royal “ The Prince of Pilsen.”
Criterion “ The Morals of Marcus."
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow.”
Bijou “A Modern Adventuress.”
Theatre Royal “ The Belle of Mayfair.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
O
“ 10-2-4’s ” discourse :
The modern Music Hall, rightly regarded, is a thought-
stimulating sort of institution. I have endured Variety
shows in most of the English-speaking lands, and I find
that in all of them the philosophies and conventions
which the performers approve are significantly alike.
The artists take a uniform view practically, in social and
ethical matters, irrespective of race, or climate, or hemi-
sphere. They are acquainted with the same amaaing
people. These people do and say the same things with
the inevitableness of a Maeterlinck tragedy.
Take the world-old situation of the young man who
has wasted his substance in riot, and so come upon lean
times. The hall has, in every country where Shak- '
speare’s tongue endures, a definite rule of conduct for his
case. The fallen one must either (1) become a lodger
(a wild, gay life this), or (2) marry and compel “ the old
woman ” to keep him. He may not work. The mental
attitude laid down for him is one of hopeless Asiatic
pessimism. I heard a man howl the following, with beer
and tears in his voice, the other night (the air bore a
resemblance to a well-known revelling song)
For he was a jolly good fay-low (a pause)
(Bitterly) A jolly good rollicking fay-low ;
Fit for a laugh or joke (with a coflin-likc smile),
A regular lively bloke.
(Prolonged and dreary pause.)
But now that he’s lost both credit and cash
And met with adversitee,
(With acid cynicism) He’s not such a jolly good fay-low as
He used-ter-be.
These few lines neatly epitomise the music-hall’s theory
as to the world’s awful callousness in the face of insol-
vency. , . ,
Now and then we get an exception to the broad rule
that the bust spendthrift must necessarily be treated
like a pariah by all who consorted with him in the days
of his prosperity. The exception is a female, in a humble
class of life invariably ; and she is mostly named Liz. The
financial has-been chants her praise in broken tones,
fumbling a small cloth cap the while: —
Ay well I mind the day,
W’en friends orl fell away,
And left me on me own ter care and strife ;
But ONE stuck to me farst,
From the start unto the larst;
It wuz Liz (Gord blesser !) Liz ! me sainted wife.
The Variety stage plutocrat is either (a) half-witted ;
or (b) a malignant being of devilish charm. Type (a)
oarries a light willowy cane, on which, leaning, he falls
heavily. Prone near the footlights he says bleatingly,
“Bay Jove!” and’so convulses the house. Type (b)
hardly ever appears in person ; his doings are described
by another. The stave of the British coster whose sister
was deserted is a classic :
I know she thinks abart ’im
And hinwardly she frets,
I’ve seen the rowses fadin’ naow fer munce ;
And w’en I torks abart ’im
She sez forgive and for get ;
Ree-member, Bill, ’ee usedter luv me wunce.
Many thousands of songs have been written in close
imitation of this one in English, in American, and in the
language that is spoken in London, E.
The Music Hall insists that the mothers of this world
divide up into two grand armies—human saints in the
one camp, dipsomaniacs in the other. The human saint
is as rarely in evidence as the evil plutocrat afore-
mentioned. Her good points, like his bad ones, are made
for her: —
Where will we get another
When we say farewell to mother,
To mother who has tended us in pain?
Ho ! far dearer than a brother
Or a sister is dear mother.
When she’s gone we will not see her like again.
The dipsomaniac parent resembles G. Reid’s conception
of a Female Socialist. She leaps on to the stage with a
scream, stabs the boards with her foot preparatory to a
shuffling fandango, waves her gamp a few times in the
air, and then, calming in sudden fashion, becomes con-
fidential concerning drink, onions, sausages, and her
relations with the lodger. She is a shocking and almost
incredible woman.
Summed up, it seems to me that one of the most sug-
gestive truths the Music Hall inculcates is the immense
distance most of us are in spirit from the person next
door. There must be millions of people round us like
these improbable ones we see and hear of on every English-
speaking variety stage. Yet how many of them do we
meet in our walks abroad? For my part, I have never
met one ; and my friends make a like complaint. Is it a
purblind lack of sympathetic insight on our parts? Appa-
rently. A League for the Identification of Music Hall
Types when Encountered in the Street is among a heap of
other social requirements nowadays.
* # * *
Science has given this old world a good
push along lately, and Marconi is still shoving,
and Edison is doing as well as can be expected on
his new vegetable diet; but there are a few things
still missing. Margaret Anglin and her wdng of
the new J.G.W. Co. have been speeding out from
America the last few weeks, and G. S. Titheradge
and his wing of the co. have been speeding out
from Europe ; and holler as much as they might,
they found it wasn’t possible to carry on satis-
factory rehearsals during that time. Consequently
“ The Thief,” who was to start his career of crime
in Her Majesty’s (Sydney) next Saturday, is held
over for a week, while “Mother Goose will be
resurrected to keep the nest-egg warm, so to
speak.
* * * *
‘ ‘ The Morals of Marcus ’ ’ supplant ‘ ‘ The
Mummy and The Humming Bird ” at Sydney
Criterion on Saturday night next. The morals
in question are, it may be noted, of a Jud-hke
unimpeachability. Marcus, though fascinating,
is good and strong—oh ! so strong. He is no
relation to Marcus Superhumanus of the Legs.
He will be played by A. S. Homewood; and
Beatrice Day has a fine part as a designing widow-
woman.
* * * *
The Theatrescope of C. Spencer continues
to unwind nightly miles of moving pictures, of
flood and land incident, at Sydney Lyceum, lhe
recent Maon-Ma State football match is the star
item. Every feature of the game is presented,
barring the muttered imprecations of the com-
batants and the words of the visitors’ preliminary
haka.
* * * *
West’s Pictures pursue their unjerky
course at Sydney Palace Theatre. The world has
been raked for subjects, and, as a result, all ob-
jects of art, from infernal machines and stage doors
to babies and bewitched boots, are exhaustively
treated. De Groen’s orchestra serves in partial
fashion to drown the shrieks of agitation aroused
by the more stirring episodes.
* * * #
Miss Cathie Duff deserved better treat-
ment from the Highland Society than the absence
of that stern-willed, kilted crowd from her first
concert on Saturday night. She sings the nationa
songs of the Shaggy Land with fire and charm, and


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
Ltd., Cinematograph Specialists and Electricians,
333 George Street, Sydney.*
in the real Newhaven fisher-wife costume, which
she wore when she sang “Caller Herrin,” she
looked too cute for words. Mr. Andrew Black
lifted his fine baritone with the usual success, and
Miss Vera Dickerson, a youngster not yet in her
teens, gave promise of being a phenomenal pianiste
in the sweet by-and-bye.
** * *
The continued popularity of “ The Prince
of Pilsen ” at Sydney Royal seems to suggest that
the public appetite for this kind of fare is in-
satiable. Her Majesty’s, the Royal, and at least
two music halls are giving about the same class of
stuff just now, and all doing good business.
** * *
The most noticeable feature about this
week’s Sydney Tivoli bill is its strong resemblance
to last week’s. The Deane Tribune people are
playing a new sketch, entitled “Applicants,” in
place of “ The Cheerful Idiot,” but otherwise
things remain very much as they were seven days
ago. Other performers least deserving of pas-
sionate reproach are the Rigoletto Brothers, the
Ahlbergs, Alberto the Talking Magician, Fred
Bluett, and Will Lochrane. The other members
of the company are reluctantly forgiven.
** * *
The price of amusements in Adelaide has
suddenly soared upward. For weeks past 3s. has
bought the best seat for any show in the city.
Now Kubelik, of the certain technique and the
arguable soulfulness, has had the nerve to charge
seven times as much at the Town Hall. Adelaide
is “ tried high ” in living up to its reputation for
being Musical. The crowd prefers to pay a mere
crown, and elbow its way in. The Bland Holts
have finished their long season (eight weeks, pos-
sibly a local “recoil”) at the Royal, and had a
great send-off at the end with “The Flood Tide.”
Adelaide had about ten years’ arrears of goodwill
to make up, and tried hard to do it. The change
to “Peter Pan” is abrupt and complete. Ade-
laide welcomed it with one of those crammed
Saturday-night houses which so delight a manager
with mathematical mind—he at once thinks that
niultiplication by six will denote the week’s tak-
ings. Adelaide flatters itself on being just the
city to appreciate the rather elusive humors of
“Peter.” It remains to be seen whether it does
flatter itself.
** * *
“0.K.” : Annie Besant, giving her first
lecture at Adelaide Town Hall, struck me as being
a re-edition of her younger self, with a few
alterations and improvements. A little plumper,
perhaps, than the gentle Annie who toured Aus-
tralia of yore, she appeared in a similar white
dress, cut so as to give her short neck a fair
chance to swell with emotion. The fair hair is
growing very white, but the sweet voice has not
perceptibly aged, and the easy flow of words is
more effective than ever. This opening lecture-
lasting 90 minutes in one innings—dealt only with
Theosophy, as compared with the terrorisms of
religious dogma, and was highly successful in
giving the audience a temporary desire to be
good for goodness’s sake, which, anyhow, is bet-
ter than a fleeting resolution to be good for
Heaven’s sake on account of an alternative H—l.
The lecturess looked the character she was advo-
cating. Her earnestness and sincerity reminded
one of the doctrine which she brought to this
country years ago : “You may pass laws against
‘sweating,’ but until you have removed the
‘sweating ’ devil from human nature, ‘sweating’
will come back again.” And this, presumably,
was the text of her second lecture: “ What
Theosophy has to say to the Worker,” delivered
at Adelaide Trades Hall. Mrs. Besant is far too
soulful to admit the possibility of making em-
ployers good by Act of Parliament. What she
overlooks is the fact that legislation can create an
atmosphere of fair dealing, a sense of moral re-
sponsibility. Acts of Parliament that affect his
pocket unfavorably are obnoxious to the
capitalist at the outset, as a matter of
course. The sweating devil objects to every
act of interference. But the atmosphere of
common justice affects the capitalist, and he gets
acclimatised. In short, Parliament is capable of
showing Theosophy the shortest way to make
many people better than they were.
** * *
Females of depraved habits and vitiated
moral temperament are always fine subjects for
elaboration by the builders of melodrama, and
“A Modeiyi Adventuress,” who commenced to
distinguish herself at Melbourne Bijou last Satur-
day night, is about as depraved as could be ex-
pected. From the outset one suspects that
she is scarcely a reality. In fact, she is rather
a beautiful and amazingly wicked clothes-
horse. Her airy malevolence, and the affable
wickedness which is done, even when there is no
need for it and no money to be gained by it, pre-
suppose her to be an invention. She commits
murder for exercise, and selects a corpse as another
woman might a bit of lace. When she babbles,
sh* babbles in a fascinating monotone. When she
laughs, she is as grotesquely Satanic as a woman
in bangles and a ball-dress can well be. Moreover,
her flashes of amorousness imply that even Cupid
is a degenerate kid, given to cigarettes and ex-
pectoration through his teeth. The Modern
Adventuress is a plausible, worldly, complex
female, combining in herself all the sins of
her sex, and also those that man generally
perpetrates in cheap billiard rooms and six-
penny bars. As she glides into view in Act 1.,
she has the mien of an empress; and it is
not long before it transpires that her name is
Violet Meredith, alias Maud Delby ; and that she
is the bogus niece of one Delby, a mining specu-
lator. Her apartment is a shriek of luxury;
and into this palace there capers wildly
a domestic of freakish and inconceivable
tastes, with red and white stockings and
a trailing red flannelette petticoat. This creature,
who is obviously created that she may “guy”
every eminent person in the piece, careers madly
in and out on all occasions, much to the objection
of Violet and the present writer. Violet is guilty
of an affection for old Delby’s son, who, as usual,
had been ejected from the paternal presence on
the strength of a forgery he did not commit. But
the capture of Delby junior, who is already mar-
ried to an Italian lady named Vivetti, is only one
(and a secondary one for the time being) of
Violet’s many ideas. Her first object is old
Delby’s money; but the old man suddenly dis-
covers her imposture, and she buries a stiletto
in his bosom, and lights a cigarette over
the corpse. She then turns her attention to
Delby junior, and by a process of intricate
and delicate plotting, compromises Vivetti
in her husband’s eyes—Donelli, a former lover,
with the appearance of a romantic anarchist, being
joined as co-re. Donelli is entirely innocent, and
returns to his native Italy in spirits so low that
OI ? the & roun( i- In his studio, a room
which exhibits samples of a chiaroscuro that be-
tokens the sheer lunacy of genius, he is informed
that Vivetti has been divorced—which is quite in
accordance with the casualness of the drama. Ho
he hastens back to England to prove her inno-
cence, and, after that is done, Violet’s handy little
weapon extinguishes his usefulness, and he be-
comes Body ll.—or VIII., it is difficult to
remember which. Of Violet’s punishment,
and of other details such as the final rapproche-
ment between husband and wife, nothing will
be said. What with Violet’s unedifying parent
\ “ ein B with a dwarfed mentality and a
stub nose—what with the incidental humor, which
is possibly supportable with chloroform, the play
is a cause of great suffering.
* « * *
The acting is meritorious on the average,
but it cannot be asserted that Violet, as Miss
Nellie Fergusson chose to see her, is much more
than an uncaptivating dress-model. Miss Ethel
Buckley also is not entirely satisfactory. Her
slavey is only a hilarious exaggeration, justified
possibly by the intelligence of the audience. On
the other hand, Miss Helen Fergus, as Vivetti, is
decidedly able, and, moreover, is remarkably con-
vincing, despite the excessive stodginess of her
part. As Delby Junior, Ernest Leicester has
few faults; while Jefferson Taite, as Donelli,
makes an impressive Dago of the ’All Caine
school of fiction. Good work is also done by John
Hesford and J. P. O’Neill, though the latter is,
on occasion, wearisomely unctuous.
* # * *
Melbourne Princess’s has resumed its
gloom and emptiness, and its rows of seats have
clothed their nakedness in canvas garb. Probably
the said seats will continue to wear their Sunday
bathing costume until “Mrs. Wiggs, of The Cab-
bage Patch,” becomes the gossip of the trams.
“Mrs. Wiggs” is to transpire on Saturday, 27th
inst.
* * *
West’s Pictures, at Melbourne Olympia,
continue to remove the incubus of melancholy with
a stream of alluring phantasy and picturesque
fact. What time phantasy is created by mechan-
ical spooks of either gender, fact is represented
by the “Wreck of H.M.S. Gladiator” or the
“ lodine Industry.” The latter is interesting in a
way, and deals, the writer believes, with a substance
wherewith the human frame is painted when
it isn’t feeling well. It is about the only drug
which hasn’t been used in the wilder and hairier
variety of drama. Morphia, chloral, laudanum,
and cocaine all prove ineffectual when applied to
the hero. Therefore, why not try iodine or slay
him with a porous plaster ?
* * * *
“ Miss Hook ” is in her last week of saucy
irrelevancy at Melbourne Royal. “The Belle of
Mayfair” takes possession next Saturday. “The
Belle ” is boomed as being a revelation of frocks,
legs, ladies and English accents ; the dresses pro-
mise to be Just It, and the chorus is sure to be as
sonorous and shapely as it can’t help being.
* * * #
The career of “The Merry Widow”
becomes more starlike every week at Her
Majesty’s, in Melbourne. The fervid Higginson,
who looks like Ben Hur turned out by Poole, the
famous trouser man, has ousted Charles Ryley’s
memory from the hearts of grandmothers, and
made himself the magnet which draws maidens
towards him on the wettest nights, and even from
furthest Suburbia, What more could be desired
from a comic opera than a girl who makes
men mad, and a baritone whom girls
make into their first ideal, or their sixty-fourth
infatuation. Apart from the players, the play
carries a moral “ for ladies only.” It’s an instruc-
tive and faithful exposition of the ways of Widow,
which could be studied with profit by every female
over the age of eighteen. A young widow
is a woman who has the advantage of awful
knowledge, and the appearance of very little in-
formation—who has the courage of her appetite
and the digestion of an ostrich. She has a con-
science that improves her moral figure, like a pair
of Parisian stays; and she has a manner that is
like the hour after a delicious dinner. She has
only one fault—which is missed by her half-sister,
the grass widow —she might marry you when
you weren’t looking, and, before you could
mutter a curse, degenerate into thie wife of
your own particular bosom. And the widow
—especially the one at Her Majesty’s—
knows how to manage men. First she
catches the man. Then she snubs him. Then
she trusses him up with a sense of his own
unworthiness, stuffs him with the notion of her
unanimous attractiveness, lards him with the de-
votion of his rivals, and dishes him up on the
toast of his own folly. Whereupon there is a
dainty that ensures chronic dyspepsia (but that’s
a detail). Go, ye girls, and sit at the feet of the
Merry Widow, remembering all the while that she’s
sure to make a morbid wife.
* * * *
Melbourne Opera House is blossoming
forth into new turns, as an almond tree grows
nuts in its prime. Austin Rudd happened on
Saturday night. The familiar Rudd has all his
old quaint mannerisms, and some new songs of
middle-aged humor, which together make him a
happy relief. He was greeted with ecstasy by a
gallery that loves him. The Ibsons occur on
Wednesday, and a married couple come to us
next Saturday with the child of their mutual
vaudeville efforts. The offspring’s character isn’t
specified to date, but it is suspected.of being a
drawing-room entertainment. Otherwise, Muriel
Andrews, Florrie Ranger, and Walter Whyte are
making melodious noises, and Irving Savles is
making at least one member of his audience hope
for his speedy removal to another sphere of
colored activity.
* * * *
Before the Covent Garden (London) sea-
son opened a lot of sport was anticipated, by
people in the know, from the Melba-Tetrazzini
contest. The booming of Tetrazzini, it appears,
was practically the result of a well-organised con-
spiracy by entrepreneurs, who had long been
groaning under the unchallenged supremacy of
Melba the Capricious. The creation of a rival
power was an urgent necessity, and Tetrazzini
(marked for that purpose fully twelve months be-
fore the boom was decided upon), found herself
famous on both sides of the Atlantic the day after
she had fired off her top note in London last
autumn. It had been arranged that her top note
—or, rather her high trill —was to be the signal
for the “discovery” of a Greater than Melba.
A more winsome and picturesque artist would
have been preferred, but, none being available,
the bulky Italian soprano got the simultaneous
plaudits of a hundred newspaper critics, the
notices being promptly cabled in all directions.
In short, it was a put-up job. Melba to-day, de-
spite her extra weight of years, is more than cap-
able of retaining her lead in public estimation on
her merits, as against the claims of the new-
comer—if the public accepts the evidence of its
own ears and eyes. Tetrazzini, on the other
hand, has the larger measure of support from the
forces by which “stars” are made, and the result
of the struggle was expected—when the mail left
—to turn upon the question whether Melba
would gird up her voice and play a careful wait-
ins' game, or break out into tantrums and give her
rival every opportunity to down her.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Protos”: What is “Pro” talking about? In The
Bulletin (4/6/’08) he says, referring to the late and much
lamented Alfred Dampier, “It is many years since I met
Mr. and Mrs. Dampier in Bourke-street, he clinging to her
arm, white haired, and apparently worn out.” Only six
years ago I saw Dampier in Hobart, and as he was a close
personal friend of my father I met him often during his
stay of a fortnight. He was then in the meridian of
health and miles from being the worn out man “ Pro ”
would have him appear. I again saw him in Adelaide,
about five years ago, and even then he looked fit for
another 20 years. I called on him at the Royal, in that
city, one morning, when rehearsal was in full swing. I
was a runaway apprentice from a blasted wind-jammer,
without a penny in my pocket. The “cove what
looked after the door ” eyed me suspiciously and asked
for my card. I hadn’t the ghost or semblance
of such a luxury. So I wrote my name on a piece of dirty
paper, and the menial departed, after much hesitation, to
find his master. Dear, kindly old Dampier (may he dwell
in Paradise) came down, and, remembering me, asked
what I was doing in Adelaide. I tearfully explained
about the brutal second mate and the hell that reigns
upon a windjammer for the boy that incurs his dislike.
“ Poor lad ! ” he said, “ I know they treat you boys badly
at sea sometimes.” Then I asked him if he could give me
a job. He had a full complement of workers about the
theatre, and could not, but he handed niehalf-a-sovereign
in the kindest manner possible, and bade me come back
again when it was gone. I didn’t go back, for I was caught
by the police and returned to my ship. I have never
seen him since, but in many parts of the world I have
thought of the kindly smile, the “poor boy,” and the
half-sovereign of dear old Alfred Dampier.
“ Snell ” : Bernard Shaw' encourages people of literary
capacity to write for the theatre. The dramatic form, he
says, is the best method of expression, and the dramatic
author is better paid than the novelist, the essayist, or
the journalist. This is true, but if there were as many
dramatists as there are novelists, how long would drama-
tists’ prices retain their present level ? Moreover, there
is a very limited demand for plays as compared with
novels and newspapers, and, although managers complain
that they can’t get plays, there are just about as many
theatres in full blast as the world needs. When the
manager complains of the scarcity of plays, he means the
scarcity of dead-sure paying plays. How many of the
writers Bernard Shaw scatters his advice upon could
write dead-sure paying plays?
“J.A.C.”: There is at present on view in Sydney an
exhibition of mechanical wax works ; some of the figures,
by the way, are a nearer approach to art in wax than I
have hitherto seen in this city. Prominent is a group
reproducing Leonardo da Vinci’s famous fresco of the
Last Supper. The figures do not move, but they have a
moving effect on some of the faithful among the audi-
ence. They also have a removing effect, for relic hunters
sometimes seek to carry off portions of them. The
other day a pious man from the back-blocks, who ac-
cepted the straw and sawdust effigies as gospel, begged
so hard for a lock of the hair of the principal figure that
a small clipping was given to him. This he reverentially
placed in his watch-case, and went away, apparently
satisfied that he had secured a prize. I do not relate this
as a joke ; I think it rather sad.
Carrie Swain Wisler, whom Australians knew as Carrie
Swain, star actress, is in Paris. Her suit against Frank
L. Gardner, her whilom manager—the mysterious
financier with the inscrutable poker-playing countenance,
against whom judgment was given recently for a huge
sum —was down for hearing in the Paris courts last month.
Maitre Labori —he of the Dreyfus trial and the other in-
scrutable countenance—4s the lady’s counsel. The
hiring of Labori, taken in conjunction with the fact
that Carrie has just had her portrait painted by Louise
Abb6ma, and hung in the ’OB Salon, indicates that in the
matter of material prosperity Australia’s old friend is
doing quite nicely.
“ J.A.C.”: The tenor Caruso has become a member of
the New York Society for the Abolition of Vice, an organi-
sation w'hich last year caused to be destroyed 12 tons of
immoral books and pictures, including, from one place
alone, 180,000 picture postcards. Caruso takes an interest
in New York vice.
The post-card mania subsides. In Melbourne a jewelled
actress can now be purchased for 2d.—former price, 4d.
City post-card shops have closed down, and suburban
vendors of the painted female with eyes like motor-lamps
and an undue equipment of grinders agree mournfully
that she has slumped, and has become a dreary and un-
saleable drug on the market.
The Australian entertainment enthusiast and his enter-
tainer are an undefeatable pair of cusses. At Stannary
Hills, a mining township on the Cairns (Q.) railway, the
only “ hall ” for show purposes is the local railway goods
shed. When a theatrical company happens along, the
voice of public opinion calls clamantly upon the store-
keeper of the town to shift his wares aw’aiting delivery.
He declines at his own great risk. Recently a trader,
claiming a consignment of baled hay, was told he couldn’t
get his bales. He asked why ? “ We want ’em for the
three bob seats,” he was told. Whereat he nodded
understandingly and went his patient way.
“Hiphen”: The idea of selecting “Maxims” for the
last scene in “ The Merry Widow ” is in keeping with the
atmosphere of the whole piece. There, the cleverly
handled but unoriginal love story of the more or less gay
widow and the wine-soaked prince reaches its climax.
There their differences are set straight, and one pictures
them rushing from the vicious, polluted air of Paris’s
most notorious and ill-famed cafb, to be joined in the
holy bonds of matrimony. The selection of Maxims as a
scene for a comic opera amounts to genius. I have been
there, and its tone is comic-operary. At Maxims only
the commonplace is extraordinary, only the bizarre
is natural. An elaborately decorated lady, quietly
seated, devouring supper, will suddenly jump on
the table, and do a pas de seal among the entries, if the
tune the band is playing happens to elevate her spirits,
or the wine in her craves expression. No one, bar her
friends, takes any notice. It is the most natural thing in
the world. She feels like dancing, so she dances. Why
not? Her immediate companions applaud quietly; they
mop the gravy from their features ; silent-footed waiters
straighten things up, and all goes on as before. Joy and
everyone else is unconfined. It is the home of comic
opera.
“ Snell ”: I see it stated that dancing people are
“simply crazy ” about “The. Merry Widow” waltz. Clubs
are being formed to dance it, and teachers are being beset
with demands from learners who desire to master that
amorous prowl. This opens up a bright prospect for the
ballroom of to-morrow evening. I see, with the blood-
shot eye of faith, the usual baggy business man, in the
usual mass of misfit shirt, with the usual kind of face,
grasping the ordinary dancing girl, with the gasp and the
giggle and the “ ’ay-rick 'ead of ’air,” and circulating in
the amazy waltz, whole troops of them, the girl sagging
like a bag of washing, gazing up at the underneath part
of the man’s whiskers with an expression of intense gloat-
ing, the man hooked over her and yearning into her back
hairpin with a great yearn. It would be a terrifying
spectacle, and I hope Judkins recovers in time to pre
vent it.
A prominent Sydney pianist, the other day, asked the
landlady of a city hostelry, much frequented by musicians,
what she thought of Kubelik. She said : “ Did he run on
Saturday ? ”
“Blue Peter”: Funny how, in a play, where all the
characters are supposed to be French people in France,
one or two ill-advised mimes will always insist on talking
broken English. In “ The Merry Widow,” where there is
not a single English character, a couple of buxom dam-
sels (Clo-Clo and Frou-Frou) carefully transpose their
lines into the weird Franco-German, flavored with traces
of Central African and Esquimaux Dog, which is the stage
conception of how the French speak English. I fancy
one of the maidens goes so far as to translate her song
into this jargon, but by the time she has sung, danced,
smoked a cigarette, done justice to her underskirts, and
kept inside her shoulder-straps, the words are mostly
lost.
The latest tariff yarn is about a consignment of 60
nigger minstrel wigs imported at a wholesale price of
about 9d. each. The duty on these is held to be 10s.
a piece, or 1333 per cent. If this is true, it is good enough
for the importer. If he prefers to send half-way round
the world to get nigger wigs, }d. or even 3d. below the
Australian makers’ price, he deserves all he gets. To in-
sinuate that Australia can’t make a nigger wig calls for a
fine of more than 10s. each.
George Titheradge told a great truth to an Argus in-
terviewer: “There is more birth, more breeding, more
money, and considerably less talent represented on the
London stage to-day than at any previous period of my
acquaintance with it."
Owing to the tremendous success of “ The Squatter’s
Daughter,” Bill Anderson is understood to want other
locally-written drammers of the kind. Incidentally, he
is said to have bought from Alf Lumsden (professionally
Czerny, the conjurer), the rights to a new thrill, “ The
Digger’s Son.”
“ Harrison O.”: How akin is the modern musical
comedy to the ancient and unmusical vaudeville dis-
turbance ! A recent twobobsworth of “ The Merry
Widow” served to bring this fact freshly and with re-
newed vividness before me. What, for instance, could
possibly be more Rickardian than the final act of the
“ Widow ” (the Maxims Restaurant scene), which consists
almost solely of a display of the Feminine Understanding ?
The lofty kicking, the jumping about on tables and chairs,
and the various other acrobatic feats performed by the
little dancing miss are eminently vaudevillesque. And
the songs : the ditty about “ ’Phelia—Ophelia,” w'hich is
half-sung and half-spoken by the Hilarious Widowed
Lady, is decidedly reminiscent of “Phoebe, my lovely
Phoebe,” and the notorious “ Egypt, my Cieopatra,” and
others of fearful music-hall fame. And then the jokes—
the agonising jokes. The yarn related by Vic Gouriet
(Baron Popoff) about the fowl that swallowed some brass-
shavings and laid a door-knob is just such a wheeze as
would have delighted a Will Whitburn audience years
ago; but, if tried at Rickards’ nowadays, it would most
likely be howled at on the ground that a joke which has
become a chestnut and has been awarded an Old-Age
Pension has no right to enter in competition with jokes
that are not chestnuts and have yet to make names for
themselves. And there was at least one other wheeze of
Gouriet’s which caused old memories to revive ; I will
here quote the conclusion of a long rigmarole (N.B.—The
joke is at the end): —“ Yes, but I sle-u-w that cat; do
you know how I sle-u-w it? I str-r-uck it on the head
with one of your mother’s rissoles !! ! ” I waited ready
to join with the gods in a yell of righteous indignation,
but it happened not; the bob rush at Her Majesty’s will
tolerate jokes which would Be productive of an unmiti-
gated riot and general upsetting of law’n’order if fired off
at the thrip’ny crowd at the Gaiety.
“ Solitaire ” : The bagpipes invaded the King Country
(M.L.), and a Maori criticised : “No good ! No begin, no
end. All a same. No good ! ”
“ K.” (who suffered from a long spell of life
n Melbourne) complains :
Melbourne Argus capered ponderously the other day
in a “ comic ” sub-leader, and made merry in a toothless
fashion about the S 3 different ways the bloated Tramway
Co. has of overcharging- people for riding on the things
that slide about Melbourne like decrepit snails. The
Argus cackled wildly in the beginning of the article, but
towards the end it poked the subject carefully with its
gamp, and made the Socialistic suggestion that the co.
really might accept two coppers for the trip from
Swanston-street to Punt-road, instead of, as at present,
demanding one of the twopenny tickets that are sold in
strips of six for Is., or, failing same, a whole three-
penny bit. The Melbourne Tramway Co.’s wildly ex-
orbitant fares are a very real grievance to people of small or
moderate income. They make the “ desirable villa ’’just
out of walking distance of town a thing to be avoided if pos-
sible on the score of travelling expense, and act generally
as a blight and a curse on property values. Of all the
impositions, possibly the worst is the absurd charge of
lid. each for the city tickets—the red things that are sold
in a strip at eight horrors for Is., and entitle you to
remain on the dummy (oris it the mummy?) while it
slithers a block or two. You don’t get any concession or
reduction of brigandage from the M.T.O. Co. unless you
buy a shilling’s-worth of clumsy tickets. When you do
decide to sink that amount of working capital in tram
fares, you get six long strips for your shilling, or eight
brief crawls about the city. If the co. could persuade
itself to institute penny sections, a rush of extra revenue
would descend upon it—such a rush as would make even
its enormous cashbox gasp for breath. However, the
eyes of the monster monopoly are so blinded by greed
that it hangs onto its tuppence as fiercely as the Devil
hangs on to a defunct importer. Some time ago a band
of suburban bushrangers bailed up a late Melbourne
tramcar and forced the passengers, at the cannon’s
mouth, to yield up all their affluence. As might have
been expected, it was not a successful raid. The con-
ductor had collected the fares. He had bushranged first
TUB STAGE ARISTOCRAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Then emotion is discouraged nowadays, Mr. Titheradge
pointed out. “The majority of pieces produced at the
West End of London are pieces with dukes or earls in
them—nothing short of a baronet, of course. In that
society it is considered bad form to exhibit any emotion.
— Geo. Titheradge in an interview.
Mark him ! He does not start
(The admirable man !) though on his arm
The Law’s paw rests. It is his chiefest charm—
This cold and stolid freedom from alarm—
And stamps him for a Bart.
Observe ! A garnishee
Has just been lodged at yonder person’s bank.
He neither weeps, nor raves in metre blank,
As one would do who was of lower rank.
The cause ? A Baron he.
See where the Viscount comes :
His co-re’s untaxed Costs gripped in his hand—
His pocket crammed with writs and “judgments.”
Grand
And most impressive’s the demeanor bland
With which he spurns the “ bums.”
Note there, yon belted Earl.
How his face beams ! I’ll swear you’d never think
To view him that, sans e’en a farewell wink,
His wife last night eloped. He’s not in drink.
Birth gives his lips that placid curl.
Lo, the insolvent Duke !
His schedule filed, and decades in arrear
His ev’ry bill. He shows no trace of fear;
Creditors (vulgar folk) now curse, now jeer—
His icy calm’s their bitterest rebuke.
N.S.W.
D.B.J.
THE ACTOR’S ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was a cookie, Scotch and dour,
Possessing acres close to Sineaton,
Who, walking at an early hour,
Fell on a party ’neath a tree,
111 clad and pitiful to see.
They cowered beside their empty pots.
He judged that they were casting lots
To fix which actor should be eaten.
He bade the wicked men forbear.
They told him that the leading factors
In their too-plain disaster were
Absconding bosses, and a frost
In which was all but honor lost.
Now friendless, hopeless, and bereft,
With not a bean, the co. was left,
A hopeless band of hungry actors.
“ Na, na,” said Farmer, “ don’t despair.
Though sour your fate, the Lord may sweeten.
On thistled paddocks over there
Is work for all, and goodly pay.
I’ll gi ye half-a-croon a day.”
“ Forsake our art ? ” they screamed. “Vile man !’*
Then for his life the farmer ran,
And left the co. amid its pots
In grim dejection drawing lots
To see which actor should be eaten.
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.


'V*
Some Ready-Made Suits
Look Made to Measure.
And that is the appearance we have put into a line of
ready-to-wear suits we have just finished. They are tailored
exactly the same as if made to measure. Coats have
patent uncrushable Horsehair Fronts, other leading features
being the long collar, seam down back with long vent ;
they are shaped to the figure, and have moderately full skirts.
We have paid great attention to the production of these
Suits, and the result is highly satisfactory. They have quite a
distinctive style, and it would be impossible for anyone to say
they were not made-to-order. The materials are specially
selected ; there are only two of each pattern, amongst them are
to be found the New Purple, Green, Brown, and Cinnamon
Effects.
The Price is
(All Ordinary Sizes.)
CC/
\ “ m
PATTERNS OF THE MATERIAL will be sent any-
where on request, and the suit itself Carriage Paid.
DAVID JONES LTD., SYDNEY
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
THE FIGHT FOR THE BOODLE.
“ We are fairly sick of the twaddle talked about Aus-
tralian patriotism. They expect to get our cricketers
and opr Navy for nothing, and won’t come forward to
help Imperial cricket because they cannot rule the roost
and get as much money as they want.”— London Truth.
“ Cricketers generally resent the remarks made con-
cerning their desire to go on a money-making excursion,
and Fry comes in for most condemnation. 4 lt is like his
colossal cheek,’ said an international player, 4 to talk in
the way he has done. His troubles about England or
cricket 1 He has been invited by the M.C.C. to make the
trip to Australia several times. On each occasion, like
the auctioneer, he has said, 44 How much am I offered?
What! That paltry figure ! Very sorry, gentlemen, but
you have not come up to the reserve ! ” And yet he talks
about us.’’’ —Sydney Telegraph.
It transpired during the Sunshine (Vic.)
railway inquest that a driver on the Bendigo line
had twice this year reported the Sunshine signals
as badly elevated and visible only at short dis-
tances ; yet two inspectors knew nothing about
these reports, and though the starting signal—on
leaving Sunshine—had been put right, neither the
home nor the distant ones had been remedied.
Also, though complaints had been made about the
undermanning of Sunshine, few, if any, of the
superior officers had heard of them. Apparently
there is a capacious pigeonhole at the back of
the office, and complaints that require any
expenditure are shied therein, and left there.
Also, a witness at the inquest told the Herald
that, a little over a year ago, he helped to avert
just such a disaster as happened at Sunshine, by
the swift use of a hand-lamp signal. In that case
the Bendigo train was at the station, and the
Ballarat train came up full speed and was only
stopped 12yds. on the right side of a collision.
That Royal Commission will bring a lot of un-
comfortable facts out if it dives into things
inquisitively.
* * # *
“ E.F.,” from London :
The Anglo-French Exhibition, judging from the back-
wardness of its preparations last Easter Monday, was
bound to be in a somewhat muddled and unfurnished
state on opening day. I spent the morning of that wintry
Cockney holiday in prowling around the 160 acres or so
of Exhibition grounds, what time the falling sleet changed
to snowflakes and the landscape whitened as I walked.
There were a few workmen in sundry places, but no indi-
cations of any strenuous attempt to get the wilderness
converted into a pleasure garden by May 15. A gate-
keeper, who admitted me on a card from the secretary,
showed me a plan of the lay-out, and advised me to look
for the Australian Court at the uttermost end of the
ground, in a diagonal direction. None of the rare occasional
workmen whom I met on the rugged way could give me
any guidance. They merely believed that the Australian
Court would be somewhere afar off. At last I found it, a
small matter altogether. The N.S.W. section was com-
pleted, as regards its white, stuccoed domicile, and there
was even the beginning of a Jenolan Cave display in one
corner of the building ; but the other States of the
Commonwealth had made no move as yet. The outside
of the Victorian Court was incomplete, and the general
surroundings seemed a little more chaotic than the
wilderness elsewhere.
Situated in this remote district, with nothing very
attractive to show for itself, the Australian section was
fortunate, methought, in the proximity of an “Irish
Village,’’which looked likely to become a popular feature of
the Exhibition. There were solid brick cottages, with
thatched roofs, in the Irish Village ; an entrance arch and
a Round Tower in mimic stone —and some energetic Irish
laborers at work on the job. The public will doubtless
flock to the Village, and wander through the Australian
Court by the way—as many of them as have a lot of time
to spare. To the thousands who grow weary of the great
show ere they reach the confines, the Commonwealth will
be commended only by the stylish outfit of Burgoyne and
Co., whose Australian wine temple occupies one of the
best sites, and has the appearance of a place
where one can find a free drink. The only
public mention of Australia that I could discover
amidst the snowstorm was the bold announcement
re Burgoyne’s wine. It is now late in the day, of course,
to tell of the wonders of the Entente Cordiale Exhibition
at Shepherd’s Bush. The magnitude of the scheme im-
pressed me not less than the impossibility of getting
things fixed up by the advertised opening day.
In the words of an astounded Yankee, the show at
Shepherd’s Bush is designed to knock all previous exhi-
bitions kite-high. The fact that it looks doomed to
financial failure is accepted as a matter of course in
London. Cynics assure you that “nothing pays” in
London. Millions of pounds are sunk in bad investments.
The Exhibition, where Australia cuts so poor a figure, is
only one more outlet for the diminishing wealth of the
well-to-do classes.
The carefully-selected immigrant, not-
withstanding his or her su’ojection to the micro-
scopic examination of the Agent-General, is not
invariably found to be a treasure. A Sydney
society dame, after much intrigue, obtained an
imported handmaiden, who allegedly had
served in the homes of the dukes of Eng-
land. The official X-rays had failed to cor-
rectly diagnose the handmaiden on shipment
in London, and nothing in her references
made the faintest allusion to any accident
likely to affect her future usefulness. Chronic
lassitude, which was attributed to laziness,
somewhat marred the relations between
mistress and maiden at first, but all mis-
understandings have since been removed.
What the mistress complains of is that
the problem was explained on her pre-
mises. She says that, if she had known,
she would rather have paid the necessary ex-
penses, and had the matter expounded in some
house where these things are attended to profes-
sionally.
* * * *
“ Kaban ” :
The recently-authorised extensions of the Melbourne
Public Library wifi sweep out of existence the last
remnants of the Old Exhibition Building erected in 1866
at a cost of £25,000. The doomed pile was designed
originally to be absorbed in the general scheme of the
Library building. It consisted mainly of a huge hall
approached through a rotunda which was intended at
some future date to contain a grand staircase. At the
close of the ’66 Exhibition it was handed over to the
Library trustees. Just about this time the present Town
Hall was in course of erection, and for a while the Exhi-
bition was the only hall of decent size in the city.
So most of the city’s outsize shivoos occurred there—
notably the Duke of Edinburgh celebrations in ’67, and
most of the big balls, and such like functions. In 1870 the
place settled dow n to the uneventful life as an Industrial
Museum. It housed minor exhibitions in ’72 and ’75, but
its old prestige vanished with the erection of the present
Exhibition Building in the Carlton Gardens in 1879. A
great part of the original building has already dis-
appeared under successive improvements, but the rotunda
and other portions were in use for library and museum
purposes up to a recent date.
The ball is afoot in Melbourne again, and
the local fraternity of pickpockets is fat and
flush. At one suburban match the other Saturday
watches and goods to the value of £ll2 went miss-
ing. It is an easy business. The ordinary robber
has to shake a revolver at a man to scare the wits
out of him, and induce him to put his hands up ;
but the football follower has no wit, and he usually
has his hands up already, shaking them at the other
fellow, or throwing something at the umpire.
While they are up the Dodger prowls through his
pockets at leisure. He is often caught, but he
isn’t given in custody. All he gets is a hurried
kick. His captor daren’t go to look for a police-
man for fear of losing his place and his view of
the game.
THE FRIENDLY JAPE.
JOBBSON : “I once had a beard like yours, but I cut it off to stuff a pincushion .”
DOBSON : “I once had a face like yours, but I couldn't cut it off, so I let my beard grow to
hide as much of it as possible."
“ Sr.” : Temple Court, in Collins-street
(Melbourne), always looks to me like one of those
labyrinths that Dickens was so fond of describing.
It is a medley in architecture. There are the
musty, dim, ill-lighted shops, the badly-papered
lawyers’ rooms, the mining companies’ names
almost everywhere, and a poor, old, forsaken
fountain standing right in the middle of the build-
ing, with a faithful geranium sprouting at its base.
Some of the yarns that have their genesis in this
quaint old building would have made a good basis
for the Dickens variety of novel. The place is a
monument —dead cases, dead parchments, dead
Costs, dead cats, are all buried there. And, for
want of ventilation, the sarcophagus smells like a
dissipated old umbrella in a cellar.
* * * *
The Longreach Hotel, at the corner of
Queen-street and North Quay, Brisbane, which
has for years been the cause of much
wordy warfare and heart-burning at
synod meetings, sold its last pint of beer
on May 30. It is to be hoped that the
pint was good measure and had a fine,
frisky head on it. The site of the
Longreach Hotel has been the property
of the Church of England since 1842,
having been granted by the N. S. Wales
Government to the Anglican body
when Brisbane was first surveyed. The
Anglicans erected a small church on
the property, and worshipped there with
more or less success till 1854. Then
the more pretentious St. John’s, in
William-street, where the Queensland
Executive Buildings now stand, was
opened, and the old church became a
school. Subsequently it was pulled
down, and a brick boarding-house was
erected in its place. Additions were
made to the hash-turret and a hotel
license was obtained for the premises.
Numerous fierce discussions raged re
the propriety and morality of a religious
body holding property used as a
drinkery. At one synod a practical sort
of parson suggested that the church
should take over the license itself and
run the place as a model pub, but his
proposal was regarded as a thing ac-
cursed, and was bumped out. It
was eventually decided not to renew
the lease, and now the Church finds
itself possessed of a large profitless
building, full of emptiness and beer
stains.
A certain Professor Poe is said to have
patented in Yankeedom a wonderful item which
he calls the “artificial respiration machine.” It
is a simple, inexpensive contrivance about 18in.
in height, and having two cylinders with valves.
One cylinder draws any poisonous gas or water
from the lungs while the other automatically
forces in oxygen or pure air. If the inventor’s
claims are substantiated it is certain that in the
future thousands of lives will be “restored” in
cases of suspended animation resulting from
drowning, asphyxiation in mines, poison, and
other troubles. Experiments and tests with the
machine made in the presence of physicians and
scientists are alleged to have been staggering.
In one instance a rabbit was given two grains of
morphine—sufficient to kill a healthy man. So as
to make dead sure, four ounces of ether were next
administered, and, after exhaustive tests, bunny
was declared by the medical men present to be as
dead as his remotest ancestors. The machine was
then applied, and inside three minutes bunny
hopped cheerfully out of the room. In this age of
mechanical marvels it will soon be futile to hurl
yourself into the Yarra, for the “ cop” who drags
you out next day will apply his machine, and the
young man from the Age will interview you, and
head his article: “The Next World, By One
Who lias Been There.”
The Anglican Churches in Adelaide are
apparently taking it in turns to have ructions,
St. James’s (West Adelaide) is the scene of the
latest disturbance. Certain youths and .maidens
in the congregation formed a euchre club, and
the club was in the habit of taking up the left
bower on the evening set apart for choir practice,
Some members of the choir thought it more
exciting to make it hearts and go alone than to
sing amens and responses to different theological
statements, and so they got in the habit of
absenting themselves and taking great risks with
nothing bigger than an ace. Then in righteous
anger the rector disbanded the choir, which was
told to consider itself dead. Further develop-
ments are anxiously awaited.
Too much procession and hurrah has gone
to the head of the Yankee fleet, and in California
something like 1000 men resigned the binnacle for
the bar. One deserter in every 14 or so is a pretty
high average, even when the unusual circum-
stances of the case are considered, and it would
seem to indicate that Sam hasn’t got too firm
a grip of his forces. When all is said and
when everybody has been done, the American
sailor has a thirst, like everybody else, and when
free beer waves its hat madly on the shore, the
dry Yankee sea-dog isn’t going to let it escape
him. If Australia is as hospitable as it threatens
to be, that fleet may never move from its moorings
in the harbor, or else it may spend the rest of its
days staggering about the ocean with its funnel
over one eye and its anchor, like some enormous
latchkey, dragging astern.
THE DEAD SURE SIGN.
SHE: “I know he’s wealthy, but he’s horrid,
mean."
HE : “ Come , now! You mustn't judge a man
by his clothes."
SHE: “I don't. I'm judging him by his wife's
clothes.”
Colonel Foster, in a recent United Service
Institute (Sydney) lecture, drew attention to a
fact which those foolish Australians who are
always in such a hurry to lug along “ distinguished
Japanese visitors” to “inspect” things might
note: —
Students could study the diaries of the Russian officers.
The despatches of all the Continental attaches were
available. German, French, English and America
observers had all drawn conclusions. General Hamilton
and other writers had published books on the subje .
But the most important and valuable source of informa-
tion was entirely closed to students. No histor}' of
war, or its lessons, had been published by Japan, e
Japanese had decided to issue nothing that could pos-
sibly be of value to other Powers. The Japanese £ e . I ). er
would read all that the world’s leaders of military
thought could say on the subject, but they would gi
out nothing in return.
AN APPEAL FOR MORE LIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
King' Edward and King Haakon of Norway and a Royal
party made a trip in an electric trauicar in Copenhagen,
and King Haakon acted as conductor. It was amusing.
—Sydney Telegraph, 5f6/’OB.
Where was the joke?
Possibly I am dull, so that I fail
To penetrate the dark and holy veil
Which shuts out common folk, when on the trail
Of regal humor. Pardon if I wail
Where was the joke ?
Expound the jest 1
What if King Edward leaped on to a tram,
Followed by half his family, and, clam-
Like, stuck therein ; is’t cause for us to ram
Kerchief in mouth, and floods of mirth undam ?
Expound the jest 1
Resolve the jape !
Did Ned (in waggish mood) withhold his fare
Urging on poor old Haak with wit as rare
As ripe, that he (viz., Haak) had not ta’en care
To bring his tramguard’s license? Do not stare.
Resolve the jape!
What was the joke?
Did someone sit on someone else’s hat?
And was the sitter broad of beam, and fat?
Did someone’s mislaid pipe, into a ghat
Or thing of flames transform the tram-car mat?
Did Ed. in a “ non-smoker ” set hot fire
To his cigar, and thereby rouse the ire
Of all around so that into the mire
Without, they heaved him like some reeking pyre?
Or, did he put his boots upon the seat
Before him, so that what was erstwhile neat
Clean wood grew muddy, stirring the wild heat
Of Haak, and likewise ribald laughter meet
In such a case ? Or was there someone tight—
Blind—paralytic, hankering for “ fight,”
And breathing beer and threats to left and right ?
Excuse my plaintive cry for Light—more Light 1
What was the joke l
N.s.w.
10-2-4.


Rheumatic Patients
Use Nature’s infallible cure—Electricity—by
wearing the Rheumagnetic Ring. Recom-
mended and used by doctors. Speedily
relieves or cures Gout, Sciatica, Insomnia,
Neuralgia and Weak Nerves, Ask us to
prove it.
We will send our Booklet FBEB
u
THE “ RHEUMACNiZTIC ”
RING, nickel finished, 7/6
post free.
THE RHEUMAGNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. [1
When Bill the Burglar got run in
He’d close cropped hair and shaven chin.
“Why groanest thou?” the warder said.
Bill pointed to his chin and head.
“ ’Twas just my luck,” said he, “ to pay
For this short crop and shave to-day !
But all these troubles I’ll endure
If given Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure 1 ”*
The fact that English is the “official”
language of S’Africa doesn’t command even
official reverence. It promises to be more honored
in the breach than the observance. At the
recent opening of the first Parliament of the
Orange River Colony, the Speaker delivered the
inaugural prayer in Boer-Dutch.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A Moderate Boot
It is a Moderate Boot of a Moderate
Style, at a Moderate Price.
That is why it suits so many men.
It is a popular Boot too, for we have
sold a great number of them by post.
It is made of genuine Box Calf —Good-
year welted —well constructed and
finished.
Price - 16/6
A PAIR.
Add 9d. extra
lor Postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
“ MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,"
Hi
309*311 GEORGE STREET.
... SYDNEY.
“ Snell ” : I saw two men tried in a
Melbourne police court recently. Their offences
were practically identical. One received a
sentence of four months ; the other was fined £7,
with the alternative of a fortnight’s gaol. What
difference there was between the two men was
entirely sartorial and tonsorial. The accused who
got four months was in damaged apparel, and
clung to a very bad hat; the other wore a well-cut
suit in excellent repair. The former’s common-
place face was shockingly demoralised by three
days’ growth of dark stubble. The latter, who
had been out on bail, w»s shaved as bare as a
bologna, and looked as respectable as a Sunday-
school superintendent on a wet Sunday. Nothing
will convince me that the gaoled person did not
get a fortnight for his crime, and the rest for his
unshaven state and his bad garments. Possibly
he owed two weeks of the fourteen to his shocking
hat. Justice may be blind, but Justices are not.
BEYOND HIM.
“Now, perhaps you'll tell me how you managed
to get home in the condition you were in last
night? ”
“ Blowed if I know, m'dear; it must have been a
bloomin' miracle."
This is an analytical and irreverent age.
The latest tradition to come under the microscope
of the chemist is the “odor of sanctity.” Science
finds that the beautiful perfume emanating from
this or that dead or dying saint is quite easily de-
fined and just as easily explained. It arises from
diabetic acetonomy and other diseased conditions.
In fact the “ odor of sanctity ” is just C 6 Hl2 02,
and is due to mal-nutrition or something even
more prosaic. A future scientist may yet find
that the “Stinking Fish Party” of Australian
politics is something more than a picturesque
phrase, and that it can be scientifically traced to
the effect of soft-goods fluff and the dust of im-
ported shoddy on organisms of weakly mental de-
velopment, thereby setting up aged and prawn-
like conditions akin to sulphuretted hydrogen and
the like.
Sydney marine surveyors speak slightingly
of the methods of survey adopted in Victorian
ports, and Victorian surveyors speak similarly of
those adopted in Tasmania, and so on. So when
a vessel goes down, the State where it was last
surveyed has borak and recrimination poked at it.
These things amuse the other parties to the row,
but the dead vessel remains dead. A Federal
navigation law prescribing a uniform method of
survey might do two good things ; it might end
the silly little row, and it might prevent the
ship that never returned being quite so numerous
as it is.
HER GREAT DAY.
THE LITTLE HANDMAIDEN (after her day
out) : "I've had a lovely day. I’ve
had two teeth stopped, and one out,
and a hot mutton pie, and two cups
of tea, and a ride on the electric
tram.”
Some time ago the Maoriland Government
determined to utilise such of the prisoners as
were not of the hardened criminal type for tree
planting in the thermal districts, and they have
been at it ever since.
The effect, on the
whole, has been good.
The country is look-
ing better, and the
prisoners have, in
many cases, been
transformed from
weeds to healthy in-
dividuals, able on
their release to take
up any sort of work.
Naturally, a mistake
was bound to creep
in, and one ruffian got
a show’ to redeem
himself at Waiotapu.
He promptly took ad-
vantage of the oppor-
tunity to escape, and
gave some consider-
able trouble before he
was recaptured. His
escapade led to an in-
quiry, which revealed
an almost idyllic state
of affairs. Some of the
prisoners are set to work as
far as a mile-and-a-half from the
nearest warder, and the warders lend
them watches, so that they may know
when to knock off and start back to join the
main party. It is nearly two years since the
system was introduced, and there has, as far as
this paper knows, been only one bolter, and even
he didn’t take the lent ticker with him.
That penny-dreadful preacher, Parson Dill
Macky, got a send-off recently at Sydney
Protestant Hall, and became even more Dead-
wood-Dielcy than usual in his statements. This
report is from a sober and sympathetic daily
paper
Dr. Dill Macky stated that he was sorry to see that Mr.
George Stevenson, police magistrate at Wagga, was not
present. On one occasion, at Wyalong, Mr. Stevenson
probably saved his life, for when tie was surrounded by a
mob, who were trying to tear him limb from limb.
Mr. Stevenson pluckily forced his way into
the heart of the crowd and read the Riot
Act by the light of a paraffin lamp. At the same
meeting his life was saved by the fact that a theatrical
company had occupied the platform the preceding night,
and had placed a piece of boiler-plate in front of portion
of the platform. After Dr. Macky had concluded his
meeting, he said, it was discovered that seven revolver
shots had been discharged at the doctor, and that the
bullets had flattened themselves against the plate and
dropped to the floor.
Good old Dill! Some one, it seems, had been
firing at him off and on most of the evening, for
no less than seven bullets were found flattened
against one obstacle. Yet, apparently, nobody had
heard the reports or seen the sinner persistently
levelling his “ gun,” or noticed the flash and smoke
of the continuous bombardment—it was only after
the meeting that it was discovered that persistent
shooting had taken place. In fact no one did find
even then that there had been any shooting
at the heroic Dill; at the most they found some
bits of metal on the floor. It reads too thin ; like-
wise it is too silly ! Also it is too much like the
amazing story told by the hysterical little servant-
girl who is found in the back-yard badly tied up
with the inefficient clothes-line, and anxious to
explain that the deed was done by ten masked
men, after the manner of -the adventures of the
beautiful Duchess of Gosford in the Penny
Screamer. If there were any bullets in Dill’s
case they were probably relics of the bushranging
drama of the previous night. Nobody ever took
the trouble to fire guns at poor old Dill. Nobody
ever seriously attempted to tear his clothes, and
the nearest approach he ever made to being torn
limb from limb was when he had his leg pulled.
But that mysterious entity called ‘’Rome’’once
sent a misguided Papist all the way from Italy to
stick a hat-pin into Dill’s calves in the hope of
seeing the sawdust come out. Luckily, the Papist
fell down and broke his neck while grinding the
barrel-organ at a street corner, and so the horror
was averted.
In 1907 a Melbourne woman, with eight
children and a vacant spot in her kindly heart,
saw an advertisement for a “Christian wife.’’
She applied for the situation, and met an
apparently Christian gentleman with three child-
ren. A marriage was arranged, and things went
along pretty well for about five months; but,
after that, the gentleman’s Christianity seems to
have run to seed or gone sour. Here is the bruised
story of his bride :
On one occasion my husband violently assaulted me,
and tried to kill me. He locked all the doors, and then
picked up the iron handle of a saucepan. He then wrote
a document, which he said was his last will and testa-
ment. He went down on his knees and offered up a
prayer. When he got up he said, “ Now I am going to
murder you, and cut my throat on your body.” I put my
arms around his neck and begged for mercy, and he let
me go. He then took some poison. I ran outside and
called the neighbors. It was found that he had taken
some of the preservatives for beef. Subsequently, when
I went out for a drive with him, I said, “ Fred, you did
not mean to murder me that time?” and he replied, “ By
God, I did !"
On another occasion he threw me down the stairs, and
I was crippled for a week. Another time my husband
threatened to put a bullet through me and my sister.
And, after she had told the Court that much, she
interrupted her narrative to say that she was
willing to give the fond but violent Christian
another chance. In other words, she wished the
proceedings to be hung up for a time while she
scooted home and ascertained definitely if he
would take her to his heart once more, or if he
would only take her to the top of the stairs and
throw her down again. The Court adjourned the
case for four weeks to give her time to try the ex-
periment. Love —or some varieties of it —seems
to thrive on being thrown downstairs and pounded
with a saucepan.
+ * * *
A youth named Green is to be hanged in
connection with the Allandale (N.S.W.) slaying.
According to Sydney Stab, he looks like this: —
The general aspect, from the point of the chin to the
back peak of the head, is that of an elongated egg, poised
at an angle of 25 degrees, and compressed at the front
and back. The brows are as narrow as an infant’s. The
small, bright, alert eyes almost meet and are deeply set.
The eyebrows are fair, and almost imperceptibly marked.
The forehead protrudes above the nose, and slants
directly towards the ears, which are effeminately defined.
From the bulge above the nose the forehead rapidly
recedes to a point right over the ears. The back of the
head is a straight line drawn from that pinnacle to the
neck. There is no development behind the ears. The
elongated egg is here pressed flat. Any development—
and of that there is very little —is in front of and above
the ears. The jaws are in straight lines from the ears to
the weak chin. There is no curve to the jowl.
The cheek bones are marked no more. The nose is the
scorn of anything classical. It is shapeless and sizeless,
almost level with the deep-set eyes at the root, sticking
out a few inches, and ending in a blob.
That pen-portrait constitutes as convincing an
insanity plea as The Bulletin has met with for
some time.
* * * *
A Melbourne bank manager with 30 years’
experience behind him tells The Bulletin what
he thinks of the sweated bank-clerk problem
You don’t expect me to blame the banks? Well, I
don’t. I blame sometimes the young fellows themselves,
sometimes their school-teachers, oftener still their
parents. Dozens of times, when young fellows have
come to me asking for an appointment, and haven’t been
at all disturbed when I have quoted the rate of pay, I
have had a contempt for them. Why should I blame the
banks ? When you go into a shop and ask for a pair of
trousers and the man says, “ Twenty-five shillings,” do
you say : “ I’m not going to take them for 255. ! I insist
upon paying you 305.” The fact is, banks are bombarded
with applicants at the present rates, and until you can
turn that stream aside it is hardly likely you will get
higher salaries offered.
But it is a question whether it really does pay the
banks to take the stream at the price that is offered.
The banks get a certain crowd—the question is
whether they get the best crowd; also whether
they keep the best of even the crowd that they do
get. In any case, however, the inside view of the
banking mind is interesting ; for it is clear that
reform isn’t likely to come voluntarily and from
that quarter.
* * * ■*
Writes The Bulletin’s Oldest In-
habitant :
The demolition of the Freemasons’ Hotel in York-
street, Sydney, disclosed an old sign which has been hidden
for close upon half-a-century. On the north gable of
the next building may be read “ Dixson’s Twist Tobacco,”
Hugh Dixson having manufactured tobacco there, in the
early’ sixties. Before Dixson’s time the. ancient, store had
a history. Sixty years ago, it was Launeelot Iredale’s
wholesale iron store ; the same Launeelot who founded
an ironmongery business in George-street, next Dan
Cooper’s Waterloo warehouse, in 1820, and whose
daughter married FredLassetter; which makes Lassetter’s
ironmongery the oldest of its kind in the Australias. Across
the lane known then as “ Broughten’s,” but now called
after some city alderman, was a three-storeyed
pub, “ The Gardener’s Arms,” kept by John Nobbs —
father, it is understood, of N.S.W. Government whip John
Nobbs, the silent member for Granville. Prior to that
the Nobbs family had an extensive garden on Surry Hills.
The Freemasons’ pub, now demolished, was built on the
site of the Pulteney Hotel, which was owned by a Mr.
Roberts. In 1843 this drinkery became Sydney’s first
Town Hall, and continued to be so until 1854, when the
Council was shifted and Commissioners appointed. They
took offices up King-street, and eschewed the old pub.
In 1854, this locality had some special people resident.
Benjamin Beattie kept Nobbs’ pub, and on the other
corner, 14ft. away, was Pelham’s hotel, kept by Samuel
Thomas Pelham. Fifty yards distant, at the corner of
Druitt-street, stood the Erin-go-Bragh Hotel, kept by
Tom Burrows. Next door to Tom and the Erin-go-
Bragh was the Jews’Synagogue (the building is still there
but newly fronted, and the Jews have migrated to Eliza-
beth-street). On the same side, still only a few yards off,
was the Freemasons’ Hotel, and four doors aw'ay Alexander
Long kept the Flower Pot Inn. (Mr. Long was uncle to
“Bill” Long, M.L.C., Lady Martin, and Mrs. W. B.
Dailey.) The reason of all this herd of pubs lay in the
fact that on the opposite side of the street was the old
Central Police Court and the ancient Markets (which
were erected by Dr. Lang’s Scotch masons). When the
court and the markets went, the occupation of the pubs
was gone, and they sadly gathered up the beer pot and
quitted the scene.
THE WAY OF THE ALDERMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rev. Woodfull recently declared that there were scores
of insanitary houses in Collingwood that were no better
than death-traps for women, men, and children. The
Health Inspector bore this out, and the Board of Health
confirmed them both. Yet Cr. Wilkins (at Collingwood
council meeting 1 ) referred to the published statements of
the Rev. Woodfull and others in regard to Collingwood
sanitation. Without fear of contradiction he would say
that they were absolutely untrue. —Melbourne paper.
Now this is the way of the alderman
(And his way is ever the same),
That he always doeth the best he can
For the Man of the Bulky Frame.
For the man of Bulk he owneth the house
In the mean and squalid street,
Where the women they make the tawdry blouse
For to get them bread and meat.
So the alderman he raiseth his voice,
And he saith that all is well ;
And the man of Bulk, he doth rejoice
With his friend of Dirt and Smell.
For a sacred thing is the Cause of Rent,
And holy are Wood and Stone ;
And men and women are only meant
To prop up the Landlord’s throne.
So what does if matter tho’ Filth and Death
Walk the crooked streets with glee ;
Tbo’ they choke the puny infant’s breath
As it gasps on its mother’s knee ?
So long as the rent each week is paid
(For the tenant doth long endure),
The alderman walketh unafraid,
And the landlord standeth sure.
VIC.
FRANK RADCLIFFE.
STARS AND TO SPARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Above, the sky glittered like a vast polished shield, en-
crusted with tw'inkling stars, or as if the link boys of
Heaven w ere flashing their torches on the glinting blades
of unnumbered daggers, whose invisible hilts were fixed
in the firmament. —Melbourne Herald (Prose Poem De-
partment) 3/6/’OB.
When fiery stars and tumbling moons go wild across your
track,
Stars and to spare, in crowding swarms careering forth
and back
Across the whirling midnight—a remarkable display
Of flashing lights that prance and dart about your home-
ward way ;
When with your friend the lamp-post you observe the
heavenly flight
Of seventy sorts of colored orbs —your drinking’s not been
right!
What do you think of then, old boy—what is that voice
you hear?
Is it a still, small, inward shout, “You’d better stick to
beer”?
When sudden stars and crazy stars and stars that blaze
and burst
More gorgeous far, and splendid, than the stars you saw
at first,
When these, with shining tails and whiskers, scintillate
through space,
When you pull up to wipe the blinding star-dust off your
face,
When tortured crimson torches curl across your midnight
ken
With red-eyed unicorns in front to whirl them back
again—
Young feller, when you feel that way, and when your
grip is not
The grip it ought to be, consider: “ Is this beer, or what?’
When iridescent beetles shine on every bush you pass,
And every bush turns out to be a p’leeceman on the grass,
And all the shining grass is but the moonlight on the
street
Where gruff the midnight man-o’-law tramps surly on his
beat;
When, wandering over earth and sky, the brilliant night-
lights go,
With far, white blooms between that in the heavenly
gardens blow ;
When yellow stars, and green and blue, turn scarlet now
and then.
That’s right!—you’ve chucked your beer to soak in
tanglefoot again !
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


Queensland Mining Managers.
A “NATIONAL” SUCTION GAS PLANT,
working with charcoal or coke, is the cheapest power on earth.
Our Gas Suction Expert now touring Queensland.
—Communicate with us by wire
and arrange interview.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER <Bl CO.. 64 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Street
BALLARAT : Lydiard Street,
i BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity-
IN STOCK —Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps or
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping, all sizes.
Sole Agents for Camel Brand and Camel Hair Beltings, made only by F. Reddawr.y & ®®->
Manchester; Ransomes Sims’, and Jefferies Ltd’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engin
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland is getting on. The Bulletin
doesn’t know exactly how it was managed, but the
interest on the public debt was reduced by Is. 4d. in
1907: in 1906 the total was £1,546,880 19s. Bd., and in
1907 it was £1,546,880 18s. 4d. If the burden goes on
shifting at that rate, and if The Bulletin’s arithmetic
isn’t wrong, the glad year 23,205,121 will find the whole
blessed thing wiped out. May Treasurer Airey live to
see it!
* * * *
The National Bank of Tasmania
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend-Tax. Off. serves, serves.
May, 1902.. £4472 sp.c. =£3991 £4Bl £29,648
Nov., 1902.. 4479 5„ ~ 3991 488 30,136
May, 1903 .. 4908 5,, ~ 3991 917 31,053
Nov., 1903.. 4699 5„ „ 3991 708 31,761
May, 1904 .. 5247 6,, ~ 4789 458 32,219
Nov., 1904.. 5438 6,, „ 4789 649 32,868
May, 1905 .. 5291 6„ ~ 4789 502 33,370
Nov., 1905.. 5762 6,, ~ 4789 963 34,333
May, 1906 .. 5696 6,, ~ 4789 £lOOO 34,240
Nov., 1906.. 6249 6„ ~ 4789 1460 35,700
May, 1907 .. 9077 7,, ~ 5587 3490 39,190
Nov., 1907.. 8570 7,, „ 5587 1000 1983 41,173
May, 1908 .. 8793 7„ „ 5587 1000 2206 43,379
There has been a remarkable spring in the profits of this
bank. With its headquarters at Launceston, it has a
considerable West Coast connection, and the boom value
of metals during the last few years has told its tale. But
“ The End” has been written under the last chapter, and
that book has been closed. Still, profits haven’t so far been
affected, though it is hard to see how they can be main-
tained. Even now the advances look too large in propor-
tion to the bank’s resources, so there is no scope for ex-
tension by using hitherto idle money. Here are some
details: —
May, 1907. May, 1908.
Notes in circulation .. £64,535 £62,039 Dec. £2,496
Bills, etc 15,309 24,163 Inc. 8,854
Deposits at interest .. 245,929 244,883 Dec. 1,046
Deposits, free .. .. 310,375 303,297 Dec. 7,078
Liquid assets .. .. 174,525 138,870 Dec. 35,655
Advances .. .. 630,537 669,363 Inc. 38,826
Premises, etc. .. .. 27,904 28,155 Inc. 251
The total debt to the public is thus £634,383 ; and the
total liquid assets are £138,870. Thus the bank has in
hand liquid assets amounting to less than 22 per cent, of
its liabilities, and that is a point below which under
ordinary circumstances it would be regarded as most im-
prudent to go. Indeed, 30 per cent, of liquid assets is
regarded (under the ordinary circumstances before-
mentioned) as not too much for safety. This bank may
be working on quite safe lines, but it is obvious that the
tendency must be to reduce rather than increase the
advances, and therefore the profits. The fact that the
bank has in hand less than one-third of its debt payable
on demand certainly seems to call for some explanation.
But while the bank is not in a good position to
meet a sudden shock, at bottom it looks quite sound.
There are £634,383 of public debts and £138,870 of liquid
assets, leaving £495,513 of debt represented by non-
liquid assets (advances and premises). These non-liquid
assets have a book value of £697,518 ; so if Tasmania
struck disaster, and these non-liquid assets averaged only
14s. 2d. in the £, depositors and other creditors would
still be safe. Naturally, with so much of the funds in
use, the earnings are high ; reckoned on the basis of
capital and reserves, recent records have been :
Nov., 1904 .. £5 18 1 p.c. I Nov., 1906 .. £6 14 2 p.e
May, 1905 .. 514 5 „ May, 1907 .. 913 5 „
Nov., 19Q5 .. 6 4 1 „ Nov., 1907 .. 819 3 ~
May, 1906 ..6 2 3,, | May, 1908 ..9 2 0,,
One satisfactory feature of the case is that during the
past two years only 66 per cent.—practically two-thirds —
of the disclosed profit has been paid away in divs. ; the
balance is available to give the bank a lift through the
gloomier times that are ahead.
* * • *
The New York Life Insurance Co.
Total Added
Ex- Out- to
Income. Claims, penses. goings. Funds.
Jij & £> £ £
1898 9,348,131 4,427,956 1,847,549 6,275,505 3,072,626
1899 10,775,980 4,569,337 2,168,393 6,737,730 4,038,250
1900.. 12,122,329 4,805,725 2,421,921 7,227,646 4,894,683
1901 .14,568,426 5,650,944 2,751,748 8,432,692 6,135,734
1902 .16,255,708 6,287,031 3,355,544 9,642,575 6,613,133
1903 18,138,196 7,110,905 3,755,931 10,866,836 7,271,360
1904 .19,909,847 8,298,338 3,996,274 12,294,612 7,615,235
1905 21,165,292 8,316,408 3,704,434 12,020,842 9,144,450
1906.-20,047,569 9,186,302 2,808,138 11,989,440 8,058,129
7 {wriKfl 9 (net) 492 JKs f ]16 ’ 857 ’ 033 3 ’ 934 ’ 866
In previous years the income and expenditure have been
shown net; but the amount written off for last year is so
large that it is shown separately. The position is some-
thing like this. In 1902 the market value of assets in ex-
cess of book value was shown as £1,359,549, and this was
then reckoned as an asset. In 1903 a change was made :
the excess was not shown as an asset —apparently there
was already some idea that there was trouble ahead.
Still a note was added stating that there was a surplus of
£1,489,328. In 1905 the surplus, still fortunately not
shown as an asset, was down to £1,119,587. In 1906 —the
year when things began to go badly against the manage-
mentsof the “big three”—it became necessary to write
off £896,872 from bonds alone and a small amount from
other assets. So the £1,119,587 had been wiped out, and
this further large sum was needed to bring book values
down to actual values. In the past year a further
£4,736,327 more was written off ; but against that there
were a few recoveries—among them £ll,lOO contributed
to the U.S. electoral campaign of 1904 and now paid back
by the people who wrongly and surreptitiously voted it,
and £39,955 “commissions advanced in previous years
and now refunded.”
Since 1904 the position of the New York Life
with regard to its assets has been as follows :
Losses and Surplus Total Net
Profits Amounts (not re- Amount
and Written garded as Written
Recoveries. Off. an asset). Off.
1904 £1,489,238
1905 ’.. £231,668 £126,156 1,119,587 £264,139
1906 127,195 902,273 Nil 1,894,665
1907 .. 69,979 4,736,327 Nil 4,666,348
Whether that will end the matter nobody knows for
certain. Things are still suffering a recovery in the
United States, and at the end of 1908 there may very
likely be some more writing-down to do. But, after all,
so long as it is only necessary to write securities down in
order to make them square with a slump value, the matter
isn’t of much consequence to an insurance co. For even
though things have gone so badly against this and other
American insurance cos., their income is still far greater
than their outgoings, so it isn’t necessary to put a single
security on the market in order to pay claims and ex-
penses. So long as the interest return keeps good, the
market value doesn’t really matter under such circum-
stances. At the beginning of the year the funds totalled
£96,370,165. As shown above, £3,934,866 was added,
making £100,305,031 on December 31. The interest and
rent earnings totalled £4,319,278, which was at the rate
of £4 7s. lOd. per cent, on the average of the funds.
The question mostly put in Australia with
regard to the American offices is, “Should I stay in?”
The “ twister” is generally responsible for suggesting the
inquiry. Very few except the “twister” would recom-
mend withdrawal. The certificate of the New York State
Insurance Department does not accompany the present
report; but at the end of 1906 the Department certified
that there was £12,934,000 in excess of the reserve value
of the policies as calculated by the Department, and there
was over £4,400,000 after providing for apportionments on
deferred dividend (or bonus) policies. To that extent,
therefore, the position U still satisfactory, in spite of the
great shrinkage in values ; for, allowing for the growth
of figures for the year, both the reserve value of
policies and the provision for deferred bonuses are intact.
There remains to be considered the quality of the securi-
ties. Approximately, these may be divided up as
follows :—Public securities, 13'7 per cent.; railroad and
other bonds, 54 per cent.; freeholds, 2 - 5 per cent.; mort-
gages, 10T per cent.; loans on policies, 15 - 6 per cent.;
cash, etc., 4T per cent. At this distance one can’t pre-
tend to judge of the value of the railway and other bonds,
which obviously are the key to the position. Nor is it
much use comparing the schedule of valuations (every
holding is set out) with the latest market quotations,
because the American railway market is a huge gamble :
thus in the first five months of this year Milwaukees
ranged between 97 and 162 J, Baltimores between 77 and
125 J, and Missouris between 18 and 45f. But one can get
a line from other quotations : British Consols are valued
at 80|, and the last cabled quotation was £B7 7s. 6d.
Brazilian (Funding) were when the last mail left 3 per
cent, higher than they are valued at, German Imperial 2J
higher, French Rentes § higher, and so on. That is dis-
tinctly reassuring.
* ■* * *
Goldsbrough, Mokt and Co., Limited, the
wool people :
Interest Paid on De- Written Re-
Mar., Earnings, benture Stocks, etc. off. serves.
£ £ £
1898.. 60,257 A stock 4 p.c. = 59,656 601 Nil
1899.. 60,102 A stock 4 p.c. „ 59,656 446 Nil
1900.. 65,338 A stock 4 p.c. ~ 59,565 5,773 Nil
Added to
Reserves. £
1901.. 69,8101 P’®; ”j- 66,351 3,459 3,459
1902.. 83,897 All stock 4 p.c. ” 82,398 1,499 4,958
1903.. 79,136 All stock 4 p.c. „ 78,771 365 5,323
1904.. 84,723 All stock 4 p.c. „ 78,089 6,634 11,957
1905.. 95,459 All stock 4 p.c. „ 78,023 17,436 29,393
f A stock 4 p.c. „) s - in? )
1906.. B stock sp.c. \ 68,765 98,158
(5 p.c. div. ~ 27,950 J
7Astock4p.c. „ 46,8971
1907.. 220.675. J B ~ 5 p.c. „ 36,385 181,493 179,651
(10 p.c. div. ~ 55,900 J
f A stock 4 p.c. ~ 43,2861
1908. .160,147-! B stock 5 p.c. „ 36,079 J-24,882 204,533
(.10 p.c. div. 55,900 J
The profits since 1901 are shown net, and there have
been large but varying sums written off, especially during
the past few years. This shows the amounts thus dealt
with :
1903 .. .. £3190 1906 .. .. £38,043
1904 .. .. 3134 1907 .. .. 36,678
1905 .. .. 3073 1908 .. .. 28,562
Those figures have to be considered in conjunction with
the profits set out in the first table. But there must be other
large amounts written off from time to time, of which
there is no record in the published accounts. For in-
stance, the two principal balance-sheet items are—Ad-
vances on stock and station properties, £1,167,595 ; free-
hold and leasehold properties and stock, £877,059. What-
ever sums are written off these items are not disclosed at
all; in other words, whatever amount, great or small, is
written off is written off before the profits are disclosed.
In a contest over shares or debentures in this co.,
therefore, the man who doesn’t know any more than the
published figures tell him is liable to find himself heavity
handicapped if his opponent happens to be somebody who
knows something of what is going on inside ; and many
hard things have been said in consequence.
The history of the business during the past 15
years or so isn’t at all pleasant reading. The first recon-
struction took place in 1893, when £225,000 of capital was
written off, 900,000 shares of £4 155., paid to 55., being
issued in place of 45,000 £lO shares. The creditors at the
same time received 5 per cent, debentures. Two years
later there was another shuffle. The debentures were
halved, one lot (“ A”) carrying 4 per cent., the other lot
(“B”) 3 per cent., but only if the profit permitted it.
For some years “B” debentures received nothing
at all ; then things improved so rapidly that soon
the shareholders were able to draw 10 per cent.
At the time of the second reconstruction shareholders
were given the right to pay up to £2 15s. and receive
£2 ss. preference shares. A great many old shareholders,
evidently fearing the new £4 10s. liability, had declined
to apply in 1893 ; yet in 1895 those who had applied were
given fully-paid pref. shares on payment of only £2 15s.
That led to some of the hard remarks previously
mentioned. Subsequently there was a third reconstruc-
tion, when all those who had not paid up the £2 15s.
under the 1895 scheme had their shares cancelled. Pay-
ment in 1895 was optional; shareholders could choose
whether they would keep the ss. shares with the £4 10s.
liability, or pay up and get pref. shares. Under the third
scheme those who didn’t pay up were passed right out,
while the pref. shares were written down to £llss. The
wiping-out of the ordinaries, in view of the reduction
of the pref. capital, looks fair enough on the surface.
But seeing that within six years the co. was
paying 10 per cent, on the capital that wasn’t forfeited,
and was putting aside enough to pay another 15 per cent.,
it is a question whether the writing down was not un-
necessarily severe. Out of that arose some more of the
savage remarks —more savage still when it is noted that,
of the original 900,000 shares, only 319,426 are left. Obvi-
ously, if a man could have foreseen in 1893 what the
directors were going to do, and how things would turn
out, he would have been in a fine position to make a pot
of money.
There now remain £1,068,592 of “A” debenture
stock and £720,073 of “ B ” debenture stock ; in 1896, the
year after that particular reconstruction when the de-
bentures were halved, the totals were £1,491,400 and
£1,234,350. The stock was interminable, but redeemable
at the option of the co. Originally the “B " stock car-
ried 3 per cent, (if earned) and the interest was non-
cumulative. As shown above, nothing was paid on this
stock till 1901. Just previous to that time there were
ructions; the co., obviously in the interests of share-
holders, was using surplus profits to write down values,
wherefore nothing was left for “B ” stock-holders. In
that year, 1901, a compromise was arrived at, and, along
with some capital as before-mentioned, 40 per cent, was
written off “B” debenture stock. In view of the fact
that this stock had been issued to creditors of the co., it
is a question whether a farthing of it ought to have been
written off while any of the shareholders’ capital re-
mained. However, the 40 per cent, was written off, and
the shareholders —what are left of them—are now getting
their 10 per cent. There still remain £1,068,592 of “A”
stock and £720,073 of “ B ” stock.
The co., besides unappropriated profit, has two
formal reserves, called “primary” and “secondary.”
These were started under the last reconstruction, which
provided that the profits should be distributed—(l) To
build up a primary reserve of £75,000 to guarantee the
debenture interest; (2) after that, 25 per cent, to go to a
secondary reserve till it reached £75,000, and 75 per cent,
to go to shareholders, but if shareholders get more than
3 per cent, then “B” debentures must get 5 per cent,
instead of 4 per cent. As both reserves have now reached
£75,000 or more, all profits (after paying the extra 1 per
cent, on “B” stock) are now available for the share-
holders.
The Westralian Trustee, Executor and
Agency Co. (Perth) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., 1902.. £769 10 p.c. =£473 £296 £6,007
Oct., 1902.. 730 10 „ „ 473 257 6,264
Apl., 1903.. 1019 10 „ „ 473 546 6,810
Oct., 1903.. 986 10 „ „ 473 513 7,323
Apl., 1904.. 1443 32J,, ~ 1523 7,243
Oct., 1904.. 1363 10 „ „ 525 838 8,081
Apl., 1905.. 1551 30 „,, 1575 8,057
Oct., 1905.. 1611 10 „ „ 525 1086 9,143
Apl., 1906.. 1252 10 „ „ 525 727 9,870
Oct., 1906.. 714 10 *„ „ 525 189 10,059
Apl., 1907.. 1197 15 „ „ 787 410 10,469
Oct., 1907.. 1589 20 „ ~1050 £389 150 10,619
Apl., 1908.. 1275 10 „ „ 525 1000 10,369
A few years ago the co. put a good deal of money into
premises, which stood, on Oct. 31, 1907, at £13,140. A
little was written off that six months ago, and now the
item is brought down to £12,000. Allowing £3OO a year
for the co.’s own office accommodation, the premises would
show net last year just under 6£ per cent, on £12,000 ; so
there apparently isn’t much over-valuation. Still, free-
holds in the West are uncertain goods, and the prudent
concern is the concern that steadily uses a bit of the
present generally gorgeous profits to write down the book
value of bricks and mortar. Another good feature of the
co. is the steady increase of the trustee business. Some
comparisons:—
April, April, October, April,
1901. 1907. 1907. 1908.
Commissions .. £1540 £2659 £2939 £2788
Interest, rents, etc. .. 535 596 531 403
Expenses .. .. 1321 1814 1881 1917
Expenses p.c. revenue 63’6 55‘7 54 - 2 60T
Profits p.c. funds ..10/12/7 11/18/6 15/10/6 12/7/4
Trust balances .. 103,234 394,499 501,355 538,644
The co. owes only £22, so all its capital and reserves are
available to guarantee that it won’t monkey with its
trust obligations. As at April 30, £13,000 of the funds
were represented by premises ; of the balance, £4150 was
in mortgages, and the rest in debentures and cash.
The profits, though rather erratic, are at their poorest
very excellent—a circumstance fairly common to trustee
cos. On the small amount of capital actually paid there
is indeed no sort of business ordinarily conducted by
public cos. which shows so high a return.
* * * *
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co. (Ade-
laide) :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £2189 Nil £2189
1900 .. 2195 Nil 1420 £775 £775
1901 .. 2214 Nil 802 1412 2187
1902 .. 5049 Nil 2542 2507 4694
1903 .. 6665 8f p.c. = £5762 1134 4463
1904 .. 6041 7£ „ „ 4939 750 352 4815
1905 .. 5609 7l „,, 4939 750 4735
1906.. 5890 7£ „ „ 4939 750 201 4936
1907.. 4883 6i „ „ 4116 750 17 4953
Loss.
1908 .. 632 Nil 4321
Twelve months ago it was remarked that something of
this sort seemed to be coming : in the export markets
(mainly inter-State) there had been a renewal of very keen
competition, and this struck the co. at the same moment
as a general rise in wages and costs —largely due to the
temporarily improved state of things in the Yorke’s
Peninsula mining and agricultural districts. The biggest
trouble, however, was the determined “ set” made at the
Australian industry by importers and foreign producers,
who hauled down their prices to knockout the Australian
article. The result was that the working account
showed a profit last year of only £3206 as against £9030 in
1906-7, and £10,740 in 1905-6 ; and, out of that, manage-
ment and trade expenses had to be paid, and plant
repaired and maintained. The financial position is
naturally less satisfactory than it was as at May,
1907; the overdraft increased in the 12 months
from £3038 to £17,403. Part of that is due
to the reduction of other debts (£7569 to £4098); the
balance is mostly represented by increased stocks of salt.
This, however, isn’t the normal overdraft; the salt-
scraping season ends just before winter starts, and ex-
penditure is heaviest at that season. So far, the co.
hasn’t done nearly as well as it should ; the industry has
been too poorly protected, and profits haven’t been suffi-
cient to allow of the wiping out of goodwill and other
paper items of unknown size which still figure in the
balance-sheet, but which are lumped with freeholds, etc.
The outlook, fortunately, is a little brighter; but even
now 7 it isn’t bright enough, and the pound share isn’t
worth more than 18s.—which is another way of saying
that, in the opinion of investors, Treasurer Lyne was
quite right when he said that his tariff wasn’t high
enough. As a pretty general thing, the investor curses
W. Lyne with his mouth, but w'hen it comes to backing
his curse with his pocket—well, that’s a different-com-
plexioned quadruped. #
The Charters Towers Gas Co. (Q.)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re.
Profits. Dividend-tax. Off. serves, serves.
Apl., ’03.. £956 10 p.c. = £lO5O £2287
Oct., ’03.. 1437 10 „ „ 1050 £lOO £287 2574
Apl., ’04.. 96S 10 „ „ 1050 93 2399
Oct., ’04.. 1375 10 „ ~ 1050 100 225 2624
Apl., ’05.. 985 10 „ ~ 1050 2559
Oct., ’05.. 1438 10 „ „ 1050 100 288 2847
Apl., ’06.. 603 10 „ „ 1050 *- 2400
Oct., ’06.. 1345 10 „ „ 1050 100 195 2595
Apl., ’07.. 999 10 „ „ IQSO 2544
Oct., ’07.. 1039 10 „,, 1050 125 2408
Apl., ’OB.. 930 10 „ „ 1050 2288
Charters Towers gets a lot of daylight between
October and April, as the gas co.’s figures testify. It
is a long while since enough money w'as earned in that
half of the year to pay the half-year’s dividend ; the
co. has to lean agkinst the other six months, and latterly
the other six months have been none too strong them-
selves. Thus, though the amounts charged against
profits to cover depreciation have been very small, the
reserves now are only a poor 20s. ahead of what they
were five years ago. Certainly maintenance has been
charged to working expenses : in other w'ords, the co. has
paid for the patches, but in five years it has only written
£6lB off the book value of plant, etc. (alleged to be worth
£21,500) to cover five years’ wear and tear and
general decay. And evidently there hasn’t been any
main-extension done and paid for out of revenue—which
is a wav some affluent gas cos. have of making provision
for the future at the expense of the present. In any case,
the co.’s gas rates for the past half-year w'ere only £2359,
as against £2430 five years ago, in spite of the fact that
plant, tools, etc., are down now for £20,147, as against
£19,402 in 1903 ; so, if there has been any extension of
plant paid for out of revenue and not charged to capital,
it hasn’t been very profitable. Still, it can be taken for
granted that no revenue has been used that way ; for even
the sticks of furniture added during the last few years
have been charged up to capital. On the whole, then, it
looks extremely doubtful whether the 10 per cent. div.
has been really earned ; it is more probable that a little
of it has been paid at the expense of the capital repre-
sented by mains and other rusting items.
The Queensland Farmers’ Co-operative Co.
(Ipswich) :
Written Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends, etc. off. serves.
1905 .. £398 Nil £272 £2298
Loss.
1906 ..443 „ 354 1501
Profit.
1907 .. 1283 „ 602 2182
This co. is eight years old, but accounts for the earlier
terms are not available. The loss made in 1906 was due
to butter shipments. An export reserve of £217 had been
established, but this was wiped out in 1906, and £5BO had
also to be charged direct to profit and loss. But for that and
the wiping out of the bad debt reserve (£100), a profit of
£454 would have been then shown. The co. established the
Grantham and bought the Boonah factory last year;
now, therefore, it has four—those two, the principal
factory at Booval, and another at Laidley. The output
of butter last year was 817 tons. The paid capital
is £6281 ; and the overdraft, apparently on the security
of the factories, is £5313. There are other liabilities
amounting to over £12,000, nearly all for cream supplies ;
but this is more than balanced by stock on hand and debts
due by selling agents. For the co.’s turnover the capital is
very small: butter sales alone last year amounted to
£79,786. Apparently about half the output is shipped to
London, advances being made against the shipments. This
is a risky business. Fortunately last year it turned out
all right; and among the assets is included £B7OO of an
expected surplus, the expectation being based upon the
cabled London prices. As mentioned above, in the previous
year the results went against the co., which had to stand
the racket of a large loss. Especially in view of the heavy
overdraft (heavy, that is to say, in proportion to capital),
and the heavy losses to which the co. is liable through
bad debts, this is obviously a case in which very substan-
tial reserves are called for. Co-operative suppliers are
no doubt apt to look unfavorably upon such reserves;
but they ought at least to remember that when this, or
any other co-operative, co. makes a loss on butter con-
signments, it simply means that the suppliers have been
paid more than market price for their produce.
The accounts for the British Broken Hill’s half-
year to the end of December are only just out from the
London office; but a cable had already reported that the net
profit was £14,367, as against the previous term’s £41,896.
Since the half-year closed the mill has been idle (the cir-
cumstances have been already explained), and only
development work has been done. This seems to be the
co.’s policy—to find ore during metal slumps, and rush it
out when the markets are firmer. At December 31 the re-
serves above the 600 ft. level were set at 460,000 tons; but
fairly good finds of ore have been made since then.
Bunching the results of last year the net profit aver-
aged about Bs. 3d. per ton of ore. The average value
of lead in the first half of the year was £l9 17s. Id.;
in the second half £lB 6s. sd. The mean was thus
£l9 Is. 9d. The lead contents of the British conoentrates
for the two terms were 12,208 tons ; the total profit,
£56,263, or £4 12s. 2d. per ton of the lead produced.
Thus the lead was produced at a cost of all the silver and
£l4 9s. 7d. per ton of the lead itself. The present price
of lead is well under £l3. Costs might be cut down below
last year’s level; if they can’t he, then obviously the co.
could only carry on ore-production at a considerable loss
at present prices.
* * * *
When the metal boom was raging everything
in the neighborhood of Broken Hill that could be called a
lode was pegged out, and mostly floated. But things
have changed, and at the present time even the most men-
dacious wild-cat promoter would hardly dare to face the
market with a “ real good little thing right on the Broken
Hill line of lode.” Yet in Broken Hill itself a small but
devoted band of speculators still clings to the belief that
along the eastern ridge of the White Leads will be found
a continuation of Broken Hill’s huge silver-lead bodies.
At a spot on the east side of this big mineralised flat a
diligent prospector once found a small boulder, and fur-
ther investigation disclosed a quartzite reef 3ft. wide.
Tickled with a spalling hammer, the rock yielded a few
specks of galena. No doubt this was a favorable indica-
tion, but it was nothing to the Arabian Nights yarn
which has been woven around the show. A shaft was
commenced by the usual syndicate, and this is now 50ft.
deep. The syndicate is down to its last dollar, and there
isn’t enough mineral exposed to solder an old kettle.
The copper carbonates of the syndicate’s dreams
turn out to be merely iron, and the silver-lead-
carbonates (“better than they had in the Pro-
prietary in the early days”) proved to be a hardened
iron-stained loam. If there is another boom, the man
with the Silk Hat will probably happen along, and the
British investor will be given a chance to throw some of
his money into the shaft. Whereupon the quartzite reef
will solemnly wink at the prospector.
ft it * *
The old-established B. H. Proprietary fire in
Block 12 has been warming up of late ; and more smoke
than usual has been issuing from the surface vents.
At present the safety of the mine depends on the
impregnability of the northern water curtain—a barrier
which has hitherto defied the efforts of the fire to
break through. This water curtain is established and
maintained by pouring large quantities of water from the
bottom of the open cut down through the workingsacross
the whole width of the lode, and thoroughly drenching
the ground down to the 800 ft. level. The fire is
now burning right in the fringe of this water curtain at
the 247 ft. level, which is only about 40ft. below the bot-
tom of the open cut. The annoying thing about it is that
if it were only possible for men to get at it there would
very soon be none of the fire left. As it is, there seems to
be only one thing to do—to confine it and allow it to
slowly burn itself out.
* * * *
New Hillgroves (N.S.W.) have slumped hor-
ribly. Not only have the returns from both sections
fallen off, but the tonnage is too small to make the expen-
sive power scheme a financial success. Practically every-
thing depends on the New Eleanora realising expectations.
If it doesn’t, the power scheme will prove too expensive.
Locally 7 there is still a good deal of faith in the Eleanora,
also in No. 2 vein in the New Hillgrove section ; andprobab y
the scare about the finances has been overdone. A vvhiie
back it seemed absurd for a 10-head mill to be expected
to earn dividends for 225,000 shares ; and when that was
recognised the co. bought the Eleanora, and equipped it
with 15 head of stamps, driven by electricity. The
brightest spot in the trouble is the promise from No. 2
vein. Baker’s Creek is to sink a winze below No. 18, and
hopes to prove that the poor ground is only a patch and
that something will be found rich enough to work at
No. 19. Baker’s Creek also stands a chance of getting
No. 2 vein parallel to Smith’s reef. Fortunately, there is
enough money to pay for prospecting.
A Sydney committee, mostly Stock Exchange
men, is taking Lloyd’s (N.S.W.) in hand, on behalf of
Australian holders, and is to make personal and expert
inquiry into the mine. Managing-director Corbould,
who holds large powers from the London Board, wel-
comed the inquiry ; in fact, he attended the meeting,
and gave it as his opinion that, if he had £53,000, includ-
ing £20,000 for a firewood tramway, he could produce
copper at £45 a ton. The question is whether the mine
can produce enough to pay off the £53,000 ; and to try to
settle that point the committee will get expert advice.
Unfortunately, in a mine so troubled by faults as
Lloyd’s, even expert’s opinion is only a shade better than
the next man’s. Fortunately the co. got enough out of
the last copper boom to rid itself of its debentures
(£50.900), bes.des paying a shilling dividend early in 190/.
The. e is no reason to believe that the faults are the end
of the lode east; for the lode is, as Corbould has pointed
out, older tha'n the faults, so as there have been big ore
lenses west of the faults, there is no reason why there
shouldn’t be other lenses east of them. But costs mus
be reduced; last year they ran to over £56 per ton of copper
(f.o.b. Sydney). And the first necessity in the way oi
cheapening production is a tramway to bring in fuel to
the furnaces.
* * * *
No reference was made in the chairman’s speech
at the Boulder Perseverance meeting to the loan and in-
terest debited to Frank Gardner. When twitted witn
this omission bv a shareholder, chairman West-Kidg«a
said that the Board had done its best to collect tne
£49,000 odd, and had not given up hope yet.
* * * *
Chairman Purcell told shareholders at the
Golden Horseshoe meeting that the Ivanhoe boutn ex-
tended was snapped up at £35,000 for the folio ?
reasons : (1) likelihood of proving a good gold-producer
at depth ; and (2) to prevent the Ivanhoe South Extenaeu,
or any other co. that might acquire the property, nr
compelling the Horseshoe authorities to spend £8»»u, o f
thereabouts, in removing the 127,000 cub. yards o
dues dumped on the surface. As the plant and
were valued at £7300, and as the Horseshoe Co. got a
three-compartment shaft, sunk to 2020 ft., and ha
struck two payable lodes, it has had by far the best
deal. It is one of the few cases in which an excuse rea „
wasn’t necessary after the purchase of the property.
* * * *
An expert named Speak is now reporting on
the Perseverance (W.A.). In his annual report manage
Burrowe reckoned that a more economical p y


“PERPETUAL.”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRINC STREET,
BYOHEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser g Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
than with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easilj 7 applied. I bag cover 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. ffm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
A copper smelting furnace, designed to embody
the recommendations of the best Australian and American
experts, has just been constructed for the Great Fitzroy
Gold and Copper Mines Ltd., Queensland. The furnace is
of large capacity, being capable of turning out 100 tons of
matte per day. It is rectangular in shape, and is higher
in column in proportion to its hearth area than is
customary. By this means both the roasting and
oxidising operations will be conducted in the same furnace,
the oxidising being done in the upper portion and the
smelting in the lower. The furnace has two tiers of mild
steel water jackets. The lower tier rests on a c.i. plate,
supported on c.i. standards, or, should hearth plate be
removed, the tier will be swung on girders ; the upper
tier of jackets is always swung from girders supported on
columns. The columns are held together by a strong c.i.
frame. The air blast passes from a pipe encompassing
the furnace through Hustle pipes to the tuyeres. The
Austral Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne,
have designed and built this furnace.* [1
* * * *
The Financial T-imes, London, in commenting
upon the Society’s report for the year 1906, writes :
“Looking at the successive reports of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society, its intense activity forces
itself on the attention. We seem to hear the very throbs
of the engine which in six years has raised the annual
amount of new business from £610,000 to £1,156,000, and
which increased the funds from £1,196,000 to £2,990,000
between 1890 and 1905.”*
* * * *
Corliss Valve Engines for mining. In many
of our mining districts firewood is becoming so scarce
that economy of fuel is of the first importance, so that
the old-fashioned “ steam chewers” have to stand aside
in favor of modern engines that will give the most horse-
power with the least expenditure of fuel. This is where
a Corliss Engine “comes in.” Cameron and Sutherland
have several of these engines in stock, from 120 h.p. to
200 h.p. They are practically new, and the price is low.
Also a large assortment of high pressure boilers suitable
for all requirements. Address—Post Office Chambers,
Sydney ; Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard
Street, Ballarat.*
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de Piete Co., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * •
The liquidator’s note of sale, by public auction,
of the machinery plant and stock of the Australian Forge
and Engineering Co. Proprietary, Ltd., Williamstown, has
been withdrawn, the whole of it having been sold
privately to the well-known firm of Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, ironfounder, etc., Melbourne, who has removed
everything to his engineering works, Footseray.
Maqhinery merchants, engineers, mining companies, and
others interested are invited to inspect this plant, which
is now offered for sale at very low' prices. Detailed
catalogues are being prepared and will be posted to any
address on application to Mephan Ferguson, head office
and engineering works, Footseray.*
* * ' * • *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A'. Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
In connection with the visit of the American
Fleet, engineers will be interested to note that 16 of the
vessels, including all of the Class “A” battleships, are
fitted with w'ater-tube boilers of the Babcock and Wilcox
make. This boiler is also being extensively adopted in
the Australian Mercantile Marine, two recent orders being
the S.S. Paringa, 1500 1.H.P., and S.S. Koombaba,
4200 1.H.P., both for the Adelaide S.S. Co.’s inter-State
trade. *
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Qollison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
The Korting Two Cycle Gas Engine, by Mather
and Platt, is being introduced in Australia by Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney; and 128
William Street, Melbourne. This is the only gas engine in
w'hich an impulse is given with every, stroke as in the
steam engine, and for electrical and mill driving—for
which certain starting, even turning and close governing
are so important—it has proved, an ideal power. It has
long passed the experimental stage, and is being ex-
tensively used all over Europe and America, one firm
having installed as many as 16 2000-b.h.p. engines.*
LOHMANN <& COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating & Ice M a King Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne •
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [4.
regards development should be adopted, and Speak has
been sent out by the Board to see if Burrowe knows what
he is talking about. Since Speak’s arrival Burrowe has
resignedr-and talks of going to Mexico. So far Speak has
said nothing, but the chances are that his report will
represent the mine as a much leaner proposition than it
has been represented to be. The May output slumped
very badly, mainly because, as it turns out, there isn’t
any bullion reserve left, so at last the truth simply had to
be told.
* * * *
The item “investments at cost” was written
down over 40 per cent, on the last Perseverance balance-
sheet. Asked to explain why, Chairman West Ridgway
told shareholders that the investments—made up of
Hannan s Public Crushing Co., £4OOO ; Collie Proprietary
Coal Co., £lO,OOO ; and A vino Mines, £479s—had been
marked down “ because it was considered prudent.” He
invited any shareholder who thought the amount written
off excessive to buy the shares at a higher price ; but, as
no one snapped up the offer, it looks as if the Board’s
estimate of the losses made in this direction is not at all
excessive.
Chairman F. A. Govett, at the Ivanhoe (W.A.)
meeting: “We show you in the report two estimates of
the blocked-out reserves in the mine. You can readily
understand that, in an immense tonnage like this, there
is plenty of room for difference in an estimate. The con-
sulting engineers give us a lower grade, but an increased
tonnage. In this, no doubt, they naturally take a con-
servative view. It is no good over-estimating any posi-
tion. Still, in a matter of this nature, I see no reason to
question Mr. Nicolson’s estimate of grade. He is daily
in the mine watching the process of extraction from the
working stopes ; he knows his mine as he knows his own
front hall. Naturally, he is in a better position to be
familiar with the way in which the stopes work out than
engineers who come twice a year.” In that case, why go
to the expense of having consulting engineers?
Driving in sulphide ore which is often quite
worthless and never of much value is being persevered
with at 1100 ft. in the Boulder Deep Levels and Hannan’s
Star leases (W.A.). Locally this is called “interesting
deep-level prospecting,” but the local habit of every
mining field is to turn its back on everything that is dark
and gloomy.
.
Two developments are due this month in the
bottom levels of the Associated (W.A.). One is the Aus-
tralia East shoot at 1700 ft., and the other the West lode
at 1600 ft. Chairman West-Ridgway told shareholders at
the Perseverance meeting that the latter make of ore was
underlying into their property ; but, as the dip has not
yet been determined by the Associated management,
West-liidgway’s assertion is mere guess work.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) is still looking rich at
2200 ft. So far, 2oz. ore has been exposed for a length of
700 ft., and rock of the same value or thereabouts is still
showing in the south end of the level. The average
width, however, is smaller than at 2050 ft. and 1900 ft.
* - * * *
After spending £20,582 on the purchase, de-
velopment and equipment of the St. George leases at
Magnet, and after providing for cost of administration,
Boulder No. L (W.A.) wound up 1907 with a debit halance
of about £16,000. As, however, the Board has decided to
call up the remaining share liability of 3s. in quarterly
instalments of Is., and as the St. George mill is now earn-
ing money, the co. should have a substantial credit
balance by the end of the current year. Provided the
St. George shoot goes down, dividends should not be far
off. Also the run of gold now being worked in the north
end of the Great Boulder is slowly pitching north ; and
that improves the chances of the Boulder No. 1 lease. In
fact, it may yet be a mine in depth, and become at last
profitable to shareholders.
The Peak Hill Goldfields, Ltd. (W.A.), is again
looking for someone with money to burn. Two years ago
it tried to get rid of 50,000 ordinary £1 shares, but failed,
and now a circular has been issued inviting shareholders
to subscribe for an issue of 12,000. The inducement held
out this time is that the shares confer the right to 90 per
cent, of each year’s profits; but as even 90 per cent, of
nothing is nothing, the incentive to take the shares up
isn’t as big as it looks.
♦ * * *
The Bulletin’s opinion of the Whim Well
copper mine, atßoebourne (W.A.), is now being endorsed
by some of the London financial papers. One of them
doubts whether a farthing of the proceeds from the pro-
perty will ever reach shareholders ; another questions
the official figures, and calls for an independent report;
while a third declares that the ore shipments have been
specially picked in order to make things, loqk as attractive
as possible. The company has spent all the money de-
rived from the sale of ore in plant, tramway, and other
trimmings, and is now waiting a favorable opportunity to
unload some of its reserve shares. In August last this
paper described the Whim Well ore deposits as detached
lenses scattered in all directions, and not likely to last in
depth. Seeing that the main shaft has only been sunk
86ft., it looks as if the management thinks the same, and
is afraid to go deeper.
W. J. Luring, of 8., M. & Co., is returning
from London by the Himalaya, but may break his
journey at Colombo and pay a flying visit to Burmah and
the Malay States, where the money of Lake View, Oroya-
Brown Hill, and other Westralian cos. either is being or
is about to be played up.
The financial position of the Mararoa Co.
(W.A.) does not look as brilliant as the optimists picture
it. At the end of March the co. had £1704 in hand ; but
as it owed £4960, a debit balance of £2356 remained.
Estimating the total profits for March and the five
succeeding months at £7500, this debit should by the end
of August—when the enlarged mill is tipped to start
running—be turned into a credit of approximately £5150.
But as the cost of new plant is set down at over this
amount, profits will either have to be immediately in-
creased or the co. will find itself in debt on the date
mentioned. In that case shareholders will have to
whistle for dividends for a few months, and, if any reserve
is to be built up, perhaps a little longer.
* * * V
From 1886 to the end of Mg,y the 'gold .output
of Westralia was 19,054,0950 z. fine, valued at £80,966,661.
Of this quantity 690,3080 z. fine has been dug out in the
five months of this year. About one-fourth of the gross
value has been profit ; to the end of 1907 the dividends
were £17,475,328, and considerable amounts have been
divided also by private owners. Four-fifths, or there-
abouts, of the total dividends have gone out of the State.
Now the State is begging back another million by way of
a loan, and its chances of getting it are so gloomy that it
has had to pay a heavy underwriting commission.
“De'nyah”: Re “the empty North’s jewel
casket” (B. 23/4/’08). North Queensland is a jewel casket
right enough, bqt with a Chubb lock 911; and only the
Chillagoe Co. and the Irvinebank Tin Smelting Co. hold
the keys. Consider tin. John Moffat (Irvinebank Co.)
owns or controls every customs mill but one in the
Tuiaroo district, and practically in the North, viz., Star
of the North, Herberton, Coolgarra, Gurrumbah, Koor-
boora, and Irvinebank. Stannary Hills, Smith’s Creek,
and Lancelot are working almost wholly on their own
stone. Bischoff mill, at Watsonville, run by water
power, is therefore the only refuge for the fossicker who
is dissatisfied with the co.’s treatment. At Eumford 10-
head are just being erected; this mill may possibly do
some public crushing. Stannary Hills, Smith’s Creek,
and Lancelot (not now working) send their concentrates
south for sale rather than to the smelter alongside them.
Tin-scratchers, having tin and cash enough to enable them
to do likewise, have got a profit of about £7 per
ton ahead of what they calculated to get on
local prices. Crushing costs 20s. per ton, and hire
, orti 6ag's 2s. 6d. per ton; add to that packing,
and stone has to carry a good percentage of tin to show
a profit. Then as to copper. I sent a parcel of ore to
Chillagoe. Assay value, 12 per cent, copper. The de-
duction from that was 2 per cent. ; had the parcel
assayed better, the deduction would have been greater.
The reduction charge was 355. per ton. The deduction
from London copper market quotations was 3s. 6d. per
unit (£l7 10s. per ton). They then withhold for five
months 30 per cent, of net credit balance to cover pos-
sible realisation losses due to fall in London market. If
the amount withheld does not cover the losses, a bill
arrives prompt as an ethergram. But there is never a
jump in the market! Some buyers for a start hew off 15
per cent, from assay value, leaving the balance to the
producer, who has to pay packing to the railway. When
copper was at £6O this deduction meant that the miner
got only £5l. A parcel of silver-lead ore was offered
lately (not to Chillagoe Co.). The assay value was about
60 per cent, lead and lOOoz. silver (lead was then £l3 10s.
and silver 2s. Id.). The producer had to pack to the rail-
way, and then allow the co. £8 15s.'from value for realisa-
tion ! Can you wonder at the cry for a State smelter ?
* * * *
Give them any encouragement at ail, and
Charters Towers share-jobbers (and that includes pretty
well the whole field) make the pace lively. In February,
when things were still sick, the local Exchange handled
26,035 shares; in May the total jumped to 255,772
mostly East Mexicans, Brilliant Freeholds and Bonnies.
As a matter of fact, it is generally not till the local people
have discounted the prospects, and put the market up to
where the optimists think developments ought to land a
stock, that outsiders come in at all.
* * * *
Brilliant St. George, Charters Towers, has
decided to sink its shaft and explore the countrv beneath
the Brilliant formation. That at any rate "has been
announced, and the dead market certainly needed a lift.
The shaft is not far from the Phoebe, so the latter is on
the qui vive. Mills United has placed the Brilliant Free-
hold in a position to prospect its deep levels—a neigh-
borly action certainly, but not entirely unselfish, for the
booming of Freeholds and Mexicans On uncertain
developments has helped a good many Mills shareholders
to unload. The Brilliant Freehold is to be allowed to
drive No. 8 (the level below the one that has provided the
excitement), and this, together with the expected good
return from another trial lot of stone, is keeping the
market in good heart, in spite of a report that No. 7 has
narrowed.
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, crushed 175
tons for the improved average of £4 15s. per ton. No. 2
level (1420 ft.) has been driven east and west on Ift. of
variable stone. A rise has been put up and an inter-
mediate level has been formed to work what is called a
strong mineral reef. The Bonnie’s is an erratic reef to
gamble over, but it has long been thought that a rich
patch might be got in towards the Queen Central
boundary.
* * » *
Brilliant Extended last half-year treated 21,465
tons for a profit of £3644. Costs were 395. Id. per ton, or
4s. higher, because of the extra timber required. Since the
half-year closed the yield has improved, costs have
shrunk, and the profit is reducing the overdraft. It all
sounds rather glum ; still the Extended is in good heart
owing to the improved prospects in the deep ground. In
sinking the underlie the first 80ft. averaged 2ft. of stone,
worth 50s. per ton ; deeper down there is a bigger make,
worth about £3 per ton ; and there are solid prospects
ahead. When No. 17 is opened (which will not be very
long) there ought to be some movement.
* * * *
Ruby P.C., Charters Towers, is developing
some blocks of ground east and west of No. 2 underlie
shaft. So far No. 7, the deepest level, has not come up
to expectations ; the vein is rich but very narrow. No.
6 East is looking well in the end, but even there the
stopes carry only sin. of good stone, with Bin. of heavy
mineral above the western level. In consequence of
developments in driving No. 6, the upper levels will
probably be pushed further out to try to pick up a new
make. Generally speaking, the mine is looking well ;
but, in spite of Ruby’s long life and many dividends,
much cannot be expected from such a streak, which is
not only small, but also expensive to work.
Ravenswood (Q.) can boast an occasional divi-
dend, but most of the money goes to J. Bull. For May
the total optput was 2800 tons, averaging £4 os. 4d. per
ton ; dividends were £4977, and calls £203. But with big
cos. (and Queensland knows few others) profits have to
accumulate a long time before shareholders get a bite.
* * * »
Two years’ figures for the O.K. copper mine
(N.Q.):—
Written. Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Sept., 1906 .. £19,393 £35,432 £3lOl £35,806
Mar., 1907 .. 14,334 17,716 32,424
Sept., 1907 ’.. 38,204 Nil 4828 65,800
Mar., 1908 .. 13,266 17,716 61,350
But a ,mining co.’s reserves are very often purely nomi-
nal : they are often represented by nothing more sub-
stantial than various irremovable holes in the ground. In
this case, for instance, in spite of the nominal reserves of
£61,350, the surplus of liquid assets over liabilities on
March 31 was 6nly £28,933 ; and that is including stores
and other doubtfully-liquid assets. Development is
reckoned as an asset worth £10,869, and various
bridges and transport and telephone services are also
reckoned as assets. Speaking on November 27 at the
half-yearly meeting, the chairman said that on that date
the co. had : At the bank, £10,467 ; copper at Cairns or
in transit,'£lo,Boo '; stores, £lO,OOO to £14,000. The divi-
dend was payable in October, and had therefore, presum-
ably, then been all distributed. On May 28, this year,
the chairman said that at that date the bank balance was
£10,466, copper on wharf or in transit £B5OO. The finan-
cial position therefore hasn’t improved much during the
last six months, in spite of the six months’ profit. The
fact is, £4869 has into “ development ” (not charged
to working account) during the half-year, over £2OOO into
the smelting plaqt and the converter, and about £lOOO
into the transport plant and stores. As to the
future of the mine, general-manager Shepherd makes no
important remarks and no estimate of ore reserves. A
great deal may depend on the ore body just being opened
in the north block,’half a mile from the main workings.
The value is excellent, and, bhough recent reports state
the width as over 9ft., the size, can only be guessed at,
for all these bodies are very irregular. So O.K. remains,
what it has been for most of jts time, a gamble, with
little actually in view, but very fair prospects of ore-
masses which may pay sizable dividends in spite of
the vast and absurd burden of 337,450 shares. So far,
14s. 6d. per share has been. divided.
Out behind Cooktown (Q.), on the old Starcke
goldfields, is the Starcke United, a Brisbane-run concern,
which is working certain of the old shows. Up to the
date of the general meeting, a week or two ago, every-
thing seemed to be looking just the thing, and several
crushings of 3oz. to 4oz. per ton made shareholders feel
that they were on a good wicket. Shortly after the
general meeting, however, the new manager sent through
his first report. This exhaustive document has little
good to say of any part of the show ; and, although
the venturesome man risks the admission that, while
the reef lasts, it will pay if it maintains its present high
values, the general conclusion is that the Starcke United
is at present merely a prospecting show. Still, the co.
doesn’t feel quite knocked out. It knows that new
managers, on general principles, very often have little
good to say of the shows they tackle —like some doctors,
who shake their heads very gloomily when you call them
in. If then they cure you (or you cure yourself), so much
the greater glory for them.
The United Peak Downs (Q.) has just issued a
sort of progress report—no doubt to keep shareholders
“sweet.” The transfer from the old co. to the new is
expected to be completed shortly, and steps will be
taken to resume operations at the mine so soon as the
disposal of one-half interest in the company is negotiated.
One of the first works undertaken is to be the opening of
the coal-mine.
* * * «
From a practical man on the spot: Tie Mount
Hector (Q.) water-jacket. Ferguson, the engineer, is on
the ground to start putting it up ; but what they want
most is a mine to keep the furnace going when it is up.
Since George Bond left the co. has done no develop-
ment work except sink the Monument shaft 100 ft., and
that at present is 80ft. from the lode, if the lode lives to
that depth. The reverb, has been going for 14 months,
smelting from Welch’s lease, bar 50 or 60 tons from
Goody’s No. 2 ; and the management has very
often been at its wits’ ends to keep going. The reverb,
smelts about 15 tons a day on an average—
16cwt. charges, consisting of 12cwt. oxide from Welch’s,
2cwt. from Mai, and 2cwt. limestone. The Mai is flux,
and carries no copper. (Said by some to carry 1 per
cent., but that is very doubtful.) The main drive in
Welch’s has been knocked off for two weeks. There was
nothing in it for the last 60ft. As to the stope from the
level of the tunnel, there is about 15ft. of ore in it ; the
rest is no good. The sulphide ore is very poor and very
hard. They might be able to run a month or two when
the water-jacket is up. One trouble is that they have no
seconds stacked, except a little poor stuff at the Monu-
ment.
Latest accounts from the Oaks rush (N.Q.) state
that the place is still badly over-done. As reported a
month or more ago, the field is small, and only the early
birds had much chance of a claim. Hundreds have
therefore left, and, of the 800 or so remaining, not more
than 250 are making wages.
« * * *
Southern papers have been printing some more
hifalutin about Great Fitzroy (Q.). The May output was
73 tons copper and 3860 z. gold from 2710 tons ore. The
expenditure was 31s. 3d. per ton, or £4238 altogether,
apart from development and capital expenditure ; the
aggregate was £4745. Then, “assuming the copper was
salable at £5B per ton, and the gold at £4 peroz., the
product is worth £5778, leaving a profit of £1033 on the
month’s operations.” Unfortunately for this pretty little
sum, Fitzroy only produces a low-grade matte, which has
to be carted at large expense to Mt. Morgan to be con-
verted ; and after being converted it has to be at present
exported to have the copper and gold separated. So just
about all of the beautiful profit goes up the spout.
Victoria’s gold production to the end of March,
1908, adds up to £280,108,466. But the State is receding
slowly as a gold-producer, and rapidly as a div. -payer.
For the first three months of this year £66,120 represents
the total divs. paid by mining cos., whereas the quarterly
average for 1907 was £105,000, for 1906 £160,000, and for
1905 £117,000.
* ■* * ■*
Burnt Creek, Maryborough (Vic.), should be
called Bet Bet, for it has strung out ten years trying to
knock a div. out of the miserable Duke tributary gutter
of that name. Shareholders, being thrifty, have kept
expenses down to bare bone, and saved a thousand or so
out of 9dvrt. dirt. But the Bet Bet wash is nearly all
gone ; a new shaft, with a decent equipment, sunk to
command a fair block of the Duke lead, is finished ; the
lead has been entered, and cutting-up drives have been
laid out. What it will all mean no one can tell. The
reason of this is that Burnt Creek is the lowest mine
down the gutter. Higher up is the Duke and Main
Leads Consols ; higher still is the ill-fated Duke United.
The latter is a busted show, and Duke and Main
Leads has not, so far as the Duke gutter is concerned,
done any mining, save at the junction of the Main lead
with the Duke lead, where the swirl of two rivers may
have led to an enrichment of the wash, as in the Duke
United. Burnt Creek has in its favor that the lead is
going nearly east and west, that hores have given
fair gold, and that the cutting-up drives prospect fairly.
But all these things also happened at the un-
successful Duke United higher up; and there, too,
the gold had not to be transported so far.
It is no discredit to Burnt Creek to say
that, while on its Bet Bet record it could not
be expected to pay, on the Duke Lead it has still to be
shown if either it or the Duke and Main Leads Consols
carry profitable ground. To say that cutting-up drives
and bores prove the thing is to depend on a fallacy.
These drives and bores tell the presence of gold, but the
puddling machine alone tells if the mass of the drift carries
divs. Therefore the two mines to-day must rank each as
a purely prospecting go, with this in their favor—that bulk
prospects from the drives are satisfactory.
A pretty story of extravagance is this of the
Berry United. Over £6700 has been spent on manage-
ment between London and Melbourne in a year. Nearly
£l5OO went in directors’ fees, and over £3300 in manage-
ment and office rents. Putting the two items
together, it represents quite the annual sum spent
altogether on a locally-run Victorian alluvial mine.
Is there anything to justify such outlay? Should the
Berry United get on to gold it will take another 12
months before panelling will be in full swing. By that
time probably £20,000 will have gone in “ management,”
whereas if the co. had been in Melbourne £2OOO would
have covered all office rent and office charges. This is
the difference between London and Victorian control.
Yet J. Bull won’t back Australian economy, and Aus-
tralians are not such fools as to pay for London extrava-
gance ;so no blending occurs. Either Bull demands and
is given everything, or he will take nothing—and gener-
ally he gets nothing.
* * * *
Fallacies have crept into various newspaper
comments on the accounts of the New Imperial, Ballarat.
The stone treated yielded 635f0z., or over 4jdwt. per ton.
But 7424 tons were crushed for contractors. The co.
started with £491, paid £750 in dividends, and ended up
with cash £1438. This, however, did not come from its
own 4jdwt. stone, but was the profit derived from
the tributors. What they got in the way of daily
wage from the stone broken they alone can teli.
Perhaps they will forward their balance-sheet to illustrate
how the wages panned out, and what were the co.’s
charges.
■* * * *
Two’little Victorian dodgers appear on the div.
list for the first time. One is the New Jubilee, out in the
wilds near Scarsdale. A 6d. “go ” took £750 and left
£450. This is after two years’ work. One verdant Stock
Exchange critic bleats out in print—“ and yet the shares
did not move!” Well, why should they when the pay-
able stone at 500 ft. has gone underfoot, and when at 400 ft.
merely veins are being developed? No. 2 little dodger is
the New Nil Desperatidum, Raywood. It puts out all its
profits except £3OO in a Is. div. Raywood is one of the
patchiest fields in the State, and the Nil has not proved
an exception. It would have been time enough, there-
fore, to have flung about its bit of stuff when it had a
decent cash balance, plus a decent mine reserve.
* * ¥ *
Tasmania’s metal output for the first quarter of
the year was £443,000, against £608,126 in the same
quarter of 1907. The decrease is due more to the fall in
the price of metals than to smaller yields. The current
quarter will show a still greater drop.
So far, about 800 men have been thrown out of
employment by the closing of mines and works on the
Tasmanian West Coast. When things got bad on the
Coast, the two heads of the Mines Department were
rushed off to find out how prosperity could be brought
back. They made a report which skipped daintily all
round the subject, but didn’t once mention that what’s
really the matter is that the bottom has dropped out of
the lead market. The closing-down of the smelters
did, of course, make things worse at some
mines than they otherwise would have been.
But the smelter wasn’t closed down out of pure
cussedness. First, there are not the suitable ores out of
which to make even fair profits at present prices ; in the
second place, since there wasn’t any profit worth men-
tioning to be made, the German owners didn’t see the
force of adding to the output of metal, and thus keeping
the market depressed. There is talk of a State smelter ;
but those who are most anxious to extend the functions
of the State will be the least anxious to whoop for a
scheme which, on present showing, seems just about cer-
tain to fail very badly.
• * * 9


•OJe
tw
Shorthand, Typawritintf. Book.
r Corratpondonco. Buiinen '
rAritHm«tic, Commercial Law* Cloctricaf
Machanical
Architactura and Building Construction,
Fraahand Drawing, bc. ( and wa coach by
Post for all Examinations,
Writ# /ar ••HOME STUDY." Pott Pros
s«i\
1 B.C
Stotfcffo are’s
Business College
Moore Sf Sydney.
/s*h
B.C.
As for wit and
Humor good,
Bet a bit and
Back Tom Hood !
And as Hood’s great
Humor’s pure,
So is Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure !*
“The Store for Men!’
SMART SAC SUlTS—beautifully Tailored to your order —50/-, 55/-, 60/-, 70/-, 75/-,
85/* to 105/-. Patterns and Seif-Measurement Forms sent Post Free
immediately on application.
OVERCOATS—Finest English Tailored—handsome and exclusive in designs—2l/- to
85/- each. Underclothing:, Shirts, Collars, Ties, Hats, Caps, Boots and Shoes.
Clerical, Academical, Military Uniforms, Fancy Dress, Costumes.
Lincoln Stuart & Co.
FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Pty., Ltd
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Silica”: Bent’s country received an
unkind advt. the other day, when the cargo
steamer Century swung round Bulimba Point,
Brisbane, with W. H. Williamson’s drought-
smitten flocks and herds aboard. The leviathan
consignment from Victoria totalled 5383 sheep, 37
cattle, and five horses, and the run was safely
negotiated with a mortality of only 20 sheep.
Transhipment was immediately commenced into
three special trains, and as the southern emigrants
shook the dry dust of Victoria off their hoofs, they
turned a soulful eye and a plaintive bleat, not to
speak of a strenuous appetite, towards the Land
of Promise. They were hustled out to Dalby, and
their wild cries of “ Grass ! Grass ! ” as the green
fodder of Queensland hove in view were something
that will never be forgotten. Even the horses
gave three cheers as the tall Bananaland herbage
showed like the green whiskers of a Methodist on
the horizon.
THE RISE IN MILK.
DAIRY BOY: “’ Ow much milk do yer want?”
THE GIRL: “A penn’orth! ”
BOY: “Ho! Well, it’ll cost yer tuppence for a
penn'orth now. Milk’s gone hup, yer know!”
“Agricola”: Re “Bert” (B. 14/5/’08)
and his gibe at the paucity of the imagination of
those responsible for the names Shepherdstown,
Grahamstown, Perkinstown, etc. I have just
been glancing through the Federal roll for Hume
Division (N.S.W.), and have yarded the following
specimens :—Wagragobilly, Murraguldrie, Mun-
dawaddera, Bongongolong, Condongblonga,
Mungabereena, Burrumbuttock, Pomingalarna,
Mernbundinyah, Neurenmerremang, Wagingo-
berembee, and Gunnonjugerawah. Several of
these are polling-places, and the list of horrors
might be extended to a hundred. After reading
these, Perkinstown comes as a blessed relief, and
Jonesville and Stnithtown lose their terrors.
“ Cross Nibs ” : On a Bogan River station
the wild pig was confiscating the jumbucks’
rations to such an extent that the manager placed
a price upon his head ; or, rather, the sniffing end
of it. A team of Maoriland shearers, who were
waiting for the shed to start, hailed the proposal
with great acclamation. Splinter, a long, lean
person, was appointed director of the pork hunt-
ing expedition, which was to be conducted on
foot. Next morning a dozen wool-dressers, with
shear blades strapped to light saplings, went
forth upon the dewy landscape searching for
bristles. They found them in the shape of an old
sow and her progeny, who rose from a gilgai and
started for the scrub. The armed expedition
began the pursuit with Splinter in the lead, intent
on securing some juvenile bacon. The tall person
had no sooner clutched an immature hog than its
maternal parent turned upon him gnashing her
dentistry in great indignation. Splinter, trying
to puncture her, tripped over a clump of wire
grass and dropped his weapon. A thrust from
another blade gave him time to get off the mark,
and he started with visions of roast sucker surging
through his soul. The old sow got going, too.
and when she found her stride, Splinter knew it
was no cakewalk. He kicked back the grass of
that paddock like an amorous emu, keeping barely
a yard from the business end of the shifting un-
cleanliness. A cultivation paddock stood 500yds.
away, and Splinter, with bulging eyes and high-
stepping action, endeavored to reach it. At the
fence he jumped, but, taking off too soon, he
balanced upon his waistcoat on the top rail,
frantically clawed at an adjacent post, then
dropped, cursing weakly, upon the unpigged side
of the obstruction. The sucker, dislodged from
his grasp by the concussion, went off grunting
joyfully beside its ma. Looking back, with his
waistcoat held firmly in both hands, Splinter saw
his mates taking the whole landscape in their
stride, with the husband of the sucker’s mother
breathing fire and sword in close pursuit. They
took flying leaps over the wife and child of their
pursuer, and reached safety with a full inch to
spare. That day the menu was the same as usual,
and there was no roast pork.
* * • *
“ F.S.P.” : Once saw a combat between a
three-inch scorpion and a seven-inch centipede.
The latter was scurrying along, holding a March
fly which he had collected by the wayside, when
a scorpion chanced out from the shelter of a fallen
tree. The ’pede, spotting the other, would have
been content to say, “You go your way and I’ll
go mine,” and be done with it, but not so the
scorpion. Either he wanted the fly, or he had an
old score to settle. He halted dead in the track
of the green and red ’un. Then there was a wild
rush, and the “go” had commenced in dead
earnest. The seven-inches dropped the fly and
waded in. Meanwhile the black ’un had fixed
his grip an inch from the tail end of the creeper,
and seemed determined to have that one solitary
inch.. But the ’pede had made up his mind to
remain seven inches long or bust, so he squirmed
round and gave the “colored gent” a nip on the
quarter deck just above the boom. The scorpion
let go his hold, and the centipede started tearing
up the ground with his 9000 legs, rushing this
way and that, and showing really magnificent foot
work. Sparring for an opening, the scorpion,
with both claws upraised, sat back and waited.
The legsome one darted in, and the dust began to
blow some more. They fought and snarled and
squirmed for a while, till suddenly the black ’un
saw his chance and grabbed the creeper behind
the nippers, on the hip, just above the 59215 t
leg. The ’pede, now practically hors de combat,
couldn’t even turn his head to see what his enemy
was doing. There was a period of silence. Then
the leggy coon began to move again. He started
turning round and round as fast as lightning, and
looked exactly like a Catherine-wheel with a black
dot in its outer marge. The fireworks were at
their best for about two minutes. Then the glow
died down, and the forms could be distinguished
again. Slower and slower turned the big seven
inches. Next he halted, rolled over and lay still
for a second. But he wasn’t quite dead. He
made one frantic effort to regain his 9000 feet, but
failed (they were too many); and the game three-
inch colored gentleman had won.
* * * *
“Gippsland East”: In a district remote
from railway facilities a man who takes on a city
trip and lets his neighbors know about it graspeth
many nettles rashly. Recently I lit out for Mel-
bourne with the following commissions showered
joyously upon me :
The Schoolmaster: Inquire at Museum re breeding
habits of marsupial mole. One doz. golf balls, 30s. and
one half-lofter.
The Doctor : First number Lone Hand. Drugs from
Eocke Tompsitt. Set of chessmen, ‘2os.
The Barmaid : The latest song. 'A pair of sixes. Six
packets pink powder— not pills.
Mrs. I.: Try to find records of son Alfred, who last
wrote from Richmond in 1897. Copy “ East Lynne.”
One wire pot-cleaner.
The Publican : One spirit test. One pool set. Thirty
new phono, records.
Miss G.: 21b. golden wax butter beans and one flour
dredge (the sort you shake with one hand while you stir
with the other).
Mr. G. : Inspect Golden Wyandottes at Malvern (see
advt.), and if first-class, purchase.
Councillor T. : Copy of Local Government Act. “ Half
Hours of Earnest Thought ” (author unknown).
Mechanics’ Institute : Purchase books.
The Bootmaker: Interview Bill Lyne or catch him
speaking in the House. See if he drops his H’s (this to
settle important wager).
The Groom: Find out Joe Klanz, bookmaker, and
collect on Poseidon ticket (seven months old).
And there were 27 others.
I struck Lyiie when he was making his budget
speech. He didn’t drop his “ h’s ” ; seemed to me
he’d be damned if he’d drop anything. Then I
went for the latest song. Inquiry showed that
there were exactly 2741 of them, so I left the
choice to the music man and asked him to
post it on. But why go into detail ?
A week later I was found unconscious, with the
Local Government Act in one hand and a box of
vile beans or pink bills or golf-balls, or something,
in the other. The doctor told me I’d better go
home for a holiday. I gathered up my commis-
sions, and left. When I arrived at the local pub,
the barmaid fell on my shirt-front with the cry—
“Oh, Algy, I knew that you loved me!” She
complimented me on my charming way of letting
her know, and said she felt certain she could be
ready in three weeks. There was no need for a
long engagement. I put her from me with a cold-
ness that dropped the thermometer into the
fender. Tears—explanation. The music-man
had sent her, with my compliments, the latest
song—“ Won’t you be my tiddy-wids, my little
wifey-woo.” I left my commissions in the pub,
and fled home. Next time Igo to town, I’ll creep
out at the dead waste and centre of the night.
THE STATUE.
DRUNK : “Shay, ole chap (hie), you ought to see
a (hie) chiropodist. It’ll be more shatisfactory
in the long runsh.”
“ Nomadic ” : Central Australia is visited
at times by strange and weird personages. I dis-
covered one, some years ago, in the MacDonuell
Ranges. Among other things, he had been a
draftsman, a ’cellist at Rickards’ Opera House,
and (allegedly) an artistic contributor to The
Bulletin. His swag consisted of one piece of calico.
Struck another of him between Horseshoe Bend
and Alice Springs, hawking flypaper, and no
house within 80 miles. Another at one time made
a regular patrol from Oodnadatta to the Ranges,
and had “Wagga rugs” hanging to trees at
intervals along the track. He made these pilgrim-
ages soliciting capital to work some vast gold-pro-
ducing reef that outcropped in his imagination.
One other wandered into the bush to strike the
waggon-track from Arltunga into Queensland.
Luckily for him the police brought him back before
he reached that undiscoverable landmark.
“ Grey Heron Accompanied my girl one
day to afternoon tea at a sandhilly place called
Semaphore (S.A.), and sat by a long French door.
The beverage was about to be dispensed, when a
big snake slid up the verandah and laid himself
down on the doormat. The ladies turned pale,
and implored the only man present to “sneak
out ” and dispatch “ the monster.” Stole through
the kitchen window and did the deed with the aid
of tongs and fire-shovel. Hung Mr. Snake on
verandah rails, and returned to be applauded.
Applause was just beginning when Mrs. Snake
strolled up to rest on the mat, and to look for her
husband. Did the kitchen-window trick again
with similar result. Hung up Mrs. Snake beside
hubby. Applause again commencing, when Baby
Snake raised a minute head and asked for his
bottle. Tried for him, but the juvenile was too
quick for me, and disappeared in the sand. Then
we had tea. This proves that the domestic snake
has social leanings. The house and the doormat
are still there as evidence of the truth of my tale.
* * * *
“Nomadic ” : Once saw a ’roo clearing the
deck for action when attacked by an eaglehawk.
This was on the Emily Plain, just south of the
Macdonnell Ranges. ’Roo was in retreat, with
eagle hovering overhead. There was a sudden
swoop of the bird (whose intention was to rip ’roo
behind the ears), but the ’roo suddenly inverted
himself and lashed out with his hind feet, getting
in a good left, and drawing first feathers. The
bird evidently thought the animal had too much
reach, and took his stand on the limb of a dead
tree, a short distance away. When the ’roo
assumed the perpendicular again, the eagle was
again in pursuit. I presume he won, as every-
thing was in his favor. For instance, the animal
would knock up more quickly than the bird, that
gentleman taking his spell after each round by sit-
ting on a limb, while old marsup was most uncom-
fortably lying on his back. Of course, as long as he
lay in that position, the bird’s game was hopeless.
I reckoned the ’roo’s best policy was to get under
a tree, but he would probably have been starved
out, or perhaps he didn’t think of it. When I
left they were making for the W.A. border, with
the eagle again preparing for business.
Let a word be
said in favor of
theWayback mail-
man, who, with
his wiry steed,
bears the brunt of
the storms, the
floods, and the
droughts. Other
people may dodge
the weather, but
the mailman, that
persistent hustler
over enormous
distances, rides
on and on. He is
the generator of a
current of hope in
the bush. He is
the pioneer of the
coach, but his
work ismuch more
exacting and dis-
couraging than
that of the coach-
driver, because
the latter person’s
routes are gener-
ally shorter, and
he has the advan-
tage of associa-
tion with pas-
sengers. The mail-
man encounters
his task mostly
alone. And it is
extraordinary how
long he will hang
on to the job. Old
Jimmy Field, to
quote a case in
point, has run the
Diamantina-Mon-
kira (Q.) mail for
25 years, and,
despite fires and
floods and
droughts, he has
seldom been late.
At 65 he has at
last given up the
job, to end his de-
clining years in
peace at Mayne
Junction. What
a fund of experi-
ences he has in
store! You could
fill books with
them. He was before the birth of half the
Western towns ; and he humped the mail past the
camp-fires of the pioneers who built them. If
ever a man in the country’s service deserves a
comfortable pension it is the faithful mailman.
*•* m it
“ Republican ” writes :
A grey bird, about the size of a hen egg, fairly plentiful
in parts of W.A., with a tail composed of two feathers
about four times as long as the bird, and worn standing
straight up, builds a nest shaped like a teapot with a
standing spout. The bird enters the nest through the
spout which serves as a protection to the tail. Another,
of a greenish color and of the canary species, builds a
nest on a wide- leafed gum, in such a position that a
growing leaf acts as a lid for the nest.
The Bulletin frankly admits that these fowl are
beyond it. A bird about the size of an egg, with
two feathers in its tail, each feather four times the
length of the bird, said bird being in the habit of
going regularly down the spout of a teapot—those
phenomena form or comprise a combination or
conglomeration of untoward circumstances which
are calculated to upset the equilibrium of the
progenitor of Mephistopheles. In other words,
they bang Banagher, whose name in all probability,
was Murphy, though he concealed the fact.
A FRIEND TO THE CAUSE.
LOCAL BUNG (to temperance party): “ Blimey,
where's your justice? I’ve bin fined tree
times for puttin’ water in me whisky, an
now, after all the help I’ve given you, you
wanter rob me of me license."
“ Kapai te Tuna”: “Cict’s” Abo. par.
(B. 23/4/’08) on eels proclaims him a liar of a high
order. The eel, when on land, is as aimless and
irresponsible in its wanderings as a drunk who
has arrived at the lamp-post stage. The natural
inclination of the eel out of water is to just
wriggle down hill without regard to the direction
in which its home lies. Left on dry ground for an
hour, the slime dries on the reptile, and it loses its
power of locomotion altogether, owing to its skin
becoming stiff. When returned to the water in
this condition, it almost invariably dies.
“THE MAIDEN AT THE RAIL.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Disrespectfully dedicated to the bards who give us
pathetic poems anent the lone bush-maiden waiting at the
sliprails for the fickle lover who never—by any chance—
returns to her.
Oh ! The sun has gone to rest —
It’s a habit—in the west,
And the moon’s translucent beams commence a-playing
on the tears
Of the Maiden at the Rail,
Who is growing rather pale
As she tearfully keeps waiting thro’ the weeks, and months,
and years.
And her thoughts for ever rove
To a bad, forgetful cove !
Oh ! She never yearns for tucker ! And she never falls
asleep !
But her tears keep tumbling down
On her apron and her gown
Till she becomes the Maiden of the Great Perpetual Weep !
Oh ! They never more come back
Down the poet’s bridle-track—
No ; they ride away forgetful of the pretty things they
said.
And at last the maiden dies—
With the tears still in her eyes !
And I wonder how it comes about some folks 1 know are
wed !
Ah ! the girls are always true;
But the fellows never do
Keep their glowing vows and promises to shield them
from all hurt.
Yet I’ve known some men return
With a hundred-horse-power yearn—
Just to find the rails vacated by their little bits o’ skirt!
And some people tell this tale
Of the lassies at the rail :
(Oh ! the wetness of their weeping ! Hear their tears a-
splashing yet!)
That their love is deep and strong —
Till the next man comes along !
And it’s good-bye then for ever to the “man they can’t
forget! ”
N.S.W.
RIVERINA.


The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animgjs which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridge Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
£2 2s. per annum upwards —special policies for your
special needs.*
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemist refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. l§d.
TrttJo^EfJ^NO
Some indication was given last week of the articles
in Ihe Lone Hand for July. Now as to the
stories and verse.
Dulcie Deamer continues her pre-historic stories
with “The Great Water,” the strongest of the
series as yet. Randolph Bedford has a fine yarn
of finance, “ To Pay Paul.” Norman Lindsay,
in “Saturdee,” gives a day out of the life of the
Australian child as he knows him. It’s a
humorous story of a pack of cruel little animals,
and is illustrated by the author. George Lalor is
responsible for a smart story, “An Aboriginal
Wooing ”; and there are others.
The singers of the month are Arthur Adams,
Hugh McCrae, Habberton Lulham (England),
Frank Morton, R. Crawford, and J. F. Bedlington
Bodycomb.
In the theatrical section “Stargazer” continues
his caustic notes, J. D. FitzGerald writes on
George Rignold, and Leon Brodzky on Sarah
Bernhardt.
Keep a welcome ready for the July Lone Hand.
The (one Hand
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE LUCKY
OPAL BLACK
The opposite of White Opal, of
which Marion Crawford wrote
as under in “Soprano”—
“ I wish you good luck,” he
said lightly.
“ Thank you,” she answered,
“one can never have too much
of it, never—get a Talisman, a
18ct. Gold Setting',
5 Opals, from
36/-
Black Opal and two
Choice Golden Sap-
phires, all Aus-
tralian, £l2/12/-
Diamonds and exquisite
Opal, £3O.
Charm, a ‘ Jagoe.’ . . . . A BLACK OPAL is the Best, but, if you choose that, you must get it yourself—vou
must buy it —find it—or earn it—otherwise it will have no effect.”
We hold the finest stock of this beautiful gem in Australia. We receive it in the rough from the mines
We cut it.—We mount it.—We set it in Sydney.—We export it largely
We retain some of the Best for our Sydney Retail Trade, and sell it at half London Retail Prices.
PLAIN FICUREB
CABH.
]
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
“P.X.” : Pretty well every young mining
field has noted a remarkable peculiarity about
horses. Like rats, they seem to know when the
ship is sinking. Even before the papers report
that this, that, and the other claim is a duffer,
horses begin to wander away. They may be
hobbled and belled, and still they go. Sometimes
they are found 50 miles away ; occasionally they
are not found at all. A strange feature of the
case is that they are not content with merely
strolling away from the duffered field—they evi-
dently gallop from it. Certainly some people
have noticed that men who haven’t done any
good on the field travel just as fast as
the horses ; but then there are some cantankerous
people in every crowd. Others have tried to
establish a new theory. Everybody knows that
there are miners who wouldn’t dream of lifting a
pair of pants down from the front of a shop when
the owner wasn’t looking, and yet don’t hesitate a
moment to put a “specimen” in their pocket or
their boot; and, according to the theory before
alluded to, justthesamevagueideasfloat around re-
garding horses when the mining camp is petering
out. Anyway, the tremendous difficulty of
tethering a horse so tight that he won’t leave a
fading mining camp has been observed ever since
mining camps started ; and the animal’s instinct
isn’t dying out, for the same thing is being
observed now up at the Oaks, in North Queens-
land.
MAN’S INHUMANITY.
COMPUTING CRANK: “ Waiter, how many eggs do
you serve up a day? ”
WAITER: “ About ten dozen , sir.”
C. CRANK: “ Inhuman monster! Do you know
that in one year you sacrifice 43, SOO pro-
spective fowls? ”
“Pick”: The bee-nesting methods of
“ T.S.G.” (B. 28/5/’08) are a shade too scientific
for the normal bushman, who falls short mostly of
the Edison clan in the way of intellect. The afore-
mentioned normal bushman, when honey-searching,
does not waste one moment fooling round with flour,
chronometers, stop-watches, horologues, sundials,
or other impedimenta of the sort about him. He
hasn’t even a clepsydra or a Nautical Almanac. He
just catches a bee. He then does a rude but
effective thing. He spits on the bee. The
deluded insect, concluding that the moisture is
the first drop of an approaching shower, sets off
for home. If the nest is near, it flies low, and the
rest is easy; if it rises high, a longer flight is
indicated, whereupon the hunter, finding another
bee, attaches to its back a bit of cobweb, which
impedes its flight and enables it to be easily kept
in sight. The commonest and simplest method
of finding bees’-nests is to walk along the hill-
sides in the early morning when the bees are fly-
ing thickly from the hives and the slanting rays
of the sun render them easily discernible any-
where on low ground towards the sun.
A SHOCKING OVERSIGHT.
BENEVOLENT ASYLYM DIRECTOR: “ Now, now, Wilkins! What is the meaning of all this uproar?”
WILKINS: “ Well, yer see, sir, there was twelve on the hath list this mornin’, an' on’y eleven
turned up, an ’ ole Dan here got washed twice, an’ ”-!!!
“ Jim Carraway ” : The new profession of
channel-toiler is already dying out in Northern
Victoria. The great ditch that is to carry the
waters of the Waranga Basin to the Mallee is
still being dug, but Tommy Bent has slowed
down, and no more contracts are likely to be
advertised for a spell, so contractors are working
with reduced shifts to make the jobs already on
hand “hold out” longer. Hundreds of men have
taken their departure—the ringers to the sheds
that are due to start a-calling directly, the non-
descripts in search of other crust-finders. The
stability of the whole structure may be gauged by
the fact that the first inch of rain that has fallen
since the gouging of the big channel-way to the
Campaspe from the ricketty big Basin outlet
(now being patched up, at an extra outlay of
£50,000) washed the banks away in places to such
an extent as to cause grave anxiety to land-
holders adjacent. They tremble for the results
when the seven feet deep and a chain wide
irrigation stream is allowed to run between and
percolate into the banks, which are, for the greater
part, of soft, friable surface soil. The cost for
maintenance of the whole ill-devised scheme pro-
mises to be in keeping with the rest of the
Waranga Basin scandal. Failure is writ large on
the scheme.
* * « *
“ N. 8.” fells a flagrant horse-lie :
It is a fact right enough, this yarn of a horse selecting
his burial ground and sticking to the selection. Twelve
years ago a worn-out jumper of ours made his will and
chose his vault, but we were lucky enough to interrupt
him half-way through the death scene, which he was
trying to perpetrate right against our door. Whip-
cracking, shoving, shouting and swearing shifted him
some 15yds. from where he had settled. Then, knowing
the equine habit of picking a place to die and refusing to
pass over in any other, I ran a high fence round the
cemetery he had mapped out for himself. The old prad
struggled to his feet when the carpentering job was
finished, staggered over, made a mental calculation as to
the height of the obstacle, and then slowly stalked to
the far end of the paddock, where he sulked for
days. Apparently, he gave up the idea of dying,
and after a bit he began to pick up and take a
new and increased interest in life. The enclosure
was turned into a pig yard, and old Nap’s
attempt at shuffling off was forgotten. Before long
the old horse was in regular work again, and took to
jumping as kindly as ever—so much so that I entered
him for the high jump at our local show. He plunged
with a truly marvellous zest into the business of training.
My son, who had him in hand, grew daily more delighted
at his performances, and one morning came home over-
joyed. “ Cleared 6ft. lin. this morning, dad ! ” he said,
as he took off the saddle. “ But you should have seen the
old cuss go mad over it—look at the froth on him yet.”
As he slipped the bridle off, old Nap turned and looked
cunningly at me. Suddenly he gave a loud neigh and
started olf at a gallop for the pig yard. He cleared the
fence in style, then stumbled and fell dead in a heap.
We measured his last jump, and found the fence exactly
6ft. lin. high. Then we knew what the old ruin had been
training himself for.
* * * *
“ Henry Phelthatt ” : These school
farmers make a man wild. No matter what I
plant, over comes the peddergog to tell me it’s
wrong. Wrong seed, wrong time o’ year, wrong
soil, wrong something or other. The funny part
is that I keeps ’im in vegebatles all the year round.
Yesterdy I was fillin’ the seed box of the drill,
when up he comes, has usule. He rakes a handful
of seed out, and says, “ What sort of wheat do you
call this?” “Miller’s Joy,” says I. “ Why don’t
you try Arryzoner ; this ain’t any good,” he says.
“ How the hell do you know,” I says, pritty sharp.
“ Practical tests,” says he. “Last year we tried
28 varieties. We put in ten grains of each, and
Arryzoner give the best results. It went 170
bushels to the acre; (Golden Charlie, 163 ; Miller’s
Joy only 125.” How the blazes do you make that
out, when yomsay you only sowed 10 grains ? ” I
says. “That was mearly the-test. We sowed 28
plots, Gin. square each. Arryzoner went 384
grains, Golden Charlie 379, Miller’s Joy 332. I
gave it to the boys for arithmetic and we worked it
out per acre.” “Sure you didn’t mix up the answers
with your termarter reckonins ?” I says. (He’s a
spiky little beggar.) “It’s always the way with
you people”—he started, “Oh, mushrooms to
you,” says I. “ Get up, Gip ! Prinny'! ”
“Lumper” : Arriving in Mackay (Q.) re-
cently, I chummed up with a newchum Yankee
who had read a lot about our White Australia
policy and about the much vilified ejection of the
colored worker. The first thing we met when we
went down town was the local Salvarmy, which
included four kanakas, a Chow, and a couple of
dubiosities. I soothed his mangled feelings by
explaining that this lot had a special dispensation
as ministers of the Gospel. A dodger intimated
that “Robbery Under Arms” was being given
by means of pictures at the local hall, and we
hurried down there. We arrived late, and found
a big crowd in the small premises. In fact, it was
like the wine jelly the tall waiter carries across
the floor of the eighteenpenny restaurant. The
atmosphere was in violent collision with
various pigmentary odors, and as our
eyes grew accustomed to the gloom we
discovered that the audience was mostly com-
posed of Japs, Chinese, Syrians, and shade curios.
A waistcoatless usher placed us next to a Tommy
Tanna, beside whom was a fat Mrs. Tanna, who
had once been white, and five small mixtures of
both colors. To save trouble, I took the inside
berth. When the flicker started an ugly and very
black nigger bounded into view, and this person the
loud-voiced explainer announced as “ the faithful
Warrigal.” And Warrigal was easily first favorite
right through, quite overshadowing the' burly
individual who was known as Captain Starlight,
and whose equestrian performances were very
painful. Suddenly the Yank dragged me into
the pure air: “Saay, this white cure of yours is
about as genuine as a prairie oyster. You let the
culled cuss stand round same as you and he were
a family joint. Worse, to sort of show him what
a broad-gauge, slap-up dicker he is, you fake up a
show an’ figure him holding up decent whites
anyhow. Where’s the sense of it, anyway ? ”
CENTENNIAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O, to see the park this morning, all in verdant mantle
clad!
And to lie—convention scorning—on its bosom, and be
glad 1
Free m)'self from sordid fast’nings, waste the time a
little space,
W T ith the yellow everlastings peering slyly in my face !
Just to lie there, all uncaring—nothing deeper in mv
mind "i- j
Than to watch the crazies tearing with the comrade
vagrant wind,
Luring wastrel leaves to follow, while the stubborn, stiff-
necked grass
On the hillside and the hollow, makes obeisance as thev
pass. J
Heart of me, grown sick with yearning after pleasures
dimly seen,
To the park my thoughts are turning—best of all it may
have been
Just to lie there, never heeding what the morrow
brought of care ;
Velvet-voiced Maretta reading ; one soft hand amongst
my hair.
Spake we not of love undying in our warm, full-blooded
youth ?
Ah, Maretta !we were lying— we, who prated so of Truth.
Yet I’d like it much this morning, knowing well it might
not last;
Like to disregard all warning—fail to profit by the past ;
And with cool, fresh grass around me, and a languid sky
above,
Feel again the bonds that bound me in what we con-
sidered love.
N.S.W.
P.J.D.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
W.V.S. : “SkiboCastle, Sutherland, Scotland,”
will find him. Seeing’ you live in a city of some size,
didn’t it occur to you to go to your local library or read,
ing-room, and look up “ Who’s Who,” or some such pub-
lication? Why be so helpless? L.E.A. : Well enough
written, but the conversion strikes us as too swift....
Arthur J. R. : “ Half Fare ” not up ; and too much fish
entrails about the other yarn—the yarn that ends, “The
red-headed man went home to his wife with a scarf of
hapuka’s bowels wound round his neck.” Anon: If
“Love of Long Ago ” hurries, it will catch up to 965,432
other just such verses wandering along the same track.
Get a track of your own Te Aroha : Neither “ Writer”
nor the blind-horse yarn quite up Gillie : “ Lines ” no
good ; they don’t scan, and they don’t rhyme.... Cadette :
“Oui Bono” very nearly arrived MarieF. : “Patches”
smart, but no substance in it...W.M.F. : “Clarissa” hesi-
tated where the ways part, and then blew lightly back to
the postman.. H.L.V. : Pleasant, easy jingle; that’s a 11...
X.Y.Z.: “Finger” smartly written; but it has been
dipped into so very many ink-pots... .B. Gordon: “Mis-
take” doesn’t read true.... Stars and Stripes: “ Purri-
purri ” disappointing ; you’ve got the local color, but you
can’t use it up in story form. Try some other way....
Te Wah : Plain hoggishness of that sort is not worth
print... .E.A.R. : Ridiculously bad. Useless for you to
persevere.. ..Saturday: Written with knowledge, but
without any ability to give a distinct and clean-cut im-
pression.... Wilfrid W. : The strength of a few stanzas
accentuates the weakness of the others Geo. G. : None
of the electricity got into your style, anyhow! T. :
They follow too well-trodden a track Martial: Ruined
by weak verse-endings. The strongest part of a stanza
should be the “ tail.” Oscar W. : The quantity of stuff
you turn out means that you don’t put work enough into
your lucubrations. If you did, you might have a chance.
D.W.T. : That’s it! —about ldwt. to the ton Lola
F. : Merely Tennyson-and-Water. And Alfred can’t stand
much water....J.N.S.E. : “Diamond” passed to the
tailings heap, though with some misgivings.. ..Spinifex :
“Hogan’s” not yet finally dealt with R.L. : “Ro-
mance ” reads as though it had been dashed off breath-
lessly... H. Haup : “Battlers” wavered and failed at
the last trench J.S.G.” : “Ah Sing” hangs on too
small a tack of incident Darkie : “Slippers” lady too
much like too many other ladies who have got tired of
their bush husbands R. 8.8. : “Evocation” pretty
album verses only Vinrace: No plot, no picture, no pur-
pose. .. Denyah: Hardly enough in “ Sinking ” ; verse poor.
Cicero: One very good par, only spoiled by the small
fact that the Canterbury Taylor isn’t Allan Taylor at
all—which makes us sniff at the other item G.C.T. :
About 20 people sent that cutting along. Also the
artist found it for himself Billie: Story impossible;
subject worked out. Verse more impossible still
J’ai dit: “ The Shark ” has points, but not enough
of them ; and the subject is a trite one J.H.T. :
Your astute remark that “a glance at Burke would
have shown that no such baronetcy as that which
the Marwick person claimed existed ; the only shadow of
a title in that name being the cheap knighthood held by
the venerable ex-Town Clerk of Glasgow,” was the pre-
cise comment passed on the happening by The Bulletin
some months back.... Billabong : “Apple Tree Flat”
didn’t quite get there. No name or address on copy for
return Fossicker: “New Ground” too small an
incident to be worth mentioning.. ..Ora Pro : A rather
vague story of how you shot the dog and then
failed to kill yourself... .Dipper : All rather ancient
J.G.: Idea not bad ; treatment below publication-level.
.... Micawber : If conditions are appalling where you
work, and you haven’t seen a Factory Inspector for four
tears (! !1) you ought to be ashamed.of yourself. A mere
hint would have brought an inspector along any day
during all those years R.W.T. : Colt by Pegasus out
of Eros fell badly in the Roundel Stakes. In fact, he
broke his neck, and is now dead and buried and cre-
mated, and the devil has taken him, and he has also be-
come bone-dust Schoolboy: Fact that you “didn’t
vote for Oarruthers at last election ”• is no inducement
for this paper to print a bald account of how you (in
common with fully 100 people who were looking on at
the time) omitted to put-a coin in a boomerang-throwing
aborigine’s hat. We refused copy last week from one
who offered as an inducement the assurance that
he would slay himself and his entire family un-
less his lamentable effort was accepted Jet :
“The Triumph” was knocked out in one round
Warren: The verse is as bandy-legged as the “moke”
was V.B. : Your yarn jumps around like a Chinese
cracker.... Mate : Doubtless true to life, but the verse is
too fiat and wooden.... T. W.C.: You are obviously very
much in earnest, but you are a disastrous versifier....
Jeanne : Some quaint notions in it, but it is deadly dull
....ShawN. : You have more originality than 5ki11....
Herbert W. : Rather pretty, but utterly commonplace...
R.L. : They all leave something to be desired, but “ Pier-
rot ” very nearly scored... .S.T.S. ; Good verse, but maud-
lin sentiment Chas. W. : Hie manner is so bright and
breezy that it almost carries off the dull, uninterest-
ing matter Poppet : Hopelessly unsuitable
Maire : You have traces of humor, but your style has no
“ grip ”in it. Don’t remepiber the dog-poem W.D. :
A little more skill would have “ placed ”it E.A.W. :
Merely a new—and inferior—version of “ What are the
Wild Waves Saying?” Duffer : Well, yes ; that’s about
your figure ! Wally Lee : Not unless you improve very
much. That material would have made a good sketch in
stronger hands D.R.McI.: The blackmailing secret-
holder who returns after long years and threatens to
break up the home of the virtuous wife and mother has
been dealt with so often that he calls for an expert
writer’s touch. You are no expert writer... .X.Y.Z.:
“ Confiteor ” was passed out The Tramp : Brief poem
about Georgina’s knees gone to its just reward in the
basket New Arrival: You are a useful dreamer, doubt-
less ; but you are no poet. For example :
Then we curl up in our blankets,
Perhaps ?—to dream as we often do,
Of our old friends in Gloucestershire,
And in Somersetshire too.
G.T. : “Fishing Book” is good enough to suggest
that you should try again.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Spi: Terribly out of drawing E.D.Too crude and
scratchy Will G. R.: Picture only a wild disarrange-
ment of ink, and the joke is what any drunk might say to
another... W.G.VV. (Vic.): Another commonplace beer
picture and beer jest.
“Kiah”: ThatancientN.S. W. mariner, Cap-
tain Charles, has been eclipsed by the discovery of
an older mariner than he. Captain Charles once saw
a South Sea islander who saw Captain Cook
murdered. But Admiral Richard Moorman, who
has just celebrated his 98th birthday, visited
Maoriland as far back as 1827—81 years ago—and
rubbed noses with a Maori chieftainess who had
rubbed noses with Cook.


■' /\
vi'tt/ou't' I>eirrg paired \o
-fife cf.isce^l
old
[*%*]
Tt?e
,/)
*i • j
nj\na—
" )ve Off , J
'.Jf
S A\°P£.
H Tb<?
of
A S«'bmeroed "by t£«
Coh S +V tt c-fror, °f
t-CSCrvoiK A t »'^ , « u S OW ' .
-jfy € Corr»/>ev>sA*io« s*/ re ~ S'T
-|>r ife of h«S'n*Ss ’
Swiwbur^e
<jfis CoVcrCc l plA'inp
°f
l'
>\ ro to nde 3oVy*rds or els® fs>rK oo+^l/'
for 4> -twofcnry 'fictCets off." (D^ily
4
NJe,
My
/Melbourne e/bee/* to o . * .
low ws«»woik wl)e<i% a^boo T~
'The.re s<»*»e good t>owlinp-e«een
witft l&S scaxeity w*fck^__^
Joojty
5 u T
■A\oRal
dr inKj
30 b tr more -ttfayn ~
Ta»S* r '^ n &. doa S not“ Commit" . . l. -
Oh< fourtt? of her di S iheWy.
Jassy:-" W’ha tzg r--yeK •
us«f.i
[Ok fire r«o**)*>)tn(l-\
of A S+VTc \
Qov’ernorj \
Vic s*.*> Aoev,f-
writesTo Deo
" The new C° v erno»-
IS 3*. rrf^rr.,
He will be
■tyome VictoriW
W S /
Hercules fa Jupiter:— *
"No Sire*! iW^lKa^
Mew,*** Jjon J fJiaT
ie‘bon««jl. x n|C.
S+A* A W v^ 11 i rte-
-1 Sewe-nn? Ange^l7^ 17 n
sa>o/es * *°?® n n 3
V»« ■'(•—^-'H-.
■fe
A^irf
peel.
'N
P OWt7 o«k Sr riJ~.
'•lb«yV
MOSTLY MELBOURNE.


WELCOMING THE U.S. OFFICERS.
The flags are all right, and the idea of painting the buildings in stripes was good, and Dan O’Connor holding forth out of the window of the Equitable Building
is a fine sight, and the Governor-General looks well as he greets the U.S. Admiral, and it was a splendid idea to borrow the giraffe from the circus and
to have kegs of free beer along the street. But it’s a pity the Commonwealth army isn’t a shade more imposing on such an occasion as this.


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson, Proprietor
The Yankee fleet is nob yet in sight. But
what is in sight (mentally) is that the welcoming
celebrations shall be managed with wisdom. And
to achieve this it is essential that that Lord High
Admiral of wise inspiration—D.C.L. Whisky—
should be in supreme command. With D.C.L.
on the bridge, the best course for brilliant success
is sure to be steered.*
“ Woods’ Peppermint Cure appears to bring
Your trade amongst the snuggest,
I ’spose it won’t cure everything ? ”
“ Well, no,” replied the druggist.
“ It won’t cure everything, at least,
Unless I’m much mistaken ! ”
“ What won’t it cure in man or beast?"
Said he : “ It won’t cure bacon 1 "
PERSONAL
ITEMS
General Louis Botha now turns the scale
at 20st., but has not yet ceased to be a fine portly
figure of a man.
“ H.S.R.” : Re the lately much-discussed
“social position’’ of Field-Marshal Macarthur-
Onslow, the old story about the original Mac-
arthur, father and founder of the family, was
that he was some sort of counter-jumper from Car-
diff, or thereabouts.
Lawrence Tobin, who died at Euthella,
near Roma (Q.), at the alleged age of 109, started
out to make a new home pretty late in life. If
was only in September last that he went from
N. S. Wales to Queensland, and took up a selec-
tion on the Euthella resumption. The desire to
grab the earth is evidently a thing that can onlv
be finally satisfied by the acquirement of a 6 x 3
allotment.
FOWLER , M.H.R. (WESTRALIA).
The Owe’Sullivan paralysed the first
meeting of the Sydney Citizens’ Committee,
to arrange details in connection with
the Great American Drunk, by offering vigorous
opposition to certain proposals on the ground that
he was determined to prevent “wasteful expendi-
ture. ’ This, coming from Owe’Sullivan, broke up
the gathering, and it dispersed without deciding
anything.
Another instance of the old nobility down
on its luck. Prince Constantine Paleologus, of
Greece, has been advertising in New York
Herald for employment as secretary or tutor.
He arrived in Gotham about a year ago from
an<^. was engaged on a Greek newspaper,
at three quid a week, until four months back,
when he lost the job. Yet he should have six
emperors in his pedigree if he is a genuine
Paleologus, and he has a magnificent relative who
died fighting on the deck of a ship on dry land and
telling the Turks, right to the last, that he didn’t
think much of them.
Died in Adelaide, Canon Hopcraft, elo-
quent preacher and white man. He came from
the North of England, where they breed preachers
with wide sympathies, and he didn’t mislay his
little lot on the voyage out—or even later on when
they dropped him down into the rather fashion-
able St. John’s.
Bananaland will need some new Judges
shortly. Judge Paul is ill, and will probably not
be able to resume his work ; and Justice Power’s
health suggests an early retirement. Justice Real,
who has allowed a bad temper to spoil a good
record, is also due for a pension, and Brisbane is
firmly convinced that Attorney-General Blair will
take one of the seats when Premier Kidston comes
back to unravel the political tangle.
“ Oby ” writes :
The deceased William Walker, of Windsor, was at
time of death the oldest sittingf member of N.S.W.
Legislature. He sat in the Assembly for nine years, from
March, 1860, and in the Council from 1887. But a large
number of long livers, many of whom survived till a few
years ago, and some of whom are on top yet, entered the
third Parliament with or before William Walker. The
veteran Morris Asher was elected a year and a half before
Walker, but resigned early. Sam Lyons, a third Parlia-
ment man, was doing well in Melbourne a short while ago.
Charles Cowper (ex-Sheriff), also a third Parliament man,
was very much alive, as some court proceedings
showed, a couple of months agp. And Frederick Cooper
and E. M. Sayers, both third Parliament men, were also
heard from or heard about lately.
William Walker, M.L.C., passed quietly
out at Windsor (N.S.W.) last Friday, cetat 81.
He was one of the last of the “ staunch Scotch
Protestants ” whom Lang brought to N.S.W. to
dam the growing tide of Rome and Irishism. He
practised as a solicitor in Windsor, and three
times represented the constituency at Macquarie-
street. Though one of the most reasonable and
kindly souls in the world by temperament, he
was obsessed all his life by a grinding fear of the
machinations of Rome, and of the baneful influ-
ence of that decayed city on the welfare of his
State. It made him appear harsh and intolerant
sometimes, where he was merely misguided and
muddled. No town ever had a more energetic
“ local member” than Walker, who at one period
elevated road-and-bridging to a high art. He had
literary aspirations, and ranked as a poetaster in
the G. Reid and Jawbone Neild class.
Miss Eva Delany, daughter of the late
J. A. Delany, of Sydney, and her companion, Miss
Augusta von Heinbockel, a native of Australia, are
at present in New York. Both ladies are occu-
pied in journalism, Miss Delany having a
reporter’s job on the New York Tribune. They
have been interviewed by the New York Press.
Either the interviewer mixed things up or the two
ladies were rather loose on their Australian
statistics, for the report sets forth that Sydney
has 1,000,000 inhabitants, and that Chinamen pay
£5OO poll-tax on entering Australia. But many
people are surprised, when they get away and are
interviewed, to find how little they really know of
their own country. Writer once heard a perfectly
enthusiastic argument among some Australians
in a liner’s smoking-room as to the amount of the
N.S.W. public debt, and the general opinion was
that it stood at about £20,000,000.
J. M. Templeton, who died in Melbourne
last week, did some great work in his time ; but
the National Mutual Life Association is his best
monument. He founded it in 1869, and was its first
and for some weeks its only policy-holder, besides
being the whole office staff, and he stood at the
head of it till the end. From the start, Templeton
knew that, on account of the success of the A.M.P.,
he must make his little concern mutual; and, to
overcome the difficulty of having no capital, he
got some friends to put up a guarantee—under
which, by the way, they never had to pay a penny.
There were times when he became infatuated with
his creation, but it was only quite a little while
back since he allowed himself any hifalutin;
and it was then that his old friends said he was a
failing man, and that when Templeton failed he
would fail fast. And he did ; but he left a fine
and vigorous insurance office behind him.
Amongst the recent obituary notices is
that of Henry Wrenfordsley, the Journeyman
Judge. He appeared never able to accomplish a
fixed billet. He was admitted to the Bar at
Middle Temple (London) in 1863, and became
junior counsel to the Treasury in 1868, and a
deputy Judge of County Courts (England) in
1876. In 1877 he obtained a puisne Judgeship in
Mauritius, which office he vacated to accept that
of Procureur-General. In 1880 he got the Chief
Justiceship of Westralia; in 1882 the Chief
Justiceship of Fiji. He administered the Govern-
ment of Westralia for five months in 1883, and
acted as a puisne Judge in Tasmania in 1885-87.
Next he was called to the Bar in Victoria and
“took silk,” and in 1888 he acted on the Vic.
Supreme Court Bench. In 1890 he became Acting
Chief Justice in Westralia, and in 1891 he got fixed
at last as Chief Justice of the Leeward Islands. He
retired in 1901, worn out with carrying his legal
swag from job to job for so many years. Now,
presumably, he is a journeyman angel.
Walter Ellison Lenthall, whose death in
England was cabled lately, was an old police
identity of New South Wales. Prior to his join-
ing the force, in 1860, he was, in 1853, a sort of
junior clerk in the Immigration Department. He
left that and struck out at hard work for himself,
part of the hard work being the carting of wood
from North Shore to the Sydney market. He took
a turn at amateur theatricals, and on one occasion,
in the year 1859, at the old Lyceum Theatre,
enacted the part of Corporal Foss in Colman’s
comedy, “The Poor Gentleman,” in which also
Richard Dailey, brother of Plain Bill of the
Soudan, took a part. Lenthall joined the police
force in 1860, and did country duty up to the grade
of sergeant, at Albury and Cooma. The small-
pox scare, in the Faraway days, gave him his first
Sydney chance. He was placed in charge of the
infected area. He retired from the force after
thirty years’ service, in 1890, and went to England.
A year ago he inherited a property said to be
worth £lOO,OOO. He claimed descent from Speaker
Lenthall who gave “cheek” to Charles the
Heedless —afterwards Charles the Headless.
“Doctor Bob of Melbourne,” co-re. in
the Wallace case, has just reaped the first
crop of the wild oats he sowed in the
VVallace paddock, in the shape of petitioner’s
bill of costs. It originally reached the gaudy
figure of £3052 13s. 9d., but the taxing
master lopped off £516 6s. 2d., leaving £2536 7s. 7d.
Taxing costs added to this brought the total to
£2720 9s. 7d., including £962, respondent’s costs.
Besides this, Strong’s own little crop will reach a
tidy sum. For petitioner Wallace, Duffy, K.C.,
got £l6 ss. per day ; Woolf, £ll ; and Bryant,
£7 125.—£422105., £286, and £197125. respectively
for the 26 days. In all Statistician Knibbs’ elaborate
compilation of agricultural statistics he never
mentions how much wild oats go to the acre.
Plain oats, it seems, grew to the value of 425. 7d.
per acre in Victoria, and 745. per acre in Queens-
land during 1907. Yet all the places mentioned in
the Wallace case wouldn’t make more than
an acre altogether, and in one single crop it seems
as if fully £5OOO worth of the wild oat had sprung
up thereon. It is a truly prolific vegetable.
OLD-AGE PENSIONS.
The qualification clause provided that in calculating
any claimant’s length of residence in Australia, any time
during which he was in prison for any criminal offence
should be excluded; but this was omitted.
BENEBOLENT-LOOKING OLD MAN : “ Yes, it is
rayther hextrgornary ’ow I come to get my
pension. If I’d 'a' ’it ’im a little lower down
the jaw I'd 'a only got six munce, an' left
the country at the end o't. But. as it wuz,
they gimme three years, which just brought
me under the Act.”
Denny, M.P., who in the old days was
Kingston’s colleag-ue for Adelaide, has just been
admitted as a solicitor and barrister—they mix
’em in S. Aus. He did not begin to study law
till after he was elected to Parliament. Once he
was a civil servant; next he became editor of the
R.C. paper, and thence he got into the Assem-
bly per West Adelaide. He joined the Labor
party after his defeat for the metropolitan seat,
and has since had no difficulty in keeping his
place. Denny has his eye on the Attorney-
Generalship, but that can’t be till a Bill has been
passed to increase the size of the Ministry.
So far the Price Government has got along
without a lawyer-member.
That vigorous old gentleman, ex- Judge
Boucaut, of S. Australia, now 77, climbed into the
witness box the other day, in defence of Joe Cole-
man, charged with murdering a policeman.
“Joe” had been part of the ex-Judge’s yacht-
crew many a time, and the best he could say for
the accused was that he always regarded Joseph
as too mad to be left on watch alone. But, the
ex-Judge’s “character” notwithstanding, they
decided (tentatively) to hang Coleman. Perhaps
they knew that there’s always a soft place in
Boucaut’s complex old heart for the sailor-man of
the little boats. The Judge came from Cornwall
and the Channel Islands, has never lived away
from the smell of the salt, and many a time has
outraged propriety by pattering along the fashion-
able Glenelg jetty in bare feet and the appalling
deshabille of the confirmed fisherman.
Rupert Clarke rivals his fellow-statesman,
Tummas Bent, in the Protean or all-round
line. The main distinction between the
two is that Tummas aspires to be many
things, while it is the other’s whim to do
many things. Rupert has at various times
been horse (blood, coach, and draught),
sheep, fowl, goat, dog, and cattlebreeder.
He is an astute impresario (Francie Adler
was one of his finds); a producer of plays
(is he not of The Syndicate ?); and a win-
ning—and occasionally losing—owner on the
turf. He possesses a rubber estate in one
part of Papua, and a hemp plantation in
another. He has shares in a Queensland
sugar-growing show, and is starting as soon
as the plant is delivered a rabbit-canning
factory on his Rupertswood Estate, These
are just a few of his enterprises. The
amazing thing is that he seems to drop so
little money over his enterprises.
“ Itan ” writes :
There is a Gulf romance connected with the man after
whom Mount Elliott mine* near Cloncurry (Queensland),
is named. In the ’sixties, James Elliott was convicted
on a charge of sticking up a Chow and stealing his gold.
The Judge said briefly: “Ten years.” Six years later
came the death-bed repentance of Sydney Flood, and the
explanation that it was he, not Elliott, who bushranged
Ah Fat at the. Cape diggings. Inquiry elicited supporting
testimony, and at long last Elliott was released. The
Government offered him no compensation— not even a
drink. And he asked for nothing. Gaol life had made
a wreck of him, and he morosely dived into the
bush to get away from his kind. After a while he re-
turned to Cloncurry with great lumps of surprisingly
rich copper ore, found in the hills 60 miles away. But
Jim Elliott, the man whom Justice had so badly treated,
was doomed not to enjoy the riches of his find. He told
others of it as the iamp flickered—then the light
spluttered out, and he died, the victim of a fool police
force which jumped at, conclusions with feet that were
quite unfitted for leaping exercise.
There has just died at Glebe (Sydney) one
Shaw, an old local identity, who is alleged to have
been born in 1804. Therefore, he was nominally
over 103 years of age at the date of his premature
departure. The old man carried his alleged cen-
tury in a sprightly fashion ; but, as usual, there
is a grievous lack of proof as to the real degree of
his ancientness. Shaw was a whaler in the old
days when men whaled more seriously in these
waters than they do now.
A, H. Barlow, the ancient who is Acting-
Premier in Bananaland, is popular as a pro tem.
because of his vast capacity for seeing much and
saying little, a quality he laid in a stock of while
he was a bank manager—he was for over 30 years
with the Bank of Australasia. Even so far as his
own Department is concerned he has never been
known to give the press any information which
hadn’t been prepared for typewritten delivery.
“I have nothing for you, gentlemen, to-day,” he
says as regularly as the pressmen call, “unless
you have anything to ask me.” But the latter
sentence is mere diplomacy. Nothing official ever
disturbs his calmness. Even a pending crisis is
dismissed with a smile and a remark about the
eternal fitness of things. All the same, Barlow is
much more than a stop-gap. Though old, he is
not crusty, and is a democrat through sheer con-
viction, for he moved in his younger days amongst
the class which is always packing up its baggage
to leave the country with its shekels owing to pro-
gressive legislation, but which always halts before
buying the boat ticket.
“Karl ” ; Be the recent Bulletin note in
connection with explorer Hume being allowed to
overshadow his fellow-explorer Hovell. In every
account of their trip Hume gets all the limelight
and Hovell the abuse. All the success of the trip
was due to the bush-craft and able leadership of
Hume; all the misfortunes and delays to the
obstinacy and general crankiness of Hovell. But
in the course of many conversations with old Tom
Bovd, the last survivor of the party, who died in
I umut some years back, I received a totally dif-
ferent impression. He spoke as highly of Hovell
as of Hume, and darkly hinted that their quarrel
arose through land matters. The name of Hume
is perpetuated in the Hume river, Hume elec-
torate, Hume shire, and otherwise. He has
statues erected in his honor, and there are agita-
tions to erect him a public memorial. Hovell has
no statues, and his name is preserved only through
the existence of a tin-pot village near Albury.
Even this has degenerated locally to “The
Hovel,” and lately I heard a resident claim that
the place was called after an old, dilapidated
shepherd’s hut thereabouts. This is distinctly
rough on Hovell. J
The,death of Robert Gillespie Reid, who
passed out in Newfoundland the other day
recalls about the biggest act of madness that ever
struck a white man’s country. Reid (who, by the
way, looked in upon Australia some 33 years ago)
was a Scot and a railway contractor, and a mighty
speculator before the Lord. He built part of the
Canadian Pacific Railway, also quite a lot of
other railways in Canada. One of the lines he
built—Whitborne to Port-au-Basque, 500 miles—
he persuaded a fool Government to lease to him
for 10 years, at very little a year, and he got
2,500,000 acres of land thrown in. Also, he bui’t
bridges and many other things. But the chance
of his life came in 1898. About that time New-
foundland struck a financial crisis. It was
like the one that struck Queensland in ’65, or the
one that fell upon all Eastern Australia in ’93, but
Newfoundland and its Government lost every
semblance of pluck and gave way to disgraceful
panic. Ihe place had but one idea—to give tilings
up as a bad job and sell itself to anybody that
would promise it a roof and a crust for the rest of
its days. An attempt was made to get Britain to
take it back as a Crown colony, with the vague
idea that Britain would somehow save it from
itself. That scheme was dropped, and instead
Newfoundland sold itself to Robert Gillespie
Reid. It had a frantic idea that Private Enter-
prise could rescue it—yet its difficulties weren’t so
very bad, and some such Banking Act as Premier
Dibbs rushed through in the dark days of N.S.W.
would have given it enough currency to go on
with. When Newfoundland emerged from its
fright it found that it had given Robert Gillespie
Reid the right to operate all its railways for 50
years, the right to buy the lines for a song at the
end of that time, the right to purchase the big
dry dock, the whole telegraph system, the street
tramvyays, the coastal steamship business, and
sundries; and had given him 4,500,000 acres of
land to boot. It was about the biggest joke of
the age, and Newfoundland hasn’t the ghost of
an idea yet why it did the awful and insane
deed. It hadn’t been drinking much either at
the time —except salt fish.
ON STRIKE AT FULL PAY.
Mr. Reid had the worst record for attendance at the
House of Reps, last session. —Daily papers.
Couldn't this strike he referred to Arbitration
The Oldest Inhabitant sends along a scrap
of history:—
Apropos early Melb. history (B. 28/5/’08). The following
will perhaps be of interestAt a meeting of the resi-
dents at Port Phillip, held on the first day of June, 1836
(present, John Batman, John Helder Wedge, John Pascoe
Fawkner, John C. Darke, John Wood, Frederic Taylor,
David R. Pitcairn, William Diprose, Thomas Roadknight,
W. G. Sams, John Aitken, Alexander Thompson, Joseph
Sutherland, William Roadknight, Janies Simpson, and
James McKillop), Mr. James Simpson was appointed
arbitrator, excepting in land cases, with power to appoint
two assistants. He was empowered to inflict any fine he
might deem fit. The subscribing parties bound them-
selves to hold the Arbitrator harmless in law. The resi-
dents not present were invited to come in and sign. They
bound themselves to report to the Arbitrator any out-
rages upon the blacks which might come under their
notice ; they pledged themselves not to teach the
blacks the use of firearms, nor to allow their ser-
vants to do so; the Arbitrator to collect all fines
and hold them until next meeting - of the settlers
on the first day of September next. Five shil-
lings a head was to be paid for native dogs. Also
Governor Bourke was asked to send down a resident
magistrate, and appoint from amongst the inhabitants
other gentlemen to assist him. This curious admixture
of law and dog-rewards was the first Constitution of what
is now the State of Victoria. It was signed by D. R.
Pitcairn, G. Mackillop, J. Wood, T. Roadknight, W. G.
G. Sams, John Aitken, William Roadknight, Fred Tay-
lor, Robert McLeod, Henry Batman, William Winbury,
Michel Lonnard, William Chapter (X his mark), B. G.
Hollins, A. Thomson, Jno. H. Wedge, John Pascoe
Fawkner, John Charles Darke, John Batman, William
Diprose, J. Sutherland, James Simpson, Edward Ferguson,
J. Solomon, Michael Carr, John Mvland, William Parker
(X his mark), William Davis (X his mark), James Gum,
William Buckley (X his mark), and David Thomas.
The population then was : males 84, females 12,
children 31 ; total 77. The several resolutions which
went to form the Constitution were proposed and
seconded by John Pascoe Fawkner, John Wood, J. C.
Darke, J. H. Wedge, A. Thomson, John Aitken, D. R.
Pitcairn, Batman, and Roadknight. The initials
of Batman and Roadknight are not given ; there were
two each of the name present. The original of this docu-
ment was found amongst the papers of Dr. A. Thompson
by Mr. Henry Creswick, who married the doctor's
daughter. This lady (Mrs. Creswick) is still living, agfed
80 years, or thereabout.
A RESPITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Dill Macky said he would not go to Rome nor see
the Pope. If he did, something might happen.—Sydney
Watch max (U/61'08).
Thanks, Dill, a thousand thanks ; Rome breathes again ;
Pius is, for the present, safe ; likewise the Vatican.
The tripper yet may view the mighty fane
Of M. A. Buonarotti’s church and St. John Lateran.
The Palace of the Quirinal, which rocked
To its foundations when the dark news-item sped to
Rome
That you were coming, may be now unlocked,
Letting the Swiss Guards get outside, and (in dire
dread) scoot for home.
The treasures that we’ve read about in books ;
The libraries, museums, and the mighty palaces
Are for a while safe from your sainted hooks—
Already Rome, relieved, unpacks her hidden chalices.
Joy crowns the Raphael-cartooned Sistine Church ;
The Torso and Apollo Belvidere smile, gay with paint
And colored bunting. Derry’s in the lurch :
Its Dill has been and softened at the Scarlet Lady’s
plaint.
N.S.W.
J.D.


The Men's Dining Room, British Australasian Tobacco Company's Factory, Sydney, Manufacturers of the famous highest
grade Natural Flavor Champion and Yankee Doodle Tobaccos. In a previous issue was given a photograph of the Girls'
Dining Hall, with some 270 girls at their midday meal. The above represents the midday meal for over 400 males.
The Kitchen and cooks are seen at the end of the picture.
817 Tons of Yankee Doodle Tobacco were smoked in the Commonwealth in the year 1907.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
T :NSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic .•-'ijrns. . . . Durability GuarantMd.
1 '"AT" 1 ' and UPHOLSTERING
on i.ie l icinises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
ALWAYS WEARY; CONSTANT HEAD-
ACHES; HEALTH BROKEN.
Sydney Woman Run Down from Blood-
lessness.
Appetite Vanished ; No Strength for Slight-
est Exertion ; On the Road to Consump-
tion ; No Interest in Anything ; Built up
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Anaemia, or a state of bloodlessness, from which
too many N.S.W. people suffer, usually starts with
a feeling of tiredness and listlessness. Then head-
aches and backaches, nervousness and indigestion
develop, and the whole health is wrecked. You
feel too weary to walk, too weak to work. You’re
languid, always longing for a lounge. What you
need is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People,
and you need them at once. They will brace you
up and give you new strength, energy and health
by making new blood for you. If you feel fagged
out, don’t take purgatives, they only weaken.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are not a purgative pill.
They don’t act on the bowels. They make new
blood. That is why they will give you health and
strength in place of that weak, weary, worn-out
feeling.
“I used to have a good constitution, but with
overwork I got run down,” said Mrs. dames
Mitchell, 63 Wellington Street, Sydney. “My
appetite began to fail. Pickles or lemons were
the only things I fancied. Meat and potatoes
I dare not touch. Between the shoulder blades I
always had a dull nagging pain. Nearly every
morning I woke with a dull heavy headache, just
over the eyes and everything would be hazy.
Often I’d have to stop in bed all day. I had no
color, my face looked waxy and my gums and lips
were pale. If I walked quickly my heart would
flutter. I was so utterly weak and weary that I
could hardly drag through the day, and how I
struggled through housework I don’t know, I was
so wretched. I got worse each day and was fairly
on the high road to consumption. I perspired
with the least effort. My knees and ankles were
greatly puffed. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, how-
ever, took all these symptoms away. Each box
did me a little more good. I took three puls a
day, and by the time I was on the fourth box I
was a changed being. My appetite returned and
I could eat my food without it disagreeing with
me. I could get through my day’s work and noi<
feel worn out at the end of it, and I began tp sleep
well each night. By the time I had finished the
last box the night sweats had ceased and-so had
the headaches. I firmly believe that Dd Williams
Pink Pills saved me from consumption.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all chemists
and storekeepers, or may be ordered by mail from
the Dr. Williams Medicine Co., Australasia Ltd.,
Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d. post
free. Write for hints as to diet. etc.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE OPEN DOOR.
Mr. Wade is going to ask the people to wake up and
help the States to fight the battle that is coming.
THE SIX STEPMOTHERS : “ Either you or us
leaves the ’Ouse.”
THE MISSUS : “All right — there's the door!”
A tribute from the other side :
Had anyone said 12 or 15 years ago that Australia
would give the huge sum of one and a half million a
year as pensions for her old people, he would have been
held up to ridicule, and thought by some insane. In the
early days of the movement the word “ impossible ” was
commonly used. The new Act passed by the Federal
Parliament last week is an answer to all objectors, and
is noble in its generosity and justice.—Rev. F. B. Boyce,
Freetrader and anti-Federalist, in Sydney Telegraph.
Even some of the hotbeds of bucolic
Toryism begin to see the folly of the State buying
big estates for Closer Settlement while there is no
graduated land tax to prevent new big estates
forming even faster than the old ones are broken
up. The Warracknabeal (Vic.) Agricultural and
Pastoral Society has just urged Bent to do some-
thing to prevent the accumulation of huge
properties, and has mentioned that, in the Beulah
district, farms that lately sustained over 40 souls
—say eight families—are now in the hands of
one man.
Another example of “the disastrous
effects of municipal trading,’’ about which N.S. W.
Premier Wade quoted Avebury alias Lubbock.
A Parliamentary return for 1906-7 shows that the
tramway undertakings of the various local autho-
rities throughout the United Kingdom, paid in
relief of rates out of profits £297,456, which was in
excess of the previous year by over £90,000. This,
of course, was “disastrous” to the dividend-
grabbers, but not to the ratepayers, who are also
of some account, though people of the Avebury-
Wade sort may not think so.
A true comic-opera touch in the struggle
between Abdul Aziz and Mulai Hafid for the
thorny throne of Morocco is the fact that each
warrior seems to be dependent for troops on the
other’s deserters.
It is surprising how few British war-
experts take the view of the local war-experts
(self-styled) anent Deakin’s defence proposals.
Here is the opinion of Plomer, a recognised
European authority, on the scheme which the
Sydney Telegraph’s “ expert ” bans. It is hewn
from the current issue of the United Service
Magazine
In showing their willingness to take a man’s part in the
protection of thei,r homes and in the endeavor to help to
maintain the great Empire to which we all belong, Aus-
tralians are setting a worthy example, not only to the
Mother country, but to the whole of the British Empire.
It is interesting to learn, in view of the
Braybrook disaster and the Canadian management
of the Victorian railways, that, at a large meeting
of English drivers and firemen, held at Crewe,a
resolution was passed suggesting that the recent
railway accident at Shrewsbury, by which 18
persons were killed, was due to the “adoption of
American methods of working the traffic, which
have greatly increased the strain imposed on the
employees.” Perhaps, too, Mr. Johnsing’s ideas
of running the N.S.W. railway may only be
second-hand American notions.
“ Oby” : The billet of Government Printer
is, in most of the States, about the stiddiest job
going. G. A. Vaughan, of Queensland, who quits
work after holding office for six years, is rather an
exception. As a rule, the Printer is a long-lived
man and,a stayer. He is well on in years when
he gets the job ; he stays in it a long time ; then
he retires and draws his pension for a long time.
N.S.W. had three Government Printers on pen-
sion at the same time, and except when the Esti-
mates came round, their existence was not remem-
bered. Most of the race begin as case-hands, and
travel slowly upwards, till at last they step into
the old boots of the retired patriarch on top.
Writing in the Fortnightly Review, Mr.
John Gretton, M.F., says, concerning the new
British Licensing Bill, that no such seizure of
property has been proposed in England since the
suppression of the monasteries and the con-
fiscation of their property in the days of
Henry VIII. He predicts “ruin to the
average brewery company and ruin to the
license-holders,” and holds that the measure
will increase the consumption of spirits. He
states that there are 2,000,000 people directly and
indirectly connected with the liquor trade, a very
great number of whom will be thrown out of em-
ployment, and the loss to revenue he estimates at
£38.500,000. A fine he-Cassandra is Gretton,
M.P.
In the matter of growling and grumbling,
the State Frighter hasn’t got it all his own way.
Wade’s Government stands in much the same re-
lation to the Newcastle shippers
as the Commonwealth Govern-
ment stands to Wade’s Govern-
ment ; and the Newcastle shippers
have come to the conclusion that
Wade’s State Government is about
the limit in the way of inefficiency.
Every little tinpot township has
local government, yet the affairs
of Newcastle Harbor are mis-
managed by three separate de-
partments, each pulling its own
way ; so, though the port has been
tinkered with for 50 years past,
the vessel that tries to navigate
the entrance in heavy southerly
or easterly weather is still liable
to add itself to the long list of
Newcastle wrecks. For years past
the local Chamber of Commerce
has been throwing scorn on the
divided control; it has pointed
out again and again where large
sums of money have been wasted ;
but the State Government goes on
refusing the request for a Harbor
Trust, or any other form of local
government, and continues mis-
managing the business of the port in the old way.
S. Aus. Parliament will not meet until
the end of July, when Price will be back in
Adelaide. By that date his Cabinet will be three
years old, and so will have put up a bigger record
than all but two of its predecessors. Jenkins
reigned for four years and Kingston for 6£ years.
There are no signs of trouble ahead of the Price
Cabinet, and the departure of little Roberts for
the Federal arena will give the Ministry much
joy. He had a dreadful habit of getting on Price’s
nerves, and rendering him excited and irritable.
Some British papers are beginning to
notice the Jap as he is. London Public Opinion
publishes an article from Graeme Williams, in the
course of which he says:—
Those who know the East agree that when England
made the Japanese alliance she committed the most
stupendous blunder of the age. She strengthened the
hands of a barbarous Asiatic race and sheltered it against
aggression in the crisis of its existence.
With England, therefore, must rest a heavy burden of
responsibility for the awful contest which must come
when Japan has roused her sleeping neighbors in the East.
It will be the final Crusade, the Christian West on its
defence against the horrors of heathen domination, and
England’s present ally will be England’s bitterest foe.
Bent proposes to have another try at re-
gulating the furniture-making and laundering
Chows in Victoria by enacting that they shall all
register themselves on a certain date, and that
thereafter no licenses shall be issued. But, of
course, the blunderer proposes to leave a hole
through which the cunning Ah Sin can crawl, by
providing that the Act is not to apply to Chows
who are British-born subjects. How the Law is to
prove that Ah Sin was not born in Queensland or
Hongkong, Bent' doesn’t say. Hongkong, in
particular, does a lively trade already in various
“fakes,’’ and if Bent’s proposal is adopted it will
be able to open up a trade in Chow birth certifi-
cates.
“ J.G.”. writes :
Melbourne Age has been throwing bricks at Premier
Bent for a good while past. Now it has abandoned
bricks and is pouring big rocks on him. Bent’s misdeeds
as M.L.A:, Speaker .and Premier are being exposed by
means of special articles. The attack upon Bent is to a
great extent justified. But it is not forgotten that the
Age suppressed Thomas on more than one occasion, and
then picked him up again, brushed the dust off him, and
said he wasn’t too bad after all, and told the country to
support him. It whooped for Bent during the railway
strike, and moved Heaven and earth to get him and his
party back into power on the occasion of the last general
elections. Yet, when lawyer Moule won the Brighton
election, about a dozen years ago, the Age shrieked for
joy, and the Leader (Syme’s weekly) came out with a
cartoon, in which Bent was decorated with a pair of big
donkey’s ears, and a lovely woman (Brighton) was looking
at him, and quoting Shakspeare :
Methinks I was enamored of an ass.
Ah, how mine eyes do loth his visage now.
The only reason why Bent isn’t likely to get the Age sup-
port again is that he is an old and visibly failing man,
and will most likely be off the political stage before the
big paper has time to change its mind.
The Higher Life of the Liberal party in
Maoriland seemed to culminate in Ballance. His
ideas were at first put in force and then slowly
departed from by Seddon. Now Joseph Ward is
slowly but surely leading the party back to a
policy of unadulterated roads and bridges. He
also endeavors to repudiate Socialism, and will
probably soon alienate the really democratic
elements of the party. Then it and the fatter
section will part, even as the Unionists parted
from Gladstone.
STATE RIGHTS AND BOUNDARY MARKS.
AUSTRALIA: “ Let's get them out before they
become indelible!"
An admirable feature of the Australian
Old-Age Pensions Act is that, under its humane
provisions, the 10s. each, payable to old people,
will not be reduced where a husband and wife are
living together. Under the N.S.W. Act there is
a cruel provision that Darby and Joan have their
joint pensions reduced from 20s. to 17s. fid.
because they are able to get along in the same
house. The husband and wife who are separated,
owing to drinky tendencies or cruelty, get the full
205., while Darby and Joan are fined £6 10s. per
annum for being respectable. This restoration to
Darby and Joan was due to the insistence of the
Labor Party—the party which the Deformers
declare is aiming at the abolition of the home and
the dissolution of the marriage tie.
The recent flag-flapping visitation was the
business in hand at the Ballarat Council, and
various Bumbles were preening themselves on
their loyalty, and preparing to bellow about the
Hempiah, when Councillor McNeil put his spoke
in :
Isn’t it time we dropped this twaddle about being
patriotic? What gets over me is that, while we hear so
much flapdoodle about patriotism, we would just as soon
take John Bull down with cronk mining speculations as
we would the foreigner.
At the words “ cronk mining speculations,” the
speaker fixed a cold, discerning eye on some of
the most blatant blatherers about the blessed flag,
and, though they nearly burst, they had, sense
enough to sit still and say nothing with great
energy.
There is still a lamentable gap in Britain’s
thin red line. Something like 200,000 men are
wanted and badly wanted —to fill up the
numerous blank spaces in the Territorial Army,
and to make the scarlet streak continuous. At
present it isn’t much more than a scheme of red
dots. When the volunteer regiments were dis-
banded the War Office entertained hopes that the
great bulk of the members would enlist themselves
in the Territorial Army, but, contrary to expecta-
tions, the disgusted volunteers hung up their
weapons along with their uniforms, and the
scheme slumped even like unto the fall of the
Republic of Iceland. Now Bull’s rifle is mostly
lying on the floor waiting for someone to hold it
up, and Bull is scratching at his head and trying
to think of something else besides compulsory
military training.
THE HOUSE
REPS.
LENGTH OF SESSION 142 DAYS
REIP'S ATTENDANCE 69 DAYS
UNEARNED MONEY.
The House of Representatives last session sat 142 days.
Mr. G. H. Reid was absent 73 days.
LITTLE BOY: "Come, George, admit now that if's
going a little too strong."
Now that the N.S.W. North Coast railway
is a certainty, the buying and selling of land in the
districts to be served by the line has developed
into a crazy gamble. Two firms of auctioneers
haye reported sales aggregating over six figures
each since March 1, and the prices quoted are as
much as 300 per cent, higher than before the
passage of the Railway Bill. The enhanced value
is, of course, due to the fact that the State is
about to expend £3,000,000 on making the line,
and, according to the doctrine of Private Enter-
prise, the State is to get none of the increased
value. There is not even a State land-tax to
touch the big estates. The poor little shire tax is
fixed for three years at least on the old values,
and, by the time the higher value is rated, the
men who have pocketed the increase will, in many
cases, have got out without reimbursing the State
one penny.
A sidelight was thrown on the fighting
value of the Australian Squadron by the an
nouncement that no less than five of its cruisers
are to be thrown on the scrap heap next year
the condemned rattle-traps are the Cambrian’
Pegasus, Pioneer, Pyramus, and Psyche. The
whole squadron consists of ten ships, and half of
them are admittedly dead to the world as fightins?
machines. Probably the others are half dead. 8
Prime Minister Deakin has promised for
next session a standing order to squelch that un-
utterable nuisance and blatant time-waster, the
questioner “without notice.” The pest’ has
developed beyond bearing in the House of
Reps. There are half-a-score of big national
subjects that Australia is waiting for its
Parliament to deal whth, but under present
conditions these subjects have to stand
aside _ while foolish persons waste hours
reading columns of extract from the
Wattle Flat Banner concerning
the Origin of Tailless Serpents in
Algeria, or something equally rele-
vant ; and then ask the Govern-
ment what it thinks of that , and
whether it is going to take any
action in the matter. And mean-
while the Tory press, which enthu-
siastically aids and abets these
nuisances, sarcastically inquires
when the Government is going to
get along with the Northern Terri-
tory Bill, and the Defence Bill, and
other big things. Also, the Tory press
jeeringly remarks that the Government is
“ marking time.”
Sydney Telegraph, which has for years
girded at the Labor Party for its alleged lack of
independence, and denounced it as a body bound
hand and foot by caucuses and outside leagues,
has propounded a startling view of the duty of the
Australian Senate. Hitherto, the Senate of Aus-
tralia has regarded itself as a co-ordinate portion
of the Australian Parliament, but it seems this is
all a mistake. According to the latest Telegraph
revelation, the Senate is merely a joint in the tail
of the aggregate State Insect. The duty of the
Senate is to protect the States against the aggres-
sion of Australia, and the State Premiers are to
dictate to the Senate what it shall do and how it
shall do it. So far, only one Senator has spoken
of this view, that the Senate should be the tool
and creature of Gregory Wade, Jacky Evans,
Newton Moore and eo. And that one is Emma
Jane Pulsford, who rushed into print to explain
that he had not been neglecting the instructions of
Wade and his push of State insects. But the
Telegraph refused to be mollified, and the
general idea is that Emma Jane is now in hiding.
Writes “ Cashbook Junior ” :
The Macintosh-Dun case has been decided by the Privy
Council on, as far as can be judged, precisely the same
legal principles as those propounded by Justice Windeyer
during the hearing of the similar Foley-Hall case in Syd-
ney in 1891. Windeyer delivered a little lecture in sup-
port of his opinion, and mercantile Sydney of the day
was as much perturbed over it as now over the P.C.
decision. The decision of N.S.W. Supreme Court and of
the High Court made rags of Windeyer’s opinion,
but both in the abstract and concrete a great
deal can be said for it. Why should a man or a combina-
tion of men be privileged to hawk around reports deroga-
tory to a trader’s or other’s financial resources? Such
firms occupy no official position in the State. They are
not officers of Court or of Parliament, approved after
investigation into their competence and honesty. They
are just Tom, or Dick, or Harry, or the three combined,
and may be incompetent or dishonest, or both. They
may even be blackmailers. A shaky trader who tips may
profit by their reports, and a substantial one who doesn’t
tip may be disadvantaged. As long as the results of their
nosing about are kept secret, the unjustly affected party
has, of course, no more means of obtaining satisfaction
than he has against any other unfindable enemy ; but if
the report leaks out, and he can trace it, his title to satis-
faction should certainly be acknowledged. The complica-
tions of mercantile affairs are many, and credit systems
are honeycombed with dishonesty ; but if spies or credit-
testers are to be employed, the persons in that line of
business should themselves bear a Court sanction or Par-
liamentary approval. That they are Tom, Dick, or Harry,
or all of them, is no guarantee that they will not abuse
their immunity, if the country is so foolish as to grant
them immunity.
INGRATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Old-Age Pensions scheme for the British Isles
means the annual expenditure of £36,000,000, and this
would involve fresh taxation. Naturally it is strongly
deprecated by the well-to-do classes, who are quite satis-
fied with the existing charitable organisations and their
method of providing relief.— London Weekly.
Base ingrate, think of all that we have done for you ;
We’ve fed you—fed your body and your soul;
Scarcely a week you haven’t had a meal or two,
And once a month you’ve had his lordship’s dole ;
My Lady Bountiful is very kind indeed ;
She daintily supplies you with a tract;
Yet now (O, shame !) they tell me that you think you
need
Assistance through an Old-Age Pensions Act!
You seem to think you really have a right to live,
When it’s by a lordly suff’rance you exist ;
To your betters humble thanks you truly ought to give
That they keep you on an Aged Pauper list:
For you are kept alive by some of us, you know—
There’s the Poorhouse, and the Mission, and the Gaol ;
You’ve always got some place whereunto you can go.
Now of course you’ve put yourselves beyond the pale.
It’s grateful, that it is, you truly ought to be
To the comfortable folk, and well-to-do,
Who are often quite attentive to your humble plea,
.And who now and then provide a meal for you.
You should have saved some cash against the rainy day—
For happy age have laid a trifle by—
You had twelve-and-six a week when times were fresh
and gay,
And only seven children to supply !
But this—O, shameless ingrate ! Never have we heard
Such base, ungrateful, insolent demands ;
Why, it is altogether wicked and absurd,
When you’ve had such kindly treatment at our hands.
Go, touch your hat unto his Lordship and repent;
Be thankful for the Poorhouse and a tract;
For it’s certain that we shall most righteously dissent
From the impost of an Old-Age Pensions Act.
vic.
O. G. A. OOLLES.


The CHAMPION Boot
for wear <a PRICE.
Made in
Australia.
Also in
Three Other
Shapes,
Same Price.
No. 10»*~
All Sizes
and Fittings.
Shall we
send you a
Pair?
Posted
15/3
STAG’S
HEAD .
BRAND
of . .
BOOTS
(As illustrated.)
In
Box Calf,
1416
BucKley & Nunn
LIMITED,
300-310 Bourße Street, Melbourne.
This Elastic Truss
mL
Elastic
Truss
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
When Mosquitoes annoy you ;
remember how useful, either for pre- <
venting the attack of these and other |
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their (
bites, so many people have found i
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for ,
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard <
against infectious diseases. '
Sold by all Chemists and Stores. i
Made by F, C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.j
ASTHMACURE
ERINIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all ChemiMs.
SSffl
v
For
Home
and
Platform
Complete
with
Full
Instruc-
tions
SIMPLE TRICKS
■BMBWima gTOIIII’TNUMIMUJJH.I.WM
498—Barber's Pol*. A 3ft. pole pro-
duced Irom the mouth 1/-
499 — Mahatma Changing Cards. With
which several changes of spots can be
made, 1/-
503 — An Easy Production of silk from
a lighted candle, 1/9
508 — Flowers of Enchantment. An
empty cone of paper is displayed, but,
on shaking it a shower of beautiful
flowers emerge lu/-
511— Tumbler and Half-a-Crown The
coin vanishes from a glass of water and
penetrates a table 2 6
516— Biseaute Cards. Pack can be ad-
apted to any trick, requires no skill, 2/9
5(7 — Electrical Cards. Can be laid
along your arm in effortless style, 4/9
520 — Great In ian back Tries 13/-
522 —Enchanted Rising Cards. Will
rise at your command after being
selected by the audience 5/3
524— Swallowing Wand. Xne per-
former can cause anyone to swallow
it in full view of the audience, ... 5/3
526 —t he Enchanted Glass Casset.
A handsome glass casket is displayed
empty. The performer can command
two large balls to appear in it m-
stantly 7/6
52d— Eggs Produced. A bag irom
which a quantity of eggs is produced
after being exhioited empty, ... 5 -
531 Bran and sweets—A glass of bran
turns to lollies. Good for Kiddies, 2 6
532 — Handkerchief Dyed by passing
them through a paper tube, ... lu<6
Bd Dottle. A selected caru
appears on a borrowed bottle, ... 7/9
539 — Billiard Ball and Silk. A piece
01 silk examined slowly changes to a
billiard ball, _. ... 2/9
Postige included. Send for Catalogue
Above List of Sim pie Tricks pos ed, '/j , 0
A Complete Show. Send money oraer.
POSTAL ADDRESS :
The mahatma company
108 queen street
MELBOURNE
rHIM T
: A
'D.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, 10d. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
P. & B. PAINT
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not ;
If it is not true, speak it not.” —Marcus Aurelius.
From an electrical point of view there is no more valuable paint than
P. & B. for insulating electric wires, connections, dynamos, motor bases,
battery and accumulator shelving, circuit and switch boards. It prevents
grounding and short circuiting, while danger from fire is rendered impossible.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
OLmZ
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO. G. A. GARDINER. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY & CO. SORB Y & CO., Newcastle. F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE GEM OF MONARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil is equally
rich—growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptionally EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
Further information may be obtained from the Secretary, Mount Cooper Estate, Ltd., Mutual Life
Building's, Pitt Street and Martin Place, Sydney; H. A. Merewether, Mutual Life Buildings, Martin Place,
Sydney; The Manager, Mount Cooper Estate, Holt’s Flat, N.S.W. ;or The New Zealand Loan and
Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Ideal Winter Holiday Resort
Hydro Majestic Mediow Bath
AN ELECTRICALLY-LIGHTED AND STEAM-HEATED PALACE
situated upon the most imposing outlook on the
BLUE MOUNTAINS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Now’s the Time for the Rest Cure and the full enjoyment of a quiet Holiday.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
1 29 Katoomba.
For Details apply —
City Office, 38 Castlereagh Street.
A CURED WOMAN
Relates her Intense Sufferings—how Doctors
Failed to do her any Good. She Finally Tried
Clements Tonic
Which Makes Permanent Cure.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Here is a narrative which will assuredly put many a reader on the right track—supplied to us by
Mrs. Annie Young, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt. It was at Mrs. Young’s present address, where
she has been living for the past eleven years, that our special correspondent was granted the inter-
view which appears hereunder :
“It is thirteen years since I had the illness you refer to. Jt doesn t seem half so long ago, for
everything is as fresh in my memory as though it was only yesterday.”
“Were you experiencing any physical pain ? ”
“Oh ! don’t talk about it. Have you ever had neuralgia in the head ? I hope not, for it was
something dreadful. Right across the forehead, through from one temple to the other, and up to the
top of my head, the most acute pain imaginable harassed me. The agony was so great that often I
imagined something was pressing on my brain, and I really used to think I would go mad with it.
It had such an effect on me, indeed, that even my sight went bad, and, as for the feeling in my eyes
—well, they felt as if they were double the size they should have been. Ah ! what desolate, melan-
choly days they were ! I’m sure I felt myself to be about the most unhappy woman in the world,
and I think I had occasion to be, in view of the fact that the outlook was so black,”
“Do you mean that your prospects of getting strong again seemed remote?”
“They did, indeed, for I had been attended to by several doctors, and the most they could do for
me was to give just a little relief now and then ; but there was nothing lasting about it, and if I felt a
trifle better one day, I was sure to feel ten times worse the next, and the medicine, besides being so
ineffective, was always disagreeable to take. A strange thing was that I felt always so worn-out,
drowsy and exhausted—as if I was only fit to go somewhere and lie down and die—yet, when I made
an effort to sleep, do you think I could ? Not a bit of it. I’d twist and turn nearly the whole night
through, and when at last I dosed off the dreams I had were fearful.”
“ And you couldn’t get permanent relief from these symptoms through the medicine prescribed
for you ? ” . .
“ No, unfortunately. But finally I got something to do me good. Clements Tonic it was, and
the best'remedy I ever had in my life, too. Goodness, what a, show it made of everything
else I had taken, for instead of only easing me a little occasionally, it went right to the base of my
infirmities, and lifted them out by the roots ! In addition to what I have already told you, 1 must
state that I was highly nervous—nobody could be more so, for I was actually afraid to stay in my own
house by myself, and was continually worrying myself about things that I imagined were going to
happen. Trouble was always hanging over me, and I couldn’t get the idea out of my head—not until
I had been taking Clements Tonic for a space of time, when, quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding
over such silly things, and my mind became as happy as the day. Oh ! it was wonderful what an
altered woman Clements Tonic made me. Instead of being anxious and timid all day, I got as happy
and cheerful as possible—nothing frightened me, and my nerves were steady. It is because I know
so many nervous women that I deem it my duty to say what a splendid remedy Clements Tonic is for
that complaint, though, for that matter, it was equally beneficial to me in other Ways. I used to get
pains down the small of my back and about my shoulders, also palpitation and pains in the region of
my heart, which made me think that something very serious was wrong with me there; but Clements
Tonic showed itself.to be such a pain-removing medium that I can faithfully recommend it to all
sufferers. Its regulating influences on the heart were extraordinary, and for making one’s sleep sound
and peaceful the same remedy was the only one to meet with my requirements. I wish I had used : it
months'before, for plenty of people told me what a grand medicine Clements Tonic was. The least I
can do is to assist my neighbors to throw off their afflictions, so you may publish my experiences in
any manner you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION. .. .
I ANNIE YOUNG, of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a ’true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my toil permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiouslv believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act 1900. (Sgd.) ANNIE YOUNG.
Subscribed and declared at Petersham this fifth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me E’ANS, J.P.
As soon as the Australian Parliament had
passed the Old-Age Pensions Act, Prime Minister
Deakin did the usual graceful thing by wiring his
congratulations to J. H. Howe, of Adelaide.
Howe, who isn’t in the Australian Parliament,
was a member of the Federal Convention, and,
though at the meetings in Adelaide he battled to
have “ invalid and old-age pensions ” added to the
subjects which the Commonwealth might deal
with, it wasn’t till the final session in Melbourne
that he got the Convention to agree. Howe
represented Port Pirie in the S. Aus. Parliament,
and Port Pirie, where the Broken Hill cos. do
their smelting, is a suburb of N. S. Wales, and
between the two places men pass and re-pass.
Howe knew that, under a State pension system,
these men could never qualify ; so he made Com-
monwealth pensions the strong plank of his plat-
form—and won, as the persistent man generally
does.


DRINK
Charles Heidsieck
VINTACE 1900
Champagne.
THE VERY BEST.
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricola”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Girls, why be plain ? You can, if you choose,
always be radiant and charming, even if your features
are irregular and indifferent. But your complexion must
be perfect, then people will turn to look again. Valaze
creates beauty and preserves it. Valaze perfects the good
skin, purifies the bad skin, and beautifies all skins.
Pimples, wrinkles, freckles, and all blemishes disappear
under the spell of Valaze; 6s. 6d,, 3s. 6d., and 6d.
postage. For removing superfluous hairs there is nothing
like the Novena Hair Destroyer. It removes the hairs
without any detriment to the skin, and after application
'eaves a delightfully cool sensation ; 6s. 6d., 6d. postage.
All chemists, or direct from Helena Rubinstein and Co.j
Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street, Sydney; 274
Collins-street, Melbourne ; 9 Brandon-street, Wellington,
N.Z.* [1
Thus an Englishman in London :
When I was in Japan, a few months ago, although I had
been there but a year before, I found a great change had
arisen among the natives. They are now distinctly rude in
their manners towards our people, and I believe, although
it never happened to me, that white people have been
deliberately swept off the pavements into the gutters by
them. As for justice in their law courts, it is absurd to
think of any ; they do not say they won’t help you, but
will constantly put you off until you are weary, and have
spent more money than your case may be worth. The
Japanese make promises only to break them.
Their people work long hours for the merest pittance,
and this enables our blessed “ally” to dump his goods
free of duty into the numerous Japanese receiving- depfits
now firmly established throughout Great Britain. The
British workman sees as plain as daylight that, unless a
peremptory halt is demanded, Japanese “ dumping ” will
soon “ dump ” the demand for his labor on one side.
I think, from whatever point one views the alliance, the
time is not long distant ere England will rue the day she
took on the Jap.
mm
mmmwv
wf
r i
I’m tlie Robur Tea Girl.
There’s nothing nicer or
better for you than a cup of
Robur Tea—make it fresh —
put milk or cream in it (and
sugar, if you like it sweetened),
and it forms a beverage fit for
the Queen to drink.
Robur is pure tea—you
can drink it every day, and
many times a day, without
fear of its doing you harm—
but please don’t let it draw
too long or you’ll spoil it.
The No. 1 Grade is tea
that you will like —it is
delicious.
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King: and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE.”
SEMPER IDEM
FA CILE PRINCEPS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 16, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
Her Excellency Northcote had regard to all her
guests when she arranged the programme for the
concert of Chamber Music on Wednesday after-
noon. She had sympathy with those who wanted
first-rate music, and compassion on others who
must look as if they liked it. The programme
satisfied the lovers of the classical, and was tuneful
enough not to be dry for the unlearned. The
older school was represented by the Mozart
Quintette, but otherwise the programme was of
the best modern classical rank. The Reis Adagio,
played by Staell, delighted everyone. For,
although Reis can hardly be called a modern
classic, he is in the front rank in this work. But
it was the Brahms Liebeslieder that took most of
the listeners by the heartstrings. Btahms is one
of the few first-rank composers who know how to
be great without being a great African desert.
The Sextette of Dvorak was another treat. This
was the first time your Akenehi had heard it in
Sydney. The fine combination of strings gave
splendid tone effects, and it would be welcome at
another (public) concert. In the Svensdon
Romance one welcomed a much-heard old friend
beautifully interpreted.
Some 200 guests lent their side flaps and heark-
ened in rapt or respectful silence. The majority of
them were those on the Balls people
who tear a bit of food with their Excellencies at
dinner (“Won’t you tear a bit of food with
me at the Savoy?” asks a cheerful idiot in
“The Prince of Pilsen ’). But there were
others—persons to whom music is as the breath
of their nostrils, and of whose existence Lady
Northcote has become aware through a species
of sympathetic and selective inspiration. The
programme Was parted in the middle and
hyphened with refreshments. The most pictu-
resque table was a round one, circled by the Car-
dinal and the G. H. Reids. The distinguished-
looking spiritual potentate in red robes gazed at
a dry biscuit and talked to Mrs. Reid, whose
crocus hair gained by the proximity of the scarlet
gown. Yes-No fell upon his strawberries and
cream with vigor, and every now and then jerked
a remark at the red Eminence. Admiring
onlookers thought of G.H.R.’s famous Anti-Sosh
campaign, when the Cardinal took the popular
side, and replied with the well-aimed brick of
controversy and the waddy of disputation.
Mrs. Olive Willie Morrell Kelly was a vision of
Spring in Winter. Sne wore a big white trailing
cloth frock, ahd An all green hat, mostly quivering
feathers—an unobtrusive green as of grass seen
through a fog. A daughter of the Ministerial
Moores and a lamb of Senator Walker’s were
amongst the small quantity of youthful
beauty present. The Walker damsel, a cousin
of Miss Eadith Walker, recently back from school
in foreign parts, was an all-pink rofeebud, and had
the (allegedly) new ruffle of tulle collaring her
throat.
The future son-in-law of High Court Judge
Barton is Mr. David Maughan. Mr. Maughan is
a rising Equity barrister. The Equity side does
not supply much limelight; there is little oppor-
tunity in its chill and reasonable atmosphere for
passionate oratory, or such wit as the newspaper
reporter loves to chronicle. But there is money
in it. In fact, the maiden who is determined
willy-nilly to risk a barrister-husband can’t well
do better than go to Mr. A. H. Simpson’s court
for the goods. In addition to other advan-
tages, the Equity expert is always low and
silky as to voice and manner. No one
ever speaks above a whisper in Equity.
Mr. Maughan appears in the High Court
sometimes, and his persuasive ways and points
and objections and things are much appreciated
in that august tribunal.
The young, and other, female of Sydney will
have a chance to learn to ride. Not to ride
as Centennial Park frequenters understand it
(a Centennial Park ride consists in mounting an
ornate riding costume, and a steed of the temper
and habits of a clothes-horse, and continuing with
some eligible young man the conversation that
was begun the previous night after dinner in the
garden); but to ride in the correct or sporting
acceptation of the term. Mrs. Stace, Australia’s
champion horsewoman, is starting a riding-class.
Experts hold that what this lady doesn’t know
about horse-handling isn’t worth alluding to; in
fact it could be dropped into Mr. Wade’s
brimming cup of bitterness without causing any
overflow ; and she has a deft knack of imparting
her knowledge. There is but one riding qualifica-
tion Mrs. Stace can’t pass on to her pupils, and
that is her peerless nerve.
The W. H. Kelly pair have settled down in
Sydney for a four months’ stay. They may take
a house and make their headquarters in the
State whose woe and misery Mr. Kelly is
wont to insist on in Melbourne with such moving
pathos. On the other hand, they mayn’t; it
will depend muchly on how the climate, the people
and so forth appeal to the lady. Off-stage, she
strikes one as a good deal more fascinating a
young woman than she did on. She dresses well,
and has a graceful figure and manner.
Mr. Edward Arden, who died in Sydney last
week, had Australian ties. He married, ten years
ago, a daughter of N.S.W.’s one time Chief-
Justice James Martin. The lady died after a few
years of wedded life, leaving two little boys. The
children, who will be rather more than well-to-do
some day (the founder of the Arden fortunes was
a millionaire London solicitor, and most of the
cash is still in the family), are living in England
with an aunt.
That plucky-as-they-make-’em big-game hunter,
Ackland, of Maoriland, is in Sydney, and at the
Australia. Lately, in India, he would a-hunting
go, and got into a little difficulty with an angry,
hungry tiger. I forget the particulars—there was
thrill enough in them—but tiger, tiger, burning
bright got the Maorilander down, chewed one
arm badly, and was dragging away its prey to
its home in the forest of the night, when a fellow
and divers bullets came between the Great Cat
and its strictly dishonorable intention. Mr. Ack-
land’s mangled arm had to be removed, but it is
some satisfaction that the whole of the tiger was
removed first.
A most waltzable waltz comes from Nicholson’s.
It is “The Warrendine,” by Harry J. Brooke,
decorated with a picture of a homestead —the
picture suggests a Kalgoorlie homestead. The
Warrendine is being played at Sydney dances,
and keeps the dancers on the waxed floor as long
as any sweet waltz music may. Paling’s have
taken over the right of “Femina,”one of Fred
Lablache’s waltz creations.
From a Sydneyside lady in Paris : “ At Long-
champs, on Sunday afternoon, four beautifully-
apparelled ladies walked through the crowd to the
accompaniment of loud hissing and cat-calls. They
looked quite respectable, save that one in grey
wore a flesh-colored silk tightly-fitting petticoat
under her slashed skirt. They were evidently
ad vertising at somewhat extreme pitch the latest
fashions, but to the exasperation ,of the dress-
makers the Parisiennes won’t wear the dress-
makers’ ideal of the latest fashions. The adver-
tisers were very pretty, and had good figures.
They ultimately fled at the request of the
management, and in the centre of something ap-
proaching a riot.” A Paris paper describes the 1
frock that shocked :
The gowns fitted them as though their bodies had been
sheathed in silk scabbards. There was a, longish train
behind, and the drapery was held in place over the hips
by-.an embroidered buckle. On the left side the gown
was slit from the hem right up to the hip, but the slit
was held together by large embroidered buttons as far
down as the knee, below which it was allowed to flow
open. This dress is peculiar, inasmuch as it must be
worn without either petticoats or a corset, but over a
sort of silk combination stiffened with whalebones.
Mrs. Jack Scantlebury—who will be better
remembered by Australasians as Miss Josephine
Deakin, a charming operatic and concert singer—
intends to start teaching at Paling’s. In a recent
stay of several years in London and Paris, she
took up her musical studies again, and worked at
voice-production with Randegger d’Hardelot and
Minna Fischer—and is thus well qualified to in-
struct the rising voice. Mrs. Scantlebury created
the part in Australia of Mabel in “The Pirates
of Penzance,” and till she left for Europe hers
was a favorite voice at the Philharmonic.
George Titheradge is about Sydney, thinner
and grey, but surprisingly little altered. He did
George-street with a daffodil in his buttonhole ;
so he is faithful to his floral love.
A knowledgable correspondent writes me that
the Mr. Walter Callan who is to be Lord
Dudley’s Private Secretary is an Irishman. He
whirroos (a genuine Celt never merely “ hails ”)
from Ardee, in the county of Louth, and is
described as a member of (hideous phrase!) “a
respectable county family.” A relative, Michael
Callan, practises medicine in the town of Ardee,
and is physician to the local Union, or poorhouse.
Mr. Callan was “additional Private Secretary”
for Australia’s next Governor-General at Dublin
in 1903, and there won much commendation.
Women seem to find the Immigration League
the least boring of the political movements of the
hour. For one reason, the League’s objectives
are of immense importance to women, and the
earnestness and simplicity of its methods appeal
to them as much as an infant crying in the night.
Just at this spot, I reflect that that last sentence
might be read in the wrong way—it must not be
read in the Tennysonian sense. Tennyson’s
infant that cried in the night had no language
but a cry. When Dr. Arthur, Dr. Cullen (how
does that man keep his hair up to beauty-contest
standard ?), and Mr. Wilshire spoke at the meet-
ing on Wednesday night, it wasn’t with aery, but
with a generous vocabulary freighted with vigor-
ous reasons why our continuance as a nation is
dependent on a few more million people coming
into this One-Fourth of the British possessions.
And if we fail to use the immigration drag-net
successfully, we’d do the crying by-and-bye. The
speakers pretty well promised us so much.
Dr. Arthur told how and by what means the
League advertises this great but largely unpeopled
country. Its methods include masses of informa-
tive literature dumped on board outgoing liners,
letters to thousands of well-known persons in
London and elsewhere, letters to Australians
abroad asking them to say something better than
“ Haw ” and “ Rah-ly ” on behalf of their country,
and scores of articles written bv the main Leaguers
and printed in British newspapers as advts.
The most fiery speaker was Mr. Wilshire, whose
grandfather immigrated here “108 years ago.”
He (the speaker) was born in Pitt-street—“ yes,
not far from here.” He didn’t say when the
event happened, but, judging by his vigor, it
couldn’t be further back than 1880.
Mrs. Arthur, in a back satin charmeuse and a
diplomatic smile, hostessed the visitors (who pos-
sibly will be made water-carriers by the Japs
later on), and a handsome youth with daffodil hair
and an evening suit, who is hon. sec. of the
League, saw to it that the stranger got friendly
with a cup of coffee on a table holding a potted
palm. Also, Miss Geraldine Rivers came as a
song-sandwich between the speeches.
Letters (postmarked “Paris”) from Mrs.
Lachlan Beaton and Miss Ruby Adams show
them to be settled in a delightful little flat on a
sunny corner about three minutes’ rush from the
Champs Elysees. Chestnut trees are in flower,
and piles of lilacs, violets and roses threaten to
overbalance on little handcarts in the streets.
The world seems to have gone a-Maying (which
is the same thing as Novembering here), and
Paris to be the lieavenliest part of earth.
It’s like a Swinburne song in season! The
Sydneysiders looked in at the Salon, and
found (Jeorge Lambert’s group of two women and
two children to be the most-talked-of picture. The
coloring is beautiful in its glow and tenderness.
Veering from flowers and pictures to frocks, the
Parisiennes are wearing enormously big black-
and-white checks on their skirts and plain black
cut-away coats. Hats are enormous almost
reminiscent of the cart-wheel Nellie Stewart used
to wear in “ Sweet Nell of Old Drury.” The price
of these hats is appalling. Dresses at the races
were lovely, and the lack of petticoat or under-
skirt was obvious. A corset and frilled etc. com-
prised the whole lot. The women look like the
new hatpins—absolutely straight and thin, with
top-heavy hats. Rejane, the great actress, drives
a low cab drawn by a pair of superb mules. Her
face is so painted that it looks like a mask.
Some of the dresses designed and destined for
the Franco-Britannic Exhibition in London were
amongst the most beautiful things of their kind
the Sydneysiders encountered in Paris. One was
a deep wall-flower brown, shading off to cream
through all the lovely golden tints, with lace and
every delicate detail dyed to harmonise. Another
seemedTo dream in the most delicate gradations,
from smoke-grey to white. Hats and shoes to be
worn with these gowns are shown in company
with them. As for motors —there are millions of
them going day and night in Paris!, and steadily
decreasing the Parisian population. A person or
two is killed every day in the Champs Elysees
alone, where the motors are specially virulent.
The joyous pilgrims are especially joyous about
Marchesi. They had not to wait long to see her,
as they had booked an appointment, and they
found some 50 or so girls waiting for her to pro-
nounce judgment on their voices. Marchesi, after
hearing Miss kissed her, and told
her she had a beautiful voice, much talent,
and lots to learn. Also that she (madame) would
be delighted to take her as a pupil. Madame’s
question, “What is Australia like?’’must have
taxed the visitors’ capacity for condensation. A
hurried demand for the history of the world in
ten minutes wouldn’t have been more sudden.
The wonderful old lady is very tall, very thin, and
must have been awfully good-looking in her day.
She raves about Melba, who went direct to Paris
to see her before going to England on her trip
from this continent. Miss Adams is now working
hard in the Marchesi Song Factory.
Maoriland Government has opened a State
Registry Office, where the harassed matron may
woo her Mary Ann. About the only business the
State hasn’t now taken up in M.L. and made
a howling success of is undertaking; and the
marriage-tie doesn’t seem to be rent asunder worth
a cent.
Two Sydney mansions of the blest, tenanted
for some months only by caretakers and some
spiders, have secured incomers. Senator J. T.
Walker and his family, lately returned from
Europe, have gone into Wallaroy, the Mitchell’s
house in Edgecliff-road ; and Mr. Owen Cox has
taken Fairhaven, Mr. Walter Hall’s place at Potts
Point.
Every room at the Australia was “ bespoke ”
by wire for August as soon as it was known that
the Fleet would be in Sydney waters for a week
of that month. The hotel is putting in seven
electric lifts instead of those now in use, and is
wiring thousands of lights. Agents who deal in
furnished houses are having a busy time. One
who had 70 premises on his books has. had them
all taken for the whole or part of the Fleet month.
Persons who make deep calculations of coming
events reckon that Sydney will, “at the lowest
estimate,” have to accommodate 200,000 visitors
irrespective of the Fleeting lot.
Percy Grainger, who returns with Crossley in
September, writes of his joy at coming back “ to
his own country and his own beloved people.”
Also he records somewhat of the enthusiasm with
which he has thrown himself into the work of
collecting- folk songs from the lips of folk singers.
He is the first to record these melodies with the
phonograph. It permits of a hitherto impossible
scientific accuracy. “ The art of the folk song,”
he writes, “is entirely different from anything
Continental, and the scales in which the songs
are cast point to them being many centuries old.
Staying at Lady Elcho’s place in Gloucestershire,
the other day, 1 got a haul of forty-eight tunes in
two days. Mr. Arthur Balfour, the ex-Prime
Minister, who was a fellow-guest, lent me his
motor, so the tunes were canned in the phono-
graph with speed and ease. Sargent, the great
painter, and ‘War of the Worlds’ Wells, who
were also amongst the stayers, were most in-
terested. Another sheaf of sea songs (chanties)
I’ve collected from deep-sea sailors. The creative
individuality and richness that teems in all this
English-speaking traditional music ishuge—and
so thought my dear friend Grieg.
“ I am busy studying Gaelic so as to be able to
collect in the Scotch Highlands as well as in the
Celtic-speaking parts of Ireland. Only one regret
is mine in. connection with the Ada tour: I was
recently engaged to play some of his own music
by Gabriel Faure, the great modern French com-
poser, whose art I have long adored, and I was to
have appeared with him in November at Man-
chester at a big concert in his honor ; but of
course I shall be by then under the Southern
Cross.”
To-day (Tuesday) at St. Vincent’s Hospital,
the Mother Rectress will be presented with a
cheque, the result of the late ball on behalf of the
hospttal. The Community always makes a pretty
little ceremony of this job. There are speeches,
tea, and the kiss of peace—this bestowed on both
cheeks from the Community, so it’s only fair to
the nuns that you use the best rice powder only—
no carmine.
Miss Laing-Meason, an artistic-looking, copper-
topped young Maorilander, has joined the Her-
bert Flemming company, and will play the little
part of Dora, in “The Morals of Marcus,” next
Saturday night at the Cri.
A “Centuries” ball is under consideration by
an energetic committee, which is toiling on behalf
of the Crown-street Women’s Hospital. More
about it next week.
From “Mario,” in Brisbane: —
There has been a ball every evening this week, with the
exception of Friday, which isn’t supposed to he a g-ood
day for balls. One of them was an exclusive assembly, at
wiiich a much-needed and long-postponed Foot was put
down. It was the committee which deposited the Foot, and
its object was to discountenance the hoydenish romps
which have lately filled the place of the once stately
Lancers. Iri future, when couples are caught galloping
into the adjoining sets, or ladies hanging on to the gentle-
men’s arms in the third figure, and allowing themselves
to be swung round with their feet in the air, the music
will be stopped and the item expunged from the pro-
gramme. This idea is said to have evolved in the head of
the practical lady who rules the vice-regal household, and,
if that is so, it is one more piece of sound good sense—for
Brisbane ballrooms have been getting far too much like
football scrums. '
And, touching that same entertainment, seething rage
permeates the air in connection with the annual drafting
of the sheep from the goats, which takes place ere the
official list of membership is compiled.' At present a
stragglesome line appears to have been drawn, which
leaves hardware and softgoods on one side, while beef,
chemical goods, and farm produce are on the other. And
as ironmongery and softgoods are on the wrong side’
their anger is something considerable.
His Ex., as I write, is busily packing up his warmest
f.annels prior to departing for'the north an* west. The
joys that were experienced by the Attorney-General and
his motor (the latter did eventually reach Cloncurrv
although suffering severely from having its works oiled
with any old grease that came handy instead of with good
lubricator) have tempted the Governor to beard the wil-
derness in his turn, and, chaperoned by Joey Bell, he will
take a look round the back part of his dominions. Mean-
while, the portly Morgan reigns in his stead.
Mrs. Lyster, wife of our local Commandant, is again
with us. The lady has now recovered from a long term
of ill-health, and looks bright and jolly.
Two engagements have materialised this week. First
and foremost, Roger Hartigan, hero of the cricket bat and
the big score, is to w'ed the lady Of his heart, Miss Arlie
Rankin. His fate appeared to hang in the balance for
some time, but when he struck up the wonderful record
that so materially assisted the kangaroos in the recovery
of the cinders, he may have also struck a blow at the for-
tress of his lady’s heart; anyhow, the fortified premises
surrendered.
The second contract has to do with the eldest daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. G. C. Willcocks. The~young lady, with
her mother and sister, has just returned from a pro-
longed European tour, and lost her heart to the doctor of
the Orontes while on the back track to Queensland. Mr.
Willcocks is one of our most successful mining men ami
a big contractor.
Another cousinly match looms large on the landscape
but more of this later. So far the family doesn’t approve!
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


4
, ■
IT V
«
4JR
S»
4R
V
■tr*
j
'
r
K
If
BURKE &■
WESTON
No Waters are bluer, no
Skies more gracious, than
those of the Queensland Coast!
It is now Winter over most of Australia,
but there is no Winter in Queensland.
It is there still bright and glowing.
FIRST=CLASS RETURN FARES.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE £6 0 0
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON 10 0 0
MELBOURNE and BRISBANE 12 0 0
MELBOURNE and ROCKHAMPTON ... 14 5 0
‘BRISBANE and TOWNSVILLE 9 15 0
BRISBANE and CHARTERS TOWERS 10 10 0
BRISBANE and CAIRNS 10 17 6
’lncluding’ Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
The Tourists' Ideal Trip in Winter is to gfo
aboard the Mail Train at Sydney or Mel-
bourne, and wake up in Sunny Queensland.
Write to the Queensland Railway Department, Brisbane,
for Full Particulars.


CORSETS
THE CORSET that is recommended by
Fashion’s leading authorities. Beautifully
designed by the most skilful of French
Corsetieres, and thoroughly tailored i every
pair possesses the graceful lines and curves
that are synonymous with a charmingly
perfect figure. Fit you like a glove—yet
for comfort, stylishness and service the
P.D. Corset is absolutely unrivalled.
Insist on a
“P.D.”
All Drapers.
w
I
&
Cyclists
%
\\
WHO USE
DUNLOP
TYRES
For Road or Track Work appreciate
and value their worth.
ALWAYS RELIABLE
ALWAYS DURABLE
That is why 360,000 of these Tyres
are sold by us annually in Australasia.
When purchasing “DUNLOPS” be
sure they bear this
TRADE MARK
None Genuine without it.
The Stun lop Rubber Co.
of Australasia Limited.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne; 255 Clarence
St.. Sydney 92 Prrie St., Adelaide; 268-270
Adelaide St., Brisbane; 67 King St., Perth;
and Christchurch, N.Z.
vkTVA
&
tßi
&
i.
i /
COATS OF QUALITY.
We carry a Splendid Assortment of
UNLOP
Driving &* Motoring
COATS
IN VARIOUS STYLES AND MATERIALS.
These Coats are as good as they look WELL OUT, ST
and Waterproof. Should you prefer any p * r * cul * r * , 0
different material from that stocked, we will bo pleased to
make to your order. Inspection In.lt.d, a " d
guaranteed. Illustrated Style Sheets and Self-Measuring
Forms posted to Oountry residents upon a PP llc '
Large Assortment ol WATERPROOF RUCS also osrrl.d In Stoss.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust- W-
toe FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE, 205 OLARENCI ST.. '
02 PIRIE ST., ADELAIDE j 01 KINO ST., RERTt* | 2SS-270 ADSLAIOS
ST., BRISBANE; WORCESTER ST., CMRISTCHUROH. N.E.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June. 15, 1908.
My Dear Yarrik,-
Though he was apparently a most successful
man—successful, that is to say, in all but politics
—and though he walked with a fine strut, the late
Colonel Templeton carried through later life a big
disappointment. It was only after very many
years of married life that a J’oung Templeton
arrived to make him a proud man ; and after that
it was a finer strut than ever. But after six or
seven years the boy died, and there was never
another to take his place. Templeton threw
himself into all sorts of tough jobs after that: he
even allowed himself to be nominated by the
Argus for the Senate. If that boy had lived, it
probably would have been all very different.
The Austral Salon indulged in a Sauerkraut
revel—all but the Bier—on Saturday evening.
Miss Malth&se waded into a talkette on Schubert
and German Song generally. Miss Carmen
Pinschof, Mrs. Bellmont and Miss Annie Davidson
warbled illustrations, and were backed up by
pretty Ruby Gray, who stroked Schubert’s fur
and tail soulfully on the piano. Mr. von Pinschof
rounded up the programme and patted it smooth.
The quaint tableaux rose several rungs above
the every-day amateur picture posing. One,
based on Freilgarth’s poem, “ Der Blumen
Raehe,” represented a girl asleep in a close,
hot room, over-decorated with roses. The spirits
of the roses rose resentfully at their untimely
plucking; they threatened the maiden; they
crushed her life out with cloying scent, and then
they crumpled into a withered heap round her
death-bed. (Soft lights and sentimental music
from the wings.)
The programme then dashed into the guttural
gaucheries of a German playette, perpetrated by
players at the early-student stage. The audience,
warned that the play was humorous, and fortified
by translations, made a heavy bid at learned and
hilarious understanding; then, with a relieved sigh,
rushed the finale of Coffee and Bun.
Returned mummer George Titheradge got a
warm welcome to his old home. Even tiie teem-
ing rain and the dreary lingering on the wharf
didn’t deter a big wedge of friends. Titheradge
shook hands all round, and fell with a bear’s hug
on “ Bill ” Gaggin’s neck. Gaggin was his special
chum in his shooting and fishing jaunts. Gaggin
says he has an unbroken record as a nuisance in
the wings and 'an interrupter of rehearsals. It
was he who planned sporting sprees and fixed up
jolly excursions into the country. He would run
round to the theatre to remind “ Tith ” he was to
be “ready by 4.30,” and Boucicault, who didn’t
care a ginger-snap for sport, would rasp with irri-
tation at the interruption.
Titheradge looks very fit, and wears a hopeless-
habit monocle dangling at his waist or wedged in
his eye. Mrs. Titheradge comes with him, also
son Dion, a small, thin, dapper youth of 18 or 19,
of decidedly Anglicised speech. His part—the
boy part—in “ The Thief ” is spoken of as a fine
thing.
Kubelik and Co. make a wild dash through
Maoriland, from Auckland to Invercargill, in
three weeks, no less. How Maoriland will stare at
the rush. One Bulletin man, who was only on
a holiday, and didn’t stop to play or sing any-
where—in fact, he can’t do either —fled over the
same ground in four weeks, and reckoned he had
kept going all the time. But perhaps Kubelik
isn t going to perform at Lyell or Bealey or Boat-
man’s Creek.
Kubelik worked his energy up to nervous pitch
for Wednesday night’s concert, and made it more
successful than any of the others, in spite of his
illness. The Madden crowd came near—just
under the platform’s nose, so to speak—and all
Sassiety that owns a motor braved the wet. It
was a crushily packed and gold-tasselled house.
Kubelik trimmed his recital down in length, and
only had one girly item in each part of the pro-
gramme. Miss Dyason showed her pink dress
effectively in the first half, and Erna Mueller
quavered through a sweet German love song from
the depths of a white satin frock, after the in-
terval.
The Marshall-Hall Conservatorium gave a
jovial (and quite obviously an opposition) welcome
to Kubelik. The Eastern Hill Bohemians caught
their lion after the Bendigo expedition, and as
soon as he could lift his sick mane to say
“thanky.” The student girls went early, ham-
mered down red carpet on every grey inch, and
hung the Bohemian scarlet and white and the
Hungarian blue and yellow in a blaze at the stair
top. Then they got into their gladdest rags
and most heavenly clobber, and ranged up
in line to cheer the idol. Mrs. Kubelik,
looking like a green-clad houri, shepherded her
sick roarer of the forest, and Warbler Mueller and
Miss Pianist Dyason flanked the procession. The
Prof, shouted his Jovian welcome, and the Pin-
schofs led the army. Heinze hovered about like
a frisky w’hite elephant, and Schluter, the Dane,
watched theMasterenviously. Itwasquiteadecent
welcome until the inevitable pupil-playing began.
A piano concerted. Then a fiddle concerted.
Then the two concerted in wailing length, while
Kubelik grew paler and paler, and Manager
Buckingham looked anxiously from him to his
watch, and had visions of removing his fainting
lion on a barrow.
An enterprising fisherwoman in the waters of
Sassiety is planning a feast of Sardanapalian
splendor for the officers of the Fleet. Everyone
who is anybody is to be there, and Australian
hospitality is to be established on a sound basis,
as a gorgeous institution with aesthetic trimmings.
Prof. Beard’s orchestra is to be a star incident.
It is to play Dvorak’s “New World ” Symphony
in particular, and pay the guests other harmoni-
ous compliments.
A Piccadilly friend writes me :
The opening of the Royal Academy sets the social ball
rolling. At the private view were to be seen all the stars
of the London season. The pride, the conceit of the
women here ! To them, appearance is a passion. Their
hair, their skin, their figures, their feet, their hats, their
dress—all absorb the greatest possible attention. Every
hairpin is a study.
Artist Longstaff’s one Academy canvas represents a
rather dour-looking young dame in a fur coat. The fur
is fur, not just paint, but the background to the figure is
muddy, and, generally, the genial dauber has not
achieved a brilliant picture.
There was a fortune in hair at the Academy crush-
thousands and thousands of brilliantined curls tumbling
and tossing under hat-brims, and snuggling behind the
ears, and clustered above the temples. One says now :
“ How rich she must be ! Look at her hair ! ” Piccadilly
ringlets really cost a small fortune to keep renewed.
Mrs. Oswald Watt (lately Miss Muriel Williams) is very
much in evidencein Regent-street, and at the variety halls—
with a regiment of Johnnies in tow, and her A.D.C. spouse
alongside or doing the rear-guard. One night she
queened it in a box at the Alhambra, her high bank of
chestnut curls rising two feet above her saucy brow. Ear-
rings like small chandeliers dangled in her side flaps.
Yachtsman Gollin strolls along Bond-street these May
noons with a look of sagacity and leisure.
A Queensland squatter’s wife has opened a swagger
bonnet shop in the Big Smoke, and the wool clans are
supporting her.
Helena Rubinstein is booming in London. Duchesses,
countesses, viscountesses, baronesses and peeresses
generally are rushing her. There is a string of carriages
outside her door every day. Apart from “ Valaze,” they
like Helena, and send her presents of fruit and flowers.
The Austrian lady says little, dresses well, and toils much.
The new Andersonian theatre, “The King’s,”
only begun in February last, will be ready for
opening in about three weeks. I clambered all
over it t’other day, from stalls to gods, and tried
the outlook from every corner point of vantage.
I got a good view of the stage every time. Circle
and gallery are a very modern horseshoe shape.
The bulge in the shoe gives the “aiders” just as
fine a view as the centre sitters, and the slope of
stalls, circle and gallery is like a chute or a tobog-
gan-slide. The padding and the glitter, the silk
frill and the velvet glory, are not in yet, of course,
but marble is flung round in lustrous magnificence,
and two flights of marble stairs mount to the
dress-circle dressing-rooms. “Bill ” Anderson is
in Mel bourne,-and hovers around like an Almighty
watching his world shape up.
The gods are being treated unlike any other
gods in any other theatre hereabouts. They have
cloak-rooms all to themselves, and the early-
doorers will no longer have to scrunch their rainy
coats and hats on humped-up knees, or sacrifice
their dearest feathers to the feet of the enemy.
The stage is an enormous cavern with side doors
on to lanes outside. These lanes go completely
round the theatre to the street. It is great business
for the racehorses and motor-rushers of bellow-
drama ; they can tear on and tear off the stage,
and tear round, and tear back again without a
break, for just as long as the house is yelling and
pounding appreciation. On the second of the four
floors is a scenic-artists’ room and a ballet-room the
whole length of the stage. The ballet-room is
filled with electrics for limelight, and will save
stage rehearsal. The dressing-rooms and corri-
dors are so many that they constitute a maze.
Mrs. Eugenie Duggan Anderson is resting in
Melbourne after her Westralian trip. Anderson
practically set two new theatres going in the
West; he gave Kalgoorlie a theatre to itself by
improving and rebuilding a hall there. Eugenie
is preparing for a dress onslaught as soon as the
opening bellow is decided and the rest of the
company come tumbling into Melbourne for
rehearsal.
A man writes from London :
Westminster Gazette congratulates the Common-
wealth on the forthcoming reappearance of Lord Dick in
its midst. “No appointment in connection with the
personal staff of the new Governor-General of Australia is
likely to be more generally acceptable than that of Lord
Richard Nevill, who was private secretary to Lord Tenny-
son during the memorable visit of the Prince and Princess
of Wales to the State. It was greatly owing to his tact-
fulness and power of organisation that the festivities
given at Government House in their Royal Highnesses’
honor were so uniformly successful.” Of Lord Dick’s
many years in Melbourne the London buttermonger savs
nothing, and probably knows less. As a rule, the pallid
lordling was a harmless joke, but there were times when
his lack of memory and general inability to do the right
thing in the right place were matters for rude comment.
Even the duties of a Gee-Gee’s assistant require a higher
“ power of organisation ” than Lord Richard has hitherto
displayed. The fact that he has secured another engage-
ment at the Vice-Regal Theatre doesn’t say much for the
managerial estimation of the audiences’ intelligence.
Those gifted girls, Nora Kyffin Thomas and
Una Bourne, who made quite an artistic sensation
by their violin and piano recital the other week,
are to make an inter-State tour ; Jeremias
Josephi will probably pilot them, and most
honorably prove that the damsels are blessed
protfigees of my pet angel, Israfel.
News of the hopeless illness of Janet Mrs.
Clarke comes as this paper goes to press. Double
pneumonia with complications is one of the many
troubles. The dying woman is stepmother
to Rupert and his younger brother Ernest
(she married their father in 1876), and mother of
William Clarke. She has been Melbourne’s social
boss for more yeajrs than the average Societyite
cares to remember, and has been a kindly boss all
the time. If the doctor’s gtim prognosis prove
correct, there will be grief in more families
than go to Government House.
From “ Rosna,” in Adelaide:—
The Omrah is bringing us back our priceless Tommy.
He has shaken Joe Chamberlain’s fist for the last time,
and told Edward Rex to bear up ; and he will be con-
signed to the arms of his waiting country somewhere
about July 20.
Dr. Wm. Campbell’s widow and pretty daughter sailed
off on an extended European jaunt by the Narrung last
week, and their picturesque old house in Palmer Place is
shut up. The damsel was just on the verge of coming
out at the time of her father’s death. So this season loses
one of its brightest debutantes. She is a smart and accom-
plished young maiden, and promises to blossom into a dis-
tinguished, not to say heavenly, frocker.
Mrs. Besant, the Theosophical dame, was in Adelaide
all last week, lecturing to large houses on various learned
topics, and always surrounded by an eager crowd. She
is a white-haired dame these days, but remarkably young-
looking, and for her lectures she wears a curious and
wonderfully embroidered cream Indian gown, with some
Order or other on a scarlet ribbon at her neck. The most
remarkable thing is the frilly character of her audiences
They’re not the occult and hungry-looking throng of weird
women and fierce males who generally haunt lectures in
Adelaide, but a crowd with a taste in hattery and a pro-
found knowledge of frills. It is to be feared that they
don’t take the Mahatmas, and the adepts, and the other
stock phrases of Esoteric Jumboism too seriously, but
their clothes show that the hazy old cult has some
fashionable support. If Mrs. Besant had brought as much
as one stuffed Mahatma with her, it would have been con-
soling, but even without that evidence she is worth
listening to.
Great excitement! A personage and his wife left the
University ball in tall dudgeon and with much hauteur
because they were not included in the vice-regal set.
The personage was not in any way connected with the
’Varsity’, and the set comprised, beside their Exes., only
people who were ; but this little detail does not seem
to have occurred to the offended parties, and they de-
parted like Boadicea of the Bleeding Back going to con-
sult her country’’s gods.
The furniture and effects of the late Mrs. Turner are to
be sold this week. There are some gorgeous things
among them —quaint old cabinets, ancient china, and
curios enough to fill a young museum or two. And if the
shekeled community doesn’t snap them up with zest, it
won’t say much for its intelligence. The interesting old
Frenchwoman left behind her a small army of pet cats;
and these, it was decreed in her will, were to be chloro-
formed the day’ of her death. She was afraid that no one
else would be as good to Tabby’ and Grimalkin as she was,
which is quite likely’. Those happy’ felines were as well
treated as most humans —better, in fact ; and if they had
been left to battle with a cold world full of rude dogs it
would have been a bitter circumstance to them.
There died in Adelaide last week one of this city’s most
popular parsons, Canon Hopcraft, rector of St. John’s.
He was extraordinarily popular with the masculine
fraternity, and alway’s had a larger smattering of man in
his congregation than any other cleric. St. John’s is a
fashionable tabernacle, and always thronged to the doors ;
and the congregation, which adored its canon, is likely to
be hard to satisfy in the matter of a successor.
The arrangements of the Mayoral Kiddies’ Ball, on the
26th, are most extensive. Each infant’s invitation is
accompanied by a printed list of rules and regulations
and an attendant’s ticket, and every precaution is to be
taken to prevent the darlings being lost, mislaid, mixed,
or returned to the wrong parent. A bevy of grown-ups
will be on hand to see that every angel has the time of
its life.
The “Peter Pan” contingent and the “Brewster’s
Millions ” tribe—the former staying here, and the latter
bent VVestraliawards —deposited their goods and chattels
in Adelaide early on Friday morning amid a small deluje
of storm and rain ; and the Brough dame and Miss Minnie
Pan Brune were whirled off to the South Australian. An
hour or so later, in some more deluge, Kubelik and his
Countess arrived, were met by a mewsical throng, and
were also chased through much mud to the South Aus-
tralian.
Their Exes took a party along to the first Kubelik
concert on Friday night; also did Miss Peter Pan Brune
wander in, looking very fetching- in a turquoise-blue
raiment, and with an innocent blue ribbon threading her
locks. Otherwise the audience was large, musical and
madly greedy as of old. After every item it arose and
turbuiently demanded more. Likewise, it got more.
Kubelik set an excellent fashion in his Adelaide concerts ;
he opened the programme himself. Instead of sending on a
few pale pianists or weary warblers to prepare the audi-
ence and drown the shuffling footfalls of late comers, he
just bowed his mane and burst straightway into melody’.
Until he begins to make music, Kubelik looks remarkably
like a solemn little boy playing at being grown up. When
he makes music you don’t care what he looks like.
Mrs. Symon, a niece of Adelaide’s senator, writing from
Illinois (U.S.A.), whither she went a few years ago, states
that the American papers thereabouts, in order to
“boost” along the soul-saving enterprise of Evangelist
“ Billy Sunday,” a converted ex-baseballer, publish each
morning the names of the previous night’s converts,
together With their addresses and their previous sin re-
cord. Now, if only “ Billy Sunday ” would come to
Adelaide and get Langdon Bonython to follow suit, what
interesting “ four-o’clocks ” we could have for a while !
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“ Old Soldier” writes :
Tiie Bulletin (4/6/’08) is unfortunate in its selection of
“ an obscure soldier ” named Napoleon Bonaparte'to re-
fute the foolish haverings of Amateur Lieutenant-Colonel
Macarthur Onslow. Bonaparte certainly did not owe his
successes to his faculty for selecting men to act for him.
His marshals (the rank was only created as one of the
gauds of the Empire) were selected for their showy,
rather than their solidly useful, qualities. Only two of
them, Lannes and Massena, were really capable leaders in
the field. Murat, Bonaparte’s brother-in-law, was a showy
hussar, but Kellermann and Montbrun were always em-
ployed when real cavalry leaders were wanted, and
they never rose above plain generals of division.
The amiable lunatic, Junot, whose father supported
Bonaparte when he was desperately hard up after the
taking of Toulon, was another marshal. So was Soult,
who, on the morning of Austerlitz, pretended he had sore
eyes, and was not seen by his corps all day while it was
storming the heights of Pratze —who, when ordered to
support Massena in Portugal, amused himself with a
couple of useless sieges, and then scattered his army corps
in detachments. If The Bulletin wants examples to
instruct the Amateur Colonel, it can find plenty before
the Empire, ’there were Hoche, Jourdan, Moreau and
Pichegru, all sergeants before the revolution. The two last-
named were strategists of the first order. Moreau only just
escaped arrest 4t the establishment of the Empire, and lived
to ruin Napoleon by directing the operations of the allies
in Germany in 1813. He fell by a cannon-shot at Leipsic
when his work was done. Pichegru, the conqueror of
Holland, was murdered in prison. That was how
Napoleon chose his men. If you wanted examples of
rankers you could not have done better than quote John
Hawkwood, the tailor’s apprentice, who ran away and
enlisted in the army that Edward 111. was raising for the
invasion of France, rose to be a Knight Banneret
(Major-General), and when the war was over went
to Italy, and became Podesta of Florence, where he
died, full of years and honors. Hallam says Hawk-
wood was the first to reduce war to a science.
Another shining example is Turenne, who began
his soldiering carrying a pike in a Dutch regiment of foot
under Maurice of Nassau, the best commander of his time.
Turenne rose gradually through all ranks to captain, and
then went back to his native country, where Mazarin was
in desperate need of good soldiers who knew their busi-
ness. He was given command of a regiment, and, in the
civil wars of the Fronde, he beat Conde. He was never
beaten, and when, at, the age of 59, he was killed by a
cannon-shot before the lines of Weissenburg, he had kept
Montecuculi, the best general the Empire had, at bay for
three months with an inferior force. Napoleon admitted
Turenne was his superior.
Which is interesting, but rather streaky. For in-
stance, Napoleon I. didn’t first create marshals
“as one of the gauds of the Empire” ; they were
one of the gauds of the French kingdom as far
back as the days of Philip Augustus, and Louis
XIV. had 20 of them. Then Kellermann was a
marshal, and so was Jourdan ; so Napoleon seems
to have made some good selections anyhow. The
question whether the “amiable lunatic” Junot
was ever really created a marshal is still unsettled.
It has been alleged that he and Clarke and
Duroc were only a kind of honorary or bogus
marshals. Also Moreau was killed nearly two
months before the battle of Leipzic. and his work
wasn’t “done,” or was done very badly, for he
got his mortal wound on a’day of defeat. Fur-
thermore, Turenne not only returned to France
before Mazarin attained to power, but he was in
supreme command of a French army before
Mazarin rose on the political horizon. And as to
being never beaten, his defeat at Marienthal was
memorable —not to say awful. Also, it is somewhat
doubtful if Hawkwood was ever really Podesta of
Florence, though he commanded the Florentine
forces ; and he was impressed into the English
army, instead of running away and enlisting.
Still “Old Soldier” is interesting, and, apart
from the points mentioned, he is fairly accurate.
A grand fancy dress carnival is to be held on
Tuesday evening 30th inst. at the Glaciarium, Melbourne.
It is to be for the onlookers the best spectacular display
of its kind yet seen in Melbourne. There will be a
children’s maypole dance on the ice, a waltzing competi-
tion, best pair skating outer edges (lady and gentleman),
most original costume, best sustained character, and
other numerous attractions and prizes.*
Though A. J. McLachlan protested that
he had nothing to do with the National Ass. th
National Ass., after inspecting the State Frights
planks in his platform, decided that there wasn’t
any need to run an Opposition candidate; where
fore he went to the poll last Saturday for
Kingston s seat, at Adelaide, weighted with thl
blessings of the Register and the brand of th
“National League.” Under the circumstance?
of course he was defeated, and Roberts’ election
adds one more to the fighting strength of tC
Labor party in the House of Reps. he
It is a poor, resourceless sort of woman
who doesn’t manage to make at least a fair show
of clothes in the dock. Mrs. Jane Baikie, when
put on her trial in Sydney on a charge of Brown
slaughter, was neat, but not gaudy She
wore a bashed hat of tidy aspect. It was the kind
that cocks over one eye, and she wore it cocked
mildly over the right eye. There was a ribbon in
it and a hat-pin skewered through it—the kind
with a hen’s egg on the thick end. Her neat
dark dress, her veil, the harmless little brooch at
her throat, and her composed expression and rather
nice features made the head and shoulders that
appeared above the top bar of the dock a rather
pleasing spectacle. It is the misfortune of a
prisoner in the dock to look rather like a jack-in-
the-box—some one who has just bobbed up and
who is liable at any moment to bob down again—
but Mrs. Baikie carried off the awkward situation
with dignity.


FOR HOME OR PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT
During the Winter Evenings
nothing better than the . . .
Kinematoaraph.
We are the Sole Agents in
Australia for Gaumont &
Co., the leading Kinemato-
graph Specialists of the
World, and can supply any
of their best models on
short notice.
0-- ■
Regular Shipments of
all the
NEWEST and BEST
FILMS
by every mail.
Details of all Lines
on Application .
Optical Lanterns
we have just received the Latest Patterns for Home
or Public Hall use, either with Oil, Acetylene, or
Gas, at prices from £.3.
Every kind of Lantern requisite kept in stock,
including Slides and Descriptive Lectures.
«rrp
a
0
Sole Ag'ents in Australia
for KODAK LIMITED.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “ The Block,’
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
’ 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
A Half-Page of Beautiful Things from which
to CHoose.
How do you liKe the New Style of NecKlet
Set with the Fashionable Turquoise Matrix?
Very effective when worn, we can assure you;
and the Style and Color suits the majority of
people. We have a variety of designs after
the style of the one we picture here.
T £dW7lt(j)
(AUSTRALIA),
Then we have the Malachite Necklets—rather
a pretty stone in shades of green. They come
out at the following prices—Bos. and 90s. If
you want to wear the very newest you can
order one of these with safety.
C2.—lsct. Gold and Real Pearl Set Necklet, in case, £4/10/'
m
Pine Opal and Diamond
Marquise Ring, 18ct. Gold, £l7/101-
01. —Fine Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Necklet, in case, £4/15/-
No. Hls49.—Real Pearl
Set, Amethyst and Gold
Pendant, JE2//0/-
No. G 9396. —15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl
Set Brooch, £111716.
No. F729B— Pearl Set Gold Spray Brooch,
211- ‘ with Pearls and Olivines, in 15ct.
Gold, £2.
No. H7727—15ct. Gold, Pearl and Exquisite Enamel
Pendant, with Gold and Pearl Necklet, in Morocco
Case, £B/10/-
No. G 5069.—
Sapphire,
Pearl and
15ct. Gold,
Pin, 251-
The Latest Style of Necklet. Real Turquoise Matrix and Pearls, mounted
in Gold, £5/5/-.
Other styles, somewhat similar, for 70/-, 80/- and 90/-.
No. H7729.—Pearl and Tur-
quoise Tortoise Brooch in 15ct.
Gold, £2/15/-
No. H772B—Whole Pearl
Acorn Brooch, in 15ct.
Gold, 35/-
Fine Gold—Whole Pearl—Diamond
and R. Ruby Brooch and Pendant,
in case, £3O
9ct. Gold Tie
or Safety
Pins.
lin., 3/6
ljin., 4/6
l|in., 5/6
2in., 8/6
No. H7726—Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Necklet and
Pendant, in Morocco Case, £ 9/10 /-


QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
&
46
( cC- 1
PIPES
to IheTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
H
ORUCK’S
MALTED MILK
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
Horlick’s
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared m a minute,
and requires no cooking.
FOR
TIMES
AND
ALL \*
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlick’s Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
ness.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c.,&c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Food Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng-
bulletin
Backet of Ten, lOd.
POST CARDS—New
Packet of Twelve, Is ;
The London Bank of Australia
-limiteo
Subscribed Capital ••
Paid-up
Uncalled, including
Liability
Reserve Fund
£1,276.747 10 0
548,015 0 0
Reserve
728,732 10 0
20,000 0 0
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
DAVID FINLAYSON, Esq., Chairman.
GORDON HUNTLY CAMPBELL, Esq.
ANDREW CUNNINGHAM, Esq.
RIGHT HON. SIR WALTER FOSTER, M.I.
DAVrD QUIXANO HENRIQUES, Esq.
ROBERT ROME, Esq.
GEORGE SLADE, Esq.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
Presented at the Ordinary General Meeting of the Proprietors,
held at Winchester House, Old Broad-street, E.C. (Ha
No. 174), o'clock noon, on MondcCy, lltli May, IJOd.
mHE DIRECTORS present their Report, accompanied as usual by audited Accounts, for the year
I ended 31st December last, e -p /A ari n t nss after
The Profits, as shown by the Annual Statement of Profit and Loss, after g g
deducting Management Charges and Taxes, amount to ... ••• ••• ••• 03’ 907 17 10
To which is added the amount brought forwaid
After providing for the interest at 4£ per cent, on the Transferable Deposit
£101,170 0 6
Receipts for the year, amounting to
42,310 11 2
There remains a Credit balance to be dealt with of
Which the Directors recommend be appropriated as follows
Dividend of , r W per cent, on the Preference Shares for the year .
ended 31st December, 1907 •••
Dividend of 3£ per cent, on the Ordinary Shares for the same
period
.. £58,859 9 4
3 0
6 6
Transfer to Reserve Fund
... 10,000 0 0
32,332 9 6
The Balance carried forward to next account
... £26,526 19 10
During the year Branches have been opened at Warrnambool in Victoria, and at Kew and
Moama in New South Wales. The Branch at Beaufort, Victoria, has been closed
The Director retiring under the provisions of the Bank’s Articles of Association is ilr. Davijj
Otttxano Henriques, who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. , .
The Bank’s Auditors, Messrs. Price, Waterhouse & Co., also retire, and again offer themselves
fOF Warrants for Dividends, less Income Tax, 'will be issued payable on and after the 14th May, to
those Shareholders whose names appeared on the Register on the 2/th instant.
By order of the Board,
2 Old Broad-Street, London, E.C., ' W. H. BARBER, Secretary,
30tli April, 1908.
BALANCE SHEET
31st DECEMBER, 1907. .
LIABILITIES.
Capital
49,103 Ordinary Shares of
£22 10s. each .. ..£1,104,817 10' 0
Less :—
Uiicalledand
Reserve
Liability £730,545 0 0
Calls in arrear 377 10 0
£736,922 10 0
Add:— £367,895 0 0
Amount prepaid by Trus-
tees in respect of Un-
called Capital and Reserve
Liability .. .. 8,190 0 0
£376,085. 0 0
17,193 5£ per cent. Cumulative Preference
Shares of £lO each fully paid .. .. 171,930 0. 0
£548,015 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 10,000 O' 0
Transferable Deposits due 1917 .. .. 939,220 10 9
Other Deposits and Current Accounts . .3,466,392 16 8
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (includ-
ing' reserves for doubtful debts) .. 990,967 15 4
Notes in Circulation .. .. .. 127,381 10 0
Balance of undivided Profit .. .. 58,859 9 4
£6,140,837 2 1
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Cash Balances, and Notes of
other Banks .. •• ..£797,951 2 7
Money at Call and. Short Notice in London 190,000 0 0
Investments, ineluding- those held against
Note Issue and Bills Receivable .. 051,888 3 1
Bills Discounted, Advances, and other
Assets of the Bank .. .. ..4,115,236 4 11
Bank'Premises .. J. .. .. 382,761 11 6
£6,140,837 2 1
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st DECEMBER, 1907.
To Salaries and General Expenses in Aus-
tralia including Remuneration to
Local Directors, Rent, Rates, Repairs,
Stationery, Travelling, etc £65,715 12 10
~ Salaries and General Expenses in London
Directors’ and Auditors’
Fees, Rent, Repairs, Stationery, Tele-
grams, etc. .. .. .. ■ • • • 10,055 11 1
~ Land Tax and Tax on Note Issue .. 2,830 16 4
~ Interest at 4£ per cent, on Transferable
Deposit Receipts for the Year .. .. 42,310 11 2
~ Balance of undivided Profit .. .. 58,859 9 4
£179,772 0 9
In accordance with the Provisions of the Companies’
Act, 1900, we certify that all our requirements as Audi-
tors have been complied with, and we have to report to
the Shareholders that, having examined the above
Balance Sheet with the books at the Head Office and the
returns from the Branches, we are of opinion that the
above Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet,
properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct
view of the state of the Bank’s affairs, as shown by such
books and returns.
PRICE, WATERHOUSE & Co., Auditoks.
.. £52,561 8 4
Bv Balance as per last Report
Less Dividend for year
ended 31st Dec., 1906 —
On Preference Shares ..£9,456 3 0
~ Ordinary Shares .. 9,197 7 6
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund.. 10,000 0 0
28,653 10 6
£23,907 17 10
Profits in London and in Australia after
providing for Interest due and accrued
on current Deposits, deducting rebate
on Bills, and making provision for bad
and doubtful Debts .. .. .. 155,864 2 11
£179,772 0 9
D. PINLAYSON,
K. ROME
' GORDON 11. OAMPBELI
Directors.
W. 11. BARBER, Secretary.
Jj&r If
wmill,. Ywi
« | ;«,* That’s how your chin should feel
JUSI LIKtJ VtJIVCI* when you finish shaving. Some-
times vours does—and sometimes it doesn’t, eh ? With the PLUM
Kazor you can always have that satisfaction. It shaves clean at first—
and keeps to that standard all the time. Its quality is the reason,
for bv vast practical experience we know just the edge required to
ensure an easy comfortable shave. PRICE 10/6 post free, anywhere.
Guaranteed and kept in repair for two years.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor In Leather Case, 10 6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE
COD LIVER OIL
(Sold In Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption and
all Lung Complaints.
As a food and huiider-up for both children
and adults, MQLLER’S OIL is unequalled . j
BECAUSEs It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell. . ..
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, emulsions, &c.
MOLLER’S HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
A GUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS SAYS ABOUT MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
Medical Review.-" We have no hesitation in saving d quite
their
have'placed bands of
are so familiar with in certain brands.”
MOLLER'S COD-LIVER OIL bas been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and Hie only Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. lo be obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The sort of thing that happens when the
artistic mind essays to grapple with the sordid intricacies
of modern business methods :
CONTRACTOR TO THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION,
N.B.W.
E. J. FORBES,
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENT FOR
G. & 0. MERRIAM COMPANY.
8 Spring-street,
Sydney, N.S.W., 7,1908.
Mr. Norman Lindsay,
Artist, Bulletin Office. _
Dear Sir, —You were kind enough in Feb., 05, to accept
from our representative a copy of one of our books, at the
same time signing a contract and giving a receipt. Under
this contract you agreed to pay by monthly instalments,
and to hold the book as our property until the final pay-
ment was completed. As we received a good report of
you we confirmed this agreement, gave you the necessary
credit, and trusted you with the care and possession of
the work. We now ask if you are willing to live up to
the reputation g:iven by your own personal friends ana
acquaintances, and accepted by us as correct. We so
place this matter before you, fully believing that there
must be some reason, unknown to our office, accounting
for the delay in payment of these instalments, and ask
vou to save'both you and ourselves further trouble and
expense. Please send a reply by return tendering us a
satisfactory offer, one we can accept; for although dis-
appointed with your account, we are still willing to agree
to anv reasonable suggestion by which the same may be
liquidated.—Yours truly, „
q G. & 0. MERRIAM 00., per Blank.
Amount due : 411155.
Thus Norman, courteously, in reply :
Dear Mr. Webster,—We were charmed in Feb., 05, to
accept from your representative a copy of your latest
work in fiction, bearing your esteemed name and signa-
ture. Under a small contract which we believe is one of
your arrangements, dear Mr. Webster, we agreed to hold
the work as your property until either the final payment
was completed, or we had grown tired of reading your
tale. We cannot say that we have grown to love the
book, the plot, as your esteemed contemporary once re-
marked, being far too involved and there being too
many characters. We found your spelling, on the whole,
correct, and your punctuation far from mediocre. Suffer-
ing as we do from a defective memory, and being utterly
devoid of what we believe is known in your work as
business acumen, we find it difficult to remember when
small accounts are due, except when accompanied by a
lawyer’s letter. We hope this explanation we tender
will be found satisfactory, though unaccompanied by the
customary slip of blue paper. To save you any further
trouble, expense, or litigation, vye enclose what we believe
to be the current emollient (which word we cull from
your esteemed work) for wounded business feelings
Trusting your novel may remain long on the bookstalls
we are as usual, Norman Lindsay & Co. ’
And here we get the typical trader’s callously un-
imaginative response to the artist’s lyric effort:—
E.- J. FORBES, No. 51033
Sole Australasian Agent for
G. & O. MERRIAM COMPANY.
8 Spring-street, Sydney,
lsth, 1908.
RECEIVED from Mr. Norman Lindsay, of Sydney
the sum of One Pound Fifteen Shillings, being final payl
inent for Webster’s International Dictionary.
(Signed) Blank.
*i ♦ * *
From the first of this month (June) the rent
which the Sydney Ferries Co. pays for Nos. 4 and 5 jetties
at Circular Quay goes up to £lBOO a year. For No. 6
jetty the same co. pays £250 a year ; ditto for No. 1, but
in that case it has only the exclusive right to one side of
the jetty. For No. 3 the Manly Co. pays £BOO a year, the
Watson’s Bay Co.’s perch costs £325 a year, and the Bal-
main New Ferry Co.’s (No. 7), £250 a year. What with
fruit shops, book-stalls, etc., the principal North Shore
jetties (4 and 5) are w orth close on £73 a week to the
Harbor Trust.
* * * *
“Itan ” : Bananaland’s timber “ ring ” is strik-
ing wildly with both hands at the hornets which are
buzzing around its ears. For a long time it had been
telling people that there was a great scarcity of pine for
butter-box making, and that higher prices really couldn’t
be dodged any longer. The cow' and butter men didn’t
bother very much to sift the problem ; they just rushed
off delegates to tell the Australian Parliament that the
duty on imported pine must be cut down. The
“ring” in the meantime trusted to Providence,
or to Baal, or to Mammon, or some other party, and
expected the Australian Parliament to put up the
barrier a peg or twm instead of shifting it down. But
Parliament listened to the voice of Cow, and dropped the
rail. Now there is a great wail rising from the timber
“ ring,” which is talking about the low labor rates of Nor-
way and Sweden, and other parts, and asking how can
Australia meet that sort of competition ? True, true ; but
the “ ring ” monkeyed with the public too long by raiding
prices and crying out about the shortage of timber, not-
withstanding* that within a radius of 150 miles of Bris-
bane, the Director of Forests declares there are
11,000,000,000 ft. of white pine. If it were only the
“ ring” that would have to suffer for its own greed,
things wouldn’t be so bad ; but the Australian timber-
getter, and everybody else connected with the industry,
wdll suffer too.
* * * *
“Kink”: It is about time that the Common-
wealth Inspector of Explosives got to work to warn the
confiding public that many consignments of so-called
safety matches, put up in tinder boxes as advertisements
for insecticides, whiskies, sauces, teas, etc., and palmed
off on the public, are not safety matches at all. These
so-called safety wooden lamp-lighters are. decidedly
unsafe. A trader in this hamlet opened a case of the
Monkeyland goods which come to hand in zinc-lined
boxes. Over a gross of packets (each packet containing a
dozen boxes of matches) had exploded spontaneously,
but the zinc lining had prevented a conflagration in
the ship’s hold. It is a common occurrence to set the
box ablaze when lighting a match. Few' of the Japanese
flimsy boxes remain intact till half the matchts are
legitimately used. Further, some individuals I know
win occasional drink money by betting that they can
strike any safety match—Japanese or Swedish—you like
to produce on the roof or gable of their pants. They
do it, too. A lot of mysterious fires—bush, building,
trade, and domestic—might be traced to these delud-
ing wares. Wax matches have been practically dis-
carded Out-back and in the farming and grazing areas
in favor of the safety blaze-kindler; still the same mys-
tery attaches to the daily conflagration. Better prohibit
the importation of these doubtful wares, and establish
factories to make our own safety matches which shall
be safe.
THE FREETRADE LOGICIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Government deeply sympathised with the sufferers,
but was unable to entertain the notion of a duty on
foreign hops imported into England. —News Item.
It little signifies that trade is bad,
And unemployment rampant everywhere.
(True, such a state of things is very sad,
But it might hap even if trade were “ fair.”)
Eight or nine thousand workers may go down
Is it good cause for other folks to weep?
The nation its remorse will surely drown,
When it reflects how Yankee hops are cheap.
About the country lanes the dead-beat wends
His famished way, seeking for bread to eat
(And getting stones). None of him comprehends
His “ free-food boon ” —the Briton’s greatest treat.
Labor is cheap and hard to sell. What then ?
Proportionately cheap are foreign goods,
Both “ dry” and “ soft.” Shame on these foolish men
Who with their plaints fill all our Kentish woods !
Here is the point the workless classes miss,
Wailing for “ food ” like people who are mad—
Granted they have none, yet let them grasp this :
They'd simply love its cheapness if they had.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Two Hundred and Sixteen
Rcstsoi\Se
There are two hundred and sixteen reasons why you, if you are about
to purchase a piano, should obtain a Beale Piano.
Look at the four illustrations herewith. Start with No. 1.
You note those rows of holes in the wooden wrest-plank of the imported
piano. When the piano is “ strung ” each one of those holes is filled
by a “ wrest-pin a piece of steel shaped not unlike a blunt nail
without a head.
Each pin is a quarter of an inch in diameter. Each is driven into its
hole with a hammer—it must fit tightly, so as to resist the pulling-
round of the wire which is wound round it.
Each pin is therefore like a wedge in the wrest-plank, and when the wire
(or “ string ”) is tightened up by turning the pin round, and thus
coiling the wire upon it, each pin becomes in addition a lever , because
of the pull of the wire.
There are two hundred and sixteen of these pins. The total strain
exercised upon them by all the wires when at concert pitch
amounts to nearly thirty tons.
Remember that they are only held in a wooden plank.
No one can suppose that a single wooden plank, driven full of wedges,
which are also levers, can for long withstand such a strain.
Especially in a climate like the Australian.
Whence —see Figure 2. Now compare Figure 2 with Figures 3 and 4.
There is the whole story.
In the Beale Pianos those two hundred and sixteen pins are contained
entirely in solid iron.
They will withstand indefinitely any strain that may be put upon them.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 3.—The Beale-Vader
Patent Piano-frame, re-
moved from the piano,
and the end of the wrest-
plank cut off to show the
wrest-pins in the solid
iron frame.
There are other advantages obtained by the use of our
patent iron wrest-plate, notably, a much improved
tonal quality, free from all metallic element.
We shall be glad to send you further particulars if
you will write, or call on us.
TEN THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED and EIGHTY-SIX
BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS have already been manu-
factured in Australia. We have received many hundreds
of testimonials from users, expressing the utmost satisfaction.
The success of the Beale Pianos is such that competitors
attempt to hoodwink buyers by asserting that our Pianos
cannot be tuned. As will be seen from this advertisement,
the BEALE PIANOS are more easily tuned than any others,
and they will REMAIN in tune for very much longer periods.
WE GUARANTEE EVERY BEALE
AUSTRALIAN PIANO for 25 YEARS.
*»»»»*»«».*•
C
—-J
••
Fig. I—lnterior view of an imported piano, showing the relation of the
frame to the wrest-plank. The wrest-pins and strings have been re-
moved so as to show the parts more clearly.
E2T
Fig. 2—A nearer view of the wooden wrest-plank of the piano shown in
Fig. 1. The first layer of the wrest-plank has been removed. Note how
the timber has split under the strain of the wires. This is an average
wooden wrest-plank, neither better nor worse than is usually found in
imported pianos. All pianos with wooden wrest-planks are, of course,
subject to the above fault, which cannot be remedied except at great
expense.
h _ . i_
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig'. 4.—A nearer view
of the Beale-Vader frame
shown in Fig. 3. Note
the wrest-pins and ten-
sion-screws contained
entirely in solid iron.
It is important for
piano-buyers to note
that these pins can be
adjusted to ANY ten-
sion, tight, medium,
or loose, by means of
the tension screws at
the back. We always
adjust them to resist
the pull-round of the
strings, but at the same
time they are easily
turned by the tuner
WITHOUT TOUCH-
ING THE TENSION
SCREWS. Our Pianos
are tuned in the ordinary
way, by one man only,
from the front only.
Be sure to note this, and
when you go to compare
our pianos with the im-
ported you will know
what to think if you are
told otherwise by un-
scrupulous competitors.
99
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A. ; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only
address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
WOMEN OF THE HIGHEST TYPE
Acknowledge that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are Women’s Best Friend.
Women of the highest type, women of superior
education and refinement, whose sane discern-
ment and good judgment give weight and force
to their opinions, highly
eulogise the wonderful
corrective and curative
properties of Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills. Years
ago, pills were the medicine
of the poor only. To-day
the efficacy of Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills to over-
come the common ailments
and restore health and
happiness to sick and ailing
women has convinced not
only the working section of
the population, but the
wives and daughters of the
more wealthy, professional,
and independent classes,
that Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a great
female medicine, and are
absolutely indispensable
to every lady’s boudior.
Women who value health should never be without
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. purses *
doctors recommend them, and thousan
women who now enjoy health and strength
their rescue to this wonderful remedy. I “ro K
out the many stages of woman s life, froni p -
girlhood through womanhood, motherhood,
the declining years of old age, there is no
milder, or more effective medical companion
women folk than Dr. Morse’s Indian Boot,
They heal inflammations and ulcerations,
cure all womanly weaknesses, cleansing *
storing the bowels, liver, and kidneys to p
working order. A few doses occasionally when
well will assure a pure and healthy system.
D B
DIRECTIONS
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE .
NO PRESERVATIVES.
Brewery and Offices :
West Australian Agents— Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt 8t„ Fremantle.
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The second match of the All Maoris at Sydney
Agricultural Ground, on Saturday, drew a crowd of
about 14,000 people. The downfall of the brown visitors
was expected, but the score by which it was accom-
plished wasn’t. The form of the Maoris seemed to be up
to standard, but they were woefully deficient in combina-
tion, and still showed signs of haziness regarding
Northern Union rules. In fact, the Maori team was in
the state of disunion that characterised Sydney Rugby
five years ago, when every man played for himself and
strove to run rightthrough the opposite team all on hisown.
The only man who can play that game in N.S.W. to-day
is Messenger, aud he only does it when his own side has
failed to follow up. The same Messenger just paralysed the
Maoris. They were accustomed to men who played a heady
game without much force, and to other men who played
a forceful game without much head, hut Messenger com-
bined both qualities in a bewildering manner. Of course,
no Maori football crowd has ever displayed the combina-
tion that made the white Maorilander so formidable, and
the records some of the brown teams have left behind
them have all been based on the quality of bogging in and
bursting through. Another thing, the extra inferiority
of this crowd is not due so much to the deterioration of
the Maoris as to the improvement of the Australians. All
round, N.S.W. football has made great advances the last
few years, and the most formidable team of four years ago
would be scattered like oysters at a banquet by even a
second-rate one of to-day.
The most entertaining feature of the game was
the revival of Messenger, who had previously shown signs
of requiring a rest. His kicking recovered its pristine
glory, and shots from half-way missed only ,by inches,
while’he converted every try his side obtained. His übi-
quity was also again in evidence; like the seven Rich-
monds at Bosworth, he cropped up in quite a number of
places all over the field at the same time. His side has
copied him and his methods, and Saturday last saw
several men dodging, following, and generally behaving
so like Messenger that it took a second glance to make
sure it was not the redoubtable person himself. The
Maoris were wonderfully quick, but their rushes were all
individual efforts, and the men who showed the way
always found there was no one close behind to see the way
that was shown. Maori after Maori made a gallant charge,
and looked back only to find the white faces of the
Pakehas surging round him, and to feel great brawny
white hooks hauling him down, while from afar his
countrymen were shouting praise of his great effort.
That sort of play doesn’t win matches nowadays. Right
through the whites were top dogs, leading by 15 to eight
at half-time, and winning by 30 to 16 at the finish.
* * * *
The Anglo-Welsh football team in Maoriland
lias, at time of writing, played seven matches, lost four,
and won three. And the spectacle of an alleged inter-
national team being beaten in three matches by inter-
provincial teams proves that either Rugby in England
and Wales is at a very low ebb, or the British authorities
have deliberately sent out a second-rate team, and a very
second-rate team at that. Saturday last saw the com-
bination again walloped, this time at Christchurch by
Canterbury (13 to 8). The first half ended with the points
three all, and then Canterbury got the back machine
going, and twice broke through what the ’grams describe
as a magnificent defence. Both tries were converted,
which lifted the Canterbury score to 13. The Anglo-Welsh
forwards played doggedly, and bore the brunt of the
fighting. It was the forwards, after Canterbury had
scored twice, who hurled the leaping, howling Maori-
landers back on their own line, and forced the ball over
for a converted try, and it was also the forwards who,
right on time, dribbled it down the field and across
the Canterbury line, but were too exhausted to touch
down. Before the ball could be recovered tbe whistle
had sounded sudden death. When the team first played
it was the forwards who were hog-fat, and the back
division that was in some sort of condition. Now the
position is reversed—it is the forwards who are in condi-
tion, while the backs, who are said to be the social bucks
of the crowd, have become too adipose owing to the hos-
pitality that is being showered on them.
The best sport of Saturday afternoon in Sydney
was provided by the Union (amateur) competition, in
which the meeting 1 of the Glebe and South Sydney teams
was a struggle of giants. About 15,000 people poured
into Sydney Cricket Ground to watch, and were rewarded
by a savage struggle in which there was little spectacular
work, but solid toil in the scrum. The two defeats with
which Glebe commenced the season have done the team a
world of good. It started to travel on its past season’s
glory, and it had the luck to learn early that last season
is a dead thing and of no value as an asset. The opening
of Saturday’s struggle showed that both sides were afraid,
for the South Sydney back machine was a thing with a
fearsome reputation, and Glebe’s pack, as everybody
knows, was suckled by the tigers at the Zoo.
Both packs were trained to the moment, and
showed some pretty feet-locking tricks in the scrums
which made it impossible to get the ball out. Once when
Glebe did hook it out the South men came round the
scrum and fell on it before the Glebe halves could do any-
thing worth mentioning. The Glebe pack regained its
feet, and, taking the leather in its teeth, flung the
struggling South on to its line, but lost the ball rolling
over, and South saved by promptly forcing. The Glebe
pack came again, charging in loose order, with the ball
travelling back and forwards along the line of toes.
Right to the Southern line it swept, where a three-man
charge was let loose that resulted in a goal. It was high-
grade play. The first half ended with Glebe leading by
11 to nil. The second half found Glebe more confident ;
the scrums were filled with vicious work, and the caverns
of legs and bodies became dark places of cruel kicking, so
that the game was continually stopped till somebody re-
covered. But it was Glebe’s day out, and it fell on the
struggling South and ate it alive. The whistle found the
score 21 points to eight.
When the competition started Eastern Suburbs
blazed gloriously, and enthusiastic followers swore the
championship was as good as won. But the early
promise has not been redeemed, and Eastern Suburbs has
won four and lost four. On Saturday it met the
formidable Newtown crowd, and went down smash in a
game full of brilliant charges and resourceful trickery.
Claude Corbett played a remarkable game for Eastern
Suburbs, and is rapidly qualifying for Messenger’s place
in all but kicking ability. The Eastmen were faster, and
played with more dash that the heavy Newtowners, but
the solid combination of the latter more than atoned
for the lack of brilliancy, and half-time found
Newtown leading bv eight to nil. East opened the
second spell with a series of splendid attacks, which splin-
tered on a better defence, and left the side open for
counter attacks, which were pushed home. When the
whistle blew, East had scored only three, while the solid
Newtown crowd had notched 14.
At University Oval the blue and gold whirl-
wind of the’Varsity struck something like a great rock
in the shape of Balmain, and at half-time the men from
the Ragged Suburb were leading by six to three. But
their strength gave out, and the University team over-
whelmed them in the second spell, winning by 19 to 11.
North Sydney scored its first win this season at the
expense of Western Suburbs, which so far has not won a
match, and is credited with one draw and one bye. The
fig'ures were eight to five. St. George also added another
victory to its attenuated list, downing Sydney by eight
to three.
In the Union competition the defeat of South
Sydney left Newtown and University in the front rank
with 16 competition points, and caused South and Glebe
to share second fiddle, with 14 points. The unfortunate
Eastern Suburbs is now the third line w’ith 10 points, after
which the single figures commence.
* * * *
In the Soccer competition the position at the
topis unchanged. Glebe, still unbeaten, leads with .15
points, having scored a bve on Saturday. Pyrmont, which
beat Sydney by three to nil, is still second, with 14 points,
and Garden Island, having walloped Ultimo by six to two
is third, with 13 points.
* * * *
The eruption of the N.S.W. Rugby League
caused the haughty Rugby Union to suddenly awake to
the fact that the Soccer and Australian footballers are its
long-lost brothers, and the result was that on Saturday
last the Glebe-South Sydney disturbance was preceded by
an inter-State game under Australian rules, in which a
team representing the famous Norwood (S. A.) club, the
real champions of Australia, met and defeated by 87
points to 18 a representative N.S.W. team. Nobody con-
sidered that N.S.W. had the slightest hope against the
scientific play of the champions, and the game
was purely an exhibition one. Norwood rose to
the occasion, and gave an exhibition in which
the best features of the Australian game were
shown to the best advantage. The crowd of about
7000 people included many Rugby fanciers, who looked on
at first with an amused and somewhat contemptuous
smile, and afterwards with a different sort of smile.
Hitherto they had regarded the game as a sort of weak
imitation of Rugby, or a sort of combination of Rugby
and Association, and were amazed to find that it is a game
that calls for just as much skill as either Rugby or Soccer,
and gives far more opportunity for brainy play. It was
about the best advertisement the Australian game has
had in Sydney up to date. *
After the strenuous games of the previous
Saturday and Monday, Melbourne’s football last week-
end seemed mild and placid. Nevertheless, the League
matches furnished a couple of pleasing games, both of
which further demonstrated the truth of the old adage
that no man is indispensable. Essendon had a couple of
players disqualified temporarily, three others had ’flu or
something, and its champion follower, Busbridge, pro-
bably the best at the game to-day, broke an ankle-bone
lately, and will play no more this season. So the bar-
rackers were despondent as the “same old” took the
field against South—but the players were all right.
They were a little lighter than the heavy Southerners,
but they were faster and vastly surer, and they never
once let the red-and-whites get more than a point
ahead. At half-time they had half their score to the good
—4 goals 6 behinds to 2 goals 3 behinds ; but on re-
suming South bogged in something extra, and steadily
decreased the gap till at lemon time the board showed
Essendon 5 goals 9 behinds, South 5 goals 7 behinds.
Then the “ same old ” settled down to make things safe,
and in 10 minutes had passed the ball methodically on to
their centre forward three times, and every time he
booted it through. South raked up another goal, and
two behinds to each side left the scores at- the bell—
Essendon 8 goals 11 behinds, South 6 goals 9 behinds.
The ’Dons seem to excel just where Carlton does ; their
system is by no means perfect, but they work together,
they seldom tumble, and, above all, they use their heads.
Saints v. ’Roy promised another exciting encounter, and
another 20,000 crowd swarmed on to the ground. Saints’
champion follower, Cumberland, was standing out, but
his absence seemed to make no difference. The seasiders
started carelessly, and at quarter time had scored but 10
points to ’Roy’s 18, but after that they set-to systemati-
cally and gave the Northern barrackers no hope. Half-
time figures of 36 to 31 were increased at three-quarter-
time to 53 to 35, and to 81 to 48 at the close, and the ’Roy
pushes went away to drown their sorrow in the usual fluid.
’Varsity made its first appearance at Geelong, and found
the opposition stronger than it expected. A strenuous
and exciting game left the students four points to
the good—39 to 35. There was no suspicion of intentional
rough play, yet no less than five players were temporarily
laid"out during the discussion. ’Wood scored a comfort-
able win over Melbourne by 56 to 32, and Carlton
practised goal-kicking at Richmond’s expense, its score of
115 points to 27 amusing nobody but the most bigoted
barrackers. The games played on the previous Monday
(Prince of‘Wales’birthdav) eventuated as expected, save
that ’Roy beat ’Varsity'by 84 to 61. As matters stand
now, Carlton is still undefeated with eight wins, Essendon
has lost one game, Saints three, South, ’Varsity and ’Roy
four each, and ’Wood five. The others don’t count.
At its weekly meeting, the Vic. League handed
out a few’ temporary disqualifications to those Essendon
and ’Roy players whose rough play was primarily the
cause of the unseemly outbreak of larrikinism at the’Roy
ground the Saturday previous. Violence adorned the
whole of this discussion, and no sooner had the bell
runs;, leaving- the ’Dons winners by four points, than
a crowd of hoodlums swarmed the low picket fence
and “ got to ” the players indiscriminately. Though
the Essendon men naturally got the worst of it,
there were plenty of ill-regulated barrackers who hit
both teams, and pretty well every man on the
ground had to fight his way to the dressing-room.
The half-score police were helpless in that mob, and it was
10 minutes before the mounted men from outside could
get in to ride through the pushes. Immediately the first
horse appeared, a vicious little Lizzie drove a hatpin into
its haunches, whereupon ensued a choice exhibition of
buckjumping. The umpire unaccountably escaped attack,
which says a good deal for his sprinting powers. Subse-
quently he reported three players for “rough play
(the League suspended them for a month), and one
for “ persistently disputing his decisions.” This latter
player the League reprimanded, which was a ridiculous
thing to do, seeing that he was merely an ordinary
plaver, and that his captain, who was there, made no
complaint. A player who openly disputes rulings should
be ordered off the field, and have it explained to him
that there is a proper and sportsmanlike way of dealing
with an allegedly biassed umpire, and that to carry on
as he admittedly did was merely to stir up the animus
of barrackers and supporters. In this case they were
stirred up to some purpose. * #
In Melbourne Association matches, the premier
team (’Town) lost its head, or its heart, or something,
and when ’Soray finished the first quarter with 20 points
to 2, the rest of the performance was a mere weariness.
Half-time saw the scores 20 to 4 ; three-quarter, 36 to 4;
and, though ’Town woke up at length and finished with
18 points to 43, it might as well have followed the ex-
ample of a junior team the same afternoon, and abandoned
the job at lemon time. That team, Pembroke, had accumu-
lated two whole points to Yarraville’s 86 after three spells
of bogging in, so concluded to give it best. Northcote,
which had hitherto only managed to beat the dreadful
Ports, gave Essendon (Association) the biggest shock;
this season by holding its own throughout and
winning by 61 to 54. The same dreadful Ports surprised
themselves and everyone else by wading in something
extra in the last quarter, and w-alloping Brunswick by
49 to 44. The effect on the barrackers was immense, and
Tail’s special from Brunswick to Port was observed
to be lurching h-avily and to want the whole
road as it rolled through the city and over
the bridge homewards. This was Port’s first win
this season, though it unaccountably managed to make a
draw with Footscray the previous Monday. The best
game of the round happened at Toorak, where Brighton
discussed matters with P’ran. There was no wonderful
skill, neither was there any stoush, but there was nothing
casual or dilettante about the players. The scores were
almost level throughout, and P’ran had but two points to
the good at the finish—44 to 42. Preston thrashed North
by 13 goals 24 behinds to 6 goals 8 behinds—which circum-
stance did little credit to Preston, and less to North.
* * •* •
Brisbane had a football country week lately, in
which four teams, Northern, Central, Southern, and
Western, took part. The Northern team came from
Charters Tow ers and Ravenswood ; the Central from
Rockhampton and Mount Morgan ; the Southern from
Bundaberg, Gympie, and Maryborough ; and the Western
from Ipswich and Toowoomba. Seeing that the
Northerners came from where, according to the nigger
push, the “ white man can’t live,” let alone work or play
football, they should have been rank failures at what is
allegedly a cold country game ; yet they easily defeated
each of the other teams ; while the Westerners, whose
chances of winning Bruce Smith would have been particu-
larly impressed with, lost all three matches.
The closing match of the English football season
caused any quantity of discussion. Notts County had
one game to play with Chelsea (London). The two lowest
clubs in the First Division of the League have to go down
into the Second. Now, Nottingham was lowest but one
before this game began, and a win would put it above
Bolton (Lancashire), which had finished its programme,
and stood lowest but two. The result of the match did
not matter at all to Chelsea. Chelsea lost, Nottingham
was saved, and Bolton descended, saying all manner of
harsh but unavailing things about the 22 players and the
umpire. * *
Football authorities in Hobart (Tas.) have
taken up much the same stand as the rowing people, and
with like results. A while back the Southern Association
decided to call itself the League, with intent to have
itself considered the only pebble on the beach, with the
sole right to choose inter-State teams, and boss things
generally. The Northern Association and the West Coast
Association laughed the laugh of the scornful, and
told the League to start wearing long pants. As a
result of two recent matches, the League is now
listening to reason. The first occurred on June 6,
between Launceston and the West Coast Association,
when the former won a tough game by 10 goals 15
behinds to 6 goals 11 behinds. On the following Monday
the Northern Association, which included five West Coast
players, met the Southern Association or League at Laun-
ceston in their 35th contest, and inflicted about the
unholiest walloping on record, the scores at the end of
the quarters being - North 18 to South’s one point, 19 to
two, 47 to three, and, finally, 67 to four ! South was con-
sistentin that it scored one behind each quarter. Anyhow-,
as far as football is concerned, the precious League s
name is plain Mud, and its claim to boss Apple Island s
toeball is laughed at wherever it is heard.
* * * *
Even in docile S. Australia the barrackers have
taken to the idea of kicking the umpire about the ground
after the football match is over. At the close of a match
between Sturt and West Torrens, on Saturday, the hood-
lums rushed the ground, pummelled central umpire
Kneebone, and finally left him tearing about with very
little shirt on. The time will yet come when an umpire
will carry a bomb on to;the ground, and hurl it with good
aim when the crowd rushes him, and purify football with
15 funerals.
* * * *
A good horse has more chance at Warwick Farm
than at any other of Sydney’s suburban courses, because
there is a long straight at the back and for the finish.
Rosehill is the next best track. The wearer of the bag
doesn’t take kindly to fielding at either place ; in fact,
some of the brotherhood prefer punting at both courses.
But the results at Warwick Farm on Saturday were
disastrous—probably the worst the course has seen. The
only favorite that won was Thrust. The much-fancied
South Head lost the first race (Hurdles) through losing
his rider, and Riverina district performer Zillah, who
made a similarly successful swoop at Randwick last year,
gathered the coin. Money literally poured into yawning
satchels for Loreley and Glenella, in the Farm Stakes, but
the lengthy Scopos-Hautesse filly Helga outpaced and
outstayed the field, and won her first race handsomely.
The principal event, Warwick Farm Handicap, fell
to that rank outsider Pharos —not fancied at
all by his stable, though odd sovs. and half
sovs. at up to 20 to 1 were risked by a few-
of the public who remembered how he won the same race
when last in Sydney. In March, Pharos appropriated
Orange Cup, with The Acolyte next and Guelder Rose (since
renamed Rose Ailie) third, and both the latter dis-
tinguished themselves signally at recent A.J.C. Birth-
day meeting, but this was only remembered afterwards.
Twenties were plentiful (and 25’s for the seeking) about
the Sir Tristram-Bonita filly, Nauta, who succeeded in
Nursery Handicap. Nauta figured twice during the past
five months in metropolitan company, but shaped far
from promisingly. Such, however, is the way of the gee-
gee, which is a vain thing, as mentioned by an eminent
authority now- deceased. Stoessel(Ruenalf —Water Color)
started at as long a price in last race (Stewards’ Mile) as
did Nauta, and was as little fancied—mostly because he
failed to finish in Farm Stakes (6fur.) earlier same after-
noon. Yet he won, and thus filled the backers’ cup of
bitterness to the brim and made it slop over into the
saucer.
* « * *
Published that that racecourse slave, Strath-
more-Chintz gelding Avalon, has gone under at last. As
evidence of the amount of racing some nags go through,
Avalon’s career is interesting. He figured in little less than
200 events, and the wonder is that he lasted half as long.
Foaled in 1895, Avalon, at two years, raced*a dozen times,
and three years saw him out on 23 occasions. When
seven years old he started 32 times, and each of the two
succeeding years 39 times. At 10 years his record was 20
races, at 11 years 13, and during this year he was often
in evidence.
List of loot garnered so far this season by
Maori land two-year-olds is topped by George Clifford’s
Fleetfoot with £2325. Late G. G. Stead’s Armlet is close
up, £lOO less, and £750 of Armlet’s pile is Australian
money. Fleetfoot’s haul has only been beaten in M.L. •
by Multiform’s record total of £2761 135., and Menschi-
kof’s £2553. George Clifford has bred and raced the
greatest prize winning 2-years-old three seasons in suc-
cession. Previous youngsters were Kirriemuir and Glen-
culloch.
* * * *
Claimed for latest Ferry (S. A.)-invented race-
course mechanism that it will “ collect the horses, bring
them to the barrier, and start them ” ; but the machine
still lacks completeness. The wheat State’s veteran sport
should introduce something that will make the horses go
straight after getting away. Collecting and starting
them are minor considerations.
» * , * ■*
S.A.J.C. Goodwood and A.R.C. Rose Park
Handicaps winner, Lord Carlyon, who only cost 60
guineas as a yearling, has won 11 races, and, in addition,
been placed eight times.
Westralian T.C.’s financial year has ended.
Nine gatherings, spread over 16 days, yielded a profit of
£10,094, as against £9002 last year. Allowing for cost of
management and depreciation of assets, a gain of £2158
is announced. Last year it was £683 only. Prize money
totalled £17,200. Twelve months before it was £17,525
for one day less.
■* ■* ■ ■ *
We are getting ready for the Amurkan Fleet:
Australian and N.S.W. vice-royalty attended a game of
baseball on Saturday last, when University and Waverley
battled in the Rawson Cup competition. University
scored five to Waverley’s three. The rather absurd-
looking game, in which one man wears a fryingpan on his
hand, a meatsafe on his face, and a liver-pad over his dia-
phragm, will now proceed to hum.
* * * •
“ Snell ” • Boxing in Melbourne has been taken
in hand by yet another body, the Indoor Sports Club, the
fifth thing of its kind within about three years. The
Indoor Sports opened its career with all the symptoms of
administrative incapacity that characterised earlier
failures. It’s first really big bill, Williams v. Griffin, was
a dismal fiasco. It is better to shut shop than to disap-
point a vast crowd, unless you are out for the immediate
cash, and don’t care a loose whoop for future patronage.
Williams went into the ring a lame man ; he had
knocked up his right hand at his work, and could do
nothing with it. The result was little more than a pre-
tence and a weak excuse for taking the gate money.
Williams kept out of mischief as much as possible for
six rounds, and then threw the towel in the face of
Heaven. Which, taken all round, was a poor business.
+!* * *
The Victorian amateur boxing and wrestling
championships occur, at the Melbourne Cyclorama, on
the nights of July 18, 21, 23, 25 and 28 ; and present
indications are that the quantity of biff and full Nelsons
will be greater than ever before. M. P. Adams, a well-
known athlete, will engineer the show under the direction
of the V.A.A.A.
* * * *
When Squires left Australia for California, he
was supposed to be the possessor of an iron jaw and an
invincible “wallop.” When he met Burns at Colma.it
was declared to be proved that his jaw was glass, and
that he had no wallop. Later on, Squires himself was
reported as having said he had mislaid his punch. When
he met Twin Sullivan, a man who had previously beaten
Burns, he gave him a wild and woolly time for 18 rounds,
and then collapsed, and the Yankee won by superior
endurance. The papers still proclaimed that the lost
wallop had not been recovered. Squires went away
to the pine forests of Oregon to look for it, and
swung the axe till he believed he had regained the
offensive thing. He took it back to civilisation to try it
on James Flynn. Now Flynn is a third-rater, and with
the recovered wallop and an obscene left which Squires
was understood to have picked up in the pine forests, it
was firmly believed that Flynn was as good as dead. But
the unexpected happened, and Squires was slugged out
easily in 11 rounds. Then Australia generally, which
never had anv great opinion of Squires, quietly dropped
him. He fell into oblivion for a time, and was next
heard of among the four-round sparrers of the City of
Brotherly Love, where the Law forbids man to bash his
brother more than 12 minutes. It was on the first of May
that Squires appeared in Britain, and turned Jem Roche,
the Irish champion, right down in four rounds. On Sunday
last he met Burns again in Paris, and the wool flew. It
was the old Squires, no longer a rusher, but a wary and
resourceful bruiser, who made rallies that shook the
Amurkan where he lived. The fifth round was cyclonic,
and Burns seems to have been on the point of being
outed when the gong brought respite. During the
interval he recovered, and displayed all the marvellous
ability for keeping out of the way that has made him
famous. From private advices, the sixth round was a
wild flight on the part of the world champion, and a mad
pursuit by the Australian, and the effort burst Squire s
boiler. Then the Canadian turned, and finding his
opponent exhausted, proceeded to chop him up. The
finishing stroke was a fearsome bash on the ribs in the
eighth round.
THE STONE AGE AND THE AGE OF BRICK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Society, with a large S., is loudly demanding further
reforms in football, if we are to believe the Melbourne
papers, and little incidents in connection with a recent
Fitzroy and Essendon match at Fitzroy are quoted as
excuses for the feverish clamor. Note these daily paper
items :
“ After Holden, of Fitzroy, had been carried off the
ground injured—though he was able to get about after-
wards—there seemed to be a general desire, on the field
and off it, to get somebody’s heart’s blood. . . .
“ At one time the rush looked particularly venomous,
and several of the Essendon men were bleeding when they
reached their dressing-room. . ._.
“The angry crowd —which included a great many
women—seemed particularly anxious to get hold of
Belcher, of Essendon, who was protected by Constable
Proudfoot. ...
“Bricks were used on this occasion, somebody having
left a quantity of old building material on the ground, an
act showing a singular lack of foresight.”
Once on a time athletic men with good stone axes met,
And smote each other, hip and thigh, and no one seemed
to fret,
But nowadays, when sport is “clean” and we are
civilised,
Such customs and low practices are properly despised.
To shed red blood,
Or in the mud
To hurl a battered rival with a dull, appalling thud,
It is heathen and offensive. We changed it since the
Flood.
In later day in tourney gay, with shining sword and
spear,
The sport sliced off a cousin’s leg or else a brother’s ear.
That too was shocking, unrefined, and far too gross and
grim
For politer generations that respected life and limb^
For long the Ring
Was in full swing.
Refinement was progressing though. The pug was said
to bring
Discredit on the nation. We reformed the wicked thing.
And so by gradual stages, fyom the period of stone,
We have reached these brighter ages when big rocks are
freely thrown.
The pick of our exalted youth, controlled by gracious
laws,
Breathing brotherly affection—using teeth and also
claws.
And strong and quick
They hit and kick,
And gouge, and bite, and worry, while the atmosphere is
thick,
And the sun’s obliterated with the drifting cloud o'
brick.
VIC.
SILAS SSPLL.


KUGELMANN\S
©
©
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
j*
FR.EE
SAMPLE
lent o n
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kugelmann's Pur* Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St„ SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
c.
NEW Chib Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A,
NEW CLUB
CARTRIDGES'
Makes vou loou manly
Befopf*
Iflrr
CAPILLARINE GIVES RESULTS
That’s the difference between it and the uncertain pomades men
are often persuaded to buy. If there is the least sign of down on
your lip, the nightly application of CAPILLABINE will with cer-
tainty produce a handsome moustache. We can guarantee that.
POST FREE ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD.
1 //L ««
IW J CL J C»i •
Securely Packed
in Plain Wrapper
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND.
The Chief Justice. No. 29 of 1908.
BETWEEN
CAROLINE ARGENT wife of William
Argent ELIZABETH RICHARDSON wife
of Arthur Richardson JOSEPH JOHN
KREIS JACOBINA SMITH spinster
ADAM SMITH and CONRAD SMITH
Plaintiffs
and
ROBERT JAMES SHILI.IDAY CHRIS-
TIAN SMITH and DILLAMON SMITH
defendants.
TO THE ABOVE-NAMED DEFENDANT DILLAMON
SMITH.
rpAKE NOTICE that this action was on the fourth day
-L of March 1908 commenced against you and that the
plaintiffs by their Writ of Summons claim a sale of the
land comprised in Deed of Grant No. 77364 Volume 816
Folio 124 and a distribution of the proceeds among the
parties interested and that His Honor the Chief Justice
has by Order dated the twenty-ninth day of May 1908
authorised service of the said Writ of Summons on you
by the insertion of this notice once in the Cairns
Morning Post once in the Queenslander and once in the
Sydney Bulletin.
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired within sixteen days after the insertion of the last
of the said notices in manner aforesaid inclusive of the
day of such insertion to cause an appearance to be
entered for you at the Supreme Court Office Supreme
Court Brisbane and that in default of your so doing the
plaintiffs may proceed with this action and judgment
may be given in your absence.
DATED this sixth day of June 1908.
CHAMBERS, McNAB AND McNAB,
30 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Agents for R. J. LEEPER,
Warwick,
Solicitor for the Plaintiffs.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND.
The Chief Justice.
BETWEEN
No. 29 of 1908.
CAROLINE ARGENT wife of William
Argent ELIZABETH RICHARDSON wife
of Arthur Richardson JOSEPH JOHN
KREIS JACOBINA SMITH spinster
ADAM SMITH and CONRAD SMITH
Plaintiffs
and
ROBERT JAMES SHILL I DAY CHRIS-
TIAN SMITH and DILLAMON SMITH
Defendants.
TO THE ABOVE-NAMED DEFENDANT CHRISTIAN
SMITH.
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the fourth day
of March 1908 commenced against you and that the
plaintiffs by their Writ of Summons claim a sale of the
land comprised in Deed of Grant No. 77364 Volume 816
Folio 124 and a distribution of the proceeds among the
parties interested and that His Honor the Chief Justice
has by Order dated the twenty-ninth day of May 1908
authorised service of the said Writ of Summons on you
by the insertion of this notice once in the Queenslander
once in the Mungixdi News and once in the Sydney
Bulletin.
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired within sixteen days after the insertion of the last
of the said notices in manner aforesaid inclusive of the
day of such insertion to cause an appearance to be
entered for you at the Supreme Court Office Supreme
Court Brisbane and that in default of your so doing the
plaintiffs may proceed with this action and judgment
may be given in your absence.
DATED this sixth day of June 1908.
CHAMBERS, McNAB AND McNAB,
30 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Agents for R. J. LEEPER,
Warwick,
Solicitor for the Plaintiffs.
Horse-Riding Taught
MRS. E. M. STACE ... GRANVILLE.
RIDING LESSONS TO LADIES AND CHILDREN
Pupils Taught in Sydney or Granville, or Near theit
Own Homes. Horses and Saddles Provided.
Terms, etc., on Application.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of J. C. WILLIAMSON’S Merry, Musical Pantomime,
HUMPTY LUMPTY.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 20, the Far-Famed Pantomime,
MOTHER GOOSE,
For Six Nights and One Matinee Only.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8 SHARP.
ELECTRICAL SUCCESS of Pixley and Luders’s
Million-Laughter-Voltage Musical Play,
THE PRINCE OF PILSEN.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: MR. FRANK MUSGROVE.
HERBERT FLEMMING’S NEW ENGLISH
COMEDY COMPANY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
THE MUMMY & THE HUMMING BIRD
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 20,
First Production in Australia of
THE MORALS OF MARCUS.
JHE LYCEUM
HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
pALACE
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
WEST’S PICTURES “ The A jfS tof
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million —6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
YDN E Y
GL A C
A R I U M.
The ICE SKATERS’ RENDEZVOUS
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
Morning, 10 to 12 ; Afternoon, 3 to 5 ; Evening, 8 to 10.30.
PRIVATE LESSONS BEFORE AND AFTER
MORNING AND AFTERNOON SESSIONS.
ADMISSION 2s. SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHILDREN —Admission, Morning and Afternoon only, Is.
CHlLDREN—Admission, Saturday Mornings only, 6d.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poolk, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE RIGOLETTO BROTHERS, Revolving Ladder
Experts. WILL LOCHRANE, Scotch Comedian.
THE AHLBERGS, Comedy Acrobats & Hand Balancers.
THE DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
THE SISTERS ALBERT. CLARENCE TISDALE.
ALBERTO. Miss NAOMI TANNA.
Mr. MARSH LITTLE. THE TWO WESTONS.
Mr. FRED. BLUETT. LITTLE BABY WATSON-
PRICES —35., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
ETHEL PRESTON, Acrobatic Song and Dance Artiste.
WALTER WHYTE, Tenor.
J. R. LING, Mimetic Monoloquist.
CHARLES MILDARE, Whistler.
REGAN and RYAN, Eccentric Comedians.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
Plan at Allan’s. tS" PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
N
THURSDAY, JUNE 18, FRIDAY, JUNE 19,
LAST TWO Performances of MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 20,
MEYNELL and GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
—in—
THE BELLE OE MAYEAIR.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 17-
Plan at Allan’s.
gIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
EDWIN GEACH’S NEW DRAMATIC CO.
A MODERN ADVENTURESS.
Special Engagement ERNEST LEICESTER, Popular
Loudon Actor.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Early Doors 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
THE CENTURY’S GREATEST MUSICAL SUCCESS.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THU MERRY WIDOW.
Re-appearance of MISS CARRIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE S s lll.
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
E A L
C E
SKATING.
MELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
GRAND FANCY DRESS CARNIVAL,
TUESDAY EVENING, 30th INST.
Children’s Maypole Dance ; Waltzing Competition ;
Best Pair-Skating Outer Edges (Lady and Gentle-
man); Most Original Costume; Best Sustained
Character; and Numerous Other Prizes.
Hugh D. McIntosh, on behalf of the Sports
and Entertainments, Ltd., had his glittering eye fixed
on Paris, and immediately took a temporary lease of the
cable. Prom the particulars he received he is quite satis-
fied that Squires has recovered the lost wallop. And as
Mac has a filthy wallop himself he is an excellent judge
of the quality of that sort of thing. So impressed was
he with his information that he immediately cabled offer-
ing a lump sum for a fight between Squires and Burns in
Australia. Squires accepted, and will travel with Burns
on board the Mongolia, which leaves London on the 10th
of next month.
At Melbourne Athletic Club, last Friday even-
ing, Donald Dinnie’s son George (aged 25 or thereabouts,
and weighing 14st.) and Buttan Singh (more or less than
50 and weighing list. 61b.) essayed a catch-as-catch-can
“ wrastle ” for side wagers of £20 and the “gate.” Said
“ gate ” panned out about £30, so there wouldn t be
much left for the contestants when the expenses were
met. George aforesaid is a red-haired, well-built person,
who speaks the Scottish dialect and seems a trifle muscle-
bound. Buttan is just a lean, brown human panther.
Try as he would Dinnie could get no hold of the slippery
ancient, while the middle-aged and greasy one on
his part was quite incapable of turning the solid
mass opposed to him on his back. The pair wrestled
an hour and a quarter without anything approaching a
fatal hold being secured, save once, when Buttan, in
rolling, balanced on the turn for half a second. Had
Dinnie held him then he might have forced him down,
but the old ’un was too quick. A good part of the time
Buttan spent keeping himself out of harm’s way—to wit,
with his arms round Dinnie’s shoulders from the back
and a grapevine twist of the legs. It was impossible
for him to throw the Scotchman that way, but it
was also most difficult for the latter to wriggle into
a position where he could do something. At 10.30
referee Peter Bannon declared a draw, which lame and un-
satisfactory result, as with the VVeber-Bannon go on the
previous Monday, is calculated to send that necessary
animal known as “ the gate ” into a debilitated and
anaemic state. This paper suggests that in future con-
tests, where the “ wrastlers ” weigh 3st. less than each
other, as it were, and where one of them is obviously
trying for a mere draw, the referee should be empowered
to order them to wrestleon, or hold on, or sit on, till finality
is reached, even if it takes a year to settle the question.
A show of that sort w-ould combine the lusty joys of a
genuine wrestle with the persistent deliberation of a
club-plaving or piano-swinging contest, and would cater
for the contemplative section of the public as well as for
the sudden and vigorous. Besides, if one “ gate merely
pays expenses, a week’s takings might possibly leave a
trifle over—or again they might not,
“Stork”: Ess6ndon Harriers, a pretty hot
Victorian club, intends sending a team for the New bouth
Wales cross-country championship. Said team sn°um
contain J. A. Stillwell (triple 10 miles champion of Vic.),
J. W. Stillwell, G. A. Wheatley, McMicken Hollow, and
Arkley. Apart from said peds, there’s a tidy reserve to
fall back on.
W. Tuck, of Wanganui (Maoriland), who occu-
pies the high position of chief backer of sculler Webb, is
apparently still suffering from the attack of swelled head
that struck the district badly after Webb’s triumph, and
he declines to alter “ the only conditions under which
Arnst can have a race.” Arnst is at present at Raymond
Terrace (N.S.W.), training-, and has signified his willing-
ness to accept ail the conditions save that which provides
that if either sculler is not on the mark at 4 p.m. sharp,
he shall forfeit. He is willing to agree to all the rest pro-
vided the word “ sharp ” is knocked out. Providence
sometimes moves in a cynical way, and it would be poetic
justice if Webb should get capsized on his way to the
starting-point, and forfeit the race and his championship
by a quarter of a minute. It is a ridiculous proviso,
anyhow. Arnst, in the meantime, will go on training in
N.S.W., and row Harry Pearce on August 1 for £100
a-side. If Arnst should succeed in wresting the cham-
pionship from Webb, if will be the second occasion in a
very brief period when the honor has gone to an unknown
and practically untried man.
When George Towns left Sydney in the Orontes,
last Saturday, he had no very definite idea of what he
was going for. The well-known Maoriland horse-owner
and athlete, Spencer Gollan, of Hastings, Waipukerau,
and a few other fearsome sounding names, who spends
most of his time in Britain and on the European con-
tinent, cabled to him to go along at once. And George
packed his gripsack, and, tucking his wife under his arm,
started off instanter. Spencer G. is a great sport, but
he’s a keener business man, and anyone he acts for can
rely upon getting the best of the bargain. The general
idea is that the Waipukerau man has arranged a race
with Barry.
* * * *
The Dunlop Rubber Co. has fixed upon Satur-
day, September 19, for the Goulburn to Sydney race to
pick a N.S.W. representative for the Warrnambool-
Melbourne struggle. The hungry eyes of the road-racing
cyclist will be gladdened with the glitter of the prize list
within the next few days.
* * * *
The Continental Bathurst-to-Ashfield (N.S.W.)
road cycle race will transpire on August 15, and is ex-
pected' to be patronised by representatives from all the
States. The Continental, as most people know, but some
don’t, stands for the Continental C. and G. Rubber Co.,
Ltd. ’ The first prize is £50, and is presented by the pro-
moters. The trade presents the other rewards.
Next Saturday is regarded in Sydney amateur
bike circles as “ club” Saturday, when clubs are let loose
to run off members’ events, and generally have a gay
time. Of the W events set down for Sydney and metro-
politan difetricts, seven will be spun off on the narrow
stretch between Homebush and Granville ; in fact, this
mass of dVcHMfc will take complete possession of the road,
and carrWm8*Vdust and danger than the Motor Hog.
Now what sort of‘a’chance vlill a child or a slow dog/or a
curate burie&'&.thought haveon the Homebush-Granville
Road that day?
-, ..Htf.'.
Phillips Fox, the Australian artist who has
returned to us with a London and European repu-
tation, holds an exhibition of his and his wife’s
work at the Grosvenor Rooms, 130 Pitt-street
(near King-street), Sydney, on the 24th. The
private views will be on the two previous days.
Fox will show a number of pictures that were
hung on the line at the R. A. and the Salon ; and
the work is of the kind that no art-lover can afford
to miss.
“ Dunlavin ” : Let me put in a word for
the four militia officers Australia is sending to
India for the drill season :—
According to Melbourne Argus, they are to have au
allowance of 4s. per diem while on shipboard, and 15s.
per day while in India, equal to 300 rupees per month.
They will never do on it. I know India and that whereof
I write.
The cost of servants and wages per month there are
as follows : —Bearer (head man and valet), 18Rs. ; kitmat-
ghar (waits on his sahib at table), 12Rs. ; bhisti (water
carrier), part services, 4Rs.; sweeper (sanitary con-
tractor), part services, 4Rs.; chokidar (watchman —in
reality blackmail to obtain immunity from petty
thieving), part services, 4Rs.: syce (groom), lOIJs. ;
grasscutter (ponies are fed on grass roots, dug up by this
servant, plus 51b. to 71b. of grain and bran mixed), 8Rs.;
and dhobie (washerman), 8Rs. —total, 70Rs. All the
above are necessary evils, as each class of work is done by
a separate caste. Australian trades unionism is not a
circumstance to the unionism of Indian caste. As regards
the item for a groom, etc., it may be mentioned that
officers’ quarters are generally from one to two miles
from barracks, and it would be considered more
than infra dig., not only by the whites, but
by the natives, for an officer to habitually walk.
In addition to the above, personal expenses, which
cannot be avoided, will total some 222Rs. per month,
made up as follows: Early breakfast in bungalow
and messing (food only), 130Rs. ; bungalow rent (officers
not provided with quarters), say 40IJs. ; club subscription
(all whites meet at the club each afternoon, ladies in-
cluded), lORs. ; hire of furniture, 15Rs. ; food for pony,
14Rs. ; subscriptions to various sports, 15Rs. ; and certain
subscriptions to the mess, which even honorary members
have to pay, 15Rs. Finally, there are no threepenny
beers in India, and every time he asks a pal whether he
(the pal) has a mouth on him, it will cost lOd. to Is. per
mouth, according to what part of India he is then in.
The price at which the inexperienced Australian will be
able to hold his uniform up there will be a round quid a
day.
Under the new Food Acts, which have lately
come into force in the Commonwealth, there have been
several prosecutions which were instituted because the
foods sold by chemists and others, under the name of
infants’ foods, did not comply with the standard fixed by
the Board of Health. They contained starch, thereby
rendering them unsuitable as foods for children under six
months old. Horlick’s Malted Milk has been analysed
and passed by the said Board and admitted duty free,
because it is an eminently suitable food for infants under
six months, other foods of this description being taxed.
This information should be valuable to doctors, nurses,
etc., as it shows the high position “Horlick’s” takes
when in comparison with similar products. Chemists will
also be relieved to know that they run no risk in stocking
and selling this preparation.*
Away back in the days when the English
cricketers were in the land, Albert Cotter strained his leg
bowling against them. When the selectors included
him among those to play against the invaders at
Adelaide, Cotter made no mention of his injury, but took
the trip on the chance of being able to play. He wasn’t,
and the first the selectors heard of the trouble was when
they reached Adelaide and found Cotter a lame duck. As
he did not play, he, of course, missed the £25, and this
week M. A. Noble moved that the N.S.W. Cricket Associ-
ation should grant him £5 towards his exes. The Asso-
ciation put both boots through the proposal. If Cotter,
knowing he will probably be unable to play, takes long
trips on speculation, he must foot the bill himself if the
spec, fails. Which seems eminently reasonable.


APPROPRIATENESS in Wedding Gifts
FINDS tHe truest expression of
Usefulness and Beauty in ... .
A. SAUNDERS’ TABLE SILVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER and TOAST COMBINATION,
I*ure Silver-Plated Nickel Silver,
White Crystal Glass Dish.
15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
You can confidently
rely on our Up-to-
Date Mail Order De-
partment to serve
you promptly and
satisfactorily.
No matter where
you live, we send all
goods CARRIAGE
FREE, which means
a big saving to you.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SERVICE,
Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved,
Fern Design, Gilt Lined, with Covers.
£2/15/.
Other Styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5.
BELOW we present a few designs
of A 1 quality —a quality tHat as-
sures Life-long SATISFACTION.
OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
illustrates over 3000
designs in Watches,
Clocks, Jewellery,
Silver Plate, Leather,
and Optical Goods.
Write for a copy
to-day. You’ll receive
it by return mail,
free, and postage paid.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND
and SIFTER, Pure Silver-Plated,
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Gilt Lined.
£2.
O.ther Styles, 30/, 35/, £2, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-Plated,
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Richly Engraved,
2/6.
Other Styles, 2/, 2/6, 3/, 3/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRIBBAGE BOARD and
CARD DRAWER,
English Oak,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts.
15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated,
Richly Engraved and Embossed,
Size, 9jin. x 9£in.
35/.
Other Styles, 20/, 25/, 3(7/,
40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TABLE CENTRE, Four Branch,
Pure Silver-Plated. Richly Embossed,
Ruby-tinted Glass Tubes.
30/.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Richly Embossed.
3/6.
Other Styles, 2/, 2/6, 3/, 3/6, i/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-Plated,
Nickel Silver, Al Quality,
Green or Ruby Tinted Glass.
20/.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
SALT SHAKER,
Pure Silver Top,
Fine Cut Crystal Glass.
3/6.
SALT POURER
to Match, 3/6.
ENGLISH OAK BISCUIT BARREL,
China Lining,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts.
12/6.
A 1 Quality, 20/.
•SHaasravs *v
A. SAUNDERS.
JE4/4 /
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated on Wnite Metal, comprising Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and
Cream, Richly Engraved, Gilt-lined, with Covers.
Other Styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5.
£4/4/
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Three Bottle, Pure Silver-Plated,
Cut Crystal Class Bottles.
15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed
and Pierced, Fine Cut Crystal Glass Dish.
20/.*
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak SALVER, Pure Silver-Plated, Mounts
and Fittings, A 1 Quality, Ball Feet, Size 20in.
£2.
Other Styles—
-12/6, 10/, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 407, to £6/10/.
Hi
.
u
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE DISHES, with
SERVERS, Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Satin Glass Lining.
£2/10/.
Other Styles, 30/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FRAME, Carved English Oak,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts,
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass Bottles.
£3.
Other Styles, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK, Thistle Design,
Pure Silver-Plated. Pierced Base.
6/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6, 12/6.
BUTTER DISH, Shell Design,
Pure Silver-Plated, A 1 Quality,
Satin Glass Lining.
15/6.
Other Styles—
-10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOTWATER KETTLE and STAND,
Pure Silver-Plated,
A 1 Quality.
Rustic Stand.
Plain, 35/-.
Richly Chased, £2.
Other Styles—
£2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
SALT and Pr.irr.ii STAND,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Crystal Glass Cellar.
10/6.
SUGAR BASIN and TONGS,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Satin Finished, Gilt Lined.
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION DINNER CRUET,
Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality,
Fine Cut Crystal Glass Bottles.
£3.
Other Styles—
-30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S.W.


ABOUT AN OLD FAVORITE DRINK
IN A NEW-SHAPED BOTTLE.
If you are still saying any of the phrases crossed out below, learn where
you are going wrong, and it future
DIXON’S
The Premier
Winter Beverage
How to Order “0.T.”
If you merely order “ 0.T.” in a
careless sort of fashion, without
troubling yourself further, you
MAY get “O.T.”—and again you
may not.
There is not one of those obliter-
ated phrases alongside which really
ENSURES your obtaining what
no doubt, you want.
The only way in which you can
give a DEFINITE order, one that
will INV ARIABLY give satisfac-
tion, one that will bring the genuine
article is by saying—
“O.T.” dixon’s “0.T.”
And remember there is no other
beverage “just as good ” as “0.T.”
As a thirst-quenching beverage
for all seasons it has no equal, and
as a cure for colds, chills, influenza,
indigestion, etc., it has reached a
high standard of merit.
A dash of “ 0.T.” in Water,
Soda, Lemonade, Whisky makes a
most delicious drink. No other
Beverage has the same strength,
the health-giving properties, or the
delicate flavor of “0.T.”
Secure the Beverage, which is
protected for you, and
Observe the Maker’s
Safeguards.
A Reward of £lOO
will be given for information lead-
ing to the conviction of any person
refilling “ 0.T.” bottles or passing
off a substitute for “ 0.T.”
A Y
2
A-&
LJr-OP
F
Crt
TEN
el hec
5e
n
A
V£
0
G
O
ME
IVE
o^pt
Ma
°K
CM - *
a OASH*n
WHISKY
BRANDY
WINE OR
C'O
3
THE:
ST
PU
c
£ usfc\
WITH 0
SODA o
2 water *
UMONADE*
l WOT .
0 Ot* «
« cold 0 °
\water*
Op o
o <l°
o*>°
rf'C BEERO)]
MAKES A"
DELICIOUS
DRINK'**
ALSO THE
BEST
LIQUEUR
AFTER MEAL 0 .
A
T
WI
T
ERA
JDIXON^C?^
gjMIOH 5 - PRAH HAN ViffQ
'^rfeltPHONt
A GREAT CURE
TOR INDICESTION
i
i
DIXON'S
Safeguards for the protec-
tion of the Public against
imitations of “0.T.”
The Proprietors of “0.T.” have
endeavored to safeguard the pub-
lic’s interest (as well as their own)
by providing a New-shaped Bottle,
with several distinctive features,
by which the genuine “0.T.” can
be readily distinguished from the
many Imitations on the market.
Here are a few :
The peculiar corrugated
effect on the neck of the
" O. T. ” Bottle.
— That’s Safeguard No. 1.
The “ O. T. ” Registered Trade
Mark, a Red Chil/ie.
— That’s Safeguard No. 2 .
The “ 0.T.” Label (green and
red on white) enumerating
some of the many drink
combinations with “ 0.T.”
—That’s Safeguard No. 3.
The “0.T.” maker’s name
“d. Dixon and Co.”—the
cue to saying not only
“O.T.”but “Dixon’s ‘O.T.’”
—That’s Safeguard No. 4.
Manufactured
by
J. DIXON ®. CO.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR
VICTORIA,
High Street, PRAHRAN,
MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY : Grocers, Storekeepers, Chemists, and Confec-
tioners order from
O.T. FACTORY, 3 Eddy-Avenue, Central Railway, Sydney.
Hotels and Wine and Spirit Merchants order through
ORME, KEIGWIN, 269 George Street, Sydney.
Brisbane Wholesale Agents : QUINLAN, GRAY & CO.
TOLLEY LTD., Fremantle, Agents for West Australia.
A. E. N. F. TOLLEY, Adelaide, Agent for South Australia.
JOHNSON & WILMOTT, Agents for Launceston, Tasmania.
FERGUSSON & CO., Agents for Hobart, Tasmania.
R DIRECT FROM
J. DIXON, VICTORIA.
Nearly all merchants will supply it. It is also sold in India, London, South Africa, and Japan. Agents wanted where not represented. This Drink is wanted all over the world. It is the sensible person’s
drink of the future ; something long wanted between the soft and hard drink. RETAILED BY HOTELS, GROCERS AND CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
j WHAT IS CATARRH?
is inflammation of the lining membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
' throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures. Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi', Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., M^lboArne.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
eollectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes.
Of all Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
CDLIMfoIA
RECORDS
53
COLUMBIA NEW-PROCESS RECORDS
(DISC or CYLINDER) will fit any make of “ Talking Machine,” and make it sound
almost as good as a Columbia GKAPH-o-phone. Send for our new Catalogues of
10in. DISC RECORDS at 2/6 each ; 12in. DISC RECORDS at 4/- each
GOLD-MOULDED CYLINDER RECORDS at 1/3 each.
Say which, or say all—Free, of course.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. Gen'l, 255 Clarence Street, Sydney
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Racket of Twelve Is
Packet of Ten lOd
Greener
uf ss
ARE
|jj KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality!.
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Gun in the
World and the best Shooting
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.”
A
POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH
Pride, 6d.
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously.”
— Lancet.
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.


ON LITTLE GIRL
Not Washed for Eight Months, by
Doctor’s Orders—Was Miserable,
Suffering Terribly—Had to Tie
Hands to Stop Scratching—Pa-
rents Lost Heart, but One Cake
of Cuticura Soap and One Box of
CUTICURA TOOK OFF
EVERY BIT OF HUMOUR
“I want to let you know what a
wonderful cure Cuticura Remedies ef-
fected on my little girl. There came
a rash over the little one’s face when
she was a month old. My wife took
the child up to the doctor’s to see what
it was, and he told her it was gum rash.
She brought her home and let it go
on for a month, but as it got no better
I would have her take the child to
another doctor’s. He told my wife
that the baby had got blood eczema
and gave her some medicine and oint-
ment, and told my wife not to wash
the child. We were doctoring the child
for eight months, but she was no better
at the end of the eight months than
she was when we took her first. You
can imagine how miserable the child
was, not being washed. We had to
tie the little one’s hands when we took
her to bed, to prevent her from scratch-
ing her face, as she made it bleed so
if her hands were at liberty. I was
recommended to try Cuticura Soap and
Cuticura Ointment, but we were doubt-
ful at first, as we had almost lost heart,
but my wife said we had given the
doctors a good trial and they had done
no good, and the child was so miserable
not being washed, so we said we would
give the Cuticura Remedies a trial.
The first time my wife washed the child
with Cuticura Soap and used Cuticura
Ointment our daughter seemed like a new
child, as she did not offer to scratch so
much and seemed a lot easier. She was
one mass of eczema about the face and
shoulders, but the first box of Cuticura
Ointment and bar of Cuticura Soap took
every bit off her. The neighbours said it
would come on again, as it had gone off
too quick, but the child is three years old
now and she has not had any signs of it
since. G.Williams, 86 Sea Brook Rd.,near
Wednesbury, Staffs.,Eng., Aug. 26,1906."
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humourof Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
& Co., Sydney: Lennon, Cape Town, etc.: B. K. Paul.
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
ar Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
TJ
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
The Survival >t Fittest
The world-wide demand for
reasonably - priced pianos,
has, during the last decade,
brought many new makes
of instrument on the
market .
Rapidly constructed, with-
out regard to permanency
in those things which con-
stitute true piano worth,
they have but a short-
lived popularity .
The MIGNON PIANO
was the first really high=
grade moderately - priced
instrument placed before
the Australian public .
It has stood the test of time.
Its position in hundreds of
musical homes at the pre=
sent moment stands as ir=
refutable evidence of its
remarkable durability of
construction —.
See and hear the MICNON, and you
will have no other.
CASH or
TERMS .
Catalogues
FREE.
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
115,000
The Wayback iSeries*
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps aughing. Bed Harry is.
This Lady’s Shoe is
Corred for Winter Wear,
16/6
It's one of those Patent Leather Tie Shoes so much
in vogue this winter. The toe is daintily rounded
and the Cuban Heel gives an effective smartness to
its appearance. With pump soles the price is 16/6,
or at a Guinea we sell this shoe in the same style
with a hand-sewn sole.
Whichever you order, add 9d. for
postage if in Victoria : II- anv
other State.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne •
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
Prepare for a Good Position! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own iTome. H al
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and tan do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
CONJURING TRICKS, PUZZLES, SURPRISE
AND JOKE NOVELTIES.
THE MAGIC
COINER.
w
Something quite new, a real mystifier, and one of
the cleverest tricks ever invented. This little trick,
which can be carried in the vest pocket, never
fails to add to an evening’s amusement, and is in-
dispensable to a conjurer. It represents the coinage
of threepenny pieces from plain pieces of metal,
and one, two, or three coins can be made at the
will of the operator- Full directions enclosed.
Price //-, post free anywhere.
COMIC MAKE-UPS.
Consisting: of a
pair of false eyes
(made of cellu-
loid and unbreak-
able), price Bd. ;
a set of false teeth
(made of celluloid
and unbreakable),
price 10d. ; a
false nose (made
of canvas cloth,
covered with wax,
©
beautifully colored and made in every conceivable
shape), price 6d. ; and a false moustache, any color
and easily attached to the nostrils, price 3d. each ;
or the complete set 2/-, post free anywhere.
V
THE SPRA Y WA TER
PISTOL.
Will stop the most
vicious dog or man with-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unescorted ladies, night-
watchmen, etc. Has more effect on beggars and
tramps than a watchdog. It creates great amuse-
ment for young and old, and is one of the most
popular joke novelties ever placed on the Australian
market. Reloading unlimited, length 5 inches,
nickel-plated and nicely ornamented. Price 1/6
post free to any part of the world.
MAGIC BED ELI A BALLS.
Very novel and surprising’.
You squeeze the ball and out
pops the legs, as shown, in
an amazingly life-like manner.
On releasing the pressure the
legs at once disappear. One
of the most comical novelties
to be found in our varied
stock, and affords no end of
of amusement for old and
young. Price //-, post free
anywhere.
Send for our new Illustrated
Catalogue—just published.
Wholesale and Retail.
mi
lEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Hayniarket Post Office.
PERMANENTLY CURED !
MANY people have said, “If a cure can be found
for Obesity, and one that will effectually
reduce fat without harm to the patient, the dis-
coverers would make a fort-
une.” We have found the rem-
edy. Our main idea is just
now, however, to have you
use the treatment so that you
may help to start our endless
chain of patients.
"FATCURE” re-
moves excess fat and
[cures Obesity and the
cure is permanent. It
takes off from five
pounds a week to over
two stone a month.
Many cases lose a pound
a day. It is not a patent medicine. It is
' a scientific treatment by the use of vegetable
extracts in tablet form.
Mrs. 0. J. Murphy, of Glenmore Road, Pad- i
dington, writes: “Your remedy reduced myi
we ght 37 lbs. and I now feel splendid.”
Send a iwopenny stamp for free sample and
our booklet, which we send free under sealed
cover. Write or call lor sample to-day.
Thousands endorse “ Fatcure.” Let us send you
their letters commending it.
THE WATWORTH GO. Suite J,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street. Take lift.
[ls
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE ITI
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazifie form, It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Gomtaonwealth.
WATCH.
GUARANTEED IN WRITING FOR 12 MONTHS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
10-
N
W.DUNKLINC
SIS.BQURKE STREET.
MELBOURNE.
i
is
The “Dreadnought” is an exceptionally strong,
polished steel cylinder watch, with high-grade
jewelled movement, with niekelled dome. It 13
wound up and the hands set without opening the
case by the latest kevless mechanism. You can have
the case either GUNMETAL or NICKEL. Both are
practically dustproof, and have a strong bevelle
crystal glass face. Every watch thoroughly tested
and regulated before being offered for sale, and
guaranteed in writing for 12 months. Sent post tree
anywhere for 10/- . „ ,
Your money returned in full if you are notsatisneu.
Write for Catalogue, Post Free.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Inky Way.
“ Melb.” : Apropos the Age, a little general Biographica
Journalistica. Ebenezer Syme and Blair were on the
Argus in 1854. They seceded to the Age, where James
Smith began, with English experience. Early Age re-
porters were Lindsay and Horton. Willoughby was there
before 1866 (always spelt “ Willo’by ” in the old assignment
books). After Ebenezer’s demise (1860), G. P. Smith was
the all-potent Age writer. He was imitated there, and
out-Heroded by H. J. Smith, sub-editor, who went to the
Argus in 1867. The saying \yas that the Argus got all its
best men from the Age —such as the Brittons, Melvin,
Wells, and so on. In 1866 the Age reporting staff included
Taylor (head), Barry, Collier, Davies, and Roberts. It
was desperate work to keep pace with far better men on
the Argus— such as Henry Gullett, H. Britton, A.
Britton, Willoughby, Wheeler, John Thompson (not J. 8.)
and Jeans. The two last Were imported from London, as
B. 0. Aspinall and C. A. Smyth had been before.
Afterwards Sydney, Brisbane, etc., were more looked
to for recruits ; such admirable men as C. Short, H.
Short, and the splendid Watterston were acquired thus.
The (morning)HEßALDin 1866 had Amsinck, W. McKinley,
Wells, and Magill. McKinley, Purves’s special chum,
knocked spots off the lumbering Argus Wyatt in the Law
Courts, and joined the Argus in ’67. There was no even-
ing paper then. Now for the leader writers. Tiie loss of
G. P. Smith’s regular work was severe on Syme. Editor
J. Harrison came on. Efficient, but no character in his
writing. Sub-editors were J. Doyle, R. R. Haverfield,
D. Harrison, and Rev. W. Poole, now of Brisbane. Syme
had flat years, with great deficiency of talent, till Deakin
turned up, about 1876. Pearson was, comparatively
speaking, a useful drudge. It is hard to say who edited
the Age in the gap between Harrison and Windsor.
Meanwhile the Argus, after Wilson’s departure, had rung
the changes on Higinbotham, Jarrett, Watts, Patmore,
and Windsor. They didn’t know they had a Gullett.
Then Haddon gently and genteelly steered the concern,
while the aspiring Syme watched with glee. Haddon, the
perfect editor, the Turveydrop ! Why, they had half-a-
dozen men in the office who would have put things right
instead of this silver-plated Delane. The Argus began to
rise again under Willoughby and Watterston. I insist
that Cunningham is the best editor the paper ever had.
Which reminds me that Schuler bounded from Bendigo
to the Age about 33 years ago.
* * * *
“ Poleaxe ” : Can any reader, Aboriginaliar or other
throw any light on the question of who reads the Watch!
man? Have been trying to make out for the last 18
months how the sheet lives. Got a clue the other day,
but the purchaser folded it closely, and carefully inserted
it in his tail pocket before leaving the rather gloomy
shop in which it was purchased. Although I live in the
Sydney suburb that returned Tomato Jessep for 14 years
on account of his alleged hostility to the Scarlet Tart, I
have never seen a Waverleyite reading the Watchdog in
public. And yet it seems to be an interesting sheet. At
2.25 p.m. on the 3rd of this month I picked up one that
was left lying on the seat of a Crown-street tram, and I
(my real name is Smith) read these words: “Rome
in the Philippines.” The date of the convulsion
that bumped the ancient city so far off its orbit was not
mentioned. There are other features about the paper
that ought to commend it. The copy I found told in one
place of the lewd and leery gazes which were centred on a
fair maiden by a priest in the course of his sermon ; but,
unfortunately, no photographs were given. This was
probably an oversight, as it appeared in the “ family
serial,” and the warm colors it was drawn in would have
thrown any photo into the shade. Another par. gave
details, minute ones, of an assault by a priest unnamed,
in an unnamed village in America (continent named).
And I decided that if I ever go out to do battle with the
Crimson Lubra that sits on Seven Hills, I will furnish
particulars. The statement that a priest looked with a
leery eye at a maid in the congregation would be interest-
ing if backed up with (1) date, (2) name of priest, (3) name
of girl, (4) name and exact address of church, (5) infor-
mation as to which eye the priest leered with, (6) name
and full address of persons who saw him leer.
• ♦ * *
“Yarrum”: It is high time, I think, this “Agony
Column ” in our daily newspapers was suppressed, or
something. Look at what happened to me a year or two
ago at Campbelltown over this silly bit of rot: —
“ If F. wishes to meet J., she can be found at the old
place. Somebody out of town. Tons of love from—
Yours Lonelv.”
A man there, whose wife was living in Sydney for reasons
—they were parted, but not separated—rushed in on me
one morning flourishing about a yard of S.M.H., and
said: “Lookahere; you’ve just come from Sydney?” I
owned up. “ And you’ve had a week there?” I owned
again. “And did you,” asked he, “ make it your busi-
ness to see J., which stands for Josephine, who is my
wife, at the ‘ old place ’ whilst you were down? Looka-
here,” he continued, passing the soiled and much-crum-
pled bit of rag across my breakfast, “ what does F.
stand for but for Frank, who is you ? And J. can be
none other than Josephine, who, as you well know, is
my wedded wife ; and I’m the Somebody out of town !
It’s all as plain,” he went on, “as the nose”—l
happen to be a Jew—“ on your face, and I’m going for a
divorce, and you’ll be co-respondent, me wily libertine.
I’ll make you sit up, and she, the ” . Just here he got
himself away before 1 could collect enough breath to bid
him go and eat lib. of strychnine, and a week passed
before he turned up to say he was sorry. Then he ex-
plained that “ F.” might have meant Fred, or Ferdinand ;
and that “ J.” might have been Julia, or Jane ; also, that
Somebody might have been anybody. Anyhow, he trusted
his wife, who was one of the best little women in the
world, and had no reason to believe that I was dishonor-
able. The agony column may pay right enough, but I
think decent-living people should not have to suffer
through it.
♦ * * *
“ He was a great man, was our old editor,” said the
reminiscent reporter, “ a very great man, till he started
to expectorate into the waste-paper basket. That was
the first sign of mental decay. After that, he went down
the hill very fast.”
THE EVENING BLOODSTAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When chime the vesper bells, and we
Fold up our books and steal away
To seek the ever restless Quay
Where lie the boats for Mosman’s Bay,
A penny-piece we gladly pay
To read about each tragedy,
Whilst from the city old and gray
Our craft now softly glides away
And bears us homeward drowsily.
The city noises fade and cease,
As swift she wings across the flood
And in electric-lighted peace,
Whilst faster still she seems to scud,
Do we peruse the tales of Blood,
Murder and Suicide—Police,
Divorce ; all sorts of awful mud ;
And how Smith slaughtered Thomas Cudd,
Or someone stole a pair of geese.
The moon upon the water pours
A molten silver path to bed,
But, blind to all, we read what bores —
Dull Parliamentary bores—have said ;
And how the victim writhed and bled,
The crowd’s infuriated roars
When it observed the battered head.
(So with loud horrors are we fed
From out the Evening Bloodstain’s stores).
When chime the vesper bells and we
Take down our gamps and fade away,
To seek the tram-infested Quay
And board the boat for Mosman’s Bay
The newsboy with a cheerless bray
Doth press the reeking sheet on me,
And in a manner blithe and gay
A penny piece I gladly pay,
And read the Bloodstains carefully.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


REGARDING CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY.
THE TEST OF TIME
A BIT OF HISTORY-SHOWING HOW
HONEST GOODS AND HONEST
EFFORTS HAVE SUCCEEDED.
For more than thirty years Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy has constantly gained in favor
and popularity until it is now one of the most
staple medicines in use, and has an enormous
sale. Every industry has its pioneer days, and it
is during these struggling times that its worth and
merit are tested. The early history of Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy shows that, except in
point of merit, it had no more hope of success
than other similar preparations, which were
started at the same time, but were never known
outside of their own locality, and have long since
ceased to be manufactured. Step by step, each
successive year, as its superior excellence becomes
more widely known, it has been gradually gaining
in favor. Taken first, perhaps, on trial by some
family, who found it good, it was recommended
by them to a neighbor ; they in turn passed it on
to other friends, and for over thirty years its
reputation has in this manner been spreading
until it, has reached the utmost corners of the
earth. Science and advanced medical authority
during all of this time have failed to produce a
better remedy for coughs, colds and croup, and
to-day Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is enjoying
the largest sale of any similar preparation on the
market. This success can be attributed to no
other cause than its sterling worth. No matter
how much prominence an article may receive
through the medium of advertising, it must be
trustworthy to hold the confidence of the public.
In thousands of homes this remedy is the main
reliance of parents in attacks of croup. Not only
does it give prompt relief, but it is so pleasant to
take that children like it, and it contains nothing
that is in any way injurious.
Danger of Influenza
Is of its resulting in Pneumonia. This can be
avoided by using Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy,
for it not only cures Influenza but counteracts any
tendency of the disease towards Pneumonia.
Every Bottle Guaranteed.
If you fail to get beneficial results after using
two-thirds of a bottle of
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
according to directions, return it to your dealer,
and get your money back. It is well known for
its prompt cures of coughs, colds, and croup.
CHEMISTS’ ANALYSES
ENDORSED BY GOVERNMENTS AND
CHEMISTS IN AIL PARTS OF
THE WORLD.
For over 30 years Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
has been endorsed, not only by the public, but
also by chemists. During all of these years it has
been known as the Cough Remedy containing no
narcotic or dangerous drugs. The manufacturers
have always courted the most critical analysis,
and have received the endorsement of many
Governments and leading Chemists.
There has never been any necessity to change
the formula to conform to local enactments.
They only make one kind of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy, and that is the same as was put
on the market in the first place.
It is pleasant to take. Safe, Sure, and Always
Cures.
U.S. GOVERNMENT.
APPROVAL AND CONFIRMATION.
Under the new Food and Drug Act, June
30, 1906, Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has
been approved and declared by the Manufac-
turers to contain no narcotic —to be safe and
reliable.
N.S.W. GOVERNMENT.
CERTIFICATE OF ANALYSIS.
Department of Public Health,
New South Wales,
Sydney, August 2, 1901.
The sample of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, sealed, marked, or labelled as such
in an original bottle, received 24/7/’Ol from
the Registrar of the Pharmacy Board, has
been examined with the following results :
“ Found to contain none of the
scheduled poisons.”
(Signed) William M. Hamlet.
Government Analyst.
The Chief Medical Officer of the Government.
CAPE COLONY, S.A.
May 11, 1904.
Having purchased a bottle of Chamberlain’s
j Cough Remedy at one of the local chemists,
and analysed its contents, I certify it does
not contain opium or any other
narcotic.
R. Marloth, Ph.D.M.A.
ORANGE RIVER COLONY, S.A.
October 26. 1906.
By direction of Board of Health, it was
declared that Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
did not contain any narcotics, and could
be sold by anyone.
CHAMBERLAIN'S COUGH REMEDY,
Officially declared free from all poison.
Sold Everywhere, 1/6.
EXPERIENCE OF
MOTHERS.
WORTH CAREFUL READING.
Ask any mother, who has used Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy, what she thinks of it. She will
tell you she depends on it in Coughs, Colds,
Croup, hoarseness, etc., and that it enables her to
get her children through the Winter without
thesp complaints. She will tell you that at the
first approach of a cold she takes Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy, and it gives her immediate relief.
There is a long list of mothers who will tell you
that they keep Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in
the house continually, and that a cold is never
allowed to get a foothold in their homes; that one
or two doses taken at the beginning will ward off
a severe cold. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
tones up the mucuous membrane, enabling it to
withstand exposure, and those who use it say it
makes their throats strong.
It is the Mother’s Favorite, because it acts as
beneficially on the youngest child as upon the
oldest member of the family, and is perfectly safe.
TIMBERRY RANGE (N.S.W.).
A very bleak Winter is expected this year, and
already colds are prevalent. People are already
purchasing Cough medicines, and everybody has
something to say about their favorite remedy.
We heard Mrs. M. A. Clark recommending
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and when we
learned of her experience with it we were not
surprised at her faith in the medicine. This is
what she told us “For six years I suffered from
a very troublesome irritating cough, from which I
could get no relief. Eventually I took Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy ; one bottle cured me, and
I have never had the cough since.”
BOWRAL (N.S.W.).
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has a very large
sale here. Many families would not be without a
bottle in the house, especially if there are any
young children in the family. Mrs. Catherine
Weeks is never without a bottle at hand, and to
that she attributes the freedom of her family
from coughs and colds when those complaints are
prevalent. Talking to some friends the other
day, she said : —“ For years past I have made it a
point to keep Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in
my home. Just as soon as any member of my
family shows symptoms of a cough or cold, I
give a dose, and it invariably checks the
complaint.”
THEY THAT BUY AND
SELL.
THEIR CONVICTIONS AND OPINIONS.
I ' - '
The opinion of the individual who has used
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is always valuable,
but how much more so is the opinion of the man
who buys and sells, and buys and sells again. His
opinion is formed not only by using Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy in his family, but is being
constantly strengthened by hearing his many
customers speak in glowing terms of their ex-
perience.
WEST MAITLAND (N.S.W.).
David Ley, Chemist, writes: “Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy is very highly spoken of by num-
bers of my customers. It is a splendid seller, and
I have no hesitation in recommending it to those
in need of a cough medicine.”
SOUTH MELBOURNE (VIC.).
A. P. Woolley, Excelsior Store, writes: “We
stock Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and always
recommend it. We always use it in our home,
and think it is a splendid medicine. We gave it
to our little boy for croup, and he got almost
instant relief.”
NEVILLE (N.S.W.).
H. H. May, Storekeeper, says :—“ Have been
using Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy for years,
and I cannot speak in too high terms of it.
Without question, it is the best cough medicine
made. I sell more of it than of all the others
combined, not simply because I like it, but
because the people appreciate it, and will have
no other.”
WANDSWORTH (N.S.W.).
Wm. McCrossin, Storekeeper, says :—“ Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy is very popular here.
Those who use it once always want it again when
needing a cough medicine.”
BUR WOOD (N.S.W.).
E. Paris Ings, Chemist, says:—“We have
found Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to be a real
good seller in this district. It gives every satis-
faction, and we never hesitate to guarantee it to
our customers.”
After Influenza.
Many persons find themselves affected with a
persistent cough after an attack of influenza. As
this cough can be promptly cured by the use of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, it should not be
allowed to run on until it becomes troublesome.
&
1
i
4*r.
£
FROM
FROM
£.11.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE I
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Aicock&C 0 , 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch • of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
To Proprietors of
Cinematographs.
35
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
ADVICE
FREE.
Over 250,000 feet of Films are in our stock ready for sale or
hire—every foot fresh, novel, interesting subjects.
And if you have any damaged Films that are worth repairing,
if possible at all, we can do it for you.
Whatever you want we can supply—New Machines, Films,
parts and improvements.
We have competent operators, give entertainments anywhere,
or will hire out Machines to responsible persons.
Write us for particulars—we are one of the largest Cinemato-
graph dealers in Australasia.
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*T\vin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LON DON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
M kIro'JRNE AOR NTS : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
limited.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. .1.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial (Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Libera) Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New Sooth Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Qorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ' .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and ip AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of neui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all -
Security.
Classes - of
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
&
IP
&
♦
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury'.
3XT.S.A7V.
H|ontdepieteo.t4|.Co.,[t(l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. MkeUs, Esq., M.L.C.
(Gibbs, Bright & Oo.) ; E. Vickery, Esq. ; J. Campbell-
Wood, Esq.: J. J. Allen, Esq. ; E. Laidley, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAD PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 0
Directors: F. It Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : it. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORItOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
ACT’RY ’ANDS,” bv Edward Dyson.
‘ Best book of Australian humor,’’ 4s. Gd.
r
Shipping.
i\r. id. l.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
PRINZ SICISMUND 30th JUNE.
MANILA 28th JULY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 25th AUG.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
LIMITED. ”
Capital Paid-up .. . .. .. £485,003 10 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stoch) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Ed.wd. D. Daw Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
A POLICY for the OOMMONWEALT H
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
THC AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Steamer. | Tons. | Commander. |
Leave Sydney.
Noon, June 19
Noon, July 17
Noon, Aug. 14
Noon, Sept. 11
* Twin Screw. f New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. ' 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about Bth
July.
SUEX/IC, 12,500 tons, to sail about sth
August.
PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
N*w York, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
f HOLIDAY
TO
N* QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
MJL «
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Stkelk, Sole Agent.
LLER 5
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
51
/ -
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot he bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts,, MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
STRONQ,
\
TO
MEND
BELTS and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
v No need to punch holes. Simply drive
V*. Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of ail Ironmongers or Store*
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
iooB, Sydney, or Bifurcated <k
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington. Eng.
Price List on
application.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to S Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacm
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
AN HONEST PROPOSITION
TO PARTIALLY
DEAF PEOPLE.
The “ EXTRA EAR ”
is a scientifically constructed HEARING APPARATUS, which can be
worn with comfort at Home, in Church, Theatre, or Concert Hall.
Weight under Joz.
The “EXTRA EAR” is not “invisible” or “ electric,” nor will it cure you of deafness, but it is
just the most useful instrument invented to date for the comfort of anyone whose hearing is defective.
Price 215., postage paid, to any address. Money Order or Postal Notes must accompany orders.
OUR GUARANTEE. refunded in full if Instrument is found unsuitable, and is posted back to
us in original wrapper within seven days of receipt, [Please mention this paper.
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD ~ The Surgical Supply House,
Contractors to Queensland Government and Hospitals. BRISBANE, Q.
Reference : English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd. —All Branches. N.B.—We publish no testimonials.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports, '
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, June 20.
(Without transhipment.)
BRISBANE,
maokay,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oatrns.
.S.S. Wollowra, June 20.
S.S. Pilbarra, June 27.
Bes * an,i Cheapest Route to Coldfield*
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on ah
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
/y/ESSAGERIES /yjARITIIVIES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
able Wines. "
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange,
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
Tel. 378.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 pan., SATURDAY
June 20.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
June 27.
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A., i
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all I
other W.A. ports.) J
KYARRA, SATURDAY, June 27.
BRISBANE >
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG >
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON J »
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
June 23.
PEREGRINE. 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, June 20.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
June 27.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Pull particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, J7OB.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe ,
SAILINGS .5
* Twin-Screw Steamer,
UNION BTEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. t,TD,
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney,
THE BALLET GIRL
.
V.
m
i
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frea, la.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Noveltief
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Missing 1 Friends.
HAYES, BASIL WlLLlAM.—lnformation
wante.d, in- connection with the partition
of an estate, as to the whereabouts of the above-
named ; formerly of New Zealand, lithographer
by trade; last heard of at Townsville, Queensland.
Write to- MR. HAYES,
P.O. Box 146,
WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND.


with the dance; let joy be un-
confined.” A home dancing party, in-
formally impromptu, and therefore all the
more enjoyable, can be carried through so
easily with the Edison Phonograph. . .
The other alternatives are hiring a small
orchestra, with expense and bother, and taking
up the room, or some girl tied down to the
piano to grind out waltzes and two-steps
when she would much rather be dancing.
But the Edison Phonograph likes to play dance music. It never gets
tired. It gives you the music of a brass band or a stringed orchestra,
as you like. Just go to that dealer where they sell Edison Phono-
graphs, and hear the Edison Phonograph play a good swinging dance.
Then let us send you some printed matter, including complete lists of the
Edison Gold-Moulded Records.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
HOT
OR
COLD
LIQUIDS
>
w>*wwm
\
t; * *
REMAIN
SO IN
THERMOS
BOTTLES.
THERMOS
PAT ENT
PRICES*
PINTS from 2Js.
QUARTS from 425.
•••■*' \
POSTED ANY-
WHERE, Is, and
Is, 6d. Extra.
Invaluable to Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists, Military Men, Excur-
sionists, &c. No need to boil the u billy.” Take your tea or other
liquid refreshment with you, and simply pour out Hot or Cold as desired.
THOS. WEBB SONS
236 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
CONSTIPATION, RHEUMATISM & COUT
Eradicated by KUTNOW’S POWDER.
Prof. I. N. Love, M.D.
(Late Professor of Clinical Medical
Diseases, Marion Sims College of Medicine,
and College of Physicians and Surgeons),
WROTE :
“The great surgeon, Professor Lawson
Tait, M.D., himself a sufferer from a gouty
diathesis, for years found Kutnow’s Powder
of great value to himself personally and in
his practice. Kutnow’s Powder stimulates
the activity of the bowels and kidneys. It
cleanses the bowels, acts as a diluent, and
flushes out the kidneys in a most satisfactory
way. Thorough elimination is salvation,
and there is no better eliminator than
Kutnow’s Powder. I. N. LOYE, M.D.
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
There is only One Genuine Kutnow’s
Powder; it can be had of all conscientious
Chemists throughout the World. See that
the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade
mark, “ Hirschensprung-, or Deer
Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You
then get
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
Hospital Nurse
WRITES:
“ 94 W estbourne Park Road ,
“ Bayswater, W.,
“ 27th A ugust, 1907.
“ s^> Sj —A short time ago you sent
me a bottle of Kutnow's Powder. I
write to say that I have found it
extremely beneficial in cases of
constipation, also hemorrhoids.
Some of my patients have used
Kutnow's for rheumatism , and they
also testify to its excellent qualities.
“ Yours truly,
“ISABEL A. MUDD, C.M.8.,
“ Queen Charlotte's Hospital."
J. A. ASHTON, Esq.,
WRITES :
“ Dukinfielcl, Cheshire,
“29th August, 1907.
“Dear Sirs,—l regret to state that my
wife has been laid up for over six weeks now.
Our trouble at the commencement of the
illness was the task of removing constipation.
I suggested that, as your preparation was
always effective in ordinary times, she should
be allowed to have it. The doctor con-
sented, and I am pleased the difficulty has
been removed. lam delighted to inform you
of this ; it has relieved me considerably at
this anxious time. —Yours faithfully,
“J. A. ASHTON, A.N.S.A., F.1.P.5.”
MAJOR S. K. COWAN
(3rd ROYAL IRISH RIFLES)
WRITES :
“ 121 Haring Kade, Scheveningen,
“Holland, 11th Jan., 1907.
“ Gentlemen,— Owing to literary
calls my life is somewhat sedentary,
and after a hard day’s work I used to
feel fagged and fatigued, and sleep was
frequently broken and belated. Four
months ago I began to take Kutnow’s
Powder, and I am pleased to state that
I can now work strenuously without
any ill-effect, and sleep follows natur-
ally.. Your powder is without doubt
refreshing and invigorating, and an
excellent nerve bracer. —Yours truly,
“S. K. COWAN,
“(Major 3rd Royal Irish Rifles).”
KUTNOW’S POWDER removes all pain !
[2


DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England— Ijl\, 2/9, 4/6.
FROOTOIDS
For Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
OOO
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
They are elegant in appearance, pleasant
to take, and, what is of the utmost
importance, are thoroughly reliable in
affording quick relief.
Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so far
that they not only act as an aperient,
but do remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident at once by the disappearance of
headache, the head becoming clear, and
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
. Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when Con-
gestion of the Lrain or Apoplexy is pre-
sent or threatening. They have been
tested, and have been proved to afford
quick relief in such cases when other
aperients have not done any good at all.
It is of the utmost importance that this
should be borne in mind, for in such
cases to take an ordinary aperient is to
waste time and permit of a serious ill-
ness becoming fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
“antibilious pills” make worse. - Many
people have been made sick and ill by
“antibilious pills” who could have been
cured at once by Frootoids. People
should not allow themselves to be duped
into contracting a medicine-taking habit
by being persuaded to take daily doses
with each meal of so-called indigestion
cures that do NOT cure. Frootoids
have been subjected to extensive tests,
and have in every case proved success-
ful in completely curing the complaints
named, o
The ordinary adult dose of Frootoids,
of which there are 72 in a bottle, is 2 to
4 —more or less as required—taken, pre-
ferably at bedtime, when constipated,
or at the commencement of any other
disease requiring an aperient, as an
auxilliary with the special medicine
necessary for the case. A constipated
habit of body will be completely cured
if the patient will on each occasion,
when suffering, take a dose of Frootoids,
instead of an ordinary aperient; making
the interval between the taking of each
dose longer and the dose smaller. The
patient thus gradually becomes indepen-
dent of Aperient Medicines.
oOo
For sale by leading Chemists and
Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. fr lf not
obtainable locally, send direct to the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE.-The materials in FROOT-
OIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY
and consist, amongst other ingredients,
of the active principle of each of
TIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS and
ROOTS, so combined and proportioned
in a particular way that a far BETTER
result is obtained than from an ordinary
aperient.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle .
HAS BHONEY TO T.T!T\TTI On Security OT Freehold OP Leasehold
J.A.xa.».7 iUVXIXii J-KJ lJijiV JLJ C ity or suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Beniamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns. Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. :
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A.,* F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ECKERSLEY'S
EUCALYPTUS
Purest A Strongest
Analyst'• Certificate
on Every Bottle.
Mail us your order direct for a 16 ounce bottle of
ECKERSLEY’S EUCALYPTUS. You get double the
strength and eight times the quantity of oil contained in
ordinary bottle (16 ounces).
Posted all over Australia for 3s. 3d.
ECKERSLEY (Si SONS,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The 'stocW
Remedy for Coughs and Colds. Of 40years’proven efficacy.
‘ T INSEED COMPOUND^o7coughsandCold7
Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, etc.
/ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds
Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
‘COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
-Cements for broken and other articles.
MOUNTAIN FLAX (‘ Linum Catharticum ’ Trade
Mark) PI LLS. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
I
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant.’
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
*l*
<
A
u
m
-//
Vi
\y
TAKE DRUGS!
WHY don’t you stop it ? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you, don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to- regain health—even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC CELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLATJGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to date method. No shock, no burning 1 or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£.500 REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit £5OO to anyone proving
the contrary.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with vour name and full postal address clearly written in, and
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
the McLaughlin co„ Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAQH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
OFFICE HOURS: 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name....
Address
TOOTH’S XXX ALE is UNRIVALLED.
AULD
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.,
PROPRIETORS,
KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY.


Australia is getting on. If it spends over-
much time kicking a bladder of wind, and shout-
ing to somebody to kick the thing harder, it is
anyhow beginning to make the bladder first. A few
years ago the bladder was imported regularly ; but
last year one firm of Ballarat saddlers turned out
12,000 footballs, and this year the same people
have already made 13,000. That lot used up the
outer garments of about GOO cows. And this firm
isn’t the only manufacturer of ’balls in the State,
by any means.
L. G. Chiozza Money, M.P., gives some
figures concerning British wealth distribution, in
London Daily Mail Year Book : Out of about
700,000 people who die every year in the United
Kingdom, 620.000 die “worth nothing”; 80,000
die worth £300,000,000. Every year about 4000
rich persons die, leaving about £200,000,000 among
them. In 1907, 10 millionaires died, worth
£34,138,000. The record year was 1902, when
eight persons left £38,350,000. It is estimated
that there are some 250 living British million-
aires, worth an average of £2,500,000 each.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
COUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
JJid.ll rheumatic
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only truef and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/ij& 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
PATERNOSTER’S
PILLS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
lEAISAMiOI.
W ? y * * 7
kIMJS.E.E.D.
£
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES* Read the following proof of its efficacy: —
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford, writes “If the value of ‘POWELL’S BALSAM OF ANISEED’
was better known, many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung Troubles would do as I have done tor
upwards of 50 years ; I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably sets me up. It is
invaluable. I have several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have had three
attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and 2or 3 bottles had the desired effect when all else failed. You may make
what use ot this you like.”— December iith, IQOJ.
Mrs. S. W. Bailey, 32, Manville Road, Balham, London, S.W\, writes: —“ I may add that I recommend your
r M a ‘ ter 12 y ear s constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and Warminster,
Wilts, for 35 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers."— January , iqoB.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland :—
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR COUGHS.
HOLLO WAY’S PILL
* #
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sneer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, ahd the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down ” cr “out of sorts.’’ Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mos» welcome relief
in a very short time.
<6
c#
v V *
AND
OINTMENT
HEARNES bro oure tis
The Famous Remedy For
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Che.-.t, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTlCE.—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any j other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
E>6e LEADING
HOUSE ™
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
°^ r snap
COLLECTOR GUN.
CANT
B VM
BEAT
No. 1
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in. barrel, length over all 38|in., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
40s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun —Is 9d, N.S.W. ; 3s 2d. Interstate.
IMPERIAL” TABLE CONCENTRATORS.
Largest Capacity. Simplest in Operation.
Power Required, % h.p. Capacity 30 Tons per day. Built of Seasoned American Redwood.
Extract from J. WHEAR ROBERTS’ report on the Yerrandarie Pioneer Silver
Mine, Burragorang (26/8/’07)“ A 5-head stamper battery and an Imperial Concentrating
Table are at work treating this ore, and 1 must confess that L was surprised to note the excellent
results that were being obtained from this treatment of oxidised material. A sample collected
from the Table while at work assayed 46'4 per cent, lead, 5500 z. silver, and 10|dwt. gold per ton.
The supply of water is so limited that at present the plant cannot be worked,more than five hours
per day, and then the water is so thick that it is not possible to get the best concentration results.”
A. CHAPPLE, Wolumla, writes :—“ I have been working the Imperial Concentrating
Table for some months, and I must state that no better separator is to be found. I am running
it taking the pulp from a Mill, and the concentrates are particularly clean and the tail-
ings free from mineral. I like it better than any other I have used, as, after once being set, it is
perfectly automatic, requiring no attention whatever.”
Copies of many other testimonials will be forwarded on application.
R. A. HERVEY,
SOLE AGENT for
AUSTRALASIA,
Clarence &. Ring Streets, Sydney,
TOTAL WEIGHT OF MACHINE IS
UNDER 1 TON
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks; Is 2d. All Zola’s/
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish j Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus./Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners Guide (simple tests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. Howto
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught 1 ; 3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. n«w
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court Of Queen Elizabeth, Is Oil.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the mi nds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delieacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in'its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland,‘2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Braaing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easjt, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Scope .t
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your oash. |*F~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only^
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write lor my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cakds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is* ikJ. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all* I>egrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVING WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUIVHERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following- is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter :
Copy of Testimonial.
GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPIIY.
Lady Mary Lygon wishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied with the two costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well.
(Signed) C. JARDINIER.
DYSON’S “ Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d. “De-
lightful and wickedly true. ;, *_
THE FINAL TOUCH
OF PERFECTION.
.. r Agents — <
Harrison <k Attwood,
1 Sydneij. • -
S* Britisl)=fliistralasian
*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
r e. AH POST FREE, £1 per year,
rflvC UU« in advance, all oyer.fhe world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters rnay be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note,the Address — >
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.


BROTHER
SAYS
Rain or
shine, I am
always well
now Can’t be
bothered any
more with Colds
or Grippe, for I am
now acquainted with
Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discoverv
D»SHEU)ONS
HEW
discovery
read
MARK,
HOW
TO
LOOK
YOUNG,
si
HOY/
NOT TO
GROV/
OLD,
TWAIN’S
ke . e .P in « with the role played by the
T* h^ T i, HL ™P* lS 7‘ ? ut or d»naiy men desire to retain their
youth, keep their situations, not look too old at forty. Women
desire lo retain their youthand beauty. Darken grey hairs with
HAIR
RESTORER
LOCKYER’S
In bottles 116, of nil chemists and stores.
CDe Sociefp or
Iftotor Manufacturers
and Craders, £td.
For the protection, encouragement ana
development 0/ the Automobile Jnduury.
The Society has organised a
TRADE INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT
which will be pleased, without
fee, to direct enquirers to the
Traders who can best supp'y
their needs, whether for Motor
Cars (commercial or pleasure),
Motor Agricultural Machines,
Motor Boats, Fire Engines,
Stationa y Motors,Component
Parts, Tyres, or Accessories.
Address :
Maxwell House, Arundel Si ,
London, England.
The Great LUNG SPECIFIC
AGAINST WINTER
NO WISE MAN risks by neglect
deadly Winter Lung Perils, but
keeps handy “ MRS. MACLUR.
CAN’S COUGH CURE”—every-
where admitted the best cough
and lung safeguard.
Old and young may take it—
even babies; it contains only
Powerful Cough Curative
Properties prepared from special
formulae.
Now cold snaps are about; be
wise—keep it handy. Don’t risk
Pneumonia or Consumption.
You can get it of all Chemists
and Storekeepers, 1/6 per bottle.
/
ll(i. MM'S
Cough
Cure
A VALUAtLf ftCMCOV
POM
COUGHS. COLDS
RDONCMIALC ATABBH
SPASMODIC CROUP,
WINTtR COUGH,
■ed all Disc#set of ih*
Air PtitAgci.
. ACAftCTI*/ H*»MltC*o
roe CMU-POl*
*'s- H. MACUIRCAN,
COUGHS and COLDS.
Here is the testimony from a
distinguished member of the
theatrical profession, given to
the healing virtues of this great
Cough Cure :
MR. C. R. BANTOCK, Theatre
Royal, Sydney, says :
I have much pleasure In
recommending Mrs. Maclur-
can’s Cough Cure to anyone
suffering from throat hoarse-
ness. 1 have obtained instant
relief from it.
(Signed) C. R. BANTOCK.
April 15, ’OB.
This is but one of many testi-
monies received weekly.
Mrs. MACLURCANS COUGH CURE
For THROAT and
LUNQ DISEASES
Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
ecu uth e- ' ant
UliiUUi
0 CARBp
tf/mm
m
m
Ireß6£^
m
w\
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP.
6d. per Tablet.
“ A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
The Jovial Engine Crew.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fTPjHEY 1) all drunk deep of the good old brand
2 The mountain brewers brew
For the lusty, brawny railway hand—
They drank like a lawless crew.
Fan the fireman, Mat who drove,
Billy and Jim and Joe—
The moon swung wide in the skies above,
And the earth revolved below.
They all climbed up on the Big Bull Yank,
She was hissing in low disdain ;
They filled her up at the water-tank,
And fired her up again.
And out on the moonlit line they crept
With never a truck nor car.
With a whoop and a yell they rolled and swept
Where the linemen’s cabins are.
And out and away to a place they knew
To try some different brands ;
Singing a song went this terrible crew
Of dissolute railway hands.
On through the dark sped this racing thing
That leaped on the singing rail,
And five men laughed at her lurching swing,
And the bite of the stinging gale.
Crossings clattered and bridges howled,
But never a tunnel rang ;
Over the level road they bowled,
And riotous songs they sang.
Jimmy the Juggler sat astride
The rear end buffer bars.
The world went staggering full and wide
Through myriad mingling stars.
They came to a switch where a ballast tracic
Ran down to the ocean dim ;
And Daniel yelled, “ You may strike me black,
But I’m going in for a swim.”
" I haven’t been in for a swim for years,”
Quoth Mat at the driver’s stand ;
11 I’d give the price of a hundred beers
To feel the wet of the sand.”
So the proudest engine of all the line,
The finest rig on the road,
Rolled rockingly where the wild weeds twine,
Tall weeds by the breezes sowed.
They took her down where the ripples are—
The tide was full and high,
The blue waves broke on her catcher-bar
And leaped at her stack so dry.
And five big men they stripped them bare
And swam with noisy glee ;
For years they had seen no white surf flare —
Had never a sight of the sea.
And the clinging kelp embraced the knees
Of Daniel, the man who fired,
As he searched the sands and scanned the seas
For the mermaids he desired.
Five big, bullocking railway men
Saw dawn on the far-off hill,
So dressed themselves in their clothes again
(The moon swung onward still).
They took the scornful engine back
Through sand and long-grown weed,
That bled green juice on the rusty track
And robbed her of her speed.
And homeward, up to the mountains blue
They tossed the miles behind,
There wasn’t a train or a trolley due
So they sent her driving blind.
Every mile was a flashing point,
Every curve a roll;
’Tis only the fool the gods anoint
Who yields to the gods his soul.
They had started out for a different brand—
A brand with a different “ bite,”
And quite by chance they had seen the sand
With its line of breakers white.
And when they came to their mountain town
That still slept peacefully,
They sang and laughed as they clambered down,
Because they had seen the sea.
When they’ve drunk deep of a certain brand,
A brand that is always new,
They tell how they rolled on the wet sea sand
When the midnight breezes blew.
Dan the fireman, Mat who drove,
Billy and Jim and Joe ;
And Daniel loved with a passionate love—
But the mermaids did not know.
maoriland.
WILL LAWSON.
The Summer Visitor.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was quiet for once, as the children
were all in bed, and Janet and I were sitting
out on the grass trying to get cool.
From the hut we could hear many voices bawl-
]ng “Lindy, Lindy, sweeter than sugarcane” to
the concertina, and the stamp of accompanying
feet.
Suddenly Janet spoke. “I hate coon songs,”
she said, fiercely, and threw more sawdust into
the tin to keep up the smoke, for the mosquitoes
were awful.
“ Why ?” I asked. 1 -
“Celia Rogers sings them,” she said, curtly,
and I smiled, for Celia stayed with Janet last
summer. Then it struck me as sad, and I sighed.
“ I made up my mind I’d never have another
girl staying here,” she went on. “Then your
letter came, and I was too tired to put you off—
besides, you don’t matter,”
“ Thank you,” I said, meekly. “I am plain and
commonplace, and married women thoroughly
approve of me.”
“Celia was a school friend of mine,” Janet
spoke again, after a long pause. “At least, she
was never a friend, but we knew each other,
khe is a year older than I am,” she added.
I was glad it" was dark and Janet could not see
m y look of surprise, for Celia might be anything
from eighteen to twenty-five and Janet anything
over forty.
T e f’,, s^e 8 a yBar ; but she’s never been
’ danet said, bitterly. She has always
had £ooo a year to do as she liked with, and been
able tochoose herown life—she ought to look young,
bhe has never had servant worries, and babies and
dengue and-and-boredom.” There was silence
again, even the men in the hut were quiet.
“I was married when I wasn’t quite 18,” Janet
continued more quietly. “Imet John during my
last holidays, and we were married a month or so
after I left school. Mother was pleased ; she says
girls hang on so nowadays. (Janet has three
plain, unwilling spinster sisters.) I never had any
fun and flying round like other girls. I—just
married. I was in love with John then—l also
thought he was in love with me.”
I did not speak. Perhaps once in a lifetime
you are shown a human soul with both the back
door and the front door open ; and it hurts a little,
even while it interests. I was also thinking how
' anefc ka-te me in the morning when she
remembered all she had said.
I was never pretty,” she went on with deadly
seriousness. “If I wasn’t really plain it was just
because I was young, and had a bright color and
dimples. John used to call me “Dimples” be-
fore we were married. I know I’m stupid. I had
an ordinary boarding-school education, and a
smattering of accomplishments. I did nothing
well. Ive tried to read decent books, but I
always forget what they are about when I’ve
turned a page.
“John is so well read, and he loves music. I
saw he hated to hear me sing, and I gave it up ;
I know 1 always went flat. I bored him, and
T !j n J g°t delicate and faded, I had nothing to
o d him with—l ni so stupid. Six years drifted
by wearily and left me too tired and spiritless to
care—l don t know what they were to John. Oh,
Ive nothing to complain of—he is kind and
patient and he’s—he’s loyal. But, I know—l
know. Then Celia came!
I hadn t heard of her for years, but she was
staying at Callycomechance, and she wrote a
gushing letter, and asked to come over and stay.
When Delia has set her mind on a thing she
generally gets it—so she came.
, X°'i Celia ? She hadn’t been here two
days before John was inventing excuses to poke
- k° use - He took to always coming into
the drawing-room after dinner, and at other times
he always sits and smokes in his office.
Celia used to wear pretty evening blouses and
sit on the drawing-room step, where the lamp-
light shone on her hair and white arms. She used
to play the banjo and sing coon songs with a
throaty quiver in her voice. I think banjos and
cocm son 8 s are immoral. I used to be putting the
children in bed, and mending, and things. I knew
I was only a badly applied brake.
“Celia always fluttered out to breakfast just
when we were ready to sit down. Her hair was
always beautifully dressed with alluring waves
and puffs, and her linen frocks were always spot-
less and crisp. I’m afraid I didn’t admire them
as much as John did ; I had to get up early and
iron them, because the servant made such a fuss
about them. I heard John tell her she always
looked as fresh as a dew-laden rose. Berhaps if
she had had to get up about half-past five, and
dress and bathe children, water the garden, dust
the rooms, and do hundreds of other things, she
wouldn’t have been quite so smiling and spotless.
Once John said to me, ‘ Miss Rogers always
looks fit for an afternoon stroll down George-
street, though her dresses are so plain.’ [Plain,
and all her linens are cut by a tiptop tailor, and
you know what that costs !)
“ I had been out feeding the pet lambs when he
said it to me. I knew my hair was untidy, and
I’d been making jam, and my face was red, and
my dress crushed.
“ ‘lt’s easy to look nice with nothing to do and
lots of nice clothes,’ I snapped, and then I saw how
silly I’d been. ‘A woman can never see anything
good in another member of her sex,’ he said,
cuttingly, and went off to talk to Celia on the
shady side of the verandah.
“ I had to go back to the stifling kitchen and
skim the jam, and ah ! how I wished it was Celia
I was boiling. I think I hated her most when she
would insist upon helping me, and put on a
ridiculous frilly apron, and rolled up her sleeves.
She would sit in the hall, and cut the beans, and
smile at John, and he would think what a sweet
nature she had, and wonder why under Heaven
he hadn’t met her instead of me. John is Clevel-
and I am stupid, but I could see what he couldn’t
—that she was smiling at him merely pour passer
le temps.
“It came to a head the day of the township
races. Celia wanted to go for some reason, and I
was to be taken along for the look of the thing.
“The day before the children went and got
sick, and I had to stay at home and nurse them
In a half-hearted way John suggested they should
stay at home and help, but I said I could manage.
So they went —so did the servant. It was a boil-
ing day, and the children wailed all the time—l
know what Hell is after that day. I cursed John
and Celia, and myself most of all, and wished I
were dead.
“ They didn’t get home until nearly 12 o’clock,
and I can’t tell you what I felt as I waited for
them. I couldn’t sit still; I was too restless. I just
walked and walked and walked. When they
stopped at the gate I went down to meet them
and Celia called me ‘darling,’ and said she felt a
brute for having kept me up ; and how were the
children, and all that kind of thing.’
“ ‘ They insisted upon our staying for the dance,’
John said, and I knew from his voice he was
nervous. ‘I hope you weren’t anxious; we left
as soon as possible. ’
“ I didn’t say anything. I listened to Celia’s
chatter, and felt suddenly very, very old and
tired. I knew what had happened. The moon-
light had been too much for John, as it’s been for
many a cleverer man, and Celia was half
frightened, half pleased, and wholly excited.
“John went out early next day, and Celia said
she had a headache and stayed in her room all
day. Next day she went home. That’s all.
Everythinghasgoneonjustthesamesince, but John
is different—he is very kind and more considerate
than ever, and that tells me more than anything.
I see him looking where she used to sit and sing
when he’s smoking—quite like a boy with his first
passion, isn’t it ?
“We never mention her name, and we are very
affectionate to one another, but—do you wonder I
hate banjos and coon songs ? ”
She did not mean me to answer, and then we
heard the rattle of John’s buckboard, and the dogs
rushed out barking.
“That’s John,” said Janet, wearily; “I wish
you’d give him his supper. It’s all ready. Say
I’m dead, or have a headache, or anything you
like.”
I waited for John, and wondered why anyone
ever got married, for most of my married friends
confide in me.
B. CECIL DOYLE.


A MAN IS AS STRONG AS HIS BACK
A Man can only do as much Work as his back will stand.
Once the back gives out he must lay down his tools.
But that is not all, for backache tells of sick kidneys. Other unmistakable signs are dizziness, stiffness of the
limbs, sick headache, and sleeplessness. Before long the patient grows nervous, short tempered, and depressed; the eyes
become heavy and sunken, with swellings beneath them, and the color flies from the cheeks. There is danger ot kidney
disease, rheumatism, dropsy, and Bright’s disease. The liquid poison
which causes kidney troubles is driven from the body quickly and
thoroughly by the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This great
medicine will strengthen your back by relieving and toning up the kidneys.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY
CITY
Mr. .T. Bickell, 10 Chappel Street, Sydney,
says On April 10, 1899:—“I was a martyr to
kidney trouble; my back never ceased aching.
The pains were across the lions and down the
thighs, and at times I could scarcely move. I
also nad urinary weakness, which was very annoy-
ing, and the secretions were disordered, contain-
ing sediment. My life was miserable, and I knew
that I was getting worse every day, in spite of
the fact that I used a great many remedies. Mrs.
Mullins, of 49 Hunter Street, advised me to use
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and I got some
right away. This remedy cured me, every dis-
tressing symptom has gone, and my kidneys are
strong and healthy.”
On February 24, 1907, Mrs. Bickell says : ‘‘For
the benefit of people who are tortured with kidney
trouble, I am pleased to add to the above the fact
that my husband’s cure has lasted. He is quite
well now, and has been during the past eight
years.”
MANLY
Mr. William Bagnall, Storekeeper, Brookvale,
near Manly, says About five years ago I met
with a serious accident; was thrown out of a sulky
and hurt my back. I was so bad I knew that I
had injured my kidneys. I could not get about at
all for a couple of months, and then only with
the greatest difficulty ; and I endured agony.
Every move was torture. I used many remedies,
but nothing eased the pain. Seeing Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills advertised, I decided to try
them. After taking one box I noticed an improve-
ment, so I went on taking them. In all, I used
twenty boxes for a cure, and I am now as well and
as strong as ever I was. This did not happen
yesterday, but four years ago, and it proves that
the remedy is genuinely good that I’ve been well
all that time. I consider my cure marvellous, for
lam over 70 years of age. I have lived at Manly
for 50 years, so I am well known, and my word
should carry weight.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per box (6 boxes 15/3),
or posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt St., Sidney
W-C
0
i.
J
*' Every
picture
tells a
story.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kid ney
PIUS
The Ballad of Sir Anopheles.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[T is the hour of high mid night
When the purple skies with stars are bright,
And the little breezes that have died
In the sun-god’s grasp are revivified,
And dance in the glories of the moon,
On shining river and long lagoon—
The hour of utter and perfect peace
When even Love and Sorrow cease.
Borne on the air serene and cool,
Through a night of ebon and silver pomp,
From his home in the Land of the Stagnant Pool —
From the golden fires of the glittering swamp
Came forth that Knight of many degrees,
The intrepid Sir Anopheles.
His slender form all innocent was
Of armor, but the dainty gauze
Of his delicate wings shone opal-green
In the pearly glow of the moonlight sheen
He was a goodly sight, I ween !
With rapid beat he rode the air
With lance in rest and heart at ease ;
His clarion notes to all declare
The doughty Sir Anopheles.
For ever as he onward flew.
Clear and shrill his horn he blew—
Wee-ee! A-ah! Wee-ee-whoo!
The still night heard the sound and sighed,
And bore it, shuddering, far and wide ;
Through shade and shine it spread and ran
Till it smote the ear of the ogre Man.
Enormous on his couch he lay,
And heard the challenge with dismay.
Portentous sound ! Ah, well he knew
That bugle-call that louder grew—
Wee-ee! A-ah! Wee-ee! Whoo-oo!
’Twas the call to battle, fierce and grim—
The Note of 8100d —that must flow from him !
His huge heart sank as the sound grew shrill.
And shriller yet; and he pricked his ear
As the horn outrang, or anon grew still,
While still Anopheles drew near.
With purblind eyes the ogre lay—
He could only see in the light of day—
But he rolled his eyes to the pale moon-ray,
And wicked curses came from his lips
Through the gloom of his couch’s deep eclipse !
He held his breath for a space or two,
And sought with straining ear to guess
From that Wee-ee! A-ah! Wee-ee-whoo!
The place of the coming shock and stress —
What agonising doubt is his
Till— Whoo-00-ee-ce! Whoo-00-whiz !
The ogre started up with fear—
The foe had struck him in the ear !
A beamy arm descends at hap
In one annihilating slap !
Bang ! For a moment all is bright
Before the monster’s dazzled sight,
And a loud, devastating hum
Fills the sore-smitten ear and drum !
The blow has missed ! So, swift and free,
And trumpeting with pride and glee,
Bold Sir Anopheles doth rise
And at the ogre’s forehead flies !
A shock —a pause—a stab of pain ;
As falls the landslide to the plain
Down comes the enormous hand—in vain !
The mighty monster’s blood next flows
From neck and forehead, chin and nose. . .
So all night long the battle goes,
Until the vanquished ogre sinks
Exhausted —and the sharp lance drinks
His blood. The Knight stabs on in scorn
And feasts triumphant till the morn,
And then, departing, sounds his horn. . .
A strong and cheerful strain it is—
Whoo-00-ee-ee ! Whoo-00-00-whizz !
N.s.w.
O. C. CABOT.
The Remittancer.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE blew jauntily into my office, placed
a purposeless-looking little bowler hat
on a chair, glanced with disfavor at my
clerk, who sat doggedly on, and then, with an air
of some mystery, commandeered a piece of scrap
paper, and wrote the words—“ Can you oblige me
with 10s. ? ” , »
“Ten shillings,” I reflected, “will bring his
total indebtedness to me up to £5 precisely. And
it will bereave me of about £l5 worth of self-
respect.” But under the youth’s mild but mag-
netic eye I wilted somewhat.
“ What’s it for ? ” I asked weakly.
“To buy dungarees,” he answered calmly, as
who should say “ To buy food.”
I gasped. My friend’s main characteristics
were destitution, gorgeously striped clothes, and
a horror of work. Dungarees I associated with
toil. Was he —could the thing be possible ? I
pulled myself together, and queried.
“To-morrow,” he said simply, “I begin work-
ing cargo on the wharves; and a week later
leave on the ship Horrible for Home.”
It was a banal thing to do, and I feel ash amed
about it now, but I leaned forward and clasped
his hand in congratulation.
“It shows great pluck, ” I said warm! y. ‘ ‘ Here’s
a sovereign, and I hope you do well in your new
calling.”
He returned my handgrip, pocketed the
money, lit an Egyptian cigarette, and settled
down for social converse.
“Yes,” he said, “I went to Woolloomooloo
this morning and got my ship. It was a hard
task. The seafarers didn’t seem to take to me ;
they were jealous or something. Anyhow, when
I went aboard the Horrible —the vessel I had de-
cided to travel on—and introduced myself to the
mate, he looked at me offensively and said, in a
bitter way: ‘Get off! Go on shore again. I
wouldn’t have y®u working on this ship if you
paid to be allowed to ! 5 ”
I essayed to sympathise with him over the man’s
brutality and his own disappointment. He re-
garded me through clouds of smoke with aloof
surprise.
“Right into my hands, my dear fellow, ” he
protested ; “ the very thing I wanted.”
I sank back, stupefied. Tapping my arm argu-
mentatively with a prettily manicured forefinger,
my visitor now made his point.
“Did you ever in your life,” he demanded,
“hear of a long-distance cargo ship on which the
mate and captain were good friends? ... Of
course you didn’t. It’s against human nature.
Cooped up together for months at a time, they
get to hate each other like poison. They take
opposite views on every subject as a matter of
principle. As soon as the mate treated me that
way I knew I was as right as rain. I went down
the gangway and asked where I could find the
captain. He was in an adjacent pub. He hap-
pened to be maudlin drunk. He cried bitterly,
and used some most filthy language concerning the
mate when he heard my story, and then went
sobbing into a side-room, and wrote a long letter.
I don’t know the contents, but it was directed to
the mate, and evidently insisted that I should be
employed on the Horrible in some capacity. I
never saw a man more annoyed than this mate
was when he read his orders. A plain man
naturally, his face now became distorted and posi-
tively repulsive with passion. For a moment I
feared he would strike me. After a while he
mastered his rage, and, employing some horrible
oaths, said if I was to travel on the ship. I must
be at the wharfside to-morrow, and every other
morning till she left, helping to load cargo. Of
course, this was simply the man’s malice, but I
judged it wise to humor him, and so came to you
about the necessary clothes. These,” and he
glanced critically at his polished shoes and
perfectly creased trousers, “ would look out of
place.”
Shortly afterwards he lit another cigarette and
left.
9 * * *
It must have been nearly five the next afternoon
when he arrived. He looked fresh, immaculate,
and contented, as was his invariable wont. A
half-finished cigar perfumed all the air about him.
Doubts assailed me.
“Finished work already?” I hazarded. He
smiled indulgently.
“The fact is, old man,” he said, “I never
began. The thing was too foolish. I made a
much better move.”
Again there crept over me the paralysing
inertia that the presence of this young man
always induced, and I hearkened to him.
“I think I told you yesterday,” he observed,
“ that I was to be at the wharf and begin manual
labor at 6 a.m. Well, listen to what actually
occurred. Without egotism, I consider this rather
neat. I got up bright and early—about ten
o’clock —and sent the landlady’s little boy out for
a telegraph form. Then to the captain I
despatched the following message :
Bloggs, ship Horrible, Woolloomooloo. Position en-
tirely changed. Meet me lunch to-day, Paris House, one
o’clock.
I started violently, but tny visitor soothed me
with a calm gesture, and proceeded :
“ Sharp to time Bloggs arrived, and we lunched
heavily and well. At the right moment (some-
where between the 12th and 13th lager) I opened
my heart to him. ‘Captain,’ I said, ‘sinceentering
the employ of your company, my people have
sent me £25. Now lam determined to journey
back to them on your ship. I like her, and I like
you. But lam freed from the necessity of work-
ing my way home. Take therefore whatever of
this money will suffice for my keep during the
trip, and 1 will come as a passenger.’ ”
He stopped. I felt considerably relieved.
Actually hope revived a little in regard to iny
borrowed five sovereigns.
“And so,” I began fatuously, “your parents
have relented ? Good ”
I was checked abruptly.
“Not a bit,” he said. “I hadn’t a bean except
the change out of your sovereign. Don’t you see
what I was driving at ?”
“To tell the truth,” I owned, “I don’t.”
“The Horrible has no passenger accommoda-
tion,” he explained, with a triumphant laugh.
“I spotted that as soon as I boarded her. She
can’t carry passengers if she wants to. Now do
you see?”
I shook my head. He considered me in amaze-
ment.
“Do you remember what I told you about my
having been asked to work for a week ? ” he asked.
I nodded. “ About my having to push cargo
about for hours and hours every day ? ” I nodded
again, and muttered something about the cost of
dungarees.
He addressed me pityingly, as one would a way-
ward child.
“Reflect! Use your knowdedge of human
nature,” he implored. “ Here was a ship’s cap-
tain to whom I had stood lunch and an immense
quantity of lager beer, and to whom I had, in
addition, made a handsome monetary offer. That
he couldn’t accept it was neither here nor there.
I (in my innocence, thinking I could pay for my
passage) had neglected his mate’s cargo-working
orders that morning, and so laid myself open to
the sack and to the loss of my passage on the
Horrible. What was the obvious thing for that
captain to do in the circumstances?”
I answered not.
“What w'ould any other man of ordinary
decency do? Why, what the captain did, of
course. He took my hand in his and said :
‘ Henry, lad, I admire you. Keep your money ;
you’ll need it later. Forget that cargo-loading
matter. I, myself (and his eye gleamed), will ex-
plain the matter to the mate this afternoon.
Don’t worry to come down to the ship again till
the morning we sail, and when you do come I’ll
have you made my steward or something, and get
vou a shake-down aft. Blast the mate !’”
I sat, a little dazed. Properly considered, the
sequence of events was obvious—nay, even in-
evitable.
“And now” —the youth’s cheerful, insistent
voice broke in on my meditations —“ get your hat
and we ll celebrate with just one teeny little
drink.”
I am practically a teetotaler. As in a dream,
I took my headgear and followed him towards a
bar.
10-2-4.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
k
A Grateful Mother Writes:
“My little son suffered ter-
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
be disfigured for life. But no,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide. ”
A s now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla-not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
->) WWW
l \ ' / J
P- Q
y.-V- c
****£&.
fill
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
IN order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
INSTRUMENTS 6 /a ml?k V ’ lng H l^,f-v PriZeS such as MUSICAL
CHAINS p E HOro CAMRRA\ , ? SILVER WATCHES and
"HO to. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIEt PS
PERRmGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship LADIES
ELEGANT pearl necklets, solid GOLD RINGS GOT n
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER
THOUSANifpnnvns B^ GLES ’ FREE to the value of ONE!
Cta?^ &iAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward vou 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc. Sell the packets It 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will send you by return
Yoir an THp e RKir is from our grand list. WE TRUST
Hl4 OURS. You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and Tn every ewe
positively as represented in our illustrations.
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
You will look like yourself again
when you get rid of that muddy complexion, when the whites of your eyes
lose that yellowish tinge, when a touch of Nature’s carmine tints your cheeks,
when your step is firm and your general appearance suggests that you are not
troubled with “nerves,” when you are able to take a ten-mile walk or tackle an
extra turn of hard work without undue fatigue, when you enjoy your food and
suffer no uneasy sensations
after taking
your meals, when you sleep soundly and look life gladly in the face, ready to
encounter its inevitable difficulties, your mind free from gloomy forebodings.
And all this will happen directly you start taking Beecham’s Pills. To be*
in health your liver must be doing its work thoroughly, your stomach free from
dyspeptic weakness, your blood flowing pure and life-giving through your veins]
These essential conditions to physical well-being are undoubtedly to be secured*
by an intelligent use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price i/ij (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
wu
N
m
>i m
'Mv/nv*
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
oimply drop us a post card with vour name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any wav
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
rriHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
JL of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring- this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following-
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear:—
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. .. .. .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to IVEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
STEEL WINGS
Tremendously Powerful,
Long Stroke, Automatic.
Australian invention.
Write for Catalogue “C. ”
STEEL WINGS
WINDMILLS can be in-
spected working at Bay
Road Railway Station,
North Sydney .
FREE
NO MONEY WANTED.
COLORED and
ARTISTIC
POST CARDS.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art POST CARDS to sell for us,
at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and
we will send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the
list of jewellery which we forward you. By continuing the sale of our
cards you can earn a LADY’S or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and
CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES,
GOLD RINGS, LADIES’ GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT
RIFLES of faithful workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or
Gent.’s DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK. You can
return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers in post cards in
Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal
offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen
REGAL POST CARD CO., Key-126 Bond-it., Sydney.
m
SfcNty/
MinH
Superior to
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
| COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT;
Tn use Bince 1696.
jin
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or -write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you II in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
Set-
Men
a NO
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M. D« &c.
Consulting: Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,"
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd. and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apnlv to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pairns
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different, to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with lone-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Coin- of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage) and this
advertisement cut out. ° r ~ v “ ”* ““ v P osta B' e )> anc * this
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments »
on receipt of. this adversisement. f Note Address F entb
FREE
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “ E 'mley House,
Please mention this paper when writing. - m
151 E/izabeth-st.'
HYDE PARK, BYDNEY, *


Buggy Rugs & Oilskins
We have a splendid selection of
WATERPROOF BUGGY RUGS
made to wear well and give solid
comfort.
Oil-proofed, at 8/6, 9/6,11/6,12/6.
Rubber-proofed, at 10/6,12/6,17/6
Carriage will be Extra.
For general
work, out in
the wet, fish-
9
ing, driving-, etc., you cannot get a
better oilskin than one from our
stock. In the long Regulation shape
the “ Oilclad ” costs 10/6 ; “ Titan,”
12/6 ; and “ Dugong,” 17/6.
Carriage Paid.
Ask for our Winter Catalogue, No. 17.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming: about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKINC PART —Strictly? ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE ACENTS: Ul O I I CBUIDDICDE 506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
**. Ot u« LEIYIrnICnC) And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
mri TI IVI /"* THE ORIGINAL AND
t, L I I VJI ■ GENUINE BALATA.
TRADb.
OR'.G l
\G£
9
'&AUATA
\ A
BtCV
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Sole Importers: JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
W. Circular Quay, Sydney.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD
“ The House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
JOHN HURST & CO., 4 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
WatchmaKers and Jewellers, TELEPHONE 5177.
LOOK
FOR
THE
NAME
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Singie, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
‘There is No Better Pump than the Knowles.”
BLAKE’S IMPROVED STEAM PUMPS
sasui
Single & Duplex.
-J
For Every Possible Service.
Large Stocks Carried.
Write for Catalogue and Prices:
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents for Australia and New Zealand.
The SPERRY VANNING BUDDLE
Is the Only SUCCESSFUL
SLIMER on the Market.
It is treating satisfactorily Antimony, Tin and other
Slimes. CAPACITY 12 TONS PER DAY.
Since the “ SPERRY ** was introduced, important improvements have been
made in the direction of higher efficiency and greater stability.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Sole Licensees and
Manufacturers,
Sydney & Melbourne
••• -J
.
X-*V:
s'?*?--,
£
