

A Word to the Wise is sufficient —“
R.
Mining 1
107
Kent
Street,
—FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
Sydney,
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Stoew, .Swttlx &• &
For Every Description
OF
High-Class Machinery.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .. .
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
HOBART.
(jadley s Orient fjotel.
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
sLIJJLL*
.
1&
Fine-Apple Brand
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
LINOLITE
(LINE O’ LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical illumination tor
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES, ADVERTISE-
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE,
LIGHTING, &.c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating Current.
Sole Agents for Australia :
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Victorian Depot: 45 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
. ’ ' . ■ 'Mi, f.’.,,' ■ ■ f ,
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices , Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
are . . . . .
TELEPHONES
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE “SILVERTOWN”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branchs
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
GOWIE’S “house of loros”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPLE
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesc o
E. COULSON,
116 a’BeckettSt., Melbourne.
EAST WAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
if
©be Ifemue&
a
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELiDON SPA WATER.
HELIDON SPA is recommended
witH all spirits.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.— N0. 1466'.]
[Thursday, March 19, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


th, k s E wb e ooks. George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Orcz.v, Beau Brocade, paper, 2s 6d ; cloth, 3s 6d ; post 6d.
De Morgan, Somehow Good, cloth 3s (id, post Cd.
Benson, E. F., Sheaves, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, post 6d.
Skinner’s Mining Manual, 255, postage Is.
Walker, Steam Boilers, Engine-, &c., 11s, post 9d.
LoweU M a rs and its Canals, 12s Cd, postage Is 3d
Wood .from Midshipman to Field Marshal, new edition
« Od, postage 9d. Powell, Christian Science 6s > 6d
Lake, Locomotives of 1907, Is 3d, post 3d. ’ 1 '
liderbrandt, Airships Past and Present, 12s 6d, post 9d
A NEW NOVEL
JUST ISSUED,
THE LONE STAR,
h oovl^ r M n,^towr^ d
postage 6d.
SUCCESS IN LETTER WRITING, by SHIRWIN CODY, cloth 3s fid uoatw
Letter Writer, treating both Business and Social Cor^pondence
The Best Up-to-date
A Guide to the Study of
Australian Butterflies,
By W. J. RAINBOW, F.L.S., F.E.S.
300 Bvo pp., over 250 Illustrations, with three-colored
frontispiece, full cloth 3/6, post free 3/11-
“ An Australian Scientific Classic.”— The Register.
THOMAS C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS. INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
A. Tlie Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
T>. The Lobe of one
of the Ijunpcs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt
of stamps from C. HUDSON, Manufacturing
Chemist, 5 & 7 Queen's Place, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
Pragmatism
JAMES, who is the
Y Y brother of Henry James, the
novelist, and also Professor of
Philosophy at Harvard University, has
annoyed the philosophers by the promul-
gation of a new philosophy. This is a
rude, even rash, thing to do—for a man
who gets his living as a philosopher.
But his new philosophy is a still more
impolite achievement. William James
is a philosopher who has the cheek to
propound a philosophy which is merely
common sense. Is it any wonder that
the philosophers are perturbed ? In the
past, Philosophy was a quiet convent
into which, when weary of the contra-
dictions of this chaotic and imperfect
world, thinkers were glad to enter ; and
in those secluded and respectable pre-
cincts they would pass a placid existence
thinking out a perfect and ideally
satisfactory state of things. It is
an interesting, though rather seden-
tary, game; and from Plato down-
wards these philosopher-nuns in retreat
have gently amused themselves building
little toy-worlds of their own—perfect
little toy-worlds—and playing with them.
The writer once knew a philosopher at
Oxford. He was very young, and very
spectacled, and spent his life walking in
the Fellows’ garden with a big book. But
he did not know the name of a single
plant in that garden, and he wouldn’t
have recognised a toad-stool if he had
seen one, and if, of course, toad-stools
presume to grow in Fellows’ gardens. But
he looked forward to a long life of phi-
losophy behind the walls of the Fellows’
garden. And he was very spectacled and
quite young: . ..
The world of concrete personal experi-
ences to which the street belongs (James
remarks) is multitudinous beyond imagina-
tion, tangled, muddy, painful, and per-
plexed. The world to which your philoso-
phy-professor introduces you is simple,
clean and noble. The contradictions of real
life are absent from it. Its architecture is
classic. Principles of reason trace its out-
lines, logical necessity cements its parts. . .
It is no Explanation of our concrete universe,
it is another thing altogether, a substitute
for it, a remedy, a way of escape.
V
Above all, the machine-made philo-
sophy of the professional philosophers is
refined; but what lias refinement to do
with this colossal universe of concrete
facts, or their awful bewilderments, their
surprises and cruelties ? It is this question
that has led William, the brother of
Henry, toward his new philosophy, which
is called Pragmatism. The main question
for you and me is whether we are, or are
not, pragmatists. If you feel like becom-
ing a pragmatist, read William James’
essay on Pragmatism (Longmans, Green).
And William is much easier to read than
Henry. He writes of philosophy in terms
of modern, almost slangy, American, and
the result, though jumpy, is exhilarating.
William James makes the obvious point
that philosophies are ultimately deter-
mined by the particular temperament of
the philosopher. Plato, Locke, Spinoza,
Mill, Spencer, Hegel, you and I—all
these names express mere personal ways
of looking at things. As an introduction
to pragmatism, James takes the case of
the squirrel on a tree-trunk. A man
tries to get sight of that squirrel by mov-
ing rapidly round the tree, but, no matter
how fast he goes, the cunning squirrel
moves as fast in a direction that always
keeps the trunk of the tree between him
and the man. Now, does the man go
round the squirrel or not ? It is obvi-
ous that the question can be satisfactorily
answered only by George Reid. But
James, using the pragmatic method,
answers :
It depends upon what you practically mean
by “going round ” the squirrel. If you mean
passing from the north of him to the east,
then to the south, then to the west, and then
to the north of him again, obviously the man
does go round him. But if you mean being
first in front of him, then on the right of
him, then behind him, then on his left, and
finally in front again, it is quite as obvious
that the man fails to go round him, for the
squirrel keeps his belly toward the man all
the time.
v»>
For the main difference between prag-
matism and all the other isms is that
pragmatism looks at every theory solely
for its practical consequences. If no
practical difference can be traced, then
the alternatives mean practically the
same thing, and all dispute is idle.
The whole function of philosophy ought
to be to find out what definite difference it
will make to you and me, at definite in-
stants of our life, if this world-formula or
that world-formula be the true one. . . .
Theories thus become instruments; not
answers to enigmas, in which we can rest.
With the help of pragmatism AVilliam
James blithely tackles that rather
middle-aged conundrum, “ What is
Truth ? ” He explains why it is that a
new truth is often incapable of assimila-
tion till it has time to soak in. For if a
truth is “ true,” and the human mindAs
on the quest.of truth, it should receive
the new truth without question. But if
we look at the question pragmatically,
we find that the truth is really not an
abstract and perfect thing, but an almost
humanly imperfect fact. James shows
that the human mind, when confronted
with a new fact, is so constructed that it
keeps unaltered as much of our old
knowledge, as many of our old preju-
dices and beliefs, as it can.
We patch and tinker more than we renew.
The novelty soaks in ; it stains the ancient
mass ; but it is also tinged by what absorbs
it. Our past apperceives and co-operates ;
and in the new equilibrium in which eacli
step forward in the process of learning ter-
minates, it happens relatively seldom that
the new fact is added raw. .. . New truths
thus are resultants of new experiences, and
of old truths combined and mutually modify-
ing each other. ... It follows that very
ancient modes of thought may have survived
through all the later changes in men’s
opinions. The most primitive ways of think-
ing may not yet be wholly expunged,
vt/
So James reaches his thesis, that our
fundamental ways of thinking about
things are discoveries of exceedingly re-
mote ancestors, which have been able to
preserve themselves throughout the ex-
perience of all subsequent time. They
form one great stage of equilibrium in the
human mind’s development, the stage
of Common Sense. But there are two
other levels, stages, or types of thought—
science and philosophic criticism ; and as
to which is more “ true ” than the
others the pragmatist declines to say.
“May there not,” James naively asks,
“after all be a possible ambiguity in
truth?” Somehow, we have often sus-
pected it. . . .
When confronted with truth, as when
confronted with the squirrel, pragmatism
merely asks its usual questions :
Grant an idea or belief to be true, xA\a +
concrete difference mill its being true make
in anyone’s actual life ? How will the truth
be realised ? What experiences will be dif-
ferent from those which would obtain if the
belief were false ? \\ hat, in short, is the
truth’s cash value in experimental terms ?
The pragmatist answer is merely that
the truth of an idea is not a stagnant
Property inherent in it. Truth happens
to an idea. It becomes true, is made
true by events. There is no such thing
as absolute truth. “ The true ”is only
the expedient in the way of our thinking,
just as “ the right ” is only the expedient
in the way of our behaving.
The absolutely true, meaning what no
further experience will ever alter, is that
ideal vanishing-point towards which we
imagine that all our temporary truths will
some day converge. . . . Meanwhile, we have
to live to-day by what truth we can get to-
day, and be ready to-morrow to call it false-
hood.
So we reach James’s answer to the
question of Pilate, the only clean Dago
known to History.
True ideas are those that we can assimilate,
validate, corroborate, and verify. False
ideas are those that we can not. So, in
considering a new theory, We must find out
that it will work ; for the theory must
mediate between all previous truths and cer-
tain new experiences. It must derange
common sense and previous belief as little as
possible, and it must lead to some sensible
terminus or, other that can be verifled
exactly.
A new truth is true solely because it
pays. Truth is made just as health,
wealth and strength are made, in the
course of experience. Men’s beliefs at
any time are so much experience so
much common seme—funded ; and truth
is made largely out of previous truths.
Truth grafts itself on previous truth, modi-
fying it in the process, just as idiom grafts
itself on previous idiom, and law on previous
law. Given previous law and a novel case,
and the judge will twist them into fresh law.
Previous idiom ; new slang or metaphor or
oddity that hits the public taste ; and presto,
a new idiom is made. Previous truth ;
fresh facts ; and our mind finds a new truth.
These things make themselves as they go.
\t/
Practically, then, and pragmatistically,
truth is a man-made thing. There is a
human element in all our contact with
reality.
You can take a chess-board as black
squares on a white ground, or as white
squares on a black ground, and neither con-
ception is a false one. . . C;:es;ir was a menace
to Rome’s freedom. He is also a -schoolroom
post, made into one by the reaction of our
schoolboys on his writings. The added
predicate is as true to him as the earlier one.
You see how naturally one comes to the
humanistic principle; you can t weed out
the human contribution. . . . We plunge
forward into a field of fresh experience with
the beliefs our ancestors and we have made
already ; these determine what we notice ;
what we notice determines what we do ;
what we do again determines what we ex-
perience . . . What is true of it seems from
first to last to be largely a matter of our own
creation.
So, instead of looking back on a uni-
verse already perfect and complete,
pragmatism looks forward on a universe
unfinished, growing in all sorts of places,
especially in the places where thinking
beings are at work. W e are, in fact,
contributing to the growth of the uni-
verse.
\f/
And, finally, James gives us the prag-
matist conception of the world. It is a
world not certain to be saved, a world
the perfection of which is merely condi-
tional, the condition being that each
several agent in it does its own “ level
best.” It is a real adventure, with real
danger ; yet it may win through. It is a
social scheme of co-operative work genu-
inely to be done. And Janies asks :
“Will you join the procession? Will
you trust yourself and trust the other
agents enough to face the risk ? ” And
most of us—and it seems especially the
Australians—would take the risk, “ and
add our fiat to the fiat of the Creator.”
A world with only a fighting chance
appeals to the best in us. We are not
eager for Nirvana. We are willing to
pay a price for salvation—for assuredly
there is a price to be paid.
Doesn’t the verv m.Yiess that we attri-
buA j; ■ .mo ineluctable “ noes ”
and losses form a part, of it, that there are
genuine sacrifices somewhere, and that
something permanently drastic and bitter
always remains at the bottom of its cup ? . .
I find myself willing to take the universe to
be. dangerous and adventurous, without
therefore backing out and crying, “no
play.” lam willing to think that the pro-
digal-son attitude, open to us as it is in
many vicissitudes, is not the right and final
attitude toward the whole of life.' I am
willing that there should be real losses and
real losers, and no total preservation of all
that is. I can believe -in the ideal as an
ultimate, not as an origin, and as an extract,
not the whole. When the cup is poured off,
the dregs are left behind for ever, but the
possibility of what is poured oft’ is sweet
enough to accept. . .
I firmly disbelieve, myself, that our human
experience, is the highest form of experience
extant in the universe. I believe that we
stand in much the same relation to the
whole of the universe as our canine and
feline pets do to the whole of human life.
They take part in scenes of whose signifi-
cance they have no inkling. They are
merely tangent to curves of history, the
beginnings, and ends, and forms of which
pass wholly beyond their ken. So we are
tangent to the wider life of things.
v»/
If pragmatism leads to so sane, so
manly, so courageous a view of life, then
there is much in pragmatism, and we are
grateful to William, the brother of
Henry, for his new philosophy of common
sense. Also, we are grateful to a philo-
sopher who can write so happily in slang.
. ♦ — t
The competition for a 600-word account of
a day at home in the country closes on
March 31. Space rates, as usual, will be
paid for all matter printed besides the prize
essay.
A Gallic Critic
“ Paul Warrego ” has published a Diary of
a New Chum (Book Lovers’ Library, Melb.,
Is.). The diary is slight, but the author of
L’Autre Bout du Monde could not but be
witty and incisive ; and this delightful
Gallic view of Australia is well worth read-
ing. Paul Warrego s opinion of Australian
girls is that “they are pretty, have small
feet and big eyes—hard-working eyes I
should call them.” And upon the only
other Australian topic he comments :
“ My two mates are authorities on horses ;
they know the equine history from the horse
of Troy up. The dates of the battle of Hast-
ings, of the discovery of America they have
forgotten, or perhaps never knew. The kings
they know have quaint names ; the victories
were mostly won in the months of October
and November ; the battlefields not far
from Melbourne or Sydney.” Warrego con-
siders sundowners “lazy philosophers,
rambling Diogenes who are showing people
that Australia is a country where anyone
can live by merely moving his legs. They
do not use their biceps. A good pair of
calves is all they want.”
So the author flashes his other-hemisphere
mind upon Australia, and the result is a
bright and witty criticism. His ten com-
mandments for New Chums is worth quota-
tion in full :
1. Try to keep an angelic temper and a live
imagination, for you will have to see yokes.
2. Don’t be too sensitive, and don’t take
literally all you are told. You will be called
at times all sorts of names except your own.
You will be presented with adjectives you never
met before. It is only their way of expressing
themselves.
3. Remember how to hold your gun. Don’t
forget that a stockwhip and an axe are always
loaded.
If.. When you give them a hand in the sheep
yards, don’t split the mob unless you can't help
it. Don’t light your pipe in front of the gate
when they are trying to get 1500 wild ivethen
through it.
5. Don’t pat horses on the nose when thy
are tied up to a post. It means, as a rule, a
broken bridle, and a lot more besides.
6. Learn the pedigree of Carbine by heart.
It will help you a lot.
7. When you hear a snake yarn, multiply
the breadth by the length and divide by ten.
Same calculation applies to Murray cods.
8. Don’t try to make them believe that we,
too, have sunsets in Europe.
9. Don’t dare to say that their Southern
Cross is crooked.
10. Don’t resent being called a New Chum.
Caplain Cool: was a Neiv Chum when he
lauded in Australia. Most of the best men
in this country were New Chums — Ned Kelly
■is an exception ; he was born in Australia.
“Some Australian Painters” is the title
of an article in Jan. World's Work. James
Quinn’s “The Nativity” forms the frontis-
piece of the issue, and other reproductions
are by Lambert, Longstaff', Roberts, Phillips
Fox, Ambrose Patterson, Arthur Burgess, and
Fullwood. Conder and Streeton are not men-
tioned. Pride of place among these younger
Australian artists is given unquestioningly to
George Lambert, who naively confesses : “I
have a great admiration for my own work
when it is good, and also for that of
Velasquez and Tintoretto.” Meantime, for
Europe, Australia holds Norman Lindsay up
her sleeve.
Comment upon Comments, a new three-
penny weekly published at Melbourne, is
deferred until that venture acquires an indi-
viduality of its own. Jts initial issue is
chiefly Answers to Correspondents.


a
SMART STYLES for AUTUMN
Shown at The
New Palace Emporium.
Perfectly-Fitting
Tailor-made COATS
and SKIRTS
At ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 4058.—FANCY WINTER TWEED
TAILOR - MADE COAT AND
SKIRT, 29/6.
Plain Cloth, Navy and assorted
Winter colors, 25/6.
S.W., W. and O.S. sizes.
No. 4759.—CHEVIOT WINTER
TWEED COAT AND SKIRT,
Green, Brown, and Navy shades, all
sizes, 32/6.
Similar style, Light and Dark Tweed,
37/6 ; Fancy Tweed, unlined,
1833, 22/6.
No. 3435.-ETON COAT AND SKIRT,
' Fancy Winter Tweed, 45/-
Siinilar style. Plain Cloth, Grey,
, Green, Wine, Reseda, Navy,
Brown, 45/-
All sizes.
No. 6022. —PLAIN CLOTH COAT
AND SKIRT, Green, Brown, Grey,
• Navy, Prune, all sizes, 67/6.
No. 149.—FANCY WINTER TWEED
COAT AND SKIRT, Light and
Dark shades, all sizes, 57/6.
Similar style, hip length, 50/-
No. 6722.—PLAIN CLOTH COAT
AND SKIRT, Navy, Wine; Reseda,
Brown, Fawn, 49/6.
m
4058
Wi
v vv ' •• it
Ti
149
na
6022
•vS
(Tnjy/t's/i Ofai/orptfac/e
c
Coaitj ancf KS/czr/j
DE-RNS '^aznczisj^ozd c Prices
r
794
799
C'raz)enetfe y S^ozz)erproof Coa fj
\
\ I
S> 3
800
&
Horderns’
Our AUTUHN FASHION PORTFOLIO illustrates the Newest Styles in
Dresswear and Hillinery. Send for a Copy, posted free on application.
New Styles in . . ♦
CRAVENETTE
SEASONABLE
SHOWERPROOFS.
No. 794.-GIRLS’ CRAVENETTE
SHOWERPROOF COATS, Navy,
Fawn, Grey, and Mixed Green Shades—
-33 36 39 42 45 48 51 in.
15/3 16/6 17 9 19/- 20/3 22/- 23/3
Similar style in Macintoshes, Grey and Green
Shades—
-9 6 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/3 14/6 15/6
No. 799.—LADIES’ CRAVENETTE
SHOWERPROOF COATS, best English
make, Fawn and Green Shades; sizes,
S. Woid.’s to extra O.S. Woni.’s, 32/6
No. 798.-CRAVENETTE SHOWER-
PROOF COATS, best English make,
Fawn and Grey Shades ; sizes, S. Worm’s
to extra O.S. Worm’s, 33/6
No. 796. —LADIES’ CRAVENETTE
SHOWERPROOF COATS, best English
make, Grey, Dark Fawn, Myrtle, Navy ;
full length, 52 to 60in., 28/9
No. 795.— ENGLISH-MADE CRAVEN-
ETTE COATS, Grey, Fawn, Reseda,
Black, Navy ; full length, 52 to 60in.,
22/6
No. 800.— ENGLISH-MADE CRAVEN-
ETTE SHOWERPROOF COATS,
without Sleeves, Black and Navy only;
full length, 52 to 60im, 15/6, 22/6
No. 797.—LADIES’ DOUBLE-BREASTED
CRAVENETTE SHOWERPROOF
COATS, best English make. Grey, Fawn,
Reseda, Black, Navy ; full length, 52 ta
60in., 34 6
A Large Assortment of Ladies’ Macintoshes,
from 15/6 to 30/-
ANTHONY HO
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


UtHT
and other
SKINS;
Also BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEYS ABLEST and MOST EHERGET.C SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Xjtd.
SYDNB Y.
‘WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
'are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advadtage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage ot
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on: application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape f » r BOOKS.
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court or London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, Tiie Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner anp Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is;
postl/3. Ivreutzer Sonata, 1/- ; post 1/3. Manning’s
PLEASE MENTION THIS
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 Darts. 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions, Is; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, 124 S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins,ls. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring- Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3 Merrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
{SHF” AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
zL : - • -
wm
Lwvvn/
ME
'
m
A*
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to us with your name and address, we will
irive a eenuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. 1 his
marvellous offer is a business proposition to put a sample of our Gutta Percha
Mending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an ajttc'e used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth mu £ h
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distriDute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated,
we require vou to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample 6d
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we eive Free and |in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies
or Centos Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, »c.
This offer is at lellt worth investigating. It costs nothingto try, and you take no nsk. We simply
ask vou to rnterpret gur pu,zle Ind lend us your name and address. We then award you the
PP"
i
Fountain-Pen and send vou the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instruct ion sand we will send you, Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? I his
grea Wrfte a 1 t S o 0 n«. a Uml PERCHA TRADING CO.. J*o Ash St., Sydney.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt ihat, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventeu a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FECIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. UNO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
ln Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITIOIST.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
' MANUFACTURERS' OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
m
u
Free!
2-ft High.
A life-size DOLL,
OR fl BOV’S RIFLE
11
. T>«1I an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
The Life-9i*ed poll »sanexactr.P or dark hair, beautiful rosy
French creation. Dolly is up _ . j w i'th flesh-col jure i body, red stock-
cheeks, brown eye , and re P r ese Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly,
ings, black shoes, and **2“ eun complete with darts, etc., highly
The Rifle is an air and ®P A best’material rapid in itsaction, and
finished, a 1 work ng 1 arts are of F gUver WaTeH
cc ate in its shooting, a Iso . h the I)oll or Ri fl e For
Ie H lHn^onfy P 2 b D®zen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet. . _ _ _
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you Die seeds Prize you select
return th< money fe/', ana we W'iuu j _ YOU
MONrY W ANTE. D. W E THUoI tuu
th the sole object of adveitising our Reliable Garden
We do this with the sole o J lhes „ va i uab i e prizes to those who
wllbhelp us to imroduce B them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in P the World—lmitated but Unrivaileu.
w niflePrwe our Premium List includes
in addition to the Doll and Rifle prize, ouix_ , y
ssss-'n&JSSSs sws ss srssjsz
Be.i Specimen oi Hewers
Grown from our Seeds.
r TT^Tlddressplainly written, anti we will forward the Seeds
Send your name an i add ca * e) P Uy pack ed by return
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Boy’s Rifie
CORSETS.
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
■"0)
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands cf
women that here is a type immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
-6*
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty In procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to:
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS (Sb CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE; 16 Barrack Street. SYDNEY;
and BRISBANE.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
mar-mr
Tiff
*5,
R
v
SEND FORt^I
FREESAMPLE
Congo is “Never-Leak” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. The material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured. by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by G. E. CRANE & SONS, Ltd., Sydney.
JOHN SANDERSON 8c SONS, Ltd., Melbourne.
GEORGE WILLS 8c Co., Brisbane.
THE CELEBRATED
V
JAY
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened by patented improvements, and there are no
irritating seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this mark
on every garment.
ANY GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters.
trade
o,
MARK
Wholesale only- I. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. That’s
what every one does who uses
B
this splendid
preparation
for the hair,
a If you don’t
f wan t to
> praise it, then
, you must not
use it. You see,
you will be so pleased
with it that you will
just have to tell your
k friends all about it.
>ii(er’s
%air Vigor
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U S. A.
Winchester
n m w
<m iM '
t
fW
'lprj^
a.
Mi,,'
tfoKf:. f : f
: \
* MMwfs
rPcAI
v " -~h£#
“NEW RIVAL”
Loaded Black Powder
“Newßivals”are as per-
fect as brains and in-
genuity, coupled with
first-class materials and
modern methods of
manufacture, can make
them. They are sure
fire, make even pat-
terns, shoot hard and
strong and will stand
reloading. Ask for
“New Rivals” next time
they help make big bags
rTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
-L of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
Peorge Street, Sydney.
= Flesh =
Firm and Solid
“Irene,” Wharf Road, Concord.
N.S.W. July 24, 1906.
My son Raymond (15 months'! became
so weak and ill with diarrhoea that,
although I tried everything I knew, he
seemed to be just wasting away. The
first dose of SCOTT’S Emulsion pro-
duced improvement and now he is a
picture of health and vigour.”
(Mrs.) S. ZAHRA.
I way s get the
' with
S e “ark of the
ocott process
the f ishiaaQ,
THE REASON
WHY the trouble
CEASED.
The purest Lofoten cod
liver oil in SCOTT’S
(the most nourishing
which money ‘can buy)
strengthened every or-
gan in the little body.
SCOTT’S was taken
gladly and digested
easily; that is to say,
every bit of the nutri-
ment did good.
SCOTTS
emulsion
Of all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicine
for -The besf remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS,
ASTHMA.
Ask for Barm 1 ng ton’s
and see that you net it.
r
FREE TO ALL CYCL
eap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
I STS.
BIG ART BOOK,
ge handsome Pho o
anufactnre of a high-
high-class work
WITH THE FREE ART BOOK
you will receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
prcKedT„d a^e.i to v»
are able^feifyou'irid'e'the anTrive’ nT* 'how wi
Write to-day, using sufficient postage
MEAD CYCLE CO O , dept. 280 LfiVERPOGL*
fT
27 s.
PRIZE
•MEDALS.
I
Tmr ia your Cue'’
When ordering Billiard
requisites or
Athgetic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name “Alcock"
has been closely associated with Sporting-
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
Melbourne,Sydney. Perth.
Wellington,NZ. k London.
HAIR DRILL
99 i
OUR READERS INVITED TO CARRY OUT
A WEEK'S FREE TEST.
Remarkable Results Promised.
Have you ever heard of "hair drill ”? No.
Well, every hair of your head is a little soldier.
The duty it shares with its more or less numer-
ous fellows is that of maintaining the tempera-
ture of your brain at normal. Without a well
trained head of hair your brain must become too
hot in summer and too cold in winter, and you
have headaches when the sun shines and colds
in the head when the sun doesn't shine. This is
considering the subject of your hair quite apart
from the aspect of mere appearance, important
as this is in itself.
“ How can you drill your hair ? ”
Well, are you willing to try ? Are you willing
to test the drilling of your hair for one week, if it
entails no more expense than the trivial amount
of 3d. ? “Yes,” you say
All right; now, will you just note that the
present condition of your hair is either one or
more of the following :
1. Dry, 6. Scurfy,
2. Brittle, 7. Greasy,
3. Lustreless, 8. Slightly Odorous,
4. Losing Colour, or
5. Falling, 9. Thin or Patchy.
If you can candidly admit that your hair does
come under one or more of the foregoing descrip-
tions, you certainly ought not to let slip this
opportunity of so easily and so cheaply finding
out what the right kind of care for your hair wil
do for you—you certainly ought to try one week's
free test drill of your hair. Do you not think so ?
The week’s test will produce results that will
open your eyes to the possibilities of proper
hair drill.
The trial, short as it is, will yet show you—
That your hair can be drilled into, fine
condition.
That your hair need not be too brittle or
too limp.
That your hair need not be too lustreless
or too shiny.
That it need not be too highly coloured or
too colourless.
That it need not fall out when brushed or
combed.
That it certainly need not be scurfy,
greasy or odorous.
The one week’s trial, for which the enterpris-
ing proprietors of the famous preparation
Edwards' Harlene” are willing to send a suffi-
cient supply to every reader of this paper, will
also show another remarkable effect. It will
show how important to the welfare of your brain
is the condition of your hair, and before the end
of the week you will revel in a sense of mental
lightness and alertness. Your test will not be
speculative in the slightest degree. The special
free bottle of “ Harlene” placed at your disposal
for the purpose of the test is used by most of’
those members of Royalty and Society who are ,
noted for beautiful hair.
The week’s test is open to both sexes and all
ages.
Why not send to-day, and thus place yourself
in a position to commence the week's trial at once.
A strong word of caution' should be given
against taking internal remedies, which will ruin ,
the constitution, and cheap, worthless remedies
which will ruin the hair.
HARLENE is stocked by all Chemists and Stores.
FORM OF APPLICATION. —— —
To Week’s Test Dept., Edwards' Harlene Co.. 95-96 Hiffh Holborn. London. W.C.
Please forward me, as per your offer mentioned above, the special free bottle
of Harlene" necessary for one week's practical trial of this preparation as a
" Hair Drill." Enclose 3 penny stamps to cover postage. Mention name of Paper.
Name
Address
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
to
rC
fin
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Rough ness. Redness,
T>n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Agents—Elliott tiros.,
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
-5: • ‘I "toy ; Felton, Grl.-«'wario & Co.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Smith.
The Schmidt family has held a reunion at Hanover
iV ews item.
Ten thousand years and more have wrought their
changes in the world,
Since from the womb of Fate the form of John
Smith pere was hurled ;
Ten thousand years have scattered far and wide
his km and kith.
And Time has metamorphosed the generic name
of Smith.
For Smiths have crossed the sea for gold a
pioneering band ;
They ve fought and failed, they’ve fought and
won in every distant land ;
And each new branch that opened up and social
change that came
Inscribed its influence on Smith and spread
abroad his name.
The centuries have parted them, but kinship
binds them fast;
And now at call of blood to blood they rc-unite at
last;
Sir William Psmyth of England meets Herr
Schmidt of Germany,
Oblivious, in the family pride, of nationality.
Monsieur Du Smeet, whose grandsire fought and
fell at Waterloo, ,
Drinks beer with Sergeant Jock McSmith, whose
grandsire fought there, too.
The Honorable Sybil Smvth meets Sczmthoviteh
the Pole,
And finds that dynamiter is indeed a kindred soul.
The speakers at the meeting eulogise with bated
breath
Their long, long line of ancestors, from Pharaoh’s
henchman, Smeth
To Sn.ythe, the Boston millionaire, and Smeath,
the Earl of Blowe,
Whose families were united but a week or two
ago.
They quote from Scripture, history, inscriptions
half-effaced ;
Back to the caudal age of man their deeds and
name are traced ;
Imaginary heroes, culled from legend, tale, and
myth,
Are dragged to light as species of the fecund
genus Smith.
The streets of Hanover are filled with Smiths in
countless throng,
The papers chronicle their deeds in tales ten
columns long ;
One half mankind is listening to their knowledge,
brilliance, wit,
One half raves like Demosthenes—the half whose
name is Schmidt.
n.s.w.
VELDT.
Egypt.
The sum of £2,000,000 is being spent on a drainage
scheme for Cairo. —Daily paper.
Older than History, I sit for ever by the Nile,
While ghosts of vanished nations pass along in
single file.
Princes and kings, they hurry by with their spoil-
laden bands.
And, all unseen, the wind blots out their foot-
prints on the sands.
Older than Time, I crouch and stare above your
puny head ;
The crowded splendors of the past—the glory
that has fled,
These are the things I know and love—the life I
knew of yore,
You will depart, and straight the wind will
cleanse my sanded floor.
Older than Death —who serves me well (’tis he
who clears the stage)
I do but see your work delays the turning of the
page.
Men and the sons of men toil on till at their tasks
they fall.
Time makes a ruin of their work —the desert
sands hide all.
N-.s.w.
E. FRANCIS.
The Wedded Wives.
We cry the woes of married men—
The loss of freedom, lack of pelf ;
Those “ other days ” seem brighter when
We’re growing old and on the shelf ;
And strangely cloven seem the hoofs
That rest upon the fireside mats —
We think of days when all the roofs
Above our heads were battered hats.
We tell ourselves the world was bright.
And often to the mem’ry steals
How once we swore the festive night
Had slipped away on greased wheels.
Ah ! wedded life is sweet, but cloys !
To palates old, old husks seem rare ;
Ah, wrinkled partners of our joys,
We have some joys we may not share.
“ Partners of joys.” Yet little cream,
Perchance, is theirs when life is skimmed.
A vain and'mostly troubled dream
That comes to eyelids heavy-rimmed.
Theirs but to bear with other ills,
To deal with problems, dull and brown,
To square a multitude of bills,
And closely watch each sordid crown ;
To soothe the landlord’s Wrath away.
And bravely smile, though heart-strings ache
And, uncomplaining, day by day,
Deny themselves for others’ sake.
And, for it all, in recompense
A careless word’s flung now and then,
And on the world, in accents tense.
Are poured the woes of married —men.
N.S.W.
NULLA.


WUNDERLICH
5® ART METAL Cf;
f CEILINGS.'
I c Send fir our Booklet “Beautiful Homes ”,
I * postfree on oppticution.
SYDNEY
56
Pitt St.
D r 1
MELBOURNE
123
Queen St.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
a*
Tobacco
m
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers :
If you cannot tret
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a -oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile ' reduced) of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
r'
V
&
©
<c
a
CADBURY’S COCOA
is the idea.l beverage because it is rich
„ in strength - imparting essentials a.nd there-
fore promotes physical endurance and hardihood.
am
c
mt/nsto/*
V jsEVER FAILS.
V Y . rr p. IM p,„r. MARTIN PLACE.3VDNEV.
EAC OFFICE- MUTUAL LIFEBUILpIMO,__ .
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
s' Standard of saddle
- therefore
held in highest favour by
cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, En*.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisbane.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
.222
LOOK for the U trademark stamped on the
head of all U. M. C. .22 Cartridges. It is
well worth your while to buy the best make.
Hares or the rabbit pests are quickly killed with
these reliable cartridges, especially if
they have hollow point bullets.
Tell your dealer U. M. C. make ONL Y.
The Union
Metallic Cartridge Company
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A, •<
u
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
ww.bmm
I English Watches
Prize Awards:- London 1851, Paris 1889,
Lonpon 1862, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.^
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH. ,
n
%
N
iDON
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
i j ;
hii , ' .« 1
IS
rn
Ud
EE
a 2
All


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 29.—N0. 1466.
THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1908.
Pbioe 6d
THE FEDERAL CAPITAL SITUATION.
BOY: “THIS IS THE LADY TO WHOM YOU SENT THE CORDIAL INVITATION TO COME AND STAY HERE. SHALL I SHOW
HER TO HER ROOM?”
APPARITION: “OH, YES, TAKE HER ROUND TO THE DOG-KENNEL.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia /or the A astral in as.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., fit the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tly sending direct to Tiik Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon can have. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every rveelc for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobeaddressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director,
How t" A<hlres< I.afters.
Correspondents to Tim. Bulletin would oblige the payer
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (ivith regard to subscriptions, advertise,
tnents, etc,) should in no case be addressed to the K liter,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name, “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay , and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable, to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence " column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or newspaper Clippings,
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential,
Tim Bulletin tv ill return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
lire observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A rnuteurs in lllttoh and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be, paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiib Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gvtch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, TF. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
The Central News Agency, Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. —lF. E. Anting, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kono. —Brewer and Co., Peilder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
A ijents’ Sjieeiul Notice.
Tim Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6sin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
77ie'^xxllelz/n.
THURSDAY, MARCH 19, 1908.
THE GREAT CITY THAT IS TO BE—IF
DEAKIN ISN’T TOO AFFABLE.
Prime Minister Deakin has at last spoken out
in a manner that is fairly definite for him, and
has declared that the Federal capital question
will almost certainly be dealt with within the next
month or so. That is satisfactory, so far as it
goes, though it doesn’t go any excessive distance.
The question remains—in what way is it intended
to deal with the question ? George Reid pro-
poses that there should be included in the Esti-
mates “a small item” towards the establishriient
of a Federal capital beside the Snowy River, and
suggests that “the vote could be taken as a test
question whether the Parliament was still in
favor of Dalgety, or whether it wanted to adopt
some other site.” The proposal, in its mild
futility and its non-committal tendency, is so like
George Reid that the two Dromios weren’t a cir-
cumstance to the resemblance. For even if the
thing is done, and the “small item ” is pup on thp
estimates, and the vote is passed, things >vill bp
no further forward. The matter at issue is rpally
this: According po phe Australian Constitution,
the selection of the Federal capital site rests
solely >viph the Australian Parliament. TJie site
may be anywhere in N.S.W. provided it is nop
within 100 miles of Sydney, and the Federal ter-
ritory may be of any area provided it is not less
than 100 square miles, and provided the area is
not so large as to slop over beyond the limits of
N.S.W. on one hand, or to spread inside the 100-
miles radius of Sydney on the other. But the
N.S.W. State Government insolently attempts to
tear up the Constitution, and proposes the most
insulting encroachments on the Federal authority,
It demands that the local Legislature of
N.S.W. shall decide on the site of the
Australian capital, and shall define the
area of the Federal territory; and it
lays down, as its conditions, that the territory
must have no port, that it must be wholly sur-
rounded by State lands and dependent on the
goodwill of the N.S.W. Government for its road
and railway communication with the outer world,
and that the Federal territory must be so small
that it will have to rely on the kindness, forbear-
ance and goodwill of the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment for clean water to drink, or for any water at
all. None of these things are in the Constitution ;
they are mere brassy, childish insolence and a
gross attempt tp usurp Federal Rights. And
this country waits anxiously to know what
Alfred Deakin proposes to do in the matter.
He is the guardian of the rights of Australia,
and Australia wants to know if its rights are
safe in his hands.
* * * *
There should be no question now of putting any
“small item” on the estimates to test whether
the Australian Parliament desires a capital at
Dalgety or elsewhere. If the blessed thing was
passed, either as a small item towards the establish-
ment of a capital on the Snowy River, or, by way
of amendment, as a petty and formal item towards
the establishment of a capital anywhere else,
things would be no further forward. The N.S.W.
State Government would presumably disregard
the small item, just as it disregarded the
Australian Parliament’s selection of a capital
four years ago. Its brutally insolent resolve to
tear the Federal pact in pieces and dictate a
new arrangement of its own wouldn’t be alleviated
in the least by the small item. It would pro-
bably kick the small item with the same
off-hand impertinence which it has manifested for
the last four years in aiming its boots at the
SNOWY RIVER ,
At Jindabyne, above the Federal Capital site of Dalyety, (Renewed search fails to reveal
the close settlement which N.S.W. Premier Wade said was almost certain to cause pollution
of the water.)
Photo, by Kerry & Co,, 308 George-street, Sydney,
strictly legal decision of the Australian Parlia-
ment on the same subject. What is required is a
brief and simple Act authorising the Australian
Government to take lawful possession of the
selected site and the selected area, even as Joey
Carruthers took strictly unlawful possession of
the toolish wire netting. It isn’t necessary, of
course, for the Australian Government to he so
uncivil and overbearing as Carruthers was.
There is no reason why it shouldn’t communicate
with Gregory Wade, on a post card or other-
wise, and if it finds him willing to regard the
arrival of half-a-dozen Federal surveyors to
mark out a capital as a taking of forcible
possession, these half-dozen officials would
suffice. If, on the other hand, he pro-
poses to be violent, and send the police
to interfere, as Carruthers did with the wire-
netting, then the obvious course would be to take
possession with 500 or 1000 Federal troops.
Either way, possession of the selected Federal
territory being taken, Gregory Wade could then
rush with his grievance to the High Court, and,
in view of the size of the problem, the High
Court would doubtless lay other matters aside and
attend to it at once. After that, there is no
reason why the weary Federal capital deadlock
shouldn’t be ended in a week. And it is up to
Alfred Deakin to make a note of the fact that
Australia is tired of State insolence and
Federal humility, and that it wants the trouble
ended.
CANBERRA PLAIN.
The site of N.S.W. Premier Wade’s proposed capital.
The real grievance against the proposed capital
on the Snowy River lies in the great possibilities
of the place. With its situation, its port and its
magnificent water supply—a supply that could
furnish power for running, at the cheapest
possible rate, all the industries of a great
manufacturing city—there is, with good manage-
ment, a big future before Dalgety. It
might become one of the world’s great in-
land cities. There are multitudes of them
Paris, Berlin, Vienna, Madrid, Milan, Moscow,
Florence, Lyons, Chicago, Mexico, Denver, Brus-
sels, Breslau, Buda-Pesth, Leipsic, Munich,
Dresden, Cologne, Birmingham, Santiago, War-
saw, St. Louis and Turin are a few casual samples.
A city doesn’t require to be a seaport to become
great; with a good situation, abundant water-
power, good government, and an energetic popu-
lation there are no limits to what it may become.
And in that lies Dalgety’s offence. With its pos-
sibilities it might one day overshadow every one
of the State capitals, and be the pride and boast
and show city of Australia. And the small
State Frights look with horror on the ,°i-
Australia being decorated with a great an - ,
ful city, which would be the centre o
sentiment, in contra-distinction to the _
capitals in which parochial sentiment is sedulously
cultivated. Their ideal is a mean little capital
where, by reason of natural disadvantages, 1 .
would never be any great population or grea
dustries, which would never rival the ' '
capitals, and where there would never >e <i y
great Federal sentiment to set against the local
sentiment of the local political centres. I le s.ini
feeling which, a while ago, made a petty-mmeted
Sydney daily whoop because the N.S.M . revenue
was larger than the Commonwealth revenue,
and say that the Commonwealth , m C' s
doubtless feel very poor and despicable
and mad over the circumstance, makes the
class which that paper represents rave at
the prospect of the Commonwealth having any-
thing better than a dog-kennel for its permanent
residence. It aims at a purely political capital;
some place which will be occupied by politicians
and civil servants, but will have no life of its own,
and at which the parochialist can always point
the finger of scorn while he asks the public to
judge of the dignity of the Federation by the
hopelessness of its habitation.
* * * *
It is on this basis that Canberra and most of the
other sites proposed by the Cakkuthers-Wade
combination—hut Canberra most of all—recom-
mend themselves. Canberra was apparently
chosen because it is about the most hopeless
place in N.S.W. unless the great dry plains had
been raked for a capital site. With poor soil, no
scenery worth mentioning, only a dribble ot
water, no port, and a location at the backdoor of
and on the by-road to nowhere in
particular, it is the embodiment of hopeless-
ness. A Federal capital there would, almost
certainly, he a small town and a dead town ;
it would have no industries of any account ;
it would be deserted when Parliament was
not sitting save for such civil servants as
couldn’t get away, and the dreariness of it would
m,die even the average Federal politician hate to go
there to attend to his legislative business. Theie
would probably he no theatres, for such a place
would only support an occasional strolling com-
pany come to play dramas called “The Worst
Woman in London,” or “ Henry Hovering Hor-
ribly on the Horizon,” or things like that; there
would be no active population, no tramcars no
scenery, no literary life. It would be like
i"n° v[c d toH f , N - S 'l W -7 0n n ly W °^ e; or Castlemaine
in Vietoiia-jonly deader. On evenings when
Pail ament didn’t sit the legislators who weren’t
f lAv/Tft f hotne which would mean three-
fourths of the legislators—could lean against posts
in the street or haunt bars or billiard-rooms or
borrow a book from the circulating library at’the
tobacconist’s shop, with the threepenny hair-cut
in he back room and the bad threepenny cigaJ
n the front emporium. For Canberra lies off the
tiacks of commerce, and it has no advantages
Temre W °D ( ( T A’ xt becomin K a manufacturing
°? ntre - u d j ve on Pities, and on nothing
else, and po ltics degenerate in a defunct atmo^
A,,<i ti,e siate GcJiSt
JN.W.W. would fain accentuate its unpromising
character by making the Federal teiritory so
small that there would be no room for the Cam
berra capital to grow, even if there were any
chances of it growing. ny
It is not here propounded that a site by the
Snowy River is the best that can be found in
Australia. There are two or three great rivers in
the Northern Territory, beside any one of which
an ideal city might be founded. And the estab-
lishment of an Australian capital in the Territory
would have these notable advantages—it would
lead to the rapid building of railways to open up
Australia’s Lost Province, and the swift gather-
ing of population and military strength in the
direction where invasion is most to he feared
But by a disreputable trick the choice of a capital
site was limited to N.S.W., and in N.S.W. the
Snowy seems to be the site with the greatest
possibilities. If the Australian Parliament in-
sists on having its own port, and full control of its
river and its water supply, and an area—even if it
be 5000 square miles—on which a live metropolis
will have room to breathe, there is a chance there
to create, in time, another Milan or Vienna or
Berlin. It need not rise at the expense of any
existing Australian city—there are all the English-
speaking countries of the world to draw population
from. It would be far enough from either Sydney
or Melbourne to prevent it competing with either
of them. It would simply be a new and most
valuable asset, and as every State and every indi-
vidual in the Commonwealth would he part
owner of it, every State and individual is inter-
ested in making it the finest and most progres-
sive city that circumstances admit of. To Bent
or Wade, each wedded all his life to one
State capital and full of the importance
of that State capital, the idea of Australia
acquiring such an asset may seem horrible
enough, but the interests of Australia are of
more importance than the prejudices of Bent or
Wade, and Australia can’t throw away a great
city even if Bent or Wade is aggrieved at the
idea of there being any city save his own. With a
large and prosperous capital, and a fertile terri-
tory, and a port of its own, the Commonwealth,
which is Australia, would have a certain life and
soul and existence of its own apart from the
States. That would be good for Australia and
for the people of Australia, and for everybody
save the diminished State politicians. They are
in the position of the German princes in the
worst days of the empire—the princes who
loved to elect a foreigner or a nonentity as
emperor because his smallness made them great
by comparison, and when one of the homeless
emperors was arrested for his unpaid meat bill,
even the smallest Wade among the German
princes felt better. It was pleasant enough for
the princes, but it was very bad for Germany ; and
Australia has no great desire to try any such
experiments.
* * * *
There is just this difference between the advo-
cates of a great capital beside the Snowy Riyer
and those who holler for a hopeless Federal
hamlet on the dry plains of Canberra : The former
speak all the time of the interests of Australia,
and of the Commonwealth, which is Australia;
the latter talk solely of the alleged “ rights of
New South Wales,” which, in their vocabulary,
consist of a right that can be found nowhere in
the Constitution, but which is said to be inherent
in certain Sydney politicians, to select the
capital of all Australia, and to define its area, and
limit its prospects, and control its water supply,
and consign it to hopeless insignificance. The
whole case for the Canberra desert rests on these
alleged “ rights,” and when the High Court rules
them out, Canberra will have no more standing
than Hungerford or Pooncarie. And even if the
High Court didn’t rule them out, the exercise of
them would make no single individual in N.S.W.
a penny better off, while it would make Aus-
tralia, in the aggregate, a vast deal poorer. The
victory might give one or two cantankerous State
politicians the momentary inward glow that
comes to the larrikin after he has demonstrated
his influence and authority and importance by
breaking a window or hitting a respectable citizeg
with road metal; but even the larrikin isn’t
really any the better for these exercises. He is
presumably happier for the moment, hut his tem-
porary happiness is a matter of no interest to any
decent citizen.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Wade’s Boards.
On the whole, Wade’s Bill, which is to take the
place of the N.S.W. Arbitration Act, is better
than might have been expected. It is not so good,
as the Arbitration Act, but it is not so lftuph,
worse as Wade’s hostility to Arbitration suggested
that it would be. We can probably make up our
minds at once that no law will prevent industrial,
troubles altogether. There are likely to be strikes
and lock-outs no matter what we do. Dozens o{
courts are in full blast to settle ordinary personal
and commercial differences ; and yet elderly men
sometimes fight with umbrellas in Martin Place,
and Chief Secretaries are fired out of the
Assembly chamber by prodigious Sergeants-at-
Arms. The old Arbitration Act succeeded ip,
scores of cases, and failed i,n ope or t\VQi
and that it didn’t fail oftpnpr was pjarvellous cam
sidering that both parties were taught to have no
respect for if, an,d considering, moreover, that
Ministers and Co.urfs (apart fpom the Arbitration
Court itself) viewed if anil read ;t and administered,
if with all fhe lack of sympathy they had on hand.
No new law which was made a cockshy of by a
pretty-well united press six days a week could
wholly succeed ; for the real force of the law rests,
not in fhe policeman’s baton, hut in the respect
which the average citizen has tor it because it is
law. Because the old Act was infamously robbed
of that respect, the new law may be a good deal
more serviceable, even though it be an infinitely
poorer measure. It was one of the crimes
of the old Act, too, that the Court didn’t
deal with, disputes half as fast as they presented
themselves. It was about the stupidest of all the
charges made against it. It simply meant that
there was so much demand for the services of the
Court that there ought to have been three or four
Courts, instead of one. Wade in his Bill does not
attempt to repeat that absurdity; he provides,
instead, for over 40 special Boards, or Courts, each
for one industry. They are to consist, like the
Victorian Wages Boards, of elected representa-
tives of employers and employees, and the two
lots together are to choose their own chairman.
Ibis chairman may be anybody at all; but if the
two lots of representatives cannot agree upon a
nominee, then “the Governor may” why
“may”?—“appoint a Supreme Court Judge, or a
J udge of the District Court, or some person
nominated by the Supreme Court.” The Judge,
or a Judge if the Board hasn’t a Judge for
president, has to deal with alleged breaches of
awards. The Boards have wide powers; f° r
instance, they can apparently grant preference to
unionists, though that is a subject that is not
mentioned. But they can’t compel an employer
to “disclose any matters relating to profits,
losses, receipts, outgoings, or financial position’ ;
and how a Wages Board is going to equitably «x
wages without knowing in certain cases what an
industry is capable of paying, Heaven and the
Wade Government only know. For, observe, an


employer may shut up shop at any moment, and
it isn’t a lock-out, and therefore isn’t punishable
so long as he says that he cannot afford
to pay the wages; and as he cannot be
compelled to disclose his financial affairs, even in
camera, his say-so must be conclusive. ’There is
in the last resort, then, no such thing as the en-
forcement of awards so far as the employer
is concerned. The difficulty, so far as the
workmen were concerned, was got over in the
old Act by making the union responsible.
Wade’s measure belittles the union—which, for
once, is just what might have been expected.
But it will not work. If there is a strike it is the
individual who is to be responsible, though cer-
tainly a union may be fined unless it can show
that it discouraged the act. In some industries
there will be no strike in the future, therefore
—the employees will, simply fade away, one
by one. The disaffected man will go to
something else. But a union cannot go to some-
thing else. The Wharf Laborers’ Union is a
wharf-laborers’ union all the time and always. It
is a permanency, like a trustee company; the
officers may resign, the staff may change, but the
trustee company is an abiding entity, and there-
fore men are coming to prefer trustee cos. The
Fat man at heart hates the union, because with-
out his union the workman is a poor, weak pawn
in the Fat man’s game. But, from the com-
munity’s point of view, the union has its uses,
and Wade will have to argue very hard in order
to show that Arbitration can be made effective
without the unions’ help.
The Sydney Wharf-Laborers’ Strike.
Sydney, where the daily papers have been cursing
Arbitration ever since B. R. Wise passed his Act,
had another taste of the strike alternative last
week, and, of course, didn’t like it. The men—
wharf laborers —were, in fact, given to understand
that they were the worst sort of criminals. A few
of them had a quarrel with the mean little coastal
cos., and the mean little coastal cos. had put on
non-unionists. Technically the mean little coastal
cos. may have been right. They were working
under ar. early Arbitration award which was ad-
mittedly inadequate in the beginning, and is more
inadequate now—so inadequate that other ship-
ping employers varied it in the men’s favor. Had
the Arbitration Act been permanent, and had
enough Courts been provided to deal with indus-
trial troubles, the displaced unionists would un-
doubtedly have turned that way for relief. But that
way was closed ; the Act dies in a month or two,
and the one Court has five times more work on
hand than it can finish. So the men went back to
the old way of the strike. But they couldn’t strike
merely against the mean little coastal companies,
because non-unionists had taken their places there ;
the one thorough plan available was to refuse to
work for those who handled the mean little coastal
companies’ freight. They admit that they have no
quarrel with these other employers; on the con-
trary, they own that the other shipping companies,
inter-State and deep-sea, have treated them very
well. It is just because they admit that much
that a frightful howl is raised. Employers and
papers and public profess to be astounded. They
never heard of such a thing ! Their memory, in
that case, is very short. Before Arbitration
arrived, this was the very commonest weapon of
the unions. Where Arbitration does not prevail,
it is still the very commonest weapon. More-
over, abolish Arbitration here, and it will be the
very commonest weapon in these parts again. All
the industrial laws of the past 14 years spring
directly out of the tremendous industrial turmoil
which lasted from 1888 to 1893, and of that tur-
moil the “ sympathy strike ” was the most out-
standing feature. The union shearers struck;
then the carriers, the wharf laborers, the seamen,
all refused to handle in any way the wool shorn
by non-union labor. In 20 years the Riot Act has
been but once read in the streets of Sydney ; and
that was at Circular Quay, when waggon-loads of
>l black” wool, the teams driven by men from the
clubs, the banks, and the warehouses, made
Sin ostentatious parade of the streets. All
this pretended astonishment is therefore rub-
bish. What the men did in this case
is the very essence of the strike method of in-
dustrial warfare. It seems unjust; it is unjust;
but it is war. If Arbitration is destroyed,
ayd we are to have strikes again, the thing that
was done in this case will be done in every case.
The only difference .will be that, when they know
the strike has to be relied upon, the “sympathy
strike” won’t stop at.one union, anymore than it
did in the days when shearers, carriers, yvlparf
laborers, lumpers, seaqien, and ships’pfficers yyere
all out simultaneously. During these ,past lew
yearn, while the fools have been busy .throwing
mud at Arbitration, the strike and ad its horrors
have been glossed over. On the whole, it is just
as well that, at this stage, the public should get a
brief glimpse of the monster as it really is.
-♦ -
The Bowled-Out Tory Thar.
Time is a very old institution, but ,it is a good
Democrat. Plodding ajong with its scythe, in its
slow-footed way it vindicates tlje Democratic
cause time. When any great reform is
advocated, ancient, doddering Toryism goes
through three stages. First, it says that the thing
is utterly insane ; that it will be ruinous, disas-
trous, and the forerunner of bankruptcy, and the
precursor of the wholesale .departure of capital
out of the country .; and that it will cause us to be
so contemned and despised in England that words
fail to express the situation. Second, when the
measure has been passed, and resistance is plainly
hopeless, and there begins to be a doubt
about the coining of the cataclysm, it says
that it believes in giving the thing a fair
trial. Third, when the measure it denounced
18 a great success, it denies that it was ever
really hostile; it was always friendly to that
reform, and it is only the next one that it
objects to, and over the next one it proceeds to
travel the same course. In Australia, one of the
earliest of the new departures concerning which
old, blatant, silly Toryism couldn’t find words to
express its scorn was the Victorian Wages Board
system. That new idea, it said, was a shocking
example of ignorance, a proof of how a collection
of unlettered legislators tried to inteifere with the
Law of Supply and Demand, and a kind of thing
that was calculated to make England throw us
overboard in despair. To-day the British House
of Loinmons proposes to try an adaptation of the
Victorian Wages Board system in England, while
the only thing that is wrong with it in Australia
is that it isn’t sufficiently comprehensive and up
o date. Six or seven years ago the Australian
f°r the exclusion of undesirable immigrants
md the crawling section of Australian Toryism
jth a misery that was beyond words,
-that section declared that England would
too shocked and disgusted to speak
", en it heard of the dreadful thing;
the language it threw at Deakin, Lynk,
AT J*? N and others, and the lies it told about the
lx Hatters and the Petriana Myth, were wild
UIK V;ist - But Britain apparently considered, on
due inspection of the case,.that Deakin, Lyne,
Watson and their friends were statesmen of a
lairly nigh order, and that the individuals who
ran the S. M. Herald, Sydney Telegraph, Even-
ing News, Melbourne Argus, and other Tory
rags, were a. crowd of amateur journalists and
sully old women. So, instead of being shocked
to death over Australia’s Immigration Law,
it proceeded to copy the same so far as
it could be conveniently applied to English
conditions. And all through the weary cata-
logue the lory person has proved in the same
way to be the same old donkey or Ananias. He
declared unanimously that the Deakin-Lyne Com-
merce Act would ruin the trade of this country,
and, behold, the trade grew bigger than ever’l
He declared that the expulsion of the
.Kanaka would utterly destroy the Queensland
sugar industry, and instead of being destroved the
industry grew larger than ever. He announced
positively that Protection, and Arbitration laws,
and so on would wipe out Australian manu-
factures, and instead of being wiped out they grew
faster and larger than at any previous time. He
alleged that, owing to Federal legislation in
general, capital would fly from this country as
from a pestilence ; and the only result was that
there was more capital in the country, on the
evidence of the banking returns, than at any
previous period in its history, and Australia began
nSe new British loans, and to repay the
old British loans with Australian money, and
even to lend Australian money to England when
things were tight in London. Yet the Tory
party—the party which has for its representa-
tives the Brisbane Telegraph and Codrier, the
Sydney Herald, Telegraph and Evening News,
the Melbourne Argus, and the Adelaide Register,
and the Perth West Australian, also such rear-
guard politicians as Bruce Smith, Reid, Cook,
Symon, and others—isn’t ashamed. It has been
proved every time to be a liar, or a fool, or
an ignoramus, or an infant, or a thing of deficient
intellect; but it retains all its old superior atti-
tude, and prophesies as cheerfully as ever. After
being bowled out every time it prophesied, and
proved a thing of less account in a political sense
than the dog at the corner, it is now busy announ-
cing that the adoption of the Canadian banking
system will ruin the Australian banks ; that any
interference with agricultural wages will practi-
cally destroy agriculture; that the proposed
Federal Navigation Bill will drive all British
vessels off the Australian coast; and so on. Its
previous failures haven’t in the least diminished
its attitude of lofty pity for everybody who doesn’t
think as it does. On the evidence of events
Kingston, Lyne, Watson and Deakin rank
almost the highest among the statesmen of the
British Empire, and very high among the states-
men of the world. They have led the way with
many great reforms ; they have done it amid a
shriek of scorn, mud and obloquy from the
superior Tory and the superior Tory publication ;
and every time the event has proved them right,
and has proved their critics to be wrong. It is
well for Australia to remember this record. In
every question that arises between the present
Federal Government and the Tory press and
party the history of past events shows that it is
1000 to one the Australian Government is right,
and 500 to one that the Tory press and party
know that they are wrong, and are perjuring
themselves with a full assurance that they are in
the T. Oates line of business.,
♦
Re Hopetoun, Mary Ann, and Others.
Australia’s old friend, Hopetoun, or Linlith-
gow, who died suddenly the other day, owned
about 42,600 acres of Britain —a mixed lot, includ-
ing residential, coal, iron, and farm country.
Alongside Buccleuch (460,000 acres), Hamilton
(157,400 acres), and Devonshire (186,000 acres),
Hopetoun wasn’t a great landlord, but he was a
rich one, and drove some hard bargains. He was,
through neither fault nor merit of his own, one of
a group of peers—mostly northern peers—who sit
with the weight of a million tons on the neck of
the Britain they profess to love and serve. This
winter, on the Clyde, the very many thousands
dependent on the iron and steel and ship-
building businesses have had a cruel time.
And what wonder ! The Glasgow Weekly
Herald lately answered a .correspondent in
a casual way to the effect that “ the
average rate of royalties in Scotland works out at
about 9d. per ton for coal and 2s. 6d. per ton for
iron ore.” Linlithgow, Hamilton, Buccleuch,
and the rest of the landlords, take this bite out of
the business. Hamilton draws in royalties from
a blast-furnace on his estate £lB5 a week. The
wages amount to only between £9O and £lOO.
The idle Fat landlord thus sucks out of the indus-
try ,twice as much as the pay of all the workmen
put together. The domestic servants who have
been trickling into Australia lately through the
Irpinigration Departments are reported to be
shocked and disgusted to find that, in these
heathen parts, there are no houses where 100 ser-
vants are kept—that mostly Mary Ann is a Mary
Ann of all work, or half the work anyhow. The
scorn of imported Mary Ann for Australia is, in
consequence, simply withering. Now, whep a
country wants population as badly as Australia
does, the good opinion of even Mary Ann is a
matter of consequence ; in fact, it is of more con-
sequence than the good opinion of Gwendolyn,
Mary Ann being, on averages, the prospective
mother of more little immigrants that Gwen-
dolyn. The Bulletin doesn’t know for certain
how M. Ann can be convinced that his Grace of
Hamilton has £lB5 to spend because his work-
men — M, Ann’s father and brothers—draw only
£9O in wages instead of the £275 that would be
available if there wasn’t any Fat landlord grind-
ing out his royalties; but she certainly needs to
be convinced of it. It might even he good to
convince her that one reason why she is “in
service” is that her father got only half the
wages that he might well have drawn if there
hadn’t been loafing lords to maintain ; also, that
one reason why servant-maids are scarce in Aus-
tralia (wherefore the household with two of them
is something extra) is that Australia hasn’t any
loafing lords to take two bites, while the local
Mary A.’s father and brothers get one between
them, wherefore the Australian Mary A. can
afford to stay at home, and burn the chop in the
bosom of her own family.
-♦
Our State Frights and Other Frights.
When we consider tumultuous and incendiary
persons like Carruthers and Wade of N.S.W.,
and Monger of Westmlia, and “Jacky” Evans
of Tasmania, it is at least consoling to know that
they aren’t an unusual development. Every new
Commonwealth has been harried through its early
days by the State Frights person, and his bogus
wrongs, and his cry for immediate secession. In
the U.S. there is hardly one of the older States
which didn’t threaten secession at one time or
another in the early history of the republic, and
the union was "hardly founded before all New 1
England threatened to break away. In Argen-
tina, “secesh” was for a while the favorite
amusement of Buenos Ayres, the Ma province of
the Confederation. Nova Scotia, almost im-
mediately after it joined the Canadian union,
raised a crop of politicians who declared
that their province was being “ robbed ”
by Quebec and dragged captive at the chariot
wheels of Ontario. It sent secessionists to the
Canadian House of Commons, passed “secesh”
resolutions in its local Legislature, despatched a
delegation to London, threatened to arm its male
population en masse— in fact, its local politicians
bellowed about their “ wrongs ” for 18 years, and
then suddenly the movement perished like a
bubble when an elephant leans against it. Two
other provinces also had “wrongs” of an aggra-
vated character; in fact, for the first half-genera-
tion of its existence the Canadian Dominion
was a dinner party of Kilkenny cats. Now the
“wrongs” are all forgotten; the Canadian
Wades are dust, and the Dominion’s Car-
RUTherses are Mud, and the Mongers and
Lvanses are remembered only by historians,
ihe sea has risen up and washed out their foot-
prints, and they are as if they had never been.
In Sugar Land.
From a Sugar District : When the decree went
forth that Tommy Tanna had no place in “ White
Australia,” loud was the lamentation among
the false prophets who follow PiliLF, for with-
out “reliable labor” the sugar industry was
ruined. So Mackay lifted up its voice and shed
water Out of the things it looks with, as M.
Twain said. The ruin has come and it spells
prosperity, for never was the district so well off as
it now is. In the town, buildings—offices, shops
and dwelling houses —are being erected all over
the place, and town lots, that a few years ago
could not find a,purchaser, are now worth money,
while out in the country decent farm-houses are
springing up, and farmers drive about in sulkies
and buggies instead of in cane drays, and cut
their chaff by means of oil-engines instead
of by hand. Workmen get white men’s
wages, and wherever there are amusements they
are attended by crowds of well-dressed, well-fed
and contented-looking people. Races were held
in Mackay on Boxing Day and at New Year, and
both occasions there were record crowds and
record amounts through the totalisator. These
things don’t point to ruin. Great numbers of
men returned to the South after the crushing,
and nearly all of them took good cheques with
them. Any man willing to work could command
good wages, and'-tqany of those cutting cane by
contract made £4 and £5 a week, and where the
men made that the-farmer .who employed them
was getting a good cheque for himself. Wages
men got 35sk or $2 4 week and kept; in
the kanaka days 255. •’was good Wages in the
crushing season and the-pay- was less in the slack
months. A couple of seasons back, farmers
returning to the country from the town were
talking in the train about labor. Said one,
rhree fellows came to me for a job.yesterday.
What do you think they asked ? Why, 30 bob!”
and his tone expressed his astonishment and dis-
gust. “I suppose you gave it to them?” said
another. “I’d see them in Hell first,” he said.
Yet the farmers and some of the men rail against
the tariff. “This blooming Protection’s no
good,” said one. “ Everything has gone up. A
farmer wont be able to live soon.” “Right,”
was the answer, “ we’ll go in for Freetradeand
take the duty off everything, let the sugar in
free, ajk 1 lose the £lOO,OOO of rebate money.”
Oh, no,” said the agricultural grumbler, “leave
the sugar alone,” He was the usual kind of Free-
trader and wanted Protection for himself.
Milk and Manslaughter.
The system pursued by the big N, S, Wales milk
companies is to buy milk at a sweating rate from
the dairymen, and sell it to a middleman who
poses before the public, not as a private specu-
lator and a middleman and an excrescence, but
as a salaried employee of the big company.
1 eople who would not dream of entrusting the
health of their children to John Dash and
William Blank, feel satisfied that the big concern
with the high-sounding name has a reputation to
sustain, and consequently, when John Dash calls
at their houses asking for custom, they look at the
cart bearing the picturesque title of the big co,,
and tell him to bring a quart each morning and
night. When John Dash, in his own name, is
caught selling a quantity of water in the next
street, and is heavily fined, they read the report
of the case, and thank goodness they know
better than to take an unknown Dash’s in-
ferior stuff. Still they wonder what gave
little Willy typhoid, and why the baby
is wasting away. The companies are pos-
sibly innocent of any manipulation of the milk.
The chances are that they supply it to John Dash
in a state of purity, and John Dash himself con-
verts a pint into a quart at the nearest tap. But
the responsibility of the co. does not rest with
handing out an unadulterated article. It permits
John Dash, the adulterator, to use carts bearing
its name. It allows him to send in bills with its
grandiloquent monniker across the top. And,
worse than all, it forces John Dash to purvey
its milk on such sweating terms that John
cannot make a fair living if he passes it on to the
consumer in the state in which it is received. The
companies cannot, therefore, dodge their respon-
sibility. They are practically putting into the
hands of John Dash the means to swindle the pub-
lic and add to the infantile death rate of the State.
Health regulations should be made rendering it a
crifninal offence to sell milk from any cart bearing
any name but that of the actual vendor. Little
Willy’s father would then know that John Dash,
who was fined £lO for vending liquid man-
slaughter, was identical with the genial Milk-ho
who called at his place daily, and left the morning
and evening quart that little Willy was fed on.
♦
Just Plain Mad.
Some time ago this paper had a serious idea that
it might be necessary, in a few years, to work up
a second centennial celebration in N.S.W., and to
issue another special centennial stamp—this time
with the inscription “We Owe One Hundred
Millions” ; and to have illuminations, and flowers,
and rockets, and free drinks, and free fights, and
great mafficking in order to mark the fact that the
country had reached the hundredth milestone on
the road to ruin. But things have changed some-
what for the better in N.S.W. since those
wild, whirling Reid and McMillan and
Ovve’Sullivan days,, and now it begins to
look as if Maoriland would want that
maffick and that centennial stamp before any
other Australasian State. For in loan matters
Maoriland to-day is Just Plain Mad. The rickety
isles owe more than any other State of
Australasia save N,S.W. (which has 50 percent,
more population and thrice the area), and they
are fast overhauling N.S.W. They owe more
than South Australia, Westralia and Tasmania
put together ; also much more than Victoria and
Tasmania put together. And this is not the
worst. All the Australian States, except perhaps
Westralia, have begun to learn the lesson that
frenzied borrowing, and wild improvidence, and
the boom and razzle that are built out of other
people’s money, are not real progress. The Aus-
tralian Government has so far constructed all its
works out of revenue, and it owes nothing. Among
most of the States it has come to be regarded as
almost the first qualification of a Premier that he
shall be a wise economist, and the advent of such
men as Bent, Price and Kidston has put
a new aspect on things. Even Wade and
Carruthers, though it has been impossible
to draw from them any definite declaration
against a loan policy, have shown, for one
year at least, and probably for more than
that, a definite reduction in the N.S.W. public
debt. But in this respect Maoriland learns
nothing. It is 17 years behind the tiriies, and it
talks at second-hand the twaddle- of Victoria’s
profligate borrowers of the Gillies days, when
great Boom was just changing to great Burst.
Maoriland still tries to persuade itself that it
follows the wise policy laid down by John
Ballance when the Democratic regime began in
181)1; and it does follow Ballance in all except
the great essential. It follows him in the things
that are easy, and not in things that are difficult.
Ballance’s. Premiership covered the financial
year 1892 and part of ’9l and ’93. In those three
years the addition to the public debt of
Maoriland was under £600,000. In the last three
years the addition was £6,656,825. The average
rate of borrowing has been multiplied by eleven
since the days of Ballance, and all his wisp
maxims of honesty and self-reliance have been
thrown to the winds, Maoriland now owes ovep
£64,000,000—an astonishingly large “Matilda” tp
be carried by less than a million people. It is
piling up its liabilities faster than it ever did
before, even in the worst of the old days. It has
a smaller proportion of payable assets to show for
its debt than any other State of Australasia, and
it is less scrupulous than any other State —less
scrupulous than even profligate and disreputable
Westralia—about misapplying its new loans to
utterly unprofitable works that should clearly be
charged to revenue. In the loan boom of
these later years it has lost its senses and its
political conscience, and gone Just Plain Mad.
Financially it has got into a second childhood.
It talks again the old exploded baby platitudes
about the necessity for bringing loan money
into the country to develop its great natural
resources —the platitudes of which every Aus-
tralian State has become considerably ashamed,
and of which Maoriland itself was ashamed
15 or 16 years ago, when it had gone to
great wreck on its first loan-burst, and was
poor and sorry, and in tiie mood to listen to John
Ballance’s wisdom. Maoriland has an enormous
opinion of itself nowadays. As a whole, it is
firmly convinced that natural laws are suspended
The Sentinels.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are the Empire’s vanguard—the outposts of
the breed,
Upon whose arms the Empire’s fate may rest in
time of need !
Yea, safe in distant Shoreditch each shrill tub-
thumper dwells;
But we who stand to guard this land —we are the
Sentinels!—
The lonely Sentinels !
And, looking forth, we face the North—we are
the Sentinels !
The Hardies spout their gospels—they bound
across the world ;
But we must keep the Race’s flag—the White
Man s flag—unfurled !
Ours are the ill-manned ramparts, the outpost
citadels
On cliff and cape. We face the Ape—we are the
Sentinels !
The far-off Sentinels !
What time they prate we watch and wait —we are
the Sentinels !
The great globe-trotting persons, they rush ex-
pounding by ;
What time we fix on Asia our sleepless starboard
eye !
The Hardies and Macdonalds, the tale that
Tillett tells—
Tis surely plain these things are vain—we are the
Sentinels !
The silent Sentinels !
Yea, they may shirk but we must work—we are
the Sentinels!
’Tis well to dwell in Birmingham, far from the
roaring guns;
But we must hold this continent against the modern
Huns!
When the seas show forth the coming of their
countless caravels
The doctrinaire will not be there —we are the
Sentinels!—
God help the Sentinels !
The cohorts few must dare and do—we are the
Sentinels !
They say all men are brothers, these dreamers
o’er the sea;
But we expound the White Man’s Creed of Soli-
darity !
The German, Frank and Briton, the earnest
Swede who fells
The great pine tree beside the sea—we are their
Sentinels !
Their far-out Sentinels !
For them we hold this land of gold—we are
Sentinels !
We hope to build a Nation all white from shore to
shore—
Aye, hope to fill this continent with busy
millions more !
What time the Hardies cry aloud and ring Jehan-
rmm’s knells,
This Land we guard with watch and ward —we
are the Sentinels !
The White Man’s Sentinels !
Out on the rim of a Future dim—we are the
Sentinels !
We are the White World’s vanguard—the outposts
of the breed ,
Upon whose arms its fate may rest when comes the
time of need /
Yea, far away where all is safe the shrill tub-
thumper d wells ;
But we who stand to guard this Land —we are the
Sentinels !
The Loriely Sentinels!
And looking forth W,e face the North —WB are
the Sentinels !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


STUDY YOUR HEALTH. DRINK ONLY —.
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best Film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films every week, and our
stock of subjectsin hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Make Money with the Cinematograph,
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
Ltd., Cinematograph Specialists and Electricians,
393 George Street, Sydney.*
in its case, and, though everywhere else reck'
less borrowing and iiifuriated spending lead to
disaster, yet they don’t lead that way in Maori-
land, simply because it is Maoriland. It is
a pleasant theory, and almost every country has
had it at one time or another. But while Victoria
and Queensland and other States have been con-
tent to go to the Devil once through the loan mad-
ness, and then have started laboriously on the
rocky back track, it seems that Maoriland is
resolved to go to the same old Devil twice. It
wants to make sure that he is still there. The
lesson of the dreadful ’eighties is as completely
lost as if it had never been. Financially, Maori-
land is Plain Mad. More than that, it is Raving.
At Sydney Centenary Hall, on Saturday night,
Prime Minister Deakin, speaking on the Govern-
ment’s defence proposals, took Sydney by storm.
The audience was almost unanimously favorable
from the beginning, and towards the end it was
wildly enthusiastic. There was a fair amount of
detail in Deakin’s oration, but mainly it was
intended to convince possible doubters that
universal military training and the establishment
of an Australian navy are essential to this
country’s very existence. And in that respect
the Prime Minister was right. There is no really
serious difficulty about detail; Switzerland and
the Transvaal and old Saxon England and many
other countries, ancient and modern, have
built up schemes for universal military
training, and it is merely necessary to
put up the money, and borrow a good ready-made
scheme with such slight modifications as circum-
stances require, and go ahead. The great essen-
tial is to be assured that Australia understands
the urgency of the case, and is ready and willing
to shoulder the necessary burden, and, so far as
Sydney is concerned, the eloquent Prime Minister
has proved that there is no inclination to hang
back. And it is the same with Australia in general.
One or two unpatriotic papers still bark objections,
but the individual objector it is almost impossible
to find. Apart from the cause he advocated,
Deakin’s reception was significant. He is still
the politician who can fill big halls, while George
Reid has sunk to the level of an orator in ill-lit
and half-filled rooms in out-of-the-way places.
The secret is that the public believes in Deakin’s
honesty, patriotism and enthusiasm —despite the
fact that his dreadful affability and his kindly
desire to please everybody often make him a
very ineffective statesman ; while Reid’s cynical
yes-no has come home to roost.
4
The N.S.W. railway workers are as good and
intelligent a body of democrats as can be found
anywhere, and the N.S.W. Railway Budget is
nominally the organ of the whole service. In
reality, however, it seems to be the mouthpiece of
the imported Commissioner or some of his friends,
and they appear to be a very angry party of
friends. Consider this whirling sample (2/3/’08):
England may help us in regard to all our industries,
take all our goods at as much as can he exacted Jor them,
and defend, at the expense of millions, our otherwise un-
guarded coasts ; but when it comes to admitting a skilled
Englishman, even to our advantage, an alien cry is raised,
and local mediocrity is to be preferred on the score of a
misguided and selfish local patriotism.
That sort of high-toned patronage inclines any
intelligent reader to wonder and ask questions.
For instance
(1) When did Britain help us with regard to all or any
of our industries, either with money, machinery, advice,
or preference in the British market? Australia started
granting preference to English goods as far back as 108
years ago, but when did it get any preference in return ?
(2) On what insane pretence is it alleged that England
“ takes all our goods ”? Customs returns show that (a)
foreign countries take more of our goods than the United
Kingdom does, and (b) that we take more goods (gold
not reckoned ; any country would gladly take our gold)
from the United Kingdom than the U. K. does from us.
(3) Supposing that such goods as the United Kingdom
does take are sold for “ as much as can be exacted for
them,” is it propounded that Britain pays more for Aus-
tralian goods, quality for quality, than it does for those
of any other country? Also, aren’t British goods sold
here for “ as much as can be exacted for them ”? Further,
are not all goods sold on the same basis ?
(4) How many “millions” has Britain spent on the
defence of Australia ? When did Britain build one extra
ship or enrol one extra soldier on account of Australia?
Also, when did Britain fire one shot on account of Aus-
tralia (though this country has fired one or two on behalf
of Britain)?
(5) As regards the theory that an Australian must
necessarily represent “local mediocrity”—is a person
who is such an unutterable ignoramus as to write that
statement about England taking “all our goods,” a
capable judge of mediocrity ?
The Railway Budget professes to represent the
N.S.W. railway service in general, but this paper
doesn’t do the members of the rank-and-file the in-
justice of supposing that they are in any way
responsible for its utterances. Even if the fire-
man of a goods engine were suddenly shot into the
editorial position, he could hardly show less
intelligence than is displayed in the remarks above
quoted.
• ♦
Thus a Sydney merchant: —
Dear Bulletin, — I have believed, with many others,
the terrible disadvantages of Dalgety as the Federal
capital site. Why ? As your paper states, the people have
been schooled by the daily press. Consequently the
majority of State members of Parliament have spoken
against it. Your paper speaks very plainly, and very
near the truth, when it refers to State jealousies.
I have lately made a trip to the district, spent a fort-
night on the Snowy, and feel very much impressed with
the possibilities of the great plateau—its climate, soil, and
endless water supply. This visit has altered my opinion
that the district is a barren, frost-bitten wilderness, unfit
for habitation ; rather I feel that if the Federal capital is
to be built away from Sydney, by all means let it be here,
in a climate not to be excelled in any part of the world,
easily reached from Sydney, just one night’s train jour-
ney ; and with the possibility of a closer settlement scheme
for 50,000 people, with railway from Cooma to Bombala,
hence on to Bairnsdale, in Victoria, with a branch line—
Bombala-Eden. The Snowy River runs through all this
vast area, and the cost of conserving some of the water
now rushing away to waste would be very small com-
pared with some of the schemes now mooted. The natural
granite formation and stone to be found here would
lighten the cost of building dams. Droughts would
scarce be known in the Federal capital area. If cut into
small settlements, and the conserved water used for
irrigation purposes, there would be no fear of the supply
giving out.
Another aspect. What a change for our city folks to get
away from the muggy atmosphere to a bracing dry
climate, with unsurpassable scener\ 7 , good sport, com-
fortable hotels, and especially cheap rail fares, instead of
rushing off to Maoriland or Tasmania !
The argument of the cost of building a Federal city,
the heavy tax on the people, etc., appeals to us all. In
building Parliament House I believe the cost would be
small in comparison with a building in Sydney or Mel-
bourne. The cost of a site in either city would be very
high, and, as already stated, plenty of stone is available
in the Dalgety district. Federal members could be housed
in a comfortable hotel. Other places would, of necessity,
be built as the demand arose.
I look forward to this scheme being- adopted in the near
future. The question must be settled shortly, and, as a
Federalist, I believe the time is ripe for the Federal Par-
liament to get into shape and do something in the way
of legislating for the whole of Australia as a nation.
Perhaps I shall be accused of neglecting the State of
N. S. Wales. I am not. If we as a people cannot see
the ridiculousness of maintaining so much political
machinery, then it’s time we did. If the Parliaments in
each State will reduce their members to about one-third,
and also do away with the Upper Houses, give more legis-
lative power to the Parliament (Federal), I feel confident
we as a nation will feel more contented, take more in-
terest in the politics of our conntry, and assist in the
natural development which is apparently assured us. —
Yours, etc., H.E.G.
♦
The Victorian Pure Foods Act gives the J.P.
plenty of scope to prove his capacity as a logician,
and generally the J.P. grabs the scope with both
hands. For instance, here is a recent record of
the Malvern Bench :
Onk Day. —Butcher No. 1 was fined 205., with 20s.
costs, for selling sausage-meat adulterated with sul-
phurous acid ; and 2s. 6d., with 21s. costs, for selling un-
labelled sausage-meat. Butcher No. 2 was fined 2s. 6d.,
with 21s. costs, for selling unlabelled sausages. Bench :
Edgar, Kiddle, Weller, and Meyers, J’s.P.
Another Day. —Butcher No. 3 fined 425., with 425.
costs, for selling sausage-meat adulterated with sulphur-
ous acid to the same extent as the meat of Butcher No. 1.
Bench : Kiddle, Ellis, and Holmes, J’s.P.
Still Another Day.— Butcher No. 1 once more ; same
offence, sameconditions(adulteratedsausage-meat). Fined
ten shillings, with 30s. costs. Butcher No. 2 and partner
(butcher No. 4) fined ss. each, with 10s. costs, for adul-
terating sausage meat to the same extent as butcher No.
1. Bench— Read Morphy, P.M., Robinson, Voysey,
and Holmes, J’s.P.
The variation of fines from ss. to 425. for similar
offences committed under similar conditions is
remarkable enough ; but still more remarkable is
that second offender’s 10s. fine, considering that
his first appearance cost him a whole sovereign.
Seemingly, the Malvern J.P. makes a reduction
to regular customers. By the way, the law pro-
vides that the fine for a second offence must be
between £5 and £2O, but a trifle like that needn’t
incommode any Victorian J.P.
■ ♦
The N.S.W. Commercial Court, a tribunal created
by the Commercial Causes Act, is apparently a
failure, though, as Justice Sly pointed out lately,
it is capable, if properly moved, of settling most
disputes among business men. The processes of
the court are devised to save time, lawyers’ fees,
and personal inconvenience; nevertheless com-
mercial men prefer the old courts, where time is
wasted, expenses run up, and the result often a
gamble based on technicalities. It is just the
gamble principle in the law courts that attracts
most litigants. If men who differ only wanted
a fair settlement they could obtain it in
a Commerce or Arbitration Court of purely lay
character, but there is always at least one dis-
putant who wants what is not fair, and hopes to
gain it by a dexterous use of the dice-box of law.
The Ouzel—a lay court for the settlement of com-
merciaUisputes—did much good work in Dublin,
a century or so ago, but it was allowed to
perish in the end because of the very assurance
that its decisions would be just. There was no
“glorious uncertainty” about it; no scope for
the pettifogging lawyer to dig out technical
points, and no satisfying knowledge that the
adversary’s verdict had been swallowed up in
heaps of Costs. The man with a bad case always
avoided it. Economical, expeditious, and pacifi-
catory tribunals often perish in that fashion for
want of work, simply because the other kind of
tribunal is allowed to exist alongside them.
♦
The recent censure motion in N.S.W. Assembly
was an apt illustration of party politics as viewed
by the dailies. When it was announced
that Wade had pushed Keele out of the Water
and Sewerage Board under circumstances that
smelt to high Heaven, the daily press howled.
It was an outrage on political decency. The public
interest was flouted, British fair play was trampled
on, and, worst of all, Wade was guilty of a
flagrant breach of the written law, for which he
should have to answer to Parliament. But when
MoGowen proposed that Wade should answer to
Parliament, the papers fell over each other to
explain that they didn’t mean that Wade should
be censured for trampling on the Constitution or
for outraging public opinion. That would mean
that the Labor Party would reach office. So
when Parliament’s chance to assert its dominion
over Wade came round, there was a united
chorus for a block party vote. It seems that the
daily press would condone anything short of
deliberate murder on the part of Wade’s Cabinet,
and it might condone even that if the body was
hidden away with reasonable care.
♦
“Sealing Wax” on the folly of being an able
public servant in N.S.W. :
Even the Sydney dailies have for once laid aside their
usual yes-no attitude, and have spoken very plainly on
the transfer of Keele to the Harbor Trust. Rumor says
that Keele was offered the billet with the firm conviction
that he would refuse it, in which case he would have been
invested with the ancient order of the sack. Rumor also
states that Beaton was assured that he would be re-
appointed. It is said that the daily papers contained the
first intimation the retiring Commissioners received of
their dismissal.
It is said that whilst Keele gets this hard knock
as a punishment for his good service to the public,
another official who is not accused of a like preference for
the public good as against private “smooging,” is to be
rewarded with a huge increase of salary.
Nothing is impossible now, so far as the unfortunate
civil servant is concerned.
Keele recalls Oliver. Most people have forgotten
Oliver’s action in the Lands Department, where cart-
loads of papers covering nearly £1,000,000 of purchase
money were hung up by his predecessor, which papers only
required to be gazetted for the money to become payable
within three months. This gigantic muddle was cleared
up by Oliver in short order, and his Lands record should
have secured him the gratitude of the country till the day
of his death. But his reform of the Lands Department is
quite forgotten, and his undoubtedly able administration
of the Railways is almost forgotten. Oliver’s public
career is simply a monument to the folly of being an able
public servant.
+.
When the representative of The Bulletin arrived
at Canberra, he learned that four days previously
N.S.W. Premier Wade’s photographer had
dragged a huge camera up the sides of Mount
Ainsly and, by means of a telephoto lens, taken
some very long-range pictures of the sun-dried,
heat-baked plain of Canberra. He had also toiled
round the scrub-covered hill and taken views of
the slightly less-payched Duntroon plains, with
the Queanbeyan rivulet meandering through them.
“ Beautiful pictures of the Rectory ” were taken.
Next day Premier Wade proceeded to Cotter
Creek, the proposed water supply of the proposed
Wade capital, but whether he took his photo-
grapher or not is unknown. History contains no
reference. When the pictures were ex hi 01 tea
in Sydney, they did not include vi ev y s o
Cotter Creek. This was curious and signifi-
cant. Later on the pictures were sent to
Melbourne, and hung on the walls of the vestibu e
of Parliament House; but again the collection
did not contain any views of Cotter Creek, the
water supply of the proposed site. One would
have expected that any views of the proposed site
would have included at least one of its proposed
water supply—the most important feature in Aus-
tralia, where water is everywhere scarce, and valued
accordingly. Now why was there no picture ot
the Cotter Creek ? Presumably because Premier
Wade dared not show Federal legislators what
the Cotter was like. One glance at that wretched
trickle should have knocked his proposed site out
at one glance. No Federal legislator with a repu-
tation for sanity and honesty to maintain would
dare to vote for Canberra with that awful, impos-
sible, oil-tainted trickle posing as a water-supply.
However, The Bulletin has done its oest to
remedy this remarkable oversight on the part
of Premier Wade by forwarding to Melbourne
photographs of Cotter Creek as it appears at the
junction of the Cotter and Murrumbidgee, and a
quarter of a mile above. These photos were taken
on January 24 —from the middle of the stream in
every case.
The latest from Judkins is certainly a
staggerer. In the Abgus of March 9, re-
ported to have stated that his “Sunday Search
Brigade ” saw 500 persons enter a Richmond
(Melbourne) hotel on the previous Sunday, all
within four hours. No member of Mr. Judkins
“ Brigade ” appears to have taken any action.
Five hundred people in four hours is rather over
two per minute, and at two threepenny beers each
the takings would be £l2los. for the four hours, or
at the rate of £37 10s. for a 12-hours day. It is to
be hoped that Judkins’ agents watched during the
busiest part of the day. If business looked up
after they left, the moral condition of Richmond
must be terrible.
At the School of Arts “freeze” G. Reid
fell foul of Senator Pearce’s suggestion that Leg.
Councils should be abolished as a short cut to
majority rule: —
Beyond forgetting' the Constitution was a solemn com-
pact, Senator Pearce forgot that, even if on a referendum
his suggestion was agreed to, the power centred in the
Throne would prevent such a violation of the compact.
In other words, if the Australian people presume
to insist on the abolition of the propputy element
in their State Legislatures, the prerogative of the
Crown is to be set in motion by someone unnamed,
butpresumably G. Reid, tostop them from govern-
ing themselves. G. Reid is getting on. He is
now trying on the old shoes cast off by Strafford,
or Lord North, or some of the other high-preroga-
tive buffers gone to their account a century or two
ago. In these days, when he turns up and asks the
Throne if it hasn’t got the power he alleges, he
will be liable to be told Yes-No, which will about
express the situation.
John Darling, sore about the wheat-bags,
grabbed the chance of a farmers’ gathering in
Adelaide to tell them that the Commonwealth
was fleecing them :
The Commonwealth Government brought forward what
it called “the New Protection,” by which the duty on
their reaping machines would be raised to £l6, hut they
arranged that the duty should be only £l2 provided the
manufacturers who were to have the monopoly paid
higher wages to their workmen. Of course, that meant
that the farmers would have to pay more for their imple-
ments.
In John Darling’s suppression of more than
half the truth, there wasn’t a hint that these
alleged manufacturing monopolists were bound to
supply stripper-harvesters at £65 on and after
Febuary 1, 1908, as against the £BO or over which
the machines formerly cost. In other words, by
assuring a market for a big output of machines,
the Commonwealth Government made such a fine
bargain for Australian farmers that they can now
save from £l5 to £25 on every stripper they buy.
John Darling suppressed all that—and still,
doubtless, he calls himself a fair opponent and a
friend of the farmers.
Rosebery has made a speech which the
cables bump out to half a column. Protection is
bad, he said, but “Socialism will end all things.”
Well, perhaps not all things, but a great many
things. So, when you come to think of it, does
the plough—it ends the weeds. It may even end
the Primroses, if the Primroses are choking the
wheat. When Rosebery said “ Socialism will end
all things,” he really meant “ Socialism will end
Me.” It is the same thing—to Rosebery. When
John Smith dies there die also, so far as Smith is
concerned, history, civilisation, literature, art,
invention, the earth itself, the universe generally,
time, space, the past, the present, the future, the
human race, and any other sundries that can
be thought of. These things may still exist for
Jones or Brown or Ferguson, but for Smith they
are dead. Therefore, everything is dead for most
people, and has been almost all the time. Rose-
bery wouldn’t necessarily be ended in a personal
sense if Socialism came to pass, but he reckons he
would lose some of his money, and being nothing
without his money he would be a deceased insti-
tution walking about to save burial exes.
An item from Melbourne Age about the
loud anonymousness of Fairbairn, M.H.R. for
Fawkner (Vic.): —
With referenca to the statement in the Age the other
day that certain members of the Federal Parliament have
not drawn the additional salary of £2OO per annum
granted last year, it is only fair to Mr. Fairbairn, M.P.,
to point out that he should be virtually included in the
number. Although the member for Fawkner has drawn
the full £6OO, the extra £2OO he has divided equally
between the mayors of South Melbourne and Prahran for
distribution anonymously amongst the charities of those
places.
Fairbairn should either be anonymous or Other-
wise, and try to avoid these complications. It is
impossible to be a shrinking violet with a red flag
and a brass trumpet, without things becoming
mixed. The Bulletin suggests that members
who don’t want to take the extra £2OO a year
should pay the money into a Trustee co. as a
sinking fund for the reduction of the public debt.
Then (1) they would be free of all suspicion of
trying to indirectly buy popularity in their
own electorates; (2) they would do something
really good; (3) they would do something so
wildly original that it would get large advertise-
ment ; and (4) they wouldn’t need to conceal their
liberality—in fact they would be called upon to
bellow it from the house-tops in the hope of per-
suading other members to follow their example.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Critfrion “ The Power of the Cross."
Theatre Royal “The Prisoner of Zenda.”
Hkr Majesty's “ The Lady Dandies.
p ALACE Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Tivoi i Rickards’ Co.
Town Hall £l ara , B D tt f
The Glaciarium West s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Hkr Majesty’s “Brewsters Millions.
Theatre Royal “The Little Bread-Winner.”
Opera House Rickards \ audeville Co.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
♦
The unemotional acrobat, Mrs. Clara
Butt, with the great voice that can be heard
dawn the corridor of Time, began a second series
of concerts on Saturday night, at Sydney Town
Hall. The tidal wave of her melody, burst over a
fair audience of music lovers, who had come in
out of the rain—for Sydney, on Saturday,
was as wet as a fish that has lost its umbrella.
Heavy moisture has been so rare since last
winter that the ungentle rain from Heaven
is worthy of being chronicled with the Large
Lady’s marvellous voice. The programme was a
popular one, and decidedly in the salt water vein.
The artistic Rumford gave “ Tears, Idle Tears ”
(Sullivan), and his consort a trinity of sea pieces at
one standing “ Sea Slumber Song,” “In
Haven,” and “ Sabbath Morning at Sea.” Later,
the imposing pair duetted in Goring Thomas’s
“Night Hymn at Sea.” “ The Mad Dog” (Oliver
Goldsmith’s lines) was most finely bayed by Rum-
ford, and the audience was tickled almost to death
by the humor of it. Encores were insistently
clapped for and freely given. Further concerts
will occur this evening (Thursday) and Saturday.
** * *
“ The Lady Dandies ” arrive in Australia
on Saturday evening, and displace “ The Dairy-
maids” at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. The new
piece consists of as much of Sardou’s ‘ ‘ Merveilleux ”
as the modern musical comedy writer could put
in three acts which also have to find room for
Leslie’s legs and some “modern lyrics.” Apart
from the great reputation of the man who wrote
“Fedora,” “Theodora,” and “La Tosca,” and
apart also from the curiosity of seeing him in
musical comedy, the first performance will be in-
teresting because it gives an opening for J. C.
Williamson’s new imported baritone, Edmund
Sherras.
** * #
“A Modern Adventuress” departs on
Friday evening next from Sydney Criterion, trail-
ing crimson clouds of gore in her wake, and gives
“The Power of the Cross” a show. The new
play, which will be staged on the following Satur-
day, is described by its committer as “ A
mysterious story of a mysterious being,” and is
understood to be extremely horrible.
* * *
There is no talk of liberating ‘ ‘ The Prisoner
of Zenda” from the Sydney Royal stage, as that
satisfactory, polished melodrama is filling all the
requirements of the box office.
** * *
A buckjumping vignette, by “ 10-2-4 ” :
The M.C. : “ Ladies and gentlemen, Mike Duigan, o’
Dubbo, will now attempt to ride the outcast mare, Mad
Effie. This bein’ one of our £25 competition events, I
draw yer attention to the three judges sittin’ there in the
reserved chairs—Messrs. Smith, Hogan, andCasev respect-
ively—who will adjudicate accordin’ to the best of their
ability. Mad Effie’s the ’orse the blackboy’s ’oldin’ by
the ear.”
A short, dogged man, resembling an American news-
paper caricature of an Irishman, steps forward and
removes his coat.
The M.O. : “ Mike Duigan, ladies and gentlemin, o’
Dubbo.” Applause, and the audience settles down to
consideration of Michael’s horsemanship.
A Voice from immediately behind the Judges : “ Come
on there, Mike ! Get a move on. Shake it up a bit, old
son. Why yer ain’t nervous o’the’orse are yer? ”
Michael starts violently, desists from his gradual task
of tucking his trousers into his socks, and seems to ponder.
The Voice: “Shake it up, Mike, 1 say. Wot’s the
trouble with yer, ennyhow ? D’yer think we’re here fer
the night?”
Mike (advancing moodily on the M.C.) : “ Who is this
mahn, Jack? In the name iv Hivven, who is he; and
what’s the matther whid him ? ”
The M.C. (earnestly): “Ferget him, Mike. Pay no
attention. Fix up yer pants and climb aboard the ’orse.”
The Voice (with extraordinary rapidity): “ ’E’s afraid.
Ez I said as soon ez I saw ’im—Duigan ain’t game. Ho !
ho ! He won’t ride the ’orse. There’s not the slightest
charnst ’e’ll ride the ’orse ” The words die away in
incoherent mumblings.
Mike (severely smitten): “Oh, my Gawd 1 Didyer
hear the mahn, Jack ? He says in public that Oi —Duigan
—am afraid o’ the harse. Niver w'uz the loike said o’ me
before. In the name o’ Hivin, where is ’e while I get to
him ? ”
Strugglings, remonstrances and alarms. Mike is with
difficulty soothed.
The Voice (defiantly, as the rider approaches Mad
Effie): “ Gam ! Irish ! ”
Michael, halting stupent at the fresh and unprovoked
attack, and addressing the M.C. with impressive calm :
“ Ladies and gintlemen ”
Uproar.
Michael, advancing his face within an inch of the
M.C.’s, and speaking with moving pathos: “Nivver,
ladies and gentlemen, nivver in me loife” -—-
Renewed uproar, amid which one of the judges is
observed to be occupied in passionate argument with
The Voice.
The Judge (howling) : “ Shuttup, shuttup, I say, yer
cow, and leave the man ride.”
The Voice (rising, and showing itself to be the possessor
of an eccentric-looking citizen owning all the physical
attributes of Jawbone Neild—barring his moustache):
“ An’ whooer you to talk to me, I’d arsk ?”
The Judge: “ ’Oo am I? A judge, that’s what I am, en
don’t you ferget it.”
The Voice :“ A judge. Ho! Wot of it? D’yer know
'oo I am?” (Triumphantly.) “I’m a member o’the
gen’ral public.”
The Judge : “ Well, why carn’t yer shuttup, and let the
man ride ?”
The Voice: “Shuttup! Shuttup yerself. Wot’s a
judge for 1 Ter talk or ter judge ? Hey ? ”
The shaft goes home, and the fickle crowd, which has
hitherto ranged itself by the official, now turns and
hilariously applauds The Voice. It is the latter’s all too
brief moment of triumph. Mike, speechless with puzzled
rage, seizes Mad Effie’s mane. With the elaborate
gentleness of the experienced rider, he settles himself in
the saddle, a posse of attendants hanging to the ears and
other portions of the outlaw’s anatomy the while. The
crowd is impressed, and grows hushed.
The Voice (feebly) : “ Gam 1”.
The flank-rope is produced, and practised hands adjust
it. It is drawn tight. “She’s yours, Mike,” remarks one
of the ear-holders, hurling himself prudently backwards.
There is a snort, an infuriated scream, ard Mad Effie
soars towards the empyrean. Michael is seen to be
sitting immovable. It is enough ; suspicion flies; his
character is redeemed. As the approving shouts of the
multitude greet the victorious horseman The Voice is
observed crawling towards the outer darkness.


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
It is not perhaps absolutely necessary
when opening Parliament to open the whusky
bottle at the same time. Unless, indeed, the
brand be D.C.L., the moderate flow of which will
assuredly temper the flow of eloquence with
reason. For wisdom is never, altogether absent,
even from politics, when its spirit is present in the
shape of D.C.L.*
- JV Programme at Sydney Tivoli persists
m being the same as it was last week. There is
no new blood to aim a pen at, and, in consequence
the (mrpmg cntm sjts silent in his stall. Meam
wh s the Klos bisters, Artois Brothers. Ike and
Wih Scott, Three Ounards, Alma Gray and
Mum, Andrews continue to be this theat Js best
visible means of support.
“Brewster’s Millions*” ;fre circulating for
this week only at Melbourne Princess’s. Next
Saturday (21st) they will be transferred to Her
Majesty s for the remainder of the run. Brew-
ster has made a hit with his money-bass and thfl
assistance of Mrs. Brough. The problem of how
to spend a quarter-of-a-million, and yet remain
just an ordinary “swift” young man, really
isnt as problematical as it looks. It is a
puzzle to be solved by cash payments and
no quibbles But roaring audiences swallow
Monty s rather fatuous contrivances with line
zest, and are grateful for a show that
makes ever so slender a pretence of ingenuity,
ihe yacht scene is considerably more exciting
than on the opening night, and the mummers’
grimaces and realistic discomfort arouse the
heartfelt sympathy of every bay-faring landsman..
Brewster will fling his money round till further
notice.
** * *
Miss Hildyard perpetrated •“ The Great
Awakening on Saturday night, at Melbourne
Koyal, and reached the summit of her season’s hor-
ror. it is the gruesome, incongruous story of a vile
woman who murders, assaults, and otherwise
misconducts herself. Its incidental scenes of
lunacy and debauohery make “The Awakening ”
a thing Lola Selby, an immoral female
with a good figure, starts her career of vice
as a grass-widow in a S’African mining camp
where she betrays one man’s confidence, and
tries to assassinate a male person who is heir to a
baronetcy. Then she voyages to England, and
instals herself as her victim’s widow, and engages
i 5 6 Sections of her apparent papa-in-law.
At Merton Hall she discovers the original Mr’
Selby in the guise of butler. To rid herself of
him she murders the paternal baronet; then
accuses her husband of that crime and one
or two others. She speeds the parting
Selby with expectorations from the staircase.
Ihen the ladylike Lola tries to seduce
the fiance of her reputed sister-in-law, and suc-
ceeds in parting the pair. Later she hands the
unoffending Miss Merton over to a blackguardly
accomplice, who takes her some wav to-
wards the Devil. When that person tires of
the ingenue, she is flung into the cell of a
lunatio whose monomania is a hatred for women
Ihe lunatic turns out to be Jack Merton, the
man whom Lola tomahawked in the first
act. Eor some abstruse reason, the sight of
his sister restores his senses. Then the
good people go home to Merton Hall, and
behave like very unintelligent children. The
enterprising Lola turns up in rags and an
advanced stage of G.P.I. Also, her first and only
legitimate mate, Mr. Selby, makes a bloodthirsty
appearance after escaping from gaol. He takes
advantage of Lola’s dilapidated condition, and
proceeds to tear out her life with great unction.
* * • *
This succession of dreadfulness is punctu-
ated with cheap low comedy and unnecessary
detail. Of Miss Hildyard’s part the less said the
better. The same remark applies to most of the
other parts. Next Saturday “A Little Bread-
winner” will be produced, with dainty Beatrice
Holloway in the lead, and Miss Hildyard’s pro-
ductions will be seen no more.
** * *
Schliiter, the young man with a name like
a toboggan slide, unpacked his Strad. in Mel-
bourne Town Hall on Saturday night, and
made a wild onslaught of musical fireworks
on a big house. It was a stormy night,
but there was a full-house welcome. It seems as
though Melbourne’s artistic memory were cute. It
is six years since the Danish youth played in that
city last. He has picked up a lot of knowledge
since then, and he exhibited his new information
in the prismatic paroxysm of a Paganini con-
certo and the minor fireworks of Papini.
But these brilliancies lack Soul, and to
show that he is not “travelling light”
on Soul, the fiddler yearned with great in-
tensity through Tschaikowsky’s “Sad Song.”
Schumann’s “Tranmerei,” and Ole Bull’s “Soli-
tude,” and showed that his violin could “sing.”
The meat of the performance was a Dvorak Sonata,
carefully worked out, but marred by an occasional
“scratch.” The accompanist, Mr. Hal Elvins,
is a local product, and we can’t import anything
better as an accompanist. In solo work, his
Ohopin scherzo in B minor was a thing of artistic
finish. He is a youth of promise. The whole
concert company is tender and green. The song-
stress, Miss Gladys Kingsley, is a fluffy young thing
just out of the shell; she has no assurance
or tricks of the trade, but a rather telling
Daisy-Dimple appearance, and a small but ex-
quisite soprano voice. Miss Kingsley is also
home-grown. Her voice should repay some boost-
ing. A Wednesday concert will have eventuated
when this goes to press, and next Saturday night
is booked for the final in Melbourne.
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou the ebullience of
Miss Lancashire, Ltd.,” is still conspicuous. The
rmhtant spirit of the slavey abateth not; nor does
the haitch ”of the gentleman who buttles grow
worse with the effluxion of time, for it was as bad as
it could be at the beginning, and that which is
superlative can’t be made any more so. Evidently
the piece has a little of that indefinable, divine
essence that changeth the tripiest tripe into a
of “innards,” so to speak. In
Miss Lancashire, Ltd.,” there are things that are
unique, and perhaps inapposite; also, there is
niuch that is alarming, nay, distressful; yet the
Piece has got a hold on the public, which refuses to
be shaken off.
** * *
“Ma Goose,” the lady with the bewilder-
-1:“8 eial decorations, nightly resumes her prance
at Melbourne Her Majesty’s. Presumably by
virtue of her sex or of her widowhood (both im-
positions upon the chivalrous citizen, by the way)
l 6 j S ?^ owe d to scatter bitter sayings where
?. desires. That permits her a very large
icense as an incisive critic; it permits
er the joy of discovering grievances in all
neings that crawl, creep, work, or are merely
■™ ; likewise in inanimate things and in
on Vtw ? dead ° r lma K' nar y- One matter
tenanee fc nK - Z eB , thlS paper is whether her coun-
Set or~ a r V K ! 1 Sly a g,ft from tho Lord—is an
th« Li , blllfcy > or merely a goodwill item in
not H ™ ever ’ that Question may
not be answered, for this flighty lady who in
point of splendor and length of life, extinguished
ah forerunners, will make tracks’after Friday
s|£
Just now the motive for the activity and
hibhat MllK kmd i' S ,, We9t 3 dazzling picture ex-
tourist tb Urne ° lympl , a ' There the stationary
ourist, or the person who doesn’t really travel
Londo n n y nf W f n^ erS 1D J hi * mind > can st udy the
London of to-day, and then, a minute later, by
Tf 6 ri i of a handle, he can shift to l
on th! »l th braS ! y sl f ,es and get n, ind-drunk
vreat h Flfol. and color of Mogador. West’s
mfnut^ 1 A l P l° VldeS , a world tour in a few
minutes. Also it provides a new sample of bore—
Trfmh’nf t A re 't®. has seen ever ything from the
, Amenhotep to the liquor saloons of Skag-
bevynnHTgQfh^MfS £ ever struggled personally
beyond the St. Kilda Esplanade.
Probably the limit of the long-distance
nsamty was reached in Chapel-street, P’ran
f,Trn> last , Saturday ni »ht. In the windows of a
„["‘ tu t re sh °P two foolish young men had under-
taken to outstay one another in the continuous
° f P !f nOS * n They began at 8 p.m. on
Ihursday, and at 10 o clock on Saturday were
still toiling while a huge crowd cheered and
otherwise showed its lack of intelligence. One
competitor at least was close to a fainting condi-
tion, and had to be-fanned continuously. For
purposelessness and pure bedrock asininity, this
exhibition would be difficult to surpass, and its
* WaS b v OOSt the alle^d merits of an
imported piano for the consideration of a trophy
a money prize, and the beautiful, dizzy honor of
a 'T' ld S uf COrd - • There is a lar »e element of
cruelty in thus pitting one man against another
untd one or the other drops (for that was what
the show amounted to), yet the bitterest de-
nouncers of the alleged brutality of boxing con-
tests had nothing to say about this. Anyway if
the police, instead! of regulating the traffic,
bad stepped inside and arrested the pro-
moter and the two contestants, they would have
done good service to the cause of sanity. As it
was, two or three foot police (plus, on Saturday
night, a couple of mounted men) were retained to
provfoe a thoroughfare through the gigantic wedge
of fools which foregathered and gaped for hours.
F ran hadn t had such a holiday for years. Some
ot the local songsters gathered in the windows
ana heartened the champions with yelps of the
music-hall standard ; all the kids raced down to
see the players fed ; while the amount of soft
plump femininity that pushed into the multitude
lor the sake of a squeeze on the cheap, was exces-
sive and riotous.
mi * * * *
Ihe Melbourne Opera House bill remains
in the same stage of convalescence that it
reached a fortnight ago. Sylvo, a juggling
humorist, is tossing jokes and household utensils
round with some vivacity, and the Kauffmann six
still do unbelievable things with several bicycles.
Jioyde and the Diabolistic Dumont are variously
amusing But the Margaret Parker co. should be
dissuaded from perpetuating “ The Seal.” This
puerility claims to be an “electrifying episode. ,,
It is really a deadener, and deals with a brace of
gutter-folk and a cleric, the reverend one being
played on the traditional lines of a bereaved old
woman. It spreads a gloom that could be cut
with an axe, and sold in bags as soot.
** * *
Adelaide Royal has been witnessing the
unusual sight of a Little Lord Fauntleroy reallv
aged but seven, and trying to look older, instead
of—-as is more usual—a bright young actress of 15
trying to look younger. It has been Baby Wat-
son s week. In “ Home, Sweet Home” she largely
ran the show. In Fauntleroy she was the show.
And in “ Confusion ’’—the baby of the play being
too young even for her—she was allowed a Song
Interlude all to herself. Frank Thornton has
now come in with “ When Knights were Bold,” a
play with a really fine central idea, well enough
worked out. Thornton in someone else’s armor is
a thing of joy. The play is foolish but funny;
there have been quite a number of productions
lately that were not funny.
Burford s Soap and Candle Factory is
offering to sell itself to the Adelaide City Council,
and the proposition is being considered with much
favor. The factory, which is as old an institution
as the city, is situated in the south ward, one of
the most thickly-peopled parts. When the wind is
from the south, residents retire into their cellars
to sniff eucalyptus arid pray for a change of wind.
The deadly odor easts such a blight upon the
locality that the value of property shrinks from it
year by year. If the factory is not removed, the
ward will in the future be inhabited only by a bad
smell; and bad smells are poor rate-yielding
assets.
From a Melbourne pressman :
The history of William lies, from the time he left Bal-
larat till he was “ discovered ” in Gippsland—over two
months—makes suggestive reading, especially for Police
Chief O’Callaghan. lies left Ballarat openly for Mel bourne;
he pawned some of Madge Graham’s jewellery (he says,
given to him by her)at a well-known Melbourne three-ball
emporium ; he got a billet on a travelling chaff-cutter
through one of the principal labor-agencies—and it was
known that he frequently followed this calling—yet the
’tecs were completely at a standstill, and might not
have found him till Doomsday but for “ information
received.” Of course, he wasn’t wearing his own name,
but his alleged breach-of-promise to marry a widow
fully accounted for his dropping the uncommon
name of lies. The proceedings when the ’tecs did
“ discover” him were as quaint as their investigations all
through the piece. He was requested to come to Melbourne
to “ explain ” things, and cheerfully complied. There
he was taken to the detective office and “detained” in
a waiting room, in which was one chair, from 11 p.m. on
Thursday till 3 p.m. on Friday, while all reporters and
other visitors were vigorously excluded and the ’tecs
asked questions. They learnt what they should long
since have discovered as to the pawning of Mrs-. Graham’s
jewellery, but nothing at all relevant to the decease
of that lady. Then, as Isles couldn’t be “ detained ” for
ever, they screwed their pluck up to the necessary
pitch and charged him with wilful murder. So far, he is the
most nonchalant individual concerned in the episode,
and laughed cheerfully when remanded for a week, re-
marking that, though he knew he was in an awkward
position, he was quite innocent of Madge Graham’s death,
and must surely be able to prove it presently. If lies is
bluffing, he is a good bluffer ; and if he is telling the
truth, then the ’tecs have been following a false scent
from the beginning, and allowing the real murderer
abundant time to get away.
AT POVERTY POINT.
one of the >aC » t scene ln “ Brewster’s Millions” is
ft is a foroed inf a yet - exhibited Australia, but
it is a forced interpolation in a cornedv with farcical
tendencies, and very much out of place The space R
deveSopineiiFof fh aS ' ily been devoted to further
brofdcas tL 6 ,n 1 f l enul * y of Brewster in sowing beans
fhama and if Th yacband the storm belong to melo-
make the forfnn " °t a larger BCale would be sufficient to
There havi hpl h° f ° rd,nar y Dr ury Lane production,
lhere have been hundreds of efforts to stage a shin in a
wi°th n the aud^ncT y i a 8 keep , the P a9Beil fters in touch
that if f h d pv !’ u Ut ’ aS * a rule > the mechanics found
there was nn i°° k / 00rn , enou f? h for the storm
there was no place for the ship, and if thev de-
- u the sh 'P the storm was
far back that tr Pblere '' as eltb er a small, remote vessel so
Dublk- in^«it th P6 k P ®° n b ,° ard oeased to be of an y rea l
People evnrps’- a bl , g , ve ? Bel ln the foreground with the
water I n P “ 'P d at a teacupful of canvas
struck—a fni Br . ewBte r 8 Milhons ” the happy medium is
d ee p, fair-sized ship and a whole jugful c .f raging
Thornton finds that the old jokes go best. “ When
but k ‘‘ I Charle^ 0 A d ” e t X .° i K ed 0n i y mild in terest in Melbourne,
y -8 Au I r ! t brought the crowds rushing to the
ioke hn, agaln V, Bufc l as showing how hard it is to get a
tefis’ of a rnl “ ! and l obvious, into some heads, Frank
P^inriv a robust Melbournian who hailed him with:
that’s a y w« ’ C^ arley 8 Aun t,’ but you mustn’t tell me
was vonrsm a, V ° n^' e 0r tw,ce 1 was ready to swear it
was >ourself , I was, pon me soul 1”
thp llS rl J ° an Burnett only daughter of Mrs. J. P. Burnett,
the Jennie Lee of Jo” fame in years agone died at
mness Wi’t^h 8 * 1 Me 'b° urn c. on March 9, after a short
illness. With her mother, she had arrived in Melbourne
a f cnld W pp k f pre . vl ° usl y f° take part in “ Peter Pan,” but
hi n! aC e t° n board the steamer developed into
vkhed l ,“77 “"’ a nd Bh - e Passed out, aged 30. She
visited Australia several times between 1882 and 1892
and she spent most of her school days in Sydney and
of f® h l r mothe, i was appearing at the head
“Tht w u- h n riCa companies. As Jennie Geddes, in
lhe Wedding Guest, she won a whole heap of praise.
“JSr; ' What are . Melba ’s real plans for the future?
They have become involved seemingly in her latest “ my.
ppir« e ?p n £ tlVe ' COl t ntry u pose ’ and now she hardly ap-
pears to know what she s going to do herself. F’rin-
stance, shell be in Australia (she says) three years hence
, a gorgeous opera co., in two years time (she told an
,nterV f leWer) - Bbe wiU be “in every Aus-
\f mn r° f any 'mPenance under the management
the wor?H 5 Beinmorie,” whde “ the most distant limits of
the world (she told Premier Bent) wouldn’t keep her
? way [ om the opening of the proposed “Melba Hall”
for Melbourne Conservatorium—which will occur in about
eighteen months. Meanwhile she’s got to sing at the
Pans Opera House, and create the name part of “La
iosca in London, and celebrate her 20th year on the
operatic stage in company with a herd of royalties. Un-
Jfnl n a m |U ', r - eS the *»«: of being in U places at
once it s difficult to see how she is going to manage.
“ 10-2-4 ” : “ Stingaree,” the “ new Australian Romantic
.Drama just produced in London, would seem from the
British papers to be something unique in the way of
drivel. Stingaree, the hero, is a bushranger. But he is
no common Australian malefactor ; in fact, between him-
self and the audience, he is not a malefactor at all. Far
from it. He is a virtuous Britisher of gentle birth who
always, in his moments of sorest travail, wears patent-
leather riding boots, spotless white duck breeches, snowy
coat and shirt, and an eyeglass. He does not really
rob anyone, nor ever has in all his blameless
life. He ranges the bush, and makes himself
liable to the extreme penalty of the law for
fun and picturesqueness. The very worst? of his
offences consists in “ holding up ” a station in order that
the governess may be allowed to sing, and so prove herself
a dangerous rival of Mrs. Melba. This quaint outlaw
has a band in fact, “ a devoted band ” —which obeys
his every behest. Why a band, gang or brood of rational
criminals should become associated with a futile
posturing, non-dividend paying idiot like Stingaree
is unexplained. The writer once heard his male
parent describe a bushranger whom he (the parent)
had defended and subsequently seen hanged. This
evildoer did not give a cuss for singing. There
was no romance about him. He never wore white
breeches nor (laundries being tabu to his class in
those sordidly materialistic days) anything else that
was white. His band would have heaved things at him
had he mounted an eye-window. He was short, dirty
hairy, ugly, and blasphemous ; and he adored rum. He
was one who would steal and pawn a school-bound in-
fant’s lesson-book, rob G. Reid of his policy, or Wade of
his ultimate Grievance, with equal aplomb. In brief he
was a bushranger. The parent aforesaid encountered in
his time many of these people. They agreed to a man in
differing utterly from the British stage article. When
will some dramatist picture “ Stingaree ” as he would
have been in life—viz., a furtive, unalluring party
nicknamed, say, “ Squid,” with gum-leaves in his whis-
kers, and a resemblance to an urban bottle-oh who has
been prevented from attending to his toilet for not less
than three (3) years ?
“ Melb.” : “Jack Sheppard,” at the Hippodrome, has
just led me to look up his actual history in “The Dic-
tionary of National Biography.” Born, 1702 ; executed,
1724 ; aged only 22. His astounding exploits were
crowded into the last year of his life. Brought up in the
workhouse. Apprenticed to Wood, a carpenter. Knee-
bone, his benefactor, is historical, too. Led to crime by
Edgeworth Bess and Poll Maggott. First stole two
silver spoons, then a bale of fustian. His associate,
Joseph Blake, was known as Blueskin. In April, 1724,
Jack’s elder brother Tom, also a thief, put him away.
Jack escaped from St. Giles’s Roundhouse, and became
famous. In May, he broke out of the New Prison. Got
rid of his irons, cut through a double grill of iron bars,
descended 25ft., scaled a wall 22ft. high. Arrested by
Jonathan Wild, a notorious receiver and informer.
Tried at Old Bailey. Condemned to death. Es-
caped from Newgate condemned cell Aug. 31,
with a file supplied by certain women. Captured at
Finchley Common (Sept. 10). A small file was found in
his Bible (Sept. 12) and a complete set of tools in the
rushes of his chair (Sept. 16). This caused his removal to
a stronghold called the Castle, where he was bolted to
the floor. Yet he wriggled free, and removed a stout
iron bar from the chimney, up which he climbed. Then
he forced heavily-bolted doors on to the roof. Got away.
Recaptured after a number of days. Over 200,000 people
at the execution.
&hOUi th u moBt weirdi J‘ original mime
that has e\ er shown in these latitudes, has forced an
serve " C As n n° the Butt-Brune-Knight self-advertising pre-
ser e. As one would expect, after consideration of her
and BW»nM°°Sh« he ' V BCruck an idea at onoe new
!",“ r “ Be ' She eschews gv-urls she doesn’t design
kfdsTo 1° C 8 \ ? : r ttnyoue eWs ! owns no
kids to heave in the public eye. The unusualitv she
is e her "niatme'i 0 ” 1 ?'' 1 ! the enthugiaBm of the multitude
theatre She J ourn * ym B' rO, “ her hotel to the
infer,f,eH S a / in a butt *r box. “My mouth,” she
informed a Sydney pressman, “positively watered when I
tov dear • t , Ue bo - v , B trotting along the street with their
I thnnLhf ? il * tln S U° f a bu tter-box on four little wheels,
in thY Se f how delightful it would be just to sit
‘ be drawn by that little human
ohnrinf m f. bt ? tre - 1 Bte PP ed aboard the little toy
cou?se t 'h,if I hee U *m nd , offt ‘ red a Protest, as a matter of
bv stennint h »h H “u 4 *\ lve , me oountenance this time
when if b ard ;he bad t 0 walk by my side, and
Uieir nal b Trt Ca ' n l t 0 d ° wnhiU track they accelerated
their pace, and my husband had to run. We arrived at
the stage door in good time, and I gave the bo vs a
than I 8 * eacb tor the ride, and they were more delighted
fare.” " y oabman would have been with a ten-shilling
J h J 'h£'. 1 ondft y’ B cables announced the death of
him That’ ln 188 ? *• travelled Maoriland with
v'“ * lbat was his second visit to Australasia rhe had
life "associated* P ', eviouBly - He was nearly all his
llox 10 “:, , leadln * "*an, with the Britannia,
name was Th f the bi kkest theatres in London. His
? a '“ e was . Thomas Burdett Howe; the “J, 8.” was a
bis P l*™* W , ich orept inU> the bill during
wards Hi« a " d 14 stuck 10 hini ever aftei"
all through fh» S mana^er was °ld Lane, and he remained
actor w«h»H management of Lane’s widow, Sarah. No
End n7r n b n .u ,10v^ n or betler appreciated in the East
End of London than J. B. Howe. He had a most reore-
hens.ble habit of speaking the “tag” at rehewsals
which, as every actor knows, is to court disaster As a’
pUved a e dis 6 ’ ? Uring the M ' lj - tOUr 1 have referred to, we
played a disastrous season in Wellington. Nothing could
was SU uliin I 'der SOUI n te n rnUn,mers that the weatherf which
Wellinltnn , gC ’ h . ad an / th,n » t 0 do with it. From
first dr«m«H» f we * nt Auokland ’ and Howe was the
first dramatic star to play in Abbott’s Opera House.
ceSr a i r ‘, e nw e r rbein ’ P ianist - " h 0 took hiB Place in the
celestial choir last week, was that artistic rarity, a born
accomn amBt ' H°t one great pianist in ten can play
flautkt in fin any “ ore . thail 0118 great violinist or
f,? . 1 ? fift y can Play man orchestra. But the
te y l°v°n pi T? 0 player ean be tbe best of accom-
Belle Cole “sa Huenerbein was. He accompanied
elle Cole, Santlev, and all the other visiting singers, and
so earned a, rejiutation that was cosmopolitan. He it was
who, in 1885, persuaded Melba to sing in Sydney (this, of
wbh rl, e WaS 6re f V6r the “iffhty Voice had been stamped
general approval); and later he took Mrs. Arm-
strong-, as she then was, on tour through the N.S.W..
. v . e „ Bkrn districts. At Bathurst the coming world’s
so P anrl 3Ban^to , a c°l d l y criticai audience of a dozen or
so and all round the venture was a failure. What would
hen.-v ,K Vf>ra ” e uP'COuntry township pay nowadays to
bein’s M eali a re C ? COrnPan ' ed by a ° artist ° f the late Huener-
Bteamed into Fremantle aboard the
rho a (12/3/08) waving, as it were, while yet afar from
the Australian coast, a glad greeting to her “ sweet ”
?, d ,° n ?, may add her chuckle-headed-indigenous
o You see > ’ said the popular actress to a
Sydney Tbleoraph representative, “I have been away on
as 't raor ‘ bB holiday. lam very’ glad to return to An"
; r a a ; a . nd lam looking forward to meeting my dear girl
of le T, d tfin. Melb ° Urn !- and Sidney again.” This girl stunt
n grows tiresome, also rather painful to the
whr. hlc H® Bldes which it s not playing the game. Julius,
W^w a v he roub eto make h *mself inexpressibly
lovely m the Zenda production, has the right of every
male beauty-nnme to whatever girlish adoration is going,
filnh B ‘ ckenln gly obvious way in which Tittell attempts to
filch this asset from Jule amounts to theatrical barratry,
n not champerty or maintenance, and is enough to wring
tears of remonstrance from the eyes of a property-camel
In no other country in the world are such astounding
prices paid to opera singers as in the United States. The
fiig contract under which Tetrazzini is now singing is a
R^m nUd f e ,', bl r e ’ as ifc were ’ Caruso gets £40,000 a year ;
Bonci and De Lucca, also great Italian tenors, £lO,OOO a
& apieC « L and Z ana tell°, Passi, and Anselini between
£/W0 and £9OOO per annum each. The baritones, Tito
itutto and Sammarco, earn, each of them, more money
every year than any Cabinet Minister of any country on
earth. ? be resid t is that effete old Yurrup is being de-
eded of its best vocal talent. The Italians, Austrians,
and Bermans are largely employing American singers as
prime donne and tenore, and complain (the Italians more
especially) that they never hear their own countrymen
sing except on a gramophone.
• At the Australian Buckjumpers, as each outlaw is led
in and the announcement is made of how much will be
given to the horseman who ean sit him for sixty seconds,
a man with his tie under one ear and a happy look in his
glazed eye, crawls through the barrier and steers himself
carefully towards the ringmaster. Usually he takes off his
coa,t as he comes along, and when he is waved aside and
shooed back to his seat, he looks hurt and disgusted and
makes angry motions. The man with the glazed eye is
seldom seen in the second part of the performance because
he is asleep by that time, but in the early part of the
evening he ambles into the ring, prepared to tackle any-
thing with hoofs on it. His indignation when he is
hunted back to his seat and safety is terrible to witness.
“ Tbe Swimmer”: Wandered into a Port Melbourne
pub the other evening for a long beer, and while I was
drinking it the landlord told me some incidents of his
seafaring career. “ Fifty years ago I served on a nine-
mast barque,” he said, “ the only one in the world. I re-
mernber her well. There was never a stevedore allowed
aboard her—she was always unloaded by helephants.
lhe old man carried about two dashed great helephants
all over the world with him. She was a tramp, and
whenever we came to a port he used to haul them up and
set them to work. They was that cunning they knew
smoke-oh time as well as Christians, and always dropped
what they was carrying at 12 o’clock. When We first un-
loaded with them at Liverpool the Stevedores’ Union
kicked up 'ell’s delight, and their secretary came
down and got on to the old man for working
with damn blackleg labor. One of the hele-
phants heard ’im and picked him up with his trunk
and threw him off the ship, and he had to swim to the
pier. While we was at Liverpool thousands of people
used to come down to see the helephants at work, and
some of them used to throw them coins. The helephants
always stacked the coins up in little heaps—the pennies
in one heap, the thrippenny bits in another, and the six-
pences in another. At dinner time they used,to take the
coins and go down the pier to the shops where they sold
fruit and cakes and such like. They’d point out with
their trunks what they wanted, and put down the right
money. If they didn’t get what they ordered you’d have
thought all ’ell was let/ loose, the roars they let out of
them. When the captain died the helephants was sold to
Barnum’s Circus, and used to be driven in procession by
a big monkey with a blue tail.” I parted from this aged
liar with regret.
“T.H.”: I ambled into Rickards’ Opera House to hear
America’s peerless tenor, Clarence Tisdale. I bought a
seat up in the atmosphere, and having fought my way
through an ambush of peanuts, sat down—at the urgent
request of a banana skin. After several youngsters had
inflicted various “ serio ” stuff on the audience, there was
a momentary hush. Then “Bomb,” the man with the
drum, viciously assaulted that instrument. A blast from
the cornet was the signal for the whole orchestra to run
amok. (The distorted expressions and wild lunges of
“ Brudder Trombone ” were something fearful to view
and I remanded him for medical treatment right away.)
The orchestra quieted down, and a shadow was thrown
from the wings, followed by a tall, slender figure.
Stone me blue, he’s a nig!” yelled a surprised
patron. The figure unconcernedly wended his way
to the centre of the stage, and faced the audience.
“ Clarence,” as the crowd familiarly addressed him*
was faultlessly clad in a two-tailer, snake-proof pants,’
and mirror boots, and displayed much laundry. One of
his upper lips was adorned with a light crop of face-
herbage, and his hair was ringbarked down the centre.
Whilst singing, the cul’d puss’n swayed like a good reso-
lution before a hurricane of temptation, but although at
times a slight nasal effect was noticeable, his notes on
the whole were sweet. The nasal effect referred to may
be traced to the puss’n’s pride in his teeth ; he takes
every opportunity of showing them, which, of course,
will not permit of the proper opening of his biting appa-
ratus. However, Clarence is to be commended on the
absence of that overbearing manner usual with stage
gentlemen of the midnight skin. The exit of this
liquorice-tinted songster shows to advantage the peculiar
springy stride possessed by most unbleached Americans.
It is perhaps the result of much chicken-stalking
Clarence might have stalked whole poultry farms.
THE PAR SISTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Their supple limbs and courage bold,
Their graces and their arts,
Have put a shiftless strangle-hold
Upon our throbbing hearts.
Passed is our buoyant, jaunty mien,
Gone is our air jocose,
Since those endearing charms were seen
That make the sisters Klos.
To be but cast with sounding shock
At Rita’s dainty feet;
Or twisted in a hammerlock
By sturdy Marguerite ;
Or woodened by the flying mare
From Flo would be delight.
Alas, between, the footlights flare
As prison-bars oif light.
For we—we’re in the circle far,
One hundred feet away ;
Among the girls around us are
None half so fair as they.
Our hearts are sore, our moods morose,
Our speech is rude and gruff ;
Our trouble’s that the Sisters Klos
Are not quite Klos enough.
N.S.W.
A.B.


NEW OVERCOATS
at . . 25/-
IT is not a bit too early to think of the
Autumn and Winter Coats. Moreover these
coats, being of a closely-woven Tweed of
medium weight, serve both as rain or winter
coats. They are Grey Tweeds, dark and
medium shades, with a stripe running down
the material; they are lined and made in the
latest Chesterfield shape, which is closer fit-
ting than last year’s stjdes. Gauntlet Cuffs
give a smart appearance to these coats.
We have them in all sizes, namely—from 3
to 7, and in £ sizes from \\ to 10|. Our stock
of these is not inexhaustible, so that if you de-
sire to buy we should like you to call and view
them. If you cannot do this, we send them
carriage paid throughout the Commonwealth,
and should you not be satisfied your money
will be refunded.
Jones Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
David
u "
IIK L.
Love Art!
PHOTOGRAPHY Charms Everybody.
With our Simple Printed Instructions given with every Camera, a
child can now learn it. We cannot here tell you about all the Cameras
we stock. But here is one we can recommend at a moderate price:—
The Folding Victor No. 2.
Takes Photos 41 x 31 inches (1-plate).
PRICE 50
Postage, N.S.W., 1/3
Interstate, 2/2.
~ t, ds up compactly. Has everything to do good work with. Good
’ tKC T, [MA , T Rapid S. Lens. Patented Fast Shutter, View Finders,
“ 00 ' c °* Instructions, clear and simple. It is a Camera that can-
toe surpassed at the price. We have an Immense Stock of Cameras
«L™,'L n T t sklll , e . d makers, at prices from 7/6 to £5O. Also Photo
supplies of every kind. Pricelists sent Post Free. Subscribe to the
, * straiian Photographic Journal.” It will keep you well posted in the
latest pnotographic ideas, news, and formula ; 4/6 post free for one year.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
386 George Street, near G.P.0., SYDNEY,
and at 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
As the motor-boat is proving every day its
determination to assume the p'dsitioh bf public
barrier On the water, the need fot State super-
vision becomes more pressing. At the present
time, half-a-ddzfen linbs of thotdr-launbhes are
lUnilirig dn Sydn'ey Harbdr. The laiv ptovides
that eVery steaihet didst carry sdniethirig floatable
for eabh person dri b'dard; .but iOO people can go
from Cirfculal Qriay to Mariiy in a motor-craft
Without sd riiubb as a kerosene-tin .among them;
fdr alj the law cates. Further, the 100 can swell
iiito 200, add thetb is ho law to say whether the
hidtdr-iauhch is oVercrowded of not. If you fall
Off a steamer, the laW says there fhust be boats
to piirsue jmur suhk of floating carcase, and life :
buoys id be throwh at you. If you fall or are
bushed off a crowded hired iridtor-boat, the law
appatentiy is satisfied to tfUsi your life to your
best girl, who tries to save VoU with her colored
jiarasdl. Wheri, years ago, the law decided that
it wash’t safe to leave hiiman lives to the conscience
of the Steahler-bwner, the first fhirig.it aid, was to
decree that every, steamer engaged in Harbor
traffic must haVe at least two bulkheads, to pre :
Verit the vessel sinking when it banged into the
other vessel. Also, the person who tried to run
kri open steani launch crowded to the gunwale
across the Heads to Manly could have things done
to hini. . yet, ori finy Holiday in summer, streams
of operi ifiotor-laufiches, without the suspicion or
a bulkhead of similar protection, can be seen crossj
ing the Heads, where a collision or the taking on
board of a heavy sea would sink the whole outfit.
These things are unaccountable.
* * * *
Some two years ago Sydney Harbor Trust
Commissioners, fearful of the dangers of the ferry
traffic in Sydney Cove, framed regulations : (1)
That the ferry steamers plying in Circular Quay
must be bona fide ferry, and not picnic boats ; (2)
that only the double-ended variety of boat was
to be allowed to carry passengers in the Quay. In
response to protests from Private Enterprise, the
second salutary rule was amended to affect only
those steamers built after the publication of the
notice. The Sydney Ferries Co. has a lease of
four jetties at the Quay, and on a legal point it blew
out the first regulation, and has ever since run what
is practically a picnic service from its Neutral
Bay landing. It has now added a new terror to
the ferry traffic, by introducing the Greyhound,
a powerful single-ended steamer, which runs be-
tween Balmoral and the Quay. When the time
comes for this co. to renew its lease, it will be up to
the Trust to put its foot, or its fin, or something
very firmly down.
After much hunting, much worry, many
theories, and many consultations with sixpenny
and other prophetesses, the Victorian police have
discovered William lies, whom they wanted so
badly re the dead body of Mrs. “Madge”
Graham, found down a shaft at Ballarat. He
was pegging away at a job in remote Gipps-
land, and looked in good spirits and con-
dition, and professed not even to have
heard of the shaft and the remains. But he was
sorry to learn of the tragedy; “ she was a fine
figure of a woman,” he said, “ and looked well on
horseback.” The stock of the clairvoyant lady
who distinctly saw lies toiling in Montreal
(Canada) is now at a sizable discount, and there is
■ even talk about asking her to return the gate-
money.
WHERE SHE FELT IT.
H ER: “ That beast of a man has
been staring at me ever since I came in the water?"
H IM: "Shall I go over and, punch him?"
HER: “ Heavens, no! But, tell me, do I look an awful guy in this cap? ”
Captain King, of Morgan (S.A.), lias just
built a steamer drawing only 2ft. of water, this
being the nearest practical approach to the legen-
dary vessel which (lees across the paddocks on the
bosom of a heavy dew. By towing two barges,
the steamer, which is 133 ft. long, can shift at least
150 tons on the depth'named. Renmark will cer-
tainly be kept in touch "Mti, the outer world, but
it seemed doubtful recently, whether Wentworth
and Mildura could guarantee the necessary 24in.
of fluid.
BLIND FAITH.
MRS. OUTBACK (reading catalogue): “ No. 30, Lot's wife. Don't it look like marble, Bill"
MR. OUTBACK: "It do ; but if the Bible sags it's salt , it ain't marble , that s certain."
“ 8.K.” : A little coterie called the York-
shire Society of N.S.W., of which Mr. E. Lewis
Scott is a leading light, is seeking permission from
the City Council to plaster .on Cook’s monument
in Hyde Parle an inscription setting forth that the
great navigator was a Yorkshireman, and the
society also wishes to hang its own little shingle
upon the pedestal. But it is already stated on
the pedestal that Cook was born at Marton in
Yorkshire, and that should be quite sufficient,
without a Yorkshire society dangling its advt. on
the great man’s monument.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Poor old Aus-
tralia ! Here be some funny facts from the 49th
edition of The Imperial Geography,” by George
Gill. E.R.G.S., member of the London Chamber
of Commerce :
(1) One of the principal exports of Victoria is tea.
(2) Among the chief imports of N. S. Wales and Queens-
land are living animals.
(3) Cotton, tobacco, and wheat are the main objects of
culture in N. S. Wales.
(4) Melbourne is the most populous city in the Southern
Hemisphere.
(5) There are in Australia more railroads than roads;
and it is easier to go long distances than short ones’
Even the roads for mail coaches are mere tracks through
the bush. s
(6) The hot winds of the interior are called “brick-
dusters.”
What would they say in England if an Australian
produced a text-book of geography containing
such a farrago of faked facts regarding England ?
Australia, the real Australia, is still a terra incog-
nita to the bulk of the British.
Since the imported Johnson, amid the
plaudits of the S. M. Herald crowd, took
over Oliver’s job as N.S.W. Chief Railway Com-
missioner, there has been a succession of railway
casualties, including three recent serious derail-
ments and a big boiler explosion. Johnson may
not be personally responsible for the crop of
accidents, but at the same time the record is a
disillusionment. At Johnson’s advent the
Herald seemed to feel sure that there
was not a wobbly member of the railway
rolling stock that would dare to wobble when
Johnson’s all-seeing eye was on it. Nor was
there a locomotive that would dream of runnihg
off the line lest it should meet the baleful glare Of
Johnson. And the result has not borne out the
Herald’s prophecies. The serious accident
at Blandford was due to the fact that of
late a refrigerating car was attached to the
North-Western mail next the engine. It is
said to have been an unstable four-wheel car
which was quite unfit for hustling round curvesat
high speed, especially in a situation where it
couldn’t well go off the line without capsizing the
whole show behind it. The car is to go at the tail
of things in future—but somebody ought surely to
have known enough to have put it there before.
The Ballarat tramway men’s strike brought
out one useful point. It was discovered during
the discussion that the company had made a
present of free passes to all the municipal coun-
cillors in the area concerned. The company holds
from the municipal councils a 30 years’lease of
the tramlines. Under that lease the company is
required to do certain things, and of the fulfilment
of its obligations the free-pass councillors are
made the judges on behalf of the ratepayers. Of
course, the councillors who travel on the nod
declare solemnly that the free-passes will make no
difference to them in the performance of their
duty to the people who elected them, but
apparently the artful company thinks otherwise.
If it doesn’t, why the free passes?
THE SHEPHERDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Archbishop Clarke, of Melbourne, has arrived ih Eng-
land, and is novt- engaged in Vigorotisly prosecuting in-
quiries into the case alleged against Canon Nash.— Recent
Cable.
A SUprenie Court writ Was recently issued oii behalf of
fcpfe itev; George Gladstone, of Nathaba; directed against
ThohiAs Henry Armstrobg, Bishot) of Wangatatta; and
Arcbdedcon R. H. Potteb, Vi'car-Geiieral of tne diocese of
Wdngaratta.
The littpleasantness thdt haS abisen At, St. , Johri’s
Chdbcli, Soldier’s Hill, between the Vicar, the Rev. J.
Walkeb-Taylor, M.A., and the late members of the com-
mittee, formed a leading topic of interest in Baiiarat
to-day.
The Revs. Scott and Law and Archdeacon Totter were
busy' in town to-day. The greatest reticence is being
observed. Rev. Mr. Scott’s lawyers, he says, have been
busy’ for some time, and everything is ripe. The whole
church, right to King Edward, he adds, may be shattered.
—News Items from one issue of the Age.
Hear and heed now, Omy brothers ! Never mind about
Carruthers,
Thomas Bent, or Wade and others—kindly leave them in
the lurch.
Graver matters now are stirring, for the Wheel of Law is
whirring,
And the godless and the erring are disrupting Mother
Church.
Give your prompt consideration to the parlous situation
Now imperilling the nation and depriving it of sleep ;
In the strain of great Cambyses, come and curse me all
the vices
That have led up to this Crisis ’twixt the Shepherds and
the Sheep.
They who should be meek and lowly—pattern men,
described as “ holy ”
Seem now animated solely by a mad desire to hit;
And, instead of meek devotion, they are raising huge
commotion,
Or careering o’er the ocean with a scandal or a writ.
All the work their mind engrosses is the serving of a
process,
And the climax very close is in at least one sad affair,
Where a corpulent archbishop seeks in that shop or in
this shop—
Even though a Stinking Fish Shop—to track Rumor to
its lair !
I might mention, inter alia, to the people of Australia
That the Shepherd at Nathalia has been hauled across the
coals
For inadequately pleading, or at least for not succeeding,
With his Sheep of light and leading, as regards their sin-
ful souls ;
While from rubbish-man to squatter, and from Com-
mandant to cotter,
People thrill to hear of Potter and of Scott, and eke of
Law ;
And pale faces grow still paler at the name of Walker-
Taylor—
Who might be a South-Sea whaler from his utter lack of
“ Haw ! ”
All the air is full of charges, and each “ reverend ” bloke
enlarges
Or incontinently “ barges ” on the frightful things to be ;
There is talk of an abysm which will ’whelm the Cate-
chism
Deep as Individualism in the Socialistic sea !
They refer, too, with a groan to the peril to “the Throne,”
And they weep for Ned, alone, like a rooster on his perch
In the dismalest of weathers, ruffling up his scanty
feathers,
While a wet archdeacon blethers of a burst and shattered
Church !
Every day there’s some new ruction, and the Church, by
clear deduction,
Goeth headlong to Destruction—is, in fact, among the
Losts !
Justice holds her scales up level, but the legion of the
Devil
Keeps a merry little revel on the bread and wine of Costs.
While churchwardens and the synod, like so many gods of
tin, nod,
And the Shepherds make a din, odd and effective as a
scare ;
And the Sheep (who should be praying) from their various
folds are straying—
And (most horrible !) are playing in the free and open air.
The backslider and the scoffer bets on each side take, or
offer;
While the Church’s once-full coffer sounds as hollow as a
drum; , , .
And Gent. One, Gent. Two, Gent. Twenty find the briefs
roll in in plenty—
When the first glad fee is spent he knows another soon
will come!
Mother Church’s ark is rockir.g ; Shepherd seamanship is
shocking,
And the old craft needs re-docking for a thorough! over-
haul ;
She will have to set the spanker and throw overboard all
rancor
If she wishes to cast anchor within any port at all!
N.S.W.
O. O. CABOT.
A TRIFLE FOR EXPENSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. W. H. .Judkins will reply to Mr. Dillon’s insinua-
tions. As the liquor traffic is one of the greatest foes to
child life, a charg - of 6d. will be made for admission, and
the proceeds, less expenses, will be given to the Children’s
Hospital.— Advt. in Melbourne dailies.
Comes now the fighter to the fray ’j?
With mighty words begirt;
His head among the cloud-array,
His large feet in the dirt.
And all the sons of gab and guff,
Blank-charge reformers, tried and tough,
Are pledged to put the kibosh on our myriad offences
And save us heathen—subject to a trifle for expenses !
vie.
FRANK HENTY.


The GENUINE RING
F OR RHEUMATISM •
Sciatica $ e, juine ring to cure Rheumatism, Gout,
Rheum o ’fS eUra M’ a > Insomnia, etc. It gives relief in
worth t^ lat medicine cannot give. Isn’t it
™ 7 / 0 to get well ?
Write for Free Booklet.
MADE 0f POLISHED STEEL, nickel plated.
I The Rheumagnetic Ring
(Ratd.)
Price 7/6 Post Free.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. [1
If you promptly apply Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm to a sprain before inflammation sets in, a
cure is ensured in about one-third of the time other-
wise required. First application gives relief.*
The (one. Hand
lor the March sales we had to scrape around
among the wholesale agents for surplus copies to
supply the counter demand. Approaching the
end of its .year, Tiie Lone Hand now finds itself
definitely “ settled ” in life, with a circulation that
covers all Australasia, and a good deal of Asia,
Africa, Europe, and America !
We delight in this —for business reasons and for
the patriotic satisfaction that an Australian maga-
zine should be able, abroad, to compete with the
best of the products of older countries !
The April number, just gone to press, will keep
up the high tradition already established. As a
novelty, “The Judicious Thief” section that
month has been restricted almost wholly to Aus.
tralian gems of verse, with special original illus-
trations. The articles for April include “The
Factory Girl,” the record of the experiences of our
special commissioner (Miss Tracy) in factory life ;
“ Black Trackers,” by A. Meston ; “L. Bernard
Hall” (the painter of “Sleep”), by Lionel Lind-
say; and “Our Military Forces—the Field
Artillery.” A so-called “Deaf Cure” is fully
dealt with in the Public Good section, with ex-
haustive analytical reports and investigation of
its testimonials.
The stories give the usual variety and interest.
Arthur Adams concludes his “Experiences of
Clarence.” The serial by Ambrose Pratt, and
the series of humorous stories by Edward Dyson
develop well. Ethel Turner, P. E. Quinn, S. W.
Powell and G. A. Aicock are responsible for other
stories.
And there is a fine budget of verse and of
literary and dramatic articles.
Make up your mind now to subscribe to The
Lone Hand through the nearest newsagent, or
directly to the office. It is the only way in which
to make sure of getting every copy.
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Rev. Edwards, a Western District
(Vic.) parson, has the record for a short sermon.
Irritated by the growing impatience that had
reduced his discourses from an hour’s length to
20 minutes, and which was still going strong, the ,
minister announced the other Sunday morning i
“ My text is from Proverbs, the 18th chapter, 2nd
verse. ‘A fool hath no delight in understanding.’
Think it over at home.” Then the good man pro- '
ceeded with the rest of the service.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
SEND 35/-
FOR THIS
GRAND SUIT.
A SUIT that every economically minded man ought to
get friendly with. A stylish, well-made suit in the
fashion of the moment—in the new dark grey or dark green
fabrics—built to hold its shape—has horsehair linings, and
has a finish not seen in any cheap made-to-order suit.
WRITE YOUR ORDER BELOW AND MAIL TO US, or we will
send you patterns.
PRICE 35/- THE SUIT.
PEAPE3 LTD., 309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me your Ready-for-Service Suit, at 35/- Color
Chest measures Sleeve from centre of back to wrist...
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
... SYDNEY.
The Sheriffs officer in Melbourne will be
selling a cheap line of goat trimmings in a day or
two, so if Wade wants some frills to spread
around Canberra he had better hurry over and
bid. The matter arises through the East Bourke
Lodge of the G-.U.0.0.F. having heaved a mem-
ber out of its ranks last Federal election time.
He was a pugnacious member, and dragged the
argument through sundry courts till he reached
Chief Justice Madden. Madden opined that the
member had been badly treated, and ordered the
lodge to reinstate him, and also to pay his Costs
The reinstating was a bitter pill, but the payment
of Costs was worse, for the lodge was broke or
thereabouts; so now the bailiff has seized’the
goat’s wool ornaments, the glass jewels, the
crepe-de-chine sashes, and the other pretty para-
phernalia, and wants a buyer. It is sad to even
think of it, yet it looks as if Costs will have to go
.somewhat short on this occasion
THE BEGINNING OF GREATNESS.
LADY AUBREY DE SWINGLETON: “ And what was
the foundation of your Grace’s family ?”
HE DUKE OF TOPSIDE ( 'proudly ): “ My ancestor,
madam, won a Limerick competition!”
A 15-year-old “ knock-about ” lad with a
grie vance and a loaded revolver eventuated in a
7, , ne .y su burb last week, and, as a result, portion
trn,VhlL nnOCen s. gOl^uf a maid was spilled and much
trouble caused The maid, so the youth com-
had denied him soup” ; she “had not
given him as good a breakfast as the butcher.”
JA er ®, Cam , e a da y "'hen he entered the pantry,
and asked her for at piece of soap to wash himself
with. She said. You are big and ugly enough
saicf e ‘‘WlvTT Vti The °PP resse d youth then
iL ’ lat , a , °ut the strong tea you gave me in
the morning ?» She said, “You get Is good as
anybody else. Ihe lad replied, bitterly, “ You
give it to the butcher out of a silver teapot. I
Know it does not suit your purpose for me to be
fu u *u e k ' tch ? n when you are entertaining
the butcher; he just comes in here and does as
he likes. And then the blood-letting began.
It lifts the curtain for a moment on the romance
of existence below stairs. We glimpse the
butcher resting on his rounds—tall, oily, over-
fed—and cookey ministering to him with a
silver tea-pot. In a corner, fuming jealously, sits
the revolver expert. He clamors for soup; then
for soap. Both are denied him. The happy
brace see naught but each other and the cock-
roaches. Then comes a break in the harmony-
screams, confusion, gore, and explanations before
a beak. What a perfect little allegory of life it is !
On Tuesday, the N.S.W. Government
sold the material of one of the oldest hostelries on
Sydney 1 Rocks, the old Black Dog, which was
such a conspicuous land mark on the hill above
Brown Bear Lane. In 183 L it was kept by
Lmanuel JNeich, who came from Genoa in 1826
and after that it had numerous landlords In re-
cent years it was re-named the Ocean Wave. In
the hot political days of open hustings’ nomina-
tions the Black Dog was a great political rendez-
vous, and from its quaint little iron balcony,
projecting from one window only, the “ free and
independent ” were harangued by many aspirants
for political honors, at whom they threw many
things and languages in return.
The Consumptive Sanatorium of Victoria,
at Macedon, had an income of £4500 last year. Of
this £2056 came from patients, £lOOO from the
Government, and only £B3l from private donors,
wu 6 lese P rlvate subscribers run the “charity.”
Whenever the State maintenance and control of
such hospitals is mentioned, the professional
philanthropist says that it would be a sad thing to
“dry up the wells of private charity.” What°he
really means is that it would be a sad thing for
him if he couldn’t pose as a great, good man who
supported most of the weight of the institution on
his own shoulders.
* * * *
“ Benbee ” : Was under the impression
that when an angry woman of talkative parts had
steam up, so to speak, nothing short of an earth-
quake would stop her flow, but that impression
is wrong:. Saw a ease,
the other day. A small,
fiery woman, somewhat
lean, but with features
sour enough to test rock
witli, came into the
Tramway host Property
Office at Sydney. She
had lost her umbrella in
the 10.5 tram from Some-
where. So she said, and
she wanted the tram
people to get that brolly
for her, and be quick
about it. In leisured
fashion the tram clerk
investigated. She waited
impatiently, her dander
rising all the time. Pre-
sently the clerk reported
that no gamp had been
left in the 10.5 tram from
Somewhere that day.
That was exactly the sort
of report she seemed to
be waiting for, and she
just laid herself out to do
justice to her feelings.
She didn’t insinuate that
the tramway service was,
one army of liars and
thieves. She said it
straight out, and said it
time and again. The
leisurely clerk, no w
angry and not leisurely
at all, tried to shoo her
off the premises, but she
wasn’t the kind of woman
to let go like that. Pre-
sently, when the more
violent gusts of the
cyclone had spent them-
selves, an old, ginger-
whiskered tramway man,
who had been looking on,
asked the angry lady
how many umbrellas she
usually carried. “One,”
she snorted. “Then,”
said he of the ginger
whiskers, “what’s that
one doin’ hooked on your ar-rrn, mum ?” The angry
lady, who was just commencing on a fresh round
of clamor, looked at her arm, and then the talk-
mill stopped in mid air. Her jaw dropped, and
she seemed on the verge of explosion, when some-
body started to laugh. It was the saving of the
angry woman. She didn’t burst. She gathered
herself together and stalked haughtily out of the
room with scorn and contempt in her eye. She
had saved the situation as only a woman could,
but her talking machine was out of action.
• * • *
The curse of the landlord ! Somebody in
Petone (Wellington, M.L.) has discovered a lady
who kept 15 boarders in a six-roomed house.
* * ■*, *
“If the union of man is ever accomplished
it will be under the banner of temperance.”—
Judkins.
If ever all the world unites.
And kills the hates that now betide us,
It will be when the Rechabites
Have drunk the waters that divide us !
S.S.
* * * •
According to the evidence of the chief
party concerned in a little matter of 7s. 6d. a
week and pre-maternity expenses, the earnings of
a “professional footballer’’ in Melbourne only
amount to 30s. a week. Defendant in this case,
who plays for “Skinner’s hirelings,’’ was ordered
to extract a tenner from the recesses of his jersey.
A recent Tasmanian episode was the
suicide of a Commercial Bank clerk. The Com-
mercial Bank of Tasmania has been boosting up
its dividend year by year for quite a long time,
till the shareholders’little bit of profit has reached
12 per cent. But its employees don’t share to
any great extent in this gorgeous prosperity.
The deceased had been 27 years in the bank’s
service. He had been teller for 17 years. He
was receiving a glorious £225 per annum, less any
sums that he might have to pay to make good those
shortages in the cash that befall every teller. He
had a family of five, and his position required
him to keep up “a respectable appearance.” So
he gave it up, and went to see his Maker and
tell Him what the bank was like. When
the Federal Banking Act comes along it is
absolutely necessary that it should include the
establishment of a Wages Board for bank officials,
with a proviso that the Board shall get to work
and arrange a scale of salaries without waiting for
the bank official to make application to it—for
bank officials are too much terrorised to take the
initial step in such a matter. No doubt there would
be hardship at first, for if the banks were called
upon to pay a fair living wage a good many
branches would be closed up, but in the end the
benefit would be enormous. In many a small
town five branch banks are doing a business
that is only enough for three, and they are kept
open by dividing among 20 employees an aggre-
gate wage that is just about a fair thing for 12. To
aggravate the situation a bank often divides among
12 shareholders an amount that would do for 20.
When the Wages Board for bank clerks has
been established, the Wages Board for all clerks
will naturally follow. But the bank clerk, whose
life is about the most awful grind and mockery of
the lot, is a good person to begin with.
Judge Rogers, in the District Court,
Sydney, the other day (Sydney Telegraph
report):—
Judges are taken away for all sorts of things nowadays—
to shut up hotels, to take away men’s livings, and so forth.
This outburst refers to the fact that Judge Back-
house is engaged in the cancelling of publicans’
licenses under the Liquor Act. Judge Rogers
is paid to interpret the laws as they are passed,
not to comment contemptuously on them or betray
partisan feelings with regard to them. Contempt
for the law is rather a weakness of Judge Rogers.
The Bulletin has had to comment before this on
his attacks on the Arbitration Act. Why Parlia-
ment and the community tolerate such conduct in
a Judge it is hard to understand. A firm Parlia-
ment would, after one warning, reward it with
the sack —the plain Australian sack.
*** * '
Sydney Watchman (12/3/’08) deals the
Scarlet Female a terrific bash: —
In Rome, before 1870, there was no justice—justice and
honesty were words unknown. There was no liberty ;
there was little gas.
FIGHTING BOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The U.S. fleet, commanded by Admiral Evans, is to
visit Australia. — Cablegram.
Good on you, Fighting Evans, we’re more glad than we
can tell
To hear your outfit’s going to be about ;
For the cause you’re guarding happens to be yours and
ours as well ;
And if you’re done, Australia’s down and out ;
But we know you’re not a quitter, and your boys are all
dead game,
So, westward as your sturdy engines sob,
Remember that you’ll meet a push that’s thinking much
the same,
And a glad hand's waiting for you, Fighting Bob.
The white man’s burden’s bigger than it was a bit ago,
And you’re the lad that’s got to bear ils brunt ;
Id’s not the Stars and Stripes, but Japhet’s banner that
you show,
When you start to do your great Pacific stunt;
You’re the vanguard of the white man ; you’re’the power
that makes for peace,
And, though fun or fight or frolic be your job,
Australia’s heart is with you till the order comes to cease
And Australia's men’ll help you, Fighting Bob.
Still—we won’t be much offended if your visit vou
postpone, •£
For there’s one piace where we’d sooner see you go :
You can look in when you’ve done and all the shell's vou
need are thrown J
Around the smellful port of Tokio,
When the Monkey guns are silenced and the work is all
put through,
And no more your big twelve inchers landward lob,
And you step ashore with fifteen thousand sailor men in
blue,
You will hear Australia barrack, Fighting Bob.
N.S.W.
MILTON MAcGREGOR.
AN EMPTY THING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
balloon ascent the greatest interest was
Edwardttt P Ctat,ors ‘ n the process of filling “ King
" ard ( the balloon) with hot air.-AoK.
rinK ot , thiS treason ? That hot air balloon
U ar ’ a *' as any harvest moon !
AllT* 6 * 1 ° W t^ str ‘Ee the truth, so plump and fair—
Vic m ** S Ut Walloons, filled with hot air.
MARTIN LUTHER.
DONE IN
FOR THE BULLETIN
T * HOPED TO LpQK irsTO YOUR CVEIS
I across Tht a no the >
CMREAr<\ POtR OTN>E IaRVEIF HOUR
T nAcr VOO vyEVRC hlhE .
TO DRE.AM IT WAS RiY PRWILECE.
T*° LIQUIDATE. YOuR OPESStHC, BILLS,
Z\HD SREfYD The happy AFTE.RNOOINS
TOVJR FURBELOWS Arso FR>LIS
Y3U hEVER Came, Arso So 3 ATE
T’hE. TASTELESS OYSTERS
QHLY THE HON£y ThAT T;’o SAVED,
VVas balh op Gilead to ame
/NT- S W
C A. J.


ROBEY ENGINES.
THE FINEST ON EARTH.
PORTABLES THRASHERS TRACTIONS.
Sole Agents—ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., 64 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND.
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers-
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Stree
BALLARAT : Lydiard Street,
i BENDIGO : Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND
IN STOCK— Windin
Sole Agents of F.
SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
s Kny ' lnes > Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping, all sizes.
Reddaway & Camel Hair Belting; Ransomes Sims’, and Jefferies Ctd.’e
Traction and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
A case that cried aloud for a new banking law
got as far as the Sydney police courts could carry it last
week. The case was about goats and an alleged confi-
dence swindle ; but that part cf the matter is hung up
for a jury’s inspection, and, anyhow, it has nothing to
do with the need of a banking law. Incidentally, how-
ever, it transpired that the accused in the case and a
partner were running what they had the magnificent
impudence to call “The Commonwealth Banking Co.”
One of the partners said “ he put £l5 into the business,
but it was not profitable, and he closed it up last month.”
Apparently the man who put up £l5 was managing
director of “ the Commonwealth Banking C 0.,” and, see-
ing that he could apparently close it up when he liked,
his £l5 was probably the only real capital it had. Yet,
even if there were only £l5 paid up in the business, there
was nothing to prevent the partners putting the whole of
it into a brass plate and a “ Commonwealth Bank ” sign-
board, or getting those trifles on time-payment, and
hanging out an invitation to the world to come in and
make deposits.
There are in Sydney alone, apart from the
regular banks, at least seven or eight alleged
“banks” whose business it is to tout for deposits.
Some of these alleged banks carry on a money-
lending business; others are land-speculators. They
offer from 7 to 10 per cent, for fixed deposits. Let
the depositor get a hint afterwards that he has put his
money into a rotten concern, and let him ask to with-
draw it, and he will be told —“ Your interest is quite
safe. In fact, it is invested in a way that gives so much
profit, and we shall lose so much by returning it, that, if
you withdraw at once, we shall have to charge you
ss. in the £.” One of the most respectable of
these alleged “banks,” with a huge brass-plate and
a directorate with some frills on it, met an anxious
client that way lately. Another tried a different
tale —the expected profits hadn’t been realised:
“Here is the balance-sheet, and you’ll see for yourself
that there has been a loss on the business.” So the de-
positor, more alarmed than ever, agreed to accept 16s. in
the £ rather than wait for a few weeks and risk getting
nothing.
Parliament has gone to a good deal of trouble in
an attempt to protect the borrower ; and the question is
whether the lender—especially the little man or woman,
who has laboriously saved up a few pounds, but who,
nevertheless, knows little or nothing of business—isn’t
quite as well worth protecting. If thrift is a good thing
to encourage, the little lender seems to have very
solid claims on the protection of Parliament. In connec-
tion with building societies the Parliaments of most •
States have protected him. In Queensland, for instance,
the Building Societies Act not only prohibits speculation
. in real estate, but declares that a society may not receive
on deposit more than three times the amount of the
capital ; while in Tasmania a society is not permitted to
borrow more than two-thirds of the amount secured by
mortgage. But in Sydney this sort of advt. can be met
with every week (this one is chopped out of a religious
publication):—
A Good Investment,
banks
Pay 3 per cent., and make advances to Clients. I
conduct my business on the same lines, only in smaller
sums, so I can pay
EIGHT PER CENT.
If you have a few pounds lying idle bring it to me.
While you are asleep it will be earning money for you.
I have conducted my banking business for seven
years, having made steady, continuous progress.
Your savings, therefore, will be
SAFELY INVESTED.
£5 to £25, at call 8 per cent.
£26 to £lOO, for 1 year 8 per cent.
Large Sums, by agreement .. .. 8 per cent.
The man who issues that advertisement may
not have a penny in the business. The building society—
in most States, at least —can only accept two or three
times more in deposits than the amount of its own
capital; so that the securities would have to shrink in
value, say, 6s. Bd. in the £ before the depositors would lose
any of their principal. Yet inevitably when a man offers
8 per cent, for small sums of money, he must put it into
securities which involve great risk. The average insurance
office cannot earn more than 4J per cent, at the most. The
higher the interest return beyond that, the greater the risk
in general of the loss of the principal. And yet people are
permitted to tout for deposits, to be put into such securi-
ties, without any regulation whatever ; they can take as
much deposit money as they can get; they need not have
a penny of capital themselves ; they may speculate as
they please ; and they may call themselves a bank, or
refer to their “ banking business.” It is a deplorable
state of affairs—all the more deplorable because the suf-
ferers are likely to be (and, in fact, are, in the cases
mentioned above) the small capitalists, the thrifty house-
wives and fathers who have scraped together a few
pounds to see them through worse times.
* * * *
The Wade-Waddell Government has flown
another kite in London—for £3,000,000, of which only
half is for meeting old maturing loans. The other
half is for the same old productive work which so
rarely products. The absolutely newest idea in pro-
ductive works is “promotion of Closer Settlement,”
by which is meant the purchase of private estates
at inflated values, with a probable 10 per cent, for com-
pulsory resumption added. The Government borrows
the money to re-acquire the land, the closer settler
borrows the money to buy it from the Government, and
the bank which finds the cash borrows from somebody
else. All of which is to the great ultimate benefit of
Cohen.
* * * *
S. Australia has a whole flock of curses coming
home to roost during the next few years. The first
of them, lately due, have been provided for comfortably,
though they have left behind a horrible suspicion that
things may not always turn out so well. One little lot
of £1,000,000 matured on January 1, 1907, and another
little lot of £500,000 on January 1, 1908 ; and of the
£1,500,000 the holders of only about £250,000 took the
chance offered them of renewing. However, owing to
the local prosperity, that difficulty was got over, mainly
by local borrowings. Now another little lot falls due,
and with an easier market in London, S. Australia
offers Bull Cohen another chance of renewing the lOU
at 3£ per cent. ; but, in case he shouldn’t feel too sure
about it, S. Australia puts a sovereign on top of each new
lOU for £lOO. Apparently, however, this State hasn’t
had its loan underwritten like N. S. Wales, so the latter,
in the end, will probably have to pay just as much. The
underwriting and other charges will swell the 3J per
cent, up to £3 12s. 9d. per cent, at the least.
* •» * *
Victoria publishes monthly revenue returns, but
the State has hitherto been expected to trust the Treas-
urer in the matter of expenditure till the end of the year.
That is how cool, calm man Irvine was able to bring about
the railway crisis a few years ago. He talked about the
shrinking revenue and the appalling expenditure, but the
public didn’t know what the appalling expenditure was. So
Irvine was allowed to cut and hack, and then the year
ended up with a big surplus, out of which Irvine built a
halo for himself and Bent. Nowadays things are a little
better ; for, though expenditure figures don’t accompany
the revenue returns, still E. T. Drake, the energetic Vic-
torian Statist of these days, furnishes figures which are
only two or three months late. From tables just issued
these results can be dug out: —
July-Dee., ’O6. July-Dee., ’O7.
Revenue .. £3,755,556 £4,124,904 Inc., £369,348
Expenditure .. 3,925,223 3,765,533 Dec, 159,690
Thus at the end of December, 1906, half of that financial
year being over, the deficit was £169,667 ; at December
31, 1907, the surplus was £359,371, so the improvement
shown amounts to £529,038. In other words, Bent had
to his credit the whole of the gain through the increase
in Customs duties, and had made an apparent saving of
£159,690 in expenditure. How much of this saying is
apparent and how much is real is another matter, since it
has become the fashion to fake surpluses by the very
simple process of either deferring expenditure or
temporarily meeting it out of some fund or other.
* * * *
The City Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Ltd. (Sydney):- Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. off. Funds.
1897 .. £41,079 £11,460 £9,422 £996 £19,201
1898 .. 46,112 20,531 10,396 2082 13,103
1899 .. 50,291 22,890 11,023 1581 14,797
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,265 1950 13,048
1901 .. 61,979 19,435 15,997 2209 24,338
1902 .. 63,552 31,850 14,717 1555 15,430
1903 ... 63,732 34,877 14,142 1468 (. 16 316
Assets written up .. 3071 i4DS i
1904 .. 65,619 29,610 14,227 1586 20,196
1905 .. 70,242 27,515 15,615 1971 25,141
1906 .. 76,874 31,955 18,666 2006 24,247
1907 .. 82,388 33,001 18,875 2055 28,457
So in the 11 years covered by the table the total income
has been just doubled, and the expenses have been just
doubled too. So far as the expenses are concerned, that
would not, other things being equal, be a satisfactory
showing, since the greater part of the income consists of
renewal premiums. Other things, however, are not
equal; for nowadays the proportion of new business
secured is much larger than it was 11 years ago, and it is
the new business that costs the money. Taking first,
however, the proportion of expenses to total income,
these results are got at: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1898 .. £22 10 11 p.c. 1903 .. £22 3 9 p.c.
1899 .. 21 18 4 „ 1904 .. 21 13 7 „
1900 .. 29 3 11 „ 1905 .. 22 4 7 „
1901 .. 25 16 2 „ 1906 .. 24 5 6 „
1902 .. 23 3 2 „ 1907 .. 22 18 2 „
But things look much better if the before-mentioned in-
crease in the proportion of new business is taken into
account. Here are the figures for two years :
First Premiums. Renewal Premiums.
1897 .. £3,828 .. £29,017
1907 .. 13,352 .. 51,406 *
Now, reckon that the renewal or old-business premiums
cost 7 per cent, per annum, and charge the balance of the
expenses against new business: —
Old Business New Business
Cost. Cost.
1897 .. 7 per cent. 190'0 per cent.
1907 .. 7 „ 114 4 „
It is quite possible, however, that the old business, being
now larger, costs rather less per cent, than it did 10 or 11
years ago, in which case the difference between the present
cost of new business and the cost in 1897 would be rather
less than is shown above. But, making a small allowance
on that account, there has been a good improvement under
this heading of expenses ; and the office now ranks well
ahead of several older and much better known offices.
Some of the latter have got into a very deep groove,
and don't know how to get out of it. No
doubt management may be cheap, and nasty as well as
just cheap. Medical examination may, for instance, be
neglected. It is quite probable that the City Mutual
saves something in that way ; at any rate, the average
new policy is small —under £l4s—and it is the small
policy which usually dodges the doctor. But; so far at
any rate, the mortality experience is favorable ; and it is
through mortality experience, of course, that cheap and
nasty management eventually hits an insurance society,
because badly-selected risks die before they ought to.
Apparently the actual deaths last year were 67 per cent,
of the expected deaths, whereas 70 per cent, is a very
good record over a series of years. For 15 years the
Widows’ Fund experience has been 70*2 per cent., and the
Widows’ Fund spends a lot on doctors.
The City Mutual’s interest earnings are higher
than those of any other life office in Australia. It admits
that it is a lender of money in comparatively small
amounts —a business which a big office with big funds
could not carry on, unless the number of small borrowers
was enormously increased. This year the interest —now
stated “net”—was at the rate of £5 6s. 4d. per cent, of
the average funds ; the previous year it was £5 Is. 3d. per
cent. Presumably, various charges incidental to these
small loan transactions have been deducted from the
total interest, to the advantage of the expense rate.
But, in connection with these high interest earnings, note
the size of the “ written off ” column. For the past year
£2055 disappears. Deduct that from interest-earnings,
and the rate comes back to £4 14s. 2d. per cent., which is
only about 4s. more than the A.M.P.’s earnings.
The City Mutual has suffered badly from the
lapsed-policy trouble. This suggests how :
Renewal New
Premiums. Premiums. Total.
1903 .. £45,022 £5,140 £50,162
1904 .. 46,835 5,218 52,053
1905 .. 45,238 10,154 55,392
1906 .. 46,568 13,018 69,586
1907 .. 51,406 13,352 64,758
While the total of the old and new premiums in 1905 was
£55,392, the old premiums in 1906 (which include the new
ones of 1905) were down to £46,568. Of course some few
policies had matured ; but that would still leave a heavy
loss. The last year’s experience has, however, been a
trifle more satisfactory. In theA.M.P. last year the lapsed
policies exhausted £156,734 of surrender value, equal
to 9 per cent, of the total claims. The proportion in the
case of the City Mutual was 18 per cent. Still, though
this is not satisfactory, it is one of the penalties of being
young and venturesome. For many years past the
A.M.P. hasn’t had to fight to keep its business. Though
it is being seriously challenged now, nobody hitherto
could suggest another office as good. Such Others as the
City Mutual, not having reached that point, must fight
in order to keep as well as to get. But the advantage is
not all on the A.M.P.’s side ; for it is well to know how to
hustle, in case of unexpected competition, and the office
that hasn’t had to hustle generally doesn’t know how to,
even when hustling becomes vitally necessary.
• * * *
The Wellington Gas Co. (M.L.): —
Net To Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. serves.
1904 .. 10 p.c. =£12,349 £34,871
1905 .. £29,242 10 „ „ 12,457 £16,785 51,656
1906 .. 18,788 10 „ „ 12,457 6,331 57,987
1907 .. 26,268 10 „ „ 12,457 13,811 71,798
How these erratic movements come about is not very
plain. Nor does it avail much to follow the various re-
serves, which generally tell a tale when profits jump like
this: —
1904. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Share Premiums .. £12,306
Reserves .. .. 7,500 £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
Renewal Fund, etc. .. 4,000 15,000 25,000 35,000
Undivided Profit .. 11,065 11,656 7,987 11,798
Totals .. .. £34,871 £51,656 £57,987 £71,798
That doesn’t explain how the profits came to be £29,242 in
1905 and only £18,788 in 1906. Try again, following the
profit and loss account only :
1904. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Sales and other in-
come £58,925 £64,755 £66,156 £80,678
Manufacture, repairs,
and all charges .. 45,764 42,049 47,368 54,410
P. &L. balance.. £13,161 £22,706 £18,788 £26,268
The poor figures for 1904 were apparently due to a large
amount having been spent on the rel ™ • the streets
owing to the arrival of the electric tramw y
of Wellington. In the following year the form M tne
published accounts was altered, the reser w j thou6
arranged, and some amounts dropped in o{ pro fit
mentioning where they came from. T1 ? e A““ ve * j ia d
for 1905, as shown in the first table above, had
better, therefore, not be taken too serious y.
management has the lumping habit t- ‘ltems one
cally the profit and lossaccount consists o rea ting
bundling the revenue together, and the other treating
the expenditure the same way. Repairs and• re
are charged up as working expenditure , , a j n
is spent this way isn’t mentioned, except n would
in the directors’ report, and uneven expe
also make the profit figures uneven. Stilll therea
other influences at work. There is an amazi g lfK)7
between the profit figures for 1906 and 1907 , y
the directors say that £5270 "„ a ® ent r P s 0 that
maintenance,” while in 1906 £5250 was S P > . ~
item wasn’t responsible for the difference s
figures for those two years. As the profit and g losB
account shows, there was an extraordinary
the revenue, partly no doubt due to the t a ° The
miles of mains have been laid in the past two y •
share capital is £124,570, 7457 shares being fully P a,d t°
£lO and 10,000 paid to £5 ; and there are, besides, £57,9
of debentures. Other debts amount to a
before paying the half-year’s dividend the co. I qmd
assets (including book debts) were £15,854. There s ' °
sign of any writing-down of assets ; so apparently the
reserve funds have to provide for any general P
ation not covered by the renewals which are pai
of revenue. *
* * *
The Emu Bat Railway Co.:— Deficit
Ordinary Debenture Loss (Goodwill
and Capital and on
Preferential Accrued Busi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest, ness. Dividends. Assets).
1898 .. £263,061 £1395 Nil £^4,404
1899 .. 298,410 £106,150 5078 Nil 109,482
1900 . 337,172 200,000 9181 Nil
Total preliminary expenses to date, £39,116 lot,itv
1901 .. 360,000 205,234 8078 Nil 165,857
1902 .. 360,000 205,039 4255 Ni 170,112
1903 .. 360,000 210,052 4881 Nil 174,993
1904 .. 360,000 214,866 4703 Nil 179,696
Profit.
1905 .. 360,000 214,668 3828 Nil 175,868
1906 .. 360,000 210,546 9191 Nil 166,677
Capital written off, £65,000 .. .. • •
1907 .. 295,000 205,257 10,671 £8750 99,756
A little more than 10 years ago this co. was formed, in
Melbourne principally, with a tremendous flourish of bag - -
pipes. The glitter of the Silverton Tramway Co. and the
then unpunctured Chillagoe Co. was borrowed for the
new enterprise, and the thing went with a swish, but
there was a prompt and painful reaction, and there has
been very little else ever since. The co. started with a
goodwill item of £lOO,OOO, representing paper rights and
concessions—tilings obviously worth nothing in them-
selves ; you could hardly boil half a billy with them.
Nevertheless, to that £lOO,OOO was shortly afterwards
added £39,116, representing other preliminary expenses,
partly incurred in floating the co., partly in connection
with a debenture issue. Besides these debentures,
profits had to pass another hungry mouth before
they could reach shareholders; for the co. hired
part of its railway from the Emu Bay and
Mt. Bischoff Railway Co. (Tas.). As the table shows,
there were for many’ y’ears not enough profits to satisfy
these two ; and by December, 1904, a profit and loss debit
of £41,571 had been accumulated. The next two years
showed small profits, so by December, 1906, the accumu-
lated trading deficit was reduced to £30,552. During last
year it was decided to do something to hurry the spong-
ing-out process, and a writing-off of capital was agreed
to. But there was a good deal of the comic-opera about
it; for, though £65,000 w’as written off, reducing the £1
ordinary shares to 155., in connection with profit distri-
butions' the ss. is not to be regarded as written off ; also,
the absence of the ss. isn’t to be noticed by the liquidator
in the event of winding up. For all practical purposes,
in short, the £65,000 isn’t to be regarded as written off at
all. The one object seems to have been to make the
balance-sheet look a little prettier—or, rather, a little less
ugly.
On this basis it is now reckoned the right thing
to distribute a little of the “profit.” The capital for-
merly was £360,000, of which £lOO,OOO was in 8 per cent,
pref. shares, 4 per cent, being cumulative. Until now
not a penny’ has been paid on these, so the accrued in-
terest amounted to £31,207 on Dec. 31. It is off the
accumulation that £8750 is now paid, leaving £22,457
accrued as at Dec. 31 last; and £4OOO is going on to the
bill every year. Supposing £8750 could be now paid
every year, it would be 1914 before the deficit would be
wiped out—six years from now. And then the pref.
shares would be entitled to £BOOO per annum on their own
account before the ordinary shareholders got anything.
The question is, what are the prospects ? Take first this
summary:—
Available
for Rent, Proportion
Working Interest, Expenses to
Earnings. Expenses. Renewals, etc. Earnings.
1899.. £24,548 £14,786 £9,762 60’2 per cent.
1900.. 26,625 17,475 9,150 657 „
1901.. 39,005 25,957 13,030 66’6 „
1902.. 42,131 25,289 16,842 60 „
1903.. 40,518 23,264 17,554 57 „
1904.. 42,365 24,382 17,983 57’5 „
1905.. 50,829 24,731 26,098 487 „
1906.. 60,170 26,654 33,516 44’3 „
1907.. 65,658 30,746 34,912 46'8
The expenses shown above do not include depreciation,
which is another way of saying renewals ; and it seems
certain that the outlay must increase. On the other
hand, the revenue is hardly likely to keep where it is.
The freight is mostly mineral, and the fall in prices must
affect output, and therefore traffic. Settlement along
the line may increase ; but. apart from that, the figures
for 1904 appear to be nearer normal than those for 1906
or 1907.
The financial basis of the whole thing was
wrong, and the question is—should ordinary shareholders
suffer so much as they are pretty certain' to do under
present arrangements? Preference shares are preference
shares, no doubt; but when there has been such a com-
plete miscalculation, the Ist class passengers might
reasonably let the 2nd class people come in and get a few
crumbs, at the least. Easier terms might very’ well be
arranged, therefore, in connection with the arrears of
pref. interest. If that is not done, it is highly impro-
bable, as shown above, that the accumulation' will be
shovelled off the premises for six or seven years, and
before that time arrives sinking-fund payments in con-
nection with the debentures will be called for, and the
hopes of ordinaries will become dimmer again.
* • * *
Melbourne Co-operative Brewery Co.
Trade Written
July, Profit. Bonus. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
1904.. - £l9l
J an -> Reserves.
1905.. £8,858 £2,782 50 p.c.= £2,816 £1715 1,354
Premiums on new shares, £6094 .. 7’448
1906.. 27,679 10,276 110p.c.= 10,180 4000 lo’e7l
Premiums on new shares, £18,084 «><? 755
1907.. 32,325 12,567 76£p.c.= 12,543 2347 331623
Premiums on new shares, £299 .. 33 922
1908.. 36,154 13,801 78£p.c.= 14,001 3703 38’,571
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate
because the exact aggregate amount of the trade bonus is
not yet known. An effort is made to distribute the profit
about equally between the customers and the share-
holders. The customers’ “ cut ”is at the rate of 6s per
hogshead of beer supplied to them ; the shareholders o- e t
2s. Id. per share, in addition to the Is. lOd. they pocketed
as an interim dividend, making 3s. lid. per ss. share for
the year. The co. has had a remarkably profitable
career ; the astonishing - figures show what money there is
in the wholesale Bung business under favorable circum-
stances. Of course this co.’s circumstances have been
extra-favorable. In order to get business it didn’t have
to buv hotels at outrageous prices and tie them
ÜB . it doesn’t even have to shovel coin i nto
its ’ travellers’ pockets as they go out in the
morning, and expect them to splash it around
where it will do most good during the day. Moreover, it
i. as had practically no bad debts : lor in 99 cases out of
100 it was only the solid Mr. Bung who was independent
enough to join in this enterprise. The net profit for this
one vear is just upon double the total amount of the
capital Even reckoning in the premiums as capital, the
net profit was over 85 per cent. Whether, however, the
price is first put on to the beer in order to swell the pro.
fits and then taken off in the shape of bonuses in order
to swell the advt., isn’t apparent. If, however, only the
fair price is charged for the beer in the first place, and if
the profit is really what it professes to be, the results are
the most powerful sermon ever preached in Australia on
the advantages of co-operation. And even if the 6s. per
hoo-shead is put on merely for the sake of taking it off
again, the 78J per cent. div. to the shareholders is still a
powerful sermon on the same text.
As to the progress of the Melb. Co-operative
Brewerv, here are some more figures, as at the closing of
the books for the year ; that is, before the final appropria-
tion of each year’s ]9o 6_ igo7 igog
Canital • £11.262 £13,815 £17,842 £‘17,885
Reserves . - - 6,952 21,319 46,681 53,223
Debts (overdraft,etc.) 5,907 14,632 6,048 15,871
Buildings and plant.. 15,597 34,191 40,367 56,962
Book debts . .. 6,783 11,396 16,431 20,611
Stocks 1,424 3,071 5,097 6,834
Cash etc 317 1,108 8,676 2,564
The co. has been providing itself with a new brewery,
certainly ; but a co. which nea.rly trebles its debts, even
in order to do that work, while paying a 78J per cent,
dividend, is suffering from the Australian disease of
paying for little or nothing with cash when it can be paid
for with an I O U. # #
The Squatting Investment Co. (Melbourne)
N e t Added to Re-
Dec Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1897’ .. £12,131 Nil. £12,131 £41,945
1898 .. 39,624 2£ p.c. =£7,300 32,324 74,269
Loss.
1899 .. 38,092 2* „ „ 7,300 - 28,877
1900 .. 27,060 Nil. 1,817
Deficit.
1901 .. 11,967 Nil. 10,150
Profit.
1902 .. 3,847 Nil. 3,847 6,303
1903 .. 15,023 2£ p.c. =£7,300 7,723 1,420
1904 .. 22,329 5 ~ ~ 14,600 7,729 9,149
1905 ' 19,605 5 „,, 14,600 5,005 14,154
1906 '. 21,801 5 „ „ 14,600 7,201 21,355
1907 .. 19,561 5 „ ~14,600 4,961 26,316
This is really an amazing run of luck for the Squatting
Investment Co.; four dividends of 5 percent, one after
the other are liable to make it puffed up. In the 25
years of its vicissitudes it has not averaged If per cent,
a year. The trouble was the old one—-the co. looked at
country in just such good years as Australia is having at
present, and it bought Thurulgoona and Bundaleer, over
the Queensland border, on that basis. Presently rabbits
helped the already over-numerous sheep to grossly over-
stock thecountrv', and drought helped on the disaster that
followed. Drought, however, often gets more blame than
it deserves. For drought isn’t a matter of inches of rain
only; it is a matter of number of hoofs also; While
the overstocked station will be wailing about disastrous
drought, the next-door fairly-stocked holding probably
won’t have noticed that there is a drought in progress.
Of course there are times when everybody observesit;
but that is only in extreme cases. Thurulgoona and
Bundaleer had 300,000 sheep when the co. came in, or
shortly after ; there are only 142,939 now. The difference
is quite enough to explain how it is that dividends have
been so poor. And, besides, like most people who buy
during a boom, the co. started off with a heavy debt. In
1884 it owed no less than £250,880 on account of the
station purchases ; part of that was subsequently wiped
off bv calling up about £lOO,OOO more capital. (There is
still,'by the way, a 10s. liability on these shares.) With
that crushing load of debt the co. saw' its flocks shrink
from 307,205 in 1883, a year or two after it was formed,
to 125,000 in 1885. Fortunately, the co. has now
got rid of most of its debt. At the end of 1900 mortgages;
and overdrafts ran to £72,672 ; such debts are now re-<
duced to £41,906. Depreciation is a large item in squat-
ting finance; more than one concern was showing
presentable figures a few years ago by the simple process
of spending nothing on improvements ; and, at the best,
most station improvements—tanks and dams, for
instance —don’t last long without attention. Here,
according to the profit and loss account, is this co.’s
recent record as to that item :
Improvements, Net Gross
etc., written off. Profit. Profit.
1902 .. £10,621 £3,847 £14,468
1903 .. 679 15,023 15,702
1904 .. 5,303 22,329 27,632
1905 .. 4,805 19,605 24,410
1906 .. 11,158 21,801 32,959
1907 .. 12,409 19,561 31,970
But, in spite of the good showing of the past three orfouf
years, the public wants a big return before it will touch
this business ; so the shares, £3 paid, are still available at
something like 325.
* * *' *
There was quite an insignificant looking item in
the papers last week—Calcutta had quoted t)ie new;
“ Chapman ” cornsack for the first time, and the price
was 4s. B£d., as compared with ss. 7£d. for the old. “ThiS|
difference in price is more pronounced than was ex-
pected,” they remarked. In other words, when they lately
howled about the extra cost they didn't know what they
were howling about —they just howled at random, and
on general principles because it was the Australian Com-j
monwealth that had moved in the business.
The Austral Hat Mills, of Melbourne, which
for years were run by the late Thomas Shelmerdine, and
were taken over by a private co. in 1905, are now being put
into a public co., in order to get customers interested—
the plan that has been found to answer so well with the
Denton Hat Mills. The capital is £40,000 in £1 shares,
but the first issue will be 17,000 7 per cent, cumulatne
pref. and 5000 ordinaries, the latter to be subscribed »j
the vendor co. at par. Seven per cent, is a thump-
ing cumulative pref. div. to offer ; but three things
have to be noted —(1) it does not appear from the pro-
spectus that the pref. shares are entitled to anything
beyond the 7 per cent.; (2) there is very little ordinary
capital, and the value of preference depends, of course,
upon tiie extent of ordinary capital ; (3) the vendors ta e
all the ordinary capital (and therefore, apparently, all t
surplus profits over the 7 per cent.), and have the right
take a further 5000 ordinary shares at par within tnre
years. The vendors, on the other hand, seek for no com
sideration for goodwill, but take £19,255 in payment io
buildings, stock, etc., as per valuation.
Re Howard Smith’s insurance reserve. It ,s
explained that, though the co. has this insurance reserVi
its ships are covered for full book-value with public msu’
ance cos. The co.’s own Insurance Fund is aecumula
with the idea that, in the event of loss of steamers,
co. would require more than book-value to replace tn
with new steamers.
* • * *
There was much joy in the Broken Hill B|p®
14 camp when a mineralised vein was cut near th® s ,
at the 750 ft. level, because Block 14’s future at deptn
been considered by many good judges to be very K lO ’
if, in fact, it could be said to have any future at all-
new vein itself isn’t worth a hatful of old nails, but
there is a vein there is hope, and it came as a g
relief to the management, anyhow. Where the vell
cut it was nearly all iron pyrites, but there were
specks of rhodonite in it, and that was heartening, i
Broken Hill rhodonite is never found without a.
being in the near neighborhood. It is very %
that rhodonite meets with anything else cut
language ; this was the rare exception.
* * * *
B. H. Block 14 begins to have the saDa ® e *f
perience as the Junction. The latter, after y e


Fraser $ Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hdl are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving- by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over -2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W & J Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
i Price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
A Suction Producer Gas Plant has recently
been erected at Messrs. Dorman Long’s Works, South
Melbourne. The Engine is capable of supplying 80b.h.p.,
and operates on the “Otto” cycle; 180r.p.m. ; fitted
with most recent improvements ; two fly wheels 7ft dia
x llin. face and c.i. pulley 4ft. dia. x 16in. face ; exhaust
silencer ; air silencer ; “ Magneto ” ignition ; with variable
timing arrangement. The Producer with Evaporator is
fitted with firebrick and non-conducting outer lining, and
self-sealing doors for cleaning, feeding hopper fitted
with double closing arrangement, and hand-blower for
starting. The Scrubber is fitted with water spreader,
overflow pipes and seal pots, double doors for cleaning.’
The Accumulator is of large size to reduce suction on
engine and to enable it to work on varying loads. The
Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, in-
stalled this plant, and are now manufacturing these plants
complete.*
The Joint Stock Companies Journal, of
London, under date 31st July, 1907, writes as follows:
“ So, to conclude, we are not writing without justifica-
tion when we say that the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is a thoroughly sound, go-ahead office, with a
great capacity for expansion.”*
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £594,370.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
J. R. Godfrey, Mining Engineer, Broken Hill
Chambers, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, No. 21, Fourth
Floor. Mines inspected, reported on, and managed.
Late Government Inspector of Mines for N.S.W. *
There are no better engines than Ransomes,
Sims, and Jefferies. Portable, semi-portable, traction,
and stationary, suitable for all classes of mining.
Cameron and Sutherland, sole agents for N.S.W. and
Victoria.* [3
P. W. Tewksbury is prepared to look into
legitimate Gold or Tin Dredging propositions in any part
of the Australian States. Properties reported upon, and
estimates furnished for Dredging plants. Arrangements
made for Legal Management of Companies on up-to-date
lines. Office No. 6 Room, 5th Floor, Equitable Buildings,
Collins Street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberbero and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain; prospector's
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces ; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * ■* *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
« » * »
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, prejent a very busy appearance
just now. We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust ; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. ; alsofiuming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’ iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 520
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 48in. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water-supply, a contract for which has been signed.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison &Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * * /
The continuous accuracy of weighing machinery
in any industry is a matter of such great moment to pro-
prietors and their constituents that, in order to meet the
requirements of the public in this direction, Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd., have recently introduced a system
for the upkeep of weighing appliances by contract.
Under this system weighing machinery is kept in adjust-
ment and repair, under a yearly contract, by experts from
Hy. Pooley and Sons’ works at Birmingham. Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd., invite enquiries from those
interested.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
sole acentB f. f O TTOS AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured b.v. J. Pohlio, Cologne, as
supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY. Excavators and Dredging Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Ele"t”lcal Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [»
I-9b into a rich shoot at the end of lSQ'i and
during 1896 rushed the stuff out so fast that eleven ’dirt!
dends were paid. The trouble was that, having lostTts
head, it rushed ore out so fast that it didn’t have time to
drop in either timber or filling. In 1897 the workings fell
,n. and the mine has never looked up since. For two
ye neh B the k 14 out its carbonates in
much the same fashion, and now by wav of a
warning the same trouble has started in old stones
Up towards the British boundary the surface Tas
dropped 10ft in one place, and that gives an idea
of the mess there must be underground. Fortunately
the carbonate slopes are all shallow ; but at the best
the deeper levels of the mine are bound to be strained.
Ever since the Barrier boom started, The Bulletin has
been warning people to be even more careful of Block 14
than of the rest, because Block 14 was inflating its figures
by rushing out its small reserves of carbonates ; ahd this
movement will only intensify the slump which Was all
along- inevitable*
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North ha§ sointe Very
F°° d rnk u£tl h i° r , th „ feh ' a .°t thb 1134 ft. level
IJ A s v ha i el defeh done °u this
ahpWi-anbfe pt the orb neat the crosscut
Irottt the Shaft was Wot itt all promising. The sahie old
thbhohitte bar is found in th'e bentr'e of the lode, too ; and
m l ac *’ W* the or e is of
hrtUsualiy g66d gtadfe, rhodonite is peppered through
ta'uu *° 0 a northerly course for some dis-
tahce', the ore body has now slewed a bit to the
tyest, probably with the malicious intention of keeping
clear of the North mine’s boundary. But, in whichever
direction the lode trends, there will be sufficient of it in
the Junction North to keep the mill going for many a
long day to come provided the metal markets make the
activity worth while.
* * * *
The latest proposal with regard to the Aus-
tralian Smelting Corporation, and its works at Port
Kembla (N.S.W .), is that it should give an option to
Arthur Robinson, of Melbourne, actihg oh behalf of the
Broken Hill South, the North, and probably other ih-
terests. The optiomsts ptopbsfe tb giVe bhe 16s: shitre fob
every £1 sh are itt the Wester bb:, ahd offer £65,250 ot
fol ; fch s £87,0Q6 of debeh-
feiireS-. Thien thb hbw co. starts to cohle ih. It Will takb
Uf) of 7 fiek- bbnt. bumlilittivb preferenbe shares-
itid msists oh having thb Whole Mnagefoent of the cb.
d S L WI to issiie £34,750 more
kvi a Corporation is, of
wav ; but this proposa
WeAhk thrdwing itself entirely Upon Ihb merby of the neW
latter, having- thb bohtrdl, Woiild bie able tb
'charge just as much fok* the Smelting of cohcbntrates as
wotUd pay the debenture interest and the pref. dividend
4nn the ‘ordinary” shareholders Would gd on staying
Out in thb cold. J 6
tt has been a frigid busirifesS altogether: "With
Howell’s " a *}| e with (he had bebh general
mahaoer of the Brdken Hill Prop.), the Smelting Co. of Aus-
tralia was formed in 1893; atid pdt up elabdratb works at
Utcerly Uns hitablb lbcation; as it turned
OUt. Weht wrong, and the Smelting and Refining
£m°u A u^ raha wis ,oh,ifed ; taking over the debentures
Which the previous CO. had issued. The new co. had an
iskue of 7 p.c. cumulative pref. shares, and for a little
i on these Were paid obt of bontracts
Westralian kold ores. Wheh the tide
tnrn'ed financed fchfe co;-, ahd presently fore-
closed. Then-, after bhe or two abortive propbsals,. the
Australian Smelting Corporation was formed, as a half-
brother to. the then-booming Zinc Corporation, the
original co.’s debentures were Once more taken Over, with
a few modifications in terms made meantime. The Zinc
Corporation fizzled, and the supply of concentrates that •
was going to keep the Smelting Corporations furrldces
going mislaid itself somewhere. Now this liite&t proposal
made to take over the expensive and disastrous baby.
There is a pot of money in ore-smelting Sollietimes ; but* '
when thingg go wrong, it i$ also a ravenoiiS business.
* * * *
tfie ittiriers’ Strike Still (continues at Wyalong
(N.S.W.), &rid ill the principal mines are shut down
except thb True Bide, which has conceded the miners’
demands for bight hours “ bank to bank ” and Un increase
Uf wages to engine-drivers and liiaehifie-drill men. The
owners have secured a ltiorUh’s Suspension for Neiid’s,
Golden Fleece, Brookman’s; Junction and Shamrock.
But it won’t do them much good in the end, apparently.
At any rate; the eight hours system seems inevitable, as
the 136 millets are to a man determined to hold out on
that pttirjt. The residents are asking for a special Arbi-
tratibn Court to deal with the trouble, which also involves
Preference to unionists and contract work.
* * *
Close up to 100 men are getting opal at
Lightning Ridge, near Collarendabri (N.S.W.), and close
up to 500 more arc not getting it. A little stone of re-
markably fine quality, including some rare “ black ” opal,
is gouged out now and again, and one ex-selector is
alleged to have got £lOOO worth out of an abandoned bole ;
but the blanks at . e m °r e numerous than they are even at
White Cliffs, and poor stone, just good enough to keep
the pot boiling, is rarer than at the older field.
* * it *
“M.C.” : Rather singular to find the Queen
Bee, Cobar (N.S.W.), getting a return of nearly £4 10s.
per ton of ore and yet making financial lee way. In six
months 3665 tons were smelted for a return of £16,483 ;
but as 5201 tons were raised, a good deal of picking,
evidently, has to be done to bring up the extraction of
copper to about 8 per cent. Eight per cent, ore is
generally considered rich ; but when it costs £4 or there-
abouts to pay working expenses, very little in profit can
be expected with copper under £6O. In theory there is a
margin, but the profit disappears after development and
depreciations have been charged for, to say nothing about
management and office expenses. Good advice about the
smelting of Copper ore is Worth paying for, and It should
be available at Cobar. No, 4 level is reported to be
looking Well, the ore averaging 7 per cent, for a good
Width, Mine development is, after all, the most im-
portant matter for the Queen Bee to push on with. If the
mine proves to be a big thing at a depth, there will be
some inducement to plan out an up-to-date smelting
* * * *
The recent record of the Wallaroo and Moonta
Co. (S.A.)
n Written Re-
Bcc., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
J™ 2 " £29 > 957 Nil. £24,973 £11,652
1993.. 62,999 2} per cent. = £B,OOO 22,469 44,182
1994.. 518 „ „ 8,000 20,760 15,940
51 ,354 2 i ». .. 8.000 20,646 38,648
ink;" 16 °. 1 22 25 „ „ 80,000 27,972 90,798
1807 “ 49,835 43} „ „ 140,000 Nil. 633
j* l a day since a report was so anxiously looked
tor by *• the market,” and the result must come to many
as the greatest mining shock of the past year or
two. The co., it will be seen, paid in dividends no
e “ 8 than £140,000; and it was presumed that that
much profit (or thereabouts) had been earned.
Later on, however, it became pretty generally known
that there had been very serious miscalculations; yet
lew believed that a concern managed by rnen who had
been so long in the business could miscalculate so badly
as to pay away more than three times the year’s gross
proht. The figures for the 12 months are so unsatisfac-
°ry that, not to make them look worse, nothing is writ-
ahi °? for de P re p‘ation. To some extent this is justifi-
oie, because during the previous two years very large
sums had been spent on works which might very properly
" ave oven charged to capital account, but which were
actually paid for out of revenue. That, however, makes
be record for the year no better.
k rather disingenuous. For years
R has bee '‘ printed showing an estimate of costs
nIH P oemen . tatl °n.” Cementation, or leaching of
hieWv nrofitnhl PS ’ ’ 8 a J ery inexpensive process, and a
is sfewed ron nr) «? ne ‘ f F , or the pasc - vear the statement
is slewed round so as to lump cementation costs with the
other. Probably the present is the right way ; but if it
W a-r no "'’ the costs comparison would
be marip thn» y ' j As ,! fc 18, no P ro Per comparison can
HnnT d r?’f- h il h n ° do u b t shareholders and others who
and Lin t 6 th s obange will attempt to make one,
and will be at once pleased and puzzled in con-
anT e h^vT P eaBed . because costs have been hardly
h & h *V puzzled because, in spite of that, and
been P l i , the high price of copper, profits have
vervh®2h *L For the copper market was high—
«q/iS‘i ? he ave rage price realised was no less than
f. cu „• ber ton i standard copper for 1907 was £B7
A a u??F ar £ d * ith £B7 8s - sd. in 1906, and for
Ket 8 „ pds a.,.j hb * oest bnne-valufers took £56 as the safe
hh~ P rr, o iJ he ' T ’ etal - Tbe Cbst, including shipping
bharges ahd Adelaide expehsfes, was £73 17S. 9d. per ton ;
So there was Apparently a margin of £i7 17s. 4d. per toh
between the cost price and the price feAlised; The total
quantity of-coppet produced, including metal from pur-
chased ore, was 8627 tbns ; say 8000 tons from the co.’s
owh ore, at Wh.ch rate the profit was only £6 3s. 6d. per
on of metal. There is thus a big leakage somewhere,
-the explanation no doubt is that the very big stocks
were ridiculously over-valued as at Dec. 31, ‘1906. As at
tnat date refined copper, ores and products” were
taken in at £203,551. It is pretty certain that that sum
was not realised. Therefore the profit figu es for 1906
were inflated at the expense of those for 1907. To what
extent, however, it is impossible to say.
In 1904 copper (standard) averaged £59 os. 7d.;
and ,n J“ R 'iJ ear the P rofit was *78,886, of which, how-
ever, £78,368 was mopped up by the special fire eXpcndi-
ture, leaving only £5lB as shown ih the first table. Costs
have increased since then, no doubt; but with copper
more than £lB higher, it is absurd to suppose that profits
the . Crdinary way from £78,886 to
£49j885: Thfe ohtlook is blue ; the boom in these shares
tvas insanity ; but the Situation is not as bad as these
Accounts it appear on the surface. The co., by the
, ay, had A liquid surplus of £112,081 otl Dec, 31, mostly
£7838’ btC '’ and not bquid stores ; the overdraft was
* , * * *
Great Bouldet is l4oft. length of 4oz,
ore for the full ttidth of the drive at the 2200 ft. level,
lnisis the latest statement made on the authority of
conservative manager Hamilton. And still the market
won t respond. This development is entirely in the
western ” lode, which is now officially admitted to be
the rich boundary lode so long- worked by the Horseshoe,
but which below the 800 ft. level dipped back into the
■Boulder: This time it has come to stay, apparently. •
~ tile Iyanhcffi (W.A.), Working about 1100 ft.
length of its three lodes, produces ore averaging about
50s; per ton. All the ote shoots pitch sodthtvard. so tliat
tlie workings in that direction will raise the grade very
materially ; but development work in the poorer ground
to the northward will lower it again. At present the
bottom levels, particularly on the eastern lode, make a
brave showing, and if the niinC were aVerAgfed to-day,
while only the soilth sections of these levels are opened
lip, the property would look like a 765: proposition.
The Great Ophir’s fiasco has had a paralysing
teflrect on local company promotion in Westralia. The
mine at Davyhurst may be good, or it may not, for ail
that has yet been really demonstrated ; and to some
bxtent the same may be said of the machinery and plant.
It is the management and administration which has ear-
ned the co: irttd Queer-street. John Wilkie, of Wilkie
Bros., railway Contractors, figures as a creditor for
£lB,OOO advanced to the compabv On mortgage ; and
thbt-e Are Also unsecured creditors for about £5OOO,
.A * * * .
the afffiirs of a fecfently defunct mining
b®? beirig- overhauled at .the instance bf angry
creditors, it was discovered that £3 a week was allowed
the mihe manager for a female housekeeper. She tran-
spired oil the pay-sheet as “ cleaner and caretaker,”
* * * *
It was said (B. 12/3/’08) that Mararoa wanted a
more up-to-date plant. The half-yearly report, issued
since that was written, shows that the directors know it.
The fact is, this Norseman (W. A.) show was just on the
point of being given best when Rutter Olarke, of
Adelaide, went into it, and took a following with him ;
and they got a sticker in Henderson, the manager.
Things have panned out this well, that last half-year
£3519 of profit was made, though £1327 spent on develop-
ment was charged up to working account—rightly, be-
cause most of it was on the reef. The profit has gone or
is going into plant, etc., along with the proceeds of 4100
reserved shares, which were got off at a premium of
£l4Ol. _ln the,six months 4954 tons were milled, so the
profit (including that derived from sands and tributors)
was about 14s. 2d. per ton of stone. Reserves are now esti-
mated at 37,000 torisi worth 465. ; and that is a better
value than had been expected. Still it is in the bottom
that the average-seems lowest. The co. (in 100,000 shares,
paid to 35.) has at least three years’ profitable Work
ahead ; after that, things may tail off. But meantime
the progressive policy won’t stop : to reduce costs, the
south shaft will be-sunk“23oft., and then the battery
power badly needs Attention. The co. might easily get
its money back and a bit ovar ; but, recognising that it
didn’t put enough money in to provide a proper equip-
ment, it chokes the inclination for early dividends, and
aims at a future. And it deserves to hit that bull’s-eye.
* * ■* *
Oh airman A. H. Marker, atf the South Kal-
gurli meeting : “ Wages on the Westralian fields are un-
doubtedly too high, but there does not seAm much chance
of any reduction. . , At present the wages Aire swallowed
up by the costs of living, and so the men. can put by no-
thing. . . The whole field is a low-grade proposition, with
a few that might be considered rich mines; and if the
Government would assist the mining industry to the
extentof cheapening the costs of living, it might mean a
new departure for the State. . . If, however, wages con-
tinue to rule as at present, then there would be no chance
for low-grade propositions.” But a 10 per cent, reduction in
wages on the S. Kalgurli would only mean that o\e
a quarter dwt. lower grade than that now treated could
be worked at the same profit; so chairman Markers
statement is mostly flam.
* .* * *
Desciemona, about half way between Kookynie
and Leonora (W.A.), looks promising. This is the pro-
perty on which a London syndicate sank a few pot holes,
and then cleared out. Later some prospectors came
along, struck gold, and have remained there ever since.
To date, £BOOO worth of gold,' or thereabouts, has been
recovered, and there is a good deal of ore in sight. The
bottom workings, however, are-only at 150 ft., so it can’t
be said to be an established mine.
* « * •
Great Fingall is being worked in a novel
fashion. New main shaft, after sinking vertically, to cut
the lode at 1250 ft., changed to an underlay at 60 degrees.
The shaft has preserved this underlay, but the lode
hasn’t, so at 1500 ft. depth (No. 13 level) the lode is 25ft.
below the line of the shaft, which is entirely in hanging-
wall rock. Work at this bottom level, as well as in the
shaft, was discontinued in favor of a big winze at a point
700 ft. north from the shaft. This winze was taken down
331 ft. in ore just payable, but barely so at bottom.
Ascending the winze 118 ft., drives north and south were
started, and are now each upwards of 300 ft. long. The
grade of ore passed through has averaged less than 255.,
and the lode has seldom been more than sft. thick. The
continued sag in the share prices seems warranted in
view of the depressing outlook.
■* * * *
“McG.,” from Wiluna (W.A.): “In spite of
past results (or want of results), the Gwalia Consolidated
main working proposition, the Violet, promises a profit-
able future with brainy handling. The oxidised zone of
the bulky kaolin lode is the scene of present operations,
and a little antimony in the stone prevents free treat-
ment. The open-cut at the centre hauling shaft
sees a tremendous bulge of material, caused through
a horse of mullock splitting the lode. In other
places where it pinches it appears, however, to be
enriched. W. G. Hall goes out, and new manager
Robertson, lately of Mt. Elliott (Q.), comes in. He has
started scrapping surplus ‘ labor-saving ’ monstrosities
and repairing the old 10-head mill to fit it for permanent
work. While there’s years of profitable work ahead in
the oxidised zone, at least 50 head of stamps (or 20 more
than at present) are required, with the bulk of profits
therefrom jammed into a fund to carry out development
and to experiment on the antimonial sulphides. At
present the Gwalia is a low-grade, eaAily-worked show,
shrieking for Kidstonian methods of management. The
8., M. & Co.’s system of ‘rilling’ ore into chutes accounts
for „ a , etl , lal returns conflicting with assayers’
statements. Whole nmllock rills are constantly swept
Jnto passes for battery treatment by shovellers, and the
k " 0 ® xce P tlon - , Wilnna is networked with lodes,
which bulk Bdwt. to lOdwt. Strauss, the man who knew
Lancefield, is erecting a battery on the Bulletin, and has
started prospecting at water-level for the north continua-
tion of the Violet lode.”
* * *
Metallurgist Thomas Gibb proposes a recon-
°J C ' ann ' , idah (Q.), and believes he can see
daylight ahead, even with standard copper at £55. He
■Jf® d _ rawn II P sonle proposals which involve the raising
ot 800 tons of ore per day, rejecting 140 tons, leaving 160
J° ns °* 3 ‘P- C * °>' e (Picked). This would yield, he calcu-
lates, 20 tons of copper per week, allowing for losses. On
the basis which he suggests, things would figure out like
this i .Munng and picking 300 tons at 4s. 9d., £7l ss. •
grinding and concentrating 160 tons at Is. 6d., £l2 ; total
£B3 55., or £29 2s. 9d. per ton of copper. Add 255. per
ton for roasting and smelting concentrates yielding 121
p.C. Copper = £lO per ton of copper. Total costs, per" ton
Of copper, £39 2s, 9d, Taking best selected copper at £59,
aD ,ef an< * the product would be
worth £67 per ton. Transport and realisation would cost
r Vo,. e o Vl^ £4o> as a !? ainst expected costs amounting
to £39 2s. 9d. Arrangements have been made by which
the co could draw immediately against saleable products.
rv“ e ° aer ' s no d ou ht optimistic, but the results are within
the bounds of possibility. The costs given certainly' take
some swallowing, comparing them with the appalling
figures shown in the last balance sheet. Still, with ex-
ceptionally good management, Cannindah should pay.
* * • .
At the O.K. (North Queensland) the bulk of the
°f e coming from the lower levels. The small quantity
of silicious ore in the 80ft, and 115 ft. levels is being
worked off with the low grade basic ore of the lower
levels. Smelting is going along .smoothly with this mix-
ture, but it is difficult to say how long it will last. The
two new Babcock boilers are in position, and the machine
drills are expected to be working in two or three months.
Ihe extensive boiler plant will cause trouble with the
firewood supply shortly* The cost of wood is in-
creasing rapidly; at present the management is pay-
mg 11s. 6d. a ton, and will shortly’ have to give
12s. 6d. The abolition of the reverb, re-heater for
matte is worthy of note. There is now no storage
Of matte between the blast furnace and the converter
Vessel, the pots of matte being tipped direct into the
converters. Any surplus matte made by the furnace is
tipped on the dump and carted thence to the feed-floor.
The new system is a departure from ordinary lines, and
for the O.K. plant should answer well and lessen costs ;
for the reverb, was a whale for firewood, required the
Constant attendance of a man,and was everlastingly giving
trouble by freezing up, collapsing, or wasting time at the
tap hole. In the company’s O.K. North, preparations
are being made for sinking. The objective is probably’ a
make of ore at about 60ft., disclosed by’ the diamond
drill. This body consists of friable sulphides, assaying
about 17 per cent. There is nothing yet to show how
much of this desirable ore is present. It was about the
only ore of value touched by the drill at that point.
* * *. *
The O.K. South (Torpy’s South Blocks) has
Shut down. There is a fair show of ore ; but as it bulks
only 4 per cent, copper, there is little chance of doing
anything with it just now. Further north, Anderson’s
Surprise is closed down, pending settlement of legal
difficulties between the syndicate and Abdul Wade,
whose interest was forfeited by the syndicate for
alleged non-payment of calls. The case is hung up await-
ing Wilcock’s return from England. The show is
apparently’ a good one—it always was the most promis-
ing of the outside shows. They’ say now that they have,
at about 100 ft., some 30ft. of ore assaying betwetn 10 and
15 per cent. Further out, the Mitchell River Surprise is
closed down. The ore is there, and is looking well, but
the syndicate (a purely’ local one) is short of funds. E. B.
Torpy made an offer of £2OOO to take the show over after
Certain work had been done; but the syndicate didn’t
take it on.
♦ * « *
Gyrnpie (Q.), W’bich had been thinking that it
had about reached the limit of possible bad luck, has had
another knock. The Scottish Gyrnpie, the one mine
which really kept its end up last year, has now put
off a shift, which means 90 more men turned adrift at
once, with another handful to follow when part of the
mill is silenced, as it will have to be presently.
The Girofla section of the Mungana is develop-
ing some very high-grade ore, and shares have had a
spring in consequence. But it will take a lot to hold up
shares in a mine which wasn’t able to divide any profits
during the recent run of phenomenal prices.
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vic.), shows
a cut-off of 60ft. in the length of the reef in the No. 28
level as against that at No. 27. Now, 15Cft. of stone, 3ft.
wide, isn’t much to crow about ; and it is well that the
co. is shaft-sinking, otherwise supplies of quartz
would be seriously low. Quality is good, but
not for the whole length of the level, because
the shoot is making north into the Long Tunnel ground.
The co. has a second string to its bow in the North Long
Tunnel lease, and has some £lO,OOO cash in reserve. The
old North Go. lost'over £lOO,OOO in trying to make this
ground pay, and then threw up the sponge. Is the Ex-
tended’s luck going to change everything there? That is
the only reed shareholders have to lean on, apart from
their own mine, and they now see that all the talk of the
lode having made back into Extended ground was fudge.
The time is fast coming when the Extended will have to
make up its mind whether it would not pay better to get
the Tunnel to mine and haul its stone, rather than for
the Extended to continue to sink on its own account.
* * m w
Gordon, near Ballarat, claims to be the only
mine in the Commonwealth to have a suction gas plant;
and it spreads itself at great length thereupon. If half
as much had been told about the ore in sight and its
value, a lot of shareholders, who are hungry for divs,
would look less like mopokes.
* * * *
Russell’s Reef, Lauriston (Vic.), has got its
crushing, and now it doesn’t look satisfied. Truly,
4Jdwb. won’t pay on small synclines, and it is doubtful
if 6dwt. will do more than meet exes. Still, the manager
chortles over “stone beyond the break carrying gold
somewhat freely,” whatever that means. Something
needs to carry gold “somewhat freely” if the co. is to
wing a flight upward.
* * * *
The German smelters of Zeehan (Tas.) pitch to
Premier Evans a doleful yarn of vast losses. A hint is
also thrown out that the State might take over the
works. That all this fuss should be made just about the
time the Rosebery folk make a move to put up a smelter
is, of course, merely coincidence. German traders of
the type that run the Zeehan smelters aren't philanthro-
pists. They are the supple joints of one of the biggest
trading concerns under German Bill’s eye. They say
that £60,000 was “ lost ” at Zeehan, up to 1905, ill experi-
menting with complex ores. The results, however, would
most likely be available for allied concerns, and, if so, the
others should share the cost. The Government isn’t
likely to listen to any proposal for taking over the plant,
especially as nothing is said about passing on the results
of the experiments which have been made at the works on
the West Coast complex ores. For all that anyone outside
knows, the experiments and results may show that the
works are quite unsuitable.
* * * *
Tasmania gold mine, Beaconsfield, has a streak
of good news. The lode at 1250 ft., Grubb’s shaft, is 25ft.
wide ; but there is 16ft. of mullock in the centre, with 3ft.
quartz on the hanging wall, and 6ft. on the foot wall. The
average contents are 12Jdwt. This is what J. Bull has
been waiting for. The level above proved 100,000 tons, of
which only 37,500 tons is left. Hence the hurrying on
with the fresh lift.
Mt. Bischoff’s 76 tons for February is the biggest
yield for many months) but it is probably a flash in the
pan. The mine has been well handled, and more ore is
in sight than was thought possible six months back. All
the same, there is not the material to draw on to keep up
big yields for any length of time.
* * * *
Purdue’s late results from the terrace ground
near the Gladstone (Tas.) will perplex the earlv birds of
that field more than ever. While those early 'birds are
still getting- too little profit to be worth noticing, the
Adelaide co. got 17 tons of oxide out of 14,440 yards for
the last clean-up (six weeks); and previous returns were
12 tons 5cwt. from 9175 yards and 23 tons 13cwt. from
15,160 yards. The preliminary expenses were fairly heavy,
as a race had to be built over four miles of awkward
country ; but the running expenses are only about £75 a
week. So far, it will be seen, the dirt runs to about 31b.
per cubic yard.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
12s. 6d. per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light, it is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Gastlereagh Street, Sydney.
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm promptly applied
to & cut or bruise prevents blood poisoning. It is
an antiseptic, and assists such injuries to heal in
one-third the time usually required, and without
maturation.
YOU CAN CLIMB
TO THE TOP!
where there * always ‘plenty
of room, - by equipping
yourself with our courses of
POSTAL instruction
in Shorthand. Bookkeeping
Penmanship, Correspondence,
Commercial Arithmetic, etc.
Our teaching is thorough, no
stereotyped methods; every-
thing made simple and clear.
Direct personal instruction
Irom the most capable
experts in Australasia. •*
Send lor “Home Study.
[STOTT &J HOARESI
BUSINESS COLLEGE]
MOORE S-r SVONE^J
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
THE LONELY LIFE.
"Say, you girls, why don't yer go and ask her
to come and play with yer?"
“ Oh, that's ’Melia Smith nursing her doll. She
never teas one for society.”
“ Old Tom ” : Mr. William Goat can beat
the bravest dingo that ever scoffed a lamb ; but
when they—the dingoes, I mean—tackle Wm.
in packs, well, what s the poor fellow to do ? ’Tis
a splendid idea to keep William, or rather a
couple of him, among small flocks of sheep. Two
Williams will offer the toughest of propositions
to as many dingoes (these latter mostly hunt in
twos). The sheep will scurry away at the ap-
proach of Warrigal, whereas Plain Bill challenges
the enemy instanter, if -not sooner. And by the
time the mill ends Warrigal Bros, are glad to
slink away, their tongues protruding muchly.
William Bros, then stalk after the sheep, the per-
fume of honor thick upon them and filling the
surrounding atmosphere.
“E.O’F.”: A hermit's life is generally
a damp, mouldy existence in a draughty cave,
with the trees outside waving their arms in
the wind, or standing like ghosts in the
moonlight waiting for the dawn that has
lost its way somewhere in the ocean of
night, and is groping blindly for the sun’s
ladder somewhere in the depths below the
far horizon. After he has been living close to
Nature for some time, the solitary one begins to
hear voices in the wind, and he crawls out of his
hole in the earth and mutters replies, or makes
long speeches to belts of scrub, denying the
accusations that the white gum has made against
him. Occasionally a wave of sanity will sweep
over the poor loon’s brain, and he wakes up and
finds himself shouting angrily at the unresponsive
trees. Then the horror of it grips him, and he
goes shivering back to his den, and tries to make
up his mind to break away from it all and go
some place where there are people and lights, and
where the big timber is too far away to talk to
you. One of the species, a feeble old man, was
arrested lately by the Victorian police at
Yambla on a charge of stealing wool. On being
questioned, he told the constables, “I’m nearly
dead. I’m sick of going w<rong in the head
through living in the bush. I don’t care if they
hang me.” He pleaded guilty when the case
came on, and the Bench sent him to a nice, quiet,
solitary gaol for three months. Victorian jus-
tices have great faith in nice, quiet, lonesome,
whitewashed gaol as a remedy for the ills of the
aged poor.
* • * *
“Groper”: While t’othersiders were
groaning about the heat, and spreading their
lightly-clad bodies about the landscape in frantic
efforts to get cool, we of the southern part of
Groperland were snuggling into our rugs at night,
and waking up in the morning with cold feet.
Heat waves are unknown, and almost every
evening a cold breeze comes up from Albany.
This summer the longest spell of heat covered
three days, and even when the Albany “ doctor ”
didn’t blow, the mornings were quite cool. Dew
falls every night, and puts out any bush fires that
happen to be about. There is one now within a
few hundred yards of my camp, gradually dying
out. Winter here is like spring, and nearly all
rain falls at night. I’ve seen five summers in
these parts, and none have been hotter than this—
mostly cooler. Make no mistake, this south
Groperland climate is a boshter.
* * * *
“Roma ” : The Victorian “Nature Study ”
craze is being boomed more than ever since
director Tate returned from his jaunt abroad. He
discovered that ours was the finest “ Nature ’
craze extant, so lus satellites are prepared to do
or die to keep up the name. For some
time one man has been set apart as in-
spector of Microbes, etc. ; now he is to
have subordinates to go to the various
centres to instruct teachers all Saturdays.
I spent one whole Saturday listening to
what I discovered for myself when I
was a child of six. Fifty-seven grown
men and women, many of them in the sere
and yellow leaf, followed a youth of 20
who, to judge by his knowledge, spent
the last 20 years as far from Nature as
possible. It was pitiable to see grey-heads
standing round whilst the youth explained
that running water made pebbles round,
and that bees carry pollen from one flower
to another. It would be an insult to the
ordinary country schoolgirl of 13 or 14 to
explain such elementary work as 57 pro-
fessional men and women were expected to
listen to. Some of those teachers had to
leave home about six in the morning so
as not to miss this treat. The hifalutin
about “ nature knowledge ” lessening
cruelty to animals is fudge. It really
increases the evil. For one urchin who
used to catch butterflies and beetles, and
stick pins through them, 800 do it now.
I find more kids with “ shanghais,” try-
ing to catch birds to see what they are
made of than ever ; and because in the
course of Nature Study they have been
told that lizards can live when their tails
are off, every lizard that hasn’t the sense
to go backwards into his den now goes minus his
appendix.
There’ll be a deuce of a scatter up in the
Polar regions when the first of the globe-circling
motors skids round the corner and streaks away
for the horizon, leaving behind it a mixed odor of
burnt petrol and stale bear oil. The reindeer will
stand on his hind-legs and snort in disgust, and
the seal will raise himself on liis flippers and bark
at the monstrosity, like an infuriated old
gentleman. Packs of wolves will race in the
wake of the strange new carrion that flies like
the wind instead of lying motionless in the
snow, and polar bears will sit on icebergs and
grunt in amazement. The main part of the cos-
tume to be worn by the motor-crews consists of
(а) a hooded cloak with small slits for the eyes,
(б) trousers which end in stocking feet, and come
right up to the armpits. Under their clothing
the competitors will be greased with a thick coat-
ing of seal or bear oil, and they are to sleep, if the
wolves will let them, in bags made of imper-
meable cloth held apart with a hoop of bamboo.
The menu for the trip is mostly" tabloids and
biscuits, but the motorists hope to get some bear,
wolf, and seal meat in addition. As a last re-
source there is Dog ! Truly a man must be very
fond of rushing round the earth by bad-smell
power to take the chance of eating the animal
that barks at the moon in the back-yard.
Some extracts from a narrative about the
Northern Territory in a recent issue of the North
Queensland Herald -
After 30 years’ residence in the Northern Territory,
what has the Chinaman brought it toV He has not
developed one single industry. He has not built a single
township. Instead of a town we find up-country places
like Brock’s Creek, Yam Creek, liurrundie, and the
Union—filthy hovels built of grass, and bark humpies,
with an iron-roofed store and joss-house. Uis one and
only object is to make as much money as he can and go
back to China. Cavanagh-street, the Chinese quarter of
Port Darwin, is a disgrace to Australia. Here we find a
filthy mass of humanity congregated in low, frowzy
dwellings, reeking with dirtanddegradation. Opium dens,
brothels and drinking dens are to be found at every other
dwelling. The Chow breaks the law dav and night, and
desecrates the Sabbath by carrying on his usual trade.
As a miner, the Chinaman is a dead failure. He does
no development work, but merely scratches the surface
following the rich leaders. Fields in the Territory,
such as the Union, Pine Creek, and Vyandi, that gave
great promise, are now deserted, and have been pig-
rooted in such a manner that it is now impossible to find
the reefs.
You hear a lot about the Chinaman shining-as an agri-
culturist. He has not shone in the Territory except by
cultivating a few gardens in the vicinity of Port Darwin.
... He never attempted to cultivate the soil for anything
on a large scale. Rice will grow, but he has outgrown
rice save in a most primitive manner. .. . Where the
followers of Confucius do shine is in smuggling.
SAVING THE ESSENTIALS OF LIFE.
MACTAGGART (in the winter): "Sandy, Sandy, I cannot swim!”
MACPHERSON (on the boat): “ Weel, can ye throw't tae me?"
“ The Prooshan ” : 1 appear for the much-
maligned goat, your Worship. I have a good
honest little white nan, with a slight Angora
dash and a pair of twiniets. She wins my
admiration by her gentle disposition and five
pints of rich milk yielded each morning. She is
the very soul of economy, scrapping round lanes
and roadsides through the day for dear life and
five pints of milk for me and enough to sustain
her twins. She eats my scraps of bread and
vegetables, and seems able to convert tree prim-
ings or old moleskin pants into good milk. She
trots home regularly at even, never roars or butts
the children, and wears a look on her countenance
that says : “ I’m only the goat, don’t let me worry
you in the least.” I like that goat; and rejoice to
know I get no tuberculous bacilli from her milk,
and can, with water, make a quart into a quart
and a half, and then have good cow’s milk. Long
live the goat!
“Hamer”: A yellow tragedy harrowed
my feelings in Waterloo (Sydney) recently. An
excited crowd of lingerers drew me to the spot,
where a big, gloomy Chow was the centre of the
proceedings. He was explaining matters to ihe
knot of sympathisers, lie had come home ex-
pecting dinner, and fouud none ; but instead he
had discovered his white wife entertaining
another Chow. The injured husband seemed
heart-broken over the incident. “No dinner
cook,” he explained, miserably. Then he
thought that he would see how the dinner
was getting on, and he entered his house, where
the white wife was rushing things to make up
for lost time. Apparently she was conscience-
stricken and alarmed, and while he entered by
the front door, she fied by the back gate. He
heard her going, and came to the door again.
“No dinner cook ! ” he cried, brokenly ; but she
paid no heed and fled some more. “No dinner
c00)*,,” sobbed the deserted husband, as he stag-
gered in and slammed the door, hiding his soul’s
agony from the vulgar curiosity of the world.
• * * *
“ Werrimee ” : [ once spent a week in a
scalpers’ camp near the head of the Maranoa (Q.).
The camp consisted of three tents (one being
used for storing scalps and skins), a cooking galley,
and a cluster of gunyahs. Here dwelt the white
proprietor of the scalping plant and a tribe of
blacks. The latter consumed about £lO worth of
opium per week, the desire for the drug being the
main reason why they hunted. Night and morn-
ing a kerosene-tin of water was boiled, and into
this was put a small handful of tea and a little
less than a pannikin of sugar. A pint of this
mixture and a few pipesof tobacco were portioned
to each for breakfast, and a pint of tea and a
smoke of opium for supper. Some, according to
their hunting successes, obtained a thin slice of
damper, which was a luxury. Nothing was served
at midday, all benig absent with the exception of
a few old gins. It was geneially 9 a.m. when the
tribe started for the wallaby grounds—patches of
scrub a few miles out. All were naked, not even
a “tabby,” or loin-covering, being worn. Some
buckled a strap round their waists, under which
spare boomerangs were thrust. The scalping
knives were carried by closing the blade on a
tuft of hair on the head. A few were supplied
with guns and rifles. The only other weapons
used were spears and short nullas. The gins,
youngsters, and a great many dogs accompanied
them. Their modus ogerandi was to surround a
patch of scrub, someclose in, and some out wide, the
“gunners” mostly on the outside of all. They
shot what the nullas and boomerangs failed to
bring down, ihe dogg and Home of the gins were
sent into the scrub to beat out the game. The
other gins did most of the skinning and carrying.
They also quartered some of the animals and
roasted them. When the wallaby darted’ out
mostly pursued by a pack of yelping dogs, the
wooden weapons were hurled at ittillit was knocked
over. Ihe man whose weapon brought it down
got the scalp and skin. borne stood behind
trees within the scrub watching the track, and to
j , e wallal, y w ' t, k a nulla-nulla as it passed.
All day long this went on at different patches of
scrub, the blacks dancing and running, and brand-
ishing and hurling weapons, with much shouting*
and yelling and barking of dogs. The children
took an active part, using miniature nullas and
boomerangs. lowards sunset they beat back to
camp, and one by one handed in their scalps and
skins, which were punctured to prevent spoliation
With their doles they then went contentedly to
their gunyahs. J
“ Mundridgie ” : Be the Banysz disease.
Hold with you that it should not be introduced to
the mainland ; our experience of imported pests
has been of the disastrous order, and it is purely a
matter of conjecture what pranks an imported
microbe might play under Australian conditions.
But I am dead “ agin ” you on the rabbit “ indus-
try.” I can’t enthuse over it, because lam com-
pelled to live in a district where bunny is master
of the situation, where the carrying capacity of
pastoral holdings is reduced by 50 per cent,
at least, and the farmers have to “whack”
their wheat with the bob-tailed partner.
The rabbit industry can only be cited as
another instance of our economic follies, for
the sum realised by the export trade is not a
fraction to the loss of wealth owing to the super-
fluity of bunny. The living made by trappers is
IN THE GOOD OLD WINTER TIME.
VISITOR: "Well, Charlie, you pretty cold last
night, eh?”
CHARLIE : “ Oh, no! Mine puttem yin longa back,
dory lonya side, five in front, me in middle—
don't catch much cold.”
at best but a poor one, the only attraction of the
business being its supposed independence ; but it
is the independence of the aboriginal without his
freedom. The men who do make a “ good thing”
out of bunny are the middlemen exporters, the
wire-netting monopolists (mostly foreign), the
rabbit-poison maker, who flourishes like unto the
pest he is alleged to destroy, and the scientific
microbe-monger— and these are all unproductive
works, eating up the wealth which should be
devoted to the progress of the country. [Once
more, The Bulletin is “agin” the rabbit indus-
try too —when it involves breeding-up rabbits.
But while there are rabbits it is better to kill them
and turn them into money than to merely kill
them and turn them into a loud-smelling nuisance.]
ONE-MAN CAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I saw a horrible sun go down in a welter of crimson
cloud —
Go wallowing down in a dirty red ; and the grey moon,
sulking, wore
A mist that fluttered across her face like the tail of an
empty shroud ;
While the wild things down in the scrub made noises I
never had heard before ;
And I turned to the fire from the darkening bush —grey
leaf and gloomy bough—
And lighted my friendly lantern then, for 1 thought
perhaps there’d be
Some scraps to read in the paper still, and I stoked my
pipe, and now
I’m getting no good from the smoke at all —there’s
something gone wrong wlth me.
It isn’t the sound of the wind in the scrub —there isn’t a
breath of a breeze
That’d shake a leaf in the gully-trees, that’d rattle a
blade of g rass,
Or’d shake the bags on the bottom seam. You could
hear a wild cat sneeze
Half up the range, and I could sw-ear I heard slow foot-
steps pass
In the dark below just now—which is mad ! I’m tired of
living alone
With nothing to do o’ nights. I like a place where I
can see
A soul or two (if they are plain cow's), where’s there’s
other smoke than my own ;
And where I can drink with men —this one-man racket’s
no good to me !
I hate to see the sun go down when there’s no one about
the place,
When there’s never a light on the other side of the
gully above the creek,
And you never hear a mouth-organ pipe, with a concertina
bass,
In the camps down-stream, nor the sounds of men that
lounge and swear, and speak
Of beer, and toil, and things like that as they potter
round ; it’s clear
There’s nothing in one-man life—the nights are a
blessed eternity !
I must go back to a sight of a pub, and the sound of a
pal, and beer —
The sound of beer in the glass, for there’s something
• gone wrong with the bush —or me !
vio.
FRANK HENTY.


f rs
wo
SCHNAPPS
THE. FAMILY STIMULANT.
AUSTRALIAN
JEWELS
and Jewellery our Eastern
Window is full of.
We show the jewels in the rough.
We show them after being cut.
We show them mounted in jewellery.
We show them set as rings.
Among the most beautiful are the new BLACK
OPALS found in N. S. Wales.
They have created a furore in England.
We are showing these in great variety.
Fine Gold, set with choice Tourmalines, £5 155.; or
Australian Sapphires, £5 15s.
Black Opals, set in fine Gold, £6 6s.
PLAIN FIC URES
CASH.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
“ S.S. : Willie was the son of the house
where the Christmas holiday-makers had gone
from the city, seeking leafy wildernesses, purling
brooks, and sylvan calm. Willie was long and
bony, and Willie had constant work. In fact the
townies would not have believed it possible for a
mere human to have and hold such a constant iob
He was always at it. When the visitors got up'
Willie was already hard at graft; when they went
to bed he was slaving stolidly ; and if they awoke
m the night they heard him yelling at horses
or coming in from the rabbit-traps. Willie did
anything about the house and everything further
afield, and the city dwellers came to regard him
as a kind of automaton worked by a motor
But apparently neither Willie nor Willie’s old
man, the good grey farmer, were satisfied, for
.they formed themselves into a deputation, and
waited on the parlor boarder one evening “D'yeh
thmk, mister,” said Willie, “if a bloke was t’ go
up to Mel bin he cud get a job ? A reg’lar job ev
work, I mean.” “ Well, he ought to,” replied the
townie, guardedly. “Then I reckon Willie ’ll
have to go, ’ said the good grey farmer. “ He’s
depended on us old folks long enough, and it don’t
do a lad no good t’ be just bangin’ round the
house week in n week out.” Willie went.
* * * *
“ J.G.” : “Aimee” (B. 27/2/’08) aims an
axe at me because I said that sleeper-hewers
waste good timber by making chips of it.
They do; and if “Aimee” would take a run
through any of the red gum or box forests of Vic.,
he would see thousands of tons of chips rotting
there. Furthermore', he would come across
thousands of decaying trees, felled years ago,
from which one or perhaps two sleepers have
been chopped out. Occasionally a hard-up wood-
cutter chops up about a sprat’s worth of wood
from an abandoned tree ; but this happens rarely.
Yet if these trees had been sawn up, the whole
lot would have been utilised—for sleepers, posts,
MOST LIKELY.
THE BOARDER ON THE FARM : “I say! I've
just found a cow in my bedroom.”
DAUGHTER OF THE HOUSE: “I s'pose she was
lookin’ fer a calf.”
pickets or something. Agree with “Aimee,”
however, that part of the waste is due to the
efforts of sweated cookies’ sons. And it is not
only in sleeper-getting that the scions of cocky-
oom massacre the forests ; they get down upon
poles and saplings on moonlight nights, holi-
.y* a nd Sundays, or any other time the ranger
is likely to be absent. The boss cocky tells his
sons that it would be a good time to get in a load
or , tw °of stuff from the bush some Sunday. Then
when the forest pirates go out, the old man goes
ochureh anc * ’ s ferve «tly horrified when some-
day like Worrall says that the gold miners of
Bendigo are sometimes thieves.
: Can confirm “Cict’s” story
as to frill lizards storing grasshoppers
in their frills. Having had business dealingsmth
a fr U lizard, last November, I had to receive
iin'ti ot whereat the old fellow passed me
out a shilling two threepences and twopence in
coppers from his ruff. I think that was all he had
about him, as he tried to beat me down from
It j° d ; ls - 8d- When I remained firm he
reluctantly made up the other penny in grass-
hoppers, which he had pocketed in the left-hand
side ot ins neck-wear.
SIXPENCE IN THE DISTANCE.
"When's the drought again to end?” “ Dunno, ’less this cove asks us to ’old ’is ’orse !”
“Moorabinda”: Apropos of the recent
discussions re “disappearing” lakes. In the
country immediately north of Spencer’s Gulf
(S. A.) is an extensive area, which maybe called
the Lake District of Australia. It is nearly 1000
miles in length from south-east to north-west.
First of all. there is Lake Torrens, more than 100
miles long, but not very wide. Lake Eyre, farther
north, is much larger. To the west is the exten-
sive Lake Gairdner, and to the east of Lake Eyre
are Lakes Blanche, Gregory, and several others.
All these lakes (which, by the way, are salt)
are subject to great fluctuations in size,
grassy plains being found in some years
where extensive sheets of water at other
times cover the country. Australia abounds
in basins of inland water which, however,
are mostly saline, and are very seldom
flooded all the year round. They depend
for their supplies mainly on the rainy mon-
soons, possess no regular influents or even
surface springs, and lie mostly in the centre
of waterless, stony deserts. Lake Eyre re-
ceives from the north the Macumba River,
formed by two streams, the Stephenson and
Alberga, the latter having its sources in the
Musgrave Mountains, about 300 miles to
the north-west of Lake Eyre. Near the
centre of Australia is the Finke River,
which rises on the tropic of Capricorn, in
t'ne McDonnell Ranges, and flowing south-
ward, receives many small tributaries. After
passing Charlotte Waters Station on the
Northern Telegraph line, it becomes lost
in the desert. Farther north and east
are numerous other streams, which, after
a short course, disappear in the sands. All
these rivers are subject at intervals to sud-
den and violent floods. The flood-times are
followed by long periods of drought, during
which many streams disappear altogether,
and never come back to life again. Next
flood-time Providence invents new rivers
in new localities. On the N.S.W. table-
land, south of Goulburn, at an elevation of
2260 ft. above the sea, is situated Lake
George. In 1824 it was 20 miles long and
eight miles wide, enclosed by thickly-
wooded steep hills. It gradually dimin
ished in size, until about 1837 it became
quite dry, and was converted into a grassy
plain. After a few years it gradually filled again,
till in 1865 it was 17ft. deep. Two years later it
was only 2ft. deep, but in 1876 it was again 20
miles long, and about 20ft. deep. The old water-
marks show that it has sometimes reached 3ft.
higher than that.
* * * •
“ Bill ” : Why not plant the sides of our
railway lines with ironbarks and other valuable
woods? They might come in handy for sleepers
some day. N.S. W. alone has about 3500 miles of
railway, making 7000 miles of possible foliage, and
with a big ironbark tree every 40 yards, we would
have 308,000 ironbarks flourishing like the green
bay tree. Then our trains would run through
endless avenues of foliage, and the bear would sit
on the tree top and marvel at the passing loco-
motive, and the ’possum would decorate the land-
scape, and there would be a streak of poetry—two
streaks, in fact—where now is desolation and
interminable fences and road metal.
“ Rhau po ” : “ Agricola ” talks of the full
state of rabbit burrows, but these are as the foolish
virgins’ lamps compared with pit-traps. And the
varied contents of a pit-trap amaze muchly. Re-
cently assisted in the cleaning-out of one of these
subterranean death-holes, and the prospect panned
out. 80 rabbits, one bellicose full-grown fox, one
evil-looking frill lizard, two gohannas, and a crow.
Have often seen snakes there, while the inquisi-
tive “ twelve apostle” gets down as cheerfully as
lie is fired out again by the cleaner.
BUTTER IS RIZ’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is great jubilation among the dairy farmers on
PriCe 0f bUtter “ ‘he*"**
There is joy in the heart of the cocky ;
There’s a smile on his phiz. ;
His finances no longer are rocky,
For butter is riz’!
Hear him, “ One-forty-eight be the papers-
My oath, boys, it is !
Yairs, the reason I’m cuttin’ sich capers
Is, butter is riz’ !
“ Young Billy (State kid from the city ;
A hard life is his),
He s slow with the cows, more’s the pity,
Though butter is riz’.
“ And the kids to the school must be trudgin’.
Sich redikilus biz !
It’s a waste o’ good time I’m begrudgin’
When butter is riz’ !
“ But 1 gives ’em a note to Miss Wilkin;
The teacher, that is—
Ter let ’em home sharp for the milkin’
Cos butter is riz’!
“ So it’s bail-up and leg-rope old Beauty.
Sich a milker she is !
She feels she is doing ’er duty
Now butter is riz’! ”
N.S.W.
DA[?]
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Granger : Story of the man who hit his own
foot in mistake for a ’possum is very old. Before you
passed it as a personal experience you should have read
Max Adeler Commercial Traveller: Many a good
bright lie can be spoiled by too close attention to figures.
Of course if you put 40 per cent, on £lOO the result would
be £l4O, and if you took3o percent, off £l4O you’d only
have £9B. But in a lie all things are possible J. C.
Wairoa (or something like that): The calabash is of
purely vegetable origin, and is derived from the calabash
tree Tammy: Not suitable. Stamp for return en-
closed, and address supplied, but no name. Are wonder-
ing whether “Tammy” will find you Oak: We’ve
said all that on the rabbit question before. The true
remedy is closer settlement—pastoral and agricultural
R.O. : Required a more vigorous and spirited telling
N.B. : Old and malodorous Lily S.B. : You sav, “To
be returned,” yet you send neither stamps nor address.
P.McG. : Too silly for reproduction E.C.L. :
Full name, Heinrich Hertzburg Larsen, born at Gren-
fell (N.S. W.), 17th June, 1867.... Bargo : The humor is
elephantine, and the rhymes are not rhymes W.S.S. :
It is a dull subject and you don’t brighten it S.B. :
“ Renunciation ” mild little poem eminently fitted to be
read by curate at Dorcas meeting.. ..J. Horn : Two very
aged and leg-weary jokes to hand R.W. : Where did
you dig up that exceedingly well-known joke ? Clan
Kian : “Masterpiece” bumps horribly Geewhiz : Too
shrieky. No use making wholesale charges ; give us a
few proofs... .F. B. Smith: You send a yarn that a more
wide-awake contributor sent 10 days ago, and you
haven’t even the sense to remember that a penny
stamp won’t carry a letter from Melbourne to Sydney....
Young Aus. : (1) Lands Department of either'State will
jump at the chance to give you information. (2) Reckon
you’d better get some experience first; it costs a lot to
buy it up there Djin-Djin : Despite the fact that it is
now March, 1908, you weigh in with an obituary notice of
Jack Taiaroa, who was drowned in December, 1907.
Welshman : You have lighted on one of life’s great
truths : Eisteddfods, even as pleasant Sunday afternoons,
Chinese beers, and spring cleanings, are things to shun.
....Alf. N. : It were cruel to spill the whole poem on
your pessimist friend. The first verse blisters sufficiently.
Thus:
He’s a discontented devil, and he knows it—
He even shows it;
He can never bring his brains up to a level,
Or make the slightest headway in his art;
He fails in all you see, so let the verdict be,
He really must have failure of the heart.
....BendGoor : Well written, but too 10ca1... .Federalist:
That is one of the very reasons why The B. wants a
brand-new Federal capital—it doesn’t want to bloat any
already over-bloated city. Establish a new capital, and
inevitably you encourage new rural industries there-
abouts, just as Australia previously did by establishing a
new capital at Brisbane... .Dargo : That yarn has been
wandering round newspaper offices so long that nowa-
days it blows itself into the W.P.B. as soon as it is let
loose.. ..Felix : Passed on to the sinner... .J.M.8.: Sorry
can’t oblige... .11.0. K. : Neither suitable.. ..E.A.: Tivo
verses hereby entered tor the worst poem competition :
Though beauty is so attractive
For a skeptic to consider all them,
But it must be subjective
As I have allready said.
Therefore I would advise
Every thoughtful youth
To attentively criticise
The above and see the truth.
... . II.J.O’N. : You have a good idea, but vou are a tyro
as regards style... .Em A. : Not badly told, but it’s a bit
too risky G.M.C. : Impressive style, but the matter is
not very pertinent.... R. B.H. : Faulty in detail. In-
stance, you use “ere” for “e’er,” and treat “con-
tinually” as a word of three syllables.... Derelict: Not
badly done, bub the ground has been too well covered
already.... Florence K. : Required stronger and more
• incisive treatment.. . .Gertrude Aimy : You have not yet
acquired the art of leaving out the non-essential *W.
ltoek : “ Prohibition ” not good enough for the subject.
.. . Penara : Bead “The Lovers VVed ” three times, and
didn t get the bang of it—at least, what hang we got was
vague and unsatisfactory L.F. : “Brown btudy ”
failed, yet not far short of the mark R.VV.T. :
fsong' of the Gloriana ” (or Sbriekyanna, or
something) is a most incomprehensible thing..
Lee Enfield : “Bevolt”is a very hackneyed kind of in',
surrection. ..E.B.J. : Tale of bow' you and Agnes went
to church wasn’t of much account till it came to the last
verse. Then it proved that you only dreamt you arid
Agues went to church. Then the tale of you and Agues
and the church became of no account at all h?N. :
Verses about the election of a J. P. not very good and
nobody elects J’s. P... .Paunchy : Your dim pencil screeds
are very hard to read... D.VV. : “Life” and “Mv Be-
loved ” went the way of all flesh Astrades : Pretty in
a small, quiet sort of way, hut doesn’t seem to he about
anything in particular... .A.J.M. : Full of good sense.
too dreadfully — \V. : “ Woman versus Tramp ”
fell flat fell, so to speak, with the buttered side down.
Jay Bee : Verses amusing, bht with the wrong kind of
amusement. Nothing in the other item J.J.E. :
Nicely versified, hut hasn’t the quality to carry such a
well-worn theme... .N.B.McP. : Neal, hut not very in-
telligible. .Cosmos : It came close up to acceptance.
The humor is somewhat artificial VV. Jayem : Work-
manship very rough and inartistic W.G.McD. : Diffi-
cult to extract any definite ideas from your astonishing
tangle of words.... D. M. Bay : Bather funnv, but too
carelessly put together... .J.W. : Too trifling for print.
•• • O.T.J.L. : They show your characteristic in-
adequacy. ...R W.T. : Some of it is very good, but the
form is faulty in places.. ..L.S.D. : Imitation of Scott
good, but unsuitable. The other verses are feeble....
C.E.D. : They are all tantalisingly near the mark...!
J.A.A. : Might have been much better done 6."
Dunne : You have a good verse ear, but your
stuff is only third-class....Austell : Not nearly good
enough for print... .H.H.T. : Weakly sentimental....
A.B.r A lot of good points about “Flies,” hut the balance
turned against it all the same... .Rebee : “Cads” and
“Kisses” both just miss the twopenny public vehicle
Crutch: “What Might Have Been” won’t he in this
paper, at all events Shell: One accepted; two cast
into outer darkness ...Elf: “Sans Occur” is so very
very, very, dashed stereotyped St. Jimmy: Fair.
Nearly got in. Unfortunately got out. Remained out.
.... Iconoclast : Nothing new in it, and- the ponderosity
of the style is fatal .. Billie: Verse hopeless. Prose
sketch better, but miserably weepsome ...8.L.A.: “Poet
and Tailor” was a pointless thing. It is mentioned in
the past or back or hinder tense, because it’s dead.
.. ..II.YV.E. : “The ’Eat” is humorous in places,
but all the characters talk cockney. Might men-
tion, too, that snakes in Melbourne are about
as numerous as giraffes in Townsville Nero:
“ Keep off the Stars ” has possibilities, hut you
haven’t done the subject justice S.D. : Yes Thos.
W. Smith : The quotations of misquotations in “ Bed
Page” were in all instances the correct renderings of
lines usually muddled in quotation. Surprised you
didn’t see that .. .L.A.M. : They are scarcely in our line,
but they are good of their kind, and you should not have
much difficulty in disposing of them—say to some
woman’s publication.. Melville S. : Your letter is a lot
funnier than your verses... A.E.P. : Ludicrously bad
Frank II.: Very poor stuff Coot: You have a rare
gift of bathos. Instance :
And your glorious snow-capped mountain
Weeps ; ay weeps, both night and day
Weeps, because your streets are dirty,
And your people poorly paid.
J.H.O. : The label “Poem” was ominous, and the
omen w'as fulfilled... .Evan W. : Conventionally Bacchan-
alian in form, hut lacking the spirit of the wine cup....
W. G. McD. : You wi 11 have to become more direct and
specific before anybody will take the trouble to read you.
Llewellyn : You have the rhyming gift, but nothing
to back it up with.. ..G. Lynch : Your “first attempt at
doggerel.” Well, it’s not good enough, hut it’s more
than doggerel. In fact, there is promise in it.... Labor-
ite : Bather smart, but a bit behind time Lily S. B. :
You have the nature-feeling, but not the necessary
literary skill... .Josmat: Both very tame and prosy..,.
Glen: An obscure enlargement on a trivial text....
J.R.D. : Could make nothing of your pictorial suggestion.
....Frank K. : Not much “off.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Tanner : Not the worst things we’ve seen, but close up.
... .K.H. : Too trifling a departure.from too old a gag....
Viv: Poor drawing; poor jbke Carswell D. : A pic-
ture of a football and some other implements. Most
uninteresting.... J. W. : When you come across a remark
that isn’t worth publication in any case, whv aggravate
the matter with a sketch of the girl who made it, and the
girl who heard it, and the kitchen that these girls were
in at the time ?... .Defl : The only thing that is wanting so
far is art... .F.H. : That idea of the lion and the kangaroo
and the cricket ashes is a weariness to the soul.
“ Flinderino ” : A recent Bulletin par.
made mention of a fish with feet. I’ve never seen
a fish out for a stroll, but here in North Queens-
land we have an article called the Johnnie Jumper,
which is the nearest approach to a walking fish
that I know of. At low tide the Johnnie Jumper
leaves the briny deep and works his passage over
the mud to the beach. Then he cruises along the
sand in search of flies, mosquitoes and other deli-
cacies. Jack Jumper is Bin. or lOin. fore-’n’-aft,
and he propels himself about by means of two
side-fins. When out stalking his dinner, he creeps
slowly and smoothly to within 2ft. of the victim,
then with a sudden spring he pounces on the sur-
prised insect. When suffering from the tired
feeling, Mr. Jumper lies quiet and shams death.
An innocent fly strolls along to hold a post-mortem ,
and is gathered in. Crabs are not on friendly
terms with the Jumper, and they always have
urgent business in the nearest hole or at the back
of an adjacent rock when Johnnie heaves in sight.
I have seen this interesting specimen of marine
life over half a mile away from the water.


-'Ho like-Thel iMivfef^ijVU"
> 'S
A v *g°i'oo< > reply is
+o -ffje Impend Bobfd
oP Tr^ c s ins
tepor-Jf On Aus'H'dilia k n N&/|gv7o')
sill
’lll/ "A nelb OmVerytyr
de\>u J Cky\on ic B € r£~
)h forced \mitfsT H
required a v l?ouT'£10.000
foK I wyg V)TS .
A
ot policy is wrivtJ *+" ty
- ■
*hzr <S in S ide
ttje*’*! • (Ca^n<jnstcf>^
" f X
J, te jr vJU^ A ( l
' /ot * 1
X
Coop 1
B[Ov/ OUT
feco2it'ii7e >
Ministers ajl beiler for *-'fa
! " f h’Ken^te)
Vic: - ’ Ih, COSW '
lol fer „
Xe
-
H^!
SfniltT you do look
f?a>d \" ’
v>' 1 lo S '«*d - v>'
if-1 »* {
FEDERAL AND OTHER POLITICS.


THE GHOST.
N.S.W. Premier Wade says the burden of office is beginning to weigh upon him. It is a curious coincidence that the late Macbeth felt
somewhat the same way. He also began to “see things.”


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming: Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and a'l Modern Conveniences Tel. 321,
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
Cuts and bruises should receive immediate
treatment before the parts become swollen, and
this can only be done when Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm is kept at hand. First application gives
relief.*
RESCH’S XXX ALE.
BREWERY, DOWLING STREET, REDFERN.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Roberts, M.P.’, is relinquishing his post as
editor of the Adelaide Labor Herald, and his
place is being taken by Geoffrey Burgoyne, a son
of the leader of the Independent Country Party.
Young Burgoyne, who spent some years in the
Government service, has had some journalistic
experience in the bffice of the Gadfly and as a
valued contributor to The Bulletin.
It is just 50 years since the Torrens Act
for simplifying land transfers was passed in S.
Australia*; it came-into force in “ the Province ”
on July 1, 1858, and was so successful that it, or
something like it, tvas soon adopted far and wide.
Torrens, the author, was Registrar-General,
and by a bit of luck had had a deal of pre-
vious experience with shipping transfers
(he had been Collector of Customs); and
the Merchant Shipping Act was really
the basis of his Land Transfer Bill.
While it was in the balance, Gent. One
attacked it vigorously, if not viciously,
but that opposition did it good—even
in those times Parliament knew Gent.
One’s little ways, and had met Costs fre-
quently. Still, between them, Gent.
One and hidebound Conservatism very
nearly killed the Bill in the Leg.
Council. Torrens remained in S. Aus.
for a while to superintend the working
of the Act, and then went back to England and
sat for Cambridge in the Commons.
F. B. Freehill, solicitor, consul, military
enthusiast, and Papal Chamberlain, who died,
cetit 52, at Lewisham Hospital (Sydney) last
week, was one of the main local pillars of Ireland
and of Rome. To him a “shoneen ” was a thing
abhorrent. (A “shoneen” may be defined as a
person named O’Grady who doesn’t contribute to
the Irish Nationalist party’s funds.) Mr. Freehill
had lately returned from visiting Dublin, the
Vatican, and other places that were very dear to
him, and his death was accelerated by a sunstroke
he suffered in Ceylon.
The Melbourne Methodist Conference
couldn’t understand the deeay of Methodism.
Well, some of the chief reasons were at the Con-
ference—Judkins, Worrall, and Woodfull, for
instance.
James Carroll, Native Minister for Maori-
land, first saw the light beneath the shade of a
cabbage tree on a farm in Northern Wairoa
(M.L.). The present owner of the cabbage tree
recently put a neat fence round it, and presented
the plot of earth to Carroll, who contemplates
having it used as his last resting-place. Quite a
number of people are following the Cecil Rhodes
idea of outdoor burial.
Dr. Ivnipe, the Scotchbyterian meenister
of Maryborough (Q.), is retiring from business,
after 40 years’ wrestling with sin in the town
where Walkers Limited holds up the flag of
Australian industry. Sin, however, is not the
only thing in Maryborough which one local par-
son finds time to deal with ; the Rev. J. Adamson
represents the district in the Queensland As-
sembly. He is generally regarded as the most
impassioned speaker in the House.
How the Australian does spread over the
earth ! The Secretary of the Rhodes Trust at
Buluwayo (S. Africa) is an Australian, and one
other “tired” Australian—F. E. Weinholt, from
Queensland —is engaged in the work of adminis-
tering the vast trust. And there called in at The
Bulletin office, the other day (on furlough from
Nyassa), Wenzel A. Grenenger, one of the con-
struction engineers of the Cape to Cairo railway.
He’s a Braid wood (N.S.W.) native.
Miss Levvy, well-known in Sydney streets
as “ the cab-horse’s friend,” has a permit endorsed
by successive Ministers of Education, running
some seventeen years, authorising her to visit
State schools and enlist the youngsters’ sym-
pathies on behalf of dumb animals. Some teachers
just let her “go on,” but others enthusiastically
support her, and drive home her teaching ; and if
the next generation puts a foot down on pigeon-
slaughtering and coursing matches, much of the
credit will be Miss Bevvy’s.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley’s Bench re-
miniscences, the other day, regarding what has
often been called George Dibbs’ pig-headed action
in going into Darlinghurst debtors’ prison for 12
months to escape Shepherd’s £2OOO defamation
verdict, did not include the fact that it was a
solicitor’s ignorance of the law, as much as Dibbs’
stubbornness, that led to the incarceration. The
solicitor, reputed to be one of the ablest men of
his day, told Dibbs that 12 months in prison would
cancel the debt, and Dibbs didn’t think he could
earn £2OOO outside, so he went to gaol on business
principles. But in the Defamation Act there was
a provision which enabled Shepherd to come in as
a judgment debtor, and he got his £2OOO after all.
Dibbs’ year in gaol was wasted, and his eloquence
on the matter of lawyers was worth hearing for a
long time afterwards.
One who will be more missed than many
who get more paragraphs is Miss Sutherland ; she
retires shortly from the active management of the
Vic. Neglected Children's Aid Society’s Home,
at Parkville (Vic.). Twenty-five years ago Miss
Sutherland began to look after a few waifs in a
little brick cottage behind Collins-street Presby-
terian Church. Now she has 107 little ones at the
Home, and 470 boarded out or cared for else-
where. While the State’s boarded-out youngsters
have died like flies, those Miss Sutherland
has looked after have always shown a very low
death-rate indeed. With her Alpine hat, high,
stiff collar and tailor-cut coat. Miss Sutherland
looks more masculine than Bilarion Edwards;
but once you pass the brusqueness of manner, you
find an almost matchless wealth of sympathy for
the afflicted and the hard-hit.
Archibald Forsyth, w r ell known on the
fowling green and in commercial life, died on Sun-
day, aged 82 years. He was born in Caledonia
stern and wild, and moved to N.S.W. in 1849.
But these were the Californian gold days, and
young Forsyth promptlyfled’Frisco-wardswith the
rush. He returned and engaged in the cedar trade
on the Tweed. Healso tried the Turon, and lateron
the Victorian diggings, where he was lucky. He
commenced business in Melbourne as a timber
merchant, developed a big trade, sold out, and
roved again to Sydney. There he started the Aus-
tralian Rope Works, with which he remained con-
nected until his death. He was one of the pioneers
of the bowling pastime in N. S. Wales. During
the ’eighties he represented South Sydney in the
Assembly for four years. He was thrice married,
and has left a family of nine children by the first
wife.
CHURCH AFFAIRS IN VICTORIA.
“ Which is the Cat'olic an which the Presby-
terian, father?"
“ Them's nayther wan nor the nayther. Them's
both Church of Hinglan .”
A bit of biography :
Frederick Wilson Uther, of Fraser, Uther and Co., who
died the other day, was a Tasmanian, born in 1833. At
nine years of age he shifted to Sydney with his
family. The name is ancient in Sydney. Away in the
early days Reuben Uther, in partnership with Simeon
Lord, established a hat factory, and on his own account
was in business in Pitt-street, where he owned
property. A brother, John S. Uther, was in part-
nsrship with John Thomas Wilson, in George-street,
as an ironmonger, on the corner of Market-street,
where Roberts’ Hotel now is. This partnership
was dissolved in 1834, Mr. Uther leaving the city. In 1844
he returned and established himself as an ironmonger,
in Hay-street, Pyrmont. In 1847 he was a commission-
agent, and resident at Balmain. Mr. F. Wilson Uther,
recently dead, had his first billet in the office of Stem
house and Hardy, solicitors, of Hunter-street. The
family then went to South Australia, where young Uther
had experience in the commercial house of Solomon and
Co. In the ’fifties he reached Melbourne and joined the
firm of Frazer and Cohen. In ’77 he returned to Sydney
and established the business with which he was connected
till his death.
O FOR THE TOUCH OF A VANISHED HAND!
“ Did yer ever try a swill of water? It's better than nothing. Why, what's the matter, Bill?
'Ow ’are I hurt yer?"
“ Joe, by mentionin’ water you remind me of all my misfortunes. Why, if it 'adn't been for
Maria Ann, who earned a tidy bit washing, pitching herself in the river, would I be
going around now parched for a drop of beer?”
The discredited Danysz rabbit microbe
isn’t a new discovery, anyhow. Dr. Angas John-
son, of Adelaide, inheritor of a heap of millionaire
Angas money, was at work at the Pasteur Insti-
tute 10 years ago, when he was introduced to the
little beastie, and sent out a culture of it to the
S. Aus. Government, with an explanation of what
it might do. The S. Aus. Government inspected
it through the keyhole, and then sent it over to
Dr. Gresswell in Melbourne. Dr. Gresswell, the
great microbe authority of those days, after con-
sidering it, reckoned it was a good thing to de
stroy, and clubbed it to death accordingly.
Dr. Arthur, M.L.A., the wingless angel
of Middle Harbor, had his prototype in A. Brod-
ribb, M.L. A. and M.L.C. of 40 years
ago. Brodribb, like Arthur, preached
immigration, immigration, immigra-
tion ; and, like Arthur, Brodribb pic-
tured the time when will
stand to England in a war emergency.
Brodribb sat in the Victorian House,
beating George Higinbotham on one
occasion, and he sat also in both the
Assembly and Council in N.B.W. But
he never concerned himself seriously
about anything except immigration.
He went to England in 18G2, lectured
all over the United Kingdom, estab-
lished leagues of titled people, and
was assured that the tidal stream of
50,000,000 was about to start flowing.
A few miserable dribbles were all that
followed him, however, because the
land that ought to have been opened
to receive them was kept locked ; and
he grew old and cynical and callous.
“Armmo”: Consider the Chris-
tian names of our Australian cricketers:
Clement Hill, Victor Trumper, Roger
Hartigan, Montague Noble, Albert
Cotter, Victor Ransford, Warwick
Armstrong, Sydney Gregory, and Han-
son Carter. Sounds like a softgoods
picnic, or a complete novel from the
London journal. Saunders and McAlis-
ter are lucky exceptions, having re-
spectively left the parson’s hands as
Jack and Peter. Macartney holds the
balance between high falutin and Spar-
tan plainness with Charles. This cir-
cumstance has completely shaken my
faith in the value of names as guides
to character. Had somebody read over
to me a list of the above Christian
names, I would have cheerfully offered
to fight any two of the owners, my own name
being Bill. Imagine the ghastly nature of my
surprise had the two chosen to be dealt with been
Albert and Warwick.
The victimised N.S.W. public servant
Keele, of the Water and Sewerage, was like
Oliver, of the Railways, not at all an amenable
man. He bearded Carruthers over a Port Hack-
ing wharf, and Solemn Lee over the Cataract
dam, and just prior to his hurried exit from the
Water Board had the audacity to make some
drastic criticisms of Public Works engineer
Wade’s proposal to construct a sewerage scheme
for the south-western suburbs. Before the
Public Works Committee Keele denounced Wade’s
sewer as a “ huge blunder.’’ Keele was after that
Just about due for keel-hauling. He was too
beastly blunt.
“ Ifcan ” writes :
W. J. Ryott Maughan, the new Chairman of Committees
in Bananaland Assembly, is the son of an English Anglican
parson. He came out to Australia as fourth officer, or
brass-bounder, on a ship. Then he went into the Queens-
-Imd civil service. The hidebound characterof the service
didn’t agree with him—in fact, he liked being- a hide-
bounder just as little as being a brass-bounder. He took
to teaching, then to the press. He was always a champion
of the rights of Labor, so it was a short step from the
Inky Way to Parliament. He has been in the Assembly
since .1896. Some people fancy, by reason of his front
name, that he comes of Chartist stock in the East End of
London, and was named after a public disturbance of
some kind, but he is really descended from a narrow-
minded and intensely Tory profession, and is one of those
rebels in the hills that the most Tory of clans and classes
produce now and then.
EMPTY CHURCHES AND COUNTER
ATTRACTIONS.
Representatives of the Council of Churches, the
Master Undertakers’ Association, and the Undertakers’
Union yesterday asked the Chief Secretary (Alex-
ander Peacook) to support them in their united desire for
the suppression of Sunday funerals.— News Item.
REV. £. PLATE: " A-ha, my deah ber-r-ruthcr!
hy aren’t you at church this Sabbath
morn ? Why indulge in this selfish dissipa-
tion"”
BROTHER THRIPNYBIT: “ Alas, sir! Callestthou
this dissipation? Verily I ’avc sitten ’ere
for two weary hours, an’ nary a corpse for
burial hath passed this way.”
JUDKINS: A MYSTERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a dall, insistent droning 1 and a buzzing which we
hear ;
’Tis the still, small voice of Judkins buzzing into Mel-
bourne’s ear
With a weary iteration,
And a woeful lamentation —
He is warning and exhorting us against the use of Beer 1
With the air of Holy Moses chiding wayward Israel,
Brother Judkins points the mighty truth that Beer (like
War) is Hell !
Malt and hops are ruination,
And a sure way to Damnation,
Where a Special Fire is kept for those who enter a hotel.
If you listen you will hear him speak his message clear
and plain,
Like the pale midnight mosquito, or a blue-bottle in pain;
Like a,verbal Gustave Dor6
He is painting the dread story
Of the Beer upon the Pavement and the Lees that wet
the Drain !
’Tis the sad and shameful story of a scheming Publican
Who was sick of methods hoary to entrap his fellow man ;
In mere bars he’d no reliance,
He set custom at defiance,
He threw Beer upon the Pavement —so the awful story ran.
And —oh, misery to write it i—shortly after it befell
That wild hordes of men came rushing there, attracted
by the Smell!
And, with sixpences and tears,
Clamored madly for long beers—
And that Publican he found it paid particularly well !
Let me digress for a moment from his infamous career.
Please remember that the story as ’twas told to us out
here,
Though it causes great dissensions,
Is of moderate dimensions,
But the English papers print it that our struts are
CLEANED with Beer !
And the press of France and Russia, and of Askalon and
Gath,
Publish columns headed : “ Melbourne—Where They
Use Beer in the Bath.”
And the press of other nations
Print two-color illustrations
Of the beer fountain's and horse-troughs that adorn each
Melbourne path !
Great is Judkins of the Gimlet ! To our love he has a
claim ;
He has spread abroad the story of our glory and our
fame;
But there’s just one little detail—
One bare fact he ought to retail
If that publican’s in Melbourne, we should like to know
his name.
Though the voice of Joseph Dillon pleads in protest loud
and high,
And the publicans give vent to an exceeding bitter cry ;
Though they write fierce letters, scorning
Judkins'nearly: every morning,
He regards their thirst for knowledge with a cold,
impassive eye. 4
The world waits ; the anxious nations keep a ready ear
inclined
For specific information where that hostel they can find—
With its Bung who scatters Beer.
Is it far, or is it near?
Judkins knows—but,, then, he keeps it (where he found
it) in his mind !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


■
sMKpiv ‘f’.
Mv *
mx
*.
, :omm..
f*
'
+
<te«K
m
k '
m
m%-
«pw
«. •>
. •. v,
K .•
V
m
/
a
Wot I sez is THIS! *vS long’s a bloke’s
,©'otter smoke o’ HAVELOCK. *e can
be ’appy even if e is in work!
99


Pain in the side or chest can be speedily
relieved if Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is at once well
rubbed into the afflicted part. First application
gives relief.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Arti.tic Design.. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ALLIANCE ASSURANCE CO.
TEL. 47. AN OLD AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION. ESTB. 1862.
Fire, Marine,
Fidelity, Accident.
261 George Street, SYDNEY,
MODERATE RATES. G. b'. SMITH, Manager.
wr
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES
TOWN and COUNTRY INVITED
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/-
per Saif-dozen, free, by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application '
B. MOUNTCASTLE &. SONS, BRISBANE.
pvt
TO HELL.
IG °^ D fo f Pre tfcy Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Frsd. Hagerj, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian St:im;is Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm will promptly
relieve the severe pain of a burn or scald, if applied
as soon as the accident takes place.*
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The U.S. fleet is to visit Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and give this country its first real idea of
what a navy shquld be. The naval force that is
just now ambling up the Californian coast in-
cludes 19 first-class battle ships, 17 cruisers, 7
destroyers, and a floating forest of sundries, and
the sight of it should be Australia’s broadest hint
up to date.
Regarding the Federal Capital, Mr. Reid thought Can-
berra was an infinitely better site than Dalgety.
Nice safe place. No fear of my dog getting wet.”
In the course of a recent shindy in Mel-
bourne over a time-payment mandolin, it was
stated that the blighted lyre cost ss. lOd. in
Germany and was sold here, on the instalment
plan, for 555. 6d. That is the work of the
importer. Yet the importer’s pose as a bene-
factor, whose one desire is to supply this country
with cheap goods, is sickening in its intensity.
Last year Premier Kidston introduced the
eight-hour system into the Queensland railways;
this year, so far as mechanics are concerned, he
will probably introduce union rates of pay. “ The
Government is not called upon to pay higher
wages than the best employers,” he says. “ but it
°ught to pay as much as the best ” ; and. though
the Government hasn’t made a definite promise,
what Kidston has said is a good deal to go on
with-it is a lot more than if some other men had
said three times as much.
Dear Bulletin, —As regards the state-
ments of Postmaster-General Mauger about the
drunkenness of Newcastle and Maitland miners
on pay Saturday, I can only say that I cfnce put
in a pay Saturday at Newcastle. —Yours, etc.,
T. Burton.
There ought to be ructions over some of
the contract jobs along the Waranga-Mallee irri-
gation channel (Vic.). To give the cockies a
chance the work was let in small contracts. Cocky
is supposed to pay his men 7s. per day of eight
hours, or 10s. 6d. per day for man, horse, and
dray. But, instead, he hires lads, obtained from
orphanages and Heaven only knows where, for a
few shillings a week, with a seven-bob man to do
the heavy loading, etc. And the odd man in
most cases wouldn’t know an eight-hour day if he
met it. Up to now the Government has appar-
ently been afraid to keep the cockies up to the
conditions of the contract, but you can hear some
healthy grumbling among the toilers.
Dr. Wollaston, chief of the Australian
Customs, is of opinion that the prohibition of
opium imports hasn’t diminished the quantity of
poppy brought into the Commonwealth. It has
only raised the price, and provided some dizzy
excitement and much profit for a crowd of
smugglers. Something better might be done if,
in every State, every person found smoking opium
were arrested and sent for a long term of treatment
to a sort of poppy-inebriate home, but probably
only the State Government could do that. An-
other idea—though one that could only apply
to aliens—would be to make part of the inevitable
penalty for opium-smuggling the expulsion
of the smuggler from the Commonwealth.
If his photo and his finger-print records were
taken, and he was then promptly deposited on
the shore of his own Flowery Land, the number
of opium smugglers ought to diminish a little.
C. H. Hayes, secretary of Sydney Ex-
change, was welcomed on his return from a place
he alluded to as “ Home,” and thanked by F. E.
Winchcombe, of the Chamber of Commerce,
for the manner in which he (Hayes) strove to uphold the
reputation of Australia, and of New South Wales in par-
ticular, while he was in England.
A sample of the way in which Hayes upholds
Australia (Sydney Telegraph, 13/3/’08): —
Everyone in Canada welcomes immigrants. Here in
Australia there is not the same unanimity. Anyone with
£5 or a job to go to is allowed to enter Canada. But the
man who comes to Australia with a job beforehand is a
criminal. He comes under a contract. He is made a
prisoner in a British port on a British ship, flying a
British flag. They don’t do things that way in Canada.
If Hayes had taken the trouble to read the Aus-
tralian law as regards immigrants he would have
found that the italicised statement was a dis-
graceful falsehood. But apparently he didn’t
read the law. Like most of his class, he simply
denounced his country at random. Apparently
they do things differently in Canada. That
country is reported to have a law under which
Hayes could be arrested and heavily fined for
slanders of that sort, and the sooner Australia gets
a similar law the better. '
“F.J.O. Somebody, signing himself
“Fenick,” and claiming to be a British subject
from Malta, writes to S. M. Herald eulogising
the Maltese as desirable immigrants. He bases
his assertion on the statement that, as regards
constitution, characterand conduct, the Maltese are
“ not inferior toother civilised European nations.”
That is only “Fenick’s” opinion. As a white
Briton who has been in Malta, I enthusiastically
condemn his proposal and deny his asser-
tions. The only man in Europe that the
Maltese, in the bulk, is not inferior to, is the
artistic-looking brigand from southern Italy
and the extremes of Greece, where there is
a strong admixture of African blood and
other objectionable sanguineous compounds.
The Maltese is, in his native lair, a very
unskilled artisan, a bad tailor, and a de-
plorable market gardener. His proclivity
to use a knife is marked, and it is only the
fact that Malta is a small place where con-
cealment is impossible, that prevents the
great mass of Maltese from being in the
bushranging line of business. One night,
two of these gentry, who are “not inferior
to other civilised Europeans,” were taking
me across the Grand Harbor, from Valetta
to Cottenera, by ferry-boat, fare 2d. Half-
way across, the boss pirate went on strike,
refusing to pull another stroke unless the
fare was increased by 10s. The second
pirate said nothing—merely produced from
under a leathern apron a 6in. knife. Peace
and amity were restored by the prompt
parting up of the necessary 10s. Similar
occurrences are common, and during the
few months I was in Malta were frequently
complained of. As before-mentioned, the
Maltese would be in a large way in the
brigand business, only there is no room.
Since Ex-Premier Carruthers tacked the
N.S.W. Statist’s office on to his Intelligence De-
partment, and made it a mere side show, there has
been a decided halt in the publication of official
figures. Federal Statist Knibbs is complaining
that some of the N.S.W. information he requires
in order to make up the Australian statistics for
1906 is not yet available, and his own publications
are hung up in consequence. Knibbs reckons he
will yet be driven to establish branch Federal
Statistical offices in Sydney and elsewhere, and
collect State statistics himself, by reason of the
hostility or laziness of certain local officials.
“K. ”: It looks (is though Minister Chapman’s
2001 b. wheat bag is going to actually put money
into the farmers’ pockets, instead of costing them
the alleged “ tuppence a bag.” The old sack held
2401 b. (they alleged that, anyway); the new will
hold 2001 b. So the farmer will have to buy one-
sixth more bags than he used to. The first quota-
tion for the new bags was received last week ;
and this is how it pans out Old : 5/7J x
New: 4/8£ x 6=28/3. Therefore, on six dozen
bags the whole, complete, total and aggregate
difference is three-ha’pence. And there isn’t any
doubt that the new bags can be more cheaplv
handled.
NOT THE REPLY EXPECTED.
He did not say “Yes-No”; he said “No-Yes”—
(laughter)—which was the proper attitude of a gentleman
in every walk of life.
FIRST FAMOUS POLITICIAN (anticipating an
economical answer): “Have a whisky ,
Georye? ”
SECOND FAMOUS POLITICIAN : “ Um — ah—No —
Yes.”
(Reluctant but dignified adjournment to “ Ye
Dry Dog.”)
Dear Bulletin,- —I have never read the
Sydney Telegraph, but I am certain it is a rep-
tile rag, and that anybody who reads it wants
violent shampooing. I once saw it, folded up, in
a stationer’s window, and its contents filled me
with disgust. I trust you will print these remarks,
so that the Telegraph may reprint them, as it
certainly should, seeing that it gave a lot of space
and an approving leader to Richard Teece, who
held forth about the preposterousness of Dalgety
as the Federal capital, after carefully passing it
at a distance of 16 miles. —Yours, etc., Herford.
Fine sample of Sydney Telegraph’s
impudence, or ignorance :
Deprive Rockefeller’s Oil Trust of the monopoly which
it gets from the American tariff, and its victims w'ould be
easily able to protect themselves.
As a matter of fact, the Standard Oil does not
benefit to the extent of one cent by the American
tariff ; its advantages lie in its corrupt bargains
with Private Enterprise railway's. In the Trust’s
glorious days, even if you brought shiploads of oil
into New Nork, (1) you couldn’t get it retailed ;
(2) you couldn’t get the Private Enterprise rail-
ways to carry it to the inland towns except at
rates so much higher than those charged to the
Trust that competition was knocked out. It is
pretty certain that the D.T. knew that all right;
it simply went nap on its readers’ ignorance and
bigotry.
S. Aus. hasn’t been doing much railway
building of late years, but recently, in response
to persistent clamoring, the
Government passed the An-
gaston Railway Act. The dis T
trict was quite sure the thing
would pay magnificently ; it
had proved it by the most
elaborate estimates years ago.
So Parliament said, “All right;
we’ll pass the Bill, and if you
undertake to make up any
shortage, you can have the
line.” To make things very
easy, half of the receipts from
Angaston traffic carried on
other lines is to be credited
to the Angaston line; so if a
man books at Angaston and
travels on past Gawler to
Oodnadatta, the Angaston line
gets credited with half the
fare from Gawler to Oodna-
datta. And still, with all that
thrown in, there is great doubt’
whether thetwo-thirds majority
can be got in the local ballot
which "has to be taken; and
every interested M.P. is buz-
zing round and urging the public to come up
and vote, and show that all these miles of agi-
tation and acres of estimates weren’t mere flam.
Williamson Wallace, once Director of
Agriculture in Victoria, but now globe-trotting
lias been saying the stodgy habitual thing about
ns. Says he :
If Australia is to be quickly populated in the rural dis-
tricts, the only thing to do is to import the young agri-
cultural laborer.
The man who heaved that remark off his chest
belongs to a very empty State, which, by reason
of the horrors of land monopoly, has been export-
ing its own locally-produced agricultural laborer
for 16 years. And he hadn’t the common honesty
to say that the only way to quickly populate the
rural districts is, first of all, to kill off the big loaf-
ing landlord, who sets his dogs after “popula-
tion ” if he sees it coming within 25 miles of him
Consider the N.S.W. Government’s ex-
planation of how it came to break the law in the
matter of the new Sydney Harbor Board appoint-
ments :
Mr. McGOWEN: Have you not broken the law? Can-
not Messrs. Hickson and Lance claim £2OOO and £lOOO a
year ? ...
The PREMIER: They promise to make no claim be-
yond the salaries we have agreed to pay them—£lsoo and
£9OO a year.
Mr. McGOWEN : In other words, have you not broken
the statute?
The PREMIER : I have not.
Mr. McGOWEN : You and they have.
The PREMIER : There is an agreement between them
and us that they shall not claim more than the salaries
agreed upon, and on the understanding that a law is to
be passed lo make the necessary alteration.
Here is an Arbitration Court parallel: The Court
fixes a scale of wages ; the employer and certain
of his employed privately agree to a lower
scale, and that lower scale is followed. Is
it to be said that that private arrangement is not
a breach of the law? It has been held to be a
legal breach in the Arbitration Court, and fines
have been imposed on employers for underpaying,
though the hands had agreed to the reduction. If
a Premier’s or a Ministry’s private arrangement
can override a statute, so can anybody’s. Before
Arbitration Court days, when old Trades Union-
ism fixed rates, it was common for employers to
agree to a union rate, and by collusion with cer-
tain of their employees to nominally pay the rate,
while in reality paying less. A man whose wages
should be £2 10s. received £2 10s. and signed for
it, but shoved back half a sovereign. That and a
host of other dodges are all possible where the
employer may, by agreement with the employed,
vary or dodge a legal enactment.
“P.F.” : If Bruce Smith and Mrs. Moly-
neux Parkes happen to be in Melliourne about
this time, they really should hunt up one Joseph
Keenan, for evidence that “ the white man can’t
live in the North.” Keenan overlanded from
Adelaide to Port Darwin as a lad 34 years ago;
remained in the Territory till this year, and battled
from one edge of it to the other ; married an Aus-
tralian girl up there, and reared three stalwart
sons to help to garrison the Lone White Outpost.
And, the other day, he brought his 6 feet 14 stone
of virile manhood into Melbourne, and talked thus
of the things he knew :
The Territory is fast becoming like the Straits Settle-
ment, where the Chow is boss and makes everybody else
know it, and where the white man is either an underling
or a Government official. In the Territory there is a
ring of rich Chinese, whose wealth is being rapidly aug-
mented. They exploit the natural resources of the place
with the aid of the coolies of their own country, and,
remarkable as it may seem, as these coolies amass for-
tunes from their savings, and go away to live in cheap
luxury in China, the number of Chinese in the Territory
doesn’t diminish. The fact is that Chinese are constantly
being smuggled into the country. It is quite useless for
the authorities to officially deny this, and to say, “ Point
to a specific instance.” It stands to reason that if the
white residents, who have naturally no love for this yellow
invasion, were to actually see a Chow coming ashore,
they would immediately denounce him. They are not
caught coming in, and, therefore, the authorities say
they don’t come in. There Is no doubt whatever that
the Port Darwin officials do their best to stop this illicit
landing, but they are outwitted. Unless the Common-
wealth comes to the rescue of the Territory very soon it will
be no place for a white man.
CROWDED.
G. H. REID (to Page, M.H.R.): “You and I could not
get into a hollow log" (Laughter.)
Yes they could , if the log was all right .
The Cairns (N.Q.) Argus, an unspeakable
Tory back-number, occasionally deplores the
departure of Tommy Tanna. The other day it
broke out again, and wailed with a loud voice
while the Monkey ground the organ at the office
door: —
As regards the Kanaka question, the planters in solid
phalanx arrayed stand against the unthinking crowd who
yell tor a White Australia, and who do not know how to
use their privilege when they have it won. All their
ideas seem to be compressed into an idea of foolish unions
and useless strikes. The White Australian has no
method in his madness. He only echoes one idiotic
cry—Australia for the Whites—let the foreigner and
alien go, but if he were to think more and talk less he
would recognise the fact that by the lash of a stockwhip
Japan has no intention of being bowled out of the fertile
lands of Australia at the bidding of people who themselves
hardly understand B from a bull’s foot. Japan is pro-
tected by Imperial treaties, and it will take some stronger
influence than the piping of Colonial gutter-snipes to
shift the sons of the Land of the Chrysanthemum from
what is actually British ground, and which they occupy
with the consent of the British Crown. The question of
occupancy is by no means settled yet, but before the
Commonwealth can say anything on the question the
British Government must be formally consulted.
It is a patient country which allows an infuriated
editor in a fourth-rate town to describe 80 per
cent, of its population as “colonial gutter-snipes.”
THE JEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
During the evening Mr. G. H. Reid provoked great
laughter hy offering Sir Harry Rawson, on behalf of the
Commonwealth Government, the post of Lord High
Admiral of the Australian Navy.— Sydney Telegraph.
It is well to laugh
At the idle jest of the jester king,
Purblind to the troubles the years must bring.
The lamps are lit, and the circus starts,
Clown and comedian play their parts;
Forced and heavy the wit they fling,
Old as Satan the jokes they ring ;
Yet do they laugh at them thrice re-told,
They who would idle the hours of gold—
“ Fate has been kind in the days long past,
Why should we weep while her favors last ?
Now is the hour of play.
“ ’Tis the time to laugh,
For the earth is at peace, and the skies are blue.
A whispered warning may filter through
From the world outside ; let us close our ears
To idle alarms and groundless fears.
‘ The Mother ’ watches ; no need to guard
With her breast to shield and her arm to ward,
Only children the future heed,
And dream of a future hour of need ;
Only knaves with a lie on their lips
Prate of building Australian ships ;
Money is needed for such ; we’ve none
To waste on a ship or a twelve-inch gun,
And the future is far away.”
But will they laugh
In the day when Australia must play the game,
When the steel walls burst into lurid flame
By South Head reef ; when the sudden shell
Comes hurtling in on a breath of Hell?
What of the jester then? The jest ?
What of the England they love best ?
Out of the dark a squadron grey
Will leap into light at the break of day.
The world will turn with a sneer on its face
As a wail goes out from an unarmed race,
And the foes will laugh through the smoke and heat—
“ Where is your Admiral '!■ Where your Fleet l ”
As they enter an empty bay.
N.S.W.
VELDT.
THE PEERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The London Times says that Campbell-Bannerman is
physically unable to stand the strain of the Commons, and
that he should accept a peerage and go to the House of
Lords. — Cable.
When you stutter in the brain,
And bewildered is your head,
When your heart goes bung again,
And you’re only fit for bed,
Join the Lords.
When your thought’s confused and burred,
And your memory is blurred,
And you’re fit to be interred,
Join the Lords.
vie.
MARTIN LUTHER.


PALINGS
Thousands of Instru-
ments to select from
AT EXCEPTIONALLY
. . . LOW PRICES . . .
TALKING MACHINES.
Gramophones from £4/10/-
Columbia Graphophones from 15/-
Edison Phonographs from 50/-
Flutes from 4s, 6d.
Mandolins from 12s, 6d,
Guitars from 15s,
Clarionets from 40s,
Autoharps from 12s, 6d,
Strings from 2d,
.
L- T3SS
-- ;■>: •>*
-
VIOLINS.
Boy's Violin, with bow and case, 16/-
School Violin, with bow and case, 21/-
Student's Violin, with Bow and Case, 31/6
Orchestral Violin, with bow and case, 42/-
Solo Violin, with bow and case, 67/6
Artist's Violin, with bow and case, £7/7/-
GERMAN CONCERTINAS.
Single-toned from 3/6
Organ-toned from 9/-
ANGLO-GERMAN Concertinas,
from 25/-
Steel Reeds from 31/6
ENGLISH CONCERTINAS.
From 70/- to £2l
CORNETS BY
BOOSEY & CO. from £5/15/-
BESSON & CO. from £6/12/6
COUESNON & CO. from £l/10/-
METRONOMES
from 12/6
CATALOGUES
Post Free.
When Writing please
Mention Which One
You Require*
WINDSOR NICKEL RIM BANJOS, from 21/-
WINDSOR WOOD-RIM BANJOS, from £4/10/-
WINDSOR ZITHER BANJOS, from 25/-
AMERICAN BANJOS, from 25/-
WASHBURN BANJOS, from £5/5/-
W. H. PALING <a CO., Ltd 338 GEORGE STREET,
And at Brisbane and Newcastle. ... SYDNEY.
Wear the...
Well-known
" PERFECTS SHIRT
Ready to Wear.
In Oxford Materials.
5/6
/D j \ E° r Everyday Wear it
(l\6g(u) cannot be beaten.
Fifty Patterns to
Select from.
t I
$
£
w.
W )
w
///
Ik
\\
■p ;
m
>,m
i*
♦
Also the
Celebrated
"CESTUS" SHIRT om.)
For Country Wear. Ready to
Wear, in Ceylon Materials,
5/6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LIMITED,
300-310 BOURKE STREET, HELBOURNE.
Missing Friends.
WINOHCOMBE. —Any relations of the late
THOMAS WINOHCOMBE (who died
at Kings Sutton, near Banbury, Oxford) who
went to Australia about 1866. Son of late T. W.
would like to hear from them.
T. C. WINOHCOMBE,
52 Fleet Street,
London, England.
McKENZIE or FRASER (nee GEORGE).
INFORMATION is sought of Mrs. Elizabeth
McKenzie (or Fraser, nee George), supposed
to have resided for some time at Goulburn, by
BUNNY & DOLAN,
Solicitors to the Estate of
ALEXANDER YULE, deceased,
Perry Street, Masterton,
Maoriland.
CN ALE, RICHARD. Write at once to your
A brother.
Cole Street,
Elsternwick, Victoria.
| WHAT IS CATARRH?
1C ATARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
' throat, and lungs; it injures Might an i hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay-
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi , Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send T n Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
DEBAUCHED INSECT.
SWEEPING INDICTMENT OF THE
LIFE OF THE FLY.
If ever that nasty, irritating insect, the
common house-fly, had a shred of reputa-
tion —a very doubtful point —it was blasted
at the London Institute by Mr. H. Hill
in his lecture on “Flies.”
The fly’s capacity for crime is extended
by its strength, which is relatively nearly
seven times that of a horse, for it can lift
twenty times its own weight. It can ab-
sorb enormous quantities of oxygen, and
is, in fact, a confirmed oxygen toper.
The reprehensible habit of walking up-
side down on the ceiling, to which the fly
is addicted, is due to its loathsome habit
of exuding gum from each of the 1,200
hollow hairs in its feet.
The fly, too, has an evil eye, which is
divisible into several other eyes. It has
also 1,700 or 1,800 parts all connected with
the olfactory nerves, and therefore pos-
sesses complete equipment for detecting
unsound meat such as is given to no
other living creature.
Insectibane is the only effectual de
stroyer of flies. No other powder pos-
sesses the qualities which render Insecti-
ka*»e so peculiarly efficacious.
Sold Everywhere.
Business Announcements.
Hot or Cold Liquids remain
so in Thermos Bottles.
THERMOS
PRICES—PINTS from 215.; QUARTS from 425.
Posted anywhere, Is. and Is. 6d. extra.
Invaluable to Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists,
Military Men, Excursionists, etc. No need to
boil the “ billy.” Take your tea or other liquid
refreshment with you, and simply pour out
Hot or Cold as desired.
TNOS. WEBB & SONS,
236 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
A remarkable offer
COMPLEXION CLOVE
GIVEN AWAY
n
*2
most effective mean* «'V* r
devised for clearing the skiu
from Blackheads, Pimples,
Discolorations, and other blem-
ishes: it smoothes out Wrinkles
and restores the Softness and
Freshness of Youth. Easy and
pleasant of application and
certain in its results.
It is the common-sense way
of improving the comn *xion.
The benefit is clcnr y » p> arent
the very first time it is used. SPKCIAL
OFF Kit. Po make our Liquid Face
Powder generally known, we have
decided to give one of these
Complexion Gloves to every new customer.
The summer is here, and ladies who are careful of their ap-
pearance should use our Complexene. It preserves the
skin, and removes all traces of sunburn and any roughness
caused by the heat or wind. It keeps the face delicate and
produces that velvety softness and
beauty so generally admired. One trial will satisfy you
that this Toilet Preparation is the very article
you have long desired. It is made in three
tints—Pearl, Pink and Cream. Please mention which you
desire. The price is on y 2s. 6d., including postage securely
packed from observation) to any address in the world, with
full printed directions for use.
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
The Union IVlfg. <& Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
f BIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.


From Copenhagen, the home of the celebrated
Cherry Brandy manufactured by Mr. Peter F.
Heering, purveyor to H.M. the King, we are in
receipt of letters informing us that this gentleman
has made a large purchase of property, on which
he intends growing for his own use thousands of
the best Danish native Cherry trees, the fruit of
which is used in the manufacture of this dainty
liqueur, so well liked by all who have tasted it,
and is now to be seen ,at all the fashionable
restaurants and principal hotels, as well as being
in request at all the leading banquets, suppers,
etc.*
The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
c
Wholesale :
for Australia— i
„ Hogg, Robinson i
& Co., Propty.,Ld. ;
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR i
& CO., !
LONDON, ENGLAND, :
Liqueurists to the House of Lords. ;
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, March 17, 1908.
My Dear Artnt,.-
Mrs. E. P. Marks, of Glenrock, Darling Point,
who died in January, and left an estate valued at
£170,000, was a daughter of William Moffitt, who,
in 1826, established himself at No. 8 East King-
street as “a book-binder, stationer, engraver, and
copperplate printer,” who “ruled music and
account books to any pattern,”and “bound books
in plain, neat, or elegant bindings. Portfolios,
albums, account books, etc., made to order.” In
the early forties he removed into Pitt-street, and
built the premises now occupied by Penfold and
Go. Miss Moffitt’s first husband was Archibald
Little, a very wealthy landowner, and after his
death John Marks, a bucolic, came along from
Jamberoo and was duly annexed. The bulk of
the deceased lady’s fortune came from Archibald
Little and Marks of Jamberoo, though her father
left her some £50,000 as the result of many years’
conscientious binding of books in “plain, neat or
elegant binding,” and much industrious copper-
plate printing.
The death of Mrs. Marks, of Glenrock, Darling
Point, places an heiress on the market, in the
person of Miss Marion Irene of that ilk. She is
what the coarsely commercial person of the
Dickensian period would have termed a fifteen-
thousand-pounder—a rare bird, indeed, these
days. In addition she is beautiful, amiable, and
as popular in Melbourne society as she is in that
of Sydney (which is saying much); wherefore the
eligiblesof several States are casting hankering
eyes her way. A matrimonially-negligible, but
withal perfervid adorer, heads off the rest of the
Hock with quaint persistency. There ought to be
a social by-law which enjoins the counting out by
effluxion of time of the pathetic adorer who has
failed to persuade after a given number of years.
Failing that, he should be fined for obstructing
the traffic.
At the welcome-back reception to Mrs. J. C.
Williamson, last week, Mr. Julius Knight told
divers guests that two fortune-tellers had prophe-
sied knighthood for him. Also they informed
him he was a great actor and dress-designer. “ Yet
neither of the Mesdames Endor knew him by sight.”
The italics were in his voice. The truly great
man has the simple trustfulness of the child.
Well, while Lent is sitting heavily on Sydney’s
chest, there is nothing to write about, so I’ll go
into the Witch of Endor business, and prophesy
concerning,
Sir Julius Knight.
Arbiter Elegantiarium.
Time : 1915. Place : A magnificent temple in the middle
of the main block of the capital of the Commonwealth of
Australia. Above the temple door is the inscription,
“ Julius Knight, Arbiter Elegantiarium."
In a superbly decorated hall of the building Julius
Knight is discovered seated on a throne-like emin-
ence. The Arbiter is wearing golden boots, orchid-
mauve silk tights, and a sleeveless tunic of mauve
and old-rose satin. A mauve and silver cloak hangs in
splendid negligence from his shoulders, and a laurel
wreath rests upon his brows. His breast shines as the
stellar system with orders and decorations. Bousing
himself from profound meditation the Arbiter touches a
bell. An Individual in a striking uniform of black, em-
broidered with crimson waratahs, enters.
Julius : I will give audience.
The Individual bows and begins to walk out backwards.
Julius : Stay—who are waiting?
Individual (reading from a rose-leaf scroll names in-
scribed in silver lettering) : Her Excellency the Consort
of the Federal Governor, Miss Corisande Soprano, Mrs.
Buster-Cross, Mrs. Cooma and her niece, a coming de-
butante, Lady Monaro-Jindabyne (the Arbiter starts con-
vulsively), Dame Dalgety, Colonel
Julius: Enough. How many more wait?
Individual: One-hundred-and-seventy-four, sir, includ-
ing several Cabinet Ministers and Senators.
Julius: Get me a snake bracelet, then usher in her
Excellency.
Enter the wife of the Federal Governor. She is a tall,
handsome woman, with red hair. The Arbiter rises, comes
down as far as the third step of his throne, and bows
slightly. The lady curtseys deeply, the Individual places
a chair for her, and retires backwards. The Arbiter
returns to his throne.
Her Excellency (anxiously): I trust. Sir Julius, you
see your way to let me win back my waning popularity.
Julius : I see it increased tenfold, Madame. I spent the
morning in meditation upon a ball gown for you. Have
you destroyed your imported clothes—in fact, all those
not designed by me?
Her Ex. : All. I have absolutely no gowns hut this
bunya-bunya one and the morning frocks of sheoak-green
embroidered with wattle.
Julius : The ball gown I have imagined for you will be
of bottle-brush flower red, embroidered with flights of
bell-birds. You will wear a mopoke in your coiffure.
This is a bare outline. The details of making, toning,
shading, and accessories cannot be described, which fact
makes me sorry for the Society papers. But no lan-
guage can convey the subtlety of my taste and skill. The
gown will be made on you to the accompaniment of
music specially composed for the occasion. 1 will be pre-
sent at intervals during the earlier creation of the gown,
and towards the finale I shall not leave the operating
theatre.
Her Ex. (dejectedly): About how long shall I have to
stand ?
Julius : About forty-six hours. You will, of course,
afterwards go into the hospital attached to the Hall of
Fitting, and recover in time for my next imaginative
masterpiece. Yonr Excellency’s audience is ended.
He comes to the second step and bows. The lady is
ushered opt with a ruffle of drums.
Telephone bell rings in an outer, chamber. Enter an
Individual in a uniform of sky blue with a design of
flannel flowers and rabbits.
Rabbit Individual : Sir, from Sydney, Field-Marshal
Gordon speaking. He wishes to know if spurs will con-
tinue to be worn at State balls? There is a rumor that
you have interdicted—
Julius : So I have—worn on the heels. Say to the Field-
Marshal that in future spurs will be worn at Society
functions, one behind each ear. The possibility of
gowns designed by ME being ruined by men’s spurs was
intolerable.
Second Individual disappears. First Individual reap-
pears.
Julius : Show in Mrs. Buster-Cross. First, remove that
chair. None but Her Excellency sits in my presence.
Mrs. Buster-Cross, a huge, fat'lady of about 55, waddles
in, beaming and panting, and looking around for the
haven of a seat. The Arbiter bows without rising.
Mrs. 8.-O. : Ow, Sir Julius, I was that glad when I’d
heard you’d been re-elected Arbiter Frockiorum.
Julius (interrupting sternly): What, madam ?
Mrs. 8,-C. : Arbiter Frockiorum and—
Julius (furiously) : You mean Arbiter Elegantiarium.
Mrs. 8.-C. : I ’ope I haven’t offended you, Sir Julius.
Why, I never missed one of your first nights when you
was a play-actor, and always sent you a bokay. Frocki-
orum is easier to say than the other thing.
Julius (icily): What would you with me, madam?
Mrs. 8.-C. : I’d love for you to think out a street gown
for me, Sir Julius. Something like no one else has, Sir
Julius.
Julius : It shall be unique. Come back in three
months’ time to try it on.
Mrs. 8.-C. : ’Scuse me, Sir Julius, but m-may I ask
what you think you’ll give me?
Julius : I shall dress you in an arrangement of
umbrellas, Madame. The "collection will form one gown
and a head covering. Kindly hand a retaining fee of
five hundred guineas to my secretary. Retire backwards,
please.
She tries to do so, looking stunned. Falls full length.
Four Individuals rush in and are helping her out when the
Arbiter utters a shriek and reels on his throne. The four
Individuals abandon Mrs. Buster-Cross and rush to their
Master.
Julius (pointing to fourth Individual): Out minion—
out of my sight. When I designed your uniform, I never
intended it to come into the color scheme of those three.
Out, the discord sears mine eyeballs.
Exit of lady and offending minion.
Julius : Usher in Miss Corisande Soprano !
(Enter a pretty prima-donna, exquisitely frocked,
whose voice has made her world-famous. The Arbiter
rises and bows. She looks haughtily at him.)
Julius : Your management, Miss Soprano, has sent you
to me to be dressed.
Miss Soprano (furiously): lam dressed, sir.
Julios (smiling): Pardon—you are covered with—with
• —some garments. Not once in a million years is a person
great in two great arts. I am the exception. I was a great
actor and lam a great dress-designer. The role of dual
greatness may be borne only by a god or a demi-god.
There be those who say I am the latter—but let that pass.
1 wearied of the great duality, and abandoned one art.
You are a great singer. I was present at your openings
night, noticed your faultless voice, and witnessed your
failure. No Australian audience will accept a star, who is
not gowned to my designing.
Miss Soprano (raging): My dresses were designed by
myself, in conjunction with Doucet, Paquin, Viola, and
the Viennese
Julius (coming down to the third step, one leg
advanced, knee bent, and his arms folded on the gable of
his chest): Those persons have no spiritual insight. They
are materialists. I have the gift of gowns just as to a
favored few in ancient days was given the gift of
tongues—l do not mean ox tongues. Now, every note
and semitone in your beautiful voice has its color com-
plement. I see these colors, and I am going to design
your opera gown in harmony with your vocal register.
Miss Soprano (sneering) : Perhaps you can tell me the
color of my highest note.
Julius: A pearl tone. Heaven’s gates are of pearl—
“ hark to the lark,” etc. Heaven’s gate sings. Come to-
morrow for your first fitting. Your audience is ended,
Mademoiselle. Retreat backwards, please.
Second Individual : Question by telephone from Mel-
bourne, sir. General Percy Buckley wishes to know if he
is wearing his new order, the Lithgow Iron Cross, cor-
rectly.
Julius : Where is he wearing it ?
Second Individual : Over his heart, sir.
Julius: Incorrect. He should wear it as I wore my
Iron Cross in my 1908 revival of “ The Prisoner of Zenda ”
—on his stomach.
Second Individual (bowing): And, sir
Julius : Say on.
Second Individual : Colonel Fox is speaking from Kos-
ciusko. He wishes to know when you will be at liberty
to inspect the Easter camp, as lie cannot start the
manoeuvres until you approve of the arrangements.
Julius : Where is the camp ?
Second Individual : Between two spurs of Mount Kos-
ciusko.
Julius: That is most inconvenient for me, and for a
possible invading force. Am I briefed in <he case?
Second Individual; Yes, sir, at a guinea a minute.
The site was selected solely for spectacular effect of back-
ground, the Colonel says.
Julius : Very good. Order my express Flyer for three
to-morrow. Meantime, send the Colonel photographs of
my groupings of my people in “ Claudian ” and “ The Sign
of the Cross.”
Exit Second Individual. Enter four hospital nurses,
dressed in chocolate and turquoise, and bearing on a
couch a fair young woman who has fainted. She is robed
in a beautiful gown of pink and white.
Nurse (speaking): Sir, your color schemers and cutters
thought you might like to see Miss Alfreda Cooma in her
presentation gown. She became insensible just as they
were finishing it on her.
Julius : Bring her closer. Let music sound.
Band outside strikes up.
Julius (screaming): Stop, stop them ! Silence those
trumpets ! Their sound is scarlet, and this lady is wear-
ing pink ! Oh, what torture !
Sinks back on his throne, perspiration beading his
brow.
Trumpets are silenced. Viols and flutes play. The
Arbiter comes to the third step, folds his arms on the
spire or turret of his chest, and inspects the fainted girl,
murmuring “ That design is so fair that my sense aches
at the sweetness of my work. Are those sleeves cut on the
bias ? ”
Nurse : Surely, sir, if you ordered so.
He motions the tableau away and returns to his throne.
Enter First Individual.
Julius: Get me another bracelet, then show in Lady
Monaro-Jindabvne.
Enter a Radiant Vision. The Arbiter seems to lose
nerve. He comes as far as the third step, bows, and
treads on the train of his cloak. Radiant Vision sweeps
up smiling, and talking at the Arbiter in a faintly American
accented voice. She floats up to the throne still talking
and, seeing no seat, sinks down upon it.
Julius (interrupting the ripple of fluff): Lady Monaro
Jindabyne ! Surely your face is familiar ! Ah--1 knoio.
We starred within the same orbit. You were Miss Ola
Humphrey?
Lady Monaro- Jindabyne : Wh) r , yes, Sir Julius ; knight-
hood flowered for both of us.
Julius : You married the Deputy-Governor of the
Federal Site? I recollect. And in what way can I serve
you, Madame?
Lady Monaro-Jindabvne : You know that in the Hall
of .Esthetics the election of Arbiter Elegantiarium for
1916 is now taking place ?
Julius (with a kingly gesture): A foregone conclusion,
Lady. The tribunal elects me year alter year.
Lady Monaro-Jindabvne : But I am already a thousand
votes ahead of you. Look from yon oriel window and
see the returns—lettered against the skyline. (He sways
slightly.) I beg you be seated. Take a corner of this throne
or a step of it. You can serve me in this way : Let me
have your stock of materials, your patterns and work-
people a.t your own price. My election is a foregone
conclusion, and you
The Arbiter staggers and falls at the foot of the
throne. Attendants swarm in. Confusion and outcries.
Julius (in choking tones): Cut the skirt with a flare at
the foot. Where is the limelight ? [Dies.]
A procession of sixteen nurses bound for the hospital
with eight insensible ladies who have fainted during the
fitting-on process passes through the hall to slow
music. On seeing the remains of Julius they drop the
eight ladies with eight thuds.
When Mrs. Carreho, the pianiste, was here she
told us what she thought of the Parramatta River,
and expounded how to make coffee and prepare
macaroni, but she told nothing as good as an item
she gave an American journalist on her present
tour through the XI. S.A. Many years ago, after
a successful appearance in London, she was in the
greenroom, surrounded by friends, when Pach-
mann, the famous pianist, rushed in and fell
on the middle of his trouser-legs before her.
“See, Madame,” he cried, “on mv knees
I acknowledge you Queen of Pianists! Most
glorious of artists! Regal woman ! turn-
ing to Godonski, Busoni, and Rosentha , who
were present, he demanded that they should a so
kneel and do a profound grovel. Carreno ip
broken up with embarrassment, the others wi
merriment; and even after Vert, the manager,
had persuaded the enthusiast to leave, he rushe
back to get off some more heroics and to further
abase himself at the shrine. A year later the
pianiste’s daughter, Teresita, met
Berlin. “I know your mother,” he said ; a
beautiful woman, but she shouldn’t play the
piano.”
Mr. Arthur Pratt, a Sydneysider who some-
times raises a pleasant voice in song and occa-
sionally breaks out “lettery,” as variations in his
commercial career, was married last Saturday to
Miss Jane Annie Talbot, a young Maonlander.
The bride’s mother afterwards held a reception at
Petty’s Hotel. The pair are going off by the
Asturias for a tour.
Mrs. Coghlan, a valuable member of the Child
Study Association Committee, returns to the Old
Cold' World, and to make her sorry to leave this
shining land, the C.S.A. gave her an afternoon
full of tea, speeches, music, and compliments at
Baumann’s Cafe. So that she will have an abiding
memory to carry away with her, the. C.S.A. in-
cluded in its gifts an autograph album, in which
most of “those present ” inscribed their names in
the sort of characters that the bank would look
at hard before it paid the cheque.
Talking of the C.S.A. charity, Mrs. Izett, the
deputy president, wishes to acknowledge dona-
tions of money from Mrs. J. Gordon Legge, Mr.
A. Henry Uther, of Homebush (£2), and the
Trig. Survey Camp at Mount Hope (£2). Since
I first made appeal, more than a year ago, on be-
half of this struggling (and, so far as the Govern-
ment is concerned, unfriended) charity, the Trig.
Survey Campers have responded with a pound a
month. Good boys ! A lady writing from the
Barrier, Shoalhaven, sends a donation on what
should have been her baby’s second birthday.
“He was drowned last August, just as he was
toddling,” she says ; “ I send this mite to help re-
lieve some poor mother’s aching heart thro’ her
little ones. I wish it were more, but I will send
you what I can each year as this month comes
round.” Miss Ruby Guest, with the assistance of
Miss Ada Baker, is arranging a concert in aid of
the funds of the C.S.A.
Miss Amy Mack, a sister of Louise the poet
and storyist, was married a few weeks ago to a
son of the late Dr. Harrison, of Sydney. The
bride was about to get into her till-as-long-as-ye-
both-shall-live gown last year, when, instead of
taking her the bridegroom took appendicitis, and
the wedding was delayed.
Miss Kate Rooney—still keeping the name of
her single days—writes to one of the managerial
Taits now in Sydney to say that she longs to have
another sight of our 3,000,000 square miles of
territory and our 8000 miles of coast line (N.B. —I
learnt these figgers from Mr Deakin’s Defence
speech on Saturday night), but the restrictions of
a husband and home must be considered, and the
contralto can’t leave the young man and the old
house. She says it is “a very old cottage, stand-
ing in a beautiful secluded garden, full of old
lilacs, holly, roses, and a mulberry tree 35ft. high
and sft. round the bole.” The place was a present
from the bride’s father-in-law. Really, some
fathers-in-law seem to have been brought up
properly.
The opening of N.S.W. State Parliament,
being a male scoffer’s description :
An astonishing function took place the other day. A
gentleman in a long black gown walked into a large room
in which were congregated a number of other gentle-
men —mostly of middle age. The man in the long black
gown had something on his head. It was constructed of
the stuff that grows on the last end of a horse. It was
very long, and, as the sides hung down on the wearer’s
shoulders, you could only see about two-thirds of
his countenance. He took a chair in a prominent
position, and sat down, looking very hot and
top-heavy. After a little while there was a commo-
tion outside, and another man with a black stick, which
looked as if it might be intended for turning off high gas-
jets, stalked in and told all the middle-aged men and the
person under the thing made out of the stuff that grows
on the end of the horse, to follow him. He led
them into another room, where they found another
crowd of mostly middle-aged gentlemen, several
men in br'ght-colored clothes, a large number of
women, and a personage in a long, sharp gilded
hat. Here and there among the crowd were men who
were evidently billiard-markers, as they had cues in their
hands. It looked as if the Hat intended to give the Wig
100 up, but instead it read something out of a paper, and
shortly afterwards went home. Then all the middle-aged
gentlemen and the Wig dispersed to their places, and
started to talk. Parliament had commenced.
Wherein lies the fascination of that English
cricketer? One of Melbourne’s prettiest women
has for long regarded him with the eye of interest
(which is much the same as the gaze of regard, and
like, in many respects, unto the optic of love), and
has been tracking him to various portions of the
Commonwealth during the past few weeks, the
better to view his deeds. And now another
female, who is described as “ a wealthy widow
of attractive appearance,” has dashed off to
Perth in the wake of the fortunate youth, openly
announcing her firm resolved to journey to
England on the same ship with him, even if
she gets her entire stock of footwear spoiled in
the process. On the surface he looks a common-
place young gladiator enough, remarkable for
little barring a small, sleek head and an immense
capacity for silence. Again am I impelled to
demand wherein lurks his magnet-like traction
power in regard to my sex ?
Mrs. Frank Bennett, of Fernleigh, Rose Bay,
will leave for England, with her youngest
daughter and two sons, in the Mongolia, at the
end of, next month. Frank Bennett was one of
three sons of Samuel Bennett, who founded the
Town and Country Journal and Evening
News, partly on the ruins of the Empire that
Parkes built. “ Fernleigh,” at Rose Bay, is the
old home of Mr. C. W. Roberts, father of C. J.
Roberts, M.L.C. Only one of the three sons of
Samuel Bennett now remains—Christopher, of
Sutton Forest.
Mr. Ernst-Cassell, one of Sydney’s well-known
commercial men, writingfrom B&le, in Switzerland,
where he and his family are moored for a
few years, mentions the difficulty he—or
anyone—has in getting a house—a whole
house—in the Helvetian republic. People
there don’t shift as they do in Australia. Here
nearly half our population would seem to live on
the top of a furniture van, so readily do they move,
and the house dog lives in a cloud of dust
behind the van rushing for his new residence.
In Switzerland, if a man owns a house-
well, he lives in it. He has built it or
bought it to live in. He doesn’t dream of build-
ing another house and letting it. So the flat-
habit is rampant. Nearly all the people live in
flats, which are of all sizes and prices.
Miss Lily Brayton (who is the wife of the Aus-
tralian-born actor, Oscar Asche) has taken the
prize for Rosalind in a competition for the ideal
cast of “As You Like It.” The prize, given by
the Free Lance, was a thirty-five-guinea dressing
gowm, and Miss Brayton won it with 49,000 votes.
Also did she snap the Juliet competition and
a consequent prize—a thirty-fl ve-guinea coat and
skirt. Why doesn’t some Sydney newspaper offer
a prize for the woman who looks worst after being
caught in heavy rain while clad in light clothes,
fancy shoes and a tulle hat ?
The Seventeenth of Ireland (Tuesday) will be
celebrated at Medlow Hydro in a way reminiscent
of the “ Admirable Crichton ” joke, played here
by Mr. Cuyler Hastings. The arrangement is
that the guests at the Hydro will wait upon the
servants at supper, and, if fresh guests arrive
during the evening, they will be shown to their,
rooms by other guests, disguised as Merely Mary'
Medlows and George Hall-Porters.
Five veterans, Crimean or Indian Mutiny sur-
vivors, have been looked up,, or rather tracked
out, by Mrs. Rutter, acting for the Women’s
Branch of the British Empire League. They were
in the Rookwood Asylum. The oldest is Captain
Dann, who is 90 years of age ; “ you don’t count
a man’s years till he has nothing else to count,”
says some wiseacre. The youngest is over 60.
These men have been given pensions by the
8.E.L., and will have no need to stop longer in
the Rookwood Home, unless they desire to do so.
The rescue of the veterans is an act that will be
counted unto the B.E.L. for righteousness.
Miss Brenda Lee, a daughter of Colonel Lee,
who used to be potentate of the rusty cannon
enclosure at South Head, or George’s Head, or
some other head, in this State, and who is now
military Commandant in South Australia, is soon
to wear the orange-blossom coronet. She met
Him on a recent visit to London, and his name is
Mr. Harry Knight.
A card for St. Vincent’s Ball intimates that the
(usually) big charity function will occur on April
22. But the bit of pasteboard is the first and only
intimation I have got that the ball was in process
of being set rolling.
Australia has just got the very kind word from
Alice Henry, who once nibbled her penholder in
Melbourne. She has an article on “Australia’s
New' Protection ” in the February Outeook, the
N’York organ of economics ; and in it she builds
up a fine advertisement for this country, using the
new Act and Justice Higgins’ first decision under
it as a foundation. A “powerful protest,” she
calls this new movement, “that even a successful
industry is not everything, and that the human
being and the conditions that go to make a com-
munity of happy beings are more important than
any material success” ; and by -way of a last word
she tells the U.S. that this country of ours is
“raising the social-ethical standard of the whole
world.” No wonder Uncle Sam is sending his
fleet to see us !
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The Secret of Youth has been sought in all
ages. By warriors and saints, by sages and coquettes, by
priests and laymen, by queens and milkmaids, by poor
and rich, by the good and the ignoble. In the quest,
empires have been overthrown, and the world drenched
with blood and tears. And yet it’s very simple. The
secret of youth is to keep young. The thing to do is to
get the better of time in the great game. Every woman
can do it, and every woman wants to do it, but so few
know the way. Now-, Mdlle. Helena Rubinstein has been
showing the way for more than five years. It’s wonderful
how blind people can be to their own interests. The wav,
then, for all wise women, lies in Valaze, the infallible
Russian Skin Food, 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. a jar. Associated
with Valaze in the ministry of beauty are the Valaze
Skin Tonic, a banisher of wrinkles, 3s. 6d. a Dottle, and
the Valaze Herbal Soap, pure and economical, 2s. a cake.
All leading chemists, or direct from the Valaze Massage
Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; and 9 Brandon Street, Wellington, N.Z.* [I
HE SIMPLE WAY TO CURE
INDIGESTION.
• Indigestion, or dyspepsia, is a condition in-
dicating that the stomach is unable to properly
digest its food. Indigestion may show itself in
belcliings of wind, heavy feeling of pain aftet
eating, and in more severe cases there is headache,
dizziness, pains between the shoulders, and alter-
nately constipation and diarrhoea. The simple
way to cure indigestion is to make the stomach
strong enough to perform its duties. This can
only be done through the blood, and the best
blood-making medicine is Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, which tone the whole system, and make
men and women healthy and happy. A Brisbane
woman confirms this :
“I never had a day’s sickness in my life till I got in-
digestion,” said Mrs. Nicholas Culbert, Robert Street,
Spring Hill, Brisbane. “It came on slowly and got worse.
What I ate lay on my chest like a ton weight. I couldn’t
touch potatoes or meat or tea. Often the sight of food
made me ill for the rest of the day. I belched up a lot
of wind, and my mouth was always filled with a lot of
sour, scalding fluid. My tongue was coated and mv skin
was yellow. The headaches I had were cruel. At times I
could hardly see, my eyes got so hazy and things looked
blurred. I felt worse in hot weather. There were days
when I could hardly lift my head from the pillow.
“ When I walked my heart jumped like mad, and it was
hard for me to get my breath. I had always a cold feeling
in the pit of my stomach, and I felt wretched and irritable.
I seemed to have no strength to look after the house.
Often it had to look after itself. Some nights I lay awake
till nearly morning, and all that day I would be sleepy
and drowsy. I had attacks of giddiness, and when these
came on it, was just as if I was going to faint off. I went
to the Brisbane Hospital for about a month. The doctor
said I had indigestion, hut I got no relief. I was sick like
this for about two years when a friend from Auckland,
N.Z., told me about Ur. Williams’ Pink Pills, as they did
him a lot of good. I suppose I must have taken quite a
dozen boxes altogether. Now lam well and hearty and
look very much better.”
Remember, Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People
actually make new blood—nothing more. They don’t act
on the bowels. No other medicine can strike at the root
of disease like they do. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are good
in a special way for the secret blood troubles that ruin
the regular health of growing girls and women. If you
are not sure whether Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are suited
to your own case, write for hints as to diet, etc., to the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Sydney. From the same
address you can order the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills at 2s. 9d. a box ; six boxes 15s. 3d., post free.*


BY APPOINTMENT
HARDY
BROTHERS LTD
-JEWELLERS • WATCHMAKERS • SILVERSMITHS
Mramor\tJ § Pe.eirl
5.3-10
Green Tourmaline x Pearl
•
Pearl Diamond $ Turquoise
Coi
i J CCU-l
S I
Diamoixd # Pe.ctrl
SAK
Fine. Diamond.Ttud JErrrrmtv
ils-5/o S.
Diarn ond-s Peurl
Turquoise. Pearl
A 4-12
Diamond y> Peridot
• ■
•Gr"s-
puotuniQ v
•G^f
luouiorcrS
I3HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON ‘ADDRESS • I9CHARTERHOUSF • STREET
is
X
/war
!?!?.* sun u?z,*c
•fir
- R
»■'*.- • - ‘
T—
✓
\
I \
••' X^X
S
■/ri&xaxi «raf ■rnwiM KM.c.atfda
e. <a a.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND ana
PORT DARWIN.
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. L'arge, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking via Japan,
Canada, United States of America, and Europe.
_ Agents sn Australia
GIBBS, BRIGHT & C?
AMSSJUDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY. BRISBANE.
GEERfEU STREET. && QUEEN STREET. &EWTSIXTET. EAGIE STREET.
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, <a.c.,
forwarded to any address on application.
You Want a Good Watch
THE ONLY THING YOU CAN PAY CASH
FOR, AND YET HAVE “ON TICK.”
Gentleman’s 10-ct. Solid Gold Hunt-
Cased Keyless Elgin Lever Watch.
® u y now, as the duty is up 10 per cent.
Price, £8 10s.
We show here some of the best and most popular
styles of Watches now made. They combine Neat-
ness, Elegance, Quality, and Strength. Send along
your order now, you can't do better. Remember —
money back if the Watch you buy does not open
up to your satisfaction. You run absolutely no risk
when you deal with STEWART DAWSON & CO.
/
The Thinnest 12-Size American Watch
made. A 1 Elgin Lever Movement,
14-ct. Gold Case. For a man who
appreciates smartness this is the watch.
£8 10s.
This is a specially fine 10-ct.
Gold Full Hunting Elgin
Lever, and we can advise
any lady to wear it, as it is
good both in case and works.
Free and safe by post for
20 YEAR
This shows our 14-ct. Gold-
Filled Watch for Women.
Sound, Serviceable, and
worth three of any cheap all-
gold watch. JE4 10s.
Our Special Thin Model Keyless Steel Crystal
Front Lever. The Best Guinea Watch in
Australia. .£1 Is.
DON’T
DEL A Y,
WRITE
TO-DA Y
TO
STRAND CORNER,GEQRCF
Gentleman’s 25-year 14-ct.
Gold-filled Hunting Case
Elgin Lever Watch. Im-
mensely superior to a cheap
all-gold watch. £5 10s.
25 YEAR
iS
&
WRITE FOR OUR
FREE
CATALOGUES.


'Urconnc-MDC'D -
&T THiT LANCIrT
ncpicAL
•Faculty™
• o=o=o
We would hKc
yoD-V? ■\ry
Cample • nr\
of - our-expense
r*rr^:yz>L
.1
Oer\d • Ppslcord
for • Pqqk lct= •
jpf trp Tntr\”
• cyo*o
JOUBERT & JOUBERT,
Flinders St., Melbourne.
CLAUDE HEALY & CO.,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. E. JOUBERT,
Perth, W.A.
;; MJERD JfiCOHWPC
THE SECRET
of a
GRACEFUL
FIGURE.
&
tyioi
fed
(el
f'
PD.
CORSETS
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, March 16, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie.—
The reassembling of the Australian Parliament
(it was really only the Reps, who resumed their
eternal argument, but one, somehow, can’t regard
the Senate as “Parliament”) struck me as being
a far more impressive ceremony than usual. There
was no blaze of gold lace, no parade of expensively-
uniformed soldiery, no flaunt of useless person-
ages, no ceremony. Members just turned up and
bogged in. Why this common sense, I can’t
say ; but certainly it created a precedent which
should be nursed into a custom.
Greetings amongst members were quite joyous.
Like children, they’re glad to return from the
family holidays to their work and excitements.
Deakin, Lyne and Forrest were the centres
of large groups. Little Kelly, looking very
little better for his furlough, and waving a
superlatively English accent as though it were
a falchion, was bombarded with congratu-
lations. Members’ voices had a note of sincerity
as they wished him happiness. His quiet and
unobtrusive sidle into matrimony saved them
the trouble of making a presentation. (Though,
after all, the presentation is not circulated to any
extent. The Parliamentarian, these days, is old
enough to be condoled with upon the arrival of a
sixth consecutive daughter, or cynical enough to
have established himself as a chrenic bachelor.)
In the ladies’ gallery, the only political wife
on view was demure Mrs. Austin Chapman. And,
of course, the inevitable Mrs. Duffy, wdio is almost
as regular an auditor as her clerkly Charles,
was attending the “Grievances” debate before
Supply in a dainty gown and a complexion veil.
Mrs. John Forrest made no appearance. That
lady’s harp is hung upon a willow twig, and she
weeps by. the waters of Babylon since the Emperor
remains without office. When Mrs. John urged
the big man to resign from the Cabinet, and make
a crisis, she didn’t contemplate the probability
that the “crisis” would affect only him. That
resignation was to have brought the Common-
wealth up with a round turn. It seems only to
have permanently relieved the Treasury benches
of a very heavy weight.
The Olive Morrell-Kelly dame promises to be, as
a gallery goddess, as constant to her high priest as
Mrs. Robinson or Mrs. Charlie Duffy. In the
past week she’s made several appearances at the
House to receive congratulations from the col-
leagues of her Kelly. She gowns rather amazingly
since her return —a white maidenly frock, worn
with a rakish red hat, seems to strike the keynote
of her trousseau. By the way, fellow-voyagers
allege that the alliance was finally arranged
with haste and little advertisement. The
engagement didn’t come off till a fortnight
before the marriage day which robbed Willie
of his chief charm, and made him into
merely “the man who married Olive Morrell.”
The same tattlers enlarge upon the bride’s appli-
cation of a subtle refrigerating process to casual
acquaintances, and her well-developed hauteur.
Her smaller-half, on the other hand, isquite human-
ised. Which is the way of some men and women.
A petticoat never feels sure of herself until she
has corralled a man, and a politician seldom feels
certain of anything once a woman has captured
him.
Rupert. Clarke gaily announces that he has
joined forces with Meynell and Gunn and John
Wren, for the purpose of encouraging Australian
genius. In an interview he cites Francie Adler as
an incitement to embark on such an enter-
prise, and hints at that clever young person’s
return for a singing season. It’s a fine prospect
—capital devoting itself to the arts ; but in the
Clarke instance capital is likely to be a victim.
Imagine how the amiable Rupert will be rushed
by the pretty fools who fancy that footlights spell
fortune, and how his good nature will coerce him
into promising them engagements and fame.
Sing heigh-ho for the popular patron of the Arts !
There were a few brief moments at Fleming-
ton, on Australian Oup Day, when the swish
and swirl of petticoats was hushed, and the
raucous cries of Isaac ceased. A big silence
fluttered down. The bell tolled painfully and
slow. Vale, Hopetoun ! Then, the few seconds
of mourning-to-order over, they raced and rooked
again. It’s a strange, make-believe world.
Melbourneites trail back from Hobart with gay
stories of races and revels and war-boat entertain-
ments. Ten ironclads, of more or less importance,
poked their impudent noses over the very streets
of the city, and the city sat up late and murdered
sleep, and cast the remains into the Derwent, and
didn’t go home till morning. Mrs. Dutton, an
Adelaide beauty girl who recently annexed a
Sydney millionaire or thereabouts, was appar-
ently the pace-maker and top-notcher in frocking
and frivol. A M‘Leod maiden cast off the som-
breness of recent mourning, and blossomed into
an ecstasy of frothy frill, and waded into a good
time generally.
The Bar and the Army dropped the shackles of
years last week, hunted out grubby old college
caps and spick and span flannels, and rushed the
Anglican Church Grammar School ground to
play cricket. They played early—then Lunched.
When later ye fayre ladyes came to Afternoon
Tea and to help things on with a smile and a
polite glove-patter, the cricket was not too bril-
liant, maybe the effect of the Lunch. Donald
Mackinnon flapped round in voluminous white
pants like a divided skirt, captaining the Bar team.
Major-General Hoad headed the Army side, and
gave points in swagger youthfulness to his sons.
Governor Northcote and Mr. Share walked
round for a companionable little talk, and the
slim General spared valuable minutes from his
sporting enthusiasm. The dowager Holroyd dame
hostessed. She is a wonderful old lady, and
keeps her beaming, handsome place with youthful
enthusiasm. Imposing Mrs. Mackinnon watched
“Donald’s ” pranks with a supercilious eye. The
Frank Maddens made a stolid corner. Mrs.
Captain Hall, Mrs. Peters and Mrs. Whiting
“partied” in a jolly way, as did Mrs. Erie with
Mrs. Cunningham and the handsome Millar dame.
Mrs. “Jack” Hamilton had a strong mayoral
following from Brighton way. A solitary M‘Leod
sister topped her jetty hair with a royal purple
shout, and trailed yards of black and white silk.
The women laved their loneliness from time to
time with tea in a tent, and absently applauded
a stroke now and again without knowing much of
the true inwardness of the situation.
The Cliveden dowager’s effort to appear at
Melba’s farewell was against her doctor’s advice,
and the occasion was the last at which she has
shown in public. She has been in bed for some
time, undergoing a rest-cure, and eking out a
cheerless time on liquid diet. She harrows her
attendants’ nerves by insisting on seeing people,
with a consequent rise in temperature every time.
There are a number of over-scrupulous persons
in holy Adelaide. During the excavations for
new Government offices a water-pipe burst, and
the foundations of the adjacent Town Hall, par-
ticularly those of its tower, were imperilled.
Thereupon common - sensible Superintendent
Smyth ordered his men to work all Saturday
afternoon, and as much of the “ Sabbath ’’ as was
necessary to ensure safety. Now certain pious
people have arisen and showered torrents of abuse
on him, arguing that he should have left the ox,
or the public building, in the pit to perish.
Melba left some valuable gifts behind. She
presented the Melbourne Public Library with
some original musical manuscripts, an original
“Liede ohne Worte ” of Mendelssohn’s, an auto-
script of Schumann, also an original of a Weini-
awski, and another of Marchesi. The songstress
will have to rush the moment she reaches Europe.
She is due at Covent Garden on May 16, to take
up a new r6le of “ Tosca.” The warbler intends
to leave the Orontes at Naples with her biggest
green car, and her chauffeur, and will toot wildly
for Paris. On the way she will sit back and study
the Italian of her part. That sort of thing can’t be
done in Victoria, for there the hurried motorist is
in the air most of the time, but they are said to
manage things better in France and Italy.
It was a deplorable omission on the invitation
cards for the Toorak Paynes’ dance last week not
to mention that the shivoo was given chiefly in
honor of Mrs. Pinhey, a Sydney dame guesting
at the mansion. The conjunction of Payne and
Pinhey would have been so touching.
Poor little Joan Burnett —daughter of Jennie
Lee, gave life’s battle best a few days ago,
defeated by galloping consumption. Miss Bur-
nett came here to play in “Peter Pan.”
She had played in “P.P.”for some hundreds of
nights in London, and knew “the business” of
the play down to her artistic finger-tips. It was
hoped that the sun of Australia would help her.
The Norman Menzies, and Rupert Clarke, and
Mr. Williamson, and various other people did
what they could for the poor little girl and her
bereaved mother.
Quite a section of the Tooraketty upper-crust
and a sugaring of St. Kildites motored to Mande-
ville Hall to watch an amat-ah perpetration of
“As You Like It,” on pastoral lines. It was an
out-of-door matinee, with the serious poseurs
strutting on the naked buffalo of the ancestral
lawn, and uttering their melancholy “Forsooth”
to the open air of Heaven (and Heaven, in the
cause of charity, granted a warm soft air). There
was a “Days of Old” dash in the flavor of the
setting. The Ross-Soden Lady of the Hall sat in
all pomposity in the centre of the ring, with a
dainty purple-clad Governoress beside her, and a
My Eady This and That dotted thickly in the
vicinity. Lands Minister Mackey, a thick man
with bristly lip, flung himself with courtier grace
on the grass at the feet of the Northcote lady, and
the group looked like an opposition show doing
an act of “ Midsummer Night’s Dream.”
The mummers who “ entered ” from the blessed
shade of shrubberies suffered rather from a con-
sciousness of shanks—tights-clad and unsoftened
by friendly limelight. The “exit” degenerated
mostly into a frenzied bolt. A wedge of purple-
decked girls near the “ wings” giggled insanely,
and queered the cues,' and the voice of the
“ bushed ” prompter was a shout in the land.
The Titian-haired Evans sisters whirled in a
“ Morris Dance ” with professional verve. They,
had no “props,’’savetheir purple-bound toes on the
bare grass; they were green-clad, with a flash of
purple limbs and lurid-purple frills, and they
were decked with the red-gold of their own hair.
Miss Letitia Noseda made quite a fair Rosalind
and a shapely one withal ; and her Orlando, Mr.
George Morgan, voiced his say with good effect.
Poor Marie Torrance suffered from nervousness
and general limpness in her Celia part. The jolly
little girl is not usually so helpless in theatricals.
A “real” actor, George Coppin, practically
fathered the show, and played an excellent Adam.
Those who “ also ran ” don’t stand viewing. But
it was “all in the cause of charity ” and was a
goodly deed.
Bendigo has a fine sense of humor. When
Premier Bent was holiday-making in Bull-land a
while ago, the Brighton heavyweight invested in
a Court uniform. At the send-off to Mrs. Lansell,
widow of the Golden King, someone passed the
word along to Thomas that all the Bendigo
Naicest were to put on their frills. The
Mayor was to wear his robes with the
famous gold chain, the Grand Panjandrum
would put on his pinny, Lieutenant Sabretache
would don his warpaint, and so on. It was
just the time to air the' 18-carat Court clothes.
Bent’s caution deserted him. The duds were
fished out of the moth-proof drawer, brushed up,
and the camphor shaken off them. When the
eventful day arrived, and Thomas climbed out of
a cab w’ith them all on, it was to discover the other
guests, so to speak, in their working things.
Thomas looked a dream. He looked something
that the mind of man couldn’t conceive. Cruick-
shank’s Mr. Bumble wasn’t in the same avenue
with him, and even the most Scotch Bendigo-
nians appreciated the joke.
The birth of The Opal, which is the. a ® co ,
number of The Heart of the Rose, which is a
magazine of mysticism, was celebrated OJ
crowded dinner at the Hotel 1 asoli. I ,
zine was funny, the dinner was edible in ?
flavored way, and the feeders looked q<
enough in the bizarre environment. Rut o •
there was a damp blanket of Stygian gloom-
Conversation was limited to endless mam
which were mystical by reason of their in
rence. Willie Mitchell, who is high-pnMt ot
Robert Harper’s counting-house and the mysrie
cult, also editor of the Opal, addresse -
gathering on subjects which ranged from >- ‘ '■
peare to bricklaying. Or, rather, he a P°
phised an adjacent hat-stand in thrilling -•
He carefully avoided satisfying the straining < ■ ■
of his audience —that would have e ,
materialistic. Round about sat some superna
looking ladies, who enjoyed a soul -scratching
session. John Shirlow talked sense and
couldn’t find a listener, and Dr. Maloney,
M.H.R., went asking piteously R>r an
elucidation of the Opal’s most lucid page. u >-
Usher Lothian sat with a little sister fresh trot
Girton, and tried to look as though he wasn t
partially responsible for the affair. And pre-
sently one after another was blown into the outer
darkness by the storm of yawns which distnrbe
the mystic dulness. A future number of the
great production is to be called The Light in the
Mist, or The Mist in the Mud, or something
like that.
Walter Phillips, a Royal Bank important, de-
parted for Fogland last week, on the Ophir, with
a little new bride. The lady was Miss “Kodak -y
Rouse, of Kew, before she became Missus
Phillips.
The Victorian Artists’ Society opened its season
of wild Bohemian revelry with a macaroni suppei
and a caricature competition the other night, lhe
macaroni was a thing of beauty in chrome half-
tones on white plates. The caricatures were
mostly insulting—either by reason of their likeness,
or their omissions. One of the neatest libels was
Wilkie’s sketch of William Moore. It was the
sort of joke that even its victim could smile at.
Another success—but rather as a portrait sketch
was plump, pretty Ruby Lindsay’s reproduction
of Will Dyson. A malevolent parody upon the
person of Phillips Fox—the night’s guest of honor
■ —won the prize, which amounted to a bush im-
pression by Ford Paterson.
Apart from the menu of macaroni and artists’
malice (which is the synonym for playful carica-
ture). Phillips Fox and his elaborately aesthetic
missus were welcomed by the fraternity. John
Mather did the welcoming with many coughs, and
that same tone of voice which one hears in his
paintings. And lots of young ladies, with very long
backs and white muslin frocks, poised themselves
on the tips of their spines, and pqsed amazingly.
E. P. Fox said his thanks in an undertone, and
his wife waved a fan in deprecation of so
many compliments. “Dug” Hart, Gadfly Dennis,
and half-a-dozen other vivacious males made neat
jests and a break in the flow of soulful dulness,
and Mrs. Fred McCubbin and her lately-returned
lord centred a changing crowd of folk who wanted
to hear whom and what “Mac” did see in his
wanderings.
Amongst all the picturesque people on view—
one of whom had a head like the Baptist’s when
’twas served up to Salome on a salver —copper-
tressed Elsie Fleming was the only one like a
beautiful painting. She looked as a Botticelli in
a collection of school drawings. Willie Mitchell
managed the orgies. At least he was responsible
for the beer and macaroni. He may be exoner-
ated of the caricatures.
The difference between a bias and a prejudice,
in these days of tight skirts, is one petticoat !
The Minister for Home Affairs, Senator
Keating, is enlarging his department—in the
domestic branch. Last year a daughter was born,
and was named “Tullamore,” after the birthplace
of their fathers (for Senator and Mrs. Keating are
cousins). Now a son comes to hand.
The Australian Literature Society held its
annual meeting on Thursday evening, at Furlong’s
studio, to a large, not fashionable, but apprecia-
tive audience. Two disappointments marked the
meetingrrJT. P. Mclnerney, the President, was
unable to take the chair because he had walked
through a plate-glass window on his balcony
the previous night. Also, the original paper
entitled “An Australian Drama,” by Grant
Hervey, had gone up in smoke at the conflagra-
tion of the Casterton post-office, and even the
talented author couldn’t decipher the ashes. A
hurried, but highly interesting skeleton, or resur-
rection, of the burnt document was read by the
secretary, Mr. U. Graham Weir.
Veteran musician Furlong played, and a
chorus of his pupils sang, one of his own pro-
ductions, “Australians of Australia,” the words
by Hilda Temple Kerr.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane :
Our vice-regal party fled back to Gabbinbar for one
more week’s repose on Monday, and on that day of next
week they will arrive back in town “ for keeps,” and
begin the season’s round by lending their social light to
the Q.T.C. St. Patrick’s meeting, and in the evening to
Erin’s annual concert. After that the vice-regal lady svill
open a bazaar or two and listen to the warbling of the
Butt-ltumford couple.
It’s a crusty old curmudgeon that bosses'the office of
the clerk of the weather in this distressful State. If the
villain can empty his water cans upon any sports or
social gathering he is supremely happy. , This after-
noon the weather embittered the opening day of
the Q.T.C. races, the naval and military display, a
big carnival in aid of the Toowong swimming baths, and
even the inter-State swimming carnival itself. Not con-
tent with this havoc, the river swelled and inundated the
wharves, which kept all hands and the cook busy getting
goods away. At one time there seemed every prospect
of a big flood, but, later, things improved, and although
the flood waters drowned a constable and several valuable
horses, the great sensation of ’93 was missing.
The last notable giving in marriage was a double-
barrelled affair, when the sisters Singe, whose work in
saving the souls of little poddy heathens has brought
them a subtle fame, were wedded. The happy men w’ere
G. Cecil Benson, of the Q.N.8., Rockhampton, and
G. F. Pierson, of the same money-box, Brisbane. Frances
and Lucy stood up to the job in gowns of white
chiffon taffeta and lace, white toques with plumes
and posies of lilies, as befitted maidens of good
mind. New Guinea Bishop Stone-Wigg who goes
Fogwards by the Asturias, tied the knot with care
while his missus looked on. Both happy couples are
doing your giddy city, with headquarters at the Metro-
pole.
Pretty warbler Bertha Morrison returned from a year’s
visit to the Cold Country by the Argyle this week
Mrs. Jim Robertson, with her irreproachable frocks is
back from the South, with a new stock of finery for the
races. Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Palmer have also drifted home
again from a jolly scramble all over Tasmania : and the
Baynes lady, with daughter Vera, is due this week.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
We have just achieved a new lifeboat for the south
eastern coast, and it was christened as the Undaunted
on Wednesday last. The deed was done with much
splendor and ceremony by Mrs. Kirkpatrick, wife of the
Chief Secretary. A crowd of official folk and a smatter-
ing of the frilly sex rushed to Largs by special train
swarmed on board the ancient war-tub Protector like
ants on whom strong drink has been poured shook the
fist of Naval Commandant Clare, who was hostS the
occasion, made speeches by the furlong and speeches by
the mile, and the deed was done. Afternoon tea and a
string- band assisted matters. Then the visitors were
escorted over the gallant Protector and initiated into the
mvsteries. Meanwhile the Undaunted was put through
its paces and parlor tricks prior to being sent off to Port
McDonnell, where it will save lives till further notice.
The coast thereabouts has more wrecks to its discredit
than any other part of S.A. It was there the Adniella
went down, and, in the endeavor to get help for its crew,
poet Adam Lindsay Gordon is said to have ridden his
gallant steed to an early grave.
Died last week, aged 79, Squatter Allan McFarlane, of
Wellington Lodge, one of South Australia’s most decorative
and extensive sheeperies. Mr. McFarlane came to the
State in' 1839, and had squatted on the Murray for 66
years By the side of the Big Trickle he had 43,000 acres
and a charming old house, with a long-distance telephone,
motors, and various other modern improvements. He
was something of an inventor, among other things, and
the Wellington Lodge woolshed, built and designed by
him is full of tricky devices intended to facilitate the re-
moval of the giddy jumbuck’s winter jacket. In the
earlv days the deceased was also an inspector of stock,
and’an explorer of the country round Lake Eyre. Lake
McFarlane is called after him. The family is one of vast
social and monetary tonnage, and can climb its genea-
logical tree right up to the place where it went over to
Scotland in the Ark with Ninian and Kentigern, who
were intimate friends of Julius Caesar (him who fell
on his own neck at the base of Pompey’s statue).
Brinkley, Wellington, and various other stations about
Lake Al'exandrina belong to members of deceased’s
family. There are several married daughters in N.S.W.
and Victoria. Miss Agnes McFarlane, the one unmarried
maiden, was in Britain at the time of her father’s decease.
South’ Australians still capture many sporting laurels
at Oxford. Roy Lister Robinson, Rhodes scholar for
1905 has just grasped the prize for putting the weight,
by covering 36ft. sin. W. R. Reynell, Rhodes scholar for
1906, has won the heavyweight inter-university boxing
competition ; and now come the tidings that Collier
Cudmore, who is one of the Port Victor Cudmore family,
will in all probability be chosen as one of the eight-oar
crew to row against Cambridge.
’Tis said that the Cattle King Kidmans, who depart
in state and the Asturias to Britain, are paying £Bl5 in
steamer fares. What a thing it is to own one or two
million yoke of oxen !
Our new Mayor, Mr. Frank Johnson, and his sister
hold a public reception in the Town Hall on March 26.
Adelaide getteth its frocks out of pawn in readiness.
Brenda, the Colonel Lees’ nice daughter, spent the
voyage out from Britain getting engaged to a Mr. Knight
—no'relation to Julius Superbus—who is, I believe, on
his way to slay dragons, or hunt the Holy Grail, or some-
thing in Maoriland. The Knightly one broke his journey
at Adelaide, and came ashore on approval, and was
inspected and passed by his lady-love’s relatives.
Another betrothal is that of Miss Peterswald, daughter
of a late Commissioner of Police, and Mr. Frank Toms.
Also it is whispered that one of our warbling maidens
will shortly exchange her career for a Benedict from
Maoriland. One way and another Maoriland seems to do
a good meat export trade in Benedicts.
The wedding of clever Ida Viner-Smith and her cleric
had to be postponed owing to the death of the bride-
groom-elect’s father.
Field-Marshal Pollock, of the Adelaide Theatre Royal,
with all the gold lace befitting his rank, marching up and
down King William Street, on March 10, at the rear of
his corps of Commissionaires —it was a sight for gods and
men ! They were led by three Scotch pipers in kilts, and
there were only about a dozen of them all told ; but the
musicians made row enough for 12,000, and all Adelaide
turned out to enjoy the free show. The F.-M. was a bit
gouty and had his own way of marching ; but still it was
magnificent. Old army warriors are they all, banded to-
gether under the Field-Marshal to do any odd job that
they can do without losing their self-respect ; and to that
extent it is a first-rate organisation.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“W. M.” writes from Melbourne:—
In your publication of last week, under the heading of
“Personal Items,” your “Oldest Inhabitant” is in error
about Hosie’s Cafb. Hosie never occupied Levy Bros’,
store as a restaurant; he was there as a Turkish Bath
proprietor. The place he opened as a cafb was at the
corner of Union-lane and Bourke-street, a few doors
higher up. Further, allow me to inform your corre-
spondent that Levy Bros, never went bung, and that they
are still in business in a big way here.


\
l\
BBS
l
\’
S£V4\
y
«>
§1
V
*
0?
A,
o
Q:
<C
4/
/ c 'r'
o
V
o
o
p
-2
<
‘V
0
. :
l*
r
P
Interstate Mail
Steamshin Lines
OW that Easter is
approaching, and
bringing, ever
nearer and nearer,
the prospect of rest
and change from the
responsibilities and
cares of business.
the earnest Sydney citizen should
have a gaze at the map to see where
he will recuperate. If he desires a change
of air and scene, a removal to more temperate
climatic conditions, what could be better and more
valuable as a tonic than a run round to Melbourne
and back in one of the sumptuously-fitted steam-
ships of the Five Companies? It is sufficient to
state that, for years, they have adequately
supplied a demand for comfort and facilities in
travelling, at moderate cost. Practically every
day, one or other of their boats leaves Sydney for
Melbourne; and, just here, it would not be out
of place to enumerate the advantages of a journey
by sea over that by land. Now, supposing that the
potential traveller has determined upon a trip to
the Yarra City. He will possibly conjecture upon
the respective virtues of the rail and sea journeys.
But he need not. Against the haste of the train
put Comfort, Cheapness, Cuisine. Comfort as
expressed by roomy cabin accommodation and
generous deck space for walks, lounges and confabs;
a Cheapness in comparison too ridiculous to men-
tion ; and a Cuisine exquisite in quality and in
quantity, so abundant that a day is a succession of
meals. ” Add to this the forty or forty-five hours
of invigorating atmosphere, the matchless color
effects of sea and sky, and it is obvious that the
run round to Melbourne is part of the holiday,
while, per rail, a journey slides into the category
of depressing necessities.
• , ,
Firstly, as to climate, it may be asserted
that, at the Easter season, the climate is just
moderating from the slowly-decreasing warmth
of late summer to the exhilarating freshness
of early autumn. At no season of the year are
there such opportunities for pleasurable holiday-
making, accompanied by ideal weather arrange-
ments, than at Easter.
Now the traveller, arriving in Melbourne per-
haps for the first time, will not be interested
by the disclosure that this city is the ab-
normal growth, in fifty years, of a mere
village, through which passed dig-
gers, gold, and,pioneers. Preferably
he would see the city as it is now,
laid out t with mathematical
accuracy into majestic
blocks ; intersected by w-ide
and stately thoroughfares,
lined on either side with many
splendid private and public
buildings. Standing on the
hill at the western' end of
Collins Street,, the, visitor
can gaze down one of the
most impressive streets in creation. His eye,
wandering from edifice to edifice, swoops over such
mighty erections as the offices of the National
Mutual Life Association, the Commercial Bank
Chambers with its ornamental facade, the Stock
Exchange with its ultra-Gothic adornments, the
massive and dignified Equitable Building, and the
Town Hall with its half-girdle of elms. At the
eastern end of Collins Street the traveller beholds
Spring Street and the magnificent piles known as
Parliament House and the Treasury ; while, from
the steps of Parliament House lies Bourke Street,
where, from amid the turmoil of traffic, as it were,
the tower-of the G.P.O. shoots up triumphantly.
Further again along Nicholson Street are the
Carlton Gardens and the Exhibition building, the
dome of which, together with that upon the Law
Courts, are two protuberances upon a grey, in-
choate mass of buildings which the traveller first
perceives as he approaches from Port Phillip
Heads. Other places of interest in the city proper
are the Mint, in William-street, where the
different processes by which bar-gold is trans-
formed into common and familiar lucre may be
observed ; and the National Gallery and Museum,
in Swanston Street, which in itself would require
half a day to inspect, and half a page to describe
in a manner befitting its eminence and renown in
the Commonwealth.. Suffice it to say that
this huge pile houses one of the most valu-
able and representative collections of pictures
in Australasia, if not in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, beside countless specimens of imple-
ments and utensils peculiar to the aboriginal
inhabitants of Australasia and Polynesia, as
well as every known animal, bird, fish, or serpent
—all stuffed and labelled in two languages.
Northward, along the broad and picturesque
avenue of the Sydney Road, may be found the
Zoological Gardens, where almost every known
animal is caged for approval. Indeed the visitor
can spend another half-day in a thorough inspec-
tion, commencing with the cage of an African
lion, and finishing with the place of captivity
wherein glowers our own home-grown kooka-
burra.
But it is southward of the Yarra that Mel-
bourne will seduce the visitor to raptures by the
indubitable beauty of its approaches upon the St.
Kilda-road. Not so many years ago—less than a
decade, in fact—the land and river banks, imme-
diately in the neighborhood of the more placid
end of Princes Bridge, were ugly blotches of real
estate, detested by Nature and neglected by Man.
Since then, however, Man has humped both his
and Nature’s responsibility by turning the waste
into a Paradise of lawns, shrubs, and comfy rocky
retreats, which last are very popular and cool.
Further on is Government House in its mimic
forest of trees, and behind, the well-known
Botanical Gardens lie like a rich green jewel in a
setting of lesser gems. Just at the entrance to
these Gardens is the tiny Temple of HColus, from
the steps of which may be viewed a panorama
stretching, on one side, from the indescribable
mass of buildings, which is Melbourne proper, to,
on the other side, the clustering residences of
Kew, doll-like, in the distance, and hazy as
a dream. Before and below are the Yarra’ and
the immensity of the Richmond Park, wherein
sprawls the great enclosure known to sport-
ing enthusiasts as the Melbourne Cricket
Ground.
Of course, that by no means consumes the
attractions in and surrounding Melbourne. Con-
sider the seaside resorts of Mornington, Queens-
cliff, Sorrento, Portarlington and Geelong, all
reached by a pleasant trip of a couple of hours
or so upon a Bay steamer ; of St. Kilda,
Brighton, Sandringham, Carrum and Frank-
ston, each of which is worthy the considera-
tion of the traveller. Then the progressive Rail-
way Department provides convenient and cheap
excursions to such inland and delicious haunts as
Healesville, Warburton, Gembrook and Macedon,
not omitting the cities of Ballarat and Bendigo;
the Hepburn Springs near Daylesford ; and the
justly notable Buchan Caves close to Bairnsdale.
Then there are the attractions of Melbourne by
night; the theatrical performances, ranging from
serious drama down to vaudeville ; the Town Hall
with its periodical recitals by visiting musicians ;
St. Kilda with its myriad lights, its sweeping pro-
menade, its open-air concerts, its picture shows, its
crowds, and its laughter; and Brighton with’its
band performances, reached either by rail direct, or
by a much pleasanter journey on the new electric
trams. Within the limits of a'short article, it is im-
possible to even mention the other jaunts, trips,
and entertainments. There are so many that the
holiday-seeking Sydney resi-
dent should run round and
see things for himself.
And the first pre-
liminary to that is a
visit to any of the
offices of the Five
Companies, where in-
formation is supplied
gratis, and passages
at undeniably mod-
erate rates.
V.
*\TH
P
SC
Ny
UNITE
5^
*
V
3.
•mi
cc
-s/
V.
iCP
A^AVIOPC
G
&<2
r**
CSammlC*
--O
$
V
&
/fa
o


GIIvRES FRIEZES
:
mhmmnm
HAVE YOU AN INTEREST IN YOUR HOME?
Then why not allow us to decorate your walls in a more
artistic manner than they are at present.
WE DO WALL PAPER DECORATIONS.
Hand-made, our own designs, the cost is practically the
same as you are paying for the ordinary wall paper, and the
effect—furniture itself. Write for quotations and designs.
GILKES AND CO.,
176 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ARTHUR
TEL. 2351.
St. Aubin’s Estate, Scone, n.s.w.
In the FAMOUS HUNTER RIVER VALLEY, containing
20,000 Acres of Magnificent Agricultural Lands
and adjoining the well-known TURONVILLE ESTATE.
ST. AUBIN’S has a frontage of about 11 miles to the Great Northern Railway, and lia s
two Railway Stations on the Estate. It is now being SUBDIVIDED, and will be offered
AT AUCTION IN APRIL.
TERMS WILL BE EASY, AND PAYNHENT SPREAD OVER A NUMBER OF YEARS.
W. BAKEWELL, St. Aubin’s, Sconk.
I
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
raff!
w-*.,
i
mumi
f, •
iWlilillUJl.
«_ £% Qf> o *w>
4/%/
.-» o
■
v
We don’t believe any Aceordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Aceordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners: 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds, latent ltotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/ 6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Heeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
■ lb-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Aecordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINOORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches. Jewellery, etc , 2 io Queen St., Brisbane
s i m
•N'x
WELSBAGH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete - ss. each.
Extra Mantles - - 6d. ~
Extra Chimneys - - 2kd. ~
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBACH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, NZ.
PERRY BROS Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
&
£ *
r-'v
m
The th i da . e .°f
PLUM RAZOR
is like the shaving edge you have felt at a good barber’s. Perhaps bis
" A ' s “ PLUM Anyway the PLUM is used largely by professionals, and
that ought to be a good enough recommendation. We guarantee it for
two years. lO 6 Post Free.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Scap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21 -
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15 -
Pair in Handsome Case, 30 -
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY,
Established 25 Years.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
forwarded Post Free to a i\y Addrc. s s, - Is. Packet of 12
* SPESIAL RATES TO A2ENTS. lOd. IQ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBBS AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
CONJURING TRICKS,
PUZZLES, SURPRISE
& JOKE NOVELTIES.
The Look and Laugh Glass.
See the Passing
Show .Y our friends
grotesquely Photo-
graph e d—s tout
people look thin—
thin people look
stout. The Laugh-
ing Camera fur-
nishes all this, and |
more. By getting !
a focus on passing
pedestrians, horses,
waggons, trains,
trams, etc,, the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures Thr Laughing Camera.
are witnessed. All grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly made, and cannot get
out of order. Price 1,-, post free anywhere.
Quite Shocking:, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEM ATOCRAPH.—A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having- a
microscopic lens fitted into one end. While
the victim is absorbed in admiration of the
pretty picture, and turns the button in the/
confident expectation of seeing something
interesting, a spring syringe is brought into!
action, and the observer experiences a very!
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,,
cannot get out of order, and can be carried |
in the vest pocket. Full directions with
each one.
Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue-
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
P®D
m
PUZZLE PURSES.
The latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market. Even
our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled. Three
entirely different moves before the purse can be opened.
It is made of superior leather, with inside pocket, and
strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated directions en-
closed. Post free, anywhere, 2-. Do not miss this
chance of obtaining 1 one of the best and most
useful puzzles ever produced.
s==-
s
w
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 2o and 27 Oxford Strkkt. Sydsky.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutch insox, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Havmarket Post Office.
The Inky Way.
The Register (aged over 70 years), South Australia’s
oldest daily, and the third oldest in Australia, is engaged
in a big building scheme. The paper is demolishing its
old Grenfell-street office, which has been occupied for
something over half a century, and putting a modern
fireproof structure in its place.
* * * *
Ballarat Couribr runs a “bits” column headed,
“ From our Exchanges,” and it loves to commence this
with an airy quotation or scrap of mirthfulness from
some writer who has added to the aggregate gaiety 0 f
nations. In a recent issue it started with two lines from
Herbert
“ All things are big- with jest; nothing that’s plain
But may be witty if thou hast the vein.”
Then followed 13 paragraphs of news, including- n\
Little girl died of plague ; (5) man named Anderson fouL
dead ; (6) small boy killed; (7) little girl frightfully
mangled; (8) man jumped overboard—body not re
covered ; (10) petition for reprieve of a murderer • mi
inquest on corpse; (12) accident, with prospects of ’lock
jaw ; (13) girder fell on a man’s leg.
• * • *
A signwriter usually takes care to display his own sign
artistically as an advertisement of what he can do for hia
clients. But, as a rule, the appeal of the bush paper for
printing orders is pathetic in its idiocy. The reading
matter and the trade ads. may be deciphered with care
and patience ; but the “ house ” advt. is nearly always so
hideously blotched and battered that one can only g Uess
that he is invited to get his “ mandbils,” “ postes,'" " f ro .
gams,” “ticks,” “ milleads,” etc., printed locally. The
only line the present scribe can make out of one example
before him is the artless query : “ Why send your orders
to Sydney when you can have the work done at the
Botcher officeV” and the proprietor appears to be
blissfully unconscious of the obvious fact that he supplies
a convincing answer to his own question.
* * * *
“K. I was surprised to read in The llucletix
(20/2/’08) a reference to the “wealthy Age weekly, the
Leader.” It was generally understood in “the shop”
that the Leader was anything but wealthy. In fact at
times, it was supposed to lean on its rich big daily
brother ; and one of Mr. Geoffrey Syme’s chief anxieties
was making the Leader pay. It is really a capital three-
pence worth ; but it is jammed between the threepenny
Weekly Times on one side and the big sixpenny Austral-
asian on the other. The Leader is head and shoulders
over the sloppy Times, but, strangely enough, the latter
is the better property. What stands to the Leader is its
farming department, which, under J. L. Dow, grew to be
quite the best in its way in the State. Its chooky hen
columns and its farm cultivation department reach
pretty well to high-water mark. But, for the rest, the
paper tails away rather awkwardly to a half-column of
villainous “ charades and acrostics” at the back end, If
David Syme had owned only the Leader he wouldn’t have
been so keen on getting the Income Tax reduced.
* * * *
Another story of David Syme and a clever journalist
who was in the habit of delivering himself over to beer.
The journalist, being very drunk, had it in his head that
he possessed a bitter grievance against Syme, and went
about town, “ having another,” and deliberately nursing
his intention of doing David great bodily- harm. Even"
tually he found himself at Syme’s office door in the
old Age building, informing someone that he had
come upstairs solely- to do himself the pleasure of
pitching the proprietor downstairs. Then he grappled
with the Iron Man ; there was a struggle and a crash, and
the inebriated genius cried: “There, 1 told you I would,
and damn me if I care if your infernal neck’s broke! ” It
took the scribe quite a while to discover that it was he
who had been pitched downstairs, and that Syme had
gone unconcernedly back to his work.
* » •» m
There was one interesting period in the life of long-
sinee-dead Sydney Bunch ; that was about 1872, when the
office was in Hunter-street. Harold Stephen was pro-
prietor, Monty Scott artist, and Jack Kavanagh sort of
general answerer of duns. It was in this period that the
“ PUNCH Staff Papers” were published. The printers
were Gibbs, Shallard and 00. ; the publishers, Gordon
and Gotch. Amongst the contributors to the “ Papers”
were S. H. Banks, Henry Kendall, G. G. MeCrae, Derwent
Coleridge, Grosvenor (or Jack) Punster Harold Stephen,
Richmond Thatcher, Garnet Walch, and Henry Wise.
Kavanagh, the manager, went to Maoriland with the ISth
Royal Irish as orderly-room clerk. When the war was
ended, the ISth came to Sydney, and Kavanagh came
with it ; but when, a few months later, the regiment was
ordered to England, Jack remained behind, a deserter in
fact. Several others deserted, but the Imperial authori-
ties decided that no arrests should be made. Kavanagh
made many applications to Colonel Richardson for em-
ployment in the X. S. Wales force, but was alwavs dubbed
a deserter and refused ; but, while Richardson was away
with the Soudan Warriors, Edmund Barton got him a
billet on the clerical staff at Dawes Point Barracks, which
job he held until his death. Then they gave him a military
funeral, his desertion notwithstanding.
THE POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Continuing, Mr. Lasker argued that bursaries should be
tenable at the University in courses other than the arts
and part of the science course. What was the use of sucn
a literary degree to a poor man? He might get a posi-
tion as tutor. . . r,
Mr. Hogue: He might develop into a poet. —Daily
paper.
To be a poet is to bring
A furrowed brow, a piece of string,
And pen and ink and paper white
Into a lonely- room at night,
And, while the wingbd hours do fly,
To write the rhyme a crown will buy.
Whereas, when first ye sat ye down,
Ye dreamed the rhyme would buy a crown.
To be a poet is to owe,
And here and there in stealth to go ;
To fly- on swift impassioned feet
From wrathful traders in the street;
For odes and lyrics, tho’ they be
Exquisite, are not currency.
No butcher will an MS. take
As fair exchange for good rump steak.
To be a poet is to graze
Old Pegasus for many days
Upon the dismal fields of hash,
And afterwards to flog and lash
The ancient steed, who loudly squeals,
And spurns the paper with his heels,
Till he arrives, foam-splashed and spent,
Where the ode ends that pays the rent.
To be a poet, I’m afraid,
Is but a sorry sort of trade.
The poet never can compete
With grocers who sell things to eat;
And golden dreams, and visions bright,
Will never stay an appetite.
Likewise the yearnings of the soul
Don’t equal one small sausage-roll.
Ah ! often from my attic high
I’ve watched banana-men go by.
And thought how vain ’twould be to shove
A truck piled high with odes to Love,
And lyrics sweet, and sonnets too,
About the suburbs, as they- do
The yellow fruit we know so well,
Which seems so readily to sell.
He is a wretched fool indeed
Who yearns the intellect to feed.
A poet cannot sink his teeth
Into the freshest laurel-wreath.
Oft, when from lodgings I’ve been sent,
I’ve thought “There’s little nourishment
In writing verse. At any price,
A poem is but food for mice.’
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Your Fine-Looking' Imported
Piano is being Torn to Pieces.
It may look well enough.
It may sound well enough.
It may have lasted you some years.
But it has a wooden wrest-plank, and it is
You see, there are no less than two hundred
smaller than itself, in a wooden plank.
being torn to pieces,
and sixteen levers in it.
Each
Each lever has a steel wire attached to it, and every wire is at high tension.
The total pull of those two hundred and sixteen wires on
the two hundred and sixteen levers is nearly sixty-seven
thousand pounds (67,0001 b.).
lever is
banged into a hole, a trifle
No wooden wrest-plank, even though it be made of many
plies of timber, can stand such a strain. Not even if the strain
was only on one lever.
What happens then when the plank is fairly honeycombed
with levers P The wood, of course, gives way ever so little, and—
your piano is out of tune.
The tuner calls.
He twists those two hundred and sixteen levers about,
straining the wires up to pitch again.
But the same thing occurs again
And again.
And again every time the piano is tuned, till at last the weed
splits, as shown in Fig. 1 on this page.
The piano cannot then be repaired, except at
great expense.
But this is not so with the Beale Pianos.
In the Beale Pianos there is a solid iron plate,
instead of the usual wooden plank.
See Figs. 2 and 3.
That iron plate will stand any strain that can
be put upon it.
Consequently Beale Pianos will last a life-
time, and they will require tuning only when the
wires stretch, at long intervals.
Hence we guarantee Beale Pianos for twenty-
five years.
And OUR guarantee is worth something, for
we are the largest distributors of pianos in Australia,
having branches throughout the Commonwealth.
Our catalogue will be sent to you free on
request.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fipr. 2.—The Beale-Vader
Patent Piano-frame, re-
moved from the piano,
and the end of the wrest-
plank cut off to show the
wrest-pins in the solid
iron frame.
.
m
1 * ® #
.*.*%*.
* *%♦
■• ' *!'•
V \
Fig. I—Part of the wooden wrest-plank of an imported piano. Note
how close the lever-holes are. The wood has split, and the piano cannot
be timed. I his is an average wooden wrest-plank, neither better nor
worse than is usually found in an imported piano, ALL of which have
wooden wrest-planks, and consequently they are ALL subject to the
above fault, which cannot be remedied except at great expense.
7!
' J ■• I
:te’ f
Pk
W*' 1
,
' .UPt
if i
#. t.j
THE EEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Tig. 3.—A nearer view
of theßeale- Vadc.r frame
shown in Fig. 2. Note
the wrest-pihs and ten-
sion-screws contained
entirely in solid iron.
It is important for
piano-buyers to note
that these pins can be
adjusted to ANY ten-
sion, tight, medium, or
loose, by means of the
tension screws at the
back. We always
adjust them to resist
the pull-round of the
sti itigs, but at the same
time they are easily
turned by the tuner
WITHOUT TOUCH-
ING THE TENSION
SCREWS. Our Pianos
are tuned in the ordinary
way, BY ONE MAN
ONLY, FROM THE
FRONT ONLY. Be
sure to note this, and
when you go to compare
our pianos with the im-
ported you will know
what to think if you are
told otherwise by un-
scrupulous competitors.
ALL BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS ARE GUARANTEED
FOR TWENTY-FIVE YEARS.
■r’
o
Australian Piano
Manufacturers,
MEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES:
Trafalgar Street, Annandale, N.S.W.
SHOW ROOMS at 474 George Street, Sydney; Hunter Street, Newcastle; George Street, Bathurst, N.S.W.;
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Vic.; 127 Bundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A. ; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, KalgoorUe, W.A, ; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane
(our only address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


A HOUSEHOLD NECESSITY.
In the best-regulated families the little ills of
life will creep in. Some member of the family
circle may occasionally suffer from biliousness or
indigestion, and one or the other will from time
to time exhibit the well-known symptoms of con-
stipation. From these little troubles more serious
D?
*OKS£S
DIRECTIONS
AMX.T3T«, sto IW M iK u «
CHILDREN A Half to*
Pill Oissotvto
h» StoemiMCDW*Tt*
TiJft be*rvrrlirin&
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
complaints arise, andshould
therefore not be neglected.
The slight headache, bad
breath, and a discolored
tongue are the index to a
disordered stomach; and
the necessity of keeping a
safe, sure, and reliable
remedy in the house is
apparent. By following
such a course the more ex-
pensive method of calling
in a doctor will be quite
unnecessary. That I)r.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are the very best family
medicine is vouched for by
thousandsof grateful mater-
fainilias, who speak from
personal knowledge and
experience of the wonder-
ful efficacy of these pills to
overcome all family com-
plaints. Girls, don’t forget a bottle of Dr. Morses
Indian Root Pills when shopping, and always see
that there is a supply in the home. Keep a bottle
in your own room, and use occasionally. A dose
now and again will remove the cause of many of
the troubles to which you are subject, and assure
a pure and healthy complexion, and a well-regu-
lated system. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are
a perfect blood purifier, and a sure remedy for
biliousness, constipation, indigestion, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for fewals
ailments.
’S
STOCK
ALE
LAg€R
&
,E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 18 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., RKDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“ Some of the crowd reckoned the time-keeper
was drunk, and told him so,” wrote a Melbourne corre-
spondent re the Clark quirter-mile record of 25 4-ssec.
Mr. Kruger, the timekeeper, considers that the remark is
a reflection on his sobriety, and thereby calculated to do
him considerable harm. The Bulletin can’t see where
the point comes in, but it assures those whom it may
concern that no reflection on Mr. Kruger’s sobriety was
intended. It has never heard of Mr. Kruger being drunk,
never seen him intoxicated, and for all it knows he may
be an absolute teetotaler. The reflection was in-
tended for the crowd, which, when it disagrees
with the decision of an official—and the party
that has lost its money always does that—
generally calls him much worse things than merely
drunk. Mostly it calls him a cow, or says he is related to
a dog. Frequently it implies that he is a harp struck
by lightning. Almost always it says he is a “ nark,”
that he was bribed by the other party, and that
it will gladly leap on his head or his grave
or something. It doesn’t wait to find out
whether there is any basis for these sayings—it just says
them. A crowd would say anything. The only reason
why The Bulletin mentioned that part of the crowd said
Mr. Kruger was drunk was that the remark was so un-
usually mild—for a sporting push—as to be worth record-
ing as an example of decadence. It seemed to imply that
the old energy is departing, and that the sporting ele-
ment isn’t quite what it was. The sporting editor of this
paper has no reason to suppose that Mr. Kruger had had
a drink for three weeks, but, for his own part, he wouldn’t
take on Mr. Kruger’s job unless he had had eight drinks
in three minutes. And if Mr. Kruger would like to get
drunk just once to know what it is like, he is invited to
call in at this office. Then the sporting editor will make
him drunk or go under the table in the struggle.
Sydney cycle amateur E. A. Pearson did a
wonderful thing in riding, from Sydney to Melbourne in
57hr. 24min. On May sth, 1898, he rode from Melbourne
to Sydney, and broke Ashdown’s record of 90hr. by
getting over the distance in 75hr. smin. Then J. Salvana,
a Sydney artist, reduced it to 73hr. 31min. While the
press was still cheering Salvana, Pearson announced that
he would make another effort to win back the record, and
on Saturday morning last he left Sydney G.P.O. at 8 a.m.
on a Royai Speedwell bike shod with Australian-made
Dunlop tyres. At 5.24 p.m. Sunday, he rode up to Mel-
bourne G.P.0., having beaten Salvana’s record by 16hr.
7min. A marvellous performance.
* • » *
Charles Glidden, of Boston, U.S.A., entered
Jerusalem (not the Golden) in his motor-car on Friday
last, and drove through the streets, which were thronged
with what the Argus cable described as delighted and
enthusiastic onlookers. Said that Glidden’s is the-
first motor-car to enter Jerusalem, in which case
Jerusalem is very much behind the rest of
Western Asia. Persia, Asia Minor, Mesopotamia and
the ruins of Babylon have all smelt the stink
of petrol, and wondered what new invention of Satan it
was. Hoary old Egypt is alive with motor cars, and the
Duke of Connaught lost control of his the other day in
Cairo, and charged full tilt into a crowd, with disastrous
results. Glidden has the reputation of being a careful
driver, so tiie children of Israel are not likely to find out
the real nature of the motor car till the next one
happens along.
Anything in the way of sport in Maoriland
just now must bear the brand of novelty. One of these
thrice-accursed novel contests finished at Fielding
recently. Taylor, a cyclist, left Wanganui to travel 44
miles by bicycle, and at the same hour the other competi-
tor, Lawrence, an old-time runner, left Marton on foot,
consequently Lawrence had 18 miles start. The bike
pusher, after wasting 40 minutes extracting tacks from
his tyres and mending the holes made by same, arrived in
three hours —nine minutes ahead of the perspiring
hoofist.
The publican is coming to the front in Sydney
motoring circles. Richard Gaut’s 12-14 h.p. De Dion won
the Sealed Handicap and Hill Climbing contest of the
Australian Automobile Club on Friday and Saturday last,
and Herbert Garratt, who was at one time, if not now, in
the beer-pulling business, threatens to attack the record
of 25hr. 40min. for the Melbourne to Sydney run, put up
recently by Harry James and C. B. Kellow. The Bul-
letin’s money will be on James and Kellow, who are about
the most reckless pair of dare-devils that ever got loose
in a car. The only drivers in the same class are
“ Darracq ” Stevens and Sydney’s well-tried and reliable
“ Billy ” Elliott. Any record established by any of that
quartette will take a lot of beating.
Mr. Gaut’s car is credited with having put up a
very fine performance, but, honestly, there was nothing
very startling about it. It was not a thrilling outing by
any means, and partook more of the nature of a pleasant
picnic. On the first day the car had to get over 90 miles
in three hours 46 minutes, a trifle over 20 miles an hour.
And it did it. As the car would lose points if it arrived a
minute before the allotted time was up, the driver
never had a chance of doing anything thrillsome.
The second day it averaged about 27 miles an
hour, which, again, was nothing out of the way
for a comparatively short run of 102 miles. But again
the car was held in restraint by the time clause. This
sort of contest, when conducted over short distances, is
no test of the durability or reliability of a car. It is
struggles against time, like that put up by James and
Kellow, that find out the weak spots and test the gear
and workmanship. Someone in Melbourne recently had
the impudence to quote a run of the other sort against the
time put up by James and Kellow in the Melbourne to
Sydney race !
* * * *
The March meeting at Caulfield is generally
regarded as “ recovery ” day, after the Autumn campaign
and the St. Kilda Cup (the big race of the day) was appro-
priately enough carried off by the favorite Ganymedes.
Starting at 4 to 1 in a field of 14, he won almost from end
to end of the 11 furlongs from the Oaks winner, Lady
Rylstone, in 2min. 23J sec.
The idea of numbered saddle-cloths is good, and
cleanliness is next to godliness, but when the cloths are
so vvashed out as at Caulfield that one cannot read the
numbers on them from the Grand Stand even through
glasses, people ask “YVbaffor?” and the übiquitous
humorist suggests that the stewards are so particular
that they object to the numbers being w r orked in “ fast
colors” or “colors that will not run.” Seriously the
authorities, who are good on details, might remedy this.
V * * ♦
A delicious, soaking rain, which flushed out the
sewers and brought relief to thousands of rheumatic
subjects on Saturday afternoon, prevented the continua-
tion of Sydney’s First Grade cricket competition. A
second-grade match was started at Parramatta, but was
abandoned when the water began to run out of the bats-
men’s sleeves and trousers. Practically all out-door ath-
letics were suspended, and the athletes took to dominoes,
and other indoor vices.
* * * *
Another affair which the rain sadly interfered
with was the North Shore Rowing Club’s regatta. The
regatta was pulled off, but, excepting the people who had
money on the events and relations in the boats, the
public stayed away unanimously. In addition to the
leaking heavens, the water w'as nuggety, and the boats
got bumped about severely. One race had to be
abandoned altogether, while in another event a visiting
crew pulled so hard that it drove its boat right through
a wave, stopped, and then sank en masse, so to speak, to
the accompaniment of loud feminine shrieks from the
steamer following the race. However, no one seemed any
the worse, the supply of whisky on the starter’s boat
being equal to the demand. This careful attention to the
supply of whisky was the bright spot in a dreary after-
noon, and shone like a good deed in an evil world.
* • * •
Port Jackson is the Awanui’s, and the prizes
thereof. The Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron’s last race
of the season was for possession of the Rawson Cup and
squadron pennant championship. Six started in the
squally south-east wind and blinding rain, and, as usual,
the winner was discovered to be Awanui. But it w'as
close —very close —for when time allowances were worked
out Awanui was only half a second ahead of Petrel. But
it was enough, and the glory and the trophies went to
Mr. Saxton. At first it looked like a contest between
Rawhiti and Awanui, but the flyer drew away and beat
its big rival by 85 seconds. Awanui practically led
throughout, but right on the line it was doubtful if it
would succeed in wiping out the little Petrel’s time allow-
ance. Then a rain-laden squall swept over the harbor,
Awanui went away with a bound, and just saved the
situation by the aforementioned half second.
Awanui is squadron champion for the year with
six points, and Rawhiti runner-up with five. Culwulla,
Magic and Petrel scored two, and Heather one.
Sydney Sailing Club’s 18ft. handicap saw some
mild excitement. One craft dropped a man overboard,
and after going about to pick him up retired from the
race. Young Jack’s mast snapped in two while crowding
on the canvas to overtake the leader. Eileen turned
turtle after rounding the Lightship, and Maritana went
under at Clark Island. Hardly had the fleet got going
when Gladwyn took charge and led away to the Lightship,
followed by Young Jack and Arthur. The ocean liner
Navarino then burst in among the fleet like a rnoa among
a swarm of geese, and there was a fearsome scatter, in
which Donnelly, getting hemmed in, was nearly run
down by the great, lumbering ocean tub. When Young
Jack’s mast broke, Famous took the position of runner-
up, but it was a lost hope. Gladwyn’s lead was too pro-
nounced, and the boat sailed home with I min. 26sec. to
spare, Famous and Arthur filling second and third posi-
tions in that order.
* * * *
Motor boating, as a sport, seems just about
dead in Sydney. The club had a race meeting recently,
but nobody seemed interested, and a few old tubs, some
steered by girls, crawled along at any rate up to eight or
nine miles an hour, and finished in a dead gray atmo-
sphere of indifference. For this stagnation Mort’s Dock
is largely responsible. This concern started a motor-con-
struction department on the furore created by Charles
Relph’s Invincible, which attracted attention all over the
world, and caused the all-Australian boat to be pictured in
foreign motoring journals. A special boat, Arthur Davies’
beautiful Fairbanks, was specially designed in the United
States to wrest the Australian championship from the
local creation, and repress a possible Australian industry
in the interests of the foreigner and his agent, the im-
porter. After a series of contests, the foreign boat
did secure the championship—though it was done
by the unusual expedient of putting two engines
in one boat. The Fairbanks, which is a semi-hydro-
plane, is still champion, by grace of the indifference of
Mort’s Dock. The Invincible was never a racing
machine, but a fast cruiser, and the accuracy of this
definition is proved by its marvellous run to Newcastle
and back under its own power. Still, the fame of its
speed made the motor branch of Mort’s Dock possible—
paved the way for it by proving that Australian engineers
could turn out as good motor boats as those of any
other country on earth. Patriotism and business acumen
should move the directors of that Australian institu-
tion to let their fine engineer loose on a 200-horse-power
boat that would wipe the water with any of the foreign
cracks. The boat should be built for speed only, like
the racing-boats which the Daimler, Napier and other
great companies construct for the championship meet-
ings. Such a boat could wave the flags of Australia and
Mort’s Dock in the face of the world, and bring orders
and cash, as well as fame, to the great Australian estab-
lishment. The Dock has the plant to turn out the boat,
and has the man to make it a success ; and it pays to be
patriotic sometimes.
* * * *
The new S. A. Anti-Gaming Act seems to have
fallen over its own feet in its haste to spoil sport. An
action brought in Adelaide last week, to recover from the
stakeholder a sovereign lost in a bet, collapsed on the
familiar ground that the law will not help w'here betting
is concerned. Counsel for the unsportsmanlike plaintiff
pointed to a marginal note in the new Act saying
“Money staked may be recovered”; but the section
itself said nothing about that, and apparently the
item was struck out in Parliament during the debate
in Committee. Now', nothing puts the best kind of
sportsman so strictly on his honor as the knowledge that
his contract is quite outside the law ; at the same time,
nothing stops betting among the w’orse kind of sportsmen
so soon as the knowledge that the loser can get his money
back if he asks the Law to help him. So it seems as if
the Law, by being too haughty to concern itself with
betting contracts at all, has given substantial encourage
nient to the worst kind of sportsman.
* * * *
The match between the English XL and 'VVes-
tralia was a time-limit affair. Th e English q
bv the Ophir at 4 p.m. Saturday, and h * v,n £.^ B ™’ i 62
Westralia for 256, rushed to the wickets, knocked «P\
for a loss of seven wickets, sent the Westralians in agai ,
and proceeded to do slaughter. But it didn t ... ’
for Rowe offered a stern resistance and made 1 • ,
seven wickets were down, 265 runs were up, an ~
runout. The game was declared a draw and the Eng
lishmen laid violent hands on their carpet bags and made
for the boat. .
* * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association expects to have
to pay over £l2OO of its share of the pmfits of the cncket
campaign to fill the gap in the M.C.C. s guar
anteee. When that has been weighed out the Associa
tion will have received £3OO fonts trouole and worry
during the visit of the English XI. The 8
feelings on the subject are probably unfit for publication.
In Melbourne pennant cricket, last Saturday,
some rather interesting play was witnessed, a few per-
formances with the ball being especially noteworthy. At
the M.O.C. ground, Melbourne had a sensational win on the
first innings against Richmond. Richmond, " a ttmg
first, realised a quiet little total of 109. It might have
been 400 more but for the mystery and searching
deadliness of the veteran Trumble, who captured six
wickets for 29. Thereupon Melbourne, requiring HO to
win, and having only 63 minutes in which to make t e
runs, rattled up 114, chiefly due to Armstrong (62 not
out) and Ransford (30). East Melbourne now a
certainty for the premiership, knocked up 321 for seven
wickets as an effective response to the 171 of ritzroy.
University against South Melbourne banged the door of
its innings at nine wickets for 301. South followed with
a total of 109, a person named Fleming, of the Varsity,
collaring six scalps for 40 runs. In South’s second attempt,
which, by the way, stands at four for 56, the same indivi-
dual was found guilty of getting two for 19. Against
Essendon, Carlton notched 207, and Essendon (lirst in-
nings 153) following, just rotted away. Saunders (five for
24) and Warne (five for 35) were Carlton’s experts with the
sphere. The most remarkable bowling performance of
the day was that of Fry, for Collingwood against P ran.
Fry, who practically withered Prahran (total 53), secured
no less than seven wickets for 18 runs. As regards
batting on Saturday, it might be mentioned, in passing,
that Carroll, for North Melbourne against Northcote, hit
up 138 runs. Owing to that, North’s score reads three
wickets for 228. #
“Micawber” : Montague Alfred Xoble,
“ greatest all-round cricketer,” owes much of his great-
ness to the diligent practice he put in in Briggs’ cow-
paddock in Glenmore-road, Sydney, 18 years ago. Briggs
was in the milk business, and only boys whose milk
supply came from his dairy were allowed to practise in
his paddock. Fortunately for Australia and the British
Empire, Noble’s mother took milk from Briggs. Now and
again I had the honor of bowling to the embryo great
one, and am proud to say that on many other occasions
when I was not permitted to bowl to him I have sat on
the fence and cheered him. Even in those days Noble
was particular about whom he allowed to bowl to him.
ft * * *
To add to the list given last week of Rhodes
scholars’ successes, at Oxford, in athletics, comes the
cabled news that Reynell, S.A.’s nomination of two years
ago, has won the heavy-weight boxing event against
Cambridge. This contest is an exhibition of stoush that
is usually more willing than scientific, and it attracts the
keenest competition. Reynell, a member of one of
Adelaide’s best-known families—his brother is Master of
the Hunt Club—held inter-State honors in rowing and
lawn-tennis, thus showing a combination of strength,
agility, and stamina which ought to make him very-
useful with the gloves. And to be the boss fighting-man
among 6000 of Britain’s healthiest youngsters is no small
thing in its way.
» * * *
In Britain hockey is fast becoming a game of
national importance, and when the mail left England the
final tests between Midlands, West, North and South
were in full swing, and occupying whole columns of the
press. The international games were also being talked
of, and that between Wales and Scotland was set down
for February 8. Apparently hockey has not yet reached
the dignity of being a game mentioned in the cables.
The struggle between the English divisions resulted in
surprises: South, which was regarded as cock of the
walk, was beaten by West, which, in turn, was beaten by
Midlands, and Midlands followed up its success by down-
ing North, after a tremendous struggle. When the mail
left public interest was centred on the impending tussle
between Midlands and South.
-*-*•*«
Swimmer Frank Beaurepaire, returned from
Westralia, gave a sample of his pace at the Melbourne
City Baths, t’other Tuesday evening, in a 220yds. handi-
cap. Starting from ssec. behind scratch, and giving
away' 27sec., “Bogey” caught his field at 140yds., and
steamed home in 2min. 34 l-ssec., which amounts to a
Victorian record. Previous best was down to the credit
of Billy Mason—2min. 42 l-ssec. The following evening,
at Geelong, “ Bogey ” smashed another record—2oovds.
in 2min. 18 4-ssec. Beaurepaire is no flash in the pan,
and with time the figures of the mighty Kieran must go
under in spots. Meanwhile a contingent prowls around
the Yarra city- putting in efforts to get “ Bogey ” aw%y
for the Olympic Games, that occur in London in July
next.
* * * *
Geo. Blake, of the Melbourne Harriers, who
goes to England to uphold the kangaroo flag in the
alleged “ Marathon ” race, put up a training pad from
Frankston, to Kenney’s Baths, St. Hilda, a distance of
22£ miles, on Saturday last. He set sail at 10 minutes
past one, accompanied by attendants in a motor car and
a long, wiry pal on the hoof. The first five miles, put in
along a winding cycle path, went by in 30$min., and
the next stretch of 5J miles, between Carrum and Mor-
dialloc, saw 10J miles go past without apparent effort in
65min. The first five miles were sufficient to send
Blake’s running pal to the car for a spell. Blake, going
like an engine, passed Mentone and Cheltenham
and reached South Brighton at 2.56 p.m. From there-
abouts on he was joined by cyclists, runners and sundry
coves in carts. The sun was hot—too hot for a really
long, trying run. Blake finished up at Kenney’s in
2 hours 46min. for the full course. Generally speaking,
pedestrians have no conception of what a 22-mile pad
means. The runner, unlike the long cycle journeyist,
cannot obtain any spell on down grades, but must sustain a.
correct position and even stride in order to secure a mini-
mum of effort. In a Marathon race of 26 miles 600yds. the
crisis occurs at 15 to 20 miles, and this is where the runner
requires an expert attendant to nurse him carefully. Bill
Sherring, the Athens long-race winner, was doped and
driven by attendants over the last six miles ; he received
all the outside assistance (massage, etc.) that was pos-
sible, but the doping sent him silly for days after. Apart
from his running, Blake will require a good attendant
who knows the game from A to Z, otherwise his dough
isn’t cake. A boxing and wrestling show for the purpose
of raising funds to send Blake, along with pedestrian
Aitken, to dear old Hingland, will occur at the Masonic
Hall (Melbourne) on Friday night next. The aforesaid
biffing, etc., will he something special, and there will be
a speech by Chief Justice John Madden.
**. * *
They who delight to honor bruisers—and verily
their name is Legion—will rejoice and he almighty glad to
learn that that one-time master of the ring, Larry Folev
will run a heavy-weight tournament at the Exhibition
Building, Prince Alfred Park, Sydney. The prizes are to
he liberal : £l5O for the winner, and £25 for every pre-
liminary heat he wins ; the runner-up £5O and of course
£25 for each heat won. Even the losers will he remem-
bered, and if they perform satisfactorily, will receive £5
each. The disturbance will commence on April 6. When
it comes to a choice between seeing no fights at all’and
seeing them at the awful Gaiety building, it is better to
join the Peace Society. The opening of the Exhibition
Building as a boxing theatre will fill a long and loud want
N’York World tells (2/l/’08) how “Tommy”
Burns, champion heavyweight of the world, took to the
sale of stoush for a living. Eight years ago, it
Burns was a lacrosse player. He played then under hi|
right name—to wit, Noah Brusso—and represented Bilk
Ontario. “ The Detroit lacrosse team.” th'e fiapeV goes
on “ had some hard games ahead, aWd hot finding the
local talent quite up to snuff, hit ilj>oh the scheme of get-
tin<>- Brusso. He arrived, and in some way his identity
became known. He was barred from the amateur ranks.
However, along came contests with London, in which his
services were required. Burns disguised himself by using
a false moustache, but during a scrimmage the extra
whisker fell off. That created an athletic scandal in
Detroit. Incidentally it drove Burns out of the lacrosse
game ” Thereafter, at the instance of Jack Collins, of
the Detroit Athletic Club, Brusso turned himself into
Burns, took up pugilism, and made good in amazingly
quick time.
9 * * *
“D.”: In corroboration of B. par (5/3/’08) re
champion Rums and “Jack ” Johnson, thus the N’York
Wori.D (15/2/1)8):—“ Reddy Gallagher, of Denver, a good
judge, and the richest man that has graduated from the
ranks of the chamois-pushers, declares that Jack John-
son, the Texas giant, is the master of Tommy Burns, the
present * heavyweight ’ champion. Gallagher knows both
men well, and his judgment is considered excellent. Gal-
lagher says : , . ,
“ * In the first place, I don’t think Burns is enough of a
fool to meet Johnson. Why? Johnson is out of Burns’s
class. The dark man has a much longer reach, greater
height, and is 100 per cent, cleverer. In addition to
these elements which make a champion, and whichnatu-
rally give Lil’ Arthuh a shade the better of the game should
he meet Burns, Johnson has a knock-out punch, and a
good one.
“‘Put a man possessing superior cleverness, ring
generalship, greater height, reach, and a better Wallop in
the ring with a man of lesser calibre. Which is more
likely' to he returned the victor?
“ ‘ The big fellow of dusky hue is built along the same
lines as Peter Jackson, and fights like him. Who would
give Burns a chance with Jackson when he was in his
prime, and Burns was as he is to-day ? No one.’ ”
* * * *
Jem Smith, one-time champion heavy-weight
fighting-man of the world (not “boxer,” be it noted,
but “ bare-fist fighter ” of the Sayers breed) made a brief
incursion into the lime-light last month. He sued Lloyd’s
Newspaper in the Court of King’s Bench, London, for
saying he had been “ outed” by a policeman from a pub.
The jurymen unanimously found that the plain-
tiff’s social and professional status was unharmed by the
suggestion that he had been heaved from a hotel by the
Law. James, who is reported to have got fat and red-
faced, is now aged 45 ; and follows the more or less peace-
ful calling of a commission agent. He will be remembered
as a great natural fighter, but his chief contests were
disfigured by appalling blackguardism on the part of his
backers. In 1887 he fought Jake Kilrain—a pugilist of
herculean strength and considerable skill — for £2OOO.
The men met at the Isle des Souverains, on the
Seine, France, bare-fist fights having been forbid-
den by recent legislation in the United Kingdom.
They fought, with many delays and interruptions,
till dark, after which a draw was declared. Two
years later Smith fought the Australian crack,
Frank Slavin, for the world’s championship, near
Bruges, in Belgium. The two battled on literally for
hours, and Slavin was punishing the Englishman terribly,
when Smith’s backers broke the ring and stopped the
fight by bombarding the astounded Slavin with stones
and ginger-beer bottles. The same thing happened when
Smith fought Peter Jackson. The nigger was caking
charge of the entire situation when a hail of bottles made
the fight a draw and saved Smith’s backers their money.
These episodes caused Smith’s popularity to slump, and
from then onwards he faded out of the world of stoush.
In any honest obituary- notice of Jem Smith will be
recorded the words : “ He owned some of the most vil-
lainous supporters in the history of pugilism.”
• * * *
“ Snell” : Having disposed of Bill Smith in one
spasm, Bill Lang, of Melbourne, has now beaten the Aus-
tralian performances of the other Bill— the boshter of
Newcastle. Lang has whipped everybody Squires
whipped here, and whipped them quite as satis-
factorily. In point of fact, his triumph over long
Peter Felix was a much more decisive assault than
Squires administered to the elongated coon. Lang is now
left without a possible rival in the Australian field, and is
looking abroad for likely victims, but having learned a
heap of wisdom from the other fellow’s sad experience, he
is not ready to dash in and eat up Tommy Burns, Jim
Jeffries, or jack Johnson. He will be content with a few
insignificant English champions before passing over to
America, and in Uncle Sam’s country he will commence
modestly at the bottom of the list with the intention of
eating his way up.
• * • •
Aerial navigation and motoring seem to run
together in Europe. The Hon. Rolls is as great an
aeronaut as he is a motorist ; Santos Dumont patronises
motor boats ; and Henry- Farm an, the English aeronaut,
who recently won the Deutsch-Archdeacon prize of £2OOO
by traversing a circular course of 1600yds. on an aero-
plane in France, is the man who drove the winning car in
the Paris to Vienna race of 1902, covering the 695 miles in
16hr. 25min. There is now £30,000 available as prize
money for the first successful aeroplane navigator. Far-
man drives a 50-h-p. Antoinette engine in his aeroplane,
and announces his resolve to get that £30,000 or bust.
WALKIN’ BACK TO TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When you’re stony-broke and thirsty,
And the sun is streamin’ down ;
You’ve got time for moralizin’,
When you’re walkin’ back to town.
When the lucky sports in ’ansoms,
Go a-bowlin’ past immense,
And you’re slinkin’ sadly homeward
On the grass track by the fence—
Oh ! you think of long, cool shandies,
And the “ certs ” that all went down ;
And —you’re goin’ to chuck up racin’,
When you’re walkin’ back to town.
When you see the jewelled Sheenies,
In their motor-cars and cabs ;
Takin’ home your hard-earned shekels,
Well —your bloomin’ conscience stabs.
And the “ Sport of Kings ” they skite of,
At such seasons seems to cloy ;
For the winners’ smilin’ faces
Wear a most un’oly joy.
An’ you sniff their choice havanners,
An’ you shake your head an’ frown —
For your bloomin’ pipe is empty,
And you’re walkin’ back to town.
You knew a long-priced winner—
Would have backed him like a toff—
If you hadn’t met a blighter,
That bad gone and run you off.
And you put your last half “ thick-’un ”
(And a dollar you’d put past)
On a bloomin’ equine tortoise
That ran absolutely last.
So you make the old stone fountain,
And you’re glad to “ keep one down ”
Pokin’ borak at your stummick
When you’re walkin’ back to town.
Oh ! the level road to Randwick
Is macadamised dam’ well
With the same old brand of metal
That they’re usin’ down in Hell;
And I’ve done a lot of mendin’,
Spread out many a tidy load ;
Just about enough, I fancy,
To maintain the Randwick Road.
But this time I’ll chuck the contrac’—
Let some other bloke lay down
The good old brand of pavin’
A-walkin’ back to Town.
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


ACUTE HEARING
Deafness and Head Noises.
The instances in which the unfortunate people affected
with Deafness and Noises regain their natural hearing
(says the Health Journal) are so rare as to arouse
unusual comment. Such, however, appears to have been
the case regarding the miraculous restoration of perfect
hearing to a woman named Mrs. Jennie Stuart, who
resides at 62 Bondi Road, Waverley, N.S.W.
Mrs. Stuart (who is a professional nurse) first noticed
something wrong with her hearing while attending a
patient in her professional capacity, whom she had to ask
to repeat her conversation on several occasions, and
presumed that it may have been the fault of her patient
not speaking sufficiently distinct. Mrs. Stuart, however,
suspected that there was something wrong with her
hearing when in church one Sunday morning, she could
hardly hear the sermon. Being a nurse, and understand-
ing the great complexity of the Aural construction and
the many ills this delicate organism is subject to, she
naturally realised the importance of immediate attention,
and at once consulted a doctor, who made a thorough
and careful examination, after which he prescribed the
usual treatment, but, surprisingly, the following Sunday,
Mrs. Stuart could hear no better, and, if anything, she
felt worse. She then consulted an Ear Specialist,’ but
with no improvement, so she bothered no more with
doctors for a while, in the vain hope that the trouble might
disappear and her hearing would improve in its natural
course. But, instead of improving, it was only getting
worse and worse. She later consulted another specialist,
and then another, but without any benefit whatsoever, and
her deafness was growing worse from time to time, until
one day (about 15 years ago) she noticed a peculiar roar-
ing sound in the head and a sort of ringing in the ears.
These noises started again a few days later, and repeated
the following day, so that it became quite annoying. The
disagreeable noises seemed to increase from time to time
until they appeared to be permanent, and caused the
deafness to advance to a much more severe stage.
Nurse Stuart then consulted other reputable specialists
and some of the leading medical practitioners known
in the profession. All these able men took advantage
of every recognised medical treatment in this case, for, in
a dition to the financial consideration, their professional
reputation was at stake, and they took a personal interest
in the woman. Her case received special attention, but
all the efforts made by these well-known medical men
seemed to have been in vain, for the poor woman was con-
tinually getting worse. She then tried some of the
advertised devices for curing Deafness and Head Noises,
but without any benefit, until, fortunately, one day she
was told, of the Earoseope, which applied Pure Aural
Kinetics to the Ear.
having tried everything, with the result
that she was only growing worse from day to day, natu-
raily lost all hope of ever being cured, and only tried
a ? the ver y last resource. But what a
PP> urpnse it was for her to notice symptoms of
Ki.E ment a feWdayS ’ a PPli° a ti°no"the Aural
KM^h UrSe Stuart gradually regaining her hearing in
such a that when she attended church ten days
whe r n^t- WaS i qU, L e a ~ e to hear the clergyman speak
fj ot>e b - V j The Ear Noises seemed to diminish
L " ‘., ay to day, and the good nights’ rest which Mrs.
otuart was then able to enjoy seemed to constantly in-
crease her hearing, and in four weeks’ time she was so
improved that she could hear the clergyman quite plainly
from the very back seat in the church. The doctors
were quite surprised at the wonderful cure so success-
fully attained in this case, after they had given up all
hope of the woman ever regaining her hearing, and even
the specialists had proclaimed her case entirely incurable
prior to this treatment.
Since then it has been proved that the Aural Kinetics
applied by the Earoseope has cured innumerable cases of
Deafness, Head Noises, Ringing- in the Ears, and various
Aural complications. The Earoseope seems to be entirely
different from all other treatments, inasmuch as it con-
tains no Drugs, no Chemicals, and no Electricity, but
simply Pure Aural Kinetics, which all sufferers can apply
themselves right at their own homes quite conveniently
and perfectly safe, without the necessity of a doctor, and
without any interference to daily routine work, business
or social duties.
• ny ™ le suff ering from Deafness, Head Noises, Binging
in the Ears, or any other Aural complication, as well as
those interested in this subject, may write for further
particulars to the Earoseope Institute, which will be sent
jU 1 free of an y charge on mentioning this paper.
-Lhe address of this Institution is i— The Earoseope Insti-
tute of Australasia, 90 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ROYAL EASTER
SYDNEY SHOW
APRIL 14th to APRIL 22nd, 1908.
GRAND EXHIBITION CARNIVAL, largest and greatest show in Australasia.
ENTRIES CLOSE as follows:
CATTLE (Beef, Dairy and Fat) ... Thursday, March 19
SHEEP (British Breeds) ... ... Thursday, March 19
P,GS Thursday, March 19
Prize Schedules and Entry Forms will be posted on Application.
3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
H - M. SOMER, Secretary.
A Melbourne Age correspondent, who sig-
nificantly signed himself “ Ex-Wesleyan,” thus
expounds the decadence of Methodism, recently
deplored by Bleeds Fitchett at the Methodist
Conference: —
Methodism, which in its live days was a democratic
movement, is now a distinctively plutocratic one. Its
ministers, in many instances, are identified with Orange
lodges, Protestant Alliances, and other political institu-
tions which work strenuously and continuously in the
interests of the plutocracy and against the people. It
publicly supports fanatical lecturers, who frequently refer
to their “ righteousness,” to the disgust of ordinary
sensible people. It loses sight of the fact that the bulk
of the community are neither Orange nor Roman,
teetotalers nor drunkards, but just ordinary people of
common sense and moderate ideas and tastes, who are
indifferent to ranting of any kind. If the Methodists
wish to fill their churches they must... no longer allow
their Church organisations to be used bv the plutocracy
for political purposes, and withdraw their support from
fanatical zealots.
And those masses of cold truth should give Jugful,
Woodkins and co. something to chew in their off-
hours.
Wanted.
ENGINEER.
WANTED a competent Engineer for large
Suction Dredge. Full knowledge of
electrical pumping and lighting machinery
essential. Applicants must state age and submit
references. Applications must be lodged with the
undersigned on or before noon on Saturday, the
21st dav of March, 1908. “Reliable,” c/o
GORDON & GOTCH LIMITED, Queen Street,
Melbourne.
Amusements.
GILHOOLEY’S AUSTRALIA
ORCHESTRA plays for every leading
Society function in Sydney, and is always up-to-date ;
latest music. W. R. CILHOOLEY, Tel. 3931,
84 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Theatre royal. Sydney
Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Every Evening at 8, and Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
THE JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
The Famous Romantic Play,
THE PRISONER OE ZENDA.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Prices as usual.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In the Farcical Musical Play,
THE DAIRYMAIDS.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 21—THE LADY DANDIES.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CITY, BONDI.
A GAP IN THE GAIETY.
In order to complete the Easter preparations Wonder-
land City will close on Saturday night until April 11,
when it will re-open in Splendor and Glory with
NEW HOLIDAY ATTRACTIONS, including
FIGHTING THE FLAMES and the
NEW SOUTH WALES BABY SHOW,
AND THE MYRIAD OTHER
FUN AND FLIGRT DEVICES.
Q R ITERI ON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
„ CONTINUED SENSATIONAL SUCCESS of
EDWIN GEACH’S PREMIER DRAMATIC
COMPANY
A MODERN ADVENTURESS.
T SATURDAY NEXT,
m Active preparation for Production upon an elaborate
. _ ; scale, THE POWER OF <THE CROSS.
Prices— 3/-, 2/-, and 1/- Pl an at U v y
Amusements.
pAL A CE T H EAT RE~ SYDNEY.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
THE FINEST ARRAY OF PICTURES EVER
SEEN IN AUSTRALIA.
PRICES—2s., Is., and 6d.
Plan at Paling’s,
XHE GLACIARIU M, SYDNEY
Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
The Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES (“ The Best of All ”).
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE SISTERS KLOS, the Most Graceful, Skilful, and
Daring Aerialists Extant.
Immense Success of IKE AND WILL SCOTT, the
Celebrated Comedians, in their Latest Farcical Successes,
“ P.C. 41,” and “ The Blind Fiddler.”
MISS ALMA GRAY. Mr. FRANK HARWOOD.
THREE CUNARDS, Expert Dancers.
GEORGE DEAN. LEONARD NELSON.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manairer, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. EDWIN BOYDE, London’s Celebrated Singing
Comedian.
KAUFMANN TROUPE, World’s Greatest Bicyclists.
MISS MARGARET PARKER & CO. in
UNDER THE SEAL.
SYLVO, World’s Greatest Comedy Juggler.
CHARLES DUMONT, Expert Diabolist.
WILL LOCHRANE, Scotch Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. Jar PRICES—3s. 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 21,
Meynell and Gunn’s Newly-Organised Dramatic Co.,
including
MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY
IN
THE LITTLE BREAD WINNER.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMEDY CO.,
Including MR. THOMAS KINGSTON and MRS.
ROBERT BROUGH,
IN ....
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Day Sale at Palmer’s.
Wl R T H’ S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE B 01?
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
AYl+
NEW SONGS
7d. EACH
No. 4
List.
Words with Full Piano Accompaniment.
12 for 65.3 d. Post Free Anywhere.
Dixieland —Doh, Ray, Me. Fall. Soh, Lah,
Te Doh—Dolly's a ‘first-class’ Girl—Don't Call for Daddy again
—Dont cry little Girl—Don't cry. Sister Jane—Don tgo too fast,
little girlie—Don’t tell the World your Troubles-Don t you
think he's mad?-Dorothy Cr»y-Doesnt anybody want the
Curate ?-Empire Veleta (Veleta Song)-Eva-Farevrell. my
little Yo San 1—" Father "—Father keeps on doing it—Father s
Box of Tools—Firefly—Fighting for their King and Sire tend
—Fishing—Following in Father’s Footsteps—Fou thenoo—Etc,
Our MusTc Lists andVlstrated Novelty Catalogue posted free
U 'STAR NOVELTY 00, 229 Collin* St., Melbourne.
KUGELMANN’iS
©
©
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid."
fr.ee
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Makes you look manly
1
flfler
When he Grows a MOUSTACHE
a man improves his appearance—but it must be a moustache, not an apology
for one. If you cannot grow one, or only a small one, or if you have tried
without success some other “ sure ” preparations, then buy a jar of . . .
CAPILLARINE
It costs only 10/6 post free. It has never been known to fail, and has been
in use for a quarter of a century. Price 10/6 Post Free.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Established 25 Years.
An excited woman, with her hair out of
curl and a powerful odor of chloroform on her
person, rushed into the South Melbourne watch-
house the other evening, and earnestly besought
the sergeant to arrest her husband immediately
and bind him over to keep the peace. She had
been married to him six years, she said, and for a
good deal of the time he had been trying to get
her to swallow poison or otherwise destroy herself
“voluntarily.” One time he had urged her to
consume a glass of stout, but she didn’t like the
smell of it, and refused. Another day he pressed
a long shandy on her, but that also had an
unhealthy odor, so she “passed” it. Another
time he brought a small tube of some liquid to
her when she was having a bath, and, breaking
it, besought her to smell the contents. It might
have been attar of roses, but she had her doubts,
so once more she declined. The other day, she
said, he had recklessly offered her 255. if she would
drink a “ long-sleever.” She agreed—if he would
drink half ; hut he wasn’t thirsty. Just before she
had made her rush for the watcbhouse he had, she
asserted, pressed a handkerchief saturated with
chloroform against her mouth and nose; and, as
she smelt strongly of the drug, the sergeant
heeded her request and locked hubby up.
This narrative being repeated in the police
court, and corroborated to some extent, the Law
was cogitating whether to fine the husband ss. or
give him two years “hard,” when the lady
observed that she felt quite sure he would be a
model man in future if he was bound over to keep
the peace; so he was bound accordingly. For a
man who has allegedly made about a dozen
attempts to “ remove ” his wife, it seems a pain-
fully inadequate corrective; but a lot of people
have a simple faith in the efficacy of “ binding
over,” and find the process wonderfully soothing
to the nerves.
Dunlop
Packings
We have just issued a very
fine illustrated list of our
Packings, Insertions, and En-
gineering Rubber Goods, and
shall be pleased to receive
the name and address of
every user of this class of
Goods, so that we may post
a copy of our comprehen-
sive catalogue.
Dunlop Packings, etc.,
are now extensively used
throughout Australasia with
great satisfaction, as the
Quality and Price
are right. The fact that
most of the leading Shipping
Companies, Mines, and Engin-
eering shops, etc., are now
using tons of our Goods, speaks
volumes as to their wearing
qualities.
a a 0
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne
*55 Clarence Street, Sydney
117 Grentell Street, Adelaide
268-270 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
67 King Street, Perth
Worcester Street, Christchurch, N.Z.


WATCHES FOR the MULTITUDE!
Vf ERIT alone Has secured for A. Saunders' Watches tHe public's appreci-
ation of tHe perfect watcH. Whatever you're prepared to pay, you 11 find
tHat for strength, accuracy, durability, A. Saunders' Watches stand supreme.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH
Amethyst centre.
25/.
15ct Gold £2.
BUYING BY MAIL.
NO MATTER WHERE
YOU LIVE, YOU CAN-
SHOP BY MAIL WITH
AS MUCH SATISFAC-
TION AS IF YOU
VISITED OUR SHOP
PERSONALLY. ALL
GOODS SENT CARRIAGE
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ft. Gold
CIRCLE BROOCH,
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
Two Heart BROOCH,
Set Fine Opals and
Diamond.
£2/10/.
Larger, £3 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Joct. Gold BROOCH.
Set Fine Pearls and
Sapphires or Turquoise.
£4/10/.
OPEN
FACE.
15/'
HIGHER
GRADE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open Face,
Keyless WATCHES, Short
Wind, Stem Set, Perfectly
Regulated and Adjusted,
Splendid Timekeeper.
15/.
Higher Grade, 20/, 25/, SO/.
Kept in free repair for 1 Year
FREE
CATALOGUE.
SEND US YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AND
WE WILL MAIL YOU,
POST FREE, A COPY
OF OUR LATEST CATA-
LOGUE. WRITE TO-
DAY. ITS YOURS FOR
THE ASKING.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Bird BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Ruby.
35/
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
“LYRE” BROOCH,
Set Fine
White Pearls.
£3.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Pearls, Ruby and
Turquoise, or all Pearls.
£3/10/.
Olivines, Rubles, and Pearls, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
HEART BROOCH.
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.
£2.
SOLID
SILVER.
25/-
SOLID
GOLD.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES,
Richly Engraved Case,
f-Plate Lever Movement,
Fully Jewelled, Patent
Adjusted Balance.
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 50/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
£5/10/, £6/10/.
Guaranteed for 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
C\
i—■»#*>■
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
20/.
A. SAUNDERS,
loct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphires.
25/.
OPEN
FACE.
HIGHER
GRADE.
30/-
u
%
/
'T' ; ,
X
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless WATCHES,
1-Plate Movement, Non-Magnetic, Patent
Adjusted Balance, Dust and Waterproof
Cases.
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/.
Guaranteed for 15 Years, and kept in free
repair for 1 year.
Cheaper Grades, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold
Pure Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£3/10/.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
LU^TEI
Gold
CLUSTER RING,
Sat Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
? <■ C]
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
HEART CHARM,
Raised Forget-Me-Not
Spray.
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP
2/6.
Engraved, 3/.
9ct. Gold, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
SEAL PENDANT,
Bloodstone and
Sardonyx.
12/6.
SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
HEART and
DUMB-BELL LINKS.
12/6.
15ct. Gold. 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Half-Chased Curb Padlock BRACELET
with Safety Chain Attached, £2.
Smaller, 30/, 35/. Larger, £2 10/, £3, £3/10..
OPEN
FACE
15-
HIGHER
GRADE
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
T °Ju U Face Ke - vless “GUARD”
n~y LR - 4 >h°rt Wind, Non-ilagnetic
1 atent; Adjusted Balance, Dust and
Waterproof Cases, Fine or Bold Dial
15/.
Higher Grade, “Railway,” 20/
Guaranteed for 10 Years,
and kept in free repair for 1 Year.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Raised Floral Spray,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT
and NECKLET, set Fine
Pearls and Amethysts.
£4.
15ct. Gold, £5 10/.
Set Pearls and
Tourmalines, £6 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct. Gold
Half-Hoop RING,
Set with Double Gut
Diamonds and
Emeralds.
£lO.
I MIMA
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM.
12/6.
Smaller, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP,
Solid Silver,
2/C,.
Extra Heavy, 3/6.
This Loro Watch
Ketv(ecuMe
u Thee y
§
sjjs>
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM,
8/6.
Smaller, 5/6, 6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold
OVAL LINKS,
22/6.
15ct._ Gold, £2.
Initials Engraved
Free of Charge.
18CT
GOLD
£l2 10s.
higher
GRADE
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct Gold Hunting
Keyless WALTHAM LEVER,
Fully Jewelled,
Compensation Balance, Per-
fectly Adjusted, Extra Heavy
Case, Hand Engraved.
£l2/10/.
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in free repair for 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray
Cluster BROOCH, Set
fine white Pearls,
£2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Scroll BROOCH.
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£2/10.
SOLID
GOLD.
£7/10
SOLID
SILVER.
„ .A. SAUNDEKS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
WATCHES, Stem Set, f-Plate, Fully
Jewelled, Compensation Balance, Perfectly
Timed and Adjusted.
£2.
Higher Grade, £2 10/, £3 10/, £4 10/,
„ £5 loy.
Solid Gold, £7 10/, £8 10/, £l2 10/,
£l5, £2O, £25.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4,5, and 6 Years.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDF.RS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 Qeorge-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


M
-
mmm-
m
85.?‘ s;ft\.
J
/
r $
•
v *? *BU
?%!
#*
i
s*
-
;,AWARDt
r>‘
5 /A
»*r ol n
IF' J' \
j|f f i :\{n
9/ fiH* tk9 ** w Wjjtwwr •
if
finest
w Iftif t A I
pip
:J®fe
(RJTexCUISIV&Y SUPPUSD XO ‘”±J-~ j
&msrSNDCm$ u
Johr\%waraS®|
Distillers PERTH. Scot (and &WNWH-
I
■BABSs**?'
5
X
4WARDEI
PtEDAI
\r *
/ p[p
r
EHTH
TO SliT'Ajfsrtfl-j
• >Ui
lf&
FINEST
uear
(OT
r
R
suppijeototM
IMP6RpLINST!W6
(stocsrGNDQu.&
John'DewaYoSonsß
. Distillers PERTH. Scotland* »»
A WORD TO THE WISE IS SUFFICIENT. DEWARS


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUEANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. •• £l6 1°
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD..
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Meliiogrnb Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street. , ' Ta *
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S,
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
.. £BOO,OOO 0 0
.. 413,296 0 0
Subscribed Capital
Capital Paid Up
Reserve (in Government Stock)
InterminaDle .Deposit Stock
.. 64,000 0 0
..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
The Colonial Iflutual tife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank nf |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burris, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of [| eu > Z aaland -
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL .. ... .. £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
#
$
$
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
dNT-S.'W.
(Dont de piete 0. L C°-> Qtd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
‘ - EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
T Jessop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
EXECUTORS
The trustees
AND
agency company limited
M 412 Collina-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. -- •• .. £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith Esq. C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Gnoe, Esq.;
Hon J M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
Hon. J. m. r JA - MES BOIUIO WMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
E
I\CT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
Best book of Australian humor, ” 4s. (id.
snipping.
3NT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar, London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
Leave Melb’rne 3 days later
~ Adelaide 6 „ „
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Every Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ SICSISMUND 7th APRIL.
MANILA sth MAY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 2nd JUNE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
EOHMANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal j)ank of Queensland
LIMITED. ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £475,041 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174.350 0 0
Reserve FuNDdnvested in Government Stock) 70,000 0 0
£719,391 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N UNt.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING at DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLt.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
SALAMIS ..
a DAMASCUS
♦MILTIADES
• • ' f[
H. A. Schleman .. Noon. P
A. Douglas, R.N.R. 1 Noon, Maj^
* Twin Screw, a Third Class only.
FARES: 3rdClaBS _
Saloon. , . oon fla
London .. .. From £57 .. ££ g®
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10®*; u ar , irP able with
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks•
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest su
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of saiun^..
Dalyet/y and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia. ,
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
PERSIC, to sail about 11th April.
TROPIC (Cargo only) to sail about
16th April.
RUNIC, to sail about 13th May.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARES-Capetown or Durban *l5 15 oto £24 Q
London .. • • „ 36 5 0
New York, &c. .. 2o 5 0 to 3b
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Compani/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
I HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
■
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. £1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,410,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,610,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of |)bui South (Dales.
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... £2,425,400 0 0
In course of Payment 74,600 0 0
Reserve Fund.. ..
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ...
£2,500,000 0 0
1,530,000 0 0
2,500,000 0 0
£6,530,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon.REGiNALD James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
j Alfred 6. Milson, Esq.
Auditors : -j \y II/L[AM Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—64- Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, '1 to 5 Beacon3f;eld Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpilii Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
r '■ 4 ’
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
1
TWO TIPS with
? OSPREY.
Black, White,
' Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/ The Bunch,
/ Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
ANDERSON’S
WILL, NOT
blister.
SAFE
HORSE
CURE.
Is the finest remedy for Broken Knees,
Sore Shoulders, Flesh Wounds, Burns’,
and Scalds, Swellings, Sprains and
Rheumatism.
If not obtainable of Storekeeper or
Chemist, send for sample bottle 2s. 9d.
post paid Ss. 6d., to Sydney Depot-
-30 P.O. CHAMBERS, PITT STREET.
snipping.
thTadelaide steamship Co;
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W. A., Port lor
Ravensthorpe Goldfields.
S.S. Wollowra, Friday
March 20.
S.S. Gran tala, Saturday
March 28.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yongala, March 21.
S.S. Wollowra, March 28.
jiest and Cheapest Itonte to GoldMdt,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subj ect to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IyjESSAGERIES jy^AR/TIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
unce.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange,
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR.
DAY, March 21.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 28.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
April 4.
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) ,
Steamer early.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
March 21.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
March 24.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR
DAY, March 28.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
♦
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.—&
STEAM TO LONDON
via HOBART.
THE FINE FAVORITE STEAMER,
“DURHAM”
9400 Tons. J. L. B. Hunter, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney, VIA HOBART a
Cape of Good Hope, for London.
Sailing from Sydney - - - 19th MARCH.
„ „ Hobart (about) 2nd APRIL-
Excellent accommodation for a limited
Saloon passengers, consisting of all two-berm
cabins, situated amidships, well lighted and ventu
Excellent cuisine.
Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
Electric light throughout.
FARES .... £49 10s.
For full particulars, pamphlets, and other infornia 1
apply to—
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, 7 Macquarie Plac i
Managing Agents.


'
-OFX.V-
-&
/
■HBBVmWHHB
\w/„ ;>*#*
tw
. / Tr .. k,
?
*
\j
w.
'M
X
S 3/
///
*v
&
%».
\r
r\ v
r
h.
k
*+
■&
y+'*f/ v
mi
m
V
f%>
w
V
i
m
Ta
z
yi-
( )
c
Lor'
K
\u
*>
HWt
ft
1
m
a
as
$s
:4.l
m
wm
fci-
* /»<n
x
1
r '
fc
;:r
♦ -<
fß '
)Nr H SL' L.-
m )-• x<.. >
1
A
l
■
iv -4?
%
O' )
8
r/
Lance Albert SKuthorp
HE Proprietor of the Largest Buckjumping Show on earth is recognised as the greatest horseman the world has ever
seen Skuthorp has never been thrown from an outlaw’s back. Amongst the eight hundred odd riders who have endeavored
to ride “ Snips ” he is the only man that has ever stuck to him. “ Snips,” Skuthorp declares, to be the greatest Buckjumper
ever produced. St Patrick's Day, two years ago, Skuthorp rode “ Bobs ” to a standstill in a three-inch pad. A week later,
he Pulled his feet from the stirrups and threw away his reins on “ Wild Anglais,” and gave the finest exhibition of horsemanship
has ever been seen in Sydney.


Of Psoriasis Contracted While in
Service in West Indies—Left
Scaly Surfaces on Lower Limbs
Eczematous Eruption Followed
—Nothing Gave Permanent Relief,
SUFFERED 23 YEARS
CURED BY CUTICURA
"I suffered for years from psoriasis
affecting the outer sides of the calves of
t-
both limbs, con-
tracted in the
West Indies in ’B2
or ’B3 while serv-
ing on H. M. S.
‘Northampton,’
as sick berth
steward. In that
capacity I had the
use of nearly all
the preparations
the Pharmacopoeia
prescribes, but
through each stage
of the disease I did
not consult any
medical officer,
but treated my-
self with prepara-
tions of mercury
and sarsaparilla
for about nine months, but the eruption
continued for years, and eventually
left a scaly surface surrounding both
limbs. In 1905 I tried ’s Reme-
dies which seemed to remove the erup-
tion, but at the beginning of the present
year an eczematous eruption appeared,
then seeing a Cuticura advertisement,
I decided to give a trial to the Cuticura
Remedies, of which I needed but five
supplies. After the first week I found
great relief and I have been quite free
from any irritation since, although I con-
tinued the treatment for ten weeks in all.
There is only a faint discoloration left,
and I consider that Cuticura Remedies
have done more towards curing the
troublesome disease of which I suffered
so long than all the other remedies put
together and I recommend them to all
my friends. I conclude with wishing
Cuticura great success. Henry Camp-
bell, Naval Pensioner, 9, Grove Road,
Luton, Chatham, Kent, Oct. 17, 1906."
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood, A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
fcCo., Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
aa~ Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
LOVERS’ ENSYGLOPjEDIA.
If nature has not gifted you with words and manners that
win hearts the Lovers’ Encyclopaedia will supply the art.
the knowledge imparted by this book unlocks the gate. It
considers the whole subject from the time you meet until
you two are one. Valuable chapters about dress, personal
appearance, cure for bashfulness, many things heretofore
secrets. Reproductions of curious love letters and Fifteen
Hundred tit bits in prose and poetry that you can find
daily use for. P.N., 2/6; posted, 2/B (stamps, 2/10) will bring the
book by mail,and happiness with one you love. ANGLO-AM-
ERICAN Pub’ngCo. George St. Sydney. Mention this paper
WATCH.
GUARANTEED IN WRITING FOR 12 MONTHS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
■ FOR
10/-
10|-
I
\
/
N
MELBQURNt
M
4
v.
The “ Dreadnought ” is an exceptionally strong,
polished steel cylinder watch, with high-grade
jewelled movement, with nickelled dome. It is
wound up and the hands set without opening the
case by the latest keyless mechanism. You can have
the case either GUNMETAL or NICKEL. Both are
practically dustproof, and have a strong bevelled
crystal giass face. Every watch thoroughly tested
and regulated before being offered for sale, and
guaranteed in writing for 12 months. Sent post free
anywhere for 10/-
Your money returned in full if you are not satisfied.
Write for Catalogue, Post Free.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
115,000
The Waybaek Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
m
v|
OF
m§
An Agreeable
Mila and
'Efficacious
Laxative-
Gentle
Vet Prompt
m Action
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleasant in results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation—is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of this ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and I / 11 *
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO-, 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
Stylish
Gentle-
man’s
Glace
Balmoral
22/6
There’s guaranteed
worth in every line of
this boot —of the finest
Glace Kid, it is very
pliant and shapely. And
soled with a wide welt.
Broad or narrow toe for
choice, 22/6.
7
, . . ... , . Our new Booklet “Shoe-
If ordering in Victoria, light” (beautifully illus-
add 9d. for postage; trated) is free on re-
other States, 1/- quest.
LEEMINC’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
Plan for
To-Morrow.
The man whose desk is littered with
yesterday’s work has no time to plan for
to-morrow’s.
Mail matter piles up, not because you
haven’t the time to answer the letters, but
' because when you are ready your steno-
grapher generally isn’t.
That is why to-day’s work is seldom
done till to-morrow.
THE EDISON
BUSINESS PHONOGRAPH
Changes all this. You can answer your
mail in absolute privacy, slowly or at great
speed, at any time of day or night. 1
You can do the correspondence at home
if you like. Whatever you dictate becomes
a record that any typewriter operator can
understand and put in letter form.
Ask us to forward you booklets with full
particulars of this business requisite.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney,
GRIEF WRECRED STSTEM.
HARROWING TALE OF DESPAIR. LOSES MEMORY AT TIMES.
Clements Tonic
WORKS A WONDERFUL CHANGE.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
So many go on suffering year by year through
lack of serviceable information, it is deemed ad-
visable to place before the public the story of Mrs.
Mary Janeßudd, of 38 Young-street, Redfern, so
that a salutary lesson may be learned. What
Mrs. Budd said to our special was this :
“It is now eight years since my husband died,
a calamity that took place when we had been
living in this house nine years, so you see I have
been residing here a good while.”
“ Yes,” assented the reporter. “ I believe you
are an old resident of these parts ? ”
“ I was born in Bourke-street, and have lived in
this locality all my life. But, to go back to my
story. It was not long after my great bereavement
that I became a total wreck. The blow nearly
killed me, and for a good while I was really
stupefied with grief. For some considerable time
my memory was completely lost, and it was im-
possible for me to concentrate my mind for a few
minutes upon any subject. When my dazed con-
dition passed away it was then that 1 realised how
terribly my whole system had suffered, a fact
which dawned upon me as I stood at the table one
day feeling so ill that I did not think I would live
till the morrow. For my own part, I did not care
what happened, but I thought of my three little
children, and said to myself : ‘What ever can I
take to do me good for their sakes ? ’ ”
“Was that the first time you thought of taking
anything ?”
“ It was the first time I thought of acting on
my own judgment, the reason being that I was
under a doctor for some length of time, and his
treatment hadn’t benefited me in the least.”
“What did your medical attendant say was
wrong with you ? ”
“He told me I had taken my afflictions in-
wardly, and that my nervous system was in a very
weak state. I knew that well enough, unfortu-
nately, for I could not even bear to hear the
children talking, their voices got on m v nerves so,
and if a tap came to the door I nearly fainted with
fright. I hadn’t the least desire for food, and I
think one of my greatest afflictions was my in-'
ability to get to sleep. For four years I did not
know what it was to sleep properly for one night.
It was usual for me to remain awake till about 3
or 4 o’clock in the morning, and then dose off till
half-past 5, when I always awoke with a start, and
would get no more sleep till next morning. And
the dreams I had each time I slept—they were
awful.”
“ You must have lost weight during vour
illness ? ”
“Oh ! I was ghastly. My bones were almost
protruding through my skin, and anybody seeing
me could not have thought otherwise than that I
would never get better again. I really thought 1
was doomed to die, and feel sure I would havs
been dead long ago ONLY FOR CLEMENIS
TONIC, WHICH WAS THE LAST MEDI-
CINE OF ALL THAT I TOOK. A friend often
used to say, * Why don’t you try some Clements
Tonic?’ but I always postponed doing so ; but at
last I thought that as I had heard so much about
it, and nothing else could do me any good, I would
give Clements Tonic a trial. This was the decision
that I came to the day that I stood at the table
feeling that I could not last another twenty-four
hours, so what better reason than that could I have
for saying that Clements Tonic saved my life.
You must understand that I was quite incapable
of doing any work, and that it was a common thing
for me to be in bed a fortnight at a time, utterly
unable to attend to anything that required seeing
to, so when Clements Tonic began to put a little
life and strength into me you can imagine how
thankful I was for it. And weren’t the neighbors
surprised to hear that I had taken a turn for the
better ? My word, it was a matter that astonished
nearly the whole of Redfern. But what a relief
it was to have my headaches ease off after suffer-
ing so long with them ! And wasn’t I glad to feel
that Clements Tonic was also doing good to my
nervous system? Why, I had only been taking
that remedy a few weeks when I could stand noises
of any kind without wincing, and already I was
getting more sleep than I had had for years.”
“Did you feel more refreshed after it than
formerly ? ’’
“Oh ! yes; much. The reason why, I suppose,
was that I did not dream at all, so both my brain
and body were resting all the time, and when 1
awoke I felt so fresh and lighthearted—no nasty
taste in the mouth as before, a clean tongue, and,
my word, what an appetite for breakfast I had .
Clements Tonic did make me eat and no mistake,
and my nerves were getting stronger and stronger
as the days went by. Eventually my old fears and
imaginations died right away, nothing ni° ,e
troubling me, and all this wonderful change was
entirely due to Clements Tonic. Oh! I h* v “
thanked God thousands of times that I was guide
to take that remedy, and I am so anxious tna
other sufferers may regain hope by hearing of m.
cure. But Clements Tonic served me well in owe
ways. It put an end to the giddy feelings 1 use
to have, removed the swollen feeling from
eyes and the suffocating sensations from my cnes,
then, finally; built up my strength so per:
that everyone could see my health was thorougn y
regained.’’
“May I publish your remarks?” . ,
“I gladly give you permission to publish tne
in any way.”
. }’ MARY JANE BUDD, of No. 38 Young-s reet, Redfern, in the State of New South Wale* Commonwealth
!. a ’ d ° sO . . em . n '- v an< * sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed docotrcnt, consisting of S'
‘illness^andcure from o ne to five, and that it contains and is a trie tort faithful account of my
r" • cure . oy Clements Ton ic, and also contains my full permission to publish in any way my statements
fbelievin e same*tcfhe't’rim*«nrTh re ? e * a "- v payment ; and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act 1900 (Sed ) M ARY JANE Bbß®.
I Subscribed and declared at Redfern this ___ . . on ,i fee
. ® vl , ~e s , ame . t ’? , tru . e ' a 7, j- v y irtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900 (Sud ) MARY JANE BUBO-
■before b me nbed and d6C ared at Redfern this twenty-seventh day of August, one thousand‘nine hundred and four
.before me - _ THGS. CADDY, J-?.
• * v..*
Where the King’s Writ Merely Hobbles.
“ Wherever this Empire has extended its borders, there
misery and oppression, anarchy and destitution, super-
stition and bigotry, have tended to disappear, and have
been replaced by peace, justice, prosperity, humanity,
and freedom of thought, speech, action. But there has
also sprung, what I believe to be unique in the history of
empires, a passion of loyalty and enthusiasm which
makes the heart of the remotest British citizen thrill at
the thought of the destiny which he shares, and causes
him to revere a particular piece of colored bunting as the
symbol of all that is noblest in his own nature, and of the
best import for the good of the world.”— Curzon.
This is the sort of comfortable guff that Curzon,
the man who ran India (where the famine and the
hawker come from), lets off to English audiences;
and, on examination, it proves to be the fluff that
after-dinner speeches are made of. For Curzon,
dazzled by the large brown hunk of India, thinks
that Asiatic peninsula is the Empire, and has
quite failed to notice another country still in that
Empire, where “ misery and oppression, anarchy
and destitution,” are in full blast and work-
ing overtime, and where “peace, justice,
prosperity, humanity and freedom of thought,
speech and action ” haven’t, so far, been
included in the output. And from four
million natives who inhabit this particular country
there hasn’t been heard the noise of any explosion
of “loyalty and enthusiasm,” and they don’t
seem to. have any use for any “ particular
piece of colored bunting,” except to pawn
it. This native State has an area almost
equal to that of England ; it has been colonised
and governed for centuries; and its soil
is fairly fertile, and its inhabitants are a virile and
intelligent race. And England now admits that
this colony is the only place in the swollen and
partially tanned Empire where the King’s writ
does not run. It does not even walk, and if it
ventures out (first looking down the street to see
whether somebody is not waiting for it with a
brick), it merely hobbles. Mostly, however, it
stays at home—in a barracks, where it feels safer
surrounded by large policemen. The natives are
of an alien race, possessing a religion of their own,
and national characteristics that the English, with
their alleged capacity to govern subject races, do
not understand. One of these national idiosyn-
crasies is a pleasing habit of shifting
cattle belonging to the English colonists.
But this is not due to mere national exuberance
or love for the cow ; for by driving the gentle cow
from the pasture-lands of the English colonists
these tracts of country are rendered useless“ to
their owners, who mostly are glad to dispose of
them cheap. And the wily cattle-shifters there-
upon acquire the pastures and prod the patient
bullock hack again. Also, the natives boycott the
pasture-owners, preventing them from buying the
native products in the native villages, and refusing
even to allow them to attend the native religious
ceremonies. And where the pasture-owners are
obstreperous, the natives practise shooting at
| them from behind cover. This racial trait has
resulted in making the natives about the finest
fighters in the world. And to protect the
harassed owners and the perturbed cow the Eng-
lish police build huts on the pasture paddocks,
and every cow takes her walks abroad attended
by two constables in uniform, who sternly move
on any native who occupies the grass that the
moo-cow wants to eat. In June last the herbage
on 1245 pasture-areas was defended with con-
stables’ batons ; 81 policemen took strategic posi-
tions with revolvers behind the cows as the
owners shooed the harassed animals home, and 400
officers were sitting round the calves to see that
they got a living wage from their mothers’ udders.
The natives have been granted a sort of self-
government by which the cattle-stealers are tried
by an English Judge and a jury of cattle-stealers.
Out of 271 persons charged with cow-shooing the
cow-prodding jury acquitted 236 with honor, and
the hope that they would go and prod again. And
in August six great divisions of this native State
were proclaimed by the English Governor to be in a
state of disturbance, necessitating more policemen.
Though slavery is abolished in the British East
African Protectorate, in this State the boycott is
officially acknowledged as being a tyranny equal
to that of slavery. And the chief legal officer is
getting wearied of arresting cow-drivers who are
acquitted by bullock-drivers, to the applause of
heifer-drivers. Until the aboriginals are united
with the English, he says, “in the desire to enforce
the criminal law, there is no good in prosecutions.”
And last J une the Raisuli of this people com-
plaisantly and genially remarked, “ We send this
message to England. We tell her that we to-day
hate her rule just as bitterly as our forefathers did
when they shed their blood on this spot.” And
this peculiar people so hopelessly misruled, this
turbulent crowd of cattle-drivers whom England
admits herself incapable of reducing to submis-
sion, this experiment in government at which
England has been six centuries longer at work
than with Egypt, this country possessing four
million cow-annoyers, is not situated in the
Pacific, or in Africa ; it is not far away, nor
difficult to understand. Its name is Ireland.
«.
South Australia is having an amazing run of
luck. A few years ago the man who grew
whiskers and not much else at the back of Ade-
laide was always the poor relation. In the five
years between 1894 and 1900 the State only
averaged an annual 4T3 bushels of wheat to the
acre; and wheat is what the S. Australian
measures things by. When the Treasurer goes
into figures once a year, they call it a “ five-
bushel Budget,” or an “ eight-bushel Budget,” as
the case may be. But about the time Federation
arrived things began to look up ; and they went on
looking up during 1903, when most other parts of
Australia were looking round for something to
wet their parched tongues with. That 1903 wheat
harvest wasn’t big—six bushels or thereabouts—
but the plodders of the central State coined money
out of hay and chaff. After that, five fat harvests
have come one upon the other, and, according to
the latest estimates, over 20Is million bushels have
been reaped from the last crop, which, in point of
size, puts up an absolute record—just as did that
6001b. bag that some inhuman ghoul packed
part of the grain into. But S. Australia’s luck
holds further, because the bumper harvest, giving
well over 17,000,000 bushels for export, arrives
when wheat is scarce and dear. At present prices
that surplus means about £3,500,000 for the poor
relation ; and the poor relation has tidy cheques
also for wool and iced lamb to call for.' It looks
very much as though the other Australias will
have to revise their attitude towards the poor
relation, and knock off being so beastly patronis-
ing.
♦
The great city of Vienna is getting a proud
hustle on itself in the matter of municipal
socialism. It is going in for the city ownership
of gas, electricity, water supply, tramways,
breweries, undertakeries, cemeteries, butchers’
shops, coal supply, workmen’s dwellings and sun-
dries—especially sundries. Consequently, accord-
ing to certain well-known citizens hereabouts, its
ruin is assured. But Vienna is a tough old city
which has battled with all manner of enemies for
a thousand years, and it may pull through.


Arnott s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“ THE CHILDREN’S 1 FOOD.”
r
a
Unrivalled for the Complexion. 1
Cold Medal. Paris Exhibition, 1900. f. WOLFF & sown
or nrT ‘ ,rlX ’ St IOUIS ' ,9M - ka»l S »uh E •
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Agents; LOHMANN & CO.,
Melbourne and Sydney.
I
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
qoT aCh fr He w ache ’ Heartburn > Indigestion,
hour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORbs
MAGNESIA
THE POLLOND BINOCULARS
vsv-'ir*.
I
■
There are other Binoculars,
but absolutely none to possess
the improvements seen in the
Dollond—although you may
pay a higher price.
Dollond’s Prismatic Bin-
oculars are appreciably less
in thickness—are absolutely
dust and damp proof, and
can be cleaned without any
risk of disturbing the adjust-
ments.
These are a few of the
Improvements. Write
for Booklet which illus-
trates & describes them.
P “ CE £7 to £B.
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Agents for Dollonds, Opticians to the King and His Majesty’s Government,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
VIGOROUS STRENGTH
WITHOUT
DRUGS!
'III
mm
JTVERY MAN
who is Weak and
Failing knows that there should be “something ” that
will restore that “old-time vigor ” to his body. He
has invariably tried all kinds of medicines and found
them a total failure. He finds himself worse instead
of better. If you have been paying money to doctors
and taking nasty medicines for years, and have
derived no benefit from it all, do you not think it
is time to stop 1 Twenty years’ experience with ''
drugs and electricity has confirmed us in the
knowledge that Electricity alone, without any
other material aid, will re-
place and renew lost energy
and vitality, and that our appliance is the only prac-
tical, commonsense way of applying it. Thousands of
grateful letters from cured patients, who suffered from
Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Lost Vigor, Ner-
vousness, Kidney Trouble, Backache, Rheuma-
tism, Sciatica, Varicocele, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Stomach, Liver and
Bowel Troubles, tell us that medicine failed
to cure them, and that “Nature’s Cure,”
Electricity, as given by the improved
DR. McLAUCHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
With its Special Attachments for Men ard Women, DID CURE them after they had given up hope. It is the grandest invention of the
age for weak people. ... No weak, sickly, delicate person will ever regret giving it a fair trial. It is within the reach of all. The
price is as low as £1 in most cases. We are the originators of the Electric Belt system of home treatment in Australasia. Our Belt is
the standard. St is Guaranteed ;no charge for repairs, and will last a lifetime. BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
£5OO REWARD
_Every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt we sell is guaranteed to give a strong
current, instantly felt. We will pay £5OO to anyone proving the contrary.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong and Vigorous, with your veins full of youthful fire, your eyes clear,
your muscles strong and active, then write to us to-day, and we will send you, post paid, our new
Free Book, which every man and woman should read, and which will inspire you with courage to
help yourself. It is full of the things that make a man feel like BEING a man. Write to-day.
CALL IF POSSIBLE.
Office Hours—9a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
•OSEPH R. COBCOrtAM
The McIAUCHLIN CO., Dept. 10, No. 7 Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
S, ENCINES, DYNAMOS, Etc
FOR SALE CHEAP.
apply EMPIRE ELECTRIC LIGHT CO., LTD., Margaret Lane.


The First Subdivision of 7,700 Acres
MOUNT BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND.
(35,000 Acres),
On the Upper Brisbane River, 75
miles from Brisbane, 8 miles from
Eek Railway Station, and 8 miles
from Nestle & Co.’s Cressbroek
Milk Factory and Stud Farm.
47
Choice Agricultural and
Dairy Farms (and Township)
Each Farm having large per centage
of Rich Alluvial River Frontage Flats,
equal to the Best Lucerne Land in the Commonwealth;
enormous supplies of water for Irrigation ; Rainfall 40 ins.
well-distributed; plenty of Fencing; Material; Good Roads;
every facility for inspection—Horses and Guides Free.
TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION at Esk, on
Saturday, 4th APRIL, 1908, at 2.30 p.m.
20
Years Terms
Bonus
at 5%, with
for Prepayments.
Write to-day for Illustrated Plans to
ISLES, LOVE & CO.,
AUCTIONEERS,
BRISBANE
ZEISS
THE TESSAR
F 3'5, F 4*5, F 6*3.
Tmj
Simplicity in Design. Brilliancy of the Image.
Exquisite and Uniform Definition from
centre to margin.
6»N BE FITTED to almost
aNY eaMERa.
New Booklet p7B po»t free. Obtainable from aU Dealere and from
CARL ZEISS,
ENGLISH BRANCH—
Margaret Street, Regent Street,
London, England.
Hi
u
i
V
OMV
m
KUIINj
0 MATO 5 §
¥
A zestful relish
of luscious tomatoes—
picked fruits fresh fro\n the garden, fairly
barsting with ruby ripeness—only these are
good enough for Dyasoh to use in the
making of his Tomato Sauce :: :: All the
delicacy and daintiness of\a Home Made
preserve —and yet more choicely flavoured//\
owing to a score of years* Experience in .*.*•;•
/• •“.condiment making. *
\ . * . r S.A
iWithout peer as an
/ appetising relish —
DYASON’S\
TOMATO SAUCE
Sold by all Grocers—but
mind “DYASON’S” ; It’s a
matter of health, yourknoW .
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
\> SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, 10(1.
\HfKRT rttmnv,
Uo Wol\\er s\\ou\<i X>e. 'Nfttaoufc \\.
v-V a W^ eU
, servt ow ve(\wesV.
s
E
&
A progress we d/eta/y adoptee/ to t/?e grow/ftp d/gest/Ve powers
Milk Food N?l
from fr'fr/i /<? 3 mont/is
Milk Food N? 2
from 3 to 6 morf/rs
Malted Food N 93
from 6 montfs up words.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
FRIOTOIDS
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“I am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My. mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been, taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion/ &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got some from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
“For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if I am
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am-that ‘ Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN,Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. |am feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M'CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For sale by leading Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If vour Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them for vn., Chemist or
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. GeeC*, Victoril *
NOTICE.—The materials In FROOTOIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY and consist
amongst other ingredients, of the active principle of each of FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS
and ROOTS, so combined and proportioned in a particular way that a ?ar BETTER result is
obtained than from an ordinary aperient. y dr ‘ ER result is


Cresswell, Melbourne’s city P.M., is by
way of filling Pa Panton’s place as father-confessor
to the feminine waifs and strays of the city ; but
he has a much more paternal manner than the ex-
P.M. A “review” on a Monday morning runs
something like this :
Enter Jessie Smith, aged about 50, drunk and disorder!}'.
“ Well, Jessie, how do you account for it ? "
“ Please Mr. Cresswell, it was the Chinese New Year,
and I’d been celebrating:. It won’t happen again ;at
least wot till next year.”
“ Ah, but you were here only 10 days ago, Jessie • it
will have to be three days this time.”
Then Martha Jones ; she is a comparative stranger,
“ Well, Martha ; you look sorry now.”
" Yes, your Worship, I’m very sorry.”
(( Y e B ... and what is your occupation ? ”
(( 1 keep house for my husband, sir.”
Well, go home and be a better wife in future, Martha.”
Magda'len r ° Wn StePS up ~ Mar >’’ "hose other name is
we!l T Marv d ” tr ° Üble ? ' ' But; - vou used bad la nguage as
V!„'l Y v S ’ J 0U i r VVor , sh 'P i I had a drop in, and got excited,
away” got a P aC6 m the countr - v > and I’ll ffo right
“ Well, we’ll make it a 10s. fine this time, and mind you
do go, Mary. .. . And don’t come back.”
It is smoother and pleasanter than the old
sudden, drastic method, beloved of Draco and
co. But, alas !it all ends up much the same way.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle .
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
F...L-IH . City or Suburban Properties, or on
of Govß?nmPn?n; (Combined!, Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
trahan « t || re ?’ Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus*
tral.an States or New Zealand 9V AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
r, -°P ercent - °f the loan during any year, without notice or payment of anv fine?
irectors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman • Beniamin
!a h s°o’ Ka^fL J FT Bm ' nS ' J- Black, M.L.C.; The Hon^rE.^^ncrombeM.i'c. 1 ";
HEAD OFFICE,
This Speciality is a blend of rare
Tobaccos which have been stored
in bond by us for many years. It
has been our custom in those years
which produce the finest Tobaccos
of special merits, to secure a re-
serve stock. Some of these stocks
we have now decided to amal-
gamate and the result is a unique
blend known as
“ARDATH SPECIAL”
SOLD
EVERYWHERE.
A RDAT9
SPECIAL
SMOKING MIXTURE
By careful expert research the inventors of Ardath have overcome the defective qualities found in older smokirg mixtures
an pro uce a mixture with a refinement of flavour and purity of blend which had previously been considered unattainable
Manufactured in LONDON by ARDATH TOBACCO CO. at their “ model hygienic factory” ( vide Daily Press).
EBK
CUARArVVU^_^"
The (tTbp) is THE Pipe
that does r\ot cracK or burn.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
KEEP IT
Wholesdle Depot
for Australasia .
231 Clarence «5f Sydney.
RI«
n
I
<3 o
It acts like a charm in
DIARRHffiA.
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA & "
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago. &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who°have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacv. 6
Sold by Chemists all over the World, in bottles, Is. 1 %d. ; 20z., 2s. 9d. ; 40z., 4s. 6d. each.
Every b ° ttle ° f the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
Elephant, on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, tid.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
CO
ll I
LjlJ
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for*
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
'
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its Dealing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where " Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No hou.
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has Induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it hao become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE.-Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
#
0
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
ffienger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
Tshe LEADING
HOUSE *»*-
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT <o all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
°" r Special Snap
COLLECTOR GUN
'tf Vj—.
‘’T e *spTR ,t
No. 1
CANT
B
BEAT
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Cun
-, i walnut stock, case hardened locks,
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, sic e e%< '' , l ’ A splen did gun for use in Orchards
24in. barrel, length over all 38im., weight about 41b. A splena g
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
(We can also supr j w . g 2d Inter state.
Postage on one Gun—ls 9d, iM.a.vv. ,os „
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book ny De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Lp-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure lsposted. MyNeigiiborßaymond, ls;post,ls3d.
Gkorgettk, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiik Cuckold, Is , post,
Is 3d All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. ' Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. • One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God ’and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
S'..'
§
home cyclopedia
THE
EMBRACING
POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which thev feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &e., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, is.
How to Mesmerise, 13. Metal-working for Ama-
TF,uus, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man llis Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ou.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hf.ptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Tears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
be aor FROH this advt.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, 1*
posted. New Tricks with Carps, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, la HA Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all 1 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
•2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 108 Od posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
Lime Jtiice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine "MONTSERRAT
111 11^
ClttlS* 6 '
D
YSON'S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d.
lightful and wickedly true/ 5 *
“De
WHY DON’T
YOU BUY A
6/- per 100 f
57/6 per 100 C
Winchester Repeating Rifles
1892 Model, '32 Calibre, Central Fire, 6 shot,
24-inch Octagon Barrel, Weight about 7 lb.
PRICE 59/
Winchester Repeating Carbines
1892 Model, '32 Calibre, Central Fire, 6 Shot,
20-inch Round Barrel, Weight about 5f lb.
PRICE 56/6
THUMB TRIGGER S.S. MODEL, 22 Cal., tak
22 Long Rifle Cartridges
1902 S.S. MODEL, ’22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long, 22 Long Rifle Cartridges, 20
es 22 Short, 22 Long,
15/-
1904 S.S. MODEL, '22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Lon
22 Long Rifle Cartridges,
25
1906 REPEATER, '22 Cal., takes 15 "22 Cal. Short Cartridges
- 45/
JAMES MARTIN h CO.
683 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair - 161 KING STREET, SYDNITY
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth and Castlereaph Streets *
Sof~ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., .IN STOCK
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter
Copy of Testimonial.
To Mr. MURPHY.
GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
Lady Mary Lyyon wishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied with the two costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well.
(Signed) O. JARDINIER.


LITTLE
AILMENTS
Such as
Headache, Wind,
Loss of Appetite,
Nausea, Weariness,
mean
INDIGESTION.
Ihey should never be neglected-not for a single dav-for
they weaken your system and unfit you for life's duties Thus
nchgesuon and constipation generate impurities that mss
nnH yOU M 00d and are carried all through your body Your
food yields poison instead of nourishment anrl y ‘ °V r
starves, while you are subjected to distress,'pain and fncacS
tor labour or enjoyment. These oo„d„i„ P „s almost
LEAD TO
SERIOUS ILLNESS
Wh at your system needs is a digestive tonic that will helo
your stomach and liver to do their work properly. You can cet
just that assistance from the world famed vegetable remedy
and sure cure for all digestive ills, Mother°SelgeTs sjrup!
ln.„d , s „, some Mo,he, S„seh, Sr«" and no» I >\tS, ed
F'om Mr R .MoKlhop. j. Reus, S, . LeXtdl. IJdS.j
MOTHER
SEIGEL'S
. SYRUP.
WILL MAKE AND
KEEP YOU WELL.
rSI
JIZ.
DGUSs
THESE CDCX
prizes rntt
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us to sell more we offer FREE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id. each, or fid. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
we will forward you 6 Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Filled Muff
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
Books, Dressing Cases and many others. The more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don't send any money—just your name and address.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
/ Post Card \
\ Department / j
476 George-street, SYDNEY.
To be obtained at all Chemists.
Price I/O
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sewtn
Prize Medals.,
Works : Birmmgnam, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
c*
■^c\
r">
m
FAT CURE
40
v r AFv
MILESTONE
WEIGHT
creeps on with, the
advancing years.
The accumulation of excess fat makes
your figure ugly and adds years to
your appearance. Look young, be
young. Use .. .
“FATCURE”
and reduce your weight permanently to
normal. “Fatcure” is positively nom
poisonous and perfectly harmless, and in
many cases reduces by from five pounds a
week to thirteen pounds a fortnight.
OUR TREATMENT IS GUARANTEED.
Our last words to you now are :—Remember that the purity of “ Fatcure ” and its freedom from harmful,
poisonous or deleterious substances is absolutely guaranteed. Chemical analysis shows it to be absolutely
harmless, and its efficacy undoubted.
Mrs. O. J. MURPHY, of Paddington, N.S.W., writes“ Three months ago I weighed list. 41b.
After taking the first month’s course of treatment I lost 161 b. The second month I lost in weight 111 b.,
and began to feel immensely better in general health. I have now, in the middle of the third month’s
course, lost another 101 b., which brings my weight down to Bst. 91b., and I have discontinued the treat-
ment. lam very much pleased with the results in every way, and will always recommend ‘ Fatcure.’ ”
SEND 2d. STAMP or call for FREE SAMPLE.
Call, if convenient, and get a Free Sample, or write —enclosing 2d. stamp—and we will send sample
and our interesting booklet “Corpulency.” Write or Call without delay. Hours : 9 a.id. to 5 daily.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J
CASTLEREAGH STREET,
Entrance also in Market Street.
SYDNEY.
Take lift.
[4
Some Prevailing Delusions.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE are people, and their number is
' 7 immense,
y 1 Who half consciously persist in some
pretence,
■; Some preposterous delusion,
, 1 To the practical exclusion
Of the cold and searching light of common sense
Bsri J these strange hallucinations, known as “rats,”
They are often level-headed ; yes, and that’s
, Just what makes their cases sadder,
~ For in certain ways they’re madder
Than the maddest manufacturer of hats.
There’s a wretched little bounder of a clerk—
Throws a shadow like a paling from a Park—
. He’s been practising jiu-jitsu,
’ But suppose the beggar hits you
Ontthe smeller, why it wouldn't leave a marl
He'.has read the books of great athletic cranks,
Till he fancies he will shortly join their ranks,
And he takes a pride in showing
• How the muscles have been growing
On his arms, and on his weedy little shanks.
But the muscle which he fancies is so hard
Is as plastic as a bladder full of lard ;
. , Still no force on earth could loose him
. From delusion, or induce him
Hjs.belief that he’s a Sandow to discard.
There’s a cove who thinks he ought to make a pot
Aip "a tenor, which he certainly is not ;
y, -Of his “glottis” he discourses,
/. And he concentrates his forces
To develop what he really hasn't got.
Oh i! the scientific voice-producing pest,
How persistently he robs us of our rest !
He’s convinced his scale chromatic
, Will be highly operatic,
When he learns the way to get it off his chest.
How we hate him, though his relatives applaud,
When he sings “ My Pretty Jane”— oris it Maud?
As a man he may be blameless ;
As an artist he’s a shameless
And a perfectly unmitigated fraud.
There’s another fraud—one meets him when one
goes
Where the restless tide of ocean ebbs and flows—
Tie’s the youth the- girls admire
For his nautical attire
And the bogus navy buttons on his clothes.
And he ogles all the women as they pass,
And.he looks at all the shipping through a glass;;
Talks of schooner, yawl, and cutter
With affected drawl and stutter
’Till a landsman even knows that he’s an ass.
Of the fo’c’s’l slang he uses quite a heap,
And he calls it “ caulking ” when he goes to sleep ;
Talks of berthing, and of docking
’Till you’d fancy he’s been rocking
From his childhood in the cradle of the deep.
But his skin, by ocean breeze was never tanned,
And he never held a quadrant in his hand,
And the bounder (spite his boundings)
Never ventures out of soundings—
He’d be sea-sick half a mile away from land.
What’s the reason ?—Oh ! we’ve sought it near
and far—
Why such people ain’t contented as they are ?
Why must Thompson, who’s a tailor,
Go pretending he’s a sailor,
Or a Sandow, or an operatic star ?
But this, fashion for pretence is not confined
To the cfark, deceitful bosoms of mankind ;
It enthralls that sex, unchidden,
Which, for reasons that are hidden,
Sews the buttons of its garments on behind.
For the Gibson girl is swarming everywhere,
And she’s generally angular and spare,
With a hard and bony slioulder,
And she’s infinitely older
Than she usually chooses to declare.
And she’d really try the patience of a saint;
h you said she’s not a Gibson girl, she’d faint.
You may argue, you may reason,
Either in or out of season,
Bat you never could convince her that she ain’t.
Then the offices of theatres are packed
With the women who imagine they can act ;
And the managers get scotty,
And eventually “ dotty,”
And retire unto asylums for the cracked.
There, I really hope I’ve given no offence,
But I badly want the light of common sense
Just to shed a passing glimmer
O'er the pathway of the swimmer
In this ocean of unlimited pretence.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.
Through the Khyber Pass.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have arrived in good time.
There has just been another raid on Peshawar,
and people are wondering what the Afridis will
be up to next.
One night, only last week, the clan of Zakka
Khels climbed over the 10ft. mud wall that sur-
rounds Peshawar- city, and (some say with a band
playing) broke into a jeweller’s and banker’s,
murdered eight people, and returned to the moun-
tains with much spoil.
Daring are these Border reivers whose villages
stud the mountains along the frontier —great
horsemen, born fighters, not unlike the moss-
troopers of the old Scottish ballads. There is in
them, too, a spice of romance, for shortly after
the raid a derisive notice, written in Urdu, was
Posted up near one of the gates leading into
frnm TT ar C ' ty ' T hl f P a P er wa s headed, “ Notice
from Usman and Multan,” two of the great
men! er ,n S ’ , and , stated that, in spite of Govern-
ment spies who had sold themselves for five or
wfi ( 3vi eS ..n mon th, they could get into Peshawar
ShX ! Hey W !f h( ? (l and def >- capture. It then
thl an "°« need that the clan was going away
but would aoon return, as it intended to
kidnap some high official.
Everywhere there are rumors of an approaching
;;:sss:“ the z “ kk * Khe,s ' the $
Peshawar cantonment means business. Soldiers
are constantly drilling and marching along the
™i' Rawal P llldi things are busy in the
supply and transport circles, and one mule cadre
has been sent to Nowshera. The 2nd Gordon
Highlanders, who were on their way to Jullundur
have been detained at Rawalpindi until further
orders, and are under canvas. There is a smell of
powder in the air.
This is an interesting problem of Imperialism.
• 1 Nathans have no country worth annex-
ing, though it serves well enough as a buffer
k tate. What Can the Government do ? On the
rocks of No Man’s Land the outlaws keep a few
goats, but they live mainly by cattle-duffing and
oy levying toll on any caravans that come through
their passes. Frequently of late have they raided
British territory; and, when all other avenues of
excitement are closed, they fight one another, for
Wood feuds are never wanting.
They seem to enjoy life.
* * * *
In Peshawar city, an interesting place of narrow,
winding streets lined with mud-built huts and
shops propped under wooden verandahs and
covered with reeds and straw, there is a mixture
ot wild picturesque races that have not yet learned
to dress for dinner.
There are men in trousers, in tight leggings, in
top boots. There are Persians with brocaded
jackets, and Afghans with fur-lined, yellow leather
overcoats. There are the dread Afridis, a strong-
built, stocky people, with innocent blue eyes.
I here are men with the flat faces of the Mongol-
degenerate Tartars ; there are women in loose
trousers that fit tight round the ankles—veiled
women—women carrying children straddled across
their hips. I here are ragged, barefooted children
kicking the mud. There are Mahommedans and
Hindus, Jews and Christians. And there are
fierce men from the mountain villages, with knives
stuck in their belts, carrying staves, wrapped in
great blankets and goat skins.
Peshawar is quite unlike any other Indian city,
for in its bazaars are found touches of Persia,
hints of Afghanistan and Beluchistan, glimpses of
the Valley of Kashmir.
Merchants make a fine display of weapons and
curios, and of bright-colored cloths and rugs and
carpets that hang from poles, like banners waving
in the street. Here are Afghan furs and skins,
cloths and rich carpets from Bokhara and Teheran,
delicate shawls from Kashmir, crude Afridi wax-
cloth work, and embroideries all the way from
Chinese Turkestan.
Despite the raid, everybody is busy—butcher
and baker and candlestick-maker. Whole streets
are devoted to special erafts. I am interested in
the work from a spectacular point of view.
Smiths hammer their brass vessels ; jewellers
bend over gold and silver work ; rows of cobblers
make and mend shoes and fancy slippers ; a street
is devoted to cooks mixing dishes of milk and rice,
flanks of meat, of strong-smelling herbs, all steam-
ing hot, the white smoke curling from big black
pots ; there are streets where weavers make lungis ,
or scarves; streetswhere fruits and vegetables, nuts
and grains are piled in heaps; streets where
bakers are frying strange cakes. Also there is a
corner with nothing for sale except baskets of
birds.
Ceaselessly fascinating is this everyday life of
Asia. Men are busily nipping stalks of sugarcane
into little slices that are eagerly bought by the
fierce-looking crowd. At the door of a butcher’s
shop lies the unwieldy bulk of a slaughtered and
newly-skinned buffalo.
A legless beggar sits in the mud. An old man,
cross-legged, is carried in a little open palanquin.
It is nothing, save that it is of Asia.
Of Asia also is the man exhibiting himself with
a sword stuck through his naked body, a dagger,
seemingly, through his neck, another through his
head, with blood clotted round the holes in his
flesh—a grisly sight—holding a tin in his hand to
collect coppers.
In a great square is the caravanserai, choked
with camels that have come through the Khyber.
Together, twenty camels are drinking at a water-
trough. Fifty more are waiting. And here the
Afghan driver—the bullock-puncher of Asia—
smokes his hookah , and swops the yarns of the
road, while what serves as his billy boils under an
old mud wall.
The Pass will be open on Tuesday.
Peshawar lies in the plain, but on three sides it
is surrounded by mountains that sparkle, ten
miles away, streaked with snow.
It is a nipping morning when the tonga starts
for the Pass ; but the sky is blue, and there is
exhilaration in the crisp air.
Along a road, bordered with leafless trees, the
tonga rattles by the sides of old walled orchards, by
yellow streams in which women are washing
pieces of tripe, and past mounds of stones mark-
ing Pathan graves, among which a man, with
arms uplifted, is loudly praying.
We drive towards the mountains.
Ten miles out, at the fort, we show our passes.
A sentry salutes, and we are on the road to
Afghanistan.
Winding up and through steep narrow defiles
climbs the tonga. An eagle wheels overhead. The
first string of camels struggles towards Kabul.
As we pass on we note little Afridi villages—
some cut in rocks at the foot of the mountains,
others perched, like eyries, on high crags.
Now come the caravans, guarded by a corps of
the Khyber Rifles, blocking the roads and stepping
softly over the stones. There are hundreds of
camels, all kinds of camels—Arabs, big handsome
beasts, with shaggy black beards ; Kabul camels,
thin and scraggy; giant camels, baby camels,
camels with cords through their noses, camels
decorated with gorgeous tassels, camels ugly with
sores ; muzzled camels, bad tempered and foaming
at the mouth. Twice a week, on Tuesday and
Friday, they pass through the Khyber laden with
cloths and furs, with fruits and nuts and raisins,
brought from Bokhara and Teheran and Kabul,
and again crawl back through the Pass with tea
and sugar, copper and iron, with ammunition and
rifles for the Amir of Afghanistan.
Soon the narrow road is blocked. A great hairy
beast starts bucking at the tonga, causing wild
disorder. The horses shy, drivers brandish their
great sticks ; men, women and children all shout
and gesticulate violently.
At Ali Musjid, at the entrance to the Pass, a
halt is made.
Here a road has been cut where the camels can
pass ; and exciting is the scene when the beasts
get mixed, for in the narrow defiles have struggled
also oxen and goats, mules and horses, little asses
(Continued on next page.)


~y.
.*>
\
i
V
• t
HILDREN’S
SCALP
TROUBLES
A Mother’s
Gratitude
to Zam-Buk
Balm.
Mothers find it very
difficult to guard against
unsightly and distressing
diseases of the scalp
among the little ones, especially as some such troubles are very catching;
and, once they have developed, it is more difficult still to find a cure.
Eczema (in the familiar form of scald-head), honey-scab, dandruff and ring-
worm, are all scalp affections for which Zam-Buk Balm has proved most effi-
cacious. Whether the form of the eruption be running sores, dry scabs or scales,
encrustations, or bald, inflamed patches, Zam-Buk is alike soothing and curative.
“About twelve months ago,” says Mrs. P. Kerr, of 41 Oxford Street, Kingston, New-
town. Sydney, “my little daughter’s head broke out in pimply sores. The irritation
caused her to scratch them, and in a little while the sores commenced to spread and
covered the whole of her scalp. I took her to the Doctor, and received a lotion from
him, which I used, but without benefit. I then tried several other treatments, but the
sores showed no signs of improvement. A lady friend advised me to use Zam-Buk, and
presented me with a pot. I accordingly had the hair cut very short, and applied
Zam-Buk in accordance with directions. After a few days of this treatment a vast
improvement was noticeable. All the irritation disappeared, and the sores commenced
to dry up nicely, and her scalp was soon quite clear of them. Her hair, which was
very thin, is now growing thick and strong. lam quite satisfied that Zam-Buk, and
Zam-Buk alone, worked this wonderful change.”
THE EVER-READY HOME HEALER
Made from saps, juices and aromatic oils of immaculate purity, Zam-Buk is a natural and ideal
application for Eruptions, Pimples, Rashes, Blotches, Children’s Scalp Troubles and Sores, Wounds,
Ulcers, Eczema, Psoriasis, Ringworm, Piles (both Bleeding and Blind), and all diseases of the skin
and tissue. Keep a pot
handy in the home for
Cuts,' Bruises, Burns,
Scalds, Sprains, and all
daily mishaps. Zam-
Buk Balm is obtain-
able from all Chemists
and Stores at 1 6 per
pot, or 3/6 family
size, containing nearly
four times the 1/6.
Inm-Bu
RUB itHTT
Cok^
rfaftjdadmd tad/d,
andm//attiaay?JfmJ
/da/fts af/d&Mak) Id
da-dm
<2y^ dd£d/%d
and /aJd dnaad d
quaintly trotting beside the camels —anything,
indeed, that can carry a pack.
Villagers, clad in goatskins and rags and
blankets, come out of the holes cut in the rocks to
sell ill-made but formidable-looking knives and
daggers. Being Asiatics, they understand the art
of chaffering.
A man appears with a hooded falcon on his
wrist ; another, seated on the ground, scrapes a
wire-stringed fiddle and chants wild tribal songs.
As the camels wait, the semi-barbaric people,
with knives in their belts, some carrying revolvers,
crowd round the musician.
We are allowed to proceed only as far as Landi
Kotal, which is still in British territory.
Now we are in the real Pass, that “ sword-cut
in the hills,” as Kipling described the Khyber.
A romantic and picturesque spot, guarded by
grim mountains, it looks, to all appearances, im-
pregnable ; though, of course, nothing is.
Snow lies thick on the mountains, and through
the Pass the wind blows icily.
At Landi Kotal we are ordered at once to return.
One has to imagine the rest ; though only a
few miles further on lies Landi Khana where, in
rugged ravines and snow-capped peaks, begins the
forbidden country of Afghanistan.
• * • *
Three miles from Peshawar city lies the
cantonment, with its barracks and officers’
bungalows, its drill and etiquette, its racecourse,
its brewery, its Mission Church, and all the con-
comitants of Imperialism—with a tailor’s shop for
the gallant Major and a croquet lawn for the
Colonel’s wife, and all .in order that the Russian
Bear may not push his nose through the Pass.
It is quite exciting.
Everybody dresses Jpr dinner. Society is most
select. And after a raid General Blood looks
through his eyeglass and yawns, “ Dem’ it,
where’s the enemy ? ”
Tourists wear frock-coats and tall hats when
passing through the Khyber—and soon there will
be an American bar at Llasa, and a chute at
Kabul, and all backward and interesting places
will be made respectable, till the girdle of Im-
perialism has encircled the earth.
Every Thursday in the prison of the frontier—
Peshawar is the most important garrison town in
India—there is a public execution, when reivers
from the hills are hanged by the neck. Some-
times they are hanged in a pig skin, the greatest
indignity that can be inflicted, till they are dead.
This is to encourage the others.
It is a gruesome spectacle, this barbaric execu-
tion ; but rarely does a Thursday pass but some
Afridi outlaw is hanged just when the tired Eng-
lish ladies are having tea in bed.
Thursday has lately become quite a f6te day in
Peshawar.
But politics, the guarding of the frontier, the
crash of empires—what does it matter when along
a mud-walled road, past the Major’s bungalow,
trots a herd of little asses, just stepped out of the
boards of the Old Testament, and carrying, as in
the days of the Patriarchs, their load of faggots !
And from a tree overhanging the Imperial
slaughter-yard a little red-breasted bird sings on
the bough.
LOUIS ESSON.
A Change of Bars.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
him !
JIMMY FLATHERS had made an early
start. As a matter of fact, it could hardly
be called a start at all—it was, rather,
an over-lapping from the previous night. By
four o’clock in the afternoon he noticed that the
bars had begun to drift past his bewildered gaze
in a peculiar fashion — all kinds of bars ! Bars
with carpet, there were ; bars with oilcloth ; bars
with sawdust —nice, cool bars, all of them, with
any quantity of beer standing about, freshly
pulled, in long glasses. And Bill-of-all-bars was
with him all the time.
Up to four o’clock Jimmy knew a bar when he
saw one ; but after that hour he began to lose his
grip, and to take too much for granted.
In time, his luck went against him, and he fell
in. A new pair of folding doors flew past him
as he stood on the pavement, and he leant
familiarly up against them and blew inside.
A large easy-chair, upholstered in crimson
plush, swung slowly to and fro in mid air.
He reached up for it, and, putting all his
strength into the effort, he pulled it, gradually,
■very gra-adually down, and put a leg over the
arm of it, and so climbed in with his hat on and
lay back, breathing heavily.
There were men about —barmen, walking up
and down, and a few customers. It occurred to
Jimmy thabthis must be a dashed busy pub for all
those beer-pullers to be rushing about like that.
Jocular voices cried across his wonderings. It
occurred to him, further, that he mush ’ave a
drink ! What was' the good of sitting in the
lounge with a pocket full of gold and silver and
with nothing to drink ?
He sat up.
A wild-haired figure stared horrified at him
from a crimson plush arm-chair across the way.
“Well, wot is it?” demanded Jimmy, trucu-
lently, and the man opposite frowned and moved
his lips, without making any noise. A voice
murmured at Jimmy’s elbow, and Jimmy turned,
and the horrified man turned away also.
“ Yes, sir ? ” said a polite attendant. “ You’re
next, sir ! ”
“ Bleer ! ” said Flathers.
“Be’ pardon?” muttered the barman, atten-
tively.
“ Bleer ! long bleer ! ” explained Jimmy ; and
still the man hesitated. Jimmy leant forward
and whispered, in a stertorous, confidential
whisper :
‘ ‘ Bleer ! Long bleer ! ” Then if occurred to
him that he was alone. He swung round.
“’Ere,” he shouted, “Bill!"
But Bill-of-all-bars had passed on, or had been
left behind in one of their myriad calling-places.
Jimmy faced the barman again, sorrowful.
“Bill’s gone!” he groaned. “Gone ’n’ lef’
me on me own. ” Then a thought struck him,
and he brightened. “ ’Ere, take one y’shelf, bar-
bar-barman ! ”
The barman grinned, unsympathetically.
“ There’s no beer here, sir ! ” he said. “ This
is the Eureka Saloon, sir ! Shave, sir ? Or ’air-
cut ? P’r’aps a dry shampoo, sir ? ” He grinned
again.
Jimmy rose, with dignity.
“ T’ hell with y’ L’ he hissed, and pulled his
hat down over his eyes.
The folding doors flapped lazily to and fro
before him, and the chair flew up into the air as
he stepped forward. Poising himself, he made a
sweep at the exit, and paused for a moment,
jammed in the doorway, to cast a glance of
ineffable scorn and hatred upon the white-smocked
tradesman, and then passed without.
As he strolled up the street, once more, a double
sign caught his eye “ Bar,” one on each
swinging door. There was no mistaking that
good old sign ! The pavement leading up to this
bar-entrance was rather steep for Jimmy, and he
had some difficulty in climbing up; but he
reached the doors at length, pushed them open,
and bounced among the chairs within. Then
he picked himself, up and called for beer. Also,
“Bill!” he roared. “Bill! Come ’n ’ave
d’ink ! ” And, from the crowd along the bar, a
Bill-of-all-bars detached himself, and rolled up to
seize his brimming sleever. It wasn’t the same
Bill as before ; but that didn’t matter to Jimmy
Flathers. He had the money in his pocket, and
he was happy, and wanted the world to be happy
too —and at that stage all Bills looked alike to
FRANK HENTY.
Firing On The Mail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE and back, I’ve got to shift
Seven tons of coal—
Feel the throbbing pistons lift !
Let the beggar roll
Down the grades past Manakau,
Up by Kereru.
Moisture gathers on my brow
Like a morning dew,
As I clang the opened door
On the heat inside ;
Spilling cinders on the floor
When she staggers wide.
Fate has spoken ; from the pack
Fell the fatal cards —
Fifty-seven miles and back
Up to Longburn yards.
So I lean viy btimin' brow
Up against the gale,
’ Way up north of Manakau
Firin' on the Mail.
Hear the drivers down below
Singin ’ on the rail —
Fifty-seven miles we go,
Firin' on the Mail.
Once I used to milk a cow
Anchored to a bail,
Once I used to drive a plough
While I watched the Mail,
With her drivers all aglow,
Blowing clouds of steam.
Like all else on earth below,
Things ain’t what they seem.
Yet we never stop to care
How the world is made,
When we split the screaming air
Down the ringing grade.
Up the rise, her roaring stack
Smears the summer’s blue ;
And you’ll hear her talking back
Passing Kereru.
Feel her hit the giddy curve !
Hear her flanges cry !
See the swaying coaches swerve,
Showing speed is high !
Fill her tank and give her coal,
Clear her fires, and then
Let the big-wheeled Yankee roll
Down the grades again.
Hear her spinning drivers romp
Where the dipping grade
Lifts, past Makerua swamp,
And the thin rails fade
In the distance, o’er the rise,
Very straight and true—
There's a girl with big, brown eyes
Down in Kereru.
If we reaped as we have sown,
I’d have qualified
For an engine all my own,
And I’d take a ride,
In the sunshine of my years,
O'er the rocking rail
That I’ve wet'with bitter tears,
Firin’ on the Mail.
Oh ! my word, I'd go in style,
Smoking fat cigars,
And a girl at every mile
1 flaying soft guitars.
Lily hands a-waving white
Kissing me good-bye,
Down the metals straight and bright—
I believe I’d cry.
Clang the shovel on the coal,
Fling the fire-door wide 1
Every man must pay the toll—
Work, or yield his pride.
Once I made the gauges buck,
Firin’ on the hill,
And it’s just a bit of luck
I’m not stewing still.
Just a shuffle of the cards
And the deal was plain—-
“ Take the Mail to Longburn yards ;
Bring her back again.
Do it very well and true,
P’raps you’ll win a prize.”
There’s a girl at Kereru
That has big brown eyes.
So I lean my buntin' brow
Up against the gale,
’ Way up north of Manakau
Firin' on the Mail.
Hear the drivers down below
Singin’ on the rail,
Fifty-seven miles we go
Firin' on the Mail.
MAORILAND.
Will Lawson.


THE OLDlirr RRfT
For over
60 years Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla has been tested and tried,
it is known as the one great family
medicine. You may travel in any part
of the world —in Spain, China, India,
South America, Egypt, Australia, '
Africa, or wherever you will
there you will find thisfam-
ily medicine ready
to give relief.
m
AYER’S S arsaparilla
removes all impurities from the blood, at the same time
making the blood rich in life-giving properties. It restores
the appetite, strengthens the digestion, and thereby enables
one to obtain full benefit from his food.
Accept no cheap and worthless substitute. Be sure that you
get AYER’S Sarsaparilla—as now made, it contains no alcohol.
Take Ayer’s Pills with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell. Mass., U. S. A.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
ASTHMA CURE
IGRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ET.TE S. Sold bu all Chnrri&t*.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1596
IP
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask "our chemist tor its history—the book is free— or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to even’ home—
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where dies
SSE
are trou
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not toil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
seas <n.
Sold by
Wholesale
Oruggists,
Groces and
Hardware
Dealer ■ ,
among whom are :
Sydney —Anthony Hordern &Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Saver 9 Allporfc
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP. AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing' Medical Testimony wit 1 - p .ach Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND— 2/9, & 4/6
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
A
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
TO
tl
b>
g£?v o
ft
Garden Seeds
MONEY WANTED
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
ecerv home, we are giving away prizes such as MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES’and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES HANDSOME PIPEIS mounted in SOLID SILVER,
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME’ AND ADDRESS and we will forward you 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette,
Candvtuft, Poppy. Sweet William, etc Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS You may return the seeds if not sold,
thouah you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every case
positively as represented in our illustrations.
m
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOM3 ST SYDNEY. MSW.
BEECHAMS
aie unique in this j that they suit you, and everybody ) and cannot hurt
anybody. It is important to have that perfect sense of security. They are
Nature's remedy, innocent of harmful drugs, and compounded only of pure
herbs. \ou are not always well ; few are. This is a remedy you may take
and feel safe. The weight of evidence is proof of this. Proof is what we
have to go by. If we prove a thing to be incomparably good we know it is
good. Several generations of other people have proved that when the
system is jaded, the faculties clouded, and unpleasant symptoms persistent,
BEECHAM’S PILLS do just what it is hoped they will do, assist Nature to
recover herself. That will give you confidence in proving the fact for
yourself. \\ here you have a great body of opinion, each person saying
practically that BEECHAM’S PILLS are the
Best for Me
you must accept the universal verdict. The interested testimony of one
here and there in a multitude, and no more, is inconclusive ; it is what the
multitude does. Actions speak louder than words. Note particularly
whether the multitude keeps a remedy on a near shelf, if ills come, to be
ready for them. 'That is the real evidence. In many thousands of homes,
in Australia and across the seas, BEECHAM’S PILLS are esteemed
as the one family medicine for those common ills, almost periodic in these
days arising from defective action of the liver, kidneys, and stomach. That
is a habit which speaks very loud. You must judge on the facts, and test
others’ experience by your own. Therefore take BEECHAM’S PILLS
yourself on this example of others, and you will prove them to be the
Best for You.
Sold everywhere in Boxes, price (36 pills),
1/1# (56 pills), and 2/9 (168 pills).
[5.
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat s improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Freeur&ffiS
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionpf his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
..FOR..
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name S*
mm
MEN
and
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily. ,
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copv will he POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, anti 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
A 50-page specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
giving a verv fair idea of what the Great Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application, Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). 83P” /Vote Address :
DR. MARTIN, IV!.D., "Eimioy House,” 151 Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing:. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


GOLOSHES.
Best quality, light make,
with high front.
Men’s, 4/9,5/3 ; Women’s,
379. Cheaper Quality,
Men’s, 4/3, Women's, 3/3.
RUBBER BOOTS.
Very best
quality,
lightest
boot made
20/-
For heavy
wear,with
rolled
edge, 20/-
Cheaper
grade, 12'6
15/- & 17/6
Our Lists of Winter Requirements free on request.
Perdriau Rubber Co, Ltd* Sydney.
GENTLEMEN'S
Made in newest
from Rubber-
Light,or Lightest
Good Quality,
Cheaper,
|0
"tT
MACINTOSHES.
full cut styles,
proofed,Medium,
Weight Cloths.
30/-,35/-,42/-,45/-
18/6 up.
TYREE
RABBIT
DESTROYERS
will clear the run in
a few weeks. Now
used all overN.S^W.
SPRAYERS
will save a Pastoralist 10 per cent, of his
breeding ewes if sprayed before lambing.
TYREE LTD., 314 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
Vgfgp|
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, . Pheom»tie Hunmei- Rook 6rtU tot
SOLE «CEMTB,_ W & j. LEMPRIERE, 506
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Water!
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES ,
Write
for
f Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
EFFICIENCY.
*
Rider.
AM MATTS
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
ICUTLERY
MARK
CS3OOOO
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
WOLF
Abb
or
AX
At the Showrooms-
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Al + SYDNEY r
Also at
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J, & J, Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
JOHN HURST & CO.
Watchmakers and Jewellers,
HAVE REMOVED FROM
321 George St. to 4 Hunter St., Sydne
Mat-Virtue
• k. ;•
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINERY.
SATISFACTION is one of
the most prominent
features of our business.
WE NEVER disappoint
a constituent. WE
guarantee to satisfy YOU.
WE are responsible for an Up-to-date,
Reliable Machine, MANUFACTURED in
AUSTRALIA, and with a solid, honest repu-
tation of 17 YEARS’ severe test. ASK us
for particulars. A post card will do.
Note Address of HEAD OFFICE.
Moffat-Virtue Sheep Shearing Machine Co.,
7 pfmt STREET SYDNEY
VICTORIA: D. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street, Melbourne. *
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing Co., Currie Street,
QUEENSLAND: Federal Sheep Shearing Co., Margaret Street,
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing Co., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
Catalogues Mailed
FREE.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock,
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles*”
5 HOURS
White Ants, Wood Lice, Rats, Fleas, and other Vermin, Torredo, Wet and Dry Rot, Splitting,
Warping, etc., have no regular hours for work, and we may take it roughly that they are at work
pretty nearly the whole 24 iiours. If you want to save endless cost of repairs, trouble, and loss, (
all Wood Blocks, Piles, Girders, Decking, Fence and Gate Posts, Foundation Timbers, Flooi'i' j
Telegraph Poles, etc., with the recognised British Wood Preserving Liquid—
“JODELITE”
One Gallon covers
35 to 50 Square Ya 7
TUBING
/ (Flexible Metallic)
In Steel and Bronze, for Steam, Air, Water, Gas, Oil, Tar,
Naphtha, etc., §-in. to 10-in. internal dia. Tubing made to
stand 3001 b. steam pressure. No reduction in diameter for
connections, as they fit outside and not inside as in other
tubing. All Sizes in stock.
“FERRODOR”
Best Preservative Paint for Iron, Steel, Timber, Brick,
Stone, or Cement. All colors in stock. The only paint
which thoroughly adheres to Galvanised Iron. “ Ferrodor”
withstands Acids, Salt Spray, etc., and does not affect Rain
Water for Drinking \ purposes. One painting with
“Ferrodor” is equal to at least two paintings with any
other paint, lcwt. covers 713 sq. yards, costing under jd,
per sq. yard.
BLASTING
SAVE MONEY
By using “ HERVEY’S RACKAROCK.” In mos
it is 50 per cent, cheaper than any other explosi\
Tunnelling, Sinking, Open Cut, Quarrying, or Subn.
Work. It can be forwarded by passenger train, cos
steamer. Hundreds of tons used in Australasia durin ;
last 21 years. See that Hervey’s Rackarock” is
stamped on each cartridge. Beats everything for blowing
out stumps.
ALL STOREKEEPERS, OR DIRECT FROM
R. A. HERVEY,
Estab. 1884. Tel. 618.
Cor. CLARENCE and KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
Explosives, Machinery, and Supplies for Mining, Quarrying, Dredging, Sluicing, Irrigation, etc.,
Contractors’, Engineers’, and Builders’ Sundries. Sole Agent for Patented Articles and Goods
of Special Manufacture. Hard-work-Saving Devices a Specialty,
HANDY MINE PUMPS =
For all rough service, low-lift pumping about the mine, such as draining shafts, galleries, raising
„ water from one level to another, elevating tailings, slimes, etc., there is nothing equal to
THE PULSOMETER STEAM PUMP =
Discharges no exhaust steam, requires no engine, belting, oil, packing, or special foundation.
Works as well suspended as stationary. Has no easily deranged inside or outside mechanism.
Gritty, Muddy Water does not hurt it. Simple to instal. Simple to operate.
Write for illustrated descriptive
catalogue telling all about them.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Agents, SYDNEY and MELBOURNE .
