

107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’" and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
HOJBjfILRT-
=3NHT—-
[Hadleys Orient fjotel.
aaaNoid
leather
SEJLTJNGI
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Stem, &r JU,
7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Ruston, Proctor & Co.’s Portable Engines,
CENTRIFUGAL &
DIRECT ACTING
Pumps,
Columbus Gil Engines, McLaren’s Compound Traction Engines.
ILLUiTRATED D EI CR„T,VE LISTS SENT POST FREE OS *P,UCAT,o" 6
Take it
back,
I must have
HUTTONS
fine Apple Brand I
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
LINOLITE
(LINE O’ LIGHT).
The New System of Electrical lllumiaation for
SHOP WINDOWS, PICTURE
GALLERIES, ADVERTISE-
MENTS, PUBLIC ILLUMINA-
TIONS, PRIVATE HOUSE
LIGHTING, &c.
Suitable for Continuous or Alternating- Current
Sole Agents for Australia:
The Edison & Swan United
Electric Light Co., Ltd.,
58 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Commonwealth Buildings, Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Victorian Depot: 45 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
ail,
tin,
u
For—
Stations,
Minos,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
are .....
TELEPHONES
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
instructions
Free.
THE ‘‘S/L VERTOWN ”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch i
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
“LYSAGHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYD3VEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC ICNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Parmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesco
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
s
*5
EAST WAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPORTERS OF
Crockery, Glassware, E.P.
Ware, Cutlery, Fancy Goods,
Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Tobacconists’ Supplies, dc>| dc.
■' (Wholesale and Retail).
HARRIS&G
156-160 Elizabeth Street,
69 Swanston Street,
148 Bourke Street ,
MELBOURNE.
New Eotittan Wholesale Catalogue Now Ready—Post froe.
helidon spa water.
HELIDON SPA supplies tbe blood with
necessary saline constituents.
GOLUN & 00.,
The Bulletin
VoJ. 29.— N0. 1458.]
fThursday, January 23, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, MW, Anstralia, for Tr.nsn.Wo,, by Poet a. . Wesrspaper.


Space rates will be paid, on application, to
“Angel Blossom,” “Cigarette,” “Polwarth,”
F. Isaacs, and Dorothy Frances McCrae.
BOOKS on the MINING INDUSTRY.
NEWEST
SOME
GEORGE
A List of Books in Stock has been Prepared and will be Forwarded to Every Inquirer.
BOOKS OPENING BY EVERY MAIL.
RECENT ARRIVALS
Peters Principles of Copper Smelting, 569 pages, illustrated, 255, postage 1s 3d.
Hofman Hydro-Metallurgy of Silver, 345 pages, illustrated, 20s, postage Is.
Thibault, The Metallurgy of Tin, illustrated, 12s 6d, postage Bd.
Fulton Manual of Fire Assaying, illustrated, 10s, postage 9d.
Longridge, Cold Dredging, 2nd Edition, illustrated, 255, postage 1s 3d.
ROBERTSON & CO., PROP. LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Red Page” Garbage Tin has no
room this week for LITERATE RE.
A BOOK FOR EVERY BOY NATURALIST.
The useful birds of south
AUSTRALIA, bv K. HALL, F.L.S., 300 papes,
with full description and 100 illustrations of the birds
that are to he found about ; their species, color ana
measurement of eggs, where nests are to be fount .a' l
many other interesting and valuable features. ..»•
posted 3s. 11d.
Mind and body.— a journal of human
NATURE. Bright, Crisp and Helpful. 2s. ta-
per year. Send for Specimen Number.
*HE NATIVE COMPANION.”
An Australian Magazine of Art, Literature
and Life. Edited by E. J. Brady.
6d. Monthly, or 6/- per year, post free.
THOS. C. LOTHIAN. 226 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
T
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes.
ft.^UDSO/V.
Sold by Chemists. Tins, Is. 6d.
The Groat Antiseptic and
Prophylactic.
Suitable for old and young.
The Lancet: “ Proved to be as effective, bacterieidally,
as is Creosote.”
The Australasian Medical Gazette : “ Of great service
in affections of the voice and throat.”
The Practitioner : “ Useful in Tonsilitis, Pharyngitis
and similar ailments.”
Post Free on receipt of stamps from the
Sole Manufacturer, G. HUDSON, Chemist, Ipswich, Queensland.
Sydney Depot, 5 and 7 QUEEN’S PLACE.
Agencies in all the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London. [S.
THE RED PAGE
THE HYMN TO HIM
no woman, who feels, but does not
know, sits down to dissect love.
Why does she love Him? There
are, doubtless, reasons why she marries
Him ; but what possible excuse can she
offer for loving Him ? It seems absurd
on the face of it. To a man, Man seems
anything but a thing to be adored.
There are plenty of good fellows about,
of course ; but can you conceive of any-
body but a woman worshipping them ?
Yet they do get loved, and women marry
their illusions of them every day. But
why? The woman’s answer, more suf-
ficing than that of Man, is that she just
does ; that fact, to her—and much more
to us —is, after all, the only important
one. How to her can the “ why ’ matter
when she has the actual wonderful thing?
And how to us when we get the benefit
of her love? To a woman love strangely
comes, andherwhole being glows in a white
flame, in which the dross of reasons is
lost in the exquisite beauty of feeling.
She loves because she does ... or because
he does. Deep down in every woman s
heart is the craving to be wanted by
someone, the desire to be found necessary
to someone. And, not having gods or
angels to pick from, she is content with
Man. It is rather lucky for us. “ Talia,”
in some fine stanzas, shows us the woman
awakened, fired, new-born by love, and
in gratitude to her man-creator adoring
him.
My lips are as a lute unstrung, untouched,
Till thy lips do their full-toned music wake ;
My breast is as a fire unkindled till
From thy breast’s fire it may the quick flame take.
And my wild.woman’s passion is a stream
Pent, though the flood-gates nigh to bursting
groan
With the swift throbbing flow, till thou dost free
Its waves to madly mingle with thine own.
#52?
Now let us get down to reasons —cold,
unemotional reasons. And from most
of the verses sent in we can pick an
assortment without ever picking the real
reason. Let us begin with a little
anthology of his charms :
His swarthy skin is dark ’gainst mine,
As seaweed upon sand.
F.
I love your strong white throat, my sweet,
Guarding your deep, fond voice.
M. Brock.
I love the passionate strength of you,
Even the sinewy length of you !
I love each act you do.
I love the bearded face of you,
I love the manly grace of you.
And why? Because you’re You !
Marion Knowles.
Dear strong arms !
I feel my form within them pressed,
Held so closely, loved, caressed,
And then the world is full of rest —
Big strong arms !
C.N.
I loved him for his eyes !
I lifted up my head one day,
And saw them shining clear and gray.
My heart fell subject to their sway
I loved him for his eyes.
Marion Knowles.
I longed that flesh its warmth to touch,
That throbbed beneath those clothes.
S. 'Baylor. .
Health glowed from him iike sun on earth,
Nerve, vigor, force, combined ;
With d(evil written over worth —
Which ’pealed most to my mind.
S. Taylor.
But it nearly all boils down to this :
It’s been a mystery since the world began
Why we like you so much.
Why we thrill at your touch ;
The reason is this—that you’re just MAN.
Dorothec Tempest.
O ! why is it, Man, we love you so,
What puts our hearts in a whirl ?
I think that the reason is, you know,
You don’t happen to be a Girl.
E. Bennetts.
#53?
There you have the main reason—-
woman the blind instrument of the Life
Fot'ce. Of course, she makes her selec-
tion out of the limited number of speci-
mens submitted to her by this imperfect
world j but, probably, the main basis of
her selection—her preference, say, for
height or coloring?—is fixed for her
by the bygone generations that have
made her personality what it is. Laf-
cadio Hearn advances the pretty
theory that first love, which Her-
bert Spencer shows to be a racial and
not a personal experience, is the memory
of other loves in prior existences —that,
for instance, you, summing up in your
transient self the preferences and dislikes
of your ancestry, like fair hair and hate
dark simply because your ancestors liked
fair hair and hated dark. He even goes
so far as to suggest that your preference
for a particular type is not necessarily
due to the fact that your ancestors in-
variably married that type —the chances
are against it, if the type is a strongly
individual one ; but that through innu-
merable lives you wanted that type, and
frequently didn’t get it, putting up with
the next best. So first love is but a call
to you out of the past that here, at last,
is the one you —in past lives —have
always wanted. Of course, you do not
usually marry your first love—except in
novels . . . but the speculation is a pretty
one.
In the present competition we might
have expected to find the theory recently
popularised by Bernard Shaw that
woman is the pursuer, man the fated
pursued ; woman the tireless huntress,
man the feeble prey ; man the tram,
woman the passenger who catches it,
man the fly, woman the spider. But
there are no spiders in these poems, hor
woman in love could hardly be expected
to see in love only the most powerful in-
stinct in nature using her merely as an
instrument to effect its imperative ends,
lending her her beauty simply as a means
to a necessary end, arming her with
charm solely in order to render inevitable
the capture of her and Nature’s victim.
No, Shaw’s view will never b« popular to
a woman in love. Shaw must have recog-
nised this fact when he called his woman-
spider Ann. It is hard to conceive of an
Ann in love.
Let us consider some other views.
“ Angel-Blossom ” is humorous.
“JABEZ.”
I Jabez has a hirsute cheek,
Very rough.
Though he shaves three times a week,
Hair is tough.
But I love him and adore,
Though his kisses hurt me sore,
So I, When I can’t stand more,
Cry—Enough !
Jabez has pale auburn hair,
Like a mop.
True, it’s getting rather rare
On the top.
But at home I often sit
And gaze at a lovely bit
Cut when there was more of it.
Quite a crop.
Jabez wears a dear old coat,
Navy blue,
When he goes out in a boat
(I go too)
Of tobacco stale a whiff
I get every time I sniff, _ \
But I don’t care twopence if
He is true.
Jabez has a voice that grates
Like a tile.
It’s a voice my father hates,
Calls it vile.
But when he says, “I love you,”
Oh, it thrills my senses through,
I like listening to it, too,
Quite a while.
Jabez is a dear old chap,
Verily,
Though he always takes a nap,
After tea.
But he’ll turn a leaf anew ;
There’ll be something else to do,
For next year he’s going to
Marry me !
And “Cigarette” writes charmingly
(we delete one poor verse): —
TO HIM.
I He lifts my chin, I look into his eyes
And wonder why I love him ;
His lips are pressed to mine—the wonder dies,
I only know I love him.
He is so big and straight,
And I so small,
I wonder if I love
Because he’s tall ?
He smells of good cigars, salt air and sun ;
He is so strong ;
I love him when he swears,
Although it’s wrong.
And every girl I know that looks at him
Just envies me ;
And so I think I love him more.
If that could be.
He’s jealous, too strong-willed,
Firm as a rock,
Clean shaven, he can kiss—
Ah ! There’s his knock !
A broader, truer view, spoiled by one
weak stanza, is taken by “ Polwarth.
WHY I LOVE YOU.
IWhi/ T love, you bid me tell ;
That I love there’s no denying ;
Reasons cold I hate like H— p,
Yet to state some I’ll be trying.
Not because you’re fair to see.
Tho’ in truth you're not so ill;
Were you plain as plain can he,
Darling ! I should love you still.
Not that you with virtues burst.
Chances are, you are a sinner ;
Were you worser than the worst,
Not a whit my love the thinner.
I love, I think, just that of brute
In you that makes me own you master,
That thrills my being to the root
And sets my blood a-pulsing faster.
I love, too, just that touch of child
In you, that makes you turn for rest
To me, and wakes dim instinct mild,
The latent mother in my breast.
And then, my king, you are my slave.
I love that too ; it comes real handy
To have a man to take one round,
Shout theatres, sports, and teas, and candy.
Some day, maybe, I’ll find your soul,
Or maybe you will mine discover :
Then Fate will snap our threads entwined,
Or make you evermore my lover.
And F. Isaacs neatly puts her little
nger on the eternal feminine.
HIM.
I Give me a man with red blood in his veins,
Let him be honorable, vigorous, true,
No matter his station, no matter his calling,
So long as he’s master of me.
Give me a man with red blood in his veins,
Let: him“be dare-devil —what do I care !
A man with his faults fairly shouting aloud,
So long as he’s master of me.
Give me a man with red blood in his veins,
Whatever man he may be,
No matter his creed, his build, or his need,
So long as he’s master of me !
. ,
And here, finally, we hesitate between
Helen Jerome (“ Nitchevo,’ Rose Bay,
Sydney) and Dorothy Frances McCrae -
both married ; hut Helen Jerome wins
for her broader treatment of the theme.
Both poems are charming. First we
take Dorothy McCrae’s :
HIM.
I love him for his ready wit and brain.
His gallant mien, his spirit bold and free,
is strong right arm, and honor without stain ;
But, most, I love him for his need of me.
he world sees how lie plans and fights and dares.
They hear him argue, struggle, and agree ;
nlv to me he shows his doubts and tears ;
And so I love him—for his need of me.
hey see him standing dauntless in the fight,
I see him childttke, nestling at my knee ;
ly words alone can set his fears to flight
God! How I love him—for his need of me!
And now for the prize poem, prefaced
iv some pregnant remarks by the author :
No ! Woman does not write about her
ove for him, as a rule—though Laurence
lope and Ella Wheeler Wilcox are brilliant
ixceptions. Man treats art as a form of
imtobiography—and as he is never very
leeply “in” love, and doesn’t take it
seriously, he is able to write about it.
From observation I have noticed that man
.oves more foolishly, more madly, and less
shyly than woman. It doesn’t represent a
holy of holies to him ! It means- —and he is
guite conscious of it —the call of sex. He
loves her because of her sex ; his sex to her
is ohly a thing among his assets. Male
poets (I decline to use the word poetess with
regard to women) are notoriously light
Lovers, As someone else puts it, “Poets
know how useful a passion is for publication.
Nowadays, a broken heart will run to many
editions.”
A woman-poet views love differently.
She is shy and shame-faced and .delicate ;
and the finest among her (possibly with a
wise instinct) invariably hides its depths
even from “ him.” In which she is perhaps an
unconscious disciple of nature who quietly
cautions always, “ Let man be the hunter-
let him ever fear the escape of the prey.
It is the Hunter who makes the Lover, and
it is Marriage which makes the Husband.
Now to write of an ideal love ! Well, that
is a different matter !
WHY Bo I LOVE MU?
(By Helen Jerome.)
Why do I love you l Weigh softly the starshine !
Why do I love yon ? Count blossoms in Spring!
Find me the make-up of Summer s gold sunshine 1
Or why frail humanity worships a king !
Why are you man, and all things that I, girl, am
not l .
Why are you maddeningly stupid and big.
Why are you brave at the sight of a mouse ? (lam
not l)
Why do I love you ?—I don t care a ftg !
Why do I love the dear, ugly, cropped head of you,
Profile so stern, and skin burnt with the sun ?
Great, clumsy hands, and ah ! deep, loving eyes of
you ?
Why do I smile at the thought that I m won .
Why do I tremble and pale at the touch of you ?
Why do I heed every word that you say ?
Because you are honest, and truth’s in the soul of
you, > '
Bigger and broader than me any day.
Why do I laugh at the ghosts of the light-time,
When in your arms I contentedly lie?
Why do I shudder and tremble at night-time
When you are far ? (and sometimes I cry !)
Why do I miss you-up there on my pcdestal-
Where you have lifted me, high out of reach ,
(D'ye know how uncomfortable ’ tis on a pedestal!)
Simply contented your children to teach.
Why do T pray, dear, that God may watch over
Keeping your feet in the ways that are straight ?
Were you hanged on a gibbet, still would 1 believe
in you I
Why do I love you ? because you’re my mate.
Because you’re my Man, and I love the brute
strength of you!
Primeval woman am I at my best ; _
(Also, I know how to keep my small foot on yon!)
Why do I love you ? Now, haven’t you guessed ?
OLD PIONEERING DAYS
I The usual oldest inhabitant's reminis-
nces are mere crude statements of un-
iportant facts; but Old
ays in the Sunny South (published in
oulburn) is lifted somewhat out of that
■tegory by the humorous touch and read-
me style of the author, Chas. Mac Alister.
lis death, aged 77, has just occurred.) Me
as a well-known Goulburn resident, and
is long memories are well worth recording.
'f the penal days he tells, many a humorous
nd many a grim story, and he is careful
ot to give credence to mere rumor. Ilius
e throws doubt upon the well-known legend
f the golden horseshoes. When Cameron
r as elected a member of the \ ictorian 1 ar-
ament, the new member announced that he
r o uld ride into Beechworth on a horse shod
nth shoes of gold.
“Meanwhile, ‘those in the know r ,’ had
btained four bright brass shoes belonging
o a circus then performing at the Woolshed
ush. These shoes were used at times on
,ne of the circus horses, and were only
ightly tacked on. Well, I was often assured
hat the same set of brass shoes were fastened
>n to Cameron’s horse on the ride to Beeeh-
Yortli.”
But Mac Alister tells many another ac-
iredited anecdote of those and earlier days.
He notes that he had seen 500 convicts
working in irons at Pennant Hills Stockade ;
and on° two occasions he saw “ men—after
undergoing, one a flogging of fifty, and the
other, seventy-five lashes, bleeding as they
were, deliberately spit, after the punish-
ment, in the flogger’s face.” But in those
days, if men were thought to be shamming
illness—though frequently they were really
very sick—they often received 2o lashes or
more as soothing medicine.” The author
mentions one man who died two days after t he
application of such a remedy. And this for
men who were sent out for poaching or (he
mentions two by name) “for the heinous
offence of trespassing on Lord Rosebery R
park in Scotland, on their way to work.
With facts like these the book is crammed.
Of the leading men of early Australia Mac-
Alister has much personalia of interest to
tell ; and the author may be said to have
given “a faithful review of the interior
work-a-day life, moods, and recreations of
the Australian people ” during his long life.
The book has distinct historical worth, and
is not ill-written.


a
©
I®!
i/j
At Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
Ensilage Cutters,
Etc.
No.
14- Monarch Self-Feed Ensilage Cutter,
with Direct Blast Blower Elevator, takes lOin. Elevator Tube.
Weight, 14751 b., cutter and blower ... ... lOs
21,Si a i d / le ?i e f|J 7 d at , fche ™ te of 12 t 0 15 tons Per hour. Has 4 knives
PrWliu hu' a f nd f lr J; E,l " lne P° wer required, Bto 10 horse power.
1 rovided with set of wheels for transport. lOin. Tube, 3/3 per foot
No. 12—Ohio Monarch Self-Feed Ensilage
Cutter, with Blower Elevator ... ... £32
Capacity Bto 10 tons per hour. Power required, Gto 8 horse steam. Weight
X4201b. Speed, GoO to 700 revolutions per minute. Size of pulley, 12in. x Bin!
lOin. Tube, 3/3 per foot.
H Ohio Standard Feed and Ensilage
Cutter, equipped with Blower Elevator £2O.
Capacity, 3to 5 tons per hour. Power, 4 to 6 horse power. Speed, C5O to 700
revolutions per minute. Pulley 12 x 4in. Weight, 7001 b.
Takes 7in. tube. 1/8 per foot.
THE OHIO Farming Implements, illustrated on this page, possess advantages
not to be secured in many other makes, and we invite an intelligent
comparison. IHE OHIO name stands for the highest=grade construction,
simplicity and maximum efficiency.
Our Illustrated Price List of Requisites for the Farmer and Agriculturist makes profitable
reading for the Man on the Land. Send for a Copy, posted FREE on application.
m
Pony Hand Feed Cot-
ter, 1 knife, 11-j-in. long,
£2 15 s.
This machine will cut hay, cornstalks,
and all kinds of rough feed. One man
can cut one bushel of hay in 35 seconds.
Cuts from 3-16 to 2in. Weight, 1651 b.
No. 11—The Ohio Standard Feed
and Ensilag'e Cotter, 4 knives,
13in. long £.ll lOs.
With 4 knives will cut £, and lin. Size of pulley,
12 x (jin. face; speed regulated 450 to 600 per minute.
Will cut 4to 6 tons of ensilage, or 25001 b. to 35001 b. of dry
feed per hour. Weight, 5901 b. 4to 6 horse power. Take
off two knives and it will cut §, 1, and 2in.
Tl\e Plantation Feed Outtex*i
£.B 6s. 9d.
Tw° knives, ‘tin. long; cuts 1, I£, and 2in. Three men can easily put
through 8o bushels per hour of dry feed. Weight, 5001 b. At 350 to 600
revolutions per minute 1 or 2 horse power will do a great deal more
The Ohio
Lever
Chaff Cotter,
20s.
The Cutter is llin. long - , oil tem-
pered, sickle shape. Will cut hay,
straw, corn stalks, and all sorts of
rough feed. Particularly useful
for cutting green food for poultry.
Weight 551 b.
V-.
ft*
No. 13—Ohio Standard Feed
and Ensilage Cutter, with 12ft.
of elevator, £2O lOs.
Power, 2 to 4 horse power. Capacity, 4 to 6 tons
ensilage per hour. Weight, 5901 b.
Without elevator, £l7 lOs.
No. 16 —With 12ft. elevator, capacity 6 to 10
tons. Power required, 4 to 6 horse power.
Weight, 6201 b. Speed, 450 to 600 revolutions.
With elevator, price lOs. 6d.
Without elevator, £22.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


WOOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. LTD.
THE LEADING SYDNEY SALESMEN
FOR WOOL and FAT STOCK.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
L t-C-L.
SY DNB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage ot
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS-
MOLL FLANDERS, genuine edition,
Is. How to Dance, Is. Piping Hot ;
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, Tiie Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is<; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Sappho, Is. Fruits of Philosophy, Is.
Australian Ready Reckoner and Lightning Cal-
culator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His Own
Builder, Is. 3d. ; posted Is. 6d. Australian
Busiiranging, Is. Canary-Keeping, Is. 3d. Poultry-
Keeping, Is. 3d. Dream Book, Is. 6d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is; postl/3. Kreut-
zer Sonata, Is ; post Is 3d. Manning’s Great Horse
Book, 10s. 6d. post free. The Ideal of French
Art, in 5 Darts. 2s each. Zinoara Gipsy Fortune
Telling Cards :Love, Business, Futurity, and with
full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with Three
Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of Love,
2s 6d. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Century
edition, very latest,. 124 S pages, over 400 colored
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring' Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hy Dr. Warren, Is ; post Is 2d. Letter
Writer for Lovers, Is. Mkrrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted
To all who supply the correct name of the beautiful sentimental flower repre-
sented in the above picture, and return to ns with your name and address, we will
fve a genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free. One answer only is allowed. This
arvellous offer is a business proposition to put a sample of our Gutta Percha
ending Tissue into every home. Mending Tissue is an article used for making
invisible patches and repairing all kinds of clothing, kid gloves, furs, or any
article of cotton, wool, silk, linen, rubber, &c. It will hem any cloth much
quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A boon to bachelors. To
all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 20 sample packages of Mending
Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated,
we require you to collect, from each person with whom you leave a sample, 6d.
(half the selling price of same). You then return us the money, and for this
service we give Free, and |in addition to the Fountain Pen, beautiful Ladies’
or Gent.’s Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments, Silver Ware, &c.
This offer is at least worth investigating. Itcosts nothingto try, and you take no risk. We simply
ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send you the 20 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according to
instructions and we will send you. Free, the prize you chose. Could anything be fairer? This
great offer is only open for a limited time,
Write at once. THE GUTTA PEKCHA TRADING CO., 120 Ash St., Sydney.
FOR ERRORS IN DIET,
ENO’S
HEADACHE, ‘FRUIT BILIOUSNESS,
AND CONSTIPATION. SALT. 5
The effect of Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ on a Disordered,
Sleepless, and Feverish Condition is simply marvellous.
It is, in fact, Nature’s Own Remedy, and an unsurpassed
one.
CAUTION.—See Capsule marked ENS’S 'FRUIT SALT/ Without It you hay a
WORTHLESS IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. 0. UNO, Ltd., * FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, LONDON, ENG.,
by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists, Ac., everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL & 900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY OOMFETITIOKT.
WINES Bes, Brants Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Valuable Presents
FREE!!
NO MONEY WANTED
) We have decided to give away *5OOO in good and
; useful Presents in order to introduce
The Best Periny Picture Post Cards in Australia
Gold Rings, Watches, Brooches, Rifles,
Cameras, Phonographs, Dressing Cases
Girls’ Outfits, Boys Suits, Solid Silver
. Watches, and Chains, Etc., Etc.,
GIVEN AWAY AS PRESENTS to those who will distribute our
\ Cards. Penny Post Cards are our Great Specialty, and we will send you
any quantity from One Dozen to Ten Dozen (to prove the superi-
) ority of our Cards) which you may sell among your friends or keep for
» your own use, and at any time within one month after you receive the Cards send us the amount
) due to us, and we will send you any Present you choose from our Grand Prize Lists of good,
i useful, and valuable Presents (sent with the Cards) without any further Payment. Remember ! You
i may Order any quantity from One Doz to Ten Doz. and we require no money whatever
i with your Order. You may rely on our treating you fairly, as it is to our interest to do so. A
i Trial Solicited. Simply send us your Order for One, Two, Three, or up to Ten Dozen, and
i w e will forward the'Cards to your Address. We want a great number of Agents, and we want to
i show you what we can do in Penny Post Cards and the Valuable Presents we give away
to our Agents.
rHE trade;
SUPPLED.
The Post Cards Supply Co., 5 Bray’s Buildings, Sydney, N.S.W.
CB
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
UA,
-*!>
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light jo. s air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands cf
women that here is a • type Immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STOREB.
If any difficulty In procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to:
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS (Sb CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE; 16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY;
and BRISBANE.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
r Standard of saddle
r perfection therefore
Y held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, eng.
DIABETES & BRIGHT S DISEASE.
Only known
Cures,
FULTON COMPOUNDS.
Write for
PAMPHLETS and
QUOTATIONS.
WHOLESALE: STATES IMPORT & EXPORT Coy., Ash St., Sydney. Box 1202 G.P.O.
RETAIL : A. E. DURNO, 184 Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE UNION AGENCY & MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
©ffiffucrs [l°™ iPOWkij.
For
For
For
For
For
For
TORPID LIVER,
CONSTIPATION,
INDIGESTION,
BILIOUSNESS,
HEADACHE,
the COMPLEXION.
Every man and woman should know that Liver Disorders
Injure the complexion, induce Pimples and Sallow Skin.
Remove the cause by using CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER
PILLS, and above all things, fight Constipation. Begin at
once with CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS, Liver
Complaints never have and never can resist the wonderful-'
efficacy of these gentle little pills.
The Public are cautioned to observe that genuina.
Carter’s Little I iver Pills Must Bear Signature of


m
*
Wj
SS/M-S,
The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger's
Jlair Vigor
produces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
Prepared by Dr. J, C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Winchester
n
w
m
Jc*'
*■•;*»*
I;
1
6
i
I
/:
u
£;V-'o
c>
r/:.
c
“REPEATER”
Smokeless Powder
“Repeater” cases are
carefully and accurately
made and loaded with
high grade powder, shot
and wadding by exact
machinery. That’s why
they shoot so strong and
so uniformly and make
such even patterns.
Price considered no shot
gun cartridges on the
market equal them.
Try Them. Sold by All Dealers.
T F y°“ don’t read THE LONE HAND you
A eant keep current with Australian Art,
etters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
/in 'f® sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
A LITTLE BOY
SAVED
q M TTH St., Camperdown, Sept.
f 7 foot,! “ I nearly lost my little boy
Jho 9 did not seem to do well,
although I tried several prepara-
tions without the slightest relief.
Ihave To thank SCOTT’S Enmte.on
that he is spared to me. M •
Mitchell.
THE REASON WHY
he was saved:
SCOTT’S EmuW.oniS n eaS c ymtake;
call it. “cream
and take it as gladly.
SCOTT’S Emulsion
; s immensely
nourishing because
it is always made ot
prime Lofoten cod
liver oil; this is the
best in the world.
SCOTT’S Emulsion
because Ae
breaks up this best
oil into innumerable
tiny drops.
SCOTT’S
Always get the
Emulsion with
the mark of the
Scott process—
the Fisnman.
EMULSION
Of all Chemists and
Dealers in Medicine
*
/r^>
\
IRISH
WWm
y/MwrWlm
BOMNINGTON’S
' -C
IRISHMOSS
e—™ 1
GEOROE RONNINGTON
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE*
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs j and /Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accord oson comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
Star Trombone Accordeon
broad steel bronse reeds. Patent Eot“y Stop.'
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, J&( f G extra.
extra.
EXt ?,rJ i^ir ith 3 S '; hs of Reeds > Celeste and Organ Stoo
15-fold Bellows with steel corners Price .£ 1 !>T’
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 ext m* ? 6d ’”
Uther Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
watch,s, Jewellery, Etc!!* Brisbane
c - BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.'
Circular Pointed
Pens,
Seven
Pr '*o Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to theer patent
Anti-Blotting Series. ,
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works s
Birmingham, England,
What Q /"'V Will
You can get started in Business
for yourself with a small invest-
ment, and in a few months make
enough to open an amusement
= gallery. =
£2O invested in one of our Automatic Ball Punchers, Weight Lifters,
Weighing Machines, or similar amusement machines, will bring big
returns. You can put them in good locations, paying the owner
25 per cent, of the profits for the privilege, and make from 10s. to
£1 a day clear profit.
A customer of ours in London, whose name you may have on
request, says : J
“ The Automatic Punch Ball I bought of you has more
than realised expectations. I have taken from the machine
£3O in five weeks.”
In a short time you can open an Amusement Arcade (a shop full
of amusement machines) and made a good income.
I am the world’s largest manufacturer of Automatic Amusement
achines. I operate 25 Arcades myself. I know what they earn. I
am rated at £60,000 by leading mercantile agencies, and I started 10
years ago without capital.
Write mo confidentially, tell me how much you can invest, size of
your town, etc., and let me advise you.
H. S. MILLS, President,
MILLS NOVELTY CO.,
148 D Mills Building, Chicago,
U.S.A.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Popular Way.
They loved. The glad days took to wing,
Life laughed along;
rom swinging boughs the birds would bring
J- heir lusty song ;
With rarest rapture, lips would cling
So long—so long.
They married. Sorry seasons lagged
For him and her ;
The nag and growl their tempers jagged
I ill worn thread-bare :
The climax—from her head he dragged
Whole heaps of hair.
They parted. The divorce made sure—
Quite sure—of that.
•Now other dears he does allure
With P romise Pat;
While she takes pains with her coiffure,
And runs a Flat.
VIC.
E.S.
Nobody Knows.
A ha "i C l a v Sp °" fc Where the play a game
with the pale moonshine
Back to the light-and nobody knows how close
to your palm was mine ;
Th ° ; y ° Ur eyes ma y hold a So Ber blue, your cheek
show a deeper rose,
The best of it is that the reason why nobody ever
knows !
Warm lips that meet where grape vines swing in
the dusk by the wicket gate
Two hearts that beat to a subtle tune sung low on
the lyre of Fate,
And a key turned in the lock of life that no future
can unclose,
And between us twain the link divine-tho’
nobody ever knows !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Mary Flynn.
She was a farmer’s daughter,
r And I her youthful beau,
Those joyful days I sought her—
Ah, long and long ago.
I then had dreams in plenty,
Untarnished aught by sin ;
And she was sweet and twenty—
My darling, Mary Flynn.
She met me at the gateway
Each starry night at nine,
In her sly, sweet, sedate way.
To hear me call her mine.
We watched, enshrined in glory,
The gleaming planets spin,
I he while I told Love’s story
Once more to Mary Flynn.
Beside the creek the stampers
Beat down with tireless feet,
Like grim eternal trampers,
With music strangely sweet;
And yet amidst the splendor
She heard above the din
Mv whisper, true and tender,
“I love you, Mary Flynn.”
When shadows dimmed and darkened
The camp-fires smouldering late,
Then she, my dear one, hearkened
To “ Good-night ” at the gate.
Her tresses on my shoulder,
I’d press her dimpled chin,
And in my arms enfold her,
Ere leaving Mary Flynn.
But ah ! one day we parted,
The long years rolled between,
And we, who once sweethearted,
Have each our might-have-been.
“ Who won her love?” I ponder,
“ Her favors came to win ? ”
While I like Ishmael wander
And dream of Mary Flynn.
May red stars burn above her
As beacon-lights for me !
For oh ! I used to love her
In those days faithfullee.
I hope some comrade claimed her,
With fond words called her in ;
But, spite of what he named her,
To me she’s Mary Flynn.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
Mad Marjory.
King Palladin plunged, on his moon-colored mare,
Athwart the deep shadows of Avalon Wood,
And a heron, afloat on the indolent air,
Down dropped him a plume on his galloping
hood.
Mad Marjory watched from the forester’s gate,
While tossing her baby with passionate glee :
“God save you,’’ she hailed him, “who, out o’
your state,
Unbended to father this darling to me.
“ Let Hobble, the miller, throw dust on my name,
’Tis little I care about him or the rest;
My child is as much of the King’s as the same
Who gobbles the milk o’ the Queen’s ain breast.”
N.S.W.
HUGH McRAE.


r
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE
g««gp r
I
WUNDERLICH
art metal
CEILINGS.
Sei\d e for our, Booklet
Beautiful Moines” post free.
SYDNEY,
56
Pitt St.
£
MELBOURNE.
123 (i
Queen. St. J
%
• 8
'-T''
Cr
ij
sJ
0
o
a
is
in s
promotes
CADBURY'S COCOA
the ideal beverage because it is rich
trength-imparting essentials and
physical endurance and hnrdihood^
fore
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
£
•m
Tobacco
rUnuraclured in
. Richmond Virgin!
Larus & Brother C
Pjcki-rf by !-'Tow~>. Co.Agenfs.Spdkey
K2SS3s*c-
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers:
If you cannot fret
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile (reduced) of 2oz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
TMMIiMM
twgkfthcdiumb
I English
Watch es
Prize Awards- London 1851, Paris 1889.
London IBGZ. Melbourne 1888. Kimberley 1892.
N
ROTHERHAMS
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
f} Certificate given
WITH ETCH WATCH, i !
AsK to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
99 lit?
e.
HEAD OFFICE
- Mutual Life Building,
MARTIN PLACE.3VDNEY.
u -i'- XY*
$ J
FITS ANY
TAP IN
TEN
SECONDS.
The Red Cross Filter
Tn these days of typhoid fever in both city and
country one need, protection from water tLat .8
not as perfect at times as it ought to b .
The Red Cross Filter is as perfect as the most
expensive Filters.
It ensures absolutely FURE water ALWAYS.
Is easily cleaned, and sufficient filtering material
for twelve months’ use can be bought for sixpence.
PRICES, POST FREE :
Tank Size
To Fit Tap
To Fit or Tap •••
To be had from all Storekeepers or
4/0
4/0
3/0
VALENTINE A. SOUL,
30 Vickery’s Chambers,
76 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of 'J'Aeensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful countiy,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms an
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
The MISSES ISAACS , vnNE „
LADIES’ PREMIER HAIRDRESSINC SALOON.-*® TR ™quPETS TOILET
Parisian principle, suitable to be worn on all occasions. Combings made up.
REQUISITES, and all accessonesin stock. L “dms Homes vunx* Telephone 2138.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. QN CROU ND FLOOR.
Personal Attendance by Proprietresses. RECEPTION & DREoaINU
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
*M>" **•
KV IJ
piiffiaa
IMmiII
ll ll » li I'd
I ■
■ if
«ijj
r>
HOTEL
METROPOLE
w SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
ml
w
v/y
VT/y
'/y
77?
--
All the di
and a
wall.
iff '?
&
i
Wholesale Agents i
E.
RICH <Et CO., Ltd., Sydney and
Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1458.
THURSDAY, l9OB.
Pkice 6d
HIS TROUBLES.
William Lyne is formulating a scheme for the taking over of the State debts by the Commonwealth.
WILLIAM AS HE PROBABLY LOOKS AFTER WORKING A DAY OR TWO ON THE SCHEME.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the A nstralia ns.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd at toe
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only) £l6 0
Per Annum ...
Half-yearly ... n 7 0
Quarterly
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office
Shillings sterling you can have Thk But . ■ V
regularly to you, every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Dnector.
How to A ddress Letters.
Correspondents to Thk Bullktw would oblige the. paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as t
methods of address. . .
Business letters (with regard subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to ™ e .f(ditor
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address edMonal letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin is the proper-
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and ev >
sometimes caused by addressing to per so i •
officials. The person may not be there, the official
always is.
Special notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by
Ushers. The right to reproduce or translate 9f
the contents of this number is hereby expressly i eserved oy
Editor will carefully read and, where
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence column ail contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 7aUs or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exoeeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, a p y
acceptable). Paragraphs, Letters, or e^ s P ap Vjltiu P cnnd
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
rf< THK Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal ttpphoati mufm
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bullktin
desires,'further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation
transmission of MS.
J o Amateurs in lllaolc and, II h i.to.
Anyone supplying to Thk Bullktin original
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current «««n ,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct ™ p fPaction
—i e any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid,
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS. ... T j ,
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from
Gotch, Ludqate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.t.
South Africa .—The Central News Agency, Capetown,
The. Central News Agency, Durban, Natal ; ana others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C.
San Francisco. — W. E. Arding, Palace Hotel Bookstall.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hono Kong.—Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal'advertising plates, size 6§in. x Hin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
Sole A dvertising A gent in New Zealand:
Charles Haines, N.Z. Express Building
from whom all information pertaining to advertising
is obtainable.
77ie^^ulleiz/n.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 23, 1908.
THE UNIFICATION OF AUSTRALIA.
Parliament being in recess, Treasurer Lyne, who
is commonly supposed to be resting, has taken off
his coat, and waistcoat, and hat, and possibly his
boots, and has hung his collar on the gas bracket,
and laid in a big cigar, and a bottle of cold soda,
and a quart of ink, and a ream of stationery, and
some pens, and carefully locked the door, and
settled down to devise a scheme for the transfer
of the State debts to the Commonwealth. And
as what he is looking for is a scheme which will
satisfy all parties concerned, William Lyne will
probably have to ring the bell for more cold
soda before he is half through. His prede-
cessors—the capable Turner, the brilliant
Watson, and the large-sized Forrest have
all tried to satisfy the State Governments
in this matter, and have all failed ; and, unless
the remedy is to be the Unification of Australia
and the lumping together of all assets and liabili-
ties, regardless of small discrepancies, it is dim-
cult while the State Governments remain what
they are, to suppose that Lyne will do anything
better, even if he takes off the rest of his clothes
and tackles the problem in the altogether.
* * *
In the first place, let us consider the exact
nature of the problem which Lyne has to tackle :
m The State debts are various—exceedingly various.
The latest issued official publication (the Victorian Year
Rook for 1906-7) alleges that the funded debts vary from
143 2s 3d-per head in Victoria to £75 12s. lOd. in S. Aus-
tralia ' And the total debts (funded, unfunded, and
riinniciwal which ought all to be taken over) are set down
asvarymg from lOd. in Victoria to £BO Os. lid.
“ South Australia. Since these figures were issued, Vic-
toria has reduced its debt a little, and Westralia has
increased its a lot, but these discrepancies can t be
helved The Australian debt is a very restless animal,
and never stands still long enough to be accurately photo-
graphed. If the debts were all lumped together just now,
Victoria N.S.W. and Tasmania would have their liabilities
increased a little, while the other States would gain by
nassing on to these three a part of their burdens.
W is supposed to smooth down this difficulty
somehow, which is one of the reasons why he is ageing
ra s>y Therefore any process of lumping the debts is coldly
received by the three less indebted Governments. And,
euriouslv enough, it is also coldly received by Queensland
a wpsVrilia The former, for example, says that it has
nossibfl tTes by reason of its size, which Victoria and Tas-
Erania don’t possess. It says it will have so much bigger
a population than Victoria in course of time that though
its?debt is now more per head than Victoria s it will one
day be a great deal less. Victoria says in effect . It
you lump the debts now, and make them so much per
head all round, each Victorian will practically carry ±,S
of Queensland’s liabilities.” Queensland replies in effect .
“ Fifty years hence we will probably have twice your
population, and if the liabilities are lumped we will then
be carrying a whole heap of your debts. Treasurer Lyne
is expected to explain things to the satisfaction of both
parties, and that fact is calculated to make him use lan-
guage which he generally avoids. .
(3) Even the amount of the debts isn t the whole
trouble. According to the authority above
it is a case of taking over a Westralian debt that carries
£3 Bs. 7d. per cent, interest and a Queensland debt that
carries £3 14s. per cent. The other debts carry various
rates of interest, but these are the two extremes. Th
makes a vast difference in the value of the debt- And
again the length of time that must elapse ''eiore any par-
ticular debt can be repaid makes another vast difference.
If the Commonwealth can renew at 3J per cent., then a
debt carrying £3 14s. per cent, interest, but repayable in
1910, may be much cheaper than a debt carrying only
£3 Bs. 7d. per cent, interest and not repayable till 1935.
Mr. Lyne is expected to fully consider these things, and
yet not go out and assault anybody.
(4) Some of the debts can be taken over at once. Others
—those incurred since the beginning of the Common-
wealth—will involve an amendment of the Constitution.
This is the reason why Lyne took his collar off when he
sat down to struggle with the problem.
(5) There is a most awkward question about security.
The debts not only vary to a large extent in proportion
to population, but they don’t bear any uniform ratio to
the wealth of the States, as to their commerce, or to any-
thing else. In the year which ended June, 190 b, tne
Australian Government, if it had then been in possession
of the State debts, could have paid the interest on the
liabilities of Victoria and Westralia out of those States
shares of the Customs and Excise surplus, and handed
them back the balance. But as regards the other tour
States, the respective shares of the Customs and Bx cise
surplus wouldn’t have covered the interest. There
would have been a balance to be collected from
the States. Careful George Turner asked in effect
two questions: (a) What security will you give
me for payment of this shortage? (b)
chance have I'of collecting it if there is no security (
Then the meeting broke up in disorder. It is on account
of this problem that Lyne will probably have to ring for
another bottle of cold soda before he is through.
(6) Finally, there is the question whether the States,
after being relieved of their debts by the Commonwealth,
will be allowed to start borrowing afresh, and get back
into the same old bog, or whether they will be prohibited
from borrowing. And if they start borrowing, afresh,
the question arises wdiether their loan business is to be
under Federal control, or whether the States will
scramble at large in the money market, so that they may
rush in and borrow all the money available just when the
Commonwealth has £30,000,000 of transferred debt to
renew all in a heap. If Lyne is seen looking with an
insane and dishevelled expression out of the Treasury
window it will probably mean that he is considering this
point. # #
All these matters would seem impossible enough
even if there was a sincere desire on the part of
the State Premiers to assist the Commonwealth ;
but when it is remembered that there are Insects
among them who live, in a political sense, on their
pose as the great, strong, strenuous men who
are always saving their respective States from
imaginary Federal machinations, the case looks
rather hopeless. The State Insects demand
that the Commonwealth shall take over
the State debts on a basis of such mathe-
matical accuracy that no State will be done
out of a penny in the splitting of the financial ha,ir,
and nobody on earth can arrange things with
such accuracy. The laws of arithmetic forbid.
There isn’t enough mathematics or geometry in
the world to deal with the case, and the supply
of logarithms would run out before the problem
was half finished. Yet the debt question, bad as
it looks, is only one intractable problem among
many. The railway difficulty is as urgent and
just as dreadful. Australia wants most insistently
a uniform railway gauge, and a policy of building
new lines so as to connect the districts which they
serve with the nearest ports, as distinguished from
the old policy of dragging goods at huge cost over
many leagues of needless steel and ballast so as to
connect with the big port in “ our ” State. There
is no prospect of achieving these essential reforms
save by Federal ownership, so to the debt problem,
which has worn out three Treasurers and got no
further forward, there is added a railway problem
which, if the matter is to be settled by friendly
negotiation instead of by main force, will probably
wear out as many more.
* « * *
It is because of these matters that this paper
urges William Lyne to put on his collar again, and
to cease to wrestle with the intricacies of the pro-
blem, and to go out in search of the line of least
resistance. There are times when it is better to
go round a tree than to climb right up it, and over
the top twig, and down the other side. The short
remedy for the debt problem, the railway pro-
blem, the problem of the big landlords who block
agricultural settlement, the problem of the
division of the Federal surplus, the Federal capi-
tal problem, the cantankerous State Insect pro-
blem the problem of immovable State Upper
Houses, and all the other problems, is
Unification. This term is not intended to
signify a centralised system of administra-
tion —an attempt to run all the affairs of
Australia from one bloated Federal centre on the
banks of the Snowy River. The Commonwealth
should seize all the powers of Government
merely to give a lot of them away again,
but to give them away under more work-
able conditions than those existing at pre-
sent. To achieve Unification, the first essen-
tial is to pass a Bill through both Federal
Houses providing for the amendment of the Con-
stitution by the transfer to the Commonwealth of
all the powers now held by the State Legislatures.
That Bill being passed, it would be necessary to
submit it to a popular vote, and trust to Provi-
dence and the common sense of the people for the
result. And in order that the people might fully
understand what Unification meant, Parliament
might pledge itself, in the event of the measure
being carried, to do these things :
(1) To subdivide Australia into say 30 States, each with
a local Legislature of one House, to attend to purely
local matters, and each with a locally-elected Lieutenant-
Governor.
(2) To confer certain powers on these local Legislatures.
(3) To relieve all the States of their debts ; to consoli-
date these debts at the earliest possible opportunity ; and
to immediately establish a sinking fund for their re-
payment. . ,
(4) To take over the State railways, and to set to work
within a certain period on the business of converting
them to a uniform gauge.
(5) To set to work within a certain time on the con-
struction of various lines that are urgently required.
Some that might be specified are the two transconti-
nentals the N.S.VV. North Coast railway, the extension
from Cooma (N.S.W.) to Bairnsdale (Vic.), and certain
extensions in Queensland to connect that State with the
Adelaide-Port Darwin system.
(6) To apply the land revenue of each existing State to
the endowment of the new States into which it may be
divided.
■* * * *
Unification on these lines would not diminish
the powers of the States save in two respects—
they would lose their borrowing powers and
they would lose control of their railways. As
compensation for that they would be assured of a
uniform railway gauge, and they would make a
great saving in the matter of their public debts.
Further, in such States as Victoria, S.A., Tas-
mania and Westralia, the people would be re-
lieved from the hopeless tyranny of property-
elected Upper Houses. All the States would get
rid of their futile imported Governors, and the
gubernatorial billet would be P*% d
reach of every citizen-of Alfred Deakin John
Haynes, Nicholas Willis, and all the ;
The disappearance of the old State names an
boundaries would extinguish a muititude of sil y
old parish animosities which are of value> only to the
politicians who trade on them. The country dis
tricts which supply the land revenue would also
have the spending of it. The removal of the rail-
ways from State control would inaugurate a new
policy whereby the interests of Australia would
be considered "for the first time, and when a new
line was built it would take the cheapest possible
bee-track for the nearest port, instead of doing
200 miles of needless circumbendilnis to get to tne
bloated city which controlled the State » political
destinies. The Federal capital row would be
ended, for that row centres in Sydney, and when
Sydney was simply the centre of the State o
Cumberland it would lose interest in _ a ehm y
which mostly affected the State of .Eastern
Riverina. The only Parliament in all Australian
history which has declared consistently against
borrowing would get its honest, capable hands on
the public debt. And for the first time there
would be a chance of getting a uniform railway
gauge, so that the traveller from Sydney to
Melbourne would not be dragged out of his
bunk at seven o’clock on a wintry morning
to change trains at Albury, merelybecause'the
Kilkenny cat at Sydney has never been able to
agree with the Kilkenny cat at Melbourne as to
whether the distance between two rails should
be 4ft. BJin. or sft. 3in. # »
In considering the question of Unification there*
is one most important fact to be kept in nun .
After the end of 1910, the Australian Parliament
can make what terms it thinks best with the
States. The State Governments depend on the
surplus Customs and Excise revenue, whl . ch
receive from the Commonwealth, to pay interest
on their public debts, and after 1910 it depends
entirely on the Australian Parliament whether
they receive a single copper of Customs and
Excise revenue. The Australian Parliament
didn’t seek this power ; the power was forced on
it by the States, or by one State. in
the Constitution which was drafted by the
people’s elected representatives the mterest on
the State debts was safeguarded for ever. George
Reid, professedly acting on behalf of.• • v 7’
demanded as the price of N.S.W. s adhesion to
the Federal union that the safeguard should be
limited to ten years only. The Australian Par-
liament, having had this stupendous authority
handed to it at the point of a bayonet, or on the
thick end of a club, will be an exceedingly foolish
institution if it fails to use it. It is impossible to
devise any scheme which will consolidate the
State debts and the State railways without some
State or other losing, or imagining that it loses,
a trifle in the process, and yet the consolidation
is most essential. Therefore, there is need for a
high-handed central authority which will lump
the debts, and convert them, and pay them oft
without asking anybody’s permission. there
is need for some central authority, which
will put its foot down on State profligacy.
There is need for a central authority
under whose control the Australian railway
system won’t be a thing of shreds and disorganised
fragments, and an excuse for strangers to throw
mud at Government railway ownership. Anct
there is great need for some power which will turn
the flank of the Houses of Rich Landlords that
block progress in Victoria and Tasmania, and to a
less extent in two other States. The Australian
Parliament can be that power. By the irony ot
circumstances the State Government of N.S.W.—
the State Government which is more anti-b ederal
than all the rest put together—forced upon it an
authority whereby it can, three years hence, oner to
the State the alternative of unification or bank-
ruptcy. If the Australian Parliament fails to use
the opportunity thus thrust upon it, it doesn t
know an opportunity when it sees one.
FOND MEMORIES OF GRILLED
GOHANNA.
Black Brother, who must every now and again
have his “ walk-about,” doesn’t, after all, differ
much in that respect from the superior white who
gives him threepence and the dry end of a plug of
tobacco. Pope, who didn’t know Black Brother,
but did know the white, said that man “ never is,
but always to be, blest ” ; and, when the restless
fever grips him, Black Brother must, in that spirit,
leave regular tucker and a good camp, and pursue
the blessing in the distance. But the pursuit
doesn’t last long ; ’possum is scarce, snake doesn’t
taste as it used to, and the camp of the wanderer
isn’t what it seemed. So Black Brother, cured for
a while, goes back again to regular tucker, a good
camp and light employment. A wavering part of
Queensland just now is like Black Brother before
he goes on his walk-about. It thinks it wants
a change. It admits that things have been
going very well lately—that the tucker has been
good and the camp comfortable ; but its tooth
waters at the remembrance of the grdled
gohanna of its youth. “ Ah, those were days !
it maunders, as it struggles to persuade itself to
vote for Philp. It certainly remembers m a
vague fashion that things didn’t formerly end up
too well, but—“ after all, they were good times.
Drive the man who says that into a corner, remind
him of various things, and force him to state straight
out whether he trusts Philp as boss of the
Treasury, and he will in nearly every case admit
that he has some doubts about it. And Philp
knows very well that even his own political
friends have very grave doubts about it. I hat
was why, a few months ago, Philp and his imme-
diate supporters were so desperately anxious to
fix up a coalition with Kidston— Philp to take
charge of the general policy and give
his old concession-mongermg friends a lift ;
Kidston to take charge of the finances. But
that scheme failed. So if Queensland elects
Philp it gives him command of the finances
—the very thing that even his own friends didn’t
the other day feel safe in trusting him with, blow,
therefore, their whole efforts are being applied to
getting Queensland to forget that the Premier-by-
the-grace-of-CHELMSFORD is both constitutionally
and by training an utterly untrustworthy person
to have authority.
* * * *
Everywhere in Queensland Philp is “Bob.”
It is the badge of his easy, soft geniality. He is
the very antithesis of plain brown men like
Turner and Kidston, the ideal Treasurers. That
is Philp’s constitutional disqualification for the
iob And his constitutional weakness was in-
tensified by his training. He was the pupil
and he is the lineal descendant of the old
Continuous Ministry. He was elected for
the Musgrave in 1886 and for Townsville in
1888 Mcllwraith made him Minister for Mines
and’Works in 1893. When Mcllwraith had
other fish to fry, and a reconstruction took place,
Phtlp became Treasurer; and thus he passed
gradually on to the leadership of the party. So
he got his political and Ministerial training with
absolutely the worst and most disastrous crowd
that ever afflicted Australian public life. It was
the crowd which saddled Queensland with the
Greatest Debt on Earth, in proportion to popula-
tion-and part of the borrowed money went
straight into the coffers of the Q. N. Bank which
this crowd was running. The enormous borrow-
ings created a boom, and during that boom
revenue swelled. In the four years 1891-5, be-
tween revenue and loans, the, excess of receipts
over expenditure was £3,007, <os- (The deficit
on revenue was something awful, but loans
more than made up.) Meantime, the Queens-
land Government’s balance in the Q- JN-
Bank rose from £1,403,793 to no less than
£4 069,954. The Government of Philp s party
borrowed money lavishly and thus created a fic-
titious prosperity—the grilled gohanna, at the
memory of which Queensland s mouth now waters
again. And, meantime, at the Q. IN. Bank, which
was being propped up with public loans, Thomas
Mcllwraith, a director, was getting overdrafts
in his own name to the total extent of
and nearly a dozen other vast overdrafts m various
other names; and Drury, the general manager,
was giving himself a personal overdraft of £67,744 ,
and a little crowd of political directors was using
the public’s money to buy shares in the bank,
in order to inflate their value; and when
the bubble built on this huge robbery and
iobbery was on the point of bursting, this Gov-
ernment of Philp’s party actually borrowed
£6OO 000 from the Bank of England and handed it
over to the Q. N. Bank. Of the £251.461 borrowed
■•by Mcllwraith, the Committee of 1897 reported
that £191,000 was lost; of Drury s £67, <44, the
loss was £47,000. On the mad boom in Mount
Morgan shares the bank lost £350,000.
* * * *
It is to that boom period that one section of
Queensland looks back now, and, trying to per-
suade itself that they were good times, proceeds
to smile again upon Philp. To justify itself
it says that things would have been all
right if the great drought had not arrived
and ruined the pastoral securities. Men who
argue like that are merely humbugging them-
selves and imperilling their .State. ine
committee of inquiry, though it used the white-
wash brush so freely, didn’t venture upon any
such foolish explanation. Of the Q.N. Bank s loss
of £3,947,803 it estimated that only 14 per cent,
was on pastoral business. The other 86 per cent,
went in miscellaneous steals and gambles— ‘ clue
to incautious trading, and that spirit of optimism
in regard to the immediate future of the colony,
the friendly committee said. Precisely the same
feeling pervades the Philp policy to-day. Philp
is the apostle of borrow and boom ; and Queens-
land has to answer a few days lienee whether it
is going to hand itself over a second time to such a
policy. It is not yet thoroughly recovered from
the previous disaster; it has only got as far as it
has towards recovery by a complete reversal of
the old policy. The man who would attempt to
hurry the process of recovery by going back to the
policy that produced the disaster would brush
aside the doctors and hurry the process of restor-
ing the apparently drowned by dropping him
again into the water.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Humanity versus Tuppence or Thereabouts.
Customs Minister Chapman having decided that
the Australians who lump wheat should not have
to handle bags weighing more than 2001 b., a depu-
tation of Victorian farmers is to explode in front
of him in order to impress him with his sinfulness.
This deputation threatens to pass itself oft as
“ representative ” and to make so much noise that
Chapman may fancy it really counts. Wherefore
it may be advisable to reiterate a few facts about
this shameless “ bag ” business :
(1) There is no special virtue about a 3501 b., a 2401 b., or
even a 2001 b. bag. Argentina Uses a bag weighing 1741 b. ;
Maoriland a 200 lb. bag (which Premier Ward would have
made 1001 b. if he could have had his way) , California
uses one of 1801 b. .
(2) There is no reason why wheat should necessarily be
put in bags at all. Most of America and Canada, parts of
Russia, and even little Roumania use elevators.
(3) The farmer says the substitution of the -OOlb.
bag for one that runs from 2401 b. to 3501 b. or 4001 b.,
means ruination to him, because the bagging of his
wheat will thereby cost him from 2d. to 6d. per bag more.
Heaven only knows how he arrives at those figures ; for,
though the small bag may cost proportionately a trifle
more than the large one, the handling thereof will be so
much easier and more speedy that his initial loss will be
(4) The coming deputation emanates from and is being
engineered by the farmers of Rodney, the most con-
scienceless, grasping, and unprincipled gang of sweaters
in Victoria, if not in Australia. According to these
precious farmers it is a matter of tuppence— a whole two-
pence per bag. And (though this is carefully kept in the
background) it also means the chance to rook the Vic-
torian railways in the matter of freight. The said rail-
wavs with reasonable humanity, reckon 11 bags to weigh
a ton, and charge freight on that basis. When the farmer
crowds 3501 b. into each bag, as he does at times, or when
he sews half a bag on to a full-sized bag, as he also does
at times, he is swindling the Railway Department by
o-etting it to carry something like two tons for the freight
of one.
On one side is an alleged matter of 2d. a bag, plus
the chance of robbing the State railways ; on the
other side stands an army, daily growing larger,
of broken-down farm laborers and lumpers. Bags
of wheat from Donald and Will aura are coming
to Williamstown pier to-day—Minister Chap-
man may assure himself by going and haying
them weighed—carrying 3701 b. to 4001 b. of wheat
apiece; and these are not isolated cases, ihe
Mongolia left Melbourne on January 7, with
several trucks of wheat in her hold, and every
bag in those trucks went 3601 b. The men who
loaded the vessel humped those awful bags, and
stacked them, through the previous Friday night
and most of Saturday in blazing heat and a
stifling atmosphere. Next day some ? f
were offered a job on a timber-ship—a light and
profitable job. They could not take it; they were
“ done.” These lumpers can be seen at Wllliams-
town and Port Melbourne-big, strong-framed
men, but with shrunken eyes and thin, drawn
features—men old before their time. The local
lodge doctors will corroborate this story; they
know how the men suffer. A farmers con-
ference-representative wheat growers—recently
met in Melbourne. There were bags of different
weights handy, which the growers were invited to
lift— onlu to lift one bag. Not a man could
raise the 3001 b. bag ! They were pressed to tackle
the 2401 b. bag. They tried, and only one man
could raise that. If the salvation of those farmers
depended on their carrying only one 2401 b. hag,
not for hours daily, but just for five minutes, there
would presently be a large accession to the ranks
of the damned.' But their salvation depends on
their tuppence—it is the lumpers who have to
carry the bags. Does Minister Chapman think a
man worth more than tuppence? Or will he turn
a deaf ear to these greedy slave-drivers and
lighten the loads of the beaSts of burden ?


The Mahdi, the Mull tad,
Mahdi Carruthers is politically dead, and the
sooner some Kitchener blows ud his tomb tn
show his fanatical followers that he is a veritable
h?it P WAnE bett6r- He has a successor, certainly ;
but Wade is a poor sort of a mad Mullah after
all. true, he continues the old, old Federal
capital cry; but that is mereiy an inheritance, a
song handed down among the Dervishes from
crv th r H n 0 n So Tv’ S° r ? like a genuine battle
fb'l wt- Yea ? I ? ve s P enn y trumpet is like
fmm the h BRIE w horn - wakin g the cadavers
from the dead. Wade is constitutionally in-
capable of making a States-Rights eye in fine
frenzy roll. His legs are suited for waltz music
rather than the devil dance. As an incendiary
and a firebrand and an anti-Australian anarchist
he is a rank failure compared with Carruthers.
CA.RRUTHERS was like a furious tom-cat on the ridge
pole of an old-time two-up school. Wade is like a
mewing 10-gumea Persian kitten in a nest of cotton
wool. As a tinder of grievances he is even worse.
He hasnt got a “nose’’for that sort of thing
and is liable to rage furiously, in his best curate
manner, over something that he can’t even paint
to look like a grievance. There has been a case
of that sort lately, and, to the horror of
the Damaged Ma State people, Wade has
told them that he can’t find their alleged
grievance. The trouble affected Burns, Philp
a fjV ) ‘’. a lim i te d company which is under-
stood to have sufficient in the Savings Bank to
keep the wolf from breathing heavily at the key-
hole. According to Colonel Burns, his co. has.
r? r s °u ie years past been carrying flour from
N. S. Wales to China for 17s. 6d. a ton. Recently,.
Victorian Minister of Agriculture Swinburne de-
cided to subsidise Archibald Currie and Co. to
carry flour from Victoria to China, calling at
Sydney, at a cost to the shipper of 15s. a ton.
Colonel Burns admits there are to be no pre-
ferential charges to Victorian shippers. The Vic-
torian shipper and the N. S. Wales shipper are to
pay exactly the same freight. There are to be no
discriminating rebates, and the flour millers of
both States are to stand on the same footing.
But, on the other hand, it is asserted that the
Sydney shippers will have no guarantee that
space will be reserved for them, and it may
happen that Currie’s boats will be filled at Mei-
bourne, and have no room for the New South
Wales exports when they reach Sydney. This
may be true, though Minister Swinburne says it
isn t. Further, it is stated that by sending their
produce by the subsidised Victorian line, the
New South Wales shippers will lose from a fort-
night to three weeks, owing to the devious route
taken to China by Currie’s boats. The natural
conclusion of these assertions is that, if guaran-
teed space and a direct route are so vital to the
success of the New South Wales trade as they
are said to be, no sane New South Wales
shipper will send his flour by the subsidised
Victorian line, wherefore N. S. Wales hasn’t got
any grievance whatever. On the other hand, if
the alleged objections are not quite so important
as Colonel Burns and his friends have implied,
and if the facilities of the Currie line suffice for
the producers of N. S. Wales, it is equally difficult
to understand the meaning of the wil'd scream
about Sydney trade being “crushed.” If the
Victorian Government is willing to subsidise a
line of steamers, which will carry New South
Wales produce to market for half-a-crown per
ton less than it has been carried for hitherto,
surely N. S. Wales can stand any quantity of
crushing of the same kind. Wade has looked at
these points and asked the people who wailed on
his doormat for specific facts about the injury done
to N.S.W. They replied sadly that they hadn’t
the ghost of a specific fact about them, and Wade
sent them away.
*
Miss Rose Scott and “ Conscription.”
Miss Rose Scott, of Sydney, rushed into print,
the other day, and proclaimed herself a lonely
survivor of the Cabbage Tree Mob by denouncing
the Australian Government on account of its
“conscription” proposals. The dear lady had
apparently never read the proposal, but, having
caught sight of the word “ conscription,” immedi-
ately jumped to the conclusion that the flower of
the nation was to be dragged from its home and
made to live in barracks, hump round a heavy
rifle in the sun till near middle age, and be con-
taminated and taught to smoke, spit and swear by
evil companions, and finally flung back into civil
life when it had forgotten how to work and was
only fit to smoke and expectorate. And in the
course of her diatribe against this imaginary
horror of the Deakin Government, the pleasant
lady quoted the Duke of Wellington as an
authority against compulsory service. It would
have been much more to the point if Miss Scott
had given her authority for the quotation. Where
does it occur ? Looks as though Miss Scott had
got mixed up between Arthur Wellesley and
-Tohn Bright. Just consider England’s com-
pulsory service methods. Instead of giving a
man due notice, so that he could set his affairs in
order, the Government in Wellington’s time sent
out armed gangs to “ impress ’’anyone who seemed
physically fit. Men were seized by force, bundled
on to the wooden walls of Old England, and their
wives and children were left in ignorance, perhaps
for years, of what had happened to them. In many
cases they were bundled on to frigates that im-
mediately weighed anchor, stood down the
Lhannel, and within a few hours were engaged in
battle, and the poor fellow newly impressed was
sometimes killed before the officials had time to
even take particulars of his name. Then his
“U.ngry wife was probably hanged for stealing a
shilling’s-worth of food for the children. As for vol-
untary service, even during the Boer war reservists
who were still on the books were torn, against
their will, from snug billets and forced to go out
to Africa to fight so that the mine-owners could
get cheap Chinese labor. Miss Rose Scott is a
pleasant lady against whom it is unpleasant to
say anything, and in this case the writer will
content himself by saying that she knew abso-
solutely nothing about the subject on which she
wrote.
Discipline and Defence.
Mr. G. Reid seems to be filled with a vague sense
°f uneasiness because the Prime Minister, after
announcing his ideas of a new Defence policy, in-
vited all Australians in the forces to proffer any
suggestions they thought might be helpful. Mr.
Reid does not remember anything of the sort
having been done before. It suggests itself to
him as being un-British, or unprecedented, or
unconstitutional. Thereby he speaks, without
knowing it, in praise. Nothing is more wanted,
ln grappling with defence problems, than un-
conventionality. Australia needs a system
specially adapted to Australian conditions, which
are radically different from those of all other
countries ; it should have no hesitation in reject-
ing anything, no matter how conventional, unless
Jf is suitable; in adopting anything, no matter
how unprecedented, if it promises to serve
efficiency and economy. From no class of the
va i« a ble suggestion more likely to
. • an from those Australians who have been
patriot 10 enough to enlist in the voluntary forces
an h d y disdnlin e e n "°“ e , thin & of military organisation
nf LTrff P V ’r have some notions, possibly
r6for - If nothing of va lue is to be
pot from them, it would be a serious reflection on
fetio V n r to ge of . intelligence. And what he
o ejection to an invitation to them to come fnr
TnTthatA SUggestlons? That it is unprecedented,'
and that in some unmentioned way “ it will inter-
fere with discipline.” Mr. G. Reid thoroughly
in 8 Ai?sSi ndS - the f v ,ms of the military reformers
in Australia in this regard. They do not
aim at the organisation of a slavish army on the
model of the British system, which deprives the
free 1 ® & V ° te ‘ The ? Wish t 0 lOSe nofc one sin gle
keen tl - en ln or £ a msmg an army sufficient to
keep then-own country free, but not designed to
enslave any other country. So long as the Aus-
tralian soldier of the new order is disciplined
enough to obey orders as a soldier, he will be
qmte free as a citizen. And it is as a citizen that
he is called upon now to help the Government in
training a system of military organisation as close
Tnl h Vnr 6a aS P r S u ,le - The invi fetmn seems to
Ihe Bulletin to be a commendable earnest of
seriousness. Moreover, just as a postscript, there
is nothing unprecedented about the idea. Clive
and Warren Hastings both invited suggestions
from the plain everyday Tommy Atkins, and got
many valuable ones. B
The Drought and the Landlord.
Thus the Albion Park (South Coast, N.S.W.)
correspondent of the S. M. Herald :
Unless a good fall of rain soon occurs a large number of
the TENANT farmers will be absolutely ruined. It will take
at least three good years to bring things back to the state
HEAVY^ENTS 1 art year ‘- S °" le dairy farmers PAYING
f =,‘S„S. TSSS
lasfc in fppH his!i 5 ! fa ™ 6r ’ daa s P ent over £4OO since July
spent sums in pro '
rent a l^H t « he^ k v ni ?' h t arted J andlord reduced the
crfsis ’ 1 Annar he H P \ ,S i uffe 7 n K tenants at this
crisis ' Apparently he hasn’t even dreamt of
such a thing. In one N.S.W. district? with which
DolisT\o r f 18 Ua,n ‘ ed >. th e eighty land mono-
tPo raL f f r fr ° m redu T& the run t, has managed
reason ° f the drought. He lets his
? n t Jp° iniquitous tender system. Several
We [u heavy rents have been
nraoG ~ H K the dr °nght, and have gone away
practically beggars, thus cutting short their
lettWof G en p rS W6re Promptly called for the re-
hJ anc ] so great lathe land famine
? e P oldlr ‘g of great estates against set-
tlement that the places found new tenants willing
to promise ss. per acre per annum more than the
men who are gone. They are tenants with a fair
amount of money apiece, and by hard slavery and
a httle luck they will probably keep going for
awhile till the landed cormorant has got all the
money with which they started, and all the pro-
ceeds of a few years’ hard labor. While they slide
downhill, with the dead weight of the loafing land
shark on their chests, their cases will be pointed
out as proof (1) that the application of a decent
minimum wage law to agricultural workers is a
ruinous and insane proceeding, and (2) that the
Commonwealths fodder duties are wholly in-
iquitous. Probably, when they have nearly struck
bottom, the city workers will be taxed to provide
them with seed-wheat. And about that time the
useless landlord will build a new £20,000 mansion,
and buy a motor-car, and go for a trip round the
world.
The Smuggled Chinaman.
‘ Scss ” on the above subject:—
Evidence of the incoming Chow is pouring in everv day
on the Department for External Affairs. Up in Darwin
newehum Chows are as common as flies. One mine
manager at present in Sydney tells quite openlv—he
isn t a white Australian—that two months ago he
put on in his mine 20 Chows, none of whom could speak
a word of English. At the same time he replaced
his house servants by seven Chinese bo3 7 s whom he
™u S’ 0 . 6 out from Hongkong. That makes 27
illicitly imported Chows for one man, and he declares
that he knows of dozens of cases. There is no dreadful
secrecy about the business. Anybody can find out all
the facts about the traffic —if he is a trustworthy person
—by giving two pledges : (1) that he won’t engage in the
smuggling business himself, and (2) that he won’t give
away names and dates for purposes of a prosecution.
God knows what the Chinese population of Australia is
now. The census figures are utterly unreliable. The
policeman, or whoever collects the figures, hands the
form to the employer of Chows. That genial law-breaker,
be he white or yellow, is not such a blighted idiot as to
give anything like a true record of his Chow following.
If he has 30 Chows, he perhaps accounts for 10. If he has
10, perhaps he declares at three. In this way the census
figures lie. Yet those who pooh-pooh the smuggling-
business and declare, in spite of the cold, hard
facts which stare them in the face, that the Immigration
Restriction Act is all-sufficient, always point to the
census figures to prove their point. In such and such a
year, they say, the Chow population was so many thou-
sands. Last year it was less. “ Therefore,” they triumph-
antly conclude, “ the Chow population is gradually
decreasing, and will soon become extinct.” But the
average Chow doesn’t regard Australia as a per-
manent camp. A few years’ toil in the Common-
wealth gives him as much money as represents, if
not a fortune, certainly a competence in China, and
he returns to his crowded native land, and sends back one
of his brothers or cousins in his place. Of course, there
is also a large, permanent Chow population. In Bendigo,
Ballarat, Hay, Tumut, Melbourne, Sydney, and many
other places there are Chows who will never leave Aus-
tralia. These men constitute the real danger to the
Commonwealth, for they are prepared to move Heaven
and earth to evade the law and bring in their country-
men. And with true Asiatic craft they hire white men to
do the risky work. A couple of smart detectives in Sydney
—paid well enough to put them beyond any average-
sized temptation—could in three months get a complete
grip of the whole of the Australian end of the business.
Working with another office in Hongkong, and backed up
by a sternly punitive Act, they could at least ensure that
white men kept out of this nefarious traffic or went to
gaol wdien they indulged in it. At present we are in the
absurd position of having declared a policy and passed an
Act which, while it gains us all the enmity possible from
our determination to keep Australia white, fails to keep
out the worst colored type of the lot—the Chinaman.
■ ♦
The Benefit of Going to the Pawn-shop.
E. W. O’SoLLiVAN is the same old Owk-Sulli-
van
The dose of actuarial anodyne which you gave in reply
to my previous communication (Dec. 19) proves nothing
except that the Statistical Register gives a different
lot of figures concerning the profits of my tramlines
to those supplied by the State Treasurer and
our Railway Commissioners, who showed very
clearly that my trams were paying nearly 6 per
cent, on money borrowed at 3| and 3f per cent. Your
last argument, however, is a clincher in my favor, though
you intended it otherwise. According to you, I do not
consider that a time will come when these loans will
have to be repaid, but you do—and that is the sig-
nificant difference between us. Is it so? Let us see.
Supposing a tramline is to cost £lOO,OOO, and we
borrow that amount at 3£ per cent., and the loan
runs over 30 years—some of them approximate to 40
years. Well, the returns during the last 20 years,
owing to big increase of population, will probably rise
from 6 per cent, to Bor even 10 per cent, profit. Let us
take the lower amount, 8 per cent., for safety in argu-
ment, though 10 per cent, is much more likely to be
the amount of profit per annum when we have
a population of 1,000,000, as we shall have within
25 years. Well, 8 per cent., after paying
the 3£ per cent, interest, leaves a profit of 4£ per cent.
Thus, the last 20 years will provide a total of £9O repaid
upon every £lOO borrowed, exclusive of interest. Then
we have to count in the profit on the first 10 years, which
at only 3 per cent, profit above the interest would give
us £3O more. Add the £3O on to the £9O, and we have
£l2O for every £lOO borrowed 30 years before, with the
interest accounted for, and the tram line a free going
concern for all time. I say nothing about the increased
value given to property by the improvement. It seems
to me that The Bulletin is due for intellectual readjust-
ment on the question.
It seems very much like a waste of time to argue
with the Old Incorrigible; but here goes, any
way, for one or two points :
(1) The Owb’S. said, on the vague authority of some
Minister, that, whereas the trams were only paying 2J
per cent, when he (the Owk’S.) became Minister for
Works in 1899, they are now paying nearly 6 per cent.
The official Statistical Register shows that in 1899 the
trams paid £3 19s. lOd. per cent., instead of the vague
Minister’s 2J per cent. And the Chief Commissioner
shows (p. 13, Annual Report) that last year the trams
paid £4 18s. 7d. per cent., instead of the vague Minister’s
“ nearly 6 per cent.” The Owe’Sullivan, in short,
accepts the vague Minister’s statements, made at a spree
of some sort, and rejects the official figures.
(2) The Owe’S. cheerfully assumes that 10 or 20 years
hence the trams which are now earning £4 18s. 7d. per
cent, will earn 8 or 10 per cent. The Owe’S of 15 years
ago no doubt assumed the same thing. Yet the fact is
that 15 years ago the trams were earning £5 10s. lOd. per
cent., and now, instead of earning more, thej 7 are earn-
ing less. The old lines are probably earning more than
they did ; but the Owe’Sullivan loaded the system with
lines that don’t pay working expenses, let alone interest,
so the greater profit on the old lines is mopped up in
subsidies to the Owe’Sullivan lines. If the lines built
now are not added to, and if the city and suburbs and
country towns where the Owe’S sprinkled lines go on
growing, and if fares are not reduced, then 20 years
hence the tramways may be paying 8 per cent. But if
in the next 20 years N. S. Wales strikes another
Owe’Sullivan, or if the same old Owe’Sullivan, with the
same had old ideas about finance cpfs hint ..
8 will be whitti a^do g wn%X° P cenr’or h^ n
linM Ug p havi . n .? t 0 S'd'l'ort a new crop of unprofitable
lines. Everything depends for one thing upon having
no more Owb’Sullivans. h 1 naving
P ro P lle tie Owe’Sullivan cheerfully ignores the
fact that some new invention mav make trams unite
obsolete inside 20 years. Something “ ill ahnoVcer
tainly happen one day or another to make them obsolete
Instead of paying 10 per cent, they may be a bad debt
ex f \rm!i e expira * lon of the period of which the cheerful
Srrr v v Sp £ ak fl B *? affably . a " d so,ne other Owe’.
Suluvan may be floating a loan to pay for the tearing
up and removal of the alleged assets. g
(4) Still. it is true, as the Own’S, declares that it »
work is built with money borrowed at 3J per'cent 6 /nd
Zl fc 7 leld ? 8 P er oent -> there is a margin of 4k per cent
which will serve to reduce the indebtedness—tf the
money is applied to that purpose. But how often did
the Owe Sullivan, when he found a work paving interest
and something more, propose to set aside' the surnlus
«hn£ r< ! 8 t'k V u‘ °f f , the debt . u P°n that work ? Where in
short, is the Owe Sullivan sinking fund? ’
There are other points, but these are a few to go
on with. ®
4
Tricking Parliament.
Legislative attention should be promptly given
to at least one of the resolutions passed at the
N.S.W. Teachers’ Conference, held in Sydney
some time ago. The resolution reads
That inasmuch as education is a national benefit the
OTrcZTill °, £ r. the ( l ay shou J d .P rovide sufficient funds to
should h« «l PP a r?tUB Used . m the school - No teacher
should be placed in a position that necessitates the
organising of concerts, bazaars, etc., or required to busv
material' 11 ° ther Way t 0 raise funds for any kind
When the N.S.W. Parliament knocked off the
del. a week primary school fees, warning hints were
thrown out that the Minister in charge, or his
.Department, or one with the connivance of the
other, would so arrange matters that the children’s
parents would have to pay indirectly towards
primary education as much as, if not more than
they paid under the old system. Soon cases were
cited in which children or parents were invited by
the teachers through the Department to volun-
tarily subscribe for certain new kinds of school
equipment. The voluntary part of the business
was on exactly the same footing as the old 3d. a
week charge—those who confessed inability to
subscribe were excused. It seems the Depart-
ment or Minister has really gone farther in this
degrading way of getting behind Parliament than
the public suspected. One teacher at the confer-
ence quoted a list of articles of “equipment”
which shows fertility of resource in tapping the
pockets of child, parent or teacher. The teacher
stated :
Among articles of equipment which teachers were now
expected to provide were soap, towels, books, pictures
rrames, bookcases, museum cases, stereoscopes and
stereoscopic views, carpenters’ tools, planes, paper for
folding, timber, seeds, manures, barometers, thermo-
meters, rain gauges, sewing machines, wands, dumb-bells
swings, clubs, and wire netting to keep out the rabbits. ’
Teachers have to find these articles, and as, of
course, they cannot be expected to do it out of
their own incomes, they have to apply to, or cadge
from, parents or guardians. Hence children
carry home frequent messages requesting 3d., 6d.
or a shilling for this thing or that, and the parents
who are unable to pay have to tender the old
threepenny excuse of pqverty. The incident
proves how departmentalism may strangle legis-
lation ! Some of the teachers, indeed, defended
this shiftless, unreliable, disorganised way of col-
lecting money for equipment, on the ground that
it pauperises children to receive education for
absolutely nothing, and an amendment was moved
merely urging the Government to subsidise the
private contributions. (How it pauperises the
community to be compulsorily educated at its own
expense wasn’t explained.) The resolution, how-
ever, was carried, and it now remains with
Parliament to do something emphatic. Was
Parliament in its right mind when it re-
mitted the school fee of 3d. a week? If it
was, it should see that its purpose is carried
out. The Government which takes off 3d. a week
as fee, and puts on more than that as a cadge for
equipment, deserves to have the dog started after
it. The new system is vastly worse than the old.
In former days the school got on just the same
whether the teacher had good or bad luck in
collecting the 3d. Now the efficiency of the
school and the whole future of the teacher depend
on the fury with which the pedagogue cadges for
3d. or 6d. It has become a case of “ root hog or
die,” and the teacher is the hog that must root.
Yet he has no legal authority for rooting, and can’t
enforce payment m any way. Otherwise he has be-
come a mendicant pure and simple, except that in
some cases he gives extra “ marks ” to the young-
ster who brings along his penny, or tuppence, or
three-pence a week regularly, and thus offers value
for the contribution.
Wooing tlie Free and Independent Elector.
There are 118 candidates for the 72 seats at the
ensuing Queensland elections. The only member
of the last Parliament who is not contesting a seat
this time is John Cameron, who sat for Brisbane
North. His retirement is due to ill-health. In
12 electorates there will be no contest. Last
election only four members (John Leahy, Camp-
bell, Stodart, and Hamilton) were returned un-
opposed. The only one of that four who is having
a walk-over this time is Hamilton, the Laborite
who sits for Gregory. The unopposed dozen is
made up of six Laborites, five Philpites, and
one Kidstonite. Not one of Kidston’s ex
Ministers, nor of Philp’s Ministers-by-the-grace-
of-CHELMSFORD, is among the dozen. In each of
the 11 electorates which return two members,
there are four candidates. In Brisbane North,
Brisbane South, and Ipswich, a Kidstonite and a
Laborite are working together against two Philp-
ites. In Fortitude Valley, Charters Towers,
Gympie, Mackay, Maryborough and Townsville
the fight is between Philp and Labor; at Rock-
hampton it is a Philp-Kidston affair; and at
Toowoomba two Kidstonites are opposed by a
Philpite and an Independent. Thirty-two of the
single electorate contests are duels. In seventeen
of these the fight will be between a Philpite and a
Kidstonite; in ten between a Philpite and a
Laborite ; in three between a Kidstonite and a
Laborite; while in Burke, Maxwell, the Kidston
whip, is opposed by John Hoolan, Independent;
and in Croydon, Creagh, the Independent,
who sat behind Philp in the last Parliament,
is meeting Kidstonite Murphy. In five of the
single electorates there will be triangular contests,
a Philpite, a Kidstonite, and a Laborite playing
political cut-throat. Carnarvon tops the list of
single electorates with four candidates— Gunn,
the Independent, who was first a follower of
Kidston and then of Philp, a Kidstonite, and
two Laborites. About a score of candidates who
were defeated last election are again facing the
music. Four of them (Airey, Cowley, Charlton
and McMahon) are wooing new electorates. The
name of one ex-member of the Australian Parlia-
ment appears on the list of nominations — Millice
Culpin, the democratic doctor who sat for Bris-
bane in the House of Reps. He is opposing
Denham, the produce-store rat, for Oxley.
The Old Columbus to a New World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
wlte? we build cruisers or even battleships here ?
(Bulletin : , 2vl/'08°) S ° me tltr,e - and wh y now?-
States, Which started in the nation business
A P n atlon considerably smaller than that of the
withflV Com !nonwealth, is steaming into the Pacific
with a fleet consisting of fifty-three ships of war .—Matter
of common knowledge.
Sweeping southward by the Horn—like a mighty
blast of scorn,
Hear their roaring screws at morn thunder loud ;
Uncle Sam who, long ago, hoed a meek and
humble row,
And was bossed by Bull and Co.,
Marches proud !
He has built his ships of war—see them steaming
score by score.
While, their gleaming turrets o’er, waves the
nag;
And its folds the breezes fret, blown by storm-
winds wild—and yet
There’s a mighty meaning set
In that rag !
Old Columbus, could he see Uncle Sam in panoply
Marching out to destiny with his ships—
What a shout would ring afar, echoing from star
to star,
Where the dim abysses are,
From his lips !
He who calmly slumbers now where Havana’s
palm-fronds bow,
Could he see each steely prow split the surge,
Forth from his strong-fibred soul—lo ! a battle-
song would roll;
“ On, my children, to the goal !
Forward urge !
“ Little dreamed I in the days when we saw the
meteor blaze,
O’er the deep Sargasso’s ways luridly,
Of the Nation that should rise, strength and
splendor in its guise
As it faced with fearless eyes
Destiny !
“ When I bore the flag of Spain forth athwart the
stretching main—
Lo, it seems ’twas not in vain that I steered
Past the dim, far-set Azores to the land whose
fleet of war’s
Driving J yond Magellan’s shores
Battle-geared!
“In old fourteen-ninety-two little guessed my
rascal crew
What a Deed they were to do on the sea ;
Little guess the nations now what a field Ye yet
shall plough—
On ! my sons, with foaming prow
Speedily!
“ Up! new kinsmenJ build your ships ” —lo, the
dim, prophetic lips,
Closed long in death’s eclipse, seem to speak—
“Lo, my children of the West, going forth at
battle’s hest—
Dare ye not essay the test ?
Are ye weak ?
“ They have built them ships of war—shotted
guns shall guard their shore.
When the throats of Asia roar ’gainst the steel;
When the cannon spit their flame, well my child-
ren’s hands shall aim—
Will ye crouch then meek and tame,
Hearts a-reel?
“ As my Western children grew, strong of arm
and stout of thew,
Lo, there calls a Voice to you earnestly ;
Up ! and launch your battle-fleets ere the drum
of Asia beats—
They who 101 l in easy seats
Slaves shall be !
“ Lest the guns of Asia roar all along Australia’s
shore,
Let your mighty ships of war cleave the foam ;
Lay ye swift each cruiser’s keel—fashion forth
from hardest steel
Craft whose guns shall grimly peal—
Guard your home !
“I, Columbus, whom ye know, to the shipyard
bid ye go,
Lest in days of bitter woe ye should fall ;
For the sake of Liberty, fence with ships your
country free,
Lest ye perish helplessly
’Gainst the wall !
VIC.
GRANT HERVEY.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Osborn and Jerdan, Ltd., Cinematograph
Specialists and Electricians, 393 George Street,
Sydney.*
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best Film Makers of the
World. We do 90 per cent, of the Cinematograph
business in Australia. We receive New Films every
week, and our stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINCTON & CO. LTD., 386 CEORCE STREET
(near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
The Voluntary Soldier at 10s. a Day.
Sydney Telegraph can’t let sleeping dogs lie,
and on Monday it girded at Minister Ewing for
saying he would be satisfied if Australia had a
cordite factory, a small arms factory, and IUU, uuo
trained citizen soldiers. Thereat the Telegraph
But it is yet to be learnt whether it is Mr. Ewing’s work
to change the whole principle on which the military
defence of Australia rests, and to convert a voluntary
system into a compulsory system. _
There are a good many people who find it hard to
realise that there is any principle involved or any
system resting on it. Stripped of sentimental
frills, the Telegraph and its “ military repre-
sentative ” have simply been trying to cram down
the public’s throat the lie that Britain has never
recognised compulsory service, and The Bulletin
lias exposed its falsehood. Now the Telegraph
makes it an “Australian principle, and scolds
about the alleged failure of the Commonwealth
Government to make that k ‘ principle work so
as to provide a satisfactory defence force on the
said “principle.” Says the Telegraph :
As a matter of fact, it has never been given a chance
since the politicians took charge.
The highest professional military authorities are dead
against the proposed compulsory scheme, on the ground
that it is absolutely impracticable.
Who are the authorities referred to? No one but
the Telegraph knows them, and it ought to trot
them out for inspection of their credentials.
There are not many people whose authority is
worth quoting, but let that pass till the paper
names its authorities, and quotes their exact
words. The voluntary system was proposed by
General Richardson on the avowed principle of
paving the men enlisted the ordinary rate of
wages At the end of the 18th century laborers
wages in Ireland and the Highlands were 9d. a
day, and the British army got a fair number
(though not a sufficient number) of recruits
at Is. a day for the war with France, and
most of them were men of good physique.
There was no very great difficulty till it was
necessary to make good the waste of the
winter of ’54-5 before Sebastopol. Then it was
not only necessary to pay bounties of £lO, but to
reduce the standard height from sft. Tin. to sft. 3in.,
and the chest measurement from 38in. to 34in.
The standard was raised again after the war, but it
came down again when men were wanted for
India in ’57, and has continued low, not because
men of good physique are not in the country,
but because they will not take the pay. In India
the Sepoy’s pay has always ruled about 30 per cent,
above laborer’s wages, and that rule holds good
for all voluntary service armies. The pay may not
be more than a good worker can earn at civil em
ploy ment, but it must be more than the kind of man
who enlists can make in civil life. If the Common-
wealth can afford to pay its army a minimum of
10s. a dav, it can, no doubt, raise a voluntary force
of 100,000 men who will tight. But it isn’t pre-
pared to pay £lB/250,000 a year for the
wages of the rank and file alone, which
would make at least £25,000,000 for the
whole military system. And it can’t afford
to have 100,000 men loafing in barracks
instead of working. Yet for the defence of a con-
tinent that number would be very few. So it pro-
poses to abandon the barrack system and the loaf-
ing system, and to take the only course that the
case admits of. It may be “un-British” as com-
pared to the way things were sometimes done in
England in Wellington’s time, but then it is the
un-British habit of paying 7s. or Bs. a day in
Australia, instead of the aforementioned 9d. a
day, that upsets the apple-cart of the voluntary
system.
*
The publication in the Melbourne dailies of the
tiansactions of certain of the St. Kilda Cemetery
trustees is a striking commentary on latter-day
religion. The admitted facts are, briefly, that
some of the trustees of one of the largest of the
Melbourne suburban cemeteries took advantage of
a byelaw which permitted them to grant graves at
reduced prices to officers of the cemetery,. and
decided that, as they were themselves officers,
they came under the provision. So they voted
themselves graves, and in some instances these
were subsequently sold to the public at a
profit, each trustee vendor putting the dif-
terence into his own pants receptacle. To
adequately describe such transactions, it is
only necessary to consider the parallel case of a
railway official who, issuing to himself a holiday
ticket at reduced rates, m accordance with his
rights, promptly disposes of the ticket to a pal.
His employers would use a very ill-sounding word
to describe such a business deal; and the reason
why no strong expressions are applied to the
financial relations of certain dt. Kilda Cemetery
trustees, as trustees, with themselves, as members
of the public, seems to be that they are
gentlemen, highly respected in business and
society, and joint and several pillars of
a number of estimable religious bodies.
The other allegations in connection with the St.
Kilda cemetery rumpus implicate the trustees in
nothing worse than shameless neglect of the
business of the institution they were supposed to
manage. The stories of graves sold oyer and over
again ; of funerals turning up to find strange
bodies already occupying land bought and paid
for; of graves dug up (and bodies burned in
furnaces) that the bits of ground might be sold to
new buyers, only discredit the trustees to the
extent of implying that they were guilty of such
shocking business incapacity that the public
should look on institutions with which they are
connected with the eye of grave suspicion. But
as regards what amounts to voting themselves the
property of the institution, certain of the trustees
stand accused of something much worse than
neglect. Yet, so far, the congregations upon
which these estimable gentlemen beam on Sun-
day and at week-day prayer meetings have not
raised a voice to question their attitude. One
gratifying feature about latter-day Christianity is
its forgiving spirit. In fact it seems to quite
overdo the forgiving spirit.
The Devil, or somebody, promises to be very good
to Philp at the forthcoming Queensland elections.
In the electorates of Bowen, Brisbane North,
Brisbane South, Burrum, Carnarvon, Ipswich,
Kennedy, Mackay, and Woolloongabba, his
nominee is opposed by a Kidstonite and a Labor
candidate. That means that in nine electorates
the dissension of his enemies will about double the
practical effect of the support he can win fairly from
the electors. In the single member constituencies
mentioned the Philp candidate may be returned on
a fraction over one-third of the total votes polled,
though nearly two-thirds have declared against
him. It speaks badly for the sincerity of Queens-
land democrats that this should be so. The issue
in Queensland is the most important that has
been referred to an Australian constituency. It
is not only a question of the merits of Kidston
and the demerits of Philp ; it is actually a ques-
tion whether the Crown may or may not at its
pleasure usurp the authority of the Legislature,
and force a Government on the people in defiance
of Parliament. In the face of such an issue all
differences and quarrels are puny. Nothing is
important enough to justify a division in the
democratic ranks.
One day last week (15/l/’08) the S. M. Herald
devoted an article to assuring the public that the
State Government of N.S.W. will probably do all
it can to embarrass the Commonwealth in its
efforts to form an Australian navy, by refusing it
a suitable site for a naval depot in Sydney Harbor.
That will leave the Commonwealth two alterna-
tives —either to acquire a naval site without the
assent of the State Government—which will be
regarded by the Cabbage Tree Mob as a horrid
grievance, and will cause it to propose secession;
or to concentrate the Federal naval force at other
ports where the Commonwealth gets more reason-
able treatment, whereupon the paroehialists will
say that Ma State has again been wronged, outraged
and battered on the head, and will propose revolu-
tion. N. S. Wales cheerfully gave the British navy
a convenient and valuable harbor site, but a mere
beastly Australian navy, according to the Herald,
can expect no such treatment. This sort of in-
formation is calculated to make the Australian
authorities a trifle weary of Sydney and Sydney
politicians. When the meteorological department
was taken over, Premier CarrUTHERS announced
that he strongly objected to the Commonwealth
getting any land or buildings in Sydney for any
purpose whatever, and tried hard to drive the
department—merely because it had become a
Federal department —out of the city altogether.
There were rows over every separate and individual
bit of property that went over to the Common-
wealth, land an unseemly struggle over each
separate item of office accommodation. The hint
of the S. M. Herald that the State Insects may
try their best to chase the Commonwealth fleet
out of Sydney Harbor is fairly in keeping with
the rest of the Insect policy.
In view of the fact that Australia wants white
immigrants of the best class, it would be a fairly
good idea for the Federal Government to send
Uncle Sam a cordial invitation to let his Armada
look in at a few Australian ports while wandering
round the Pacific. No doubt a good many of the
U.S. sailors would get drunk, and fight, and
break things in the course of the visit; but there
would be compensations. Though some of them
might go back with a jaundiced view of affairs,
yet a big proportion of the 12,000 men on
board would return to say that Sydney Har-
bor is lovely, and that the back of Cairns
is a paradise, and that the beer is good,
the cocktails passable, and the country, to
all appearance, a suitable one for white men to go
to. Even if this country went to the expense of
entertaining the whole push at ss. a head, it
would be £3OOO well spent, for a whole lot of them
would give the full value of the ss. in advertising.
And Australia, which is too apt to mistake the
Pah’f’l for a real ironclad, would get a lot of
valuable information by inspecting a genuine fleet
—something that means business and isn’t a herd
of superannuated junks.
♦
The bottom has again been falling out of New
castle, and so much of that unfortunate under-
mined city as didn’t get its head shaken off by
the creep a few months ago has been pretty well
shaken to death by a new creep. About seven
years’ growth has been scared out of the Cathedral,
and some of the business part of the town has
been knocked endways, and some of it has been
knocked “skew-whiff,” and some of it has been
knocked into the middle of next week. The in-
efficient State Government has allowed Private
Enterprise to leave a network of old, deserted and
unfilled workings under Newcastle, and until they
all fall in there is not likely to be any
permanent peace for the city. And by
the time they all fall in it is probable
that Newcastle will have been a complete
wreck three times over. With the second city in
N.S.W. dropping through a hole ; with the coal-
shipping business so disorganised that steamship
arrangements are going to the Devil for want of
fuel and have been doing so for months past; with
the northern river bar-harbors almost all silting
up simultaneously; and with the metropolis
clamoring, as it has been doing all through the
last 40 years, for a Greater Sydney scheme, a city
railway, a bridge over the harbor, and a general
street-widening policy, there is plenty of work
waiting for Gregory Wade when he can spare a
moment from complaining about the Common-
wealth to attend to the affairs of his own neglected
State.
♦
Recently attention was drawn to the fact that
the Melbourne Age was hovering round the out-
skirts of genuine land reform. The Syme paper
recognises, as all thoughtful men have done for a
long time, that land reform is an indispensable
preliminary in securing an increase in population ;
but hitherto the fact that the owner of the Age
is also an owner of much land has prevented the
journal going for that progressive land-tax which
is so badly needed in Victoria. In a recent issue,
however, David’s journal got quite a step closer
to the heart of the matter, in a leading article that
stated:
It was not in this manner that Maoriland developed her
resources. She made her lands available under a gradu-
ated tax, with closer settlement and compulsory pur-
chase. That was the policy of enlightened Liberalism.
Therefore at any moment now the Age may be
expected to come out and fight for land taxation.
A progressive land-tax, climbing steeply up to6d.
in the £, with extra penalties for absentees, would
work wonders in the way of bursting up the huge
estates that have not only kept out population in
Western Victoria, but have in some countries
driven out much of the population that was there
10 or 20 or 30 years ago. A graduated land-tax
that shinned up a steep gradient to 6d. in the £
would be worth three million people to Victoria
in a very short time.
»
Under the Victorian Pure Foods Act the local
governing bodies are entrusted with the job of
supervising the purity of the people’s victuals. A
summary of the analyst’s information goes to
show how carefully the dirty aldermen neglect
their duty in this respect. The figures are com-
puted from recent statistics, and are arranged
with regard to the number of samples of food
supplied for public analysis for every 10,000 per-
sons per annum. In England 22 samples are
supplied for analysis for every 10,000 persons
yearly ; in some parts of Continental Europe, 164
samples; in the U.S. of America, 33; and
in Victoria, six —just Six—a bare, miser-
able SIX. These figures go to show the
regard of Victorian shire and borough councils
for the health of their populations. No less than
147 councils in Victoria have absolutely refused
to take any notice of the law. And only 61 local
governing bodies paid a little attention to the
health of the people. With regard to the 61
councils that did send samples of food for analysis,
over 48 per c<«nt. of the samples were found to be
adulterated, which shows how vast is the need
for the Pure Foods Act, and gives an idea
how immense an amount of adulteration and
robbery exists in the territories of the 14/
councils (representing 494,233 persons) whic
are allowed to defy the statute with im-
punity. To a very large extent local councils are
made up of traders and landowners. The business
of the landowner is to see that his own pro-
perty isn’t taxed ; the business of the trader is to
see that his profitable adulterations, thieveries,
false labels, dirt, and getting of money by false
pretences aren’t interfered with. A time may
yet come when it will be necessary to purity the
municipal life of the country districts by enacting
that only artisans, laborers, handy men, roust-
abouts and sundowners shall be qualified to sit
upon councils.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Theatre Royal “ The Scarlet Pimpernel.
Her Majesty's “ The Girls of Gottenberg.
Palace “ Cinderella.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
The Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Wonderland City,
Bondi Various Shows.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Olivia.”
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty.
Theatre Royal “ Her Love Against the World.
Bijou “ Her Luck in London.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
“Charley’s Aunt” supplants “When
Knights were Bold,” at Sydney Criterion, on
Friday night. The lady and all the gags that
circle round her in this absurdity of our
nonage defies the gnawing years in a marvellous
fashion. It has been prophesied confidently by a
local Thinker that the invading Chow, as he squats
on Man-o’-war Steps and gazes at the ruins of the
Protector (all of Britain’s fleet that could be
spared for Australian defence at the time the
Chow decided on visiting these parts) will
discern a female bonnet floating drearily amid
the wreckage—the derelict in question having
been jettisoned by the “Aunt ” of the period in a
wild streak for the western plains and compara-
tive safety. The “Aunt ’ has a staying-power
that none but a masterpiece can develop. Hence
“East Lynne” is a masterpiece; likewise “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin.”
** * *
This paper has an idea that the Power
responsible for the eternal fitness of things is
crowding on the coal and making the mercury
bubble in the glass, by way of a gentle hint|to
managers who run Christmas pantomimes in
Australia. Every time they do it they clothe the
person who represents Christmas in furs and
2cwt. or thereabouts of winter wraps, and in the
spectacular part of the performance they sprinkle
him with “snow.” To make the “snow” they
have to use powdered asbestos, every other sub-
stance being liable to combust in the heat of that
part of the stage heavens where the snow falls
from. Fortunately for the “ Cinderella ” show at
the little Palace, Sydney, there are more fairies
and mermaids than anything else ; but the time
seems ripe (anything, even time, would get ripe
in this weather) for turning Father Christmas also
into a mermaid for Australian pantomime pur-
poses.
** * *
Next Friday afternoon John F. Sheridan
and William Anderson will give a matinee show
at Sydney Palace on behalf of the Waitara found-
lings. It is a deserving charity, and the Palace
is expected to burst with internal pressure.
** * *
“The Scarlet Pimpernel,” which still
blooms at Sydney Royal, will make its first matinee
appearance on Monday afternoon. Hitherto a
pantomime has held the theatre of afternoons, but
now the romantic story of the Englishman Julius,
who was fit for any 20 Frenchmen, will have a
chance of appealing to the afternoon girl.
** * #
“ Blue Bell in Fairyland ” ceases to be an
afternoon attraction at the Royal after this
week. It leaves behind it a number of pleasant
recollections, and the small boy and small girl
will express regret at its departure. These small
personages mostly gather up their grammar and
geography next week and amble back reluctantly
to school, and they don’t regard the change as
for the better. It is a long time till the next
panto —a long, barren avenue of time, with weeks
instead of trees standing up in gaunt fashion at each
side ; and the interval seems even longer than that
yawning chasm between drinks to which a famous
Governor is said to have alluded in conversation
with another Governor.
** * *
William Anderson’s Wonderland City
announces a new attraction. “Professor West”
—he isn’t a University professor—walks on his
hands down a plank 100 ft. long, “placed at an
appalling angle,” and if anybody else can walk
down the same plank on his feet the Professor
undertakes to give him £5. If the angle is really
appalling the inference is that the top of the 100 ft.
plank is about 70ft. above ground, and if the per-
son who tries to walk down on his feet takes a
short cut after the second step, the inference is
that he might fly 68ft. before the ground stopped
him. This is, of course, only a matter of infer-
ence, but the conditions look sufficiently exciting
to justify anybody in letting the Prof, have his
plank to himself.
** * *
Edwin Boyde, of England, continues to
annex the lion’s share of public attention at
Sydney Tivoli. Boyde improves on acquaint-
ance. Ernest Leicester (late with Geach’s
“’Uman ’Arts”) recites a poem about a noble
blacksmith (by the way, why should the black-
smith always be represented as a noble
charactkecame TreaSesn’t someone write about a
blacksmith and make him a burglar?), lhe
Wheelers, who are new arrivals, do some
rather good cycling tricks, but to arouse
enthusiasm in the writer’s bosom the per-
former would have to sit down on the
stage and eat the machine raw. He declines
to get excited over anything less than that in the
bicycle trick line. Thomas E. Finglas is still
Ideal Cooning ; Herbert Martine spins batons,
Tom Burrows spins clubs, and the 1 our Lugenes
spin themselves.
* # *
Nine and ninety degrees in the back stalls’ shade;
The heat in the circle is greater. .
Beaded the brow of each blushing young maid
Who has climbed to the amphi-theater.
Comedy, drama and vaudeville show,
Despite their advertisements cunning,
Complain of the weather when bizness is slow,
And the “ bill ” is the only thing running.
* « * *
Change of programme was out of the ques-
tion at any of the Melbourne houses last week.
If a management could have announced a Cool
Change in three acts, the astounding novelty
might have turned fifteen thousand pounds away
from the doors after standing room was exhausted;
but, under the circumstances, public pitronage
was no better than could be expected. Even the
panto, boom at Her Majesty’s suffered from slight
relaxation, and the ballet felt limp.
** * *
The foregoing comments on the risen
temperature apply also to “ Her Love Against
the World,” at Melbourne Loyal; and to the
Temple of Rickards, where the Klos Sisters adopt
exceptional means of making themselves hot.
Last week was not a time for getting ones feel-
ings moved by a drama of intense interest, or for
violently applauding feats of strength and agility.
It was a time for putting things off, and all those
people who could put off a visit to the theatre
were glad to let the matter drop. They had had
the intention, but they divested themselves of it.
** * *
“Olivia,” at Melbourne Princess’s, still
goes on her wilful way, and the scenery and inci-
dentals are repeating their pretty effects. It is
interesting to see the clergyman’s daughter in the
first stages of her degeneration. Often we have
seen her in her latest periods, occasionally in the
intermediate ones. But “Olivia” is a rare
position of her initiallnaughtiness. “ Olivia is
an allegory also (it is too hot at present, to
specify of what—that concession to the unimagi-
native will be made after the cool change makes
its tardy appearance). And “Olivia,” at the
Princess’s, in spite of her unlikeness to poor
Noll’s sweet heroine, is an entertaining hussy
enough, with some edifying male relations. By
the way, the father of Olivia changed his
face and his unctuous voice and his heaven-
ward rolling eye on Saturday. The heat had
prostrated poor Herbert Flemming, and Rev.
John Forde took the cure of souls at Wakefield
in his stead. And on Monday the invalided
managerial Vicar wisely decided to close the
parish church — i.e., the Princess’s —during the
heatwave. “ Olivia ” was born under a luckless
crimson moon, indicative of the weather. The
announcement of “The Red Lamp” in active
preparation is a hot, uncalled-for reminder of that
portentous orb which rose on an afflicted city
during the wave, whereby “ Olivia ” was tem-
porarily submerged.
** * *
At Melbourne Bijou “Her Luck in
London ” is playing the Anderson season to a
close. This drammer is a melo-grotesquerie of
much charm. In its disregard of the possible it
is classic ; in its misapplication of the probable it
is ingenious ; in its pertinent representation of an
apparently irrelevant parson it is valuable—
especially" at this time when we are considering
the Canonical Gnash. The parson in question—
who is tactfully named Strong—enters the first
act, debonnaire and dashing. He proceeds to
propose to the only voluptuous lady in the cast—
who cheerfully refuses him. Next he appears in
a private bar, where he manages to keep his end
up very ably. Then he finishes his career of care-
lessness by marrying the maid with the most flat-
chested mind in the world, which is the way of
wise men and parsons. Miss Granville, who
plays “ Saucy,” the sensuous village lass, is giving
a solid, virile picture of that mistaken female, and
doing really energetic and conscientious work.
Mr. Bill Anderson moves on his caravan after
another ten nights.
* * * -*•
On hot nights the moist citizen can always
get a refreshing seascape or waterfall at West’s
Pictures, where laughter is mixed with a becoming
propriety. Also the citizen who is resting can
take a languid interest in the persistent wind-
instrumentalists, and the intermittent announcer,
and the wandering tradesman who turns fans into
tray-bits. Of the two last-named performers, one
declares that his wares are “ ’and-painted ” ; the
other acquaints the front seats with the title of
the following extravaganza, what time the back
seats are content to read his verbal news items on
the screen.
* *
J. C. Williamson’s pantomime of “Humpty
Dumptv ” is the only nice thing in Melbourne
during the ’eat. Crowded houses yell their ap-
preciation, while fur-clad mummer animals prance
about and curse inwardly. One of the patient
orchestra has already succumbed to heat-apoplexy,
and still the audience that loves its laugh works
itself into a fever of hysterics over the panto,
jokes, and cools itself watching the Sea ballet.
** * *
The flimsy, soiled “palaces” and “castles,”
and other incidentals of Dreamland at St. Kilda,
Melbourne, were offered for sale last week by a
raucous auctioneer. The canvas “ mountain ”of
Fujiyama, after changing hands “ for a, song,” or
being bought in at an enormous sacrifice, hap-
pened to catch fire, and the conflagration, with a
timely brigade playing upon it, brought the Hst
scene in a sad history to a smoky conclusion.
Poor, deserted Dreamland! So old and worn
out, although so young ! Heaven baptised its
opening ceremony, in October last year, and the
firemen squirted water last week upon its broken
fortunes. Rain is an ill omen for a new entertain-
ment, seemingly. It drizzled, it fell, and then it
poured on the inaugural ceremony, what time
A PLAINT.
The critic wiped his fevered head
And pondered desperate matters—
“ There’s not a thing I haven’t said,
I’ve worn it all to tatters :
‘ The Girls of Gottenberg ’ still last—
I’ve said that for these five weeks past,
I’ve dwelt on every frivol.
For Heaven’s sake, send a change of bill,
Great Cassius, else we needs must fill
These ‘ Sundry Shows’ with drivel.”


Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The splendid performance of Hill and
Hartigan in that third Test shows what a differ-
ence a dash of the right brand may make in one’s
form. It is practically certain that a nip of
D.C.L. Whisky was administered to each of the
heroes. Inspired by D.C.L., the best efforts of
the best surpass themselves. What would pos-
sibly be a fine performance, in the realm of sport
or other “affairs,” is made brilliant —extraordi-
narily brilliant.*
The(omeHanj>
Bulletin readers know something already of the
stories and verse prepared for the public in The
Lone Hand for February. They are delectable
and interesting.
ri NO r» a S OUt articles - In “Disappointment
Island, Frank Morton tells vividly the story of
the castaways of the ship Dundonald. It is a more
stirring story than “ Robinson Crusoe ’’—this true
record of the heroic efforts of the Dundonald
men, and it is illustrated with special photographs,
and pictures by Norman Lindsay.
J. B. Higginson writes brightly on Pig Sticking
a little-known Australian sport. Hervey Phipps
describes the organisation of the Australian
Eisteddfod. “Diarmid,” an Australian exile
in London, gives a picture of “ Australia in the
Eyes of the English ” J. Ingram Bryan, of Naga-
saki, Japan, discusses from inside knowledge
the present crisis between Japan and the United
States. “Nationalist” writes an informative article
on The Income Tax Cases,” showing the position
as regards constitutional law in the recent litiga-
tion as to the payment of State Income Tax by
Federal public servants.
Keep your eyes open for the February Lone
Hand. Better 3till, save eye-strain by subscrib-
ing for a year to your nearest newsagent or to the
office direct.
The [one Hand
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
a crowd of invitees and paying public went
around from one s,de-show to another, finding
disappointment at every turnstile. The silly little
illusions and things were not fully prepared to
receive visitors. But there was a large free supper
V, I ” VlteeS i■ 11 1 tle refreshm ent “palace,”
whereby hangs a little story. A pressman who
Sr A Sa T’ W forgotten the cold collation
and liquid embellishments, noticed a well-known
M.L.L. and his frilly daughters standing to get
wet at the closed gates of a side-show. So he
warned the heavy father of this expensively-
dressed family that further endeavor would be
useless. Nothing in the grounds is working ”
whispered the pressman. The Upper House
magnate expressed his thanks for the information
and whispered back, “Supper is working—and
its very good. Then the pressman went and
sought shelter in the place where there was winc-
ing and-aleing and gnashing of teeth. Supper
was good. Nothing of equal merit occurred sub-
sequently at Dreamland.
* * *
Heat, almost without a precedent, spoiled
c^?"nee of the Maud Hildyard season in
Adelaide. However, the melodrama that the co.
served out was hot enough for its surroundings.
Miss n lorence Baines has now come along with a
lighter song-and-fare combination, and the
weather has sobered down to give “ Miss Lan-
cashire ’ a chance. The plucky little Tivoli goes
on all the time, weather or not.
OUTWITTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He is a wicked actor man,
He shines in limelight glamor.
His rSle it is to plot and plan,
To bilk the shrewdest of the clan
That haunt the melodrammer.
He’s broken out of prison cells
In half a thousand places ;
He’s made his way from thievish hells,
And vaults where vice ungilded dwells,
And left not any traces.
Nor bolt nor bar could hold him there,
He laughed at chain and shackle ;
The cunningest detectives were
Bewildered, for, despite their care,
He slipped the tightest tackle.
In dungeons deep and void of air
With ropes they may enfold him,
The pirate’s ship, the brigand’s lair,
The grave, with tombstone white and square—
Not one of them can hold him.
Yet now behold, securely pent,
An impecunious boarder.
His cutest arts are lost and spent,
And he has failed to circumvent
The sleepless hash-house warder.
VIO.
SILAS SNELL.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Melbourne Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. declared a
threepenny div. last week on the strength of the present
Meynell and Gunn lease, which has five years to run. Not
much satisfaction to the owners of the most attractively
situated show place in Melbourne. There ought to be anew
local adage concerning the folly of building theatres and
the wisdom of running them, an adage drawn from the
history of Her Majesty’s, the Princess’s and the Bijou, as
well as the Royal. J. C. Williamson and his partners, at
a big house which one time could be rented for a mere
nothing a week, have made tens of thousands out of
musical comedies, light operas, pantos and Tittell Brunes.
Bland Holt, in his least prosperous times, drew additional
wealth from the Royal. He’s as rich as the gilded hero of
sensational melodrama. Bilanderson pleads guilty to
having made £12,000 profit on “ The Squatter’s Daughter”
up to date, and the Meynell and Gunn partnership has
been such a fortunately fatal wedding of interests that
the partners, it is understood, are about to speculate in
horseflesh on the Turf. Going to run “The Fatal Gee-
Gee,” and mount it regardless of expense.
“E.D.”: A par (B. 9/l/’08) sneers nastily at the idea of
Mrs. Blanche Arral being only astat 32. The writer argues
this way: Blanche claims to be “the original Laura in
Millocker’s ‘The Beggar’s Opera.'” But “The Beggar’s
Opera” was produced for the first time in 1880. Where-
fore, there is a discrepancy somewhere —since even the
very remarkable Blanche could hardly have created a role
like Laura at the age of 5 years. (And we lay down the
paper with a haunting feeling gripping our hearts that the
divine Blanche in regard to years is somewhere in the
late 70’s). Fact is this particular par-composer is correct
in everything except his premises. Millocker’s opera
was first produced at Berlin in German, and it is to that
production the Musical Dictionary he relies on will be re-
ferring. “The Beggar’s Opera” ran for years in the pro-
vincial towns of the Fatherland ere anyone thought of
translating it into French. Then someone did. About
’95, during Mrs. Arral’s engagement at the Opera
Comique, Paris, Millocker asked that she should create
the role of Laura in the French version. She agreed, and
seems to have made a success of it. Have no idea of Mrs.
Arral’s age, but it’s a subject on which one can’t be too
precise.
“J.A.C.” : The matinee swindle wants attending to—it
is getting worse instead of better. During holiday time
one theatre gave three matinees a week, and did not pay
the performers a bean for any of them. As a set-off
against such an iniquity, Messrs. Geach and Thornton, at
Sydney Criterion, are paying a full night’s salary for their
One weekly matinee. This is the first time, within my
recollection, which extends over 30 years, that such a
thing has been done in Australia. But Messrs. Geach
and Thornton should have prepared the way for the inno-
vation. They were too violent and sudden; on first
treasury day the shock, coupled with the heat, nearly
proved fatal to some of the chorus.
“Hassan” : Scattered about Melbourne one notices a
small poster issued by Bilanderson to advertise his latest
melodrama. In the centre stands a hard-faced she-person
in pink. To the right is a gentlemanly scoundrel with a
quantity of Brum, jewellery in his palm. To the left a
nun lifts an arresting hand. Beneath is the legend :
“Purity or ?” Judging by the face of the young
person in pink it will be “ .”
<( “S.T.S.”: Miss Henrietta Watson (whose Glory in
The Christian ” sticks in my memory as one of the
finest pieces of acting on the local record) is slowly but
surely coming to her own. Every notice of her London
appearances in clever character-studies speaks approv-
ingly ; but here is a step forward. The play was Granville
Barker’s “Waste,” prohibited by the censor as dealing
with an illegal operation, but produced semi-privately by
the Stage Society with a strong cast. After praising the
rest, the London Referee says: “ But the surprise of
the acting was Miss Henrietta Watson’s beautiful per-
formance of Trebel’s sister. Miss Watson’s comedy in
the earlier part of the play was exactly what one expects
of this finished actress, but her sympathy with her
brother in his trouble, and her anguish and grief after his
death, revealed a depth of feeling which I do not re-
member to have observed before in her acting. It was a
masterpiece.”
“ Ferostag ” : The effigy of the late Batman at Mel-
bourne Waxworks is habited in a red shirt and cabbage-
tree hat; also the guide describes this celebrity as an
‘ English immigrant,” and not, as was the case, as a
native of Parramatta (N.S.W.). But what will you? If
people persist in frequenting waxworks this is what they
must expect.
Thornton? n ’ le thing I really like about Prank
hither o a think?, eC8 ’ knights Were Bold,” is the
per Shonr l!?,!?? ®!'""" 6 at the power of Shent
plans to marrv h?a J' 1896 )> tbe Jew financier makes
t h y hls daughter to the Earl. In Act II (a d
forth to be'burn? “iVon J »f W - is ioyfuUy hauled
n f h „. y . ™™t. In one case he is a usurer :in the
and re ohri S s? fin^P C '® r ‘ Thornton might elaborate that
and re-christen the piece “ When Ikes were Boiled.”
smmnrfnV’ii * "T dubious about the making of a
after seehiff ° U l° , The ? car of Wakefield,” and
exouisH? ;, hvia hold my doubts justified. Only
come dy-acti ng could save “Olivia” from the
- f and only the respect due to a highly
S h?- i' y classic like “ The Vicar” accounts foi the
matter of fa Wl , th B , ome little veneration. As a
f Th?' fc - 1S a pla 7 ? f P u PPets, and stock puppets
lB n ,°? a bvin &> brea thing character in the
TaHvnn th! dy ’ and t be iU fact that Oliver Goldsmith was
ma h iHan e H eWlth^ e w . lcked S( iuire and the trusting
aifnk™ d , doe ? not justify the playwright of to-day
as to mak B °fn y t 0 those threadbare dramatic items
sfao£ “ k ?' em appear almost a travesty on ancient
sta B e conventions. Stout, throaty, majestic Herbert
the m cri?n IS rt PraiBe H fo ? hisße , V - Dr - Primrose ; but where
Darson nf P Pn J’ pedanfclc > and yet human and emotional
Rev Revan?? d t Sm ? h K 8 ?? vel ln the wel *- fed > satin-clad
±tev. Bevan pictured by the actor manager?
“ Melb <’ : A PiP Van Winkle says, apropos “ Olivia,”
whe? ? Ttfiv” the f t w? e beCn aCted here since 1858 >
when The Vicar of Wakefield ” was produced at Coppin’s
Olympic (the Iron Pot). Cast: The Vicar, Rogers ; Thorn-
hill, Russell; Burchell, Webster; Moses, F. Younge ;
P ?n? b °R oUgh r, Ml^ Ine: Jenkinson.Bellair : Jaggers. Dunn ;
i'lina, Rosa Dunn ; Vicars wife, Mrs. Bellair. The onlv
survivor appears to be Mrs. L. L. Lewis (Rosa Dunn).
Ihe after-piece was the burlesque of “The Lady of
Dyons, in which Rogers showed his versatility as Pauline.
The lessees of the theatre were R. and P. Younge, not re-
,a?d ?( has - Young. F. Younge returned to London,
he became the original Georg-e d’Alroy in “ Caste.”
R. Younge came to Australia with Brooke and Fanny Cath-
cart. He finished as a manager in the English provinces.
Rose Ecloum (Mrs G. B. W. Lewis) was Claude Melnotte
1" w-i , of Lyons” burlesque, and F. Younge was
the Widow Melnotte.
“ C l a )l dia ”>” which Williamson mounts at Sydney Royal
after The Scarlet Pimpernel ” has run its bright course
is a serious play. Its chief reason for existence
is its earthquake scene. But people don’t go to theatres
to watch stage earthquakes these tired days. As substi-
tutes for literary merit, the earthquake and the eruption
and the evil-smelling explosion are played-out assets—
things which are to real drama what the saying of
damn” and the squirting of a soda water sypTion
ar ® t 0 comedy. Why, with the capable co. he has,
Williamson bothers with tripe like “ Claudian ” is
the Supreme Mystery. When Wilson Barrett was alive
there was an excuse for “Claudian.” In it he wore the
amazing tights and the marvellously short shirt—thev
seemed to be the only things he had on barring the boots
with the ostrich-leg heels. These boots made W.B.’s
legs seem so incredibly long in proportion to his body—
the exact length of his body could be ascertained because
the shirt was a mere epigram—that he created the im-
pression that at one time in his life he had been cut in
three pieces above the waist, and piece No. 2 had been
lost, and then pieces Nos. 1 and 3 had been fastened
together, and he had made a marvellous recovery. For
over a century, it is understood, Claudian’s long legs
earned his short body round on the hollow crust of the
Greek Empire, and then the earthquake came, and the
ghost spoke to him from among the ruins, and he died
with his shirt-tail to the foe, and his high heels sticking
into the eye of the orchestra.
“S.”: One of the prettiest items in “The Scarlet
Pimpernel” is the management by Ola Jane Humphrey
of her extremely pretty hands. They speak all the time ;
not loudly or vulgarly at all, but in a gentle, modulated
voice, albeit with much eloquence. This art of using the
hands (so highly considered a century ago) is
almost a lost one on the English-speaking stage.
The average British mime seems to regard his
(or her) hands as excrescences, valuable in mo-
ments of violent agitation, or for clutching pur-
poses during periods of supreme emotion, but
otherwise things that are obtrusive and superfluous.
Note the actor in modern dress. How ill at ease he is
with his paws showing ; how dbbonaire when once they
have found safe haven in his trousers pockets. With
what tenacity the actress who has no pockets clings to
her parasol or other sheet-anchor of the sort. It is on the
Gallic stage alone nowadays that one may see a whole
company of players devoid of self-consciousness as to
their extremities. Ola Jane is said to be half French, so
her artistic hand-carriage may be hereditary, or some-
thing.
“ Frank Keen ” : The gramophone and the phonograph
and other kindred screeching contrivances do a lot now-
adays to wake up the corpse-like towns of the Bush.
There, after six o’clock, chemist Jones and tobac-
conist Smith have knocked off sitting outside
their respective shops, and staring at each other
across the street in a stupid moo-cow sort
oft way, as if business was an event which could come
along or stop away, just as it pleased. Nowadays the
voices of the sirens are to be heard calling at top-note to
the knots of bucolics who chew their pipes in the main
street. “The Old Apple Tree,” at chemist Smith’s,
is trying to “blither” “Annie Laurie” across
the road at undertaker Brown’s. Two doors lower
down on the same side the sentimentalism in the
air is relieved by the shrill piping at fruiterer
Robinson’s about the “Little Bird in Nellie’s Hat.” It
isn’t high art, but it is better than warm, flat beer, it is
better than going to bed at 7 o’clock, and it is better than
talking Cow.
After the Boer unpleasantness some Australian bush-
men went to London, and on one memorable day were
entertained by Melba. They were fed on hot-house
peaches and other trifles, given autographed photos, and
told to make themselves known if ever the donor hap-
pened to strike the vicinity of Bluegum Flat. T’other
day one of the men, whose aesthetic yearnings soar
higher than his screw, dropped a line. Result, two con-
cert tickets —two of the best, too.
“Flinderino”: A Christmas Eve side show at Cairns
(Q.) consisted of two live crocodiles on exhibition in the
main street. One of the crocogators was captured that
morning in a fish trap in an inlet a stone’s throw from the
town, if you throw the stone far enough. The other one
was caught eighteen months ago, and has been kept in a
salt-water enclosure ever since. Both creatures were
caught by the same man—an Italian fisherman who is
desirous of attaining a reputation as a crocodile tamer.
His efforts to teach ’gators to jump through burning
hoops, ride buck-jumpers, and do Blondin on a wire rope
have so far proved fruitless, but he still has hopes. The
captive of 18 months measures about 6ft., and during its
captivity has only grown one inch. The Roman reckons
it will not be full-grown for at least 150 years. Now
what age do crocodiles reach before handing in their scaly
checks ? My friend Pompey Brutus says from 200 to 300
years.
“Snell”: Curious the love a certain type of woman
has of squealing. It is for her amusement that the chutes,
toboggans, flip-flaps, and other like contrivances are
built. The machine-made amusement which provides
the wildest rush with the greatest occasion for squealing
is bound to win out financially in the long run. The
female who is its main patron is frightened, and loves it.
To her there is an irresistible fascination in being whirled
violently round and scared ; and her joy is made manifest
by shrill macaw-like screeehings diversified by sharp
yelps. What Federal Tyranny is to the State Rights
male, that is a flip-flap to his neurotic sister.
Bert Bailey and Ned Duggan, of the Bilan-
derson co., the perpetrators of “ The Squatter’s Daugh-
ter,” give now and then a tidy exhibition of so-called
second sight, the same as the Howards (here with Wirths’
Circus) put up. Bert is the partner who looks at the
articles, and Ned strikes attitudes, tears his hair, looks
wise, and then reels off an accurate description. These
actors often display their ability in the dressing-room.
Bert sizes up the objects in the room, while Ned, out of
sight in the passage, gives faithful answers. Apart from
being an actor, author, and second-sightist, Bailey knows
a lump about magic, and on roller skates lie’s a real
“ boshter.”
ins' and at,in Restrair ? fc an excellent thing in act-
niX b,nsr ’ and takin ? “curtains.-
was a ferfain ll? a recenfc Melbourne show there
up m i"f fl ° f Bernh s rdt - °At a thefinish* the °ush y e°rs iTned
ntn th fc R u rl dashed m adly on, nearly spilling the hero
wild eve and leaned over the footlights with a
she pounced on d Tit?' t bl ? ket was handod U P. and
. founcea on it like a hawk on a chicken The hern
d?d k th lfcP °' tely - away and h anded it to the heroine He
sirnnht tke . nexfc ? ne > and the unimportant girl
flowers ot her nwn h lm P ati . e "°e- Finally she got some
nowers ot her own, and simmered down but it was
surprisTmav be I’m?' Th tr seasoned actress’s pleased
artUtic to he tn, T overd °ne at times, but it is more
artistic to be too much surprised than too little.
Skull ” : “ Our patrons want meat 1 ” is the orosaic
Heis o the o sTTrf ntletnan of f influence h* art-dramatic art.
fnd the nhTrns • a 'i ,aB 'K r °j. many bi S metropolitan shows,
the matter nf « .T- who , dls P la ys a tendency to fall off in
tne matter of flesh is certain to hear from him. “ Come
come my good girl, this won’t do,” he savs. “You’ll
Thn«p to ke ?P -[our fat up. You must take something.
hose men in the stalls don’t come here to look at bones -
There is no strict censorship in the matter of other re-
diHon* b K 'T.r 1 be n 0 off in Physical con-
art as in thescenes there is as little humbug about
art as in any other meat-packing business.
They were rival theatrical managers, and they were
disputing with vehemence in a public bar over threepenny
beers. From this it may be inferred that they were "ot
r« an manaKers - The y were really those peri-
patetic actor-managers who escape from one bush town-
af ?he 1!?" T^ 6n i h6y have luck ’ Each "’as scoffing
at the others alleged enormous popularity. “Biggod
the art-lovmg people of Australia don’t know you’
Anstruther. Biggod, they don’t!” said one. “Never
tieard of you outside Memndie and Pooncarie, biggod.”
. J norted fcbe other, “is that so? Anyhow, I never
played to as small an audience as you had at Crowfoot! ”
the°h‘ lit % biggod ” “ Never. You had one man in
?® ba at Crowfoot. You played to one man at
eln T H A ™f tlUthe » ,X 0U dld ’ b Wffod. That makes us
even, so don t crow. It doesn’t make us even. I had
the larger audience. My man weighed fully a stone and a
half more than yours.”
Interesting to note that there are acting in the Com-
monwealth at present two mimes who sustained chief
parts in Shaw s Mrs. Warren’s Profession,” the only
time it was played in London. Julius Knight led on that
occasion, and Madge Mclntosh was the horror-stricken
daughter. The awful rdle of Mrs. Warren, procuress
was taken by Fanny Brough. The production was of
course, a private one-the Stage Society enthusiasts
being responsible for it-as the censor firmly vetoed any
public representation of the play. y
ROGER HARTIGAN, the young Queensland
cricketer who helped materially to pull the
last Test Match out of the fire.
“Jean S.” : From an English magazine lately it appears
that a quite usual young musical comedy female has
had innumerable offers of marriage, including many
from persons of great wealth. In point of fact,
that variety of mummer is more often the aggressor
than the aggressed, as regards man. If there is any-
thing she clamors for, it is the alleged devotion of fifty
million males, expressed in highly original correspondence,
which is also mostly alleged. Indeed, no sane man would
be guilty of the sickly, drivelsome horrors which the
variety female is supposed to receive. Probably it would be
safe to say that 101 per cent, of the stuff is never written.
The society interviewer belonging to the weeklies is
responsible for the yarns;, and if he be young, and
impressionable to the mystery of a lavender tea-gown and
grotesque jewels such as the chrysophrase, ever so much
the better for the yarns. Just think of it! She
attracts the attention of a boudoir organ by some
specialty a little more awful than usual. A consultation
is suggested and arranged for by the lady herself, she
doing the needful with superb, faintly-ruled note and a J
nib. The interviewer arrives in his Sunday clothes and
is ushered into an apartment, mostly rugs, perfume and
photos. She appears in the doorway two hours 17
minutes after his arrival, apologises elegantly for
keeping him waiting, and requests tea and scones
from the maid. Meanwhile she recites her career
with indubitable art. A Paris panel of a man in riding
costume or blueys (it doesn’t matter which) has almost
fallen from its place in its endeavor to attract the inter-
viewer’s attention. He admires the symmetry of the
form and says so gently. She tells him of the original.
“ Awfully silly, you know, but he wished me to marry
him. He owns two stations and a steam yacht ! ” So
gradually she puts on steam and reveals to the callow
journalist her obscure romances with dukes, cowmen and
tramguards—all under the pledge of secrecy. Three
millions and some odd hundreds of the male animal have
desired to acquire her somewhere in her vivid past; but,
if the pledge of secrecy is observed, she is th,e maddest
creature imaginable. Woman is often a confidence trick
and a fraud ; but a variety actress after an ad. is a double
bunco to the nth degree.
There are several women in Queensland
earning their living with the axe. One of a
Gympie family of female wood-cutters was once
asked why she did not try something easier.
“ A.nd earn 10s. a week as a housemaid when I
can make that much in a day ! ” was the scornful
answer. The latest recruits of the axe are two
women who are timber-getting at Kingaroy, and
st far they have chopped out as big cheques as the
man. This, by the way, is close to one of the
si gar districts “ where white men can’t work.”
The foolish proposal to bring out the
remains of Governor Phillip for re-interment
hereabouts recalls the fact—in print, not legend—•
that the famous First Fleeter, on the eve of
sailing for Australia, offered to exchange positions
with the gaoler of Coldbath Fields Prison. The
fatter, being afraid of being eaten by the blacks,
declined the offer.
Consider the childishness of Wood and the
mendacity of his press supporters. In his Bill for
the improving of the lot of the child worker at the
pomps and frills of our playthings, he favored a
u • >er wee k allowance. The Labor party wanted
this made 55., whereat Wood tore his hair and
gnashed his teeth. He rose to 45.; but he was in
h minority and a childish temper, and so, when
the humanitarians stood firm, he threw the Bill
overboard. Next morning the public was in-
formed by the press that the “Labor party”
(which numbers 30 in a house of 90) “ had blocked
the relief of the child slave.”
N.S.W. papers, reporting that the wheat
harvest will only amount to 8,700,000 bushels, as
f?xr lnS * 21,817,000 the previous year, said in effect
■ 7) ever . mind, the extra price will make up for
it.” Will it ? The price maybe extra, but the
good old cadging farmers won’t pay the railways
anything extra for carrying a bushel. In fact, as
Carruthers slaughtered freights before last general
election, the farmers will pay less than they did ;
and, between that and the short tonnage, the
railway revenue is in for a slump. Also, seeing
that N.S.W. won’t have any wheat to sell (it will,
in fact, have to buy about 1,500,000 bushels), how
the high price is going to put anything into this
State’s pocket isn’t clear. It will put something
into the farmers’ pocket perhaps, but the rest of
the State will have to provide the something.
The brief newspaper report of a police-
court case is a fragmentary animal. It has neither
head nor fly-whisk, and if there is a motive it is
generally hidden under a heap of cross-swearing
or the arresting constable’s feet. The tale usually
runs something like this
BRUTAL ASSAULT.
Last night Mr. Henry Jorkins, of 45 Phonograph
Avenue, Uullhurst, was sitting on his doorstep reading
the evening newspaper, when he was struck on the ear
by a piece of road metal. Staggering to his feet, he was
just in time to see a man rush into a house on the opposite
side of the Avenue and slam the front door after him. Mr.
Jorkins made after his cowardly assailant, and getting in
the front window of the house, found a neighbor
named Blathers cowering behind a chair. A
sharp tussle ensued, as the upshot of which
Mr. Jorkins—who is a man long past middle age—was
flung into the gutter. Mr. Jorkins then went in search
of a constable, and, finding Sergeant Gradual, accom-
panied him back to the house and gave Blathers in
charge. Blathers was brought before the Court this
morning and fined 20s. or a month. The amount was
immediately paid.
And that’s all the public ever hears of it. The
life-long feud between Jorkins and Blathers over
the poisoning of Blathers’ dog is never mentioned.
The bloodthirsty threats of Blathers and the
sneering indifference of Jorkins—who, by the
way, is a sneak of a man, and really did poison
the animal—aren’t even hinted at. All the
surging, seething years of hatred, scorn, and
reviling are boiled down to the bald statement
that a ruffian named Blathers, for some unaccount-
able reason, hit a reputable citizen named
Jorkins on the ear, and that the Government
made 20s. out of it.
About a beast and a bird :
’Twas hard times with the dingo. Food was never so
scarce in the ranges back of Burragorang Valley, and he
wasn’t as young as he used to be. As he slunk almost
famished along the top of the range he spied a crow.
The crow was necessarily in the same predicament, and
was thinking of abandoning that part of the country
when he in turn noticed the dingo. “ Now,” he thought,
“ if the dingo gets anything to eat I’ll get a share, or he’ll
have to be very wide awake, and if he dies on the track-
well—caw 1 ” And he licked his lips, so to speak, at the
thought.
That night the dingo laid himself down weary and
starving.
In the morning the crow from his high perch watched
in vain for him to rouse up. The sun rose and tinted the-
mists like fairy-bed curtains, and then dispelled them
altogether ; but it had no effect on the inanimate form of'
the dingo. The crow flew down a few branches, took a.
careful look round, and then dropped carefully to the-
ground with a grunt. With his head on one side he sur-
veyed the dingo critically.
“ Morning! ” he said. But all was still. He hopped
closer, still suspicious.
“ Are yer de-a-ad,” he croaked. No answer. He hopped
closer and even watched a piece of grass close to the
dingo’s nostrils to see if it moved from his breath. But
the dingo was, to all intents and purposes, as dead as
Abraham.
He hopped to within a foot of the dingo’s eyes and
again croaked in his ghoulish voice—“ Are yer de-a-ad ?”
Then he mused, “Now this fellow must be really and
truly dead. What animal of the earth could be more
cunning than a crow?” And, throwing out his chest in
pride, he jumped fair into the dingo’s jaws. And the
dingo, after wiping a few feathers off his whiskers,
laughed heartily and padded onward towards the
of the Oberon farmers.


■
\%2Sfflnr
1 /
V/:
/U
£
sale: time: at
DAVID JONES LTD.
Men's Collars at 12/- per dozen
Now 10/9.
Fifteen per cent. Discount for Cash.
Lny style as illustrated sent post free.
Wv
The “VICTOR”
... HAND CAMERA
IS THE
MOST POPULAR CAMERA
EVER INTRODUCED TO THE AUSTRALASIAN PUBLIC.
Mo n onrl Mr* 1 DOir'ln The Magazine carries 12 plates 4jin. x 3lin.
INO. O ctllU INO. 1 rlylvC OU&. (j.plate). Improved Focussing Gear. No
other Camera is of such exceptional value at the price. It has a number of Improvements, and is to be
recommended for good all-round amateur work, being simple and reliable. It has a Divided Back Door for
removing exposed plates, Rapid Lens, Iris Diaphragms, Patent Victor Shutter for Slow or Fast Exposures, up
to l-100th of a second, a patent auxiliary Safety Shutter, 2 View Finders, a Simple System of Plate Changing,
Indicator to tell the number of plates exposed, etc. Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2. Instruction
Book Free. CAMERAS from 7/G to £5O.
We have an Immense Btock of Photographic Materials of every description.
We are the Largest Importers of Cinematographs and Films in Australia. New Films arriving every week.
HARRINGTON & CO., Ltd.
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Worrall, the frothy Methodist mischief-
making parson who now afflicts Bendigo, is still
telling Long Gully that it is largely a thief, and
Eaglehawk that it isn’t as honest as it ought to be.
But he struck one snag the other day—one of the
oldest trustees of the Long Gully “chapel,” who,
apropos this gold-stealing racket, told Worrall:—
“ If I saw my mate stealing gold I would tell
him it was wrong to steal, and if he continued to
steal I would get another mate. But I would not
inform on him.” Worrall evidently regarded the
confession of the man who said he wouldn’t be an
informer as something akin to murder and treason;
so two or three other parsons and about a dozen
local preachers were whipped up, and they held
something like a trial. For hours they debated
whether the church-trustee who wouldn’t inform
on his mate ought to be boiled, or merely sacked
from his trusteeship without being boiled. The
reporters, of course, were not let in ; but as the
old trustee who wouldn’t be an informer is still
moving round with a smile on his face, it looks as
though Worrall came out of that round without
much luck.
Shop assistants throughout Australia are
forming a Federal organisation for mutual pro-
tection. They need it. Hardly any labor is
more miserably underpaid ; and some of the most
“fashionable” shops are the worst offenders.
The Bulletin hears, for instance, grave com-
plaints as to the wages paid by the Sydney Civil
Service Co-operative Society; and its dealings with
its workers should be above reproach.
* * * *
A Hobart maiden struck one of the puzzles
of her life, the other day. Police Magistrate
Wise called the case of a lady who, having cer-
tain expectations, was claiming that a male friend
of hers should share the honor and (incidentally)
the expense. The defendant had a lawyer, who
urged that the matter—alluded to in vague terms
—should be dealt with at once. “ But, of course,
we must have the evidence of a doctor as to the
girl’s condition,” said the P.M. “You under-
stand that, don’t you ? ” he asked the girl. She
didn’t, but she said she did. “Then you must get
vourself examined by a doctor, and bring him here
to give evidence.” Whereupon they waved the
parties out; and while the young man was ex-
plaining to the lawyer that he had never seen the
girl before in his life, a benevolent old policeman
was trying to make a baffled young woman under-
stand what she had to ask the doctor to do.
Astonished at the ways of the law, she was just
moving off to do its commands, when somebody
sorted out the matter—two young women had got
mixed, and she who had been ordered to consult a
doctor was again rushed forward to answer a
small question of alleged larceny.
* * * *
The highly profitable coastal tug service of
Sydney and Newcastle is in the hands of two
rival firms—Brown’s and Fenwick’s. The rivalry
between Brown and his black tugs and I enwick
and his green tugs has so far prevented the lucra-
tive business becoming a monopoly. The Law
beams with a lenient eye on sea-going tugs, I hey
don’t want surveys, they needn’t have mates, and
their men don’t require to have And
now it has been decided that they needn t have
gangwavs. The sailorman isn’t the soberest nian
alive, and the tug-hand is not the most straight-
laced of sailormen ; and there have been two fatal
accidents on tugs in Sydney Harbor since Christ-
mas, both caused by the fact that the deceased fell
into the water while jumping aboard in the dark.
A wise regulation of Sydney Harbor T. rust provides
that every vessel moored at a wharf must have a
suitable gangway connecting with the shore, and
proceedings were instituted by the bobby force
against the tug people for neglecting this pre-
caution. The cases were dismissed by the magis-
trate, expert witnesseshaving stated that gangways
on tugboats are unnecessary. Seeing that two
men have been drowned in a month for want of
them, one would think they were very necessary
indeed, but the Law is a curious sort of beast that
gets away into obscure corners by itself and does
strange deep thinks of its own, and this is one of
the results.
SURFERS.
“ Was that a shark we passed ?”
“No, that was my tailor !”
Some maxims of Euclid applied to divorce
proceedings :
If the parties be poor, a Case has position but no
magnitude.
A “ line ” can be got as to the length of a Case by the
position of the parties.
The extremity of poverty for all parties is the proper
end of a Case. •
The Co.-re is the base of an irregular triangle.
If the parties can afford it, a Case may be continued in-
definitely, and may stray from any one point to any other
point at any angle.
Costs are greater than the party, and, if all the parties
be added together, Costs are greater than the sum of all the
parties.
A rich party’s suit for judicial separation is length with-
out depth.
A Case may circle around any centre, and at any
distance from that centre that the Judge is fool enough
to allow.
THROUGH GREY SPECTACLES.
The laughter of girls is, and ever was, among the most beautiful sounds on earth.-DR QUINCEY.
Still, there are occasions!!
The moral of the latest Bent scandal has
seemingly escaped observation thus far. The same
moral obtruded itself years ago, when Mawlcolm
McEacharn, after electing himself Mayor
of Melbourne for the third year in suc-
cession, went quietly off to Europe for
the benefit of his health, with his Civic
Dignity thick upon him. For a while
he had been the Mayor who played the
part of an indispensable personage at all
public gatherings, but the mumtnery
began to pall upon him, and the cost
of it was great; so he tripped to Europe,
leaving his blessed position as First
Magistrate of Melbourne to take care
of itself. He was spared a lot of waste-
ful expenditure, and the country got on
very well without him. Now Gaud
Mayor Weedon (the “gaud” has been
added since McEacharn’s time) is to be
converted into an Exhibition Commis-
sioner, for travelling purposes. Also,
says a daily paper, “he will be present,
it is presumed, at the great Guildhall
banquet in November, and the Lord
Mayors of Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dublin,
Manchester, and other large cities will,
it is presumed, desire to do honor to so
distinguished a guest.” (There is no
Lord Mayor of either Edinburgh or Glas-
gow, but that is a mere detail.) The
fussy little man is distinguished by being
a civic official of so little real conse-
quence at his office that he is being paid
to go away, like a State Governor who
spends the last six months of his term
of uselessness in England on full salary.
Weedon’s sense of importance doesn’t strike him
in the right light.
* „ * *
There was a delectable gathering at
Scott’s Hotel, Melbourne, one afternoon last
week. A number of citizens prominent in Fat
circles came along to welcome accountant Den-
sham on his return from London, where he had
collected the long-time forgotten debts due to the
creditors of Spitzel, the jeweller. Also he brought
25 years’ interest, at 6 per cent, on the £l5OO lia-
bilities of the historical insolvent. Chairman
Sprigg proposed the health of the successful debt
collector. Embling, M.L.C., bade him hope he
would eventually attain the dignity of a seat in
the “ grand Upper House of Victoria.” Lawyer
Joe Woolf, who had been the first to get wind
of Spitzel’s millions, made some feeling references
to the capture of the spoil, and Theodore Fink
spoke “in a humorous vein” of old debts and
new liquidations. Coming from a member of the
Fink family, these allusions to a full settlement
of mildewed liabilities, with 6 per cent, interest,
convulsed the representative gathering with
laughter.
One of the ancients writes to tell how
great Reform Governments make a surplus :
The Liverpool Asylum (N.S.W.) is very good ; but the
pay given those who can do some work needs attention.
Though previously very small, it has been still further re-
duced. For example, men who were getting 6d. per day
get 4d. per day, and those who got 3d. now get 2d. The
men that work in the tailors’ shops as patchers are now
getting two plugs of tobacco per week in lieu of 3d. per
day. At Rookwood, however, the ten men who work in
the tailors’ shop get 2d. per day, and a special diet. The
men have interviewed Mr. Brodie, the Inspector-General,
but with no result.
* * * *
The great source of supply to Australia of
ignorant barristers is now being closed. At the
Inner Temple, London, nowadays, you have to
pass a real examination to become a barrister —
not merely “ eat the dinners”—and a degree has
become a matter of some erudition as well as of
digestion. Australia in the past suffered sadly
from the old order of dinner barristers, who,
because they came out here with the proper
haw-ty accent, and the correctly loud thing in
trousers, were in many cases shoved into im-
portant legal, and even judicial positions, and
thereafter slowly learnt their law, or failed to
learn it, at the expense of Australian justice.
A while back the engineer of Bairnsdale
(Vic.) Water Trust told his bosses that he was
being worked unconscionably long hours, and
asked for a “rise.” Before the Trust came to a
decision, the Melbourne Anti-Sweating League
had drawn Bent’s attention to the case, and had
asked him to inquire into it. The Trust hinted,
in reply, that Bent had better mind his own busi-
ness ; to which Thomas bellowed back that as the
State subsidised the Trust, it emphatically was
his business. Also he appointed a Commissioner
to inquire into the ways and customs of the
Bairnsdale Trust. Then the Trust sacked the
engineer. Still he waited in Bairnsdale for a
fortnight for the inquiry to start, and then, as it
wasn’t in sight, he humped himself and his
family to Melbourne, and got a fresh billet. After
a while the Commissioner remembered that he had
to inquire into something, and wrote asking the
ex-engineer to meet him at Bairnsdale ; but that
indignant person replied that he had already lost
one billet through the blessed Trust and didn’t
propose to lose another; also, he remarked that
he had no loose cash to spend on country excur-
sions. Then Bent generously offered to find him
a free pass to the Gippsland village, and pay him
10s. a day for three days; but the other replied
that as that would barely cover his additional ex-
penses, and he had a wife and family to keep, he.
wasn’t taking it, and the matter seems to be ended
as far as he is concerned. Which is a pity ; for
there is very little doubt that the Bairnsdale
Water Trust, like many other similar bodies, is
practising a system of soulless sweating that badly
needs suppression.
THE VICTIMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The view that it would be unfair to impose an addi-
tional burden upon the general body of ratepayers for
the relief of poor, starving children is approved in in-
fluential quarters. It is supported by Lord Rosebery,
Lord Avebury, Lord Rothschild, and Mr. A. J. Balfour.—
Cables
[Lords Rosebery (€3,000,000), Avebury (£2,000,000),
and Rothschild (£18,000,000), and Mr. Balfour (£86,000
per annum) are among England’s wealthiest men. Of
course, they frequently went to school without breakfast,
and shivering in squalid rags !]
In the name of Jehovah the Dread—
The fierce god of Moses—
Was the blood of the tribes freely shed
As the Bible discloses ;
Many nations to Sheol were sped
By the men with large Noses.
In the might of Jehovah they came
(So they say in their story)
To turn other tribes to His name
And proclaim His great glory—
They preached Him with sword and with flame —
For His gospel was gory.
The babe and the maid and the youth,
With the wife and the mother,
They slew without pity or ruth,
Also father and brother ;
Throats were cut —just to show that one truth
Was as good as another.
Hey, presto ! The centuries pass,
But old Time is no uiesser ;
He proves us that all flesh is grass.
See, the Hebrew oppressor
Is found at the foot of the class,
And— there’s no intercessor.
The wheel of the Vengeance has turned
And a new superstition
Uprises ; the Jew now lias learned
The true worth of position,
For the sake of his soul he is burned
By a kind Inquisition.
Under laws that are bitter and black,
Beni-Israel is harried ;
From Egypt to London and back
His reception is varied,
As when on the old Canaan track
With the Hittites he tarried.
En avant ! Again the scenes change,
Now together we find them —
Rich Jew and rich Christian ; what strange
Bonds of sympathy bind them ?
Do they still give their cruelties range
As in years left behind them ?
Do they still set the torch to the oil?
Do they flay, crush and fetter ?
Do they burden with infinite toil
Ah, no ! They do better.
Souls and bodies of men are their spoil—
“ Christian ” thief and Jew sweater !
Where the east wind blows bitter and bleak
Over Thames’s grey water,
Wan, woeful, and hollow of cheek—
Sorrow’s son, Hunger’s daughter—
The little ones, helpless and weak,
Are the victims they slaughter !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


‘Rheumagnetic’ Rings
(PATENTED).
The ONLY Anti-Rheumatic Ring's approved and used
by Medical Men.
CURES
Rheumatism, Gout, Neuralgia, Sciatica,
Neurasthenia, Anaemia, Insomnia, etc.
beware
of imitations and so-called “Galvanic”
and “ Electrical ” ring's, which are in-
capable of producing galvanism, electricity, or any
curative medium.
«pk ring is genuine unless HIGHLY MACNETIC, and
Kheumagnetic ” Patented is written inside.
For pamphlet and free particulars for the use of these
Kings, write—
the RHEUMAGNETIC R. CO. LTD. (Head Office
in Australasia), 45-47 Melville St., Hobart, Tas.
Agency for N.S. W. and Queensland :
OSBORN AND JERDAN, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Diarrhoea, in its first stages, can be cured
by a few doses of that pleasant, reliable, and
effectual medicine, Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera,
and Diarrhoea Remedy. In many instances one
dose is sufficient, but as a rule three or four
doses are necessary. It is a good thing to keep
it in the house. Get a bottle to-day ; it may save
a life.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
FOUR GOOD FEATURES in a PANAMA
1. Fine, clean-colored Straw.
2. Very even Plait.
3. Fitted with Grease-proof Leather.
4. A Genuine Panama.
These four points combined make a most
distinctive Panama. The fourth point is
the last, but not the least—a genuine
Panama will outlast three of the other
kind, and be fifty per cent, better in
quality, besides lasting infinitely longer.
It is therefore better to pay a shilling or
two more and get the CENUINE SOUTH
AMERICAN PANAMA, 18 6.
Our last announcement of these sold a great many. The Panamas will not be here much longer—order NOW.
Genuine South American Panama, 18/6. Postage 9d. extra.
State Size when Ordering
PEAPES & Co. Ltd., OUTFITTERS,’
309-311 GEORGE STREET,
... SYDNEY.
the greatest worry.
U NCLE: “ Which do you like best, Alfred, going
to school or coming from school?”
ALFRED : “ I don't mind either , uncle; it's having
to stop there in between that gives me the pip."
Peter Pan ” : The curse of Adelaide’s
prehistoric dog-box cars has come home to roost.
As far as motor traction is concerned the Village
outstrips any other Australian city in the number
and power of its cars. The stench of the
neeing juggernaut is always in one’s beak, far
out in the'suburbs and country as well as in the
o*ty. The postal department has just pensioned
Wdcart in favor of the motor, and a number
or big houses are also asking the horse to hand in
_ resignation. One large butcher has several
cavernous vans, which career round to customers
with sausage meat and tripe at a greater pace
than dead meat ever travelled at before. Electric
trams are almost due, and a similar conversion of
therailwaylinesisconsidered to be rapidly heaving
into sight. With all this mad rush, however, the
appellation of Tortoisetown still remains, and its
world-wide notoriety is likely to keep it unjustly
alive for a few decades yet.
It is a curious fact that such heat as Mel-
bourne and Adelaide were suffering from last week
is almost unknown in the settled parts of North
Queensland. Melbourne and Adelaide are two
cool winter cities, which generally, about once a
year, make a stupendous effort in the way of heat,
and then the unacclimatised citizen—all the citi-
zens are unacclimatised—drops down in the street
and takes no further interest in public affairs.
New York, which freezes hard in the winter, has
the same fiendish habit, and kills off its inhabi-
tants by dozens with sunstroke in the course of its
great annual summer effort. Sydney, Brisbane,
-K-ockhampton, Townsville, etc., though warmer
than Melbourne or Adelaide in the aggregate,
don t suffer from that annual blob of ferocity
which, in the two southern cities, occasionally in-
terrupts a test match by setting the ball on fire.
1 hey represent the sensible drinker who takes a
lager beer every day. Melbourne and Adelaide,
on the other hand, keep teetotal 51 weeks and
three days in the year, and then suddenly rush at
the whisky keg and drink all that is in it, and
next minute are seeing boa-constrictors. It is a
bad, dissipated habit, and the sooner they get out
of it the better.
Sr : In the November number of
Pearson’s Magazine I came across an article
entitled, “Our Hard-worked King.” The photos,
depicting King Edward at graft go to show how
sweating exists even in the palace. Edward is
shewn (1) walking at Kensington (hard graft,
walking); (2) unveiling a memorial stone to
Queen Victoria (makes you sweat a treat, this
unveiling business); (3) at a cattle show (blessed
hard slogging, looking at fat pigs, I can tell you);
(4) in Paris (cruel graft on an old man over 50);
(5) in his study smoking a cigar (prostrating
work); (6) laying a foundation stone with a little
silver trowel (I wouldn’t take on this sort of thing
for any money—it’s too laborious. I’d sooner
break stones) ; (7) opening a new dock (it’s
an awful big thing to open ; should be
done by machinery); (8) at Goodwood (this
standing around is hard on the feet); (9) on
his yacht; (10) visit to the city ; (11) shooting at
Sandringham ; (12) in the Highlands ; and a lot of
other solid yakker. I decline to take the job on
for a pension. It’s worse than working in a mine.
God save our toilworn King !
* * • *
“ Hassan ” ; lie sharks. I have bathed
for 15 years or so on Bondi
beach, and have never heard
of a bather being taken from
an ocean beach except in one
instance—the recent case at
Newcastle. Moreover, none
of the bodies, sometimes re-
covered a week or so after the
drowning accident which made
them bodies, ever seem to be
bitten by sharks. As a matter
of fact, any shark-fisher will
tell you that the beach shark
doesn’t care for flesh, and won’t
bite at it. There is only one
bait for Jack—salmon. And
there are so many salmon and
other shoals continually moving
along our coasts that he never
knows the pinch of hunger that
is necessary to overcome his
cowardice. For he is a coward.
I threw a stone at an eight-foot
shark one day, and, after one
startled glance, he mizzled
with extreme rapidity into
deep water. It is when he
gets into the harbors and lakes
that he is dangerous. He
gets used to traffic, and, when
a big thing like a yacht ceases
to scare him, he isn’t likely to
be frightened by a man. Also,
the fish supply being insuffi-
cient. he gropes about after
offal from the slaughteryards,
murdered cats and dogs, and
other delicacies. He becomes
bold and hungry, and one day
he bites a man. Always after-
wards he hangs about the
wharves in the hope of an-
other. His taste has become
perverted. It is said that all
tigers are not man-eaters, and
the same, I feel pretty sure,
applies to the shark. Still—
you never know, and despite
all my theories I always come
out of the surf when Jack’s
fin appears.
■» ■»
The Australian sailor who doesn’t keep his
weather eye wide open may easily find himself on
a lee shore in a strange land these days. The
more or less British crews engaged for the round
voyage, London to Australia and back, have got
into the way of deserting their ships on arrival in
the Commonwealth, and in consequence the ship-
ping cos. do some violent hustling after the local
shellback to take their vessels back to England.
The cos. catch the Australian mariner on the ebb
tide, so to speak, and whisper persuasively into
his big, horny ear that here’s a nice little run to
Lpndon—of course, the cos. only want him as far
as London —and that when he gets there it will
be as easy as falling overboard in bad weather to
get a berth back to Australia. Frequently the
Australian horse marine swallows this yarn and
signs on. His funeral begins when he tries to find
a ship to bring him home from London. The
British shipping offices don’t want crews for the
run to Australia they want them for the
round trip ; and if the hard-up Australian,
anxious to get work at any cost, is willing to sign
on for the whole voyage, the London offices
remark “ Rats,” or something to that effect. The
mere fact that the applicant for graft is an Aus-
tralian is sufficient to make the London offices
turn him down, as far as an Australian voyage is
concerned, because they suspect that his alleged
desire to do the round voyage is only a subterfuge
to get home again, and that he will desert as soon
as the ship touches a Commonwealth port. So
the Australian sailor finds himself beached, with
his bows stove in, and a very cold, lone wind
blowing athwart his ’midships, and he ships for
Valparaiso in the hope that, at least, he may
smell the eucalyptus in the far distance.
North Queenslander r ’: Quite a hopeless
task, 1 suppose, to persuade the Southerner that
lownsville, at this time of year, is, compared to
Southern capitals a cool place. Had heard tales
ot the lownsville summer, so went away to a
worse place, and, returning from tny holiday, find
it here delightfully cool. Monday, Jan. 6, has
been our hottest day lately. For that
cay, the official records were : Maxi-
mum 86°, minimum 75°. For
the same day, the Mel-
bourne maximum tem-
perature was 96.5°,
and Adelaide citizens
were revelling in
108°, and no doubt
pitying us poor
N. Queens-
landers.
BOTH AT THE GAME.
HE: “ Where is your husband to-night ?”
SHE: "At home. It’s so nice to leave some one
at home you can trust.”
Two pictures in a recent Illustrated
London News show the sad, drear grovelsouie.
ness of the press in the Cold Country. One pic-
ture shows “ A Royal Motorist Opening Olympia
Motor Show.” Underneath reads : “ The Duke of
Connaught’s practical interest in motoring: His
Royal Highness examining a car. The Duke .. .
stopped at many of the stands and made inquiries
which showed . . . practical knowledge of the
working of the motor car.” The other picture is
“ His Majesty the King on his Favorite Shooting-
Pony.” (N.B. —The pony doesn’t shoot ; it is
his Majesty !) Look at this reading underneath,
and then raise a “Te Deum ” that you live in
Australia: “... Last week, at Sandringham,
his Majesty rode home after shooting with King
Alphonso, and he stopped now and then to talk with
his tenants, from one of whom he asked a light for
his cigar. On his estate his Majesty is the ideal
English squire .” Then his Majesty was graciously
pleased to wipe a fly off his forehead, and con-
descended to scoot for home, like any plain, two-
penny human being.
**4 * *
In Victoria, at the instance of the House
of Affluent Landlords who never work, an Act
has been passed sentencing other people who
don’t work to gaol. Occasionally a candid man is
caught. In Melbourne city court, the other day,
they got one. His examination proceeded as
follows:
Mr. Cresswell, P.M. (to accused): You hear what the
police say about you ? Do you do any work ?
Accused (in sleepy tones, and smiling at the question) :
That’s orright. (Laughter.)
Sergeant Rattray (sharply): Answer the question
properly—quickly !
Accused (with a start): Yes ; that is—er—no (wag-
ging his head). No, I never work. (Laughter.)
Mr. Cresswell : Well, you are candid enough about it,
anyhow. (Renewed mirth.) When did you work last ?
Accused (with the same smile as before): That’s
orright! (Lost in thought as he inadvertently disengages
one hand to stroke his scrubby beard after a warning
from the sergeant) H’m ; when did I work last ! Let me
see ! (Suddenly) Ah! I believe it was in April last,
s i r _the first of the month, to be sure. (Loud laughter.)
Then you have done nothing since then ? How do you
live — orright! (More laughter.)
Where do you get food? —That’s orright. (Much
laughter.)
Sub-Inspector Knox: Answer his Worship’s question.
Where do you get your food?
Accused': Prom the pubs. (Laughter.)
Is it given to you ? —Oh, yes, sir.
Mr. Cresswell: And do you spend any money in drink ?
Yes.
Where do you get the money from ? —That’s or , I
mean I find it, your Warship. (Loud laughter.)
You find it, eh ?—That’s orright.
Do you come by it honestly ?—-Oh, yes, sir.
A humorless Bench gave him three months, and
he said “ Orright.”
“ Hassan ” : A quaint naval force is the
Boys' Brigade, of Melbourne. It is composed
of the nice little Sunday-school Willies of all the
suburbs. A boy, to be eligible, must be a frequent
visitor to the Sabbath College. Once he is ad-
mitted into the brigade he is kept up to the
proper stainless mark of righteous observ-
ance of the Day of Rust.. If
he stays away from the
place where they tell of
the days of Israel, leha-
bod, Ishmael and eo.
there is no parade for
him next drill-day.
If he misses three
successive prayer-
gatherings his uni-
form is stripped from
his back, and he is
Degraded. The offi-
cers are the Sunday-
. school teachers, and
are elected by them-
selves. You can tell a
Boy’s Brigade officer by
his uniform, which is
identical with that of a
British naval officer except
that it has more gold stripes
and epaulettes and brat-s
buttons. Also you can tell
the sky-pilot brand of sea-
rover by his “ dog.” The
naval officer proper considers
it bad form to swagger up
the streets with all his war-
paint on. The Sunday-school
salt hasn’t got any form.
and you see his cocked
hat and sea-boots and
spurs and epau-
lettes trying
to get in to
see the Wal-
lace Divorce
trial, or
walking,
prayer-
book cat-
ted at the
forepeak,
to church
on the
Sabbath.
Yea, verily
at last, thank
God, we are
defended.
“ S.S.” : Argus correspondents have been
tumbling over each other with letters righteously
abusive of the employment of live models at
Melbourne Art Gallery. There is an exhibition
of students’ work on, and Mr. and Mrs. Grundy
are horrified to find that the model doesn’t always
hold a green cotton umbrella open in front of her,
or him. Hence their clamor to have life classes
abandoned or supervised by Willie Judkins, armed
for the occasion with a bunch of blankets and a
pair of blue goggles. The Grundies are positive
that somebody must be “demoralised,” “de-
graded,” and “brought to ruin” by the bar-
barous habit of looking on the human animal as
it is. When they have put down art, Mrs. Grundy
and party will, I presume, buck in to abolish sur-
gery and medicine, because the young students,
maie and female, must be reduced to savagery and
driven to licentiousness by viewing nature at close
quarters and without the proverbial rag of
decency. It is really amazing to an artist familiar
with the studios to note how absolutely eager the
pure-minded are to find pruriency in things that,
to the initiated, are commonplace and provocative
of no emotions —good, bad, or indifferent. I once
knew a man with so keen a sense of smell that
towns and human companionship were intolerable
to him. He went away to live in a cave in the
hills. People with minds too pure should follow
his example. Mere man is no fit company for
over-sensitive souls.
* * * *
The employing class can be wildly prodigal
in paying for work of an exceptional character.
Consider the munificence with which two desperate
men were rewarded for undertaking the destruc-
tion of a tottering wall in Wallach’s building,
Melbourne, recently destroyed by fire. The wall
was so dangerous that sensible people would not
go anywhere near it, and two laborers were paid
£5 between them to demolish it. While they
worked, the police and ambulances stood in readi-
ness, but the spendthrift proprietors were far, far
away, covered by insurance.
ROUGH ON RILEY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Excerpt from the new Roman Catholic marriage law to
at Easter : “ Should the case occur of a
Catholic and Protestant attempting marriage in the
registry office or in a Protestant Church, their marriage
is null and void, and the contracting parties are no more
man and wife than if they had never gone through the
marriage ceremony.” *
There’s a chap called Paddy Riley
Up at Ballyhooley Creek,
Who got married somewhat slyly
To his girl the other week.
Paddy Riley is a Roman,
And a very fine young man,
While his bride, a bright young woman,
Is a Scotchbyterian.
It is strange how very stupid
Humankind prefers to stay,
But it doesn’t trouble Cupid,
Who contrives to have his way !
Thus it chanced that Paddy Riley
And his bright particular star
Lately married somewhat slyly—
Through the local Registrar !
They’d a humble home, but cosy,
’Twas a palace to the pair !
And the future looked so rosy !
There was music in the air !
Thus they lived and loved together,
Quite contented with their lot ;
And they never troubled whether
Their beliefs agreed or not!
But a bombshell fell upon them
When that cablegram they saw !
Where the sunshine had shone on them,
Came the cloud of Canon Law !
As the serpent of tradition
Crept in Eden, to advise,
So the shadow of suspicion
Came to Riley’s Paradise !
Civil Law says Riley’s married !
Canon Law declares he’s not!
And he’s harassed, worried, harried,
At this modern Gordian knot !
As his wife, whose head is level,
Says she’ll never “ turn,” not she,
Paddy Riley’s ’twixt the Devil
And the deep and Holy See !
N.S.W.
W. T GOODGE.
A TRIOLET.
[For Tiir Bullk.tin.]
A dainty figure in check !
My little wife
Loves ’witchingly to deck
A dainty figure, in check.
And I am at her beck
To draw for life
A dainty figure in cheque—
My little wife !
N.S.W.
R. A. HOBBES.


ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO.,
64 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
ROBEY’S
English Machinery, Portables and
Engines, High Speed Engines,
Fixed Engines, Traction
Thrashing Machines, Oil
““" Engines, etc., etc.
enntrh wire Rone Havward’s English Sheep Dip. Nicholson & Sons’ English Mills, to grind
® rUnt "l , » an 9 ome &Co Ltd., English Woodworking Machinery. Massey’s Steam Hammers,
everything, Locomotives, Cas Suction Plants, etc., etc.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The City Bank of Sydney
To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dec., 1901.. £8157 4 per cent. =£Booo £157 £llO.OBl
June, 1902.. 8016 4 „ „ 8000 16 110.097
Dec., 1902.. 8108 4 „ „ 8000 108 H 0.205
£109,000 transferred to Contingent Account.,
June, 1903.. 9351 4 per cent. = 8000 1351 2,556
Dec., 1903.. 9052 4 „ „ 8000 1052 3,608
June, 1904.. 9045 4 „ „ 8000 1045 4,653
Dec., 1904.. 6158 2£ „ „ 5000 1158 5,811
June, 1905.. 6060 2* „ „ 5000 1060 6,871
Dec., 1905.. 6068 U „ „ 5000 1068 7,939
June, 1906.. 6066 2£ „ „ 5000 1066 9,005
Dec., 1906.. 6049 2£ ~ „ 5000 1049 10,054
June, 1907.. 7066 3 „ „ 6000 1066 11,120
Dec., 1907.. 7205 3 „ „ 6000 1205 12,325
This bank did not take the opportunity to have a clean-
ing-up when the crisis arrived in the early ’nineties. Up
to that time it had been paying 12£ and 10 per cent. divs.
It merely dropped the div. for a year, then resumed at
6 percent., and, after small reductions, finally, nearly 10
years afterwards, brought it down to 2£ per cent. The
City Bank’s registered telegraphic and cable address is
“ Dalliance,” and it evidently determined to live up to
that. It was quite obvious that it needed a cleamng-up
just as badly as most banks ; and, though it didn t take
the disastrous animal by the horns and write off capital,
it has had to bring about the same result by a long-
drawn-out and weary process of writing down assets
out of profits. But having pretended in the first
place that no writing-down of capital was called for, it
couldn’t very well subsequently write profits on openly ;
so it has been obliged to do it “ internally ” —which is the
nicer way of saying secretly. The plan has its draw-
backs. When a bank faces the situation and writes
capital down from £500,000 to £200,000, you know that
the hole in the accounts is £300,000 smaller than it was ;
under the other system of doing the filling-up with un-
disclosed profits, you know neither what the true profits
are nor how much filling-up has been done in the
aggregate. Taking one term with another the
actual profits of the City Bank may nowadays
be £12,000 a half-vear or they may be only £7500. The
published figures move up and down along with the divi-
dend. When 4 per cent, was paid they were regularly a
little over £BOOO ; when 2k per cent, was paid they kept
regularly just a little over £6000; when 3 per cent, was
paid they moved up and keep a trifle over £7OOO. A law
which permits this sort of bank balance-sheet is rotten.
The seat of the trouble lies, of course, away back 13 or 14
years ago, when the bank funked the right thing. For
that the present management isn’t responsible. But if
there are still over-valued assets, and if part of the
true profits has as a regular thing to be cut off
and surreptitiously used to write down those
assets, the present management is responsible tor
perpetuating a bad system. The paid capital is
£4OO 000 ; yet the investing public only values the bank s
shares at about £190,000. Investors thus write off
£210,000; and the atmosphere would be cleared if the
management would follow suit, and shareholders wouldn t
be a penny worse off. If this were done, the bank would
be able to be reasonably frank about its profits, and
(unless, of course, things are very much worse than they
are supposed to be) confidence would be strengthened.
As it is, in 10 years the deposits have only grown from
£1 094,525 to £1,204,292, while those of the Commercial
of Sydney (which did face the situation) have grown from
£9,490,383 to £14,851,561.
The City Bank’s balance-sheet figures compare
with those of 12 months ago in this way
Dec., ’O6. Dec., ’O7.
Notes . .. £85,839 £96,359 Inc. £10,520
Deposits.. .. 1,125,813 1,204,292 Inc. 78,479
Liquid'Assets .. 322,116 289,563 Dec. 32,550
Advances .. 1,160,805 1,283,355 Inc. 122,550
Premises, etc. .. 144,596 147,049 Inc. 2,453
The advances 10 years ago were £1,246,765 ; but it is very
likely that they are a much sounder lot to-day than they
were then. Owing to the increase in advances lately, the
proportion of liquid assets is small, amounting to only 22
per cent, of the deposits and other debts to the public.
In ordinary circumstances 22 per cent, is too little ; but
the position is not quite as weak as it looks, because
the proportion of current account money, which is
liable to be called for at any moment, is comparatively
small. The disclosed profits show a return of £3 10s. Id.
per cent, on capital and reserves combined ; but for the
reasons mentioned above those figures are not of much
value ' * * * ' *
The Australian Joint Stock Bank (Sydney):—
Profits by
Purchase
of Depre- Added
Banking ciated Written to Be- Nominal
Profits. Deposits. off. serves. Reserves.
Dec 1901.. £3584 £12,663 £16,247 £236,707
June 1902 2043 20,840 22,883 259,590
Dec 1902 3463 17 559 - 21,022 280,612
June 1903!. 4190 IBJiSI - 22,574 303,186
Dec.,’1903.. 1166 21,760 22,926 326,112
(Capital written down from £1,168,042 to £154,529)
June, 1904.. 2459 - £326,112 2,459 2,459
Dec., 1904.. 2964 2,964 5,4-3
June, 1905.. 2144 - - 2,144 7,567
Dec., 1905.. 1421 - - M|l 8,988
June, 1906.. 1523 - - 1,523 10,511
Dec., 1906.. 2423 2,423 1-.934
June, 1907.. 1450 1,450 14,384
Dec., 1907.. 7210 7,210 21,594
General-manager Francis Adams retired during the half-
vear, and Chief Inspector A. P. Stewart took charge ; and
the present accounts show a change, presumably m con-
seauence. Thus, for the first time “ new bank business
is separated from old bank advances. The new business
amounts to £2,260,103; the old business figures are
£2 012 454. This new business presumably dates from
1893 the year of the first reconstruction, when the bank
(previously “ incorporated ”) became “limited.” At the
date of the last balance-sheet before the B “ S P®"'.
sion. the advances, etc., amounted to £10,447,933,
so £8,435,479 has been got rid of one way and an-
other. The amount due to the public then was
£ll 772 847 ; now, £3,767,270 of that old debt remains,
so that one wav and another £8,005,571 of that has been
shifted—partly by realisation of securities, partly by the
writingroff of capital and reserves, partly out of profits on
business and the purchase of deposits at a discount, partly
out of liquid assets then in hand. It is impossible to say
how much each has helped in the cleaning-up. The
profit made out of the purchase of deposits, for instance,
has not been shown for years.
Taking the past seven years alone, this progress
has been made : —;
Dec., 1900. Dec., 1907.
.Canital ..£1,168,041 £154,570 Dec. £1,013,471
Inscribed stock .. 788,267 796,805 Inc. 8,538
'° deports & " 8 ..’ 4,513,327 2,970,466 Dec. 1,542,861
Accrued interest.. 88,411 63,519 Dec. 24,892
New deposits, etc. 1,475,301 1.777,438 Inc. 302,137
if iouid assets .. 1,068,855 1,143,678 Inc. 74,823
Advances .. 6 670 720 4,272,558 Dec. 2,398,162
Premises " !! 399>21 368,155 Dec. 31,666
All the old “A ” deposits have now gone. The “B ”
deposits are payable, half in 1912 and half in 1917 (or
earlier at the bank’s option). It is just about as certain
as anything can be that some further arrangement will
have to be made with these depositors. The size of the
new business suggests that the bank is well worth saving ,
and the easiest way to save it will be to offer preference
shares in exchange for the deposits—probably 10s. m the
£. The inscribed stock is now worth only 12s. 6d. in the
£. The wiping out of the deposit stock, with the present
conditions as to repayment, would improve the outlook
of the inscribed stock ; and the holders would therefore
have to make some sacrifice too. The first thing, how-
ever, is to value the assets. Until that is done it is not
much use discussing details.
Recent figures show up very well
Dec., ’O6. Dec., 'O7.
Notes in circulation.. £78,428 £87,645 Inc. £9,217
Bills in circulation .. 202,591 149,360 Dec.
New deposits.. .. 1,298.373 1,539,432 Inc. 241,059
Liquid assets .. .. 1,564,065 1,143,678 Dec. 4'_0,387
Advances .. .. 3,954,151 4,272,558 Inc. 318,407
Premises .. .. 365,789 368,156 Inc. 2,367
Of the new deposits, only £386,346 is fixed, in spite of the
fact that the new business is a first charge on the whole of
the assets, new and old. On account probably of the old
lingering doubt and uncertainty, the bank, in spite ot
recent largely increased advances, still holds about
65 per cent/ of the new deposits and other new
debts to the public in liquid assets; and earn-
ings are thus restricted. To do any good, the
bank must be able to command new deposits; and
it looks almost impossible for it to command new deposits
while the public can see any day of the week old deposit
receipts selling for 13s. or so. It has most of the equip-
ment for a big business ; its premises account runs to
£368 156 (of course this will have to be written down
when the reconstruction takes place); and its manage-
ment expenses (£42,422 for the last half-year) are big
enough for a much bigger business. The Bank of Vic-
toria, in the last half-year for which accounts are pub-
lished spent only the same amount (£43,066) though
it has advances totalling £5,711,946. And yet there is no
doubt that in some respects the A.J.S. management
costs ought to be higher—in the matter of salaries and
upkeep of premises, for instance. As for the old
depositors there is the further point to consider : the
more the new business expands the poorer their security
is because every new depositor is a preferential creditor.
And yet without the new depositor the outlook is hope-
less. The old depositor had better therefore push things
on a bit.
* * * *
The Sandhurst and Northern District
Trusteks, Executors and Agency Co. (Bendigo, Vic.):—
Net Written Added to Re-
De.„ Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, serves
1898 .. £624 5 p.c. = £lOOO
iQQQ 1174 5 ~ ~ 1000 174 2,2.j4
woo:: 1273 5 ;; 1000 - 273 2,507
1901 .. 2365 51 „ „ 1100 1265 3,772
1902 1452 6 ~ ~ 1200 252 4,024
1903 “ 2386 7 1400 - 986 5,010
1904 :: 309 i 8 ;; i«oo _ 1491 6,501
1905 4156 10 ~ ~ 2000 2156 8,657
1906 3092 10 ” 2000 - 1092 9,749
1907 !! 3592 10 „ „ 2000 750 842 10,591
This co. is carrying out improvements to its office pro-
perty and of £1621 spent at the date of the balance £750
is now written off. From the year’s profits £164 has also
been divided as bonus to staff. So far as the shareholders
are concerned they now gfet a straight-out dividend of 10
per cent., instead of an 8 per cent, dividend and a 2 per
cent bonus : the pound is still the old 205., but the alter-
ation is probably a kind of hint that, so far as the direc-
tors can see, it won’t,shrink to 17s. 6d. The co.’s paid
capital is £20,000 ; 10s. is paid per share, and there is
another 10s. callable. The assets consist mainly of public
securities (£10,000), mortgages £12,734 (including £lll7
foreclosed), and property £762l—this property, even in-
cluding recent additions, shows very nearly 7 per cent, net
for the year. The commission earnings are shown “ after
providing for contingencies,” which no doubt means that
portion of the corpus commission is reserved, as it should
be The value of the trust estates in hand is not set out
in the report, but 12 months ago the chairman announced
that they totalled £1,283,944. The total expenses for the
year were £2786 (exclusive of staff bonus), and that is
equal to 4s. 4d. per cent, of the trust estates—a figure
which, taking into account the size of the business, shows
economy. A northern office, with just over 1£ million
in trust estates, shows an expense rate of 7s. 2d. percent.
Bendigo is a place where they treat 4dwt. stone, and that
sort of place gets into the habit of looking a long while at
tuppence. And so by economy, strict attention to busi-
ness and the other virtues, the co.’s profits mount up to
£l2 Is. 6d. per cent, on capital and reserves ; and that’s a
good deal better than belting out 6dwt. stone in a hot
stope at 4000 ft.
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net * To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1901.. £lll3 8 p.c.--=£6oo £513 £1,729
Dec., 1901.. 1252 10 „ „ 750 502 2,231
June, 1902.. 1748 10 „ „ 750 998 3,229
Dec. 1902.. 1391 10 ~ „ 750 641 3,870
June, 1903.. 1248 10 „ „ 750 498 4,368
Dec., 1903.. 1529 10 „ „ 750 779 5,147
June, 1904.. 1268 10 „ „ 750 518 5,665
Dec., 1904.. 1503 10 „ „ 750 753 6,418
June, 1905.. 1547 10 „ „ 750 797 7,215
Dec., 1905.. 1834 12 „ „ 900 934 8,149
June, 1906.. 1773 10 „ „ 750 1023 9,172
Dec., 1906.. 1858 12 „ „ 900 958 10,130
June, 1907.. 1758 10 ~ „ 750 1008 11,138
Dec., 1907.. 1940 12 „ „ 900 1040 12,178
The co. has a solid lot of securities. Against its paid capital
of £15,000 and its reserves it has £21,697 in public securi-
ties ; the balance is in office premises, cash, etc. On the
other side there are no liabilities, so all the assets, plus
the uncalled capital (£35,000), are fully available to assure
the correct handling of the trust estates. The value of
the trusts now being administered is £1,287,768 ; the ex-
penses for the half-year ran to £l6lO, which works out at
almost exactly ss. per cent, per annum of the trust
balances. Though this is not very low, the profits that
remain over are still excellent; for the past 12 months
they were equal to £l4 14s. 3d. per cent, on capital
and reserves combined. That includes interest earnings.
Assuming that the latter are at the rate of 4 p.c., then
the commissions, etc., brought in about £6lOO in the 12
months, which would mean about 9s. 6d. per cent, on the
trust estates. This is more than most trustee cos. can
earn; but, then, the realisation of estates maybe very
rapid at Ballarat; also the co. may have other commis-
sion earnings. Anyway, it is a highly profitable and well-
sustained business.
* * * *
In a recent review (B. 9/l/’08) of Australasian
trustee cos.’work, it was stated in a general way that a
most objectionable feature was creeping into some of
them —the taking of money on deposit to be lent out
again. This is a venturesome business which ought not
to be mixed up with trustee business ; yet, generally
speaking, the law does not prohibit it. Victoria w~as,
however, scared in 1888 into doing something. One of
the wildest cats of those woolly days announced
its intention of establishing a trustee and execu-
tor department; and the co. that proposed to
reach out after the custodianship of dead men’s money was
so very wild that the Trustee Companies Act was quickly
passed, and later on its main feature was transferred to
the codified Companies Act (1890). This special Victorian
Act says that a trustee co. “ shall not engage in, or carry
on, or be concerned in any business, trade, venture, or
undertaking of any kind whatsoever... other than general
agency business ” and the investment of its own funds in
prescribed classes of security. The trustee cos. of
N. S. Wales, S. Australia, and Westralia have practically
no liabilities (no deposits whatever); the Queensland
office finances some trust estates through a bank over-
draft ; but the Maoriland and Tasmanian offices—the
former especially —are in a much less satisfactory position
with regard to this matter.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co. (N.SW.):
Unexplained Written
Business Additions off Re- Re-
Profits. to Reserves Dividends serves, serves
Dec., 1901 £5480 Bp.c. = £5250 £B °
June, 1902 5507 £13,097 8 „ „ 5250 - 41,506
Dec., 1902 3988 2,894 8„ „ 5250 - 43,138
June, 1903 2583 - 6 „ „ 3938 190 41,593
Dec., 1903 2665 500 6 „ „ 3938 40,820
June, 1904 3992 775 6 „ „ 3938 41,649
Dec., 1904 5596 3,987 8„ „ 5250 45,982
June, 1905 5860 4,542 8„ „ 5250 51,134
Dec., 1905 6230 852 8 „ „ 5602 52,614
June, 1906 7245 1,000 8„„ 6750 .54,109
Dec., 1906 8021 1,500 8„ „ 7000 - 56,630
June, 1907 8791 1,573 8„ „ 8266 58,728
Dec., 1907 8783 8 ~ „ 8750 2274 56,487
The reserves six months ago, after the °
profits, were—lnsurance and repairs account,
serve for equalisation of dividend, £12,813. During the h -
vear, however, the co. lost the Tomki, and repairs to other
steamers have been unusually heavy ; consequently this
reserve has had to be drawn upon to the exent of £22/4.
The directors put it another way. They say that tne
net profit, after providing for depreciation and insurance
of ship property, amounts to £7583,” and that the other
£l2OO has been transferred from reserves. But the puo-
lished accounts don’t show that; all they show is that
£307 net has been written off the dividend equalisation
reserve, and £1967 off the insurance reserve—a total of
£2274. It appears that something has been dropped into
these reserves from somewhere or other unmentioned, and
has then been lifted out again. The co., however, issues
no profit and loss account, and therefore many things
have to be assumed. Besides amounts that are dropped
without explanation into the insurance and repairs and
other reserves, the value of ship property is apparently
written down out of profits. The extent of this provision
is unknown ; but at June, 1906, ship property down
at £201,179, and 12 months later it stood at £192,640, and
the difference doesn’t appear to have been due to sales or
losses. The business has extended rapidly during the
past few years, thanks chiefly to the prolific North Coast
cow and the rush of settlement up that way. At De-
cember, 1902, the co.’s fleet was valued at £133,879 ; now,
after five vears, and in spite of the recent loss, the
total (including amount paid on new steamer account
£39,718), is £245,492, an increase of £111,613. ine
total liabilities to the public are now £21,194; hve
years ago they were £15,116. So of the extra £111,613 of
shipping, shareholders have provided £87,500, the co.
owes about £5OOO, while £14,000 has come from profits, and
the balance from realising other assets. Nearly everything,
though, depends upon how much a shipping co. writes oft
its ships. If it writes off heavily (and hardly any of them
show just what they do write off), a co. may be stuffing
away its profits ; by writing down its older ships beyond
what is wholly necessary, it may increase its fleet
without showing any increased value—in other words it
may buy ships out of undisclosed profits. On the other
hand, it may show all its profits and provide nothing for
bumps and barnacles—for wear and tear and dry rot. In
some cases the policy pursued can be pretty well arrived
at by post-mortem-ing the figures ; but in this case only
an occasional glimpse can be got at the probabilities.
But, as far as it goes, the glimpse indicates that the real
position is quite as good as the figures suggest. What
those figures can’t suggest is the possible effect which a
North Coast railway would have upon the co.’s revenue.
• * * *
The Perth Gas Co. (Westralia)
Dividends. Written Re-
Profits. Paid. Contrih. Off. serves.
May, 1903.. £lO,lll j |° «*.**
N„v., 1903.. 11,812 {"fif “ 58 “' l5B
May, 1904.. 10,450 {Sfio Ss9 j 20,1 17 ’ 526
50v.,1904.. 14,190 {ijooo' £&!oOO \ 2090 19,628
£5OOO share premiums added to reserves 24,626
May, 1905.. 14,894 | 2797 25,473
Nov., 1905.. 17,247 {ggft } 3291 26,929
May, 1906.. 16,918 -j £7500’ } 3370 27,9 "
Nov., 1906.. 21,036 ]|° \ 3380 33,133
On All Shares.
May, 1907.. 17,234 20 p.c. =£12,500 3690 34,177
Nov., 1907.. 19,168 20 ~ ~ 12,500 ,2498 38,347
This amazingly profitable concern does a bigger business
in its electric light than in its gas department. It had
an unchallenged monopoly for many years, while Perth
bounded ahead and the bloatedness of the gold output
and the plentifulness of money made people more or less
indifferent about the size of such a poor, insignificant
thing as a gas bill. Gradually, however, Westralia began
to call for plain beer instead of champagne, and the gas
bill became something worth a moment’s notice. By
that time the dividends on a new lot of 50,000 con-
tributing Gas shares issued in 1898, and upon which
6s. Bd. was paid, had amounted in eight years to
245. 9d., of which 13s. 4d. was used to pay the shares
up to 20s. In other words, the public, besides paying a
fat interest on the shareholders’ actual investment, put
up two-thirds of the capital ; and now the public has to
provide a 20 per cent, dividend on the money which it
put up. It is little things like this that make Private
Enterprise so very popular in some quarters. Several
people woke up to the fact that a city that paid this
much for its lighting was obviously paying too much ;
and among those who awoke were the Perth city council-
lors, who thereupon proceeded to discuss a municipal
electric lighting scheme. But they have made very little
progress. Meanwhile the co. turns aside wrath by
whittling farthings off its charges in the electric-light
department; the present rate is 6d. per unit, sliding
down to 2£d. —as against a maximum of sd. and a mini-
mum of three-farthings per unit (for power) as supplied
hy the municipal undertaking in Melbourne. Apparently
the small reduction made has had its effect on the Perth
co.’s profit: before providing for depreciation, the profit in
the electric-lighting branch as at Nov., 1906, was £15,758 ;
for the past half-year it was £13,027. Even now, how-
ever, the net return on the capital invested in the electric-
light branch (including a portion of general capital
expenditure) is about 22 per cent. ; in the gas depart-
ment, about 18 per cent. The exact nature of the depre-
ciation written off is not clear. Apparently, however, it
is an amount provided out of profits and spent on new
works—these new works being a set-off against the gene-
ral decay of the old works. That would account for part
of the large profit-return on the basis mentioned above ;
for these additions would, of course, in that case, not be
added to the capital value of the works.
* * * *
Sydney Exchange Co.
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1901 ..£1219 7 per cent. = £lO5O £169 £15,236
June, 1902 .. 701 6 „ „ 900 15,037
Dec., 1902 .. 1174 6 „ „ 900 274 15,311
June, 1903 .. 837 6 „ „ 900 15,248
Dec., 1903 .. 1395 6 ~ ~ 900 495 15,743
June, 1904 .. 986 6 ~ ~ 900 86 15,829
Dec., 1904 .. 1269 6 „ „ 900 369 16,198
June, 1905 .. 881 6 „ „ 900 16,179
Dec., 1905 .. 1069 6 ~ „ 900 169 16,348
June, 1906 .. 806 6 ~ „ 900 16,254
Dec., 1906 .. 1316 6 ~ „ 900 416 16,670
June, 1907 .. 739 6 ~ „ 900 16,509
Dec., 1907 .. 1186 6 ~ „ 900 286 16,795
The co. has a share capital of £30,000, a debenture
debt (with interest) of £21,430, a temporary loan of
£5OO, and other debts of £2938 ; while, before paying
the current 6 per cent, dividend; liquid assets total
£1563. The Exchange building stands in at £70,000 —it
has stood at that for many years past; repairs, the pos-
sible increase in the ground value, and any additions that
may have been made to the building are the 'only set-off
against depreciation. The figures show no forward
movement: the half-year’s receipts five years ago w'ere
£3198, as against £3192 for the past six months. How-
ever, though it aims to earn its 6 per cent., the Exchange
(which, of course, isn’t the Stock Exchange) is not wholly
a direct money-grubbing concern ; and, though it is a
centre of anti-Sosh and all that, it has done its own little
bit in gagging the Stinking Fish party.
• * * *
The Queen Permanent Building and Invest-
ment Society (Adelaide): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Oct., 1903 ..£355 4J per cent. =£4lo £654
Apl., 1904 .. 429 4 j „ „ 414 £l5 669
Oct., 1904 .. 401 4j ~ ~ 367 34 703
Apl., 1905 .. 349 4£ „ „ 331 18 721
Oct., 1905 .. 285 4) „ „ 309 697
Apl., 1906 ..300 4J „ ~ 317 680
Oct., 1906 .. 318 4£ „ „ 333 665
Apl., 1907 .. 333 4£ „ „ 352 646
Oct., 1907 .» 316 4J ~ ~ 335 627
Tf there were three or tour such societies in Adelaide they
might be amalgamated into one biff enough to show fair
results. But Adelaide is almost bare of anything but
Starr-Bowkett societies, and the liberal terms offered by
the State Land Bank (and other concerns have had to
follow suit) make even those to a great extent super-
fluous. This little society, which has Preserved its re-
spectability for 36 years, has a capital now of only
£l6 977. It trades entirely on its own money , and,
though that reduces its risks, still £627 of reserves is very
littl/to safeguard £15,757 of advances. The expenses
run to about £450 a year, or nearly 40 per cent, of the
total interest earnings of about £ll5O ; and
circumstances it isn’t surprising that even the 4£ per
cent, dividend is barely earned.
* » * *
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and Dairy
Produce Export Co. (Maoriland)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Vntr Profit Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899’.. £10,484 8 p.c. =£4356 £5500 £628 £6,920
gf •• t’Z 1;;S IZ = SS
Premiums on new shares • • 2 >^
1902 11610 8 p.c. = 6000 5000 610 9,829
IS:.' SMS 8 P 6000 3500 2,713 1,5 2
Premiums on new shares .. 6,400
1904 .. 2,315 4 p.c. = 3927 11.700
Premiums on new shares .. 1,02 a
Profit.
.... n 7. j 6 p.c. pref. 4323 ) _ 6 406 19 435
1905 .. 15,07414 r o rd. 4345 ) ’
1906.. 23,833{ C 8 ” *£* gg \ ~ 10,639 30,074
1907 .. 20,810 -j g ;; SS-ggf 5000 2,612 32,686
This co.’s liabilities amount to £104,541-the total creeps
up a few thousands every year. The increase during
oast year has been due to extensions of works. These
works, with land (there has apparently been a small sale
of land during the term), now stand at £274,509 , £5OOO
has been written off this item— nothing very emphatic,
considering the depreciation of this class of assets, and
especially in view of the fact that for some yean pre-
viously no writing off whatever can be
may have been added from time to lime, to the
works, and paid for out of revenue; and this may
be a set-off against depreciation. There is, however,
no record of anything of the sort; and unless this hM
been done, manv of the assets are _very probably over-
valued. One satisfactory feature is that book-debts
(£20,597) are diminishing ; this doesn’t look as though
the co were showing fictitious profits by piling up book-
debts without writing off any bad and doubtfu ones.
The turnover last year was larger than the Pr®'’®
year’s, yet the working-account balance was rather
smaller, showing that the trade is not as profitable as it
was. But the weakest point in the situation is the
doubt whether the perishing assets are kept written
down to bedrock.
* * * *
Last year the insurance cos. were hit hard by
marine losses; this current financial year it looks as
though fire losses will give the profit and loss accounts
anannia. On top of Wallach’s big fire in Melbourne comes
the destruction of Cohen’s warehouse at Newcastle,
with damage estimated at £150,000 The whole block
including the Commercial Bank of Australia, had a
narrow escape. A. A. Dangar owned the
south-eastern corner of the continent has also been having
blistering heat, and that means extensive bush and grass
fires. Few Australian offices will insure grass at any
price, but there are some foreign concerns that gamble
that or any other way.
* * *
Martin’s engineering works at Gawler (S.A.),
which latelv fell into the hands of the bank, not to
be closed, after all. The Price Government offered in-
ducements to the “ Anlaby ” Duttons to carry on the
locomotive and engine-building section ; and a co. con-
sisting of Gawler business men and S. Australian farmers
has been formed to keep going the agricultural-implement
works, out of which the rest of the undertaking grew.
It now transpires that there was some shindy
over the sale of the Ivanhoe South Extended to the
Golden Horseshoe Co. (W.A.). At the extraordinary
meeting 1 of shareholders in London, at which the pro-
posal to get rid of the property was discussed one
speaker said the offer of £35,000 was an insult to the
intelligence of any reasonable body of shareholders. He
also said that a pistol was being held at their heads when
it was officially suggested that, if they didn t take an
equivalent of ss. per share for the property, they would
have to pay calls of Bs. per share. He was, however,
howled down. Lionel Robinson, who said he was one of
the largest shareholders, then took the floor, and said
that he didn’t want to put any more money into the under-
taking. Another large shareholder followed suit ; and,
after some timorous person had suggested that the case
was one for independent expert advice, the sale was
sanctioned.
* * * *
Report of Westralia Mt. Morgans for 1906 has
only just come to light in Australia. According to this
belated document, the actual loss on working was £7740 ,
but as depreciation absorbed £21,200, and as £10,942 was
written off on account of development previously charged
against capital, the profit and loss account shows a total
loss of £39,882. The co., it seems, owed the bank
£l4 323 and there were other creditors ; but this liability
has been reduced by £6OOO since July last. Also, having
regard to recent developments and the improved financial
position, the directors have abandoned the idea of form-
ing the proposed development syndicate, and have re-
turned the money subscribed. This syndicate was
promoted in June, 1907, and B„ M. and Co. were asked to
take control ; but as only £5242 of the £lO,OOO required
was subscribed, the firm refused to go on. Since then
A. E. Morgans, who previously resigned the management,
has been directing affairs at this end. Latterly some good
values have been met with in the north-west portion of
the property, but the extent of the ore-bearing ground is
not great, and the end of profitable mining appears to be
in sight.
■» * * *
Star of the East Co. (W.A.) wants another
ehance. As, however, it has already been reconstructed
times out of number, it doesn’t deserve it. The last re-
construction, in 1903, provided for an authorised capital of
£225,000, but how much cash was actually subscribed is
wrapped in mystery. One W.A. co. was formed in London
with a nominal capital of £450,000 and a dummy
directorate which only managed to raise £BOO 1 and the
Star of the East reconstruction may have been the same
sort. Early last year the shareholders resolved to sell the
property to a new co. with a capital of £50,000, of which
£45,000 was to be set aside as working capital and £5OOO
distributed pro rata among shareholders in the old co.
That undertaking still hangs fire, and the case calls now
for an undertaker.
* * * *
Chairman G. P. Doolette told Oroya-Black
Range shareholders that if additional bodies of payable
ore were opened up at 450 ft. the treatment plant would
be enlarged. He estimated that the co. would be out of
debt by the end of February, and that monthly profits
thereafter should give £40,000 to deal with at the end of
the current financial year (August).
Cosmopolitan Proprietary (W.A.) is about
finished. Water and poor values have put a stop to pro-
fitable mining at depth, and the mill must close down
shortly. No mine in the West has received a more
thorough testing, and considering the way it has been
handled, it deserved a better fate.
* * » •
Broken Hill’s output for 1907
Quantity. Value.
Silver in concentrates.. .. 6,619,1790 z. £628,227
Lead in concentrates .. .. 143,344 tons L 949,980
Zinc concentrates .. .. 190,981 tons 364,791
Silver, lead, and other ores .. 154,553
Total .. .. .. .. .- £3,09< ,551
For 1906 the value was £2,187,890. That is the local
value in each case, which means the value of the_ re-
coverable metals less the cost of smelting, marketing,
etc. The gross value of the metals would be approxi-
mately :
Silver • «. •• •• £865,000
Lead 2,853,000
Zinc .. -• •• .. 1,802,000
Total .-. .. .. £5,520,000
There was also a little gold and copper. It is interesting
to compare the value of the zinc in the two lists above. The
metal in the concentrates was valued at £364,791, or £1
18s. per ton of concentrates. Assuming that the concen-
trates contain onty 40 per cent, of zinc, the total zinc


The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill'and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerial ways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick ; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*'
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
conducting exhaustive tests in the con-
r « the ores at the Broken Hill South mine, the
-Wainwright, has finally decided to instal
K^ peof - tab , e ’, modifled in the direction best
adapted to his particular local requirements. The great
n inv s^r thtl ! ia typ6of Üb,e is that it admits ff so
oTn"L S eVr iatl °S 8 W . blch adapfc ifc t 0 meet all classes
traded H Provided ‘he pulp for treatment is
Slimed,in b - e used to treat all varieties of ore from
v a T - rades - VVhen treating slimes and
Slone nf th t a m ed ° re8 ’ Care lnust be taken to have the
s Xnfhow e acc " rate . an d a fine, smooth dressing
the f y wl fche t feat^- eredgeddia&onal termination of
hpiviiunho treating coarsely ground ores or ores
the r ffl oc h n r^ed Wlth mlneral > as a t the Broken Hill South,
and iifsnmn ¥ rroove ® can . b e carried further along the table
char "e end '"stances right up to the concentrates dis-
experiment' ‘ Jlh ordered six tables as an
anrt wiH I «LI th *!.7 er ri * es , or hooves than customary,
extreme end of th o ower ones ~'carried to the
VVilfW ioKii °* J a ! ) ! e ’ , So successful has this type of
the AiWrai n? r °i^ as ordered 50 more from
the Austral Otis Engineering Company. This same firm
Broken Hm a and S^ of the patent Callow Screens at
mil • d elsewhere. This ingenious and simple
”on C centra m tion S * 8 ° Ved the pr ° blem ° f P Hor r to
The Finance Chronicle, London, writes re-
C ?'° nial Mutual tyfe Assurance Society
Limited, under date Ist August, 11)07 “In other words J
and d w^ a r agei ? e s k haS had much to do with the result,’
reins have f.nl "° te he facfc at a time when the
reins have fallen into new hands.”*
* * * *
i New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney is
comnan v Bt “J 01 ? Flre ’ Marine > an d Accident Insurance
; a i^ a ” } ’, al ? d a )ar £ e all) ount of their reserves of £630,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1906) £594,370,
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * «
Marriott and Osborne, Stock and Share
Brokers, 63 Queen Street, Melbourne. (S. H. Marriott,
Member Stock Exchange, Melbourne.) Telegraphic
address, Marriott, Exchange, Melbourne. Agents in all
States and London.*
* » * T*
J. R. Godfrey, Mining Engineer, Broken Hill
Chambers, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, No. 21, Fourth
lUoor Mines inspected, reported on, and managed.
Late Government Inspector of Mines for N.S.W.*
* * * *
Cobar. lor reliable information and quota-
tions communicate with J. M. Scott, Share Broker, Cobar,
Est., 1894. Member Oobar Stock Exchange.*
* * *
Connolly, Keam and Co., 123 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, require promising mining properties for purchase
or notation. Must stand close expert investigation,*
* * * *
If you wish to have the moat up-to-date and
reliable Assay Balance procurable, write and we will
forward you one of Ainsworth’s descriptive catalogues.
v\ e stock these Balances and supply a t American catalogue
price Large stocks of Morgan’s Crucibles, Gasoline
furnaces and scientific glassware and apparatus of all
description H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke
street, Melbourne *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Munter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
Auckland s New Water Supply.— Opening
Ceremony by the Mayor.-Speaking at the opening
ceremony in connection with the recently completed ex-
tensive water supply contract, the Mayor of Auckland,
u l ' A * yers ’ said “ 11 was on ly right to state
Thei Mephan Ferguson Steel Pipe Co. should have credit
for the splendid way in which they had carried out their
contract for the supply of steel mains. The Council much
appreciated what the Company had done. Although the
cost involved some £63,000, still the-e was not £lO of
extras ”*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.* ’
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. .The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colltson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
Engineers who have not had the opportunity of
seeing how the Canadian Pacific breaks the back of the
‘ Rocky Mountains ” for their heavy freight trains, and
ei ?^ an South American railways surmount
the difficulties of the Central and Southern Andes, should
take the present opportunity of seeing the Shay-geared
Locomotive now in course of erection at Darling Island
by Messrs. Gibson, Battle and Co., Limited, 7 Bent Street,
for the Commonwealth Oil Corporation Limited, who
already have one of these engines negotiating, with
success, the difficult curves and grades of their develop-
ment work in the Wolgan Valley. For mining, forestry
work, or development in difficult country this engine
has no rival. It is made in all sizes from 10 to 150
tons.*
LOHMANN (SL COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE^ AGENTS for QJJQJ
AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohlig, Cologne, as
supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY.
cavators and Dredging Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrloal Maohinery and Materials of all kinds. [g
centrate, the metal was worth £1 802 851 ™Ta t
“S 5«. i Kssssa
per cent. zinc. They also contained 9‘7 per cent lead
no d 1 a Xl- f S
or
B °’ the difference between
/yi and £1,802,851 is enormous, and sujnrests onop
more what a great thing the establishment of a or
J ndUBtry w ? uld be for Australia, because a very
large proportion of the difference between the figures
represents the cost of labor and fuel (coal and coke) So
far only two cos. have made any effort at all to produce
n nC_the - Broke " HiU Proprietary and the
Sulphide Corporation. The former’s works are as vet
only experimental ; and the plucky and persistent Sul-
k'd® Oorporatlon s have not had the success they de-
This list shows what Broken Hill’s output of
zinc concentrates has been : 1
Average
, an o T °ns. Value. Value of Spelter.
•• J-. 260 £10,625 £lB 10 11
mof " 2 2’ 754 86 - 587 20 19 5
•• 57,602 117,978 22 13 2
1905 ~ 103,532 221,155 25 7 7
1906 .. 88,848 182,793 27 1 4
1907 .. 190,981 364,791 23 12 0
The shrinkage in the value of zinc is very serious. In
l ) o e r Ce i n ’ ber ! f l9o6 , average was £27 19s. 2d. ; in Decem-
er, 1907, it was down to £2O 3s. 3d., and the average had
been in October as low as £lB 12s. 4d. Conditions with
regard to both the production and the consumption of
zinc have entirely changed during the past few years, so
former prices are probably very little good as 'a guide.
It will be a mighty bad thing for Broken Hill, anyway, if
low'as’£l4 12s l 2d ' ViSe ’ f ° f th ® avera * e in JB<J 5 was as
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 and the South Blocks
more or less broke away from the other Barrier cos. last
week, and made an ore-smelting arrangement with the
P ™P- or > theif own account. The cos. that haven’t
roc smelters of their own had a conference with the B.H.
Fr ° p * i fchou - h fche latter offered to take an ag-gre-
gate of 2000 tons of concentrates a week on a four or five
years contract, charging 935. per ton, it hung the offer
around with so many frills as to deductions, etc., that no
general agreement was fixed up. The 935. per ton is
better than the rate of “ returning charges ” demanded
by the foreign smelters, but it is still several shillings
poorer than the old terms. While the world’s trade was
brisk and the foreign smelters wanted the Broken Hill or
a,ny other leady concentrates they could get hold of, they
paid high prices; now, having no special interest in the
Broken Hill mines, the foreigners probably prefer to do
business with concerns in which they are more directly
interested, so they only offer the B. H. cos. prices which
make those cos. shiver. Several times something in the
nature of a Smelting Trust has been suggested to the
Broken Hill cos. ; but they preferred to feed the foreign
smelters rather than establish joint works of their own
and now they are in the soup. And the action of Block
10 and the South Blocks pushes them still further into
the pot, because, though the arrangement with those cos
is only for three months, the two are able to supply just
about all the extra concentrates that the B. H. Prop, can
conveniently take straight away.
* * * •
Driven into a corner, the Broken Hill cos.,
which have no smelters, and don’t know what to do with
their concentrates, are now negotiating with the Aus-
tralian Smelting Corporation, the concern that some
time ago took over the much-reconstructed and now
largely dismantled Dapto (N.S.W.) works. That co.,
however, has troubles of its own. It was promoted on the
assumption that the Zinc Corporation would be an im-
mediate success ; but it wasn’t, and that upset all the
financial calculations. The people who are most interested
in it are also most interested in the South Blocks ; yet
the South Blocks is one of the two cos. that have fixed
up a temporary arrangement with the Broken Hill Prop.
Later on the Australian Smelting Corporation may play
an important part, but it doesn’t look able to render any
help in tiding the cos. over their immediate troubles.
* * * *
Reported from Broken Hill that there are
nearly 3000 men out of work there. Those city papers
which lately caused the rush of workmen to the Barrier
ought to blush when they print that item. And things
are not likely to rapidly improve much. The mines two
or three months ago had a local staff of about 10,050 men.
At the end of December the number was down to 8725.
Even this, however, is far above the average with lead at
£l4 10s. In 1905, when lead was about £l4 55., the total
employed on the mines was 7332 ; and, unless costs are
further reduced below their recent very high standard,
even less than that number can be kept on now. During
the recent phenomenal prices Broken Hill fell into extra-
vagant ways—any old sort of way gave a good profit
and now it will have to do a right-about turn.
* * * *
B. H. South is now doing things in a very
leisurely fashion. As the output of concentrates is
limited to about 1600 tons per month, the night
shift has been knocked off, so far as ore-breaking is
concerned, and mullocking is done during those hours.
It means economy, for night shift (12 midnight to 8 a.m.)
rarely gives as good results as the others. Meantime,
however, work goes oil at the new mill, but there is no
rush about i t now. Of course the co. must prepare for a
turn of the tide, because the tide won’t wait for the co. after
it has turned ; otherwise, the building of a new mill while
it doesn’t pay to keep the old one going full time, would
Provoke ribald remarks. This 00. is badly troubled by
the ‘strike ”of foreign metal buyers. The co. has only
one small contract for concentrates in hand, and, as the
quantity is limited, the co.’s object now is to make a
nigh recovery, even at the oost of slow mill work. The
dividend for the quarter has been reduced to 25., a cut of
o 0 per cent, on recent achievements.
* * * «
Newcastle had reoord coal-output in 1907.
Here are six years’ figures relating to exports to foreign
and inter-State ports
Tons. Value.
1902 .. .. 2,966,764 £1,484,954
1903 .. .. 3,420,197 1,566,387
1904 .. .. 2,951,301 1,277,378
1905.. ... 3,461,438 1,377,305
1906 .. .. 3,975,655 1,583,412
1907 ... .. 4,546,250 2,016,387
In addition, there is the trade with Sydney ; about half-
a-million tons were sent that way, bringing' up the total
output to over 5,000,000 tons. In spite of all the talk
aoout the foreign trade, the Victorian “wolf” is still
best customer ; it took, last year, 933,568
tons. Tne total inter-State trade was 2,232,634 tons ;
total foreign trade, 2,313,516 tons. Victoria still has
nopes of developing its own coal deposits, but S. Aus-
tralia has no such prospects ; and, as its consumption
averages about 500,000 tons a year, the railways being
one largest consumer, the present Government thinks
avorabl v of the idea of getting a coal mine of its own.
inquiries have been made, but just at present owners of
coal lands open their mouths wide.
* * * *
Lithgow (N.S.W.) is so short of water that,
e^ s ra ' n falls within a week, the ironworks will be
nected, and Lloyd’s smelting works will have to shut
And when the latter works shut down, the mine
in do the same; the profit at present is so small that
spell 00 needs ver y little encouragement to take a long
* * * *
and P ea ' c Hill Co., formed in London in
IN 8 w ake ° Ver tbe Myall’s United and Peak Hill Prop.
Pent n il Plugged away last year at its big low-grade
ax U ,il proposition with a shade more than previous
ccess. But the margin is small—under eighteenpence
P I *(’ on * n °twithstanding that costs have been got down
® B, for mining and crushing, 2s. 2d. for
an d about 7d. for incidentals). The total
. °, ut P ut "as 43,710 tons, so this section gave a
P "1. of . about £3200 to pay London fees, etc. The ex-
traction is still defective, amounting to only about 71 per
cent, of the gold. y
* * * *
Some of the Melbourne cos. that were attracted
up into the New England district (N.S.W.) by the tin
ooom are feeling the pinch. Bourke’s Hill has knocked
twoshifte' 8 dredges, and tbe ether is lvorking now only
awaybacffnV! l6 Yerranderie silver mine,
if-toi, 1 the mountains behind Camden (NSW)
n Z rl l 87 P er <*"*• on the cal
only it wrote & off ° Uld ha 7 paid ov er 100 per cent.,
of the co.’s yefr a " d , plant ‘ After the close
a Christmas^boy nyT* bonu ? ° f 10 P er cent, by way of
sheet like this one N forTh/ y Un !"% cos - have a balance-
si&tiz l sr y-
mu., ~ ?, tons of seconds are now lvincr at rrrasq
ZoZ SSi e an 8 ro to B t«atit m °A r f “ WiU . - be W ° rth while
in the co’s hooks* t? fc ‘ At Present lt , s not valued
friend] v iftn! „ The co -' fcself > now six years old, is a
tioned ' and tL k ? em ’ wbose shares are rarely men-
tioned, brokers make very little out of it.
Wildcat lar dg ek r .”./?- WOS), ™ a tag to a
from the fc femlie Emtnaville takes its name
noulrrv ki 7 de of the house of Loftus-the erstwhile
S°u t 7'3 ee P ln S'. Governor of N.S.W.” No 1 This the
richest tin-hearing district of the State, was original]v
swi“ ir?o““h Cre *v u wh “ ts
oegan to be worked out, and the Vee-etahlc
necessarv de p aylnsr s ". lcll > a change of name was deemed
Emma ”'notion 7 was , officially substituted, the
the eldestt P of TohnP ? pp,led by a daughter « think
it as “The Crick.” Roberfcson - ° ld residents still refer to
* * * *
As the lately-published annual returns showed
hope To/there 8 ' S U " der a heavy cloud - Still ther e is
handled wof,M 6 ma " y P ro P er ties which, if properly
Sous on l P k V b Jhe gambling element, so con-
spicuous on this field in the past, must, however be
adopted Thin s So T fch k?l Hke commercial methods
a fhi™ T " S no dou ] )fc have improved already ; such
vanished wm" 8 " dlv l dends out of shaft-sinking has
oflshS&nE?
cos? islsimpiy I killing'themf ° f " PaidS ” carried by u,a,ly
Carrington United is a Towers concern in which
there remains too much of the gambling element and
under present conditions little success can be looked
decided h rn C0 '’ , Wlth a Credit of £lO,OOO, recently
decided to erect six or seven reverbs. The mine,
«ith a shaft down OOOit., and well ahead in
development work, was capable of supplying ore to
,nl t h hif 7 U Tr for two >’ ea rs at least; but, notwithstand-
ing this, the directors erected a large hauling and air-
compressing plant, and made extensive arrangements for
the «ncc Sm f"i’ B ', the main Shaft - AH this was done while
the successful treatment of the ore was still undecided,
un account of all the premature expenditure, the £lO 000
thehHcki 0 / S T elters was P refct y well eaten up before
the bricks for the furnaces arrived. Now, therefore, the
co. has to call up 3d. per month (£2000) to build the
smelters. Besides, an overdraft of over £6OOO has been
knocked up at the bank. The bank, realising that in the
event of the smelters failing the security becomes almost
valueless, won t go any further, so expenses must be
brought within the total of the 3d. call. To do this the
co. has had to discharge 40 or more hands, stop
all development, and mine only sufficient orb
tor the smelters, which is just bow it should
have started. The milk in the cocoanut lies
here : the paid-up holders wanted to equip and develop
the mine out of calls and not out of profits. Further
economy could be effected by stopping the battery—a
quite unnecessary adjunct at present, for a large pro-
portion of the ore is clean enough for direct smelt-
lng. If the present “ backs ” prove unprofitable through
the smelters, then further development is wasted. If they
prove profitable, there should be money available for
development and equipment. So far the lode in the
Carrington United has been proved to be neither large
nor high grade ; yet it might prove payable with careful
handling.
Undoubtedly the most valuable portion of the
Carrington lode lies in the Nos. 1 and 2 E. Carrington
adjoining the big mine on the east, a property which at
one time the Carrington United was very anxious to obtain
but for which it refused to give 17,000 shares, whereas the
same co. gave for the Excess ground, adjoining the
United on the west, something like 40,000 or 50 000
shares. There was this difference: some Carrington
United people were deeply interested in the Excess. The
United to-day would, no doubt, give 50,000 shares for the
jaos. 1 and 2 but it has now lost all chance of obtaining-
the valuable little property. Nos. 1 and 2 ore, unlike the
United s, is high grade, yielding through the battery over
£l3 per ton, and leaving a profit of between £9 and £lO
per ton. This little co. (85,000 shares), which is being run
on something approaching fair lines, is more likely to
enter the dividend-list than the big one.
The trouble in connection with one well-known
Charters Towers mine is that some of the big people in it
own the mill where the crushing is done, and the more
stone that is crushed the better for them. Lately a very
fine block of stone run ningf rom 2Joz. to3oz. wasdeveloped •
but as instructions were given the manager to keep 10
head going—a rather large order at that time—it was
necessary to put men on stoping stone which both they
and the next-door co. had proved to be very poor stuff
probably some of it wasn’t payable. Where output has to
be rushed in this way managers are continually at their
wits’ ends to keep up the supply, and naturally fly
to any stope from which they can get a few
tons. Reverting to the particular mine alluded
to above, an all-important connection was made
lately with the main shaft, and the stone will
now be hauled for at least 50 per cent, less than formerly.
Still some thousands of tons of stone have been handled
in the previous costly manner ; that stone should never
have been touched till the connection was made. For
one thing, the temperature of the mine has been tremen-
dous, and at no time of the day would you visit the mine
without seeing men “ cooling-off ”at the shaft. When
two such important points as these—viz., excessive tem-
perature and expensive haulage—are ignored, the position
is not very satisfactory from the shareholders’ point of
view.
* * * *
Vulcan (N.Q.) has crushed 800 tons for 70 tons
of tin concentrates valued at £4200. The strike last year
and the slow development of the mine have kept divi-
dends out of sight. Prospects are rather better now, but
the slump in tin counterbalances that. The surprise
patch of tin ore found in sinking the shaft below the
1200 ft. level is still of undetermined extent and value,
and it is some distance from the Vulcan ore pipe. Great
Northern, at Herberton, has better prospects. Manager
Bonar has been at the wheel for years, and his energy
and faith have kept the co. afloat. A man like that
deserves a bit of luck, even if it comes by accident.
Dalziell’s has become a double-breasted concern. The co.
has bought the Gladstone, an old tin mine near the Ord
siding. Small crushings of picked ore are probable. At
the Gilmore, reckoned the crack tin show thereabouts, a
contract has been let for carting ore to the Gurrum’ba
mill. The weak spot about the Gilmore is the cost of
handling the ore and the swag of 90,000 shares. With
such a limited output, good stuff is a sheer necessity.
* * * «
Stannary Hills (N.Q.) is talking now of starting
a new 600 ft. shaft at the pvanhoe. This should have
been commenced at least a year ago. The management
has had to underhand stope the lode below the present
shaft level to keep things going lately. There’s very
little to count on in the Kitchener and Extended, and the
good lodes that were looked for under Central Hill with
their big tunnel haven’t ‘turned up. In the half-yearly
report, manager Nicholas counts on getting good ore in
Central Hill lodes above the tunnel, because in some
other mines, at a corresponding higher level, there was
good ore ; but he forgets that in those same mines, at
the tunnel level, there was rich ore, which, nevertheless,
didn’t make the lodes in the Central Hill rich at that
level. The good ore from underhand stopes in the Ivan-
hoe is the co.’s mainstay now ; and the mill costs are
almost sure to rise now that the Arbouin ore is done.
* • * •
The Oaks gold rush at the Einasleigh (N. Queens-
land) was not panning out badly at latest reliable advices.
Though Cameron, the geologist, thought the payable
auriferous area would be limited in extent, there are over
200 men on the place, and one of them is known to have
recovered over 60oz. in less than a week, lt is stated
that close upon 400 oz. have been recovered since the
middle of last month. The statement is probably true,
but it’s hard to get at reliable figures. Most of those who
do any good sit tight and say nothing, and the “ sit-
tight” man in Queensland alluvial mining is usually
making at least tucker. If the Einasleigh rush stands
another month, Queenslanders will have reason to rejoice
that another goldfield is perhaps looming up.
: The necessity for Government
S er a S n d n parHam rie f in forth of ve^
are treated b,lt c ° m P laintB of. the way men
kSSHS
another • andZeZU t 0 one mili ' the other to
oth P ,T ’nl Save about 7 per cent, more than the
paid ud th P Hiff ner ° f the P ‘ U that S av e the poor return
had been t t h ak P d n ff A e '! C h °1 findlnsr out how the crushing
required - tcu L, A . labor atory at Townsville is also much
required, as delays in sending to Brisbane are very e-reat
Owing greatly to the above causes, the Kan-aroo H s
district is being gradually deserted ; it rlsembles a
graveyard more than a mining district.
r le u lat;e development in the drill-holes at Mt
chirper* 18 ‘Tuf 'V Uiua Knox into V«£ a Seerf'ul
cnirper. The mine unquestionably never looked
, h * B aid after the directors’ visit. The
for and B ® niana S e pent had even hoped
goi’mr to he » th v/ l u any lndl cation, there is
t&jssuLrtj «nus
the real stingo, bornite—found by the drill at looftft
“rs’- th ,V Uain b °F ;it is likely one Tthe
fingers. It suggests the character of the ore at th P
deeper level, though. The improvement has conie at a
veij lucky time for the Mt. Lyell workmen ; but for that
w a e, 'l mi ?h fc possibly have been asked to take reduced
H es . there are few miners who escape that request
just at present. But the delighted Lyell directors sav
they even thought of such a thing. QlreCtorB say
vo N ew Moon, Bendigo, made £10,207 last half-
year, paid away £B4OO in divs., and spent £5027 on
n l rofp lnery iii t ! le required cash t° r machinery that current
profits couldn t supply came out of the nest-egg in the
bank. At the end of the half-year that nest-egg wTs re-
years has been paid to shareholders makino* o
tota! of £328, 8 00 since 1891, when the present co was
The . l °°- has back now to the upper levels, and
is taking out the spurry ground there, and making it pav
though it has helped to bring down the average valu P e of
190i e befor P tV’ ear > to 6(lwt t the point reached in
1901, before the co.’s second burst of prosperity The
co. still does a lot of crushing for the public, and, though
{£ b H„ been lncrea »>ng its hauling power and storage bins,
it still proposes to ‘await some further development
work, especially at the south shaft,” before ripping out
enough of its own quartz to keep the whole plant going.
New Argus, Bendigo, paid a dividend of £l5OO
(Is. per share) early in the half-year, but the later results
were poor, and the term ended with a bank balance of
£im a Th' P ni fvifnn 7o f the Start; 80 fche l ,rofit ran to only
•i 4 ' F 1780 ft. stone, out of which 365. a share was
paid in 1905-6, is gone, and the co. is now trying to pick
up something above the 2180 ft. It has only got moderate
encouragement so far. s
* * * *
Horwood and Burrowes is the latest old Bendigo
warrior to suffer a revival. So far it is only a little one
the stone averaging a shade under 6dwt. but even for
rW,lfm lng Th tb< ; clamls ln thafc quarter are nowadays
thankful. The stone comes from the western leg of the
reef above 1528 ft., and is improving as it is risen upon.
The deeper workings, however, show nothing better than
bare expenses.
* * *
f F om Por fc Moresby, British Papua :
Satisfactory developments are taking place in connection
with the copper shows lately found near this place. Some
bodies fully 30ft. wide, composed of solid low-grade
pyrites, have been found. The ore assays from 4 per cent
to 10 per cent, copper ; some of it carries up to 2dwt. gold
and 2oz. silver. Rich surface ores occur in small quanti-
ties: picked parcels going 30 per cent, have been shipped
lhe sulphides don t appear to be refractory ; they consist
of iron, sulphur and copper. The lodes for the most
part are situated high on the spurs of the Astrolabe
Ranges. There are iron and limestone in the vicinity for
fluxing purposes, and the Lolokie River runs at the bottom
of the ranges. Some day this may supply electrical
power. The mines are now connected with Port Moresby
by a good road ; the distance is from 14 to 20 miles
* * * *
Great things are being predicted by some
London papers about the Kinsella leases (YV.A.) re-
cently acquired by the languishing Great Fingall Co.’The
public is being told that some £20,000 worth of gold
equal to over 12dwt. per ton, has been won from the pro-
perty to date. Nothing, however, is said about what it
cost to get this g-old, nor about the reef going to pot at
a shallow depth ; nor, of course, do they mention the
fact, already recorded by Tub Bulletin, that the mine
was purchased as an additional source of water supply.
Aaron Hirsch&Son’scopper statistics weremuch
talked of a while ago because they showed that consump-
tion greatly exceeded production. The four years’ excess
was 171,058 tons, which involved incredible stocks of
copper to begin with, and a great scarcity of metal in the
end. But the term “ consumption ”as applied to these
metal figures means simply that so much copper has been
taken off the market. Even a great deal of that copper
that is “ consumed ” by industries is merely stored, and
comes back on to the market as scrap ; and the bigger
the quantity of copper in use in electric
larger the annual pile of scrap—a fact which people who
lead metal statistics have to reckon with. It was because
they didn’t reckon with it that lately some fell in so badly.
The latest news about the Iron, Steel, and
Metals Manufacturing Co., Ltd., the people who run the
Heskett-Moore process and don’t seem to get any
“forrarder,” is that the Canadian rights have been
sold for £375,000. There is, it is true, a small
proviso—“ subject to proofs as to cost of produc-
tion.” But for that snag the co. ought to be worth
millions by this time ; for nearly 12 months ago a cir-
cular was issued saying that £lO,OOO had been paid
down as a deposit to secure the Indian rights, while
options had been granted for “the Norwegian, Swedish,
Canadian, American, Belgian, and British ” rights. If the
option for the Canadian rights was granted nearly 12
months ago, how comes it that the preliminary deposit is
not to be paid till next May ? There are things about this
concern that need explaining. When is it going to do
something? The whole value of the thing is obviously
wrapped up in costs; and on that point there is nothing
but vague hifalutin.
A Melbourne citizen writes :
Many old friends of George von Kaufraann, who intro-
duced the cheap Canadian water-bore into Australia—or
into Victoria, at any rate—will be interested to hear that
he nowadays bores for oil, and is distantly related by com.
merce to the deplorable oil kings of America. The time
seems not so long- ago, when Kaufmann and his co-
syndicators got a contract to bore in the yard of
McCracken’s Brewery, Melbourne, and duly tapped a
liberal spring of water that proved to be brackish and
useless for beer-making. Later on the enterprising
Anglo-German started a laudable Victorian champagne—
or aerated Beisling—industry which failed dismally in
competition with the less wholesome, and much more ex-
pensive imported liquor. After the “champagne” fiasco,
Geo. Kaufmann returned to the Old World, and resumed
operations in the bowels of the earth. He wrote lately
to a Melbourne friend from the wilds of Galicia,
and the burden of his tale was that he was boring for oil
on behalf of German syndicates, that he had got a big
supply of the best and highest-priced oil in the world,
that some of his wells had been spouting for seven years,
and that his royalty was 3 per cent, gross from one svn-
dicate and 2 per cent, from another. Also in boring for
oil he had found the skeletons of a mammoth and a rhino-
ceros. Kaufmann, who is sentimental for all that he is
unrestful, talks of tripping to Australia to look up
old friends ; and to Maoriland to revisit the kauri gum
fields in the North Island, where, as a very young man, he
dug for gum and looked upon the native damsel in her
brownness. He might have some hints to offer re oil
mining in these parts.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF :
12s. 6d. per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Dysentery is of more frequent occurrence
during the summer months. It can be checked
and cured if Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and
Diarrhoea Remedy is taken. Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy is invaluable to all
medicine chests.*
CHILDREN’S BEAUTY
COMPETITION.
PRIZES - - TEN POUNDS IN CASH.
First Prize, £5; Second Prize, £2; Third Prize, £l.
Eight additional Prizes of 5/- each.
The Loveliest Child in Australasia will receive Five Pounds.
Harding' & Billing offer the above prizes in competition
for the most beautiful Photos of Australasia’s Lovely
Children. Send your children’s photos along at once,
and give the kiddies a chance of getting the most splendid
present they have ever had.
Judges:—Two of Australia’s most eminent Artists,
Messrs. F. L. Leist and D. H. Souter, whose decision
will be final.
H. & B. reserve the right to publish any Photo sent in.
HARDING & BILLING, Fine Art Publishers,
250 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The result will be advertised in this paper on March 12th.
/s
xx *
ETT6K
0M
by Post\
in your spare time, and without interference
with your regular vocation, subjects which will\
/ enable you to attain speedy promotion in your V
/ present position, or qualify you lor a more con-
genial and better paid occupation.
STOTT & HOARE'S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
has the largest and most highly qualified staff of
expert instructors in Australasia, who give personal
attention to each postal student. j
ll __ BOOKKEEPING and ACCOUNTANCY. SHORTHAND
“ and TYPEWRITING. CORRESPONDENCE and
ARITHMETIC. PENMAfJSHTP. Etc.
Electrical * Mechanical ENGINEERING.
Architectural « Mechanical DRAWING.
. BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Etc.
FARMER’S SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A long black furrow in the river meadow,
And a bright share cleaving clean,
And the old roan following a shaft of shadow
When even falls serene.
The wild hedge-roses and the mellow grasses,
And the fresh, sweet earth upturned,
And a long, low murmur where the water passes,
And a deep rest soon well-earned.
The last long sunrays through the hawthorn stealing,
And the green hills turning gray,
And that far splendor in the west, revealing
The gates of a long day.
O, the dim gloaming and faint starlight falling
Out of a heaven unknown ;
Here on the hilltop are sweet voices calling,
And a brighter star, my own.
N.S.W.
H. M. GREEN.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Treasurer Waddell is an Irishman, and
the head of the Fisheries Department of N.S.W.,
is an Australian, but,” said the old shooter, this
new shag allowance is Scotch. Fourpence per shag;
that means 6000 for the £100 granted by Govern-
ment. Don’t you see that the whole £100
could be earned in Sydney Centennial Park
alone inside a couple of weeks ? And
that leaves the other thousands where
they are.” “But,” I said, “ where s the
nationality idea?” The old shooter was vehement
in his reply. “ When I put the figures before the
Guv’ment and proved that £100 would only go to
6000 birds, the Guv’ment called for a report, and
what d’ye think the report was ? Well, the report
said that to gain the reward the dead birds must
be shown, and that as shooters would not be able
to recover, on an average, more than one bird out
of five, the official computation of dead cor-
morants for £100 was in the neighborhood of
30,000. Isn’t that a niggard husbanding of four-
pences ?”
THE PRIMITIVE METHODIST POINT
OF VIEW.
BILLY TRELEGGAN : “ Say , Jimmy! New manager
he be tolerable smart chap.”
JIMMY POLGREEN: “’Ow should’n ' ’e be smart?
Ez farther was local praicher.”
“J.A.S.”: Be “Pica” on native names
(B. 26/12/’O7). Brewarrina means fishery all right,
but “Pica” is wrong in his geography. The
“fisheries” are at Brewarrina, and there only.
There are no other “ fisheries ” like them in exist-
ence in this or any other State. Nor are these
“fisheries” an “intricate maze.” They are
simply an ingenious series of yards, built of
boulders of uniform size on the rocky bed of the
Barwon, which just above this place is dammed
back for 15 miles by a natural bar of rocky forma-
tion. Owing to the strict observance of an un-
written law the whites never trespass on or remove
fish from the “fisheries.”
“Tarrum” : A Wollongong (N.S.W )
man keeps a cow which, as well as supp'yi g| rvea
the juice required for his extensive, fam X’ y.
as a dog, a detective, and a few other
follows him all over the place o n Sundays .r rh
business evenings, goes down to the shop and
looks at him through the window until lie l as
finished. Often it obstructs the footpath, but
that doesn’t matter in Wollongong, cowor
two in the street don’t count for ' much. . Befoire
knew the critter I was one night walk ng oin
Dapto-road with the owner, when all atone
there was a roar and a rush, and the animal
propped, and pulled up with its horns within a
couple of feet of me. Evidently it thought the
boss was out with another man s wife Ucca
sionally a new policeman runs the frisky one i
for eating the clover off the streets, and then
there is eighteen pence to pay. The
sale shortly, as it has started to demoralise all the
decent, quiet, reticent town cows. #
“Lindy Lou”: The butcher-bird is the
only Australian bird which takes thought for the
morrow. It keeps a store of slaughtered wrens
and tomtits in any old hollow it can find, and looks
up the pantry whenever the commissariat depart-
ment requires attention. Once, when with a
fencing party, a couple of butcher-birds came
round the camp and got quite tame. One morn-
ing, we amused ourselves by cutting up some ra
meat into junks and hurling the same in the direc-
tion of the butchers. They fielded them like Sy
Gregory, and flew with them into the scrub.
In a few moments they returned, and we threw
more, until the supply was exhausted. Oom-
menting offensively on their greediness, we started
for work. A hundred yards from damp was a
tree which had been wrecked in a high wind,
leaving a splintery break. Ihe splinters were
tastefully decorated with the fragments of beef.
The supply didn’t all disappear for nearly
a week. During that time other birds occasion-
ally came and looked at the meat, but that was
all they did. The butcher-birds were watching
their stock of hung provender, and nothing
smaller than a lion would have taken it.
* * *
The Prooslian ,5 * None but Westerners
can form the slightest idea of what a duststorm,
as experienced in, say, the Aarrandera (JN.o. .)
“ dustrict ”is like. On a sweltering afternoon, a
cloud appears on the western horizon. -Oien
follows a dead, dead, dead calm. Gradually that
ominous cloud steals up in a stillness that is
broken only by the closing of doors and windows
and household pores generally. Not a crack is
left unsealed. Weighted bags are laid under
doors, and every glimmer of a hole is blocked up.
It is still a dead calm. The cloud
at length is high above the town.
It is past before the storm breaks.
For a few minutes the calm is
deader than ever. Then there is
the singing of the sand—sand ■
sand—as it is blown against the
iron roofs and walls of the habi-
tations. Long before the awful
deluge arrives, day has become
night, and blackest night at that,
owing to the total obscuration of
the sun. And when the horror is
past, and folks peep out like so
many Noahs from ark windows,
they find that day has returned,
and a sweet, clean, fresh breeze
is blowing. Notwithstanding the
efforts of exclusion, one can write
his name (if he is blessed with
education) on every piece of furni-
ture. Out on the runs, whole fenc-
ing lines and sheep-breaks dis-
appear from sight in a single storm,
which necessitates either the re-
moval of the sand or the erection
of a new line of fence over the top
of the one submerged. After a
blow-out, a man sometimes beholds
in narrow depressions three lines of
fence, one above the other, in the
air, their ends disappearing abruptly
on each side in a hill of sand. The man
caught in these storms on horseback has a
bad time, especially if he is mounted on a
touchy beast. But, amid all the marvels of the
western duststorm, the one that takes the prize is
the utter deadness of the calm already mentioned.
Compared with it, a corpse is alive, and busy
floating wild-cat copper swindles.
“Revert” on the gradual Townsville
’bus: —
A recent B. Correspondent made a violent attack on
the speed of the Townsville omnibus. Now the Towns-
ville ’bus is not rapid, but a rumor that it travels at the
rate of two weeks a year is exaggerated. Tim special
beauty of any Townsville ’bus is its reliability. You hail
it. It passes on. Along the street shouts and whistles
are passed from hand to hand until the driver is quite
convinced they are intended for him. A pull on the
reins conveys a warning to the horses, and with a few
turns of the Westinghouse brake, and a musical rattle of
the chain as the anchor is let go, the ’bus stops. Even
the stoutest lady with 17 parcels and five babies in arms is
assured that she may with perfect calmness climb heaven-
ward with a pause for rest and change on each step, stow
all her impedimenta beneath the main hatch, turn round
seven times, and seat herself before one crank of the
machinery will be set in motion. Every good habit is
liable to abuse, and I consider that four times is quite
sufficient for anyone to turn round before being seated.
A few nights ago the off horse in one of the chariots died,
just, as the vehicle pulled up in one of the main thorough-
fares. It was quite a while before the driver noticed that
he was plying whip and voice on the shadow cast by a
verandah post. A humane man always, but his energetic
flagellation on this occasion was justifiable, as the horse
had seemed fairly cheerful, and had never died before.
At intervals, after dark, the Townsville stillness is shat-
tered by inexpressibly mournful cries, which for long I
took to be some strong “ fish-oh ” or hot-pie man in his
agony ; but I was at last enabled to track down these
wails' to their source. It was the ’bus-drivers bemoaning
their destination. The public should put down its foot
firmly on these lamentations before any done.
“ The Rager ” on one sort of bushman :
An old swaggie—a genuine “ dead-knowledge man
on the Darling told me how some years previously he had
wanted a letter written, and not being able to use the
pen himself, or find anyone else about who could, deter-
mined to master the art. Although over 60, he
got a child’s primer, some copy books, and a pocket die-
tionary, and made a start. Luckily he fell into a strike
camp, where he was tuckered for nearly six months, at
the end of which time he could read and write fairly
well. Another self-taught swagman I met at Inna-
mincka (S. A.); When nearly 50 he cadged some books
and paper from a station schoolmaster, laid in a stock of
rations, put up his vagabond tent in the bend of the
river, and acquired the art of penmanship. So delighted
was he that in a weak and vague moment he endeavored
to imitate the signature of a scrub-cutter at the
bottom of a cheque. After running for many years
and committing over 40 forgeries, he grew too bold, and
after a Dainful interview with Judge Windeyer went into
retirement for seven years. This man afterwards de-
clared that education was the curse of the country.
TWO POINTS OF VIEW.
HEALTH INSPECTOR : “ Look here, Phelan, you'll have to remove this pig-stye. It's too close to
the house to be healthy for the occupants."
PHELAN : “ Unhealthy, did yez say? Sure, them pigs has niver had a day's illness in their loife."
“ Koolka ” : The Adelaide Advertiser
publishes this from Farina (S.A.)
The Rabbit Plague.
Farina, December 30.—The rabbit plague is a great
drawback here. The rodents live and die under the
dwelling houses and the church. The resulting stench is
revolting. At the railway dams, whence water is pumped
for all domestic purposes, the same thing applies. Dead
rabbits lie around the edges and in the water, which is
assuming a dangerous green color. If some remedial
measures are not soon taken, the water supply will
become a menace to public health.
Surely this wail is a record for helplessness !
Fancy a whole townful of people standing by
and watching their water-supply get green and
blue and rotten for want of the energy to fish
the dead rabbits out of it and surround it with
wire netting ! And surely it would be easier to
rake the deceased bunny from under the house
and the church than to write to the papers about
the stench of the late lamented beast!
COMFORTING.
“Do you think it is
going to explode ? ”
“ Oh, no. The agent said it
was safe and reliable.”
“Lantana”: At Namba, Clarence River
Heads (N.S.W.), a week or two ago, a man, in
bursting open an oak-tree, found over 200 snake
eggs in a hollow, opening out of the trunk. After
collecting the eggs, the axeman broke some of
them and found that many of the reptiles were
almost developed enough to break away from con-
finement. The assumption is that the eggs were
laid by one snake, or that The Bulletin’s
reptile contemporary of those parts is running an
egg-laying competition.
“ L.” : I know at least one sparrow who
shares George Reid’s opinions concerning tobacco.
I joined to-day Young Hopeful, blowing soap
bubbles from clay pipes, on the balcony, and
ravished his fancy by puffing smoke into my
filmy spheres. The sparrows saw the balloons
drifting out into the sunshine, and chased them
excitedly, but with some caution. At last, one
bold Jack, swooping down, drove his beak fair
into the entrails of the cloudy globe, which burst
with the puff of a toy bombshell. Brer Sparrow
didn’t wait to ask any questions. He stuck his
head down and his hoofs up, and cut out 300 ft. in
time that Zeppelin and Santos Dumont will never
touch. I reckon that, for a week at least, his
family won’t stir out of doors for fear of the
comet.
< * * *
“ Agricola” : In the kitten season, thou-
sands of rabbit burrows are dug out, and the
infant bunnies destroyed. It is only after digging
out a few burrows that one discovers
what they really harbor. A young fellow
round here recently put in his hand to
drag out some kittens, and extracted an
indignant snake. Right there, on the
spur of the moment, he invented some
surprising novelties in the way of ground
tumbling, leaving the snake to meander
round an unfeeling world alone. In
another burrow, the first thing un-
earthed was a porcupine, which, when
hurled aside, promptly sought refuge in
the burrow next door. Farther on, in
a drive to the left, were six kittens, and
in another, four. In a blind drive,
w'hich had been blocked by a rock, a
stumpy-tailed lizard was huddled, while
right at the back wall of the establish-
ment was a brown owl, which wouldn’t
bother to wake up on any account.
How the rabbits manage to agree with
their lodgers, especially the porcupine,
is a mystery. I once saw a kingfisher
fly into a burrow, and, digging it open,
found the nest in a two-foot drive which
set off about three feet from the en-
trance. I am of opinion that the little
burrowing birds, known as diamond-birds,
also use the rabbit burrows for nesting.
“Arsemo” : In Elmhurst (Vic.) lives an
old Australian she-native of 75, who, until about
four years ago, took contracts for supplying fire-
wood to a Melbourne firm. She used to cut the
wood, cart it to the railway station, and load it
in the trucks. Long ago, she fell out with her
husband, and separated from him, and when she
found herself with all the world before her, she
chose wood-carting as a means to support herself
and a family of small children. This old bush-
girl was always dressed in ancient, but clean, skirt
and blouse, a sun bonnet, and a pair of men’s
boots. Never knew her to swear or write poetry.
She has now retired from the game.


WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
AN ENERGISING CORDIAL.
mm
Solid Cold Cigar Cases, Extra Heavy, in Morocco
Cases, in 9ct. and 15ct. Gold.
GOLD
PRESENTS
. . . for Men we specialise on.
Men use so few articles that they should
be good—be of gold —
Gold Cigar Cases—Solid Gold Cigarette
Cases—Solid Gold Match Boxes—Solid
Gold Sovereign Boxes—Solid Gold Handle
Penknives—Solid Gold-mounted Aus-
tralian Needle wood Pipes—-Solid Gold
Cigar Cutters —Solid Gold Cigar Holders
in Solid Gold Cases—and an endless
variety of other Gold goods for men.
London Prices only—plus duty.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
plain ricußEs cash. 23 Hunter Street.
“ T.E.D.”: Re “ T.G.” on the laying
waste of farmsteads round Bendigo by the wanton
f\M tr r 8 (1 f 2ti/12/’O7). The Central
districts of S.A. have been denuded of timber in
the same wretched manner, and in some cases
during a whole day s drive one will see hardly
sufficient wood to boil the billy. The aim of the
cookies has been to get every yard of land under
cultivation, and the appearance of their homes
and the comfort of their live stock troubles them
not at all It is pitiable to see a mob of sheep
jockeying for the shade afforded by a wire fence •
and the original depredators’ sons have to nurse
their firewood as the steamship companies did
their coal during the strike. A paternal Govern-
ment now takes the ignorant cocky in hand and
tries to show him that he should plant trees for
his own good for firewood, for the comfort of his
family, and for the benefit of his stock. When
enlightenment has come to him the cockv, on
application to the Woods and Forests Department
may obtain/reeseveral varieties of young trees, and
many thousands of these are given away every
year, if they weren’t given away even the en-
lightened cocky wouldn’t take them. The unen-
lightened one won’t have them at all. Yet the
enlightenment is free as well as the trees.
* * *
“Periwinkle ” on weather signs :
Weather-lore observers predicted heavy rain sooner or
later after the flocks of sand-martins had passed lino-er-
ingly over Northern Victoria, in October last, and “the
rain came in Christmas week with a vengeance. The
same prophets predict a fairly wet year for 1908. The
portents of Nature are the continual tracking of the ant
tribes to the trees, the absence of their usual airing of
larder-trove, such as clover seeds, etc., by the ant
foragers after the recent unseasonable rains—they usually
doit to prevent premature germination of winter food
supplies; the absence of wagtails and kookaburras
around their old haunts on the rivers ; and the early
appearance of water-rats, rarely due till April, yet now
abroad in January. The absence of shrimps and the
sluggishness of the fresh-water turtles point, the quid-
nuncs aver, to rain, and the appearance of certain winter
water-weeds is also reckoned a circumstance, while the
unusual predominance of the swallow tribes along the
rivers, and the absence of the ibis battalion on the plains
and sky-line, start the knowing ones blinking, and one
may expect the taunting “ I told you so ! ” ere the
wattles die again. A peculiar feature along the Murray
billabongs this season has been the absence'of the übi-
quitous blackfish from the worm shrines, while black
perch have become uncatchable enough to be thought
extinct. Early rains will be the salvation of cookies and
stock in Northern Victorian and Riverina. The bush and
river portents—taken by and large for all they are
worth—point indubitably, at present, to a fairly damp
year. Another dry year, like the last—which showed a
lower record in rain gaugings along the Big Trickle than
’Ol and ’O2 (the years of dreary drought time), until the
late December deluge saved the situation—would mean
the devastation of a country denuded of nibblings all the
last year round. Last spring the absence of bird-life
along the rivers was rather noticeable—even snakes
seemed to have evaporated from their favorite early
quarters.
GHOSTS OF THE NEVER-NEVER.
No. 2.—Bony and Arthur.
THE DOOK (which his name was Wellesley): “Of
course he always picks a time for these
moping fits of his when there's something to
be done.”
B. & D.” (N. Queensland) : What is the
black cockatoo’s rule for finding grubs ? He cer-
tainly knows exactly where to bite through the bark
to find his breakfast, although there may be no
evidence to the eye of man which might lead him
to suspect the existence, of so much as even a
counter lunch. Further, I have never known
him to sink a duffer hole in the bark. Everywhere
a hole appears made by these birds one may see
where the grub has been. Does he use the
divining rod, or what?
HE ACHIEVED MISERY.
THE MISSIONER: “Ah. my friend, we are all born to trouble."
THE NATIVE: “ Garn! I wasn't born to it. I married into it”
“Ossian”: Things happen suddenly at
Yamba (151.5. W.). I chanced along there last
Anniversary Day. Abutting the pilot steamer’s
wharf was a stretch of sand extending 60yds. or
so seaward along the breakwater and about 20yds.
from the wharf into the Clarence River. On this
beach some fifty-odd worm-drowners were engaged
fishing for the wary whiting. Next morning the
entire beach had quietly disappeared, and in its
stead was 30ft. of water. Recently re-visited
Yamba and the identical sandbank had formed
again. I didn’t fish on it, though. It seemed too
temporary.
* * ■* *
“R.D. ” : For perseverance and pure sand I
back the ant. I was once camped out inthemulga
fossicking in mid-summer, and the flies, like the
darts of Darius, used to shut out the sun. This
was pleasant while working,
but at crib times and at
breakfast it was troublesome.
Small ants were also there in
millions. I used to place a
dab of jam on a box to kid
them away from me, and no
sooner was it exposed than
it was surrounded by several
million flies, with a trillion or
two of ants surrounding them.
An ant would bite the legs of
a fly, and the bitten fly would
usually light out for foreign
parts. The ant would advance
into the vacant place and bite
the leg of the next fly, and so
work a way to the jam—if his
teeth hung out. The trouble
occurred when a fly with a
cork leg joined in the scramble.
He didn’t care a bullocky’s
prayer for the bites, but keep-
ing his cork leg well behind
him he simply ignored the
hints of the ant. The flabber-
gasted embodiment of industry
sat back and thought hard, and
the humorous fly stuck his cork
leg up in his face. This was
too much, and the ant sud-
denly landed on the back of the
fly’s neck, and got a magnifi-
cent grip. The fly streaked
out and fell over logs, swarmed
up precipices, rolled on the ant
and tried to smother him, and
fell over cliffs that must have
been gigantic to both of them. But
the ant held on grimly, and finally dis-
covered himself alone in the wilderness with a
dead fly. He looked dazed, thought for a while,
took an observation of the sun, and started
straight back for the jam-spot.
“ Katta ” : Will “ Jimmie Pannikin,”
“Won Hi,” and other city naturalists help me to
identify a spider ? It is a' grey color, and pitches
its camp in green pine scrub, in this Cobar
(N.S.W.) district. It manufactures a bright
yellow silk of very strong texture. Yesterday
a musterer was missing, and on running his tracks
we found him and his horse securely held in one
of these silk webs. We released him with the
aid of a file and wire-key. His dog had unfortu-
nately eaten the spider.
• » • »
“Peter Pan”: I have heard so much of
late about the things Australia can’t produce that
I begin to doubt if it can even grow rabbits. I
firmly believe the rabbits we eat are imported.
“Yarrum”: Talking yesterday to an
ancient, who witnessed the first Test match, he
said it reminded him, in many respects, of a fight
he once saw at Hill End (N.S.W.). A young
Australian and a big Yorkshireman fell out over
a girl, and they battled on the flat from 4 a.m.
until 10 p.m. the same day. After every couple
of rounds they would knock off for whisky, and
would lie about for an indefinite period before
resuming operations. Altogether they consumed
five bottles of liquid, and, in the 147th round, they
fell into each other’s hairy arms, and rolled
around for the remainder of the night. After the
battle the pair of pugs became aggressive in the
township, and would scarcely let decent people
walk the streets, until a barefooted lightweight
knocked the Yorkshireman out in a round. Yorky
then cleared out to Gulgong, and the Australian
was so broken up over the matter that he “ took
to drink, and never afterwards did any good in
the country.”
THE MAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She was a dairymaid at Sale ;
With foam she filled her milking-pail,
And carolled sweet and unafraid
A joyous song; j n twilight’s shade.
I tiptoed gently to the bail,
And, standing at the Ayrshire’s tail,
I said, “ Fair dairymaid of Sale,
You carol like a nightingale,”
And gracefully I doffed my hat.
The maid looked up in mild surprise
(Red lips were hers and radiant eyes).
She rose, then emptying her pail,
She simply said, “ A nightingale !
Gor bli me. What is that ? ”
VIC.
BLACKBOY.
THE CAMEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three complete skeletons of camels, which lived in
Iter nCa a^0 ’ have been brought to light. —News
Bow to the Camel—he’s full of years ;
Fools has he carried, and kings, and seers ;
He stands aloof, and he grunts and sneers.
Bow to the Camel !
Bow to the Camel—he knows full well
He’s got more sense than the crowd who yell
And he wears a ruined, ancient smell.
Bow to the Camel !
Bow to the Camel—since Time began
The Scent of the Desert rolled and ran
Across the world at the nod of man.
Bow to the Camel !
Bow to the Camel—for we shall pass
Before Time’s sickle like ripened grass.
He stands eternal, the great hour-glass.
Bow to the Camel !
Bow to the Camel—reserved, sedate.
When Life is ended, and souls are late,
Freighted with sins to the Pearly Gate
Will come the Camel.
And, kneeling down in that white abode
Of Peace, the angels will take his load,
And he will graze on the starlit road,
The Eternal Camel.
N.S.W.
KODAK.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVb notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Strawhalian: In claiming that Hatfield
(N.S.W.) must win the Dead Town Competition, you rely
solely on the fact that it has only li inhabitants. But
the thing- doesn’t follow. There are dozens of towns
that would be less dead than they are at present if their
dreadful populations were cut down to four Mother:
Refuse absolutely to print what little Bill says about the
moo cows.... Spaceband: Awful poem re Willie Lee
met its end in the W.P.B. Pars re “ Brewster’s Millions ”
and the death of J. Taiaroa wear the mildew of extreme
eld on their brows; and are otherwise unsuitable.. .
Rankawa: Your remarks re that Kosciusko trip have
been made so often before W.B.H. (Vic): You
ask for criticism on your poem. Well, as patriotism,
t’s good; but as literature it’s very, very bad
Can’t trace those “North Wind” lines.... Carolus :
Temptation” one of those irritating things that
begin well and promise bread, then fizzle out and
don’t even supply a stone—only just a hole in a stone
wa11.... Yelsna : “Man’s Vows” struggling towards print;
others not quite up....8.1.G. : “Miserere” gets along
the track gracefully, but it’s such an old, worn track..
W.J.B. : Your poem didn’t interest us. It didn't even
enrage us Ansonia: “Two Scenes” is just blank
• he Bud: You haven’t quite caught 0n....
R.M.B. (Llstern wick): Story rather crude... JD
(Loehinvar): Yarn very slow on its feet HLT-
Hopeless stuff....H.H.B. : We blushed furiously arid
hurried it into the basket A.P.K. : (1) Carnegie
born Dunfermline, Scotland ; 1837 ; Skibo Castle, Suther’
land, Scotland. (2) Rockefeller ; born Richford N.Y.
1839; 54th Street, New York, and Warwick, Rhode
Island. And may the Lord have mercv on your soul if
)ou try to cadge money for an Australian library from
either of them !... .H.L.T. : “ Hardie’s Dream ” is a
marvel of incapacity. One verse as a specimen :
Yet, once again he tried the States to leaven
In some fair land, “for luck he counted seven.”
Said he, the Commonwealth is six
Maoriland is the first to stick.
I’ll go and see, there’s sweating there, I know :
I’ll offer them advice, it will pay me well, I trow.
The workers there are very easily gulled,
For years the leaders there their legs have pulled.
.... Fitz: Carefully note that when Launceston Examiner
published that yarn (9/l/’08) about the Australian manu-
facturer raising prices whenever the tariff went on it
didn’t, give the names of the manufacturers, or the names
of the articles on which prices were raised, nor the
amount of the rise. It simply couldn’t because there was
no such rise. The tale was just the same old importers’ lie...
. .Scar : Give Norman Lindsay’s Lone illustration of
the bushman who got on his horse the wrong way a pro-
longed rest. Quite possible for a man to be a genuine
bushman and a rider, and yet mount unconventionally.
The finest horseman of our acquaintance was wont to reei
on to his steed any old way. But, once aboard, he stayed
there till he wanted to get off—which is a feat many of
the most violent horse-etiquette fiends can’t emulate.’....
Old Subscriber (N. Queensland): There is no law in the
United States against the election of a President for a
third term, but Washington set up the precedent of re-
fusing a third term, and the anti-third term idea became
a sort of fetich or superstition. It was that fetich
which killed Grant’s third chance in 1880, though
the 306 “stalwarts” who voted for him in the
Republican Convention nearly upset the tradition
Optic Axis: No bite in it ...Wagin : Such tame little
verses, they picked crumbs out of the basket.. Pearl-
shell: That patch has been dug already Crosscut:
Saw wants re-setting ; “ Champion ” is very rough work.
... .J.L.D. : They didn t suit... .Burchie : Best write
C.S.R. Co., Sydney.. ..Murphy: Rubbish. Supposing a
Johnnie from the lace department of a city shop travelled
out to Winton to tell you bush chaps what to do and
where your bush customs, etc., are wrong, how would
you scoff ! Yet from the city shop-assistants’ point of
view, he might be a good Labor man. These British
Labor leaders may be all right behind their own lace
counters, but they don’t know what we Australians are, or
what we want, or what we have to fear Helen M. :
Don’t send the things Baby Molly says about God ; don’t
send anything Baby Molly says about anyone J.B. :
Your poem on “ Consumption ” is fine, but it’s too Whit-
manesque for us. F’rinstance :
Away ! on the pinnacles, of those winding hills.
Amid! the grandeur of the balmy air, of a southern clime.
There’s an isilated structure, of gigantic strength, to
strangle the ills,
And, sufferings, of humanity’s most destructive disease,
of the time.
....F. Moore: Declined J.T.B. : Items rather small
and flat A. Twicer: In six words (instead of the 300
you employ), “The hub who hesitates is bossed.”
G.F. : You have ideas, but your verse is too rugged. Try
again R.E.S. : “Renee” will appear shortly. Can’t
publish photographs of all our principal contributors.
If the identities behind one or two pen-names were
revealed there would be a Sheol of a row W.
Gillespie : Poems went to join the dead Tassy Sub :
“ I would like to know what is the cause of so much
enmity between N.S.W. and Vic.” This paper guesses it’s
mostly cussedness, aggravated by Jack Want, J. Car-
ruthers, and Charles Gummidge Wade. They needed no
more cause for enmity than the hatchet-faced lady in the
mean street needs for saying that the plump woman
next door is no better than she ought to be,
and where did she get the fur boa from, anyway ?
Unsuitable: Jim Gunalo, J. J. Tay, Silica, E.R.H.,
M. Hookey, G.N., D., Sigma.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
E. Roberts : It isn’t exactly art. We don’t exactly
know what it is. Perhaps it isn’t exactly anything....
W. Webster: Poor drawing, poor pun Ploda Long:
Sketches not very good. Gags not very good either, and
the “smell your breath” joke is old and horrible ...
C.O.L. : You can’t draw to any great extent... .A.W. :
Missed the’bus after a hard run... .F. Fisher : General
ignorance of the meaning of “ monkey,” in mining par-
lance, spoils it.


I would ori|> by
life \ibnd* say Welcome,
"ttjrice Welcoim e.* you sW)
whoever |
jArtbVisWp ClvKe]
fkncy
we See
rH "#
• JT<
Tire cost""of tf re
M c Kay ‘hvves'ter c j^ e
V -% . Should
1»e I> orr 7 e
tye pwllic
Victor'*
fAr^ws]
f2§
/v\o *
n
1"' Vfctsfr
/p I ’*\v
lleece !
[_€_t H r Bent - procure for me k.
my friers to
Sheets we will so on do so .
f]a*JKinsJ
I Melb<>«rn<k
|
| s^Hy
for Opts*. S«"J ‘•A*—
l lo?« >« er Sonn > !
o^er
Ip Itje Cornrrjo n-
WeaJtfl vtrill 1)/
Hfe cJeciyon, ) Will
1 cl~ if" Kirow wljal
sife. W-S-W „
deferir/»*7ed cm •
Jwa^cJ
" , IoX »v f e gA^ 1 " 0^
■yeK k 111 lezye yer yer
tic Ker !
So!
> iiW n> sfop
jL do S°'" r,el^r7 £ c "i
* - [Defe^np*'-
A«s -" Well . * ,r !
'|J.n|-CV<? (•<”»
t£, e fotnmon«4 lll l
Xj W«>* lb
ora^»n
* (B«,+)
C\\ve
2,6*0 )b 1)^.
FROM YARRA’S BURNING SHORE.


Melbournite : “ Phew 1 Reg’lar
Sydney weather this.”
Sydneyite : «• Phew ! Reg’lar
Melbourne weather
this.”
Dairy products are
high just now, and
still on the rise. A
hint as to the cause.
/ ” * THOUGHT 1 Had A STAMP.”
In a facetious moment Mi 4 . Reid suggests Chat tin-
designs for the proposed Issue of Federal postage
stamps should be confined to Australia. “ Isn't the
cry, ‘Australia for the Australians’?” he asked
” Well, then, why hesitate?”
An appropriate design might occur, ta George himself. '
Melbourne, Tuesday.—Mr. G. H. Reid said to an
interviewer recently that he was not thinking of
politics just now, but was having a holiday. His
idea of a holiday was to come as near being a boy
again as possible. Catching a 201 b. schnapper at
Queenscliff Was a matter of much greater Importance
to him than the current troubles of politics.
Fancy picture (based on recent letters to the press) of Australia oppressed
by its own tyranny in compelling itself to submit to compulsory military
training. The picture of a man treading upon his own neck with hobnailed
boots is a difficult situation to imagine, and—our artist will add—almdst im-
possible to draw.
QUEENSLAND PREMIER PHILP JUDGED BY Hl§ OWN PROMISES
POLITICS, COWS, AND SUNDRIES.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
' new proprietorship
Central and Charming' Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences Tel. 321.
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
Children when teething have more or less
diarrhoea, which cannot be checked effectually, as
the cause cannot be removed; but the diarrhoea
can and should be controlled by giving Chamber-
lain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy and
an occasional dose of castor oil to cleanse the
system.*
WATSON’S WHISKY.
Resells Limited, Agents
m&E?s
CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
Is the National Remedy for Sandy
Blight, Swelling Blight, Inflamed Eyes
and Eyelids. It gives strength to weak
eyes and rest to the tired.
ROSE’S CELEBRATED EYE LOTION
may be used at all times by old
and young with benefit.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia.
If not obtainable locally, send postal
note for 1/9 for a bottle, to the Sole Pro-
prietors and Manufacturer s :
H. A. ROSE & CO.,
531 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ask for Rose’s Celebrated Eye Lotion,
and refuse all substitutes and imitations.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
THE ROASTING JACK.
While we (in Vic.) are having record hot weather this
summer, they in England are being frozen to death.
THE NIPPER (to Jupiter): “ Give it a turn , old
fellow! You needn’t burn that side to bits.”
David Syme is dangerously ill and is not
able to take any active part in the guidance of his
newspaper.
Alfred Deakin is now notably better in
health. The recess has given him a chance to get
a certain amount of rest, and his step regains its
old vivacity, his handwriting its old firm fluency.
From Nyassaland, in Central Africa, The
Bulletin gets word of the death of Martin
Walsh, an Irish-Australian prospector, known to
everybody who was on Coolgardie and Kalgoorlie
in the early days. The straight-going old battler
was opening up a promising oil show when he fell
sick, and died on Nov. 11.
Deacon Deadman was due the other day
for ordination. But the name sounded too stiff ;
so Deadman was ordained as Denman, and ap-
pointed to St. Michael’s, Surry Hills.
The Christian name of Power, one of the
Philpite candidates for Fortitude Valley (Queens-
land), is George Washington. The real name of
quite a number of the Philpites is Gehazi
Ananias.
Archdeacon Gunther, the son of a reverend
who formerly ministered at Mudgee (N.S.W.),
has completed his 40th year at St. John’s, Parra-
matta. Though St. John’s was founded over 100
years ago, it has had only four incumbents. The
Archdeacon refused a bishopric some time ago,
preferring £5OO a year and a house and peace to
the troubled gaiters of an episcopal dignitary.
Louis Spitzel, the Polish Jew who died
recently in Germany worth a casual million or
two, and who left Australia a generation ago
without his bankruptcy “ stificate,” is said to have
once resided at Castlemaine and followed the
business of a pedlar. He lived at the rear of the
Chinese camp in Forest-street, and paid Is. a
week rent for his hovel or dog-kennel. Yet there
are smaller beginnings than that. One of the
largest and most dignified businesses in Sydney
was founded by a man who once carried his whole
stock-in-trade in a basket.
Four sons of four democratic fathers, who
left their mark upon Queensland politics, are can-
didates in the Kidston interest. They are J. T.
Bell (son of Joshua Peter Bell), H. A. C. Douglas
(son of Hon. John Douglas), A. C. Morgan (son of
Arthur Morgan), and Thomas O’Sullivan (son of
“ Paddy ” O'Sullivan). It would only require the
name of Lilley to round off the list nicely. The
name was mentioned, but (ye gods !) as a Philpite
candidate. Fancy a son of sturdy old Charles
Lilley on the same political platform as Philp,
Leahy and Co. It’s enough to make the grand
old democrat whirl round thrice in his grave.
James Curley, for close upon 30 years
secretary of the Newcastle miners’ union, has
quitted the office, and acting-secretary Brennan,
a younger man, lately a member of the committee
of management, takes his place. Curley and
W. G. Spence were, 20 years ago, the big union
secretaries of Australia; Spence organised the
Victorian miners and then the bush-workers, while
Curley stuck to Newcastle. Both went into
politics ; but Curley wasn’t comfortable—he was
a Foreign-trader, while the Newcastle miner wants
to see factories at work and the coal output in-
creased ; so v he didn’t last long as a member.
His quitting of the secretary’s office will be a loss
to Newcastle ; for the owners knew that he knew
coal-mining from A to Z, and met him in
conference on equal terms ; and that was always
a good start —it minimised the “bluff” that both
parties are liable to put up at such meetings. •
Ambrose Edward Smith, who died from
an accident the other day, was one of the many
sons of “ Iron Pot Jack,” otherwise John Smith,
M.L.C., a Bathurst (N.S.W.) Croesus, and com-
mercial speculator. He seldom looked at a piece
of land without offering to buy it, and he took
sheaves of shares in every public company that
looked likely to yield 10 per cent. He arrived in
Australia without a coin, but went west and took
out his wages in land. Gold grew for him where-
ever he went, and he grabbed it or anything it
represented with sinewy hands. His sobriquet of
“Iron Pot Jack ” came from a law action in which
he fought for an old iron pot with as much
vehemence and determination as if it were the
British Empire. He stood for the Assembly
once, but Dr. Ross knocked him out. Jago,
brother of the now dead Ambrose, received his
M.L.C. “distinction” from G. H. Reid.
The story of the late Louis Spitzel is very
rough on those Imperial-minded
persons who chant the praises of
all colored races, and who were
specially enthusiastic of yore re
the statesmanship, patriotic virtue
and intellectual magnitude of Li
Huug Chang. Spitzel, the insol-
vent and undoubtedly dishonest
working-jeweller, of Melbourne,
managed to escape to Asia, and
there, being a rogue, he somehow
attached himself to Li Hung
Chang, and assisted that in-
fluential Chow in bleeding the
army contracts. Apparently Spit-
zel worked as a confidential agent
for Chang, on commission. He got
1 per cent, of the plunder, pro-
bably. Anyhow, he died a natural-
ised Englishman, value two mil-
lions sterling.
Casino, on the N.S.W.
North Coast, shelters a Mrs. E.
Clark, who has a daughter of 64,
a grandson of 48, a great-grand-
daughter of 23, and a great-great-
grand-daughter. The patriarchess
herself doesn’t claim to be more than 90.
A cable came to hand the other day con-
veying the unintelligence that our old friend
Brassey—who fell off everything in Australia—
had been appointed Lord Warden of the Cinque
ports. The position will entitle Brassey to wear
some strange clothes and have three halberdiers
behind him at meal time to keep the flies off.
Brassey. in return, will repair in state to Windsor
once every year and present his king, on bended
knee, with three bananas and a picture postcard.
Thus the empire will be held together and two
elderly gentlemen made happy. (The Bulletin
has not got a copy of the agreement before it, but
the terms will be found to be something like the
above).
Primate Smith —he of the bob cab—now
aged 72, gave some of his reminiscences to a
Sydney reporter last week, and narrated how,
when a little over ten, he nearly got caned at
Marlborough school. “ I did not like boiled beef
fat,” said the Primate, “ and one day at dinner I
left the fat on my plate. This was an offence
which would procure most boys a caning, but I
was let off, as I had been head of my form for the
previous three weeks.” Rev. Smith spent four
years as chaplain to the Bishop of Madras, and
travelled over a great part of India, but appar-
ently all his recollections of that country consisted
of an anecdote about some Tamil boys. And even
that was dull and lifeless compared with the 62-
years-old episode of the beef fat. That beef fat
seems to have been an epoch in Smith’s eventless
life.
102º IN THE SHADE
" Cripes, Tom, just imuyine bein buried on a day like this!"
Randolph Bedford : Died suddenly at
Thursday Island, Captain Jack Rossitter,
A.U.S.N. skipper, Torres Straits, or, rather,
Barrier Reef pilot, and lastly pilot in Eastern
Australian waters for the B. I. Co. “ I was in-
tended for the priesthood,” said he, “but some-
thing in my blood made me wander, and I was
kicked to sea with my head full of the romance of
it. Romance in a limejuicer ! An’ so, after
twenty-five years of it, here am I with a captain’s
ticket an’ plenty clothes, and £37 in-the bank,
an’ two tickets in Tatt.’s, and three pair elastic
stockin’s, and a few varicose veins through
standin’ long watches on wet decks. Keep off the
sea. If I had my start again I wouldn’t go to
sea till 10 men kicked me off the wharf the same
morning before breakfast.” Good Captain Jack !
I do not know one white man of whom he was
not beloved. Sydney and Brisbane, and Towns-
ville, and Thursday Island will be different to.me
hereafter, because the sand of Thursday has
covered him.
The one-time Victorian Government Astro-
nomer, Robert Lewis John Ellery, who died at
Melbourne last week, was a doctor by profession,
and practised at Williamstown for a while after
his arrival in 1851. In 1853, the Government
commissioned him to establish and take charge of
a small nautical observatory at Williamstown, and
between ’56 and ’74 he directed a geodetic and
trigonometrical survey of Victoria. In ’63 the
Williamstown star-gazery was amalgamated with
Bavarian Professor Neumeyer’s meteorological
and physical observatory, and removed to its pre-
sent site in Melbourne Domain, and Ellery moved
along with it. He retired in ’95, and gave
Baracchi, the Italian, a look in. He was one of
the founders of the Victorian Royal Society, and
its president from ’56 to ’B4. In ’73 he organised
the Victorian Torpedo Corps (afterwards the
Submarine Mine Engineers), and commanded till
’B9. He was a University councillor and a Public
Library trustee, and he wrote a small library of
astronomical works and learned essays.
One day in December The Bulletin
printed a few lines about a Francis Evans, who
drifted out of Melbourne 40 years or so ago, went
to the Islands, and disappeared, and whose rela-
tives have lately been asking the Victorian Courts
to presume that he is as dead as he seems to be.
There was a small matter of a division of property
hanging to the presumption ; and after hesitating
over it for a long while the Courts decided to
chance it, wherefore Francis Evans is now legally
dead. The Bulletin paragraph on the subject
drifted back into the remote Gulf country of
Queensland, and there, at Georgetown, it likewise
drifted into the shop of the man who was Francis
Evans’ boss in the Islands 30-odd years ago. And
the boss of 30-odd years ago writes: —
The young fellow was in my employ at Levuka early
in 1876 ; but, finding the confinement of a chemist’s shop
distasteful, he took a billet in the engine-room of a small
steamer trading among the group. Shortly after, I heard
he had been found dead in his bunk ; and, there being no
suspicious circumstances surrounding the death, there
was no inquiry. The country was then emerging from a
very unsettled condition, and I doubt if there was even
an official report of the occurrence. He was buried at
Bambi, an island belonging to Captain Hill, at present a
stipendiary magistrate in Fiji, who saw there was a
decent interment, and that the grave was properly en-
closed.
Wherefore Francis Evans may now be considered
thoroughly, truly, and absolutely dead.
The ex-Methodist parson who became
infatuated with a Flossie while on a trip to
Sydney from Perth, is now a patent medicine
vendor in Chicago. But Flossie long since de-
serted him. She could stand a gospel quack, but
a medicine quack—never !
Harry Dutton, who found his run from
Adelaide to Port Darwin blocked by tropical
rivers, is a man who, notwithstanding he was
born with a large silver spoon in his mouth, has
gone in for quite a lot of exertion. He took his
B.A. degree at Magdalen College (England)
among much rowing, and secured his “blue” in
the latter. Thirsting for sport with a real gamble
in it, he went shooting big game in Morocco,
Newfoundland, and the Rocky Mountains of
the U.S.A. Some of his trophies are great.
When he returned to Australia, he and a
mate explored the Murray in a rowing boat, and
then he settled down to toil and became a mighty
breeder of Clydesdales and cultivator of grasses at
his father’s Anlaby Estate. Quite recently he
married Miss Martin, daughter of the head of the
Gawler engineering firm, and as the foundry was
in a bad way he took it over and made a fresh
start, thereby saving Gawler from oblivion. His
other hobbies are yachts, butlers, church and
squiring. But, to give him his due, he does
his squiring here in the country that gave
him his wealth, instead of going to Eng-
land to make a splash and regarding Australia
as his Congo. His first yacht was the well-known
Mavis ; then he bought the auxiliary Vera, which
has given place to the straight-out steam yacht
Adel. Altogether, Henry Dutton is a man of
parts.
IN MEMORIAM: A PILOT OF TORRES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ One of the best gone. Jack Rossitter died suddenly
Sunday.”— Telegram from Thursday Island.
There’s sunlight on the ocean, and divine air haunts the
tree ;
The bougainvillea blossom flames its purple to the sea ;
A steamer bound for Torres tearing up the waveless
blue—
The foaming bow-scarf due true north, the seething wake
as true.
By petty half-mile margins they steer from cape to cay ;
On twenty-minute courses they run by night and day ;
The knowledge of this current; the mem’ries of that
shoal;
And of the two-knot cross tides that may lose a pilot’s
soul.
The 8.1. horse-boat, Bombay bound, a box of squealing
tricks —
The Dutch tramp overloaded, buoyant as a kiln of bricks ;
The freezer —Shire and Houlder —the Chow—the Ja-
panee—
By thirteen hundred coral miles safe-steered to open sea ;
By current, cay, and coral calms, that threaten always
grief—
Good sailormen and merry hearts —the Pilots of the Reef!
From Gladstone pier, with horses, to the sweat of far
Bombay ;
Wool-loaded tanks from Sydney at two hundred miles a
day;
With freight of frozen quarters from Lake’s Creek, on the
Fitzroy,
And thirteen hundred miles nor’-west unto Goode Island
buoy,
The pilot’s week’s responsibilities of shoal and stone ;
And at its end one pilot’s still —“ one of the best is gone.”
Pitt-street, Sydney, Queen-street, Brisbane, will not seem
as when we met;
And the Queen’s Hotel at Townsville, steaming in the
summer sweat;
And the dim Magnetic Island, and the track to Torres
Straits,
And the ships for all the oceans floating north their
wealthy freights.
Jacaranda, frangipanni ! all the color of the North,
All the scented opulences that the velvet stars call forth,
Fail until the loss has softened —fail to prompt the youth-
ful zest—
For one man of Torres passes. Pilot man ! “ One of the
best.”
To the man who maketh friendships but a shambles is the
world !
Death ! Last Wrong and Last Injustice at warm hearts
is strongest hurled—
Cruel kindness this withdrawal of our friendships one by
one,
That the friendless pray at long last to be hidden from the
sun.
Friend of mine and trusty pilot, laid for ever on the strand,
Who hast made his final landfall, and is hidden by the
sand
Here among the ti-tree, musing, looking on the sunlit sea.
More than ever I had dreamed of were you, old Friend,
unto me.
Shorn of all the dogmas, credos, coward’s comforts at the
best —
Death to merry hearts can only mean a dull, unwelcome
rest.
To the living only gradual-loosing earth ties one by one.
Dead, the merry, trusty pilot—one of all the best has
gone 1
VIC.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THE PATRIOT’S PHILOSOPHY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Catching a 201 b. schnapper at Queenscliff was a
matter of much greater importance to him than the cur-
rent troubles of politics.”— (l. H. Reid to the Melb. rep.
of Sydney Telegraph (l/,11/’08).
Avaunt dark broodings upon strife and war ;
Perish distrust of either Chows or Japs !
They are dull thoughts and dreams that only bore
What time the schnapper snaps.
Some fools there be who fash them over strikes,
And wony re the miner and his “ rights.”
Far more the striking schnapper me belikes,
And the hooked fish, which fights.
Prate not, I beg, of Deakin or of Lyne ;
Their labors only serve to raise a smile.
To me a schnapper on a bit of twine
Is most worth while.
Give me, in short, a boat that gently sways,
A squid, some hooks, and lollie-bag well crammed,
And I will doze contentedly for days,
And let'my land be d d.
N.S.W.
“ 10-2-4.”


-
-tiPv
n 1
.
mm
- mm
■
.•
■
M
an
■ •
m 3
jd
• - ■ ■ . ,
When you can’t sleep,
put your mattress on the
verandah and smoKe
HAVELOCK.”


During the summer months children are
subject to disorders of the bowels, and should
receive the most careful attention. As soon as
any looseness of the bowels is noticed, Chamber-
lain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea Remedy
should be given. Get a bottle to-day ; it may
save a life.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Arti.tic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN ALLIANCE ASSURANCE CO.
TEL. 47. AN OLD AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTION. ESTB. 1862.
Fire, Marine,
Fidelity, Accident.
2GI George Street, SYDNEY,
MODERATE RATES. G. B. SMITH, Manager.
WF
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES in
TOWN and COUNTRY INVITED.
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free, by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Pt 3
GrO TO BTET.T-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Gratis.
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic I
Truss— '
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort.made ol
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
E. O. Faulkner, “manager of the tie and
timber department of the Atchison, Topeka, and
Santa Fe Railway System, U.5.A.,” is wandering
through Australia. Even in Topeka (U.S.A.)
they know about Australian hardwoods, and
Faulkner’s business is to find out which of them
will suit America best. But Topeka isn’t going
to import them—Topeka is going to grow them.
Topeka belongs to a country which has got out of
the habit of wanting to drag things from the
other side of the earth, and, when it wants to
hire a wood-chopper, prefers that it shall be an
American wood-chopper —not a foreigner, who
won’t be available to hold
an American gun when
America wants a gun held.
FLOWING BOWLS.
During the early hours of yesterday morning the pre-
mises of the Adelaide Bowling Club, situated near the mili-
tary parade ground, were broken into. All the private
boxes (to the number of 73) were forced open with a chisel
and rummaged. Wearing apparel was left untouched, but
about five gallons of beer and all the spirits available were
carried off.— News Item.
“ The whisky, the beer, and the stout are all
gone! ”
“ Then let’s close the club.”
In a leading article last week the Si M.
Herald assured the public that, “‘in spite of
every drawback, the greater or less apathy of our
State Government, the jealousy of our Common-
wealth administration,” Sydney is going ahead.
Then, just when it might have become interesting
by explaimng-whfln_orlhow the Commonwealth had
attempted to prevent Sydney going ahead, the
dull old dog of a paper fled away to another
branch of the subject, and left the public un-
enlightened.
Again does the anti-Federal weeper miss
his opportunity. This time his name is John
Hyland, and he writes as follows from Araluen
(N.S.W.): —
Making Melbourne the seat of the Federal Government
was a breach of the Federal Constitution, and an en-
croachment on the State rights of New South Wales,
for which the Federal Government is responsible. In
my opinion, as a layman, every Federal Executive act
done out of New South Wales is illegal, and the Federal
Government should he held responsible to New South
Wales at law for such acts.
But though a hundred people like Hyland have
said they believed this sort of mullock, not one of
them has believed hard enough to go to the High
Court and demand that even one of these allegedly
illegal Federal acts should be annulled, with Costs
against the Commonwealth.
It is noticeable that the N.S.W. Govern-
ment Printer bounced furiously into the ring to
denounce the Federal P.M.G. for proposing to
print postage stamps in another State. The equip
ment of his office is, he says, the most perfect in
Australia for all sorts of printing and litbo. work,
and he wants to know why he shouldn’t get the
job. But a very few years ago the N.S.W. Rail-
way Commissioners gave an order for 10,000 litho-
graphic views of the State to a printing firm in
Switzerland, and the N.S.W. Government Printer
didn’t bounce worth a cent. Apparently the
trouble isn’t over N.S.W. losing the small stamp
job. It is the idea of another Australian State
getting it that makes these parish pump authori-
ties rave like the very Devil.
The' Philp crowd is trying to catch some of
the Queensland cocky vote with Stinking Pish.
“It’s no use, we can’t make butter good enough
to compete in Europe with Danish,” the Fish
crowd says. “So we’ll have to look to China and
Japan to take our stuff—and Philp will get us the
Torres Straits service.” Yet the yarn that “we
can’t make butter good enough for Europe ” is
such a prodigious lie that between 1902 and 1907
the Queensland butter output grew from 4,851,000
lb. to 22,750,0001 b. ; while, so good and uniform
is the quality of Queensland butter (thanks to
Kidston’s system of inspection) that for every
pound’s worth sent to China, Japan and other
foreign parts, Britain in 1906 took £460 worth.
But what a policy to ask Queensland to elect a
man on—that the country can’t produce things
good enough for a white man’s table, and is only
just good enough to churn out Chow’s food !
Broken Hill is again grumbling at the
absurd geographical divisions of the Common-
wealth, which make it an appanage of N.S.W.
instead of S.A., to which it naturally belongs
One of Broken Hill’s trials is that it can’t get
firewood. Its proper source of supply is on the
N.S.W. side, and to tap that would mean a rail-
way towards the Darling. The railway policy of
N.S.W. is dictated from Sydney, and the only
line that Sydney will hear of is one from Broken
Hill to Sydney via Condobolin or Cobar, so that
Sydney could derive benefit. Broken Hill badly
wants a line to Menindie for firewood supply. This
would be cheap and easy, but it would be no good
to Sydney; wherefore official N.S.W. (which
is Sydney) sets itself against the Menindie
line.” Even though that line would be part
of the main line via Condobolin. So Broken
Hill isn’t likely to get any line at all. S.A., to
which the Hill belongs commercially, can’t help
it because it isn’t in S.A. territory, and N.S.W.,
to which it belongs politically, won’t help it
because its trade goes to S.A. And the only
remedy is to hand the control of railways over to
the Commonwealth, which wouldn’t ask what
State Broken Hill belonged to, and would be con-
tent to know that it belonged to Australia.
Our large brother Fat protests that there
is no need for State interference in the interests of
Closer Settlement. “Leave it to Us,” says
Fat, and he goeth around, buying up large
properties for subdivision, and great are the
profits thereon. But the settlement of the
people on the land appears farther off than
ever so far as these private closer-settlement
schemes are concerned. Instance the Wheo
Estate, Richlands Estate, and the recent
successful sale of the Cunningham Plains
Estate (all in N.S.W.). In each case
the sub-divisions were purchased almost
exclusively by adjoining holders, and the
adjoining towns, which were to benefit
by increased population, have actually
lost by the displacement of the families
employed on the old estates. The only
solution is to prohibit any one man hold-
ing land beyond a certain value —the idea
which Joseph Ward, of Maoriland, would
have tried if his grit had held out.
Professor Gold win Smith, U.S.A.,
pointing out that Australia has the most to
fear from Japan :
A union of Anglo-Saxons and Japanese, the two races
being alien in all their ideas and ways, and the Japanese
being intruders, would be ill-assorted, almost monstrous.
But what can the Imperial Government do ? Apart from
the league into which she has entered with Japan, can
she undertake to protect a colony incapable of self-
protection, and on the other side of the globe, against
the aggression of a great neighboring power ?
“ A colony incapable of self-protection ” is what
Australia has so far appeared to the outside
world ; and as such, truly, its future is hopeless.
But there is the other alternative—a Common-
wealth capable of self-protection.
“ Smith ” : The “ military correspondent ”
of Sydney D.T. says that universal service isn’t
necessary because when trouble occurs the people
will be ready (!), and he alleges that in the
Crimean war the people of England rose to the
occasion and volunteered in numbers. The people
of England did nothing of the kind ; wherefore, in
the winter of 1855, 20,000 Hanoverians had to be
engaged for twelve months. They were en-
camped, I remember, at Scutari, on the Asiatic
side of the Bosphorus, in readiness to continue the
war in the spring. The need to hire Hanoverians
certainly taught the English a lesson, and was the
beginning of the English volunteer movement for
home defence. When peace was made, many of
those men were shipped off to Africa and put
on the land.
A RESERVE SET, AS IT WERE.
OLD MAN LION: “ All right, youngster! I’ll
allow you to grow teeth, but, mind, THEY'RE
TO BE MY TEETH!”
“Cecil P.” : One of our old Cornstalk
nobility, helping to throw out the Cooma-Bombala
Railway Bill, because the proposed line would run
within 30 miles of Dalgety, said that he d travelled
from Bega to Cooma and didn’t think much of
the country. Just so. I saw the outside of the
N.S.W. Legislative Council Chamber once, and I
didn’t think much of the capacity of the members.
“ J.R.” writes :
The Times has broken out in a fresh place. It is quite
delirious with joy at the success of Wilfrid Laurier s
colleague, Lemieux, in getting some sort of vague verbal
promise from the Japs not to send more coolies than suit
their convenience to Canada, and contrasts it with the
state of things in the Transvaal: —
“ It is to be hoped that, for the sake of the Empire’s
honor, the Transvaal will accept the registration papers,
which were granted on Lord Milner’s express assurance
that they would be final.”
A good many things have happened sinoe Milner
ceased to have any responsibility for African affairs, and
probably no one is sorrier than Milner himself for some
of the results of his acts. It would be easy to name a
dozen things, since the outbreak of the dispute that led
to the Boer War, that Milner, if he could live his life over
again, would probably have left undone, or have done very
differently. In any case, he was not such a fool as to pledge
himself to the maintenance for all time of a particular
system of alien registration, which is, in its essence, more
or less of an experiment. The Times seems to have lost
its head in its frantic efforts to prove that its dear Empire
is black and tan beyond all doubt. It knows very well
that, whatever the people at Tokio said to Lemieux, a
verbal promise is worthless ; but the poor, doddering old
thing is in mortal fear of a European and Asiatic com-
bination against the Ma-land. So it pins its hope of
safety to “ Our faithful Ally, the Mikado,” “ Our faithful
Ally, the Nizam,” and half-a-dozen other brown poten-
tates, not one of whom has ever been worth tuppence in
the way of helping the lame Bull over the stile.
N.S.W. Premier Wade is complaining of
being overworked. Well, if he gave up trying to
run the Commonwealth as well as the State, and
stuck to the work he is paid to do, he would get
rid of an enormous amount of hard toil. Also, he
would get a lot of time to attend to some really
big and pressing questions concerning his own
State, such as the Greater Sydney scheme, the
City Railway, the proper inspection of food during
making and distribution and the congestion at
Newcastle harbor, which has now got so bad that
a big passenger and mail steamer was lately de-
layed 24 hours beyond its sailing date, and the ser-
vice badly dislocated. It is amazing what a lot of
work a political lawyer will do for nothing, while
in his private capacity he hunts any man who
neglects to pay Costs to his professional death.
On the other hand, while Wade is doing a lot of
things he is not paid to do, he is neglecting an
enormous number of things he is paid to do ; and
some day his boss will find it out, and there will
be a vacancy for a Premier in N.S.W.
Slab from the Albury (N.S.W.) electoral
roll:—
Singh, Achcher
Singh, Amer
Singh, Basant
Singh, Bishin
Singh, Boota
Singh, Budden
Singh, Ohere
Singh, Ohere Bagat
Singh, Chunda
Singh, Dera
Singh, Endah
Singh, Esser
Singh, Esser
Singh, Gunda
Singh, Gurbachan
Singh, Harnam
Singh, Harnam
Singh, Jagta
Singh, Jhunda
Singh, Joher
Singh, Keera
Singh, Lari
Singh, Lucca
Singh, Parn
Singh, Pholo
Singh, Ratten
Singh, Rule
Singh, Soma
Singh, Sundah
Singh, Sundah
Singh, Thurm
Hooray for White Australia—the country of the
Petriana myth ; the country that is supposed to
be so desperately hostile to discolored immigrants
that it keeps them off with a pitchfork !
This Queensland election sees one proper
enough resurrection —G. H. Pritchard, who was
assistant secretary and branch accountant of the
Q. N. Bank in the days of the Great Drunk, is the
Philp candidate for the Herbert. Pritchard, who
can talk till the cows come home, figured largely
in the inquiry made by the Q.N.B. Investigation
Committee. Grand Pacha Drury (the General
Manager, who had an overdraft of £68,000 —
“.largely advanced to himself without the Board’s
sanction ”) didn’t worry about such a trifle as a
directors’ meeting. The directors didn’t worry,
either; Mcllwraith had an overdraft of £251,000,
and in numerous accounts was Drury’s partner,
which explains why they didn’t worry. So for
about 12 months the minutes of the directors’
meetings were not written up. Then, when the
trouble started and people began to ask questions,
it was Pritchard who arranged the notes of Pacha
Drury. Altogether, with his experience, he ought
to be a very valuable man to Philp if ever that
boomster gets to the Treasury again. These
people who didn’t even know enough to write up
the minutes of a directors’ meeting were all of the
class of “businessmen” from whom Philp gathers
his Ministries, and wonderfully unbusiness-like
these business men seem to be.
The trumpet blare of cer-
tain employers’ organs about
the season of prosperity is
now recognised by some of
them as having been injudi-
cious. At many a horny-hand
gathering the workers now
threaten to strike unless they
are allowed to participate in the
boom profits of which they
have heard so much. “ The
prosperity has gone to the
heads of some sections of the
community like wine,” says
the S. M. Herald sloppily
but earnestly. Well, when
employers have notified reduc-
tions of wages because the past
season had been bad, or the
future prospects were gloomy,
the Herald was always to
the front in arguing that a
reduction on such grounds was
prudent and necessary. It said nothing then of
adversity having gone like beer to the employers
heads.
From the Bulletin’s oldest soldier
Sydney Telegraph (15/l/’08) boils down into a leader
the sum of its venomous denunciations of Deakin s
compulsory-training idea. It is all a question of personal
liberty. “Call it conscription, call it compulsory
service, call it universal training, or call it Mesopotamia,
and the fact remains unaltered. It is an interference
with individual liberty.” No doubt it is. So is practi-
cally all civilisation. When a man insists on his in-
dividual liberty we call him an outlaw, and shoot him at
sight. The ‘Telegraph says the proposed system
“ involves a curtailment of freedom, to the like of which
Britons have never before been asked to agree.” The
amazing ignorance of a paper that can bring itself to
print that statement is almost past belief. The facts are
notorious. I quote one case. In the Channel Islands
every able-bodied islander turns out for drill when
warned, on pain of severe punishment. On one occasion
during the Revolutionary wars, a strong French force
managed to surprise the regular garrison of Jersey, took
the commanding officer in his bed, and frightened him
into giving orders for disarming the militia. They failed,
unluckily for themselves, to catch the major, who
mounted and turned out the militia, leading the first
companies he could get under arms to the town of St.
Helier, and surprising the French in their turn. The
Colonel of regulars was dragged to a window of the
States House, and shouted to the militia to disperse and
go home. Instead of obeying they shot both him—l hope
I don’t alarm Mr. Editor Ward—and the French com-
mander. The vigilant major who brought the militia on
the scene was himself killed a little later, and his statue
stands in the square where he fell, facing the window
where his cowardly commanding officer was killed.
There’s the story, and there ought to be a moral hanging
to it somewhere.
PREMIER PHILP (of Queensland) as he
would look if he were an aborigine.
Another of Victorian Premier Bent’s bursts
of thunder turns out to be of the stage variety.
y ear or two back he rushed to Thornbury, out
Northcote way, bought a lump of land, ordered
brick-making machinery, and threatened to supply
bke metropolis with bricks, and smash up the
“ combine ” forthwith. The combine knew Bent,
] ] 3 i ril have the bricks for the new railway
station at a 12 per cent, reduction, lowered the
price to the pubhc by a whole 5 per cent., and
waited results Evidently it got the results it
expected for the combines prices are now back
to the old level, Bent’s spasm having effervesced.
And as a guarantee that it shall not bubble again,
20 of the 30 acres of paddock are to be sold for
thereon. And of course the combine will see that
nobody turns out sufficient bricks from that little
yard to interfere with its monopoly. Bent seeks
consolation for the victory of the combine in the
that he (or the SState) won 11 ose money over
t °‘ S
£* Providence whenW»e missed the "bus that
yon weren’t there when the vehicle started ese
y° u DmgtH have een lun over an iu
ternally.
HIDE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Success in life political
Needs something more than brains,
More yet than judgment critical
And morals free from stains ;
tea, check yoUr leanings villainous
And m'ake yo'Ur learning wide—
Hut if you’d work ytfuf will on us
Then cultivate yoiir Hide !
We want no tender pullet ini
Cfur Legislature tough ;
ihe sinful, scoffing Bulletin
Would spike him soon enough ;
The Argus polysyllable
His weakness would deride
The chicken won’t be killable
If he has got a Hide 1
See (if you search for instances)
With what a bold sang-froid
Reid humped through wondrous distances
His vast avoirdupois !
Though papers fiercely edited
Have floored him in his pride,
He is not quite discredited—
He still has got his Hide !
Tom Bent, his Tory brothers, and
Their weird and motley crew,
The futile J. Carruchers, and
His pals, still hold shivoo.
Their fortunes may be sinking ones :
But mark how they abide
Much longer than the shrinking ones,
All through the power of Hide !
So if the path of glory should
Tempt any from his cell,
Both Radical and Tory should
Digest this lesson well—
To cultivate incessantly
A toughly tanned and dried,
Imperious, unpleasantly
Impenetrable Hide !
VIC.
L.


□
<!!!• J*
4 mii }
SOLE AGENTS
These Highly Artistic Pianos
Have been proving tbeir
excellence in Australia for
the past 40 Years.
To such good purpose Have
they done it, that we find it
difficult to Keep pace witH
orders.
The last consignment re-
ceived are real beauties,
tHere being a poetry in tHeir
tone that will appeal to all
musicians, whilst tHeir case*
worK is very chaste.
As to tHeir durability, we
cannot speaK too Highly, and
we substantiate what we say
with our full g'uarantee.
We sell these Pianos for
cash or on easy terms, and
our Catalog'ues are yours
for the asKing.
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
RIDING BREECHES
38/6
To Measure.
sair
ft#*!*
m
*•«
m
*#V«
m
**
* • '
mm
fttM
*js#
THE ACME OF COMFORT.
IMPORTANT TO COUNTRY CLIENTS. —A PERFECT FIT GUARAN-
TEED for Knickers and Coats of every description. Our Self-Measurement
Forms, Patterns, Post Free on application* Write Now to ...
BucKley & Nunn
LIMITED,
300-310 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
An
Office
in
Itself.
Our new and complete
line of Desks are
v,lj
'~c.
m
DesK Perfection.
Modern Features. —Elegant design, massive square effect, selected oak,
raised cross-panelling, centre drawer, private compartment with lock, ideal
arrangement of pigeonholes and files, five-ply top and writing bed, work-
manship and finish the very best. .
A Sound Combination. —Modern quality, modern selling plan,
and modern price.
Send for our new catalogue (it is posted free).
Also consider the value to you of
Roll-top Desks
Flat-top Desks
Typewriter Desks
Standing Desks
Office Tables
Office Chairs
Filing Systems
Card Systems
Loose Leaf Systems
Sectional Bookcases
Storage Cabinets
Fire-proof Safes and
Strong Room Doors, with
Yale Combination and
Time Locks,
Briton Typewriters,
Perry Time Stamps,
Addressing Machines,
Envelope Sealers,
Cheque Protectors,
Office Scales,
General Supplies,
Also business publications —
System Magazine, Factory Magazine, Business Man's Magazine,
The Business Man's Library, Salesmanship Magazine, etc.
Full particulars mailed on request.
Southern Sales, Limited,
282-284 George Street, Sydney.


// WHAT BETTER
THIS WEATHER X
THAN
Peter F. Heering's
CHERRY BRANDY
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricola”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
This Summer has sent us some surprises in the
way of heat —from one end of Australia to the other.
But a few of the wisest amongst us have gone about their
social rounds just as if sunburn, freckles, and other
blemishes of the like were non-existent. We, who are
nursing back flushed burning skins to a degree of comfort
and fairness, have wondered how these fortunate women
manage to defy the sun and heat. The secret has come
out —it is just Valaze. By using Valaze one can keep the
complexion bright and clear on the very hottest weather,
and no trouble is required. You just rub the Valaze
lightly on to the skin, and then dispensing with veils,
gossamers, and such stuffy impediments, you can sally
out regardless of north winds and blister heat. Your
chemist will sell you Valaze at 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. a jar—
get one to-day, while the mood is on you. If he happens
not to sell it, you can secure supplies direct for 6d. extra
for postage from any of the Valaze Institutes at 158 Pitt
Street, Sydney ; 274 Collins Street, Melbourne ; and 9
Brandon Street, Wellington, N.Z.*
The well-known auctioneers, Isles, Love and Co.,
will sell at Esk, near Brisbane, on Saturday, April 4,
the first section of 7700 acres of the Mount Brisbane
Estate. This estate is situated eight miles from the Esk
railway station, in the famous Upper Brisbane River
district, and is one of the best cattle districts in the
world, absolutely drought-proof, and possessing great
facilities for irrigation. The section has been divided
into 47 farms, so arranged as to give each farmer a share
of the best land on the estate. A particularly important
feature of the sale is the fact that the Nestle and Anglo-
Swiss Milk Companies have bought the Cressbrook Milk
Factory, which is about eight miles from the Mount Bris-
bane Estate. Illustrated plans and pamphlets wilLhe
forwarded on application; horses and guides wilrme
furnished free ; and railway fares will be refunded to
purchasers. Terms are quoted as being exceptionally
reasonable.
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King: and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.”
FACILE PRINCE PS
SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, January 21, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
It is a sad moment for tlie Very Best Female
of the Ma State these days when she looks round
her and observes the bachelor man of her set.
Mostly, as a fact, he isn’t a man at all. He is, in
about 97 per cent, of cases, a Youth —an awful,
fatuous Youth. (In the remaining three per cent,
of cases he is middle-aged, dyspeptic, and destitute
of every merit save that of being unmarried
—which latter he discounts by a dogged
and shamelessly unconcealed resolve to remain
so.) If the Youth aforementioned had any
money things might be more cheery. It
would be more cheery if he even had “ pros-
pects.” The word “prospects” is a vague one;
it conjures up in one’s mind a very Golgotha of
hopes which expired in a flood of impotent
objurgation what time the old man married Mrs.
McTavish, the cook, and was blessed with twins
within the year. Still, even “prospects” give a fair
sporting chance. However, it is characteristic of
the present day society youth who remains un-
snared hereabouts, that he hasn’t so much as a
“ prospect.” As to ready cash, if a half-share in a
precarious 40s. per week is any good to the type of
young woman whose male parent owns three motors
and won a measure of fame by being repeatedly
mentioned as a leading fee-disburser during the
Lands troubles, she may (provided she is cute
enough to descend on her quarry at the golden
half-hour which follows immediately upon a heavy
ball-supper) wrest from him an immature declara-
tion—the which is as likely as not to be rescinded
firmlv the next morning when the fumes of the
champagne cup (alleged) that was primarily re-
sponsible for it have been exorcised. But even
that possibility is a frail one. The “smart”
young male, be he never so callow and
unalluring, has grown wary. Immunity from
competition has enlarged his head to the
proportion of a beri-beri subject. The residue of
his weekly 40s.—after cigarettes, socks and tram-
fares have been settled for —is squandered not on
the femme sole of his own circle, but on some
odalisque of the coulisses. As a result, at any
night-function hereabouts, therearegenerally about
20 middle-aged young bloods Bridge-playing in an
atti», and five score or so aged 18 to 23 years
laboriously—albeit patronisingly—learning how to
dance from a bevy of beauteous maidens who
should be employed doing more profitable things.
It is all very terrible. Sydney, just now, is the
Rottenberg of the Southern Seas.
The male bird turned up in large, round
numbers at the Royal Yacht Squadron’s moon-
lighted At Home at Kirribilli Point on Friday
night. There is little dearth of the male bird at
an easy-going, out-of-doors, saunter-as-you-please
festivity when the moon hangs high, and when the
aforesaid he-fowl may smoke. But the stupid
bird turns out in magpie plumage instead of
that of a sea-mew. I think the mew
(or gull) is dressed in white, isn’t he ?
The night was hot and windless; but He in the
lump, with the exception of one, was dressed in
black cloth, with the usual stiff, white rampart of
collar and tree-guard cuffs. Under a dark
yachting cap, or a bowler hat, or a heavy straw,
one might hear.his ideas sizzling with heat in his
brain pan. If one asked him “ Why don’t you
evening-dress as men do in Queensland, or Hong-
kong, or India?” he would probably reply “Go
to. We are afraid of the changes, of the
southerly buster that springeth up like a serpent.
We would be here in a nice, white, seasonable
suit, and to-morrow we would be running up an
undertaker’s bill.” But there are so many
evenings when, worse luck, one might make
affidavit that no cool change will occur.
Sweet Miss Elsie Moore, late of this dejected
State, takes up her little hoe and starts in on the
matrimonial row early next month. She has en-
gaged herself to William Thompson Starr, only
son of Mr. and Mrs. Horace Starr, millionaire and
society magnate of Yew York, U.S.A. Elsie
coijnbined, a few years ago, with Carrie Moore,
Blanche Wallace and others, to make up a most
fair theatrical constellation whose bright shining
relieved ;the chronic darkness of the Ma State’s
misery. Now they are all married or going
to be. Truly the prophet spoke sooth when he
said : There is no matrimonial agency like a leg-
show.
England’s most absorbed attention is given to
anything which has stayed in the same place a
long time. It is a country where the Oldest In-
habitant and the bogus centenarian meet with
much honor; the world’s temple (as it were) of
stagnation. Last month a Mr. Perks wrote the
London Daily Mail, from Giggleswick, and an-
nounced— apropos of absolutely nothing—that he
had a servant who had “ been in the family for 31
years.” The next morning the following was
printed:—
To the Editor of the Daily Mail.
Sir, —A record of thirty-one years for domestic service
is very good, but I can give a better one still.
My own servant has been in our family for an unbroken
period of forty-five years.
I, too, should be glad, therefore, to know if there is any
society existing which rewards such long service.
bowes park, n. J. W. Spicer.
And finally this, which slew further competition
quite dead :
To the Editor op the Daily Mail.
Sir, —My cook has been in our family for 58 years.
She is now 82, and can still cook, read, and sew beauti-
fully. She is, of course, provided for, and the whole
family look on her with affection as a faithful friend.
Devonshire.
A well-known Auckland (M.L.) family—the
Moss Davis clan—is in Sydney, on its way back
from the Cold Country to the new. The members
of the Davis sept are great entertainers and noted
first-nighters, and in M.L. are humorously styled
the Mo de Vees. One of the girls was presented
at Court, and Papa Mo de Vee successfully
floated into a company the Captain Cook
Brewery. Mrs. is a handsome woman, and
one of the sons married a girl of the Pollard
opera co. I haven’t heard how the family part#
its hair, or if it likes lemon in its tea, but taking
it all round it hasn’t much reason to be sorry for
itself.
A writer in an English weekly has been trying
to get behind the beauty of Queen Alexandra. It
is a difficult-enough matter to get behind the
beauty of any very rich woman—she has such an
unlimited choice of accessories. To explain the
secret of the beauty of a queen must be a still
more difficult job. However, the writer professes
to know his subject, and says that the Queen at
over sixty has a fresh smooth face, and a supple
and graceful figure, and that these marvels are
retained by means of diet and walking exercise.
She has all her life ignored tea, coffee and
chocolate, substituting milk with a little sherry
in it; she eats biscuits instead of bread and
butter, uses honey in place of sugar, and
olive oil instead of butter or lard for
cooking purposes. She won’t motor for any
but short runs because motoring develops
wrinkles, and she frequently takes the rest cure
with massage. It sounds 0.K., but the writer
misses the principal point, and that is that her
Majesty has probably never worried. No matter
how high and joyously Albert Edward frisked in
foreign friskdoms, his Princess just rubbed a
little more clarified lard into her complexion
and said, “Don’t call me till luncheon time.”
True, of late years she has been giving the old
King all that was owing to him. When the over-
seas Premiers were in London the royal lady
didn’t hesitate to upset the biggest and most
diamond-dusted functions arranged in honor of
the over-seamen by a flight to Elsinore or Else-
where.
This guff about looking 30 when one is 60 is of
perennial interest to the meeker sex, barring
the women one sees thronging about Parramatta on
market day—small farmers’ wives and the like.
They have skins like the leatherjacket-fish, and
are lined like the sea sand when the rippled water
plays on it. Yet some of the most time-trodden
looking amongst them are only in the early
thirties. A hair and skin specialist once told one
of his patients that the secret of retention of
beauty lay in a perfect digestion, and an absence
of conscience. The more absent the conscience
was the better.
Miss Lynne Maclurcan goes hence by the
Dorset on a trip to Bull Land. Her versatile
mother goes as far as Melbourne with her bant-
ling, to put a new cough cure on that market.
The exotic-looking Elbert Orton, formerly of
the Julius Knight co., leaves to-day by the
Aorangi for Vancouver. La Sylphe and her
mother also go by the same boat. The mother never
gave the gilded or pinchbeck Johnnies a chance
of saying sweet things to the girl with the patent
hinges in her spine. Other departers for March
will be the iron Sandfords, who go to the U.S.
The Sandford boys will add their energies to
those that keep America at work.
Colonel Bridges, the man who is a terror to
finny things in many of the waters of the
worid, is in Sydney for a few days, stay-
ing with the McQuades at Potts Point.
On Wednesday he goes to Maoriland to catch
trout and salmon. That’s the only occupation for
the wise person this weather. It is next in charm
to being a fish—an uncaught, uncatchable fish—
yourself. Military fisherman Bridges and three
other men were fishing in Norway last summer
when a couple of pals and palliasses of mine were
in the neighborhood. One of the latter intended
casting a line in the same river, but refrained
when she learned that the four men had paid
£250 each—that would be £lOO0 —for the hire of
the river. This is a fact, though it has nothing to
do with the subject. Miss Chandos Pole, a cousin
of Colonel Bridges, preceded him to Maoriland.
When Mrs. Bland Holt left the German liner
at Fremantle, she was apparently in the best of
health. Her friend and fellow-traveller, Miss
Coppin, was very ill, and Mrs. Holt would not
leave her when she was carried ashore. By next
day, Mrs. Holt herself had developed typhoid,
and the pair tottered affectionately together on
the brink of the grave for some days. As I write,
the glad news comes that they are now on the
mend.
Remember Alfred Cooper, who was at the Aus-
tralia last year with a baby monkey? At least
the baby monkey was in a cage on a balcony out-
side its owner’s window. Alfred was the maddest
man in Great Britain a few months ago. He had
lately rented Highcliff Castle, at a price of £2OOO
a year, from its owner, Stuart Wortley, when the
old King asked Wortley to rent it to the German
Emperor, who wanted to do a rest cure.
Wortley said, “I’ll lend it,” and forthwith
requested his tenant to get off the immemorial
grass and remove his shadow from under the im-
memorial elms. “The King’s wish” is con-
sidered sufficient cause to shift the most strongly-
glued tenant. A. Cooper went within twenty-
four hours. A big establishment, too! It’s
enough to turn a duke into a raving Anarchist
with dynamite in his pockets.
A correspondent sends me this :
Wedded, on Dec. 7, 1907, at St. Patrick’s Cathedral,
Melbourne, Leonard Keith, eldest surviving son of P. W.
Ward, Sydney, to Estella Jane, eldest daughter of W.
Hockin, of Melbourne. What memories of Mel-
bourne in the ’fifties the name of Hockin conjures
up. Hockin’s Hotel and Assembly-rooms were on
the north-west corner of Lonsdale and Elizabeth
streets. In the Assembly-rooms Swelldom held its gather-
ings, but at election times the hall resounded with
the oratory of those who wooed the coy and chary
voter. In the later ’seventies, when Wilson Gray,
Don, Graham Berry, and others of the people were
agitating for land reform, some lively meetings
were held there. This scribe remembers one Caldwell,
a candidate for West Melbourne, addressing the crowd.
Amongst the audience was Wilson Gray, who cross-
examined the candidate. Caldwell objected to a “ stump
orator” questioning him. The phrase raised the ire
of the little Irishman, who promptly gave his
political and educational pedigree, including his
career at Trinity College. Incidentally Mr. Grav asked,
apropos payment of members, how Mr. Edward Cohen, a
candidate for East Melbourne, would like to leave his
trafficking and commissions to attend Parliament if
it met, say, at Beechworth. This brought up Mr.
Philip Cohen, a benign Hebrew, to defend his co-
religionist. Several speakers chipped in more or less in
anger, and the meeting 1 broke up in disorder. It was in
Hockin's Assembly Room that Colonel Pitt enlisted a
contingent for Maoriland in the 'sixties to fight the
Maoris, land grants and good pay being the inducement.
One man was asked by the colonel his town ad-
dress. “ No. 9 boiler, wharf, sir," was the prompt reply.
For many years, on Cole's and Raleigh's wharves,
were a number of large boilers, exported to Melbourne on
spec in the yelling days. There was no use for them, and
they became the “town residences" of loaferdom
Almost the sanest felo de se that history records
was “sat upon’’ by Acting Coroner Murphy of
Sydney last Saturday. Captain Vos decided
(8/l/’08) “ while seated comfortably and quite easy
in mind—time 4T5 p.m.”—that life was no longer
worth living. It was not a conclusion he had
leapt at wildly in the crude fashion of the inexact
thinker. Vos was a type to weigh pros and cons
carefully before taking any important step. On
one side of the measure he balanced the
existence he had known since he knew
anything; on the other, forgetfulness, sleep,
the oblivion that comes hereafter—the possi-
bility of a warm, raging, theological Sheol
being dismissed as too faint for the notice of a
common-sense man. Oblivion tipped the scale with
some emphasis. In a spirit as altruistic as it was
devoid of sensationalism, Vos left the only possible
verdict in his case already written out for the
coroner. The idea was to avoid trouble and mis-
apprehension, and cut the sordid, ghoul-like busi-
ness of inquest as short as possible. In return,
Vos asked that special precautions might be taken
against the danger of premature burial —an experi-
ence he had always dreaded. Then, at 12 midnight
precisely, the life-weary one absorbed his laudanum
and laid him down to take his long rest. Throughout
his attitude was perfect —a model to all suicides.
The one unphilosophic touch to be discerned by
the closest observer was the hurling by Vos of
“curses” at some persons unspecified. That was
a false note carrying a suggestion of theatricalism
unworthy of the deceased. Not the least satis-
factory feature of this suicide was the total
euchring of the Law in regard to the old “unsound
mind” verdict it delights to return in such circum-
stances. The coroner who, after reading Vos’s
statement of his case, could say the latter was
mad for demonstrating in the only convincing way
possible his view that life was not the thing it is
cracked up to be, would be ripe for restraint
himself.
The death of Mrs. John Marks, which occurred
suddenly at “Glenrock”on Sunday, will put a
good many families into mourning. Besides Mr.
Theo Marks and son, and Miss Irene Marks, the
only unmarried daughter, and Sydney’s best-known
and best-liked beauty, there are uncles, aunts,
nephews, nieces, and remoter connections in-
numerable in and about Sydney. The deceased
lady was charitable in the best—because least
obtrusive— way ; and had a huge tally of genuinely
admiring friends.
The Mitchell twin brides are staying at the
Wentworth. Mrs. Herbert Perry, of Brisbane, is
also there, having motored down from her own
pineappled State.
In March next 30 footballers —full Maoris or
half-castes ; anyway, there won’t be any whites
amongst them —will come from Ward’s Own
Country to play matches in this sunburnt land.
They will wear native costume, and half-an-hour
before each “ engagement” will do a haka. It is
safe for prophecy to break out, like the lunatic
who escaped the other day, and assert that if
the game doesn’t draw, the haka will. Maoriland
owes us at least a haka, for the influx of Australians
into its picturesque places this summer has been
the biggest on record, and much of our good red
legal tender remains behind in the islands.
Mrs. Jim Osborne (Maud Jeffries) is in Mel-
bourne, staying with the Misses Clapp. The fair
lady has Sydney’s permission to come back. One
hundred and twelve in the shade won’t leave her
any of the color of the roses of Beaucaire.
On a recent trip to M.L. there were among the
passengers a lady and gentleman who came on
board unbeknownst to each other. The Law had
joined them together, and mutual detestation and
the Law had put them asunder. But the
sundering was as wide only as a legal
separation. By all the laws of romance the twain
ought to have become reconciled. Instead, they
dodged each other with great enthusiasm, and
the man got off at the first port. Again, the
law of fiction went wrong. He ought to have met
the lady at his hotel, she having also got out at
the first port; but he didn’t.
The picturesque days of martyrdom are gone.
In the good old times any sort of crank could
start a row, a new religion, a reform or a rebellion
by the simple process of making a nuisance of
himself. Then the would-be victim could rely on
being thrown (he was always thrown)
into prison until the torturers came back
from their holidays or someone had leisure
to order an execution. But in these quiet
modern daysauthority takes the person-who-makes-
a-row gently by the collar, leads him or her to a
cool, secluded cell, and applies the rest cure. The
big, calm policeman who stands like a fat statue
at the corner and chaperons the street is the
ripened fruit of the Tree of Justice. He has a
rich brogue, a twinkling eye in the shadow of
his helmet, and his “Go on wid ye now!”
accompanied by an imperious wave of his
mighty arm, is like a parting blessing. To
disobey that good-humored command one needs
to be either mad or drunk. The two women
who chained themselves to Campbell-Bannerman’s
fence in Downing-street (London) last week are
several hundred years behind the times. That
sort of thing doesn’t excite the public—it doesn’t
even excite the Law. The Law simply filed
their chains, and took them gently away. It
doesn’t mind that, but the standing about next
morning in the “coort,” while the lady is being
awarded her three weeks’ rest cure, makes its feet
sore, and, by the time the thing is over, it feels
almost irritable. Still these ladies ought to feel
grateful. If the two who chained them-
selves to C.-Bannerman’s fence had just been left
there instead of being released by the police, the
evening and the night would have seemed very
long, and the stray dogs that sniffed at them in the
dark hours would have been a horror.
There is, according to the cable, a very much
hurt and wronged woman in London. She is the
Countess of Cottenham, and she alleges that a cer-
tain Rose Robinson has been personating her in
Melbourne and London, and using her style and
title. As the horrible but natural result, the
Countess has been “annoyed by Australians,”
who thought they had met her in Melbourne,
and called to renew the acquaintance in Eng-
land. Anyone who realises the horror of the
situation must sympathise with Mrs. Cottenham.
In my mind’s eye I can see the honest but uncul-
tured Australian peer, with a gum leaf in his
mouth, and a tame rock wallaby at the end of a
string, and his missus taggingbehind him, looking
in at the ancestral hall of the Pepys (pronounced
“Pepps”) lady, and wringing her hand, and
calling her, in his large, erroneous Australian
way, “Mrs. Blottingpaper,” while the tame wal-
laby broke loose and bounded all over the
drawing-room. It is pleasing to learn that the
Robinson lady has been captured, and she will
doubtless be made to drink three buckets of water
unless she confesses All.
Some notes from my Brisbane correspondent
His slim Excellency comes out of his highland fastness
on Wednesday next for a brief while, and after running
one or two little errands for the Ministers of State,
will, in the evening, grace the Ninth Regiment Band
concert, at the Exhibition, with a flicker of his pale light.
Marie Narelle is to be a guest on that occasion. The
bright Irish songstress gives a recital herself upon the fol-
lowing evening, possibly also under the radiance of the dim
vice-regal light ; but whether his Ex. is there or not, there
is sure to be a big turn-out to bid her a temporary fare-
well. She is looking splendid these days, and she is
living mostly upon milk, which seems to have imparted an
extra touch of velvet to her big mellow voice.
Many are the tea parties that fill up the blank days
these ‘dull times. Violet Newton, fourth daughter of
gentleman Dick, who goes Fogward next month to wed
Paymaster Woodman of the Pvramus, had many
“ hankies’'bestowed upon her last Tuesday at a hand-
kerchief tea given in her honor by Miss Lela Slade. The
young hostess will probably be her very own sister one
dav, so it was an act of family kindness.
Pretty Mrs. David Hamilton (nte Nicholson) is flaunting
some unique Paris confections here at present. She is
putting in a month with her mother and sisters, and
seems glad to get back into the heat. She and Mrs. Geoffrey
Barton were the middle gems at a select cat convention
arranged by Mrs. Barton’s mother, Mrs. D. G. Stewart,
on Thursday.
Naval Commandant Captain Richardson is on the spree
this week or so. He is supposed to be in Melbourne, but
probably you will find him at one of your own pet summer
resorts, if you look. Our military boss dawg is likevyise
enjoying his annual let-up, and has moved his kennel into
a shady spot somewhere.
Received this week from Margaret Ferguson, in London,
two of her songs set to words by Freda Knapp. They are
called “ Yesterday ” and “ Waiting.” The words won’t
set anything on fire, but the music is “ right there,” and
shows how well our little Queenslander is progressing.
The sailing season virtually closed to-day, with a fine
handicap under the auspices of the Queensland Flying
Squadron. Its features were a full flagship, much tea
and chat, a delightful wind, and a good contest, in which
the Australian champion and ex-champion, Volent and
Violet 11., were licked hollow by the big yacht Pegwell.
Ida Boyd, the dark-eyed Courier scribe, will be in
Sydney along with this, on holiday bent.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENHI.
A little plain truth about an imported
article. De Castella, the Victorian vigneron has
returned from a visit to Portugal. He describes
the making of port on the Douro thus :
The most essential feature of the fermentation of
port was the amount of “ work ” which was put into the
crushed grapes. This “ work ” consisted of the energetic
churning of the contents of the vats by barefooted men.
In a lazar, or vat, of the size mentioned, 20 men would be
employed for at least 24 hours to dance on the grapes,
which filled the lazar to a depth of an inch or so over the
men’s knees. The dancing or tramping was not carried
on continuously, but in spells of from four to six hours
at a time, separated by an equal interval of rest. The
village band generally enlivened the “ dancing ” opera-
tion, especially at night.
Yet people—some people—prefer imported wines.
Obviously the connoisseur who talks of a “fruity”
port is wrong. He should say “ footy.”
Melbourne detectives are asking for some
authority to enable them to prosecute the “ vic-
tims” of bogus assaults. In one week, lately,
three citizens made circumstantial complaints
about assault and robbery which were all found to
be pure fiction. The first tale looked plausible
enough, but the representative citizen, who said
he had lost a watch and chain, couldn’t account
for being in a highly improper part of the city at
a very irregular hour, and finally admitted that
he must have “fancied” he had been robbed.
The second complainant was a reverend gentle-
man of the Judkins persuasion, who alleged that
he had been violently assaulted and robbed in
Bourke-street, outside the Eastern Market—of all
places ! —at 10 p.m. on a Saturday, the very hour
when that part of the street is so crowded that one
can hardly get along the footpath. Close inquiry
gave no hint of anything unusual having hap-
pened, and the good man was finally informed
that he ought to regulate his dreams better in
future. The third “victim” was a Famil?
Herald young person, who alleged that she had
been crossing Albert Bark in the cool of the even-
ing, when she was waylaid by two men, who sat
upon her while they methodically abstracted her
purse from her blouse and took off her boots.
The ’tecs grinned at this amazing yarn, but as
soon as they set about investigating, a wire came
urgently desiring them to “drop the case.” They
dropped it. But they begin to weary of these
bogus assaults. There is no honor and glory to be
got out of them, and when they can’t be proved
absolutely bogus, they go into the records as un-
discovered crimes, to the discredit of the men who
are supposed to ferret out such things.


*
Jf
&
4.
wwprm
miwiiiiiffwv
r - . .. . • ‘ • '■■
■■•■■ . ■■• . •■“' .. . * »..'•■** __ •• -
. *
■
fj*- -
few
'
IT'
> V
ys
V
' w v mw \ v
V.
V v
i
V *
laa^
ii-,
- J\
/ w
T H
I '
<b
' Ja
<
Si
Or
'
ST
'"‘z
.
£
<c
■WVi
O
r ' w "•«,
v St g . JjS
\ •
r Iv//,; r
x
/ X
sX X
N
£A
. "’s
" JS
s
\
J?
'
Sr
7
*•
«*
V
5
<
i
*2*
-4 np^ nC *
nr— :
Interstate Mail
Steamshin Lines
!N many respects Brisbane is
the ideal city of Australia.
There the Temperate and
Sub-Tropical meet. Wool
and cotton may be grown
side by side, and rice and
wheat wave within sight of one another. On
the tables of its cafes one may take his choice of
the apples, pears and cherries of the Temperate
Zone, or the paw-paws, grenadillas and mangoes of
the burning tropical climate. And it is this meeting
of the zones, the mingling of the tropical and the
temperate, that makes the charm of the place; this
white city of the north where roses bloom all the year
round, where the sky is always blue, and even the
hottest days are pleasant because the heat is dry and
stimulating. The youngest of the Australian capitals,
Brisbane, is essentially modern, and, with all due
deference to the claims of antiquity, there is
something very charming and wholesome about
a city that is essentially modern through
and through. But it must not be forgotten
that to the tourist on the steamers of the A.U.S.N.,
Adelaide S.S., and Howard Smith companies, Bris-
bane is merely the first place of call. Beautiful and
interesting as it is, it is merely one of a score of
charming places included in the round trip.
The steamers in this trade are specially adapted
for the climate. Roomy, and fitted with cabins that
are always airy, with a cuisine specially designed to
meet the climate, the exploration of this great stretch
of coastline, which will be to Australasia what the
Mediterranean Sea is to Europe, can now be done in
the utmost comfort and in reasonable time. Even
the man in far-away Melbourne can run round to
Cairns—and during the months of April, May, June,
July and August there is no more delightful climate
in the world than that of Cairns —and get back to his
desk in the southern capital in 27 days. Sydney people
can scamper through it in comfort in 20 days, while
the Brisbaneite can do it in a modest 14 days. Ihe
following is a very brief attempt to enumerate some
of the lovely sights that may be seen on the trip.
G
a
The steamer approaches the Queensland capi-
tal by the Brisbane River, and winds into a
magnificent basin between picturesque high
bluffs on one side and the everlastingly
green slopes of the superb Botanical
Gardens, in which groves of palm trees
and clumps of whispering bamboos
mingle with flowers
originally brought
from England.
Having ex-
plored the
Gardens and
seen the
sub-tropical
city, the
tourist will
be whirled
away over
ground that
rises con-
tinually till
he finds
himself on
the shoulder of a mountain and looks down on
an amazing panorama. The land rolls out like a
great picture, and the city, the sea, rivers, forests,
distant towns are all spread out like a painted picture.
But such a picture ! a masterpiece in blues, violets, and
purples. That panorama alone is worth the trip,
If the tourist has the time to spare he will find much
to interest him in the products of this huge State of
Queensland. For instance, not one man in a hundred
in the South knows that over 40 years ago Queensland
grew cotton and exported it, and that even to-day, at
the town of Ipswich, there is still standing a fully-
equipped cotton mill capable of turning out all the
cotton goods the Northern State uses. Even in the
southern portions of Queensland both Egyptian and
American cotton can be grown. Tea has also been
grown in the same State, and there is little doubt
that, some day, when Australia realises that a sea-
voyage ruins the flavor of tea, no matter how care-
fully packed, it will draw all its supplies from the
great northern State. However, this is not an
economic chapter.
_ .
Back again on the liner, steaming northward, the
tourist sees the tropics unroll. No need to wander
away to Singapore or Ceylon, and risk one’s life amid
the hideous diseases of an inferior race, to see the
golden glory of the “glowing East.” It can all
be seen on that delightful run from Moreton Bay to
Trinity Inlet on the Queensland coast. Seen comfort-
ably, safely and inexpensively, without the accom-
paniment of the hideous smells that make a trip to
the so-called Orient almost as dangerous to health as
an excursion to the middle of a battlefield while the
carnival is in full blast. When you steam round the
Malay Peninsula, or along the coast of Ceylon,
cholera walks in the day, and small-pox and typhoid
are g;oing all the time. Also, most of this delightful
trip is between the Barrier Reef and the coast of the
mainland, and the result is that it is to all purposes
as smooth a trip as that down Sydney Harbor. In
fact, one man who had been over it a dozen
times told the writer he experienced more rough
water crossing Sydney Heads to Manly than
in all his trips along the Queensland coast.
As the steamer glides northward, the foliage
changes, and sugarcane and pineapples come into view.
Cocoanut plantations, such as one sees in the South
Sea Islands and Ceylon, begin to wave against the
pale, glittering blue of the cloudless sky; great
lagoons are seen covered with the crimson mass of
the red lotus. In Ceylon the lotus lagoons are one of
the sights of the place which the tourist pays extra to
see. Here he can gaze at them till he is tired. And
as the steamer cleaves through the chrysophrase
water the islands rise greenly, fringed with golden
sand or silver coral, glow beautifully for a while, and
then die down in the distance, while others rise again
in front, till at Cairns the full blush and beauty
of the real tropics breaks on the sight.
At Cairns even the most hurried tourist will leave
the steamer. His ticket will take him on by the next
steamer, no matter which of the companies the ship
may belong to. The trip up has been one long suc-
cession of lovely islands, looking like floating para-
dises, picturesque headlands and splendid bays.
Now the tourist can take a 20-mile railway run
through scenery that is unrivalled. Most of the way
lies through the wild, majestic, titanic Barron
Gorge, which rivals in splendor the world-famous
Buller and Otira Gorges of much-advertised
Maoriland. Money talks, ana some idea of
the wildness of the scenery may be guessed from
the fa-cfc that this railway cost £28,000 per mile to
build. Whereas to see the Otira and Buller gorges
one has to risk life on a crazy coach in which all
safety depends upon a brake controlled by a man’s
foot, the tourist can see the glory of the Barron
Gorge from a comfortable first-class railway carriage
travelling over a line that has never had one accident
up to date. This is a big consideration. The journey
ends at the famous Barron Falls, and the trains
stop where the most superb view of this mass
of foaming water plunging down 700 ft. can be
obtained. And such bush ! Here the splendid
ferns and the gorgeous orchids that the South
grows expensively and more or less unsuccessfully
in conservatories are climbing around in wild pro-
fusion. Then there are some wonderful caves which
the Government is exploring and busily engaged in
opening up for tourist traffic, and which, if they turn
out any good, should provide an additional attraction
to the district.
On the Johnstone River one finds Asiatics in large
numbers ; but, fortunately, they will in time pass and
vanish. But what will- remain indefinitely is that
magnificent mountain mass, the Bellenden Ker range,
where the wandering tourist, armed with a good'
camera and reserve supply of plates, may find himself
in Heaven for a while—till his plates give out, in fact.
There are falls, whole series of cascades, and great
rounded holes caused by the rush of swirling boulders
borne down by flood waters wonderful places.
Cruising on the Johnstone is itself a delightful
experience, the dense bush on either hand, calm blue
waters, and the wonderful play of light on sky and
river in afternoon and evening.
Another beauty spot is Mourilyan Harbor. Great
pillars of rock rise gigantically from the sea, and
through the opening, not more than a hundred yards
across, the deepest drawing steamers may go with
perfect safety. Inside it is a circular bay, a huge
harbor, dotted over with green islands fringed with
mangroves, and surrounded with blue and purple hills
that in many places dip sheer down to the water’s
edge. This is the Harbor of Eternal Calm. The
township is called Cowley, and is situated near
the rocky gate, and lives by growing
bananas. '
Of the gorgeous beauty of the
Hinchinbrook Channel there is
no space left in the present
issue to speak. Another
time a more detailed
account will be given
of this most beauti
ful of all earthly
water-ways. The
foregoing is merely
the beginning of
what the tourist
can see from the
decks of the
steamers of the
Five Companies
when he takes
the trip along
the Queensland
coast.
?WKes
ti - '-0
Or
P
*
ya


•ißeeonneriDt-D«
»B>t Tnc'LAhCff
iwmt ITcpical
• FACULTY °
• * c>-o=£?
We - would - like,
yoD-ro -hy-cx
3<ymple * niN
of - oor-experse
cstsO-*> w
'\
*»/
R
J3er\d - ’
hoK- Dqok LErT= *
PAPIO-
Tp fttD -Jntn-
• o>o
JOUBERT & JOUBERT,
Flinders St., Melbourne.
CLAUDE HEALY & CO., I
63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
L. E. JOUBERT,
Perth, W.A.
iimiJERD
Pood
THE FOOD THAT MAKES THE BABY GROW.
THE SECRET
of
GRACEFUL
FIGURE.
■Jo
s-SI-St?
bra red
o
CORSETS
r
T
A
R
R
A
N
T
A Stately
Gathering
of Craceful Cars, all
renowned for
Reliability, Ease and
Durability.
F.I.A.T.
DE DION
ARGYLL
TARRANT
MERCEDES
BRITANNIA
ROVER
They all hold Records second
to none.
We are SOLE AGENTS in Victoria.
New Models by every steamer.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.,
104=112 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, January 20, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The weather is the only topic and the universal
grief. Such heat has never been known within
the memory of woman, and new babies and old
grandmothers sail off every hour for the great
Beyond before a draught of fire-hot wind. And
the whole world is walking about without a waist-
coat, and in a minimum of underclothing. The
girls who must be abroad ’neath the garish sun
have reduced their linings to a negligible quantity,
and stride the seething pavements looking like
peripatetic statues of the slightly-draped species.
To see a flock of slim, sweet girls, with supple gar-
ments closely clasping their curves, marching in
the gale and the blaring sunlight is a picturesque
spectacle. They give quite a classic air to a well-
built vista. But anyhow it’s too miserably hot to
find beauty in anything—barring a cool change.
And there isn’t a sign of such a thing—even at
midnight the air burns. In the seaside suburb,
where I have taken refuge, the nights are of the
YValpurgis variety. Strange figures flit by in
eerie fashion, speeding like ghosts along. They
are respectable citizens, clad in flapping pyjama
suits, scorching along on lampless bicycles in the
hope of meeting a breeze. On the sands are
dozens of other respectabilities of both sexes,
stretched with their feet to the sea, and a bright
red moon grins down on the simmering scene.
A male friend told me these things
“ I thought myself the pioneer of the pillow-
and-beach idea, and stretched myself happily on
a tussocky slope. A few minutes later I glared
at an intruder stretching his lanky length near
by. My next amazement was at a thoroughly
domesticated couple snuggling down almost at my
elbow. This in the eerie early hours. Then more
shemales, and a fluttering tremolo, ‘That you,
Mrs. Smith ? May we come along near you ? ’
More flutter and arranging and a hum of chatter.
‘ Oh, shut up ! ’ I growled, and an indignant and
flustered party of chooks fluttered away to an
unmanned bit of shell.
“ Two girls swam out of the sea and trailed up
the sands in bathing dress. ‘ How’ll they dress ?’
I wondered. The girls disappeared behind my
tussock for a few seconds. There was a murmur
of voices, and suddenly they passed me—clad.
‘ Lightning change artists from Rickards,’ I mur-
mured. Probably their wearables were a towel
and a kimona.
“ By three in the morning every grain of sand
was reserved. Sleepers spread on the Esplanade
seats and drooped along the Pier planks. All
night the streets droned with ghosts carrying
pillows! The dawn drove the beachites home in a
bad temper —aggravated by the vitality of the
male Youth, that chased itself over the sleepy
sand, yelling * Are we down-hearted ? No ’ —and
the arrival of every kind of vehicle—from motors
to donkey carts—carrying out-suburb limp ones
for a morning dip.
“ Shows the amazing proportion of non-
swimmers among bathers ! Baths were crowded
to suffocation, yet beyond the delightful line of
‘ deep-water ’ —right out to the far battens of
the enclosures—there was a mere smattering of
swimmers. The huge cram-jammed majority
splashed and dabbled in the shallows.”
Mixed bathing reaches an alarming pitch round
the Bay, not alarming from a Judkins point of
view, but because of the increase of a third
ingredient in the mixture—sharks. The self-
assured idiot still swims in the open in the stilly
stealth of the night, and risks the jaws of the
voracious one. The hot, still weather brings
shoals of the horrors, and they are abandoning the
difficult prey of the open for easier sport in the
enclosures. A fisherman discovered a venerable—
probably bald-headed—old shark party cocking
one eye through the battens of the women’s baths,
and gloating. The fisherman arrested him for in-
sulting behavior, but that’s only a sample. Bath
battens sometimes indulge in injudicious separa-
tion, sufficiently wide to admit a grandfather
shark into the picnic if he is looking for something
young and plump in girl bait.
A Macedonian sends word of a cricket match—
a most superior cricket match. It happened on
the 11th, and was played ’twixt the youths attached
to Government Cottage and a team captained by a
Robert Harper son. Says he: “From every direc-
tion towards one point the neighborhood travelled
in every sort of conveyance —in prams, and
spring-carts, and motahs. Motahs predominated.
I guessed from the spring-carts and the motahs
that a ‘smart’ function, to which the vulgar
might sally, was in prospect. Being between the
extremes—a snobbish sort of turn-out, in short—
I turned in rny tracks, and followed the
crowd. I reached the local cricket-ground. There
were a number of Naice people there, and a
sprinkling of the nasty. Mr. Talbot and his
missus were there; I was there; so was A. O.
Jones. And there were 22 speckiessly flannelled
fools playing the worst game of cricket ever seen.
A very fat youth, looking like a patent
oatmeal advt., made 27, and all the
other young gentlemen made 81 for their
first innings. Then some more well-tailored
sports from Government Cottage, by the most
strenuous effort, amidst great applause, made 52
runs. The Harper team made 157 in its next three
hours, and the Guvmentouse crew followed with 88
with three wickets to fall. Then everyone went
away to dress for dinnah, and A. O. Jones
walked off the ground with a grin. The remainder
of the game will be played in a future existence,
I understand, as the young men are still greatly
exhausted by their unprecedented exertions in
the cause of sport. I prefer a game played with
earnestness by a bunch of school truants on a
ploughed field to an exposition of personal
vanity by well-tailored and awf’ly dear young
men.”
Peterboro’ has developed a fashionable tang
this year —even ousting Lome. The cute Atherton
girls, with Mamma in wily chaperonage, run
swagger picnic luncheons and carnival dances,
with a fat and jolly aide as guest-in-chief.
Moonlight motorings are quite the coolest order of
the evening.
Mrs. Tommy Murdoch (formerly Leslie Tope)
has settled down to domesticity at her charming
home, “ Warrawee,” in Hobart. Presently, when
the honeymoon has waned, a batch of girl chums
travel over to be chaperoned through a season of
gaiety by the dear little dame.
Re stage-ladies: Why “the little mother,
“ the motherling,” “ my sainted mamma, or any
other version of the senile, grey-haired wheeze
which has grown decrepit through overwork and
exposure ? As a rule, the petticoated star is a
fount of inspired inventions and audacious candors,
yet she never has the courage or the wit to exploit
“my worshipped babe ” or “ my superlative son.
Even before the Butt babies became advertising
agentsand reduced theattracting value of offspring,
the average stage-lady abjured any mention of the
inevitable infant who sucks a comforter, in the
background of every sensible woman’s existence.
Since the notable advent of the Butt baby-booms-
ters, the stage-lady has shown no more enterprise
than aforetimes, but still bores one by conjuring
up the spectre of an aged female, who knits for
the poor while she reads press-cuttings concerning
her daughter’s performance in far lands. I wish
she’d cease, for her own sake. The soul of suc-
cessful advertising is originality ; failing that,
audacity.
The mysterious Gnash leaves the scene of
his latest sorrows for England. As a matter
of unimportant truth, the cautious canon
booked his passage only ten days or so
before the Mongolia departed. His arch-
bishop had his berth engaged six months
ago. The canon travels second, the other cleric
sails o’er the ocean wave saloon. So the sancti-
monious sparrers wouldn’t have had much
opportunity to come into conflict even if the canon
hadn’t “ considered good taste.” Then there’s
another consideration—-the Nash sympathisers
have another fortnight in which to gather golden
ammunition for their saint, who is so sadly mis-
understood. Truly, impresarios should gladly
avail themselves of all chances to study the
methods of the Churches. They’re educational
advertisers.
J. A. Miller, who is just now managing West’s
picture show at the Olympia, sent one of his bloom-
ing young daughters off to Manila the other week,
to play a bridesmaid’s rdle in the polite comedy of
a cousin’s wedding. The damsel was probably
the first Australienne to journey to the Philip-
pines on such slender provocation ; but the proper
spirit of a showman’s daughter was strong within
her. Her comment upon the romantic performance
she forwarded on a post-card, “ The wedding was
a great success ” !
It’s hardly fair to let the Wallace co. retire even
temporarily, without tendering it a valedictory
par. So let me tell the piteous tale of the K.C.’s
notes! “My learned friend” got into his dia-
lectic stride late one afternoon, and moved the
jurymen almost to tears .by his eloquent argu-
ments. The Court adjourned for the day, and off
went the eminent K.C. after giving a hundred-
weight of closely-written notes into the care of a
clerk. The trusted minion placed the notes in a
legal bag, reflecting meanwhile upon the ills of
humanity, the beat, and his personal feelings.
With the priceless notes bagged, and beneath his
arm, he sallied forth in sorrow—with a
frightfully urgent thirst. The thirst called
aloud for satisfaction. With alacrity he answered
the deafening cry. Next morning the eminent
K.C.’s notes and their custodian were both un-
available. The man-o’-law immediately engaged
four detectives. They failed to find the recreant
youth. The man-o’-law spoke of his awful loss to
the anguished co-re. Within an hour Dr. Bob
had recovered the outfit, man, bag, and all, and
delivered them to the worst-tempered counsel of
the day. Which suggests that when a co-re. ’s repu-
tation "is at stake he has the finding power of ten
’tecs.
Rumors that Mrs. Wallace, of the Case, had
collapsed into a private hospital, are contradicted
by the fact that the much-discussed lady is flitting
about Frankston in fetching pink linen and a
motor.
Apropos the dead divorce case. Before C.-J.
Madden gave his summing up, five jurymen were
in favor of Mrs. Wallace. After it, there was
but one.
Apropos something else—Squatter Airey, of
Warranooke, is a popular old party in the sixties
of his years. His second wife was a parson’s
daughter, whom he married four years or so
ago. The old man is a breeder of swift
steeds and other superior cattle, and ranches
in the neighborhood of Stawell. For many years
he was shadowed by the sorrow of his young
son’s death, which occurred while the fine lad
was at school. A spinster daughter has been
his chief consoler, and for years has been a com-
panion to her kindly pa. The pair have been a
familiar and breezy brace of visitors to Scott’s
Hotel many times, but neither headed in the
direction of that stockyard branded Sassiety
during their town trips.
Melba is good-natured to girls. Not seldom
her motor scurries to a Camberwell (Vic.) board-
ing school to take for an outing two salad misses,
daughters of the widower who is privileged to
hold the Diva’s fan and parasol these times (Dickie
Nevill ran her messages last time she was here).
On Plum-pudding Day, Melba had a midday
Christmas dinner to suit the tastes of a family-
gathering, which included old age and infancy.
Then she wound-up with high tea and a Christ-
mas tree, to which were bidden various pretty but
poor Cinderellas of her acquaintance, whose own
rich relatives have been careful not to spoil them
by over-indulgence. Watches and chains and all
the costly trinket-fads of the hour grew on
Melba’s Yule-tree, and were distributed by a
Santa Claus to those likely to appreciate them
most. Daughter-in-law Ruby is a friendly young
thing, who has the knack of liking the same
people and things as her decided relative-by-
marriage.
Miss Gertrude Ampt, drowned in the Yarra on
Dec. 14, was a fine girl, strong, sensible, and as
musical as the daughter of German parents is
apt to be. She was a distinguished student at the
’Varsity Conservatorium of Music, and when she
met her death was in the company of Mrs. Ewart,
wife of the ’Varsity professor, and winner of the
prize for the best musical setting of the Exhibition
(Women’s) Ode. The cutting off of this vigorous
young personality leaves a sad blank in a home
where there were only two children, “ Trude
and her brother—the latter an ardent follower of
science at the local University.
There is a certain amount of belated anger over
the acquisition of “ Stonington ’’ for the State Ex.,
and irrelevant things are being said about the pre-
vious ownership of that stately pile. Thomas Bent,
in his anger, declared that “Stonington” in the first
place belonged to the daughter or niece of William
McCulloch, M.L.C. Fact is that his son Sam s
wife had an interest in the property, which was
certainly the best of a much-discussed set of places
suitable for State vice-regality when Government
House proper was taken over by the G.-G.
‘ ‘ Stonington ” wasbuilt by Wagner—weal thy Wag-
ner, of the Cobb’s coach firm (Robertson and
Wagner). Both partners made much money, and
retired to sheep stations. “Parracoota” (near Swan
Hill) was a Wagner sheep run that boasted a fine
system of irrigation. Young Jack Wagner, who
didn’t survive his dad more than a couple of
years, made a hobby of journalism, and had exalted
literary aspirations. The Melbourne dailies pub-
lished several articles of his from New York—
mostly dealing with subjects from the Bowery.
Every dog has its day, and even the dog day
has its compensations. Heard a very paean of
Sun-worship from an Ice-Cream Lady. She even
gloated over a knuckle that had become
dislocated during the performance of the
sacred rites —punching three hundred dozens of
hard-headed soft drinks in one blissful night.
The altar is a few square feet of “ shop ” planted
fairly in the path of pilgrims to sea-suburban
shows. Thruppences are hauled in to the tune of
£3O on an average hot night.
“Charlie’’ Beauchamp, the good-looking son
of the old Collins-street Going-Going-Gone firm,
has just come under the hammer in the matri-
monial market. Charlie fell to the nod of pretty
little “ Dicky ” Davy, whose papa is a Melbourne
councillor of wealth.
The Fenner clan sounds the timbrel with loud
noise and much exultation at the news of Marion
Grey’s important engagement with Forbes
Robertson (she is to play Emilia in “Othello”;
the Queen in “Hamlet,” and so forth). They
conclude it should “show Julius” how “Cousin
Minn” is appreciated in London. But Julius
couldn’t have been expected, under all the cir-
cumstances, to take an impartial view of the
lady’s acting. In fact, they say that it required
a radical interference on the part of J. C.
Williamson to put the leading lady arrangements
in that co. on a satisfactory basis.
A new waltz, from Allan’s, is called “ Sunny
Australia,” owing to the fact that Miss Helena
Miller, of Mount Morgan, adapted it from the
melody of her song—“ Love’s Conquest.” The
composition suggests Amorous Italy rather than
Sunny Australia, but the title is a pardonable
mistake. Although quite unoriginal in its
sweetest sections the waltz piece should assist the
sale of the love song—and vice versa.
Marriage is defined by the best authorities as a
lottery, consequently we are forced to regard
those who seek to make a certainty of it in the
same light as card sharpers or thimble and pea
gentlemen. It is a game in Which playing for
money is bad form, and a player who holds five
aces is regarded with gloom and suspicion. A
German named Hyne has just been arrested at
Aberdeen for taking too many tickets. He made
100 ventures and was still going strong when the
authorities in the Scotch city urged him to accom-
pany them to a large, airy structure. Hyne is re-
ported to have defrauded one of his brides of £2OOO,
so evidently his motives were sordid. A man would
need to possess an unusual amount of affection to
espouse one hundred ladies with the sole idea of
making them happy. He would also need much
optimism and a considerable income. Apparently
Hyne regarded matrimony as a business, and
found that it was impossible to make a living out
of it in the retail line, so he went in wholesale.
“Rosna,” from Adelaide :
Our Excellency is a strenuous being, and during our
late record heat wave he sallied forth from the cool and
rural seclusion of Marble Hill to open outer harbors and
I don’t know how many tiresome things. The Harbor
ceremony struck the champion day of the “ wave,” and
the 250 maniacs who accepted the Government’s invita-
tion to the spree were lunched in a galvanised-iron shed,
next door to the furnace of the son of Nabopolassar.
Early in the morning the outgoing Oruba sailed proudly
into the new Harbor, and covered itself with bunting by
way of giving itself three cheers. Then the Government
trains rushed in gasping, and a few hundred faded, jaded
mortals swarmed over the Oruba, demanding cool drinks.
Finally, his Ex. having done the opening deed,
and the authorities having ascertained beyond
all doubt that the Harbor was properly opened
and .not likely to bang to on the company, the Oruba
captain was taken by the hand, and the populace was
beckoned to luncheon and speeches. Hereafter foreign
visitors and other persons in weak health will not be
subjected to the terrors of a three-mile launch trip on
arrival at the Crow-eaters’ strand, but will be unloaded at
the Harbor, which you will kindly refrain in future from
calling a white elephant. The term will be considered
insulting language, and you will be instantly arrested and
confiscated. We are sensitive about our Harbor. It is
better than the Yarra, anyhow.
In spite of our mighty victory, very little of the Mere
Girl population got into her frills and furbelows and went
to the Test Match. The heat wave doesn’t improve one’s
hair wave, temper or general comeliness. Clem
Hill and Roger Hartigan were rewarded for
their centuries by a presentation of jewellery
apiece. Mr. Tom Bright started a maximum shil-
ling subscription and the shekels rolled in so smartly
that at the end of a few' hours £25 had been bagged.
The devoted Clem begged that the present be given to
his pretty wife, who further amended that it should be
passed on to the defenceless family infant, wherefore did
the thing take the form of a beauteous gold chain and
pendant. Hartigan received a similar gift, and since he
has not yet acquired a better half, will apparently be
obliged to wear it round his Own neck. The presentation
was made in the members’ stand at the end of the match.
Mr. Bright did the deed, our Ex. being, still engaged
propping open the Outer Harbor already mentioned.
The Premier and Premieress were subjected to a fright-
ful onslaught of farew'ells last week, w'hat time they were
struggling to pack up their night-rail for the descent on
Britain; and although the temperature w'as drifting
round 112° all the week, the energetic Thomas was
dragged from his lair on an average twice a day, to have
butter and rhetoric hurled at him by enthusiastic bodies.
We are now Priceless for awhile, but in due time the
esteemed pair will return, and they will get a great recep-
tion when they sail once more into the Outer Harbor. (It
seems difficult to keep the Outer Harbor out of this letter,
somehow.)
Being anxious not to be outdone by mere Melbourne,
this village tried to get up a divorce scare of its own last
week, and failed ignominiously. The alleged victim was
the wife of a well-known cricketer, and it was positively
declared that she would shortly take her broken heart
into court, and beg the functionaries there to put herself
and her lord asunder. The yarn, variously embellished,
of course, travelled so swiftly that in a few hours the
whole local populace was seething- with excitement.
And after all the thing was a silly invention from begin",
ning to end. The wife and infant met the alleged villain
on his arrival from Melbourne, and fell upon his swan,
like neck, blissfully unconscious of the vivid interest that
was being taken in the meeting. Then their dearest
friends ventured a few questions, and were routed
with astonishment and great slaughter. The pair had a
strenuous time persuading the world they were still one
in heart, and determined to stay so. The unfortunate
part of the matter is that the liar who invented the story
has not yet been caught, and tied to a large anchor, and
thrown into the Outer Harbor hereinbefore obscurely
alluded to.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


SEND US £5
Send £5 for the Edison Standard Phonograph.
It s a wonderful instrument—splendid for country
people—gives you every class of music you
want, and keeps right on giving it. It never
gives any trouble, and never gets out of order.
The EDISON STANDARD
PHONOGRAPH, £5.
OTHERS AT
50/- UPWARDS,
RECORDS,
1 /-, 1/3,1/6 each.
Write for Cata-
logues and Lists
of Records To-day.
My Opticians,
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.,
Importers of Phonographs and Records,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Makes you look manly
'll 3 *
Before
1
flfler
POST FREE 10 6.
How Do YOU Know?
If you have not used CAPILLARINE
you cannot know how sure it is in the production of a
Moustache. It was the first preparation of its kind in Aus-
tralia more than 20 years ago, and is still the best. If you
want to grow a Moustache—there’s only ONE thing that will
do it for you, and that is CAPILLARINE.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
RETAILERS!
YOU
CAN
EARN
WM
Ml
-«9
m
9*
0 m'
ss. PER HOUR
in your leisure time
by using • • •
Aerated
Water
Machines
4T
Aerated
Waters
Cost only
4d.
per dozen
with these
Machines.
PRICES
from
£lB
and
upwards.
AGENTS—
Queensland: ELLIOTT & HANCORNE, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane*
W*A*: WM* SANDOVER & CO*, PERTH*
SOLE PROPRIETORS—
ECKERSLEY & SONY,
628-630 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
"FLIES
CARRY
DISEASE
' 'J .-
itr^r/y
f/J7 /'■
J
H
y.
The COMMON
HOUSE FLY
is a Dang'er to
Human Life.
"vEvferyFJyis a
M&tv Killer
at He Art.”
ITS hairy body carries both disease
and death. Having its origin in
filth, it brings with it the barteria
which breeds in filth. And as it moves
about, now crawling over refuse, now
over the food of the table, (lying from the lips of the sicK to
the lips of the healthy, it is said to be more dangerous to
modern society than were the wild beasts to primitive man.
The hig)i mortality among children in the congested
districts 0/ a city, where families are closely crowded together,
where refuse accumulates fast, where food is often Kept in
living rooms, is due to a large degree, so scientists now say, to
the fly. Infant diseases chiefly prevail in summer, when the
flies abound.
(THANE
Is the Greatest KILLER
of FLIES (EX other Insedts.
Be careful to observe the spelling of the name INSECTIBANE, as no other Insect Powder
possesses the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so peculiarly efficacious.
SOLD EVERYWHERE^
Wholesale i
ELLIOTT BROS..
Australian Drug Coy-
SYDNEY.
A''.
i --'LI ■ • .
:
a
r
-.-r
v>
S> *
R
i
1
8
8
*•>;
> ;
v. g
< •
>*
r Agents aw Australia
Gibbs, bright & c?
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEV. BRISBANE.
GRENFELL STREET. 34 QUEEN STREET. STPITTSIRtET. EAGLE STREET
Li
E. ®> A.
Mail Line.
MANILA—CHINA-
JAPAN.
Via QUEENSLAND aixd
PORT DARWIN.
Space for Frozen Cargo.
Saloon Accommodation amidships. Large, airy
two-berth cabins, all on the upper deck, and fitted
with electric fans. Through booking ma Japan.
Canada, United States of America, and Europe.
Particulars of Passage Money, Ports of Call, ®-c.,
forwarded to any address on application.
An artistic New Year card reminds The
Bulletin of the existence of three excellent
citizens, the brothers Wunderlich. They do much
for rtiusic in Sydney, and more for industry in
Australia, by carrying on steel-ceiling works,
which not only supply a big Australian demand
but fill a quite considerable export trade.
That weary old dispute about a strip of
land two miles wide along the Victorian-S. A.
border has at last been settled. Victoria keeps
the strip and pays S.A. £107,500, and all
aspersions are withdrawn, and the two States
leave the court without a stain on their characters
—at least so the magistrate says.


LITTLE
AILMENTS
Such as
Headache, Wind,
Loss of Appetite,
Nausea, Weariness,
mean
INDIGESTION.
They should never be neglected—not for a single day—for
they weaken your system and unfit you for life’s duties. Thus,
indigestion and constipation generate impurities that pass
into your blood and are carried all through your body. Your
food yields poison instead of nourishment, and your body
starves, while you are subjected to distress, pain and incapacity
for labour or enjoyment. These conditions almost certainly
LEAD TO
SERIOUS ILLNESS
What your system needs is a digestive tonic that will help
your stomach and liver to do their work properly. You can get
just that assistance from the world-famed vegetable remedy,
and sure cure for all .digestive ills, Mother Seigel's Syrup.
“ i suffered for years from indigestion, constipation and piles, and was under
medical treatment but obtained little or no relief. But on the advice of a
friend I got some Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and now I am completely cured.’
From Mr R McKillop, 3, Reuss St , Leichatdt. Sydney.
MOTHER
WILL MAKE AND
KEEP YOU WELL.
SYRUP.
The First Subdivision of 7,700 Acres
MOUNT BRISBANE
(35,000 Acres),
QUEENSLAND.
On the Upper Brisbane River, 75
miles from Brisbane, 8 miles from
Eek Railway Station, and 8 miles
from Nestle & Co.’s Cressbrook
Milk Factory and Stud Farm.
47
Choice Agricultural and
Dairy Farms (and Township)
Each Farm having large per centage
of Rich Alluvial River Frontage F.ats,
equal to the Best Lucerne Land in the Commonwealth;
enormous supplies of water for Irrigation ; Rainfall 40 ins.
well-distributed; plenty of Fencing Material; Good Roads;
every facility for inspection—Horses and Guides Free.
20
TO BE SOLD BY AUCTION at Esk, on
Saturday, 4th APRIL, 1908, at 2.30 p.m.
Years Terms at 5%, with Bonus for Prepayments.
Write to-day for Illustrated Plans to
ISLES, LOVE & CO.
AUCTIONEERS,
BRISBANE
n
i
WELSBACH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete
Extra Mantles
Extra Chimneys -
ss. each.
6d. „
2hd. „
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBACH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERCUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where dies
1*
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the emire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Grocers and
Hardw are
Deal • r s ,
among whom are :
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St,» F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H, Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd,
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn* N.Y., U.S. A
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F.C .Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB'S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhto & Co. on each Bottle.
3
;s
;z
m
m
&
©
*
y
i
FROM
ill .5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING ROOM TABLE
_ FROM
E 11.5.
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
AicocK&Oi, 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Gaines, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
J*
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
The Sobraon, Sydney’s training ship for refrac-
tory boys, is doomed. The ship was an idea
borrowed, like the money that bought it, from
England, and was never really suited to Aus
traliah conditions. Its workings have been curious
A lad, generally a country-reared boy, isconvmted
for getting beyond parental control. He is sen
tenced to the Sobraon, where he is clapped
into a sailor’s rig, and generany surrmmded
with nautical ideas-perhaps put into the band.
Then, after a couple of years, ne is appren-
ticed as a farm hand up country, and carries
the stigma of his original criminal conviction with
him. Consequently if a haystack catches hrc
anywhere, and an ex-Sobraon boy is in the
vicinity, it is up to him to hustle like a bee and
prove'that he didn’t do it. But things are
changing. With the recent establishment of
Children’s Courts, infuriated and refractory mites
are not now doomed to the Sobraon band, unless
in exceptional cases; and last years report
bewailed the fact that the ship had received only
30 boys, while hundreds of country farmers had
applied for samples. (A Sobraon lioy has many
recommendations for farmers of a certain class,
who desire cheap labor with a taint that excuses
harsh treatment.) The Sobraon people rightly
point out that the expensive ship and its auxiliary,
the training schooner Dart, can t be kept up a
tliat rate —the yearly influx won’t supply a decent
band, let alone a ship's company—so it is hard to
see how their existence can be excused much
longer. And yet what a fine purpose they might
be made to serve as feeders of an Australian
navy !
“J.Y.” (Maoriland): Maoriland Flour Trust is
an octopus composed of wealthy grain merchants
and flour millers, who practically regulate the
p ice of the necessary loaf. For about three
months in the year, during the grain-threshing
season and immediately after, when the Maori-
land cocky must sell his wheat, the selling and
buying price is put down to 3s. or 3s. 6d. a bushel.
Later, when most of the grain is stored in the rich
miller’s corn-store, the price is raised to 4s. or
4s. 6d. a bushel. And as every miller worth
speaking about in the Dominion is a member of
the Trust, no baker can get flour from any other
source, and up goes the price, while the wealthy
miller scoops the profit. Democratic members of
Parliament suggested legislation to deal with the
Trust, and Joseph Ward promised a half-hearted
sort of measure that will be of no use to the con-
sumer. Now, for many years past, the Maoriland
Government has been buying big estates and
cutting them up for closer settlement. Seventy
per cent, of the selectors are sons of wealthy Con-
servative farmers, who fight the Government
tooth and nail, but who gladly use the liberal
land laws to get cheap and profitable land for
their sons. Joseph’s opportunity was right
there. He might have collared, for in-
stance, the Long Beach estate (late John Gkigg’s),
the finest agricultural property in the Dominion,
and turned it into a State farm, and grown wheat
on it, and built a flour-mill, and made flour, and
sold it to the Maoriland bakers from the North
Cape to the Bluff at from £lO to £ll a ton. as
against the £lB a ton charged by the millers’ com-
bine. Thus he would at one hit have flattened
the Flour Trust, and assured his own position as
Premier. But he didn’t do anything so emphatic.
The recently-appointed Attorney-General, Dr.
Findlay, was about the only man shrewd enough
to see the writing on the wall, whereupon the
bloated Conservative press howled at him through
the Islands, and thereby advertised him as a com-
ing man in the politics of Maoriland.
The curse of Carruthers will presently come
home to roost in Sydney in a way that city
doesn’t expect. When the Australian Govern-
ment finally starts to build the capital at Dalgety,
where it was long ago fixed, it will find a railway
running from Melbourne to within a few miles of
the site. Bent, though himself no Federalist,
has a keen eye to business, and already his
surveyors are out mapping a broad-gauge
line suited for swift traffic from Bairnsdale to
the Gippsland border. But there is no connecting
link anywhere near completion between the dis-
trict and the Ma City, so what business doesn’t go
direct to the port will go to Melbourne—and then
Ma’s wail will again ascend to Heaven.
“ Carl Preston” : I went to church on a recent
Sunday in suburban Melbourne. Amongst the
hymns that were sung was one beginning in this
way :
O sacred head once wounded,
With grief and pain weighed down,
How scornfully surrounded
With thorns, Tbv only crown !
How pale art Thou with anguish,
With sore abuse and scorn ;
How does that visage languish
Which once was bright as morn !
Now I do not want to seem profane, and I have
every sympathy with true religious feeling. But
what I do want to say is this : Not far from this
church there is a street filled with dens of vice,
with wretched abodes of starving children, and
wasted age. Here is suffering in plenty right
near to the church. But, so far as I can gather,
these respectable suburban church people never
go nearer to this street than they can help. They
are blind and deaf to the human suffering at their
very doors. What sort of religion is that ?
Would it not be infinitely better for these people
to centre their emotions of pity on those who
suffer whilst yet they live?
♦ — —-
N.S.W. Premier Wade is as mad as a turkey in a
coop because he says somebody is threatening to
take the job of printing stamps away from Syd-
ney. He could very much better turn his atten-
tion to the timber business of the State. Enough
stamps to last a generation can be printed in a few
weeks, but the threatened loss of the State forests
won’t be made good in many generations. At the
present time a co. known as the B. A.T. (British
Australian Timber Co.) is exporting from its CofFs
Harbor mill 100,000 ft. of the State’s scarce hard-
wood timber each week. Every stick of this goes
abroad. The profits also go abroad, and all the
State gets in return for this wholesale looting of
its assets is an almost invisible royalty, which is
as completely lost in the mass of the revenue as a
fly in a lake. The B.A.T. has so nearly cleaned
out its own hunting-ground that it is already agita-
ting for a railway from Dorrigo to Coff’s Harbor,
in order that it may get at the Dorrigo forest re-
serves, and eat them up. If the line be built
and the State also constructs some new jetties at
Coff’s Harbor, it is reckoned that the B.A.T. will
be able to make Dorrigo a bald-headed wilderness
in an amazingly short time. Meantime the
N.S.W. Railways and Public Works Department
can almost put an accusing finger on the date in
the calendar when the hardwood famine will
strike them like a pile-driver. If Wade was only
one-tenth as much worried over the disappearing
timber supplies as over a few dull, dry stamps, he
would be a more useful man. Nowadays N.S.W.
State Premiers are so busy attending to other
people’s business that their own business is going
to the dogs and the Devil.


¥ titer*
abe in Australia.
JP
<p
1
is
m
A Unique Feature of the BEALE
PIANOS is a METAL, instead of
a WOODEN, “ Wrest-Plank.”
THERE are two hundred and sixteen (216) “wrest” pins
in a piano, and in imported instruments these are
all forced into holes drilled in a wooden plank in
a space of only \\ square feet. There is a total strain
of about 20 tons on the pins, and they are twisted back-
wards and forwards in the operation of tuning; consequently
they work loose in the wood, and the wrest-plank is liable to
split under the great strain, especially in hot and variable
climates. The piano is then permanently untunabie.
But our patent wrest-“ plank ” is made entirely of iron,
cannot split, cannot wear by the twisting of the pins (which
are lubricated, and therefore cannot rust, as all others are
liable to do), will withstand any strain that can be put upon
it for an indefinite time, and will hold the piano at concert
pitch. For the uninitiated it may be explained that a metal
wrest-plank does not make the tone metallic, for the w.rest-
plank gives out no sound whatever —no matter with what
force the note may be struck —any more than does the usual
iron frame used in all modern pianos. Our iron wrest-plank
is a part of the frame. All the sound comes from the strings,
augmented by the sounding board, every other part of a good
piano being so insulated that there is no possibility of noise.
The tone of the Beale Pianos is wonderfully sweet and
sustaining, and is especially sympathetic to the human voice.
Nine thousand purchasers are delighted with it.
With the Beale=Vader Patent Iron Wrest=Plank,
the tuning is done in the ordinary way, from the front of the
instrument, and very much more easily than with the old
wooden wrest-plank, for the pins turn smoothly instead of
jerkily as with the old style.
The woodwork of the Beale Australian Pianos is
treated by special process, expressly to withstand extreme
climates, and is built up on our patented system of crossplies,
so as to assure absolute immunity from warping or cracking.
The steel core of the bass strings in our pianos is hex-
agonal instead of round, thereby giving the copper winding a
firm hold, avoiding any possibility of unmusical notes caused
by the copper winding becoming loose, which often takes
place with foreign pianos.
More than 9000 Beale Australian Pianos have been
sold throughout the Commonwealth, New Zealand, Fiji,
Samoa, New Caledonia, Mauritius, South Africa, and India,
and are giving universal satisfaction. We have thousands of
testimonials from buyers, and from eminent persons who have
visited our factories. Call or send for catalogue and booklet
illustrating our factory, free.
We sell only direct from factory to user, saving the buyer
three profits and 40 per cent. duty. No middlemen.
Please note that we have no connection whatever with
a Melbourne firm trading under a similar name in Queensland ;
our ONLY address in that State is 291 Queen Street, next
the G.P.0., Brisbane.
The Beale Australian Pianos are only of the Highest Grade , and are better than
the best lnstruments, II lII'L C — fdl- y ourse (f PimmL inspection.
Australian Piano
Manufacturers,
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES:
Trafalgar Street, Annandale, N.S.W.
SHOWROOMS at 474 George Street, Sydney; Hunter Street, Newcastle; George Street, Bathurst, N.S.W. ;
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Vic.; 127 Bundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A. ; 615 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane
(our only address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


CRIPPLED WITH RHEUMATISM FOR
15 YEARS.
Discharged from the Hospital Walking on
Crutches. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills again Successful.
“I was a perfect cripple with rheumatic gout
for 15 years,” writes Mr. William Rickard,
Albany Place, North Dunedin, N.Z., “ and could
not walk without the aid of crutches. I was
under the best doctors here, but they did me no
good. I was also in the Lawrence Hospital for
some months, and was discharge incurable. About
twelve months ago I was recommended to give
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial, which I did,
and before I had finished the first bottle I found
they were doing me good. I continued to take
them regularly for three months, and I feel quite
a new man. I am quite certain that lam now
permanently cured, as I have had no attacks for
over nine months, and can now get about without
the aid of a stick. You are at liberty to make
whatever use of this letter you deem fit.”
Those who suffer from any form of rheumatism,
lumbago, sciatica, or neuralgia, should use Com-
stock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment, in conjunction
with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. These two
remedies have been highly successful in all kinds
of rheumatism, because one cleanses the blood of
all poisonous substances that cause the disease,
increasing the activity of the blood-making glands,
while the powerful, penetrating influences of the
liniment, acting through the pores of the skin on
the nerves, bones, and muscles, overcome the
pain by relieving the effect on the delicate nerves,
causing the circulation of the blood to be main-
tained through the affected parts. Rheumatism,
lumbago, and sciatica all yield to the penetrating
and conquering properties of Comstock’s Nerve
and Bone Liniment, if used in conjunction with
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. This liniment is
on sale at all leading chemists and stores, or will
be forwarded post paid on receipt of price (2s. 6d.
per bottle, or six bottles for 13s. 6d.), by the W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FCjTHEROILL & CO., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Now that the third Test has been won by Aus-
tralia with one of the most remarkable cricket revivals on
record, it might be as well to apply a little ice to the
national top piece, and just consider how much of it was
due to brilliant play and how much to unusually bright
sunshine. That the heat played a prominent part it is use-
less to deny. In fact.it was a direct intervention by Provi-
dence, and had the game been played 3000 years ago the
event would have come down in the shape of a classic story
of how Apoilo, having backed his children, was aghast to
find they were going under, that Trumper’s champagne
had gone flat, and Noble was not the man for a tight
place he had been aforetime. And then as hope began to
flicker out he iriade the sun blaze 2,000,000 candle-power
extra strong and just withered up the Sons of the Fog, so
that their tongues hung out, their eyes could see only a
red glare, and they could not hold even the balls that fell
into their nerveless hands.
* * * *
“ Adelaide” : Some Test-match notes. An odd
thing that Barnes and Fielder, who practically won the
second Test, practically lost the third. Never has the
result of a game more certainly, turned on dropped
catches than on the lives given to Hill and Hartigan near
the beginning of their big stand. They went on until
the partnership had put up 243, which is a world’s record
for the eighth wicket, and, as far as Test matches go, a
record for any wicket. Hill had two days in bed after his
first-innings failure, and one more day in the pavilion
while his brother Roy fielded ; and he was openly
sick on the field on both days he was at the wicket.
Then Saunders and O’Connor made the game
safe by taking five wickets. Captain Fane and
the dashing Hutchings both had “ducks,” and Hard-
staff’s hitting was stopped by a deep-field catch by
Macartney, after a 40vds. run—the kind of catch men
talk about for years. The heat on the closing days was
cruel, and the fine English fielding suffered obviously
from it." The visitors had half a day at 103, all day at
107, and another half-day at 111!
* * * *
One of our cricket ancestors, Frank Allan, the
bowler of a century, has been digging up old records in
order to overwhelm the present-day exponents of Test
cricket. He shows that in 1881 and 1884, bowling four
balls to the over (a time-wasting circumstance as com-
pared with to-day’s six balls), over 700 balls were sent
down per day. In the Adelaide match 481 were delivered,
an appalling difference. The fact that the late contest
was held in a heat wave does not more than equalise the
difference between four and six balls per over, as a time
occupier. From his figures it will be seen that the rate of
scoring per ball bowled has been maintained, because in
1884, 327 runs were scored per day off 713 balls, while in
1907, 221 runs were made off 481 balls—about the same
proportion. What has evidently happened is the cultiva-
tion of the art of filling up time during the play by every
other means than by bowling at the other fellow’s wicket.
* * * ■»
“Micawber”: The daily press has been plea-
surably surprised at the fine batting displayed by
O Connor in the second innings of the last Test match.
“ Strokes that would do credit to a first-class batsman
were repeatedly displayed by him,” etc., etc., was one
extract that rather amused me. When John O’Connor
played on Moore Park, with the Tramway team, a few
seasons ago, he was looked upon as the finest all-round
man amongst the Juniors, and his batting average for
two consecutive seasons exceeded 60 runs. When he first
appeared in Grade cricket as a howler, the monotony of
being sent in late each innings (as well as missing many
occasions on which he was not called upon to bat), no
doubt had a depressing effect upon him, for he fell back
again to Junior cricket until he picked up with Burwood.
There, again, similar treatment was meted out to him, as
his name generally appeared before Sundries. Given a
place early in the innings, O’Connor would get many
runs.
* * * *
On Saturday last Sydney began to get some
slight idea of the heat that has been raging in the
southern portion of the continent, but, with this
difference—it was a moist heat. The effect was depressing
in the extreme, and the men toiling in the cricket fields
looked longingly at where the spectators sat in whatever
shade was going, and punctuated things by raising long,
cool-looking bottles to their lips. Still there were some
meritorious displays with both bat and ball. Collins, of
Paddington, had hard luck to miss his century, carrying
his bat against Glebe for 98. White and R. V. Minnett
both did well for North Sydney against Redfern, White
making 79 and Minnett 72. But the star batsman of the
afternoon was Taylor, of Central Cumberland, who banged
up 139 before Mathews caught him off Black. He was well
backed by his club mate. Dean, with 72. Thomas made 84
for Sydney against Waverley at Rushcutters Bay, where
the sun beat down unmeßoifully, and the heat danced
and shimmered on the waters of the bay as on a mirror.
But the heat seemed also to suit Waverley, for when that
side’s turn came Mackenzie made 68, and was still going
strong when stumps were drawn. Other good efforts
With the bat were Bull’s 78 for Balmain, Prentice’s 95 for
Burwood, and Diamond’s 65 (not out) for the same side.
The bowlers explain it by stating that the heat dazzled
them, and spoilt their theory. Also, it wrecked their
delivery.
» # # *
The successful man with the ball was Howard,
of Waverley, who took five Sydney wickets for 40. The
heat didn’t affect him, seemingly, nor Sydney Gregory
to any extent either—Syd took the other five for 97. A
third fiver was Bowden, of the Glebe, who brought down
that number of Paddington sticks for 57. Bloomfield, of
Burwood, took four of University’s wickets for 35 ; and
Freeman, of Glebe, took four Paddington’s for 53 ; Gee, of
Middle Harbor, four Balmainers for 54; and Blanksby,
of Redfern, four North Sydney sticks for 68.
Some of the features of the afternoon were the
making of 110 for the first wicket by Cody and Thomas of
Sydney. Burwood also showed a marvellous resurrection,
and Diamond and Ward Prentice knocked up 159 for their
first wicket, against 114 made by the whole University
XI. Central Cumberland'also played the first wicket
marvel, making 124 against Gordon before the partnership
was broken by the catching of Dean.
* * * *
The chief result of the tour of the English XI.
so far is to convince Australia that it is not, in a cricket-
ing sense, at the mercy of any small clique of players.
With the exception of good old Clem Hill the veterans
were mostly failures, and it was the colts —the Hartigans,
the Ransfords, and Macartneys—who pulled the chestnuts
out of the blazing sun. The result should make a pro-
found impression upon the selection committees.
Cricket seems to make its votaries tough.
Charles T. B. Turner, the old-time international bowler,
struck something of his old form last Saturday when he
dmolished an opposing team by gathering in nine wickets
for 22 runs. And Harry Trott and George Giffen are still
playing in Victoria and Adelaide respectively.
Braund must have been as glad as anybody
when the big divorce case wandered to-its close. It was
a fine subject for the gay barracker. At Melbourne
Cricket Ground he would be hurling the ball. “ Over,”
called the umpire. “ Novar,” echoed the barracking
multitude. But he kept his temper.
Although H. B. James and C. B. Kellow failed
to get over the Melbourne to Sydney run in 24 hours,
they made a magnificent effort, and the gross time for
the run was 25hr. 40min. Much more than the lhr.
40min. was lost during the night waiting for gatekeepers
to get up and open railway gates, all of which were
locked. Then, in addition to this irritating and constant
source of delay, the famous Cowpasture Road at Camden
(N.S.W.) was ploughed up, and the travel-racked
motorists had to take another road which they did not
know, with the result that they got off the track and lost
more precious time. The 15-h.p. Talbot car behaved
magnificently, and the. only repair was the replacement
of one nut at Albury. After waiting for days for the
arrival of the new detachable rims they were not re-
quired, and the pump was not even called into requisi-
tion, although the tyres were so hot that occasionally,
when forced to stop, James could not bear to place his
hand against them.
The trip itself was an awful experience. The
riders cut 46hr. 20min. off the previous record, and it took
the coating's off their inmost souls doing it. The roads
were a horrible example of State mismanagement, and
the need for Federal control. With eyes glued on the
centre of the ring of light that shone in front, the man at
the wheel saw stumps suddenly arise as if by magic, and
swung the machine clear simply to dash into holes and
over boulders. Running to Gundagai, the temperature
was 115° in. the shade, which meant about 150° in the sun-
light through which they streaked and rocked. And
running down from Gundagai at night, in spite of wraps
and big top coats, they shivered and froze, their teeth
chattering, their fingers so numbed as to make frequent
changes at the steering wheel necessary. The night wind
blew in their faces as they drove the car along desperately
making up the time lost at closed railway gates, and it
cut like a knife and covered their goggles with a thin
film of something like snow. James, who has grown
old and withered and tough and tanned at motor
driving, says he would sooner undertake to
run 1000 miles in 24 hours on decent roads
like those over which they beat the Yankee’s record
than cover the 572 miles between Melbourne and Sydney.
All the same, the chances are that the two enthusiasts
will he shortly found trying it again, if they can arrange
to have the railway gates kept open for them, or can fix
a ram on the front of the car and let the machine take
the gates in its stride. Although unsuccessful, it was a
magnificent effort, and 100 minutes was a very small
margin, after all, in such a long and arduous run.
* * * *
Australian motordom got a shock last week
when it was announced that Mr. Orettendon and party,
of South Australia, had moted from Adelaide to. Mel-
bourne in 28 hours 44 minutes. As the distance is 584
miles, and the track very rough, an average speed of over
20f miles per hour was reckoned a very fine performance,
and there was talk of a record. Then the bubble of fame
burst—that 28hrs. 44min. was merely net driving time in
a run that extended over four days. Motoring records
are not net but gross times, and include all delays caused
by accidents, rests, refreshments, and everything else.
A motor ought to be several times faster than a bike, and
yet a German named Wilhelm Kux cycled over the same
"run in 51hrs. 48min. as far back as 1897, when bicycles
were not what they are to-day—in fact, some people aver
they were better.
* • • •
One feature of the Melbourne Saucer track is
the remarkable speed a bicyclist can get up in a sprint, a
matter which makes the job of the handicapper a hard
and weary one. Track racing is no guide to saucer
racing, and, till the official has had some experience and
some performances to work on, he is going to have what
Henry Lawson once called “ a hard, bitter time.”
* * * *
Maoriland champion cyclist, George Suther-
land, proved at Oamaru, the other day, that he is any-
thing but a back number. The Mile Handicap from
scratch in 2min. 10sec., the Two Miles Handicap from
scratch in 4min. 25see., and a mighty close second in the
One-and-a-Half-Mile Handicap constituted his declara-
tion of superiority. He has been champion for 10 years,
and no successor is yet in sight.
■» * * *
The Melbourne Saucer bike track does not give
much indication of being a mighty success. Already the
promoters have reduced the prize money for the fourth
night’s biking. Then the same officials who controlled
the “ sport ” when the smell was highest are still in com-
mand, and the public is tired —dreadfully tired. As a
further dubious advertisement for the Saucer, bikist
Horder has already taken a short cut down the declivity
and landed on his anatomy, wherefore he is laid up for
large repairs.
* • * *
The pluck of the amateur yachtsman who has
become such by the simple process of buying a craft is a
fearful and wonderful thing, if one can judge by a
weird yarn from Maoriland. Seems that some one who
had experience with a sailing boat on a fair-sized creek,
bought a yacht called the Ariki, at Gisborne, took a party
of friends on board, and started for Auckland. He didn’t
understand navigation, and had a very limited know-
ledge of yacht management, but just to guard against
accidents he got “ particulars of the contour of the coast
from a friend in Gisborne.” Maoriland’s coastline has an
evil fame, and some very fine ships, commanded by
able and experienced skippers, have been smashed
on that very portion of it, owing to the un-
expected action of currents. But the amateur
held on. To follow the contour of the coast
till he saw the Waitemata Heads was simple enough as
long as he could see the coast. But night came down,
and all the amateur could see was the white tops of
breaking waves. Fearful of getting bushed in the wilder-
ness of watery crests, he stood in closer to the left, where
the coast line was. All went well till he came to Tologa
Bay, where a sandspit juts out a bit further than usual.
On to that sandspit went the Ariki, and stayed there
till a launch came out from the bay and hauled it
clear. There are not many sandspits around the Maori-
land coast—mostly it is grim, jagged reef that butts out
into the ocean, and the amateur’s luck was right in when
he struck that soft bottom. Had the yacht rammed one
of the thousand reefs and points that lay in front of it,
the result would probably have been a massacre.
The arrival of Tresidder in Maoriland was made
bright with colored lights and sparkling music. They
reckoned Tres. had come to be butchered, and therefore
he must be cracked up as a mighty oarsman, a sp endid
fellow, a world’s wonder, and then “ what a whale our
man must be to beat such a marvel! ” And if he doesn t
beat the marvel, well “ What the deuce could you
expect?” * * *
Charles Towns did not linger superfluous on the
erratic outrigger. Having been walloped, he recognised
that his brief day was over, and has now, it is reported,
settled down as a dairy farmer near Lismore, (N.S.W.).
The Inter-State Boating Carnival commenced
on Saturday last on Sydney Harbor, but somehow the
visiting boats were not in that particular state which is
known as “ thoroughly tuned up,” and made a rather
poor showing. In plain fact the crews hadn t got over
the journey, or the hospitality, or the change of whisky,
or something; and the Aeolus, which beat Sydney s
splendid Australian so handsomely last year, was never
in the hunt. It finished ninth, and the other W.A. rep.,
The Robin, sixteenth. Both boats were badly rigged and
were horribly slow in getting off the mark. The Sydney
boats were better handled, starting with something as like
a bound as was possible in the light and unsatisfactory
north-easter. The first part of the race was a struggle
between the long-markers, in which W onga, Evelyn and
Violet had the best of it; but, towards the end, the wind
gave a friendly lift, and then the scratch boats began to
rush across the water at a dangerous pace. Zena came
plunging' through, and Eileen slipped along at a fast rate.
Webb was driving the Australian along with a new sail
that did not look too comfortable a fit. The final struggle
was between Zena and Eileen ; but Zena plunged its nose
in front and won with a margin of 26sec. Australian was
17sec. behind the Eileen.
Frank Beaurepaire, the youthful swimmer of
the Albert Park Club (Melb.), startled enthusiasts t’other
week with three swims in the Victorian test races, held
to select a rep. for the Australasian championships in
Westralia next month. Frank outclassed all previous
Melbourne efforts by covering 220 yards in 2 min. 37 3-5
sec. (easily better than Fitts’ 2 min. 52 1-5 sec. put up
last season). The quarter-mile was cut out in 5 min.
36 1-5 sec., some 34 1-5 sec. inside previous best; and
the half-mile saw the youngster settle all opponents
easily in 11 min. 50£ sec. Ex-champion Billy Olegg, of
Ballarat, was next best, but he was hopelessly out of it.
As the times were created without costume, they cannot
count as records. Beaurepaire’s improvement is credited
to his recent stay in Sydney, and if the old fossil body
that calls itself the Victorian Amateur Swimming Associ-
ation would wake up, secure a coach like Dick Cavill,
and promote inter-State racing, the Victorian swimmer
would improve a big lump. The material is 0.K.,
but it wants the finishing touch that transforms an
average paddler into a top-notcher.
* * * *
Cecil Healy is now liard at work training for
220, 300, and 440 yards, and at night, after the bell has
driven the mixed bathers from Farmer’s Rushcutters Bay
baths, a lone figure drops in and shears through the
water and the moonlight with a quick, easy, torpedo-like
motion—up and down, down and up, the foam marking
the moving of his arms. What strikes the ordinary indi-
vidual whose hands are not web-fingered is the ease
and speed with which the crawl stroke takes Healy
through the water. His legs are still —there is
no kick, and any movement of the foot is of the instep
only, and hardly perceptible. Another mystery to the
man on dry land is how in thunder he breathes—his face
appears to be under water three parts of the time ; but
from the utter lack of distress it is easily seen that not
only does he breathe, but breathes with perfect regu-
larity. As he made his way to the dressing-room one
night recently, a Bulletin man felt his arms—they are
hard as iron, and small wonder. He has been working
hard for seven solid years building up those arms, and
somehow this writer has a dark suspicion that during the
season Cecil Healy will blossom out as a world wonder,
eclipsing even the wonderful Kieran.
* * * *
Surrey Park Swimmers’ Club presented its
annual carnival at Box Hill (Melb.), on Saturday
afternoon last. The scene of action was a big ex-
quarry hole, filled with mineral water, its greatest depth
being somewhere about 80ft. The cookies from the
surrounding district assembled in market carts, and
any old thing on wheels. The principal item was the
i-mile championship of Victoria, which was won by Frank
Beaurepaire (“ Bogey” for short) by fully 55yds.—half-a-
lap. Tne other competitor, Billy Mason, swam like a lost
soul, and managed to stay behind from “go.” “Bogey ”
did the distance in smin. 42 1-5 sec. slower than his test-
race time recently. A squad of girleens did a life-saving
act, and Richardson did a 60ft. dive from the bank, while
polo and minor events filled the bill. Beaurepaire and
breast strokist Richardson will represent Victoria in the
Australasian Swimming Championships at Perth, next
month. “Bogey" should do better than any previous
Cabbage State representative.
* * * %
N.S.W. Rugby Football League—the so-called
professional body—played for big stakes last week, when
it attempted to rope in the Northern Branch of N.S.W.
Rugby Union, which has its headquarters at Newcastle.
The fact that the Northern Union declined to sever its
connection with the amateur body does not alter the fact
that there is somebody with brains and energy behind
the League. Some of these big efforts will yet come off,
and then it w’ill be a case of “ Who’d have thought it?”
Either the N.S.W. Rugby Union must get sufficient
pressure put on the English governing body to allow it to
alter its constitution, or Mr. Howe will have to draw' up a
Declaration of Rugby Independence. There isn’t room
for two Rugby bodies in N.S.W., and either the Union or
the League has to go out.
* * * *
Victoria Park racecourse (Sydney), the new un-
registered course, opened last week, and put up some-
thing like a record. Owing to the brevity of the water
supply, the co. had not been able to induce grass to
grow, and the crowd stood on cinders and dry earth
while it watched the sport through clouds of dust.
The only people who were glad were those who sold long
cool drinks—they were drunk out in no time, the book-
makers having to keep their throats washed to be able to
yell the odds. The track was as bad as the alleged lawn,
and, when a horse got in front, it stayed there. The
horses and jockeys behind were blinded by the storm of
cinders and dirt that flew' from the leader’s hind legs,
and the rear jockeys just shut their eyes and let their
mounts go where and how they liked. To pass the
leader meant facing a storm of missiles of all sorts and
sizes and jagged shapes, and suggested charging a
battery.
■» * * *
Rosehill R.C. has raised its half-yearly fee for
betting privileges from £l2 10s. to £l7 10s., and the wail
of Moses Moss is loud in the land. Yet £l7 10s. for six
months pans out a substantial margin less than £3 a day,
as Rosehill holds 13 meetings yearly. Westralian Moses
paid £7O during the W.A.T.O.’s recent four days’
meeting, and at Belmont Park (W.A.) he is charged
Bgs. daily, and opposed by the tote. The New South
Wales leather-lunged are in a land of milk and honey
compared with their brethren of Westralia or even
Maoriland.
The lot of backers of horses —unenviable always
—has, in Sydney, been for some time of a completely
flattening-out nature, mainly through the manner in
which Patrick Moses tightens up the odds about anything
and everything, also the glaring in-and-out racing that is
tolerated. A bigger facer than any other of recent oc-
currence was the result of Nursery Handicap, at Rosehill,
on Saturday. Of eleven that lined up an alleged start saw
two (Erindale and Yellow'Star) racing, while t’other nine
to all intents and purposes looked on, and it ended in
an absolute outsider (Erindale) landing the money. But
the winner travelled and sustained her effort well enough
to suggest that, all off together, she would have taken
a heap of beating, consequently Erindale, by Positano
(imp.) from Oin, by Splendor (imp.) from Esperance,.
should be worth watching.
The manner in which Simple Simon, who intro-
duced himself to Turfdom as a ’chaser, got away with
the Jumpers’ Flat Race at Rosehill, Saturday, evidenced
there was something in a whispered tip that his Anniver-
sary Handicap prospects were worth consideration ; and
even now (with 51b. penalty earned) the nag will only
carry 6st. 121 b.—a mere feather.
Good up-country performer Wha Hae had the
waited-for “cut” in Ilosehill Flying Welter on Satur-
day and punters followed a stable move (owner invested
a “’hundred”) with such force that Christian Moses
immediately sheltered behind 6 to 4 offered. The nag
was never in the hunt. He tailed away early, and kept
tailing awav, till the finish saw him one of the last three
ioints of a lengthy caudal streak. Wha Hae was tipped
to finish alone the'first time he tried round about Sydney,
and he went mighty close to fulfilling that prophecy, but
at the wrong end. Winner turned up in Brides Veil,
who had previously raced unsuccessfully within the
metropolitan area for months —always travelling fast
enough to beat anything in the early stages, but failing
completely near the end. Thus was the undoing of the
punter thorough, and the joy of his natural enemy
complete. t t *
Telegraphed that at recent W.A.T.C. summer
meeting, Westralian turfite P. A. Connolly, owner of
Perth Derby and Cup winner Post Town, also of Mel-
bourne Cup winner Blue Spec, and other great equine
coin-getters, scooped £3OOO in prize money alone (inde-
pendent of a substantial “ bit ” to nothing from Tatt.’s
sweep and sundry large bets); and he magnanimously
distributed £5O among charities. How liberal some
wealthy “sportsmen ” are ! Dhe Westralian’s generosity
recalls the punter who, on his way to the races, puts
threepence in the blind man’s hand and, through that
charity, expects to back the programme. It also brings
to mind the complaint of the Maoriland owner of last
Melbourne Cup winner about beggars besieging him night
and day, and the sporting offer of a Sydney man to give
£lOO to any beggar who could prove he had been
successful.
* * * *
Imported Ritchie, a six-year-old stallion, by
Blairfinde —Income, owned by Mr. H. H. Osborne,
shaped publicly for the first time in Australia on Saturday,
at Rosehill, and finished third to Royal Arthur and Noela
in Oarlingford Mile. That Ritchie wasn’t expected to win
the lengthy odds spoke plain as words, but he’ll surely
come sooner or later. At two years, Ritchie won once in
two starts, and beat 18 others over five furlongs, covered
at a very speedy clip. Three years saw him successful at
Newmarket, winning a lj-mile race (Bst. 101 b. up) in
2min. 9 l-ssec. Ritchie was placed in three other events
as a three-year-old. At four years, he did no good, hence,
probably, his appearance in this section. Unlike most
nags bought in the Cold Country for Australia, Ritchie
has the endorsement of some public performances, which
he may repeat, and that possibility prompts this para-
graph.
< * * *
Died in Sydney, last week, Mr. A. G. Dent, hon.
treasurer of Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union, and one
of the big figures of N.S.W. Rugby. He will be sadly
missed in the coming fight with the League.
* • * *
If a recent decision holds good, Bent’s Anti-
Gambling Act seems to have thrown some of the accepted
notions of fair-play overboard in dealing with Christian
Moses. The Act makes it illegal for Cohen to bet with a
woman ; but apparently it doesn’t make it unlawful for a
woman to bet with Cohen. In this case the woman gave
her money to a man who put it on for her. A policeman
saw her giving it to the man, but whether Moses Book
saw her do it or not doesn’t appear. Nevertheless he fell
into the deep pit of £lO and costs for betting
with a woman—which he didn’t ; he bet with a
man. And now the tribe would be glad to know if
the same rule will hold good if the woman gives the
money to the intermediate man six miles away three days
before the race, and if every man who bets will demand
his money back when the horse loses, on the ground that
the cash really belongs to his sister, or his aunt, or his
elderly maiden washerwoman. And it suggests, with all
due respect, that the woman, and the man who acts as
her agent, should be fined £lO. each for beguiling an
innocent and unsuspecting Cohenstein to break the Act.
The woman certainly knew she was betting, while
Cohenloup may not have known. Yet Oohenloup is
fined on suspicion, while the woman and her male agent
get off on a dead certainty.
* * *
The Ellida, the tight little yawl-
rigged craft that started in the ocean yacht race across
Bass Strait and struck a disturbance lasting five days (she
was given upas a “goner”), was built at Middie Park
(Melb.) some 13 years ago by the three Macs —McPherson,
McKenzie, and McLean —amateur craftsmen. The present
owners are Messrs. Oobb and Poole, of St. Kilda. On the
Sunday, when things looked pretty blue and nothing
could be done on deck, the boys went below, and one of
the party, the Rev. Redhead, a solid yachting parson,
started the service “ for those at sea.” His efforts for the
moment were interrupted by the skylight, a portion of
which fell in on him. He merely murmured “ never cut
me,” and continued with “ for those at sea.” The crew
had a tough time, but a lump of credit is due to the
little craft that held them.
(Continued on page SZ.)
SICK AND ’ILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the song of Clement ’lll,
Who scored the mighty score—
He gave the bowlers “ beans ” until
Their hearts and hands were sore.
They bowled him “ twisters ” all in vain :
The soft ’uns he did pick,
And now and then he eased his pain
By pausing to be sick.
The heat was awful in the shade,
And shocking in the sun ;
But O! the game the Hero played
Delighted everyone.
The joyful urchins, small and shrill,
Cried, “ Gosh ! he is a trick 1 ”
And cheers went up for Clammy ’lll
Whenever he was sick.
Old fatmen, with their stummicks full,
Around the Oval sat,
Exclaiming—“ There’s a perfect ‘ pull ’ 1
What do you think of that ? ”
Whilst wives and daughters, gaily clad,
Formed clusters sweet and thick,
And whispered—“ Now, that is too bad:
No runs for being sick 1 ”
Well, cricket is a funny game,
As all old-timers tell,
Clem ’lll proved worthy of his name,
Because he was not well.
He tried to keep his dinner down,
But up it came—too quick :
He won his greenest laurel crown,
By stopping to be sick.
VIC.
E. F.


DEAFNESS
Head-Noises,
Ringing in the Ears,
Discharging Ears, &c.
if vm! '° U ? af j°' np deaf > do y° u realise the terrible fate which is staring you in the face ? Even
ronl h y f , ed with Head-Noises. Ringing in the Ears, Discharging Ears, or any other Ear
stone Deafness 6r rvw 'l"’"''' be ’^ ren,ember that all those symptoms lead to Deafness, and ‘very often to
human intercours th" tota ' ° eafness means ? Ifc means a living death. Shut out from all
thTuntold Ht "T T a " d pleasUre ‘ Life becomes a Jarful blank. Will you suffer
cure
cure yourself completely with the “ EAROSCOPE ”?
as«iJ hlSTre f atmen t. COnSiSfcSOf PUre Aura ‘ Kinetics applied by yourself at your own home, without the
Zifl T! a "-!, pbyBlc ' arl ’ and withou t the least interference to your daily routine work, business, or
social duties. Endorsed by the highest Aural Specialists as the only safe, sure, and effective Home
treatment for Deafness, Head-Noises, Ringing in the Ears, etc., etc.
Read these Unsolicited Testimonials,
and please note that we could easily fill all the pages of this paper with others equally strong in their
recommendation of the “ EAROSCOPE ”
Stone Deaf Ears
Mrs. Jessie A. Mclnness, of Warialda, N.S.W.
writes “ I began to use the “ EAROSCOPE”
on the 28th of October (just a month to-day),
and I find a great change in my right ear,
which ear was dead to all sounds. The Noises
have also greatly decreased. It is a great
comfort to me to send you this report, and I
am very much pleased with the Treat-
ment.”
Ringing in the Ears
J. Philbrook, Esq., of 90Prospect St., Summer
Hill, N.S.W., writes:—“When obtaining the
Earoscope I said I would let you know later on
the benefit I derived from same. It gives me
great pleasure to inform you that the noises I
was troubled with (which distressed me greatly
for many years) have all ceased now. I cer-
tainly think your Earoscope a very good treat-
ment, and wish it every success.”
THE REV. H. CAINFORD, of ADELAIDE, says : —“The Earoscope you sent me
has wrought a marvellous change In my hearing.’’
All it will cost you to get lull particulars of this great boon to humanity is the postage stamp. Send
us your name and address, and we will forward to you FREE OP’ CHARGE the “ EAROSCOPE
REVIEWwith abundant testimonials from patients successfully cured with this “ EAROSCOPE” after
all other treatments having failed to do any good in their complicated cases of many years’ standing.
Audrkss :
“ EAROSCOPE INST.” 90 Pitt St. (Dept. 26) Sydney N.S.W.
GOLD
MOULDED
RECORDS
NEW EDISON
RECORDS.
November British Selections.
Every dealer in the Genuine Edison
Phonograph Supplies has these new
Records in stock.
Call on one to-day and ask him to
play them through for you.
Make a special point of hearing No.
13650 “Two Little Sausages”—from
“ The Girls of Gottenburg,” sung by
Miss Yolande Noble.
READY TO-DAY—I 6 EACH.
13643 If Those Lips Could Only Speak
( Ridgwell and Godwin) Andrew Clayton
13644 Electra, March ( Bemberg )
National Military Band
13645 Two Eyes of Hazel {Heins) Godfrey James
13646 I Ought to be Punished (Leighton
and Everard) Tom Woottwell
13647 Don’t Tell Your Pals Your Troubles
(Moore) Miss Victoria Monks
13648 The Campbells are Coming
Pipe Major H. Forsyth
13649 My Wife’s Sister’s Pussy Cat (Gorman)
Harry Champion
13650 Two Little Sausages (Monckton)
From “ The Girls of Gottenburg ”
Miss Yolande Noble
13651 Macgregor’s Gathering (Lee)
Stuart Moncur
13652 Hebrew Jokes Jordan and Harvey
13653 Has An vone Seen My Poodle Dog ?
(Clifford) Billy Williams
13654 Rustique, Mazurka (Clerice)
National Military Band
While you are in ask the dealer to give you
the complete lists of Genuine Edison Records.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
LEARN TO SWIM
POST FREE. nnwty:---- 1
YOU have simply to attach AYVAD’S
WATER WINGS to your body, and you
can't go under. Water Wings will support
a man of 250 lbs as easily as a child of 50 lbs., and
both on just the level at which a person can swim
or float comfortably. The Wings are made porous
for the reason that it takes less air to support, a
"*rge body than it does a smaller one, and they
allow just enough air to escape to adjust them-
selves properly to the size of the body. For
instance, a large body, requiring less air to float
than a smaller one, forces more air from the Wings
than the latter, and is supported on the same level.
The weight of your body governs the amount of air
that stays in the Water Wings —in every case just
the necessary amount of air remains.
If you cannot swim, you will learn in one trial if
you get a pair of AYVAD’S WATER WINGS,
if you are a swimmer, you will enjoy greater
sport than ever in the water if you use the Wings,
hear in mind, Water Wings are NOT dangerous,
tan be brought instantly into use. They weigh
only 3 oz., and take up no more room than a pocket
handkerchief. The price is only 2/2, postage paid
anywhere. If you order three pairs, we will give
you free a set of six very comical coloured Penny
host Cards, entitled “ A Day’s Outing at
Manly •” or the Post Cards and one pair of Wings
for 2/6, post free.
A.J. SMITH & CO.,
12-14 Hunter Street
SYDNEY
npHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
-1 Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
240
f
/
k'l
s
CUT
IN
HALF
is the title of
Our New Pamphlet
which contains des-
cription of and new
prices for standard
makes, IN LIMITED
QUANTITIES of sin-
gle and multi-furrow
plows, both mould-
board and disc.
Anyone needing
a plow of any Kind
can SAVE FROM £.l
TO £5, and also pro-
cure easy terms and
Free delivery at
nearest Railway
Station, by getting
this pamphlet before
buying. Posted free.
Send name and ad-
dress to our Branch.
House in the State
in which you live.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO.
OF AMERICA (incorporated)
Roma Street, Brisbane ; 37 Broadway, Sydney;
545 Bourke St., Melbourne; Bank St., Adelaide;
and York St., Launceston.
HAVEN’T YOU SEEN THE
Wonderful X-Ray Pictures
How very Queer your Friends appear
in their Skeletons!
THE FUNNIEST THINGS YOU HAVE EVER SEEN.
a la Ronigen
Startling Surprising Amazing
The Complete Materials for Producing
Six Genuine Photographs for only 1/6;
Two Sets for 2 6, Carriage Paid.
TF you want a really amusing novelty, send for this outfit
A for producing Marvellous Photographs ft
la Roentgen. You catch your victim-a lady or gentleman—
expose a sheet of sensitized paper for ten seconds and you can
at once develop an astonishing picture,
showing every bone of the skeleton through the clothing.
You can have no idea how very queer your friends look until
you see these Photographs. The ladies will never forgive you.
Anyone can produce these Genuine Permanent
Photograph s; failure is impossible. Each picture can
be completed in three minutes, and the outfit contains full
printed directions and everything you require for the purpose.
The Union Manufacturing Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
KXJGELMANN’S
«9
3
©
.
Ptire
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid."
fr.ee
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
„ , Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pel
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
U-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St„ SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
58
■u
ffn n n
□ a o a
HjiJ'
w
so
' • • 11 1 *
This Run represents one
of the severest tyre tests
yet held in any part of
the world,the route com-
prising hundreds of
miles of rough bush
tracks and roadsl
“ DUNLOPS ” rendered
the wonderful trip
possible,coming through
the severe ordeal in a
manner that again
demonstrates their dur-
ableand reliable qualities
Ordinary “ DUNLOPS ”
were used, the same as
we can supply to any
motorist, and the tyre
that we recommend for
hard driving on
Australian roads.
rm
g
pikl
igjjji
Hn
Messrs. C. B. Kellow and
H. B. James established this
remarkable run declared
impossible by everyone
acquainted with the route
by the aid of “DUNLOPS.”
The previous fastest time
was three days*
»
T T T
P
Bffl
aji'Mi
«<•!
Victoria has a £2,000,000 loan at 4 per
cent, falling due in London in April, and Premier
Bent’s remedy is to repay £025,000 of it out of
revenue and to renew the rest in Victoria at 3|
per cent. Consequently, a tribute of £BO,OOO a
year from Australia to England ceases absolutely,
and, in place of it, £48,125 will be paid annually
to a local creditor. Just when Tommy Bent has
done some vast idiocy, like the sending of three
fat men, at great public expense, to represent
Victoria at a twopenny exhibition in a three-ha’-
penny London suburb, and a bitter curse seems
due to him in consequence, he achieves something
fine and large like the above, and then the curse
has to be suspended. A many-sided man is
Tommy.
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant:—
A Jubilee: Wedded, on January 14, 1858, at St.
Thomas’s Church, North Sydney, by the Rev. W. B.
Clarke, Mr. John Schofield to Miss Susannah Anne
Lavender, only daughter of the late George John Laven-
der, and grand-daughter of the late William Blue, sen.
Mr. Lavender was mate of the hulk Phoenix, which lay in
what was then known as Hulk Bay. The name was after-
wards changed to the more sweetly smelling “ Lavender,”
by which it is still known. Old Billy Blue, the Commo-
dore, had several children—Robert and John ; Mary, who
married Robert Tiffin ; and Susannah, who married
George Lavender. One of the streets on Billy Blue’s
80-acre grant is named after this daughter. Mrs.
Schofield, the grand-daughter—-the bride in the wedding
of fifty years ago—is still alive in North Sydney, and in
excellent health.
“ Mate ” : S. M. Herald made a curiously
foolish break in its Science Notes (28/12/’07). ;
Pointing out the “serious fix” the ship captain
would be in “if we lost our moon,’’ the paper
went on :
He can determine his latitude readily enough, but the
finding of the longitude is more difficult, and for this
purpose the moon has become the most valuable of aids.
With the moon and the nautical almanac he is provided
with a clock that never plays him false.
As a fact, the days when lunars were the one way
of finding longitude have long vanished.
Theoretically, lunars seem beautifully simple
and dependable; in practice, the “incon-
stant moon” needs so much correction that
it is useless for modern requirements. Time
was when longtitude by lunar distance
used to be one of the frills on the Extra
Master’s exam. But things kept happening;
for instance, a fleet of East Indiamen bound for
Bombay found itself in the Bay of Bengal, “ the
clock that never plays false ” having put the fleet
out to the extent of the breadth of India. Now
even the Board of Trade has tumbled to the
futility of teaching a science which is liable to pro-
duce such results, and the study of lunars has
been discontinued in favor of naval architecture.
Also the Admiralty Nautical Almanac no longer
prints lunar distances, so the clock of the
Herald’s Science Notes cannot be read by the
sailorman.


WATCHES FOR the MULTITUDE!
MERIT alone has secured for A. Saunders’ Watches tbe public’s a f > P r ® ci “
at ion of tbe perfect watch. Whatever you’re prepared to pay, you’ll find
that for strengths, accuracy, durability, A. Saunders* Watcbes stand supreme.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Amethyst centre,
25/.
15ct Gold £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
CIRCLE BROOCH,
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.,
25/.
SOLID
SILVER.
25/-
SOLID
GOLD.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless W ATCHES,
Richly * Engraved Case,
f : Plate Lever Movement,
Fully Jewelled, Patent
Adjusted! Balance.
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 50/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
£5/10/, £6/10/.
Guaranteed for 1,2, 3, and!4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
20/..
A. SAUNDERS;
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphires.
OPEN
FACE.
25/-
HIGHER
GRADE.
30/-
A'. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless WATCHES,
2-Plate Movement, Non-Magnetic, Patent
Adjusted Balance, Dust and Waterproof
Cases. i
I 25/.
Higher Grade, 30/.
Guaranteed for 15 Years, and kept in free
repair for 1 year.
Cheaper Grades, 10/, 12/6, 15/, IT/G.
BUYING BY MAIL.
NO MATTER WHERE
YOU LIVE, YOU CAN
SHOP BY MAIL WITH
AS MUCH SATISFAC-
TION AS IF YOU
VISITED OUR SHOP
PERSONALLY. ALL
GOODS SENT CARRIAGE
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
3 Set. Gold
Two Heart BROOCH,
Set Fine Opals and
Diamond.
£2/10/.
Larger, £3 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Fine Pearls and
Sapphires or Turquoise.
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold
Pure Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£3/10/.
All Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
CLUSTER RING,
Set Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
' A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
HEART CHARM,
Raised Forget-Me-Not
Spray.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP
2/6.
Engraved, 3/.
9ct. Gold, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
SEAL PENDANT.
Bloodstone and
Sardonyx.
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
HEART and
DUMB-BELL LINKS.
12/6.
loot. Gold. 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
OPEN
FACE.
15/-
HIGHER
GRADE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open Face,
Keyless WATCHES, Short
Wind, Stem Set, Perfectly
Regulated and Adjusted,
Splendid Timekeeper.
15/.
Higher Grade, 20/, 25/, 30/.
Kept in free repair for 1 Year
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Half-Chased Curb Padlock BRACELET
with Safety Chain Attached, £2.
Smaller, 30/, 35/.' Larger, £2 10/, £3, £3/10..
OPEN
FACE
15/-
HIGHER
GRADE
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open Face Keyless “GUARD”
LEVER, Short Wind, Non-Magnetic,
Patent Adjusted Balance, Dust and
Waterproof Cases, Fine or Bold Dial
15/.
Higher Grade, “Railway,” 20/.
Guaranteed for 10 Years,
and kept in free repair for 1 Year.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Raised Floral Spray,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold DK in DA NT
and NECKLET, set Fine
Pearls and Amethysts.
£4.
15et. Gold, £5 10/.
Set Pearls and
Tourmalines, £6 10/.
FREE
CATALOGUE.
SEND US YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AND
WE WILL MAIL YOU,
POST FREE, A COPY
OF OL'iR LATEST CATA-
LOGUE. WRITE TO-
DAY. ITS YOURS FOR
THE ASKING.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
“LYRE” BROOCH,
Set Fine
White Pearls.
£3.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Pearls, Ruby and
Turquoise, or all Pearls.
£3/10/.
Olivines, Rubies, and Pearls, £4/10/,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Half-Hoop RING,
Set with Double Cut
Diamonds and
Emeralds.
£lO.
INNA
obs
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM.
12/6.
Smaller, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP,
Solid Silver,
2/6.
Extra Heavy, 3/6.
Ths LcRnWATrH
B&TVEEI Me
JfrtiiU
m
m
‘VSOTHtR
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM.
8/6.
Smaller, 5/6, 6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
OVAL LINKS.
■ 22/6.
15ct. Gold, £2.
Initials Engraved
Free of Charge.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Bird BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Ruby.
35/
A, SAUNDERS,
15ct. Gold
HEART BROOCH.
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.
£2.
18CT
GOLD
£l2 10s.
higher
GRADE
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct Gold Hunting
Keyless WALTHAM LEVER,
J-Plate, Fully Jewelled,
Compensation Balance, Per-
fectly Adjusted, Extra Heavy
Case, Hand Engraved.
£l2/10/.
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in free repair for 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray
Cluster BROOCH, Set
fine white Pearls,
£2/5/.
0
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Scroll BROOCH
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£2/10.
SOLID
GOLD.
SOLID
SILVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting
WATCHES, Stem Set, fPlate,
Jewelled, Compensation Balance,
Timed and Adjusted.
£2.
Keyless
, Fully
Perfectly
Higher Grade, £2 10/, £3 10/, £4 10/,
£5 10/.
Solid Gold, £7 10/, £8 10/, £l2 10/,
£l5, £2O, £25. .
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, 5. and 6 Years.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
DER
AU
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


Australian Mutual Provident Society
Estabushk, 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual p rinciple% J
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
< Co 7 1 bl ned '< Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
Of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Oiir new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repavim-
up to -0 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of anv fine'
Directors— The Hon. A. VV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. ,1. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman • Beniamin
las°o’ Fa?r’fiv J FV, eS *' : T . he w Ho "- R ' J ' Black ’ M -E.C.; The Hon. F E.‘ Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. U. hairrax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece F l a FF a f s
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, ° ROBEHT a OAMERON, Secretary.
The following diagram Post Card illustrating the size and
shape of Australia and the number of its population and neigh-
bours, also the diagram and short Australian Essay on Note Paper.
Sold at Cole’s Book Arcades, Bourke and Collins Streets, Melbourne;
333 and 346 George Street, Sydney; and 67 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
. . . . . • . . . .
• • • • *• • • . !l
millions of people.
The
White
Australia
Post
Card.
China proper contains more than
400 millions of people.
The two Countries combined have only the same area as Australia.
Each dot in these diagrams represents
Java contains
30 millions.
A
Million
of
People.
A
\
/:
Comparative,
size of England,
Australia—lts Size, its Neighbours, and its Future
The Island-Continent of Australia, vast and almost empty, contains only
about 4 millions of Inhabitants, while it is approximately 58 times the size of
tngland, 100 times the size of Ireland. Scotland or Tasmania, 250 times the
size of Holland or Belgium, or 400 times the size of Wales or Palestine. A
White Australia will be impossible—firstly, because coloured people will help
to Inhabit its tropical part; and secondly, because the tropical heat will
darken the skin of the white settlers and their descendants.—Friend reflect.
Australia a Grand Country.
I think that Australia for its size is, all-round, the best country in the world.
Its climate is pleasant and health-giving. It has no desolating blizzards, no
frost-bites, and few sun-strokes. In edible produce, for both size and quality it
stands very high, if not the highest. I have been in many lands, but never saw a
country supply such a variety of products as Australia does —potatoes, onions, cabbages,
carrots, peas, beans, and scores of other vegetables in abundance. In fruits it
produces apples, pears, plums, peaches, oranges, grapes, and all the smaller
fruits in great abundance and of good flavour. Northern Australia also produces
all the tropical fruits in abundance wherever cultivated. In corn Australia pro-
duces superior wheat, oats, barley, maize, and all other kinds in abundance,
especially when scientifically irrigated. As a milk, butter, and meat country, it is
one of the best in the world. It is the largest and best wool-producing country
in the world. It contains the largest area in the world especially suitable for
growing cotton, the most extensively-used clothing material. Flowers grow
luxuriantly and beautifully whenever cultivated and watered. A few years ago,
when writing on the “ White Australia " question, I stated that with high culture,
water conservation and scientific irrigation, Australia was capable of supporting
400 millions of inhabitants. A high literary authority, in reviewing the book,
remarked that this seemed like “ a gross exaggeration ” ; but probably he had
not thought so much on the subject as I had.
I will here concisely state the principal reasons for my opinion. The great
want of Australia, to make it amazingly fruitful, is the complete conservation of
water and its scientific application to the soil. Water, warmth, and soil will
grow anything in Australia, if rationally managed. Australia has abundance of
water now running to waste. On thousands of house-roofs water enough is
caught for the domestic use of the respective families. Over large areas of the
country there are 30 inches of rainfall, and the average rainfall over vast areas is
24 inches, and could be made much greater by cultivation. Four-fifths of this
water now runs to waste. Again, Australia has vast areas of
underground water which only require to be tapped and brought to the surface,
to irrigate and fertilize the soil.
Australia is also a country where timber grows well and fast, if planted in
trenched ground and slightly irrigated. Hundreds of straight trees can be
grown upon an acre of land if they are first planted thickly and some gradually
thinned out. Many kinds of trees will grow upon very poor soil if they are pro-
perly planted and irrigated, as the bulk of their sustenance is derived from the
air. One more remark about trees and their possibilities as food providers. Wher-
ever any kind of tree will grow some kind of fruit tree will grow. There are hun-
dreds of millions of gum trees growing in Australia. Where every one of these
trees is, some kind of fruit tree would grow, if properly planted and looked after.
Again, to utilize Australia to its full extent the whole world should be sought
through for the best plants and trees of every kind, and only the very best grown,
and those in situations and soil best adapted for them.
One argument used against Australia is that much of its surface is sandy ; but
experiments and developments in various countries snow that the planting of
marram grass, lupins, and other plants ties even the drifting sand together and
gradually, through their decay, turns the sandy wastes into fertile soil. Besides,
science can, in many other ways, utilize the elements in the air to enrich the soil.
For further remarks on this subject I beg to refer the reader to the coming
book:—" Australia Able to Support 400 Millions.”
E. W. COLE.
The Standard Remedy which haa outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Business
Announcements.
ANTED
WANTED TO BUY.
THE TOBACCO COY. of S.A. LTD., Adelaide,
South Australia, are ...
Buyers of Cigar and Tobacco Leaf.
POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
A
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve Is.
Packet of Ten 10d.
TH E
SECRET OF THE POPULARITY
OF
WALKER’S
WHISKY
IS
INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd, hold the
LARGEST STOCKS of PURE MALT
SCOTCH WHISKY in THE TRADE,
amounting to
Over 3V 2 MILLION GALLONS.
These stocks are an absolute GUARANTEE
of QUALITY, AGE, and UNIFORMITY
Kilmarnock Scotland,
v V : ;■ - , '
'
IV
&
■JA
<• . v
til
/>/.* x(! ■«, W'jVl'
r im
&&
r
f- %.
( A
'
\ "ft-
r / l
£
V
mmm
TOT
< j®. fi
HP'. KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA
gM&ttU tt tat Ct.cv.ta Itttrat- ::t
Wet. IttL is eetsttytiet tr.ti t.
lUbftMVuut&&ia:Ktt aili.i >:
mtM trSotorir caiitltii. At t
hi rmt itpirttrirT to til otstn. •;
SttM ttitifit m.v.ttnl ..i
fmt ttpirtMirr to ti. otse*:,
eag^Cw
* *«4.'
■
SStsai'KSrr^vr.i::
fwri^r.^-rrr'
W 42 —A WitejlattfoJ Act c: r»-:> ;
Cttliilrta. tart er u;i« .t««i;
ant.ctSwiit"* to", Mtiif'j
FLUID
MAGNFSIA
IL'-S
1 cijf
.
’ .
. j Acmm w,
1 l'' 1 ! '■ . '
:c rui-tliei-,.
-Oboe
A TWO YEARS’ GUARANTEE!
WE give a two vears’ guarantee with every PLUM RAZOR
we sell, and not only that, but will keep it in good
order for two years free of charge. We have THATmuch con-
fidence in the Plum. It has a perfect shaving edge.
POST FREE 10/6,
to any part of the
World
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving: Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Single Razor In Leather Case, 10 6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.


BATH OF
BEAUTY
o
c
m
-i
EMOLLIENT, SANATIVE, ANTISEPTIC,!
FRAGRANT Sc REFRESHING .
0« S>V( IN E»OF>IE ,G ATION ,
THt TO»» ET, B AT M « - o NUftSeR Y.
Q» <»MAVI»»C *~= !>n ANIPOOINC.
1
m
m
■ A
jaw
mr-
wx*a
For Preserving, Purifying
and Beautifying the Skin,
Scalp, Hair, and Hands.
Cutlcura Soap combines delicate medicinal, emol-
lient, sanative, antiseptic properties derived from
Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, with the purest of sap-
onaceous ingredients, and most refreshing of flower
odors. Depots: London, 27 Charterhouse Sq.; Paris,
S Ruede la Paix; Australia, R. towns & Co.. Syd-
ney; India, B. K. Paul, Calcutta; So. Africa, Pen-
non, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.: Boston. 137 Columbus
Ave., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
'as- Mailed Free. How to Preserve, Purify, and
Beautily the Skin. Scalp. Hair, and Hands.
The Bushman.
GUARANTEED FOR TWO YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
Lever
14/6.
Watch
14/6.
II
\ * /
M
A
%
'HIS is the ideal watch for country use. You
couldn’t get a better time-keeper if you paid
as many guineas, We call it the BUSHMAN. It
is a polished steel LEVER Watch, with a fully
Jewelled movement, compensation balance. You
can have the case either NICKEL or GUNMETAL
(say which). Both are dust-proof. It has a strong
crystal glass face. It is wound and set without
opening the case. Every watch is guaranteed in
writing for TWO YEARS. Sent post free for 14/6.
Sit down and write for one to-day. It will stand
plenty of knocking about, and be none the worse
for it. Ask for one of our Beautiful Catalogues,
FREE. It will be of interest to you.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
TTIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
115,000
The WayhacK Series.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. 3.
and keeps laughing. Bed Harry Is.
fNATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE'
California Syrup of Figs restores strength to
the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
stimulates the action of the Liver and Kidneys
when the inactivity of those organs indicates a
constipated condition. The valuable tonic action
of California Syrup of Figs gradually over-
comes the tendency to Habitual Constipation
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative, pleasant to
the taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in results.
The most agreeable family remedy for con-
stipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion,
depression, feverishness, loss of appetite,
headache, and all kindred complaints;
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and
good spirits. Of Chemists, in two sizes.
MILD AND SURE- 1
Notice the Dainty Lines
of this Lady’s Shoe.
It is an aristocrat among' its kind—the sort of shoe
that sets off a shapely foot and gives a stamp of
distinction to the wearer. As shewn in the picture,
it comes in patent leather, goloshed, with high
Wurtemburg heel and Ribbon Ties. The same shoe
may be had in Glacie Kid from
Postage in Victoria, 9d.,
to other States, Is.
21 /-
Send for our Booklet “ Shoelight.'
f EEMING’S
BOOT SI
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street,
Prahran ; 1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
PRISM FIELD GLASSES
with Enhanced Stereoscopic Effect.
X 6,
£6
XB,
£6 I Os.
Ocular distance.
XI2,
£9 ss.
X 6,
Stalking,
£7 10s.
Enlarged objective distance.
NEW MODELS
for Army, Marine, Travel, Sport, Stalking.
Brilliant Definition
Great Light Intensity
Extensive Field
Mechanical Precision
Stability
Tropics-proof
embodied in a. Higher degree.
Ask for Prospectus T 96.
Berlin
frankfurt o. M.
Hamburg
St. Petersburg
Vienna
Obtainable from all Opticians and from
CARL ZEISS, LONDON W,
JENA
29 Margaret Street.
Regent Street.
NEW Club Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. E. S. A.
NEW CLUB
CARTRIDGES
The bookmaking worm has been trying hard to
turn in Maoriland, but with mighty little success. Patrick
Moses is just about at his last gasp so far as operating on
the ordinary courses goes, owing to the imposition of
frightful fees by the jockey clubs —fees that were designed
to leave a dead Moses lying around. So when Alexander
Isaacs found his occupation gone on the existing tracks,
he conceived the idea of starting courses of his
own. The Colonial Secretary, being interviewed on
the subject, said there was no law to prevent the
establishment of new courses which didn’t use the tote
and did business solely with the bookmaker, and the
result was a yell of triumph. Land was secured, and
horse owners were approached, and for a time it looked
as though the worm had turned right round. Then the
Racing Conference —the supreme racing body of Maori-
land —intimated that it would not grant affiliation to any
of these new bookmaker clubs, and owners, jockeys, and
horses that took part in their proceedings would be dis-
qualified in one great heap. Here the worm with the
bag stopped turning, and just laid itself down to receive
the inevitable.
* * * *
The eloquence of Wi Pere, native member of
M.L. Upper House, on the Gaming and Lotteries Act: —
I got something to say about te puk-a-maka. In my
opinion, I give all them fellows who is not on te course
a license to make te pet. But let him have te office in
town, so that we can go in and make te pet. We too
pisy making te law for te pakeha to go te race, but,
all same, we make te pet. But te strolling puk-a-
maka you see round te public-house corner, you catch
that man and put him in gaol. He no good. Suppose
you roose, he come quick for te utu. Suppose you win,
you no find him. He go quick. I say put him in gaol.
I like honest puk-a-maka—put up his sign and pay up.
I not quite understand te Pill, but I say license every
man that has te pluck to make a puk, so that we can
get all te money out of him we can to penefit te
country. Te puk-a-maka does not always win,
and when he roose, then his clients win;
so I say it is a penefit to te country. I con-
sider if he pay te license fee he penefit te coun-
try—and we want as much revenue as vve can get. Let
us legislators have te same pluck, and create as many
puk-a-makas as you can, as it will penefit te Dominion
generally. But we not want te spieler puk-a-maka,
who run away and not pay te time he roose.
* * * *
As most people know, the Olympic Games will
be held in London this year, and the Marathon Race is
to eventuate over a course from Windsor to Shepherd’s
Bush. Just in case anyone intends competing, it may be
mentioned that there will be some difficulty in recollect-
ing the track. In fact, tracing one’s way out of Mt. Ida
Labyrinth or Hampton Court Maze will be simplicity
compared to it. Here is the thing in detail,
arid the question will arise whether the English
Marathon Race is a trial of speed or a memory
test. “ Starting from Windsor, over the River
Thames, through Eton, past Eton College to Slough,
taking' main road towards London for about half-a-mile,
turn to left to Uxbridge, through George Green,
and passing Langley Park on right. Enter Uxbridge by
road on right-hand side of Church and Corn Exchange,
proceed for about 400 yards towards London, then take
road on left to Ickenham and Ruislip. At the Poplars,
Ruislip (Polytechnic Harriers C.C. headquarters), turn to
the left and take the road at the side of Ruislip Church
towards Eascote. Keep to the right for Pinner, following
the direction of the signposts. You do not actually enter
Pinner, but bear to the right at signpost 300 yards
past Pinner Gas Works. This road takes you over
Metropolitan Railway. After crossing the railway turn
to the right for Harrow. You re-cross the Metropolitan
Railway at the Roxborough Hotel, Harrow, and then turn
sharp to the left, and run parallel with the railway for
about 1200 yards and then turn sharp to the right, keep-
ing Harrow Church and schools on your right. This road
is called Pinner-road, and brings you to Sudbury.
Through Sudbury and Wembley, passing L. and N. W.
Railway (Sudbury and Wembley) on your right, and con-
tinue until you reach tram lines. Follow these until you
reach the College Park Hotel, Willesden Junction, on the
Harrow-road. Turn to the right here. This road takes
you across Wormwood Scrubs into Wood-lane for the
Stadium. Approximate distance, 25 miles 600 yards.”
* * * *
Rc par(B. 2/l/’08)on the Olympic games
to be held in London next June, allusion is made to the
so-called “ Marathon race ” as a go-as-you-please. As a
matter of fact any foot race is a go-as-you-please except
when a fellow is forced to go faster than he pleases, but
in the strict sense the term means run, walk, hobble, or
get along any old way provided you don’t hang on to a
passing cart or motor, For instance, when Melbournite
Geo. Blake took a hand over the 26 miles from Marathon
to Athens, in ’O6, he held command at the first half-mile.
The first mile was carved out in less than smin., and the
five went by in 30min. For 16 miles Geo. led them a
lovely dance, with a mile to spare from the second ped.
Then cramps settled him, but he finished jup sixth in
a field of 53 of the earth’s best. Bill Sherning, the
wrinner, did the 26 miles in 2 hours 51 min., an average
of 6 min. 34 sec. —faster than a coach would cut out the
journey with a change of horses. I reckon the fellows
who chased Blake were going a darn sight faster than
they pleased. Blake is making a preparation in the hopes
of being afforded an opportunity to carry' Australian
colors in the London affair. The ex-long-distance
champion is fit and well, besides having the necessary
experience to cover the road ’tween Windsor and London
without sustaining cramp.
* * * *
“ Albert D. ” : Looked in at the world’s
championship glove fight, National Sporting Club,
London (2/12/’O7), between “ Gunner ” Moir (England) and
“ Tommy ” Burns (Canada), who recently outed Jack
O’Brien, of Philadelphia. Moir represents the English-
man’s idea of a world-beater—the bull-browed, straight-
from-the-shoulder variety, slow-witted and heavily
pinned. From first to last Moir was badly outclassed,
and was stabbed and jockeyed at leisure by the panther-
footed Canadian. Remarkable how the American boxers
have deviated from the old stodgy' straight-
punching methods of 50 years ago. Burns is
certainly an artist in ring-guyver and “kid.” In the
fifth and sixth rounds he floated round the Englishman
with a kind of swimming stroke, hypnotic in its way,
that fairly baffled the dull-witted Moir. In the tenth
round Burns sent in a 9in. shell that threw the “Gunner”
into a state of deep thought, accompanied by languor and
freedom from worry. Judging by other “ goes,” I reckon
that the late lamented P. Jackson could have grown
vegetables between Moir’s footwork, or punched him to
death in his sleep.
♦ * * •
“ Billy T.” : lam a despiser of cricket, conse-
quently I must be un-British, and am probably an atheist
and a thief. It’s regrettable, but somehow, probably in
consequence of my bad upbringing and my being natu-
rally a wrong-thinking person, I want no cricket in mine.
Passing through Albert Park (Melbourne) in a train, the
other day, I counted 23 games of cricket in more or less
inactive progress. The first 18 sets of contestants were
doing nothing bey'ond sitting on bats, and hanging round
in a state of blessed expectation, but the 19th betrayed
unwonted excitement—a man was bowling. The 20th
was inert. The 21st was a girl’s game, and a brace of
damsels were running desperately. The other two sets
were doing the great lounging act, pending alterations
and repairs.
* * * *
There is a cricket team at Wargeila, near Yass
(N.S.W.), composed entirely of Hortons. Not long ago
they gave the Yass team a walloping. In times past they
were rivalled by the Wheeler family, of the same locality
which has been known to put nine men in the field in-
cluding the^pater — so to speak.
“ J.” : The picnic racing season, which opened
week before last, suggests the reflection that there is one
department at any rate in which the depressed old Ma State
excels—viz., amateur flat-race riding. In no part of the
world are there so many skilled flat-race amateurs. The
j United Kingdom possesses scores of good steeplechase
horsemen who ride “ for the fun of it,” but—barring Mr
George Thursby—no single flat-race expert of the first
class. In France and Austria it is the same. The
soldiers have their races at a good many of the big
meetings, but they are all steeple or hurdle races—which
call for a certain amount of pluck, but not for the finesse
and skill flat-race riding does. Colin Stephen, Manning,
F. Blomfield—any one of them is as good as the average
professional who goes out aboard a Cup horse at Rand-
wick or Flemington, and all would create an absolute stir
if they rode as amateurs in England or on the European
continent.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“the: childrens food.”
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
IF YOU
Dictate Letters
or Other Matter
to a shorthand writer you
are losing money every day
in the year.
Even if you only employ
one shorthand writer, it will
pay you to write for our
free booklet, “From Brain
to Type,” which gives all
details.
Better write now.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
fZ*
NEW SONGS.
ONLY 7d, EACH.
Words with Full Piano Accompaniment.
12 for 6s. 3d. Post Free Anywhere.
When the Harvest Days Are Over-Stop
, Yer Tickling jock—Blue BeU— Walking
Home With Angeline—Little Boy Called Taps—ln the Shad
of the Old Apple Tree-Keep a Little Cosy Corner—Hear the
Pipers Calling—Singer Was Irish—Waiting at the Church-
Starlight— We Parted on the Shore—Somebody’s Sweetheart
Teasing—l was Shaving Myself at the Time—For Old Ti e s
Sake—l Wouldn’t Leave My Little Wooden Hut—Just a Little
Rocking Chair—Miner’s Dream—My Irish Molly—Navaho
Cheyenne—What a Mouth—We All Walked into the Shop
Etc. Our big lists and Illustrated Novelty Catalogue ported tree.
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collin 3 St., Melbourne.
Amusements.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
1 Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Last Two Performances, at 2 p.m. sharp, of
BLUE BELL IN FAIRYLAND.
EVERY EVENING at 8 p.m.,
THE SCARLET PIMPERNEL.
JULIUS KNIGHT and OLA HUMPHREY.
First Matinee—MONDAY, JANUARY 27.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Elvy’s.
IJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Under the direction of J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING,
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of the ever-welcome and
popular organisation,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In their Latest and Greatest Success,
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
WONDERLAND CITY, BONDI.
(THE FEDERAL CAPITAL OF FUN.)
Sole Proprietorand Director, Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
FREE ATTRACTIONS UNENDING.
SENSATION MIRTH SPECTACLES.
FREE CIRCUS FREE CIRCUS.
De Groen’s FAMOUS VICE-REGAL CONCERT BAND.
Something Doing All the Time.
WHERE EVERY PROSPECT PLEASES.
OUT BY THE BLUE PACIFIC.
Watch the Daily Programme in the Morning Papers.
Adults, 6d. —To the Home of Hilarity.—Children, 3d.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : Mr. Frank Musgrove.
Last Two Nights of WHEN KNIGHTS WERE BOLD.
SATURDAY NIGHT NEXT,
FRANK THORNTON AND HIS NEW LONDON
COMPANY in the
Grand Up-to-date Revival of the People’s Popular Success,
CHARLEY’S
Prices—s/-, 3/-, 2/-, and 1/-
AUNT.
Plan at Elvy’s.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
The Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES (“ The Best of All ”).
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
EDWIN BOYDE, London’s Celebrated Comedian.
ERNEST LEICESTER, Dramatic Reciter.
THE WHEELERS, Trick and Comedy Cyclists.
THOS. E, FINGLAS, The Ideal Coon.
HERBERT LA MARTINE, Clever, Eccentric Legmania
Artist, Expert Baton Spinner, and Vocalist.
TOM BURROWS, World’s Champion Club Swinger.
TOM DAWSON. RAY and CALDEN.
SPECIAL BIOSCOPE PICTURES—WILD ANIMALS.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
SEELEY AND WEST, Comedy Musicial Artists.
THREE SISTERS KLOS, Skilful Daring Aerialists Extant.
THREE CUNARDS, Expert Dancers.
ARTHUR CROXON, Comedian Mimic Monologue Artist.
MADAME RHODESIA, Society Lady Juggler.
TERRY and BENTLY, Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. ,t2T PRICES —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager : WILLIAM ANDERSON.
THE GREAT ATTRACTION.
WILLIAM ANDERSON and JOHN F. SHERIDAN’S
Grand Drury Lane Pantomime,
CINDERELLA.
The Magnificent Transformation. The Birth of Spring.
The Funny Old-Fashioned Harlequinade.
PRICES : 3/-, 2/-, 1/6, and 1/-. Booking Fee, 1/- extra.
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING.
GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Cast includes BERT GILBERT, BERT BARTON,
HARRY PHYDORA, FLORENCE VOUNG,
MAUDE THORNE, IRENE DILLON.
Box Plan at Allan’s, Menzies’, and The Grand.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
CONTINUED SUCCESS of
Messrs. Mevnell and Gunn's Powerful Co.,
including HARCOURT BEATTY and
Miss MADGE McINTOSH, in
HER LOYE
WORLD.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/-
AGAINST THE
The Dramatic Rage of the
last London Season.
Plan at Allan’s
Amusements.
|3R!NCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Under the Direction of Mr. HERBERT FLEMMING.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,
OLIVIA,
A Dramatisation of “ The Vicar of Wakefield," by
arrangement with the executors of the late Sir Henry
Irving.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Day Sale at Palmer’s.
\A/ IRTH’S OLYMPIA
ww EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE B 0 E F S I LL
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military' Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee : Mr. Wm. Andkrson.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
COMPANY in the Great Dramatic Success,
HER LUCK IN LONDON.
Magnificent Scenery by Rege Robins.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Plan Allan’s.
The
“ TRUMP ~
COLUMBIA
GRAPH-o-
phone
“LYRIC” REPRODUCER
POLISHED CABINET.
EXTRAORDINARY VALUE*
This is the first model of a Grapho-
phone, at a very low price, to be
fitted with the famous “ LYRIC ”
REPRODUCER. It has other dis-
tinctive Columbia features.
Reliable Motor and careful attention to
the smallest detail.
Write for booklet “ How to know a
good talking machine,” and full par-
ticulars of this splendid machine.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Cen’l,
w
The Best
Talking Machine
Value ever offered.
PRICE:
£2 I Os.
255 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Gold Medal,
Paris
Exhibition,
1900.
Grand Prix,
St. Louis
Exhibition,
1904.
London,
81
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
; Unrivalled for the Somplexion.
KALODERMA-SOAP * KALODERMA-JELLY *, KALODERMA-POWPER
: 11 ,
1:. ...
1 ) : J,: t '-f'^l
■
s^afeas
Y
bole Agents:
LOHMANN &. CO.,
Melbourne Sydney.
KALODERMAT WOLFF &SOHN
6esetzlich gcschuizh-.
Karlsruhe.
Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Of all Chemists. Perfumers. Drapers and Storekeepers.
AN *ONTO[j
I
pfll
It acts like a charm in
DIARRHEA.
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA & "
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago. &c.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World , in bottles, Is. \\d. 20z., 2s. 9<£. ; 40z., 4s. 6d. each. j ,
— ; * |yr
CAUTION.— Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
Elephant,” on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt £ Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Philp s Minister for Justice, Power, was
something of a cricketer in his younger days. He
played against Ivo Bligh’s English team at Mary-
borough (Q.), in 1883, but scored the sign of the
fowl in each innings. His bowling was better ;he
took the wicket of W. W. Read, who top-scored
for Bligh’s eleven. But anybody can take any-
body else’s wicket if he is allowed to bowl long
enough.
“ J.R.” writes :
Kuropatkin’s evidence to the Port Arthur court martial
the other day shows that disaster to the Russian land
forces during the late war arose mainly from Petersburg
interference. Bureaucrats far distant from the seat of the
trouble sent orders which, being inspired by complete
ignorance of the conditions prevailing on the spot, proved
calamitous. There’s a parable in the matter for us in
Australia. Anti-Australian papers here and in London
are telling people on the outskirts of the “ Empiah ” that
they must be prepared to take their share of the weight
off the Ma Land’s shoulders, but must not presume to
have any opinions about how it is to be done. The Centre
of Empire will give its orders, and those at the periphery,
who are held responsible for success, and will certainly
have to bear the consequences of failure, are to obey
without question. It’s a beautiful arrangement, if we
could only accept the theory on which it is based—that
the Centre of Empire knows everything and the periphery
nothing.
It is suggested in one Jap. paper that Nippon
should mobilise 700,000 men as a threat —to China.
Is that intended to mask war preparations against
America ? That country seems to think so—it is
sending a five years’ supply of war munitions to
the Philippines.
A Melbournian writes :
H. G. Turner publishes a welcome little biography of
Alex. Sutherland, furnished to the Australian Literature
Society. Born in Glasgow, 1852 ; migrated to Sydney 1864
and to Melbourne 1870. Commenced working for the
arts course at Sydney University. Won high distinction
at Melbourne University. Taught at Hawthorn College
and Scotch College. Opened Carlton College 1877, and
made a great success. Retired with a competence in
1892. Smashed by the boom, 1893. (H. G. Turner alludes
to the boom as casually as if he hadn’t steered the great
Commercial Bank on to the rocks and done a big share
of the smash.) Was writing his book on “ Moral Instinct,”
but had to cast about for potboilers. Wrote very much
for Argus and Australasian. Sent “Moral Instinct”
to London, in 1897. Failed as Parliamentary candi-
date for Williamstown same year. He ' scored
only 523 votes, and was bottom of the poll.
Went to London in 1898 as representative of
S.A. Register. Couldn’t find an opening. Returned to Mel-
bourne in 1899. Failed as candidate for South Melbourne
at the Federal election in 1901 ; Parson Ronald beat him
badly, and so did M‘Arthur, though he wasn’t tail of the
poll—that billet went to David Gaunson. Became Regis-
trar of University a few months later ; also lecturer on
English literature. Died 1902. The Brothers Sutherland
published their history of Australia in 1877. Nearly 90,000
copies sold. Sutherland’s New Geography and other
guides for learners are intensely valuable. In the work
called “Victoria and its Metropolis” he filled about 600
quarto pages. Also con tributed splendidly to ‘ ‘ Picturesque
Atlas of Australasia.” His nine or ten articles in the
Argus on Australian literature ought to be republished.
Furnished the Herald with upwards of 20 articles on
“ The Men Who Made Australia.” A host of other things
touched upon by Turner show that the output of his pen
was enormous. Left MSS. of two complete novels. A
volume of his poetry received praise from Tennyson,
0. W. Holmes, Dilke, Brunton Stephens, etc. His work on
“Moral Instinct” (2 vols.) was highly commended by
Herbert Spencer, A. R. Wallace, Leslie Stephen, etc.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Bankings, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act , 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413.296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 59,000 0 C
Interminable ueposit Stock ..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, M.L.C John Cameron, Esq., M.L.A. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager, —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of Horth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Qank of |) e ui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. ~ £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$
&
St
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S.A7V .
(Ilontde piete fl. (Jo., ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN QOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £25,000 0 0
Directors: F. R. Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq. - ;
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; lion. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOUROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY S ANDS,” by Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
3XT. XD. 31b.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Gibraltar. London, Antwerp and Bremen, via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA 11th FEBRUARY.
PRINZ WALOEMAR .. .. 10th MARCH.
PRINZ SICISMUND (via Samarai).. 7th APRIL.
Unsurpassed Seacoine Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the A cents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridsre-street. Svdnev.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The |oyal gank of Queensland
IAMJTKIK ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £467,581 0 0
Rf.skrvk Liability op Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuND(Tnvested in Government Stock) 69.000 0 0
£710,931 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throuahont the World.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY :
MORAVIAN .. I A. Simpson .. I Noon. Jan. 31
*MARATHON ..|N. Allan .. .. I Noon. Feb. 28
SALAMIS .. .I R. McKilliam .. 1 Noon. Mar. -7
•Twin Screw.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins large and elegantly appointed.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
Dal yet y and, Company , Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAM.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
MEDIC, to sail about 24th January.
AFRIC, to sail about 21st February.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
''wimp***
FARES— Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Now Vork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on A nplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
])al</eti/ and ( ompaim. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
TT~- "
'• ■
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated liy Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,410,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,610,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of |)eui South males.
EsTAitLisimi) 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paidaip Capital .. £2,425,400 0 0
In course Of Payment 74,600 0 0
£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,530,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,530,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
ftiCHARD Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
SiT James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
J Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
1 William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Auditors:
Loudon Office—64- Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
Kb
MILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
51 Length, 12 Inches.
/ “ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPAIY OF H.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
THe
UNDERWOOD
“All-in-Sight”
Writer
is the only one you can rely on. GET IT and
you will BE SATISFIED.
Price - - £,26,
Or Terms.
The best “ light ” visible is the
BLICIi £lO £l2.
JOHN SANDS LTD.,
374 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
(Name this Paper.)
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon ifield Pat ais
ST. HILDA.
rpH.fi Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, phour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO;
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE, s
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
ESPERANCE BAY,
ALBANY, V
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
HOPETOUN, W.A.. Port for
Ravensthorpe Goldfields. J
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
February 1.
BRISBANE,
MAC KAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports Norrh to Oiirns.
S.S. Yoivyala, January 25.
S.S. WolSowra, February 1.
Jiest tiurt Ch.miitest Uoute to tioltlitelK*.
Saloon Passasre Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Asrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSA GERIES
IyjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £25 to £B2/10/-, including Table
Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
F.— H. St
Federal-Houlder-Shire.
The Fast Twin-screw Steamer,
“DORSET”
11,000 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from Sydney on the 28th January.
» ~ ~ Melbourne ~ Ist February.
.> ~ ~ Adelaide ~ 4th February.
FOR
London and Liverpool
(via SUEZ CANAL).
Excellent accommodation for Saloon and Third-class
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists of all
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated amid-
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises 2,4,
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the main
deck, with dining-room on the upper deck. Electric
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL* 1 } £49 ] °s- £l2 12s. £l3 13s. £l4 14s.
To be followed by other similar twin-screw steamers
every 28 days.
Luggage received at F.H.S. Wharf, Darling Island.
For full particulars and pamphlets apply to
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, Managing Agents,
7 Macquarie Place.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELOKG
BUNINYONG. 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 25.
COOMA, 2 p.ni., SATURDAY,
February 1.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, February 8
ADELAIDE S
ALBANY
BUNBURY
FREMANTLE
GERALDTON
(Taking passengers
and cargo fo S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other VV. A. ports.) ,
BURRUMBEET, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, February 11.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 25.
GABO, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
January 28.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
February 1.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708,
Hotels.
GEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.


Are You Looßmg for Beautiful
Rainfall, 36 inches.
Climate Perfect.
Seasons Regular.
English Grasses.
There are subdivisions
placed on the market
every week, but sel=
dom, indeed, does the
opportunity present
itself of securing the
finest farming, orchard
or dairying land in the
very heart of the
wealthy district of
New England, where
droughts are entirely
unknown, where the
climate is temperate,
and every season an
unqualified succ e s s.
EVERY FARM
WITHIN SIX MILES
... OF ...
A RAILWAY.
Rich Pastures ?
IF SO, THEN REMEMBER . . .
BEN LOMOND
... is ...
THE FINEST ESTATE IN THE FINEST DISTRICT.
11,000 Acres of Rich Volcanic Soil on the Famous New England Tableland
will be subdivided by the vendors, MESSRS. STIRTON BROTHERS and BEAUCHAMP, and is for
Absolute Sale at Guyra, Wednesday, Feb. 26, at 11 a.m.
SPLENDID FARMS OF 200 to 800 ACRES, -m
A Wide Reputation for Rich Pastures. Ben Lomond Estate has for years enjoyed a wide reputation for its
beautiful rich pastures ; while successive owners have from time to time added costly improvements, which have
brought the property up to a high state of perfection.
A Remarkable Feature of the Estate is its magnificent black-soil flats. These comprise fully three-quarters of
the station, and many have been planted with English grasses. There are also thousands of acres waiting for the
plough to enable the fortunate farmer to realise.
Bountiful Yields of Oats, Wheat, Potatoes, and all Farm Produce. Rainfall—3G inches. Climate-
Perfect. Seasons —Assured. There are inexhaustible markets, north to Brisbane, south to Sydney, and along
the North-West line. It is ideal fruit-growing country, and for
Highly Profitable Dairying ; its only rival is the North Coast, while it is only a quarter of the price. A few miles
further north, at Glen Innes, is one of the most modern butter factories in the State; while there are noted
Ayrshire stud herds in the district.
This Stately New England Home is admirably situated on the Main Northern Line, between Glen Innes and
Guyra, and coming within two miles of Ben Lomond Railway Station. Its eastern boundary is only six miles
away. Exceptionally favorable terms, viz.. 20 per cent, deposit, balance in 10 equal annual instalments, interest
5 per cent. Torrens Title. Apply to the Intelligence Department, Sydney, for specially reduced Fares.
Lithos and Pamphlets may be had from the following Auctioneers, who are acting- in conjunction :
There’s a Fortune
in Farming or
Dairying on
BEN LOMOND.
Take a run up to the
district, glance at the
crops en route, inspect
the estate at your
leisure, make the
fullest investigation.
If you do you will
assuredly buy a block,
and then the opportu=
nity of establishing
yourself comfortably
for the rest of your life
will never be more
completely in your
hands.
These Pastures are
equal to the
Finest New Zealand
Dairying Lands.
McGregor, Travers <& Dale, Glen Innes.
R. Blaxland & Co., Armic/ale.
Armstrong & Far rand, Inver ell.
T. A. Stirton & Co., Na.rra.bri.
And New Zealand Loan and /mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne, and New Zealand.
These handsome new styles
are all very special value. They
combine the best finish with real
gems and full quality gold. We are
positive that every piece shown here
will be highly prized.
We forward by registered post daily on
receipt of remittance. The most careful
attention to country orders.
TO MAIL ORDER BUYERS.-In send-
ing your orders to us you run no
risk, as the money you send us is
at your disposal, if the goods are not in
every way satisfactory. We are not
satisfied until you are.
Dl277—Fine Diamond, Pearl, and
15ct. Gold Brooch, £ 9/10/-.
£:■
C 3334. —15ct. Gold Brooch, Pearls,
and Australian Rubies, £3/3/-.
F 9278 —18ot. Gold Ring-,
Half-Hoop of Diamonds
and Rubies, or Sap-
phires, £2/10/-.
(bt
H64o.—lBct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Ruby Ring,
£7/10/-.
ansa
,11,23
H64l.—lBct. Gold, Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
£7/10-.
GB9B2.—Fine Diamond,
18cf. i-Hoop Ring,
£.10110!-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£7/101-.
H 5274
18ct. Rina-, Diamonds
&"d Olivine, £ 215 /-
m
02793.
18ct. Gold, Ruby, and
Opal Ring, £2/7/6.
G 8984. —Fine Diamond,
18et. Half-Hoop Ring,
£lBlOl-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£ll/10/-.
1911.—18 ct. Gold Ring-,
set fine Golden Topaz,
£2/5/-.
'fa?W/SS’:* -' /f r
H 731
Diamonds or Sanphire ,
ISct. Gold, £5,1 F,-.
GB9S6. Fine Diamond,
ISct. Half-Hoop Kins,
£3O.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£lB/10/-.
O I L
H 6240
Fine Diamond and
Emerald Ring, £B/8/-.
I
C 8829
Five Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £3/10/-
GS9BO. Fine Diamond
Rinff, 18ct., £5/5/-
If Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3/10/-.
171 A.—lBct. Gold, Rive
Fine Opals, £2JICJ-.
Gs2o6.—Fine Diamond
and Sapphire Rin<r, 18ct.
Gold, £lO/101-
D1276.—15ct. Gold, Fine Diamond
and Pearl Brooch, £7/10/-.
C 3332. —loot. Gold Brooch and
Pendant, Pearls and Cape
Rubies, £ 4/15 /-.
C33l4.—Real Pearls and loct. Gold Brooch,
C3312.—15ct. Gold and Keal Peatl Brooch, £2/15/-.
You may have seen this style of Brooch advertised at a seemingly lower
price, only no quality of gold is mentioned, and the word
' paste is omitted before “ Pearl Set.”
C33l3.—Real Pearls and 15ct. Gold Brooch, £2/5/-
—Handsome Bangle, Real Pearls and Sapphiieo,
15ct. Gold, £7llOl-.
FS4IW. —Two
Diamonds, Three
Sapphires, 18ct.
Gold, £2.
C 3324. Daisy Bangle, Real Pearls, loot. Gold,
H 1228
Five Diamoiiil
Kina', 18ct. (sold,
£55-
0332?.—Fine Scroll Bangle, -..cal Pearls, Turquoise,
and 15ct. Gold, £6/10/-
ORDER BY MAIL IF UNABLE TO CALL. MONEY BACK IF WE FAIL TO PLEASE YOU.
Catalogues of Watches, Jewellery, Silver and Silver-Plated Goods SUNT FREE ON REQUEST.


GOOD RESULTS.
Clements Tonic
Cures and Strengthens.
THE PROOF.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
With a view to bringing before the public a
matter of considerable importance, a reporter
rapped at 114 Glebe Road, Glebe, where Mrs.
Hannah Wells resides. The lady appeared in
response, and upon the pressman’s mission being
explained, she said :
“Certainly. Nothing would give me more plea-
sure than to relate the story of my great achieve-
ment of four years ago, especially as it will be so
serviceable to many in want of guidance. You
see it was after fruitlessly trying several home
remedies that I saw about Clements Tonic in the
papers, and made up my mind to find out what it
was like for myself, as I was very ill, and was
willing to take anything so long as I got better.
I was as
WEAK AND MISERABLE AS ANY
WOMAN COULD BE,
and had such a sallow complexion, too, that to
look at me you would have thought I liad the
jaundice. My chest used to cause me no end of
bother, for often I felt that something was there,
blocking my breath, besides having heavy, op-
pressive pains as well. I hadn’t any inclination
to eat.
NO APPETITE AT ALL,
so what could .1 expect but to get thin and deli-
cate looking, which I assuredly did. From the
time I arose from bed of a morning till I returned
again in the evening I was as languid and indo-
lent as could be. When I tried to sleep at night
I could not, and oh ! it was so wretched being
there hour after hour waiting for the daylight,
and when it came, what did it bring? Only
another day of sorrow. My sight got bad, and
my eyes felt as heavy as lead ; the taste in my
mouth was awfully bitter, and the worst of it was
that my head was always aching.
“Indeed, I don’t know what I hadn’t got to
make life a burden, and if I hadn’t taken Clements
Tonic when I did I am afraid to think what would
have happened, for I was going down hill fast.”
“ Had your nerves given way at all ? ”
“Oh 1 I was fearfully nervous, scarcely able to
move without getting a shock at some trivial thing
or other, and even when I managed to snatch a
little sleep my mind was unsettled with various
ugly dreams. Now, that is where Clements Tonic
came in with good results very speedily. It
quieted my nerves, and gave me such com-
mand over myself that nothing surprised or
excited me, and as for having nasty dreams
or getting frightened at anything—why, I
was quite exempt in both respects. I used to
meet trouble halfway too, but I got quite out of
that habit since using Clements Tonic, which also
made me eat as hungrily as if I had taken a good
sea trip before each meal. What surprised me
more, though, and my friends too, was the manner
in which my pains subsided, for when I told them
that I was perfectly at ease, and that my head-
aches were gone, they could scarcely believe me.
But it is nevertheless a fact that Clements Tonic
cured me and strengthened me thoroughly, and
in the interests of similar sufferers you may pub-
lish these remarks as it suits you.”
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this twenty-
fourth day of August, one thousand nine hundred
and three, before me, W. T. TATE, J.P.
Are you
bald? Is
■ your scalp
I tight ?
There’s the
reason.
f
When your scalp tightens, your
hair falls out because your scalp
is unable to nourish it.
BARRY’S
TRI-COPH-EROUS
acts the same as nature. It
gently nourishes, and stimulates
the scalp tissues and gives them
strength to grow strong, thick,
healthy hair. Be sure you get
Barry’s.
Use Reuter’s Soap lor the Shampoo
FKOOTOIDS
CURE
HEADACHE, INDIGESTION, CONSTIPATION
and BILIOUSNESS.
The immense number of orders for FROOTOIDS sent by post direct to the Proprietor is
convincing proof that the Public appreciate their splendid curing power. They cure
quickly, are elegant in appearance, and pleasant to take.
“ | am writing to you to express my thanks
for the Frootoids which I received from you some
time ago. My mother, who was a great sufferer
from Headache and Bilious Attacks for many years,
has been taking them, and has found complete
relief from them.”
L. PATCH, Pelican Creek, Coraki, N.S.W.
“Kindly send by return post two separate
bottles of Frootoids for Indigestion, &c. I got a
bottle from you before, and am pleased to say
they have done me good.”
E. PIKE, “ Myrtle Cottage,” Manildra, N.S.W.
“Your ‘Frootoids’ is the only medicine I
have ever found to do me any good for Biliousness
and Indigestion. One dose gives relief.”
J. H. SLEEP, Lochiel, S.A.
“ Enclosed please find 3/- for two bottles of
Frootoids for Indigestion. I got some from you
two months ago, and found them very good.”
HENRY MASLIN, Childers, Isis, Queensland.
“Will you please forward another bottle of
Frootoids? They have relieved me of my Head-
aches. You can use my name at any time as a
testimonial for the benefit of others.”
F. J. CHUBB, Moe, Gippsland, Victoria.
“ Please forward me another bottle of Froo-
toids. The other bottle I got gave great satisfac-
tion, as my husband had been suffering from
Constipation for a long time, and nothing did him
any good until he took your Frootoids. He says
he now feels that he is quite a different man.”
J. LONERGAN, Yielima, Victoria.
c
“For about three years I have been a great
sufferer from Nervous Depression caused by a
constipated state of the Bowels. I sent to you for
a bottle of Frootoids, which I duly received, and
am pleased to say that they have worked a
wonderful change in me—in fact, I feel as if lam
getting a new lease of life, and will be glad to
recommend them to any of my friends.”
T. CRESSEY, Ahaura, West Coast, N.Z.
“Please send me three bottles of Frootoids.
I took two doses from the last bottle, and gave the
balance away to some friends, and they are of the
same opinion that I am—that ‘Frootoids’ are a very
good medicine.”
A. B. PEDEN, Glenmaggie, Victoria.
“Many thanks for forwarding the Frootoids.
I took a dose of.them at night, and by the morning
they had removed all trace of headache. It was
quite a relief to get rid of it so speedily. lam feel-
ing splendid now.”
M. M'CALLUM, 65 Cunningham Road,
TOORAK.
For sate by leading; Chemists and Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your Chemist or
Storekeeper has not got them, ask him to get them for you. If not obtainable locally
send direct to the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE. —The materials in FROOTOIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY and consist,
amongst other ingredients, of the active principle of each of FlVE.different MEDICAL FRUITS
and ROOTS, so combined and proportioned in a particular way that a far BETTER result is
obtained than from an ordinary aperient.
I ! L
5*
?/
0
&
o o
i
/ e
“Chuck”
the Drugs
before it is too late! Stop dosing your nerves
and stomach with stimulating poisons which give false
strength or deaden the nerves, thereby affecting only the
symptoms, while the cause of the symptoms
grows worse. Drugs never reach the cause for they do
not create strength, Remember you can stop the pain in a bad
tooth with drugs, but the bad tooth remains and grows worse.
If you are weak or in pain, drugs will temporarily give you
false strength or deaden the pain, but the cause of the
weakness or pain remains with you, and the longer it remains
the worse it grows. The drug-doser eventually must pay
Nature’s price for the false strength he gets, just as the drunkard
must pay days of remorse and misery for the few short hours of
intoxication he enjoys. Therefore, if you are now,
dosing your system with poisonous drugs, stop it before
it is too late! Stop it and .use Nature’s cure—Electricity, which gives to the weak, worn-out body
and nerves the very strength they have lost. Electricity is nerve food, it is the life of the blood, a
healthy body is full of it, a weak, nerveless body lacks it. Use it as we apply it with the celebrated
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
and it will cure you. If you suffer from Nervousness, Weakness, Debility, Varico-
cele, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Weak Back, Indigestion or Constipation,
thiow all your pills, powders and medicines out of the window, and use this rational, natural cure—
Electricity—which the foremost scientists of the present day admit is the only remedy which cures absolutely. There is not
an ailing man or woman whom it will not benefit, and it can do no harm when applied with our Belt. It will not burn
sting or shock, although the heating, vitalizing thrill can be felt all through the body as it pours its life-giving power into
the nerves, blood and tissues, building them up and driving pain, weakness and disease out of the system.
Our Belts are sold in every civilized country in the world. The thousands of testimonials we have received from all
parts of Australia, and the many years of success we have had here, are absolute proof that Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is
the standard. We have many imitators but no equals. Don’t be misled by false “ Free Belt ” offers, or the extravagant
claims of those who promise an impossible appliance as bait for a 20-guinea course of drugs. Don’t take drugs ; use
Electricity alone as we apply it and you will have nothing to regret. Our prices are witbirk the reach of all.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
It gives the prices and all information about the belts. We will mail
it, together with some of our testimonials, FREE, post paid to all who
write us, and our specialists will give you a diagnosis of your case
free. All communications are treated with strict confidence.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
Castlereag'h and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book, Testi-
monials and Price List.
Name
Address
lB


These delicious high-class Cigarettes are totally distinct from any others obtainable
Sold Everywhere.
No. 555
(Standard Grade)
ASTORIAS
( Billiard \
* Room Size/
No. 999
/ Extra \
V Quality /
Manufactured in LONDON by ARDATH TOBACCO CO. at their “model hygienic factory.”
vide Daily Press.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
. cuaran
PIPES
to thcTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
Apropresswe d/eta/y adapted to t/?e prow/ftp d/pest/Ve powers
jk\WM*T YEEDXHG aw
:fl& Wo Wott\er sYvouVd be wfthouX: ft
ow veo^wesX..
Milk Food N°l
from 6/rtA to 3 months
Milk Food 1N92
from 3 to 6 months
Malted Food N 93
From 6 montfis opworrfs.
A Policy for the Commonwealth
Price 6d.
Pooted Bd.
CO
I I I
I I I
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy For*
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough Difficulty of
Those who have taken * h !? r *n the Chest experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it
Breathing, Hoarseness. Pain or Sore °®“ ™ 1 V ~ ’. P irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
effects a Complete Cure 14 “ known to exist where "Coughs- have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
generally .ufficieni, and a Co m p,e« a Care is cnriain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
- i m to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving 1 the^impie-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
_ ~ „ nits, larp-e Size 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
HEA pro E prirto? N W H a HEARNE, Chemist, Oeelo’ne, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable ioea.ly.
NOTICE Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
I>u ' rhild and the most a£ed person.
4
4
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
fTfenger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
An appeal is being made to Australians
who have Boer Bibles, collared during the recent
unpleasantness in S’ Africa, to return them to their
owners. The Boer Bible, it is alleged, is a sort of
pivot on which the family life turns ; also in many
cases it contains the only record of .fohantips’
birth and Paul’s marriage, and Johannes and
Paul will never feel quite as loyal subjects as they
are expected to be till they get the record back.
J. W. S. Leonard, of the New Treasury Hotel,
Melbourne, is the man to send the sacred literature
to. and it’s to be hoped no Australian will have a
stolen family Bible on his conscience longer than
it takes to buy a postage stamp.
Hilaire Belloc, who, having once served as
a driver in the French army, couldn’t make any
headway in the British Commons until he made a
famous speech in defence of the great British
institution Beer, has written another book of
rhymes for alleged youngsters. One Lord Lundy,
grandson of a duke, was going to be Prime Minis-
ter, but turned out a Perffect Ass. Thereupon
the ducal grandpa:—
We had intended you to be
The next Prime Minister but three.
But as it is . . . my language fails !
Go out and govern New South Wales.
That’s the worst of poetry—“ Queensland ” won’t
rhyme with “fails” even in a crisis.
“Crow-Consumer” writes :—•
Apropos of Jos. Symon, K.C., and his habit of rough-
riding over the S.A. Bench and Bar. You are quite wrong
in saying (B. ,5/12/’O7) that Judge Homburg “would never
dream of telling Symon to sit down.” Homburg is pro-
bably the one occupant of the S.A. Bench who does not
care a Gott-Verdammt for the overbearing K.C. The
only occasion when they came into conflict involved a
question of disputed handwriting. Nesbit, K.C., cross-
examining Symon’s witness, suddenly put an unknown
paper into his hand, and asked whether that was in the
witness’s writing. Symon, scenting danger, and in order
to give the witness time to consider his answer, asked to
see the document, and, on getting possession, proceeded
to leisurely peruse it, which he had no right to do.
Homburg promptly ordered him to hand it back.
“ When I have done with it,” replied Jos. insolently.
“ No,” returned Homburg, tartly, “ now.” The
big man could only stare in amazement, and
managed to mutter, as he passed the paper over, some-
thing about not being treated like that before. He tried
later to get off his bile by wrangling with Nesbit, when
Homburg threatened to adjourn the Court at his expense,
which made Jos. think again. Costs is afearsome weapon
to hit a large K.C. with. Homburg. by the way, always
had in politics a distinct quality of you-be-damnedness,
which often made him unpopular with his party and pro-
fession. Notably so in the case of the great hospital row,
when, to a large extent, he supported Kingston, in flat
opposition to the rest of the “outs,” and still more
remarkably when, as Attorney-General, he disallowed the
sherry and cigar account of the Supreme Court Judges
while on circuit. He may entertain a different idea on
this matter now.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
E7>e LEADING
HOUSE
[cant
B
BEAT
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
OUR
Special
Snap.
fVP 1
ir
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
“KEY BRAND.”
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving’s, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book D.y De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datf, Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. Tiif, Cuckold, is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, Ds 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiif, Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Solder,ng, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for. all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mag-
i'adden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s (id. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established, S 5 Ytars.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Ist && Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alk Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ohevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 l6OO illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing*, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY*
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
Oatifie
Here is a face cream that will keep
your complexion soft, clear and
Deautiful right through the hot
Australian summer.
It is Oatine, the great English face cream,
made from pure healing oats and free from
dangerous animal fats and mineral salts.
Oatine removes from the pores of the skin
the dust and grime, which soap and water
cannot reach, and leaves the skin clear and
soft as satin.
It prevents freckles, sun-burn, cracking and
drying of the skin, and enables the careful
woman to preserve the charm of a good com-
plexion, however trying the climate. It does
not grow hair.
For men's use after shaving it is an ideal
soothing cream. Price 1/9 per dainty jar,
or a larger size, containing four times the
amount, 3/6.
To be obtained at all chemists c and
stores throughout Australia. c Get a
jar to-day.
£
a MORRIS'S 1
IMPERIAL
ft . EYE <
& CURES !
D
YSON'S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s.
lightful and wickedly true.I’* 1 ’*
6d.
“De-
Does Residence Abroad
tend to Deterioration
of the Hair?
It is a remarkable and singular fact that in nine cases out of ten those whose lives
have been spent in the Colonies suffer in a very evident manner from varions forms of
hair degeneration. Compare the average head of hair of the Colonist with that of the
dweller in the British Isles, and you will find that bald heads are more prevalent, grey
hair more abundant, and also that the scalp exhibits various degrees of hair deterioration
rarely met with in the home country. Extremes of heat and cold, changes of temperature,
less settled habits of life, have all a more or less dominant influence in producing these
conditions; and both men and women alike are subject to the distressing and marring
effects caused by lack of abundant and healthy heads of hair.
Whether regarded from a social, physical, or business point of view, unhealthy or
neglected hair is nothing more or less than a calamity; and it behoves anyone so
afflicted to take prompt and efficacious measures for the strengthening, preserving, and
re-vitalising of such a prominent feature.
m
Scanty locks resulting from Colonial life
can be avoided.
Yet, in the case of both women
and men, what is generally done?
There is either a total indifference
or neglect of the hair, or an injudi-
cious resort to doubtful methods of
resuscitation. Generally speaking,
apathy is the more pronounced.
It cannot be too well known that
all weak hair conditions, all lack of
hair urility, all form of hair disease
can be remedied by the adoption of
the “ Harlene ” treatment.
Edwards’ “ Harlene ” is the
greatest of all hair tonics and
restoratives, and no matter whether
you are bald or grey, whether your
hair is patchy, falling out, brittle, lustreless, scurfy or greasy, it can be implicitly relied
upon to renew all the former healthiness, abundance and good looks of the hair.
Edwards’ “ Harlene ” is the popular remedy, not only with the general public, but in
all social circles —indeed 'Harlene ” may be termed the Royal hair restorer, for numbers
of Royal families have used it with the greatest success.
To-day you may test its merits, fully and freely, for the proprietors are wishful that
all sufferers from hair decay and weakness should be acquainted with its remarkable
powers. Send three penny stamps (to cover postage) to Edwards’ Harlene Co., 95 and
96 High Holborn, London, and a full supply will be immediately forwarded you.
Afterwards you can purchase " Hariene” from any Chemist or Stores.
STUDY YOUR HEALTH. DRINK O/VLK——
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
&he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET OF TEN, 10d.
Briiisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austealasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
CLOTHED WITH AIR
AERTEX CELLULAR
SHIRTS and UNDERWEAR.
LADIES' AND GENTLEMEN'S
GARMENTS.
The Healthiest and Most Comfortable Fabrlo for
the Australian Climate.
DAVID BRAHAM AND CO.,
CELLULAR OUTFITTERS
(Sole Agents inN.S.W.), 94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Call and inspect, or write for samples and
Illustrated Catalogue.


are
iL'il 1
r.
V
fiq
m
W
w.
wj i
m - jL
I
; , r.'^v
1
ISf
| (Hr*
Si
HK
gPSE i aßfcft**..:-. - (
H
Kafii
*s3®
l^tA
, : <ag*
'<■ .
«>
ASK YOUR CHEMIST for
P.H.L. Patent.
Pneumatic Riding: Saddles
No Sore Backs, Comfort for Rider and Horse, Coolness, Lightness, No Expense for Repairs.
Pneumatic Horse Collars
No Sore Shoulders, Horses Work Better, Keep Better Condition, Economical.
Pneumatic Harness Limited,
172 Princes Street, Church Hill, Sydney. Telephone 4547.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
S'
COPIED FROM ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS.
DON’T BE FAT!
EXCESS Fat is not only uncomfortable, dangerous to the
general health, and most inconvenient, but it is
positively ugly ! One hates to be considered
ugly, or to feel that one’s appearance makes one ridiculous.
Don’t be Fat!! We can cure you of obesity; we can
reduce your weight to normal without inconvenience, drastic
dieting or killing exercise.
“FATCURE”
is a natural, vegetable remedy for Obesity. No case of obesity exists that it cannot
overcome. It is not unusual for our patients to lose from five pounds a week to over a
pound and a-half a day. “Fatcure” is pleasant to take, and the results are permanent.
Absolutely no barm can result from using “Fatcure.”
This treatment is unique amongst anti-fats in that it contains absolutely no harmful nor deleterious
Invariably improves the general health, a general improvement becoming noticeable a few days after
beginning to take it. “ Fatcure ”is put up in tablet form.
SS2SSST I havrno W mo k re hear't spells, and I feel a different woman."
CALL, or POST 2d. STAMP FOR FREE SAMPLE-
package are not disclosed.
The WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entra«cb also from Market Street.
The Road of Roses.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Sun of Childhood tender
Illumes the long white way
With touch of rosy splendor,
All in the dawn of day.
And ever as he passes,
And through the forest runs,
He lights on leaves and grasses,
A thousand little suns.
And, like a gleaming river
That to the sea descends,
The long white road runs ever
To where the Rainbow ends
The bee his small wings closes,
And makes his sweet abode,
Within the hearts of roses
That bloom beside the road.
And Spring’s wise little lady,
The Primrose, opes her eyne,
And keeps in places shady
Her golden lamps ashine.
The birds, with sunlight sheening
Their throats, sing all a-row,
A song whose mystic meaning
Only the children know.
It tells of strange lands under
The Sunset, strange and fair,
And of the World of Wonder
Above the Rainbow Stair.
It tells of how To-Morrow
Will bring a shining sheaf
Of joys without a sorrow,
Of hours without a grief.
So, with clear voices ringing,
And posies in their hands,
The children journey singing
Unto the Wonder Lands.
VICTOR J. DALLEY.
About Venice.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I THINK the Piazza of St. Mark must
have looked overcrowded in the time when
that Campanile rose above the old palaces of
the Procuratie. These palaces are, now that
Government has lost its aristocratic mystery and
been shown to be quite a simple thing, used as
shops ; their sixty windows gleam with bead and
glasswork, and jewellery, and carving ; the deli-
cate laces of Venezia, and the fragile goblets of
Murano. All the workers in wood, silk and
glass are now represented by a Trust, which has
agents in every hotel, and charges like a wounded
buffalo. There are also many cafes; and beer
drinkers sit and call to waiters where once the
captains of the sea and the merchants of the earth
brought their spoil to the masters of the Adriatic.
To the left, there is a tower bearing a world of
gold and blue ; above it two bronze giants strike
the hours with hammers on a great bell, and have
done so every hour these last 400 years. Directly
before you is a domed and minaretted temple that
ought to be in Constantinople ; and over its great
doorway the four bronze horses that were on
Nero’s Arch, until Constantine sent them to Con-
stantinople, from whence Doge Dandolo stole
them in 1204. Nearly six hundred years later
Napoleon removed them to Paris, and after
Waterloo they returned to their old station on the
Duomo of Venice. It is the fashion to believe
that this Quadragia has the only horses that ever
Venice knew, but in the reign of chivalry the
Venetians, in common with the rest of the world,
rode through the sea city’s narrow streets, and
. jousted in its roomy squares.
The Cathedral of San Marco has all the
'Orientalism you would expect from the origin of
most of its materials in Eastern theft. I saw the
jplace of Mark’s alleged bones under the altar. In
'the sign of the relic these Venetians conquered.
Once they believed they had Mark’s bones they
began to live, not only up to the bones, but
beyond them. To be successful it is necessary to
believe implicitly in something ; and bones will
do. But these early Venetians were marvellous
tnen at identifying forgotten things—they have in
St. Mark’s the stone that John the Baptist was
beheaded on.
Beyond St. Mark’s the wonderful arcade of the
Palace of the Doge begins, extending to the
quays. There, between the two pillars of red
granite, most truly and beautifully Corinthian,
stolen from Tyre in 1126 and set up by Nicholas
of the Barterers, fifty years later —one column
bearing Theodore on his crocodile, and the other
Mark on his lion —was once the place of execu-
tion. It was a great refinement of cruelty to take
life where life looked so beautiful. To-day it is a
“ cab ” stand for 200 public gondolieri. And this
is not the most surprising of all the changes of
time here. The Palazzo Marino is now a bank ;
the Palazzo della Regina, where Catherine, Queen
of Cyprus, was born, has become a pawnshop.
The Palace of the Doges is a big, court-yarded,
cheerful building, to which my reading vainly
tried to lend an air of melancholy. On the facade
there is a queer proof of the egotism of the re-
ligion of these hard-fighting, intriguing, and
devout people. There are painted many frescoes
of the Madonna and Christ; but, above all, Venice
crowned—holding the sword and scales of Justice.
Mr. Ruskin, who is generally over-fond of sickly
sentiment, has written much in destruction of the
morbid romance that Byron and others wove
around the palace of the Doge and the Ponte del
Sospiri—the Bridge of Sighs. Says Ruskin :
No prisoner whose name is worth remembering, or
whose sorrows deserved sympathy, ever crossed that
Bridge of Sighs which is the centre of the Byronic ideal of
,hat BiallauimkL.
which the traveller now pauses with breathless interest ;
the statue which Byron makes Faliero address as one of
his great ancestors was erected to a soldier of fortune
150 years after Paliero’s death.
The truth of the foregoing.is discounted by Mr.
Ruskin’s usual cocksureness and sweeping gener-
alities. All prisoners’ names and all sorrows are
worth remembering and deserve sympathy—these
prisons have seen much human misery. The
wraiths of old agonies are in this palace and on
the barred and windowed passage of the bridge.
It was Mr. Ruskin who said that unless a man
was a Christian he could not understand Floren-
tine art ; whereas there is no such thing as
Christianity or any other creed in art; art is a
religion of itself. It was Mr. Ruskin who
called Darwin’s “Origin of Man” “poisonous
rubbish,” and included in a list of “ thirty needless
writers”—Froude, Aristotle’s Ethics, the Koran,
Goethe s “ Faust,” Thackeray, George Eliot,
Kingsley, and Lytton. Modesty evidently stayed
him from including himself. Lastly, and worstly,
he loved the work of the decorative and beastly
Botticelli.
Mr. Ruskin is not a good writer to take to a
consideration of Venice—he is too moral and
religious ; and so most of the human interest,,
which is mainly immoral and irreligious, is lost.
In default, I took with me a guide book of
Rovere’s, full of interest. Here is a slab :
One of them, Melpomene, has a mask with eyes, but
without teeth, and without the tongue, in her right
hand. . . . The Doge Pasquale Cicagna before the Be-
deemer, St. Mark, Faith, Justice embracing Peace and
the Island of Candia, represented by a young female with
a labryinth and a statue erected to this Doge, because he
had been the Governor.
There’s a breathless Mother Gamp sentence for
you. Further :
Among the statues at the right—Leda resisting to the
swan, the statue of Ganymede and the Eagle—the eyes of
Ganymede were once of precious stones.
The place is so overloaded with story and in-
terest as to become wearisome. Of all, the Giant’s;
Stairs, the Stairs of Gold, the Halls of the Senate, of
the Great Council, and of the Council of the Three
(whose mural frescoes are all of torture) are the
lions, with the prisons pressing them closely for
interest.
The Hall of the Four Doors is a fit introduction
to the acres of paintings in the greater halls.
Everywhere is expressed the worship of Venice by
the Venetians—a kind of glorification of “ our
noble selves.” There is Jupiter conferring on
Venice the dominion of the sea—Venice with a
broken yoke and a broken chain, as representing
the liberty which everybody enjoyed in Venice.
Below is Envy, tortured by snakes.
The coolness of the most suspicious Government
on record —with its Lions’ Mouths and anony-
mous accusations ; its patrician Government by
1500 ; and its masked council of the Three repre-
senting government by cabal approximating to the
Ancient Order of Buffaloes and the Noble
Authority of Peanut Eaters—posing asj the em-
bodiment of freedom is more than chilling—it's
Antarctic !
One of the finest pictures is the Rape of
Europa, by Veronese. The Doge of the time
was always given the limelight in the religious
pictures. In Tintoretto’s “ Doge Luocenigo and
Christ,” the Doge has many attendant angels, and
the Saviour only two. Padua was taken on the
day of St. Marina, Doge Gritti assisting ; and so
you have a picture of the Virgin enthroned with
the Doge and St. Marina. The Doges in every
case are bald and ugly old men. There is the
Doge Priuli with the Saviour, the Virgin and St.
Mark ; and the Doge Loredan, with the Virgin,
St. Mark, St. Peter and others all descending to
congratulate Loredan, while angels fly around his
head to crown him.
The hall of the Senate has one of the most
beautiful ceilings of carved wood ever made by
man; and here, more than in the more solid-
looking halls, the palace shakes to the footstep as
if its foundations in the sea trembled at every
wave of the Lagoon.
Probably the most humorous, serious picture on
earth is Veronese’s “ Angel Pursuing Blas-
phemers.” Its grotesquerie always moved me to
laughter. The chief attractions of the Flail of
the great Council are a bust of Francesco Fos-
cari, one of the ugliest, keenest old men on
record ; a very tough “ Leda and the Swan ” ;
the taking prisoner of Otho, son of the Emperor
Frederick 1., by the Venetians —600 square feet
of canvas covered with a raffle of locked galleys
and struggling warriors and broken oars. It is
full of movement —you can imagine the tiers of
galley-slaves below —lying with broken breast-
bones where the great sweeps kicked them at the
moment of collision. And there are the portraits
of seventy-six Doges, with the panel that should
have borne the face of Marino Faliero painted
black.
The prisons are much older than the Bridge of
Sighs, which goes back only a paltry 300 years.
The prisons themselves are less appalling than
one would expect, and their main interest lies in
their inscriptions. A remarkable instance of the
egotism of the average criminal is provided in the
inscription in the cell of Giovanni Borni, thief and
murderer: “G.M.B. was confined very unjustly
in this prison ; if God does not help, it will be the
last desolation of a poor, numerous, and honest
family.” And in another, above the bell-tower,
that masterpiece of cynical philosophy :
God guard me from those in whom I trust —
From those I distrust I can guard myself.
I called my gondola early one morning, and
was rowed up the little Rio by the prisons, and
under the high and graceful span of the Bridge of
Sighs, and between the present prison and the
gate where the prisoner to-day comes royally to
gaol in his gondola. Near by is the other gate
where the bodies of the executed were thrown
into the Lagoon.
Gradually the strangeness of the gondola de-
parted, but its fascination deepened. It certainly
does make life a humorous dream, when, for the
expected rattle of a city, is given the quiet of a
wilderness. T ' : Corpo della Vigli is the lockup
of Venice. Imagine being out late and royster-
ing, and being arrested by certain licensed and
piratically-clothed policemen, and rowed into your
gaol on the body of a great black swan. And
there is the scavenger with his gondola or sandolo
—smaller than the gondola and without the
battleaxe prow ; and the butcher-boy cantering
round town in his sandolo ; and the luxurious
(Continued on next


™ SKIN-BEAUTY
ZAM-BUK SOAP DEVELOPS A LOVELY
SOFT REFINED SKIN.
fpHE necessity for the development of perfect skin is the regular use of
Zam-Buk Medicinal Toilet Soap. A perfect skin denotes a soft
refined skin and peach-like complexion. Unfortunately such con-
ditions of Skin Health and Beauty are none too numerous, the reason is to
be found in the application of injurious toilet creams, powders, and soaps to
the skin. When you use Zam-Buk Soap you are conscientiously obeying
the laws of good skin health, and at the same time building up good general
health as well owing to the healthful and penetrating nature of its
medicines, and also its germicide influence. Thus, in addition to its
purifying and beautifying attributes, it destroys the germs
that create skin and blood disease. Zam-Buk Soap
consistently used will open wide to you the paths
of radiant skin-health and skin beauty.
The prevention of scalp troubles
applies very strongly to its
regular use.
'
S»i
SBHI
Mrs. Hilda
Carroll, 57
Franklin Street,
Adelaide, S. A.,
writes :—Some time
ago I received a sample
of Zam-Buk Soap ; since
then I have used no other.
For children it is unequalled.
It keeps away all troubles of
the Skin and Scalp, and makes
the Hair and Skin beautifully soft,
and removes impurities and scurf
from the head. For itchings, pimples,
and chafings it is most beneficial.
Zam-Buk Soap is sold by the single tablet,
or in dainty boxes (see illustration) by Chemists
and Stores, or post free from
There
is
Skin
Health
and
Skin
Beauty
in
Every
Tablet*
The Zam-BuR Mfg. Co.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
9
mm/rn
tf 9 ffa/M&k) fir'
A
C
telegraph boy in his; and the postman in his,
and the wood-boats, and the charcoal-boats, and
the fruit-boats. The sandolo leaps like a hare ;
the gondola sweeps like a swan.
It was a great day. We loafed peacefully
through the miles of narrow canals, and past two
theatres sitting in the water ; and then the peace
was broken for a moment by the hum of dynamos,
and thee was the great power-house that pro-
vides light for Venice. All day we were on the
water—creeping past the old-time gardens, and
palaces, and pleasure-grounds of the Guidecca ;
passing just near enough to that square, white
house before Murano, the House of Spirits, where
the Venetians of many centuries left their dead
for one night before the last voyage to the Campo
Santo of San Michele; by the Arsenal, with its
four marble lions stolen from Piraeus ; and the
domed church of San Pietro di Castello, the
scene of the rape of the Venetian Maidens by the
Pirates of Trieste nearly 1000 years ago.
It is not fashionable in Europe to admire
modern sculpture, but I doubt if there is anything
better in bronze of its kind than the equestrian
statue of Victor Emmanuel on the Place of the
Slaves—with, on one panel of the pediment a
winged lion gnawing at his chain, and on another
the winged lion free and tearing to pieces the
treaty of 1815.
The days went on in this more than sybaritic
luxury of simple living in perfection—of loafing on
the Lagoon, of wandering in the Merceria ; that
street that is so like the Way of the Goldsmiths at
Genoa —full of little shops stuffed with coral, cor-
nelian, agate, gold, pearls, and all gems and
metals of trinkets ; of gazing lazily on the picture
of Violante, a love of Titian’s immortalised as
Santa Barbara in the church of Maria Formosa ;
of walking slowly and aimlessly in the fish-
markets and in little squares, surrounded by great,
pockmarked buildings which once were palaces,
and are now the tenement houses of the poor ; in
squares, filled with girls carrying bright copper
pots of water from the fountains, and thridded by
women—poor, but walking proudly, and full of
patrician beauty as if they had suffered in their
own persons the downfall of their palaces ; of
standing open-mouthed, and obstructing the traffic
on half a hundred little bridges where were scores
of models of saints and virgins for the Titians and
the Palmas who are not ; and dozens of Madonnas
sitting on the marble steps, and suckling their little
child Christs. And here are the cloisters of San
Francesco of the Vineyard, and the Little Field of
the Thrushes—whose name hints at some merry
and romantic youth, long since dust, whose
heart leaped at the pipe of birds that
stilled their music many centuries ago.
Further, there is that square where the first
stone of Venice was laid in the name of one
James, a sainted fisherman ; and the fascination
of watching the women struggling with the
clothes-lines in the Field of Santa Margherita ;
the Scala Minelli, curiously suggestive of the
Leaning Tower of Pisa, though not in any way
like it; the church near the Rialto, which is
loaded with statues of saints, but in spite thereof
is now a furniture shop ; the watching of a con-
firmation procession crossing the Little Field of
the Sun; the drawing out of an “old clo’”
woman on the Rialto who flattered grossly by
calling me “ Giovanetto ” ; and the chaffering
with the baker’s boy who sold bread stuffed with
figs.
St. Pantalon, who was probably a friend of Ser
Clown and Signorina Columbine, has a deserted
church all to himself; and before the door there
is a man very kindly expressioned and shod in big
wooden boots, squeezing the eyes and cuttles out
•of small octopi, and disembowelling fish alive.
In San Rocco there are Zanchi’s terrible frescoes
•of the plague—the faithfully painted naked gon-
dolier, ferrying his load of naked dead, is splen-
didly dramatic ; and Tintoretto’s masterpiece, the
enormous ‘ ‘ Crucifixion ” that covers the ceiling.
The impenitent is just being stretched on the Cross,
and is struggling to the end fighting for his life.
The picture is crowded with activity—and the
figures of the men raising the cross of the penitent
thief are full of strain.
In the Frari are the monument of Titian and
the tomb of Canova, and, near by, the records of
the Government of Venice contained in many
millions of documents. If I could be sure of
living for two centuries I would gain access to
these records and find material for whole libraries.
But as the two-hundred-year mark is improbable
for me, and as I already have enough material to
last me for two average lifetimes, I must re-
luctantly pass the opportunity.
I went back to the gondola, and soon we were
again in the network of the small canals, and at
the Canal of the World of the Assassins, whose
name is full of hints of romance. Near here my
gondolier was in continual dispute with small
boys in derelict “ flatties ” and sandolos and gon-
dolas. These boys rushed round corners as silent
as swift, seeking collisions, and pretending to be
sorry when they came. At last we had an escort
of gibing youths, and the practised gondolier set
his feet a little more firmly on the poppa and
gave his oar a longer, quicker sweep, so that the
gondola sped like an angry swan. While so
furiously running through the water he swung
suddenly into a main canal, and there was a
funeral barge of black, picked out with white ; in
the bows a broken column and a scythe ; the
coffin, flower-covered, on a raised bier amidships,
and on the stern post a winged world. The
gloomy barge floated down the canal, its melan-
choly rowers keeping only a slight way on, and
the afternoon seemed to shiver at the sight. Then
my gondolier swung back into the little canals
again, and in the Street of the Melons I saw a
notice stating that at the Malibran Theatre that
night would be acted —“ The Woman who Did.”
And then we rowed to the Gardens and back
again to the columns of Theodore and Mark.
There are many stories told of the tourist, and
this is one the Italians tell of three American and
two English shopkeepers who came to Venice to
be bored. Thay had a gondolier, who spoke a
little English with almost fatal effect, and during
the three days they were in Venice the gondolier
and guide was made almost lunatic in his attempts
to make them understand.
“ What’s that queer place, Edwin ? ”
“ Oh ! I guess it’s another church, or a palace,
• or sumpfin’ —ask the man at the wheel.”
“Hey ! Gondola man —who’s that place be-
long to ? ”
“ Oh, he cannot understand —read the guide-
book.”
“ All right here we are Palasser del
Doggie.”
“ Doggie —how’s it spelled ? ”
“D-O-G-E.”
“ Yes, that’s ‘ Doggie ’ all right. Ask Bill the
Steersman who he is.”
“ Doggie’s Palace ? ”
“Si signore ! Palace of Dodge—verra greata
rnahn.”
“ Does he live there now ? ”
“ Oh ! no, signore.”
“ An’ his family lives in Paris, I guess ? ”
“No signore —Ker-ker-ker ! No ! No ! No
family he ’ave a.”
“ Well, has he got any money ? ”
“No, Signore—he gotta niente. He dead.’
“ Well, why didn’t you say so ? I guess I’m
sick o’ hearin’ o’ all these people. They're all
dead.”
Of the secondary canals, my favorites are the
Rio del Pestrin, the Rio Giardini, and the Rio
Albrizzi, with its vine-covered footbridge, con-
necting the houses four storeys above the water.
And in every little square and campiello between
the Theatre Malibran and the Church of the
Frari there is the life of these picturesque people
in all its picturesqueness —fruit-market, and fish-
market, and flower-market ; and little shops, win-
dowless, but protecting their wares by gratings
and grilles, displaying great heaps of cold fried
fish and polenta.
There still survives among the working people
some of that taste in dress and love of color which
made sumptuary laws imperative. So great was
the love of luxury that even the priests walked
gay in habits of silk, cowls of fur, and girdles of
gold.
But sumptuary laws could not abolish this
inherent love of finery. Venice was the only State
in Italy that grappled, in mediaeval times, with
the curse of monasticism. Monks and nuns were
declared to be civilly dead, so that they could
neither inherit property nor make wills. And
yet, in defiance of this and of sumptuary laws,
Venetian monasteries and convents slid into the
lambent way of corruption. The Decameron is
as much fact as fiction.
Sumptuary laws had been existent for many
years ; yet these lovers of beauty in all its forms
continued to ruin themselves ; and at last the
Government had to recall from exile the Jews —-
who were the inventors of pawnbroking. The
Jews returned and re-opened the pawnshops, but
under very strict regulations. They were herded
in the Ghetto, the gates of which were locked at
night by Gentile guards, whom the Jews were
forced to pay. This is a comic-opera situation—
the prisoner finding his own handcufts and his
own gaol, and paying the policeman for appre-
hending him. But the world has always been
governed by opera-bouffe, and is so to-day,
although in a decreasing degree. The Jews were
not allowed to acquire houses or land, or to
follow any profession but that of medicine ; they
were forced to pay one-third more rent than the
Gentile tenant ; forced to pay monstrous taxes ;
forced to live within the walls of the one beastly
quarter of Venice ; and had to wear a distinctive
hat, coat and badge.
There are two Ghetti —the Ghetto Vecchio and
the new Ghetto with its three wells. It is a dirty
place, and the Synagogue, after the magnificence
of the churches, is merely a big shed. I wandered
in the Lane of Baruch, and passed the Houses of
the Israelites ; and a thousand noses were pro-
truded from the windows and by the street
corners, and conned my progress.
We ran the gauntlet of the youthful Jews, who
begged permission to do us unnecessary service ;
and the gondolier swung us again into the beauties
of the grand canal as the sun went down beyond
the garden of Papadopoli.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Land of Romance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE’S a region where I would be faring,
Where the things that annoy us are not ;
Where we walk with a dignified bearing,
And the ways of the world are forgot.
Ah, many there are that endeavor
To return to its splendid expanse,
But the wise shall depart from it never—
The glorious land of Romance !
It lies beyond Business and Worry ;
It’s further than Fashion and Spite ;
You must pass the wild regions of Hurry
Ere the hills of it come into sight ;
All the Humbugs, too many to mention,
You must leave ; all the Envies and Hates;
You must cast off the rags of Convention
Before you may enter the gates !
And there you will get, in repayment,
The love of the true and the grand,
And, clad in an exquisite raiment,
You’ll wend through a wonderful land.
All sordid and shabby ways scorning,
With skies that are limpid and blue,
You will soar on the wings of the morning
By gardens that glitter with dew ;
Through paths that are reddened with roses
Such splendors your lips shall behold,
As evening in majesty closes
With sunsets of purple and gold.
Re-born from old missals and pages,
They’ll greet you, the great and the wise
And the grandeur of chivalrous ages
Shall glorify all in your eyes.
Ah, those that have left it endeavor
To return to its splendid expanse,
But the wise shall depart from it never—
The glorious Land of Romance !
VIC.
A.B.C.


“I attribute my present good health to the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It is now three years since I first
used it. Previous to that I
was in very bad health. Had
no appetite, could not sleep,
always felt tired. It has built
me up and I feel like another
woman. I strongly advise
women in delicate health to
take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, as I
am sure it will do them good.”
Mrs. E. Harrison,
G-awler, S. A.
When tired and debilitated, with
weak and irritable nerves, you need
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you are
not persuaded to take some other Sarsaparilla claimed to be
“just as good.” See that you get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FR
COLORED *
And Artistic
POST CARDS
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each containing' 6
of our colored and high art Post Cards to sell for us, at fid. per packet. When you
have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any present
you may choose from the list of jewellery which we send you. By continuing the sale
of our cards you can earn a Ladies’ or Cent’s Silver Watch and Chain. Remember, we
want to do business with vou again, and to do this we must give you full satisfaction.
We take all the Risk. You can return the cards if not sold. We have no connection
We are the largest dealers in post cards in Australia,'and import our jewellery, or we
this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever
-
with any other firm,
could not make you
seen.
piwpa**i
REGAL POST CARD Co., 8.K., Pitt-st., Sydney
JUST THE RING
SHE HAS BEEN
WAITING FOR..
This may be Leap Year, but that’s no
reason for your neglect in buying “ her ’’
a ring. Make up your mind to-day
and order from “the store where
quality counts.” That is a guarantee
for goodness.
We make all our own rings, paying
special attention to the strength and
setting, and every gem-set ring is sup-
plied in a silk-lined presentation case.
This charming Cluster Ring is in
18ct. Cold, set with three beauti-
ful Australian Opals. The centre
stone is surrounded with Sap-
phires or Rubies, for £3 ss. ;
or with Diamonds round the
centre stone, £6.
Ask for our Catalogue, with ring
measure card. There are many other of
our famous rings illustrated in it. We
will pay the postage, and guarantee to
refund your money if the ring does not
please you.
ANGUS & COOTE,
Watchmakers, Jewellers, Opticians,
George Street, corner of the Royal Arcade,
Sydney, opp. the Barometer, Q.V. Markets.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Freo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Cor'essions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
S*nd Stamp for Illustrated Lifts or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 t G.P.O.s SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free ‘“r;LfS
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any wav
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
PATERNOSTERS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
FREE!
GARDEN SEEDS.
No Money Wanted.
11,000.
In order to introduce our High Grade Tested SEEDS into
every home, we are going to give away cameras,
Instruments, Silver Watches and Cham*, Cameras,
Rabbit Rifles, Lartie*’ Muff Cham*, soMd Go! d
Jewellery, etc., Free to the value of ° T? ™® „ d Add res s arid
as- ..r vma*
you may select from our grand list,
Wp trust you— the risk is ours. You may return the
wed* if not sold, though you will find me"
them ridiculously eas'. forthey are splendid value.
3 sendat once before our offer is withdrawn
Flnrisls’ Stull Suddlu Co. &
HAMILTON STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JUDGED BY RESUL
It is no wonder that BEECHAM’S PILLS enjoy the popularity
they do. In both hemispheres they are the favorite medicine
in countless thousands of households, and their value in
correcting- trouble appertaining to the Stomach, Liver, Kidneys,
and Bowels is a matter of common knowledge.
BCCC HAM’S
are specially useful in the early stages of disease. Directly
any symptoms of Indigestion, Flatulence, Biliousness, or
Constipation show themselves, the sufferer should at once
commence a course of these pills ; and he will find that in
the immediate improvement, rapid cure, and consequent
saving of time and trouble, they
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A ROX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold Everywhere in boxes, price iO ,d, (36 pills), 1/1)4 (56
pills), and 2/9 (168 pills).
P
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/t J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
H 3313
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
OHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHCEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
-4
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
COPAIBA,
r the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
m
Each Capsule hears the name
M EN
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’’
Mav be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Dr Martin now a copv will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. _ltis a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo siwiXc tr booh has ever been published.
f y% \ 00-pao'e specimen copy of this grand work, containing 34 illustrations and colored plate,
rnCiCi o-iving a verv fair idea of what Medical Book is like will be sent POST FREE.
Also “ MIND OVER MATTER ” and “ BEHIND THE SCENES ” (the Australian Press on Dr. Martin and his
medical works), posted FREE on application. Dr. Martin’s Five Lectures on “ Special” Ailments posted
anywhere on receipt of Is 6d (stamps). fSß*" Note Address :
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elmley House,”
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


PERDRIAU
FOR
GARDEN HOSE and
SPRINKLERS.
Price Lists Posted Free on request
270 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
2
My
Favourite
Summer
Beverage is
‘Montserrat’^
Lime Juice.
I drink it because it is cooling,
refreshing and invigorating, and
because I know it is good for me.
“MONTSERRAT” Lime
Juice is always fresh and pleasant
to the taste, mixed with plain or
aerated water, it makes a cooling,
refreshing, healthful drink.
Insist on the genuine "MONTSERRAT
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Striotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLVENTS :~ W> & J L | M PRIERE f
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
ef
m
10&Z
0
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers : M. BEETHAM & SSN, Cheltenham, England.
Agents-Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
Lockwood Bros. Ltd.,
SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
‘PAMPA’
POCKET
KNIVES
are the
BEBT.
SOLO BY \
ALL FIRST-
CLASS STORES.
No. Sl6O 1-BLADE
“PAMPA.”
Cocoa Handle -
Buffalo Handle
Stag Handle -
//-
- 16
- - //e
MOTOR CARS!
ANY MAKE. ANY BIZE.
New or Second-Hand, purchased, packed and shipped.
5 per cent. Commission. Cables : “ Riscuttaiso,” Reuter.
H. LEWARNE, 10 Halsey Street, Cadogan Square,
London, S.W.
Australian reference— F. G. CROUCH, Esq., Randwick,
Sydney, N.S.W.
ASTHMA CURE
GMAIJ[HS INDIAN CWMTTES
Difficulty in expectoration, Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression inaneiibttely
relieved by G KIM AULT & C«'s INDIA!? CIGAK-
E" TEB. ftoid bv all Chimids.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
\ Celebrated
IPLATE and
>CUTLERY
MARK
CTOSSO
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
Abb
Ji
or
“ M AX
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
a,so at SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. Maxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES —IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is ; Packet of Ten, lQd.
IMPERIAL’’ TABLE CONCENTRATORS.
Largest Capacity. Simplest in Operation.
Power Required, Capacity 30 Tons per day. Built of Seasoned American Redwood.
Extract from O'. WHEAR ROBERTS’ report on the Yerrandarie Pioneer Silver
Mine, Burragorang (26/8/’O7): —“A 5-head stamper battery and an Imperial Concentrating
Table are at work treating this ore, and I must confess that I was surprised to note the excellent
results that were being obtained from this treatment of oxidised material. A sample collected
from the Table while at work assayed 46'4 per cent, lead, 5500 z. silver, and lOJdwt. gold per ton.
The supply of water is so limited that at present the plant cannot be worked more than five hours
per day, and then the water is so thick that it is not possible to get the best concentration results.”
A. CHAPPLE, Wolumla, writes : —“ I have been working the Imperial Concentrating
Table for some months, and I must state that no better separator is to be found. I am running
it taking the pulp from a 10-Stamp Mill, and the concentrates are particularly clean and the tail-
ings free from mineral. I like it better than any other I have used, as, after once being set, it is
perfectly automatic, requiring no attention whatever.” ~'pA
Copies of many other testimonials will be forwarded on application.
TOTAL WEIGHT OF MACHINE IS
UNDER 1 TON.|
R. A. HERVEY,
SOLE AGENT Tor
AUSTRALASIA,
Clarence & King Streets, Sydney.
The PHILLIPS Pressed
Steel Split PULLET
Is the last word spoKen in goods of this class.
Very light, very strong, and of most excellent
design. Because of the preference shown by
some people for iron pullies, the sole agency for
New South Wales has been secured by ...
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD. , 60 Clarence Street, Sydney
Write for Price List. A Large Stock on Hand.
PATENTED
Undoubtedly the Best Agitator Known.
Adopted by THE WAIHI G.M. CO. (32 Large Tanks).
THE WAIHI GRAND JUNCTION.
KOMATO REEFS, etc.
N. QUTHRIDCE, LTD., Sydney ft Melbourne, Agents for Australia.
zu
An Important nine in nexico has
just bought 13 huge B. & n. Tanks.
° ur Illustrated Bulletin will be <of interest
to all Cyaniders.
