

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—" ZDE’W-AJRi’S-”
107 KoirLti Street,
—FOK—
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and
Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .. .
128 William St, Melbourne, Vic.
3ECOBJ9k.3Et.a7.
—aefK —
m
PIONEER
LEATHER
jMLVTIWg
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
\
Take it back,
1 must have
-
fine Apple Brand
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
A PAYEKC
INVESTMENT
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a
2 B.H.P, Fairbanks=Morse
Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSEB OF
FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS
WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE
PROPRIETARY, LTD.,
16 Young 1 Street, Sydney.
Cut ,
th
U
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
WEAR PROOF
Puncture Proof
PERSAN CYCLE. TYRES
THE “ SILVERTOWN ” RUBBER CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“HOUSE OF LORDS”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
33 PITT STREET, SYmSTBST - .
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit=Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLI
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. CO OLSON,
116 a’Seckett St., Melbourne* *
:*> i'.v
\-.x3
msi
EASTWAY’S, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
I
ff
U
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WATER.
Taßen as a Table Water neither
oppression nor depression follows.
GOLLUM & CO.,
Agents,
The Bulletin
V01.29.—N0. 1482.]
[Thursday, July 9, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
Robertson & Co. Prep.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET.
SYDNEY.
Marsh & Dunn, Reinforced Concrete Manual 9s, postage 6d.
Lang-, The Origin of Religion, R.P.A. Series, 8d posted.
Wolffe, Text Book of Swimming, Is 3d, posted Is 6d.
Radoliffe, Telephones: Construction, Installation, etc.,
5s od, post 6d. Gamble, Animal Life, illus., 7s, p. Bd.
Bullen, Frank T., A Bounty Boy, cloth 3s 6d, post 6d.
Williamsons, The Scarlet Runner, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d.
Clegg T. 8., The Bishop’s Scapegoat, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Statesmen’s Year Book, 1903, 12s 6d, postage 9d.
Elwell, Practical Bridge, 7s, postage 4d.
Chas. Keene, “ Humorists of the Pencil Series," posted
Is 6d. Sawyer, Physical Signs of Disease, 6s, post 6d.
Marsh, Messianic Philosophy, 4s, postage 6d.
Braun, The Car Encyclopaedia, Is 3d, post 3d.
Scost, Through Finland to St. Petersburg, 4s, post 6d.
Finrj, Ice World’s Birds, illus., 6s, postage 8(1.
Sedgwick, German Home Life, 9s, postage 9d.
Meyers, Complete Lawn Tennis Player, 9s, postage 9d.
Recent Cyanide Practice, by T. A. Rickard and Others, 10s,
post lGd. TurberviHe, Leo Tolstoy, 2s 6d, post 4d.
HUDSON’S
“EUNENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Qreat Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COL.OS, SORE THROATS,
bronchitis, influenza, and the
PREVfiNTION OF CONSUMPTION.
Thg Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
*f the rtdae of *' Ehmseafchel Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericddally as is creosote.”
a
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
6. HUBSON, Manufacturing Chemist, 5 & 7 Queen’s Plaoe, Sydney. Agencies in all the Australian
States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
THE RED PAGE
The Awful Austin
WE are busy choosing a laureate for
Australasia. Whomever the final
ballot falls upon we need not
fear the bathos of England’s Alfred
Austin. Of course, Austin must do some-
thing for his tun of wine ; but it is not fair
to the world to publish such stuff as his
latest book, Sacred and Profane Love (Mac-
millan). The title-piece, which Austin
thinks it necessary to tell us is symbolical—
he also definitely states that it is a poem—is
dreary and very blanky blank verse. That
he cannot even write good blank, or un-
blanked, verse is evident from a line such as
this :
Material embodiment of those . . .
He also delightfully speaks of a
Heaving corset of embossed brocade,
Compressing beaker of her brimming breasts.
Which is the only original expression in the
book. Sacred Love preaches to her auditor
—and, unfortunately, to us—with a wordy
heaviness only equalled by Johannes C.
Andersen. In “The Wind Speaks,” Austin
makes use of such Austinian alliteration as
this :
Then I fling the fisherman’s flaccid corpse
At the feet of the fisherman’s wife-
while he states that the wind rides
On the back of the bounding brine !
The alleged laureate can also perpetrate
a stanza of such appalling ineptitude as this :
Over the peaceful veldt,
Silently, snowflakes fall !
Silently, slow, unfelt,
Cover the Past with a pall!
But the best criticism of Austin is happily
supplied by himself in a magnificent line :
And everywhere there seems a something wanting.
Of his trade-jobs, the most awful is a
botch called “ If They Dare ! ” which Austin
cells us was written some years ago, “ when
the defensive spirit of the nation was sud-
denly aroused to the highest pitch.” It was
not published at the time, “because it Was
thought ” (Austin does not say by whom—
probably by his employer) “it might aggra-
vate mischievously the popular emotion.” It
wouldn’t aggravate worth a swear word. It
is a puerile piece of prattle ; and the rest of
the book is piffle. We regret that Alfred
Awful Austin did not send us some of these
poems for publication in The Bulletin. They
might have lifted the cloud of melancholy
that hangs over the office-boy’s office-boy,
who does the “Answers to Correspondents.”
Apparently there are only two persons in
England who take Austin seriously. One is
a reviewer in the Quarterly.
Booming a Poem
The editor who accepted Edwin Mark-
ham’s famous “ Man with the Hoe” ex-
plains in The Bookman (U.S.) exactly
how he made it famous. It appeared in the
San Francisco Examiner , and was properly
boomed by that paper in advance. This is
how the editor went to work. He .selected
a great primer art gothic type, a big, bold-
faced- letter, in which he had the poem set to
a wide measure. He instructed the artist to
design a decoration for it, so striking that it
Would arrest the eye of a blind man. ‘‘ But,”
he continues, “I wanted to force the atten-
tion of the Examiner’s readers in a still
stronger way so to boom the poem that
nobody should escape it. So I prepared a
floridly-worded appreciation of the poem for
the same page—an appreciation that was in-
tended to smite the ears of the groundlings.”
Then the poet began to make revision after
revision of his work, necessitating new plates
after the form had been stereotyped. In
flaming type the poem was advertised in the
daily edition of the paper, and on its appear-
ance in the Sunday issue its public was pre-
pared for it. “ The idea of making a news-
paper sensation out of a serious piece of
blank verse was probably the wildest that
any journalist had ; but, thanks to the-swing
of Markham’s lines, I actually succeeded in
doing that impossible thing ; and soon it was
speeding all over the land. California is,
I believe, the only place in this country
where such a sensation could have had its
genesis. A land where everybody reads,
where every other person is an author, and
every tenth person a poet could not fail to
sit up and take notice of what had happened.”
California is evidently something like Aus-
tralia, only less so. The editor meant to
give Markham a paltry £lO for the poem ; but
the soulless accountant decided that £5 was
enough, and this Markham accepted without
protest. Since then, however, Markham
has received £lOO for a short—and much
worse —poem. His collected book of poems
shews nothing of equal quality to his * ‘ Man
with the Moe.” It took Markham fifteen
years to complete the poem. Some time ago
it was reprinted on this page. Here is a
later effort, recently published :
CROWN OF CHARACTER.
Where are the swelling majesties of old,
The kings who built on skulls and emptiness ?
Where Sinus, with the dove upon his shield ?
His name is now a whisper from the dust
That once was Nineveh, that once was pride.
And where is Rameses, the king of kings ?
He has gone down to nothingness and night.
One sunken stone beside the dateless Nile
Stammers to time his ineffectual fame.
And Jamshid —name for splendor—where is he,
Whose palaces did pulse with precious stones?—
His dream in marble and his brag in brass,
With all his towers, are faded with the clouds
That lighly blew above Persepolis.
When punctual death comes knocking at the door,
To lead the soul upon the unknown road,
There is one crown, one only, never flung
Back to the dust by his fastidious hand.
Touched by this crown; a man is king indeed,
And carries fate and freedom in his breast;
And when his house of clay falls ruining,
His soul is out upon the path of stars !
This is the one thing stronger than the years
That tear the kingdoms down. Imperious time,
Pressing a wasteful hand on mortal things,
Reveals this young eternity in man.
The peasant he may earn it with the king,
And tread an equal palace full of light.
Fleet youth may seize this crown : slow-footed
age
May wear its immortality. Behold !
Its power can turn bare rafters to a home
Hallowed with hopes and hushed with memories;
Can turn a field of ruin to a place
Where pilgrims keep the watches of the night ;
Can change an earthly face until it shine,
Touched with unearthly beauty. It can turn
A prison to a temple of the God,
A gallows to an altar. In its might
A reed did once become a sceptre —yea,
A cross became a throne ; a crown of thorns
A symbol of the power above the world.
A History of Trade
It is. not the wealth, but The Strength
of Nations (Longmans, Green) that J. W.
Welsford analyses in his useful history
of trade. The book is a damning indictment
of Britain’s present Freetrade foolishness.
Welsford shows how Home, Spain, Constan-
tinople, the Italian and the German cities of
the Middle Ages, and Holland made the vain
effort to become rich through international
trade. His thesis is the obvious one that
the only sure foundation for national indus-
try is national raw material, and the only
sure foundation for national commerce is
national production. In the past, trade,
when unregulated by the State, has always
ended in ruining national production. All
through this narrative of the fluctuating
fortunes of nations we see England preparing
herself for world-power. “ For nearly five
centuries England strove to make herself
strong, united, and independent of the
foreigner, by protecting agriculture, in order
that the home-grown food supply should be
sufficient; manufactures, in order that there
might be work for English workers; and
shipping, in order to breed a race of sea-
men. ... In the time of the Tudors the pro-
duction of wool was first fostered and pro-
tected until a monopoly of the raw material
was acquired ; by the sternest protective
measures this monopoly was used to found
English supremacy in weaving, and then in
dressing and dyeing the woven cloth. On
industrial production, commerce and shipping
were firmly established by similar protective
measures.... If now Great Britain wishes to
repeat her past successes, it seems as if she
must revert to her former methods.”
Thus, almost unconsciously, Welsford
shows Australia, in her youth, quietly fol-
lowing England’s example—when England,
in her youth, was building up her production,
manufactures and shipping. For every pro-
tective act in Australia there can be found
in Welsford’s book a parallel on the part of
England in her strenuous youth. We are
worthily following the course that led Eng-
land to the overlordship of the world, and
by the same sane methods.
The Tin Wreath
I aint an envious sorter chap,
Or much inclined ter show me teeth ;
An I don’t care a bloomin rap
About yer ole tin lorrel reath :
But as each jingler seems ter be
Selectin his peculiar pal,
I think the game is up ter me
To let er go—an so I shall.
I’m not a goin to annerlize
The difrent styles of difrent potes,
Or back an fill about the prize,
Or draft the sheep out from the goats.
But if I’ve got ter sling a tip
Straight out, an name the King of Rhyme,
The man that eadsem from the kip,
Is Arry Lawson every time.
They tork about the “Classieks ” —Ho !
They critersize some stanzer “ weak ” —
An which of them, I’d like ter know,
Can fetch a trickle down yer cheek
Like Arry can ?—e plays the strings,
Of uman weaknesses an woe ;
E knows the ways of men an things,
An when yer pants begin to go.
An if is verses takes, in part,
What them blokes call a “sombre hue
E knows the big Australian eart,
An bushnjaa’s bible through an through.
Suppose e does pan out on Gloom,
E gets it from the things at ©me ;
Instead of rakin in the tO»m,
Of some ole bloke of ancient Rome.
E takes yer from the noisy slums, ■
The “narrow ouses bleared an mean,”
To where the giant river gums
Go arohin up in gold and green.
Acrost the alley damp and dim,
An through the broken winder panes ;
E sends a sweet an soothin hymn
From whisperin myalls on the plains.
E takes yer from the crowded street,
And leads yer to the lonely sea,
To where the misty breakers beat,
Round some great eadland swingin free,
Or back agen with tender grace,
In evil paths an walks obscene,
To wipe the tears from off the face
Of some repentant Magdalene.
So hereby I record me vote —
Although the bloke I’ve never met;
Es orften made me clear me throat,
And kid me peepers wasnt wet.
An that I reekon’s really Art,
And so I’d class im A 1 prime—
Although peraps theres blokes more smart,
I’d vote for Enery every time.
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.
From
Maoriland.
In the matter of the “Tin Wreath,” I shout
with both hands up for Roderic Quinn. He, more
than any other poet of Australasia, has the divine
fire. I don’t go in for very fine distinctions
between what is poetry and
what is “ mere verse ” ; but
no one can get away from the
magic of Quinn’s verse. It is not
mere dainty rhyming. It has the indefinable
something that steals along the blood in reading
the odes of Keats, “ L’Allegro,” or the songs of
Burns. These things have nothing in common
but a subtle magic that is the finer essence of
poetry. After Quinn, I place A. H. Adams.
Adams, in my opinion, is a poet yet in the
making. His sweep is wider than Quinn’s —wider,
I think, than that of any poet of the Australasian
group. Of all first books of verse, “ Maoriland ”
gives the greatest promise. That promise has not
found its 1-ulfiment in his more recent works, but
has merely been repeated in new directions. This
may not be wholly intelligible. What I mean
is that Adams has gone on widening his
foundations without yet starting to build
the greater structure on which his future
fame will rest. Still, in the work he has
done there is enough, and more than enough, to
distance nearly all his competitors. After fairly
weighing the claims of 50 others, I place Adams
second on my list. Third place goes to Henry
Lawson. He has done some of the worst and
much of the best work produced in Australasia.
Were his range wider his place must be first of all;
but, in spite of the enthusiasm of his many sup-
porters, Henry Lawson has only touched one or
two departments of life. He has a magic of his
own, a marvellous gift of sympathy, and within
limits a large command of language ; but when all
this is said there are thousands of readers of
poetry in Australasia to whose minds and hearts
Lawson can hardly make an appeal. That he is
the greatest poet of a rough life that has arisen
these hundred years I readily grant; but the gap
that divides a John Hay from a Poe, or a Lawson
from a Quinn, is a very wide one. I place Lawson
third ; perhaps I love him best.
D.M.W.
A Vote
From
Westralia.
dere mister F 2 and F 4 ter git to ther votin
bisness i mite say im no poat meself an i dont
like potry for ther reason that all
ther blokes wot rite it ave long air
an are a bit off ther onions, ther
cows wud also taik yer down for
yer eyeballs beleav me they wud.
i expect blokes like arthur adatns an grant hervey
are decent sorts an git there air cut but been
poats yer karnt trust em. well to ther votin bisness
i reckon frank henty orter git ther tin at bekorse
of orl ther blanky poats yer got ees is ther ony
wun wot as ritten a pome about beer, give me a
poat wot rites about sumthin yer can see an thats
beer, yer can taste it too be cripes. opin yer will
giv ther tin lorrel to frank henty.
BILL BORONIA.
The State of
The Poll.
It must be admitted that votes for the laureate
are coming in with disappointing slowness. A
change of position has oc-
curred in the leading names,
Quinn now being first, and
Lawson and Adams (equal)
second, with McCrae fourth, Hervey fifth, and
M. Forrest sixth. Several ballot papers plumping
for one candidate have been disallowed under the
conditions specified. The poll closes on July 18.
The Simple Life
At 5 o’clock I am awakened by a hammering at
my door, and mother’s voice urging me to get up
at once.
“Oh dear, it’s much too early to
get up,” Connie yawns, and falls
back to sleep again.
Maurice is merely Hewletting in his
latest trifle, The Spanish Jade, a long short-
story of 47,000 words, expanded by Cassell
by means of big print and spacing into the
usual novel size. It is a careless tale of the
usual fond adventurer in Spain, admirably
written, for even in his literary negligee
Hewlett cannot but be himself. But after
The Stooping Lady perhaps we expect too
much. Yet the stooping Hewlett is worth a
dozen Stanley Weymans.
The new edition of John Galsworthy’s
The Island Pharisees (Heinemann, per
Dymock’s Library) is worth reading. In it
Galsworthy presents what may be termed his
preliminary studies in characterisation for
his eminent and successful novels, The Man
of Property and The Country House. Gals-
worthy has revised and re-written this earlier
work ; and it now stands worthy of a place
with his later novels. It is a subtle inter-
pretation of the character of the Englander,
and its lack of plot is compensated for by its
psychological brilliance.
In her interesting history of Christian
Science, Georgine Mil mi lie records an
astonishing event. Mrs. Eddy had taught
that, in the future, when the world had
attained a larger growth in Christian Science,
children would be conceived by communion
with the Divine mind—her book she claimed
to have been the outcome of an immaculate
conception between herself and God. But,
somewhat to Mrs. Eddy’s surprise, one of
her most prominent disciples decided to put
this theory into practice. In 1890 Mrs.
Woodbury gave birth to a son, whom
her followers, and she had many,
believed was the result of an immacu-
late conception, and an exemplification
of Mrs. Eddy’s theory of “mental genera-
tion.” The child was named “ The Prince
of Peace,” and baptised at Ocean Point,
Maine, in a pool which she called ‘ ‘ Beth-
sada.” The boy was called “ Prince,” for
short, and he was not permitted to call Mr.
Woodbury “ father ’’—for it happened there
was a Mr. Woodbury, though he never
denied his wife’s yarn. Also Prince had to
call his mother “ Birdie.” When Mrs. Eddy
heard of the arrival of this “Child of Light,”
she exclaimed, “She knows it is an imp of
Satan ! ” and packed the imp’s mother out of
the “church.” The little Prince of Peace
was also taken up by Lis little jacket and
put bodily out of the Christian Science Sun-
day-school. Prince’s future ought to be
worth watching.
A Bush
Girl’s Day.
She’s made that same remark for months
and months, and I’m so tired of it that one
morning I will arise and smite her with my
heavy, copper-toed boot to see if I can vary it a
little. As if life were not monotonous enough
already.
Outside the grey world is growing; gold, and
magpies are holding a prayer meeting in the
stubbly fields. I lean out of my window to listen,
and Mag’s voice floats up from the yard below :
“ Bess, why don’t you come down and help with
the breakfast ? You know the boys want to get
away. I can’t do everything I fly down
to the dining-room just as mother is banging the
big teapot on to the tray, with dad grumbling at
her heels about a lost bridle, and the kids yelling
and whooping behind just out- of sheer joy at
being alive. Lucky kids ! Once I did the same,
years ago, before the Bush weighed on my soul
and made of me a pessimist at 20. Ted and Tom
come in, reeking of the stable, and talk briskly of
the day’s work before them. Mother ladles out
porridge and Mag swamps the cups with tea,
while dad curses the bluntness of the carving-
knife and shoots the leg of mutton on to the table-
cloth.
Halfway through the meal, Con comes in with
a frowsy pigtail, unbuttoned shoes, blouse bulging
up and skirt sagging down. “Where does she
get her lazy, untidy ways from ? ’’ mother sighs.
“Not from her mother’s side of the family!”
And dad shuffles his feet uncomfortably and
looks out of the window. Breakfast over, we all
disperse about our various tasks. Ted and Tom
gallop off in the golden morning, with stockwhips
in their hands and the dogs running circles round
them. I follow them in spirit as 1 wash nJTthe
greasy dishes and sweep the well-worn oil-cloth.
It grows hot as the day advances. At 1.0 o’clock
the boys and dad turn up, and we all foregather
in the kitchen for tea and buns. Mother pulls a
batch of them from the oven, and Ted says “ Good
iron ! ” and Tom chaffs mother about the smut on
her nose. After a little aimless conversation and
much tea, we disband, and at 12 o’clock we-
womenfolk have a scratch dinner on the end of
the kitchen table. After noon dad and the boys
trail in at intervals of an hour for theirs, and Mag
grumbles hard about having to get meals at all
hours of the day. Tom says, “ Don’t get your
wool off,” and Ted says, “ What were sisters made
for, I’d like to know ? ” In fruit time we spend
nearly all the afternoon peeling it for jam, or pre-
paring tomato sauce and pickles ; one day a week
is washing, and one ironing, and there is always,
from year’s end to year’s end, a work-basket over-
flowing with buttonless shirts and torn pants and
disreputable stockings.
The long day drags to a close, and with
the blessed dark comes a ghost of a breeze.
Tea is always a rather silent meal; we are
all too flattened out to make the board a
festive one. Mother hunts the children off to
their bath, and we girls wash-up again, and
bark mildly at each other. Then we all sprawl
about the verandah, and watch the moon rise,
blood-red, over the smoky hills.
This is one of the days that stretch behind me
to my too brief schooldays, and which in my
wakeful nights I see reaching in a colorless line
over the edge of my world.
In the “glad, confident morning” I look for a
Prince Charming who will spirit me away to the
places I see in my dreams ; but in the glimmering
twilight (Ah, woe is me !) I see myself grown old
and dull and unattractive before my time,
weighed down to earth with the burden of the
Bush !
BUSHGER.


a
The LATEST
FASHIONS at
ANTHONY HORDERNS' Famous Low Prices.
Our business, as Only Universal Providers to the people
of Australia, enables us to offer a greater assortment
than any other house, and our system of spot cash
trading ensures Top Quality at Bottom Price.
dfc
We offer an Unrivalled Assortment of Fashionable
Winter Costumes, Perfectly-Fitting Skirts, Smart Motor
Coats, and Dainty Evening Gowns, and our enormous
. resources enable us to fit almost any figure.
No. 1037 —NAVY CHEVIOT SERGE
TAILOR-MADE COAT AND SKIRT,
trimmed fancy Braid ; sizes, S.W., W. and
0.5., 945. 6d.
No. 1876-GIRLS’ SERGE DRESSES,
Navy and Cardinal-
Length 24 27 30 33 36 39 42in.
17/6 18/9 20/- 21/3 22/6 24/-
Similar Style in Navy, Wine and Brown
Cloth— 71- 7/6 8/- 8/6 9/- 9/6 10/-
No. 1428 - GIRLS’ NAVY SERGE
SAILOR DRESSES, trimmed Navy or
White Braid, or Stitched Navy—
Sizes 22 24 27 30 33 36 39
12/9 14/- 15/3 16/6 17/9 19/- 20/3
Lower qualitv. No. 1426—-
11/6 12/6 14/- 15/3 16/6 17/9 19/6
Best Quality, No. 1430
17/6 18/9 20/- 21/3 22/6 23/9 25/-
No. 1036 NEW STRIPE TWEED
TAILOR-MADE COAT AND SKIRT,
Brown, Green, Navy, fancy mixed colors,
trimmed fancy Silk Braid ; sizes S.W., W.
and 0.5., 90s.
No. 1033—FINE CLOTH TAILOR-MADE
NEWMARKET COAT AND SKIRT,
trimmed fancy Silk Braid, Navy, Wine,
Petuna, Dark Green, Brown, Black, £5 10s.
No. 553—MAIDS’ NAVY SERGE ETON
COAT AND SKIRT- COSTUME, for
Girls 14 to 18 years—
Sizes 6 7 8 9
27/6 29/6 32/6 34/6
Plain Eton style, No." 3335
27/6 29/6 31/0
Sacque style in fancy Tweed Grey, Brown,
Green shades, No. 548-
Sizes 5 6 7 8
16/0 18/9 21/- 23/6
No. 550—MAIDS’ FANCY TWEED
SACQUE COAT AND SKIRT COS-
TUME, for Girls 12 to 18 years, Brown,
Green and Navy mixed colors—
Sizes 5 6 7 8
21/- 23/6 25/- 27/6
Navy Serge with Plaiu Skirt, No. 1092
19/0 23/- 25/6 27/6
No. 1038—TAILOR-MADE COAT AND
SKIRT, self-colored Cheviot Tweed, Navy,
Brown, Grey, Green shades, trimmed Silk
' Braid, sizes, S.W. W. and 0.5., 755.
SMART WINTER COATS for Maids and Matrons
1
i
H
1876
7036
1037
Win
oveUiey
\
tel
m
i
Trees-
PI
mm.
fjk
m
-.
90*
2521
288
2505 '
959/
m
i •3529
Smart Caatj ,
for,
Mr§. a n /J(aic{ 3
A?NTH<|NY HORDERN3' <fciB S x riccs
■ - _____ • ■"' ; ' ■
Stylish and Seasonable
No. 3520—MAIDS’ FANCY WINTER
T WEED THRE E-Q UARTER
JACKETS, for Girls 14 to 18 years, as-
sorted dark mixed colors, sizes 6,7, and S
All at 10/9.
No. 2288—GIRLS’ TWEED PALETOTS,
with Strap at back, light and dark Winter
shades, trimmed fancy Braid, for Girls 7 to
15 years —
Length 27 30 33 36 30 42 45in.
9/6 10/3 11/- 11/9 12/6 13/3 14/-
Empire style, Piped Velvet, Dark Grey
shades only. No. 1213 —
9/6 10/3 11/- 11/9 12/6 13/3 14/-
No. 1217—GIRLS’ CLOTH PALETOTS,
strapped Self Cloth, Navy, Cardinal and
light fawn shades —
Sizes 27 30 33 36 30 42 45 48
17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6 21/9 22/6 23/6 24/6
Similar style in warm Winter Serge, Navy,
and Red—
Sizes 27 30 33 36 39 42
13/6 . 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6
No. 801-GIRLS’ FANCY WINTER
TWEED PALETOTS, Green, Brown,
light and dark Grey mixed shades —
Sizes 27 30 33 36 39 42 45
12/6 13/6 14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6 18/6
No. 3565—MAIDS’ WINTER CLOTH
THREE-QUARTER JACKETS, for
Girls 12 to 18 years, sizes 6,7, 8,17 s. 9d.
all sizes.
No. 904—GIRLS’ WARM WINTER
SERGE PALETOTS. Navy and Red-
Sizes 27 30 33 36 39 42in.
15/- 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/-
Plain Coat style in Navy, Fawn and Red
Cloth—ls/- 16/- 17/- 18/- 19/- 20/-
No. 9591-GIRLS’ CREAM MOHAIR
REEFER JACKETS, for Girls 5 to 10 yrs.
Sizes 12 3 4
14/6 15/6 16/6 17/6
No. 2821-GIRLS’ WARM WINTER
REEFER JACKETS, for Girls 5 to 10 yrs.
Sizes 12 3 4
8/6 9/3 10/- 10/9
& SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


and other
SKINS;
Also BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, sene to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.,
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to inveighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
■ Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for tlie McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER."
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Oyclo-
midia, latest edition, 1248 pages, 400
colored plates and engravings, 7/6
posted. Dr. Faulkner’s Original
Book of Nature, 1908 Edition, 4/-.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Comic Reciter, I/-. Billiard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
King Koko, Conjuring Instructor,
1/3. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/-.
Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
How McDougall Topped the Score, 1/3. Lover’s
Letter Writer, 1/-. Boccacio’s Decameron, 2/6.
Hkitameron, 2/6. Bride of the First Night, 1/3.
That Rascal Gustave, 1/3. Love Under the
Titus, 1/3. Mv Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Bill Edwards, 1/3. Percy Ramage, 1/3. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3. New Tricks with Coins,
1 /-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-to-
Date, Easy Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Cordajre, 1/3. How to Mesmerise, 1/-,
Astrology, 1/-. Fruits of Philosophy, 1/-. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 90 illustrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit, 2/r. Reynold’s Court of London Series, 2/-.
PLEASE MENTION THIS
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. How to Be-
come a Clairvoyant, 1/6. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Cay Lite in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen oe Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, i/-. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture, lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
lOd. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/3. Zingaiia Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/-;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise, and all Zola’s, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, ]/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, 2/- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. How to Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/3. Australian Busiiranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3. Smiler Hale’s
Novels, Bd. each.
m~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
'CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
An Imperative Need.
Until you are free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms- —torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss of appetite, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishness, and the rest. In your condition
Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
speedily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
recruit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic purgatives.
K
C
Q
m
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno'S ‘FRUIT salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earnest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENQ Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO H>JE3DF’'ST COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C.B
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
The most Stylish and perfect corset shape
ever created.
<r
W 1
w
I LOR V
ULOR MADE. US H«| »
CORSETS. || \
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated* They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
Fromg/n .| 0 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
~ „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
THE CELEBRATED
JAY
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened by patented improvements, and there are no
irritajing seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this marK
on every garment.
ANY GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters
TRADE.
o,
Wholesale only —l. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.
T?
BUUARDSFR
ISE-MOME ■
New fads and crazes come and go,
but Billiards easily maintains its indis-
putable position as the King of Indoor
games. Alcock’s Miniature Tables
make Billiards possible in every home.
They are small enough to bs placed on
an ordinary table, yet large enough to
provide a scientific game.
PRICES from £5 15S
Write for Billiard Table Catalogue.
ALCOCK.<E.Co.
GEORGE $T SYDNEY .
AND
mtuimmy
MEL&OURTiE.
mt
No Other is Good
Enough For You ...
The full, rich, ORGAN-LIKE TONES of the
World’s Best Accordion,
“The MEZON ”
will while away many a pleasant hour for you.
“ THE MEZON ” ACCORDION is Artistically
Designed and Beautifully Finished. Awarded
SILVER and GOLD MEDALS at Antwerp
and Leipzic.
PRICES : As illustrated, 42/- ; others, 30/-,
35/-, £3/3/= and £4/10/-. Guaranteed 12
months. Carefully packed and forwarded
anywhere.
WRITE FOR YOURS TO-DAY.
Splendid Illustrated Catalogue of Musical In-
struments of all descriptions mailed Free
on request.
E. LYONS
Sole Agent, 250 BOURHE STREET,
MELBOURNE.


Six
v\
Why be bald headed and old look-
ing before your time? Neglect of
the hair causes dandruff, and dan-
druff is the forerunner of falling
hair and baldness. The remedy is
ylifer’s
flair Vigor
A gentleman residing at Dunedin,
N. Z., writes under date Jan. 7,1907:
“It is with gratitude I write you that I
have now a splendid head of hair, both thick
and very soft, all owing to my having used
your wonderful Hair Vigor. I was almost
bald headed before I used the Hair Vigor. I
still use it once a day, rubbing it well into the
roots of the hair. I used to wear a skull-cap,
and I am very grateful to Ayer’s Hair Vigor
for the improvement it has made in my looks.”
Be warned in time. Use Ayer’s
Hair Vigorand preserve your youth.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles ,
warranted five to ten year-, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
LATEST
MODELS
« £3ulo to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Kim Prakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
any port in the world. JWe guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our svectal offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO„, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music: and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
“After taking SCOTT’S Emulsion
for three months, my son Reginald,
nine months, is full of life and
vigour. He was so
delicate
from birth
that we did not think we should rear
him. When he was 2 months old he
only weighed 5 lbs., he now weighs
16 lbs. and his flesh is firm and solid.
He looks the picture of health.”
(Mrs.) R. McGinley,
62 Alexander Street, Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
30/8/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why:
Nothing else helped this little boy because
nothing else but SCOTT’S is made of the
same finely invigorating materials by the
original perfected SCOTT
process, which makes these
materials thoroughly di-
gestible even by so fragile
a sufferer as this child was.
Competitive emulsions have
no such record for cures
as SCOTT’S has ; this is
of crucial importance where
life is at stake. Therefore,
when purchasing, don’t ask for “Emulsion
ask for and get
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
—the difference between them means a
cure for you! See that “the Fishman
with the Fish” is on the package.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in
Medicines.
\nm t
N
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
BONNINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS
I
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
THE fICCORDEON for Country Residents.
ISh
We don’t believe any Accordeon come
so near perfection as the Celebrated
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l.
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price <£l 7s 6cl;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Aceordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
“5
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments*
Watches, Jewellery, etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
n
*3 tii)
(m nm
fZOOF'JJVG
Sample
WriteTodw,
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or the
pm-holed metal with Congo and end the trouble !
It won't take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it down f
Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to remind
.you of it.
We call Congo the “NEVER=LEAK ROOF.” We mean it.
'Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London
For Sale by C. E Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
SETS! iSSJWStkAA;
Does Residence Abroad
tend to Deterioration
of the Hair?
It is a remarkable and singular fact that in nine cases out of ten those whose; lives
nave been spent in the Colonies suffer in a very evident manner from varions forms, of
hair degeneration. Compare the average head of hair of the Colonist with that of the
dweller in the British Isles, and you will find that bald heads are more prevalent grey
hair more abundant, and also that the scalp exhibits various degrees of hair deterioration
Wo u? th c e r ? m ? coun f, r y- Extremes of heat ,and Cold, changes of temperature,
less settled habits of life, have all a more or less dominant influence in producing these
conditions; arid both men and women alike are subject to the distressing and marring
effects c a u se d by lack of abundant and healthy heads of hair.
Whether regarded from a social, physical, or business point of view, unhealthy or
negtected hair is nothing more or less than a calamity; and it behoves anyone so
afflicted to take prompt and efficacious measures for the strengthening, preserving, and
re-vitalising of such a prominent feature.
m
w
Scanty locks resulting from Colonial life
can be avoided .
Yet, in the case of both women
and men, what is generally done ?
There is either a total indifference
or neglect of the hair, Oran injudi-
cious resort to doubtful methods of
resuscitation. Generally speaking,
apathy is the more pronounced.
It cannot be too well known that
all weak hair conditions, all lack of
hair urility, all form of, hair disease
can be remedied by the adoption of
the “ Harlene ” treatment.
Edwards’ “Harlene” is the
greatest of all hair tonics and
restoratives, and no matter whether
you are bald or grey, whether your
hair is patchy, falling out, brittle, lustreless, scurfy or greasy, it can be implicitly relied
upon to renew all the former healthiness, abundance and good looks of the hair.
Edwards’ “ Harlene ” is the popular remedy, not only with the general public, but in
all social circles—indeed ‘Harlene ” may be termed the Royal hair restorer, for numbers
of Royal families have used it with the greatest success.
„ To-day you may test its merits, fully and freely, for the proprietors are wishful that
all sufferers from hair decay and weakness should be acquainted with its remai'kable
powers. Send three penny stamps (to cover postage) to Edwards’ Harlene Co., 95 and
96 High Holborn, London, and a full supply will be immediately forwarded you.
Afterwards you can purchase “ Harlene ” from any Chemist or Stores.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
MOSQUITOES.
0
11*9
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
(N
KOI WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c,
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/.6.
Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, GriiYiwa.de & Co., Melbourne'
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In July.
The poplar leaves have slowly dropped to rest,
Their last gold mate which glimmers o’er the wall
Must die at dawn ; the bird of summer’s nest
Swings to and fro, an empty, songless hall;
The paths that Springtime edged with golden
ropes,
’Neath naked boughs wind dull, disconsolate
Their lovelorn way, where English ivy mopes
In tangled tendrils o’er the old red gate.
And Summer’s gone the way that Summer goes,
And red-lipped Autumn passed on stealthy feet
To other skies ; clear through the garden blows
The horn of Winter, crisp yet frosty sweet;
For still in Heaven’s eyes the blueness plays.
What though these Old World trees swing bare
and sad
Within the wall ? Outside the gum bough sways,
And magpies babble things that make me glad.
TAS.
LELA M.
The Men that Give Advice.
They sit in pleasant places—they walk in sheltered
ways ;
They smile with flat, fat faces, the kind of smile
that pays;
Time-serving, patronising, debarred by cowardice
From aught but theorising—the Men That Give
Advice.
0 boys with bleeding knuckles —0 men with
broken swords,
Whose joy was in the combat, who waged not war
with words,
Of all your frustrate leaders, each one has paid the
price
Of heeding not the pleaders—the Men Who Gave
Advice.
You tramp on lonely journeys—you sit by lonely
fires;
But echoes of old tourneys inspire with new de-
sires
To keep your weapons burnished for fresh self-
sacrifice,
Whereby a sermon’s furnished for Men Who Give
Advice.
With them you have no quarrel—’tis yours to
. fight and fail;
To be the painful moral that amplifies their tale ;
Their school of drams and scruples has measure-
ments precise
For you, the truant pupils, Who Would Not Take
Advice.
You’re each a given sample, a shocking case in
point,
A proof and an example that times are out of
joint;
You grin and bear it dumbly—they cut but little
ice
Who live so rule-of-thumbly—these Men Who
Give Advice.
They sit in pleasant places—we’ll leave them sit-
ting there;
The sun is in our faces—we want the open air ;
For Fate, the Gamester, calls us; we’ll fall as fall
the dice,
And, falling, share each Pagan’s prayer Who
Never Took Advice.
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.
Chanty of Grey Eyes.
Now we had bitten through the seas,
A-cursing loud and long,
But when we got to Melbourne quays
We blossomed into song.
Sing the girls and sing the beer ;
Make her fast to Melbourne pier,
And every drunk shall have his dear,
Wey hey, Johnny !
’Er eyes were grey ; such lovin’ eyes—
A tender plant were she—
(l like a lady love that cries
As easy as can be !)
Sing the lass and sing the glass,
Sing the pretty lady ho ;
A heart to cool a lovin’ fool,
And out with Pat O.’Grady ho !
I’ve earned me “ compo ” pretty ’ard
A-sailin’ of the deep ;
I’ve earned me “ compo” pretty ’ard,
And found it ’ard to keep.
Sing of Love ; the stars above
Is always slyly winking ;
Sing of Love—it rhymes to dove;
The other rhymes to drinking,
I climbed upon the foreyard and
I give the town adieu ;
My heart was like the barren sand ;
My pockets barren too.
Sing the beer and sing the dear—
Grey eyes are always worst—
But we’ll be back again next year
As full of Love and Thirst.
Block and tackle, sail and sheet,
They ever will endure,
But Love and what-you-get-to-eat
Ain’t always quite so sure.
Sing the play ! the open way,
Sing the high seas bonny !
Broken hearts will heal, they say,
Wey hey, Johnny !
N.S.W.
E. J. BRADY.


/
o
JS*
sc
o
<2
WUNDERLICH
ART METAL
C E I LINGS.
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists. «
Originated by expert Designers ® «
Modelled by first-class Artists • °
Erected by competent Tradesmen. « •
DECORATED BY SKILLED COLORISTS.
Decorated by Skilled Colorists,
who apply their sense of art
to the greatest advantage oa
Wunderlich Metal. • • •
Write for THuitratid Satalegut.
SYDNEY:
56 PITT ST.,
‘Wunderlicfi Jbimited,
N. S'. Wales Postal Address Box 474, G.P.0.. Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
123 QUEEN ST.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Bettor Terms than
elsewhere in Australia. ?
Executive Buildings.
George Street, Brisbane.
J* CAMPBELL,
Director.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereajrh Streets.
PT- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
STOCK.
Telephone 2138.
Coco
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures
robust health.
ZJ
*Jcyy
of Living,
A.
/Z'Mte
(mn
V'YV/
EM
HOTEL
METROPOLE
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
V.
/
800=0dd Liquids
And Dry Stocks
Are used in the manu-
facture of Sherwin-
Williams Paint and
Varnish Products. Some
of them are exceedingly
costly. Only a concern with
long experience and great buy-
ing power can buy to advantage and successfully manipu-
late such a wide variety of raw materials.
The Sherwin-Williams Co. has had more than forty
years’ experience in the manufacture of Paints and
Varnishes. They have facilities for buying in practically
every market in the world. They are the largest manu-
facturers in their line in the world, and their consumption
is. so great that they secure first pick of materials in many
lines, and exceptionally fine lots are saved for them by
many producers of raw materials.
As a result, The Sherwin-Williams Co. make the
highest quality Paints and Varnishes that it is possible to
produce. Their line includes a larger assortment of
different products than any other line on the
market —there is a special product for every
different requirement. It is not necessary for
them to recommend or sell products for pur-
poses for which they are not adapted. It will
pay you to use Sherwin-Williams Products.
When you have need for Paint or Varnish
in your Home, Shop or Factory, ask your
dealer for Sherwin-Williams .
Write to-day for valuable little booklet, “ Who Makes the Best Paints and
Varnishes.”
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. MORRISON, Sydney, Neui South Wales.
J. GRAHAM & SON, Waeerly, Sydney, Neui South Wales.
A. PARSONS & Co., Wollongong, “ “ " ;
D. COPELAND &'CO., Wagga Wagga, " "
Frederick Ash, Ltd., Newcastle, “ “ “
Charles Regan'. Tamworth,
T. J. PHILLIPS, Dubbo, “ “ "
BRACEY'S LIMITED, Llthgow, " “
JOHN Meagher & Co., LTD., Temora, New South Wales.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & Co., LTD., Melbourne, Victoria.
CROOKS & Brooker, Port Adelaide, South Australia. -
COUCHE, CALDER & CO..Perth, West Australia.
ROONEY & Co., Townsuille, Queensland.
R. S. EXTON & CO., Brisbane, Queensland.
Hockley & Co., Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. Fred C. Do unison, Lock Box 81J, .Sydney, New South Wales.
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
S™ EXTERMINATOR "KS“
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living: in it.
Give us approximate size of building-, number of rooms, outbuilding's, etc., and g-et our price.
5 Mutual Life Btiildi» B s, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
mnmm
*>- <
English
Prize Awards .-London 1851. Paris 1889.
Lonpon IBGZ, Melbourne 1888. Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH, i
N
3HAMS
DON
WATCH ES
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
J
)
)
I
3
j
R
O
jk
VCJ
N.
f
0 J J
JCJ
v fj
o
SYPHEYO BRISBANE


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 29.—N0. 1482.
THURSDAY, JULY 9, 1908.
PiiiCii 6u
THE STATE FRIGHTER’S PROPOSED FEDERAL CAPITAL AT Winter Vim.)
W. E. Johnson, M.H.R., has written to the Sydney papers urging that a winter picnic should be organised to the selected Federal at Dalgety,
in order that people may realise the full horror of the climate. As part of the proposed Canberra site (for which Mr. Johnson barraks) is 250ft.
higher than Dalgety, The Bulletin hastens to supply a winter picture of Johnson’s own site as it will doubtless appear to Johnson swi imagina ion.
(N.B.-The figure being pursued by the Canberra polar bear is meant for Johnson.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclicod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the-
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Hoiv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tun Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscript ions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
■invite inattent ion.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Sjieci<t.l Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, inhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short I'ales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tun Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ■will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mutours in Kindi mi d, White.
Anyone supplying to Tins Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Ofiice, 115 High Holborn, London, IF. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, UUI Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6%in. x lkin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JULY 9, 1908.
N.S.W. UNDER FEDERATION-A TAKING
OF STOCK.
New South Wales came to the end of a financial
year a few days ago, and the occasion is a fairly
suitable one for a small political stock-taking.
For the Ma State is supposed to have been more
or less ruined by Federation, which was constantly
described by anti-Federalists a year or two ago as
a conspiracy whereby Victoria and S. Australia
“ preyed ” on the vitals of Ma even as the vulture
made a snack off Prometheus in the long ago,
and whereby those two States “ battened ” on her,
and did other bad things. Therefore it is well to
take general account of Ma’s well-being. It isn’t
necessary to prove that all the well-being is
caused by Federation ; that is beside the ques-
tion. The cry of the anti-Federalists, until a
little while ago, was that illimitable and inde-
finite ill-being would be caused by Federation—
that progress would be retarded, that commerce
would be injured, manufactures bruised, agricul-
tural advancement dangerously bashed if not
actually fractured, and capital driven from the
country; and that the lamentable policy of the
Commonwealth in restricting the undesirable
colored immigrant would hinder the growth of
population, and that other horrors would super-
vene. And, if none of these disasters have super-
vened, then the whole anti-Federal push is a liar
and a false prophet. It is too late now to say that
N.S.W. has progressed in spite of Federation;
the declaration of the anti-Federalists and the
parochialists and the Foreign-traders and the
people who made the Federal capital row
and disturbance, was that N.S.W. couldn’t
progress in spite of Federation —at least,
not' in spite of this kind of Federation,
because this Federation was such an unspeakable
Victorian conspiracy that its dead weight was
calculated to squash everything. So it is
advisable to take stock, always bearing in mind
that though the Commonwealth was established
at the beginning of 1901, and the first Australian
Parliament met about the middle of that year, it
was sometime before the first Federal tariff was
in full working order, and in other respects the
new onder of things only came into existence by
slow degrees.
* * * *
The growth of population is probably as good a
test as any of a country’s prosperity, unless it us
claimed that the population only stays in the
country because it is too impecunious to go away,
which is hardly the case in N.S.W. ; or because it
is too ignorant to know of any better place to go
to, and, considering the N.S.W. State school sys-
tem, it would be an insult to suppose that if
N.S.W. had been ruined by Federation its in-
habitants wouldn’t at least know enough to be
aware that there was some unfederated place to
go to. Therefore the following figures are worthy
of some consideration (in most of the tables in
this article 1897 is the starting point, because the
N.S.W. Statistician, in his Monthly Statistical
Bulletin, usually commences with that year):—
Population of N.S.W.
, Excess of Arrivals
Before Births Over and Total
Federation. Deaths. Departures. Increase.
Increase. Decrease.
1897 .. 22,983 173 22,810
Increase.
1898 .. 19,561 1,789 21,350
1899 .. 20,560 390 20,950
Decrease.
1900 .. 22,028 1,518 20,510
Under
Federation.
1901 .. 21,854 6,917 14,937
1902 .. 21,189 In 6J)o3 e ' 28,092
1903 .. 19,469 4,523 23,992
1904 .. 23,307 6,631 29,938
1905 .. 24,523 9,935 34,458
1906 .. 25,973 9,004 34,977
1907 .. 25,785 16,455 42,240
These figures hardly suggest that Protection and
“Federal tyrannj 7 ” and such-like horrors and
visions have had a tendency to make N.S.W.
uninhabitable; rather they create an impression
that N.S.W. was fast becoming uninhabitable
under the old State policy of Foreign-trade and
Separatism, and that Protection and the other
aspects of the Federal policy rescued it from that
lamentable condition. And if the figures re loss
or gain by excess of departures or excess of arrivals
are carried a few years further back, this
impression is distinctly strengthened :
Population of N.S.W.
Gain by Excess of Loss by Excess of
Arrivals over Departures over
Before Federation. Departures. Arrivals.
1893 .. .. 1560
1894 .. 919 ..
1895 .. .. 840
1896 .. .. 3967
1897 .. .. 173
1898 .. 1,789 ..
1899 * .. 390 ..
1900 .. .. 1518
Under Federation.
1901 .. .. 6917
1902 .. 6,903 ..
1903 .. 4,523 ..
1904 .. 6,631 ..
1905 .. 9,935 ..
1906 .. 9,004 ..
1907 .. 16,455 ..
The habit of losing population was becoming
almost chronic in N.S. W. until Federation arrived
to save it from muddle, incapacity and Foreign-
trade. And the list is a striking commentary on the
Six Hatters lie, and the Petriana perjury, and the
cry that because of the Federal laws to restrict the
influx of the undesirable immigrant people would
cease to come this way, and we should become a
by-word, a hissing and a desolation. Instead of
all these things, it seems that people only began
to come this way, after a very long stoppage, when
the new Federal legislation assured them that
every thing possible was being done to make the
population of N.S.W. one that a decent white
man could reasonably consort with.
* * * *
As regards the manufacturing industries of the
State, it would be possible to wander into columns
of detail, but the best test lies in the number of
hands employed, and the facts may be condensed
as follows:
Under Semi-Freetrade.
Persons Employed.
1891 50,879
1901 66,230
Increase in 10 years 15,351
Average annual increase .. .. 1,535
Under Federation and Protection.
Persons Employed.
1901 66,230
1907 87,194
Increase in six years 20,964
Average annual increase .. .. 3,494
But the Foreign-trade person takes 1 little stock
in manufactures. It was in the matter of com-
merce —his beloved commerce—that he prophesied
most bitterly that ruin would come to pass
through Protection, and that the Commerce
Act would lay the country waste, and cause good
green horse-feed to grow on Circular Quay,
Sydney. On this matter here are a few recent
consequences:—
Before Federation and Under Foreign-trade
Government.
Balance to
pay Interest
on Foreign
Debts and
to pav off
N.S.W. N.S.W. Foreign
Imports. Exports. Debts.
1897 .. £21,744,350 £23,751,072 £2,006,722
1898 .. 24,453,560 27,648,117 3,194,557
1899 .. 25,594,315 , 28,445,466 2,851,151
1900 .. 27,561,071 28,164,516 603,445
Under Federation and Protection.
1901 .. £26,928,218 £27,351,122 £422,904
1902 .. 25,974,210 23,544,051 Nil
1903 .. 26,770,169 26,818,059 47,890
1904 .. 27,285,958 33,004,534 . 5,718,576
1905 .. 29,424,008 36,782,006 7,357,998
1906 .. 34,665,363 45,638,044 10,972,681
1907 .. 39,456,195 48,774,978 9,318,783
Here, again, it will doubtless be stated by the
noisy little anti-Federal gang that the immense
improvement is not in any sense due to Federa-
tion —that it would have happened in any case,
and that the Commonwealth can take no kudos
for this vast burst of commercial prosperity. That
may or may not be so ; no one can say for certain
what would have happened if something else
hadn’t taken place. But after all the prophecies
of positive and certain disaster under Federation,
put forth by the parochialists and the Sydney
importers and the wretchedly unpatriotic papers
that serve their interests, it is a sad thing to have
nothing better to say than that there was no
disaster at all under Federation, but rather an
outbreak of splendid prosperity, only the splendid
prosperity might have happened in any case, and
again it might not.
Here, again, are a few figures regarding shipping,
another matter about which the Foreign-trade
and State Frights person wept a good deal as a
branch of industry in which the nefarious conse-
quences of Federation and Protection, and the
baleful influence of Victoria, and other similar
grievances were almost bound to assert them-
selves :
Shipping Entered and Cleared at N.S.W. Ports.
1900 (last year of Separatism) .. 7,870,503 tons
1907 (seventh year of Federation).. 12,080,235 ~
These figures set forth the amazing fact that seven
years of Federation (including about years of Pro-
tection) added 4,209,732 tons to the tonnage going
into and out of N.S.W. ports, while 113 years of
Separatism (much of that period being a time of
what the Sydney papers were accustomed to call
“Freetrade”) only raised a record of 7,870,503
tons. To put the matter shortly : Progress of the
N.S.W. shipping trade under Separatism and
(most of the time) alleged Freetrade, rather less
than 70,000 tons per year ; progress in seven years
of Federation (6£ years under Protection), rather
over 600,000 tons per year. It is hardly necessary
to elaborate a point like that. The matter speaks
—in fact, it shouts—for itself.
* * * *
It was, only two or three years ago, one of the
commonest lamentations of the anti-Federal, anti-
Socialist, anti-Australian, Foreign-trade and bit-
terly parochial party in Sydney that, by reason of
Protection and democratic Federal legislation,
“ capital was being driven ” (or would be driven)
“out of the country.” Now, as land, mines,
buildings, railways, roads and most other assets
are immovable, they can’t be driven out of the
country ; the chief evidences that capital is being
driven out are a decrease in shipping, which is
movable (but N.S.W. shipping has increased im-
mensely) ; a decrease in population (but the popu-
lation of N.S.W. is increasing faster than it has
done for a very long time) ; a decrease in the
average wealth per head (but the average wealth
per head in N.S.W. is expanding rapidly these
days); or a decrease in visible cash (that is the
coin and bullion in banks) and in bank deposits.
In this latter regard, it is worth while to consider
the case of the N.S.W. savings banks, which are
the banks of the poor, and fairly represent the
condition of the poor :
Before Federation and Under Alleged Freetrade.
Total
Savings Bank Deposits per
Deposits. Inhabitant.
1897 £9,136,793 .. £7 0 5
1900 10,901,382 .. 7 19 9
Increase .. .. £1,764,589 .. £0 19 4
Increase per annum 588,196 .. 6 5
Under Federation and Protection.
1900 £10,901,382 .. £7 19 9
1907 17,530,157 .. 11 3 2
Increase .. .. £6,628,775 .. £3 3 5
Increase per annum 946,96 S .. 9 1
That is the financial situation as it affects the
poorer classes. To complete the matter it is
advisable to consider the financial situation as it
affects the more affluent section of the com-
munity :
Before Federation and under so-called Freetrade.
Cash in N.S.W. Deposits in Assets of N.S. W-
Banks. N.S.W. Banks. Banks.
1897 .. £5,766,554 £29,606,735 £43,980,722
1900 .. 5,933,076 32,233,591 43,036,427
Increase £166,522 £2,626,856
Decrease £944,295
Under Federation and Protection.
1900 .. £5,933,076 £32,233,591 £43,036,427
1907 .. 9,342,631 42,764,566 50,112,434
Increase £3,409,555 £10,530,975 £7,076,007
It is hardly worth while working out the annual
figures in such a glaring case as this. In the last
three years of Separatism and Foreign-trade the
assets of the N.S.W. banks decreased by more than
£300,000 a year. In the first seven years of
Federation and Protection (despite the fact that
that period included the very worst years of the
great drought) the same assets increased by more
than £1,000,000 a year. It is difficult for even the
maddest parochialist to argue against figures of
these dimensions.
* * » *
During these same seven years of Federation
and Protection, several other notable things hap-
pened to N.S.W. The net railway revenue,
which fell between 1897 and 1900, from £1,413,524
to £1,394,052 (these were the last years of Separa-
tism and alleged Freetrade), rose between 1900
and 1907 (under Federation and Protection) from
£1,394,052 to £2,209,665. In the matter of
growth of railway revenue, seven years of
Federation and Protection were as good as 25
years of Separatism and Freetrade. The State
revenue, which had taken 113 years of Separatism
and alleged Freetrade to grow to £10,203,931 in the
year 1900 (and out of this amount the State had to
pay postal, telegraph, telephone and defence expen-
diture, amounting to about £1,000,000 a year), ad-
vanced during the next seven years, under Federa-
tion and Protection, to no less than £13,960,763;
and as the Commonwealth now defrays the postal,
telegraph, telephone and defence bills, this big
revenue has to meet much fewer responsibilities
than did the comparatively small revenue of seven
years earlier. Of course the Foreign-trader
says that the extra revenue is extracted
from the people of N.S.W. ; but even if
that is so the immense increase in the deposits
both of the ordinary banks (which are the banks
of the rich) and the savings banks (which are the
banks of the poor) seems to suggest that the wise
policy of the Federal Parliament has made the
people of N.S.W. so much richer, that they can
pay the extra taxes and still be vastly better off
than they were under the foolish old methods of
the Separatist and Foreign-trade Government.
The only thing that hasn’t boomed in N.S.W.
during the period that has elapsed since the
founding of the Commonwealth is the one thing
that the Australian Parliament has so far
rigidly abstained from interfering with. It han
done nothing to destroy land monopoly, and it
has, as yet, made no effort to break up the
great estates. Also, it hasn’t interfered with
State lands. Land matters have been left wholly
under the control of the State Government, with
the lamentable result that, while there were
2,439,639 acres of Cornstalk land under crop in
1900 (the last year before Federation), the latest
return shows only 2,570,137 acres under crop, and
the increase is so small as to be hardly worth
mentioning. In fact, wheat and maize show
an actual decrease; therefore, when the anti-
Federal party alleges that the great and sudden
prosperity in other branches of industry is not
due in any sense to the Federal policy, but wholly
to accident and the seasons, it is distinctly up to
that party to explain how the best of seasons and
good prices have failed to lift more than an
inch or thereabouts the industry which re-
mained almost wholly under State control.
Viewing the whole situation, The Bulletin
suggests, with all due respect, that the
parish-minded, anti-Federal crowd should abate
a little of its patronising and supercilious
attitude towards the Australian Parliament. On
the evidence of past results, Alfred Deakin and
William Lyne and their colleagues seem to know
something, for in almost every matter which has
come under their control the result has been that
N.S.W. has boomed in an amazing fashion, and
has made more progress than any other two
States put together. Therefore the constant
plaint of the Foreign-trade and low-wage and
anti-Australian papers, that Deakin and Lyne and
Chapman and the others are engaged in a bitter
and horrible conspiracy against N.S.W., seems to
lose some of its weight. Seeing that Deakin and
Lyne evidently knew a great deal better than the
Sydney Telegraph and S. M. Herald what was
good for N.S.W. as regards tariff and immigration
matters, as the banking and manufacturing and
population returns show, they may even k ow
better than those two rags what is good for
N.S.W. in the matter of the Federal capital and
the division of the revenue and a heap of other
affairs.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Sydney Railway Station.
More violent language from E. W. O’Sullivan,
M.L.A. : —
When a man has a bee in his bonnet, as the Scotch
say, it is difficult for him to argue rationally. Therefore
I am not surprised or annoyed to find your con-
tributor—the man who proposes to remove the Central
Railway Station to Wynyard Square—backing up his
statement with irrelevant rot. Let us examine his bee in
the bonnet for a few moments. The Central Railway
Station covers nearly 24 acres of land, and has 15 plat-
forms. It is larger than any railway station in Great
Britain, and there are not more than six raiivvay stations
in the world that are larger than the Sydney Central
Station. Yet your contributor deliberately proposes to
shift this great station to Wynyard Square, where there
are not more than six acres of land ! Does it not seem
an insult to the intelligence of your readers to have to
reply to such'a writer? It seems so to me ; and, there-
fore, I am not inclined to waste your valuable space by
replying at any length to his silly contentions. Let him
understand that the attempt to take the Central Railway
Station to Wynyard Square was laughed out of court
more than 15 years ago. You cannot put 24 acres
into six. Besides, think of the childishness of the
proposal. According to your contributor, we ought
to have the Central Station on the top of a
ridge in the northern end of the city. Just
imagine the tremendous climb that the waggons and
drays would have from the wharves to the top of the hill
in order to reach the railway station—not on one side,
but from both sides, from George-street as well as from
the wharves. All that your contributor wants can easily
be achieved by bringing the North Shore Railway across
the bridge, and constructing the Eastern Suburbs Rail-
way, and then sending them on to the Central Railway
Station. On the other side, the circular railway, going
from the Central Railway Station, by the Quay and “ The
Rocks,” and thence back to the Central Railway
Station, will give all the railway accommoda-
tion required in Sydney for the next 50 years.
Your contributor ought to have his bumps felt, for he
has absolutely lost himself in the bush in regard to this
question, and had better betake himself to the A B C of
the question before he again wastes your valuable space
by expounding a plan for a Central Railway Station for
Sydney that would discredit the boys of a public school.
Ne sutor ultra crepidam is a motto that he should take
to heart without delay.
Which is another example of an unspeakable
blunderer trying to cover his blunders by silly,
violent language, and frenzied assertion, and a
scrap of Latin. He says that the idea of a rail-
way station at Wynyard-square is absurd because
the square contains only six acres, and his remote
white elephant, the location of which has become
the joke of the whole community, covers 24 acres.
And he harps on this discrepancy with a reitera-
tion that is pitiable in its mental barrenness.
Well, when Mr. Owe’Sullivan started to build
his giddy jest, he hadn’t 24 acres of land to build
on ; he simply found the necessary space by re-
suming land and shifting obstructions. And if he
had started to build the circular city railway he
talks so much about he would, presumably, have
done it in the same way that a station would be
built at Wvnyard-square—by resuming land and
shifting obstructions. As for the plaint that
Wynyard-square is on a ridge—what else is Owe’-
Sullivan’s stupid creation on ? If it isn’t on a
ridge, why do the tramcars climb up to it and
climb down from it as they do, and why that wide
outlook from the front verandah of the surprising
object? And Mr. Owe’Sullivan reckons that
everything could be made right if the North
Shore line was brought across by bridge,
and the Eastern Suburbs line was constructed,
and they were sent on to the big Central
Railway Station. But if it is impossible
to construct a city station at Wynyard-square
because it would be necessary to resume and level
another 18 acres of land, how is Owe’Sullivan
going to build these lines ? Wouldn’t they necessi-
tate the resumption of more than 18 acres of
land, a thing which the Owe’Sullivan professes to
regardas impossible? And if his *‘circular railway ”
is to be a mere branch or extension, so that people
coming from the present railway suburbs will have
to change into the new circular train to get to the
business part of the city, what sort of language
will they use about that new circuitous foolishness?
And if the crowded trains from the present railway
suburbs are to run right into the city by the
circular derangement, how much business will
remain to be done at the present out-of-the-way
station, and how big a station will it be necessary
to build at Circular Quay, or wherever the princi-
pal city station in the circular eccentricity is to
be ? All these petty, patchwork propositions and
all this infuriated bounce are useless to cover the
gigantic blunder of the present terminus. And
one thing that the N.S.W. Parliament might do
with advantage even at this late hour is to appoint
a Commission to trace the how and the why of
that blunder.
4
Unification and Reconstruction and a
Foolish Governor.
That mild and useless old gentleman, State-
Excellency Talbottle, of Victoria, did a
supremely foolish thing by way of signalising his
departure from the job in which he has been of
little use and no great ornament. The State
Ministers—including Bent in all the radiance of
his new title—asked Talbottle to tear a bit of
food with them, and after the food he unwound
himself like a giraffe and held forth about the
folly and impossibility of the Unification move-
ment. Speaking in a voice of doom, like a crow
holding forth on the top of a high mountain,
Talbottle explained at great length about the
impossibility of managing all the details of a
country of Australia’s size from one centre, and
the folly of expecting one Parliament to wrestle
with all the small problems of a continent. And
in so talking Talbottle either got down to a
level of wilful misrepresentation which was next
door to plain lying, or else he showed himself an
ignorant person, who doesn’t even read the news-
papers. The movement he denounced is really a
Unification and Reconstruction movement —called
Unification for short. The people connected with
it haven’t the faintest idea of doing the things
which Talbottle wasted so much time in urging
them not to do ; they no more think of doing them
than Talbottle thinks of walking down Collins-
street on his hands with a bathing costume on.
The case for Unification and Reconstruction is
based mainly on these facts:—
(1) There is no need for six useless and co|tly State
Governors like Talbottle. A cheap local Governor who
combined his gubernatorial position with some other
office would fill all requirements.
(2) There is no need for Upper Houses in the State
Legislatures any more than in Sydney Municipal Council,
and the property-elected Upper Houses of Victoria, Tas-
mania, S.A., and Westralia are a curse.
(3) By reason of six different sets of industrial legisla-
tion, the effect of inter-State Freetrade is to some extent
nullified, for the State where the payment of fair wages
is enforced by law is handicapped as against the one
where sweating is unlimited.
(4) The six different railway managements make a uni-
form railway gauge almost impossible ; they lead to such


widely different rates of freight that again the effect of
inter-State Freetrade is partly nullified ; and they lead to
a lamentable waste of money, because new railways are
constructed, not to communicate with the nearest city or
port, whioh may be 200 miles away, but with the State
capital, whioh may be 360 miles away.
(6) Suoh States as Queensland and Westralia are ridi-
culously unwieldy—in fact, all the States save Tasmania
are unwieldy—and the efficient administration of even
their local affairs from one centre is an impossibility.
(6) The faot that there is no oentral authority to control
the rivers that flow through two or more States causes a
ridiculous amount of squabbling and confusion.
(7) The spectacle of 4,500,000 people with six different
Publio Debts is a ridiculous joke.
At the present rate of progress it appears probable
that it will take 500 years to repair all these
matters, and every one of them tends to retard
the progress of Australia. Therefore the Unifica-
tion and Reconstruction party has arisen. It
proposes to cut the knot of all difficulties by ask-
ing the people, by a popular vote, to place all
authority in the hands of the Australian Parlia-
ment for just long enough to enable it to put
things on a better footing—to hand over to it rail-
ways, lands, rivers, roads, education, public debts,
industrial affairs, and the entire box of tricks.
Then the Australian Parliament would proceed,
with all possible velocity, to divide the
country into small, manageable States, each
with a small, business-like Legislature of
one House, elected entirely by the people; it
would hand back the public lands, the roads and
bridges, the care of education (probably), of
police, prisons, charities, and of a multitude of
other matters; also each State would have its
own judiciary, subject to appeal to the Federal
courts, and a Judge could act as Governor,
and thus save the cost of a whole drove of Tal-
BOTTLKS. But the railways would be placed under
a central authority which would make haste to
supply Australia with a uniform railway gauge, so
that any engine or carriage or truck could go any-
where in the whole continent; the debts would be
lumped together and made a Federal liability;
the civil and criminal code and industrial legisla-
tion would be made uniform ; watercourses that
extend through two or several States would be
put under a commission which would be
responsible to the Australian Parliament; and
a few other ancient confusions would be cleaned
up. That is all that Unification means; it is
really only called Unification because, owing to
the cantankerousness of certain State Premiers, it
seems that Unification is a necessary prelude to
Reconstruction. If State Premiers and State
Upper Houses, and other small stumbling-blocks
would learn to consider the interests of Australia
more and their own vanity less, then all the neces-
sary Reconstruction could be arranged by a Con-
vention elected by the people of Australia, and in
that case the preliminary Unification would be
quite unnecessary. Nobody cares twopence for
tne Unification except as a preliminary to the
Reconstruction ; in fact, every Unificationist
would rather do without it seeing that it would
involve an immense amount of labor in the tem-
porary administration of departments with which
the Commonwealth has nothing to do. If Tal-
bottlk had taken the trouble to learn these facts,
his exit from Victoria would have been a shade
more dignified than it was.
Another Reason for Progressive Federalism.
Iris natural that there should be a good deal of
irritation in Labor circles at the new Indus-
trial Disputes Act. It represents a step back-
wards from the old Arbitration Act—a concession
to re-action ; and that, to the consistently pro-
gressive democracy of Australia, is unfamiliar.
But even so, Thb Bulletin cannot see the advan-
tage of the movement to boycott the Act. It is
not perfect; it is not even good. But it is better
than no Act at all, and better than a state of
affairs that leaves no resource to the discontented
worker save the strike. A wiser course than to
ignore the Act—“ignoring” practically means
abjuring whatever benefits it can confer, whilst
remaining liable to all its penalties—would be to
make the best of it and resolve on a radical cure for
the whole situation by a vigorous agitation towards
the remission of all industrial legislation to the
Federal power. From the Australian Parlia-
ment, with no restrictions On the franchise and no
entrenched nominee Chamber, a fair deal can be
expected. Before the present position arose in
N. S. Wales there were many reasons why
the control of industrial matters should have
been put in the hands of the Common-
wealth. Without Federal control inter-State
Freetrade is not inter-State fair play.
Without it, also, effective Protection—the kind
that protects the worker as well as the manufac-
turer—is impossible. Let the N. S. Wales
Unionists now resolve to make the best of a bad
bargain for the present, and press on strenuously
with the appeal to the Federal power, that they
may get a better bargain.
* The Braybrook Holocaust.
The Royal Commission which is to follow the
Coroner’s inquest on the Braybrook (Vic.) railway
disaster will need to proceed on very different
lines from those adopted by the professional Sitter-
on-the-Dead, if it is to give public satisfaction.
There is no call to labor over the question of the
culpability of the engine-driver or the station-
master. To what extent they were responsible is
now fairly obvious : but what is even more plain
is that the responsibility has to be pushed beyond
them in the search of the prime cause for one of
the greatest sacrifices of human life known in
railway history. There has been evidence that
the Braybook station was deplorably under-
manned, and the staff overworked to the
point at which responsibility for accidents
ceased to rest with the servant, and vested in the
master ; and there has been evidence that the
brake equipment of the train which caused the
collision was, if not faulty, at least out-of-date
and inadequate for emergencies. In each case
that evidence points to the fact that it is the
administration which should be impeached, and
not the over-worked, ill-equipped servants of the
administration. But the Coroner took the view
that the administration was not on trial; if it
had not been for the interference of the jury.he
would have, seemingly, not allowed the question
of administration to come under consideration at
all. Now what Victoria wants to know, or should
want to know, is not what scapegoat can be found
for this tragedy, but whether the tragedy was the
result of conditions of working which made
it always possible and finally inevitable,
and which still exist and constantly invite
another suoh horror. It has long been a
matter of report that a false economy had brought
Victorian railway working down below —far
below —the safety point. This accident, accord-
ing to the evidence so far adduced, points sternly
to the conclusion that those reports were true,
and that is an issue ten times more important
than the one over which all the official fuss has
been made up to date. It is essential to know
whether, as a matter of fact, the Braybrook
station staff was so overworked as to justify its
frequent complaints and forewarnings of disaster.
It is essential to find a reason why the express
that did the damage was equipped with an old-
fashioned brake, a brake which, according to the
official book of the Westinghouse Automatic
Brake Co. (1907), is out of date :
For many years the Westinghouse Ordinary Brake
rendered valuable service, but progress in the art of rail-
way operation developed new conditions and require-
ments, which were met by the introduction of the
Westinghouse Quick-Acting Brake. . . . The extremely
rapid action obtained by means of this appliance consider-
ably reduced the distance in which a passenger train
could be stopped.
And Duke Smith, a standard authority on brakes,
wrote as far back as 1902 :
All cars are now supposed to be equipped with the
quick-action triple.
This Ballarat express was not equipped with the
quick-acting brake, though the majority of Vic-
torian trains are. Was that a matter of economy ?
Does such economy in men and appliances still
continue to be exercised ? It will be such questions,
affecting not the position of humble employees
but of the Commissioners themselves —the skilled
experts paid by the State to keep the railway lines
safe and efficient—which the Royal Commission
will have to face. Meanwhile, the men suspected
of being the mere secondary causes of the accident
were suspended, their pay was stopped, and they
were put on their defence (at their own cost) with
a possibility of a trial for alleged manslaughter
before them. And the men who are suspected of
being the primary causes are not suspended ; in
fact, they pose in the public view rather as the
accusers than as the accused, and the hired Sitter-
on-the-Dead has all along seemed desirous of
preventing even a remote allusion to their pos-
sible responsibility.
Strangling in Private.
The South Australian Government, in deciding,
last week, that the press should not be admitted
to the hanging of murderer Coleman, was pro-
bably animated by nothing more than a desire to
minimise the public craving for tales of horror as
set forth by the boy reporter, who tells us all
about the firm step, and the white cap, and the
strangling gasp, and the dull, heavy, walloping
sound. But there is a reason, far beyond the
interests of the journals which cater for gruesome
details, in admitting the press to executions. The
presence of the press, which is something entirely
outside officialdom and official considerations, is a
check upon such officialdom and a preventive
of abuse, just as its presence in Parlia-
ment has proved a preventive of corruption.
The reporter who witnesses a hanging is some-
thing more than a recorder of picturesque horrors
calculated to make the flesh of the reader walk
with cold feet oh his bones. He is the repre-
sentative of the public. The absolute exclusion of
the press from executions opens the door for the
gravest abuses. While it is unlikely that any such
would occur, there are possibilities that must be
guarded against, and should any civil disturbances
occur in Australia at any future date, an enormous
power, equal to that of the Russian Government
to-day, would by that, exclusion be placed in the
hands of the party which happened to be on
top for the time being. A man with the power
and influence of, say, Harry Thaw, might go free,
with no press present to see that the law was car-
ried out. It would be open to the Government,
with the connivance of hired officials, or even for
the officials alone without any authority from
headquarters, to let the wealthy criminal out of
the back gate, while the public was informed that
the execution had been duly carried out. Indeed,
the officials might even go further, by placing
John Smith, the wealthy sassiety murderer, in
the cell occupied by the obscure Henry Jones,
doing seven days for vagrancy, while they took
out the unknown vag. and hanged him carefully
by the neck until he was dead, thus allowing John
Smith to serve out his seven days as Henry
Jones and then be discharged to enjoy his mil-
lions in some other part of the world. The re-
porter who attends an execution is the one dis-
interested person present, and he ensures the
asphyxiation of the right person, seeing that any at-
tempt to “ringin ” the wrong person would lead to
the wrong person making a violent protest before he
fell through the drop. The presence of the
reporter is the only guarantee that anybody is
hanged at all. He furnishes the only assurance
that the official strangler wasn’t drunk, and that
the rope didn’t insist on breaking, whereby the
accused had to be hanged over again two or three
times. He puts on record the last words of the
condemned, which may be of importance, and,
again, they may not. In fact his presence at the
hanging is only a shade less essential than his
presence at the trial, and there area few centuries
of history to show that it is even less healthy for
the trial to go on without him than it would have
been for Wellington to have started the battle of
Waterloo without Private Bill Adams.
♦
An Octopus and a National Ideal.
There is no better-managed “ central ” sugar
mill in Queensland than the Mulgrave, and what
the Mulgrave people say about the financial side
of the sugar business is always well worth atten-
tion. The shareholders—co-operators, really—held
their annual meeting last month ; and the chair-
man had the entire concurrence of the meeting
when he asserted that for cane-growers the posi-
tion was becoming serious. The cost, he alleged,
was being increased by legislative enactments—
although that may only be a temporary matter—
yet, while the cost was being increased, the price of
raw sugar was being steadily reduced by the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., which practically
has a monopoly of sugar-refining in the
Commonwealth. At almost the same moment
there were murmurs all the way down from
Cairns, where the Mulgrave shareholders met,
to Wardell, on the Richmond River (N.S.W.),
where another meeting of protest was held.
Everywhere the same complaint was made : the
price for raw sugar, and therefore also for came,
was being squeezed down beyond endurance point.
Hardly had these murmurs and protests time to
reach Sydney when it was announced that the
C.S.R. Co. was making its shareholders a present
of £350,000 worth of new stock, which no doubt
will carry the same 10 per cent, dividend that has
been paid by this co. for years past. In other
words, without putting another farthing into the
business, the shareholders, on this assumption, are
to draw out of it another £35,000 a year ; and that
means that the shareholders are to get—absolutely
without payment on their part —£35,000 a year
which in other circumstances would go to the
producers. Nor is this the first, nor the second,
nor even the third time that the company
has adopted this plan for.increasing the aggregate
amount to be squeezed out of the industry without
nominally increasing the dividend beyond 10 per
cent. Under ordinary circumstances this “ water-
ing ” would not be of any great national conse-
quence. It would simply be a trick of one section
of Fat to despoil another section of Fat. But this
co.’s circumstances are not ordinary. The un-
questionable object of the juggling is to increase
the toll levied upon a State-assisted industry
without attracting angry public attention to the
colossal size of the profits which it makes out of
that industry. Now, that industry is passing
through a period of organic change. For years it
was based upon discolored labor. Then, under
the White Australia policy, Tommy Tanna and
the other undesirables had to go. For the moment
there undoubtedly was a difficulty in filling
T anna’s place : the white man, for one thing,
would not put up with the abominable accommo-
dation provided for the savage, and no other
accommodation was available in some places.
That difficulty is, however, disappearing—just as
the same difficulty disappears from every other
industry which starts under semi-savage con-
ditions and is gradually brought up to civilised
standards. But while the change is being brought
about the industry needs very careful and sym-
pathetic treatment. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment is cheerfully doing its part by allowing an
Excise-rebate of £4 per ton on white-grown sugar.
Instead, however, of doing its part, the
C.S.R. Co. (which, except for one very
small local Queensland concern, is the sole
sugar-refiner and distributor in Australia),
adopts the previously-described methods of
squeezing more profits out of the producers.
Whether it is moved by hostility to the White
Australia policy or by mere selfishness The
Bulletin does not know. But whatever its motive,
the result is the same—it is making the accom-
plishment of a White Australia much more diffi-
cult, and is imperilling the first plank in the
national platform. Moreover, its financial schemes
are so bold as to be almost truculent—evidently it
is beginning to think itself beyond attack, beyond
interference. Neither the Australian nor the States
Governments can, however, afford to let it act on
that belief. Queensland relieved the industry
once before by a system of “ central ” mills ; and
rather than allow this gigantic co. to imperil either
the national policy or the sugar industry, what
the Government did with regard to mills it must
do with regard to the refining and distribution of
the milled product.
——♦
The Anti-Australian and his Methods.
Wherever there is a possibility of a new in-
dustry being started in Australia a host of Ma
State citizens press forward, and indite letters to
whichever of the Sydney papers appeals mostsurely
to their sense of anti-Australianism, denounc-
ing the proposed enterprise as foolish, or perni-
cious, or fraudulent. This practice of attempting to
wreck the chances of any fresh enterprise is becom-
ing, with a certain section, a fixed habit. The com-
plainants are Foreign-traders of the most virulent
importing description. It is a blow to their already
sorely-battered old doctrine that the tariff which
they held would kill prosperity should be
flagrantly doing the other thing. Their attitude
appears to be that rather than have their fiscal
faith discredited they will let their country face
trade stagnation, or worse. They are ready to
sacrifice the public welfare, in effect, for the
pleasure of sitting amid the public ruins and
saying, “ I told you so.” A fair type of this class
is one George Mitchell, who has been filling the
S. M. Herald of late with lamentations regarding
the Scottish fishermen’s representatives, and the
scheme for starting a canning industry in Aus-
tralia. The letters of George Mitchell
soar out of the ruck of their kind mainly
by their frequency and by their length.
They are designed to show (1) that the
people who are posing here as representatives
of. Scottish fishermen are in reality unauthorised
frauds, with no mandate from Scotland to visit
these parts ; and (2) that if they go back to Scot-
land and induce the fishermen who haven’t sent
them, and who don’t even know them, to come
and settle in Australia, they will be playing the
part of criminal lunatics—Australia being noto-
riously a place where there are no cannable fish,
nor any people to eat fish if such existed. Frank
Farnell, who holds his present job of Fisheries
Superintendent mainly because he knows more
about local fishing conditions than citizens of the
George Mitchell sort, stood George for some
time, and then sent this to the S. M. Herald :
If “ Mr. George Mitchell, ” will disclose his identity by
calling upon me and letting me see him in the flesh, I
will supply him with all necessary information, and be
able to judge whether he is really capable of expressing
authoritative views upon fisheries here or abroad. I have
had too great a fight against pessimists in the past to go
over ground which is stale. The tide has turned, and
Mr. Mitchell and the few who may support him have not
the slightest hope of succeeding in putting the clock of
industrial progress back. The fishing industry is going
to thrive and become a national concern, in spite of
opponents who are leavened with envy and jealousy.
Mitchell’s contention, that if fishermen do come
here from abroad they must be ruined, will only
arouse amusement among locals capable of judg-
ing. His other theory, that the hard-headed-
looking body of Scots who have journeyed here,
at their own expense, a distance of 12,000 miles,
and have put in many strenuous weeks scrutinis-
ing the Australian coastal waters, are a band
of wild leg-pullers who have no mission
at all, also fails to carry conviction. To
us on the spot, Mitchell and his views appeal
merely as a mild joke. But from another point of
view he is a portent. He typifies the rather fre-
quent Ma State person, who has got into such a
bad condition in his political mind as a
result of over-study of his morning paper that he
can see no good in anything in bis native land.
Bach fresh industry that threatens is regarded by
the worst kind of importing crank in the flight of
a tragedy. Ma’s constantly-growing tally of fac-
tories depresses him. He would rather see her
with a deficit, than with her present sur-
plus—which suggests to him in painful
fashion that the tariff mayn’t be quite
the curse it was painted, after all. And he
acts and writes accordingly. Such people do *lore
damage in the way of scaring population away from
the country than is commonly understood, for the
foreign papers which seize on their statements
and publish them are unaware (as are their
readers) of the writers’ local status. It is a pity
that the slanderers are mostly too old to be
spanked ; but, since it is so, some other means
ought to be devised for dealing with them.
A Study in Hypocrisy.
Roused by the insulting remarks of sundry health
officers and other reformers, Collingwood (Vic.)
Council has lately become an excited body ; and
the other day some of its members almost got
“ into holts ” over a matter of certain insanitary
dwellings. When the various recriminations and
insinuations are sorted out and boiled down they
yield these facts: (1) A councillor owned two
houses in Hoddle-street which had been con-
demned by the health officer and the inspector ;
(2) the council unaccountably omitted to pass
these officers’ reports, and the houses continued
occupied ; (3) another councillor made unseemly
remarks about the matter, and immediately there-
after the councillor sold the premises through an
agent, who was also on the council. In the
middle of the row the health-inspector was called
in ; and this was his account of the previous pro-
ceedings :
He and Dr. Agnew had condemned the houses. When
the recommendation came up, the councillor interested
said, “ That is my property ! ” He (the inspector) said,
“ I can’t help it; they are nou fit to live in.” Afterwards
the two councillors —agent and owner—inspected the
tenement and reported that “ it was as dry as a chip
under the houses.” Then he (the inspector) tried it and
found deep slush under the floors. Forty buckets of slush
were raised from under the floors, and from 40 to 50
loads of earth were filled in—this by the new owner.
Now consider the position. The houses were an
infamy as dwelling places, yet this councillor was
drawing rents from them. They had been con-
demned by the officers, yet the council withheld
the condemnation —why ? To give the councillor-
owner a chance to get rid of them ? Anyway the
councillor did get rid of them. Having riotously
dragged out these facts concerning one iso-
lated piece of property, the impugned councillor,
who apparently knew something, moved for the
production of the sanitary inspector’s last report on
insanitary dwellings. One would expect such a
document to be public property as a matter
of course, but the proposal was no sooner made
than other councillors jumped on it with all their
hoofs. “ The report would bring further discredit
on the city ; it goes even further than statements
already published” ; “there are hundreds such
places, we can’t condemn them all ” ; “ let us not
go further—no credit can come to the city or to
councillors,” and so on. Their one concern
seemed to be lest the public should learn the
awful truth about the property-owning class. Yet
that same afternoon some of those very councillors
had sat at a conference—convened with splendid
irony by Collingwood Council—to consider the
question of tuberculosis and how to prevent the
spread of consumption ! It was a well-attended
conference, and apparently meant serious busi-
ness, and it adjourned to July 23. When that
day comes Dr. Norris may be expected to make
some fierce remarks about the councillors of Col-
lingwood and Richmond and Fitzroy and North
and Port Melbourne, and the dank and noisome
dens they call houses, where the germs of con-
sumption are bred and nourished, where the paper
falls from the walls sodden with the vapor of
gallons of ancient and grandfatherly slush, and
where children sicken and die like rats in a trap.
>
The Law, the Woman-beater, and the
Cantankerous Judge.
Last week Victoria’s County Court Judge
Johnston made what he doubtless intended as
some caustic comments on a jury’s verdict, and
succeeded in doing something for which it is very
doubtful whether his commission gave him any
warrant. According totheevidence placed before
Mr. Johnston, which was all he had to go by, a
woman was set upon by a man, with whom she was
living, and by whom she had four children, and
was kicked on the head. She asked the man to
help her to the hospital, whereupon, she said, he
took her part of the way and then left her. Her
wounds, the doctor told Judge Johnston, could
have been caused by a kick from a heavy boot;
or, as he told the accused, by a fall on loose
bricks. The constable who took the woman home
found blood on the floor and also on the man’s
boot. That was the case for the prosecution.
The man then swore that on arriving home he
found the woman had been drinking, whereupon
he pushed her out into the yard, where she fell on
some loose bricks and cut her head. He prepared
to take her to the hospital, but she went out and
he lost sight of her. The keeper of the lodging-
house where the episode happened and another
lodger testified to some loose bricks outside the
door, where they had found the woman. After
being briefly charged, the jury retired. An hour
later they returned to ask if a “ push ” would con-
stitute a common assault, whereupon Judge
Johnston snapped out —“You have not to con-
sider that. There is no evidence on that point.
What you have to consider is whether
this man struck or kicked this woman
Australia.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Born of dancing water and the sunray,
Morning-daughter, calling to the Free,
A goddess of the South, the far years over
With golden lure she drew the Northern rover
To this her sea.
The Pioneer goes forth against the forest —
The town grows from the hewn and shapen
wood;
The hidden gold tempts delvers with its prizes ;
The cities shape ; a People slowly rises
To Nationhood.
And shall the word be said of Nation-builders—
The brave that dared the dark forbidding main—
The Pioneers who framed our Southern story—
That these, who shared the toil and early glory,
Have wrought in vain ?
That these who built the Southland for the future,
Who dreamed the dream that by this Southern
tide
A fair new sunborn Nation might awaken
To conscious life—that these of faith unshaken
Have passed and failed ?
Our Gates stand open, ready for the Comer;
No sentinel is set about our shore;
No People arms itself; no ear is hearkening
The mutter of the lust-eved myriads darkening
That sleep no more—
With slant-eyes set in lust upon the Southland,
Their Land of Promise which her sons defend
With wordy talk of Empire-power chat covers !
Content to live in present hours —Sport-lovers
Till comes The End —
The End that Time is holding in his ambush,
Dim-seen, but certain—save the spirit rise
In this great heart of all the South, and straight-
way,
The dust of sloth to banish from the gateway
Of watching eyes—
Eyes watchful, purposeful, no longer lidded ;
As compass-needle, fixed upon that North
Whence the dark shadow of the alien legions
Stretches abroad to touch those plenteous regions
That tempt them forth !
But a brief peace is given ere the stormbreak.
A space to weigh the Fates for these our lands :
Shall this fair symbol of the South men wrought
for,
Live —a White Victory that White Men fought
for,
Or die... at Yellow hands?
VIC.
MERIDEN.


The greatest danger from influenza is of
its resulting in pneumonia. This can be .obviated
by using Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, as it not
only cures influenza, but counteracts any tendency
of the disease towards pneumonia.*
DON’T COUGH ALL NIGHT.
Restful sleep follows the use of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. The best lung- remedy in the world. Small
dose. Pleasant to take. Every bottle guaranteed.
Obtainable everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS.
DUTY
REMOVED.
Important Reduction in Price of Films,
New Shipments arrivin';- Every Week from all
the Leadin',' Makers.
We are the Li rarest Importers of above in
the Omnmonwealth.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Stock Merchants,'
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
It is to be hoped, when the hurricane of
excitement over the Yankee fleet is at its worst.
Admiral Moderation will still be in command.
So long as D.C.L., the whisky which shares its
brand with the brand of Intellect, is the controlling
spirit of the festivities, Wisdom will illumine
every visage, even those of Sir Thomas and the
Anti-Eeds., with its warm glow of beneficence.
in such a manner as to injure her.” On
the printed reports of the case, evidence as to
a “ push ” had been given ; moreover, the man
was charged, on the second count, with common
assault. The twelve, getting this direction from
the Judge, retired, and half-an-hour later returned
with a verdict of acquittal. Then the Judge
scarified them for their assumed neglect of duty,
charged them with “ palliating and encouraging
the abominable crime of woman beating,” wound
up by discharging them from further service, and
suggested that their names be removed from the
roll of jurymen. Doubtless Mr. Johnston
fancied he was doing his duty, but an inspection
of the circumstances shows that he exceeded
it. The twelve men had heard precisely the same
evidence as Mr. Johnston, and doubtless viewed
accuser and accused as closely as he did. It was a
matter of oath against oath. The doctor’s evidence
was as favorable to one side as to the other—and
they unanimously accepted the man’s version.
Doubtless believing that he deserved some punish-
ment, they asked if a “push” were a common
assault; and the Judge, instead of courteously
affording them information, chose to assume
superior knowledge of the facts, and so they were
misled into believing that all they had to do was
to find as to the kicking or striking. Having a
doubt as to that, what else could they do but
acquit? Moreover, that jury may have remem-
bered a few things that his Honor had forgotten—
how, for instance, his Honor had only that day
passed the shuddersome sentence of two
years’ hard labor on a youth who had
stolen an overcoat, and had but one con-
viction. That is the trouble with ferocious
sentences at any time. If there is a lingering
doubt in a jury’s mind as to the innocence of an
accused person, the memory of a recently-passed
savage sentence will drive the jury to give the
prisoner the benefit of the doubt, even though it
be not a very strong doubt. In this case, how-
ever, there may have been no consideration of
this sort. It may have simply been that it was
the opinion of 12 men against one, and the one
happened to be Judge Johnston. There have
been occasions when Judges and others have
talked very severely on ascertaining that 11 jury-
men were one way and one was the other. This was
a case where 12 were one way and one was the
other; and, unfortunately, the one was sitting on
the Bench, from which coward’s castle he could
attack the 12. Yet it is surely somebody’s busi-
ness to tell this official that juries have rights, not
to mention feelings, just as well as Judges.
In re Costs.
The Law arrived at a notable conclusion in Mel-
bourne lately. The matter concerned the liquida-
tor of the Egerton and Gordons G.M. Co., No
Liability, certain miners and certain Costs ; and
the liquidator wanted to know just how he was to
distribute the few assets the co. had left him.
The company’s machinery, which was supposed
to be worth about £3OO, had been sold for £lOl,
and the total debts amounted to £265, £7O of
which was for wages due. The miners claimed a
prior lien on all the assets, or, failing that,
at least two months’ wages prior to liquidation.
There ensued much argument, and after cogitating
over the matter for about a month, C.-J. Madden
ordered the poor little £lOl to be passed out in this
order(l)Costs of present application ; (2)Costs of
persons who made up the co.’s statement of affairs;
(3) liquidator’s necessary disbursements ; (4) Costs
of liquidator’s solicitor ; (5) liquidator’s remunera-
tion ; (6) miners’ wages ; (7) other creditors. The
miner’s Costs under the present application were
to come under heading (3), not under heading (1).
On their solicitor remarking that under that
arrangement there would not be a penny left for
his clients. Madden, 0.-J., replied that he was
sorry for that, but the only consolation he could
offer was that he had a dim notion that they could
follow the assets—the machinery—into the hands
of the purchaser. Seeing that there are 24 miners
interested, that there is only about £2OO worth of
machinery value left to “follow,” and that the
said following would be a long and expensive
process, the consolation is very vague and un-
satisfying. But, anyhow, the decision disposes of
the notion, hitherto largely held, that wages are
always a first claim on the assets. Costs come
first. Also, they seem to come last, and there are
likewise traces of them in the middle.
♦
An artist writes about a daily paper:—
The Piiillips-Fox picture-show closed in Sydney last
week. This Australian artist enjoys a cosmopolitan
fame. The Paris Salon, the New Salon, and the British
Academy have taken in his paintings gladly, and have
hung them “on the line.” Apart from his nationality,
he is, on his record, one of those modern artists whose
work should find representation in the Sydney Art
Gallery. The trustees, who but the other day spent £9OO
on Hayte’s Coronation picture—which is of little his-
torical importance, and of absolutely no artistic value—
passed over the Piiillips-Fox collection contemptuously.
A well-known local artist sent to the Sydney Morning
Herald a letter, which was an appeal to those of the
community who were interested in Art matters, that they
should subscribe £lOO in small sums to secure one of the
Phillips-Fox gems for the Sydney Gallery. The paper
refused absolutely to print that appeal, or any other like
it. Its author was offered the extraordinary explanation
that “it was not the Herald’s custom to assist in any
way in the promotion of funds for the benefit of private
citizens.” About five months ago H. C. Dangar, M.L.C.,
wrote to the S. M. Herald urging that a fund should be
started on behalf of Noble, the cricketer. The paper not
only published Dangar’s screed, but gave a donation on its
own account, implored the citizens of N.S.W. in its leading
columns to step forward with their cheque books “ for the
honor of the country,” and in all the manifold other ways
possible to a newspaper which makes its appeal to a wide
public six times in every week, helped materially to bring-
the Noble fund to the huge sum-total of £2500. Sweep-
ing aside the paper’s statement—preposterous in view of
known facts —that it isn’t in the habit of starting funds
for private people, I am driven to the tragic conclusion
that, in the Herald’s estimation, a great cricketer is
more worthy of honor in his own country than a great
painter. N.S. YV.’s leading daily, one of whose claims to
consideration is that it has an educative value, barracks,
in effect, for the civilising and uplifting value of the art
of battering or hurling a leather ball, but recognises none
in the other sort of Art whereof most countries gladly pay
their thousands to acquire examples. The baffled fund-
promoter was assured, immediately after his rebuff, by an
acquaintance of State-Fright leanings that the Herald’s
attitude was correct and inevitable—“ Noble being a
N. S. Welshman, and Fox a Victorian!” Part of the
horror of the affair resides in the brooding suspicion that
the S. M. Herald wouldn’t, after all, regard that view as
a wholly maniacal one.
In the matter of the Surplus Revenue Act the
Cantankerous Confederacy of State Premiers
seems to have fallen suddenly to pieces. That is
interesting in view of the oft-repeated wail that
the Commonwealth should “work in harmony
with the States.” Seeing that the States can’t
work in harmony with either the Commonwealth
or one another, it is difficult to see what the Com-
monwealth can do save tramp steadily and
heavily along its own road, while one capsized set
of State Premiers yaps behind, and another set
runs ahead to keep out of the dust. The other
day Wade, of N.S.W., sticking pathetically to
his old idea that the Australian Government
should have no money save what its six nurses—
the States —allow it, proposed, on behalf of him-
self and the other State Premiers, that the Sur-
plus Revenue Act should be obliterated, and in
consideration of this the States should hand over
their cheques to the Commonwealth for enough
money to cover old-age pensions. In fact they
were to put the Commonwealth on an allowance. It
was a silly and impossible idea for various
reasons, the largest reason being that it isn’t only
the old-age pension money that the Common-
wealth requires; it also wants money for military
and naval defence, for the taking over of the
Northern Territory, for the building of trans-
continental railways, for an immigration policy to
people the Territory, and for other urgent matters.
.Therefore, even if all the State Premiers had
been agreed, Wade’s proposal was a shrieking
absurdity. But the S. Australian Acting-Premier
and the Westralian Premier promptly threw
Wade’s proposed arrangement back at~Wade’s
head, and as they took these pot shots at Wade’s
head for two widely-different reasons, that means
that, even when only three State Premiers are
assembled, there are three different opinions. No
wonder the Federal authority has given up trying
to “work in harmony with the States,” and plods
along its own road.
♦
The Victorian State Premier made a not very
bright remark when Lysaghts, the Sydney wire-
netting manufacturers, offered the other day to
supply Tommy’s Government with wire-netting at
£1 a mile over the Cost of the imported article.
“ That,” said Tommy grumpily,, “ would be equal
to a gift of £lOOO on a £20,000 contract.” Well,
it pays Australia to give £lOOO extra on any
£20,000 contract in order to keep the work in the
country. The matter can be demonstrated by
figures. The average income of the Australian
people is something like £5O a year men,
women and children all lumped together. The
average amount which the Federal and State
Governments collect in revenue is rather over
£lO a year—men, women and children all lumped
together. So this is how a contract like the Vic-
torian wire-netting business would pan out on
Bent’s showing:—
Ip the Goods are Made in Australia,
Cost of goods .. .. £21,000
Of which there conies back to the Government
in revenue 4,200
Net cost of Australian goods .. .. £16,800
If the Goods are Imported.
Cost of goods .. .. £20,000
Of which there comes back to the Government
in revenue Nil
Net cost of imported goods £20,000
And that is merely dealing with the money
aspect of the case; the calculation takes no
account of the fact that the Australian work-
man, who is made to increase and multiply
by keeping the work in the country, is a
potential defender of Australia; while the foreign
one, who is made to increase and multiply by
sending the work out of the country, is a potential
invader of Australia. On a mere cash basis there
is 16s. profit to Australia if it pays £24,999 for local
goods instead of buying the same articles from
abroad at £20,000. And when old Tommy, of
Victoria, grumbled about paying a N.S.W. firm
£21,000 for goods that he could obtain, or thought
he could obtain, from England for £2o,ooo—well,
he might be a fairly good Victorian parochialist,
but he was a very poor Australian.
♦
It looks as though the recent procession to Lon-
don of 30,000 hop-pickers with 13,000 growers and
laborers, which raged in Trafalgar-square and
pleaded for a duty of 40s. per cwt. on imported
hops, were going to be a wasted procesh and a
fruitless display of rage. Britain’s fool Free-
traders, who are running affairs there just now,
intend to stick consistently by their busted old
doctrine, even if all the hop-pickers, growers and
laborers in the United Kingdom suffer for it. The
Yankee hop combine announces that it doesn’t
mind how’ much cash it drops in the good work of
crushing English competitors, and forcing the
English hop-fields out of cultivation. It relies on
getting it all back when the good time comes
wherein Amurrka will be able to charge 60s.
a cwt. for its hops at home and abroad.
At present hops, which can’t be produced and
sold at a profit in England under 50s. per cwt.,
are being dumped by the Yankees on to the
London market at 255. per cwt. The English
hop-industry employs 16,000 rural laborers regu-
larly, and 300,000 casuals from the poorer parts of
London during the picking season, and it repre-
sents £5,000,000 of capital. The 40s. per cwt,
duty begged for by the growers w'ould probably
save the industry for all time. But the Free-
traders of Britain have a fiscal principle at stake,
and they reckon it’s worth more than oceans of
capital and any number of human lives; so the
latter assets are to go, and the principle will
remain, and the U.S.A. smiles a smile like the
mouth of the Mississippi.
♦
Maoriland has been having a display of patriot-
ism that has opened its eyes. What was called
“A Local Industries Week” was observed
throughout the Dominion ; for seven days all the
large shops in the principal towns did what they
ought to be doing all the time—made attractive
displays of Maoriland goods. Prominent in every
window were large cards bearing the striking
legend :
EVERY ARTICLE IN THIS. WINDOW WAS MADE
IN MAORILAND.
By buying locally-made goods you keep your money in
your own country and give employment to your friends
and relatives.
DO YOUR PART.
Added to this, all the large factories were thrown
open for public inspection, and the scholars in
every public school were given object lessons and
taught the necessity of encouraging local indus-
tries. The newspapers, to their credit, followed
that up by whooping the same lesson into the ears
of the grown-ups. The shop windows showed
every necessity and most of the luxuries of modern
life, from boot polish and jelly crystals to fine-
dress fabrics and motor-car bodies. It was a bad
week for the importing mania and the Freetrade
crank ; people who for years had been declaring
that nothing good can be made in Maoriland fled
to the backblocks and hid their heads in the scrub.
There were some startling revelations, too; quite
a number of people discovered that the fine goods
they had been buying for years as “ the best im-
ported ” were made by M.L. workmen at their
very doors. The ocular demonstration of what
M.L. can and does produce has been a splendid
advertisement, and has shown to thoughtless or
ignorant thousands the marked superiority of the
locally-manufactured article over the imported
shoddy.
_ «.
Thus Helen Jerome on “The Fascination of
Sambo and Company ” (B. 11/6/ 08)
Miss Holmes’ remarks upon this subject are open to
argument—though in the most courteous spirit. “ The
power of the colored man to attract women ” is laid
down as an infallible fact. Surely Miss Holmes might
have modified this hideous statement—and added a
“ certain type of women.” We are given “ the wives and
mistresses of Chinamen ” as authorities for the statement
that “a woman never knows how she can feel till a
nigg-er or a Chinaman comes along.” Imagine a female
monster who will own to this being quoted as an authority
upon women ”! What kind of women are these
“ wives and mistresses of Chinamen ”? Are they not the
dregs which the drag-net of every country on earth will
sweep out of the slime? Are they not the lazy, indolent,
unambitious type to whom any man’s money, be he
white or yellow, has the same value for that which they
value not—their beautiful bodies and their unbeautiful
souls?
Can we endure to have these poor, unfortunate vam-
pires classed in the category of the word “woman”?
True, there is a silly type of femininity which entertained
the stupid, unchivalrous, boorish Japanese sailors, and
the gibbering, childish, half-naked Fijian cricketers ; but
is it true that the foolish women who so far forgot their
racial dignity “ had a flushed and hungry-eyed aspect
which betrayed the animal such as no white man could
summon from behind the ages.” Surely this is going - a
little too far, and constitutes more than a libel upon the
wives and mothers of our race. •
I beg leave to say that man, in this matter, is far less
discriminating than woman, and for one low type of girl
who will contract an alliance, legal or illegal, with a
colored man, there are a thousand men, who would be
considered fairly high types, who will, and do, enter into
these relations, and beget children without the slightest
worry.
Women—some women—are admittedly thoughtless,
and ready, like the Athenians, to run after any new
thing. A little yellow man, who looks like a monkey
dressed-up in brass buttons, or a bejewelled personage
with a dusky face and a title, or a rare chimpanzee
brought from the zoo. and exhibited in some fashionable
hall, would attract their frivolous, restless, shallow
brains. But I am quite positive that very few, even
amongst the silliest of these women, would contemplate,
with any feelings save those of horror, union with the
Monkey man, or the dusky brother.
The '“ uncontrollable impulse” which Miss Holmes re-
cognises as the dominant evil in women, simply doesn’t
exist in ordinarily clean, healthy women. It died out
with the arrival of the pain of maternity, i.e., civilisation.
Also, this separating of man and woman in points like
these is unscientific. We are assured by Emmett Dens-
more, a fairly sane authority, that “ there is no funda-
mental difference between maleness and femaleness; the
divine passion is as dominant in one sex as in the other,
and that in the endless and ever-present quest for mate-
hood, each man and each woman is a witness that the all-
important things of life are not the property of either
sex ; that the great matter is to be a human being, and
that sex is but an incident.”
The ferocious scoffer who says that Australia can’t
manufacture things, and ought to stick to grow-
ing cows and sheep and eggs and other placid
animals, ought to have been down at Melbourne
wharf on June 21, when Nicholson and Morrow
sent off 600 tons of Australian-built “Union”
iharvesters for transhipment at Liverpool to S.
America; and this month 700 tons (say 120 har-
vesters) will leave the same Carlton works for the
same remote country. No doubt when the first
little Australian works offered the first harvester,
the scoffer said that “the backbone of the country”
could, of course, buy his machines cheaper from
the foreign manufacturer ; and it is more than
likely that he could. But the little works grew
to be big ones, and now the big ones can meet the
biggest of the foreigners on neutral ground, and
lick them. It is a tough piece of cold steel for the
scoffers at the small factory to chew.
Remarkable burst of frankness from a recent
S. M. Herald leading article :
The taxpayer is thus on the horns of a dilemma. If in
the struggle for financial paramountcy the Common-
wealth issues victorious .... he has inevitably to face in-
creased State taxation. If, on the other hand, the States
come successfully out of the struggle, then there is the
prospect of neglected defence.
From which ghastly piece of candor it seems
possible to gather these few straws of informa-
tion :
(1) The S. M. Herald admits that the Australian Gov-
ernment, which it generally opposes, wants more
money, chiefly because the dire and immediate
necessity for better defence drives it to do so;
and that the State Frights crowd, which the
Herald mostly supports, is so utterly and brutally
callous and so completely incompetent that it would
rather see Australia undefended and liable to the de-
struction of its civilisation, its religion, its white status,
its wealth, its people, and its prospects than pay for
defence.
(2) The Herald is apparently so wholly unable to see
the relative importance of a little money and the safe-
guarding of our national existence that it puts the two
alternatives forward as if they were matters of equal
importance. It alludes to the alternatives as the two
horns of a dilemma, and horns, when w'orn by the same
dilemma, are generally of equal length. But these aren’t
horns. One is a pike and the other is a pin.
(3) The Herald is, apparently, fairly well content to
wait till the country can find some defence that won’t
require paying for, w'hich is a fair commentary on the
value of the Herald.
♦
The tale of a bump in Sussex-street:—
Sussex-street, Sydney, where the price of produce is
“ regulated ” to suit the interests of Sussex-street, and
without regard for the interests of either producer or
consumer, has just had one of the nastiest knocks of its
life. For a long period, despite good seasons and plenti-
ful harvests, the price of fodder has been gradually
pushed up, till chaff, for instance, cost even the largest
buyers as much as £9 10s. a ton, and the carriers were
driven to their wits’ end to make ado of things. Protest
was unavailing - , and Sussex-street sat back and grew
fatter and fatter.
Driven at last to desperation, the big carriers took
counsel together ; and without any advertising or flourish
of trumpets, they quietly formed an Association, and sent
agents to Maoriland and Tasmania to buy up all the chaff
they could get first hand from the “ choppers.” Nothing
was knowm by octopus Sussex-street of this revolt until a
very big supply had been secured by these buyers—one
man in Tasmania alone secured £6OOO worth of chaff.
Then a hint of what was going on reached “ the
Street,” and an envoy was sent out to make inquiries.
He w'as assured that not only had large purchases been
made, but that the carriers w’ere now independent of
Sussex-street, and meant to remain so. Just as soon as
the inquiring mind could get back to “ the Street,” the
cables began fairly howling threats to all the “ choppers ”
who bad hitherto been the sweated slaves of Sussex-street
—they would be boycotted if they supplied private
buyers; not a bag of their chaff would be sold by the
agents ; and blue ruin stared them in the face if they
dared to disobey the mighty middleman !
The mandate came too late. Con tracts had already been
entered into that were vastly more advantageous to
the “ choppers.” And, besides, the “choppers” realised
that the Master Carriers’ Association is a mighty factor.
It represents practically the whole of the consumption of
chaff in Sydney. The annual fodder bill of one firm
alone tots up to £17,000, and there are several who spend
from £4OOO to £7OOO per annum on horse-feed. In future
this Master Carriers’ Association means to buy its supply
direct, and whack the middleman’s commission with the
suppliers. So there is sullen gloom in Sussex-street.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Thief.”
Theatre Royal “ The Red Mill.”
Criterion “ The Red Lamp.”
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ Mrs. Wiggs, of the Cabbage
Patch.”
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow.”
The King’s “Man to Man.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Theatre Royal “ The Belle of Mayfair.”
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
O
In “The Thief,” now running at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), you get one glimpse of the
better way they are supposed to manage things in
France. When Marise Voysin induces the in-
fatuated young fool of the house to take upon
himself the responsibility of her own guilt,
the youngster is confronted with a very
famous French private detective; and, though
the man who has been robbed —the young-
ster’s father —begs the private detective to
deal gently with the lad, the detective first tells
the suspect that he is a thief, and then bullies him
into confessing it. Thereupon, having extorted
the confession, the detective beams, and reaches
up to see whether the wings and the halo have
arrived yet. It isn’t until hours afterwards that
the supposed hard-headed business man, whom
Kolker represents, begins to turn that confession
over ; and after he has pulled it to pieces for about
two minutes, he satisfies himself that it isn’t
genuine. It is when he is in that frame of mind
that he playfully rummages among his wife’s
treasures, and discovers the stolen money. Then
comes the dramatic crisis in the second act —that
remarkable second act in which not another soul
shows on the stage except Miss Anglin and
Kolker.
** * *
“ D.” fills the pint pot of appreciation,
and hands it with a nice, frothy head on it to
Margaret Anglin :
The Bulletin critic put his finger on the supreme
feature of Margaret Anglin’s art when he said (2/7/’08)
that she was “natural.” She is so amazingly natural
that, till one sees her, one doesn’t realise what stage
naturalness may mean. She gives a new point of view ;
sets a fresh acting-standard. Take, for example, the
matter of love-making. I have been watching actresses
make love in the English tongue for years and years.
Always they left me quite cold. I marvelled at their
sweet voices, faces, figures, dresses or what not; but they
never, for one fleeting instant, gave me the illusion that
they were real young women philandering with real
young men. Not even in the case of Mrs. Pat Campbell
does one get quite away from the haunting feeling that
there are others about besides the loved one whom she is
trying to impress. The audience always realises that she
has the corner of her eye on it, watching how it is taking
her performance.
Margaret Anglin doesn’t know the audience is there.
And, joy of joys ! she jettisons all the conventional stage
love-gestures which have come down to us from the
Siddon plays, through those of Bernhardt, and were
never employed by normal women on this earth. She
does not posture elaborately before her adored, so that
we rather than he shall note the lines of her figure and
the cut of her frock. She does not paw him over aloofly,
vaguely, purposelessly, in the hitherto accepted stage
fashion ; she does none of the things which have jarred
on us in the past as unreal, but which we have learned
to put up with, because everyone did them. Margaret
Anglin kissing her lover’s hand as he leaves her ; Margaret
Anglin laughing at her lover, scolding him, shaking him,
being completely idiotic with him, are the Real Thing—
and are recognised as such with swift amazement by every
male, and most female, adults in the audience.
The play, interesting as it is, strikes me as an unworthy
medium for such art as hers. Id has been done into
sloppy, turgid English. Banalities fairly bristle from all
the long speeches. The melodrama towards the close of
the bedroom scene, effective as it might be in classic
French, is dreadful in slipshod English. But Miss Anglin,
surmounting even these things, preserves the illusion-
thrall throughout. After seeing the lady, lam satisfied
that, besides being a genius, she has had three husbands
at the least, and is over 50—in no other way can one
account for her uncanny insight into life. I don’t guess
at her age and her three husbands by her appearance-
only by her wisdom. •
** * *
Marcus, of Sydney Criterion, ceases moral-
ising after Friday night next, and on the follow-
ing Saturday the Flemming-Day Co. produces
“ The Red Lamp.” This is an eerie Russian play
dealing with princesses, knouts, chilblains, mou-
jiks, warm underclothing, canned melinite, and
other circumstances peculiar to the chill and un-
conventional soil of the Steppes. Herbert Flem-
ming has a part which is said to fit him like an
anarchist’s bomb-proof shirt, and the cast is
further strengthened by the return of H. W.
Varna.
** * *
“The Tame Cat,” Mr. Arthur H. Adams’
comedy, will purr for the first time on any hearth
rug at the Criterion Theatre on Saturday after-
noon. The booking assures a big audience.
#* * *
Two new musical societies came into
existence in Sydney last week. The first was the
Symphony Orchestra, which started off a strong
and well-grown institution of 80 performer-power,
all its members being more or less well-known
professionals. As they’ve all “got work,” and
most of the work is done at night, they
can give their concerts only in the daytime,
The Sydney Symphony Concert Society will prove
a formidable rival of the Amateur Orchestral.
At the initial concert Mr. Arundel Orchard waved
the baton. The next concert will occur during
the last week of this month. The other fledgling
is the Sydney Madrigal Society. Mr. Arundel
Orchard again conducted —this time a choir of
about 40 well-trained voices. The Madrigal is a
very old bird, as it sang before the invention of
printing, and the long-haired professors glower
upon the word with the ferocious expression of the
sixpenny china dog on the mantelpiece; for
they can’t come to an agreement about its deriva-
tion. Anyhow, on one point they’re not at issue
—the name was first given to a certain kind
of poem and afterwards transferred to the
music to which it was sung—music writ-
ten for three or more voices, and without
instrumental accompaniment. The Sydney Madri-
gal Society’s oldest direct relative was born in
1741 in London, and is still alive. It is the oldest
musical association in Europe. The latest-born
has a notable array of vice-presidents and com-
mittee men, and, what’s more, a crowded audience
went through a 43-degree temperature to listen
and applaud.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
Ltd.. Cinematograph Specialists and Electricians,
£93 George Street, Sydney.*
TWO HANDS.
THE AMERICAN FLEET, which is the
Great WHITE HAND,
THE LONE HAND, which is AUS-
TRALIA'S one MAGAZINE,
Will be clasped on August Ist,
When the 44 American Fleet Number ” of
THE LONE HAND comes out.
It WILL BE A GREAT SOUVENIR of a
momentous historic event.
PICTURES OF THE WARSHIPS, Photo-
graphs of the Officers.
COLOR SKETCHES. Humorous Drawings
by N. Lindsay.
And a vivid historical account of the growth of
the American Fleet from its early whaling
days to the present century.
In addition, there will be the usual stories and
articles of an ordinary number of the
Australian Magazine.
If you wish a fine souvenir of the American
Fleet for yourself, or for a friend, get the
August LONE HAND.
Make certain of getting a copy by ordering
NOW from your agent, or direct from the
office.
The |o£ie Hand
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to pro-
vide a memorial to the deceased patriot and
statesnian, Charles Cameron Kingston :
The Bulletin £lO 0 0
A Sydneyside Australian .. .. 2 6
P.H.E 2 6
W. Mitchell, Walgett .. .. 2 6
Geo. Mitchell .. 2 6
M. McCarthy 2 0
T. Salt 100
£ll 12 0
“ Skull ”: I heard a bitter interjection at a public
entertainment recently. A serio came on to do her
“ charming and refined ” turn. She was a new'serio, but
not young, and her turn provoked sorrow. It went in a
flat sort of way for about five minutes, and then came
the dull, dreadful voice, “ Garn ! git the old-age pension ! ”
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building:, Sydney.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure won’t cure
Bad habits or York hams,
Nor would it do in Irish stew,
Or hair-wash or in jams ;
It won’t cure leather, freckles, warts
For working- men or toffs,
But Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure will cure
Your colds and cure 3-our coughs.*
“The Prince of Pilsen ” abdicates at
Sydney Royal on Saturday in favor of “ The Red
Mill.”
* -*■ -# *
Tenor Newbury will be back next Satur-
day night at Sydney Town Hall, and divers local
musicians will be in the bill of melody. Organist
Scott, of the co., and one of the most capable of
the many stop-pulling melodists who have visited
us, will probably give an organ recital during the
American Fleet carnival.
* * *
At Sydney Tivoli, John Higgins, the per-
son who jumps, has resumed after an absence due
to indisposition, and the Dean Tribune Trio has
a new sketch entitled “ Wasted Energy.” Other-
wise, things remain very much as they were last
week. The Rigoletto Brothers and their ladder
are due to depart very soon, as also are Alberto,
the magician, and Grafton 0. West. That leaves
the main burthen of the programme to be upheld
by about four artists, and this paper devoutly
hopes that the reinforcements called up by the
management will strengthen the ranks sufficiently
to enable them to repel the forces of Depression.
The Tivoli, of late, has become a place where one
indulges in gloomy reflections, and meditates on
the futility of existence and the hollowness of
earthly things.
* * sfc *
*
Adelaide—-which doesn’t care much for
revivals, as a rule—has found room for another
week of “The Squatter’s Daughter,” that re-
markable story of a casual young Australian who
had to keep on getting his life saved by a girl,
through having allowed a large untidy bushranger
with neglected hair to get a strangle-hold on him.
It is a bustling play, and Bert Bailey as the
comic man gets a full share of the limelight—
which is possibly owing to his being part author.
“The Village Blacksmith,” with its wrestling-
match and other attractive side-shows, is filling
out the brief season. More or less proficient
boxers continue to hit each other at the City
Baths, and the two rinks are keen in rivalry. One,
with a rock floor, has less dust; the other, in the
spacious Exhibition Building, has more room. As
to which feels the softer when sat down upon
suddenly, opinions differ.
** * *
From three Melbourne theatres the late-
comer was turned away, with managerial hauteur,
last Saturday night. There were other houses
where the tardy patron got a warm welcome—
where the tinkle of his belated shilling on the
counter of the cloistered pay box was sweet music,
and his muddy boots on the neglected staircase
were beautiful as the feet of them that bring glad
tidings. At the Bijou, even “East Lvnne ”
proved powerless to draw a large attendance of
mourners. Here was sufficient inducement for
the weary and heavy laden to come in their thou-
sands, and leave in a blissful state of distress.
“‘East Lvnne’ for the last five nights of the
season!” cried the advertisement. It cried in
vain. The sympathetic Heavens wept all day,
but the public mostly said “ Dicken ! ” or words
to that effect, and the last production of the
season caused no burst of emotion to speak of.
To-morrow (Friday) the Bijou will be closed—for
cleaning purposes, presumably. On Saturday it
will be reopened -as the haunt of Maskelyne and
Devant’s mysteries, for which class of entertain-
ment it is the best place in Melbourne.
* * * -*
“Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch” has
come to stay a while at Melb. Princess’s, and the
roars of the amphitheatre will lead some of the
performers into temptation until further notice.
The temptation leads to extravaganza. Critically
considered the success of this wholesome Yankee
novelty is very natural, but rather perturbing. It
looks like a forerunner of similar plays in which a
number of scarecrow characters will perhaps lack
the redeeming feature of Truth, or the moments
of lurid melodrama will be less happily chosen.
An unsober person falling asleep during the over-
ture to “ Mrs. Wiggs ” (not but what the orchestra
is bright) might wake up early in the first act and
fear he was seeing things. The hideous Miss
Hazy and Mrs. Eichhorn are pantomimic in their
make-up. When they cast base insinuations
at Lovey Mary, the winsome red-haired
maiden reminds one of Cinderella, persecuted
by her ugly sisters. Because these appalling
females exceed the limits of possibility, it is hard
to understand why Mrs. Wiggs and Mary can
take them seriously. The picture of life in Louis-
ville is not a well-balanced composition. Some of
the figures are drawn from photographs, others
from caricatures. And, with a view to enhancing
Mrs. Wiggs’ reputation as a peacemaker and
a speech maker, a casual pair of gilt-edged lovers
are introduced for the sole purpose of having a
“ tiff,” preparatory to plunging into matrimony.
The male lover, as it happens, is a lugubrious
young man in a straw “ boater,” whose appear-
ance and manner offer no excuse for the fondness
of his sweetheart.
* * * *
Why do the sheriffs so furiously rage in
these American character plays ? The sheriff in
“ The Squaw Man ” was an unpleasant cause of
trouble, and in the drama of “Mrs. Wiggs” another
sheriff makes himself objectionable. How do such
scowling men come to be the appointed autocrats
of large districts, and wherefore their pronounced
antipathy to waistcoats? Compared with the
police-inspector of Blandolt melodrama the sheriff
is a meddlesome beast who arrives upon the peace-
ful scene in a violent hurry, instead of entering
with measured beat and slow, and a ’.eart that can
feel for another. Probably the sheriff would be
warmer-hearted if he wore a vest. In this case
he is sufficiently punished in the reflection
that he missed the chance of a bribe from
the converted Stubbins, and was prevented from
arresting Lovey Mary after all. He and the tall
shrill vixen of the Cabbage Patch are companions
in disappointment at the finish. For the other
people, including the audience, there is forgive-
ness, and the shining example of Mrs. Wiggs.
Of course they can never be like her, but they can
be as like her as they’re able to be.
** * *
This is the eighth week of ‘ ‘ The Merry
Widow” at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). Fred Leslie has
retired from the character of Baron Popoff’s faith-
ful flunkey, and his sham nose has been trans-
ferred to the countenance of W. S. Percy. Other-
wise the cast remains as before. Also, Miss
Carrie Moore continues to conceal her alleged
merriment from the world in general, and if the
opera were entitled “ The Mesmeric Widow ” she
would present the name part in a more convincing
manner.
Melbourne’s new theatre (the King’s) is to
open its doors to the paying public on Saturday
(11th). The King’s Theatre, built by William
Pitt, M.L.C. (the most distinguished and prolific
author of Australian playhouses), will give a large
stage for scenic display, and a more liberal allow-
ance of space to each amphitheatre customer than
any rival establishment. The upstairs seats are
provided with backs, and the seat-holders will
have cloak-rooms for their convenience—like the
toffs on the floors below. A gorgeous array of
blue and gold upholstery invites the enraptured
visitor to sit down upon its sheeny plush and
admire the surrounding decorations. It is a
handsome theatre in all respects. Anderson
holds the sole lesseeship, and that proverbially
luckiest of Williams is to set the ball of patronage
rolling with “Man to Man,” a drama which
yielded huge profits to George Rignold in days of
yore.
** * *
“The Belle of Mayfair,” with only one
more week to run at Melb. Royal, is improving
all the time. Where the narrative is the thinnest
of frameworks, and the entertainment consists
mainly of padding, a musical comedy wants all
the practice that tends towards perfection. “ The
Belle,” too, requires further growth of under-
standing from the gods in the gallery, and from a
majority of the mortals down stairs. Some of the
daintiest musical numbers are the least appre-
ciated. The malapropisms which fall from the
rasping lips of Edwin Brett are as pointed as a
pick-axe, yet they pass almost unobserved in
many cases. The Gibson Girl item strikes the
fancy of everyone who is familiar with
Dana G.’s creation, but it seems from the
blank expression of half the listeners that they
never met the Girl before. In the course of a
hard-working evening, and many changes of ex-
pensive frocks, the chorus damsels do nothing
prettier than “ The Shady Side of Bond Street.”
What is really charming in the “turn” goes
unheeded, whilst a double' encore is accorded to
the long frilled “ rationals” of a bygone fashion.
It is the partially-disclosed underwear that wins
the applause. Therefore the management, being
wise in its generation, has introduced a low comedy
burlesque of “Bond Street,” enabling Tom Payne
to figure as a human hen of the Brahmapootra
species, with a pair of profusely frilled legs.
These startling innovations are permissible in
musical comedy, particularly in a drawing-room
scene where the guests enter at the top of a
staircase and Walk down stairs in order to get to
the front door.
** * *
The new films of instruction at West’s
Picturolympia show the Zermott Railway, the
Venetian Canal, the Hemp Industry, Rodents
and their Haunts, etc. These are sandwiched
between humorous pictures, some of which are
reeled off the cylinder with scarcely a wobble or
a flicker, and the display in its entirety offers full
explanation of the fact that West nowadays is
assured of solid business under the wettest weather
conditions.
** * *
The bill at Melb. Opera House is still suffer-
ing from mediocrity and general depression.
There have been cheaper bills, but none that
carried less weight in the middle, so for the
moment the supporters of Rickards are waiting
for something new to turn up. The Rigoletto
Bros., gymnasts, will turn up next Saturday
(11th), and a cloud of dust on the horizon an-
nounces that Abdullah’s.Arabs are coming.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The death is announced of Dan Barry,
Napoleon of “ buskers,” at the age of 57. I do not know
if “Barry” were his real name, but one thing is
certain :he first “ trod the boards ”as O’Brien. That
was in 1871, at Melbourne Theatre Royal, when he
entered a company under the management of Harwood,
Stewart, Hennings and Coppin, in the humble, but very
necessary, capacity of super. The managers were slower
than was Barry himself to recognise his histrionic genius,
and he got “no forrarder.” Accordingly he left “the
business” in disgust, and, being a man of intelligence and
education, he, in conjunction with a friend, started a
paper called Gossip. The paper had a short life if
not a merry one. Barry then collected together some
amateurs and went “barnstorming” in the Melbourne
suburbs. This was the beginning of that long career as a
travelling showman, which made his name a household
word in the country towns of Australia. Barry had some
idiosyncrasies. One was a passion for speculating in
mining stock. He was fairly successful at first, but
“ stock ” got the best of it in the long run. But he could
not give it up—to him it was a form of dissipation.
Another peculiarity was a lofty contempt for collars. He
might wear a diamond stud in the neckband of his shirt
but never, unless by dire necessity, a collar. This gave
his pals the opportunity of making the mild joke. “ Out
of collar again, Barry!” Again, a pet aversion of his
was the law of copyright, which he treated with much
disdain. He would take a play, alter its name, alter
some of the situations, twist it about, and trans-
mogrify it until its own parent could barely have
recognised it. To hear Dan sometimes address his
audience one was lost in wonderment at the number
Qf eminent men who used to write plays for
him—Gladstone among the number. Barry was a kindly-
dispositionedman who found work for a good many people.
If he did occasionally indulge in a little literarv freeboot"
ing, nobody suffered very much. He was a small deity in
many small towns, and in his valedictory speech he
always said it was a beautiful little town—the most
beautiful he had ever met with—and he trusted to be
buried there. But he never really intended to be buried
anywhere. He was so full of courage that he didn’t mean to
die, and in the end he only perished by mistake—when
he wasn’t looking, so to speak.
“Ami” supplies some more Barry reminiscences:—
The late Dan Barry was a common-sensible person in his
comparatively humble way. He never cared to talk about
the stage, but would rather air his opinions on politics.
He would have made a good M.P. I can never imagine
him being stage-struck, or seized with the glamor of' the
theatre. He was not artistic, but a plain man of
business. Here was the gulf between him and such
a man as Dampier. They were only alike in bein<>-
able to act Harvey Duff after their several ways.
Dampier’s was an extraordinary velvety rascal ; Barry’s an
eerie sort of Hibernian Caliban. Otherwise, Barry was
an indifferent actor. Whatever had to be filled up he
would take respectably. He pleased me best as Ally
Sloper, in an extravaganza he knocked together. As a
manager he had to scheme and scheme all his life. Un-
fortunately, he would speculate outside his book. Like
Bland Holt, as far as he could he stuck to his well-
tried people, such as Rede, Stoneham, Hollyford
(Bob Whitworth’s son, I think), Miss Byford, and
Miss Aslin. Give him those five people and he
would enact any play, from “Hamlet” downwards.
The facetious rogue used to bump out casts with a lot of,
not auxiliaries, but imaginaries. He would praise up
magnificent dramas to me without saying he wrote
them ; but I could not trace any other authorship. He
was the son of Mr. Atkins, a remarkably solemn and
venerable Equity barrister, who pleaded before old Judge
Molesworth and lectured at Melbourne University.
One newspaper says Dan was educated at Wesley
College ; another says it was at the Church of England
Grammar School. Anyhow, he had a good educa-
tion, including some time at Melbourne University.
He became a reporter on one of the evening papers which
opposed the Melbourne Heeald. That was not good
enough. He worked three astounding fakes. In a Mel-
bourne Sunday paper, called Gossip, he published an
account of the caving-in of Ballarat, with 400 people
killed. Then he went to Hobart and, in some obscure
paper, gave an account of the bombardment of Adelaide
by the Russians, at the time of tension between Britain and
Russia. I think he told me he made £l5. He went to
Adelaide and made another coup with an account of the
bombardment of Hobart by the Russians ! His justifica-
tion was that it exposed the defenceless state of Australia
In partnership with Mr. Byrne, under the names of Tip
and Tony, he published, on the eve of a Melbourne Cup
a cheap Life of Joe Thompson, which had a good sale
There was a vivid description of Joe’s sleeplessa«-ony on
the night before a Cup. Barry settled down to steady
work as a provincial actor. Quickly he bloomed into
management. He partnered with George Ireland and
with the firm of Ireland and Barry Miss Harrie Ireland
made some early appearances. However, the dignified
Ireland could not endure the shifts of the business. The
firm became Byrne and Barry. For many years Barry
has been on his own. He had strained relations with a
good many professionals, but I expect they all forgive
him. When the money was there, they would have
some. The robustious Barry has been much before the
Australian imagination, but for many years his health
has been delicate. He suffered from anaemia, and his
abounding energy struggled in a weak frame His
mother is yet alive.
The late Dan Barry’s busking (it was in a tent fora
great part, and was of an ultra-bloodsome and emotional
character always) appealed with surety to the great
heart of the Victorian and N.S.W. backblocks. Of late
years the moving picture show entered into compe-
tition with him, and smote him hard. The long-haired
velvet-coated melodramatist who calls himself The
Bohemian, is deceased's legitimate successor, but his
mumming has not, nor evtr will have, the full-flavored
fruitiness w'hich distinguished that of Barry.
“J.A.C.”: Yet another old “pro.” has joined the
great majority. The body of George Campbell scenic
artist, was found on Sunday at the foot of some cliffs in
the vicinity of Little Bay, near Sydney. He was in town
and spoke with many people on Friday, so that the acci-
dent must have taken place on Saturday, or early on
Sunday morning'. For some little time poor George had
been rather weak in intellect, and was, until recently, an
inmate of Gladesville Asylum. His age has been stated at
56, but he did not look more than 40. He entered theatri-
cal business at a very early age as call-boy, and was after-
wards gasman and property-man. Under John Hennings
and Habbe, in Melbourne, he learned scene-painting, and
developed into a really excellent artist. In stage per-
spective he was admittedly in the front rank, and a cloth
given to him in the morning was sure to be ready by
night. He was a man of mild and courteous manners,
incapable of offending anyone. Personally, I do not think
there can be any suspicion of suicide. Latterly he was
much given to mooning aimlessly about, and more than
likely in a moment of aberration he missed his footing
and fell over the cliff.
“Vulcan” : Stated that Anderson has already arranged
to match his new Melbourne theatre with a similar one
in Sydney. What with this, Sydney Wonderland, Mel-
bourne King’s Theatre, and the sole lesseeship of four
Westralian theatres, the Andersonian ramifications
become pretty considerable these days.
“Bill”: Melbourne Argus, in a series of articles
“ With Sturt’s Cadets,” makes mention of O’Hara Burke
and his love story with Julia Mathews. The writer of
the article says that Burke’s infatuation for the girl was a
monomania. “ His chance was hopeless from the outset,
and when Julia married somebody else, Burke was a
changed man. He seemed to lose all interest in life, and
his eagerness to lead the expedition to the Gulf of Car-
pentaria seemed to all who knew his story nothing but
the desire of a man suffering mental anguish to seek
forgetfulness.” Yet Julia Mathews did not marry for
some considerable time after Burke’s death. She wore
Burke’s miniature portrait at her throat, and it is almost
certain that if Burke had returned successful the pair
would have married. It wasn’t forgetfulness Burke
wasseeking when he blundered away into the dim North
with some camels and a very vague idea of his direction.
He was looking for fame, success, glory, dazzle—and his
best girl.
Harry Weir, for some years musical director of the
Civic Club, Sydney, and a singer of renown, more or less,
scored a presentation-Tantalus at that institution’s
annual meeting last week. There are some men to whom
it is wise to give a Tantalus (they charge the liquor
bottles, lose the key, and thereafter keep open Tantalus
for their friends), and of these cheery souls Henry is one.
Anderson got, out of thousands of offers, no better
name for his new Melbourne theatre than “ The King’s,”
and he pays his £5 to a charity. He has had £5O worth
of advt., and the end justifies the means. But the failure
of the competition is a reflection upon the manager’s
judgment, not on the ingenuity of the public. It is
utterly 7 out of reason to assume that among 1000 sugges-
tions there were not 100 better names than “King’s
Theatre” in a city where there are already a Royal, a
Princess and Her Majesty'’s. The managerial idea is so
extremely conservative in this matter that a good,
original name would give it a positive shock of appre-
hension. After all, Anderson was advertising for an
old hackneyed name, and as he had already selected the
tiredest old deadhead of a name in the dictionary, he won
his own competition quite as a matter of course.
“ Snell”: The authoress of “Mrs. Wiggs ” is true to hard
fact and solid human nature in making that cheerful
female an untidy housewife. All the really good-
tempered women I have ever known have been bad house-
wives, in the sense that a disordered home has not served
to impair their digestion, or soured them on humanity'
in general and the old man in particular. Your thin
dame, all vinegar and protruding teeth, is almost always
extremely tidy and prim, and always prefers tidiness to
comfort. That is why'her poor husband is a miserable
man. Mrs. Wiggs is a cheerful soul, and she keeps her
clothes under the bed, and most of her domestic utensils
on it. The great longing for a well-ordered home and
the worry of keeping it so have more to do with the ac-
cepted failure of marriage as an institution than is
dreamed of in common philosophy.
“ 0.K.”: That amazing Melbourne picture, The Bent
Knight, was much in evidence at a recent benefit concert.
Miss Eileen O’Brien, a singer with legitimate pretensions
to go to Europe for study' and advancement, had the
place of honor on the bill, but Bent uttered more words
than she during the evening. His speech was one more
masterpiece of foolishness from the same old inartistic
mouth. He talked of when he was in London, and the
Australian singers he heard there, and how he had got
himself honored by King Edward the other dav, and what
wonderful advertising institutions the Church and
Father Robinson are, and how Miss O’Brien was going to
rival Melba, he felt sure, because he could remember
Melba before she ever went to Europe, and she had only
a “ weak, puny voice.” The Bent Knight spake many
other disconnected remarks, but they were put into the
shade by' this fictitious reminiscence'of Melba’s original
voice. Nellie Mitchell, who changed her name to Mrs.
Armstrong, had a notable soprano from the outset of her
appearance in public. She never was guilty of a “ weak,
puny ” warble, and if Bent repeats his wild assertion, Tiie
Bulletin should indict the aged dreamer for libel on an
Australian institution.
A young lady vocalist with the romantic name of Gladys
Haysack is advertising in a London theatrical paper for
concert engagements.
“ Sr.” : I thought he was extinct lang syne, and when I
encountered him recently in Little Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, I impugned the purity of a glass of beer I had
consumed. But it was he all right—the same old identical
darky with the scrubby beard who used to trill “ Could I
Only Back a Winner ”in front of pubs to a tambourine
accompaniment. He was pushing a bottle-oh cart and
singing the while “ I sore de old faces an’ places I lub.”
Suddenly a kerosene-tin, hurled down from above, just
missed him. His song halted. He looked up and said,
“ Any more? Throw dem down.” Upon which exhorta-
tion it rained kerosene-tins. The folk up Little Collins
save up tins and throw them at any bloke who hopes to
, “ back de vinner.” They hit the cart and pusher with
tins, but he cared not, and only exclaimed, “Anymore ? ”
Last view of him I had the darky' was wending his way'
down the path that leads to markets singing “ Could I
only back de vinner.”
Some interesting theatrical articles appear in the
current Lone Hand. J. D. Fitz Gerald writes on George
Rignold—“A King in Exile”; Leon Brodzky on Sarah
Bernhardt; and “Stargazer” contributes some caustic
notes on the Australian theatre.*
THE OBSCURE ADDRER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The last days of “ The Prince of Pilsen,” at Sydney
Royal, are brightened by the fact that Miss Fan Dango has
returned to the cast.— Bulletin, 2/7/’OB.
Dear little lady, you are back once more,
And so am I;
I wonder if the usher at the door
Asked himself why
I, who had never missed a single night
While you were “ on,”
Remained aloof and hid myself from sight
Once you had gone.
Think you the chorus-maidens felt surprise
Concerning me
And my strange absence ? Were there puzzled cries
Of “ Where is he?”
The lolly-vendor—that infernal lad
Whose voice and hair
And feet so madden me—did he seem sad
I wasn’t there ?
Had none a few regretful words to say
About my loss ?
Did my remaining doggedly away
Make no one cross ?
I fear me not. Nor they, nor you, sweet Fan,
E’er witting bowed
My way. lam a lone and wretched man,
One of a crowd.
N.S.W.
D.
QUERY?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W.
Dancing girls that prance,
Striving to be bolder ;
But each weary glance
Finds them growing older.
Legs they waved of yore
Are a trifle fatter,
Otherwise—Encore !
But what does it matter ?
Songs that once were pink
Now are rather faded ;
Rather forced the wink,
And the smile how jaded !
Serious the dance,
Wearisome the patter,
Here is no romance !
But what does it matter ?
In a bygone day,
Younger then and sprightly,
She no doubt was gay,
Pirouetted lightly ;
But the fleeting years
Looks and talent scatter,
And a young world sneers.
Still. . . what does it matter ?
Leaves before the wind
■ln a cloud go flying ;
Fate is not unkind,
We must all be dying;
Youngsters at the wings
Make impatient clatter,
Till the last bell rings—
Death !. . . What does it matter 1
E.O.F.


u
§
To Your Measure by the
Tape at SALE PRICES
It is not often one has an opportunity to buy a Suit
To Measure at Sale Prices, and the reason for such a
course needs a word of explanation. We are making
the reduction to attract new business; the style,
material and service we give you is just the same as
formerly. All our Suits To Order are reduced, but
principal among the reductions are our
03/- Suits To Measure,
Sale Price for Cash, 56/0
Write for Patterns. We guarantee to fit you or
refund your money.
David Jones Ltd.
SYDNEY.
THE WHOLE FLEET
IN ONE PICTURE.
The AL-VISTA PANORAMIC CAMERA takes Pictures 2J x6| inches. It is just the
thing’for THE FLEET Pictures you intend taking. Three Photos can be taken on one
B Daylight Loading Film costing 1/2. The AL-VISTA is Compact and EASILY,
WORKED, and MODERATE in PRICE. Price, complete, 21/-. Postage, N.S. W., 1/3 ;
inter-State, 2/2. GET ONE NOW and PRACTISE. You will be PERFECT when the
time comes.' We stock CAMERAS from the BEST MANUFACTURERS at PRICES
ranging from 7/6, 10/6, 21/-, 30/-, 50/-, and so on to the Highest Grades.
PHOTO MATERIALS
of EVERY DESCRIPTION and of the BEST QUALITY are extensively stocked by'us.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE NOW READY.
HARRINGTON &
CO.,
386 GEORGE STREET, NEAR G.P.0., SYDNEY. Branch: 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The business man’s intrusion into the
realm of art is one of the worst of his many char-
acteristics. Whereas he would resent, with a
bellow of derision, the artist’s active interference
in the running of his ham and lard emporiumsand
cotton sock warehouses, he assumes all the func-
tions of art arbiter with a light heart, and an
assurance that is born of his inability to realise his
own amazing incapacity. The Melbourne Lin-
lithgow Memorial Committee’s offer of ten guineas
as first prize for a sculptor’s design is only another
instance of the attitude of a crowd which thinks
that art is calico, and decides to take ten yards of
it at £1 Is. per yard. That is a high price
for velvet, so it should be high enough for art.
This ten-pound-ten attitude has already supplied
Melbourne with statues that would be good kedge
anchors, but which are mighty poor art. And the
only excuse for a statue is that it is good art. No
man has merit enough to justify any community in
raising to his memory the hunk of stone that is
only fit to be a kedge-anchor or the great slab of
bronze of which there is but one good thing to be
said —that it might be a passable cannon if it had
a hole through it.
HOW IT HAPPENED.
Was your wife angry when you got home late
last night ?”
“ No; she actually threw flowers at me.”
“ Then how did you get that black eye
“ Oh, she forgot to take the flowers out of the pots.”
It transpires now that the matter of
“honors”—the allocation to aspiring Australians
of the little gauds that they share with small
British mayors and brown potentates with ex-
pensive bed-furniture on their heads—has never
been captured by the Federation. “State
Rights” still include the right to recommend
persons for these twopenny distinctions. A good
deal of the State Frights fury will probably now
evaporate.
An alluring pair of males are going begging
in S. M. Herald (27/6/’OB) —and for the mere
price of their keep, as it were :
Q.ENTLEM AN, tall, handsome, would devote his
v - x life to make lady of means happy ; a past for-
given ;no objection widow. Address, etc.
Likewise: —
■ENGLISHMAN, good-looking, of old and titled
family, wishes to meet a sincere Australian
Lady, of ladylike appearance, and possessing pro-
p’ty, v’vv matrimony. Apply, strictest confidence,
parties.,'to, etc.
The tall person who is willing to overlook the
lady’s past if she has money is very common. And
he will probably find his victim and gaily blew
her money, while there wouldn’t be a ghost of a
show for the individual who advertised like this:—
ly/TAN, honest and affectionate, though stumpy and
xvi ignorant of poetry, would like to marry lady of
no means, and would toil hard for her in his own
plain way, and neither swear at nor beat her. Is
teetotaler, and always brings home his wages intact.
Washes regularly. Address Hod, this office.
* » * *
An old-timer’s estate figured lately at
Paddington (Sydney), When the municipal assess-
ments came up for appeal. In the early days
Francis O’Brien purchased 300 acres of what is
now part of Waverley ; and, later on, 4J acres of
the estate were set apart as a graveyard for him-
self and his descendants. In all, 25 O’Briens have
been buried there up to date. The soulless muni-
cipal assessor valued this colossal family sepulchre
at £lOOO, and rated the O’Brien family for £lB
annually. The O’Briens appealed against the
assessment, and. in doing so, announced their
intention of still using the vault, despite the
modern law which seeks to prohibit burials in
private lands. The assessment was upheld, and
that is some comfort to go on with. But if there
isn’t any law strong enough to presently - stop
families from dropping their late lamenteds down
into “ vaults ” in private suburban cemeteries,
then the code very badly needs shoring up.
•* * tc *
The removal of the Queen’s statue from
the site it has occupied for many years at the
head of King-street, Sydney, was made an occa-
sion for recalling the names of the Echo and other
newspapers that had been placed under the
foundation of the pedestal. But other more re-
markable things—things above rather than
beneath —might have been recalled. A tree stood,
according to tradition, on that old site, and from
one of its branches in the first days of Australian
history a youth of 17 was hanged for stealing a
loaf of bread. All these years, as his dangling
ghost waved in the breeze, his spectral feet have
brushed the image of Victoria and been unpleasant
company. And no one mentioned that the pedes-
tal had another tenant before the figure of the
late monarch was put on it. The other tenant
was also a woman, but a live one —Mrs. Johns,
mother of a youth under sentence of death, who
stood there and implored a vast crowd to help her
to save her son from the hangman.
* ■«• * *
The quarrels of Aldermen Bashwood and
Plank had made history, although there was no
authentic proof that either had ever done more
than call the other opprobrious names at a fair
distance. Recently, however, their mutual dis-
like led to a stirring scene in the local newspaper
office. It was close upon midnight when Plank
reached the office in an almost hysterical condi-
tion. He bounded up the stairs, and fell into
one of the reporters 1 rooms, and gasped out his
moving tale. He had met Bashwood in the
street, and they had fought. With a horrid
blow he had felled Bashwood to the ground.
The victim was lying there now, weltering
in his blood. Horror ! Perchance he was
dead. At this moment came the clatter
of hurried footsteps on the stairs. Some-
body fell into the editor’s room. A voice
was heard explaining the hair-raising de-
tails of a combat. The voice had met
Plank in the street, and a serious en-
counter had followed. The voice had
felled Plank to the ground, where he was
at that moment weltering in his brains.
Then Plank started out of one room as
the voice issued from the other. “ Bash-
wood!” “Plank!” Bashwood turned
and precipitated himself down the front
stairs, and Plank rushed headlong down
the back stairs, and the two fled into
the night. One ran east and the other
west. It is calculated that they will meet
at the other side of the world in about
two years.
“Hassan” : A poor devil pleaded guilty
at the City Court (Melb.), the other day, to the
awful charge of having stolen a plug of tobacco
valued at a whole mountainous twopence. He
had worked for the prosecuting firm for 30 years
before he took that chew. The firm engaged an
expensive solicitor to sheet the horror home, and
two witnesses, who ought to have been at work,
gave evidence for about a quarter of an hour of
what had never been denied. Seventeen policemen
stood about the court in picturesque attitudes.
Creswell, smiling benignly, sat in the chair of
justice, and McMillan and Garside, J’s.P., lin-
gered peacefully beside him. Cresswell, after an
oration of three minutes (all thrown in for two-
pence) decreed the doom of “ the rising.” If the
stolen tobacco had been worth fourpence, God
knows what would have happened. It is said
" that in this world one gets nothing for nothing,
and very little for sixpence, but for twopence you
can get a lawyer, a P.M., a brace of J’s.P., 17
policemen, a report in the Herald, and the
“ rising.” And yet law is said to be for the rich.
THE MODERN TERROR.
HON. BERTY: “Aw! Are you superstitious about 13 at dinner, Mrs. Homely?
MRS. HOMELY: “ Good gracious I Yes. If we had more than four we would lose our cook."
From a man on the spot:—
The family curse of a South Melbourne (Vic.) grocer is
burst water mains. He was awakened one morning last
week by an avalanche of half-frozen water falling on him,
and as he had experienced a similar disaster some seven
years before, he realised on the instant that the curse had
caught up with him again. Leaping out of bed, he seized
a wooden shutter and advanced against the curse in the
same manner as the Romans used to attack a position
behind their shields. However, the curse shot at him so
furiously that he was washed back against the wall and
badly bruised. Abandoning the idea of trying to stop the
fluid himself, he decided to fly in search of a turncock,
but on arriving at the head of the stairs he found there
was a second and more awful curse leaping in at the
down-stair window. There the force of the water was so
great that it was shooting in boulders of blue metal from
the roadway, the crashing of which against the walls and
staircase seemed to promise sudden death to all groc* rs.
The tradesman hesitated for a second, and then dashed
bravely through the flying mixture of rock and curse.
By the time a turncock was found and the calamity
turned off, the grocer’s home looked as if one of George
Reid’s Socialists had done his worst with it. The grocer
is now waiting for a chance to grapple with a tidal wave
or a waterspout for £5OO a-side.
A rich American named Daniel Bidwell,
living in the Sandwich Islands, recently adver-
tised in a few newspapers that he desired to adopt
a male child. He received 1700 replies from New
York, 1256 from Chicago, 1200 from Boston, 1500
from Philadelphia, and the same number from the
comparatively small city of Columbus, Ohio.
Thus a total of 7156 mothers in five cities were
willing to part with their offspring—this in an
almost childless land, where offspring are becoming
almost a curiosity !
* * * *
Gr. H. Reid’s third point in the appeal to
the N;S. W. Pull Court in the Green murder case,
namely, “ That in cases where the accused does
know the act is wrong he is not guilty if he was
prevented by disease of the mind from controlling
his own conduct at the time of the occurrence,” is
actually the point relied on by Robert Lowe when
defending John Enatchbull before Judge Burton
in Sydney, as far back as 1845. Lowe, in a
closely-reasoned argument, contended that in-
sanity of the will might be unattended by any
outward symptoms of frenzy, and yet might urge
on the unhappy person who labored under its influ-
ence “with an irresistible and overwhelming force
to the commission of crimes which in themselves
were of the most atrocious nature, but which,
under such circumstances, could not' be said tc
entail any actual guilt upon the unfortunate per-
petrator.” That was the first, time an advocate
in any court of British or Australian law had pre-
sented that argument, and Judge Burton, an open
scoffer at metaphysical subtleties, told the jury to
disregard the plea. The jury did so, and in the
record time of one minute brought in a verdict of
guilty. Lowe’s address to the jury created a stir
both in Australia and England. English writers
took up the question Of impulsive insanity, and
the views of the Sydney barrister were seconded
by many learned societies and prominent
jurists. But they were condemned by the
Sydney Morning Herald. “They are impious,”
wrote the Herald, “and opposed to the first
principles of Christianity, as they amount to a
denial of human responsibility.” Lowe was
allowed a reply in the Herald columns, and,
claiming to be a Church of England man, main-
tained that his opinions accorded with Chris-
tianity, while the Herald, being a mere
Wesleyan sectary, was in no position whatever to
deal with Christian principles. “ I asked you for
Christianity,” lie snorted, “and you give me
Methodism.” For the rest, Lowe (whose wife
was related to Knatchbull, as was also the
wife of Governor Gipps) kept urging his opinions
on the Governor and his Council, even going to
Government House in wig and gown and harangu-
ing all and sundry, until the morning of the drop
when the murderer passed away.
RIPE FOR THE HARVEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ohas. Deutschmann, the St. Arnaud (Vic.) murderer,
gained 171 b. in weight while lying- in Ballarat goal for
thirteen days, awaiting the pleasure of the hangman.
The hanging was most successful.— Daily paper.
His dwelling place was 12ft. square,
His bed was measured like a grave,
A little light, a little air
Was all the narrow grating gave.
He drowsed by day within the cell,
By night he slumbered softly there.
For oh ! his country fed him well.
The gallows tree large fruit must bear.
Condemned to death, with wholesome fare
They filled him from the early morn.
His vulgar life so free from care
Had never been since he was born.
Then on the trap the Man of Blood
Stood him ; he leaped his downward course,
And folks who listened to the thud
Remarked that truly fat is force 1
vie.
O.
NOTHING
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hidden in a loft in a secluded building in New York
there is a gun that can discharge 2,000,000 bullets an
hour; at least that is its inventor’s modest estimate of its
capacity. This terrible machine, which, because of its
destructiveness, is expected to prevent war, is not fired
by powder, makes no noise, no smoke, no flash, no smell.
There is no recoil, the gun never gets heated, it cannot
explode, and two men can operate the deadly machine.
The cost of firing 1,000,000 bullets, half an inch in
diameter, by the new gun would be about £2. The ex-
pense of firing 1,000,000 bullets requiring powder and
shells is more than £4OOO. The gun works automatically.
If the operators were to place 2,000,000 balls in the maga-
zine, and turn on the power, the men could take a walk
for an hour, confident that in their absence the gun
would continue to hurl bullets so long as one was left.—
News Item.
No smoke, No heat,
„ flash, „ fear,
„ smell, ~ stop,
„ bang, n hope,
~ strain, ~ help,
„ cost, » prayer,
„ hiss, „ chance,
No toil. No, my son !
No noise, No dead,
„ mist, I, wound,
~ dust, ,i blood,
„ jar, ,i mess,
~ scream, „ row,
~ crash, ~ sign,
No d d recoil. No blessed gun !
N.S.W.
KODAK.


A CERTAIN
CURE FOR
RHEUMATISM.
The Rheumagnetic Ring’s curative powers are un-
doubted—it has cured hundreds, including doctors.
Will positively cure you.
The ring is sold to you under a guarantee ; if it is
not what we claim, we return your money.
Nickel Plated, 7/6 Post Free.
Believes Nervous Complaints, Kidney Troubles,'
Lumbago, Sciatica, Gout, Neuralgia, etc.
We Send Booklet on
Request.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. [2
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is un-
equalled for the cure of cough 3, colds, and influenza.
It acts on Nature’s plan/relieves the lungs, opens
the secretions, and restores the system to a natural
and healthy condition.*
Bakewell, chief guardian of the National
Ass in S. Australia, wasn’t always in such an
elevated position that he could look down on the
working class. Quarter of a century ago he was
quill-driving for Dunn and Co., the millers, at a
country branch. The pay didn’t suit, so he pulled
out, joined Elder, Smith and Co., and soon was at
the head of the pastoral department. When
drought and bad times came, Elder-Smiths cut
down salaries, so Bakewell again packed his
trunks and got a job with J. H. Angas. At that
millionaire’s death he practically took the man-
agement of the family’s vast estates, and now is
nearly as important a person in South Aus. as the
President of the Methodist Conference.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A Perfect Sweater
Few things are perfect. But here’s a
Sweater that we consider as perfect
as it can be made. It is pure wool—
closely woven—warm —of good shape—
high quality throughout—has the Roll
Collar, and fits just like a glove,
You cannot buy anything better in
Sweaters.
WHite Sweaters,
price 6/6 each.
Add 6d. for Postage.
PEAPES CO. LTD.,
“MEN'S OUTFITTERS, ’’
309-311 George Str-et, Sydney
An evidently desperate Scotch girl, un-
able apparently to capture any suitable McTavish
at home, is trying the expedient of dropping
casual missives into cases of hardware consigned
to places overseas. On opening a case of detona-
tors the other day, a Ballarat man found this
Miss Mary Sutherland, Brightons, Pohnont Station,
Scotland.—l am desirous of opening up a correspondence
with a young man, with a view to matrimony. lam 20
years of age, blue eyes, fair hair, and considered good
looking; sft. 3in. in height.
That was all—eminently businesslike and rather
pitiful when you come to think of it. Decaying
industries, decreasing work, less wages, fewer
marriages, and an increasing number of girls like
Mary—those are the virtues of Freetrade.
THE DOMINANT FEATURE.
SIS: “ You wouldn’t say her face was her
fortune .”
PEGGY: “No, not her whole face —only her
cheek.”
News is just to hand of a fire at Peak
Hill (N,S._W.) Someone had cold feet, and put a
hot brick into a bed to warm it, but the brick was
so hot that it burnt the bed and the house.
People who want bricks so hot as that wouldn’t
have fiddled while Rome was burning—they
would have drawn the throne of Nero close to the
blaze and howled to a slave to throw on another
Coliseum or two, for Jupiter’s sake, and keep
Caesar from freezing.
THROWING HERSELF UPON HIS CONSIDERATION.
HIS HONOR (to fair but frail witness): “Henrietta Brown, on the evidence you are convicted
of deliberate perjury. Have you anything to say ?”
HENRIETTA (perplexed): “I—I really don’t know, your Honor. What would your
Honor suggest? ”
The way of the promoter of charity func-
tions is hard enough under ordinary circumstances,
but when the charity he is endeavoring to assist
refuses to be assisted, or stays away from the
function with such enthusiasm that it freezes over,
the role of Samaritan becomes wearisome. Lately,
in Melbourne, a ball, promoted by the Dickens
Fellowship in aid of the Victoria Sanatoria for
Consumptives, took place in a spacious, not to say
stupendous hall. The entertainment was chiefly
remarkable for the fact that
it didn’t happen. At 9 o’clock
—the hour when the thing
was timed to start —the bal-
conies were crowded with
spectators, each of whom had
paid half-a-crown entrance
fee —and the ocean of floor
down below was sprinkled
with a brilliant assemblage
of twelve ! (12). Half-an-hour
later there were at least
thirty (30) people in fancy
dress making feeble efforts
not to look self-conscious in
front of the half-frozen crowd
that glared from above.
Every hour or so, some un-
daunted soul organised a
tableau illustrating a situa-
tion from one of Dickens’
books, and thus diverted for
a moment the basilisk gaze
of the crowd and gave the
hand fulof dancers—half-dead
from the strain of keeping
up the hollow mockery of
festivity—a chance to breath
hard through their noses, and
curse. At last, when the
tableau had been happening
every hour or so for at least
30 minutes, someone went up
and asked the crowd to come
down and take out its aggre-
gate half-crown in the supper
that had been provided for
the dancers who weren’t
there. A few of the weary
people from the balconies
came down—more out of
politeness than anything
else; but the bulk of them
were so full of indignation
in the stomach that they had
no room for food. The hon. sec. of the Dickens’
Fellowship states, in a letter to the press, that his
society organised the ball in response to a request
from the secretary of the Sanatoria. The Dickens
people did their darnedest for the show, and
faithfully carried out their part of the con-
tract ; but, apparently, the committee of the Sana-
toria hadn’t any darnedest to spare, for it stayed
away unanimously. Next time the Sanatoria
people ask for bread, they will probably be
handed a stone, and they’ll be lucky if it isn’t
delivered on their chief bunion.
■»*•*■*
“ Peter Pan ’’ : The motor mail-vans,
which descended on Adelaide with much cough
and odor about six months ago, have handed in
their checks. The authorities missed a motor
commission in connection with the doings of their
conveyances by a carburreter’s breadth. The
mokes of old delivered up to time as a rule, but the
supplanters slam-banged into town at all hours,
and oft-times not at all. In their wild bust
around the suburbs to snatch up the picture-post-
card and other correspondence, the machines
(mostly driven by raw recruits from the letter-
sorting department) came to grief with a regu-
larity that was heart-breaking. The experiment
has proved that the motor-fiend can’t be manu-
factured at short notice. The Australian doesn’t
live who can’t drive a horse ; but there seem to be
Elenty of him who are absolutely lethal on the
ox-seat of a motor.
Bruce Smith, squire of Ladies’ Leagues
and general director of Women Patriots, is
writhing under the angry looks and angrier
tongues of the sweet creatures whom he thought
simply hung in ecstasy upon his magnificent
words. A fortnight or so ago he addressed the
Women Patriots, and told them that the British
people were a mixed lot, descended from black-
fellows who came originally out of the centre of
Asia—-“.bleached by our ancestral sojourn in
Northern Europe.” The Patriots in frills didn’t
stop to reflect that Spruce was merely—er—pull-
ing their—er—leagued leg ; they didn’t even ask
him how long it took to bleach a blackfellow, or
how it was that the frozen Esquimaux weren’t
bleached after all these years of frost. They just
sat down and remembered that Bruce Smith had
cast a horrid reflection upon their own progenitors.
They have been quite prepared to say “Hear,
hear!” when Bruce pictured the advantage of
having blacks and yellows and brindles in Aus-
tra'ia, because that was “ up against ” the horrid
Labor party ; but when he had the impudence to
tell them that they were simply bleached niggers
—well, it was too much. Wherefore when, a few
days later, the Empire League (the other league’s
sister) met, the grease was instantly in the con-
flagration ; and the beauteous guide of ladies
hadn’t talked for more than two hours before
Mrs. President Dixson told him— him ! — HIM ! !
—not to be impertinent, and two other ladies
moved and seconded a proposal that, in brief, B.
Smith should be invited to Shut Up. And this
is a great man’s reward !
* * ★ *
“ Jean S.” reports a Melbourne picture
show :
Re Hal Waugh’s collection of bush pictures at Ber-
nard’s Gallery, Melbourne. He shows 30 canvases, most
of them painted during a lengthy sojourn in the Big
Gum Country around Toolangi (Vic.), and in all of his
efforts he has happily ignored the conventions of popular
art. Pew of them would be held w'orthy to displace the
usual oleograph from its premier position in a suburban
drawing-room, which is intended for a complimentary
remark. At first, the dominating greys of his schemes
seem rather repelling, but closer inspection reveals that
each scheme is an aim and an achievement. He has
pictured the big gum mostly—sometimes as an upstand-
ing giant, sometimes as a log on its way to the sawmill,
sometimes as a detail in a picture of horses or cattle —and
his treatment of the big timber is always artistically truth-
ful. “ The Artist’s Camp ”is the best work, both in quality
of color and in distinction of scheme—in the grey fore-
ground a cart, and a man on his way to a tent, the
middle distance splashed w'ith sunlight, the background
a mass of carefully studied, sober greys. Another good
canvas, “By Mountain Roads,” demonstrates that a
knowledge of equine anatomy has been thought worth
while. On the whole, the show is worthy of the artist,
and of the country which doesn’t encourage him and his
kind as well as it should. He merits substantial con-
sideration, and has received just a little, as the signifi-
cant little red wafer on the corner of one or two of his
pictures shows. His art is national and—once more—his
drawing is safe. One would expect safety in the work of
anyone named Waugh.
The British Parliament, which is usually
a deliberate sort of body, and doesn’t rush open-
mouthed at new ideas, is pondering a sudden-
looking Bill for the Alteration of Time. The idea
is that all clocks should be shoved back an hour
in the middle of autumn, and shoved forward
again in spring. Thus in the winter months the
man who starts work at 6 a.m. would still start at
6 a.m. by the clock, but it would really be 5 a.m.;
and when he knocked off at his usual 5 p.m.
by the clock, he would really knock off at 4 p.m.
The plea is that he would thus get the advantage
of an extra scrap of daylight for recreation in the
evening, and that by going to bed at an alleged
9 p.m., which would be really 8 p.m., he would
save candles. It seems a cumbersome sort
of business and calculated to make everybody
miss his train once a year, but the idea is amusing
in its way.
* * * *
The woman suffrage movement in England
begins to amount to a small civil war. There
isn’t much bloodshed, for there is a natural
objection to calling out the military to charge the
free and enlightened female of England ; but
there is an awful lot of trouble. The suffragettes,
in a mild sort of way, storm Parliament House
and demand the right to vote for Samuel Slum-
key, M.P. They are ordered out, and a quantity
of them are arrested for refusing to go. They
call on the Prime Minister and ask to see him.
He says he won’t see anybody, and in the subse-
quent excitement his windows are smashed, and
another heap of women are arrested. When
the demonstration is over, there are quite a
multitude of women brought up before “his
Washup,” at the police court. They are fairly
respectful to “his Washup,” but they refuse
to pay the fines, and go to gaol for the pur-
pose of “taking it out.” The gaols begin, to
get rather crowded. The ladies aie fairly amen-
able to discipline in prison, but if any serious
attempt were made to make prison so uncomfort-
able to them that they wouldn’t dare to come
back, they seem quite capable of organising a
“hunger strike” on the Russian model, and that
would make a sensation that would probably
sweep the Government out of existence. And, if
the defendants decided to disobey all rules in
prison, it is hard to see what the Government
could do. It couldn’t have a lady flogged, or
deposited in a dark cell, or even put on bread and
water diet for persistent insubordination, without
rousing ill-feeling, and it is ill-feeling, that makes
a Ministry lose its job. So the Government is in
a difficult position, and if the woman-suffragists
keep going with their present energy they must
win in the end.
* * * *
“ Red Tape Junior ” writes :
I see N.S.W. Judge Heydon has swallowed the old gag,
that being in the pay of the State makes a man so well
off that he can afford to do without privileges which men
in private employ require to have. It came up this way.
The Arbitration Court raised wages to painters by Is. a
day for country work in December, 1905. The Railway
Commissioners declined to advance in accordance with
this decision because they hadn’t heard of the Common
Rule ordering the increase, and also because of the
“ privileges and conditions of employment in the Railway
Service to the men employed by the Commissioners.”
Judge Heydon decided, on an appeal by the Painters’
Union, that the first reason didn’t count, and the
second might be good or it might not. But as Com-
missioner Johnson, by his solicitor, said the conditions of
State employment were truly excellent, he(Heydon) would
believe him. So he dismissed the appeal on the illumi-
nating point that there was no proof before- him that
Gosford was in the country. For all he knew it might be
on Circular Quay, Sydney. Now, supposing the defence
was right, why should a man in the Railway service be
refused his extra hob if sent to Gosford, when a man in
private employ would get it? The extra Is. is given
because of the fact, that the painter cove has to leave
home and its comforts. Also what are these gorgeous
privileges which attach to State employment, anyway?
I haven’t met them.
A thrilling tale, worthy of the best tradi-
tions of the melodrama, comes from Wellington
(N.S.W.). It began with a girl on the edge of a
precipice. She fell. There was a cable 500 ft.
long from the roof of the precipice to a timber
shoot, dovvn in the valley below'. The cable was
used to slide things down with. The falling girl
clutched it and slid, flying over houses, trees, etc.,
and landed at the bottom, slightly bruised; and
with her hands badly cut, but otherwise well. It
only required the base miscreant at the top to shove
the girl off, and the hero at the bottom to catch
her in his arms as the goods were delivered, and
Eugenie Duggan as the girl, and it would have
been the real Bilandersonian thing.
THE DEEP-SEA (SMELLING) SALTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Daily Chronicle states that at the recent levee,
Admiral of the Fleet, Sir John Fisher, First Naval Lord
of the Admiralty, in the presence of Cabinet Ministers
and foreign ambassadors, offered to shake hands with
Admiral Lord Charles Beresford, Commander-in-Chief of
the Channel Fleet, but the latter ostentatiously refused,
placing his hands behind his back. — Cable.
When tars wore pigtails down their backs
And sailed with hoarse “ Yo-ho’s ” on tacks,
When old sea dogs wrote down in logs
Engagements most peculiar,
The captains soaked in rum and brine
Commanded frigates of the line,
And flogged their crews and drank their wine
Aboard the “ Saucy Julia.”
With “D n your eyes !” and “ Yo-ho-ho”
They kept the seas and thrashed the foe ;
The blasphemy they used at sea
All “ furriners ” affrighted ;
For e’en the bravest hostile crew
No sturdy British cursing knew ;
So, one by one, they upward blew
For being so benighted.
When, thro’ some cause, their tempers rose
One dog would pull the other’s nose,
And straight away at break of day
Both at a spot secluded
Took aim with care, or slashed and swore
Until one of them on the shore
Spilt pints and pints of British gore
W’hile seconds darkly brooded.
Now in these modern days of rams,
In ruins lie the British D——-s,
We’re too polite to curse or fight
(Thank God we keep our senses !),
And when two admirals are found
At loggerheads on British ground,
They don’t spill blood, but pass around
School-girl impertinences.
Alas ! the old pigtails are gone,
They’d not have looked the thing upon
This school-girl salt whose rage can halt
At placing hands behind him ;
The spiteful, gold-laced, deep-sea miss
Should be forced to make friends and kiss—
Or else the naval lords for this
In pinafores should bind him.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


ArtHur Leplastrier (Si Co
Specialise in G 4 PITT STREET; SYDNEY.
“ ROBEY’S”
English Machinery, Portable and Fixed Engines, Traction Engines, High-
Speed Engines, Threshing Machines, Oil Engines, etc.
“NATIONAL” Gas Engines and Suction Plants.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope; A. Ransome & Co., Ltd., English Wood-working and Cask-making
Machinery; Massey’s Steam Hammers; “ Novo ” High-Speed Steel, Steel Rails, Tramway Material,
Steel Trucks, Locomotives, etc.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
hold fall stocks of all Mining Requisites,
including Air Compressors, Rock Drills,
Engines and Boilers, Steam Pumps,
i Batteries, -Krona Rolls, Concentrating
the Mine Workshops, Lathes, all sizes, Radial and Pillar Drills, Pnnch and Shear
Machines,’Pipe and Bolt and Nut Cutters, Shafting, Pulleys, Belting.
Sole Agents for F. REDDAWAY & CO., Manchester, CAMEL HAIR BELTING ; RANSOMES’, SIMS’,
Addresses — JEFFRIES’ PORTABLE, STATIONARY and TRACTION ENGINES.
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Post Office Chambers, Sydney; Lydiard Street, Ballarat^andßendigo^
The WILD CAT
LOLUMN
The financial year alike of the Commonwealth
and of the States ended on June 30 ; but, as usual, it
will be some time before all the final, revised figures are
available. Still, there is a good deal to go on with.
The Commonwealth. —The year’s transactions
were as follows: —
Revenue .. .. .. .. £15,014,074
Expenditure 6,156,560
Balance for States .. .. £8,857,514
Estimated surplus .. .. 7,894,208
Actual surplus in excess of
estimate .. .. .. £963,306
Under the Constitution the States were entitled to three-
fourths of Customs and Excise revenue. The following
shows what the States were entitled to, and what they
actually received, notwithstanding that under the Surplus
Revenue Act they received nothing as for June :
What the States What the States
were entitled to. actually received.
N. S. Wales .. £3,329,315 £3,566,372
Victoria .. .. 2,359,174 2,449,243
Queensland .. 1,082.294 1,003,527
S. Australia .. 730,341 792,685
Westralia .. .. .722,944 753,510
Tasmania .. .. 299,619 294,259
Totals.. .. £8,523,687 £8,859,596
Thus the Commonwealth paid to the States £335,909 more
than the Constitutional three-fourths of the net Customs
and Excise revenue.
The financial history of the Commonwealth for the past
six years is briefly as follows : —-
Balance
Revenue. Expenditure. for States.
1903 ... £12,105,937 £3,901,371 £8,204,566
1904 .. 11,630,998 4,252,519 7,378,479
1905 .. 11,465,598 4,322,829 7,142,769
1906 .. 11,881,925 4,497,542 7,384,383
1907 .. 12,832,891 4,957,317 7,845,574
1908 .. 15,016,156 6,156,500 8,859,596
So far as the past year’s expenditure is concerned, it has
to be remembered that £432,000 has been put aside for
future distribution on defence and old-age pensions.
Apart from that the expenditure increased by £749,183.
(The revenue and expenditure figures for previous years
are taken from the “ Commonwealth Year Book.”) This
increase is mainly due to larger payments for new works
out of revenue. As the requirements of Australia expand,
the Commonwealth is paying cash for its necessities
instead of mortgaging the future to pay the bill. This
shows how that expenditure has increased, and largely
explains the growth in total Commonwealth expendi-
ture :
1902. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Customs buildings .. £l5O £1,814 £1,162 £7,012
Defence works .. 57,265 171,633 195,159 446,671
Postal premises, etc .. 37,149 146,575 275,737 429,945
£94,564 £320,022 £472,058 £883,628
New South Wales.—The State revenue was
£13,960,763, or £568,328 more than in 1907. This shows
how the revenue has boomed ; also it shows how much
of the boom has been due to the contemned Common-
wealth
Revenue received
Total Revenue. from Commonwealth.
1902 .. £11,007,356 .. £2,385,904
1903 .. 11,296,068 .. 3,053,133
1904 .. 11,248,327 .. 2,683,417
1905 .. 11,336,918 .. 2,529,070
1906 .. 12,283,082 .. 2,742,770
1907' .. 13,392,435 .. 3,022,351
1908 .. 13,960,763 .. 3,591,371
Thus between 1902 and 1908 the Ma State’s revenue
derived from the Commonwealth has increased by
£1,205,467—in spite of the Surplus Revenue Act, over
which State Premier Wade lately' got into hysterics.
The State expenditure is subject to various adjust-
ments ; also during recent years various changes
have been made in the way the accounts are kept. This,
however, shows the position of the Consolidated Revenue
Fund for the past six years, excluding the payments on
account of Public Works and Closer Settlement Funds
made during the past two years :
Revenue. Expenditure.
1903 .. £11,296,068 £11,467,234 Deficit £171,166
1904 .. 11,248,327 11,319,888 Deficit 71,561
1905 .. 11,336,918 11,195,075 Surplus 141,843
1906 .. 12,283,082 11,356,864 Surplus 896,218
1907 .. 13,392,435 11,881,746 Surplus 1,510,689
1908 .. 13,960,763 12,154,384 Surplus 1,806,379
But out of the’ surplus of the past year £1,604,479 has
been paid to the Public Works and Closer Settlement
Funds. The former fund largely represents works which
ought to have been paid for out of revenue direct. Also
it has to be remembered that “ revenue ” includes about
a million of land-sales money.
N. S. Wales, in spite of its amazingly good time, leaned
up against Cohen to the extent of £2,252,914 of borrow-
ings during the year.
Victoria. —This State has so far only issued its
revenue figures, so that not much of any consequence
can be said about the Victorian scrap of the continent.
The revenue was £8,276,123, or £37,118 less than that for
1907. Still it is £174,341 ahead of T. Bent’s estimate ;
and T. Bent’s idea of the surplus is that it will be about
half-a-million. And T. Bent ought to know, though he
wasn’t too good a prophet when, not many months ago,
he talked about being a million to the good on the
year’s transactions.
Queensland
Revenue. Expenditure.
1903 .. £3,526,465 £3,717,806 Deficit £191,341
1904 .. 3,595,440 3,607,864 Deficit 12,424
1905 .. 3,595,399 3,581,403 Surplus 13,996
1906 .. 3,853,523 3,725,712 Surplus 127,811
1907 .. 4,307,912 3,911,797 Surplus 396,115
1908 .. 4,488,398 4,373,096 Surplus 115,302
That is good ; but the next lot of figures don’t run the
right way—the list shows the loan expenditure :
1905 £225,466
1906 297,624
1907 683,570
1908 1,033,675
It is a pretty rapid descent into the old bog.
S. Australia.—Figures, so far, are only ap-
proximate ; and no expenditure figures are yet available.
The surplus will be between £250,000 and £300,000 ; but
the loan expenditure is very shocking.
Tasmania and Westralia. The complete
Westralian figures for June are not yet available ; and for
Tasmania only revenue figures are yet issued. The
Speck’s collections for the year amounted to £1,003,829 ;
this is the third time on record that the revenue has
passed the million. The estimated surplus is £70,000 —
but that Has to be taken on trust, in the absence of pub-
lished returns.
During the past seven years a little less than
£5,000,000 of Victorian State debt has been transferred
from London to Melbourne, and another £4,000,000 of
new debt has been incurred in Melbourne/ The figures
for the two years are as follows :
London. Melbourne.
1900 .. £44,655,579 £4,669,306
1907 .. 39,629,869 13,475,120
The annual interest payable in London has been reduced
by £284,357, and that payable in Melbourne has been in-
creased by £298,906. It is doubtful whether it is all Aus-
tralian capital that has been put into the loans payable in
Melbourne ; but a great deal of it is Australian. In such
cases, instead of giving an I O U, the State has given an
I O Myself ; and when you owe yourself money you might
as well pay it, and end the possibility of bad feeling
springing up between you and yourself.
» • * *
The Sunshine disaster won’t make quite the
hole in Bent’s revenue that some people think it will.
Victoria in 1891 established a Railway Accident Fund,
and pays into it per cent, of its railway revenue. Under
the present law the contributions will stop at £lOO,OOO ;
but as the fund only amounted to £49,602 at the end of
the 1907 financial year, and as the recent accident will no
doubt absorb all that and more, the railway revenue
won’t be rid of this J per cent, tax for many a" long year
to come. For 10 years past the average amount paid out
for damages, claims, Costs, etc., has been £8543, which
works out at about £340 per passenger killed.
+ * * *
The most gradual of the Australian life-insur-
ance offices has at last issued its report for 1907, and the
Commonwealth’s complete figures are thus now available,
although in one or two cases the fiscal year does not end
precisely on December 31. As might have been expected,
practically all the offices show a considerable increase in
business, the result of the general prosperity. Take a
comparison of the new-business premiums received by
the bigger offices :
1897. 1902. 1906. 1907.
A.M.P £105,789 £131,860 £164,250 £169,348
National Mutual 33,299 55,537 101,840 120,662
Citizens’ .. .. 21,122 36,907 33,322 35,503
Colonial Mutual 25,467 30,021 48,314 54,881
Widows’Fund.. 13,049 18,606 21,948 25,793
M.L.A 21,650 30,352 28,336 26,841
T. and G 4,812 19,286 18,468 20,002
City Mutual .. 3,829 5,880 13,020 13,352
The only office in that list which does not show a larger
new-premium income is the M.L.A., and that was no
doubt because it was announced during the year that
after Dec. 31 there would be no independent M.L.A.—
from that date it was amalgamated with the Citizens’.
The comparison printed above shows some re-
markable changes. Two or three offices have grown with
great rapidity. There are, however, other things besides
size to be considered. In fact, a wild rush after mere size
lately struck American legislatures as so perilous a
thing that they limited the amount of new business
which any one office may take in a year. Different
offices look at the matter in different ways—
it probably depends to a great extent upon the sort of
liver that is owned by the most influential man in the
office. The National Mutual represents one school: the
Citizens’ the other. The National Mutual is, in a general
way, going for big figures. Its expenses are heavy, but
it expects to get them lower by-and-bye. It relies on
various things : (1) Big, impressive figures. (2) It is a
mutual office, and the bigger a mutual office gets the
bigger it ought to be able to get without much effort or
expense—Johnson, jun., is naturally passed into the
office where Johnson, sen., has a policy. (3) A big income
from interest ought to reduce the expense rate, and thus
improve the bonuses. The other sort of office doesn’t
take as many risks. It says that success may come the
other way, but it prefers a low expense rate at once,
and relies upon the bigger bonuses it can thus
pay forthwith to bring in cheaply-got business. This in-
herent difference between various offices has to be re-
membered when comparing' insurance figures. It is
impossible to say how things will turn out in the end—
very much depends upon future management.
The following shows in detail the year’s insur-
ance business
Added
Ex- to
Income. Claims, penses. Funds.
A.M.P. (ord.) .. 3,086,216 1,738,804 272,267 1,032,670
A.M.P. (indus.) .. 34,551 1,689 30,663 2,199
National Mutual .. 895,253 374,809 157,512 363,939
M.L. Government .. 526,712 304,230 66,670 155,812
Colonial Mutual .. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
Mutual Life Assoc. ' 340,858 183,283 61,202. 91,616
Citizens’(ordinary) 299,001 83,803 24,190 178,083
Citizens’(industrial) 235,086 55,770 82,820 96,496
Widows’Fund .. 271,998 169,095 56,245 46,658
Temp. & Gen. (ind.) 124,703 16.129 52,289 56,285
Temp. & Gen. (ord.) 108,448 39,616 21,451 47,381
City Mutual .. 82,388 33,001 18,875 28,457
Standard (indus.) .. 24,365 6,987 14,229 3,149
Standard (ord.) .. 18.745 1,457 12,914 4,374
Australian Metrop. 25,714 6,848 14,737 4,129
The combined figures in the last three columns don’t in
every case correspond with the figures in the first column ;
in such cases a trifle has been written off to cover the
depreciation of assets, etc. The aggregate funds held by
these societies, representing Australia’s provision for the
future, now exceeds £41,500,000. Certainly, a little of
this represents insurances in Australian offices held by-
people not resident in Australia ; but as a set-off to that
is the insurance held by Australians in American and
other foreign offices.
The next table shows interest earned on the
average funds and the year’s expenses in proportion to
total income. But as the expenses are largely governed
by the amount of new business secured, a third column is
added. To arrive at these figures the old-business (or
renewal) premiums are reckoned as costing 7 per cent, to
get in, annuity business is reckoned to have cost 3 per
cent., and the balance is assumed to be the cost of the
new business. On that basis the third column shows
what the various offices are paying to get their new
business: —
Ordinary. Expense
of New
Business
Interest Expenses (p.c. of
p.c. of p.c. of New-
Funds. Income. business
£ s. d. £s. d. Premiums)
Citizens’ .. .. 4 4 10 8 1 9 60'4
Temp, and General 4 9 2 19 15 7 80’1
A.M.P 4 9 11 8 16 5 85'6
National Mutual .. 411 6 17 10 8 113'9
City Mutual ..5 6 4 22 18 2 114'4
Standard . ..4 0 7 68 17 10 133'9
Colonial Mutual .. 316 9 22 3 2 155'7
M.L.A 4 7 7 17 19 1 171'0
Widows’Fund ..4 6 1 20 13 6 181'0
Maoriland Govt. .. 4 810 12 13 2 206'2
Industrial and Mixed.
Citizens’ .. .. 4 4 10 35 4 5
Temp, and General 4 9 2 41 18 7
Standard .. .. 219 8 58 8 0
Aus. Metropolitan 219 0 57 6 2
A.M.P 4 9 11 88 14 11
But one or two things need explaining. The Citizens’, in
return for certain guarantees, pays its shareholders one-
fifth of the amount available for bonuses. For last year
that one-fifth amounted to £11,731 ; and if that is added
to the expenses, the cost in proportion to total income
would amount to £l2 os. 3d. per cent. In computing the
cost of the new' business, this shareholders’ bonus has
been added to the expenses ; and the result is the re-
markable 60 - 4 per cent, shown above. The result would
only be possible with an Industrial organisation to feed
the Ordinary branch ; and the same remark applies to the
Temperance and General. In connection with the Aus-
tralian Metropolitan there is a mortgage of £9500 on part
of the assets. Deducting the interest paid, the net in-
terest; was at the rate of £2 19s. per cent, on the book
value of the assets—which doesn’t say much for the book
value of the assets. The Standard’s Industrial balance-
sheet has a paper asset —“Business extension expenses,
£5500.” Deducting: that, the interest rate is £3 14s. 4d.
per cent, on the average funds.
The 1.0. F. Canadian assessment-insurance con-
cern, which has for some time past given up the attempt
to get new business at this end of the world, is now pro-
posing to buy out those people who were foolish enough
to become policy-holders. Tiie Bulletin doesn’t know
what the society is offering; but whatever it is it had
better be accepted, for three reasons—(l) Obviously the
society doesn’t intend to keep an office going in Australia,
and the job of pursuing the concern to Canada to collect
the money when the policy becomes a claim will be
awkward; (2) the office is run on the assessment
principle—that is to say, the premiums payable may
be put up indefinitely at any time; (3) there
is no surrender value, wherefore non-payment of pre-
miums within the prescribed time renders the policy
liable to forfeiture, and, if the concern hasn’t got an office
handy, premiums are very liable to fall into arrear. And
behind all that is the very grave doubt whether the
cheap-jack concern can pay what it has undertaken to
pay. It has said itself, in answer to criticism, that “ its
reserves are in the pockets of its policy-holders,” which is
a pretty straight admission that in order to meet its
obligations it will have to dip into its policy-holders’
pockets. It is a deplorable business altogether, and the
sooner Australia cuts its connection with it the better.
* * * *
The Mutual Loan Agency, the new scheme for
dodging the N.S. W. anti-gambling law, has hung some
frills around itself since Tiie Bulletin last mentioned it—
presumably with the object of adding a trifle to the dis-
guise. Nowadays this new thing in gambles has a Board
of directors, and is alleged to be aiming at registration
under the Companies Act. You buy a chance in the
lottery, and, under the new scheme, undertake to pay
the “ loan ” back. If, however, you haven’t got any
security, you only get £7OO out of every £lOOO lottery
prize. In any case, 10 per cent, of the prize is held “to
cover expenses.” All that you pay in for tickets -they
don’t call them tickets, because they dare not—they pro-
fess to return, only they don’t undertake to do it for
50 years, and they collar all money that lies unclaimed
for 10 years. “ The man is not yet born who can get at
the agency for a penny,” they announce. It looks highly
probable. If you pay into a lottery, or a tote, or any
other straight-out, admitted gamble, you either win or
lose. If you lose, there is an end of the matter. The
winners, on the other hand, draw the whole amount sub-
scribed less from sto 10 per cent, for expenses. They get
the full amount of their prizes whether have any security
or not. In connection with this new gamble the sub-
scribers’ money is first of all reduced by 10 per cent. Then
if you draw a prize you only get seven-tenths of it (£7OO
in'every £1000) if you haven’t got security. If you have
got £3OO worth of security you get £9OO. Then you start
paying back. If you fail in the repayments for six
months, your security can be taken. In return for all
these deductions and risks, what you get is the promise
that every subscriber will get his money back—in 50
years ! If onlv the public will bite in sufficient numbers,
and if only the" law will let the gamble go on unchecked,
the scheme will be worth more than a Mount Morgan to
the promoters. No wonder they are plastering the papers
with advts., and littering the front-gardens of the State
with handbills.
* * * *
The Australian Mutual Fire Ins. Co. (Sydney)
is to meet shortly to consider whether it shouldn’t
relieve shareholders of their present partnership liability,
and register as a limited co.
* « * *
All the fire-insurance offices are going the same
way, in England as well as in Australia and Maoriland.
The ancient Yorkshire has now become Limited. Neither
the New Zealand nor the South British had protected the
shareholders that way till the ’Frisco disaster gave too
big a hint to be disregarded; but both then acted
promptly. In Sydney only the Australian Mutual remains
virtually a partnership; elsewhere in Australia only the
Derwent and Tamar among those that do a general busi-
ness continues to be unlimited.
* * * *
S. Australia has just completed its official
reckoning of the 3907,-S wheat harvest: the yield is put at
19,098,547 bushels, or an average of 11’08 bushels per
acre. Average for seven years :
1902 .. 4-60
1903 .. 3-64
1904 .. 7-72
1905 .. 6-53
1906 .. 11-46
1907 .. 10-19
1908 .. 11-08
It is an erratic business. Still, S. Aus. has had a wonder-
ful run of good times ; for though the wheat yield got
down to 3.64 bushels in 1903, that was the drought year
when N.S.W. averaged only 1 '24, and Victoria only 1'29
bushels ; and, though the S. Australian wheat crop was
slight that season, its hay crop brought famine prices in
the eastern States. Nevertheless, in comparing the much
higher yields averaged during recent years, it has to be
remembered that the outlay is nowadays much heavier
also —partly on account of fertilisers, partly on account
of the greater labor which fertilisers and other modern
methods entail.
*' * * *
Mt. Morgan has had another very profitable year
in spite of the copper market’s nasty trick. These figures
go back to the year when copper production really
started—before that Mt. Morgan depended entirely on
its gold deposits (the co.’s year ends on May 31) :
1905. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Metal sales .. £543,867 £524,677 £932,121 £910,309
Other revenue 2,014 3,254 2,311 1,415
Total revenue £545,881 £527,931 £934,432 £911,724
The year’s £911,724 has been got rid of in this way :
Wages and contracts .. .. £363,390
Other expenses .. .. .. 284,970
Depreciation 24,195
Balance net profit 239,169
Total £911,724
And, again, of the net profit of £239,169 a total of
£175,000 was paid away in divs. during the year. This
makes the grand total paid in dividends, £7,016,666.
The past 10 years’ record has been :
1899 £350,000
1900 350,000
1901 350,000
1902 204,166
1903 '. 275,000
1904 £150,000
1905 150,000
1906 150,000
1907 162,500
1908 175,000
One shilling per share is equal to £50,000 ; therefore, the
past year’s little lot was equal to 3s. 6d. The most
gorgeous period in the history of the co. was 1889 and
1890 ; in the former year 16s. per share was paid, and in
the latter 17s. 4d. But a heap of people don’t remember
that as a gorgeous time. Twenty years ago this month
shares were sold at £l4 10s. Occasionally it is said in
print, for the encouragement of people who hesitate
to join in a boom-time gamble, that if the people
who bought at the top of the Mt. Morgan madness
had held on they would be “ square ”by this time. As a
matter of fact, the dividends paid since 1888 have totalled
only £6 13s. Bd. per share, and the present price is £3 7s-
Add those two, and you get £lO os. Sd. Obviously,
apart altogether from interest, there must be still some
people who are “out’’over Mt. Morgans; and there is
only one Mt. Morgan to pay dividends uninterruptedly for
22 years, and still have a future.
As mentioned above, Mt. Morgan’s revenue was
practically all derived from gold down to three years ago.
For the past year, in fact, the value derived from blister
copper was greater than in all the previous life of the
co.
21 years to 1907. 1908.
Gold .. . - - - £12,535,330 £359,838
Copper precipitate .. 99,410 17,617
Blister copper .. .. 505,000 532,854
Total .. .. £13,139,740 £910,309
As was pointed out when metals '.were abnormally high,
this co. didn’t take any big risks. Instead of valuing
stocks in hand at anything like market values, the
directors allowed for shrinkage. Moreover, instead of
passing their surpluses—the amounts underpaid to the
co. when the copper market was jumping up, and subse-
quently recovered —into profit and loss, the directors
turned these amounts into a contingent account. So low
were their estimates, however, that the contingent fund
is still in credit to the extent of £57,242, as against
£52,521 twelve months ago. Further, as copper stocks in
hand at the end of the year—not very large, certainly
have only been valued at £5O per ton, no serious reclama-
tions need be feared in the future.
* * * *
The record of the very much reconstructed
Chillagoe Co. (Q.) in its latest incarnation
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1906 .. £10,498 Nil £9,965 £533 £533
1907 .. 55,201 Nil 49,051 6150 6,683
Premium on new share issue, £14,750 .. 21,433
i qao (33,091 Nil 30,620 2471 23,904
19U8 .. Written off new-share premiums, £5 23,899
Of the profit for 1907, £7500 was derived from the sale of
25,000 Mungana (Chillagoe) shares at a premium ; and of
the past year’s profit, £7500 was derived from the sale of
Mungana shares, and £1250 from an option over some
more. (The co. still owns 50,000 Munganas.) This leaves
the gross profit from mining and from the railway as
follows: 1907, £47,701 ; 1908, £24,341. The debenture
interest (£24,915) is, of course, charged up to profit and
loss.
The present co. is a reconstruction of a co. (the
New Chillagoe) which was registered in 1902 ; and the
New Chillagoe .was a reconstruction of the Chillagoe
Railway and Mines, which was registered in 1898 ; and
the Chillagoe Railway and Mines was a reconstruction of
the Chillagoe Proprietary, Ltd., which was registered Jn
the early ’nineties. The present share capital is £449,578,
in 1,000,000 shares, most of them paid to 9s. and with Is.
liability. In addition to the new and special Etheridge
railway debentures (£99,300), there are £498,300 of first
mortgage debentures, redeemable in 1919. The new co.
—that is, the. present Chillagoe Co., Ltd. —also owes
£46,235 of accrued debenture interest. Nearly all of this
last is an old liability. By the terms of the prospectus
(issued May 24, 1905) the debenture-holders were to
accept deferred coupons for interest due and over-
due, amounting to about £44,847 ; also from April 1,
1905, to permanently reduce the rate of interest
to 5 per cent., unless the shareholders got Is. or
more in dividends in a year; and for three years
from April 1, 1905, the debenture holders also agreed that
their interest should be payable only out of profits. As
a matter of fact, the interest has been kept paid up
during the three years. For the future, however, the
interest liability will be cumulative ; and, moreover,
before the shareholders can get 10 per cent, in any year, the
debenture-holders have to be paid approximately another
£5OOO. It doesn’t make the outlook for the shareholders
any more cheerful.
The future lies with the railways and the cus-
tom smelting works. The history of the railway for a few
years past is as follows
Balance
Working over
Dee., ' Receipts. Expenditure. Exes.
1903 .. .. £60,300 £26,071 £34,229
1904 .. .. 50,112 21,927 28.L85
1905 .. .. 63,871 23,753 40,118
Mar.,
1906 (3 mos.) 14,503 5,777 8,726
1907 .. .. 87,628 26,475 61,153
1908 .. .. 114,840 36,847 77,993
Before charging debenture interest, the co.’s gross profit
for the year was £58,006, less £8750 from the Mungana
deals, or £49,256. On account of the railway there was a
credit balance of receipts over exes, amounting to
£77,993 ; so it appears that there was an actual loss on the
mining and smelting operations of about £30,000. From
that probably £l5OO or £2OOO ought to be deducted to
cover the proportion of management costs not charged
up with the railway working expenses.
The future cannot be judged wholly by the past.
The Etheridge extension is now being carried out, and
already the opened section is feeding the main line, and
to a small extent also the works. The line is being built
to serve mines, and, as Chillagoe’s own history shows,
mines are uncertain beasts. Also these are nearly all
industrial metal mines, and the industrial metal markets
are uncertain beasts too. The extension will add a quarter
of a million to the debenture debt; fortunately for the
co., the State guarantees 2£ per cent, of interest, but
even the balance represents another large mouth standing
wide open between profits and shareholders. If things go
as well as everybody hopes, the owner of the mouth will
more than pay for his own victuals ; but the existence of
the mouth can’t be overlooked. Whether the owner does
earn his own victuals or not, the mouth has to be fed
before the shareholders get a bite.
* * * *
The recent record of the mostly Adelaide-owned
Stannary Hills (North Queensland)
Loss. Written off. Deficit.
Mar., 1906 .. £2,156 Nil £35,755
Profit.
Sept., 1906 .. 14,850 Nil 20,905
Mar., 1907 .. 23,783. £2878
Reserves.
Sept., 1907 .. 8,710 Nil 8,710
£400,881 written off paid capital; and reserves
wiped out.
Mar., 1908 .. 47 Nil 47
This formerly ridiculously over-capitalised concern issued
458,150 £1 shares,’ and it held 191,850 in reserve ; besides,
it had £63,850 of first mortgage 6 per cent, debentures
and £7470 of 10 per cent, debentures, the results of
various attempts to raise the wind and pull through.
During the past half-year the £1 shares were
reduced to 2s. 6d., and 100,000 of the reserve shares
were issued at par, with a preference until Is. has been
paid in divs. upon them. On March 31 the co. owed,
besides the debentures, no less than £20,501 ; and on the
other side the liquid assets amounted to only £14,066,
even including “ stocks ”as an asset. The profit of £47
made in the six months is shown after paying interest on
the debenture debt; but nothing is written off for de-
preciation ; and, moreover, some of the money spent on
development has not been charged up to working
expenses. Also it appears that even the alterations to
the mill have been charged to capital account. It may
therefore be taken for granted that, for all practical
purposes, there was a considerable loss instead of a profit
during the half-year.
The manager says he feels firmly convinced that
the mines “can be worked profitably with tin in the
vicinity of £l3O per ton.” The average price for last half-
year was over £133, and there are no signs of any sub-
stantial reduction in costs. On the contrary, looking at
the mines all round, it seems certain that the tonnage
can only be maintained at an increased outlay. In sight
there are about 17,000 tons—less than nirie months’ mill
consumption. It is ingenuously stated—" Although the
estimated quantity of ore in sight is apparently low, it-
is far and away ahead of the mill’s capacity.’
Which is rubbish, unless in the opinion of this co.
it is the proper thing, for a mine to live from hand to
mouth. The truth is that the ore bodies are extremely
erratic, that some of what looked like the best of them
have been lost altogether, andthat the future is a gamble
with the chances very much against the shareholders
ever getting a shilling out of the concern. Their only
hope is that a tin boom may arrive simultaneously with
the strike of a pocket of rich ore ; and that is long odds.
* * * *
Charters Towers is rushing, things in the old
wav ’ New Brilliant Freeholds have now a market value
equal to Mills United, which has paid over £400,000 in
dividends, and is still on the list, and looks like staying
there. Brilliant Extended and Bonnie Dundee have also
had a big lift. The Bonnie is a gamble on what may
happen at the 1420 ft. level. The workings are on top of
a long rise 170 ft. above the level, and less than 100 ft.
below the Queen Central boundary. Until the shoot is
found in the deeper ground, which would provide a fair
quantity of backs, there is nothing but possibilities to
boom shares on. The intermediate level shows about
200 ft. of good stone, and it will be interesting to watch if
the Q. Central can pick up this shoot. In such a patchy


Users of steam power will be interested to
know, that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a depdt in N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having- acquired the business of J. W. Glenfield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves and water gauges,
can now be obtained in this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
HEINE
Water Tube Boilers
Made by
MARSHALL, SONS & CO.,
Gainsborough, England.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
STRAIGHT TUBES.
PERFECT CIRCULATION.
FRASER & CHALMERS, LTD., i° a “
Australian Office:
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
[i
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing'employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
than with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
*"* * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wni. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
16& Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
• * * *
A Suction Producer Gas Plant has recently
been erected at Messrs. Dorman Long’s Works, South
Melbourne. The Engine is capable of supplying 80b.h.p.,
and operates on the “Otto” cycle; ISOr.p.m. ; fitted
with most recent improvements ; two fly wheels 7ft. dia.
x llin. face and c.i. pulley 4ft. dia. x 16in. face ; exhaust
silencer ; air silencer; “ Magneto ” ignition ; with variable
timing arrangement. The Producer with Evaporator is
fitted with firebrick and non-conducting outer lining, and
self-staling doors for cleaning, feeding hopper fitted
with double closing arrangement, and hand-blower for
starting. The Scrubber is fitted with water spreader,
overflow pipes and seal pots, double doors for cleaning.
The Accumulator is of larg-e size to reduce suction on
engine and to enable it to work on varying loads. The
Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, in-
stalled this plant, and are now manufacturing these plants
complete.* [4
* ;* ' * *
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issue of
7th August, 1907, writes regarding the Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society Limited:—“lt is a go-ahead
concern : its operations are planned on a large scale ; its
connections are planted over a vast area —Australia,
New Zealand, Africa, and the British Isles. The Society
moves with the times in adapting its contracts to the
changing needs of new generations; it is progressive, up-
to-date, and in a condition of well-organised activity.”*
* * • *
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £690,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1907) £642,759.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
• * * *
Before ordering Mining Plant be sure you have
a copy of Cameron and Sutherland’s priced catalogue.
We can supply everything you want right through from
Rock Drills to Cyanide "Plant, including Reddaway’s
Camel Hair Belts, Motive Power, Lathes, Drilling
Machines, etc., forthe Engineering Department, Winding
Gear, Concentrators, etc. Address : —Cameron and
Sutherland, Svdney, Melbourne, Ballarat and Bendigo.*
*‘* * *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia forthe original “ Tknax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 621 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
# ■* » *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to .200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
•**•«■*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Montde PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
• » • •
The liquidator’s note of sale, by public auction,
of the machinery plant and stock of the Australian Forge
and Engineering Co. Proprietary, Ltd., Williamstown, has
been withdrawn, the whole of it having been sold
privately to the well-known firm of Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, ironfounder, etc., Melbourne, who has removed
everything to his engineering works, Footscray.
Machinery merchants, engineers, mining companies, and
others interested are invited to inspect this plant, which
is now offered for sale at very low prices. Detailed
catalogues are being prepared and will be posted to any
address on application to Mephan Ferguson, head office
and engineering works. Footscray. *
* * # #
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * »
In connection with the visit of the American
Fleet, engineers will be interested to note that 16 of the
vessels, including all of the Class “A” battleships, are
fitted with water-tube boilers of the Babcock and Wilcox
make. This boiler is also being extensively adopted in
the Australian Mercantile Marine, two recent orders being
the S.S. Paringa, 1500 1.H.P., and S.S. Koombaba,
4200 1.H.P., both for the Adelaide S.S. Co.’s Inter-State
trade.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents ,
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS.—Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
***■«•
To get the maximum output of good work at a
minimum cost is a vital question in the modern engineer’s
workshop—a result only to be obtained by the use of
high-class machine tools. Alf. Herbert Ltd. are specialists
in this line of machinery,‘and their capstan and turret
lathes, milling machines, etc., are now widely employed.-
They claim for their patent roller steady that it enables
bar work to be done three times as fast as by any other
machine, and the output is guaranteed of any machine
thej' recommend for a certain duty. Gibson, Battle and
Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney ; and 128 William Street,
Melbourne, are their sole agents.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohlig, Colog-ne, as
"supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY a Excavators and Dredging Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [3
neighborhood the chances are equal. A crushing is
going through the mill.
■* * * #
Mills United, Charters Towers (Q.), followed up
its Is. dividend with a yield of £12,188, including the
half-yearly clean up. Some of the large blocks of stone
in the upper levels are exhausted, and these have not
been replaced as yet by anything very good in the deep
ground, or in the so-called hanging'-wall reef, which is so
far from the main footwall level that it may be considered
a separate parallel reef. The chief features of the long
levels in Mills United are the rich zones which have been
so productive in dividends, alternating with long stretches
of barren ground ; unfortunately there is very much
more barren ground than rich zone at the deepest level.
No. 7 as it extended eastward into the N. B. Freehold
ground penetrated a rich zone—so good, in fact, that the
return shows a handsome profit on development work.
The eastern shoot of the Day Dawn has been so produc-
tive that expectations naturally run very high ; and, look-
ing at the matter from a miner’s point of view, there
seems a fair chance that the rich shoot will be picked up
m the levels above and below No. 7 (1500 ft.). Though
the deep levels in Mills United show so much blank
ground, the possibilities there have not yet been exhausted.
* * * *
The Ruby cleaned up a crushing of 290 tons for
an average of £7 11s. 2d. This may look big on a city
Stock Exchange, but it is really only just middling, con-
sidering the cost of getting the stone and the time it
takes to rake a crushing together. With three levels in
work the output should, however, increase, so the some-
what conservative management may be expected to pay a
div. before long.
* * * *
East Oriental, Gympie (Q.), has a box of speci-
mens in the office, so, in spite of the fact that it takes
£2OOO to pay a 3d. dividend, scrip is being nibbled at.
The last lot of 1350 tons averaged B£dwt. compared with
the previous lldwt. The feature about this show is the
shortness of the 2154 ft. level, the gold-bearing'slate rapidly
rising at the northern end, and sinking under foot at the
southern end. The shaft has been deepened through
conglomerate and quartz leaders, and the gold-bearing
country should soon be picked up again.
South Glanmire and Monkland, Gympie (Q.),
has intersected two reefs in its long' crosscut through
conglomerate; what is wanted now is the black slate
floors which carry the gold. Prospecting for slate floors,
sandwiched in between conglomerate, is a tedious job ;
but in this case dark plumbago spots seen in driving the
crosscut are thought to be an indication. The amalgam
returns have slightly improved, which will be comforting
to the heart that palpitates at the bare idea of a call.
* « » *
Another narrow golden streak at Ravenswood
(Q.), the Grant and Sunset Extended, is crushing 136 tons
of stone. The previous lot went £9 13s. sd. per ton.
This little show has got large ideas, and will put up a mill
of its own — an announcement that did not cheer up
shareholders so much as a dividend would have done.
• * * *
O.K. copper mine (N.Q.) is understood to be in
difficulties with Aaron Hirsch and Son, the metal buyers,
over an alleged fractured contract for the disposal of the
co.’s copper output. The Hirsches, whom F. H. Snow
represents in Australia, are a heavy weight to bump
against; and when the market compared the size of the
two, it .pulled down the shares another sixpence or so.
The claim against the co. is said to be double-barrelled :
£25,000 for money overpaid and £5OOO by way of damages.
» * * *
The interesting dispute between the reefers and
the diggers at the Oaks field (Q.) was considered by the
local Warden recently ; but his decision has not satisfied
the reefers, who say they will appeal at the next District
Court at Georgetown. Regulation 32, under the Mining
Act, allows the reefers 50 x 400 ft. ; but they compromised
by asking for 50 x 200 ft., and offered to allow the diggers
to work the alluvial on the reefing areas, subject to pay-
ment of a nominal rental in recognition of their rights to
the ground. The Warden, however, held that tog-rant an
area greater than 50 x 100 ft. (an ordinary alluvial area) for
any purpose would create a bad precedent, in view of the
fact that a small area of about a square mile was
being worked by 700 men. Apparently there are only
two reefs of any importance ; and, although the holders
of these might have genuine reefers’ claims, there could
be no present differentiation in their favor. The reefers
hold that the future of the field depends on their work,
and that to cripple them will block outside capital. It is,
however, only a matter of months before the alluvial
will be worked out, and should the reefs prove their per-
manency there will still be time for the capitalists to
come in.
* • * *
People interested in the Queensland gem indus-
try are just now very pleased with themselves over the
reception given to the stones at the London Exhibition.
The miners have been encouraged to make further effort
to get help from the Government, and this time have had
some success. An arrangement has been made by which
the Government will advance 50 per cent, of the esti-
mated value at prices ruling at the time of shipment.
The market for the stones is to be sought through the
agency of Aaron Hirsch & Son, so that the output will
find its way to Germany. For the present onlv
the better qualities will be shipped, to be followed (if
the experiment is successful) by parcels of corundum and
lower-grade material. The most valuable stones are
yellow and green sapphires ; these are said to rank with
the world’s best. The field at Anakie now supports some
350 men ; but should the new plan give the industry a
fairstart.it is expected that the number should reach
1000.
* * * *
Brisbane has been been having a very excited
share market, Charters Towers being responsible for a
large amount of business. There has been a wild rush
after Bonnie Dundees, which have sold up to 11s. 3d. Re-
ports from the mine are certainly very bright. Latest
wires state that the reef is breaking down “ full of gold.”
The lower level is expected to cut the reef in the course
of a few’ days, and this will give 180 ft. of backs to work
on.
* * * *
The Mt. Spurgeon Alluvial Tin Mining Co.,
holding a dozen leases—about 200 acres altogether—
between Mount Molloy and Port Douglas (Queensland),
has issued three reports to satisfy the public that “the
biggest tin show in Queensland ” has not yet been pro-
perly opened up. R. L. Jack had previously reported on
the property, but in Queensland now it appears to be
thought necessary to back up those reports with further
evidence. Gipps, late of Stannary Hills, speaks of con-
siderable quantities of tin, and of systematic and econom-
ical management. He estimates an average of 41b. to 51b.
per cubic yard. In one place, known as No. 1 face, the yields
run into high figures, and laterreports from the mine have
borne out these estimates. The w’ater supply is said to
be good. Manager Dickinson is an entertaining writer,
anyway ; among other things, he is of opinion that people
who talk of pumping plants, hydraulic lifts and dredges
to work the property are “ not fit to be at large.” He is,
he says, going to w’ork the show more cheaply than any
other in Australia, and volunteers the information that
the fact of his being' in charge should be sufficient
guarantee of the excellence of the property, as he has not
the intention of running “ any cronk show "and “shall
not be bought by any man.”
* * * *
Wolfram, which a while back was up to £llO a
ton, is hard to sell at £4O; and the North Queensland
getters are having a bad winter. At other times they
would go tin-scratching ; but the tin market is nearly as
sick as the other one.
» * * *
After just 18 months’ preparation, the caustic-
soda process for the separation of gold and antimony was
to have been started at the remote Mitchell River Co.’s
claim in North Queensland last week. •
Bunches of chlorides and 40 per cent, copper
ore were common enough in Broken Hill at one time.
Now Block 14 seems to have the sole right of supply. It
was remarkably good luck that Block 14, a mine which
has never been worth much as a sulphide proposition,
should have had such a rich and extensive, though
erratic, deposit of carbonate ore. This rich stuff has more
than once given the co. a bit to go on with when the
metal markets have hit other Broken Hill cos. hard.
But Block 14 hasn’t been keeping its nest-egg for hard
times, wherefore it is not yet fit to step into the ring
again with any hope of prolonged success. The
diamond-drill at the 300 ft. level caused a flutter, but
development work on the level below has so far
given no cause for jubilation. If there had been a body
of any size coming down from the 300 ft. level, the work
done below it on the 400 ft. level would have proved it
before now. At the south end of the 400 ft. level the ore
body, east of the south shaft, is also a comparatively
small bulge. The future of the mine, if it has one, lies
below the 750 ft. level, and until something more sub-
stantial than pyrites is found there, the years of Block
14’s life are more easily numbered than those of any other
mine along the line of lode.
* * * *
A change has come over the B. H. Junction
North. The reconstructed mill, which up till recently
was sickly and considerably off its feed, has fallen-to with
the voracious appetite of a convalescent, and is devouring
just about all the ore the mine can supply it with. If the
mill can maintain the pace, even at the expense of the
metal recovery, the result should be very satisfactory.
The singularly sweet returning charge which this co. has
secured from its ore-buyers isn’t going to last much
longer, though, and it is a commendable policy to make
hay while the sun shines.
The Sulphide Corporation’s Central mine,
Broken Hill, has found that the granulation zinc-concen-
trating plant has to be strained to treat all the tailings
that are daily shovelled into it from the big lead mill.
The latter has been putting through big tonnages lately,
and to cope with the altered requirements an addition to
the zinc plant is being made.
The Broken Hill mines have put off about 1100
men during the past three months. On the mines them-
selves, apart from works off the mines, 6655 were em-
ployed on June 30, 1908, as against 10,020 on June 30,
1907. At its outside works, the B. H. Prop, employs
another 1875 men—that is to say, it employs that many
men doing work which foreigners do in the case of the
South and other cos. that export their ores. And in
addition to that 1875, there are the men employed raising
coal for coke-making ; for though the B. H. Prop, makes
its own coke on the South Coast (N.S.W.), it buys its coal
from the Bellambi Co.
* * * *
Having taken the lead in shaking up and
eventually changing the management of the B. H. Junc-
tion North, shareholders on the field have now turned
their attention to the Junction. The co. has had to be
put into the pot once more, and the official proposal is
that a new co. with a calling power of 6d. a month
should be created. The B. H. shareholders want that re-
duced to 3d. ; also they want a local director, and there is
a battle raging between the two sections. The Junction
is the last of the B. H. main-line cos. to be managed from
Adelaide. Latterly, things have been going a bit better,
but the record of the past 12 years has on the whole been
very shocking. The Board says that local directors mean
friction with the manager. If the co. had been paying
regular divs. there would be some reason in fearing fric-
tion with the manager ; it would be a case when it might
be wise to leave well enough alone. But when the co.
hasn’t paid a single div. since 1897—well, probably a little
friction now and again would be an advantage.
* * 1 t «
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) is still adopting the
most extraordinary precautions to prevent either share-
holders or the public knowing any more about the mine
than the management chooses to tell them. A while ago
a visiting engineer, after travelling through S’Africa,
Westralia, and Broken Hill, furnishing the London Times
with mining information, turned up at the mine. The
Times can get into most places—but the Great Cobar isn’t
one of them. The sack awaits everybody who is sus-
pected of being friendly with anybody who might like to
know something about the mine, and generally the staff
has a feeling of insecurity. Why all the mystery nobody
knows—unless it be that the directors are laying their
plans, to counter heavily upon the London Stock Exchange
crowd which some time ago beared the stock.
» * * *
G. H. Blakemore apparently wasn’t available
for the job of reporting on the Lloyd copper mine
(N.S. W.). When the Sydney committee was appointed to
inquire whether the mine was worth spending £50,000
upon, to provide a tramway, etc., and when the question
of expert adviser was raised, his name was the first
suggested—largely on the ground that the word of the
general manager of the Great Cobar would probably have
most weight with J. Bull. Other arrangements have,
however, been completed, and J. O. Armstrong and Dr.
K. L. Jack will make the report.
* * * *
Harden (N.S.W.) should be worth watching for
a bit. The sinking of the shaft to No. 4 level has been
finished, and the crosscut was in 23 feet from the plat at
the beginning of this week. If the normal dip is main-
tained between Nos. 3 and 4 levels, the reef should be
struck about the middle of next week ; and as Nos. 3 and
4 levels are 150 feet apart (No. 4 is at 450 feet), the new
workings will practically prove a very big block of
ground, more especially as it has not been possible owing
to heavy water to do much winze-sinking below No. 3.
Judging from the reef at No. 3, no high values need,
however, be expected where the crosscut will enter the
reef.
* * * *
New Hillgrove Prop. (N.S.W.) accounts for
1907, just out from London, are no more cheerful than
was expected. v The loss for the year was, however, less
than it was for 1906. The latter year started with a
profit and loss credit of £9259 ; loss for 1906, £7059 ;
credit balance, Dec. 31, 1906, £2200 ; loss for 1907, £4820 ;
debit balance, Dec. 31, 1907, £2620. But mine develop-
ment, as well as new machinery, has been charged up to
capital account, with the result that, whereas at the end
of 1906 the co. had £8842 of cash balances, before the end
of 1907 it had been compelled to float a couple of loans.
The co., it appears, now owes £13,500 on first mortgage
in London, and £7500 on second mortgage, carrying a
very moderate 6 per cent., in Australia.
* * * *
Chairman C. A. Moreing at the Great Fingall
meeting I need not point out to you the great past
of the mine. The co. has, as you know, paid £1,612,500
in dividends up to the present time, which is equivalent
to £6 9s. on every 10s. share. We have therefore little to
complain of so far as the past is concerned, and we must
hope that in depth the mine will make again as in many
other parts of Westralia. We have an extraordinarily en-
couraging example in the case of the Great Boulder, where,
after passing through a poor zone, the bottom of the
mine is looking as well as, if not better than, ever. If this is
so in the case of the Great Boulder, there is no reason why
it should not be the case in other mines in the State.”
He ought to have added, but didn’t, that the Boulder isa
lode mine, and the Fingall a quartz mine—which makes
all the difference in the West.
* * * *
At the annual meeting in London, director
W. A. Horn talked about the value of Fingall (W.A.)
shares:—“Assuming that the managers in Westralia
could go on for another eighteen months paying dividends
at the rate of 2s. 6d. per share every quarter, shareholders
had 15s. per share in dividends to receive during- that
period. The co. has also £llB,OOO of cash in hand, in
addition to about £17,000 in Perth towards the expenses
of next month’s working. Of stores, it usually had about
£24,000 worth on the mine, and I assume that the normal
figure is being maintained. Deducting £2OOO from the
amount representing broken ore, which, I think, will be
about the mark, we have some £25,000 standing for
broken ore in thestopes, the expenses of which have been
paid. Adding all these items together, and assuming for
the moment that there will be no dividends beyond the
15s. per share to which I have alluded, we arrive at the
equivalent of 30s. per share. Yet shareholders are selling
at 205.-215,” But is the present rate of dividend to be
maintained for 18 months, or six months for that
matter? Also, can the equivalent of so much per share
be estimated, let alone counted on, before it is safe and
sound in the shareholder’s pocket? Not quite! These
credit balances have a bad habit of disappearing in the
course of attempts to find a mine in places where there
isn’t one.
■K * * *
Another danger awaits the unfortunate share-
holders of the Murchison Associated (W.A.). Hitherto
money has been wheedled out of them by yarns about
the wealth of the Fingall, in the same neighborhood-
shareholders were asked whether it was at all likely that
there was only one Fingall on the Murchison. Now
it looks as if they are about to be cajoled with tales con-
cerning the richness of Tierra del Fuego. At any rate,
the directors are now mixed up in a gold-dredging
venture in that wilderness ; and the prospectus, which
seems to have been drawn up by the same people who in-
spired boom reports about the Murchison Associated, says
that a clear annual profit of £30,000 can be made on each
dredge. As each dredge is estimated to cost £15,000 to
instal and £lOOO per year to work, it is all very gorgeous.
Also, it is all very distant.
* * * *
North White Feather Co. (W.A.)is now getting
half-ounce values at two different points in depth ; but
the shoots in this locality are admittedly treacherous and
may give out at any time.
<*-***
Has Tindal’s (W.A.) a skeleton in its cup-
board? The Melbourne office readily gives permission to
inspect the mine, but the Westralian authorities will not
exhibit assay sheets or stoping plans, so an independent
opinion of tiie property is impossible. As it is the pockets
of the public that are usually injured when too much is
taken for granted, Tindal’s had best be let alone—at least
for the time being. That advice looks all the better be-
cause a very large proportion of the issued shares are
either locked up in the office cupboard or safely nursed by
“ friends of the co.”
* * * *
Burbanks (W. A.) made a loss of £6995 on last
year’s operations. The report states that ti.ere would
have been a profit had £7231 not been written off for de-
preciation, and had the co. not spent £2557 on an option
at the Pinnacles (Broken Hill). Which recalls the alleged
Scotchman, who said he could save money but for his bills
for board and clothes. Acting on the advice of 8., M. and
Co., who boss tbe show, the directors have decided to
splash up a little money in prospecting the south end of
the mine, where the outlook in the upper levels is con-
sidered promising. As this concern has had one foot and
half of the other one in the grave for some time past, there
must be a new development to keep the tombstone-maker
at bay.
* * * *
The news of the option over the Tasman and
Crown Lyell (Tas.), by the Mount Lyell, sounded the
knell for poor old Torn Hills. The big co. is credited
with wanting the option, but there was a fair spell of
parleying by the Tasman people first. Terms are ss. 3d.
per share, or about £75,000. One Tasman estimate put
the ore in sight at £300,000. On those figures, it looks as
though Lyell stands to win. But no one is quite sure
about the ore. Further, if the ore value is there, which
has to be proved, no one can work it at a profit save the
big co. The trick of concentrating copper pyrites and
galena from the Lyell schists can be done, but only on a
commercial scale in the furnace, with suitable fluxes:
and the big co. is octopus enough to keep its grip on such
resources. So it will either play the waiting game, if it
really wants the Tasman, or it will value the show on
Sticht lines. And Sticht lines are tight lines. The same
can be said, only more so, of the Crown Lyell option.
* * » *
A good deal of groping has been done to account
for the better Lyell yield last month. The explanation is
to be found in high-grade ore which came from the 850 ft.
level.
* * * «
Shareholders in Cathcart (Vic.) are having a
heap of excitement for their money. The shares are
dancing on the market, mainly as hopes and fears prevail
with regard to the security of the new level. If that can
be kept open, the mine has many possibilities ; but one
section of the market remembers that crushing ground
has always been a characteristic of the Cathcart.
« * * m
“Engineer”: The Iron and Steel Metal Recovery
Co., which was going to show Krupp’s and Carnegie’s
how antiquated their methods are, seems to be shrivel-
ling up ; shares are now available at £5 15s. —and there
are people who gave up to £3O for them on the strength
of reported offers received for the purchase of the patent
rights in America and elsewhere. These purchasers, who
presumably have lodged large cash deposits for
options, seem to have vanished ; but still the co.
should have accumulated a large sum in forfeits, as the
number of options granted appeared to be innumerable.
Four or five years ago, when shares were being first got
olf, “startling and wonderful” experiments were ex-
hibited to show how valuable was the newly-invented
“direct process” of producing finest quality steel from
crude ore. The experiments consisted of mixing iron
sands —i.e., oxide of iron—with a certain proportion of
aluminium turnings. The mixture was placed in a
crucible and a magnesium taper inserted. A match was
then applied to the taper, and from the mixture of cold
and apparently unburnable constituents a small quantity
of molten iron was produced. This was most wonderful
and astonishing to the would-be shareholders, who did
not know it was no more wonderful than, and certainly
not as useful as, the burning of a wax-match. The Wes-
tern district squatters and others did not recognise that
it was merely the oxygen in the iron sand combining
with the aluminium, and leaving the iron in its metallic
state; nor did they trouble to find out the cost of the
aluminium necessary. Soon that process was dropped,
and a small experimental plant, which is merely a com-
bination of the ordinary reduction processes, has been
erected. And Krupp and Carnegie, to whom this com-
bination was available long ago, still go along in the old
way.
• * * *
The Dick family has been fighting over the
estate in the Scotch courts, and has at last been finally
beaten in the House of Lords. Old James Dick, the
Balata belting man, made a very lucky hit in the Broken
Hill Prop., and that led him into various Australian
mines. Among others he held the Mitchell’s Creek
(N.S.W.), and the biggest interest in the Scottish Gympie
(Q.). Just about the time he died Scottish Gympie got
into clover, and since then the estate has had over
£140,000 in divs. front the co. Besides, the value of the
shares has enormously increased. Old James Dick gave
the residue of his estate to Scotch charities, but largely
on account of the Scottish Gympie bonanza the residue
ran to about half a million ; and the family couldn’t see
all that go without a fight. So an action was brought to
upset the will on the ground of “ uncertainty ’’; but the
courts, right up to the House of Lords, couldn’t swallow
the plea.
* * * *
Most of the pig-iron now used in making cast-
ings at Walkers Limited, Maryborough (Q.), is got from
Lithgow (N.S.W.). The balance is Scottish, which,
although somewhat cleaner, is, according to W. F. Har-
rington, manager of Walkers, much inferior to the Lith-
gow article in toughness.
■***■*
The Carmichael-Bradiord desulphurising pro-
cess —an Australian invention which has had to knock
under for the past seven years'to the imported Hunting-
don-Heberlein process—has g-ot new hope. At one time
the eo. which owns it was on the point of throwing up its
hand ; but the co. is considerably Scotch, and so decided
to hang on. Now general-manager Delprat, of the
Broken Hill Prop., has seen virtues in the process
hitherto apparently unsuspected, and the big co. has
taken it in hand, and given’ it the lift of its life. The
object of the process is the big one of converting sulphides
into an oxidised smelting ore.
■+ •* U


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
12s. 6d. per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
TUesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the
cause. Used the world over to cure a cold in one
day. E. W. GROVE’S signature on box. Is. l^d.
Not a minute should be lost when a child
shows symptoms of croup. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy given as soon as the child becomes hoarse,
or even after the croupy cough appears, will pre-
vent the attack,*
EDUCATION BY POST,
—The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
LIFE’S TRAGEDY.
He has not missed a day from school since December,
1904. He is one of a family noted for regular attendance.
One of his brothers attended eight years without missing
a day, and two others have attended six years without a
break. Another member of the family attended three
years continuously. Another little girl in the first class
has been present one year without missing a day. This
is claimed to be a record family attendance in Victoria.—
Daily Paper.
CHAMPION SCHOOL ATTENDANT (to inspector):
“No, sir, it ain’t becos I’m fond o’ teamin’.”
(Pause — sigh.) “ I'ave a un' appy ’ome!”
“Paq”: Have often speculated about
“ Jimmie Pannikin’s” age. Sometimes I pictured
him a bright, gay schoolboy; again, the virile
mendacity of his pars told me he was one in the
prime of imaginative intellect; anon he would
appeal to me as an oldster. In a recent Bulletin I
got a valuable clue. James here gives an account of
an old man chasing Time round a bush pub. He
witnessed the episode, he remarks, during his
wanderings on the Warrego. When I was a very
small boy (I am now 64) a bullocky told me about
that old main The bullocky is dead. He died
of old age about 20 years ago. By my computa-
tion, James is somewhere in the late nineties.
He is indeed a marvellous old fellow.
* * * *
“Cross Nibs ” on deranged bush citizens :
Have collided with various individuals who possessed
defective thinking goods. ’Twas adjacent to the back-
yard of Wanaaring- (N.S.W.) on that unrighteous route
styled the Racecourse, when I cantered into a tan-tinted
wanderer with a swagload of discharged milk and jam
tins. Inquired the reason of transportation. Eyeing me
menacingly, he snarled, “ Wod’ger think ? Gome ’n’
arsk me when th’ big drought blazes in nex’ yare. Oh,
I’ll be sellin’ storm juice t’ y’r then f’r a quid a pot. Until
th’ time comes, I’m usin’ ’em f’r literachure. Y’r c’n read
’em ev’ry time if you’ve ’ad a plain, thripenny edjoooa-
shun.” A month later I camped beside a queer-head
curio on the Hungerford road. He treasured an old
water-bag stuffed with sanded discs detached from match-
boxes. He informed me that he supplied material at
lowest market rates to the honorable Society of Horn-
polishers. I endeavored to explain a method by which
he could dispose of the stock expeditiously, and also gain
renown. It was to affix one disc to each door of an ant’s
residence, and thus prevent them from trespassing upon
torpid travellers. He introduced a butcher’s knife into
the conversation, and I propelled my boots (with myself
aboard) towards the widest vegetable in the vicinity.
Before I came east I encountered still another irrational
itinerant, who accosted me and murmured mirthfully,
“ How do? Y’r Mr. Work, alias Toil, alias Graft, I pre-
soorn?” “Sorry to say it’s Judkins,” I answered.
Sidling up to me in a coy manner, he whispered, “ Ain’t
it beastly scand’lous th’ way ’e keeps out uv me sight ?
I’ve bin lookin’ f’r ’im ’arf me fretful life. Blokes are
alwuz askin’ me why don’t I git ’im.” He then moved
into the scrub, accompanied by a swarm of flies that
hummed horribly round his hat.
From Perth (W. A.) is wired to the Age the
sad story of a Blackwood farmer’s grievance. The
most distressful agriculturist has been bereft of
26 head of dairy cattle. The cows died after
eating some dynamite they found in a hollow log
where it was hidden by a party of prospectors.
The Argus of the same date contains quite
another story of misfortune befalling the same
hapless tiller. Under two black headlines it
describes the discovery of his young bull, “ dead,
disembowelled, and mutilated.” “From the
nature of the injuries,” says the Argus, “it was
apparent that dynamite had been used.” Possibly
the yarn, like the bull, got mutilated in trans-
mission, but The Bulletin prefers to believe
that the bull also dined on dynamite, and then
rushed a gum tree, and passed out in a blaze of
glory. His fate is really a great lesson against
taking violent exercise on a full stomach.
* * * *
From “ Henry Phelthatt ” :
An old pensioner hereabouts received a sudden call,
and was buried in the local cemetery. Next day his horse,
who wasn’t a pensioner (he was old enough, too), was
seen looking over the fence. Nothing could induce him
to leave. There was a great sadness in his eye, and a
tired-of-life appearance on his countenance, as though he
too was expecting a call from somewhere. All that I
had heard of equine sagacity previous to death occurred
to me. His apparent devotion to his dead master was
pathetic.
A few days later I went up to see whether he had
accomplished his object. He had ; only it wasn’t quite
the same object. The old emaciation had contrived a
way through the rabbit-proof fence, and I found him
lying full stretch on the newly-dug earth of his master's
grave. The grief and sadness had taken their departure
from his still features. His eyes were closed as
though in sleep. He had chosen his resting place.
At last he was happy. I gave him a friendly
kick of sympathy, such as a man bestows on a
dead horse. But in this case the kick was previous. He
jumped up with more alacrity than he had ever before
been guilty of, snorted, stood on his front legs, and
galloped off to the other side of the enclosure. I got him
out after much profanity. Since then we have had to
run a barbed wire round the fence to keep the old rogue
away from the grave.
I forgot to mention that there was feed 2ft. tall in the
cemetery. Without wishing to dispute the eccentricity
of any dying horse, I verily believe that the animal is not
so desirous of chucking the seven as of arousing sym-
pathy on the off chance of getting a rectangular feed.
* * ■* *
Mr. George Suttor, of Bathurst, a member
of great Suttor clan, says that Bathurst burrs
were first brought to Australia from Valparaiso in
the tails of horses. If that be so, these South
American tails must have shed seeds or burrs in
other places as well. Probably, though, the burr
isn’t named because it made its first appearance in
Bathurst, but because that misguided town was
the first place to actually cultivate the pest as a
beautiful addition to the local herbage. People
still point out the spot where the first burr garden
was laid out in Bathurst. The garden perished
under a storm of curses, and the Black Bull Inn
was built on the site to hold the curse down. But
it was impossible to put a heavy public-house on
the top of every burr in Australia, so the vege-
table just went and flourished elsewhere.
* * * *
“ Kodak ” discourses upon a Cow
When a cow wants to hit things up and be hilarious
generally it eats a door knob or lunches on the steel part
of a corset. A depraved cow never takes to drink—it
takes to metal. It absorbs jagged, indigestible articles
such as chisels and pins until its interior economy is too
punctured to continue, and then it lies down in front of
its indignant proprietor and perishes horribly. When it
has given its last delighted kick and thrown off the
burthen of the milk-can for ever, a tearful and infuriated
man hacks it open with a blunt knife and peers into its
inmost recesses in search of an explanation. (The interior
of a dead cow, seen by candlelight, is a fearful place. The
interior of a live cow must, I think, present a more orderly-
appearance—must look better arranged, and so forth. If
the inside of a live cow does resemble the interior of a
dead one, all I can say is that the cow is a smart animal
to be able to get along as well as she does without an
engine-room telegraph.) After the hysterical farmer has
groped and prodded amongst the ruins half the night
and explored the highways and byways, and cast many
dismal organs in a heap, and felled his faithful hound
with the liver, he usually happens on a hatpin embedded
in the dead animal’s heart. With a bellow of fury he
seizes the damning evidence and rushes back to the house
with a flaring candle held on high in one hand and the
most vital part of his cow swinging shamelessly in the
other. Bursting into the kitchen where the womenfolk are
engaged washing up, he dashes down the mass of tragedy
on the table and howls at them, ordering them in future
to go about with their hair tied up with binder twine,
and to support their figures with their spines, as Pro-
vidence intended they should. Then he rushes out again,
dragging his awful relic with him, and breathing rash
threats about burning all the corsets and combs and
d —-d women’s harness he can find. However, Pro-
vidence, or the thought of what a new lot will cost, stays
his hand, and instead he goes into the night with his
dreadful souvenir and starts to assemble his cow for its
obsequies. Thereafter he may be descried, a haggard
figure in the flamelight, heaping wood on the funeral
pyre and casting cow into the furnace.
A DENTAL IRONY.
“ But you say you're hungry now. Where did
all your money go to so quickly?”
“Me teeth, mum! They gave way, and I ’ad to
get ’em gold-stopped .”
“ The Prooshan ” : Until quite recently I
imagined that no animal in the Australian bush
would condescend to eat' the flesh of the fox. I
had seen a skinned carcase remain untouched by
bird or beast till the thing had rotted away, and,
on the evidence of scores of bushmen, I would
have bet solidly on the point. But one day last
week I found the theory badly bust up. Out at
Calafat, near Adelong (N.S.W.), a large fox lay
with both hams partially devoured. I am inclined to
believe that Mr. Gohanna, who abounds in the
locality, was the culprit. After this, lam pre-
pared to accept the hitherto unproven statement
that commercial travellers have been eaten by
cannibals in the Pacific Islands.
* * * *
“ The Prooshan ” : On behalf of afflicted
cow owners I wish to ask science, the Government,
or a policeman when a man may feed his kine
safely on spotted thistle or on sorghum. I want to
be told at what stage in their growth these plants
are certain death to cattle. I have known thou-
sands to eat the crop for months without injury,
and then in one night, or day, I have seen
hundreds die. In Gundagai (N.S.W.)some
years ago no less than 300 died out of a mob
of a thousand. At Windowie, near Tumut,
Mr. Richards lost 19 fine milkers that had
eaten thistles cut down a couple of days
previously. At Yellowin, on the Tumut
River, 20 cows broke into a sorghum
patch and gorged for some hours with-
out injurious effect; but out of six
milkers that got into the same patch
two weeks later for 20 minutes, only
one survived. Some declare the
deadly ingredient is prussic acid. If
so, and either Premier Wade or the
policeman knows the secret, every stock-
owner in the State should be told of
the best way to cope with the trouble.
It’s no joke to lose good milkers after nursing
them through a drought.
“Caber” : The honor of introducing the
yellow agony into Queensland rests with Arthur
Hodgson, of Eton Vale. A batch of Chinkies
was landed at the station to do the shepherding,
The date was somewhere in the mid ’forties. Two
of the heathens were allotted to each out-station—
one as shepherd, the other as hutkeeper. This
allotment absorbed 22 out of the 40 imported. The
system worked a week—then it went to pieces,
John, individually and collectively, had received
warning about the ferocity of the “myall” and
his extraordinary appetite, though the fact was
that the Darling Downs abo. was about as
truculent as a doe rabbit. Moreover, even
the Palmer River black subsequently turned
his nose up at Chinaman what time the
lordly native used to spear every other sort
of human he could drop across. But the Eton
Vale Chow lived in hourly terror, and prayed
to his joss when he was not chasing jumbucks or
burning johnnycakes. The climax arrived sud-
denlv on the sixth night. Just as the two
Chinkies at the sheep station at the head of the
Emu and Mia Mia Creeks had finished prancing
round their graven image, three Helidon blacks,
each clad in two spears and a nullah, presented
themselves at the door of the hut. There was' a
double yell of agonised terror and two Chinamen
had dashed out a sheet ot strmgybark from the
rear of the hut, and were tearing down the Emu
Creek, yelling like demons. Two days after there
wasn’t a Chinaman on the station, and when the
overseer went round he let out eleven flocks of
u , c ,it •„ i TI , , „„
starving sheep from their stake-and-wattle en-
closures.
“Edyson ” : Last night I saw Mrs. Jimmy
Ellis take Ellis home. Ellis was on the
land about two miles out, and he had been
into the railway with eggs. Before
leaving for home it occurred to him
that, as his promise to his wife
merely bound him not to get
drunk, he might as well have
one drink. He had one drink,
then another; then tossed
himself double or quits, and
had two more. There fol-
lowed a fifth with supple-
ments, and when Ma Ellis
came to look for him he
was in no condition to
listen to argument or to
bow to authority. Mrs.
Ellis fought Ellis and
abused the publican, but
she had to depart with-
out her prey. An hour
later she returned and
had another dispute
and a further struggle
with Jimmy, but James
hung to the counter
and won. Ma Ellis
retired annoyed. She
darted in at a favor-
able moment a few
minutes later, hooked a
snagging tackle into
Ellis’s broad belt, and
squealed, “Gee up,
Tommy ! Gee ! ” The
strain came suddenly.
Fora couple of seconds
Ellis clung to the coun-
ter, then Burns’ pub
fixtures came over on
top of him. Jimmy
was hauled from under,
and went contorting
over the bar floor,
clinging to the splint-
ers, and was plucked
into the street. When
Burns and his custom-
ers ran out to investi-
gate, they saw Ellis,
tearing up the weeds
and cursing profusely,
being dragged along the
grass-grown footpath at the
heels of his dray - horse,
Cooper, which was led by his
son, Tom, while Mrs, Ellis
strode at the tail of the pro-
cession. There was no arguing
against tactics like these, and the
publican gave up all thought of re-
capturing Ellis.
“W.J.A.”: Allow me to pulverise
“ W.H.M.” (B. 11/6/’08), who carps at my codfish
yarn. (1) The top lip of a Warrego codfish, prob-
ably 100 years old and 80 or 901 b. in weight, is not
soft. On the contrary, it is tough as the hide of a
successful bagman. (2) “W.H.M.’’ is right in
saying that “ tethered fish will waste and die”—
but he forgot to add “if they are not fed.”
Tethered fish, for obvious reasons, cannot feed
themselves, nor did I allege they could. The big
Warrego cod I wrote of was hauled up and
crammed with frogs, grasshoppers, beetles, spi-
ders, etc., by us, his human well-wishers on the
bank. Under this kindly treatment he throve as
any other fish would. Indeed, had it not been
for his extreme old age and his impaired digestive
fixings, we would have kept his body and soul to-
gether indefinitely. “ W.H.M.” needs, if I may
say so, a little of that quality of simple faith in
regard to matters he reeks' not of, lacking which
a man is a tribulation and a nuisance to all around
him.
THE STORY OF MOSES AND
THE BULL RUSHES!
Dunk Island, which lies off the north-east
coast of Queensland, 24 miles south of Geraldton,
is noteworthy from the fact that it has made
several original contributions to natural science.
These include the umbrella tree, the white-eared
flycatcher (the eggs of which are still unknown to
ornithologists), a peculiar land shell, a large spider
which spins a golden-colored web, and Papilio
Ulysses, a very large and gorgeous butterfly (all
of these were specified by M'Gillivray in 1848),
two orchids (subsequently described by botanist
E. M. Bailey), and a russet-brown fruit rat. Dunk
Island was discovered by Captain Cook on June
8, 1770, and named by him after John Montague
Dunk, Earl of Sandwich. It was after him, also,
that Cook named the Sandwich Islands. This
Dunk, Earl of Sandwich, was a somebody of
Cook’s day, and his name is immortalised also by
a slice of meat shoved in between two slices of
bread, for the manufacture of which food he is
said to have held the original patent. All of
which suggests, Shakspeare notwithstanding, that
a sandwich by any other name, especially if that
name were would not taste the same.
NANCY BROWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Cholmondeley, he was city-bred,
Yes, as anyone could see,
Just as plain as plain can he,
By- the way he poised his head
And the clever things he said.
By his condescending speech
And his Piccadilly gait ;
By his clothes immaculate,
And the coats that used to screech—
So extremely loud was each !
By 7 the beauty of his boots,
And the way he brushed his hair
(It was quite beyond compare !) —
Just the manner .that imputes
Heavy Stock Exchange pursuits.
By his air of lordly ease ;
By 7 his gentlemanly “ haw,”
And his soft beglovcd paw ;
By his unbagged trouser-knees—
And by other things than these.
Nancy Brown was country-bred,
Aye, as anyone could see,
Just as plainly as could be,
By the modest things she said,
And her freckled cheeks and red.
By her captivating grin ;
By her brother’s blucher boots,
And her father’s cast-off suits
That you’d always find her in
When the milking would begin.
By the way her masculine
Bush admirers used to wait
For a chance to osculate,
And for any trifling sign
Of her favors feminine.
But they married in the Spring—
Yes, that city swell and she,
And by day and night you’ll see
(Quite a melancholy thing !)
All her lovers sorrowing.
For they never had a chance
With that gilded city beau,
With his “ haw ” and “ don’t-cher-know,”
And his air of fond romance
Blent with time and circumstance.
So they vanished yester-year,
And she’s living now in town,
Mrs. Cholmondeley (one-time Brown),
Friend of Travers and de Vere —
And forgetting us, I fear.
And that is the tale of woe
That I started out to tell
Of that Piccadilly swell
And the girl we used to know—
Yea, and courted long ago.
N. S. W.
GILROONEY.


Taßen Hot witK Lemon at Bedtime
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
CURES COLDS.
Exquisite Diamonds with
Choice Pearl, £l2/12/-
Fine Gold, set with exquisite
Diamonds and Emerald,
30 guineas.
Ring MaKers,
Gem Buyers,
Ring Setters.
We Buy the Gems in the rough.
We Out them.
We Make the Rings.
We Mount them.
We Set them.
No intermediate profits anywhere en-
ables us to claim to be the Lowest House
in Australia for high-grade Rings.
In Fine Gold, with Tourmalines and
Diamonds, £9/9/-
FAIRFAX ROBERTS,
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER. STREET.
“ Walilia ” : Re “ Reka, ” in a recent
Bulletin, and his Maori “Taihoa” for a many
horse-power, time-wasting word. I enter “Sora”
and “Dohore,” the Papuan equivalents to above.
With these two words, the average Papuan will
make any European’s blood boil, and strong lan-
guage flow more often than by any other mule-
like trick he can invent. I have seen a learned
and pious bishop threaten homicide to a native,
who met all his directions with the above. It is
strange how all colored races have a universal
word that can mean any degree of procrastination.
* * * *
“G. Hard”: “ W.H.M.” (B. 11/6/’08)
discourses on the Murray cod with the knowledge
and assurance of an old and experienced tailor or
balloonist. “You cannot,” he says, “ tether a
cod by its top-lip, which is soft.” Rats! I
have tethered hundreds of Murray’s big perch by
top and bottom lip indifferently. Also, have
kept them on the tether for weeks, and fully be-
lieve they might be detained till Doomsday if the
tether would last. The “cod” is not a fighting
fish. When he finds lie’s fast he waits patiently
for the silken bonds to part by effluxion of time.
A cod only backs on the halter when the water-
rats attack the other end of him.
SOCIETY ITEM.
We give a view of the 'picturesque residence of
the Mayor of Billygoat Flat. In the immediate
foreground is a portrait of his Worship. The
artist has been very happy in this likeness; the
expression of modesty so characteristie of Billy-
goat Flat’s chief Magistrate is a salient feature.
The boy on the Billy is the Mayor’s little son
Willie. (The picture is reproduced by kind per-
mission of his Worship.)
“ Spectator ” : Ever notice how foxes kill
lambs? They do it literally by kindness. The
Australian Reynard is a playful animal, and out
of sheer light-heartedness will start gambolling
with a newly-born lamb. The latter likes a romp
just as much as Br’er Fox does. In the course of
its romp it gets hopelessly separated from its dam,
and dies from want of nourishment. The dingo
kills differently. He just wades in and tears the
lamb to pieces.
SOUND ADVICE.
“ See here, Dinny, me b'y, if iver y ’ walk pasht a horse at close quarthers, yo ayther in front
av him or behind him. Fur if y’ yo in front av him he can’t kick y' an ’ if y’ yo
behint him he can’t bite y'”
“ Elmore” : In all the wild, whirling in-
sults that have been levelled at the wombat in
regard to his dwelling-places, I have seen no credit
given him for one admirable asset, viz., his fur.
Someday the merits of the despised “hatter’s ”
hide will become known, and in that day Australia
will arise and tear the contemned one’s rind front
him in great quantities and thereafter tan it. And
when the years and the locusts and the weevils
and the moths have eaten the fur of the ’Roo and
the ’Possum, the indestructible wombat hide will
be still in the first flush of its youth.
“The Prooshan ” : He wombat as a
cursed nuisance to ground-sluicers in the matter
of boring subaqueously, and causing loss of water
from races. I say emphatically he is a bosker
curse, and I live among dozens pf old sluicers who
can verify my statement, should any doubting
Thomases require it. I don’t say he bores,under
races out of cussedness, or to induce leaks into his
cabin ; he just tunnels in anywhere, like the
darned idiot he is, and often succeeds in under-
mining the watercourse; and, when his camp
springs the leak, he climbs out and probably
works in under the same race 50yds. further along.
While on race pests, I might say that in-long
head races the crab is the real trouble. In,gullies
he abounds in thousands, and tunnels in from the
lower side of the race till he reaches the water.
His hole is as thick as a man’s wrist, and leads to
a heavy loss of water. Miners are obliged to line
the sides? of the race with sheets of bark, staked
before and well-tamped behind, in order to baulk
the anxious and inquiring crustacean.
“Sacred. Ibis” Meston has fitted out
the Queensland Rugby Union football team with
an aboriginal war-cry, which was used for the
first time in the second match against N.S.W. at
Brisbane. Previously Bananaland ball-kickers
had an apology for a war-cry in the form of a
dreary tale about “ Woolloongabba, ’Gabba,
’Gabba.” The new article begins with a dance,
accompanied by a high-pitched, vibratory chant.
These goods are used by Binghi, both in war and cor-
roborees, and are intended to excite the performer.
They are followed by a second dance to a deep
sonorous chant which represents defiance. This is
succeeded by the loud yells of two male black
cockatoos engaged in an argument. More shouts
of defiance ensue, and the finale is a challenge to
fight. Then the exhausted team, having used up
all its wind, starts to play hoofball.
* * » *
“Pocket” : “Kapai te Tuna” (B. 18/6/’08)
doesn’t appeal to me as an eel authority, despite
his ornate name. Have often seen eels climb a
gentle slope to reach the nearest water in prefer-
ence to going down hill on account of the greater
distance, although the rejected water was in full
view. They can’t stand hanging, and will die if
left in that position for a few hours. But they
will crawl all night over the dry boards of an
empty room, and emerge fresh and lively next
morning. On a dusty road, early one morning, a
friend and I saw what we imagined, was a track
made by a trailing rope. Further on it dipped
into a small waterhole by the roadside, and ended
there. We got a bucket; we bailed for five
minutes, and unwatered a four-pound tuna, alive
but unhappy.
“ Vigilans” : I have been vagabonding in
the Maranoa (Queensland) district recently, and
am writing about what I have seen. The prickly
pear in this district has made enormous strides
during the past few years. Huge tracts of coun-
try, once under sheep, are now abandoned and
useless. I have ridden through the pear curse for
40 miles, along a track with the curse each side of
me so thick that nothing could penetrate the
curse. One man told me it cost him £5O to clear
five acres; another that it cost him £6O for seven
acres ; and another £lOO for nine acres. “ What’s
the good, ” they say, * ‘ of clearing the land when the
Government doesn’ttakeahand? There’saNoxious
Weeds Act, but that’s a farce when you protect
emus, which spread noxious weeds right and left
all over the country.” Runs have been given up
as hopeless for stock owing to the prickly an-
athema. Right down the line from Roma to
Dalby pear is seen all the way, sometimes 10ft.
high, and you can almost hear it curse. Some
stringent legislation is required, otherwise in a
few years the whole Queensland public debt will
have to be spent to keep the cactus under. No
one could credit how it has increased during the
past eight years.
“ Edyson ” ; “What I sez is, there’s a
somethin’ in the tide of life which, if taken et th’
flood, leads on to fortune,” said the poultry dealer.
The housewife had purchased a brace of ducks on
condition that he plucked them, and the vendor
dug up feathers as he talked. “FT instance, I
s’pose yeh never ’eard ’ow I got my start. Never
’eard o’ my famous flock o’ wooden-legged turkeys ?
Well, they was a mortal fact. Twenty-five one-
legged turkeys I begun with, ’n’ this is ’ow. I
was a rabbiter then. Had me waggon ’n’ ’orse,
’n’ went trappin’ in th’ bush. One day I camped
outsider Maconochie’s. Maconochie was worried
with rabbits, ’n’ offered me a bonus. Second
mornin’ when I woke I hears a ’ell iv a ’ulla-
balloo over ’mong th’ traps, ’n* no wonder. Cos
why—-Maconochie kep’ turkeys, ’ole droves iv ’em,
’n’ them gobblers ’ad got among my traps. There
were (26 full-grown, able-bodied turkeys raisin’
Cain. Every turkey ’ad a broken leg. I can see
Mac jumpin’ up ’n’ down, ’n’ goin’ on blas-
phemous, ’n’ t’ pacify him I offers him a bob
apiece fer his lame turkeys. He took it. I am-
putates thi cripples, an’ bandages them, an’ beds
’em down in th’ waggon. When I gets ’em ’ome
’ere in Footscray I straps a little wooden leg onter
each turkey,'■’n’ turns ’em loose. Well, s’elp me,
you never saw nothin’ so dash ridiclus ez them
26 birds, tryin’ t’ walk wooden-legged. They
sprawled all oyer th’ place, ’n’ squawked, ’n’
argued, V flopped. Foolish ! S’truth, me
’n’ th’ missus ’ad t’ lay down t’ larf. But blesh
yeh, th’ turkey’s a hard bird, ’n’ a-knowin’. They
went on practisin’, ’n’ presently was ez much at
’ome on timber ez on their original leg. I on’y
lost one bird. I fattened ’em fer Christmas, ’n*
then orked them, ’n’forked in ten bob a bird.
Since then I ain’t looked back. Them turkeys
was a gift t’ me, what yeh might call a wooden
legacy.” And the poultry vendor laughed hugely
at his own pretty wit.
THE SETTLERS’ CLOCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the tale of a take-me-down
That chanced long; ago in an infant town
On the bank of the Richmond River —
When I was eleven or thereabouts,
And sports were held by the country louts,
By squatters’ sons and their rouseabouts,
And many a cheerful giver.
There men competed, on sprinting tracks,
With buckets of water or tied in sacks,
And some with their legs together ;
They’d Old Aunt Sally, with pipe and wig,
The Highland fling and the Irish jig,
The slippery pole and the greasy pig,
And throwing the ball of leather.
Then entries were called for “ The Settlers’ Clock ” ;
’Twas under a case on a bloodwood block,
And had to be found blindfolded.
I entered in haste—there was naught to pay—
Determined to carry that prize away,
If I fell in the river or groped all day,
And got me severely scolded.
They covered my eyes and they spun me round,
They gave me a stick to explore the ground,
And started me off elated.
The crowd came after to joke and scoff;
They shouted “Come here,” and they yelled “ Gee off !
But I steered unheeding for Regan’s cough,
Which was by the goal located.
I struck it at last—O, I was proud !
The happiest mortal in all the crowd
That towered and clamored o’er me.
I hoisted the bandage above my eyes,
I lifted the box to inspect my prize,
Then staggered back at the mocking cries,
And stared at the thing before me.
It started to strike as the people roared—-
A roar that echoed and spread and soared,
Till heard on the Murra Murra ;
It laughed “ Ha-ha !” and it laughed “Ho r ho ! ”
It cackled aloud, and it cackled low—
For “ The Settlers' Clock,” as the settlers know,
Was only a kookaburra.
N - s - w -
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) to ill be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
takenre contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
F.B.S. : Hopelessly conventional and senti-
mental Jack Kent: The material is good enough, but
the style is too stiff and stodgy... .E.S.S. : Don’t much
care for “Here and There,” and “Captain Caddow”
is prolix and straggly Tim Tingles: Very thin
humor... P.L.V. : Sketch pretty, but feeble; verses
feeble without being pretty Bobin Boy: The only
apparent reason for the story is the mock description of
the concert—and that’s a failure ! Lof: You have a
story to tell, but a sadly-discursive way of telling it....
M.J.M. : Clever and clean-cut, but too gruesome. No ;
we don’t insist on typing. Your very legible “fist” is
good enough, anyhow'....Harry Mace: You are “only
19 years old.” Well, we’ll excuse you Izzy : Your verses
are in perfectly beautiful hand-writing... .T.W. : All big
book shops stock handbooks with arguments, pro and
con. on such subjects.. . .E.B.S. : Letters of protest end-
ing “with hopes that an abler pen than mine will take
this matter up” are taken outside and dynamited....
Langouste : “ Lounge Chair ” is gone in the legs, and the
back is insecure.. .'.Clancy : It is fair verse —not very
bad, and not very good, just dreadfully medium—Voxi:
“Deserted House” doesn’t seem to be about anything in
particular—just a general eeriness and wind-moaning
and yelp of ghosts... .1.M.D.: No, the “ Converted Pup”
didn’t get in. It barks in outer darkness... .Thorold
H. : Begret have no use for “Ave Atque Vale.” It is a
prett3 r little thing, but it doesn’t arrive anywhere. And
“Blazing Gulch,” with the shooting, and the man
called Bunk, and the other man called Hank, isn’t Aus-
tralian ; it’s second-hand American. What does Hank
stand for, anyhow?... J.T.M. : Begret hardly suitable.
Many thanks for letter.. .B.W.T. : Words, words, words...
Waukaroo: “Happy” nearly pulled through Mt.
Gambier : Of the Canadian provinces New Brunswick,
Ontario, Manitoba, British Columbia, Prince Edward
Island, Alberta and Saskatchewan have each only one
Chamber.. ..H.J.L. : “Our Gods” rejected after a heap
of lingering consideration L. Lee: “The Gong”
tottered three times in the ba'ance and then perished.
The effort to rhyme “ twisting ” with “ shifting ” settled
it... .T. W.P. : “Son of a King” has some fairly good
verses, but two bad ones (the last one is the worst)
started it down the back track to Sheol. „. .Loco : Begret
to say “The Tame Alligator” crawled into the waste
paper basket when we weren’t looking. And we had
chained him up in the cashier’s office for payment, t 00...
A. Crampton : Considerable poetic thought, but the form
of all three is too rough. Also, your imagery isn’t
always happy, as, for instance, “ Day’s fingers of pink and
red.”.... Waldaira : Complaint re a drowned darkie, who
was buried in a sack instead of in acoffin, hardly worth so
many bitter words. ..Bosslyn (M.L.): Pleasant, but thin...
G. 8.8.: Under the now-defunct N.S.W. Act, the unions
could recover contributions in arrear —a clause, by the
way, that was put in for the protection of the employers,
in order to make awards effective.. .J.W.B. : Gladly
decline the cheerful poem beginning—
In agony a lady lay
A sufferer from cancer.
....Izzy: “Beer” on the flat side Brooklet: Yes, a
very thin little stream W. Bock : Pretty good ;
another pound or so of steam-pressure, and it would
have got in M. A. Deacon : Ditto Beka : Bright in
spots, but the place is off our beat Ooks: Only
good thing we can say about it is that some of the lines
rhyme W.G.L. : Doesn’t score J.P.H. : Very poor,
lame stuff. Consider these two lines—
Beautiful forms and features, creatures divine—
A toast to our girls and our bright sunshine.
... .Bay Boult (or something like that), Auckland : Please
send a more precise address E. 0.8. : Verse bumps too
dreadfully—and subject worn Out, anyway Penara :
Purposeless, and rather lazy Batcher: “Shale” reads
over-strained G. McH. : Accept your assurance that
the “Not Football ” sketch is original. Let us add that
it is likewise appalling. . .One Who has Been There : Far
be it from this paper to claim inner knowledge on such a
subject as “The Servant Girl’s Bedroom”; but you
appear to overstate the case considerably. F’rinstance :
“It (the bedroom) is invariably adjoining the kitchen,
with the door opening therefrom,” etc. A member of
The Bulletin staff is building him a suburban home at
the present moment, whereof the chief feature (it is on the
top floor) is the servant girl’s suite—consisting of boudoir.
Bridge-room, music gallery, sleeping apartment, and
library X.Y.Z. : The last batch was rather
unfortunate, all save “Hie Jacet,” which seems
likely to stagger through.. Schoolboy: Anecdote
about your tame land-fish, which used to follow, you
about like a dog and ultimately got drowned
in a water-hole, fails to carry conviction......
Doubtful: Neither up; there were points about “ If.”
Batcher: “ Blastin ” has energy and various other things,
but it doesn’t trot with a sufficiently easy motion
H.S.E. : Desist from poetising. “Winter” is hopeless in
about 14 different ways.... Protoplasm : You object to
“Mabel Holmes’” philippic against Sambo and 00. on
the grounds that “ partiality for the colored person is in in-
verse ratio to his presence.” In support of which you point
out that—“ (1) The English people (who are not bothered
with nigs), cannot understand why Australasia wants to
keep the colored ones out. (2) In the Southern States of
U.S.A., which has its millions of nigs, there is a growing
feeling in favor of deporting the whole lot to Africa.” If
you mean by that that we should get more niggers, so
that we may like them less, this paper, for one, isn’t
taking any 8.H.L.: Flynn died, and his mother was
sorry about it. Though you versify for four weary pages
on the subject, that is really the whole idea Uralla :
No use for that sort of gossip re political opponents. It
is war, but it is not magnificent; in fact, it isn’t even
decent G.F.S. : Mere batches of cuttings are of little
use, and you have a fatal tendency to cut out old jokes,
which makes the case worse... Persephone: Grieved
that “ the style Of some of the matter that appeared in
The Bulletin about a fortnight ago ” caused you to think
“My First Dancing Lesson, or Saved by a Hairpin”
might be acceptable. It isn’t....lola : Piece re Botany
Ohow alleged to have never washed for 27 years enthusi-
astically excepted.. ..E.W. : “Kiss,” etc., has nothing
new about it. Plenty of men have fancied they would
never weary of hugging some girl or other Unsuitable :
N. A. Evans, Beeswing.
TO ABTISTIC (AND INABTISItO) CONTBIBUTOBS.
A Cramp : The “Ain’t m3' ship” joke is a very good
one. The Bulletin thought so even when it first printed
it, a couple of years ag0....F.K. (Adelaide): Sketch has
points of merit; but the joke dates from three weeks
after the introduction of Christianity to Ireland.. . .P.
Mall: Sketches hopeless, and jokes microscopic D.B. :
Keep on drawing for seven years ; then send us the sketch
that makes you feel least sony for yourself... .Te Whare :
Joke much too aged.. .Valli : Neither gag new enough,
and the pictures aren’t up to the scratch....E.C.C.:
Drawing fair; joke worse. Neither up Bramcote: Yes,
worth study Bargee :No good N.C.L.: Weird pic-
ture of drunk gyrating before a policeman with a
tongue about a foot long protruding from his face. No
title, no joke ; only the bald intimation that you are aged
16. What does it all mean? Fad: Please note that
depicting an exaggerated head on a small body isn’t neces-
sarily caricature.


, \a» l cla\y CoYitz*-1r
fgACoc K
wi^Ke^
hr'-/
op 'tfje cnbeA
sop jowrity
So Jo C-n&bl*-
rfz. food +o
boKov, /?Ml)lic
,^ M ” ,^, ’' [A^l
__
l«fc>llO
Too 2 J'
cijicj' -Site
sts|»|»<d
CovtteKPs
$T i
Bent:- you eti ?
Vot~ story ?"
- ' 0— 'ttje Ora Old Story
Wife re you turn over new
k-tatf- FatVvj&n out" of
CibbSkna to f>rovi4c fV"iS far
SeHlei's & Kick Job be Ky out- &
Curse Right's &
tjinas witf» Bill Lyne, &ajl the
txi'T of <+" you Know J"
Hurt Again {"
" ~|Tic evrtt'crv-*^»'t _ of NS W pramer
to 'bluff fVu-ne Minister ‘ufo
Su^€nil i*7p ifte favfenue,
Ac+" (wr#S "to 6\<X pto^ionsj
ItAS fail«d V
// / .
"Itie defiled
tipon 'lhe -foittfof which FedetA+ion eKTci-c4
inio, Wiss Tfo-F-ity* (ojf would fjo+'e-zceed
(
-•“ expertyy/e^M
tt*d*rr, } W~ in fjrst-cUss q^y. Jp
you W2\*i+" cheAp p< g^
>W Of- VouK
Cfjoddy
&M
Undfor/i
* f«e
c t e c t ksJ 4
* Ire r
1
I A
1 ex
ref>e*fa'ice<> V
teen do« Med ■
nicn wbo were
fo
o*»tf>e oj- GleM.en^
on living
R's«, Nc<J! your ■/eve
-J^e
rio«?\rel)y. ) wa^
'To Or} [pndorj £c S«'^C-
f\l*c«. WilsT
/\rftl[zvj J '*
°Jf •
ifye An'fo"’ o^*
VICTOBIAN VIEWS.


tk. Chairman of N.5.W. Fisheries Board (who has succeeded In convincing; a
vtattS? Scotch expert that there really are -fusil” to be caught In Aus-
trallan^waters;; “And-oh! another thing, Mr. Taphalrshen, U you do decide
to bring out those Scotch trawlers, tell 'em not to bring their bagpipes
with ’em."
Mr. Taphairshen : •• No their bagpipes ?
Why for no ? "
Mr. Farnell (delicately]: '‘Well, you
see. our fish are
not educated up
to that sort of
music, and it
might frighten
’em away.”
Postmaster - General
Mauger has heard that
lighthouse-keepers some-
times go mad through pro-
longed solitude, and has
directed that they should have free use
ol the lighthouse telephone when there
la one, so that they may cheer them-
selves up with conversation.
Deranged Keeper (at the phone) .
“ Put me on to No. 066. please
—the Beast of Revelation, you
know."
J. BULL OUTJOSHES
JOSHUA.
The Select Committee of
the House of Commons, to
which the Daylight Saving
Bill was referred, has re-
ported in favor of the pro-
posal of the Bill to advance
the clock by an hour on the
third Sunday in April, and
to alter the clock in the
opposite direction by an hour
on the third Sunday in Sep-
tember.
Recalls the time when
Joshua introduced into the
Hebrew Parliament his fam-
ous Bill for making the sun
and moon stand still.
••If the
money is
put away In
a stocking it
will be doing no
good to anyone, and
the chance of the pay-
ment of pensions in all
the States will be post-
poned.”— Premier Wade, on
Federal Finance
Does he think that Bill Lyne
goes to bed with the Federal
cash hung on to his bedpost?.
LONDON, July 2.
One ot the women who were arrested lor smashing the windows of
Asquith’s house in Downing-street during the Woman Suffrage demonatratlo
on Tuesday shouted. •* It will be a bomb next timet"
The metropolitan companies of senior cadets, who have heen ordere
parade at the review of the American fleet, are in the peculiar position o o
having a single rifle among them, not even a dummy.
A scheme for arming the cadets is here more than hinted. The cadets could
manufacture their own weapons of this type out of old broom-handles, herosen
tins, etc.
Nearly 100 N.S.W. pubs have
been ordered to close since the
beginning of the year, under the
Local Option Act, and the work
■ sn ’f nearly finished. The coming
Cornstalk will be a great walker
through his struggles to get from
one pub to another in a day’s
march.
CORNSTALK CIRCUMSTANCES.


THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
You cannot be happy and gay
If ill-health hold you in her sway ;
Laxo-Tonic Pills take,
They her sceptre will break,
And drive all your ailments away.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
There is no better medicine for babies
than Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. Its pleasant
taste, and prompt and effectual cures, make it a
favorite with the mothers of small children.*
Stories in the July Lone Hand are ex-
ceptionally powerful — “ The Great Water,” by
Dulcie Deamer; “The Big Five,” by Ambrose
Pratt; “To Pay Paul,” by Randolph Bedford,
“ISaturdee,” by Norman Lindsay; “An Aboriginal
Wooing,” by George Lalor.*
A Tsar of old, who caught a cold,
Sent for his Empress, who was told
It was her fault! Then he laid hold
Of his poor wife, and slew her !
The tyrant’s crime was quite absurd ;
She’d done her best, upon my word !
But in those days folks had not heard
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure 1*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Federal Speaker Holder takes his pleasure
sadly. One of his recreations during the present
recess is to go to the sad little Spencer’s Gulf
town of Tumbv Bay, and there preach and lec-
ture for the Methodists, and lay the foundation
stone of their new house of preachment.
Premier Price, of S.A., was called upon
to propose the health of the Prince of Wales at
the Colonial Institute banquet in London, at
which the Royal personage was present. Price
got going on the glories of Australia and forgot
all about the subject of his toast until his atten-
tion was called to the omission by the haughty
M.C. Then he hurriedly said something nice, and
sat down.
YOUNG MR. CARR , M.H.R., OF THE
N.S.W. LABOR PARTY.
Avictimof the Victorian land boom, Charles
Sergeant, ex-M.L.C., died on Friday night,
aged 72 years. He arrived in Australia in 1852,
and made a pile in saw-milling. Then the boom
swallowed it, and though he did fairly well after-
wards in a small way, the old glory never
returned. It never does. There is only one real
big commercial halo served out to a man when he
starts life, and mighty few men get that.
Another chapter of the Wallace divorce
case was written on the files of the Vic. Insol-
vency Court on June 30, in the shape of the
schedule of Robert Henry Strong, medico and
co-re. Assets : £llB 19s.—including fees of £l9 19s.
still due from Ruby Wallace, and £5 ss. from
Vivian Parker. Liabilities: £5574 9s. 7d. —£2720
9s. 7d. to C. D. Wallace ; £650 to Fink, Best and
Hall, gents three; £lBOO to brother W. J. Strong;
£2OO to Joseph Strong, and a few smaller sums.
The “ cause of insolvency ” is given as “an ad-
verse judgment in the Supreme Court,” which is
a distinctly neat way of putting it.
Allerdale Grainger, ex-Agent-General of
S.A., has resigned his chance of getting into
Parliament on the Labor ticket in order to become
secretary of the Liquor Trades Defence Union.
Grainger, in the days of his Radicalism, believed
in, or at least advocated, State monopoly of the
drink traffic ; but apparently times have changed,
and Grainger now proposes to look for his crust in
the pint pot of his old enemy.
Mr. J. H. Legge, of Brisbane Water
(N.S.W.), died last week, aged 81 years. He was
the oldest J.P. of Gosford, and a member of the
Land Board, but his greatest “honor” was one
conferred by Queen Victoria. The old man sup-
plied five sons to the farm-burning industry in
South Africa, and the late Queen was so moved
on hearing it that she sent him her signed photo-
graph (unframed).
“ Bayswater ” writes :
F. Morley, of Darlinsrhurst (Sydney), for many yearn
organist of St. John’s Church, lias two sons who have
started life on widelv-divergent lines. One boy, F.
Barron Morley, followed music, like his father, and is a
first-class pianist, with a reputation on t’other side the
globe. The other boy went to Hawltesbury Agricultural
College, and there chunnned in with two fellow students,
and they took up three selections on one of the least access-
ible of the Blue Mountain peaks. The site, Mount
Irvine, near Mount Wilson, was discovered by the father
of one of the trio, a surveyor ; and the struggle the three
lads had in carving out their farms on the remote moun-
tain top reads like a romance. Not the least of their
achievements was the building of 3J miles of difficult
mountain road through untrodden forest, and over and
around apparently impossible difficulties. Thousands
know the Morley of the concert grand ; few have heard of
the mountain pioneer. But that is the way of the world
with the pioneer.
“ Sassa ” : A casual cuss is the average
parson. Last week a Victorian back blocks
minister, driving churchwards, fell out of his gig,
and the wheel passed over him. An hour later he
was in the pulpit giving Satan Hades with extra-
ordinary fervor. A while before an Essendon
preacher ran for a train as it moved off, and, un-
noticed, fell between two carriages on to the
buffers. When the next station was reached, he
coolly stepped upon the platform, minus most of his
clothes, and proceeded on his way rejoicing, with a
view to giving Beelzebub beans, as usual. Such
happenings lessen the public wonderment over the
fact that in a single denomination of the Cabbage
State there are a score of parsons still drawing
the superannuation allowance after a retirement
of ten years.
Retired from the clerkship of Dunedin
(M.L.) Magistrates’ Court recently W. G. P.
O’Callaghan. His pa was an admiral, and at the
mature age of twelve young O’Callaghan became
a full-blown mid. He took part in considerable
desultory scrapping in the region whence come
our vegetable Johns, and received a medal and a
lieutenancy. He next saw service against the
Maoris, and was sent by the Maoriland Govern-
ment to bring a gunboat from Sydney. But the
brown persons offered no scope for naval warfare,
so O'Callaglmn resigned and accepted a commis-
sion in the Armed Constabulary. He was given
th« Maoriland medal and a court clerkship. For
30 years he has called upon the chronic drunk and
the wayward faded female to stand up, and they
have done so. From this strenuous occupation the
civil service superannuation scheme has given sur-
cease. And for 30 years O’Callaghan has been a
consistent volunteer.
There has just died, in the North Island of
Maoriland, Ahumai te Paerata. a Maori chief-
tainess of mana and tonnage. She took a part and
a gun in the defence of Orakau, in the Waikato,
against the British troops, when the Chief Rewi
gave his picturesque but useless answer to the
British demand for surrender : “ We will fight on
for ever and ever and ever.” Major Mair re-
quested that the women and children should come
out of the pah, but the lady just deceased jumped
on the parapet and replied : “ Where our fathers
die and our brothers die we also shall die.”
Ahumai had one of her fingers shot off, a bullet
passed through the palm of her hand, and two
more bullets went through her body. All the
same, she lived to be 84 years of age. In her
later years she was fat and peaceful.
John Hannah Gordon, the S.A. Chief Jus-
tice’s lieutenant, who caught a knighthood in the
last shower of indignities, found his way
to the Supreme Court Bench through the
habit Australia has of making Judges out
of its Attorneys-General. All three pre-
sent S.A. Judges climbed up on that
ladder. The supply of lawyers has, how-
ever, almost run out in the S.A. Parlia-
ment. Kirkpatrick and F. S. Wallis,
both printers, are the principal repre-
sentatives of the Government in the
Upper House ; and as neither has any
knowledge of Tompkins on Torts, there
is a sneaking desire on the part of half
Adelaide’s legal profession to creep into
Parliament on the Labor ticket and then
snare a judgeship. Even the best of his
friends can’t forget that Chief-Justice
Way is 72.
There has been a great clearing-
out in the S. Aus. Education Department
lately. After that great organiser, J. A.
Hartley, died, S. Aus. had a Board of
three —Stanton, Whitham, and Burgan.
The first retired a few months ago,
Whitham died in the last days of June,
and Burgan retired at the end of the
month. In the old days S. Aus. picked
up its inspectors anywhere outside the
service; one was a newspaper sub-editor,
Burgan was the Advertiser’s law-re-
porter (but had # done some teaching),
Whitham had been a Unitarian preacher.
One of them—theoretically a fine educa-
tionist —didn’t make much progress as a
disciplinarian. He simply couldn’t con-
trol his “ h’s,” and the superior YI. class
couldn’t be persuaded that a man who
said “Come ’ere was anything of a
scholar. And yet he was.
Admiral Charles Beresford, who refused
to “shake” with Fisher, Senior Naval Lord of
the Admiralty, at the King’s levee, the other
day, was an unexpected sort of sea-dog always.
A few years ago he was invited by letter to dine
with Ed. VII. An invitation of that sort is re-
garded as a command by the average lad of the
bull-dog breed. But Beresford had something
better on, so he seized a telegraph form and wired
as follows: —“Cannot possibly come. Lie follows
by post.” Thereafter the seafaring jester was
retired from Court functions for a space (no
Guelph ever had a sense of humor); but it didn’t
seem to worry him a scrap.
OUR NAVAL RESOURCES.
The Australian fleet will accompany the American fleet
into Sydney Harbor.— Item..
THE ADMIRAL OF THE FLEET (to the chief
gunner): “Here they come! Let off the gun.”
“ Gip’s ” tale :
A well-known Monaro (N.S.W.) district citizen is
“Old Tim.” He is believed locally to be the
oldest man in the world. He boasts that he
was having his first shave when the news- hit
London about Nelson and Trafalgar. He came to
Australia a grown man. No one living remembers his
arrival, though the fathers of the old men of to-day some-
times spoke of it to their sons. Local men of 70 remem-
ber him as “ oldish ” in the days of their extreme youth.
An interested squatter keeps him as a sort of curiosity. A
few years ago something vexed him, or he got bored —I
forget which—and decided to shuffle off. He had been
dead some time. His coffin was brought in. His shroud,
ready aired, awaited him. The, district, ■wondering, but
scarce believing, gathered in the death-chamber. The
time came for placing the body in the coffin. Then some-
one carelessly shook the corpse, or stood on it, or some-
thing. Forthwith the deceased arose on its elbow, and
has not been dead since. “Old Tim ” has all his wits
about him, and is a genial sort of centenarian. One of the
few things that really madden him nowadays is a Sydney
daily paper article on the unhealthiness of the Monaro
climate.
Maoriland pressmen still unload much
copy from Rua, the “Prophet”; and the more
they write about him, the more cheerfully his big
following pays his exes. A London maga. printed
his picture lately, and that was a great lift. Rua
blew into Hawkes Bay the other day, and the
printer’s devil got hold of him as usual. “ Among
my people,” he announced, “I’ve stopped the
habit of bathing in cold water, also the habit of
drinking it. . . . I grow long hair because the
Nazarites were obliged to do so. . . . I’ve seven
wives because the fourth chapter of Isaiah
speaks of me—‘ln that day shall seven women
take hold of one man !’” The Prophet with the
prejudice against scissors and water is just now
threatening to move on to the M.L. capital to
raise Cain with the Government.
“ Caber ” writes
Glad to read Tin? Bdllktin’s appeal (25/6/’08) on behalf
of Anderson Dawson in the day of his great trouble. To
him Queensland’s Labor party owes much of its proud
prominence. Only “ Andy ” would have dared to tackle
the contract of throwing out the Continuous Ministry for
six days—the brevity of the period was due to the
treachery of the gang of malcontents led by Boyd Dunlop
Morehead. He stuck loyally to the cause as member, as
Minister, and as Senator. He represented the Towers
with Dunsford as only a strong, straight man could or
should, and then risked all to win, with Higgs and
Stewart, Labor’s first grand victory in the Common-
wealth. His later mistake has carried its punishment.
Labor, remembering, is implacable, and Dawson must
remain without its gates. But it is not meet that Labor
should be ungenerous; and this man’s singleness of
purpose and virility of action before bis fall call for recog-
nition. Labor was out of luck itself until he and his
little crowd started to battle gamely against the Griffil-
wraith and its successors. Now when it is in clover and
“Andy” is on spinifex, it’s up to it to do something
practical.
THE WANDERING GENTILE.
A few days ago, Christchurch (M.L.)
got hysterical over the departure of a man
named Wilson, who started ostentatiously
from the G.P.O. to walk round the world—or, at
least, round so much of it as is dry and solid. He
struck out for the Bluff, whence he ships to Mel-
bourne. The usual mysterious and secret wager
with some rash person unmentioned is supposed
to be the motive for the lunacy. The terms, as
made public, were that the pedestrian was to start
without money, to earn his living-by lecturing,
and to complete the journey within three years.
Chief-Justice S. H. Parker, of Westralia,
who has been made something small in the way of
Knights, is a native of his State, haying been
born at York. He is native, in fact, right back
to his grandfather, who settled there in 1829. He
has been forty years a barrister, and during that
time has had some stormy periods. All through
he kept himself persistently in evidence as alder-
. man, mayor, M.L.A., and such things. S. H.
' Parker was the second native of an Australian
State (Pope Coooer, of Queensland, was the first)
. to climb to a Chief-Justiceship.
Among July birthdays are : —Prof. Bragg
. (Adelaide), 46 on the 2nd ; John Downer, K.C.
:(S.A.), 64 on the 5th; Iceberg Irvine (Vic.), 50,
and Dr. Rentoul (Vic.), 62 on the 6th ; Charles
Todd, ex-Postmaster-General (S.A.), 82 on the
;7th; Percy Grainger, 26 on the 8th; Governor
. Talbottle (Vic.), 67 on the 11th; the Adelaide
' Advertiser, 50 on the 12th ; Senator Trenwith
(Vic.), 61 on the 16th ; Captain Creswell (Naval
> Commandant), 56 on the 20th; “Smiler” Hales,
! 48 on the 21st; Leader-writer Ben Hoare (Mel-
bourne Age), 66 on the 22nd ; Bishop Dawes, 65,
and T. Tait (Vic.), 44 on the 24th ; Judge Gordon
(S.A.), 58 on the 26th ; Senator Vardon (S. A.), 65
on the 27th ; Randolph Bedford, 40 on the 28th ;
James Graham (N.S.W.), 50, and Carty Salmon
(Vic.), 47 on the 29th.
Sydney Watchman, which argues fren-
ziedly every week that all Romish persons are
Socialists, “disloyalists,” “traitors to the Flag”
(i.e., the British Flag), and so on, stars (2/7/’08)
a rather painful slab of poesy—Bruce Smithian in
its enthusiasm—concerning the Union Jack, by
Alfred Austin. Interesting to note in this con-
nection that Alfred is, both by birth and educa-
tion, a Papist of the Papists—one to whom Dill’s
quaint organ would appeal, if he saw it, as the
work of a dangerous maniac. Austin is almost as
good at prose as he is bad at verse. As
leader-writer for the Standard he did such
powerful service for Toryism and Imperialism (to
be mistaken for a Socialist would make Alfred
drop dead) that the late Salisbury offered him a
minor title. Austin asked for the Laureateship
instead, got it, and has been a national joke ever
since.
BRUCE SMITH’S FRIENDS.
COLORED STEWARD RUNS AMOK ON THE
R.M.S. MOOLTAN.
STAB THE SHIP’S PRINTER.
WARDER BROWN SUCCUMBS.
VICTIM OF SAVAGE ASSAULT BY CHINESE
PRISONER.
A single day’s record.
NEWSBOYS : “ The ole bloke's suddenly got very
deaf.”
Another line or two was written in the
history of the N.S.W. land scandals last week,
when Robert McDonald was appointed Under-
secretary of Lands. Edward MacFarlane was
Under-Secretary when the trouble happened, and
didn’t kick against various things so hard as the
Commission thought he should have done ; hence
he was given 12 months’ leave, with the half-
promise that some other job might be found for
him. But no other job has been found, so now he
retires from the Service for good, and Robert
McDonald, the quietest-mannered man that ever
refused a dummy land-lease application, gets the
boss-ship—of which, by the way, he had the offer
before the other man took it. Evidently, in those
days McDonald smelt something, and wanted it
cleaned out first.
An unusual incident occurred at the
Adelaide central fishmarket on Thursday morn-
ing. The usual sales of the wet inhabitant of the
sea were taking place, and a number of fisher-
men, old acquaintances of James Albert Cole-
man, due that morning to be executed for the
shooting of Constable Ring, were present. Ac
five minutes to eight, the hour fixed for the execu-
tion, proceedings were suspended. The gas was
turned off, and the fish auctioneer closed his office
door. As 8 o’clock struck the crowd stood bare-
headed, and remained so for five minutes. Then
the sale of the wet inhabitant of the sea recom-
menced. It is few hanged men who get so kindly
a send-off as that.
About an unpleasant sort of person :
R. S. Sievier, who bookmade in Australia as “ Bob
Sutton,” twenty years ago, is; the cable says, in further
trouble. J. B. Joel, one of the S’Afriean millionaires,
whom Sievier has been assailing bitterly in his Winning
Post for years past, has had him arrested.
Sievier has a remarkable record for row and
stoush. In Melbourne he fought a famous fight,
fistic and legal, with Lord Deerhurst, and another (which
didn’t become famous) with Australia’s future Governor-
General. He battled with all and sundry aboard the ship
in which he returned to England, so that a number of
the passengers rose up and hurled him overboard. Arrived
in England, he won a name on British racecourses as a
bruiser —also as a number of other things. Then he
brought a wild libel action against Sir J. Duke, a very
pompous baronet who once pervaded this country for a
short time and acquired a heap of unpopularity. Duke
objected to Sievier being brought as a guest "into the
Raleigh Club ; and forthwith Sievier fired in a writ for
£5OOO. The trial was, of course, a fiasco. Since then
Sievier has dealt it out to most people who have bumped
up against him, from the aged Justice Grantham to the
Jockey Club stewards and the War Office officials, who
refused his offer during the Boer war to equip and
despatch to the front a mounted-infantry regiment. But
the thing that cut him up worst was when a London
Evening News reporter wrote that during the address of
Gill, K.C., in the Duke case, he (Sievier) wept. For that
awful accusation he had no reply in all his armory.
TO PLEASE AUNTIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thomas Bent said “he did not feel any different
since he had been created a knight, but he fully appreci-
ated the honor the King had conferred upon him. It
would give pleasure to those who were nearest and
dearest to him—the few who had clung affectionately to
him in the time of adversity more than in the time of pros-
perity—and for their sake he would accustom himself to
the designation of ‘Sir Thomas Bent.’ ” —Argus.
’Tis ever so, since that dim time
When Eve to Adam gave the apple
That fastened on us pain and crime,
And Hell, and hospital, and chapel.
The man who yearns for petty things,
Or some such vanity as this is,
Still to his childish bauble clings,
And shoves the blame upon the missus.
As Tom’s a widower, and can’t
Accuse the wifp, he shifts the taunt
Upon his grandson or his aunt.
For sake of those who clung to him
When in political low water,
His grandma or his Uncle Jim,
Ills second cousin, or his daughter,
He wears the gaud and looks content,
With feathered tail like any parrot’s ;
And yet he’d rather stay Tom Bent,
The simple soul who grew the carrots.
You see, the politician nice,
E’en makes the taking of his price
An act of great self-sacrifice !
VIC.
SILAS SNELD.


■
H
i Slfel*
80HR& i
lIS
i
mmmmsmm
!/
SI. ■ . .
s® rm.*L - -:.
' ~ ■
' ‘
SBLJ
V-'f v"*'
-
• :. o
«/. % '
■
e*Wi
'Vi: ~v:.
a :. ssi
ft**"--**
.
.
.
..... ■'• ...
irm
-
m
**^•’”^‘^‘**4^.. .- . ’ W'; L'
.
|
<€ ' i
JIS ■ s
i. m
MM
V
kiN
P
:Ms
<W*»»
'ZS&KBXi
m
m
r
■a
j.
m
#»»&»**
n *2
k
* *
v>; i 4 t**
■ -.iw* ■?'
' ' i->! '^S^Sp****
m
m
* - >'
. **
l-
a* f!
MgW
m
• t
% mm
f i < -I ,
, , ■ •
■ • ■'
.
-
B#*
ei
■
fs
as. ■
’
s-ssi-sa-s:a ■
: - : “ r ■■ ... ,, ~„
-
.
,<
, : : ,;:> .S
.
j
s%VAr,. Jjfe' *. b?-
Three Castles Cigarettes
Are Treasure Trove.
“ There's no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia and no better brand
than the ‘Three Castles/”
Thackeray.
—'* The Virginians. ”


When so many patent medicines contain
opium and other harmful drugs, it is a relief to
know of one that is free, and that “one” is
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. This fact makes
it not only the best, but also the safest to use.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Arti.tic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
824 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
He tried Port Hacking- after fish,
But only caught a cold,
He said, “ Atchoo ! By Jove, I wish
I’d done as I was told.
This is indeed a Hacking cough,
Good name it’s got I’m sure ! ”
But next day he was right enough
Through Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
There’s a pill that will never go wrong,
’Tis sung of in Limerick song ;
“Laxo-tonic,” its name,
Like a bright star its fame,
Its career will be brilliant and long.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
All interested in the fiscal question should
read this month’s Lone Hand for Louis Esson’s
article on “Swadeshi.” The writer gives, from
8« personal study of the facts, a fine picture of this
dawn of Indian nationalism.*
CLEAR RHEUMATISM OUT OF THE
BLOOD.
That’s the Only Way to Deal With It.
Sydney Man had a Bad Time With the Com-
plaint. Awful Pains in Shouldees and
Knee ; Leg so Stiff had to Drag It After
Him. Almost Crazy with Pain. Perma-
nently Cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills.
Rheumatism shouldn’t be given any quarter.
It may cripple you for months if you do. Clear
it right out of the system—that’s the safest thing
to do. There’s this about rheumatism. It’s easier
to cure it when it first comes than when it gets
rooted in the blood. There may be only slight
twinges at first, but neglected there follow the
gnawing pains, aching joints, stiff muscles, tender
swollen limbs, which aid in crippling the victim.
There’s only one way to cure rheumatism. Drive
the acid in the blood, which causes it, out of the
system. You can’t expect liniments and hot
cloths to do that. They won’t. Perhaps they’ll
ease the pain. But wait for the next change in
the weather and you’ll find the old pain there
again. It’s a good thing for rheumatic suffferers
that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a blood medicine
that drives the acid out. It’s as simple as AB 0
the way they cure. They go for the cause and re-
move that. You can’t have rheumatism after Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have driven the poison out.
They do more than this : rheumatism weakens—
they restore strength by making new blood and
building up the nerves.
The longer you have had the complaint, the
longer it may "take to cure; but Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills will cure you anyway. This is how
they cured a Sydney man.
“I was camped out on the Manning River, and
through exposure rheumatism set in,” said Mr.
Donald Mackenzie. “My shoulders got terribly
stiff so that I could not raise my arms. For four
months I had it in this part, and suffered acutely.
I’d have to go about my work very gingerly at
first, and until I was warmed up with exercise the
pain was always nagging and tearing through me.
After awhile, the rheumatics left my shoulder
and settled in my right knee and heel. I got
worse and worse by slow degrees. My knees
puffed up as if I had dropsy. If I dented the
knee the finger mark would last for quite a time.
I kept about all the time but I don’t know how I
did it. I’d just drag my leg after me. I never
was without a constant dull pain night
and day, and whenever damp weather came
I’d have unbearable burning, shooting pains
that nearly drove me crazy, and my leg
was so stiff I couldn’t bend it. Many a
night I lay awake in pain for hours. I’d be
afraid for anyone to come near me or touch me,
and I felt as if hot pincers had hold of every nerve
and muscle. At last a mate of mine told me
about Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and by slow
degrees they drove out the rheumatics. The con-
stant dull ache got easier and easier, and when
damp weather came, the sharp attacks were less
violent. The huge swelling at the knee went
down, and before I was on the sixth box it was its
proper size. I still kept on with the pills and
they seemed to tone me up in everyway, and gave
me an appetite, and made me stronger. The
stiffness yielded and my knee got supple again,
and there was no tenderness in it. INine boxes
cured my rheumatism and I’ve never had a touch
of it since.” . _
Mr. Mackenzie’s address is 29 Gould Street,
Sydney.
If you are not quite sure whether your illness is
caused by bad blood, write to The Dr. Williams
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.
From the same address you can also order the
genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills by mail, 2s. 9d.
a box ; six boxes 15s. 3d., post free. Hints as to
diet, etc., sent free.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bali Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(ovp. Hunter St.)
BYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
SENSATIONAL WIRE-WALKING IN
VICTORIA.
That fluctuating body, the N.S.W.
nominee Upper House, is now down to 50
members, and 30 of them are over three-score
years of age. Therefore, there is a demand that
the House should be “strengthened.” It is diffi-
cult to imagine why. One-fourth of the Upper
House is a quorum, and even if the institution
is reduced to four members business can still go
on provided one of the four is able to get down in
a cab. In fact, one member seems enough so long
as he can crawl down in a cab. Then, when he
drops out the Upper House will be extinct, and
it won’t be missed.
“ Bloggs ” his plaint :
Bruce Smith and his Empire League nearly blew up at
the League’s annual meeting, last week. When Spruce
Myth and the rest of the Empire builders drew up their
constitution, they provided that all nominations for office
in the League must be in at least 14 days before the
annual meeting. They then provided that the annual
meeting be announced to the members seven days before
the date of holding it. Consequently, by the time people
hear of the meeting, it is a week too late to send in nomi-
nations. So when the League met last week, its secretary
produced a little list of nominations, drawn up by himself
or some other unauthorised person, and as the meeting
had no other choice, it had to elect the lot. For people
desirous of Empire building, Bruce Smith and his leaguers
seem an incompetent lot.
One Daniel Macaulay the other day
appealed at the Newtown (Sydney) Court
against his rate assessment, whereupon
some curious facts came out concerning
our “great permanent and reproductive
loan undertakings.” Macaulay leases from
the State a large portion of the land at
Shea’s Creek, near Cook’s River, for £2O
a year. His idea was to run coal
cargoes up Shea’s Creek, where there is
a Government wharf erected for the
purpose. But while the Government spent
£300,000 loan money and pays £lO,OOO a
year interest to Cohen, the solitary revenue
derived is the £2O which Macaulay pays,
and even that he only pays under a mis-
apprehension. Meantime he tries to get a
trifle of his £2O back by grazing a few head
of cattle on the land which cost a long-
suffering public so much to reclaim.
S’Africa, as the price of welcoming
the Asiatic, has now a leprosy problem.
A recent article in the South African Medtcal
Record
Another part that strikes one, and which is specially
referred to in the Cape Report, is the proved greater
prevalence of leprosy among both the Europeans and
colored peoples in the larger towns, unrecognised and at
large. Several cases are detailed, including European
ladies of good social position in Capetown, who were
recognised by the Medical Officer walking in the streets,
on verandahs, and working in European households. No
fewer than 27 (four were European females) were dis-
covered in Capetown and suburbs during the year in this
way.
Sydney Telegraph has made a truly
shocking discovery. Here it is in all its enormity:
At a public meeting at Warrnambool (Vic.) last week,
Dr. Wilson, M.H.R., stated that the local battery of field
artillery was in the ridiculous position of not having a
gun. Councillor Marfell said that the gun which the
battery had been practising with was made in 1864, and
now even that had been taken away.
Stated baldly, as the Telegraph puts it, the
story looks like another Federal injustice; but
when you turn it upside down, and inside out, it
resolves itself into a very simple question of the
ill-advised action of the first imported Federal
Commandant, who turned a lot of good infantry
companies of militia into alleged field-batteries,
for which there were neither guns, teams, nor
harness, and, as the law then stood, there was no
money to provide the things wanted. In fact,
there was none till the Surplus Revenue Bill came
into force, despite the Telegraph's opposition,
on Ist J uly. Presumably the gun in question was
removed for good and sufficient reasons, probably
because it was more likely to hurt the people
behind than those in front of it. A gun 44 years
old wants taking away.
The State-Frighters appear to have been
pulling some strings in London lately with a lot
of energy. The British Australasian,
which has hitherto been the English
agent of the Immigration League—the
league that wants the lands made avail-
able before immigrants arrive—has been
“reformed”; and Chomley, from the
N. S. Wales State Agent-General’s office,
has succeeded editor Buley. Apparently
the future policy is to whoop for immi-
grants, and never mind about the land to
put them on. In fact, the more immi-
grants that arrive in N.S.W. the bigger
the demand for land, and the better for
the land syndicates which seem to have
some powerful representatives in England
nowadays.
The Tory press prints, but passes
without comment, the news that the
supply of labor for the coming Queens-
land sugar season is more plentiful than
in previous years, while most of the men
coming forward, many from the south,
are of a good type. And yet it seems
but yesterday that the same press was
moaning like a broken elephant over the
approaching ruin of the sugar industry
because white men not only wouldn’t but
couldn’t undertake the work.
Sydney Telegraph announced with
a loud scream on July 2 that the Austra-
lian Government “had abandoned its
conscription scheme.” If by that is meant
that it has given up its universal service
proposals, the statement is plain lie. A
Bill embodving the idea of universal ser-
vice has been drafted, is now being considered
in detail, and will be submitted to the Australian
Parliament in September.
Victorian Statist Drake, the man whose
business it is to state facts and hang the con-
sequences, prints a remarkable table in the
just published “Finance” section of the
Victorian “Year Book.” He shows for 10
years the average number of persons
killed per 10,000,000 passengers carried in
every country that keeps tally of such things
—and away right at the bottom of thel ist
is Canada, whose average railway butchers’
bill for 10 years is nine times that of N. S.
Wales, 13 times that of Austria, nearly 12
times that of Germany, eight times that of
France, and more than twice that of even the
United States. And it was to Canada, with
the most appalling record of railway butchery
in the whole world, that those amazing geniuses,
Irvine and Bent, went for a Victorian Railway
boss !
One T. Bent, a Victorian, has been getting
his name into the papers quite a lot lately in con-
nection with unpaid rates. Following the recent
land-syndicate matter, a Richmond citizen, who
had been threatened with “the Law” if he didn’t
pay his rates, asked the council for particulars of
rates overdue by one T. Bent, and the amount for
which the council compromised. Also he wanted
to know why and wherefore. The works com-
mittee was agreeable to give the information, but
the majority of the council indignantly declared
that “they had made the best terms obtainable,”
and that the matter ought to rest at that. Yet
the councils of Oakleigh and Footscray lately re-
covered quite a quantity of overdue rates by sell-
ing the land, and there doesn’t seem any reason
why Richmond shouldn’t have sold T. Bent’s land
similarly.
A BRITISH PREMIER'S BUSY DAY.
Johnson, M.H.R., wrote to the Sydney
papers last week, urging that an expedition of
Federal members should be taken to Dalgety this
month, so that the true awfulness of its winter
climate might become apparent to them. But
what’s wrong with an expedition, say on July 15,
to Johnson’s own pet site at Canberra ? Canberra
is Dalgety over again, except that it lacks Dal-
gety’s scenery, water supply, port and accessi-
bility. The Dalgety site is 2650 ft. above sea level;
part of the Canberra site is as much as 2900 ft.
above sea level. The average winter temperature
of the two places differs by two degrees and a
fraction ; the lowest temperature on record at the
two places differs by five degrees. Dalgety has
about the winter temperature of Constantinople,
or Marseilles, or Rome, and is a trifle colder thafi
Naples, and a fair amount warmer than London ;
also it hasn’t London’s fogs, grey sky and slush.
What is Johnson fussing about ?
Heaven only knows what Premier Bent
was thinking about when he drafted the pro-
gramme for next session of the Victorian State
Legislature, but it is a staggering programme any-
how. It includes settlement of the Murray waters
question, a Bill for a new land valuation, Bill to
authorise the levying of rates on unimproved
values, a new' Land Tax Bill, Land Resumption
Bill, Charities Bill, Bill to authorise construction of
a reservoirfor the irrigation of 600,000 acres of land,
Bill providing for light railways, Bill for the re-clas-
sification of teachers, a Mining Bill, a Mining Law
Consolidation Bill, a new Companies Bill, a Bill
providing for the taking of a Referendum re the
Bible in Schools, a Workmen’s Compensation
Bill, a Bill to regulate motor-cars, Bill to provide
for the licensing of land agents. Local Government
Amendment Bill, Dentists’ Bill, Bill dealing with
the regulation of marriage, the usual financial
Bill, and some resolutions relating to Wages
Boards, forests and sundries. This will probably
be the last session of the Bent Government. It
will most likely die of its own wild conglomeration
of deranged promises.
Probably Iceberg Irvine, the alleged Pro-
tectionist, whose political reputation has been
much fractured of late, will be faintly remem-
bered in after years as The Cove Who Made Too
Many Explanations. Witness the amazing wealth
of mixed apology and refutation in connection
with his pronounced Freetrade attitude over the
last 270 items of the Tariff. Accused of wobbling,
and confronted by the blatant record of his voting,
and the still more awful record of his absences, he
became an angry Iceberg, and almost thawed.
He asserted that his record as published was not
a true statement of facts, in so far that it gave
him no credit for the times that he had paired.
That explanation passed muster for a day or two,
but at the annual meeting of the Protectionist
Association in Melbourne, on 30th ult., Jabez
Coon said the final word, and gave Irvine a
further impulse on his downward course. Out of
144 times, when he had either paired or had not
voted at all, he paired just 12 times for Protec-
tion, 19 times for Freetrade, and 113 times he did
notrote at all. So it is now finally understood that
Irvine, in his political attitudes, cuts ignoble
figures.
THE WIRE-SHAKER.
It is understood that the ex-Premier, who has been in-
cluded in the latest list of Birthday Honors as a Knight
of the Most Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St.
George, will be known as Sir Hector Carruthers,
K.C.M.G.
FIRST CROOK (as Mr. Carruthers passes alongJ :
“ There goes Joe.”
SECOND CROOKk: “ Nit, you d d fool! That's
on’y ’is alias!”
’Ector, the bright genius who went into
business a while ago as smuggler, and then had
the amazing audacity to rush N. S. Wales into a
horribly expensive law case with the Common-
wealth over it, seems to have a large capacity for
dragging poor old Ma into litigation. When the
last English mail left, he and his fellow-com-
missioners had just begun an action against the
Franco-British Exhibition promoters over some
question of a scrap of ground which ’Ec alleges
that the promoters promised to N. S. Wales and
then put to some other use.
Cape Colony, a land where there are three
niggers to each white, and where, consequently,
cheap labor is fairly plentiful, seems to have no
luck these days. It had a deficit of over £900,000
in 1904 ; another of £700,000 in ’O5 ; it had £5OOO
surplus in ’O6 ; a shortage of about £1,000,000 in
’O7; another of £990,000 in ’08; and another
defieitof £906,000 is prophesied. For a community
with less than 600,000 of white population (a little
more than the population of Queensland) these
are staggering figures, and things are so bad that
it is proposed to levy income tax on everybody
receiving 19s. 3d. a week or more. Also the civil
service is to have Is. deducted from each £1 of its
salary.
THE HIDEOUS DILEMMA OF THE N.S.W.
TAXPAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The N.S.W. taxpayer is thus on the horns of a dilemma.
If in the struggle for financial paramountcy the Com-
monwealth issues victorious he has inevitably to face in-
creased State taxation. If, on the other hand, the States
come successfully out of the struggle, then there is the
prospect of neglected defence.—S. M. Herald.
Now here I anguished writhe upon the prongs
Of a dilemma (as the Sydney press
Points out) ; and so I ponder on my wrongs
And deeper plunge in direst mental stress.
On the one hand I see in fancy’s eye
A yellow nation arming tooth and nail ;
Its ensigns from a hundred warships fly,
Its soldiers cluster thick as summer hail.
And the slant-eyes of all that mighty host
Are turned Australia-wards. Unwinking, cold,
They view the white man’s far and lonely post ;
His flocks, his herds, his cities, and his gold.
They scan his coasts and harbors for a fleet;
His fair, wide plains for men in war’s array :
No fighting men, nor frowning warships greet
That stern regard, which straight grows bland and gay.
Aye ! bland and gay, for though the gracious land
Thej' gaze upon is poor in soldiery',
And poor its coasts in ships—on ev’ry hand
Wealth, teeming wealth, appears, and lush prosperity.
Sickened I turn from that bland Asian gaze,
Behind which lust and death and rapine live,
And seek the course my morning paper says
Is to these things the sole alternative.
Defence ! Weigh well the word. Grasp its intent,
That .vou may comprehend my painful plight.
This horror in that little phrase is pent :
I must spend money training men to fight 1
You see my coil; is’t not a grievous lot,
Plumbing, indeed, Grief’s blackest, deepest fount?
Pity the sorrows of a Patriot-
Torn ’twixt his duty and his bank account.
N.S.W.
J.B.D.
THE DIFFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Roberts (Labor) won the Federal bye-election for Ade-
laide. Then Sydney Telegraph explained : “ There was,
however, very little to choose between the policy of either
candidate ! ”
When the “ Liberal ” wins by the skin of his teeth,
Or the Tory just hops in ;
Then the victor’s handed a laurel-wreath
For his great and glorious win !
And the sanctity of the home is safe,
As safe as safe can be !
And our cheers ring high
For the marriage-tie
And the rights of pro-per-tee!
“ Hooray ! ’’ we say, in a joyous way,
“ For the rights of pro-per-tee ! ”
When the “Liberal” man gets donkey-licked,
Or the Tory badly whopped,
Our enthusiasm we restrict,
And the subject’s gently dropped.
It is true that the Labor man has won,
But we care not a jot—not we !
No, we don’t despair,
Nor beat the air—
“ There was little to choose,” you see !
That’s why there’s no sigh for the marriage-tie,
Nor the rights of pro-per-tee 1
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.


MS
wan '
- -N,
V,
REMEMBER, we are SOLE AGENTS for
the Genuine RICH, LIPP <& SOHN Pianos.
THERE is a subtle charm in the LIPP
PIANOS that cannot be explained, but
is felt by all who hear them. Our
customers seem irresistibly drawn to them as
by a magnet.
Their tone is delightfully full, yet delicate;
their touch perfectly balanced.
Durability is a special feature, the material
used in construction being the very best
obtainable. The Pianos are BUILT by experts
of life=long training, and they BUILD THEM
TO LAST A LIFETIME.
We sell these Pianos with our full guaran-
tee and on easy payments.
If you have an old Piano we will take it as
part payment, and allow you the highest
value for it.
Catalogues post free.
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD.,
AND AT BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
aSr#
P'S
< I
, 'l—
K~^
*
. ■
WwWk
4
risy
if
.
r_r*%
•;.v,-:v
•■» •»**
■■■■
! • vEvC{'<i.:j'-'.s?/5
*»C
r aSBiH
-fflfr ~*Z-j-SrT-
sjfc «;v.v"^r
St'-' •' *
- ~
s* .*,-,#■%*- *
** v *
•'
l§si
cKine
We are
Manufacturers tr Designers
of Furniture, Fitments &■
Ffante/pieces.
All the Latest Machines are installed In
Our New & Modern Factory.
Peclai/n to give the Lowest Possible Prices
with the If aximum Standard of ifigrh Class kbr/e.
ESTIMATES & DESIGNS FREE OF CHARGE.
BUCKLEY &■ NUNN LT?
MELBOURNE.
COLLECT
Green Coupons
THE COUPON SYSTEM.
CHAPTER V.
\A /E disposed of one objection in our last
chapter. Another objection is that
the Coupon Company makes a profit out of
the Coupons that are lost or not presented.
This is no objection to the system at all, but merely arises from carelessness
of people who do not attach sufficient importance to the Coupons. People
can’t object to tram tickets because some people lose them. Postage
stamps, Bank Notes, Railway Tickets, or any representative voucher for
money or service are frequently lost, and who gets the benefit of those
losses ? Why, the Government and Banks, of course, and yet you don’t
object, because it would not be a reasonable objection. We say positively
that the loss of Coupons is very trifling, and is no greater than the loss of
the other things we have mentioned, and, further, the company do not
want people to lose their Coupons or fail to present them. Such a state of
affairs shows a want of interest, and if everybody showed such a want of
interest the system would soon die out, and if the system died out the
Coupon Company would not make any profit at all ; so that you see at once
it is not to the advantage of the Coupon Company that people should be so
careless about their Coupons as to lose them or not present them.
The fact is that people take a great interest in their Coupons and
collect them very eagerly, for the system is in full operation throughout
Great Britain, Germany, France, the United States of America, Belgium,
South Africa, and elsewhere. There are two other objections worth
mentioning, and we shall deal with them in our next chapter.
Visit tHe Showrooms:
387 Georg'e Street, Sydney
(Opposite The Strand).


BRANDY
Pleases J.
Everybody, y/
THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
Manufactured for over a century by
HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON,
ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Ho??. Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
I’m the Robur Tea Girl,
and wish to draw attention
to the fact that Robur is very-
economical tea to use—we
reckon 5 spoonfuls of Robur
will about equal 6 spoonfuls of
most ordinary teas.
You can calculate on
a pound of tea measuring
from 100 to 110 teaspoonfuls,
therefore, by using Robur, and
putting less into your teapot,
you can have your tea the usual
strength and save at least 15
spoonfuls out of each pound.
Another way to look at it is:—
on account of the extra
number of cups Robur will
make it is worth about 2d.
per pound more than most
teas sold at same price. The
niceness and extra goodness
of Robur are additional points
in its favour.
Our No. 1 Grade Robur
is beautiful tea.
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King: and H.R.H. The Prinoe of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE
FACILE PRINCEPS
99
SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 7, 1908.
My Dear Arint, —
Professor 'Henry Jones, the visiting sage from
Glasgow, looks his part, that of mental and moral
philosopher. He is tall, spare and refined. His
face is ascetic and of a luminous pallor ; his white
hair glistens as silk ; his eyes are deeply socketed
beneath gigantic brows. When he speaks he
looks (and has the style of) the Preacher. What he
will speak about, and what he will say about it,
will be known next Friday, when he will lecture
under the wing of the University Extension
Board. On Friday nighc, in the Great Hall of the
University, the Professor MacCallums intro-
duced the gentleman to some of the Brains
and some of the Society of Sydney. The woman
graduate was there in large numbers, but few of
her wore the academic garment. Mrs. MacCallum,
a lady with a smart back—you know how rare is
the smart back—stood in a draught, and a gown
of brocade, and one of those beaten-silver wraps,
and extended the glad hand. Prof. Greig Smith’s
gown of salvia-scarlet and scream-green was
ter ; well, it could be heard further than any
other academic robe. His wife, who started the
Norland Nurse institution, has a splendid bush of
flaxen hair and a pair of green eyes. Judges Street,
Sly and Backhouse upheld the Bar, and the Mac-
Laurins and the A. J. Goulds and the Taylor-
Youngs (back from Maoriland) welcomed the
distinguished visitor. By the way, the Prof.,
in spite of the shaggy heath ” and brown
heather in his voice, is said to claim Wales as his
birthplace.
Evening-gowned and picture-hatted women, and
tribesof Gibson-looking young men with cigarettes
balanced on their lower lips, predominated at the
Cafe Chantant in aid of the Fairlie Cunninghame
fund. The New Masonic Hall must have felt to
its foundations like George Ade’s barn: "I am
in Society—right in the inner circle of the Hot
Potatoes.” The badly-lighted, muddy street
harbored for a few hours most of the best autos
and horse flesh in Sydney. Parades of the sort
make the outsider think that the beneficiaire in
whose cause the shining show is made must rake
in more money than if her audience came
in trams. However, the pretty sculptor-girl,
who desires to study in England, had such genuine
workers on the committee that no doubt what she
gets will be worth taking. Tivoli turns, singing,
whistling and lightning sketching by Mr. Souter,
to say nothing of cafe, served by girls in Pompa-
dour dresses and mob caps, all overhung by a
delicate haze of cigarette smoke, made up the
programme. Mrs. Spencer Brunton (hon. trea-
surer), in a dicoileti black gown and picture hat,
scorned the delights of the programme, and lived
laborious hours at a little table with Mrs. J. E.
Toohey, making up accounts, and taking cash, and
giving change. Mrs. Wills Allen, Mrs. J. Antill,
Miss Ethel Stephens and Miss Enid Purves were
working like honey bees. Miss Rawson came in out
of the cold westerly to aid, and Mrs. Premier Wade,
Mrs. Mayoress Hughes, Mrs. T. H. Kelly, Mrs!
J. C. Williamson and Mrs. S. W. Moore did
likewise.
Mostly when there is an Exhibition the people
who have guaranteed the overdraft wear a
worried look as the show tails off into days of
hard frost; but there wasn’t any worried look
about the Sydney committee of the Women’s
Exhibition of a while ago. Quite lately, in fact,
after Captain Leslie Wilson and the other men
had helped the women’s committee to do the
necessary addition and subtraction, they gave
Premier Wade a frightful shock by telling him
that, if Ma State was really hard-up this cold
winter, they were in a position to hand back the
£5OO Government grant. Certainly they didn’t
press that view of the case ; instead, they rushed
on breathlessly to mention that the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital and the Benevolent Society’s
Maternity Hospital and St. Margaret’s Hospital
were all aching for funds, and the £5OO would do
them no end of good. Put that way, what could
a gentleman do? So those three hospitals are to
get £5OO as the result of the Women’s Exhibition.
Besides paying £215 for prizes and medals, the
Sydney committee of the Exhibition spent £3OO
in cleaning, pressing, packing* and generally pre-
paring the exhibits for the show in Melbourne,
and £252 went in expenses there —mostly in pay-
ing for a watchful eye to be kept glued on to the
precious things. (Of course, you know what an
awful place Melbourne is—l know a lady who
hadn’t been there more than five weeks before she
lost a handkerchief and three hairpins.) And
after paying for all these extra things, including
the watchful eye and the glue, there will still be a
few pounds left over, besides the £5OO, to go to
women’s charities. Which all shows how we can
do things when we try —the mere man or two who
helped don’t count —and when so many committees
and others toil joyously with never a thought of
even tuppence at the end of the struggle.
There is no doubt the late Queen Victoria was
an astute and deep political thinker. She is still
quoted extensively as an authority throughout the
United Kingdom—her written opinion resting, in
the estimate of the Better Classes, somewhere
midway, in the matter of infallibility, between
Hall Caine and a jpronunciamento by the Daily
Mail. Here are her views (they were contained
in a letter to Mrs. Theodore Martin, and are
being used with deadly effect by the Anti-
Woman Righters of the Cold Land just now) re-
garding the emancipation of females :
The Queen is most anxious to enlist everyone who can
speak or write to join in checking this mad, wicked folly
of “ Woman’s Rights,” with all its attendant horrors, on
w’hich her poor, feeble sex is bent, forgetting every sense
of womanly feeling and propriety. Lady ought to
get a good whipping. It is a subject which makes the
Queen so furious that she cannot contain herself. God
created men and women different—then let them remain
each in their own position. Tennyson has some beauti-
ful lines on the difference of men and women in “The
Princess.” Woman would become the most hateful,
heartless, and disgusting of human beings were she
allowed to unsex herself ; and where would be the pro-
tection which man was intended to give the weaker sex?
The Queen is sure that Mrs. Martin agrees with her.
The only marvel is that after an assault like that
the Suffragette cause didn’t lie down, like a good
loyal cause, and bark twice, and then expire.
The ball in aid of the Hospice for the Dying
occurs on July 28. It will help you to save your
soul alive, after your body has no more use for its
summer hat, if you will do something to aid the
institution. It is the only thing of its kind in
Sydney, is free, unsectarian, and hard-pressed for
space and funds. Mrs. J. C. Williamson is
brooding upon some compelling attractions for the
gallery, and her hatched ideas will flutter into
publicity within the week. Mrs. Leahy, Mavoress
of Mosman, and Miss Maud Johnson are hon.
secs. The Excellency Rawson and daughter will
be present, along with the mayoral Hughes folk
and many other persons of importance or
unimportance.
Miss Beatrice Day, who fills the grass widow
r6le in “The Morals of Marcus,” now spin-
ning at the Criterion, does the raindrop
finale (when she fails to hold the man she
loves) with marvellous artistry. She weeps real
big tears, }'et she doesn’t get her nose red
or let the tears run anywhere but down her
cheeks. It isn’t the movable glass tear that shines
on her cheek, but the real damp goods. Many
members of the audience weep with her, but aren’t
so successful in training the flow of emotion the
wav it should run. It is only as a grass widow
that Judith loses the man. If she had been a real
relict she would have harpooned him. The play-
wright knew this, so he had to “grass” her, and
a silly girl with chocolate-sticky lips takes him.
I’m still waiting for the Australian Parlia-
ment to table the Bill for the Burning of Widows.
Miss Day’s stage methods are as quiet (“modern”
is the phrase) as Miss Anglin’s. There is no
brow-smiting and scarcely a gesture, let alone a
superfluous one, even in the wrought-up scenes,
and the voice is always a voice—not a gurgle or a
squeal. She herself bemoans the fact that, with
her leanings to pure comedy, she is always cast in
raincloud roles—parts in which sorrows her young
days have shaded, and joy cometh not till just five
minutes before the fall of the curtain, and then it
arriveth with a bump, and behold, there is no time
to enjoy it, for the audience riseth like one man
and taketh scrambling exercise for the final or
irretrievable tram.
But there is the silver lining to Beatrice’s rain-
cloud. In “ His Wife’s Family,” which Mr.
Flemming will produce on his return visit to
Sydney, she will have a part compounded of Irish
humor, sunshine and wit. The play is by
George Egerton, who wrote “Keynotes,” “Dis-
cords,” and other well-read novels. And as
the work of an Australian it will be an
interesting production from an Australian
point of view. Have any plays by Australian
writers, save one by Haddon Chambers and some
blizzard-like melodramas, been produced in Aus-
tralia? Out of twenty-three plays that Mr. Flem-
ming saw in London, with a view to selection for
this land, only three he considered suitable.
Miss Day speaks of her love of helping to furnish
the interior for the plays produced. Her boudoir in
“The Mummy and the Humming Bird” and the
furnishing of the (Marcus) cottage in “The
Morals” were aesthetic triumphs—places fit for
cultivated human beings to abide in, and not mere
paper dens for temporary automata.
As for gowning, Miss Day had so wearied of the
Empire-Princess form of attire during her recent
year abroad (she saw it everywhere—on the stage,
in the churches, in the Darks, on the muddy
streets, in grand hotels and in minor shops) that
she would have none of it when getting her
foreign frocks. But now, after being bombarded
with the question, “ Why don’t you dress Empire-
wise ? ” she is assuming the style for the next pro-
ductions, “The Red Lamp” and “ Simple Simon.”
She loves tea-gowns, but a tea-gown may be sig-
nificantly expressive. As a current novel puts it:
“ Tea-gowns suggest weariness, the state of being
misunderstood, and a craving for sympathy. A
woman who is going to surrender to fate puts on
a tea-gown, but a well-fitting bodice indicates
strength of character and virtuous firmness.”
Mr. Herbert Flemming’s son is a successful
farmer in the Orange River colony (Africa), and
he also runs a journalistic pen with considerable
profit. Ada Crossley has been singing one of his
songs on her tours.
Curiously enough, there is a lingerie scene in
each of the two principal plays now holding the
boards in Sydney. In “The Thief,” Miss Anglin’s
stage husband unhooks her frock at one in the
morning, and the audience watches breathlessly,
hoping for the worst. Miss Anglin slips out of
the clinging, golden gown, stands for a second in
a short-sleeved lace corset-cover and a petticoat
that is pink-ribboned up to the waist, lace and
ribbon crossing and recrossing like a Chinese
puzzle. Then she inserts herself into a “neglijay ”
of pink silk and lace, and glides about the bedroom
straightening this and crookeding that, after the
manner of dainty womankind, and presently fades
into her dressing-room opening off the bedroom.
The stage husband has taken off his evening coat
and put on a prune dressing-gown, and he blots
himself out into his dressing-room, which, like his
wife’s, is upholstered in fluted white silk. But,
as lie’s spilin’ for a row, he calls out to his dear
Marie, and, as she hasn’t had time to get into her
nightie, there is some natural disappointment
amongst the women. They were waiting pop-eyed
to see the details of the nightie as it is worn in
New York by heiresses who marry Roman princes.
That dream-room setting in “ The Thief ” is a
Gordon coup de maitre. The hangings are mauve
and white (but mauve predominates), and a scroll-
work of pink roses circling a miniature at the
head of the bed is like a grace note struck in the
harmony of the pink dressing-gown. Numerous
sachets of mauve and satin ribbon are on the
walls, the suite is of white enamel with touches
of gold, and the fair thief is well off in the matter
of silver on her dressing-table. The little foot-
stool on which some of her repentance is
made is a feature. But it is hubby’s prune
dressing-gown that puts the chromatic roof on
the achievement. The prune blends into the
mauve as dusk into dawn. For an instant he
exhibits his braces, and one hypercritical damsel
was jarred because the braces were not mauve.
The second play with a lingerie scene in it is
“ The Morals of Marcus” at the Criterion. The
desirable Syrian alien Carlotta dashes into
the presence of the parchment-prim historian
Marcus, who is in love with her, wear-
ing a pink ribboned nightie, and wailing
that there is a mouse in her bed. Marcus
Ignobilis makes for flight, looking a cross between
St. Anthony of the many temptations aud a
detected burglar. Both plays are going well, and
perhaps the pink-ribboned petticoat and mauve
bedroom in the one, and the pink-ribboned nightie
in the other, are more aid in the fine acting than a
wayward generation will admit. “The rim of
finer issues.” All the same, a playwright never
(or hardly ever) puts a man in pyjamas in a play.
The Centuries Ball, in aid of the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital, and engineered by the versatile
Mrs. T. H. Kelly, will roll into long bygone cen-
turies It is to occur on July 29, and the English
periods represented will be from the ninth cen-
tury—that of the romantic Alfred the Great
—to the stodgy George the First, at the
beginning of the 18th century. Twelfth century
Crusaders, Robin Hood, and some of the amorous,
clamorous Marions who are supposed to have pur-
sued the swashbuckler, will have representatives.
The Uni. does the fourteenth century —the
heavily Edwarded period. Mrs. McNeil Simpson
and Miss Kelso Kingtake the Cavaliers and Round-
heads of the seventeenth century. An excursion
into Italian (eleventhjcentury) and German history
will give variety, Minnesingers will uphold the
memory of Hochderkaiser Land with lyric love
lays. But (alas !) the century that was Minus
One—the century when the Dim Old Briton
painted himself blue, and dressed in skins, and
clubbed the wolf on the bank of the Thames—is to
be left out. And it would have been eminently
picturesque to see a stout, middle-aged merchant
got up as the grandfather of Caractacus, and with
a waddy in his hand slaying a large, stuffed dog
on the doorstep, as the representative of a period
which looks romantic at this distance, though at
close range it might have been only untidy.
The Oswald Watt pair and their small child are
back in Sydney from foreign parts.
That Mr. de Beaupuis is coming out of his
“ unjustifiable seclusion,” as a Sydney authority
phrases it, to play at Kubelik’s next Sydney con-
certs is causing a wide ripple of interest. He will
play the Kreutzer Sonata and a Grieg master-
piece. The pianist married, not long ago, Mrs.
Lord, a pretty widow, sister of Mr. Robert Kerr,
,manager of the City Mutual fire office. ’ '
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur (he has been seriously ill)
have gone to Cairns, where the weather is toasted
to just the right degree of warmth. Mr. Alec
Gordon and Pilcher, KK.C., have run to Bris-
bane, which is also better warmed than Sydney.
I am told, on good authority, that “ Glenrock ”
is on the market again—at £ll,OOO. The gay
Dr. Vivers can afford to jest in mansions. The
same—possibly unreliable—authority tells me that
the doctor is such a humorist that he won’t take
himself seriously, let alone the girls that want to
marry his two motor-cars. What’s the matter
with marrying the better of the two motors and
taking the doctor along as chauffeur ?
Mrs. Mallinson, the Danish soprano, who has
been singing her husband’s delicate, refined com-
positions in Sydney, presented a fine white-and-
gold presence to audiences that ought to have
been larger. She looks a Wagnerian heroine
every inch, and there are a good many inches, for
she is very tall and of a fine presence. The Mall-
inson compositions don’t give her voice the scope
and range it deserves. But at Saturday night's
concerts the Schubert and Strauss music treated
her better. The musicianly pair will take that
gifted little gipsy-like violiniste, Rebe Kussman,
with them on their Maoriland tour. The Rawson
pair were at Saturday’s concert with the Wilson
captain, fresh from his wrestle with the balance-
sheet of the Women’s Exhibition.
Golfers are preening themselves for the corning
championship, and getting their tail feathers in
order. Mrs. Arthur Duncan and Miss Bell, two
well-known Maoriland golfers from Wellington,
are at the Australia for the contest.
The manicurist may prove more dangerous to
the unw-ary male than the Biblical arrow that
flieth in the night. One of her had a polish-and-
eut-yonr-forepaw-nails parlor in a big building in
this Harbor City, and to her repaired many cir-
cumspect married men for nail upholstery. Up
to date four of them have been blackmailed by
the Lady of the Curved Scissors, and report says
they have paid up.
Mrs. Elkington, wife of Dr. Elkington, of
Hobart, is in Sydney, staying with her sister,
Mrs. Norman Lindsay. The doctor himself is not
here. He remains in Tasmania, where he has
almost despotic power in the Health Department,
and has used it to such purpose that Tasmania,
from beingreputedlyalmost at thetail end of things
in health matters, is now at the front of the pro-
cession, and threatens to show points to its main-
land neighbors.
From a correspondent:—
An engagement has been announced between Alan C.
Ferguson, of Rough Hill, Mallow, County Cork (Ireland),
and of Albemarle, Menindie, N.S.W., oniy son of the late
Surgeon-Major William Ferguson, A.M.D., and Amy Kath-
leen, second daughter of Colonel Standish H. Harrison, of
Castle Harrison, County Cork (Ireland). The marriage
is arranged to take place on 24th June.
“Mario,” from Brisbane, which is in Queens-
land :
On Wednesday, the bidden and unbidden thronged the
flower-decked All Saints’ Church to see young squatter
Scott McLeod, of Terrico Station, take to his heart and
waistcoat Beatrice Mary, eldest daughter of Mrs. Burt, of
this city. The frocking was fine, from the ivory
satin and orange blossoms of the bride and the
shell-pink taffeta of the maids, with their rose-
decked tiles, to the plum-colored confection of Ma.
In the evening, Mrs. Burt entertained several
’bus-loads of young men and maidens at a merry hop
where the wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and
the meringue that does ditto to that of his natural
mate, were in plenty. Meanwhile, bride and groom were
off to the South to honeymoon in the seclusion of your
chilly city.
I think I told you, last week, that Brisbane had worked
itself up to the point of demanding a new and decent Town
Hall, and as his Worship would not be averse to spend-
ing, say, £lOO,OOO to procure a fine, architectural monu-
ment to his mayoral year, it looks as if there may really
be a fitting city edifice before the present generation dies
of senile decay. And now, as a coping-stone, so to speak,
to the generai agitation, Mr. Godfrey Rivers, the gentle-
man who occupies a position upon the council of the local
National Gallery, and, I hope, occasionally sells the Gallery
one of his pictures, has taken action. He wrote, last
week, to his Worship, stating that the Queensland Art
Society, of which he is also president, “ was in thorough
accord with the scheme for the erection of a new Town
Hall. The Society had long felt the want of a large hall
in a central position in which to hold its annual ex-
hibition, and for that reason alone hoped that the
new Town Hall would soon be an accomplished fact.” And
what’s a mere £lOO,OOO when the Society wants to hang
its masterpiece by the neck until it is quite dead ?
The only fly in the ointment now is that half the folk
want the hall built in the heart of the city, where it un-
doubtedly should be, while the Valley people are shrieking
to have it perched upon a bleak stony ridge overlooking
the river, and about a mile away from anywhere, except
the convent and the Archbishop’s palace—oh yes, and the
Union Hotel.
The ’flu’ rages, and whole streets are down with it.
The doctors in their open motors are easy victims, and in
cases of urgency they are as hard to discover as an un-
secured overdraft.
One of Brisbane’s best-known girleens has recently
become possessed of a valuable bull terrier, which she
brings into town with her, and as he is yet in an infantile
way, she carries him. This harmless amusement seems to
have embittered some of our local scribblers, who have
been foaming at the mouth over it. As the said young
woman does not wipe the puplet’s damp nose on her
hanky, I cannot for the life of me see where her evil-doing
comes in. Now if she scandalmongered at tea fights', or
sat in the stalls and heaved flowers at tenor singers, there
might be something to growl at, but she doesn’t even
dress doggie in a coat with a hemstitched wipe in the
pocket, and his name and telephone number thereon.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Under the Stress and strain of modern life all
beauty that is not closely guarded and cherished must
perish soon. Valaze is the mightiest guard against the
ills that mar beauty. It acts as a tonic, a preserver, and
a stimulant, evicting all the impurities from the pores,
and making the skin clear and healthy, as well as
beautiful. 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., 6d. post. Use also the
Valaze Herbal Soap, which is a perfect skin cleanser, and
is pure and wholesome. 2s. 2d. posted. “ Beauty in the
Making,” is the title of an interesting and instructive
book, by Mile. Rubinstein, on the subject of the com-
plexion and skin, their defects and the remedies of them.
Write and send 3d. for postage, or call on Mile. Rubinstein
for the booklet. Mile. Helena Rubinstein and Co., Valaze
Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274 Collins
Street, Melbourne ; or 9 Brandon Street, Wellington.* [1
Joseph Carruthers is “ Hector ” now that
he is a knight, just as John Bonython became
“Langdon,” and Neil Lewis became “Elliott.”
But Tommy Bent had still to be Tommy, for the
poor man had no middle name to travel upon
(unless, perhaps, it was Bloggs, and he concealed
it). If he had been Thomas H. Bent, he might,
when he got his indignity, have blossomed sud-
denly as “Sir Howard,” or something like that.
But he had no such luck.


COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENT LIBRARY,
HARDY
BY APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS
VICEREGAL-JEWELLERS • WATCHMAKERS • SILVERSMITHS
SILVER CHAIN BAGS and PURSES in a Variety
of Shapes and Sizes, at Prices ranging from
14/- to £9.
Large
Illustrated
Catalogue
Sent
Post
Free.
m
Selections
of
Goods
Forwarded
on
Approval.
SILVER CHAIN PURSE, 24/=
HARDY BROTHERS LIMITED also Stock a very large
variety of 15ct. and 9ct. GOLD CHAIN BAGS and PURSES,
ranging in price from £4 4s. to £6O.
I3HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
lIS QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON • ADDRESS 19-CHARTERHOUSF-STREET
JLJJt —tTLVJL_/Vv_Jf
yrn
TUFF o
HEAL
1
l
MB
r■
/rf
if
**
5
4 '
Vf
5
**
!
m
i.% i
s' -
HP*
tAj|S£aL-
f
••
*»• .
%
f
...
o
Parrot
Brand
BOSISTO’S
‘ PARROT
BRAND "
... EUCALYPTUS OIL
The Great Australian Remedy for
RHEUMATISM, COUGHS and COLDS.
.7- 3
c?
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 1908.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Calander., Hordern Street,
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLINC.
Results of Drawing- w il no advertised in this paper on November 6th.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns
or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
F reel
2-ft. High.
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR A BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life-sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks, brown eye>, and represented with flesh-cotoure i body, red stock
ings, black shoes, and will standalone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of best material rapid in its action, and
com ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WHTCH
CHAIN and PENOMT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3a per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the rnonev t)/- , ano we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give a wav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World —Imitated but Unrivaiieu.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium Eist includes
Watches and Ghains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Ghoice and Useful Pre-
sents —a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds —also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright
& Co.
Seedsmen,
910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Soy’s Rif e.
The Ideal Winter Holiday Resort.
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
AN ELECTRICALLY-LIGHTED AND STEAM-HEATED PALACE
situated upon the most imposing outlook on the
BLUE MOUNTAINS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Now’s the Time for the Rest Cure and the full enjoyment of a quiet Holiday.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
1 29 liatoomba.
$
For Details apply—
City Office, 38 Castlereagh Street.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d< from “The
Bulletin ” Office
A Keen, Practical Blade.
Every blade that goes into a PLUM RAZOR
is made in exactly the same way as the most expensive
barber’s razor, consequently the PLUM gives to
its user the gentle, smooth shave that men like.
Price 10/0
Post Free to any part of Australasia. Guaran-
teed and kept in order for the first two years.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY*
Established 25 Years.
Modern Massag'e
Just as modern Surgery is superior to the old-
time methods so the
Sffi
k
Type B.
CRESCENT
VIBRATOR
exceeds in direct benefit the old-style
hand massage. It costs less per
treatment and can be ttsed at all
times at home.
It is specially relieving in nervous
disorders Rheumatism, Lumbago,
Gout, Constipation and Neuralgic
Pains.
Giving up to 20,000 vibrations a
minute, it can be regulated for per-
sons of any age or strength, and is
simple enough in operation for a child to use.
We supply the power to drive it in a battery, or it can be used on
ordinary electric light switch*
WRITE OR CALL FOR OUR CRESCENT BOOKLET*
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards*
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - Is. Packet of 12
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS. IQd. IQ


SORELLE.
The MISSES CLAPP are at 52 Macleay
Street, Potts’ Point, Sydney, for a week,
and will show their Spring Models.
II Gracefulness and Freedom]
of Figure and Movement is necessary for
your comfort and health.
“P.D. CORSETS” assure you of these
great essentials—imparting a beauty of form,
an attractiveness of personality, and a
stylishness of deportment that no other
make of Corset can approach. Every pair of
“P.D.” CORSETS is beautifully shaped, and
whether Nature has endowed you with a
beautiful figure or not, you will find one in a
“P. D.” CORSET. Made of the highest
quality materials —by skilful French Oor-
setieres, “P.D.” CCRSETS possess all the
superb lines of beauty, with the additional
advantage of perfect ease—comfort—freedom
—support and superior service.
PRICES RANGE FROM 5/11 up to £4/4/- PAIR.
Only First-class Drapers and
Storekeepers stock
u
P.D.’W‘P.D.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 6, 1908.
My Dear Yarrik,—
The Dowager Mrs. Clarke, at latest, was
reported to be suffering a relapse, but strong
hopes are entertained that the game invalid
will recover health again, if only by her
own courage and strong will. It takes
much to overcome such strenuous energy
as hers. Apropos to her illness, the Dowager’s
pet protegee, the Cats’ League, committed a
ghoulish faux pas. The League owns an official
mew, The Woman, which issues monthly. This
slim periodical is filled with long leaders, which,
in turn, are filled with bad grammar. It
is contributed to by all the more prominent
Cats—suburban members aren’t specially re-
quested, as a rule. And it has an overwhelming
respect for the Cliveden lady. When her dan-
gerous illness was announced, all the literary Cats
commanded that the paper should be kept back
from the printer till the latest moment possible,
and a violent competition commenced. They all
wanted to write the poor woman’s obituary, and no
one wished the paper to be a month late with a hor-
ribly gloomy screed. To date the editorial pigeon-
holes are full of post-mortem appreciations, and
the lady is still expected to continue being a good
citizen in this dustier sphere. Such an episode in
the case of a daily newspaper would be common-
place. In the instance of the dame’s own dear
friends it savors of killing their patron in order to
hang wreaths of bad grammar on her memory.
Rupert Clarke returns from Papua for the
races. Our only Hereditary Aristocrat is develop-
ing a fierce capacity for business in this the last
hours of his infancy. Papua, opera, india-rubber
and London all occur to him in a half-year. Pro-
bably his new energy comes to him as a good
joke after his long exposition of idleness as an
occupation.
The Talbot exodus was a quiet and unexciting
citastrophe, which one wouldn’t have noticed
except for the noise of a cadet band’s blaring. The
farewelling commenced in good earnest early in
the week, when the grey lady carried her high
nose into her favorite committee-rooms. She was
presented with certain ornate screeds, which set
forth in long-winded phrases her incalculable
virtues, and added up her beneficences with pain-
ful accuracy. On Friday, the riot culminated in
the lady’s reception by sundry Superior People, in
the Independent Hall. Mrs. Chief Justice
Madden, Mrs. Staughton, the Robert Harper dame
and three score others of graded notability joined
forces, and procured a supply of tea and cake to
regale themselves. There were some quaint
scenes at this levee. Ladies, who have met the
glacial Governoress three times, bobbed and
curtseyed before her self-possession, and when she
departed the poor afflicted women had the greatest
difficulty in restraining their tears. Her personal
friends also made an edifying display of their
grief—and their intimacy. They clung to her
hand with enthusiasm, and were eloquent
in their sorrow. The matron bore up with
equanimity.
The progress from Stonington to Spencer-
street was a lengthy imposition upon our speeding
Governor and his mate. They started from their
suburban shelter at about two o’clock, and pro-
ceeded to tour round the neighborhood, for the
purpose of being talked at lengthily. At 4.30
they were haled to a ceremonial Ave Atque Vale
in the cruelly cool Town Hall, where Bent (an
exposition of the evils of knighthood, and the
things which deserve such punishment) bubbled
over with spontaneous bad taste and gar-
rulity. The Acting-Mavoral Davey family was
prominent at this crowded gathering of people who
love to get wet on vice-regality’s account. More
turgid flattery was poured forth before the retiring
pair, who’d got considerably damp during their
afternoon’s peregrinations through the mud and
mist. At last they were freed from the turmoil
and allowed to catch their train.
At Spencer-street another mob of self-sacrificing
devotees said farewell to the Excellencies. He
took off his hat with a flourish, and she shook her
blue velvet garments with an air of relief, and
they were free at last from all the folk whom they
couldn’t remember, but who insisted upon being
remembered.
Carrie Moore and Maude Chetwynd have re-
sumed their previously close palship. The two
spritely young females (as stage-girls go they still
may be so catalogued) pervade the Vienna for
luncheon and suppers, with an admiring and
gilded male entourage. Carrie doesn’t wear as
well as her less bediamonded chum. TheChetwynd
hasn’t altered since the “Florodora” days; but
Magpie Carrie shows some lines on her slim
throat and around her black eyes, which might
have been tardier in coming. I put her wrinkles
down to her diamonds. To wear them, and
live up to them every instant of the day,
demands a lot of energy. And diamonds do
need living up to. Carrie is dressing very simply
these times. A succession of tailored garments
and some fine black fox-furs are her usual day-
garb. Her nocturnal appearances outside the
theatre are mostly made in a tired pink chiffon
and a sleepy-looking lace hat. Evidently she
guesses that nothing could emphasise her scintil-
lating eves, and her strong, gleaming teeth, and
her pointed, flamboyant gestures better than the
ingenue ineffectuality of a crushed pale muslin.
The ball from which plain man is rigidly ex-
cluded threatens to become an institution in "Mel-
bourne. Another fancy dress dance for women
only was held at Yarraville on the Ist, and police-
men guarded the doors while girls and matrons,
dressed as firemen, Scotch pipers, clowns and
sundries, capered with others of their sex gowned
as Juliets, dairymaids, etc. There is even some
doubt about the authenticity of the “Johns” who
held the fort while Yarraville’s dames and damsels
revelled within—it has been stated on bad
authority that they were also women in disguise.
Unmixed dancing represents woman’s revolt
against man’s selfish habit of going off and having
a night with the boys while the girls are dismally
unemployed. Man claims the right to please him-
self, and woman responds with an attempt to
amuse herself. It is a fair arrangement.
The Dickens’ Society gave a ball. Now the
Dickens’ Society is too literary to be entirely
Society-coddled, and instead of getting a pull On a
Governor, or an “ex.,” or a “vice,” or even the
forty-fifth cousin of one, the members ran the show
themselves at considerable disadvantage. The
show was in aid of the Consumptives’ Sanatorium,
and in the good of the cause a toplofty crowd took
tickets to watch from the balcony. By the
strangest fiasco there was scarcely anything to
watch. In the huge wastes of the chilly Town
Hall, dancers were so few that they didn’t
even run to two sets of Lancers. Yet
what there was was well worth looking at.
Pickwick peeped most bashfully from behind
curtained pillars. The Second Mrs. Dombey,
correct in every detail, asserted herself with the
effort that Mrs. Domhey No. 1 lacked. David
Copperfield was present in all the glory wherewith
he once smote the jaw of U. Heep. It was an
excellent opportunity lost —a splendid field for
fetching dress. I spent my time thinking out
characters for people who were not there. What
Guy Madden the Fat missed by not appearing as
Tommy Traddles, bursting out of a sky blue suit
and drawing melancholy skeletons !
Church, of the Macedon Sanatorium, who was
running the show, had gone to bed with con-
gestion of the lungs or something, and his hand-
some son Ronald spruced round like an animated
brick trying to carry the extraordinary slump
with an easy air. He begged thebalconyites (who
had not paid half-a-guinea) to “come down and
dance,” and incidentally eat the supper. This
and some Dickens tableaux thawed the frost
somewhat.
Hal Waugh’s exhibition of bush pictures in
Bernard’s gallery is a particularly pleasant epi-
sode. In the shop window he posters the show
with a sheet of gum-hark. In the gallery he
justifies the sylvan suggestive advertising ad-
junct. Thirty canvases make up his cata-
logue, but half that number would serve
to establish his claim to high consideration
in the Art world. Waugh proves his ver-
satility beyond _ question. A. year or two ago
he was turning out big canvases, heavy
with pigment, mediocre in interest and technical
merit. Now he is producing the daintiest work,
full of sunny color, and all marked by careful
craftsmanship. The large “Artist’s Camp” is
the best of his ambitious work. In it he caught
Ins first sunbeams and Australian atmosphere.
“Trucking Logs,” an animal study, amounts to
the best painting of horses shown here for many
a day. The Waugh horse is a curiously charac-
teristic beast—the kind of nag which never gets
nearer to town than a country railway terminus.
Of the smaller pictures two white-gum studies are
delightful—“Fretted Shadows,’’a sunlit stretch,
and “ Forest Ghosts,” a melancholy poem. “ The
Tobacco-Growers’ Hut ” is fine, rich-toned, yet
delicate; “A Frosty Morning” is full of quiet,
truthful color. There is a vast amount of merit
in the show that speaks loudly of a long sincerity
of endeavorthere is a “feeling” for the hush
which is unmistakably sympathetic, and there is
a succession of charming color-studies.
Louis Esson, fresh from the places where gods
wear ugly noses and large stomachs, tells of an
interview with Togo, the Jappy admiral. The
poet Esson, with a man from Argentina, called
upon the brown notability. The man from S.
America talked for twenty minutes to Togo about
a boat bought from his Government by Japan.
Togo said “ Yes, ” three times. Esson said, “ This
is a picturesque country.” Togo said “ It is,” and
relapsed into his starched King Edward collar
and a stern brown silence, with hodden grey
stripes on it. Everybody said no word during six
minutes, then they rubbed their hands on their
trousers, and said “ Good-day ” with a serpentine
hiss, calculated to make an inexperienced Euro-
pean swallow his store teeth. Then the two
interviewers went out and lost themselves in a
labyrinth of grey dull passages until they were
cast forth by an arrogant “ boy ” in buttons.
Togo can be interviewed for an hour without
saying six words. Wouldn’t he be a delightful
alternative to T. Bent?
Mrs. Annie Besant, during a private talk
with women, in the Theosophical Society’s
rooms, gave two fierce prods and one chuck-
ling dig at missionaries (to India) that made her
audience sit up like amazed Teddy-bears. After
a little generalising, the lady sailed into the ques-
tion of child widows (the pet horror of the con-
verter of the Hindu). She opinionated that the
Indians might just as well send missionaries here
to ameliorate the condition of spinsters—those
poor, put-upon feminines of an ungodly country
which not only does not arrange for the mar-
riage of its women, but even lets one woman
take two or three or any number of hus-
bfxnds (Death is a mere incident in persistent
Life to an Indian —thence the custom of wife-
burning, which originally rose from a desire of
the woman to follow her man to his next exist-
ence), and so makes the number of men insufficient
to go round. In India, each woman has her
whack, anyhow. It’s the luck of the game (of
Life) if she keeps the male who has been whacked
out to her ; but she does not make things worse by
taking anyone else’s husband.
It is as wicked for a woman in India to marry
after the death (transition) of her husband as it is
immoral for a woman here to depart with a new
man while her husband is alive. The widows in
India take the place of the spinsters in other parts
of the world—they are the teachers of the young
and the nurses of the sick. The onlv hospitals
(with few exceptions) in India are for animals—
not human beings.
Mrs. Besant’s only idea for helping the child-
widow is to raise the age of marriage—which
sometimes is brought as low as two and three
years. The “marriage” is a betrothal really,
followed by a formal ceremony of marriage later;
but the betrothal serves as well as the marriage to
prevent the child from taking a second husband.
The child-widow, says Mrs. Besant, is most ten-
derly cherished (if this is true there must be some
thousands of hard liars about, for the impression
to the contrary has been very large and persistent).
She dresses without adornment, not because of
poverty, but as a mark of honor—she is an honor-
able widow, and shows it by the plainness of her
weeds.
There is no sign, no sound, from a certain dis-
sipated lady who was expected, for various
reasons, to be much in evidence just now. Is she
at home for a lengthy spell, or has her pension
been dangled further afield to lure her away from
vice-regal precincts? Will she be here to rush up
to Guv’ment House and fall on the new boss-
gubernatorial family in welcome, and tell them she
is a long-lost relative, and call them blessed ? The
Dissipated Lady often used to walk into meetings
or lectures and comment scathingly in haw-hawty
tones with much point and wit. She is strong as
three men or more, and no two policemen would
attempt to arrest her—a bodyguard of four
robust Bluecoats were found necessary for a
successful defeat (she was convicted 92 times), and
then the language was warmer than anything
remembered along the oldest bullock-track. Her
arts and flaunts and graces (when she was in a
mild mood) were funny. With her sweetest smile
she d approach an ostensible friend ; she would
shake, hands affectedly, then suddenly scrunch
the unfortunate paw till the friend squealed and
the bones grated.
The Talbottle Dame revived perceptibly—she
thawed she almost gushed (as an icicle would
Rush) when her term was up. She rushed gaily
round cheerful places like the Epileptics’ Home
and the House of Incurable Idiots. The un-
happy gentleman-helps (no one has a home
for out-worn gentleman-helps) streaked back
and forth along the streets laden with
Baskets of the Blind and other presents for the
Talbottle Bundle, and Guv’ment House lived in a
whirl of packing up. Is the Icy Lady a young-
old woman or an old-young girl? The balance-
wavers. Sometimes she looks a seventeen-year-
old, and drags grey-haired Hubby about as if he
were Dad. Other times, when the frost is in her
manner as well as on her hair, she is a veritable Old
Lady of the Sea—with her clear ice-sea blue eyes
and the avalanche on her head.
Eily O’Brien’s benefit concert was a success.
Her pretensions to voice are not small, and
there is some reason for her being boosted
toward further study in Bullopolis. Tenor
Marsden, the Huge, backed up the programme per-
ceptibly, and the list- of other warblers petered
out to the usual unnecessary length. The befrilled
Thomas Bent, inflated by his recent elevation to a
rarer atmosphere, rose and platformly opinionated
on Australian song in general, from O’Brien to
Melba. His remarks swelled grossly beyond the
bounds laid down for a plain Mister, and his
statements suggested an interminable procession of
bears—all heavy, fat, plantigrade, rather stupid,
yet skittish in a bulky sort of fashion.
A Western District Adonis has just presented
his friends with something to ’phone to each other
about across-country these cold nights. He
“eloped” with a hospital nurse, and considered a
post-notice in the papers enough information for
his devoted family. The family’s chief concern
is that a highly-** suitable ” engagement with a
neighboring squatterina was not openly or formally
broken ; but even before Jumbuck junior fled
with his angel, the engagement had lamely
petered out or thereabouts. There wasn’t much
of it left to break, but it is held that the remnant
might as well have been smashed officially. The
doves depart this week for the Sunless City, and
shake a happy-go-lucky paw at the whirlwind
discussion that rages behind them on the great
plains of Jumbuck.
The tragedy of the week has been the death of
Faith Aydon, eldest daughter of Manager Fred,
of the Opera House. She was only 22, and ap-
parently of splendid physique—a tall, graceful
girl, with a classic face and as much intellect as a
clever man. The poor maid was ailing only a few
months. Everyone is sincerely sorry for her
parents—and most folk who knew her charm
sorrow for herself. All the Rickardian uncles
and aunts (she was a niece of Mrs. Harry’s), and
the artists of the local theatre, cast beautiful
flowers upon her casket.
Already we’re reminded that Kubelik comes
back to us in August. Mrs. Kub. sends picture
post-cards from nowhere in particular to the folk
who fought for the privilege of a hasty intro-
duction to her and her hairy hero. Himself, of
course, doesn’t stoop to any active part in
Manager Buckingham's advertising campaigns.
Kubelicking developed into a hobby with our
Truly Musical, led by the Sugden Professor and
the other panjandrums of stave and ledger notes.
And it proved the wierdest entertainment.
In the worship of an idol who suffers from a
“little Mary,” there is ever a note of in-
terrogation. With Kubelik, one wasn’t sure
whether he’d do a spasm or a sonata.
Mark Hambourg and Mrs. Mark and Baby
Mark arrive in Sydney with banging of drums on
Monday next. Baby Mark cables an interviewer
that the Butt Babies and the Kubelik Twins are
a back number ; his novelties in Baby Boom are
absolutely the latest.
The Bottomley boy, who delights the selective
eye of the matinee miss at the Royal these days,
has some qualities usually foreign to beauteous
baritones. He’san honest Shakspearian enthusiast,
and quite a dab at cricket, beside being that rare
thing, an actor who isn’t obsessed by his own
artistry.
The Glassy Rink blazed into Carnival on
Tuesday night. Every one on the ice was in
carnival attire. “Miss Hook of Holland’’and
“The Merry Widow” were done to death;
though the Hooks scored two sets of prizes. (Is
there any connection between Miss Hook and
that ancient Dutch war between the Hooks and
the Cods?) A team of red-and-black “orphans ”
from Amsterdam ran in for the cerise ribbons
for graceful skating and general smartness;
though some blue-clad distillery maidens from
the haunts of Hook just missed the Team Bangles
by the fringe of their caps. Slink’s private secre-
tary, also a Hookite, won a gold cigarette case.
A team of hawkers and a saveloy cart got a
prize. The haughty Millers and Fenners pushed
the cart, but the coster character went to their
heads, and a truly streety brawl took place. There
was a scuffle, a fight, a flurry of snow and kicks,
and Norman Fenner, the darling of the clan, was
carried off with an apparently damaged nose.
Exit all the saveloy crowd.
A team of mice and the two cats who drove were
given the field to themselves, and skated an im-
pression of the adage which says that during the
temporary absence of the feline, the mice will paint
the town red and come home in a state of intoxi-
cation.
The usual graceful waltzing, with softened
lights and murmuring music, punctuated the
gaudy, noisy show. Little Phillis Duckett, who
seems to have skated since she was born, won a
ribbon.
Mrs. James Gibb returned this week from a
journey through Asiatic places. The fascinatingly
brisk matron brings back a load of nice things,
from Indian carpets to Japanese back-scratchers.
Mr. Manson, the tourist expert in charge of
Maoriland matters here, has been for a rush round
his native islands in search of fresh local color
wherewith to lure the sight-seer and the money-
spender to the land of the mountain and the
greenstone and the acclimatised deer with the
head that looks like a burst portmanteau. Mr.
Millington, of the Wellington office, balanced
matters by touring Australia. Tourist offices in
Maoriland are dotted about as thickly as measles
on a rich patient.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
The Langdon Bonvthons gave a large and cheery con-
versazione at the School of Mines last week, in honor of
the school-teachers’conference, of which body Langdon
is president. There was a frocky concourse of lay cele-
brities ; also, dancing and a musical programme, and ex-
periments to show you how to make oxide of cat and
similar mysteries. The hostess was smartly garbed in
black sequined net over glacC. Other pleasant clothing
on the crowded landscape was jolly Mrs. Lavington Bony-
thon’s lovely white chiffon, embroidered in dainty wreaths
of pink and blue roses, and a few moonbeam spangles
thrown in, over a white duchesse satin ; her mother’s
gorgeous black net interwoven with white applique over
glace ; Mrs. (Melba) Patterson’s black and Maltese lace ;
and young Mrs. Layborne-Smilh’s soft cream chiffon
raiment with touches of yellow aboutit.
The School of Mines boys’ annual ball, always a no-
table occasion for the voung and giddy fry, is planned for
July 31.
Glenelg’s Mayoral folk, the H. W. Varleys, are giving a
great ball on July 21, to welcome home our Premier.
That salubrious and conservative town beside the water
loves Thomas passing'well. It gave him a Mayoral fare-
well and many compliments the night before he sailed for
Britain, and now it is to be foremost in clasping his
returned and lily-white hand. St. Peter’s Mayor follows
suit on the 25th, with a civic entertainment; in fact, the
welcomes are likely to go on till Christmas or after.
When Mr. Price was in England, some British magnate
asked him if the S.A. Labor Party wouldn’t be pained and
grieved at his wearing a Court suit. “ Oh ! dear no ! ” said
Thomas, “ the boys like a bit of style.”
The visit of the Barnardo Boys to South Oss last week
brought to light some more of the little-known benefi-
cences of that somewhat eccentric philanthropist, the
late J. H. Angas. It transpires that he gave over £42,000
to the Barnardo Homes during his lifetime. Mr. Angas
bad something of a reputation for parsimony, but his
secret charities are always being run to earth. The
quondam waifs gave several musical and lecturing per-
formances in the Town Hall during their stay, and their
Exes, and all our local philanthropists lent their counte-
nance and applause.
Mr. Harry Dutton set out once more to cut the con-
tinent in twain, amid the cheers of the populace and
with a long line of motors proceshing after him for some
nines. The Automobile Club drank his health, and waved
its hat in the countenance of Fate. The motor of the
last expedition was left stranded up in the wild interior,
where it has been providing free Sunday entertainment
for the native population. ’Tis said the adjacent tribes
have been seen wearing its interior as something new in
jewellery.
Our Crematorium was set a-working last week for the
body of.the late Charles Lawrence Whitham, Unitarian
parson and State-school inspector. The deceased was an
ardent enthusiast on matters educational, and proved it
to the end by subscribing to this sane, healthful, but still
unpopular form of disintegration.
The George Itiddochs, of Mt. Gambier-on-the-voleano,
came home from a six months’ jaunt in Europe last
week. They dropped into Holland to see if it could give
South Oss any points in dairying, and found it couldn’t.
Mr. Biddoch has brought our little pet Art Gallery home
a picture by Edward Douglas. It is entitled “ Jersey
Beauties.”
Adelaide is full of pitfalls now o’ nights, and it’s like a
Chinese puzzle to thread the labyrinth of trenches where
they are sowing steel rails in the hope of reaping a crop
of electric trams. From careful observation, the process
of tram-planting seems an intensely interesting one.
First, they dig a trench. Then the Lord-High-Engineer-
in-Waiting walks along the length of it, stops here and
there, and mutters an incantation. After that they close
up the trench and wait nine-and-three-quarter days. Then
they dig that trench all over again. I don’t know exactly
how many of these ceremonies go to every trench, but we
quite expect to wake one morning and find that a full-
fledged elecric tram has sprung up in a single night.
Mrs. Halliday, who is a leading British light of Mothers’
Union work, is to be a guest at the Residence shortly.
Lady Le Hunte has always been interested in the move-
ment. She is local president of the United Mothers, and
has worked strenuously for them. Just at present, the
delegate dame dwelleth with the Bishopees at Bishop's
Court.
We were to have heard the erstwhile Sydney singer
damsel, Miss Tibby Tighe (better known on this side as
Mrs. Jackman) at the Lyric Club, last week, but sickness
intervened. One way and another, ’flu’ played havoc
with that programme. The clever Von Treuers were to
have manipulated it, but many of their helpers fell vic-
tims to the pestilence that sneezeth in darkness, and
they were only able to give a small dramatic sketch.
Nevertheless, the programme was one of the best of the
year.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
“Blue Peter”: I don’t take much stock in the Mus-
grove-Wren scheme of bringing out a light opera co. to
play “ Les Cloches de Corneville,” “ Maritana,” “The
Bohemian Girl,” etc. Ancient dames at seaside boarding-
houses play ghostly Lancers to these old works, or play
them as duets, but otherwise they are dead—long dead.
The soulful people who sit out hours and hours of “ Val-
kyrie ” and “Lohengrin” scorn “Les Cloches” and
“ Madame Angot” ; and the fluffy ones who buv flowers
for Essie Perrin and write letters to Higginson will stay
away with equal enthusiasm. There is a fatal atmosphere
of crinolines and Jemima boots about Balfe, Wallace and
co. To me the enterprise smacks more of Montv Brew-
ster than of John Wren.


iliiilllil
m
m
mm
■'mo
-•
■
-
wm
; • .v
m
v
_ii
s
' * *,*,
%
■ •
m
tm
SSii
m
■
.
&
■bh|
T.
ip
$ m
■m
r s
m
rr
'^7
fit
*
rcEA^
<?
s>
o
ct
<£
O
o
o
£
<C
-2
*y
•"
►
C>
P'
a
&^\4
°y
P
*?
a:
<*
3r
sc
?r
%
-j
Ctr
<
*
3?
O
cc
v/
>/
*
•V
%
4
V
4 c?s^
*
.
.—■ f^\
SWffl
itj.
dr
2
-
Interstate Mail
Steamship Lines
510 most of
>, the
gloom and dreari-
ness of winter be-
come supportable
from habit. We
put up with it, not
because it is impossible to avoid
it, but rather because it is im-
practicable. If we dare consult our-
selves upon the subject—and occasionally
we do—we would be sure to say that the
season is unpopular, because we are forced to in-
creased activity to keep warm, or because we are,
to some extent, restricted to the more violent forms
of recreation. That is possibly the more common-
place view of it. But there is another. It is that
the revolt against rigorous or unpleasant climatic
conditions is really instinctive. We hate cold
and grey skies, rain and ice, blizzards and freezing
blasts —from impulse. Preferably we would have
sunlight and warmth—not so much of it as
would breed indolence and decrease in industry,
but just so much as would guarantee comfort in
condition on all occasions. The desire is inherent
—which may be remarked in the tendency of
humanity to herd in the warmer zones. At this
stage, it might be asked what all of the foregoing
has to do with the North Queensland Winter
Tour, about which it is proposed to add a little to
what has been already written. Well, it has this
to do with it. Seeing that winter is disliked, but
is yet endured by, say, the ordinary Melbourne
citizen, the Tour becomes at once an object of
interest, as showing how the comparative bitter-
ness of the season may be evaded. And this
being: the time of year when all the glories of
the North are most manifest, it should be asked
why more do not set out for it.
To the Southern stranger the North is, climati-
cally speaking, a quaint paradox. It is notice-
ably strange, in so far that its winter
its most salubrious season, while its
summer, being the season of humid
heat and monsoonal rains, is, to
those unaccustomed to it, not
very agreeable. But the North
Queensland winter, between
the months of May and Sep-
tember, is a thing of charm.
Then one sees the tropical riches
of the country in their most
flourishing conditions. The
vegetation, growing in wild.
unaided luxuriance ; the forests of mighty trees ;
the flowers and fruits —all replete with the fasci-
nation of unfamiliar beauty—are attractive to the
eye. Men have returned to their prosaical
environments enamored with the magnificence of
it. So much loveliness, spread out unsparingly
over sea and river and land; so much
that has the glamor of all unassisted effort;
so much that has the majesty of unre-
stricted opulence in every natural form and color
scheme they had not seen in this great continent
of ours. Perhaps they had travelled the thousand
miles of unbroken calm that lie between Rock-
hampton and Thursday Island —a journey on an
even keel from day to day. Protected by the
eternal Parrier Reef, that has grown through the
centuries from a little thing to one of the sym-
metrical wonders of the world, the traveller
spends a glad time, and unafflicted by the roll of
the outer sea. Day by day he gloats upon a col-
lection of scenes, all so bewildering in their en-
chantment that he cannot feel indifferent to them.
Irrespective of its beauty, the value of the Barrier
as an Australian asset can only be guessed at. As
a protection to the trade route from the south to
Thursday Island and further north to Eastern
Asia, it is of inestimable worth. Yet knowledge
of the riches hidden in its pools and lagoons is of
the vaguest. Moreover, the sea within the reef is
full of possibilities. In pearl-shell and beche-de-
mer it is only beginning to be appreciated, while
the sportsman may spend many an exciting hour
among its teeming marine life.
Resplendent as the North is, the Australians
that are acquainted with it in its entirety are far
too few. Too many know it as a name, fewer as
a heritage. Yet the Australian should think it a
duty to visit it; and permit his ideas of his coun-
try’s "greatness to expand. Apart from the
educational interest of the trip, is the fine
consideration of patriotic motive. As suggested
in a previous article, travel in and about one’s own
country inevitably removes those parochial ideas,
that become typical of long residence in a spot.
His mind broadens and becomes, not local, but
Australian. He becomes less of a self-centred
egotist, and more alive to the knowledge that, just
so much as his own dwelling is not North Carlton
or Balmain, neither are Sydney and Melbourne
the whole of Australia. Assuredly, the question
is wholly sentimental—but sentiment of that sort
welds units into communities, and communities
into nations. And undoubtedly travel, whereby
the resources and conditions of a continent are
made known to one, has no small influence to that
end. A few days amid the tropical wealth of the
magic North will soon reveal the potent truth of
that statement.
To do fitting justice to North Queensland a
sumptuous vocabulary and some craftmanship
should be the essential qualities of a writer. Even
then a picture, unsatisfactory in its details, and
unappealing as a whole, might be the result.
Indeed, it is not possible—always admitting
limited descriptive powers—to more than furnish
& suggestion of the reality. It is quite possible—
and also commonplace—to say that it is beautiful
as a natural wonder, and gigantic in economic
value. It is, moreover, easy to compare it. But
it conveys little. One only knows that Mourilyan
Harbor, the Hinchinbrook, Whitsundav Passage,
Cairns, and the Barron, the Atherton Scrub, and
a hundred other things, are but sections of its
magnificence; while Charters Towers, Mount
Morgan, and Cloncurry mining fields, the pearl-
shell, beche-de-mer. and cane industries represent
but a portion of its scope and development. It
might be left at that —for many of those names
are by-words.
In conclusion, let the potential traveller ask
himself where he shall spend his winter holiday,
cheaply as well as profitably, and, at the same
time, let him remember what the North offers.
Let him remember that it offers color, air, and
sunlight; scenery, verging from the seductive to
the awesome; and a host of unfamiliar things.
Furthermore, let him ask himself if it is worth
while going overseas to the
beauty spots and places of
interest in foreign
countries, while this
great section of the
Australian continent
remains practically
unknown. Well he
knows that it isn’t.
Well the Five Com-
panies know. That
is why this has been
written.


SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
i
If anything on earth will cure indigestion Mother Seigel’s Syrup will.
It is a purely vegetable compound, carefully prepared from the concentrated
extracts of valuable medicinal roots, leaves and barks ; and its action on
the stomach, liver and bowels is such that these organs are enabled to do
their natural work easily and thoroughly. All the pain, wind, oppression,
headache, nausea, palpitation, breathlessness, which come of indigestion
quickly disappear, your system is cleansed and invigorated, and sound
H health returu.s.
IS THE WORLD’S
SUPREME CURE
“ Food was torture. I had sharp pains, land a feeling as if my chest
were being crushed in. My. suffering kept me awake and restless three nights
out of four, and I was so weak and ill that half my time I was quite unable
to work. But Mother Seigel's Syrup cured me thoroughly, and ever since I
have continued strong and vigorous.”—From Mr. W. H. Brown, 64, Fuke
Street, Hunters Hill, N.S.W. March 18th, 1908.
FOR
INDIGESTION
FROOTOIDS
Curs Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria.
TO LET FURNISHED.
Beautiful Melbourne Mansion.
10 Acres of Lawns, Gardens, &c. Superb View of
the Bay. Within easy reach of the City.
Magnificent Reception Rooms. Provision for
400 Guests. Furniture cost £lO,OOO.
Over 30 Booms. Dining Boom, 35ft. x 25ft.; Drawing
Boom, 44ft. x 18ft.; Billiard Boom, 28ft. x 20ft.
Stables, Coach-house, Orchard, Tennis Courts.
The owner is willing to let for a period, furnished, or
unfurnished, at a very reasonable rental.
For further Particulars apply—
BAILLIEU, PATTERSON & SONS PTY. LTD.,
375 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
@0
¥
8
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENCLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
4-28 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*o*U'l*S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from.
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
\W:
WELSBACH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete - ss. each .
Extra Mantles - - 6d. ~
Extra Chimneys - - 2\d. ~
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods ? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBAGH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide.
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.
BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M. THE KING.
.m m *
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
m
CONJURING TRICKS, PUZZLES, SURPRISE
AND JOKE NOVELTIES.
THE MAGIC
COINER.
Something’ quite new, a real mystifier, and one of
the cleverest tricks ever invented. This little trick,
which can be carried in the vest pocket, never
fails to add, to an evening’s amusement, and is in-
dispensable to a conjurer. It represents the coinage
of threepenny pieces from plain pieces of metal,
and one, two. or three coins can be made at the
will of the operator. Full directions enclosed.
Price' //-/post-free anywhere.
COMIC MAKE-UPS.
Consisting- of a
pair of false eyes
(made of cellu-
loid and unbreak-
able), price Bd. ;
a set of false teeth
(made of celluloid
and unbreakable),
price 10d. ; a
false nose (made
of canvas cloth,
covered with wax,
beautifully colored and made in every conceivable
shape), price 6d. ; and a false moustache, any color
and easily attached to the nostrils, price 3d. each;
or the complete set 2/-, post free anywhere.
THE SPRA Y WA TER
PISTOL.
Will stop the most
vicious dog or man vvith-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unescorted ladies, night-
watchmen, etc. Has more effect on beggars and
tramps than a watchdog. It creates great amuse-
ment for young and old, and is one of the most
popular joke novelties ever placed on the Australian
market. Reloading unlimited, length 5 inches,
nickel-plated and nicely ornamented. Price 1/6
post free to any part of the world.
MAGIC BEDEL!A BALLS.
Very novel and surprising.
You squeeze the ball and out
pops the legs, as shown, in
an amazingly life-like manner.
On releasing the pressure the
legs at once disappear. One
of the most comical novelties
to he found in our varied
stock, and affords no end of
of amusement for old and
young. Price //-, post free
anywhere.
Send for our new Illustrated
Catalogue—just published.
Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
In both N.S.W. and Victoria the practice of
calling tenders for the yearly tenancy of dairy and other
farms is increasing to an alarming extent. And as a
general thing the tenant is required to contract himself
out of any rights he may have under the rules of equity to
value for improvements made on the land. The only con-
sideration the tenant has so far received from his landlord
is that, if no one offers a higher price than he does, he has
a preference ; and that consideration is more apparent
than real. Haunted by the dread of being outbidden
and losing his improvements, the tenant is driven to bid
higher every year in a race with the possible competitor
who, having no improvements to lose so far, can gamble
with a lighter heart. If the tenant goes out his improve-
ments are forfeited ; the next tenant will pay rent for
them; therefore to keep abreast of the outsider in the
struggle for the High Rent Stakes the man who is already
in has to offer rent for his own improvements. It is a
most ingenious iniquity and deserving of a hot place next
the stove in the Hereafter.
* * * »
Directly, the Chapman sack question concerned
men only, but there are others who hump burdens.
Youths may be seen, any day of the week and in almost
any city street of Australia, staggering under oppressive
loads. * The French Government, observing the same
thing in those parts, lately took the matter in hand, and
presented employers with a scale of ages and burdens,
and the employer who permits a burden heavier than that
allotted to the age, comes under fine or imprisonment.
Boys under 14 are limited to 221 b., and girls to 111 b. ;
boys from 14 to 15, 331 b., and girls, 17£lb. ; boys 16 to 18,
441 b., and girls, 221 b. The law also fixes the weights that
may be pushed by boys and girls in barrows, carts, or on
tricycles. Presumably the law applies to the small girl
of 12 or so, who is hired out for the job of nursing the fat
baby, or wheeling the two fat babies in the pram ; but
The Bulletin has no definite information on the point.
The law ought to apply, anyway.
* * * *
“Chain Lightning:” The wholesale adultera-
tion of fodder which has set drought-stricken Victorian
cbckydom squealing is merely Nemesis paying the
tribe back in its own coin ; for cocky is the most
persistent adulterator living when opportunity presents
itself. He adulterates his consignments of fresh eggs
with a percentage of stale ’uns. He puts salt in his chaff
to add weight, straw with the hay flotsam to add to the
profits, and wets the lot just to make the sum total of his
sinfulness even. And then he goes to the corner of the
paddock where the winnower stood, and shovels the
husks in with the chaff. I don’t think much of Nemesis
as a rule ; but this time the old lady’s marksmanship is
nearly perfect.
* * * *
Grisly threat published in North China Daily
News (18/5/’08) :
SHANGHAI AND HONGKEW WHARF 00. LTD.
Unclaimed Cargo at the Company’s Wharves.
Store No.
181 B/L 2 24-5-00 Kutwo 1 Coffin with Corpse
6078 „ 16 1-4-05 Yiksang 1 „ „
9103 ~ 2 18-4-06 Koonshing 1 ~ ~
The above, if not claimed before the 10th June, will be
sold by public auction.
JARDINE, MATHESON & CO., LTD.,
General Agents.
* tr * *
Bogus £1 notes of the Bank of New South
Wales were before a Sydney police court lately ; and as the
officer in charge of the bank’s note register explained to
the Court how the spurious notes differed from the real, the
benefit of a uniform national bank note rose up out of the
witness box and filled the premises. The bank-note paper
was, for instance, hand-made, the spurious wasn’t; the spu-
rious was numbered “ A ” with five figures, and no note of
that particular bank is so numbered. How can the
public be expected to detect spurious notes when the
notes of many banks, differing from one another in such
particulars as these, are in circulation?
* * * *
A good many firms—but more especially those
that do business with the small rural producer—will look
with an anxious eye on the recent adverse decision of the
Privy Council in relation to trade protection societies.
City houses with a metropolitan connection, or those
whose trade is done with country storekeepers, are better
situated for obtaining confidential information as to their
prospective customers’ financial position than is the big
agricultural implement firm which supplies the obscure
and new-fledged cocky direct with a reaper and binder or
harvester, and takes his IO U for all eternity in exchange.
The softgoods warehouseman, too, can usually rely on
his brother ragman’s report of the country customer, but
the hungry machinery traveller, w'hen raging up
and down the backblocks in search of orders, is
apt to mistake very ramshackle farmers for gilded
magnates. Hoping for the best, he books an
order for several tons of expensive implements
and fires it into head office, together with a wildly opti-
mistic account of the firm’s new client. Sometimes the
list of the new customer’s virtues and worldly possessions
amounts to a beautiful romance, and it is often very hard
to tell who is most responsible—the poor but doubtful
farmer, or the rose-tinted canvasser anxious to turn in an
order or two before the week ends. In such cases the
trade protection society supplies the few necessary grains
of fact and enables the Truth—or something remotely
resembling it—to prevail. But if the trade protection
society is liable to pay heavy damages every time the
Truth prevails, the general feeling is that it will have to
give up prevailing. Too much prevalence will bust Truth.
“Huffin Guffin”: The swindling produce
merchant, who mixes a little good hay with a stack of
straw, cuts it up, and calls the result chaff, needs more
attention than he gets. I fail to see much difference
between the horse-feed fraud and the human-feed fraud ;
for all horses have to work after eating the rubbish, while
to some humans it doesn’t matter much what they eat,
as they don’t work. A large quantity of the chaff con-
sumed in Melbourne comes from the Werribee district.
Yet anyone frequenting the big chaff shed at the Spencer-
street railway terminus may, any day, see trucks of
“ chaff ” and “ hay ” ready loaded to go to Werribee. Now,
what do they want chaff sent to Werribee for? Seed,
maybe ? An awfully solemn religious man has a chaff mill
up Ballarat way. The proportion of straw he mixes with
hay is as one to three. Writer intends to try and find out
what proportion of Brummy coins said man thinks it a
fair thing to put in the collection plate.
THE CALL OF THE WIDE, WIDE WORLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the ships go sailing by all day, as you lounge on the
warm, wide beach ;
As you 101 l on the beach or go out to gather the waves in
your lazy reach ;
As the voice of the sea cries “ Come ! ” to you as you
watch the horizon blue,
You think of the giddy and dashing deeds that are done
beyond your view.
Yet, though your soul be mad to go w'here the far, green
islands call,
To venture, gay, where the traveller’s tracks in rackety
places fall;
Although you’d like to live red life (and your days are
mostly brown),
Your feet must follow the well-worn track that leads to
a desk in town 1
The world is wide, and bold and big are the things that
are done elsewhere,
While you, poor fellow, write hard all day, with red ink in
your hair ;
But, o’ nights, when the foaming beers are ripe, and you
gather them one by one—
That is the time when you see, quite clear, how the
glorious deeds are done !
You laugh, and your soul gets proudly up, and mentions
a point or two ;
You tell the blokes in the sixpenny, bar the different deeds
you’ll do ;
But—a bird in the hand is a beautiful bird, and it’s
feathering’s neat and black ;
A clerical job at thirty-five bob next morning will hold
you back.
vie.
FRANK HENTY.


J 'HE most significant fact about the Beale Australian Pianos is that they
are guaranteed for twenty-five years, while our nearest competitors
will not warrant the instruments they sell for more than twelve years.
How is it that we are able to guarantee our instruments for a so much
longer period ? The answer is simple. We are manufacturers. We know
how much faith we can put in our own product. We know that by the
use of our patent iron wrest-plank the weakest part of a piano becomes
the most durable part. We know that every detail of material, of work-
manship, and of system of manufacture is of unsurpassable quality. We
know all this because we make every detail in our own factories, going
to vastly more trouble than if we just bought our parts from special
suppliers as other makers do ; and we go to that trouble for no other
reason than to obtain and retain complete control of the quality through-
out. We know that our patented system of building the cabinet work
in cross-plies absolutely precludes the possibility of warping or cracking.
We know that our secret process for fortifying the sounding board
against sudden and great changes of temperature renders it impervious
to climatic influence. And we know, and our customers know, that
those qualities which appeal to the musician—tone and touch—are in
the Beale Pianos unequalled.
This is why we guarantee the Beale Australian Pianos for twenty-
five years.
And our guarantee is worth something, for our organisation
extends throughout the Commonwealth, selling more pianos per year
than any other firm in Australia. We cannot afford to trifle with the
splendid name that our pianos have won for themselves throughout
this continent.
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, Superior to
ALL OTHERS.
The prudent housewife always keeps a bottle in
the house, for she has learnt by experience that
Nature occasionally requires some assistance, and
that this assistance is best afforded by prompt
r D? 1
DIRECTIONS
b Smmn
PIUS
recourse to Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. In
thousands of homes the
little amber bottle, in
which these pills are
packed, is the sole medi-
cine chest, for in almost
every case of sickness Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
can be administered with
beneficial results. What-
ever the ailment, it is
imperative that the bowels
shall be kept free, and the
process by which the
blood is purified shall be
stimulated. Many a
serious illness may be pre-
vented by the timely use
of these pills, which, being
vegetable, do not weaken,
sicken, nor gripe, and may
be taken by the most
delicate woman or the youngest child.
“I-was a sufferer from headaches and constipa-
tion for a long while,” writes Mrs. Eva Leach,
10 May Street, Leichhardt, Sydney, “and in
search of a remedy, I decided to give Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills a trial. I have pleasure in
stating that I was not only relieved from head-
aches, but I do not suffer from irregularity as in
the past. With my children I also found your
pills most effective in regulating their bowels. I
always keep the pills in the house, and can safely
recommend them as a good remedy for headache
and constipation, mild in their action and per-
manent in their effects.”
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Breweby and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
A muddy track had little or nothing to do with
the discomfiture of the heavier-weighted nags in ttie
Grand National Hurdle at Flemington last Saturday. The
winner, Lady Quiz, was a “good thing ” under any cir-
cumstances, provided that the mare escaped mishap, and
although old Mercury was, perhaps, considerably favored
by the heavy going, it was evident that none of the un-
placed ones could have had a show against.Wollara, the
third horse. From the outset the race was practically a
struggle between Lady Quiz and Wollara until the latter
began to tire, and then the mare, with 41b. the best of
the weights, went ahead and won easily. Only once or
twice previously has “the sex” scored in the Grand
National. Seeing that the time (smin. 55jsec.) was
good considering the weather, the “girl from Gipps-
land ” ranks as an exceptionally smart spinster
at the game. The owner and jockey were very
confident about her on the strength of her one
previous performance over the sticks at Mentone,
where she won as she liked. A quite superfluous
inducement to win was thrust upon them by the drawer
of the Lady Quiz ticket in Tatt.’s, who could have won
the whole of the prize by the simple policy of silence.
* * * *
The Flemington course, at time of writing,
threatened to be quite as heavy next Saturday as it was
on the opening day of the G. N. meeting. Backers will
probably do well to wait until the morning of the race,
and put their money on something that carries not more
than lOst. 71b., and goes out at not less than 8 to 1.
* * * *
The condition and displays of Boisdale have
caused his connections to size him as almost a certainty
for V.E.C. G. N. Steeple next Saturday, and he has been
backed accordingly. But it isn’t the first time the same
nag has had a confident following, though the following
may not have previously been so sweet on his prospects.
Boisdale has disgraced himself more than once at
Flemington ; he was favorite last year and finished
behind every other animal in the race, and, at Warrriam-
hool, a couple of months ago, came a cropper ; but his
recent easy win at Caulfield has apparently obliterated
the past. Boisdale will, in all probability, win if he stands
up, but that is by no means sure. Like the G. N. Hurdles,
the Steeple has for long proved a gold mine to books.
Since Daimio’s triumph, 13 years ago, Beilis has been the
only first favorite to score, and, as a rule, the best backed
nags have figured poorly.
* » * *
Betting people fairly swarmed at Moorefield
(N.S.VV.) races on Saturday, and found railway accommo-
dation for the return trip execrable. Only wrestlers,
footballers, and pugilists were able to get sitting or
standing space in the first couple of trains, and once
again was the fatuous backer whirled homeward a sadder,
but certainly not wiser man, for he’ll go again next Satur-
day. Though Patrick Moses has, during the past three
months, prospered even more than the States under
Federation, and many of him, almost stranded previously,
are now speculating in house and land property, race-
course crowds continue to swell every week —most of
them in pursuit of that will-o’-the-wisp, the winner.
Barring one instance, favorites went down in heart-
breaking succession. Kogarah Stakes supplied the ex-
ception in filly Winsome, who won at Newcastle last
month, but Ikey gave none a chance to back her for much
as he “ knew something,” and never offered better than 5
to 2 against. Even this he quickly tightened to even money.
As evidencing how blindly the public bet, heaps of coin
went on the long-waited-for country gelding, Merit, a
winner at Orange and Lithgow recently, yet Merit was
only left in through error, and at just about the same
hour he was winning Wallsend (Newcastle) Borough
Handicap. Winsome should be remembered, especially
as she takes the eye well, and has good breeding—-by
imported Merv from a mare by Splendor. In the Two
Year Handicap, Irishman (by Havoc from Marvel’s sister,
Party—bought for 185 gs. at yearling sales) was backed as
an absolute certainty from tens to twos, and, with a lead
of eight lengths in the first two furlongs, the race looked
a gift for him. But the youngster got completely out of
control, and, running as wide as was possible at the turn,
lost a lot of ground and finished fifth. There’ll be no
“ tens ”on offer against Irishman any more. Kumalo,
who, though well backed at Randwiek, failed to see the
race through, managed to fight over every inch of Moore-
field Handicap, and beat the heavily-supported Set Free
by the narrowest of margins. The. question thatis agi-
tating sportdom just now is how long backers of horses
will stand the complete emptying-out which has been
their portion at every meeting for so long, and the worst
of it is that the odds available could not be shorter were
results the other way about. Mo often has the cast-iron
cheek to offer the same price (cramped to the smallest
figures) against each of three and four in one race. A
few Victorian “books,” with their much more liberal
prices, would shoulder the Sydney lot out completely.
r • * * *
Australia’s most famous lepper, Redleap,
pensioned off for 16 years at Messrs. Miller’s place, at
Bacchus Marsh, has at last succumbed to age. He was
within a month of 24. Redleap won-two V.R.C. G. N.
Hurdles, one V.R.C. G. N. ’Chase, and a Caulfield G. N.
’Chase with the record load of I3st. 121 b. up. Amateur
rider W. S. Cox always rode him in his races.
* * *
Granville Stakes, at Rosehill, on a recent
Saturday, saw the rare occurrence of brother and sister
three-year-olds (not twins) competing. Both Illampu and
Kohala are bv Acumen—Kulauix. Kohala was foaled in
July of her year, and, according to racing laws, became a
yearling next month, when Illampu was a year old.
* * * *
The tenacity of the jockey ! M.L. rider C.
O’Neill sustained a broken leg in Australia a year or two
since, and it was thought he would never sit in a saddle
again, especially as many operations followed. Recently
O’Neill won a hurdle race at Napier Park (M.L.), his fourth
success since making a fresh startAast April.^
Saturday was Maoriland’s day in the slush.
The British team scrunched Poverty Bay: the Sydney
University ran over Maoriland Collegians at Sydney;
and the Maoris were downed at Brisbane. Also Waipu
ran like a hack in the V.R.C. Grand National in Victoria.
On Saturday last two crowds of young male
animals representing Sydney and Maoriland Universities
met in Union Rugby at Sydney University oval, and
played a game that might be described as one leather
sphere chased by two crowds of swift lunatics. Writer
has seen few games in which play swept so rapidly from
one end of the ground to the other and back again.
Mostly it swept over the Maoriland line, and stopped short
just outside the Sydney chalk mark. Why the Maoriland
backs allowed their pack to be exhausted in this manner
instead of using the line is a mystery, for they must have
known that men fresh off a steamer would inevitably
lose in a game that degenerated into a harrier match up
and down the ground. And they did lose, with a ven-
geance. At half-time Sydney led by nine to three, and at
the final whistle was still leading—by 30 to nine. But for
the horrible passing of the local students it would have
been about 60 to nine.
* * * *
The Anglo-Welsh team is now playing the deuce
among the weak districts of the North Island. The small
boy with a big stick and a basket of eggs is nothing to it,
Hawkes Bay being crumpled up by 25 points to three,
and Poverty Bay by 26 to nil.
At Sydney Cricket Ground, Newtown and
South Sydney met in the qualifying round for
the Union competition. South went to the dogs,
and the Newtown pack fell on the carcase and
devoured it. The South back machine had gone
rusty, or got sand in its bearings, or something. Any-
how, it was no good, and at half-time Newtown led by
nine to nil. In the second half Newtown was suffering
from swelled head, and South Sydney had the feeling
that something terrible was going to happen. And it did.
Newtown walloped it by 17 to three.
■fc ♦ *
Sydney, of course, had no hope against Glebe,
although even the gods who watch over football were
astonished to see Sydney score within five minutes of the
opening of play, it W'as the one flash in the pan ; for the
rest of the match Glebe scored steadily, and Sydney
became the chopping-block. The figures were 27 to
three. The Manly-St. George engagement proved that
the Village team has improved a lot. It walloped St.
George by 16 to five.
* * # *
Practically the only clubs left in the competi-
tion are Newtown, which is leading with 22 points, Uni-
versity and Glebe, which are together with 20, and South
Sydney, which is alone with 16 competition points.
* * » »
The Maori team, at Brisbane, on Saturday had
a great game with the local Rugby Leaguers. Queens-
land won by one point—six points to five —not so much
through superiority in the field as by extra agility in
forcing behind the posts. To win by forcing is not alto-
gether new in Rugby, but it is a long time since there
was so cheerful an example of it as this.
In the Sydney League competitions Glebe
caught Eastern Suburbs without its Messenger, and the
result was disastrous to East, which went under by five to
11, its first defeat since the League competition started.
But the defeat did not haul it from the front rank, where
it still remains, in company with Glebe and South Sydney,
with 14 points. Balmain met Newcastle, and was literally
run over, the Coaly crowd winning by 28 points to five.
Newtown started badly against North Sydney, and con-
tinued so right through the scrap, being beaten by 15
points to seven.
* * * *
The professional grub has got properly into the
fair round apple of Maoriland amateur Rugby. The press
is booming the Northern Union game, and the match at
Wellington for the benefit of the widowed mother of A. H.
Baskerville resulted in a profit of £3OO clear for the lady.
The Union is, like Li Hung Chang, seriously alarmed, and
is convoking a gathering of reps, to consider ways and
means for the improvement of the game of Rugby. Most
likely an attempt will be made to dish the new movement
by partially adopting its rules and increasing the remu-
neration of players.
* * * *
“Off-Side” : Recent football in Brisbane, under
theßugby Union,calls forsomecomment,and theprobably
well-meaning persons who selected the team to play
against N.S.W. invite some bricks. Through the intru-
sion of the big contests between the N.S.W. and Q. semi-
professionals, the amateur matches between the country
teams were overshadowed, and many lovers of the
game missed some splendid play. On Saturday (13/'6/’08),
however, the Union had all the stage to itself, and a
record attendance of close on 10,000 watched the men
from the country simply amuse themselves with the
much-boomed darlings of the metropolis. The result was
16 to three, the three being a lucky penalty kick. Yet
the selectors thought fit to break up the splendid com-
bination of the country players—mostly from the North
—which completely outclassed the Metropolitan rabble,
and placed a manifestly weaker Metropolitan lot in
the team which met N.S.W. For some inscrutable
reason the selectors specially broke up the magnificent
combination of the North Queensland backs by leaving
only one half and two three-quarters to battle against
the Southerners, and included two men at least who were
shockingly inferior to the men dropped. Queensland has
at present a number of brilliant front-rank footballers in
the country teams, and a representative State com-
bination should consist of at least 75 per cent, from their
ranks.
* * • *
The rain which, as the good book says,
falleth on the League footballer and the farmer alike,
descended on Melbourne all Saturday morning and
most of the afternoon; consequently the grounds
were mere swamps, the spectators mushrooms,
and the players mud, dirt, soil. Nevertheless
the collision of “ Saints ” and Essendon attracted a fine
crowd of umbrellas. Both teams were in the mood to
“ bog,” and the ’bailers and the top-dressing were
splashed around freely till half-time, when the godly men
were but 11 points to the good. During the interval
someone seems to have explained to them that it was
mere folly trying to pick up and mark the greasy sphere,
and that the proper game for the day was to
dribble the globe along and trust to the for-
wards to punt or drive it through. On resum-
ing, Saints played that game, and piled up
a 27-points lead before the ’Dons realised what was hap-
pening ; then they followed suit, but too late to wipe out
the deficit, the Seasiders winning by 57 to 40. On the
mud-hole, across the big park, Richmond was battling
for existence against the ’Varsity men. Seeing that ’Var-
. sity had walloped Melbourne by 79 to 19, and the latter
had thrashed Richmond by 82 to 12, the laws of logic
demanded that the Students should score about 100
points to Richmond’s one—but football is not logic.
Moreover, the Yellow-and-Blacks’ awful defeat by Mel-
bourne had sunk into their souls, and they were deter-
mined to do or die. By straight kicking and
methodical passing, they held their own till the
second quarter was nearly over ; then, in one
fierce, whirling five minutes, while the barrackers
roared and the Lizzies screamed in hysterical
joy, they piled on four solid goals—and the game was
theirs. The Students battled hard, and slowly reduced
the tremendous lead of 24 points, but time ran out while
they' were still nine points to the bad —71 to 62. The
Collingwoods also learned the value of straight kicking. It
was anything but easy on the slimy ground and with a
greasy ball, but they took no chances, and systematically
passed the ball to and fro till it reached a man in a good
position. ’Roy flung itself around and ploughed up the
mud, and kicked lustily, but its 6 goals 6 behinds didn’t
count as much as ’Wood’s 7 goals 2 behinds, and with its
defeat went practically its last hope of entering the semi-
finals. South visited Geelong. There the rain was replaced
by an icy' blast from the South Pole, which got into South’s
muscles or its boots or somewhere, and caused it to very
nearly lose the match through its lop-sided kicking—and
South can’t afford to lose many matches now. Scores
were 66 to 58. Geelong played four new men, which pro-
bably helped to account for its good showing. Unfor-
tunately', it is too late now to turn over a new leaf; even
18 new men couldn’t get it into the finals at this time of
day. Melbourne visited Carlton, and solemnly and
steadily digested the fact that between the unbeaten Blue
and Whites and the much-beaten Richmond is a great
gap placed, as its score of 31 points to Carlton’s 63
showed. Carlton begins to “kid itself” on finishing the
season as unbeaten champion, a feat that only Essendon
has ever accomplished ; but as it has still to meet South,
Essendon and 'Varsity before reaching the semi-finals, it
is somewhat premature to put on dog.
* * * *
The chief Association encounter was at Wil-
liamstown, where the premiers met Essendon, and a
moist, clammy discussion ensued. The earlier match this
season had gone to Essendon, but the “ pure amateurs ”
of the tramway suburb have since become a disrupted
team, and their habit of acquiring shooting-stars from
any-and-everywhere doesn’t make for concerted play or
mate-like behavior; wherefore ’Town won handily, in
spite of its lamentable kicking, by 5 goals 16 behinds to
4 goals 7 behinds. Port continued its victorious career
mainly through the Preston men fancying that any sort
of kicking would pass on such a day. Their score
of 6 goals 15 behinds suggested considerable bogging
in and a large number of shots, but Port’s 8 goals 8
behinds tallied up five points higher—which was more to
the purpose. Brunswick visited North Melbourne’s
“ glue pot," and having, by half-time, totted up 69 points
to North’s nine, filled in the last hour in a casual and
negligent manner befitting the occasion. ’Scray beat
Brighton after a hefty straggle, which wasn’t decisive
until the bell rang, owing to Brighton’s pleasing habit of
kicking the ball where it would boost the score up most
rapidly ; scores, 8 goals 11 behinds to 6 goals 1 behind.
P’ran explained to Northeote that it has quite a lot to
learn yet of the science of kicking an inflated bladder, the
ex-juniors scoring but 24 to P’ran’s 51.
* * * *
As a sequel to the uproarious mid-week en-
counter of P’ran and St. liilda, the Wednesday League
disqualified a P’ran ’bailer for the rest of the season for
striking an opponent. When the youth was informed of
this decision he immediately sought out the said oppon-
ent and rebuked him some more in the committee’s pre-
sence. Also, he notified that body that he “didn’t care
a fig for its decisions,” and urgently besought it to go and
get its head read, and so forth. Whereupon the League
straighlly disqualified him for the term of his natural
life. These star ’bailers seem to fancy themselves a few,
and not one seems to have learned the lesson that foot-
ball will go on much the same if every one of the present
players were disqualified to-morrow. It is the play of
two co-ordinate machines that the public pays to see, not
the bogging-in of the individual star.
The gentle pastime of baiting the referee has
now spread to the country towns, and on Saturday last
at Bathurst (N.S.W.) some of the players were ordered off
for giving back talk to his Honor on the bench, and some
of the other players immediately went on strike. Later
on they re-considered the matter and returned to play. At
the end of the game a number of spectators invited the.
umpire to come out and get a head put on him, while
others demonstrated. That referee defence eorps is an
absolute necessity. The only argument which appeals to
the referee-baiter is stoush, and plenty of it. The more
he is stoushed the more reasonable the barracker
becomes. He becomes most reasonable of all when he is
dead.
Howl, Tarshish ! Yell, Babylon ! How have
the , mighty fallen ! Victor Trumper, the famous
cricketer, and J. J. Giltinan, the rebel, the reformer,
have decided to sell shirts. Shirts, my masters ! Truly
their place is in the main a sports depfit, but they will,
according to a daily paper par, combine sport with
mercery. But it might have been worse, and athleticism
breathes a sigh of relief that the co. didn’t combine it
with the sale of ladies’ stockings.
- * * *
Benjamin Thoroughgood, the Stockton (N.S.W.)
rower, who will defend his title of Australian scul-
ling champion against Fogwell on Saturday’ week, on
the Raymond Terrace course of the Hunter River, has re-
ceived the vessel in which he will do the job. The boat is
somewhat larger than that commonly 7 used in such affairs,
but Benjamin is bigger than the average sculler, and he
opines that the man of 13J stone requires a larger boat
than one of 11 stone. Fogwell’s barrackers are enthusi-
astic, and base their opinion on the fact that Foggy was
almost as good as Charles Towns. Which makes things
about as clear as mud, for Charles Towns’ chief claim to
fame appears to have been that he was brother to the
really great sculler, George Towns.
Thoroughgood is a man of giant strength, and
his name suits him admirably from a physical point of
view. Man for man, ph.vsically, there is no comparison
between the champion and the challenger, and, unless
Fogwell has recently developed unusual skill to make up
for his lack of power, his name will be Fog'slush. So far
he has done nothing to suggest that he has any fund of
unusual skill to draw upon. The fact that he was proved
to be as good as Charles Towns when the latter was train-
ing for the Webb contest is worthless, considering how
great a failure Towns proved when the race came on.
His prowess turned to smoke when Webb touched
him, and he was donkey-licked in a hideous
fashion. He was so walked over that people said the
Maorilander was never really 7 extended. Of course, it may
have all been due to Webb being an unusually good
sculler. Against Thoroughgood it is. remembered that
his last two races ended in defeats ; but they were not
rowed under championship conditions. Also, he made
such tremendous efforts to wipe out his handicaps, that
his rowing was good to see, and proved him to be a man
of unusual strength, endurance and pluck. If he is
defeated by Fogwell, it will prove what has often been
proved before —that lots of things are not what they
seem.
To writer’s mind, a much more interesting race
is that impending between Ainst and Pearce, on the
Parramatta River. Pearce is showing great improvement,
considerable speed .and fine sprinting ability, and he
shoots from his mark in a very pretty 7 style. Writer has
not seen Arnst shaping, but he is assured by 7 men who
have seen both scullers that the Arnst-Pearce race is
going to be a very close and exciting affair if both men
continue in their present ratio. When Pearce was beaten
by Tresidder six years ago, the ex-champion of the State
was at the zenith of his powers, and Pearce was a mere
stripling. To-day it is different. Pearce is better and
stronger than ever, and Arnst’s friends frankly admit
there is little to choose between the rivals, while Brother
Tuck, of Wanganui (M.L.), gave some slight hint of his
opinion of Arnst by imposing conditions regarding stake
money that would be quite impossible to the majority of
scullers. A very interesting situation will be created if
Pearce beats Arnst, and Arnst in turn defeats Webb. But
in this writer’s opinion there is not much danger of the
man who beats Webb being defeated by anybody at
present afloat in Australasia.
• * * *
“Vulcan”: The Channel-swim craze is with
the British natatorial person once more. There’ll be two
attempts to invade France in a damp state shortly: one
by a London lady-expert named Smith, and t’other by
“ Monty ” Holbein, who (the cable says) recently negoti-
ated a preparatory 50-mile-down-Thames swim in 13hr.
47min. Holbein has twice before found the Channel job
too large for him, and the lady’s chances, on the face of
it, are just moist dust.
* * * *
Overlanding cyclist Birtles, who was recently
laid out in Port Darwin Hospital for repairs, has now re-
sumed the grind across the continent, and is running
down his longitude to Adelaide, whence he will return to
Sydney 7. He has announced that he is not trying to
break the record of McDonald, who whirled over the dis-
tance in 28 days 15 hours, but is just jogging along and
picking up interesting straws to be afterwards made into
journalistic bricks.
* * * *
The unsportsmanlike Yankee showed his
Chicago manners over the race for the British Inter-
national Cup, which is to take place on the Hudson River
this year owing to the Yankee boat Dixie having won the
trophy last year. -The Motor Yacht Club of Britain
requested the Yankees to postpone the contest so that
the British boats to be engaged could participate in the
races to be held in connection with the Olympic Sports.
The Yankees snorted that they would see the Olympic
Sports blowed, and that the race would be held on the
date originally fixed, and if the “ Britishers” didn’t like
to compete they could darned well stay away. The all-
fired race would take place on August 1. So the British
boats, including the YVolseley-Siddeley, will be in the
U.S.A. Eliminating races were to have been held last
Saturday to choose an English representative, but as the
Wolseley-Siddeley boat is admittedly the fastest boat in
Britain, there is not much chance of the position of chal-
lenger being wrested from it.
* * * »
The Motor Boat Club of N.S.W. will elect its
officers for the coming year on the evening of July 16. It
is to be hoped that the selection will bring forth a more
enterprising lot than the crowd at present in office. The
effort to get club rooms seems to have utterly exhausted
the energy of the association, and things have been as
dead as Julius Caesar for a long time now. When the
club started it supplied pageants, feasts of color and
gaiety that still linger in the memory, and it
used the moonlight nights for marine concerts,
and made the moonless ones the background for
lantern displays that looked like scraps of “ Lalla Rookh,”
and did much to send the marriage rate soaring up.
Writer himself narrowly escaped matrimony three times
running only by the fact that he was on the press,
although, come to think of it, everybody else present
except the people who actually ran the show seemed to be
on the press too, squeezing lovely waists that palpitated
—but this is a sporting column. Anyhow, it is up to the
Club to get a move on, and organise some more Venetian
or Indian nights. Lots of the girls who got married on
those delightful occasions are now widows or divorcees,
and it is time they had another show.
* ♦ * *
Sydney pony racecourse detective, W. G.
Brett, who died through an accident on Friday last at the
age of 60, was for years (over a quarter of a century back)
champion amateur sculler of Australia. He reached his
best about the time when the late Ned Hanlan (with
whom he rowed a great deal) first visited Sydney. Brett
stroked many successful crack fours and eights in the old
“Merc.'s” interests. Standing over 6ft. high, built on
lathy lines of the wire and whipcord order, the deceased,
structurally, pleased the judges of Ned Trickett’s day,
but “George” never did anything special after Fittes,
the Victorian, defeated him on the Parramatta River.
Among those contemporary, with Brett as the best
amateur scullers of the period, in the ranks of the then
vigorous and numerically strong M.R.0., were Fred Ives
and George Seale (since dead) and Jimmy Trimble (who
now works up excitement on the Oity bowling green).
Jack Oonlon, a fine boxer a few years back
(though never anywhere near championship class), and a
footballer of note, suicided in Sydney on Monday last.
He strolled into a barber’s shop, picked up a razor,
wandered outside, and slit his weazand—as casual a deed
as is conceivable. Oonlon represented the Metropolitan
Union v. Queensland in 1901 and 1902, the old Pirate club,
and, latterly, Glebe.
* * # *
“D”: The holy community of Victoria is
striving to block the proposed Burns-Squires fight in that
State, but its arguments are feeble, and its position is
unsound and tottering. It is a fixed dogma of the Holy
multitude in Australia, that England (the place Shoddy,
the Flag, and so forth, come from) can do no wrong,
so the first premise in the anti-Fight argument has
got to be that Fight is banned in Hingland. Thisis how
Henry Varley, spokesman of the cause in Victoria, puts
the matter in a letter to Tummus Bent (27/6/’08): —
“You will have noticed that the man Burns did not
carry out his proposed prize-fight in England. There the
law and police would not allow it. The scandalous scene
was enacted in Paris,” etc.
The truth is, Burns saw his way to making nearly three
times as much cash by fighting Squires in Paris as in Lon-
don. Britishers had seen so much of his very unsfensational
fighting methods (Burns is too scientific to give the
crowd the. thrills the wild arm-whirling stousher pro-
vides) that they were growing tired of them. For the
rest, Burns did in London, two months ago, with Gunner
Moir, the English champion, the identical thing he pro-
poses to do with Squires, Laing, or any of the other pugs
that face him here. He fought Moir before an audience
largely composed of Britain’s hereditary legislators at the
National Sporting Club, whose president (the Earl of
Lonsdale) is Ed. Vll.’s intimate friend. Burns wore the
same-sized gloves and battled in the same-sized ring and
tinder the same code of rules as he will in this hemisphere.
There were only two objections raised throughout the
proceedings. They came from Burns. He protested
against the British customs (1) of having the referee sta-
tioned outside the ring, and (2) of the “count-out”
being registered under-breath by the referee instead of
aloud as in Australia and in America. The fact of the
referee sitting outside the ring made, in Burns’ estima-
tion, for brutality and unfair play, since in that position
he couldn’t see all the hits as they were delivered. The
inaudible count out, he claimed (and justly so), paved the
way for crooked judging. If H. Varley and his crowd
want to stop championship boxing in Australia they will
have to step forward with some more convincing argu-
ment than the one that “ law and police ” don’t allow
that kind of thing in England. The argument is only
another example of a cleric’s amazing recklessness about
his facts.
* * * *
A solemn commentary on the club-swinging in-
sanity was offered at Collingwood (Vic.) Court last week,
when Michael Roland Bourke —commonly called Mick
Bourke—appeared on a charge of wife desertion. The
said Michael, who had won the world’s club-swinging
championship the week before by twirling the weapons
for 65 hours 4 minutes, appears a well-built, muscular
man, who ought to be able to earn at least the ruling rates
at pick-and-shovel or other manual labor ; yet he assured
the Court that he was in a bad way, and had been under the
care of a number of doctors for quite a long while. The Court
smiled scornfully at this narrative and asked Mr. Bourke
how much he made out of his championship swing, when
it appeared that the total takings reached £lB, and that
by the time the various expenses were liquidated there
wasn’t enough left for Mick’s tucker. He promised to
hand his wife something out of the proceeds of a
forthcoming match, but the Bench sniffed scoff-
ingly7, and made an order for a steady 7 sum per week ;
also it suggested that Bourke would derive more advan-
tage by swinging a pick, to say nothing of the advantage
to Mrs. Bourke and the little Bourkes. The Bulletin
doesn’t often agree with the honorarium magistracy,
but it reckons it hit the mark this time.
* • * *
The Aeroplane is so much in the public mind
just now that an article on the subject in this month’s
Lone Hand will be read with great interest. It is the
most comprehensive yet published in Australia, and is
well-illustrated with photographs.


IS OFTEN THE RESULT OF
Head Noises, Discharging Ears, Hinging
in the Ears, Sunken Ear Drums, Per-
forated Ear Drums, Catarrhal Deafness,
Nasal or Throat Afflictions, etc., etc.
ALL
THESE
SERIOUS EAR DISEASES
whether naturally contracted or caused by accident,
or even hereditary cases, can be cured permanently by
Pure Natural Aural Kinetics.
The chief feature of this treatment is that there are no Drugs or, Chemicals used
with it,..nor-is it any kind of an Ear-Drum, or anything like , the old-fashioned Electrical
or burgical Instruments, but simply the cure of Nature bv Pure Aural Kinetics There
is no pain, no syringing or probing to injure the tender Ear mechanism. The greatest
authorities upon Ear Diseases are vitally interested in this marvellous discovery fully
acknowledged to be the only safe, harmless and' sure treatment for all Ear Diseases, and
which can be applied by all sufferers at their own homes, wherever they may reside,
without the assistance of a Doctor or anyone else. It will only cost you the price of a
letter to get full information with abundant proof of wonderful cures accomplished all of
which will be sent upon receipt of your name and address FREE OF CHARGE
“EAROSCOPE INST.” (Dept. 26), SO Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Sydney Chamber of Commerce, which
takes itself in a. desperately serious fashion, had
its annual dinner the other evening'; and it was
feeling more serious even than usual. Treasurer
Bill Lyne was there, and spoke; and he caught
the tone of the meeting precisely. When William
sat down, having dealt with various weighty
matters, and left behind a deep impression of
earnest seriousness, G. Reid got up—and
clowned. The more he.clowned the more furious
the diners got. They wanted Greid then, of all
times, to show up magnificently ; and he did the
very thing they didn’t want him to do. If Greid
h«ad tried for a week he couldn’t have given W.
Lyne and W. Lyne’s Government a bigger lift
just where a lift was badly needed.
Along with a new and elaborate prospectus,
.Stott and Hoare’s Business College (Sydney) has issued
something new in copy-books. The book is really a small
portfolio of bandwriting exercises, so bound that it may
be stood up on the desk in front of the student The
instructions are simple yet ample, and’ The Bulletin has
serious thoughts of buying 1 a gross and scattering* them
among* its worst-fisted contributors.*
Edward Rutledge, whose name figures on
the list of the signers of the document proclaiming
Uncle feam s Independence, was ancestor in the
direct line of politician and now District Court
nudge Rutledge, of Queensland, and of the Rev
Rutledge, of N.S.W. The Australian Rutledges
began with a Parramatta schoolmaster of long
They are an orthodoxly and conventionally
loyal push, and wouldn’t be seen dead along-
side a document that looked even remotely like a
Declaration of Independence.
Lloyd George, Chancellor of the British
Exchequer, has made a speech in London whjch
like a record in the way of pessimistic
wail. A stunning deficit,” “ dwindling revenue,”
and ‘‘depressed trade,” were among his sad-
dened observations. “ Everything is diminishing
except the demands on the Treasury,” said L.G.,
and lie also reckons that there are such droves of
aged poor in the United Kingdom that old-age
pensions, reckoned to cost £7,000,000 a year, will
actually hit him and his cash-box in the eye with
a bill for £30,000,000. A gloomy person is Lloyd
George. J
Paxton, president of Sydney Chamber of
Commerce, is a perennial growler at the Customs
Department. He has just had a bad bump. He
wept from the housetops at Brisbane re the slow,
snail-like proceedings of the Sydney Customs
House, and made such a row about it
that Bill Lyne wrote to him for definite
instances. Paxton, when put to it, could
only rake up one illustration, and he gave
the flagrant case of a well-known George-street
firm which went to the Customs House to pass an
entry for some locks. The Customs was so slow
about it that by the time the entry was made the
duty was raised, and the importers were mulct in
a large sum of money. Before Dyne could in-
vestigate the matter, the George-street people
hastened to remark that Paxton had the thing
upside down. There was no delay in the business
at all, and their grievance was something quite
different. Since then Paxton has been immersed
in a dead silence.
Sydney Telegraph published a glowing
evidently emanating from Joey’s young
journalistic friend who accompanies him on the
London trip—of the extreme affability of King
Ned to Joey at the Shepherd’s Bush Exhibition.
According to Joey’s press barracker, the King took
him (Joey) by the arm, and called him “old
man,” and was very friendly indeed. Now a
different story appears in the Brisbane Courier
■ On entering the New South Wales Court, the King and
other members of the party paused a few moments,
moved a little to the left and right, and then hurried
through and out. of the court, Lord Knollys looking at his
watch and acting as chief hustler. Seeing that the King
was about to depart, Mr. Carruthers ventured to inquire
whether it would not be possible for his Majesty to stay
a little longer. Nothing had been inspected in detail.
There were many interesting things to see. A few
remarks had been made and a few edmpliments
bestowed, but that was all. No, the King was afraid he
could pot stay. He was sorry. “ Perhaps,” he added,
“ I may be able to visit the court again.” And then he
left. It has been suggested by a privileged near observer
of the incident that he may have felt some resentment at
finding that a considerable number of relatives and
friends of the New South Wales officials had been allotted
seats on the floor of the court before his arrival in it.
There were two rows of them ready to inspect him while
he inspected the exhibits.
Hot Hunch is a delectable winter cordial
when taken with Water, Soda-Water,
Whisky, Wine or Beer. Eekersley’s is the
genuine original Punch, readily distinguished
by the historic figure of “ Punch ” on the
label. Look for the name Eekersley. Be
careful to say “HOT” Punch. At all
Hotels, Chemists and Storekeepers.
UDMTId
% o
O
O
do
&
9
K
Jk
Sole Manufacturers : ECKERSLEY & SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Fashionable Purses
Fashion has declared for this particular style of
purse this season. It has refinement of outline and
design that indicates good taste, and possesses an
unusual degree of character. The finish, too, is a
pleasing combination of bright and dull. Made of
sterling Silver,' handsomely embossed, extra long
chain attachment, size 3£ x2J inches. Silk lined,
with four centre divisions. The price is 21/- sent
Post Free to any address. This design is one of
a number
A. SAUNDERS,
Sydney’s Leading Jewelder,
809 George Street, opp. Railway Station, Sydney,
has just received from his London House. ' As a
gift for a young lady. We would suggest one of
these handsome purses,- A, Post Card will bring you
the A. SAUNDHltS’lllustrated Catalogue, Post Free
to any address!' \Vrit?e for a copy to-day.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF THE
Renard Road Transport Corporation
of Australasia Limited,
To be incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales (1899-1900).
CAPITAL - - £lO,OOO
D v?- ic l e^nr n r!'?> 5000 6 er cent ‘ PREFERRED SHARES of £1 each, and 5000 ORDINARY SHARES of £1 each, of
which 5000 Preferred Shares are now offered for subscription at par. These shares are preferential for both Capital
i!™ 6 .' Payable 2s. 6d. per share on application, 7s. 6d. on allotment, and the balance as may be required
in Calls, not exceeding ss. per share, at intervals of not less than one month. To all Subscribers of 100 Preferred
hares or multiple thereof, within sijc weeks of date hereof, a bonus of 20 per cent, of fully paid Ordinary Shares
will be given by the Vendors.
Provisional Directors : H. S. Badgery (Pitt, Son and Badgery), Sydney ; Hon. Jas. Inglis, Sydney;
W. F. Jaques, Bugilbone Station, N.S.W., Director Pastoralists’ Union, Sydney.
Bankers : Bank op N.S.W., Sydney. Solicitors: McDonell and Moffitt, Sydney.
Consulting' Engineers: London—G. A. Goodwin, M.1.C.E., A.M.I.E.E. ; Sydney—Owen Bracket, Lecturer,
Technical College.
Secretary and Offices ( pro tem) : Wm. Robertson, F.S.T.A., 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Broker: E. I. C. Scott, Victoria Chambers, Sydney.
d a le Parent Coy. of Australasia) is being formed for the purpose of acquiring from the Renard
Road and Rail Transport Corporation Limited, of 82 Victoria Street, London, S. W. (the Parent Company), the exclusive
license of the Patent rights,- together with the sole Agency for Australasia, for the sale of Renard trains and
accessories. Under their agreement with the Parent Company this Company will order at once one complete Renard
train, which will be sent here (Sydney) for the purposes of practical demonstration and profitable working. The
special point of advantage in the Renard over other systems lies in the fact that the Engine does not drag the
followers, the power being conveyed to each truck or carriage by special mechanism, so that the inequalities of a
rough road cause little or no inconvenience. Further, the steering is so perfect that each carriage will follow in the
wheel marks of the engine. s i
This system is also admirably adapted for passenger traffic, and a large income could be obtained by combining
passenger and luggage trains. !
The Renard systeni has been most favorably reported upon by many eminent authorities, including Col. R. E.
Crompton, G. 8., M. Inst. C.E., M. Inst. E.E., etc. Copies of these and other reports can be seen at the Sydney Office.
• a , e v c . i runnln F th . e Renard Train in Europe is under 2d. per ton mile. As the minimum price'usua'lly paid!
in Australia is.ls. per ton mile, it will be seen that there is a very large margin of profit to the Company by taking
contracts for general transport purposes.
After demonstrating the usefulness and economy of this transport system, large profits will acrue from the sale:
of these trains in districts where the Directors do not wish to keep working control of the. system.
As the parent Company of Australasia, it is expected that large profits will be made by the sale of rights'
to the various States, it being a matter for future consideration whether or not this company will eventually control
the transport work in all parts of the territory itself, or sell its rights to separate State Companies.
Prospectus can be obtained from the offices of the Company.
7th July, 1908.
APPLICATION FORM FOR PREFERRED SHARES.
To the Directors of the Renard Road Transport Corporation of Australasia, Limited.
I beg to apply for LPreferred Share in the above Company, and
enclose cheque for & ! , being' Application Fee of 2s. 6d. per share. I
agree to pay balance on such shares or any less number that may be allotted to me in accordance with the
above abridged prospectus.
Name in full
Address - " . .
Signature.
“ Billo ” : “A bridge agin my own door ”
was not, despite the statement of a Sydney morn-
ing paper to the contrary, a phrase invented by a
member of N.S.W. Parliament. It is an old
saying, and the inventor of it belonged to Minister
Hogue’s part of the country, the Williams River.
His name was William Cheater, and he kept a
pub on the bank of the river, but as the hard
drinkers all lived on the other side —the Hogue
side—a flood in the river blocked trade. Therefore
“a bridge agin my own door ” was Billy’s prime
need. The nearest Cheater ever got to Parlia-
ment was once when he stood for the Hunter.
Then he and his bridge became notorious, but the
voters failed to stand to him.
Some solid sense is talked in that dull
review, The Nineteenth Century and Lots of
Other Centuries, by J. Ellis Barker. Last year
German savings bank deposits increased by about
thirty millions sterling, while British savings
bank deposits did not increase by half-a-million.
Says the Nineteenth Century
The evident economic decay of Great Britain which
these and many other figures prove, makes it clear that
the question whether Germany will outbuild Great
Britain, or whether Great Britain will outbuild Germany,
is a purely financial one. Great Britain has no monopoly
of naval ability. The longest purse can build the
strongest fleet. Lloyd-George’s amendment of the
Patent Laws, which no longer allow foreign manufac-
turers who hold British patents to manufacture abroad,
has caused some important patent-protected German in-
dustries to migrate to this country, and these German
industries, as the late President of the Board of Trade
has told us, will give occupation to thousands of British
working men. The capital so transferred from Ger-
many to Great Britain is said to amount
already to £25,000,000. An amendment of the
fiscal policy of Great Britain, sufficiently high
Protective duties for our industries, will compel German
industries which now import their productions into
Great Britain to migrate wholesale to this country. With
them a large part of Germany’s wealth will be transferred
to this country, the flight of British capital towards Pro-
tectionist countries will cease, English industries will
flourish again, and German}' will no longer financially be
able to dispute Great Britain’s naval supremacy. A
strong tariff will pay for a strong fleet, and enable us to
preserve' our independence, wealth and empire. All that
Great Britain may desire from Germany she can obtain
by means of a tariff. Therefore, a strong tariff will make
an Anglo-German war senseless on the part of Great
Britain and impossible on the part of Germany, whose
resources will be crippled when Great Britain introduces
Protection. Hence a strong Protective tariff may prove a
stronger safeguard of Great Britain’s peace and independ-
ence than her navy, the most satisfactory alliances and
treaties of arbitration, and the most cordial assurances of
friendship and goodwill towards Great Britain on the
part of the German Emperor.
A
rv»
'S'a
ruslel3s®§
ONLOP
as 3
Kcx^lS
DUNLOP
RUSBERCOOIIS
FEW AUSTRALIANS realise the variety of Goods we
manufacture at our Australian Rubber Mills—whose
output is now well over £lOOO for every working
day of the year. Our goods comprise:
Dunlop Hose (Engineering and Carden); Dunlop
Belting (Rubber and Balata); Dunlop Packings,
Insertions and Sheetings; Dunlop Heels; Dunlop
Sporting Requisites (Tennis and Coif Balls, Handle
Crips, Football and Punching Ball Bladders);
Dunlop Mats, Matting and Tiling; Dunlop Hot Water
Bags, Air Cushions, Air Beds, Wringer Rollers,
etc.; Dunlop-Kelly Vehicle Tyres; Dunlop and
Oceanic Cycle Tyres ; Dunlop Motor Tyres; Dunlop
Driving and Motoring Coats, Rugs, etc.; besides
every description of general Rubber Goods.
All these goods are of the highest
quality, sold at a reasonable figure,
and guaranteed the best obtainable.
When purchasing Rubber Goods always specify “Punlop”
Brand, then you will be sure of satisfaction.
Tenders Submitted. Catalogues and Price Lists on Application.
Tk
<jW°p^!k
<f><p
Carriage
T J
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST, LTD.
108 FLINDERS ST., MELBOURNE; 255 CLARENCE BT., SYDNEY;
92 PIRIS BT., ADELAIDE; 268-270 ADELAIDE ST.. BRISBANE;
67 KING BT., PERTH; WORCESTER BT, CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.
Ike
lop
<9
ur>
e
cel


RELY on YOUR OWN JUDGMENT
As to the beauty, finish, and style of an article, but in making your pur-
chase remember that we can give better goods, better prices, and more
satisfaction from all standpoints than any other house in Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
"Forget-Me-Not”
Spray
Heart CHARM,
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
An efficient mail order depart-
ment offer prompt and satisfac-
tory service to distant patrons.
All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar BROOCH, set pure Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires,
25/.
15ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Curb Padlock BRACELET,
with Safety
Chain attached, as illustrated.
£3.
Larger, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/.
Smaller, £5/, 30/ 35/, 40/,’
60/.
In 15ct. Gold, £4/5/
£4/15/, £5.
18ct. Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE.
Write at once for a copy of
our 304-page illustrated cata-
logue. You'll receive it by re-
turn mail, post free. Write to-
day.
DINN
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
Heart CHARM,
10/.
Larger, 12/6.
Q,
m
m
m
a
9ct. Gold Sword and Crescent BROOCH, Set Pearls or
Pearls and Turquoise,
27/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
Keyless WATCHES,
Shortwind, Stem Set,
Perfectly Regulated.
10/. •
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, lips, 20/'.
OPEN
FACE,
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and!
Rubies or Sapphires,
20/..
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah and Ivy Leaf
Spray BROOCH.
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold LOCKET,
set Ruby or
Sapphire,
35/.
Silver, without stone,
4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
In its construction special care has been given,
so as to assure exceptional strength, durability, and
absolute accuracy.
Each watch carries with it our written guarantee
of free repair for one year—breakages excepted.
THE
“GUARD.”
15/-
Nickel open face Keyless Lever, shortwind,
stem-set, patent adjusted balance, non-magnetic,
dust and water proof cases, fine or bold dial.
The “Guard,” 157-
Higher grade, the Railway 20/- Guaranteed for
10 years, and kept in free repair for one year.
“RAILWAY.”
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and Floral Sd
Bar BROOCH,
8/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PEN-
DANT, set with
Pearl, Ruby, or
Turquoise, with
photo, recess,
SOLID
SILVER,
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Ueyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 50 1
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £l/10/,
£5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH,
set fine Pearls and Turquoise,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT or-
BROOCH, set fine
White Pearls,
£6/6/.
Complete in Case..
OPEN
FACE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel' Open-face Keyless WATCHES,
5-plate, short-wind, patent adjusted
balance, dust and water proof cases,
20/. rl
Higher Grade, 25/, SO/. 35/.
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/;,
HIGHER
GRADE.
_ A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Double Curb ALBERT, £3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/ £6/10/ ,P7/in/ n
£5/30/, £6/10/, £7/10/ £B/10/, 'sift £l2/10/''“'in Soill S/C, GOId '
14ct. Gold Filled, guaranteed, 20/, 25/, SO/. ’ ’ '
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set
Diamonds or Rubies,
Sapphires,
£3/10/.
6 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Forget-
Jle-Not Spray BROOCH,
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval and
Bar LINKS,
17/G.
15ct Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6,
A. SAUNDERS.
]sct. Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set line Pearls
and Amethysts.
£5/5/.
Pearls and Tourmalines,
£5/10/.
Diamonds and Sapphires,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
IBct. Gold, Opals and
pure Double-cut Dia-
monds,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS..
15ct. Gold Buckle BROOCH}. Buckle
set with lir ° white Pearisv
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Shield 1 andl
Dumb-bell LINKS,
21/.
15et. Gold 40/.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT
or BROOCH, set fine
Pearls and Amethysts,
£4/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines.
£5/10/.
SOLID
SILVER,
'
SOLID
GOLD.
Gent’s Sol»T Silver Hunting Keyless LEVER,
5-I’late Movement, Fully Jewelled, £2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, ■ £4,
£5, £O. Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lo,
£l2/10/, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
l
817 George=street,
, Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.Wi


Sblpplng-
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw. Calling 1 at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking 1 , Public Companies, &c.
THE
Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S. \
Bankers to the Government of Queensland!
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921. ;
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0 !
Capital Paid Up 413.296 0 0 I
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64.000 0 C j
Interminable deposit Stock ..3,116,621 o O'
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq.; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial fQutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
. FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, -£3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
"i a veiling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K. 0., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
gank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
fair interest,
east terms.
Free
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.'w.
IQoat depieteD.il. Ga., fyd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74: CASTLEKEAGH ST., 74:, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney.: Hon. A. VV. Meeks, Esq., M.L.C.
(Gibbs, Bright & Co.)'; E. Vickery, Esq. ; J. Campbell-
Wood, Esq. : J. J. Allen, Esq. ; E. Laidley, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 0
Directors: F. It Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,O.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J- M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOR ROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, fid.
supping.
3XT. D. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles. (rihrA.lf.nr T nnrlr.., A
<
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
SWOB*.,. :• :: :: 88
PRINZ SIGISMUND .. .. .. 22nd SEPT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed.
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, OIVILITJY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOBMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LI 31 IT ISII. “
Capital Paid-up £485,003 10 0
Kkskrvk Liability op Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FuNDdnvested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
__ , £723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Officf, :
« BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
A POLICY for trk COMMONWEALTH.
Price fid, from The Bulletin Office. I
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 10th
July.
SUEV/C, 12,500 tons, to sail about sth
August.
PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 S 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and, Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Steamer.
•MARATHON
SALAMIS ..
*tPERIOLES
| Tons. | Commander.
6,800
4,508
11,400
H. A. Schleman
R. McKilliam ..
A. Simpson
| Leave Sydney.
Noon, July 17
Noon, Aug. 14
Noon, Sept. 11
* Twin Screw. f New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 0s to £2O os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
OALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
f HO LIP Ay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
*
Mx,M * .
CRUISES J
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking;, &c.
The gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,470,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,670,000
London Office: 4: Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of Dew South (Dales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund _. .. 1.560,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors _. .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,560,000 0
Directors:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
The'Hon. Sir NoKmand MacLaiiein, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
AlldPnrs * } ALFRED G. MILSON, Esq.
• I William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
i
I
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price Cist before building
with wood or brick. See niachine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
HRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, |-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
fH
111
rEORGE HOTEL-,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W, _ _
FAMILY HOTEL OF\
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
A good example is set
by those who use Y
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Sblpping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, July 18.
(Without transhipment.)
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Yongula; July 11.
S.S. Wollowra, July 18.
Kest and Cheapest Route to Cold Helds.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 RRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
/yjESSAGER/ES f^AR/TIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
Steamer
NERA ..
SALAZIE
DUMBEA
VILLE DE LA
CIOTAT
Com-
mander.
Schmitz
Aillaud
Boyer
Barillon
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to -v£B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel - 3/8 - 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
July 11.
COOLGARDIE. 2 p.m., WED-
NESDAY, July 15.
ADELAIDE '
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers I,
and cargo for S.A., i
Gulf Ports, Perth, I
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) J
COOLGARDIE, 2 p.m.
NESDAY, July 15.
WED-
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, July 11. '
GABO, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
July 14.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
July 18.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
otate S.S. Companies. Fnll particulars on application.
.SSS 9 ” SUITABLE BUILD,™, 860
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRAUAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
ONION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—=H.=iS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
T.S.S. “DORSET.”
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
WILL BE DESPATCHED FROM SYDNEY
on
12th JULY, 1908.
To be followed by other fast twin-screw steamers.
Excellent accommodation for saloon passengers. The
saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth cabins
on the upper deck, situated amidships.
Electric light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess
carried. Return Tickets issued. Prepaid passages
arranged
SALOON FAREB-
- and LIVERPOOL - - £49 10s.
For father particulars, illustrated pamphlets, etc.,
apply to—
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Managing Agents,
SYDNEY.


“ J.” considers the house-agent and other
matters:—
There is something’ magnificent about the optimism of
your born house-agent. Thus the advertisement of one
of him in the S. M. Herald (26/6/’08)
“ piTTWATER.—BAY VIEW, where the New Tram
will run, an Ideal Marine Retreat. —WATER-
FRONTAGE COTTAGES and VACANT LAND, facing
the Bay. A Very Picked Spot.”
I have had a wooden humpy down that way for years.
Long before I bought it I was a week-end visitor to one or
other of the local hotels or boarding-houses. Always
wherever and whenever two or three of the natives were
gathered together the conversation turned upon The
N.ew Tram, and when it was coming. I do not
remember the time when it wasn’t so. The district,
for all its scenic beauty, is not an enterprising or lively
one ; there is little doing from year to year. The residents
are all waiting for The Tram. All undue activity is post-
poned till it arrives. Public-spirited inhabitants gather
round their door-lintels as the evening shadows fall (and
most other times) and draw gorgeous word-pictures of
the prosperity that will befall when The Tram comes.
Dreams are indulged in of cottages, whose “To Let”
boards are now white-ant-eaten and dimmed with age,
fetching fabulous rents ; “ general stores,” which at pre-
sent stock three dozen of soft drinks, some assorted jams
and the daily papers, loom up in the collective mind’s eye
of the locality to the dimensions of Brickfield Hill em-
poriums ; boarding establishments become hotels ; hotels
become caravanserais. Every now and then the various
Progress Associations of the district meet, and as soon as
Hogan has “ slung-off ” at MacTavish re the loathsome
state of his(Mac’s.)back.vard,and MacTavish hascountered
by scantily-veiled hints as to Hogan’s known habit of net-
ting the lake, the serious business of the evening is taken—
and it is always concerned with improvements that will be
proceeded with when The Tram comes. A few years ago
the Owe’Sullivan had a tram-line built which trickled
uncertainly through Manly, and finally died away into
nothingness. It heartened-up every man, woman, and
child from Curl Curl to Barrenjoey. But nothing in the
tram-line has occurred since. Personally, I shouldn’t
like to see The Tram come. It would slay social inter-
course from end to end of its route. No one really
believes it ever will come (barring house-agents and such-
like notoriously credulous folk), but all love to discuss it ;
jn fact without it local conversation would be dead.
THE SUN TWIN
DISC CULTIVATOR
Stump-Jump (Patented).
A Godsend for the Mallee and for Stony Districts.
Does work equal to the “ Sunflower ” Cultivator,
and is Stump-Jump.
THE “SUNSHINE”
HARVESTER.
The Leading Harvesting Machine of Australia.
Sole Agents for the “ALBION ” Binders & Mowers.
' Ask for Catalogue LlO of all Farm Implements.
Showrooms —Perth, Adelaide, Melbourne and
Toowoomba.
Agencies in all Towns.
H. V. McKAY,
Sunshine Harvester Works, SUNSHINE.
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously.”
— Lancet.
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
i
m
as
m
W)
\%
'O
FREE TRIAL 11
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simplv drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat“sr improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live., and Stomach Complaints. Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copv of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book' which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Announcement to Gramophonists.
The GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD., are pleased to announce that, in
order to enable Gramophonists to dispose of their old, worn,
or broken
CRAMOPHONE Records,
they have inaugurated an
EXCHANGE SYSTEM.
« {
Full Particulars of which may be obtained from
All GRAMOPHONE Dealers.
11 HUUJi'i
A
Pi
,y-~
w
2
■k
v
$
1
?;
I DIDNT
FOEUrETT
The.
J-DIXONIC?
THE FARMER’S DRINK.
The Parmer and the Physician are not always close neighbors,
but a bottle of “O.T.'’ in the house is as good, if not better, than
a doctor next door. . “(XT.” is pre-eminently the country-house
drink. Plain water (hot or cold) added to one bottle of 0.T..
will make from TWENTY to THIRTY good drinks. Mixed wrh
either water, soda, lemonade, spirits, or wine, ‘‘O.T. gl Xt s , a
delicious palatable beverage for all occasions. Keep a bottle in
the house (your storekeeper sells “0.T.”), and if guests drop in
unexpectedly, you have a delicious drink in plentiful supply ready
for them at a minute's notice. If such unwelcome guests as Indi-
gestion, Influenza, Chills) Colds, call, then you have a very effective
remedy—but insist firmly on
J. DIXON & CO.’S “OT.”
Obtainable at all Stores, Chemists, Hotels, and Confectioners
throughout Australasia; also in England, South Africa, India.
OSTRICH PLUriES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
tm
ft
NEW TONE-ARM
GRAPH-o-phone
for CYLINDER records.
A MUSICAL TRIUMPH.
The “ CROWN ” GRAPH=o=phone
with the famous Columbia Alu=
minium Tone>Arm, Lyric Repro=
ducer and Flower Horn, which
swings in any direction. Uses all
standardize records.
Write for descriptive circular.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO.
============ GENL., ■
257 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library handsomely printed
and boundcontaining upwards of Three hundred
«f “ Hop’s ” best drawings.' Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s. ,
To Users of Acetylene
Gas.
I Get rid of those anti-
quated and wasteful
Gas Consumers, and
obtain a brilliant light
by adopting Our
ECONOMICAL NON-
CARBONISING BURNERS
Catalogues and price lists free.
Sample Dozen assorted makes
sent post free for 10/-
ROBERT C. SWAN (8b CO. Ltd
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Hot or Cold Liquids remain
so in Thermos Bottles.
THERMOS
m
PRICES —PINTS trom 215.; QUARTS from 425.
Posted anywhere, Is. and Is. 6d. extra.
Invaluable t,o Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists,
Military Men, Excursionists, etc. No need to
boil the “ billy.” Take your tea or other liquid
refreshment with you, and simply pour out
Hot or Cold as desired.
THOS. WEBB & SONS,
236 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
WINCHESTER
rrmrr
* 'I *,■' 11 _ • *,.(
r. •?. 'i'l i’ /' , t ' _
.-rfiT
W;/m^y-
“REPEATER”
Smokeless Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Repeater” cases are
carefully and accurately
made and loaded with
high grade powder, shot
and wadding by exact
machinery. That’s why
they shoot so strong and
so uniformly and make
such even patterns.
Price considered no shot
gun cartridges on the
market equal them.
Try Them. Sold by All Dealers.
PATERNOSTER^
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
..FOR..
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.


Bulletin readers have often commented
oil the “Norman Lindsay child.” In the July
LONE Hand Norman Lindsay contributes
“Saturdee,” a child story, which explains his
idea of child life.*
About Lazarus (and sundries) in Mel-
bourne :—
Our Cab Kina' is Lazarus. With the customary exag-
geration in such affairs, he is pointed out to strangers as
the man who owns all the cabs. You will see him about
at all hours of the day or night, a genial, ever-smiling
gentleman with a stick and a limp. So he dots-and-
carries-ohe everywhere, with an eye to everything on
wheels. As Cab King he succeeded one Gately (namesake
of, but no relation to, the most villainous of local hang-
men, following one-eyed Bamford, and preceding big
Elijah Upjohn, since whom the hangman has not been
known). Lazarus is the most benevolent denizen of
Jewry.'' He is like a Hebrew named Boaz whom I
once saw in a play, saying : “I lozes, and I lozes,
but yet I will keep on lendin’.” That’s Lazarus.
Another well-known Lazarus used to be the Newsboy King.
He farmed out all the Heralds to the boys. Every even-
ing he was.behind a counter, shouting away in emulation
of Boss Winter, while the mob of boys kept yelling “Laz !
Laz ! ” for early papers. Like the Cab King, he had to take
risks on the credit question. Pursuing that in another
walk altogether, I am surprised on being told of the enor-
mous operations of a local firm, which sells new clothes
for women on time payment. I am informed that the
firm has 1(500 female debtors on its books. - Risky, of
course, because you cannot well pounce on clothes, as
on furniture. However, there is a reliance on general
honesty, and it pays, despite the swindling. Another
strange feature in the clothing business is the number of
elderly and even white-haired tailoresses employed among
the girls in certain big establishments. It will be found
that many of these elderly persons are widows or unlucky
wives, who joyfully left.the tailoring in their girlhood to
get married, and sadly came back and tailored again in
their middle age.
Beatrix Tracy writes on “The Ministering
Angel” in the current Lone Hand. She
represents the nurse, as being usually overworked
and underpaid. It’s a most interesting article,
based on personal experience.*
Missing: Friends.
OEALEY, CHARLES GEER, came to Australia 46
years ago from Poplar, London. Was a native of
Guernsey, Channel Islands. Sister Emmalina asks.
Address— MRS. R. BENTLEY, Woodford,
176 PALMERSTON STREET, PERTH, W. Australia.
Legal Notice.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE.
Probate, Divorce, and Admiralty Division.
(Divorce.)
To ROBERT NOBLE BUTCHER late of 59
Dee Terrace Jarrow in the County of Durham
(butcher).
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued in this Division citing you to appear
and answer the petition of SUSAN ELIZA
BUTCHER of 59 Dee Terrace Jarrow in the
County of Durham praying for a dissolution of
marriage. In default of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hea,r the said Petition
proved arid pronounce sentence in respect theretb.
Apd take further notice that for the purpose
aforesaid within one month after the date of this
publication an appearanch must be entered at
the Divorce Registry Somerset House Strand
London.
W. INDERWICK,
Registrar.
ISADORE GOLDMAN
'9 Southampton Street, Bloomsbury Square,
) London, W.C.,
Agent for NIEL & CRUTE, Sunderland,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Amusements.
AUSTRALASIAN TOUR
' .... OP ....
MARK HAMBOURGr,
THE ILLUSTRIOUS PIANIST,
OPENS
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, JULY 18,
Under direction of J. & N. Tait.
MARK H AMBOUR6,
THE RUBINSTEIN OF TO-DAY.
Prices : 6/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- Plan at Paling’s.
Music in
the Sickroom
Did it ever strike you what a grand
thing an Edison Phonograph would
be to pass the time cheerfully for
invalids ?
With one of these splendid instru-
ments you could provide many de-
lightful hours in the sickroom, and
help to make the weary lives much
brighter and happier.
The Edison is such an economical
investment that almost anyone has
the opportunity of purchasing one,
and the records are so wonderfully
varied that all sorts and conditions of
people are catered for.
Write for our lists of records and
machines and the name of your near-
est dealer.
By the
Edison Phonograph
NATIONAL PHONOCRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. 8., 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Makes you iookinanly
Before
■1
After
CAPILLARINE
THE MOUSTACHE
PRODUCER. . . .
All you have to do is to follow the simple direction
printed on the label.
Twenty-five years of complete success makes us con-
fident in guaranteeing’ you as handsome a Mous-
tache as any man has.
CAPILLARINE 10/6 ajar.
Post Free in plain wrapper to any part of the World.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Established '25 Years.
p*?
IF
I
could only
meet you
face to face
I would soon convince you of
the Efficacy of the WRIGHT
SYSTEM OF THOUGHT
GUIDANCE, and that a course
of instruction in Body and Mind
Building would be the best invest-
ment you have ever made.
Instruction by Post. —Circumstances do not in many cases admit of a Personal interview,
but we easily overcome the apparent difficulty by using the G.P.O. as a medium, and
by a correspondence course can prove that our Director’s statement is absolutely correct.
The Australian Institute for Body and Mind Building - by the personal attention of
the Director at 62 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE, and by Post, how everyone
may, by the development and use of their Latent Powers, attain their highest possible
standard of Success within the- limitations of birth, and acquire ascendancy Over
hereditary traits.
WHAT IS MIND AND BODY BUILDING? It is Physical and Mental Culture on
such lines as will lead to Physical, Mental and Moral development to enable you to
make the best use of your powers.
Men of Mature Age (50 years and upward), Students and Business Men, why let your
muscles and limbs remain stiff and shorten your life of usefulness? A Healthy Body is
needed to nourish the Brain ; - this can be acquired without laborious methods of exercise.
Athletes need the most modern methods of controlling respiration, nervous systems, and
retaining activity.
Ladies and Children need to be taught Concentration and Balance of Mind and Body and
how to use their Powers. . : . i
Sufferers from Rheumatic Affections, Heart, Lung. Spinal and Abdominal Troubles can
obtain relief and help from us by treatment at our rooms by Hand-Massage, Electric
Vibration, Hot Air ; there we also correct deformities by Medical Gymnastics.
B>est. —All are seeking knowledge how to relax and rest. There is a mighty power in Repose.
Instruction by Post. —Not the least advantage is the Individual Assistance given to
Students by correspondence, teaching them how to achieve by mind training a higher
degree of success in any walk of life than they would be likely to achieve without this
instruction.
I like this advertisement; I will read it through more carefully and show it to my friends.
The Wright System of Thought Guidance ! It appeals to me as right! I will write at
once for their Booklet. The address is
Australian Institute for Body and Mind Building,
62 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
J. C. Williamson presents to the Australian Public
MARGARET ANGLIN,
THE DISTINGUISHED AMERICAN ACTRESS,
in the Powerful riVTTt?
Emotional Play, 1 Xl±!j ± ±ll Hi J? .
MARGARET ANGLIN as MARISE VOYSIN.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST NIGHTS of THE PRINCE OF PILSEN.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 13,
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALASIA,
THE DELIGHTFUL DUTCH MUSICAL PLAY,
THE RED MILL.
By Henry Blossom and Victor Herbert.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: MR. FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HERBERT FLEMMING’S NEW ENGLISH
COMEDY COMPANY
LAST NIGHTS of THE MORALS OF MARCUS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 11,
THE RED LAMP.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY AT 2 P.M.
Dancing.
PERFECT WALTZING, THE TWO STEP, Etc.
MR. & MRS. ROBERTS
RECEIVE PUPILS Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
PRIVATE LESSONS (unusual advantages). VARIOUS
SUPERIOR CLASSES AVAILABLE.
EVERY DAY AND EVENING.
COLLEGES AND PRIVATE CLASSES VISITED.
Commodious and Centrally Situated Rooms.
160 PHILLIP STREET (next St. Stephen’s Church).
ST. JAMES’S HALL, CLASSES FOR ADULTS EVERY
WEDNESDAY. AFTERNOON, 3.30 ; EVENING, at 8.
HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO,
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK,
PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
■|”HE LYCEUM
i AL ACE
THEATRE,
SYDNEY.
WEST’S PICTURES
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES-WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
The Best of
All.”
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million— 6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
yHE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
GRAND FANCY COSTUME
ICE CARNIVAL,
FRIDAY, 31st JULY.
THE GLACIARIUM, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Mr. JOHN HIGGINS, World’s Champion Jumper.
! THE DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
THE DESMOND SISTERS, Character Duettists.
Miss BELLA PER.MAN. WILL LOCHRANE. •
’ Miss IDA BEi> IGDGE. Mr. RICHARD CECIL.
Mr. HARRY LINDEN. Mr. FRED BLUETT.
THE RIGOLETTO BROTHERS, Revolving Ladder
Experts. . THE THREE GIBSON GIRLS.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 2s;, and Is. Plan ao Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE MEYMOTTS, Comedv Sketch Artists.
MUSICAL iBSONS.
MYRTLE MARSDEN, Soprano.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
ETHEL PRESTON, Acrobatic Song and Dance Artiste,
J. R. LING, Mimetic Monoloquist.
CHARLES MILDARE, Whistler.
REGAN and RYAN, Eccentric Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. ,licf PRICES —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING. A TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS OF
MEYNELL and GUNN’S .
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
—in—
THE BELLE OE MAYFAIR.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. VVilliamsoS.
NOW IN THE EIGHTH WEEK.
THE CENTURY’S GREATEST MUSICAL SUCCESS.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
TH U MERRY WIDOW.
Re-appearance of MISS CARRIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
GRAND OPENING NIGHT, SATURDAY, JULY 11,
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
MAN TO MAN.
REAPPEARANCE OF MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMEDY
CO. IN
MRS. WIGGS OE THE
CABBAGE PATCH.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST'S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
pE A L ICE SKATING.
MELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
POPULAR' PRICES EVERY' EVENING,
ONE SHILLING. ,
SCHOOL CHILDREN, SATURDAY MORNINGS,
SIXPENCE.
Bogus Settlement.
The Argus lately rose, in some excitement, to
remark that the great Western plains of Victoria
are being rapidly transformed from sheep-stations
into wheat farms; and it spoke in this wise :
So the Western district is no longer a locked-up pro-
vince in respect to land-settlement and development.
Indeed, it promises to become the most active field for
settlement of all the privately-owned land districts in the
State.
Then, alas, the paper started to fill in the details,
and showed that the lands thus dealt with during
quite a long time were 91,603 acres, or about 143
square miles, or something equal to 143 farms of
640 acres each. And even this was more or less
bogus settlement, for three reasons : (1) a lot of
the land wasn’t cut up at all, but merely sold by
one squatter to another; (2) a lot more wasn’t
new settlement at all, but merely represented the
fact that land which had been cut up and divided
into tenant farms many years ago has lately been
sold to the tenants at exorbitant prices—there are
new owners, but no new settlement; and (3)
there is still no law in Victoria to discourage the
formation of new big estates, and even the state-
ment that, say, 50,000 acres have, during a long
period, been sold by big landholders to genuine
new small settlers amounts to nothing unless it is
accompanied by a record of the number of acres
formerly under close settlement, which were
acquired in the same period by big landholders.
There is nothing in the glad news that Smith’s
huge estate ! has decreased by 10,000 acres if, at
the same time, the big estate of .Tones has in-
creased by 15.000 acres. As a case in point, and an
illustration of what bogus land settlement is like,
here are some figures from the Victorian Mallee
country—the dry place where the farmer has to go
because the big landlord keeps the fertile country
locked against him
Number of occupiers (1905) .. .. .. 2890
New selectors (during 1906-7) .. ~ 548
Presumable occupiers (1907) .. .. 3438
Actual occupiers (1907) 2858
Mysteriously disappeared 580
And again : -
Land under agricultural settle- Acres,
ment (1905) .. 882,386
Land taken up (1906-7) .. .. 318,732
Land (presumably) under
settlement 1907) .. .. 1,201,118
Land actually under settle-
ment (1907) 874,885
Loss of settlement 326,233
In other words, after planting (nominally) 548
new settlers on the land in two years there were
32 fewer settlers on the land than before the 548
arrived (nominally). And after (nominally) get-
ting 318,732 new acres put under settlement in
two years, there were 7501 fewer acres under set-
tlement than before the 318,732 acres were
(nominally) settled. And this result came about
in two fairly good years, as good years go in the
Mallee. This sort of settlement is of no value to
man or beast. Until there is a cast-iron law, not
only to cut up the big estates but to keep them
cut up, there isn’t a penn’orth of joy or satisfac-
tion- in the tale of the Argus about the 90,000
acres that have been sold (often by one squatter
to another, and sometimes by a comparatively
small landholder to a. very large one) in the Wes-
tern District of Victoria, or in any other district,
or in any other State. Yet the Argus perorates
something after this fashion at every oppor-
tunity
So, without any bursting-up tax, a change which'the
whole community must welcome is coming about.
From the Big Landlord country:—•
There is a vague but very healthy suspicion amongst the
big landlords of Western Victoria that something heavv
and sharp-cornered is going to fall on them shortly ; and
here and there one begins to get from under. Bunt and
Swinburne have both been threatening land-tax so often
that the big grabber has lost faith in their statements ;
but there is a deep-rooted apprehension that the Aus-
tralian Parliament, with its military and naval and old-
age pension expenditure in front of it, and its desire to
break up land monopoly and promote settlement, may
bring along its graduated land-tax any morning. In the
State Parliament the squatters have the House of Rich
Landlords to protect them ; but in the Australian Parlia-
ment the Senate is likely to be even more aggressive over
the land question than the House of Reps. So the
squatters gre beginning to get something of a' move on.
E Manifold has just sold a huge slice of Gnarpurt; his
brother, J. C. Manifold, is steadily selling his farms to
the tenants ; two of the Currie brothers have sold some
10,000 acres of their Lismore estates (near Camperdown),
and are selling more ; and Jamieson (near Mortlake), who
was once described by The Bulletin as the richest bachelor
in Victoria (he is married now), is also selling. This is a
good beginning, but it is only nibbling at the fringe of the
evil. And it must be remembered that, if the graduated
land-tax fails to arrive, the selling process will stop, and the
buying-up of small properties to create big estates will
resume. And because there is no graduated land-tax, and
no betterment tax, and Very little Local Government
rates, the land that is being sold is fetching twice or three
times its fair price, and the buyers have a dreadful
burden to hump for most of the balahce of their days.
The Immigration Restriction Act is a fool
of a law as regards the “exemption certificates”
provisions. About 15 months ago, Queen Hi, or
someone like him, left this land, where he had
dwelt for 15 years, and took a certificate with him.
The other day an alleged Queen Hi returned;
but as he knew a good deal less English than he
ought to after even 15 days’ residence, let alone
15 years, he was “tested,” and failed. Being
then charged with illegally entering the Common-
wealth he produced several witnesses, who all
swore they had seen and known him in Melbourne
aforetime; yet not one of the crowd knew him by
his name of Queen Hi. One called him How Ack,
another Queen Ching, others Queen Marn, Taw
Ack, Wong Ack, Wong How, Messer, “Half-
Dollar,” “Me no sellum,” and Hi—just plain Hi.
In the face of evidence like that, these exemption
certificates are merely an inducement to trickery,
and the only way to stop the swindle seems to be
to shut the door absolutely.


CUTICURA SAVED
HIS BOV’S LIFE
Father Tells of Child’s Suffering
from Eczema —Was in Despair
When Doctors, Infirmary, and
Hospitals Failed —Tried Cut'cura,
ECZEMA SPEEDILY,
THOROUGHLY CURED
“ I feel I should not be doing my duty
to others if I refrain from telling you
how Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment saved my boy’s life. My boy is
five years old, and for the last eighteen
months his mother and I have been
worried a great deal, owing to eczema.
I have tried all kinds of remedies for
the boy without any result. Under
doctor’s treatment he seemed to get
worse. I took him to the infirmary
and also to the hospital, without obtain-
ing any benefit. We gave up all hope
of the boy being cured, until we saw
an advertisement of the Cuticura Rem-
edies and the wonderful results that
they had performed, so I determined
to give the Cuticura Remedies a trial.
After the use of one cake Cuticura Soap
and one box Cuticura Ointment the
improvement was marvelous, and after
using another cake of Cuticura Soap
and one box Cuticura Ointment he was
thoroughly cured, and still remains so.
I cannot speak too highly of the won-
derful cure by the Cuticura Remedies.
You are at liberty to use this testimonial
for the good of other sufferers. W- Salter
Postman, 18, Waverley St., Baptist
Mills, Bristol, April 2, 1906.”
ITCHING TORTURES
Speedily Cured
by Cuticura.
A warm bath with
Cuticura Soap and a
single application of
Cuticura Ointment, the
great Skin Cure, will
afford immediate relief,
permit rest and sleep,
and point to a speedy
cure of the most dis-
tressing forms of tor-
turing, disfiguring humours, eczemas,
tetters, rashes, itchings, and irritations
of infants, children, and adults when all
other remedies and even physicians fail.
Complete External and Internal
Every Humourof Infants, Children, agdAdultecon
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London. 27, Charterhouse Sq v R-Towns
& Co., Sydney; Lennon, Cape B. K. Paul.
Calcutta: Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
H3T Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skm Diseases.
THE TOP NOTE
of Piano Perfection
If you want to know the merits
of THE MIGNON Piano, ask
people who have used them
five —ten—fifteen and twenty
years- —.
MY MIGNON
is as good as the day I bought
it fifteen years ago,” is a remark
we often hear from customers.
In the selecting of your piano
you will not be true to yourself
if you fail to call on us and
investigate the superb tonal
qualities —easy responsive touch
and impressive case architecture of
The Popular Mignon Piano
Catalogues Free. ♦ . .
Cash or Terms. . * «
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Rnidbv all Chemists.
115,000
The WaybacH iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps aughing. Red Harry Is.
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
Q
'1
TH«M ON* HIAII '&AINOIX
%
JO
m
A
N
<<sl
©
§7
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
This Lady’s Shoe is
Corre«sl for Winter Wear,
16/6
It’s one of those Patent Leather Tie Shoes so much
in vogue this winter. The toe is daintily rounded,
and the Cuban Heel gives an effective smartness to
its appearance. With pump soles the price is 16/6,
or at a Guinea we sell this shoe in the same style
with a hand-sewn sole.
Whichever you order, add 9d. for
postage if in Victoria ; 1/- any
other State.
EEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
1 and 3 Errol Strfeet, North Melbourne
303 Ohapel Street, Prahran.
PEOPLE
who are
FAT
often fail
to fully
I 5
COPIE.D FROM ACTUAU^tIQLQORAPiJS
realise what a tremendous burden they
are carrying. A body intended to carry
ten stone must suffer severely when
constantly loaded with 50 per cent, ex-
cess weight. Dead weight, useless tissue.
Why do you carry it? Obesity ruins
the health.
“F atcure ”
reduces excess weight and cures Obesity. It
reduces and keeps down Corpulence. It rids
the body of five pounds superfluous fat per
week. No drastic dieting or exercise is
required. It is harmless, and pleasant to
take. Improves the general health and re-
stores a good figure. Send 2d. stamp, or
call for free trial sample. 9 a.m. t 0.5 p.in.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance from Castlereagh or Market Streets. [3l
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
TIMES
AND
All \*
\CLIMES
For all, ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlick’s Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
ness.
f a s t \
time or
supper time'
Horlick’s
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Food Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
WATCH.
GUARANTEED IN WRITING FOR 12 MONTHS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
10/-
1
f\* 7%
WiDUNKLINC
f 5IS.B0URKE STREET.
Y MELBOURNE. *
M
i
10/-
The “Dreadnought” is an exceptionally strong,
polished steel cylinder watch, with high-grade
jewelled movement, with nickelled dome. It is
wound up and the hands set without opening the
case by the latest keyless mechanism. You can have
the case either GUNMETAL or NICKEL. Both are
practically dustproof, and have a strong bevelled
crystal giass face. Every watch thoroughly tested
and regulated before being offered for sale, and
guaranteed in writing for 12 months. Sent post free
anywhere for 10/-
Your money returned in full if you are not satisfied.
Write for Catalogue, Post Free.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
[CATARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
| of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
KAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgii, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, postfree-
BTAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st„ Melbourne.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
I Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
The Inky Way.
“ S.S.” : Vic. Crown-Solicitor Guinness declares limerick
competitions to be competitions of skill, not of chance.
Yet the winning stanza of a recent big limerick competi-
tion, prize £75, is ungrammatical, faulty in metre, defect-
ive in rhyme, wrong in sense, and is not a limerick.
Apparently it is only the judgment that is a game of
chance.
* * * *
That dreadful London publication which calls itself
Ally Slopkr’s Half Holiday even steals its “ Answers to
Correspondents ” a great part of the time. Consider this
lot from a Sloper of last March :
“W.J.A. (St. Michael’s, very poor joke
based on the Dreyfus affair is a horrible case of being a
century behind the ’bus.
“E. Webber (Turnham Green).—There are two rules
for you : (1) Don’t send long explanatory or apologetic
letter with MSS. ; (2) Don’t send M.S. If you will, always
remember that the path to the VV.P.B. is paved with good
intentions.
“Stan (Leeds).—(l) The lady in the single garment
hiding behind the furniture isn’t beautiful enough to
justify her nudity ; (2) View of stout lady’s legs isn’t
romantic ; (3) Drunk joke belongs to a very large family
of drunk jokes, all much alike. Artistically, though, you
have possibilities.
“ H.B. (Loughborough).—You write breathlessly to
announce that you have been delivered of, or have laid,
evolved, or what not, ‘an original snake yarn, true but
slightly “spiced up,” full of interest, bristling with excite-
ment, crammed with laugh-creating incident,’etc., etc.,
and inquire the cash value of the effort. If it approaches
the specification supplied by you the work is an epic, and
hence, practically speaking, priceless. Send it along on
appro., with name and address on back—always remem-
bering that Milton snared but a few paltry coins for the
greatest snake-yarn ever written.”
Everyone of these items is sneaked from The Bulletin of
January 16 and January 23. The only alteration consists
in the realistic addition of “ Turnhaui Green ” and other
British place-names. The writers’ and artists’ names are
left as The Bulletin printed them. Some other of its
answers in the same issue will also be remembered by
Bulletin readers as appearing months before Sloper laid
guilty hands on them. For instance :
“Sassafras (Ruabon).—‘ To be a poet, one must be
poor,’ you inform us. Congratulations. Judging by
your stuff, you are the poorest poet we ever met.
“ G.Q. (Salisbury).— Horrid recital of how you and your
wife found and used the ashes of a collie burnt in the
woodshed in mistake for baking-powder, firmly rejected.
“ The Snicker (Merton).— 1 Oh ! ’ declined. The person
who yearns to be bad is too common. The man who
writes this fully intends to be dambad, or to go up in a
balloon, or something, the first time he has a day off.”
And there are quite a number of other cheerful annexers
of Bulletin odds and ends in the London journalistic
field. Herewith just one specimen of their methods.
When this paper held a discussion ip the “ Aboriginali-
ties” on the reason of the'slit in the emu’s windpipe, one
contributor asserted, in a mere two or three lines, that
the bird did it while shaving. Behold how the Sporting
Times, alias “ The Pink ’Un,” prigs the item and labors
over it(18/4/’08): —
“It was Saturday afternoon at the Zoo, and eight
persons were peering at the little lawn on which the emu
(Dromseus novae hollandiae) strutted. Six were small
boys, one was a black-garbed, scholastic sort of person in
charge of them, the eighth was a fat man, with a heavy
black moustache, who was making an elaborate water-
color sketch of the bird. ‘ Now, this bird, boys,’ said the
scholastic one to his bunch, * has one very curious natural
defect, in the shape of a slit in the front of its windpipe,
at a spot, near the sixty-fifth ring of cartilage. Naturalists
have never been able to account, I think, for the reason
why ’ ‘ Oh, yes, they have 1 ’ chipped in the sketched,
who was obviously bored. ‘ The point was fully disposed
of only the other day.’ ‘ In—deed ! And ’ ‘ They
came to the conclusion that the bird did it while shaving ! ’
Drawing his- pupils off, the stern custodian, wearing a
suitable expression, directed attention to the swine-
sheds.”
The Sporting. Times deserves consideration as a word-
spinner. 'lt believes in walloping its stolen item out flat
to make it cover as much area as possible, and then one
end of the item is nailed to the wall, and the office ele-
phant hangs on to the other end, and it is stretched
some more.
DISILLUSION, OR THE MISTAKEN MUSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The poet at his window sat,
A pen was in his hand ;
Beside him dozed the household cat,
And peace was on the land ;
The autumn sunshine, streaming' in, was beautiful and
bland.
Far off, he heard the breakers moan
Along the shore, rock-starred ;
It seemed as if their monotone
Was calling to the bard —
While, down below, his landlady was tidying-up the yard.
He looked abroad, and then above,
Toward the dazzling blue ;
Like some despairing, captive dove,
A mournful glance he threw ;
And sadly sighed, because his soul sought inspiration
new.
Alas ! the breakers helped him not—
The dazzling sky was dumb —
And, though he thought an awful lot,
Ideas would not come ;
And he was not of those who fly to red, delusive Rum.
Sudden and fierce a trumpet pealed
Upon the autumn air ;
And instantly the poet wheeled
And trembled in his chair— '
“ The Muse be praised ! ” he cried, “ who sent that
thought-awakening blare.
“ It shivers through my seeking brain
And drowns the breakers’ roar,
And brings before my vision plain
The awful pomp of war—
I hear them marching down the street—l wonder what’s
the corps ?
“ Ah, splendid lads in uniform
Who guard our country’s coast,
And plunge through battle, fire and storm,
A stern, undaunted host —
Right worthily have ye been dubbed the Nation’s proudest
boast I
“ The sun is sparkling on your helms,
Tour bayonets blaze bright,
Like beings from heroic realms
Ye burst upon the sight!
And, oh 1 my spirit yearns and burns to join ye in the
fight!
“ I never hear the bugle call —
Hark ! There it swells again !
But Memory lifts the Past’s dim pall
And shows me clear and plain
The glorious wars your fathers waged—and never waged
in vain.
“ That martial sound reveals to me
Each shrouded battlefield—
Ten thousand gallant hearts I see,
Who died but would not yield
When, from the grim, unconquered square, the shattered
squadrons reeled !
“Ha ! Let me write ! ” He seized his pen
The while his spirit glowed,
And wrote in haste—“ Our Fighting Men :
A Military Ode l ”
Then rose to view that stirring scene ;
But this was all it showed—
A bugle-playing ice-cream man come slowly up the road !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport
Remedy’ for Goughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
4 LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, etc.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficaoy for Bronchial irritation.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
‘COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
—Cements for broken and other articles.
MOUNTAIN FLAX (‘ Linum Gatharticum ’ Trade
Mark) PI L LS. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay's
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
( «v
i^ONTSERf^
SAUCE i
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces. *
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed tree from Preservatives.
IZM- C.
NEW Club Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A.
NEW CLUB
Cartridges
The Bulletin Post Cards*
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve Is
Packet of Ten 10d
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIAtICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores ati/t$ & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand.
London, England
AWMW sm
%Wo\3Rers\vo\x\A\)e>N\\^o^\Y
\ servV ox\ Ye<\west.
i
/Iprogress/t/e d/ete/y adopted to t/?e grom/zg d/gest/Ve powers
Milk Food N°l
from 6/rf/> fo 3mo/?Ms.
Milk Food N<?2
/ro/n 3 to 6 monf/ts
Malted Food N 93
from 6 mo/?Ms opwdrc/s.
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
PRESENTATION
IECES
If you have a Presentation in view and want something of the
best quality, then the goods we show to=day will be of
particular interest, as they represent the Newest and Best of
their kinds—shipped to us direct from the already worId=famed
TREASURE HOUSE of STEWART, DAWSON & CO. in London.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.
Order by Mail, as we pay carriage to any part of Australia. If
by any chance the goods do not please, we exchange or refund the
money without argument. Write for our big FREE ART
CATALOGUE of 112 Pages.
lire**-
No. F 4387. —Richly-Chased Full-size A 1
Quality Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 15s.
No. G26s2.—Richly Hand-Engraved A 1
Quality Silver-plated Full-size Tea Pot,
<£2 12s. 6tl.
No. F 5099. —Richly Hand-Engraved and
Eluted A 1 Quality Silver-plated Full-size
Tea Pot, £2 10s.
No. G 4227. — Richly Chased A 1 Quality
Silver-plated Afternoon Tea Pot, with
Sugar and Cream to match, JB3/17/6.
No. Gsll2.—Handsome Plain Tea Pot,
Afternoon Size, A 1 Quality Silver-plate,
with Sugar and Cream to match, ,£3/12/6.
Solid Silver Presentation Service, with Inscription complete, £B7 10s.
No. Gs7<)o.—Al Quality Silver-plated
full-size Tea and Coffee Service, •£9.


GOOD RESULTS.
Clements Tonic
Cures and Strengthens.
THE PROOF.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
With a view to bringing before the public a
matter of considerable importance, a reporter
rapped at 114 Glebe Road, Glebe, where Mrs.
Hannah Wells resides. The lady appeared in
response, and upon the pressman’s mission being
explained, she said :
“Certainly. Nothing would give me more plea-
sure than to relate the story of my great achieve-
ment of four years ago, especially as it will be so
serviceable to many in want of guidance. You
see it was after fruitlessly trying several home
remedies that I saw about Clements Tonic in the
papers, and made up my mind to find out what it
was like for myself, as I was very ill, and was
willing to take anything so long as I got better.
I was as
WEAK AND MISERABLE AS ANY
WOMAN COULD BE,
and had such a sallow complexion, too, that; to
look at me you would have thought I had the
jaundice. My chest used to cause me no end of
bother, for often I felt that something
blocking my breath, besides having heavy, op-
pressive pains as well. I hadn’t any inclination
to eat.
NO APPETITE AT ALL,
so what could I expect but to get thin and deli-
cate looking, which I assuredly did. Erom the
time I arose from bed of a morning till I returned
again in the evening I was as languid and indo-
lent as could be. When I tried to sleep at night
I could not, and oh ! it was so wretched being
there hour after hour waiting for the daylight,
and when it came, what did it bring? Only,
another day of sorrow. My sight got bad, and
my eyes felt as heavy as lead ; the taste in my
mouth was awfully bitter, and the worst of .it was
that my head was always aching.
“Indeed, I don’t know what I hadn’t gov to
make life a burden, and if I hadn't taken Clements
Tonic when I did I am afraid to think what would
have happened, for I was going down hill fast.”
“ Had your nerves given way at all ? ”
“Oh ! I was fearfully nervous, scarcely able to
move without getting a shock at some trivial thing
or other, and even when I managed to snatch a
little sleep my mind \yas unsettled with various
ugly dreams. Now, that is where Clements Tonic
came in with good results very speedily. It
quieted my nerves, and gave me such com-
mand over myself that nothing surprised or
excited me, and as for having nasty dreams
or getting frightened at anything—why, I
was quite exempt in both respects. I used to
meet trouble halfway too, but I got quite out of
that habit since using Clements Tonic, which also
made me eat as hungrily as if I had taken a good
sea trip before each meal. What surprised me
more, though, and my friends too, was the manner
in which my pains subsided,, for when I told them
that I was perfectly at ease, and that my head-
aches were gone, they could scarcely believe me.
But it is nevertheless a fact that Clements Tonic
cured me and strengthened me thoroughly, and
in the interests of similar sufferers you may pub-
lish these remarks as it suits you.”
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this twenty-
fourth day of August, one thousand nine hundred
and three, before me, W. T. TATE, J.P.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Pros, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
S«nd Stamp for Illuitrated Lilts of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Sox 913 , G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
Q
*u
6
IMPERIAL
.EYE.
CURES 5
as®
*
m
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES. Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
Mr. THOS SHELTON, 18, Crown Street, Oxford, writeslf the value of ‘POWELL'S BALSAM OF
ANISEED ’ was better known, many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung- Troubles would do as I
have done for upwards of so years; I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably
sets me up. It is invaluable. I have several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired
effect I have had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and 2or 3 bottles had the desired effect when all
else failed. You may make what use of this you like."— December nth , /907.
Mrs. S. W. BAILEY, 32, Manville Road, Balham, London, S.W., writes I may add that I recommend your
BALSAM after 12 years constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and Warminster,
Wilts, for 35 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers."— -January, KjoS.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE,
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland-. —
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR
COUGHS.
sjyytl
&
&
FOR
COUCHS.
m
sssoNtyronp
It aets like a charm in
DIARRHEA.
* or;
The only known Specific fop
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Caneep, Toothache, Neuralgia, Seiatiea, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World, in bottles, la. \\d. ; 20z., 2s. 9eL ; 40z., 4s. 6 d. each.
CAUTION.
Elephant,” on
Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORQDYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
the wrapper, &e., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
A Cure for Weak Men!
S
If you are a man who is weak—weak of nerve, weak of body and weak of brain ;
if you are a man who realises that his manhood is but a mockery, you feel
that there is something somewhere that will restore the precious lost vigor
you once had and make you the man you should be.
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
You have tried drugs —pills, powders and liquids, and perhaps a cheap imitation
of our world-famous appliances (all meritorious inventions have their “just as
good and cheaper ” parasites), but after it all you are poorer in health
and wealth because the powerful drugs weakened and inflamed the stom-
ach and other organs, and the catchpenny belt burned and blistered
but did not cure.
There is something that will make you strong ; it ts Electricity
properly applied as it is with the improved Dp. McLaughlin’S
EleetPie Belt, the wonderful invention that has cured 50,000
men and women in Australia. ... It gives the natUPal
fopee that the weak man lacks. It is a natural power. It
will pump vitality into a weak, worn-out man while he sleeps, and
make him a peal man. It gives the fire of life, and makes
old men young, and young men younger. We have thousands
of testimonials from all parts of Australasia to prove that it is
all we claim for it.
It is a positive cure for all Weaknesses, Nervousness, Varicocele, Loss of Vitality, Stomach,
Kidney and Liver Troubles, Rheumatism, Sciatica and Lumbago, and when used with our
newly-patented electro-plastic truss, is a certain cure for Rupture. . . . It is easy to use ; no Sting,
burn or shock ; put it on when you go to bed, and you get up in the morning feeling like a two-year-„ld
colt. They are guaranteed to give a strong current, instantly felt, and have special attachments for men.
They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Castlereag'h and Market Streets. SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
The McLaughlin Co., Dept. 10
Castiereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name
Address
8


‘ ‘ The Prooshan ” : One of the incidental
drought troubles is the encountering of mobs of
starved travelling sheep making a feeble effort to
worry down from the mountain snow and certain
death to the nearest railway for trucking and
probable death, or Coonamble, home and grass !
To strike the rear of, say, a five thousand jamb of
weak woollies in a two-chain lane when you are
aboard a sulky behind a trick pony, and are
hastening to an important sale in the township
ahead, is a joy unspeakable. You may shout and
yap; you may “shoo, shoo,” and “phoo phoo,”
and yell “Gar on, you brutes ! ” till all is blue.
Those attenuated muttons just cough and exhibit
the energy and despatch of a Victorian Parlia-
ment providing land for the people. One or two
may perhaps gammon to climb the road batter,
and perform a few sugar doodles, but the great
white sea of wool stands undivided, and, when
you appeal to the Moses in charge to command a
passage, he grins in a sickly way and says : “No
use yappin’, boss ; they’re played out.”
“Agitator,” at Singapore
few remarks
Re paragraph in Bulletin (23/4/’0S) respecting unpaid
overtime in the ranks of city clerks, I can name one large
"Commonwealth Department that is guilty of requiring
day and night clerical work for which no overtime is paid.
It is rather interesting to note that the head of the
Department concerned is, or was, a leading light in the
Anti-Sweating League, but, so far as sweating in his own
Department is concerned, he is a Light that Failed.
I put in some 2J years at the overtime myself, mostly
till 11.15 each night, and I rushed my signature into the
time-book before 9.15 each morning. The only financial
benefit I derived was the saving of the odd “bobs” I
would otherwise 1 have thrown away admiring Julius
Tights from the back of the gallery, so perhaps! shouldn’t
growl.
(Asia), makes a
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
" (some illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue from I/- with samples (letter postage), 2Jd.
A. de SAILLE, 20, Rue de la Michodiere, Paris.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combinedl, Pastoral and Agricultural Lamto,or on the Sec
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or rrcasury Bi [s of any , nte oest
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Oar new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20'per cent, of the loan during any year, Without notice or payment of any hne. .
Directors The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman . ®!H a ™ .
Short Esq ; James Burns. Esq. The Hon.’ R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon FE. Wmchcombe, M.L.O. ,
Jas. 0. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager amt Actuary : Richard Teece IM.A F.R.C. I
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, secretary.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. Is. Packet of TEN. lOd
TOOTH’S XXX ALE is UNRIVALLED.
AULD
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.,
PROPRIETORS,
KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY.
BRONCHITI
CURE.
Tire Famous Remedy for
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA
Cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
-—— |
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir^ —-From a strict sense
of duty I feel that I should publish the following state-
ment, so that others may know ( what to do when the
awful fact is evident that a life is in danger of being
lost:—ln September, 1906, my little girl, aged at that
time 3 years, contracted Measles, arid in the following
October was attacked by Bronchitis, Pneumonia and
Congestion of the Lungs. She was attended by a
legally qualified doctor of high standing, but his treat-
ment was not successful in arresting the progress of the
illness. On Saturday, the 21st Ootober, 1906, he said
that her life was in danger—that there was very little
hope for her. For eight days and nights she had been
prostrated by Cough, Pain and j Fever, and was lying
like a statue, unconscious. At j this stage I was per-
suaded by a friend to obtain Henrne’s Bronchitis Cure,
with its auxiliary medicine for the Fever and Conges-
tion of the Lungs, as directed! in the Catalogue of
Medicines which accompanies each bottle of the Bron-
chitis Cure. I gave the medicine as directed, and there
was an improvement from the first dose of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure. The improvement continued after
each, dose of the medicine. In a j week she was perfectly
free from the Pneumonia, Congestion, Cough, Pain arid
Fever, and was well, except that she was still weak. In
a fortnight she was quite recovered, and is now, in
splendid health, and stronger than ever. Any. person
asking for information about this grand medicine can
be supplied by me, or by any of my neighbours who have
witnessed its wonderful effects. It absolutely snatched
my child from an early grave.—Yriurs gratefully,
D. GARDINER,
Police Station, Geelong East, Feb. 5, 1908.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age.
Thoroughly Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
j
Immediate Relief—Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I was very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me imme-
diate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am
thoroughly cured. Its effect on me has been most
wonderful. lam 73 years of age. I trust you will
make use of this statement by publishing it for the bene-
fit of humanity generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
PNEUMONIA and PLEURISY
cured by
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
I, Prudence M'Kee, of Carr-street, South Geelong, in
view of the importance of a person making it quite clear
what treatment was successful in curing a serious and
complicated case when the medicine, directions and treat-
ment of a legally qualified doctor had failed, state as
follows:—•
My con, Henry M'Kee, then aged 8 years, had been
attended by a legally qualified doctor, who pronounced
him to be suffering from Pneumonia, Pleurisy and a
stoppage of the passifig of Urine. Under the doctor’s
treatment the child gradually got worse, and the doctor
pronounced the case hopeless. He told me that the
child could not live. At this stage I obtained from
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Chemist, of Geelong, a bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and gave it to the child, ac-
cording to, the directions, which accompany each bottle
of it. The child improved after the second dose of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. He continued to improve
each day from each dose of Hearne’s Medicine alone, and
within three days he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy, and the Urine was passing satis-
factorily. He was out of bed at the end of a week,
completely recovered, and he is now in perfect health.
PRUDENCE M'KEE,
Carr-street, South Geelong, Feb. 6, 1908.
CONSUMPTION.
Too 111 to Leave His Bed.
A Complete Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonder-
ful cure your medicine has effected in my case. About
three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough
was not severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became
very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my
chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several oc-
casion's there was blood in the expectorated matter. I
had been treated by a doctor who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
bourse of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill
to leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
‘ gradually imnroved. lam glad to say that the two
lots of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure,
for which accept my very best thanks. —Yours gratefully;
J. ELAIR,
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
BRONCHITIS and PLEURISY.
A Severe Case Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
After Other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered
from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to
my room for about a week, at the end of which time,
feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact
my business as usual. But I got up too soon, for the
very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from
what the doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis.
The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders
was frightful, and for four long weeks I was confined to
my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor,
and all the time his medicine gave me but temporary
relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where
I resided, told me of a medicine —Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure—from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad at-
tack of bronchitis and pains in the chest, and begged
of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude
to you, tell you that, after the second bottle, my cough
had ceased; but what is more astonishing, the pains from
pleurisy entirely left me, and in about a week I was able
to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully,
J. BRAHAM.
Melbourne “ Punch ” Office, Melbourne.
ASTHMA—A 17 YEARS CASE.
Previous Treatment Failed.
Cured by Three Bottles,
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, wrote: —“After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine I qtiite got rid of the asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883 —fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it.
The medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure
in recommending it.”
Speaking in February, 1908, he states: —“ I am keeping
very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
“ Hearne’s Medicine cured me of Asthma, from which
I had been suffering for twenty-five years, during which
time I had used almost every patent medicine on the
market —including asthma inh&lations—without getting a
cure. It was 8 years agp, that the cure was effected
by Hearne’s Medicine, and I now feel st-onger than I
have felt for years—in fact. I feel splendid.”
C. WISEMAN,
Meredith, Victoria.
Beware of Imitations! The great success of HEARNE'S Bronchitis Cure has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the ob -s e< ' t übTdwcic
the unsuspecting, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARSES
Bronchitis Cure has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you
in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S, ana see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 26; Large Size, 4/6, Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTlCE— Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1a does NOT contain any Morphia or any Opium whatever. It is equally beneficial
for the youngest child and the most aged person.
A
A
$
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
BengerV Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
ganger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
&/>e LEADING
HOUSE
sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
"THE MAINE
Pifle
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
CANT
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain Y back sight f
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards
Postage on one Rifle—ls 3d, N.S.W. ; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OK NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
' How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boos o.y De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, IS 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, isposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught 1 / 3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. j>ew
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting Subjects concerning' mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy' River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Oyvn Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is Sd. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score <fc
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is* SkL Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to aIP Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Hkpairi.no. Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2g. AVRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
CUARAKtf-C-^
• II
Mmdk
Wholesale Depot for
• Australasia •
23ICIarer\ce5t.Sydr\ey
Costume Cloths,
ETC. ————
SHIPMENTS ARRIVING WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUM lERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter :
Copy of Testimonial.
GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY.
Lady Mary Lyyon wishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied ivith the two costumes
you have made for her, ivhich fit very well.
(Signed) C. JA RDINIER.
FIELD-GLASSES
WITH
ENHANCED
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL
SPORT.
STALKING.
Distance between
S* Oculars,
STEREOSCOPIC
EFFECT.
Features
Brilliant
Definition.
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity.
Mechanical
Precision,
i Stability,
, Tropic Proof.
Increased
distance between Objectives.
Obtainable
from all
Opticians.
NEW MODELS.
CARL ZEISS, JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH—29, Margaret St.,
Regent St., London, England.
New
Catalogue
T 78
Post Free.
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA.
hgsh
75he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET CF TEN, lOtl.
Britisl)=flustralasiati
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
PtMrf* /SH POST FREE, £t per year,
r 1 ILC j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS .
Acts like a charm in DIARRHOEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in Encfland 2/9, 4/6-


A
r thp
CHEMIST
SAYS
The best sell-
ing- Remedy
on the market.
Always gives
good results,
and has made me
thousands of satis-
fied customers.
I always supply it at
1/6 and 3/-, but re-
commend the Hospital
Size at 51- for large
families.
DB Sheldons
NEW
DISCOVERY
o
E
R
SKIN
FOOD
Of all
Stores or
Chemists
Keeps
the skin n.
soft an d N V
smooth and, by N.
nourishing it,
cates lines or wrinkles.
Made by Mrs. Pomeroy
Ltd., 29, Old Bond Street,
London, England.
MOLLER’S
GOD LIVER OIL
For Colds, Chest and Lung
Diseases, the safest remedy.
NO DISAGREEABLE AFTER EFFECTS
so often experienced when using
ordinary oils and emulsions.
Expert Opinions :
Indian Medical Gazette:
“ Superior to any we have seen.’
Medical Revie w : “ It is quit e
unexcelled.”
Sold in capsuled bottles only.
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, High Holborn, Lor.di n.
Factories : Loioten &Cl ristiania, Norway.
Invaluable
for
Throat
and Voice.
I recom-
mend it to
all my
friends.”
FLORENCE YOUNG.
Grand Hotel,
Melbourne.
THE PROVEN STANDARD ...
THROAT ANE LUM REMEDY.
m
Cough
Cure
COUGHS. COLDS..
SfiONCMIALCATAftQh
SPASMODIC COOUP
wiNieq cough. •
and all Di*t«sevof th«
Air Pa»&«ae>
Mu. H. MACLUBCAN,
a.ui^XtfßTiog.P’.-Mi >3jn|.->pyg ~^MC
Absolutely the best remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, BRON-
CHJTIS, INFLUENZA,
CROUP, WHOOPING
COUGH, INFLAMMATION
of THE THROAT, ASTHMA,
and SAFEGUARD AGAINST
CONSUMPTION is
MRS. MACLURCAW’S
GREAT COUCH CURE
which should be in every home. Now
Winter is here and lung perils about,
don’t be without it. It kills Colds
and Coughs by curing them. It is
soothing, rapid in action, certain in
results. IT SAVES THE LUNGS,
ALSO LIFE.
All Chemists and Storekeepers,
l/6 per Bottle.
Allcocks
Porous Piaster
For pains in the region of the
Kidneys, or for a Y/eak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there is pain apply
Allcock’s Plaster.
A universal remedy
for pains in the back
(so frequent in the case
of women). They give
instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is a
pain a Plaster should
be applied.
Rheumatism,
Golds, Goughs,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c. &c.
INSIST UPON HAVING
Allcock^
For Sore Throat, Coughs,
Bronchitis, for Weak Lungs,
and for painful and sensitive parts of
the abdomen, apply as indicated.
REMEMBER— Allcock’s Plasters have been sold by the millions for over 60 years.
Like all good things they have been imitated, but only in appearance. Allcock’s are
guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium or any poison whatever.
For Sale by Druggists throughout the World*
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
DizzinesSj Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1752.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s
BirminsHam, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for aa
assorted Sample Box.
The Feast of Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Y I Pride of Life has ceased;
Life is no more a Feast,
A banquet that the Pagan gods provide.”
* So in a chamber bare,
Upon an attic stair,
The Poet penned his lurid ode with pride.
“ Vixi.” He dipped his pen
In purple ink, and then
Wrote : “ Semiramis I have looked upon,
Seen wall o’er high wall rise
Unto the threatened skies,
And hanging gardens ranged round Babylon.
“At Athens, Carthage, Tyre,
I gratified desire;
In beaked Phoenician ships I made my way.
In Egypt, by old Nile,
I learned the Sphinx’s guile,
And I have flung the dice in Nineveh.
“ The world grows drab and grey,
But I have had my day.
The Golden House of Nero was my home.
Once, when the Eagles soared
And Caesar’s legions roared,
I wore the purple of Imperial Rome.
“Of Joy appointed Priest
I spread the gorgeous Feast
Of peacocks’ brains and tongues of nightingales.
Flower crowned, drank Coan wine
In festivals divine
At thought of which the stoutest stomach quails,
“ On silken couch reclined
Like gods we lay and dined,
Refreshed with Dacian combat, Grecian song ;
On ladders dwarfs tossed balls,
Birds sang round frescoed walls,
And Syrian damsels swayed to flute and gong.
“What cared I that the flood
Of Time was choked with blood
When Martial mocked, and Ovid tales did spin ?
Their verses crooned that bliss is
But roses, wine and kisses,
What though the Stoic Schools might deem it sin!
“ The Lust of Life is done.
We turn beneath the Sun
Bound to the iron wheel of Circumstance.
But poets yet shall rise
To offer sacrifice
Within the smoking temples of Romance.
“ Drag to the dust cold Truth
That, pledged to reckless Youth,
Of Pleasure Ibe King; of Sin, High Priest.
Yea, I would rule once more
A Roman Emperor,
Though all the world were butchered for one
Feast.”
The youth disbursed his rent,
Then brushed his hair, and went
To find a place where food was not too dear.
A waitress came; and shy
He stammered, said he’d try
A bath bun, and a glass of ginger beer.
vie.
LOUIS ESSON.
Good by Stealth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
you, sir ! ” said Arthur
Mowle, turning savagely upon the
heavy-handed man who had smitten him
on the shoulder.
“All right, Mowle. No harm done,” replied
the other, deprecatorily. “ Don’t you remember
Gaunson ? ”
“Yes, I do. But I don’t care to have my at-
tention attracted by a thump on the back or a dig
in the ribs —even by Gaunson. Foolish, no doubt,
Mr. Gaunson, but there it is.”
“I didn’t mean any harm, old chap. You’re
just as touchy as ever.”
“Nobody ever does mean any harm. And you
must allow me my few poor fads.” Mowle’s wrath
evaporated quickly. This friend of his early
youth had been very dear to him, until, Gaunson’s
marriage interposing, they had lost touch.
Gaunson smiled as he noted the forgiveness in
the artist’s eye. Mowle looked down, smiling too,
almost expecting to see a wagging tail—Gaunson
was as absurdly like a dog as in the days when the
school knew him as “Towser.” Everyone has
met the “Towser” type—it is awkwardly
affectionate, with a certain anxiety of regard in its
timid eyes. Everyone likes it, and pities it a
little, and wants to pat its head.
“Come and have one?” invited Gaunson,
amiably.
Mowle declined politely, saying that he never
touched it during working hours. He looked
keenly at his old friend, and saw, with disap-
proval, how it was with him. He would, at all
events, be no party to further insobriety.
“Come up to my rooms, Gaunson,” he said ;
and together the two pushed their way through
the sunlit bustle of the streets, and climbed the
high stairs to the studio. Gaunson puffed a good
deal as he gained the top. Mowle, who had
known him as a footballer, felt a little soreness of
heart at the decline.
Seated, the friends reviewed the past. It
seemed but a year or so since they had met—
Mowle learned with something of a shock that it
was seven. And then there were questions to be
asked and answered. How had each shaped in
the battle? “ You have done something,” said
Gaunson, a trifle enviously. “We hear of Arthur
Mowle.”
Mowle laughed. “I hope so,” he said. “But
for you to talk like that seems a bit peculiar.
Why, you’re a better citizen than I am—marriage
is a profession to be proud of. And there are
children, no doubt. I’m not sure that you haven’t
got the better of me. How is she ? ”
Gaunson drew his breath sharply, and his
knuckles stood out in little white knots upon the
red hands, whose grip tightened upon the arms of
the chair. “For God’s sake, Mowle, don’t talk
like that. You don’t know—of course. She’s
dead .”
There was a long pause. Mowle knew that
there was nothing to be said. Few men have that
insight—the conventional phrase slips out
awkwardly and jarringly. Silence is well when
one hears of death ; the two are so akin.
So it was Gaunson who spoke first. “ Two years
ago,” he said, shakily. “ And ever since ”
Mowle waited,
“ You saw how it was with me when I first met
you?”
Mowle nodded.
“ What else is a man to do ? Damn it, Mowle
—what is there for a man to work for ? ”
“ The babies,” suggested the artist.
“None,” replied Gaunson. “I’m quite alone.
Alone, Mowle. D’you know what that means ?
Of course you don’t. No man who hasn’t known
love, and lost it, knows what real loneliness is.
Besides, you have your art.”
“ Every man’s alone,” declared Mowle. “ One
can have one’s friends —they live upon the surface
of consciousness. But the brain of each thinking
man is as lonely as God. There is no such thing
as real intellectual companionship—if there were,
our friends would be admitted into our inner
counsels. Each man is for himself in this world—
what may be in the next I don’t pretend to know.
The closest tie is marriage, Gaunson, but, even so,
there are things which the wise man keeps from
his wife, and every woman from her husband.
It’s a kind of mitigated loneliness, I’ll admit.
And we die as lonely as we have lived. Can you
feel the fear, the love, the hate of your best friend
as he himself feels it ? Can you see yourself as he
sees you, but won’t tell you ? One will perhaps
worship you—you feel ashamed, knowing how
little you deserve it, how base in some ways you
are. One' will despise you ; yet you know that in
some ways you are still his superior. Any man
who faces his own soul must be lonely. But some
face it with courage, and some fail.”
“ I fail, of course,” said Gaunson, bitterly. “ I
know it. But you were always a hard, proud devil,
Mowle! ”
“Look here, Towser, I’ll be plain with you—
plain as I used to be when we were kids together
at school. You’re not a fool. In fact, you had the
reputation of brains. But you are a coward. You
get a knock-out hit, and you give up fighting like
a woman.”
Gaunson flushed. “ All very well. But what
is there to fight for?”
“Oh —decency’s sake, pride, a dozen things.
But this sort of thing—pah ! I think I could
respect a man who killed himself for disappointed
love, but I’m damned if I can stomach one who
boozes, for love or anything else. And, if I re-
member rightly, you were a hot Christian. You
should, therefore, be convinced that you will meet
her again. You will have a deal to explain.
‘ Dear, I was so. broken by your loss that I forgot
that I was a man—the man you loved—and made
a hog of myself; an object of pity to my friends,
a byword amongst strangers. But I did it for
your sake.’ It doesn’t sound convincing.”
Gaunson sat, his head in his hands, his shoul-
ders huddled up to his ears. Mowle had never
seen a more unpromising subject for reform. Not
that he worried much about reforming other men.
It was one of his peculiar theories that if each
man looked after himself and his—without, of
course, undue interference with his neighbor’s
rights—the world would be quite a decent place.
Holding this view, reform was plainly not his
business. But something in the man opposite
called to him. Perhaps it was only the fine pride
of the strong will, which tries its power upon the
weaker, that spurred him on to a battle in which
there would be constant disappointments, and a
most woeful wasting of time. And how was he to
go about it ?
Gaunson solved that difficulty himself. “ It’s
all very well for you to talk about belief. But
hope’s a damned windy food, Mowle, and one falls
off a little at times. Why, I hardly know now—
. . . But you —you don’t tell me you’re a believer.
At school—remember the hours you wasted
pointing out to me that there probably wasn’t a
God at all? I shouldn’t wonder if you haven’t
had something to do with my theological back-
sliding. And now you talk to me like a parson.
Honestly—do you believe that there’s an after-
life?”
Bo here it was, plain before Mowle. A most
interesting situation promised, and he was not
going to spoil that situation by telling the truth.
He understood the value of religion—that, though
the strong man can live cheerfully without any
fixed creed, the weak one cannot. He had seen
its power of reclamation. He recalled the case of
one of his models, who, after taking about seven
of the steps which lead steeply to Avernus, pulled
up sharply on the eighth, donned a poke-bonnet
and a red-faced jersey, and eventually married
a decent shoemaker of small wit, the instrument
of her “salvation.” This case was on all-fours
with hers. Mowle would play the shoemaker—
lying manfully in a good cause.
“Gaunson,” he said, “as one grows older, one
changes a good deal in one’s outlook. Evidences
accumulate, and one is able to piece things together
better.” He leaned forward and touched the other
on the knee. “ Nothing in Nature is really lost—
why should consciousness be the sole breaker of
the law?” He knew the weakness of this argu-
ment, but, acting upon the passionate wish of
mankind for thousands of years, it had been
entirely satisfactory to millions—surely it might
convince one more.
“ That’s what I am always asking myself,” said
Gaunson, with a sense of having at last found a
twin soul. “Recollect old Perrin, the stinks
lecturer, and his illustration of the conservation
of matter ? I used to think then how like the
whole thing was to immortality. But you used to
laugh at me. You always did laugh, somehow.
And now—l say—do you really believe that I—
for instance—will jneet my wife again ?”
“ A es. And how will you face her —as a beast,
or as a man ? Meet her again!—l tell you,
Gaunson, that it’s inevitable. Are we given love
and friendship by a just God, or by a callous,
blind Devil ? Wouldn’tit seem absurd if humanity,
knowing its pitiful mortality, and feeling the
utter futility of all human effort, still went on
working and striving until the final annihilation ?
Yes, I’m pretty certain, Towser. And, if you’ll
take a good honest grip of things instead of letting
them slide, you’ll arrive at the same certainty.”
And so, for a couple of hours, Mowle, the
infidel, coaxed and petted the belief back into the
Christian soul which had got out of its depth.
And as Gaunson left, the artist observed with
something of hope, and a good deal of the pride
of the Creator, that his shoulders were squarer and
his face more cheerful. He shook hands with
quite a warm grip, and Mowle went back into his
studio and smiled at the little plaster Venus of
Milo. “ I’ll keep track of Gaunson, madam,” he
said. “Arthur Mowle, saver of souls! I ought
to have been a parson.” And the little Venus
(Continued on next page.)


CHAPPED HANDS
Redness, Rawness, Smarting and
Soreness Soothed and Healed.
What irritation and distress come from raw, chapped hands! If a woman’s
skin is at all sensitive she suffers more or less in this way all the year round; hut
with the damp, cold, frosty weather the condition of her
hands becomes a positive torture. First the skin looses
its pleasant softness, then there is a disagreeable rough-
ness and redness, followed by cracking and bleeding,
particularly in the region of the knuckles and the wrist-
This distressing condition is often caused by drying the
hands carelessly after washing on a raw, cold day.
Neglect of chaps, or any cold-sores, may lead to painful
swelling and inflammation. There is a danger of grit
and dirt getting into the cracks of the skin and setting up
positive torture. ZAM-BTJK is the only scientific, and at the
same time reliable remedy for allaying inflammation and pain,
healing chaps, cold sores and roughness, and imparting a new
and remarkable heathfulness to the skin itself.
“I have found Zam-Buk Balm invaluable for chapped
hands and lips,” says Mrs. M. Boyd, of 147 Toorak Road, South
Yarra, Melbourne, Victoria, “a few applications of the balm
soothing and healing the smarting chaps promptly. I always keep
a pot of Zam-Buk by me, as I consider it wonderful as a healing
Balm.”
Chilblains Banished.
Chilblains are a mild form of' frost-bite, the irritation accompanying them being at
times very distressing. The affected toe, finger, nose, or ear is always much inflamed,
and there is generally swelling, redness, heat and tingling pain. Zam-Buk is to be
applied as often as possible by gentle friction, and the parts guarded against sudden
changes from cold to heat.
Mr. William Bacon, of Verner Street, Goulburn, N.S.W.,
says:—“During the winter we experience Very cold, frosty
weather, and nurse the tire very closely. The inevitable result
is chilblains. I suffer considerably in this respect, having had
chilblains on the feet, hands and ears. I tried many ointments
and salves in the hope of driving out the irritation, but with
scant. success. Last winter I applied Zam-Buk, and with
wonderful results. The first application drove out the
irritation and soothed the chilblains.”
&
RUB lTm r
Zam-Buk, the great
household healing Balm,
is unequalled for chaps,
cold-sores, chilblains,
winter eczema, cuts,
bruises, burns, rheu-
matism, sciatica,
sprains, stiffness, cold
feet, scalp troubles, etc.
Price Is. 6d. per pot, or
3s. 6d. family size (con-
taining nearly four
times Is. 6d.), of all
Chemists and Stores, or
post free from The
Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
9
€/
1/
smiled back at him—that least, faint, mocking
smile which hovers upon the loveliest lips the
Greeks have left us.
But instead of Mowle keeping track of Gaunson,
Gaunson simply haunted Mowle, wasting hours
of the. painter’s time in quest of the spiritual
comfort which the weak man finds in the presence
of the strong. And sometimes he came with a
lurch in his step and a noticeable thickness in his
speech, full of regrets and apologies—and whisky.
He had met a few friends —how can a man act the
churl ? Then Mowle would scarify him with the
bitterest tongue in the studios, and, when he had
reduced him to a proper state of abjectness, would
hold out to him the golden promise of the meeting
with his dead wife in Heaven. Sometimes, how-
ever, he came with no trace of his besetting sin—
and Mowle wasn’t sure that sobriety agreed with
him. But still they debated, sitting long, and
agreeing that the poor devils who had no faith
were indeed to be pitied. “I wonder how they
can go on living ?” said Gaunson, one day; and,
smiling, Mowle replied that he wondered, too.
“Funny that I thought you an Agnostic,” pur-
sued Gaunson—and Mowle pointed out how
absurdly easy it was for a false impression to get
abroad. “I never did wear my heart on my
sleeve, Gaunson.”
Once, when Gaunson visited the artist, he
reproved him severely for his constant study of
the nude. “ I don’t see how you can reconcile it
with Christianity,” he said, sternly. Whereat
Mowle, who recognised this as part of his punish-
ment for meddling with the law of Natural Selec-
tion, wondered a little whether he had done well
in making a Pharisee out of a sinner. But,
instead of damning Gaunson’s impertinence, as he
would have done in any other case, he put for-
ward humbly that God who had created the body,
had created it beautiful, and that the worship of
beauty was but one form of the worship of God.
“ Still, there is a danger,” said Gaunson'soberly,
“ that .one may lose sight of the Creator in mere
unworthy contemplation of His works. Most of
the artists are dreadful Pagans, Mowle.”
“Yes, poor - beggars,” replied the. virtuous
Mowle, his tongue in his cheek. He was certain
now that he had made a mistake in saving this
man. For save-him lie did. Gaunson’s visits
grew fewer as his rectitude grew firmer, and when
he did come, he-was-always-perfectly sober and
self-righteous. Mowle began to dislike him more
than he had at first pitied him. He felt that his
man should have been more humble—for his
man Gaunson wasj created afresh after Heaven
had given him over. The end was inevitable, if
Mowle was short-tempered at
times, and Gaunson visited him no more. Even
when, two years later, he married his second wife,
he neglected to send Mowle an invitation to the
wedding. A painter with a Pagan leaning towards
nakedness was no fit visitor, he probably felt,
to his supremely respectable and truly Christian
home.
*" ' * * *
Ketts, the black-and-white artist, had the floor.
Barnett and Mowle listeifed gravely while he
abused the'generous donor of the sensational £5OOO
cheque to the Royal Hospital. “These’chaps
always get it back in trade,” he declared.' “This
whole philanthropic business is a huge fake—
a huge advertising fake. Before I made a fool of
myself and took to art, I was in the ad vertising
department of John Buck and Co. The co.
always used to debit its charities against our de-
partment. What d’ye think of that ? My belief
is that the fellows who do good by stealth all died
a couple of hundred years ago.”
“ Our.Ketsy is bitter,” said Barnett. “ Who is
the lady, Jim?”
“ Seriously, old chap,” put in Mowle, “ I don’t
quite agree with you. Look at the anonymous
donors of half-a-crown to this same fund'you’re
growling about.”
“Yes—that’s just it. Anonymous because the
gift is only half-a-dollar. Anyway, you shut up,
Mowle ! What the devil do you know about good
by stealth ? You never did a good deed, by
stealth or otherwise, in your life.”
HASSAN.
Fishin’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
are more ways of catching fish
than pulling them up by their faces with a
hook, or digging them out of sharks with
a butcher knife. We tried some of the other ways
one Sunday on the Outer Reef in Altona Bay.
We found the reef by the usual method of lining
chimney stacks with hilltops ashore. Then we
started fishing, and caught seventeen gummies in
six minutes. I had seven. Then we caught one
all together—that is, somebody hooked him, and
the brute wound itself round all the lines till the
outfit looked like a suburban telegraph system
struck by lightning. Then we caught some more
gummies, mixed with silly blue leather-jackets
that barked sadly like disinherited dogs when
they came aboard. In about half-an-hour all
hands were beginning to feel used up, and there
was a long line of dead, pale gummies drifting in
mournful procession far astern. So we moved.
Next place we got on to the gummies properly.
The previous deluge was merely a preliminary.
Also the leather-jackets were larger and bluer,
and barked more savagely. We could feel our
sinkers hit gummies or leather-jackets every time
we pitched in. They must have been 10ft. thick.
It struck me this would be a good place to try
another method of fishing—one that works par-
ticularly well in waterholes. I had half a packet
of gelignite and some caps and fuse made into
primers.
Taking six sticks and a primer I tied them to a
sinker and pitched the outfit over the side, with
the loose end of the fuse smoking beautifully.
Charon looked up just then from a big cold gummy
that he was softening with an iron smasher.
“ Wot the li—l’s that ?” he howled.
“Dynamite!” I remarked, reaching for the
keliiek.
“Dynamite! What the Ow, great gods !
Never mind the kellick ; cut thed thing. Oh,
you crimson, purple ass ! ”
Charon jumped for the bows, tripped on a
fish "basket, and slammed the centreboard box
withihis face. The Judge was not saying any-
thing—-just trying to look as if he wasn’t scared,
and the boy fell on the howling form of Charon,
and wept dismally.
I was quite cool and retained my presence of
mind perfectly.' I knew there was a good three
minutes in the fuse. The anchor came up beauti-
fully, but instead of drifting away with the wind,
the boat, caught by some infernal current, wan-
dered aimlessly around, and finally settled right
on top of the mine, exactly in the place where the
little smoky bubbles were coming up. I knew the
water was 20ft. deep, but I believe I was the
sickest man on the ship for a while.
Of course, the sweeps were jammed amongst
the gear under the fotedeck. Charon got the
handle end of one, and tried to wrench it out, but
it was thick with fish slime, and flew out of
his hands. As it flew it caught the Judge strongly
across the equator, and curled him up in the well.
I tried to run the jib up—the mainsail was
stowed—but the halyard (fouled) was underneath
the southern hemisphere of the prostrate Judge.
Then the horror of approaching doom seized upon
; the crew.
“Stand firm !” I yelled ; “she’ll float us any-
way ! ”
“Float be d !” groaned Charon. “She’s
got 25cwt. o’ pig iron in her, an’ she’ll go down
like rocks! ”
A dismal howl went up from the boy, and by
way of chorus broke out the bubbling cry of four
strong non-swimmers in their agony. I recollect
seeing feet sticking out under the deck before the
crisis came. I think the feet belonged to
Whiskers. I had missed Whiskers ever since the
gelignite went over.
Then the shock came. The first we knew of it
was a large dead gummy that came up on the port
side and floated round in a modest swirl of water.
Then two more dead gummies appeared, hur-
riedly followed by a sky-blue leather-jacket with
red spots and an expression of pained surprise.
After that the swirl became a miniature mael-
strom, full of gummy and cerulean leather coat —a
wholesale distributing centre of inedible species of
fish. It was very interesting, and in the hope
that after all we might escape shipwreck, all
hands watched the novel eruption with great
interest. .Some of the piscine debris was
mutilated. All of it was very, very dead.
After a while things calmed down. Two or three
thousand crabs came up, turned over sadly and
went below again. Then came heaps of seaweed.
After that nothing but shreds of general marine
debris. But the surface of the sea for, yards
around was like the floor of a city fish market on
Good Friday morning. It only wanted the
language, and as soon as he recovered his power
of speech, Charon supplied that. Whiskers
helped, after they hauled him out; apd the Judge
had a good deal to say when he got his wind again.
I was for staying and busting up the rest of the
gelignite.. But I was in a hopeless minority, and
they threw the whole outfit overboard, hoisted
sail and left.
We-had no fish, and I hate going home without
fish. So I discussed the position with the Judge,
letting the other fellows go when we got ashore.
We hung around the dock till a boat came in from
the eastern schnapper grounds.
Then we stepped up, and the Judge produced
his black leather ticket of authority as an
“honorary assistant inspector of fisheries.” There
are 700 of them in Victoria. In gloomy official
tones he demanded to see the haul, and it proved
to be a fine large basket of seven and eight ounce
fish.
“ All underweight ! ” said the Judge, solemnly,
and turning to me with a wave of the hand, he re-
marked haughtily :
“ Take charge of these ! ”
I obeyed with alacrity, and while I gathered up
the spoil the Judge took the names and addresses.
There was 301 b. of fish in that basket—very nice
fish at that. It made the two of us darned tired
carrying it home. Still we were honest, for we
scornfully and conscientiously declined a cash
offer of £3 18s. 2d. (a tarpaulin muster) to say
nothing more about the matter. Those flash
anglers are most likely still waiting for their
summonses.
We are going to try a little netting next time.
WYUNG.
The Merry Devil.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE snow that nips
The finger-tips
And freezes all the heart o’ me,
Away she creeps
And Springtide leaps
To sing through every part of me ;
Sleep the sluggard, for this night
I’ll do wrong ere I be right.
List, there swells
A peal of bells
Marking out the prayer at eve ;
Ring, sing,
Censer swing,
Scenting all the air at eve ;
Churches chiming sweet and strong
As you do right and I do wrong.
Friar, friar,
Heaven’s fire
Freezes in the soul o’ you ;
If evil dies,
0 sacrifice,
Lifeless are the whole o’ you ;
Give me sin and grace I’ll say—
Pretty faces, where away ?
Lips, lips,
Here’s eclipse
To groans and grace and gravity ;
Eye? a-dance
With the glance
O’ laughing, light depravity ;
Tripping feet a“nd taper waist—
0, a pretty dish to taste !
Little one,
Would’sttliou be gone
All along the street alone ?
Nay, what !
Fear’st thou not
Frosty dark to meet alone ?
Come with me and let us light
Love a beacon through the night.
Ah, why
Fluttered eye,
Stirring bosom, lips apart ? f
Hast thou not
A vacant spot
In the corner of thy heart ?
Hear me knocking, let me in,
Where men see not is no sin.
Soft, soft;
See, aloft
Every tiny star doth wink,
As to say :
Hie away,
Love and laugh and do not shrink ;
We’ll not tell, for, every one,
In the morning we’ll be gone.
N.s.w.
H. M. GREEN.


&
mm
90
S_/3
VVVVW'
SUjui
%
m
wm
m
m Si
The Leader of Them All!
That is, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla; not
some other kind, but “ Ayer’s.”
This grand old family medicine
has stood the test for over sixty
years. That’s the kind you
should take. You cannot afford
to experiment, your health is
too precious.
You may not now be really ill
from some well-defined disease, and yet
yon know you are all run down, your
nerves are unstrung, and you feel weak
and discouraged.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
is the strongest and best medicine you can
take to remove this tired and exhausted
feeling. It brings cheer, hope, courage.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disap-
point you. Be sure that you get “AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
ESQ
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving away prizes such as MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES’ and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
amd DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS. SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER,
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is t® SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward you 24 assorted
packets of ourreliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette,
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value, Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
ofier is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every caae
positively as represented in our illustrations.
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOND ST SYDNEY NSW.
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cares the same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours.
(ww)
• Each Capsule bears the name 3s®"“
The Standard Remedy which has eutlrred the Centime*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In ose since 1596.
OUR
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
FT
FREE
NO MONEY WANTED.
COLORED and
ARTISTIC
POST CARDS.
Send U 3 your name and address and we will forward yon 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art POST CARDS to sell for us,
at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and
we will send you far your trouble any present you may cheese from the
list of jewellery which we forward yen. By continuing the sale of cur
cards you can earn a RADY’S or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and
CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA loaded for use, SILVER HA JR BRUSHES,
JUNGS, LADIES’ GOLD CASED *£UFF CHAINS, RABBIT
RIFLES of faithful workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ er
Gent, s DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
°" lsr exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE AIL THE RISK. You ean
return the cards if not sold. We are ike largest dealers in post cards in
A £r a ß’i? nd 01 ” 1 om jewellery, or we could aot make you this liberal
0 « Hie Ret in your district. Oar post cards sell at once, wherever seen
REGAL POST CARD C 0 Key 126 Bond-tt., Sydney.
//£.
W,
d Luck
I
Pi
.
.
'
..
m
m
wm
y#L i
m
' v,: ' <;
m
■.>. >
M
Miw
&<t
m
mm
■ 'V
' . l '
‘ Vj
m
mm
4 ; - ?j
m
m
rt
c a
.V ‘ 1 ....Si
ii
•-
ri
Hi
I 4
m
m
'
ilii
s
.
ifMS
m
MIB
:*ss
8$
> : :
m
m
mm
i |
:;.
1 >
v ;v
STEEL WINGS
WINDMILLS
BUILT IN AUSTRALIA. AN AUSTRALIAN INVENTION.
The Wind=wheel runs inside a frame
and HAS A BEARING ON EACH SIDE.
This fact ALONE enables us to build
Wind-wheels up to 100 feet in dia-
meter at One-quarter the Price of
Steam Plants of equal power. The
cost of maintenance in our case is
NIL.
We shall be pleased to supply esti-
mates for complete Pumping or Power
Installations.
Steel Wings Windmill Company, Ltd.
Department C, BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
men
ano
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&o.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 682 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 50® Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
gj jjp To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
rilCiEi this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARCE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments"
©n receipt of this adversisement. |BF“ Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “ E,m i<* y House," IEI Elizabeth-st.,
Please menhieu this paper when writilig. HYDE PARK, SYPNEY.


A MACINTOSH SALE.
Prices during- our Macintosh Sale
nave been cut with a vengeance, and
. fv 11 pay you w .' eil to take advantage
•f this opportunity to supply yourself
with a snug protection against the
weather: ■
MEN'S MACINTOSHES, No; M 684,
m either the “SYDNEY” or “ CLON-
TARF” styles, splendidly made and
nnished in the Olive Rubber Surface
Material. Usual Price, 30/- : Sale
Price, 23/-
fi
LADIES’MACINTOSHES, No. 5551, out on latest Eng-
Ush patterns and finished in the White Rubber Surfaced
Material. Usual Prices, full length, 30/- ; $ length, 27/6 ;
maids length, 22/6 ; Sale Prices, 23/-, 19/3, and 18/6.
I 1 ull descriptions of these coats will be found in our
Winter Catalogue No. 17. • Ask for a copy.
When ordering, quote your height and easy chest
measurement. We will pay the carriage.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“The. House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney,
RABBIT
DESTROYERS
will clear the run in
a few weeks. Now
used all overN.S. W.
SPRAYERS
will save a Pastoralist 10 per cent, of his
breeding ewes if sprayed before lambing.
TYREE LTD., 314 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
66
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONBER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill ter
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air. consuming- about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
_
606 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Water 9
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using:
eur
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
A:
Write for
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
"1«R«
ODES 80S
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
Mbs
OT
ArX |
WOLF
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
a,—, SYDNEY
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. laxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
CO., 4 Hunter Street, SYDNEY,
Watchmaßers and Jewellers,
TELEPHONE 5177
IF YOU ARE THINKING of
installing Shearing Machines,
send us a note. We will quote
you a price by return of post,
and cover purchase of same
with liberal terms. ONLY DO
IT NOW. Things are busy
with us, and we want to give
you our Very Best Service.
OUR BUSINESS METHODS
WILL PLEASE YOU.
Head
Office :
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED,
: • ■
7 Bent Street, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA : 0. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
}UEENSLAKD : Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing (W. A.) Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth
JEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland am
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINERY
All our Agents carry
Stocks of Duplicate
Parts, Combs, Cutters,
Oil, Emery Clotli,
Glue, etc.
mi
'■
S
■
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock*
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/'
If you want a tSteel tSplit Pulley, and want the BEST, specify
The AMERICAN
With rim of one layer of metal, stiffened by internal central Flanges and rolled Beads on edges ; six duplex steel arms
radiating from a steel hub, and without rivets between hub and rim. See that you get a Pulley like this
The advantages of “ The American ” Steel Split Pulley are strength and rigidity, which renders it practically indestructible.
The weight is two-thirds less than that of an ordinary cast-iron Pulley, and about that of most wooden ones.
The Pulley, besides having unique lightness and strength, is true running and perfectly balanced, and positively safe
under high speeds. The only Pulley on the market with a groove in centre of rim, by which the air is allowed to
escape, and this enables the American Pulley to transmit 33| per cent, more horse-power than a cast-iron Pulley.
Bushings supplied for Shafts of different diameters. Large Stocks carried.
AGENTS—
■
X 9
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
UNDENIABLE TESTIMONY.
“CAR. RING-TON UNITED MINES,
“Leontown, Charters Towers, June, 12th, *OB.
“ In reply to your inquiry re the Card Concentrators purchased from you two years ago, I have much
pleasure in stating that these tables have been in constant use for tbe past eighteen months, and have
given every satisfaction. They have not cost &S in up-Keep and repairs, are still in good condition, and
working smoothly and well ; the worll being cleaner, more regular, and results generally much better than
the other concentrators running by their side. I can confidently recommend the Card Concentrator for
effective, clean and good work, at a minimum cost of up-Keep. T. 'WEBB, General Manager.**
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD
■j
Sole Licensees and
Manufacturers,
Sydney and Melbourne.
