

99
a word to the Wise is sufficient—" DE¥AR 7 S
R. <3r. «S& 00. 9
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Silken
For Mining, Milling,
‘astoral and Agricultural
Machinery.
7
..
Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .. .
28 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
jeiobart,
'—zm — '
fiadSeys Orient (jotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
belting!
guaranteed.
life
EVERYBELT
J.CoLudowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
I
Take it back.
1 must have
N’S
fine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB*
S SAFES
for JEWELLERS
A Paying investment
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P*
Fairbanks-Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARINC
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
all, Uf (l/Jl&iJd u foot.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
THE INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA-PERCHA AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY LIMITED
Manufadurers of
Dynamos, Motors, Switchboards, Cables, etc.
279 GEORGE
(THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.),
Contractors for
The Erection and Complete Equipment of Generating Stations for Light, Power and Traotion.
STREET SYDNEY.
GOWK'S
“HOUSE OF LORDS”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDINTEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit*Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
ĥ
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD'S BEST
OIL ENCINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
m
THE
BEST
BOOKING
IN THE
WORLD
ħ
WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER, THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HAS
OUR
PATENT
FIRE
JOINT.
REFRIGERATORS «
ECONOMY
SIMPLICITY
C. A, MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET. SYDlUirv
H
HELIDON SPA WATER
HEUDON SPA WATER should be taken
with food as a Table Water.
GOLLIN & CO.
Agrents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1494. ]
Ppiursday, October 1, 1908-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
71 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Some New and Recent Books, Including those reviewed on this Page.
Color Photography, with many plates, “ Studio Special
Number," 6s, postage Bd.
Robinson, The 20th Century American, 7s 6d, post 6d.
Gilbert, Sir W.S., The Pinafore Picture Book, illus., 6s, p. Bd.
Lamer’ Principles of Alternating Currents, 3s 6d, post 4d.
Trine 8. W., in Tune with ttie Infinite, new ed., 5s 6d, p. Sd.
fiilaire Belloc, Mr. Olutterbuck’s Election,cloth 3s6d, p. 6d
Balfour, Right Hon. A. J., Decadence: a Lecture, Is 9d,
post 3d. Whibley, American Sketches, 6s, postage 6d.
Garbe, Superheated Steam to Locomotives, 7s 6d, post 6d.
Haddon, Australian Architecture, fully illus., 650 pages,
Smith, Alex. *(Open Champion United States), Lessons in
Golf, illus., 10s 6d, post 6d.
MATERIALS AND METHODS OF FICTION, by CLAYTON HAMILTON, with an Introduction by
Brunder Matthews, cloth, gilt top, 6s, postage 6d.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, • INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
speoial service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro longed
periods.”
■A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
ĥ
01 The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung:.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt
of stamps from C. HUDSON, Manufacturing'
Chemist, 6 & 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
The White American.
THE American with his handsome
hardware has come and gone, and
we, who expected to find a white
man, found a foreigner. But our judg-
ment was too brief to be sound ; we have
been in America only a week, and no
critic can sum up America in seven days.
So the superficial differences—of feature,
of complexion, of build, of speech, of
demeanor—impressed themselves upon
us, while the underlying likeness of race
and outlook escaped notice. It is this
racial likeness that H. Perry Robinson
justly treats of in The Twentieth Century
American (Putnam), which with con-
fidence can be appraised as the fairest and
sanest explanation of the American yet
made. Indeed the book is one of the most
valuable of its kind produced within recent
years. The author displays a wide under-
standing of both America and England,
and though the contrast is chiefly be-
tween England and America, and not (ex-
cept implicitly) Australasia, we gain
from this study a remarkably clear and
useful insight into the national spirit of
the two white nations nearest our own.
\!>
Before, however, considering this re-
markable book, it will be worth while to
examine the sort of book “ dashed off ”
by the English tourist in America,
against which Robinson’s whole book is
a strenuous protest. Charles Whibley
has a pretty wit, but bis American
Sketches (Blackwood, per Dymock’s
Library) is a trivial thing, cheerfully
summing up America on quite insufficient
data. He sees the obvious: he misses
the radical; and his statements, such as
these quoted, are picturesque and blithely
paradoxical, but quite devoid of real
criticism :
New York is a braggart city of medieval
courage and medieval cruelty, combining the
fierceness of an Italian republic with a per-
: eet faith in mechanical contrivance and an
ardent love of material progress. ... It is a
city where the means of life conquer life
itself, whose citizens die hourly of the rage
to live. ...
America is not, never was, young. In
vain you will search the United States for
the signs of youth. Wherever you cast your
eye you will find the signal proofs of an
eager, grasping age. Youth loiters, and is
gla'd. . . . America is grave, and in a hurry.
. . . Youth is prodigal of time and of itself.
Youth boasts of strength and prowess to do
great deeds, not of skill to pile millions upon
millions. ... In brief, the fantastic ambition
of a “ cottage ” at Newport is the ambition,
not of primitive, reckless, pleasure-loving
youth, but of an old age, sated and curious,
which hurries to decay. . . . Sport for them
is less an amusement than a chance to win.
They forget to laugh. A kind of sanctity
hangs about money. It is not a thing to be
taken lightly ; it is not a proper subject for
a jest. . . . This, then, is the dominant im-
pression which America gives the traveller —
the impression of a serious old gentleman,
whom not even success will persuade to
laugh at his own foibles.
V
Let us turn from passing impressions
to the real thing.
The chief intent of H. Perry Robinson
in writing The Twentieth Century Ameri-
can, a comparative study of the peoples
of “ Two Great Anglo-Saxon Nations ”
for he insists upon the Anglo-Saxondom
of the Yankee—is to explain each nation
to the other with a view to an Anglo-
American alliance for the preservation of
a world-peace. The time will undoubt-
edly come when this alliance will be
forced upon these two nations; but the
bland saffron gentleman who is so
patiently waiting at our Northern gate
has not so far obtruded his persuasive
presence upon either America or Eng-
land. When England and America find
themselves confronted with that saffron
presence, the White Alliance will come
with the speed of an airship. Meantime,
however, England has a nearer menace
with a brushed-up moustache that may
force the Anglo-American alliance on
these nations with an even greater speed.
Robinson believes it within the power
of America, and of America alone, to
bring about that alliance, and by that
very simple act “abolish war for ever.”
If the alliance should not be soon con-
summated, or consummated only after a
destructive war, the author asks whether
the American people will be held guilt-
less for standing aloof 1
If it is iD truth in the power of America
and England to do this thing [to safeguard
the peace of the world], how can either con-
ceivably convince itself that it is not its
duty ? It is impossible only because the
people of the United States has not yet
realised the responsibilities of the new posi-
tion which they hold in the councils of the
world, but are still bound by the prejudices
of the days of little things, still slaves—they
of all people ! —to an old and outworn for-
mula.
It will doubtless come as a surprise to
Australians, as also to Englishmen, to
learn that there are well-grounded
reasons for believing that the American
hates England with a traditional hate
which has been little mollified by recent
events, and which is still a menace to the
White Peace.
The American treats the Englishman
as a foreigner; the Englishman looks on
the American as a kind of curious and
uncouth cousin. The feeling of hostility
of America toward England is due to
several causes. Commercially, England
has been the triumphant rival of America.
To the American, British commercial
supremacy has, at least from 1862 up to
the last decade, been an incontrovertible
and disheartening fact. And the history
of the United States has solely to do
with Britain, most frequently as an
antagonist.
American history proper begins with
hatred of England ; nor has there been any-
thing in the course of that history, until the
present decade, calculated to tend to modify
that hatred in any material degree.
The sole war engaged in by America
during the nineteenth eentury was that
with Great Britain in 1812.
The North speedily forgave the South ;
but it has not yet entirely forgiven Great
Britain. . . . And all through the years there
have been recurring at intervals, not too far
apart, various minor causes of friction be-
tween the two peoples—in the Newfound-
land fisheries question on the east, and the
seal fisheries on the west, with innumerable
difficulties arising out of the common frontier
line on the north, or out of British relations
fas in the ease of Venezuela) with South
American peoples. . . . Great Britain has
been the one and constant enemy, actual or
potential, and her power a continual menace.
How is it possible that the American should
think of England as the Englishman thinks
of the United States ?
v(/
Robinson gives many instances, from
public declarations of leading American
statesmen, that :
If any pretext should arise, the masses of
the American people could more easily be
inflamed to the point of desiring war with
England than they could to the point of
desiring war with any other nation. ... It
is evident that so good a judge as Mr.
Cleveland believed, as late as 1904, that
hostility to Great Britain was still a policy
which would commend itself to the “plain
people of the land.” ... In spite of what
happened during the Spanish War, in spite
of every effort that England has made to
convince America of her friendliness, in
spite of the improvement which has taken
place in the feelings of the upper classes in
America towards Great Britain, the fact
still remains that, with a large portion of the
people, war with England would be popular.
By reason chiefly of their isolation, in
which they have had little contact with other
people, the Americans have come to think
of Great Britain as little less foreign (and
by the accidents of their history as even
more hostile) than any other Power.
The only way out of this misunder-
standing is a better knowledge of each
other. And this book is a praiseworthy
attempt—and more than an attempt—to
bring about that better understanding.
The author finds in the extraordinary
resourcefulness and versatility of the
American an Anglo-Saxon trait, mar-
vellously developed by the conditions of
frontier life that are similar to our pre-
sent conditions in Australasia; and he in-
sists upon these factors in the make-up
of the American as a trait which makes
the people unquestionably formidable as
competitors in peace, and would make
them correspondingly formidable as an-
tagonists in war. This trait (possessed
in equal, if not greater, degree by the
Australasian) Robinson hails as “ the
most precious of all the American
national assets.”
But this quality of resourcefulness and
self-reliance is not a mere matter of the
moral or physical qualities of the individual.
Its spirit permeates the nation as a unit.
The machinery of the Government will
always move in emergencies more quickly
than that of any European country ; and un-
preparedness becomes a vastly less serious
matter.
Of the War of Independence;, Robinson
states that there is nothing in the his-
torical evidence to permit the English-
man to think that a hundred years, ago
the home-bred Briton could either sail or
fight his ships better than the Colonial.
There seems to be a dim moral adum-
brated here for the people who deprecate
the Australians’ desire to possess a navy.
Robinson theorises that in England
the Anglo-Saxon (or “ partieularist ”) in-
stinct is overlaid by a Norman crust, exem-
plified by the hereditary aristocracy ; and
the constitutional history of England is
little more than the story o-f the gradual
domination of the Norman by the Anglo-
Saxon. In America (as in Australasia)
the Anglo-Saxon instinct, because inde-
pendent of Norman traditions, works
faster—that is all. Both nations are
travelling upon a common path, but
Americans (and Australians) being less
hampered by baggage or obstructions,
are travelling faster. The point is that
this path is not being trod by any other
nations. The ascending degrees of
civilisation are expressed by the author
in this order: 1. Continent of Europe;
2. England ; 3. America. To which we
add (cheekily) a fourth degree —Aus-
tralasia.
The American despises the slowness
of the Englishman ; but Robinson makes
the valuable point that the American
must go outside England to see the
“ Englishman ” at his best.
The American who would get any notion
of British enterprise or British energy must
go afield —to the Upper Nile and Equatorial
Africa, to divers parts of Asia and Aus-
tralia. .. . Many times I have known
Americans in England to make jest of the
British lines, comparing them in mileage
with the transcontinental lines of their own
country. But the British transcontinental
lines are thrown from Cairo to the Cape, from
Quebec to Vancouver, from Brisbane to
Adelaide.
The contempt the American has for
the Empire is thus due to the fact that,
so far, he has seen only one small portion
of it, England. The tour of the fleet will
certainly reorganise American ideas of the
Empire.
W
Robinson gives the clearest exposition
yet written of the whole political system
of America. His method of explaining
American politics by transferring in
imagination the whole system to Eng-
land, and working out its details by
actual illustrations of English cities and
politicians, is of great illuminative value.
The Australian reader who wishes to gain
some insight into the tortuous and com-
plicated workings of the American elec-
toral machine can himself easily substi-
tute local Australian illustrations for
those given for England.
This acute critic is responsible for
many illuminating judgments.
The American people (as the Australian
people) are much more homogeneous than
the English. For England is a polyglot
land, the gentry speaking one tongue, and
each county making itself unintelligible in a
dialect of its own. ...
That Americans should think that they
have a higher respect for womanhood than
any other people is not surprising; for
every other people think precisely the same
thing of its own race.
Interesting reading to Australians is
the author’s treatment of the State
Frights trouble in America to-day; he
shows how the influence of the nation is
weakened by the insistence of the States
on their alleged rights ; but he also shows
that the cause of the State-Frighters, as
with us, is doomed.
•
Finally Robinson shows the essential
likeness, not the apparent difference, be-
tween the two races, the product of the
same racial stock. And he shows how
in social, political, and commercial
life in language, in journalism—in short,
in all the big factors that make up the
national ideal—the two nations are
mutually borrowing and slowly approxi-
mating. Especially interesting is his
analysis of the social scheme of England
as indicating that it, in accordance with
the working out of the Anglo-Saxon
instinct, is tending to assimilate itself to
the American model. A side-light on
this tendency is the fact that the
standard of commercial morality in
England is deteriorating, while that of
America is slowly upon the up-grade.
Neither English commercial morality nor
the quality of English-made goods has been
improved by the necessity of meeting the
intense competition of the world-markets of
to-day, with an industrial organisation which
grew up under other and more leisurely con-
ditions.
This is a book timely, informative and
invaluable.
Nietzsche and Woman
What knowetli he of love who hath not
been forced to despise what he loved ?
Concerning women, one should talk only
to men.
Everything in woman is a riddle, and
everything in woman hath one solution —it is
called pregnancy.
Man is for woman a means; the purpose
is always the child. But what is woman for
man ?
Far too long hath there been in woman a
slave and a tryant concealed. On that
account woman is not yet eapable of friend-
ship ; she knoweth only love.
Two different things wanteth the true man :
danger and diversion. Therefore wanteth
he woman, as the most dangerous plaything.
Man shall be trained for war, and woman
for the recreation of the warrior ; all else is
foll'y.
Too sweet fruits—these the warrior liketh
not. Therefore liketh he woman —bitter is
even the sweetest woman.
Let man fear woman when she loveth;
then maketh she every sacrifice, and every-
thing else she regardeth as worthless.
Let man fear woman when she hateth ;
for man in his innermost soul is merely evil;
woman, however, is mean.
The happiness of man is “ I will.” The
happiness of woman is “ He will.”
Thou goest t© women ? Forget not thy
whip !
Your love to woman, and woman’s love
to man—ah, would that it were sympathy
for suffering and veiled deities ! But most
frequently two animals light on one another.
In the eyes of all true women science is
hostile to the sense of shame. They feel as
if one wished to peep under their skin with
it—or worse still! under their dress and
finery.
Comparing man and woman generally, one
may say that woman would not have the
genius for adornment if she had not the in-
stinct for the secondary role.
To seduce their neighbor to a favorable
opinion, and afterwards to believe implicitly
in this opinion of their neighbor who can
do this conjuring trick as well as women .
Love to one only is a barbarity, for it is
exercised at the expense of all others. Love
to Grod also ! .
In the background of all their personal
vanity, women themselves have still their
impersonal scorn —forewoman.
Discovering reciprocal love should really
disenchant the lover with regard to the be-
loved. “What! She is modest enough to
love even you ? Or stupid enough ? Or or
Where there is neither love nor hatred in
the game, woman’s play is mediocre.
Even concubinage has been corrupted by
marriage. j(
[From “ Thus Spake Zarathustra ”
Common), and “ Beyond Good and Evil, by
Friedrich Nietzsche, (T. N. Foulis).]


h
FASHIONS
FOR SPRING
AT
ANTHONY HORDERNS' Famous Low Prices.
The illustrations accompanying: this
announcement are reduced fac similes of
two pagfes in our Spring and Summer
Fashion Portfolio which faithfully presents
the Season's modes. Write for a Copy,
posted free on application.
Our business as Only Universal Providers
enables as'to offer a greater assortment of
all that is new in the realm of dress than
any other house, and our unique system
of Spot Cash trading is a guarantee of
Top Quality and Bottom Price.
Country Customers ordering - the latest
fashions by post are treated in the same
way as those buying at the counters* Our
extensive assortment offers the choice of a
Stylish Garment that possesses all the charm
of a Made-to-Order Gown.
Smart Costumes
at the
NEW PALACE
EMPORIUM.
No. 349—SELF-COLOR SCOTCH ZEPHYR
COSTUME, in Sky, Pink, Grey, Navy and
Vieux Rose, trimmed White Embroidery,
Long Sleeves, fasten at back, 13/6.
No. 1723-WHITE ORGANDIE MUSLIN
COSTUME, trimmed Embroidery and large
tucks, Three-quarter' Sleeves,' "3S/-
No. 5660—INDIGO PRINT BLOUSE, assorted
patterns in Navy and Butcher, 2/11.
No. 2202-GIRLS’ NAVY BLUE PRINT
COSTUMES—
Sizes 24 27 30 33 36 39 in.
5/6 6/- 6/6 71- 7/6 8-
No. 5873—PLAIN ZEPHYR BLOUSE, in Sky,
* Pink, Navy, Dark Grey, Heliotrope, and
Red Linen Collar, fasten in front, 3/3.
No. 5622-STRIPE ZEPHYR SHIRT
BLOUSE, fasten in front, Linen Collar, in
Navy, Sky, Red, Pink and Reseda, Long
Sleeves, 3/9.
No. 5585-FANCY CAMBRIC SHIRT
BLOUSE, in narrow stripes and fancy
patterns, in assorted colors, Linen Collar,
fasten in front, 3/3.
No. 346-SCOTCH ZEPHYR COSTUME, Sky,
Pink, Navy, Vieux Rose and Grey, White
Linen Hemstitched Collar, Long Sleeves,
fasten in front, 14 6.
1
0
5666
|a*Sss
SHOT
90s
hS?
/>?
■
c stfm/ , //&S~CpJ^ U//^, J anaT^/^U^ey
Horderns'
jAzmoi/s Jszd-j&ricey
* • •;.
n '
53
■mm
' 7 v&m
s 1
■r^-yvss
If
Ml
M.
4 : §!
2/2
11
wm
2/0
224 EJk
5/3
rs.
<m
%fg/
■■■' ■
§fg|u£sj
/
M
■^f'32
m i
■•■■■>
SST' 49
41/ \ .-
/£•
yt7 /?/&£/}
SSpw
n®
us
~1/oic
Ho
' Jp/ ir<s£
Breezy Blouses
No. 210—'WHITE LAWN BLOUSE,
tucked and trimmed Insertion, fasten
at back, three-quarter Sleeves, 6/6.
No. 417-WHITE MUSLIN BLOUSE,
Embroidery Front, Collar and Culf,
three - quarter Sleeves, fasten at
back, 7/9-
No. 513-PLAIN WHITE MUSLIN
BLOUSE, fasten at back, long or
three-quarter Sleeves, 8/6.
No. 4-WHITE SOFT MUSLIN
BLOUSE, trimmed Shadow-work
Embroidery, fasten at back, only
three-quarter Sleeves, 12/6.
No. 527-WHITE MUSLIN BLOUSE,
with White Embroidered Yoke,
Collar and Cuffs, three-quarter
Sleeves, fasten at back, 10/8.
No. 212—WHITE LAWN BLOUSE,
trimmed with Tucks and narrow
Swiss Embroidery, fasten in front,
three-quarter or long Sleeves, 5/3.
No. 10—WHITE LAWN BLOUSE,
with Embroidery Yoke and Collar,
fasten at back, three-quarter Sleeves,
5/6.
No. 224-WHITE LAWN BLOUSE,
trimmed Embroidery, fasten at back,
three-quarter Sleeves, 7/9.
No. 49—'WHITE MUSLIN BLOUSE,
tucked and trimmed Embroidery,
fasten at back, only three-quarter
Sleeves, 8/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


lABHt
and other
SKINS;
A iso BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Go., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
v XatJCl.
SYDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agrents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
ĥ
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248 pages, 400
colored plates and engravings, 7/6
posted. Dr. Faulkner’s Orioinal
Book op Nature, 1908 Edition, 4/-.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Comic Reciter, 1/-. Billiard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
King Koko, Conjuring Instructor,
1/3. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/-.
Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
How McDougall Topped the Score, 1/3. Lover’s
Letter Writer, 1/-. Boccacio’s Decameron, 2/0.
Heptameron, 2/6. Bride op the First Night, 1/3.
That Rascal Gustave, 1/3. Love Under the
Tiles, 1/3. My Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Bill Edwards, 1/3. Percy Ramage, 1/3. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3. New Tricks with Coins,
1/-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-to-
Date, Easv Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Cordage, 1/3. How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Astrology, 1/-. Fruits op Philosophy, 1/-. Mid-
avives’ Handbook, 90 illustrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit, 2/-. Reynold’s Court of London Series, 2/-.
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. How to Be-
come a Clairvoyant, 1/0. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Cay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen of Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, 1/-. Wife’s Guide and Friend, t>y Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture, lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
lOd. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/3. Zingara Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/-;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise, and all Zola’s, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, 1/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, 2/- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. How to Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/3. Australian Bushranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3. Smiler Hale’s
Novels, Sd. each.
VW~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S * FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prenaved only by J. C. UNO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
y S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Price 21 /- P ost free -
MUSiC, as you like it,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37/6.
Complete with instruction book. Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
— SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN &. CO f >ro P" Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMFETITIOKT.
WINES n ‘ Ba> only SPIRITS.
manufacturers of mineral WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C.B
TAILOR-MADE
• CORSETS.
C.B
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
te*
'jo'.
<r
CORSETS
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approyal, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Eilrope, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STOREB.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS Sl Co., Flinder's Lane, MELBOURNE.
Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street,
AUCKLAND.
ħ
The Universal Bemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
Wm. ATKINS & CO. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS,
449 & 451 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
MINERS’ DRILL STEEL.
TURTLE BRAND
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
h
STEEL FOR EVERY PURPOSE KEPT IN STOCK.
Contractors to New South Wales Government.
SIX MONTHS UNFIT
FOR WORK.
After Effects of Influenza.
There is no better equipment for life than a
stock of such information as a reporter gleaned
from Mr. Henry Adolphus Adams, cabinetmaker,
of 16 Burton Street, Camperdown, because it can
be so readily turned to one’s own account if cir-
cumstances require. Mr. Adams said, “Fifteen
years from date I was a painter, but did not
contract the trouble so peculiar to that trade,
namely, colic; but I got something just as bad
though, about the time I speak of.”
"What was that? ” inquired the pressman.
“Influenza,” was the response, “and when a
man gets a proper attack of that complaint be
knows about it,” said Mr. Adams, with emphasis.
“ I was so ill that my doctor would not allow m>e
anything but milk food, so you may depend 1
did not get very fat on that. For six solid months
I was laid up, utterly unfit for work, and not ablje
to get about at all. How much weight I loSst
goodness knows, but a great amount at all events,
for their was little left of me but skin and bone.
I was down to the lowest possible ebb, and felt
like a helpless mortal, drifting out slowly, but;
surely, upon the tide of adversity tha,t had so
ruthlessly set in against me. No medicine that
had as yet been administered was capable of
stemming the adverse current, and it seemed
that I might as well give up the fight for life and
consign myself resignedly to the merciless fate
that yawned before me. My appetite was gone,
I could not sleep, excepting in short stages that
had no refreshing influence upon me, and I had such
severe aching sensations in all parts of my body
that I could not lie anyway with the least degree
of comfort. In my head the dull, depressing pains
almost racked my brain. They were too severe
to enable me to spend a few hours reading, even
if I could have settled my mind to do so, which I
doubt; and there were many signs at hand that
my liver was thoroughly upset. My tongue, for
one thing, was completely overlain with a white
coating ; the taste in my mouth was like gall, and
the pains across the kidneys were so bad that I
could hardly bend my back, added to which my
shoulder blades had pains under them too.
Taken altogether, there was little of me left but
aehes and pains, and what I would have done
without Clements Tonic I do not know."
“That was the,medicine which cured you, I
believe?”
“Nothing else but Clements Tonic saved me, I
give you my word. It was touch-and-go with me
when I started on it,, for I was almost too feeble
to stand. My nerves had gone. Any noise set
me all of a shake, esj»ecially if it came to my ears
abruptly, and I had 1 in my excessive weakness
contracted the habit of worrying more than I had
ever done in my life. But what a lucky stroke to
think of Clements Tonic after all the medicine I
had taken for no result! And it would be very
ungrateful of me if I did not hand down my ex-
perience of that remedy for my fellow citizens,
as I am quite convinced it is a veritable boon
to mankind. As a strength-producing agent' it
certainly is far ahead of any remedy I know of,
and for pulling together one’s shattered nerves,
it cannot be excelled. Clements Tonic applied in
my case like a strong man leading a helpless,
hopeless wreck of humanity away from certain
danger—it accomplished an act of revivification,
and to my last day on earth I shall be thankful.
So far as putting to rights my digestive organs
was concerned, Clements Tonic was equally
effective, all the old troubles disappearing as if
wafted away by the magician’s wand, and I did
not leave off taking it till a thorough recovery was
firmly, established.”
“Have you had any further experience with
Clements Tonic ? ”
“ I have heard of numerous eases it has cured,
but I ean speak of its value from another point of
view myself. It is a reliable remedy for neuralgia,
for some time ago I had a bad attack and Clements
Tonic gave me relief very speedily. Yes, there is
nothing I think so highly of as Clements Tonic,
and I don’t mind you publishing every syllable
I’ve utltered, in any way it suits you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, HENRY ADOLPHUS ADAMS, of 16 Burton Street,
Cajmperdovn, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains and is a true and faithful account of my illness
andt cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and 1
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing t he
same to be true, and bv virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Ai t. 1000.
Subsari bed and declared at Camperdoun, this twenty
Seventh day of February, one thousand nine-hundred
and eiglv, before me,
9] C. S. MALLETT, J.p.


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
%
now in London
writes under
\ date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer's Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 55 inches
long. Ayer's Hair Vigor
OUght to he used by
every Woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.’'
You also may have
Such & crown of
)y glory if you will
follow" the ex**
ample of this lady and use
>{tier’s
Mair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.i Lowell, Mass., U. S. A*
h
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of üb. Tour
money in full refunded without question
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at loss than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
moliel’s £3 AO to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Brakes, variable gears
andalliates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
m any port in the world. We guarantee safe deli'fry.
a n-f-lllC Aft C M*TO wanted in each district.
All I IVt Abtn I O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our mieciol offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO,, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t- keep current with Australian Art.
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street Svdney.
■ “ After taking two bottles of ■
SCOTT’S Emulsion my little son
Henry, who was suffering from a
nasty cough after a severe attack
of measles, was
completely
cured
He is now stronger and better
in every way.” (Mrs.) G. Purcell.
140 Wilson Street, Redfem, Sydney, N.S.W.
20/8/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why s
Nothing else could have cured this little
lad so promptly and thoroughly as
SCOTT’S, because nothing else is made of
the, same finely curative and nourishing
ingredients by the same perfected SCOTT
process, which makes them both palatable
and digestible.
n
Therefore, when purchas-
ing, don’t ask for “ Emul-
sion ; ” ask / for and get
SCOTT’S Emulsion the
difference between them
means a cure for you ! To
safeguard yourself, see that
“ the Fishman with the
Fish ” is on every package.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in
Medicine.
Scott’s
, Emulsion
■
tmr
ĥ
Q)
IRISH
lillii
9
’£> asun
11 f Hi ;
iii'lllU
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
THE CELEBRATED
w
*
JAY
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened by patented improvements, and there are no
irritating seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this mark
on every garment.
ANY GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters.
MARK
TRADE
o
Wholesale only—l. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.
- rrt err m
"T
0 00 0
••Hi
f rr
[ r r rr f
I' !
rrr
"i
rrr
LI r r r rfK
r rr
rr t
r rr
'['rrr
Tr nrr
rr rr rr r
r rr-,
O
frr,
Vfm
Sample
Write Today
Settle that leaky roof once and for all ! Cover the old shingles or the
pin-holed metal with Congo and end the trouble !
It won’t take as long or be as hard work to patch the old roof.
You can lay Congo yourself. Unroll it on the roof and nail it down !
Then forget you have a roof. There will be no more leaks to remind
you of it.
We call Congo the “NEVER- LEAK ROOF.” We mean it.
Send for free sample and you will understand why we are so confident.
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London
For Sale by G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne; George Wills & Co.. Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
—=^~>
Is your Liver right ?
It’s one thing to feel well and bright and happy, and
another to have a sluggish liver. A sluggish liver positively
kills enjoyment. You cannot even rest, sleep or eat comfortably.
But you would after a Cockle’s Antibilious Pill, for Cockle s Pills
liven the liver and give it strength to do its work. Used for over 100
years and still prescribed by physicians and preferred by the public
throughout the world.
C
Q
m
PILLS.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT »
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
m
V
&
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
fN
HOT WEATHER,
tnd entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T.«n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents—Elliott tiros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co.bQM
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Bacchanal.
The silver net that sly minx, Luna, weaves
To drag youth’s heart with, thridded young oak-
leaves ;
The Little Girl was snuggled to my breast;
Her half-shut eyes were curious as Eve’s.
Love-making in deep darks of moonlit trees
Needs courage, for mosquitoes sting like bees;
The night was still, and luminous with peace.
But censed, metbought, with Burgundy and
cheese.
The Little Girl was saturate with joys
Ineffable. I flattered me my voice
Had well achieved the rhythm of a kiss,
When, “Oh!” she cried, “Whatever is that
noise ? ”
I swore beneath my breath. A gurgling sound
Brought me unto my feet with sudden bound.
Anxious the mystery to investigate,
I slipped behind the trees and peered around.
I saw a Thing, whose large, unshaven jaws
Engulphed a bottle, raised in hairy paws ;
The ruddy grape-juice trickled down its chin
As snow a-down a tree-trunk when it thaws.
It wagged its head at me, and laughed a wink
Insinuative ; seemed, indeed, to think
The world its long-lost brother ; wheedled me
With sly mimetic offers of a drink.
The Little Girl shrieked, “ What a funny man ! ”
And giggled, as sweet girls of twenty can.
Worn all askew, a wreath of young oak leaves
Made its expression quite Saturnian.
The bottle deftly poised, the Creature spoke
And said, “Young people, Bacchus I invoke !
No woman’s lips are generous as wine,
No woman ever understands a joke.
“Young man, more girls have kissed this chiv of
mine
Than you have dreamed of ; now, I’d barter nine
And ninety kisses for one taste of this :
You take my tip, chuck spooning girls for wine !”
“He’s pretty full,” I said; and she, “What
cheek ! ”
And squeezed mv arm, and as we turned to seek
Another honeymooning place we heard
A gurgling splutter, ending with a shriek.
N. S. W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
Unrest.
Toil of the earth and trouble of the sea,
There is no peace in these, and none for me.
Wild-winged birds that follow the white wave,
Prowlers about dim forest, echoing cave,
And blue sky-towering berg, there is no rest
For any breather on this old earth’s breast—
Unrest for all, and most of all for me.
This is the curse of life, that it must move ;
Nor is there any secret depth of love
Or power or heavy-eyed forgetfulness.
Where any man may ease his weariness.
But still within his spirit that old pain
Wakes with a cry, to drive him forth again
Like some small star-flake lost in the black sky,
Or thistledown that in the wind goes by,
On, on for ever ; so it driveth me.
N.S.W.
H. M. GREEN.
When We Two Owned the World.
The stream drawn from a cask of wine,
The sunlight from the south ;
Challenge the red of your lips divine,
With roses on your mouth ;
That mouth with its treasure of smile and gem,
The dazzling teeth impearled :
Let it drink to Memory's diadem,
When we two owned the world.
We sang the music of the spheres, beating time to
Love.
Like iEolus ’mongst the wattles, like the cooing of
the dove,
O! we sang a jolly chorus when the wine was in
the cup,
And all the world of Sorrow was in Pleasure
swallowed up.
In Love’s lap we lingered, love-locked, love-linked,
clinging—fondly lingered.
While the Fates, with skein and shuttle, scissors
ominously fingered.
In delirium of delightfulness we lingered, lin-
gered long,
And we heeded not the shuttle or the scissors in
the song.
Our very souls did intertwine, all earth was in
eclipse,
When your true heart was pressed to mine, and
lips were fast to lips;
What cared we if men’s ways were rough, alone I
knew your worth.
Beloved, I loved you well enough to dare defy
men’s mirth.
The banned sweet joys of Love were ours, we
cared not for the sin.
With courage God all lovers dowers, and grants
them all they win ;
For soon Life’s little course is run, and years may-
blunt Love’s edge,
We vowed by Venus and her Son we’d have
Youth’s privilege.
Merrily, merrily sped the hours,
Our hearts were monarchs gay ;
With all Love’s joys and all Love’s powers
We ruled both night and day.
Merrily, merrily danced we on,
With Youth’s red flag unfurled ;
Life was Passion’s pantechnicon
When we two owned the world.
VIC.
JOHN B. CASTIEAU.


§i
It Stands
Ceilings—
for ¥/underlich Metal
-The Safest and Best.
These famous steel ceilings represent the most modern development in house building
and add a distinctive charm to the home that is pleasing to every person of taste.
They are permanent, adaptable, fire-resisting, and do not harbour dirt or microbes.
. c °st so little for freight, too! The expense of sending the lime and sand
tor ceilings of a house is over four times as much as that Cor Wunderlich Metar
oheets. Is that not worth considering ?
Send for our new catalogue, which tells you all about these beautiful steel ceilings—
e most artistic form of interior decoration yet devised.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED.
/
o
s
V.
o
w
&
a
LL 1^
Postal Address
Box 474, G.P.O.
Sydney Showrooms: 56 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Showrooms : 243 Collins St.
‘Z*/ie m JEjss&T» ce qf Vi tfsHi ty 4
CADBURY’S COCOA
-‘gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
':'v
SUPPORTS
L L
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
XJnder Vice-Regal
h
Patronag
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ...
Miss Van Brakkel),
Lakes’ Hairdressers, Hair - 161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Workers & Dermatoiog.sts, Between Elizabeth and Oastlereafrhi Streets.
TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS. Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
BI
11909
mm
HOTEL
DIETROPOLE
■v_ SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Tw> lYSinutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
BAINS’ WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
guarantee
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living' n it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price
-5 Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE,, SYDNEY.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties-
TOXVia *VS"f\ 3HX
will stop
the most
vici o u s
dog (or
man)with
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatchmen, and
others. Can becharged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of 25 feet.
It creates great ainuse-
for both young and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/9, or post freeanyvvherefor3/-
&
Quite Shocking 1 , hut not Naugtity.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOGRAPH —A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a micros-
copic lens fitted into one end. While the!
victim is absorb'd in admiration of the pretty!
picture, and turns the button in the con-1
fident expectation of seeing something in-'
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into 1
action, and the observer experiences a very
<>reat surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in
the vest pocket. Pull directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue-
just, published. Wholesale and Retail.
The “JoHer” TricK Matchbox.
9?
%
MAD EIM
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of jour friends, upon re-
opening' the box, the matches have completelj r dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the emptj’ box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Priee, with full directions,
7d. post free.
w
M
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARXET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson. Maimsrer.
Postal Address: Box 3, Hnynuuket Post Office.
Tine Carrington Hotel,
fiat oo mb a, Bine Mountains, N.S.W.
Ideal Winter Climate.
Winter Terms, Bs. per Day ; £2 2s. per Week.
A. L-. PEACOCK, Proprietor.
SMOKE
~~er
REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
Wholesale Agents-
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
E. T. EIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
ĥ
ħ
English
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889.
Lonhom 1862. Melbourne 1888. Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
M 7
s-
ROTHE
LON
Watch es
SOLD BY
AiiJfwf.uf.rs
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
• _ ■
, m
m.
m
*' f -
. r ‘ , l * ' ... J
~. S/Sii ti. .O
s£«S3om
: , •*
■
€
"Wholesale Agents: E. RICH CSb CO. LTD., SYDNEY and BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1494.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1908.
PltlCß 6 O
THE P.N.
Australia: “But that s not the Promissory Note 1 signed.”
Collection of Partially Vanished Politicians: “Oh, dear no! We held a little private meeting—just six of us—about ten years ago, and
put your name to this. Of course it’s not your signature* but if you don’t pay it we’ll make an awful row all the same.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maoi.icod.oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(in Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• f
Half-yearly ... ... ••• ~ ** "
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 0
By gentling direct to Thk Buli.ktin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon call have. Thk Bui.i.ktin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maci.kod, Managing Director.
Jloir to Address I.otters.
Correspondents to Thk Buli.ktin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be, addressed, to the Editor,
but to the Manager. 'To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a uood thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Buli.ktin,” is the propes
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, if
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead or
ofticials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved oy
the publishers. , ~
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of J optical,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
Thf. Buli.ktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be,
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Buli.ktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A nittf emrM in Itf note nmi White*
Anyone supplying to Thk Buli.ktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash , of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction , or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event ,
will he paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taming a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
—i e. any picture which has to he re-drawn will be P&}d
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill he received are those
applying to MS. .
Conies of Tiik Buli.kt in can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs
Gotch, Ludaate Circus, and at British Ausiralasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, BA.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial. Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Shanghai. — Brewer, and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co,
A i/ents’ Sjiecial Notice.
Thk Bui.i.ktin metal advertising plates, size 6'iin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
jTuTtf&'aZleZz/ri'
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1908.
THAT BLESSED WORD “CONCEN-
TRATION.”
The near approach of the time when the Deakin
Government’s Defence scheme must be seriously-
considered lately brought quite a swarm of excited
correspondents into the columns of the daily press.
In particular the wildly “loyal” correspondent
has been much in evidence. He usually signs
himself “ Briton,’’ or some such name, and mostly
he seems to be a lamentable person whose
cowardice and parsimony are thinly concealed
by his professions of fervid admiration for all
things English. It is a wholly unpractical and
bogus admiration that does England no good what-
soever—in fact, it is more calculated to fill Eng-
land with disgust if that country ever hears of the
matter,, which, luckily for the stomach of the Ma
Land, it is never likely to do. As a rule the
person who signs himself by names like Briton
begins by saying confidently that Australia can t
build or even possess warships of its own,
neither can it man them, or command them,
or stoke them, or steer them, or do any
other darned thing with them whatsoever.
The same foolish tale has been told to us about
locomotives, woollens, boats, dredges, ketches,
steel artificial teeth, leather, and almost every-
thing else ; in fact, the present writer can remem-
ber when the awful importing-craze person was
even eloquent about the impossibility of making
butter in any quantity, or of any quality worth
mentioning in New bouth Wales. Then the
person who’signs himself “Briton,” and things
like that, usually goes on to speak severely about
the smallness of the Commonwealths naval
subsidy, and to urge that it should be raised
to (say) £1,000,000 a year. A million a year
isn’t much for the naval defence (if it is
efficient defence) of a continent which has 12,000
miles of coast-line as its share of the
TTmnire’s responsibilities at sea, while it is a great
deXemS if the defence is indent. but the
kind of correspondent who signs himself Briton
and similar substances, strikes a heroic attitude
over his proposed million, and smites his stomach
with pride, and says that he is not like unto other
men P And that kind of correspondent-who rep.
SXtot hilly Ijimself tat the. .W. aU,tnd. of
the Torv press— Strong, not to say tremendous,
ia his iwb at the pw»U»J>tw» and disloyalty
which would lead us to have our own ships, and
find our own men and officers, instead of simply
paving a little money to Britain and letting it find
the men and the officers if it feels that way, or not
find them if it happens to feel some other way.
This species of devotion has its advantages, tor it
the subsidy idea is adopted it will save the ardent
admirer of England from any hazard of being
called upon to fight in his own person. In
fact, the individual who preaches a smalt
increase of subsidy to the British navy is
really trying to save himself money, worry,
responsibility and personal danger all in one act,
and to gain a heap of kudos for his loyalty at the
same time. As a side issue, he further disguises
his meanness and his lack of an Australian
national spirit by talking a great deal about the
need for “ concentration.” He is a hog for con-
centration.”
• • *
Yet even the most carefully disguised loyalist
of the purely British and wholly un-Australian
type, and the one who is most anxious to hide
himself under a. table in time of trouble, can t get
away from the fact that money alone will never
discharge our obligations in the matter ot
naval defence. Whether the prospective Aus-
tralian fleet is regarded with the insurrectionary
eye of the person who would gladly cut the
painter here and now, or with the grovelling ex-
pression of the awful “ loyalist, 1 ” who holds that
Australia is nothing and England everything, or
with the moderate view of the individual who
looks on an Australian fleet as a means for the
defence of Australia first of all, and an aid to the
Empire afterwards, the fact that money is only
an item in the case remains beyond dispute.
This, for instance, is what the United -Kingdom
puts up as its provision for naval defence (the
figures are for 1907)
Cash, £31,869,500.
About 460 vessels ot war.
About, 129,000 men and inferior officers.
About 800 captains in good working order.
About 95 admirals, some of them old, dismasted and
out of repair, but quite a number still in good condition.
A splendid capacity, the result of many years experi-
ence, for designing and building vessels of war.
A large capacity for naval command, and a vast hunK
of prestige handed down from their ancestors—who were
also our ancestors.
Sundry naval dockyards and appurtenances.
Australia possesses, roughly speaking, one-tenth
the population of the British isles, and if it pro-
poses to put up, in proportion to its population,
something like the same amount of marine defen-
sive effort that Britain does, it is not a question of
subscribing £1,000,000 a year for naval purposes,
nor even £3,000,000. It is a question of subscrib-
ing, in addition to the money, our proportion of
ships, of men and officers, of captains and ad-
mirals, of dockyards, of experience and capacity
and of all the other sundries. It is also a question
of taking our share of responsibility. Even the fool
who doesn’t know, or won’t know, that there is such
a place as Australia, and who professes to regard
any possible naval aid that Australia can supply
as something due, not for the defence of Aus-
tralia (which, according to his creed, either
doesn’t exist or doesn't matter), but wholly tor
the protection of England (which is the only
place he cares about)—even he is a fraud,
and is convicted out of his own mouth
when he talks his pathetic tale of st*b-
sidy.” He doesn’t live up to his creed,
for the case is one in which men and ships ana
capacity are wanted at least as much as money.
In fact, the average Tory is a purely cash Imperial
patriot, and not very much cash either—nor, lor
that matter, very much patriotism.
» * * *
As a rule, the purely Imperial type of patriot
further disguises his desire to avoid fighting and
responsibility and the worry of learning things,
and hides away his craving to pay for Australia s
sea defence only in money (and not much money)
and in fulsome applause re “the naval power of
Britain” (which applause isn’t legal tender, and is
apt to make the applauded person feel sick), by
talking a great deal about “the need for concen-
tration.” “Concentration ” is a blessed word, the
sameas “Mesopotamia.” The Australian Imperial-
ist says that it is necessary to have the naval
forces of the Empire in one spot (close to London)
and under one command, and built in one place
because great naval authorities have made
imaginary observations to that effect. He has
devised an amazing theory, which he wildly
ascribes to Nelson and Napoleon and Rodney
and Lord St. Vincent and Captain Mahan and
such-like characters, that all the coast line of the
Empire should be left permanently unguarded
except a bit near London ; that the whole naval
force of the Empire should keep together all the
time in one unwieldy, elephantine mass; and
that when war breaks out the whole elephantine
mass should go off in one stupendous heap in
search of the enemy, who would then probably
disperse his own swift vessels in a score of ac-
tions and go destroyi ig the shipping and the
coastal cities of the Empire in a wholesale
fashion. All that is required to make the con-
centration lunacy perfect is the deviseinent of a
scheme whereby all garrisons shall be withdrawn
from India, Burmah, Singapore, Hongkong,
Baluchistan, Gibraltar, the West Indies, and so
on, and all the troops of the Empire, including
the local forces of Australia, Canada, Maonland,
and elsewhere, be encamped round London ; and
whereby all the rifles and ammunition shall be
stored in London ; and by which about 25,000
huge cannon shall be massed in Hyde Bark, or
some other open space convenient to Brixton and
handy to Peckham Rye. Then would concentra-
tion be beautiful and complete, and the Sydney
Telegraph would be at rest, and the frantic
correspondent who signs himself “Briton, or
some such misleading term, would feel very much
better.
* * * *
The British person, who is really supposed to
know something about marine matters, hasn t gob
this acute concentration madness. If a floating
enemy comes to look for him at his own door,
he is quite willing to meet that enemy with all
his force, but when it is a case of sending Ins
fleet into even moderately distant seas to look tor
an enemy he is never so loony as to send Ins
whole force and leave his own coast undefended,
as some frantic concentration's profess to
believe Australia should be left. When Nelson
went to hunt up Napoleon in Egypt his following
was a mere expeditionary force at best, lor
England was taking no chances; and when he
made his stupendous effort at Trafalgar, England
still had its coast defence force in reserve. Ut
course, the defence squadron was sometimes
wholly inefficient, just as an Australian fleet might
be if attacked by the whole Japanese sea-force ;
but if it got into serious trouble, and was badly
over-matched, as was once the case in the time ot
James 11., when Lord Torrington (otherwise,
TarrY-IN-Town) was in command, it did what an
Australian defehsive squadron would do under
similar conditions-it backed carefully into a
strongly fortified harbor, and, under the protection
of the land guns, it waited for the clouds
to roll by. When the enemy wasn’t too strong
it did good service in saving British shipping and
British jport* d&maga, Nowadays* with the
aid of cables, wireless telegraphy and otherup-to-
datede vices forsendi nginformation far ahead, these
manoeuvres are far safer than they were 200 years
ago, and a small fleet, driven to retreat before a
superior force, has chances that were undreamt of
in the days of Lord TarrY-in-Town. This is the
day of the swift little squadron which hears ot
its foe when he is 100 or 1300 miles away, and then
fights or scoots according to circumstances ; not
of the old, lumbering, concentrated, slow-going
armada which never knew whether it was going
to strike Hell or not till it saw its enemy s top-
masts seven miles distant.
* * * *
Concentration, when it is done suddenly for the
striking of a great blow, is good enough in naval
matters, and a detached Australian naval force
could concentrate with the British fleet in such a
case just as well as a Japanese one could. But at
ordinary war times the idea is sheer insanity, in
the four years 1793-97, despite Britainis big suc-
cesses on the waters, that country lost 22GG ships in
the Indian Ocean —practically at Australia s very
door—for lack of sufficient swift, non-concentrated
vessels to run down the enemy’s detached cruisers.
The flying cruisers of that day didn t capture and
destroy the vessels of the Union Steamship Co.
of Maori land, or the A.U.S.N. Co., or the Adelaide
Steamship Co., because those concerns didn t exist
then. Nor did they bombard Sydney and hold
it to ransom, because Sydney didn’t exist then.
But the French, defeated though they were in big
events, stripped the Indian coast almost bare ot
British shipping, and Britain lost six merchant
ships to France’s one—simply because there were
so many more British ships to be lost. All the
British concentration, and all the big British naval
victories in the world, may not be sufficient to save
Australia from similar trouble when war next
happens along ; for the Tasman Sea may be aban-
doned by Britain then just as the Indian Ocean was
for a while in Nelson’s day. So it is up to Aus-
tralia to follow Britain’s good example, and have
a strong, serviceable squadron of its own to run
down preying stragglers in its own waters, other-
wise this country may have a very bad time.
British authorities apparently realise this, and
would be more than glad to have 12,000 miles less
of coast to police in search of straggling commerce-
wreckers, especially when the 12,000 miles of
coast are so remote from headquarters. Ihere-
fore Hector Carruthers came back the other
dav from the 801 l country with the news, that
British rulers are “strangely anxious tor
Australia to create a serviceable navy of its own.
Evidently Bull doesn’t take the “naval concen-
tration ” idea so seriously as do some amateur
Imperialists at this end of the arrangement ot
things.
THE AIRSHIP AND SOME POSSIBILI-
TIES, INCLUDING THE REMOVAL
OF LONDON.
The airship, regarded no longer as an exciting toy
but as a business proposition, seems to be coming
very close these days. The passenger airship,
and the freight airship, and the air warship all
appear to be near-at-hand possibilities. In Ger-
many things have got as far as the promotion of
companies to shove the atmospheric mail boat
along as a prosaic concern which will collect fares,
and carry people and parcels, and run to a time-
table the same as an old, brown, dusty Cobb s
coach. And though these companies may as yet
be mere paper wild cats, still even a cat requires
some semblance of reason behind it, and if the
airship has got far enough advanced to be-
come a floatable cat there are signs that a
new order of things is at hand. When the
workable boat in the clouds really arrives
tnarvellous displacements will happen. lhe
mere fact that the ordinary sea navy is liable to
become a bad debt doesn’t matter so very much,
for its supercession will doubtless be gradual.
The sky-fleets will develop slowly, and for a while
they and the sea fleets will work together, and the
sea vessels will simply wear out in the usual course
of events, and take the ordinary track to the
scrap-heap, arriving there in the regular routine
about the time when tne sky-fleets are ready to
wholly fill their place. That shifting of naval
elements will look like an immense change, but it
will be really only the beginning of the change.
A completely staggering fact is that under the new
order of things Britain wont be a fraction the
safer for being an island, and for all the difference
its situation makes it might as well be joined on
to the European mainland, the same as i ranee
or Austria. The command of the sea has
been such a wonderful power for such a
wonderfully long time that it is hard
that one day nobody may want it—it may only
amount to a row of pins, and a very short row at
that. In fact, Britain may, a few years hence,
make a present of its whole navy to Maoriland on
the ground that, it being a long fly to Maoriland
too long, possibly, for an invader in the earlier
stages of the air fleet-that island Dominion may
still for a few years, have a use for Dreadnoughts
and such-like obsolete cattle that are dead stock
in most other regions. # m
When the air becomes the sea for all practical
purposes every Power will be a marine Power,
andthe one with the biggest area of land .w dl
probably be the most marine of the lot, provided
its land is reasonably flat. .This will happen
whether the Power with the big flat country has
any water frontage or not—all it will want will
be an air frontage. Coastal defences wIU naturally
become useless, regarded as defences, birt tffiese
things are largely constructed of iron nowaday®
and part of the loss can be made good by boiling
down the entrenchments and turning them into
frying-pans. It is a much more revolutionary
fact that coastal cities will, to a great exten
become useless under the new conditions. Every
city will then be a port, unless it lies in a hollow
ringed in by mountains which/make approach
difficult (the city of Mexico is a
or unless it stands on a pinnacle hke Quito, where
the airship can’t breathe comfortably. Lolld " i
for instance, looks as if it might be mostly a bad
debt under a re-arranged civilisation, it is
much of a manufacturing city for its size, and as it
lies neither in an important iron district nor in a
great coal district, it isn’t likely t 0 become
one. As a commercial city, however, it bangs
Bannagher, whoever he might have been.
The reason why commerce centres at places
like London and Liverpool is that the
train which brings goods to be despatched
oversea can’t swim, and the ship which brings
goods from oversea can’t climb ashore and run.
By reason of these limitations there has arisen
that curious and long-established middleman or
middle institution, the seaport—the changing
station where land and marine commerce meet,
and swan themselves for each other, and pay toll.
It was there that the ass was originally un oaded,
and the package put on a ®noe o| 'Jd
the original commercial man— the old seed middle
man of the earth— lived in a hut on the hank and
gave a hand with the paekagei The pnuwple
remains the same to this day, though the ass is
now driven by steam, and the dug-out has been
enlarged. But when there definitely arrives a
vehicle which is both steamboat and train theie
will be no use at all for the seaport. The
which brings wool or cotton to England will ny
over London or Liverpool, and discharge direct
at the manufacturing towns ; and the vessel which
leaves with iron goods will load up in Staffordshire
or interior Lanarkshire, and bolt direct via the
empyrean blue. Birmingham and Oxford will tie
quite as good ports as London in those new days.
In fact, unless coal and iron can be found in large
quantities in the neighborhood of London, so that
the great city can make its living by manufac-
tures, the capital of the British Empire is likely
to suffer the worst slump on earth, because it lives
to a greater extent than any other city of the
earth on what will then be the dead art and
extinct mystery of being a great shipping centre.
It may remain for a while a potent financial
centre, but with commerce flying over its head to
inland places even the bill of exchange mu .®“
fall at last from its palsied hand, and then it will
take its bed under its arm and flee inland also.
In view of these possibilities the action of certain
Australian Premiers in taking costly London pre-
mises on long lease for their Agents-Generai
seems rasli. London may have folded its tent and
its sky-scraper as do the Arabs, and faded over the
horizon in the direction of Stafford before these
leases expire.
• * • *
Of course London won’t be alone in the slump.
New York, Liverpool, Hamburg, and all manner of
other seaports will strike the same woe, or the same
woe will strike them. Meanwhile inland cities
will boom to make up for the loss, and inland
capitals, such as Paris, Berlin and Vienna will
rise and flourish like the green bay-tree. I hey
live now as mere inland cities, and when the
advantages of being great ports is conferred upon
them, in addition to such industrial and commer-
cial blessings as they already possess, they will
prosper greatly. They will lose no sea-commerce,
for they have none, and they will gain air-corn-
merce, and their central situation (unlike that ot
London) will make them places of distri-
bution. But there will be huge deprecia-
tion and much financial disaster while things
are re-adjusting themselves. In fact, whole
countries will depreciate. At present, trade loves
the sea, because it is the cheapest highway tor the
conveyance of passengers and goods. -therefore
trade makes for places like Britain, France, North
Germany and the eastern coast of the United
States, which the sea renders handy and access-
ible. But air-borne commerce will avoid the
sea. It is a damp and sloppy and horrible place
for a disabled airship to fall into. It isn t a good
haven for the crippled vessel that wants to effect
repairs, for it tumbles and heaves horribly, and
there are no repairing shops. And it is a place
where there are no wayside ports like o°bar or
Moscow, or Prague or Birmingham, with which a
profitable short-distance traffic can be done. »o
adjacency to the sea will become rather
a commercial disadvantage than otherwise.
Commerce will wander inland, like a stranded
seaman looking for refreshment. Its favorite
routes will be over great flat regions like Poland,
Russia, Hungary, Siberia, Australia, the huge
central plains of the United States and Canada,
over Argentina and the vast low-lying regions
that lie about the Amazon. There commerce can
fly low ; it won’t have far to fall in case of acci-
dent, and if it has to descend for repairs it won t
descend on a glacier and freeze; it won t break
its head against unexpected mountain peaks, nor
will its crew burst a blood-vessel in the rarefied air,
as may happen any day on the little, third-class,
stern-wheel variety of commerce which will pick
up a precarious crust and be bitten by condors and
bald-headed eagles whileflyingaround thepinnacles
of Ecuador or pottering among the Kurds beside
Ararat. The new commerce, which will shun the
sea, will equally shun the mountains. Places
like Switzerland, no matter how carefully the
Alps are buoyed and lighted, will be avoided by
trade, and will drop into a financial back-
wash. Birmingham or Manchester at one end
and Irkutsk at the other will probably then
be what New York and Liverpool are now—
the extremities of the voyage on which the great
prize liners will be employed, the liners with the
most costly brass bands and the most tip-hungry
stewards.
* * * *
Harbors, of course, will become a back number.
They will be kept open sufficiently to serve as out-
lets for rivers and to prevent the rivers flooding the
land, and fishing boats will use them, and they
will still be handy for picnic parties and for the
supply of ozone. But no one will dredge them
any more, and the existing harbor boards will have
to get work. There will be a new earth in those
days, and almost anew heaven, and quite possibly
there will be a new religion—one that is fished
out of the stainless air and decorated with white
feathers and wings. All the great religions o
the present day were created on the surface ot
the earth. They weren’t even created by sea-
faring peoples. The Hebrews were sand-pedes-
trians of the most inveterate type; the most
wildly marine of the early apostles only Ashed on
a lake ; Mohammed drove camels in a desert;
Buddhism, Brahmanism and Confucianism were
all inland faiths. Perhaps man with a new
standpoint will get a new revelation-not a
dust-religion nor a mud-religion, but a sky : creea
or an air-faith. But when an article begins to
drift into theological by-ways like these it is tune
to leave off.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Slandering New South Wales.
Apparently there is no end to the old mean fable
and the old shabby slander from which. W-
has suffered so long. This extract from Hansard
(page 66) shows it still in full blast and working
Senator Walker ' N.S.W. would not have
the Federation if the Federal capital had not been located
within her bord- rs. •
Yet N.S.W. is not the mean, degraded, grasping
creature that some of its miserable legislators
represent it, and it never did anything, as a com
tn unity, to justify the frequent statement quoted
above y It accepted the first Constitution (the
one which left the Federal capital site to be fixed
Zany part of Australia) not only by a majority,
but by an affirmative vote that was 21,000 larger
than the minimum that was declared to be
sufficient in the agreement made between N.S. •
nnrl the other States. It wasn t wholly the State s
fault that its acceptance was nullified and cancelled
bv the treachery of the most degraded Legisla-
ture that it was ever afflicted with. It liadn t
reafised quite what a low-down set those particular
members were when it elected them. Then
wfthout anv mandate from the N.S.W. people-
jn fact in* direct contradiction to the mandate
given by the people when they gave * faUati


majority for the old Constitution —came the miser-
able, degraded bargaining of Reid and all the
trouble that followed. But the unauthorised
tinkering with the Constitution, done by Reid
and his fellow-Premiers, doesn’t justify any petty-
mirided calamity in saying that the people of
N.S. W. went into the Federal organisation solely
for what they could make out of it, and that, after
calling on the other States to join them in the
movement, they would have abandoned it unless
they got out of it a special and extra profit in
which the other States had no share. Senator
Walker and his tribe represent the N.S.W.
community as the sort of unspeakable cad
who would invite five friends to dinner at
the joint expense of the six, and then
explain to them that there wouldn’t be
any dinner at all unless he —the person who issued
the invitations—got the best bits of the food. It
is difficult to imagine anything much worse than
that—-and yet it is N.S.W. as depicted by its own
rich Tories and its own Stinking Fish. The order
of ..mind that can not only conceive such a slander
but can publish it with pride and complacency—
sort of wallow in it, so to speak—ought to rank as
a curiosity. Even the fact that the majority at
the first Federal referendum in N.S.W. was com-
paratively small gives no shadow of excuse for
Senator Walker’s slander. The people were
furiously incited by George Reid and all the
G. Reid press to vote against the original Consti-
tution—not to any great extent because it left the
s t.iation of the capital an open question for that
suoject was hardly mentioned, but because of the
Bit addon clause, which was then represented as
a dreadful and impossible device whereby the
Commonwealth was bound to tax the people £4
when it only required 20s. Even the meanest
mind shrunk a little from the idea of deliberately
proposing that N.S.W., having invited five friends
to dine with it at joint expense, should delibe-
rately tell them that dinner was “off” unless it
was allowed to eat the turkey all by itself while
the others pulled through on the corned beef. It
is a grievous pity that the influence of machine
p ilitics should propel politicians of the Walker
variety into Parliament, and it is a greater pity
that the Walker variety of politician should
exist to be propelled, there.
, o
First Signs of a New Row.
The beginning of a new anti-Federal grievance
was faintly foreshadowed a day or two ago, when
Varney Parkes, M.L.A., propounded the follow-
ing questions, and received the following!answers
in the N.S.W. Assembly:—
(1) With regard to the proposal of the Commonwealth,
m ule in the Federal Government’s Sessional Programme,
to take over the Northern Territory—will this State be
called upon, directly or indirectly, to subscribe the
largest share towards this movement and railway projec-
tion therewith, and has it the largest interest at stake?
Answer by Premier Wadk : Yes.
(2) In the world’s present-day trade activity, in which
the Eastern trade is such a paramount factor, and in
which the trade of Northern Europe—as well as of Asia—
will be conspicuously developed by the building of the
Russian Transcontinental Railway' to Vladivostock, is it
likely that extensive direct trade with Australia will, in
the near future, come through Chinese and Malay waters
straight to Port Darwin as the most central port of call,
and through the Northern Territory, to the various
States ?
Answer: It is impossible to say.
(3) Is it a fact that New South Wales will have no
boundary upon the new State, as boundaries stand and
are proposed, whilst Queensland, Western Australia and
South Australia encompass this new territory ?
Ansiver : Yes.
(4) Is it a fact that, geographically, Sydney is to this
territory the nearest and most accessible centre for the
distribution of trade, which will have to be transported
across Australia ?
Answer: As the crow flies prom Port Darwin, yes.
(5) In view of the position of the City of Sydney, and
the immense importance of the question to this'State,
will tiie Government of New South Wales at once com-
municate with the Commonwealth Government regarding
this matter, stipulating for full and open unrestricted
access for this State’s share of this trade through the ter-
ritory of South Australia, with full powers to construct
future railways from our Western lines now existing,
establish depdts, and to do other things necessary to
secure convenience and protect this trade ; and to con-
nect our railways to the proposed Federal line from
Oodnadatta to Pine Creek.
A nswer: 1 am unable to announce the intentions of
the Government until the proposals of the Commonwealth
are specifically declared.
This sort of thing looks like a careful laying of the
foundations for a new and senseless row with the
Commonwealth, a row which may do something
to retard the most essential busine.-s of the
moment—which is to take over the Northern
Territory and make sure that it may not ulti-
mately be lost to Australia after all, and converted
into a nigger-infested appanage of Indri. with its
political centre at Calcutta. As to whether
N S.W. will have to subscribe the largest amount
for the assumption, opening up and railway con-
nection of the Territory—it will have to subscribe
just as much per inhabitant as any other part of
Australia, so it is hard to see that there is any
special case to be considered, or any special woe.
Varney Parkes’ apparent idea that because his
State constituent (named possibly Smith) pays
(perhaps) ss. towards opening up the Terri-
tory, just the same as the constituent (call
him Jones) of Herbert Nicholls who repre-
sents Hobart in the Tasmanian Assembly,
therefore he (Parkes), as a State member, should
have some special voice in the matter wh rh
Nichols hasn’t—this over and above the vuwe
which N.S.W.’s 27 Federal Representatives have
—seems rather ridiculous. Certainly there is the
grievance that N.S.W. has no land border abut-
ting on the Territory, but Tasmania and Victoria
are in the same fix, and it is hard to see how it
can be helped. The assurance of Wade that, as
the crow hustles in the air, Sydney is “the
nearest and most accessible centre for the distri-
bution of trade,” suggests that Wade is in the
scheme for creating a new and causeless row or
shindy or deadlock without much regir 1
for accuracy. The principal mainland ports
of Australia, according to their shipping
returns, are Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, New-
castle, Brisbane, Fremantle and Rockhampton
(Geelong is omitted as being practically the same
as Melbourne ; and Townsville, Albany and
Hobart, owing to want of convenient railway con-
nections or other circumstances, are hardfv dis-
tributing ports.) Rockhampton is far the nearest
of these to Port Darwin as the crow flies. Then
almost as near are Adelaide and Fremantle
which practically make a dead heat (any advant-
age is with Fremantle). Next comes Brisbane;
and, finally, in extreme remoteness, Newcastle,
Sydney and Melbourne are another practical dead
heat in point of distance. They are the farthest
off, but any slight advantage is with Newcastle.
It is difficult to imagine, then, what Wade means
by his declaration that Sydney is the nearest port
in a straight line as -the crow hurries, unless the
idea is meant to be the basis of a new anti-Federal
disagreement; Sydney and Melbourne are
just about the most remote ports of any
hote. The hint that South Australia might
block N.S.W. trade, and the proposed
demand for a guarantee that it will allow
slw NeS.W, State railway# to connect with the
transcontinental line in its territory, is another
suggestion of an intention to make a superfluous
disturbance. S. Australia has already shown all
manner of willingness to let N.S.W. connect
with its line at Oockburn (near Broken
Hill), and so far N.S.W. hasn’t connected; still
the readiness of S.A. to oblige in this matter
suggests goodwill, and shows that one connection
with the Territory is already provided for. But
]f it is a question, as it seems to be, of getting
the shortest possible connection with Port Darwin,
then any line that could be made into S.A. would
be almost too circuitous to be worth anything. It
would rather be a Question of carrying the Bourke
(N.S.W.) line across the south-west corner of
Queensland into the Territory, and V. Parkes’
veiled insult should have been directed at Queens-
land instead of S.A. In the case of S.A., it was
mere gratuitous innuendo. Probably the explana-
tion lies in the constant habit the State Frights
have of representing Queensland and NiB.W. as
natural allies.agaiqst an alleged unholy combina-
tion of S.A. and Victoria. Anyhow, the words of
Parkes and Wade suggest things. There will be
another Federal territory besides the one in ques-
tion—the bit on which the Australian capital
stands. The five States which are not N.S.W.
will subscribe the larger share towards its cost,
yet the crowd to which Varney Parkes belongs
demands that not one of these other States shall
have any boundary adjacent to it, and as for
giving them, power to extend their railways
through N.S.W. toconnect with this other Federal
territory—well, the Parkes-Wade crowd would
probably die first.
-4.
Nine Submarines and Six Destroyers.
The politely circumlocutory Lords of the
British Admiralty have expressed themselves at
some length about the proposed Australian fleet—
or “ flotilla,” which isn’t exactly the same thing.
It is a very skimpy little flotilla that is talked
about—two depdt or repairing ships, nine sub-
marines and six destroyers. They are to cost
£1,277,500, and the annual expense—wages, fuel,
maintenance, allowance for depreciation, etc. —is
set down at about £346,000. This sort of thing
represents a very humble beginning, hardly worth
all the fuss that has been made about it; but
Australia must remember that it is only the germ
of the real defence system that is to follow. As
to the control of the Australian naval force, the
polite and circumlocutory Lords of the British
Admiralty are vague but suggestive. The flotilla
(which must be a real fleet by-and-bye) is
not to leave Australian waters without the consent
of the Australian Government, which is something.
King Ed. VII., being the nominal head of
everything, will nominally own the Australian
fleet, which is another thing but one that doesn’t
much matter. But the courteous and fairly long-
winded Lords also drop hints, in a vague and
general sort of Way, about tljeir own control over
the Australian sea defences. All the remarks on
this point are very indefinite, and don’t amount
as yet to more than a haze on the horizon ; but
the haze suggests possibilities. The idea which
seems to be floating in the minds of the circumlo-
cutory Lords is wholly unsatisfactory, for the
Admiralty is, in a sense, a foreign institution—the
4,000,000 people of Australia have no more voice
in creating or directing it than they have in creat-
ing or directing the department which looks after
Kaiser William’s navy. Australia wants its fleet
(when it gets a fleet, not a mere flotilla) to be at
least as independent of the British Admiraltv as
the Australian Parliament is of the British Parlia-
ment, and doubtless that will come to pass as the
fleet grows. At present, the polite but fairly voluble
Lords seem to have a desire to maintain a certain
amount of control without knowing for certain
just how much control they want, so their side of
the case is very indefinite ; and on our side it is
hardly possible to strike much of an attitude and
raise much clamor about complete freedom of
action upon the strength of nine submarines and
six destroyers. While the “flotilla” remains in
this humble stage, the fact seems to be that the
British squadron will still pose in these waters—in
time of peace, that is—as the real defender of
Australia, and profess to regard the blessed local
“flotilla” as a mere toy ornament or bit of
trimming or tail; and until it is big enough to
pose hereabouts as the dog instead of the tail, it
will probably be difficult to prevent the circumlo-
cutory Lords from putting on airs of pro-
prietorship and professing to boss the show. When
the Australian fleet is strong enough to call for
respectful consideration as a valuable ally, it
should be easy to define its status as a force which
is wholly independent of the circumlocutory
Lords. But the job of defining the degree of
independence that is attached to nine submarines
and six small destroyers is a hard matter. The
negotiation is apt to end suddenly with an offer
of as much naval independence as we can maintain
when we have got it. Now how much independ-
ence of any kind can be maintained by nine sub-
marines and six small destroyers ?
«.
A Sham and a Hypocrisy.
The most notable feature of last week’s Federal
capital debate was the portentous gravity with
which certain of the anti-Australian crowd argued
about the real inward meaning of that memoran-
dum signed in secret about ten years ago by six
State Premiers—the scrap of paper whereon those
persons expressed their private opinion that the
capital should be within “a reasonable distance”
of Sydney, and left the “reasonable distance”
wholly undefined. The utterly unimportant docu-
ment was thumbed reverently, as if it were Holy
Writ. Ardent Canberra-ites and earnest advo-
cates for a dry and useless capital held forth at
great length about the light which this proviso
about “a reasonable distance” threw upon the
clause in the Constitution which simply says the
capital is to be 100 miles or some greater distance
from Sydney. Enthusiastic anti-Australians put
on an air of passionate reproach, and wanted to
know if Parliament Were really going to be
false to the agreement about that “reason-
able distance,” and whether members thought a
capital nearly 300 miles away filled the bill. It
was a stupendous fraud and hypocrisy all round,
but the pretence of gravity was wonderfully pre-
served. No greater outrage was ever put upon a
nation’s commonsense than by this cheeky
assumption that the 4,000,000 people of Australia
are called upon to take the slightest notice of a
letter in which six men (three of whom are now
dead) expressed their private views upon a certain
public matter, especially considering that the said
document was then put away out of sight and not
re-discovered for five years, and that the private
opinion Of the six gentlemen (three of whom are
now dead), so far from being embodied in the
Constitution which the people accepted, wasn’t
even made known to the people. Every indi-
vidual of the crowd which professes such
profound reverence for the alleged obligation
laid on the people by the secret private opinion
Of the six unauthorised persons (of whom three
are now dead) Would regard as an amusing lunatic
or a plain swindler any individual who naked
that a signed contract of his own should be modi-
fied in the other party’s favor because the other
party professed to find a letter in which some third
individual said he thought the modification would
be a fair thing. And if the swindler or amusing
lunatic grew violent and abusive because the
modification wasn’t assented to, he would either
be kicked or given over to the police. The whole
argument is a silly confidence trick—the sort of
thing which, if any legal M. H.R. tried it on a
Judge, would drive his Honor to the immediate
conclusion that the legal person was very, very
drunk.
The Gold Brick in Politics.
Queensland is beginning to find out that the best
thing that ever happened to it was the passing
of legislation which allows it to take its place as
a white man’s country. So long as the black-and-
tan were available. Queensland was damned by
the selfish crowd which, in the attempt to keep
the cheap-and-nasty T. Tanna and Ho Scat,
branded the State as a place where the white man
couldn’t comfortably live, let alone work. When
T. Tanna and Ho Scat were abolished, and the
North had to depend on white labor, the people
\vho for years had been telling the truth about the
. country got a chance at last to make their voices
heard. Then the south began to find out that, if the
death statistics were bad in patches, it was simply
because of the horrible mortality among the
islanders and other sections of the discolored
population—the very people who were alleged to
be just suited to the State and its climate—sind
that, so far as the white population was concerned,
the record was among the best in the whole world.
In 1906, the last year for which the Official
Year Book of the Commonwealth has the com-
plete figures, the Queensland death rate was, in
fact, lower than that of any other Australian
State, and, except for Maori land, lower than that
of any other country in the world which keeps
count of such things. No sooner had Queensland
thus begun to shake off the bad reputation which
it never deserved than population moved north ;
and in the past two years there has been more
legitimate demand for land than there ever was
before. In 1903 the total area taken up as agri-
cultural farms and homesteads and as uncon-
ditional selections was 223,512 acres. As the
explosion of the old lie made -itself heard the
quantity increased year by year, until in 1907 the
total applied for ran to 783,762 acres; and this
year’s tally will, it is expected, be 200,000 acres
more than that. In 1903 there were 23,610 owners
of cattle; at the end of last year there tf'eie
28,537. In 1903 there were 1914 owners of sheep;
at the end of last year; ‘2748. In the days of the
blaek-and-tan perjuries Queensland was about the
last place on earth to which the outsider would
turn if he wanted to go into the butter-making
business. The popular idea of the Queensland
climate was that you might as well think of grow-
ing icebergs in it as butter. In 1901 the entire
production was 9,741,8821 b. ; in 1906 it was
22,746.5931 b. In 1903 the export was 1,223,4141 b.;
in 1907 it was 12,137,8671 b. The same with
cheese; from practically nothing a few
years ago the output mounted to 2,684,5881 b.
last year. And this Cow business , isn’t
confined to the south of the State either; there is
a factory as far north as Cairns, the place which
in the old days was supposed to be on the steaming
lid of Hades. So far, especially as grain harvests
are concerned, there hasn’t been anything special
in recent results to attract attention, either. A
few districts have given fair returns, but on the
whole the wheat figures have been pretty poor as
a rule ; the State’s average hasn’t once reached
10 bushels in the past three years, whilst the
Westralian average has never once been below
10 bushels in the past 10 years. Except in a
few very favored districts wheat growing is in
every State a gamble, however, and on the
figures it isn’t likely to be a bit less
of a gamble in Queensland than elsewhere.
Anyhow, the business isn’t any less of a gamble
now than it has been hitherto; and the only
reason why risks are being taken now that were
not taken hitherto is that hitherto the blaek-and-
tan perjuries scared outsiders off the State. Also
plenty of people within the State accepted the
perjuries as gospel, and didn't believe, for
example, that butter-making was possible. So a
confidence trick was played on the people of the
State as well as on the outsider—the same sort of
confidence trick which the southern importer and
the importers’ rag have worked on the public with
regard to a hundred lines of manufactured goods
that " wuldn’t be made in Australia” j a«d ex-
aetly the same sort of confidence trick that is now
being played on the Commonwealth by the
parish-pump Australians who tell us we can’t
afford even the beginnings of a navy.
7 ♦ '
Killing Cows and Digging Holes.
Australia is still feeding a lot of people in other
parts of the world instead of in Australia—that is
to say, in places where they are liable to hold a
rifle against Australia instead of on Australia’s
side. Seven months’ record in a few lines:—
1907. 1908.
Apparel and soft goods .. .. £7,188,011 £7,220,051
Cordage and twines .. .. 314,158 348,432
Iron and steel (bar, rod, sheet and
galvanised) 1,536,625 1,239,823
Metals (manufactured) .. .. 2,338,374 2,120.818
Steel rails, fish-plates, etc. .. 303,106 514,950
Paints, etc 249,378 253,910
And in return Australia sent away these things
in the same seven months:—
1907. 1908.
G °ld .. .. £6,805,949 £8,788,499
Wheat .. .. 3,757,786 1,534,450
Meat (raw). .. 1,298,801 770,054
Ores .. .. 832,119 605,593
Silver and lead .. 1,529,130 1,250,887
Coal '.. .. 653,303 823,287
Wool, greasy .. 8,320,249 6,342,812
Wool, washed .. 3,378,714 2,526,586
Australia apparently hasn’t got pluck enough to
even insist upon having the job of washing its own
wool; and it wouldn’t have the job of shear-
ing the sheep if the grazing were anywise
good on the Indian Ocean. It still accepts
itself as a poor aboriginal sort of country
which is only just good enough to kill its cow,
and dig up its gold and silver and lead and coal,
and occasionally grow a crop of wheat (but not too
much of that). And, in return for all this meat
and gold and coal, the superior person in some
other country works up these or other raw
goods, produced by ourselves or some other abo-
riginal people, and sells us the manufactured
clothes, and cordage, and steel rails, and paints,
and pint-pots. Meantime quite a lot of people
tell us that it’s a very fine thing to belong
to the aboriginal tribes, which kill cows
and make holes in the ground ; and when
any of the aborigines rebel and call aloud
for a 100 per cent, duty if a 100 per cent, duty is
necessary, this lot of people (with the S. M.
Herald in the front) deplores our want qf modera-
tion, and asks us how we think our poor people
are going to live if such duties are imposed.
Thereupon in shame we make the duty 6J per
cent, or thereabouts —and then we go on killing
cows, and sometimes rabbits, and we go back to
our holes and dig something more out of them to
send away to the superior people over seas. We
really shall have to kill somebody some day.
♦
The Majesty of the Law in Victoria.
A Melbourne daily recently stated, in a casual
way, that the Vic. Attorney-General had received
a petition, signed by a large number of citizens,
asking for the release from custody of Mrs. Grace
Lee, sentenced to three months’ imprisonment on
a charge of perjury. Which petition was said to be
“ under the consideration” of the learned gentle-
man to whom the Law of Victoria looks for the
protection of its alleged majesty. Considering
that Grace Lee was committed to prison for only
tlnee months in the first place it seems hardly
worth while to consider whether the Attorney-
General’s consideration was favorable or otherwise.
Enough that he didn’t bid the petitioners go forth
and study the facts of Grace Lee’s case previous
to hanging themselves. This dangerous citizeness
was charged, on her own confession, with having
falsely sworn that her paramour robbed her
of £2OO and some jewellery, her outrageous lie
having been suggested to her—so she said in her
confessional evidence—by a private detective per-
son who was not forthcoming on either of the two
occasions when she appeared as prosecutrix, nor
on the subsequent occasion when she was arraigned
for perjury. Whether she was an original liar, or
a liar by conspiratorial suggestion, is a question
which seemingly did not trouble the petitioners for
her release, nor the Attorney-General who • re-
spectfully listened to them. Nor does it matter a
row of pins to the Majesty of the Law, in The
Bulletin’s opinion. The one fact to be borne in
mind by every law-abiding citizen is the necessity
for safeguarding the community against the
dange.- of perjury in Courts which exist for the
community’s protection. Grace Lee was, from a
political point of view, something worse than an
o. dinary perjuress, for, when called upon to
defend herself, she pleaded that her lies didn’t
amount to perjury inasmuch as she refrained from
kissing the grimy Bible in the witness-box before
telling them. By which plea, submitted in
all seriousness, she would have nullified the
law against perjury by offering the world an
example of how to bear false witness with im-
punity. In fact, Grace Lee’s apology to the
Law was an added insult to its awful majesty. •
And then, because she had accused herself of
“funny business ” with the Bible in connection
with her lies, and also because she accused another
person of being her co-conspirator in crime, “a
large number of citizens” asked for her release on
the ground that three months’ imprisonment
was more than she deserved. Nextly, the Vic.
Attorney-General took the petition into his kind
consideration, where it remains at time of writing.
_
The Cadging “ Local Authority.”
THEexecuti veof the Queensland Local Authorities
Association cal led upon Treasurer Airey the other
day, and threw at him some resolutions relating to
financial questions, passed at the conference held
in Brisbane a few weeks ago. The chief resolution
was a wordy thing declaring that, as Local
Government had been established in Queensland
upon the principle of financial assistance by the
State to local authorities, those bodies reckoned
that the Government was in duty bound to give
them endowments. Knowing the attitude of the
Kidston Government on the question of endow-
ment, the deputation drew the Treasurer’s atten-
tion to the fact that endowment wasn’t being asked
for.. All that was wanted, according to the verbose
resolution, was the establishment of “some system
of financial aid to local authorities upon an equit-
able basis,” which, of course, wasn’t asking for
endowment. It was only calling a spade a
trimmed and decorated shovel, with frills and
passementerie on it. That was exactly what P.
Airey told the deputationists, though, being a
! poet (albeit one who doesn’t write nearly so much
poetry now as he should do), he used less violent
language. Then he began to talk ancient Banana-
land municipal history to the members of the
executive. He quoted Section 91 of The Muni-
cipalities Act of 1858, the first Ijocal Authorities
law of Queensland. This provided that it should
be lawful for the Government to pay to
municipal councils, during the first five years
after incorporation, £ for £ on rates col-
lected, 10s. in the £ for the next five
years, ss. in the £ for the following five years, and
subsequently nil. Then he quoted the very Same
prOviaiuM# from Section $7 of the Municipalities
Dominion Day.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There is a tremendous current of feeling- against a
system of universal training- in a country where practi-
cally nine out of every ten persons have to earn their own
living.— Premier Ward, of Maoriland.
I shall be glad if you will invite the residents in your
centre to enhance the interest of the proceedings on the
anniversary of Dominion Day (26th Sept.), by decorating
their premises with flags where convenient for them to
do no.—Premier Ward, of Maoriland.
We are workin’, workin’, workin’, an’ we ’aven’t
time to play
At shootin’ guns, an’ soldierin’ an’ such,
An’ we only ’ave two dozen hours in every blessed
day,
An’ with football to consider it ain’t much ;
But, oh, do pray,
Try and keep Dominion Day
With a due amount of patriotic pride.
While you!re toilin' an' you're slavin' you could
keep a flag a-wa vin’,
An' do a bit of cheerin' if you tried.
We are talkin’, talkin’, talkin’, an’ we’aven’t time
to stay
To consider what might ’appen by-and-bye,
For our eloquence is wastin’ an’ we ’ave to go
away
To face a big election drorin’ nigh,
But, oh, do pray.
Try an keep Dominion Day
With a due amount of patriotic pride,
For whatever's goin to 'appen you could keep a flag
u-flappin’,
An' do a bit of cheerin' if you tried.
They are cornin’, cornin’, coinin’, an’ they will hot
keep away
With their shootin’ guns, an’ battleships an’ such,
An’ it looks as if they meant it an’ would really
come to stay,
An’ we ’aven’t men to fight them very much
No fear but they
Will observe Dominion Day
With a due amount of patriotic pride,
When you’re lyin' snug your grave in, they will
keep their flag a-wavin’
An' do a bit of cheerin' ivhere you died.
MAOEILAND.
D.M.W.


Circumstances seem to be waxing angry
towards T. Bent. Aided by the Wise Inspiration
of D.C.L. Whisky, Victoria has acquired the
knowledge that Tommy is not chasing needed
reforms with sufficient “strenuosity.” And unless
the astute Tommy also implores the aid of that
vivifying beverage he is likely to meet his political
Tommy Burns. D.C.L. never fails a sincere
supplicant for wisdom.*
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are Headquarters for above, and represent
the Greatest Makers of the World. We have
an Extensive Stock to select from.
NEW FILM SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
Write or call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
By Special Appointment to
J J 1 is Majesty The King.
Act ot 1864, which took the place of the Act of
1858. Having thus knocked the bottom out ot
the yarn that Local Government had been estab-
lished upon the general principle of financial
assistance by the State to local authorities, Airey
(who doesn’t write nearly so much poetry now as
he should do) made some very necessary remarks.
He said that local authorities had been endowed
by the Government to the extent of £3.000,000,
which, at 4 per cent., meant an annual endowment
of £120)000; that if they had imposed last year
the maximum general rate allowed by the Act (3d.
in the £), they would have had £547,000 instead of
the £321,000 they had levied, much of which they
hadn’t collected ; that at the end of 1907 they had
£139,000 of arrears outstanding ; that numbers of
shires had absurdly low valuations; that one shire
had. passed a resolution to value all land at 10s.
per acre, though a great deal was bringing in a
rental of £1 per acre per annum ; and that he
believed endowment was an unsound and vicious
principle which he wouldn’t touch even with a
stick of great length.
The Anti-Trust Law.
The Australian Government set out last month
to ask a few questions about the combination, or
Trust, or ring, or conspiracy, or whatever it is
that exists in connection with the inter-State
shipping and the Newcastle coal trade, borne
questions were put first of all in an informal way
to Huddart, Parker & Go. and were answered ;
then questions were put to the same firm in a
formal way, whereupon the firm smelt a herd or
drove of rats, and declined to answer on the large
ground that the Anti-Trust Act was unconstitu-
tional in spots, wherefore the Commonwealth had
no real right to ask the questions. When the
questions arrived in a more or less informal way,
and when the smell of the rat wasn’t quite so con-
spicuous, the firm or company seems to have had
an idea that it could pull through by alleging
that there wasn’t any completed agreement
between the shipping companies, and that there
wasn’t any real coal vend. As a matter of fact,
there is; something of the same sort of “ honorable
understanding ” as exists among the wheat buyers
of S. Aus.—only in this coal and shipping case it
is alleged that money has been put up which is
forfeitable if the “honorable understanding” is
fractured by any of the parties. Evidently, how-
ever, the plea that an “ honorable understanding,”
backed up by a money deposit, isn’t an agree-
ment has been thrown overboard as too leaky
for serious service, and the plea to be relied
upon in the first place will be that
the Anti-Trust law has holes in it. Briefly, that
law says that it is illegal (1) to combine to injure
Australian trade, or (2) to “dump” foreign goods
in Australia for the same purpose. So far, the
matter hasn’t got to the point of discussing
whether there is a Trust or a combine; Dwyer,
P.M., by arrangement, fined Huddart, Parker and
Co. £5 for refusing to answer questions, and 23 ex-
pensive lawyers, or thereabouts, will now, no doubt,
proceed to argue before the High Court whether
the Constitution, which gives the Commonwealth
the right to,regulate the commerce of the country,
allows Parliament to prohibit one group of people
from combining to starve out another group of
people. ,If the Constitution doesn’t allow Parlia-
ment to regulate commerce to that extent, it
would be just about as ridiculous as if the State
Government had the power to regulate street
traffic except in the matter of preventing people
driving furiously and killing other people.
Item from Sydney Telegraph : —-
Mr. Reid ridiculed as preposterous the contention
which has been raised by some members who are fighting
for the retention of the capital in Melbourne that New
South Wales would, if! the capital did not adjoin some
other State, or did not provide a means of outlet exclu-
sively through Federlil territory, prevent Federal officers
reaching the seat of Government. It is hardly conceiv-
able that such an argument should ever have been used.
But it has been one of the most common in the capital
debates. The danger of having the capital in New South
Wales, it has been insisted by these members, is that in
case of some future dispute between New South NYales
and the Federation, New South Wales will prohibit all
access to the territory by closing the roads to Federal
members and officials, and by preventing them passing in
trains towards the Federal territory. It seems to be an
absurdity that such an argument should have to be
answered. But it has had to be, because it is a specimen
of the objections that have been raised to the claim that
the Federal capital should be in territory entirely within
New South Wales.
The Bulletin never heard the alleged argument
in question, and it would like Reid to pro-
duce it if he can find the article. But
if such a view does exist there is certainly
some excuse for it. Consider what has hap-
pened already (1) N.S.W. State Premier
Carrutheks promised a railway to Bombala
(which, by the way. is 350 ft. higher than Dalgety)
on the ground that the amazing fertility of
“blizzard-swept Monaro” called for it. (2) The
N. S. W. State Government got the Bill through the
Assembly with difficulty, and only by the solemn
assurance that the line would carefully keep
far away from Dalgety, so that no hated Federal
legislator would get to the hated Federal capital
by its agency. (3) The Upper House threw out
the Bilk avowedly for fear that, after all, it might
be a remote convenience to the Federal capital.
That is remarkably like doing the very thing
which Reid says is impossible and unthinkable.
For the Federal city to be wholly dependent for
access to the outer world on the forbearance of a
State Government which is capable to taking up
such an attitude as that, might be a dangerous
situation.
The House of Reps. Federal Capital debate made
plain the sad lack of unanimity among the bar-
rackers against Dalgety. For instance, one par-
ticularly loud howler for a Dry City was Johnson,
of N.S.W., and the S. M. Herald upended itself
to support Johnson for all it was worth. But,
alas! that unlucky lack of unanimity between
the pair of screechers, as to the exact screech that
would best fill the bill, led to some confusion.
Thus Johnson—
Produced a plan of Dalgety district showing that the
country surrounding it was treeless, timberless, desolate,
snowy—absolutely waste. That was an absolutely accu-
rate description of the locality.—Herald.
And in the same issue (24/9/’08) in which the
Herald reported Johnson’s frenzy, the blunder-
ing old paper published an article of its own,
headed “DALGETY. BEAUTIFUL, COLD,
CLEAR. Great Water Supply,” in which
occurred this : !
There is no end of timber on the hills. Messmate,
mountain ash, box—grey and yellow, silver gum, black-
wood and blackbutt, “ very hard and handsomely grained
on the hills of Nimitvbelle "—with the hardwoods on the
coast range bevond Nimitybelle and Bombala make a fine
list Nimitvbelle is 30 miles away, and at Jindabyne, 21
miles away, there are sawmills. Firewood for years to
come can be fetched from the hills.
It was all very unfortunate, of course.
—♦
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A., writes as follows
Everv one of vour contributors who criticises my Cen-
tral Railway Station in Sydney seems to become afflicted
with a mania for misrepresentation. The last victim in
this directiou is a writer calling' himself “ Talafekau,
and dating his epistle from Tonga, which formerly was
one of the cannibal islands. “Talafekau” seems to
doubt a statement of mine that the new Sydney Railway
Station is larger than any railway station in Great
Britain and Ireland. He evidences Waterloo station,
London ; the Waverley station, Edinburgh; the
New-street gtation, Birmingham ; and a few other
provincial railway stations. Let “Talafekau” be
consoled ! He is only half-educated with regard
to railway stations, and has a bad memory to
boot. From a well-known “ Railways Guide for Great
Britain,” lent to me by Mr. Harry Richardson, one of our
Railway Commissioners, it is shown that the largest
railway station in Great Britain is that of St. Pancras,
London. It covers about 16 acres, and has 11 platforms.
The Central Railway Station of Sydney covers 24 acres,
and has 15 platforms. There are only about four or five
railway stations in the world larger than the Sydney one,
and when the latter has two more storeys added to Stand
six towers (as per design), with its park in front and
several approaches 100 ft. wide, it will be the hand-
somest (though pot the largest) railway station in the
world.
The vision of all these added glories is very
beautiful, but The Bulletin has a dark sus-
picion that very little extra money will be spent
in putting new frills on the great out-of-the-way
structure. The language of the people who scurry
off 15 platforms and out of 24 acres of railway
station, and try to crowd into a band-box of a
trarncar to be conveyed down to somewhere
about King-street is bad enough already. If they
saw more money being wasted on the ill-placed
structure they would probably be all arrested for
blasphemy.
The deplorable Hughes, M.H.R., surpassed all
his previous records in the Capital Site debate :
The people of N. S. Wales were led to believe that the
capital would be as near the 100-mile limit as possible. If
Mr. Reid had declared that the site would be at Dalgety
the Constitution would have been rejected by 20,000
votes. The great bulk of the people of N. S. Wales lived
within 25 miles of Sydney, and would they have cast their
votes to bar the State getting any benefit from the capital !
To which it may be replied :
(1) The statement that the people of N.S.W. would
have rejected the Constitution if they had thought
the capital would be on Monaro is probably quite
false. Anyhow, the people of N.S.W. accepted the
original Constitution, which gave them no assurance that
the capital would even be in N.S. W. at all. They are not
so utterly sordid and unpatriotic as Hughes says they
are. , .
(2) Hughes’idea that N.S.W. will get no benefit from
the capital unless it is right up against Sydney is another
evidence of his town-bred delusion that Sydney is the
whole of N.S. W.
(3) If any liar told the people of N.S.W. that the capital
was going to be on or quite close to the 100-mile line from
Sydney, then that person should be hunted up and
spoken to severely, but there is no reason why Australia
should sacrifice its interests for all time merely to make
his yarn come true. Will Hughes state who was the liar
who told the tale ?
(4) Hughes apparently believes that because the great
bulk of the people of N.S.W. are congested close up to
Svdney, therefore the population of the Federal capital
should be compressed up against the same area to make
the crush worse. At last census the County of Cumber-
land had 362 persons to the square mile, or nearly ninety
times the average of the whole State. The demand that
the capital shall be placed where it will further congest
this district shows Hughes as an advocate for slums and
over-crowding, and a bitter opponent of decentralisation
and the diffusion of population. In fact, he poses now as
a garish ornament of the Congested Population Party.
Reported by cable that a Dr. Stein, whilst
exploring in Eastern Turkestan, discovered among
a heap of refuse some Indian, Chinese, and Thi-
betan writings of the eighth century. Apart from
its historical interest the item is of value as show-
ing how long the Asiatic lets his rubbish lie round
the premises. People who don’t clean up more
than once in 1100 years are best kept at a distance.
THE “MORBID HORROR’S” MANIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Canberra should be allowed to stand. It will be accept-
able to a large section of opinion in this State, and Mr.
Wade would probably have little difficulty in asking'the
local Parliament to give the necessary sanction to such
grants of land as the Commonwealth may require.
Dalgety, however, is impossible, and the sooner that
position is accepted the better will it be for everybody.—
S. Morning Hkrald.
“ Oh, it is quite impossible ! ” I heard the Horror bray-
ing it—
Our Sydney Morbid Horror with the gum leaves in its
hair,
And gleams of cow-like fury in its eyes as it kept saying it,
All swelled with heavy anger, like a rock-toad in its lair.
“ Impossible ! ” “ Impossible ! ” Repeatedly it snuffled it.
That blessed word “ Impossible ” appeared to ease its
pain—
Its tone was strange, for adiposeness deadened it and
muffled it, , , , , ,
And the Horror was so very fat I turned and looked
again.
Politely I inquired of it if anything was biting it,
Or pricking it, or kicking it, and, if so, where and why ;
Or could it be that anyone had ever dreamed of fight-
ing it?
“ Impossible ! impossible ! ” it grunted in reply.
I paused, and then I questioned it. My question was
satirical;
I asked: “Are you aware that you’re politically dead ?
That nothing can revive you but a veritable miracle ? ”
“ Impossible ! impossible,” the bulging Horror said.
“ Excuse me,” I insisted, “ though no doubt you speak
veraciously,
I fear that you deceive yourself ; some years ago you
died —
You never could or would regard Australian matters
spaciously.”
“ Impossible ! impossible ! ” the Morbid Horror cried.
“Precisely so,” I murmured; “we could hardly have
expected it;
Your vision is restricted by the fatness of your cheeks,
Was anything Australian, you scorned or you rejected
it —
Was anything Imported, you would whoop it up for
weeks!
“ And now you howl this place is quite impossible as
capital,
And barrack hard against it in the hope that fat galore
May soon anoint your carcase —I should dearly love to
slap it all! ”
“ Impossible ! Impossible ! ” the Horror moaned once
more.
I said, “Of course; but please explain what makes you
seem so sedulous
To thwart the Nation’s interests and baulk the people’s
choice?”
And as I stood there waiting, half-indignant, half-
incredulous —
“We should import the capital”! thus spoke an oily
Voice.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “ Dorothy Vernon
Criterion “ The Belle of Mayfair.’
Palace. . * Charleys Aunt.
Lyceum Hall.'. Spencer’s Theatrescope.
TivrtT i Rickards’ \ audeville Co.
( Ada Crosslev Concert Co.
Town Hall (Oet. 3,6, 8, and 10.)
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s ............ “ The Morals of Marcus.
Hkr Majesty’s. ....... “ The Taming of the Shrew.”
Theatre Royal “Maritana.” „
j^ INQ ’ g “ The Gayest of the Gay.
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
Bijou - ■ • “ Miss Lancashire Limited.
Town Hall The Royal Welsh Male Choir.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
One could lie better pleased if another
sort of comic opera had the popularity of “ the
Merry Widow,” which made its first appearance
on the Sydney side of the Murray at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday night. There is scarcely a
character in it with whom one is any the better
for getting acquainted. The Merry Widow her-
self is about the least objectionable, and even she
gets you to the theatre by false pretences, because
she is really just about as merry as a funeral tram
on a foggy morning. As for the others, their
respectability ends with their clothes. The whole
atmosphere of the thing is as murky as Jonah s
cabin was in the first submarine mentioned in
naval history.
** * *
Still there is a connected story, and for
very modern comic opera that is something to go
on with. Sonia is the chief of the great
natural resources of Marsovia. Very soon after
she has married most of the wealth of
the country, the man who owns it con-
veniently dies, and Sonia turns up in Paris
at the Marsovian embassy, where Popoff reigns.
His chief ambassadorial job at the moment is to
marry the money to somebody who won’t take it
away with him, and thus reduce Marsovia to a
third-class carriage or possibly the dog-box. The
“book” deals with Popoff’s struggles to prevent
all that capital flying out of the country by stall-
ing off the Parisian Court-loafers, who proceed to
hunt the millions with the widow attachment;
and most of the trimmings refer to the relations
of well-dressed blackguards with other men’s
wives, the husbands being mostly represented as
imbeciles who don’t deserve any better. But
though the plot runs right through, and doesn’t
have to sustain any serious fractures to allow of
the necessary amount of song and dance, there is
little sparkle in the dialogue. Popoff is guilty of
a few bright remarks, but nobody else works a
claim which in that respect yields more than
tucker.
* + * *
The music is the thing. Franz Lehar, the
composer, was an unknown Hungarian ; and he
brought some new goods to market. He invented
the seductive “Merry Widow” waltz, which has
been a godsend to ten thousand dancers and the
organ-grinding profession. Of the instant popu-
larity of the music there was proof m the crowded
house on Saturday night; yet those who went
outside after the first act to drown their dis-
appointment with Miss Carrie Moore’s idea of a
cheerful relict, got a better proof still, for over the
way a man was churning out the waltz from his
barrel. Apart from that, however, there is the
more typical “Marsovian” music, with a wild
strain in it; and, especially when the “ Mar-
sovians ” dance, there is a suggestion in it of the
stirring pibroch, and of MacDougall and Mac-
Tavish and of the Highland fling competition
on New Year’s Day. But it is not all wild. There
is the melodious “Dutiful Wife” duet for
Florence Young and Reginald Roberts, and the
arch’and sprightly “Cavalry Man,” in which
Andrew Higginson, new baritone and beauty-
man, does an exceedingly clever pantomimic
horse-caper by way of accompaniment. An extra-
wide range of equipments has the new man for his
business. Florence Young has very rarely done
better. She burst out in fine voice, and more
even than usual she seemed tobesaying—“ Hullo !
Glad to see all vou people. And now you're here,
let’s have a good time ! ” Miss Carrie Moore dis-
appointed mainlv because she didn’t let herself
go If “obsess” and “obsessed ” had not been
put on The Bulletin’s list of the words
you must do without, it might be said
that she was evidently by the thought -of
the twenty millions. When she did let her-
self go she went, and the audience gave her
all the encouragement their hands were capable of
to keep on that level. Victor Gouriet has the
good part of Popoff, the one that George Laun
would have had if that genial jester were taking
parts just now. Gouriet’s humor isn’t so unctuous
as Lauri’s. Lauri rolled his jokes at you—Gouriet
springs them up through a trap door. But you
will enjoy him all the same—or would if he hap-
pened to come your way. And, finally for this
week W. S. Percy, A. Hunter in the small part of
a waiter, the ballets, Gordon (who provides the
scenery), and the dressmaker all deserve to have
two or three adjectives apiece put on their plate.
** * *
“Peter Pan” will dance off the Sydney
Royal premises at the close of this week, and
“ Dorothy Vernon ” will be staged on Saturday.
The Tittell Brune and the Brough-Kingston cos.
have been amalgamated to form a new dramatic
outfit and to give Dorothy a good show.
-*- -.if *
“Charley’s Aunt,” the hilarious old im-
mortal who rises at the bidding of wizard Frank
Thornton and scatters merriment over the land,
is taking a farewell of Australia at Sydney Palace.
It is to be hoped the magician who periodically
calls Charles’ relative into being will later on
relent and bring her back to the footlights, for
Australia will feel there has been a bereavement
in the family if it doesn’t occasionally meet the
bogus donna who is nervous as to the
sort of stories the other ladies are going
to tell when the men have left the
room The only Aunt this country will
ever own has the support of a smart company,
and the comedv is shoved along with a dance a,nd
a sparkle to the final curtain. The distilled
essence of fun never grows old, and as ‘Charley s
Aunt ” is that wondrous thing, The Bulletin
requests Thornton, in humanity’s name, to recon-
sider this painful subject of farewell. There are
many dreary things hereabouts—Tories, people
who think the States have been “wronged,
undertakers, tombstone-makers, Canberra-ites,
funerals, lost dogs, folk with wooden legs L res
bvterians, crows, Dagoes who keep the fash-shop
oioen till 12, caged monkeys and the like—ana
they stay with us. Why should “Charleys
Aunt ” go ?
*# * *
“ The Belle of Mayfair ” has settled down
to what looks as if it would be a long run at Syd-
ney Criterion. It is incoherent; it has hardly an}
definite tale to tell, and it doesn’t really tell it; it
might stop almost anywhere or go on almost in-
definitely without disorganising the plot. It is
iust a fathom of music and song and dance ana
frivol cut off the length in stock, and there is no
special reason for its existence, for all the jokes
could have been put into almost any other play
and have fitted as well. But* The Belle is light
and bright and gay and springy— consequently it
goes. And when a play of this kind goes, that
means that it stays.
* *
Dvorak, the Bohemian composer, after
lonresidence in America, was moved to compose
a Great Work to which he gave the comprehensive
label, “The New World.” This symphony
has spots of “brooding charm,’’ and suggestions
of “forest vastnesses,” intimations of Niagara,
and America at Work, with reminiscences
of Longfellow’s “Hiawatha.” It is fitted
with all the melodious' forms of noise-
adagio, allegro, andante, scherzo and finale
—that every well-conducted symphony carries
in its (musical) box. It is of fearsome
length, so the finale was a long way from the
languid opening of the tone picture, but the big
audience that went to Sydney Town Hall last
week to hear the Amateur Orchestra, for the first
time working at “The New World,’ kept
chairs down for the whole performance. Ihe tact
that the Philharmonic had given the same
symphony also for the first time a week
previously was regarded by Sydney melo-
maniacs as an amazing coincidence. Quite as
curious as if the Japanese fleet had entered Aus-
tralian waters at the same time as the Americans.
Mr. Bradley, who conducted the Philharmonic
rendering, and Mr. Slapoffski, who waved the
stick over the Amateur Orchestral, have followers
who think that the performance of the othe>'
fellow’s forces couldn’t compare with ours.
** * *
“Every good Australian should be a
boomerang” was a telegram Ada Crossley received
from her native Gippsland. It was a local
color hint, and leads up not very .straiglitly to the
announcement that the Crossley concerts are fixed
for October 1. 3,6, 8, and 10 at Sydney Town
Hall. The contralto has come prepared with
fresh and varied programmes, and the Grainger,
Harrison, Earle and Sametini stars and starlets
will add to the shining hour with vocal or instru-
mental coruscations. Plan is at Paling’s.
** * *
Spencer’s Theatrescope, at Sydney
Lyceum, continues to break out in streaks of
brilliancy. If any man would know what
Elysium is like, let him go to the Lyceum
and gaze upon the film entitled The Old Shep-
herd, which unfolds a fleeting paradise of
tumbling cascade and snowy peak. It is good -
so long as one can see it without having
to climb over it, and in Elysium the flymg-
machmes will be perfect. The Fran co-British
Exhibition is now on tap, and makes a
brave show. The coloring of the fairy tale
of “Puss in Boots” is the best seen up to date,
having quite got away from the crudity which
usual]v characterises these tinted projections. On
Eight-llour Day the public will have the luxury
of watching the Theatrescope at both the Lyceum
and the Sydney Town Hall, the latter having
been engaged by Mir. Spencer, who has the knack
of getting in early. The early bird gets the hall
as well as the worm. The early fish gets the
worm also—but that is another story.
* ' * * %
Abdullah’s Moorish Arabs continue to be
the mainstay, mizzen-mast and most of the
rigging at Sydney Tivoli. In fact, they are the
whole ship, barring the lee-scuppers and the bilge-
water. The only thing this
scribe can compare their turn
to is the effect produced by
throwing a pecjt of fireworks
MR. BURT SHEPARD,
of Rickards' Co.
into the centre,
of a bonfire, or
dropping a shov-
elful of hot cin-
ders into the
middle of a
coiled -up boa-
constrictor. The
Meymotts have
a new sketch,
called “Naval
Manceu vres,”
and, as it care-
fully avoids any-
thing whi c h
might fire a train
of thought, it is
very popular.
Burt Shepard,
the “ entertain-
er,” provides his
own piano accompaniment, and gathers bushels
of applause whilst the orchestra rests m
the shadow of the stage. In the nndst
of the modern turns, the Barnard family
rattles considerable fun out of its dolls;
Rochfort and Hart sing duets; Fanny Ppwers
gives smart imitations; and Austin Rudd will ask
the audience to drink with him for the last time
on Friday night. On Saturday he goes down to
the deep in the good ship Orontes, boupd for
England’s foggy Strand.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for lurM^w
subjects constantly arriving. Machines parts
and accessories stocked. Write Jerdan’s
Ltd., George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
The cough that is contracted in the winter,
and which continues through the spring and
summer, nearly always indicates some throat or
lung trouble, and should not be neglected. The
ordinary cough medicine may soothe the throat,
but it has not the power to heal. Recovery is
not complete, and a second attack is more liable
to follow. You cannot get a better medicine for
coughs of this description than Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is
an excellent medicine for all throat and lung
trouble, for it not only soothes the irritation, but
it heals the affected parts, and leaves them in
such a healthy condition that the danger of a
second attack is removed.*
Dr. J. B. Nash writes interestingly in the.current Lone
Hand on “ The Anatomy of a Violinist,” illustrating his
article with studies of the muscles of Kubelik from
photographs specially taken for Tiie Lone Hand.*
Sir Rupert Clarke has given Messrs. W. S.
Iveast and Co. instructions to cut up 10,000 acres of the
Diggers’ Rest and Rockbank Estates, situated within 16
to 20 miles of Melbourne, in blocks from 100 to 640 acres.
The average area will be about 300 acres. The land is
suitable for either grazing or agricultural purposes, and
terms of 10 years will be given. At the last subdivisional
sale of portion of this estate 16,000 acres were sold in one
day, and not a single block passed in. Further particu-
wiil be found on page 33.*
McMahon and Carroll, at Sydney Queen’s
Hall, have replaced the Australian drama of Rufus
Dawes with Boldrewood’s stirring romance,
“Robbery Under Arms.” The film presents
outlawry in a pleasing guise, and make the weary
city dweller feel the promptings of the primeval
savage—the desire to go baresark, break into a
gun shop, and take to the bush. The only
objection to the Queen’s Hall show is the retention
of the obsolete illustrated song.
** * *
That excellent film exhibition known as
West’s Pictures now leads a fugitive existence at
Sydney Town Hall, and on Saturday night its
representations' were up to the top storey and
roof-garden of the firm’s high standard. The
show opened with the Burns-Squires fight and
then streaked away to Germany, where the life of
the impecunious German officer was shown in
detail. The passage of a force of dragoons across
the river Elbe had atmosphere, and the fearful
results that follow the reckless use of a vacuum
cleaner were' represented with vividness. These
machines are evidently dangerous.
#* * *
“The Taming of the Shrew,” minus the
“Induction,” or rather a number of extracts
from that ancient comedy, presented in a more
or less coherent manner, got a pretty warm
welcome from the crowd at Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
hist Saturday. The production is not reverently
Bhakspearian, or strikingly artistic, or very
skilfully abbreviated, but it has the charm of
novelty these times, as well as the virtue of an
entertainment which is both amusing and educa*
tional. All the same, some of the virtue seems to
have been needlessly sacrificed in the mutilation of
the story. Divine William’s immortal little tree
of literature wanted a lot of pruning, but it
couldn’t afford to lose sap in the process. Any-
one not intimately acquainted with the' plot must
find a difficulty in getting the meaning of one or
two of the 11 scenes in this comedy that has been
so cut and slashed about. A little of its sense has
trickled from the incisions, and, in relieving it of
dulness, the management was compelled to eke out
the four-act show by making two of the intervals
unduly long. Of 18 characters on the programme
one woman appears to be interpolated, whereas
one of the original Shakspeare characters is miss-
ing, along with the scene wherein he first figured.
Also people of some importance in Shakspeare’s
text have been reduced to shadows by way of rid-
ding the narrative of trivial side-issues in'compli-
cation, and other people have been ruthlessly
robbed of opportunities to talk and act. In some
cases, the actors are rather unworthy of the little
that remains to them. One feels that the play has,
in a measure, been weakened down to the capa-
bilities of a company that carries what cricketers
\yould call a long batting tail.
* * « *
Tifcheradge was among the audience on
Baturday night, and the part he might have given
some weight to —the part of Katherine’s father—
was inoffensively played by Johnson Weir. Miss
Alma Vaughan made a pleasing sister to the
Shrew. Cyril Mackay, as Bianca’s successful
lover, put some force of individuality into his
decorative performance, whilst Sydney Stirling
played an unsuccessful young wooer in a tame-
and-easy manner. Myles Clifton lacked unctuous-
ness and breadth of old low-comedy method as
the servant Grumis, and for the rest only Katherine
and Petruchio mattered. Considering that all the
interest is centred in the Shrew and her Tamer,
they might have made their importance even
more marked than it was. The atmosphere of
their scenes was not fully charged with electricity,
nor in the final capitulation of the humbled ter-
magant was there any real pathos. Miss Margaret
Anglin raged and pleaded with perfect natural-
ness in the character of Katherine, but the
character seemed shallow. Moreover, it was not
very picturesquely represented in the scenes of
storm and stress. At the finish, Katherine, in a
simple white dress, was hardly recognisable as
the rebellious bride of yore. The Petruchio of
Henry Kolker certainly erred in the direction of
farcical comedy, though his boisterousness was
never aggressive. Petruchio might have been a
self-respecting cowboy from Texas. He carried a
long-thonged whip, with which he cracked accom-
paniments to his jokes. One liked Petruchio for
his heartiness and keen perception of the points
he had to make, but there was no getting away
from the idea that he was bossing a circus. Which
suggests that “The Taming of the Shrew” has
strong claims to popularity.
** * *
The seriously musical company at Mel-
bourne Royal is still singing “The Lily of
Killarney ” to audiences largely out of sympathy
with sentimental opera. Also
the principals thus far have
continued to do very well,
and the chorus, whose
work is comparatively
light, has improved
with practice. Like-
wise the Water
Cave, where the
Colleen Bawn
nearly loses her
life in defence of
her marriage cer-
tificate, is a meri-
torious stage illu-
sion. But if the
opera were a glove
fight it would pro-
bably give more
pleasure to some
among the patrons
of John Wren’s
theatre, whose
large, outstanding
ear for music is
highly uncultivated
at present. “ Mari-
tana ” is in re-
WILSON PEMBROKE
us Hardress Cregan in
“ The Lily of Killarney.”
hearsal, and when the heavy tenor has finished
warbling' to his mavourneen he will want to like
a soldier fall.
** * *
At Melb. Princess’s the nights of “The
Red Mill ” are numbered to two more only and
Melbourne feels as though a gay and frivolous some-
thing were about to pass from its life. On Satur-
day the banner of Herbert Flemming will
wave over the place where Ford and Leslie
are now turning somersaults. The Fleming co
will introduce “The Morals of Marcus” tolocai
consideration. Mr. Judkins, Premier Bent and
other well-known critics of human frailty, are said
to have booked seats for the first performance If
Marcus proves unsatisfactory in his morals the
management will probably “be served with an
injunction, and then Miss Beatrice Day will have
to make her appearance as Judith Mainwaring
before the Full Court. &
Mrs. Lee, at Melb. Bijou, is singing Tosti’s
Good-bye to her Lodgers this week. In fact,
she has been singing the same ballad with good
feeling and expression for some time past, but
now is her last week on the job. “Miss Lanca-
shire Limited,” who is much the same as Miss
Baines, unlimited, will fill the bill on Saturdaj',
and for a short season only that energetic spinster
will challenge attention.
*# * *
“The Gayest of the Gay,” produced at
Melbourne King’s last Saturday, is a rather
tedious spectacle. It exhibits a lady (Kate Lati-
mer), who forsakes virtue for a tepid brand of
vice, being induced to that heroic course by a set
of circumstances in which one Hubert Steele
figures as a bold, bad Lucifer, with an overdraft
of silky moustache. Hubert, who strides into the
narrative like an eely shopwalker directing Mrs.
Smiffkins to the Manchester department's the
snide companion of Kate’s husband, .lack Lati-
mer, and is slowly ruining that ridiculous young
man by the wearisome media of the bar
and racecourse. Hubert’s intentions are strik-
ingly obvious from the start. His absurd
Norfolk suit, which has the cold loveliness of a
sonnet; his choice, insinuating language, like a
Niagara of strawberries and cream ; his generally
beauteous demeanor—all foretell the would-be
Tertium Quid inserted between the leaves of an
idyll, so to speak. Mrs. Kate is indeed the
mistress-designate of this nefarious bloke, who,
with really sickening success, gets her to believe
that hubby numbers infidelity amongst his other
excesses, while he shifts the credulous Jack off
the premises on a sham accusation of murder.
I hereupon, Katie endeavors to salve her outraged
feelings by a totally illogical burst of vapid wicked-
ness. She becomes Belle Bascombe, “ the gayest
of the gay,” and, in an apartment that is a
litany of pink paperhanging and open-work
stocking, tries to be a frightfully shocking
young person. As a matter of fact, she isn’t.
Her sad, tentative sort of Bohemianism leans to
the garish innocence of a nail-driving competition.
Nothing very much happens in the pink apart-
ment save the dreary soliloquies of Belle and an
Irish waiter, and a solemn atonement in the form
of a dance by six brightly-garbed girleens. But
the long-absent Latimer reappears as a greying
millionaire, with an address at a flash hotel and
an imperishable habit of distributing largesse
amongst broken-down, stone-broke toffs. One or
two of these fasten on to him with charac-
teristic adhesiveness, while he learns of Kate’s
alias and shady accomplishments with the mien
of an offended demi-god. Meanwhile, Hubert has
inveigled Belle to Latimer’s apartment in the
swell pubbery, and she arrives just in time to
witness that personage murdering her twin sister
in mistake for herself. So she becomes her own
sister, Nurse Susan Meredith, and would possibly
continue in that guise if the arrest of her own
husband for her own murder did not compel her
to declare herself. Finally, Hubert is snared
into a pair of wristlets, while Kate, alias
Belle, alias Susan, drifts back into the
matured stage of ’orrie purity and respectability,
just as unaccountably as she drifted out. For an
epilogue, it might be mentioned that, as Kate,
etc., Miss Eugenie Duggan isn’t any more dread-
ful than a bath bun. Her spacious, arena-like
style reaches the summit in the cause of virtue,
but it rather makes a guy of vice. George Cross
is a satisfactory Jack Latimer, with a slowly-
growing fad for high-heeled bootage ; while Lau-
rence Dunbar, as Hubert Steele, is as unusually
unusual as usual—except that his fathom-
less “Ha, ha!” is being refined and sub-
tilised into a thing of terrible meaning.
Bert Bailey is a much more abashed person than
previously. He has to meander in and out of his
own patented brogue as an Irish waiter with a
passionately respectful attitude towards the
gentry. Wherever possible and his oppor-
tunities are as scanty as the traditional over-gar-
ment of Eve—he fires frivolous remarks into the
auditorium. Other parts are more or less capably
taken by the MissesGuildford and LenaLangridge,
Temple Harrison, Edmund Duggan, and Max
Clifton; while the scenery abundantly justifies
itself. , a
* # #
At Melbourne Olympia last Saturday night
T. J. West guided a house, that was voluminous
in the aggregate waist-band, through the views,
reviews, and shivoos of the Quebec Ter-eentenarv
Celebrations. He also discoursed interestingly
concerning the French Mediterranean fleet, and
otherwise maintained the conversation with more
than an ordinary amount of interest.
* * He-
Melbourne Town Hall, for the next few
nights, will resound with the vocal efforts of the
Welsh Male Choir, late of Sydney, Brisbane, and
other Australian cities. The Taits (who 1 were
staunch Australian democrats ere they took to
wealth and fell from grace) insist on the fact that
the Welsh Choir is renowned in Britain for the
amount of royal patronage bestowed on it. In
spite of that suspicious circumstance, Melbourne
will grant the alleged Welshmen an unbiassed
hearing. On Saturday they gave their first
matinee. Talking of Saturday matinees at the
Town Hall, The Bulletin is reminded that Miss
Katherine Goodson, the pianist, will be there on
the 10th.
** * *
At Glen’s Concert Hall three recitals by
Edward Beeves are due this week, and if the
verdict of Adelaide on its popular monologuist is
endorsed by Melbourne the visitor will doubtless
have to recite some more for the sake of General
Desire.
* * * iK
Melbourne w'as neither charmed nor
grieved last Saturday by the very new and
unusual comedy drama, “ The Vicissitudes of
Vivienne,” wherewith Miss Sumner Locke sought
the bubble reputation even at an amateur com-
pany’s mouth. The hand of the unworldly woman
writer could be seen ten times in every act
of Miss Locke’s wordy play, but the pro-
mise of something better next time was
equally apparent throughout. The young
lady revealed practical ideas of dramatic
effect in constructing a stage story, and she
showed a fine audacity in depicting her hero
and heroine as “ a pair of idealists.” They were
far too idealistic to have a sense of humor. Their
mother, the young authoress, has little or no sense
of the difference between the ridiculous and the
sublime, consequently she will always aim high—
at a mark far above the head of the audience.
Missing the mark she may perchance hit an audi-
ence in its heart, or its fancy. The “Vivienne”
play was well treated by the amateur co. The
leading lady, Miss Jolliffe, varied the monotony
of her idealistic character by disguising herself as
an elderly lady named Potts and a seraphic youth
named Albert, both disguises being cleverly
executed.
. * * *• *
At Melb. Opera House a new and original
First Part fills a rather long-felt want. A promise
of further newness in the second part may be in-
ferred from the announcement that Osborn and
Brooks and one or two other people are on the
verge of departure.
** * *
“ 0.K.” writes:—
Another wave of Australian theatrical reminiscence has
come sweeping into print as the result of Miss Anglin’s
staging of “The Taming of the Shrew.” What strikes
me about the reminiscences in general is their reverential
regard for old British actors who obviously were not im-
mensely popular in their own country, or they would not
have made the weary sea voyage to Australia in the long
ago. For instance, Barry Sullivan, James Anderson,
Creswick, and Charles Dillon. I, too, have reminiscences
—English reminiscences—of those alleged famous actors,
and they are not at all reverential., Sullivan was a heavy,
unnatural mummer who rolled the words of Immortal
William round his tongue as though loth to part with them.
I heard him 30. years ago, when, to myyoungmiod, he was
an actor in whose acting there was no attempt at con-
cealment of the fact. He was forceful, to be sure, and
could “hold a house” with his personality ; but his
studied elocution, his pauses, and his traditional stage
walk (three strides and a halt) were old-fashioned charac-
teristics even then.
Dillon was pretty much the same sort of mummer,
whereas William Oreswick was rather easier in speech and
movement, though less powerful. And Anderson ! What
should I say of that awful tragedian as I saw him in 1873
at Drury Lane, in Andrew Halliday’s melodramatised
perversion of “ Antony and Cleopatra ”? He was then a
man of 54 (so a book informs me), yet he seemed
like one resurrected from a dead past. Lord ! how
we lads laughed at Anderson. Even his wig, fringed
with jet-black ringlets, was absurdly inhuman. His
scowl, his long-drawn-out utterances, and his trick of
turning up the whites of his eyes—these things pro-
claimed him a true representative of that good old school
of acting which youngsters held in disrespect 35 years
ago. When I read Australian eulogies of those bygone
stagers, I am persuaded that this country was far behind
the theatrical times when they visited it. Of G. V. Brooke
and Montgomery—Brooke has been drowned for nearly
half-a-century—l can only say that their portraits make
one smile.
Art of every sort was in a bad way in the English-
speaking world of the Brooke-Montgomery period. The
mummers had no idea of archaeology in mounting or
dressing their plays. America was no better or worse
than Britain, and as to some of the old heroes of the
Murkan stage, I can testify from engraved portraits of
them. Mr. C. F. Davenport, as Othello, wore short side
whiskers and a moustache. Mr. Lester, as the Prince of
Wales (afterwards Henry V.), also appeared in side
whiskers, and his elegance of deportment suggests that
he might have given a splendid impersonation of a
draper’s shop-walker. Mrs. Mowatt, as Rosalind, was
garbed in a feminine tunic for her boy disguise. She had
a circular lace collar over the tunic, and long, hanging
sleeves trimmed with lace, and long sausage ringlets kept
the back of her bare neck warm. Stodgy little Edwin
Forrest, as Hamlet, soliloquised in stodgy side whiskers,
and was further disfigured by a fashionable tuft of hair
under the lower lip. Audiences could not have been
critical, or thoughtful, to have tolerated such anach-
ronisms as whiskers of the then modern fashion on
Shakspearian characters. Neither could the actors in
general have been students, or, if students, they certainly
were not artists.
There were exceptions, no doubt. Speaking from mv
own recollections, X would say that Samuel Phelps was a
convincing character actor of artistic tastes. Before my
time of theatre-going Phelps had kept classic drama alive
at a London suburban theatre (Sadler’s Wells) for 18 years,
during which time he produced 34 of Shakspeare’s
plays, two or three of Beaumont and Fletcher’s, and
“The Fool’s Revenge” (taken, like “Rigoletto,” ftom
Victor Hugo’s “Le Roi s’amuse”), and “ Louis XI.” Phelps
practically restored “Midsummer Night’s Dream” to the
stage—i.e., he was the first manager to reveal its scenic
possibilities. Also he was the real revivalist of “The
Taming of the Shrew.” The play, it is said, was not pro-
duced in any form after Shakspeare’s death until Garrick
faked it into a farce ; but in 1844 the original corned}' was
revived, induction and all, without scenery. Phelps gave
it a careful staging, and took the part of Christopher Sly
in the induction, but the London Spkctator of the period
(1856) reckoned that the game was not worth the candle.
Garrick’s “Katherine and Petruchio” had been de-
plored bv worshippers of the Bard as a vulgar product of
the preceding age. The Spkctator’s critic wrote : “From
the representation at Sadler’s Wells we may infer that
our immediate ancestors were not such mere blockheads
as rigid Elizabethans would have us suppose. The story
in which Katherine and Petruchio are the principal
figures shakes the audience with laughter, and the In-
duction with the tinker of Mr. Phelps, is a choice piece of
low comedy ; but the dull, tangled tale of Bianca and her
suitors is scarcely worth reviving.”
It seems then, that the present Melbourne performance
of the whole comedy, minus the Induction, is chiefly in-
teresting as showing whether the “ tangled tale,” which
wag dull in Phelps’ revival, has been made to look bright
by more modern art in Shakspearian acting and stage
management.
#* * *
“A Beggar on Horseback,” at Adelaide
Royal, is scored all over with the cheap effects of
the second-rate romancer of the modern Ameri-
can school. Brave men snarl and sneer and score
small verbal subtleties. The hero stands up to a
loaded pistol with the schoolgirlish remark,
“ You’ll miss. Temper spoils the aim ” ; and he
sees a heaten opponent go out to certain death
with a jeering “ A pleasant journey to eternity ! ”
For the uncritical, the play is full of stirring
situations, compounded from “Zenda,” “Beau-
caire ” and “Sweet Nell,” with a Stan-
ley Weyman fight on the staircase thrown in;
and it is oddly complicated by the polite Alphonse
and Jules straight out of a New York Sunday
supplement! Harcourt Beatty, Gaston Mervale,
and Miss Madge Mackintosh revel in fat parts, and
there is much good support, E. B. Russell, as
George the First, being specially notable. The co.
has also revived that fine tragedy “ Fedora,” in
which the three principals already named get all
the limelight that is going. The Fight has been
flickering at quite a number of places, and con-
certs are everywhere ; a State school choir of 1000
voices has supplied perhaps the most notable of
the sound-waves.
(For “Poverty Point ” see page 33.)
Died lately in Melbourne, G. W. Bruce,
of Paterson, Laing and Bruce, one of the oldest
inhabitants of “ The Bane.” He came from Ire-
land, which is a good place to bring a man up in
if you want him to have a fine contempt for Free-
trade and big landlordism. So G. W. Bruce
though he did live in “The Lane,” was an earnest
Protectionist, and when a fair State tariff arrived
he started out on a crusade in favor of factories
The one he was most interested in was the Dentoii
Hat Mills; and, though he retired from P., L.
and B. some years ago, he helped the highly
successful hat factory as chairman of directors to
the last.
Passed out at Portland (Vic.), aged 48,
Father Guilfoyle. The deceased, who was ad-
ministrator of St. Patrick’s Cathedral, Ballarat,
had a name for generosity that, on account of its
freakishness and unusualness, looked like an
eccentricity. It is declared that the bulk of his
income vanished into the pockets of needy persons.
He supplied many a deadbeat with blankets and
billy-can, and even, on one occasion, removed his
boots to present them to a shoeless wayfarer who
was looking for a job. A few months prior to his
death he was presented with a purse of IGS
sovereigns, contributed by Homans and Protes-
tants alike. He declined the money and pro-
posed that it should be distributed amongst the
Ballarat poor. He leaves behind him a lot of
friends and certain boots and old clothes.
W. H. Irvine looks very like a candidate for
the mantle of Deakin when Deakin is done with it.
Irvine’s speech in the House of Reps, last week be-
gan with a protestation of his anxiety for the white-
ness of Australia to be assured by a strong immi-
gration and defence policy, and the bursting up
of big estates. Also, he professed a sincere desire
for much more effective legislation against Trusts
than had yet been put on the statute book,” and
he thought that the Australian Government would
have to obtain control of commercial and indus-
trial relationships throughout the Commonwealth.
Wherefore, Mahon, of Westralia, likened the
utterance of Irvine to “a ray of sunshine through
a blizzard,” and accepted the utterer as one of
those rare, exceptional leopards that are capable of
changing their spots. The fact that the Icicle
of yore has found somebody to call him a ray of
sunshine doesn’t prove that the leopard has shed
its spots, but it suggests that the animal, having
gummed paper over its spots, is watching for an
opportunity to spring.
The anti-Nationalists have been explain-
ing loudly of late that even if Dalgety is selected
as the Federal city nothing will come of the selec-
tion as “New South Wales will never grant the
land.” Which is very large and bumptious, but
it doesn’t necessarily mean anything. Should the
High Court decide —as it almost certainly will if
appealed to—that the consent of the N.S.W.
Legislature is not required at all, then the land
will just be taken. Or if, by any apparently
impossible chance, the High Court decides that
the consent of the N.S.W. Legislature is neces-
sary, then there are two possibilities:—(l) that
the N.S.W. people will throw out the Wade push
and get a decent and sane Legislature; (2) that
the Constitution will be amended so that the
capital can be put in some other State where the
Legislature isn’t so unreasonable and cantanker-
ous, or in the Northern Territory, where there
will be no State Legislature to be consulted.
N.S.W. should be a brighter place poli-
tically now that B. R. Wise has returned after
three years’ absence in England, two of which
were forced on him by illness. Wise has been
often wrong in politics; but he was always
courageous, and when he saw the right course fol-
lowed it. In course of time—not at the prompting
of self-interest, for Wise had a perfect genius for
choosing a disadvantageous time for a change—
he shed all the musty old traditions of Cohdenism,
Freetrade, individualism, the borrowing habit in
public finance, and so on. Always he was a good
Australian ; it was indeed the national awakening
of the Federal movement that put him definitely
on the right track in politics. A warm welcome
should now await him in Australia.
J. L. Nanson, who dodged in and out
between politics and journalism in Westralia a
few years ago, and then quitted the State and
stayed away for a couple of years, got back just in
time to be nominated for Greenough again. And
now, because he was elected, trouble is threaten-
ing oyer the usual vague clause in the State’s Con-
stitution Act. To be qualified for the Assembly
a man must have “resided in Wesfralia for 12
months,” and the puzzle is whether any 12months
will do, or whether it has to be the 12 months
prior to the election. Pat Stone, whom Nanson
disturbed so unexpectedly, wanted Nanson’s nomi-
nation shut out; but the authorities wouldn’t take
the risk of that, so Nanson scores first point. And
when he got most votes, he scored nine points
more. But the votes he got couldn’t, anyhow,
have included one of his own, because whether he
is entitled to be a member or not, he clearly
wasn’t entitled to be a voter.
The cables mentioned, one day last week,
that, owing to “ruinous sectional disputes,” the
big English ship-builders, Furness, Withy and Co.,
were threatening to close down their building
works. Still, there was the moderately cheerful
addendum that Christopher Furness didn’t want
to do anything rash, and therefore, before putting
an end to the ruin, proposed that a conference
should meet on October 7. It so happened that,
on the very day word of the ruin arrived by cable,
Furness, Withy and Co.’s last balance-sheet
arrived by mail; and the report remarked that,
“in spite of the unprecedented depression . .
accentuated by the unsettled labor conditions, the
accounts show a net profit of £327,926 for the
year.” Poor beggars !—no wonder Chris. Furness
didn’t want to do anything rash ! What cor-
morants these Labor fellows are, though, to think
that a firm can spare a bit out of a mere £327,926 !
Not satisfied even with collaring public
land sales money and treating it as revenue, the
N.S.W. State Government actually, last year,
included these items under the same heading : ’
Centennial Park land sales .. .. .. . _ jgjg goo
Proceeds of sales of resumed and acquired lands'. 62’195
Apparently, therefore, the State buys property
with loans, and then the “Reform ” Government
sells the property and <?alls the proceeds revenue.
The difference between that and manufacturing
surpluses out of loans is too small to be visible
without a microscope.


Greenhide=Soled
TENNIS SHOES
SHOE, as illustration, made of
Best Tan Russia Calf with
Greenhide Soles. The most
satisfactory Shoe for Tennis,
Croquet, Bowling, Yachting, etc.
Price 22/6 p".
The initial outlay is certainly
more than the Rubber-Soled
Shoe but as this Shoe will wear
for years, it is undoubtedly more
economical.
David Jones Ltd
SYDNEY.
h
Post Free throughout the
Commonwealth.
m i
F. BIRTLES
THE INTREPID CYCLIST,
carried a
Harrington “Ensign” Camera
8300 miles, through Flood and Fire, across Australia, and
it is AS GOOD AS NEW.
The “Ensign Superte” Cameras S./'r 1
Cameras. Suitable for PLATES or FILMS, fitted with First-Class Lenses.
Durable and Effective Adjustments. Compact and Light.
The “ ENSICN SUPERBE” Ko. 10, Beck Lens f/8, £/ 5 / 5.
Automat Shutter, for i-Plates. Price,
“ENSIGN SUPERBE” No. 10 V., Ensign Anastigmal Lens, f/7.7, Automat
Shutter (i- Plate), £6/6/- Postage, N.S.W., 1/3 ; Inter-State, 2/2.
15/- 21/- 30/- 50/-, and upwards, and Photo Materials of Every Description.
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 George St. (Near G.P.0.), Sydney; 179 Collins St, Melbourne; 93 Queen St, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A FINE DISTINCTION.
Lord Jersey, I need hardly say, was very good indeed
He and Lady Jersey contrived in many ways to give
pleasure to all the New South Wales and Australian visi-
tors in London. — CARRUTHERS.
INTERVIEWEE: "By the reap , Mr. Carruthers,
which were you during your sojourn in Lon-
don, a New South Welshman or an Aus-
tralian?”
The only sailors of the Yankee Fleet who
have learned anything about Australia the
every-day sane Australia —are the fellows who
deserted. The others left us with the impression
that we go off our heads at slight provocation and
are burdened with about 5000 members of .Parlia-
ment, who order unlimited “ functions” daily at
the country’s expense. Brother Jonathan had
never before encountered so much hysteria, so
many members of Parliament, or such a shocking
superfluity of function as he was beset with here-
abouts.
Twelve months or so
back, when the Northern
(N.S.W.) coal-miners were
asking for more pay because
the trade was so brisk, the
daily papers allowed them-
selves to be filled up with
yarns simply slopping over
with indignation. T hesa
brazen fellows, it was alleged,
were earning just over £1 a
day in some cases. The fact
was carefully suppressed that
the coal - hewing business
comes in spurts, and that,
though they might be averag-
ing 10 days a fortnight just
then, at normal times they
wouldn’t average more than
about seven. Things in
the coal trade aie still a
lot better than normal,
yet atCessnock —about
the busiest part of the
Northern field—Aber-
dare worked only 7j-
shifts last fortnight,
Neath 6f, East Greta
six, and Stanford-
Merthyrsix. Closer
in to Newcastle
things were a lot worse
than that in a good many
cases; the Co-operative and
West Wallsend worked only 5f days ; Back Creek,
5i ; Duckenfield, 4|; Sea Pit and Seaham, four ;
and Rhondda, 2f. And up to now not one of those
daily papers that inferred that the Newcastle
miners were rapacious brigands has said a word of
apology or explained that a few months back its
four legs were pulled in a disgraceful attempt to
unfairly influence the public against a community
of decent, hard-working men.
* * * *
It is significant that, so far, Parson Worry-
all, of Bendigo (Vic.), and the other busybodies
who loosely charge miners with wholesale gold-
stealing, have maintained a painful silence about
the affair of the Wheel Ellen G-. M. Co. with
which Justice Higgins had to deal the other day.
When the Worryalls were told that to take a
specimen now and then was “a custom of the
trade,” they nearly exploded ; they said it would
be bad enough for one or two men to do it, but
for many to do it—-why, it was a thousand times
worse ! Yet when directors and such-like large
fry plead “custom of the trade,” the Worryalls
are so silent that they might be dead. Presum-
ably they don’t consider it gold-stealing when the
gold is minted.
* * * *
Victoria’s T. Bent, who talks like an
emperor when he isn't talking like a cabman,
rushed into Swinburne’s electorate, the other
Saturday, to lay a foundation-stone. After
alluding in italics to the recent ordeal of his
beloved collefigue, and in coarse capitals to the
critics of that same thin streak of sanctity, Adol-
phus said :
I take leave to deny what one and another have been
saying about our Education system. Our Education
svstem is hp&d and shoulders above that in any pait of
the world. We are contributing £700,000 a year for
primary education, and yet people complain in the news-
papers that teachers are not well housed. Low sums paid
to teachers ! If you could only see some of them up
country. Why, they are half squatters. I know one who
every Sunday rides 40 or 50 miles for sheep.
Meanwhile, this item was coming through by wire
to a Melbourne paper from Chiltern
The broken-down, dilapidated school-teacher’s residence
at Upper Black Dog Creek having been reported to the
Education Department as a “ scandal to civilisation and
an insanitary, damp and time-worn structure, the Depart-
ment has promptly given orders for the place to be fumi-
gated and put into a habitable condition.
And that sort of thing turns up almost daily-
barring the item about repairs. The item about
repairs turns up very seldom indeed.
* * * *
Melbourne is just now in the throes of
one of its periodical campaigns against Flossie,
and the same old futile circus is the result.
Terrorised by a dismal parson, who threatened
dire revelations if they didn’t move the lady
on, the police are busy shooing her into the
courts, where, more often than not, a tired P.M.
shoos her out again. It is abreathless and barren
proceeding, and none realise it more than the
Johns. They know, just as everybody hut the
ordinary parson knows, that to shove her off her
old recognised haunts is to shove her on to some
reputable thoroughfare in the suburbs, where,
unmolested by the very scarce policeman, she be-
comes a greater nuisance than before. Quite a
number of streets, with deep, dark sides, which
formerly had the,stainless reputation of lovers’
walks and such things, have degenerated into
beats for the damsel of the dubious complexion
and the stipendiary smile. In her regular strolling
ground she was always expected, but m her new
situation she is unprecedented, and bumps into
respectable Freetraders and other nice old gentle-
men on their way home from the theatres or clubs.
Naturally enough, they snort and write furious
letters to the papers about the increase of im-
morality. So Flossie is shooed some more and
descends in great strength upon another nicely
conducted suburb, where some more outraged
citizens take to further bitter correspondence.
4nd so the stupid habit of shooing her all round
the atlas, so that she becomes a regularly visiting
plague of frills and openwork stocking, goes on
and on to the accompaniment of a howling chorus
from the pulpits.
THEY MISSED THE BUS.
“ She said she’d he very angry if I kissed her , so
I didn't; hut I might as well, for she got
quite huffy all the same."
The Bulletin has received this letter :
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.
Department of Physiology.
Berkeley, August 6, 1908.
The Editor of The Bulletin. , /on ni\a\
Dear Sir,—in a recent number of The Bulletin(2/7/08)
appears an advertisement of a “medical” appliance,
wherein is contained an “ announcement ’ purporting to
have been made by Professor Jacques Loeb, of the Uni-
versity of California. ...
I beg to state that I have never made any such an-
nouncement” nor any statement which could be construed
to that effect ; that the so-called “ announcement is a
puerile absurdity, and that it is an impudent and wholly
unauthorised use of my name. . W j.
I wish further to inform you that I am not in the habit
of lending my name in support of any such nostrums ;
that I have never authorised the use of ray name for any
advertising purposes ; and that, moreover, I do not intend
to do so at any future time. If, therefore, my name
appears in any “ medical ” advertisement whatever, it is
Since the appearance over his name of the extravagant
absurdities with which the advertising person deludes the
public is, with justice, extremely detrimental to the repu-
tation and good name of any Scientific man, I sincerely
hope that you will publish this letter in full in your
columns at as early a date as possible.
I am, yours, etc.,
J acques Loeb.
• * * *
Melbourne Hospital, which has an utterly
lamentable record for deciding that the patient
who is brought to its doors is drunk, and for
getting him run in to die in a police
cell, was at it again a week or so
ago. The case o_f Albert Kaye was
diagnosed as “disorderly conduct”
—at least, that was the charge
made ; but as the accused promptly
died of pneumonia there are fears
now that a mistake may have hap-
pened. Kaye lived a very short
time after the hospital rejected him
as a loony individual who merely
required to be turned out to grass
in a sunny asylum paddock, but the
inquest lasted a long while. That
length of time gave opportunity for
the case of Joseph Minogue to
come along. ’ Minogue’s _ trouble
was apparently the breaking of a
blood vessel on the brain, but the
hospital figured it out as plain
beer. So Minogue was taken home,
but as the alleged beer-disease kept
getting worse he was brought back
next day, and arrived just in time
to die on the'hospital premises. So
Kaye’s inquest and Minogue’s in-
quest were finished on the same
day, and the two reports appeared,
one after the other, in the Age.
And the relatives of Kaye and
Minogue are probably annoyed.
Some people get angry about mere trifles.
* * * *
Seems that Jewry has its “unwritten
law ’’ too, the same being to the effect that no-
body in business as pawnbroker or usurer shall be
a member of the managing committee of any
synagogue. Sydney, like London, it appears, has
always observed the unwritten law, but Mel-
bourne has let ’em all come ; and St. Kilda—
whose Cohen is mostly in the wholesale line—
doesn’t like it. Therefore the St. Kilda congre-
gation earnestly debated at great length, the
other day, whether the unwritten law shouldn t
be made a bit more legible. Finally it decided
that, since it obeyed the unwritten law itself, it
wasn’t its business if some other congregatn n
didn’t; and so the law still remains unwritten,
and there isn’t any ink on the linger of reproach
which St. Kilda points at the metropolitan syna-
gogue.
Melbourne’s water mains are old and
rotten. Many of them have been down 50 years ;
in all that time there has been no systematic
attempt at renewal. They are very small; their
diameter was calculated on the needs, of a ci y
less than one-fifth of Melbourne’s present size,
and the interior collection of rust and fungus and
other deposits is said in many cases to have re-
duced the original size by one-half. The dreadful
things burst pretty regularly now and rip up the
highways ; some day, perhaps, half-a-mue otold
main will go in one act and throw that length ot
Swanston-street into the air, with tram-cars,
carriages, dogs, plate-glass windows, horses, fruit-
barrows, men, Dagoes, perambulators, and stock-
in-trade. The other day a plumber, digging a
hole in Bourke-street, came accidentally on one
of these beautiful properties of the Board ot
Shirks. He looked at it too hard, and of course it
hurst. The plumber was thrown up to a consider-
able distance, and came down hard ; also an
adiacent drapery was struck a severe blow on the
chiffon by 10 tons of water. Nothing will stop
this kind of freak until Melbourne gets a complete
new set of mains—and the old ones aren t paid
for yet !
THE PEOPLE.
ARTIST: "They pamper up the man who can
grow the biggest turnip or the fattest pig , but
they never buy anything to beautify their
homes. "
An invention to locate the position of
wrecked ships was the chief talk of a junior
officer of the Connecticut. The notion bears sense
on its front. “Just,” he said, “glue a copper
ball—hollow, mind, hollow—to any part of the
upper works. The glue must be so'ubie. You
fasten the ball with a reel line attached, that s
so. When the vessel sinks, after a while the
cement dissolves, up comes the copper ball and
bobs about. It’s anchored to the ship, you see.
Oh, yes, make it as big as you like, and color it as
you please, but it’s easily picked up, I assure you.
It’s one of our navy devices, and pays for itself
every time.”
A MATTER OF BUTTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
London, Thursday Evening.—The Morning Leader
states that Mr. T. Price, the Premier rifiSoiith Australia,
and Mr. Kidston, Premier of Queensland, are thoroughly
ridiculous in reproaching the Motherland for not using
Australian butter, and in proof quotes the high prices
ruling in Australia.— Cablegram.
As Britannia grows old
She is starting to scold
And to grumble and murmur and mutter
With particular stress
Through her half-penny press,
’Mid much fussing and fuming and clutter !
If we canvass for trade
Little progress is made,
Spite of Ooghlan, Carruthers and Suttor;
For we ought to prefer
To get shoddy from her,
And should get it from nobody but her !
“ Buy of me ! Buy of me !
I’m yer mother, yer see ! ”
Are the words she will constantly utter.
Yet she shrinks from our touch
If we send her too much
Of “ Colonial ” produce to glut her!
But she buys of the Dane
And believes, it is plain,
If she didn’t he’d put up the shutter.
And the thought makes her cross,
For a foreigner’s loss
Sets her motherly bosom a-fluttcr 1
And her statesmen don’t care
How the country may fare,
While if leaves them the “ lofter ” and “ putter,”
And the new style of coat,
Buttoned up to the throat,
In the places of The Tailor and Cutter 1
’ So the statesmen, you see,
With the pressmen agree,
And they care not how Kidston may splutter!
They may find something nice
In the butter of Price—
But they can’t stand the price of the butter !
N.S.W.
W.T. GOODGE.
THE RECHABITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
take Christian Endeavor Coherence
Give me the open drunkard ;
His sort makes me exult.
I loathe those on whom liquor
Produces no result.
The type who’s had one lager
(No more, no less), I find
Excessively depressing,
I’d rather he were blind.
Calling upon my Church-folk,
The Word beneath my arm,
I feel serene and cheerful
And free from all alarm
If, as I sound the knocker,
Howls of “ Ther blanky skunk !
Give me the axe ! 111 out im !
Show someone’s fighting drunk.
At public entertainments
(State banquets and the like)
The punishers of liquor
Who my affections strike
Are those who punish freely
And with so firm a hand
That, ere the struggle’s over,
They are too full to stand.
In brief, the man who wishes
To cheer me up and please
Will drop spasmodic drinking
And go and get D.T.’s.
Contrariwise, the drinker
Who’d see me get the hump
Will one-tenth from the cask swill
And nine-tenths from the pump.
H.B.W.
D.


A MODERN REMEDY.
That dreadful word “consumption” need never be
feared if Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is taken in time.
Thousands speak of it in the highest praise. Obtainable
everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Public Good ” section of The Lone
Hand this month contains articles on “ Sausages ”
(which seem to be largely made up of water), on
Food Adulteration, and on the Yonkermann
When Bill the Burglar got run in
He’d close cropped hair and shaven chin.
“ Why groanest thou?” the warder said.
Bill pointed to his chin and head.
“ ’Twas just my luck,” said he, “ to pay
For this short crop and shave to-day I
But all these troubles I’ll endure
If given Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure ! ”*
A One-Piece Panama.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
r
MjSjggj
Pries, 15/0.
Extra Fine Quality, 21/-
Postage, 6d. Extra.
Here’s the Panama that will give you
double the service of the ordinary kind.
Its crown is not made separately and
then woven to the remainder, as is done
with the cheaper kind. It is a one-piece
plait of the finest straw, ensuring a
superior shape and immunity from the
crown opening.
There are lower-priced Panamas ; but,
while you are about it, another shilling
or two isn’t much, and will make a
wonderful improvement in quality—as
witness this hat.j
State Size when ordering.
PEAPES
309-311
& CO. LTD.,
George Street, Sydney.
“ MEN’S &
OUTFITTERS,”
“Ledger” wri 's :
The N.S. VV. Clerks’ Union the other night elected three
delegates to meet the Shop Assistants’ Union and define
the words “shop assistant” and “clerk.” Which re-
minds me. \V hen I had squandered the first two years of my
commercial careerin certain small, scrambling premises in
Melbourne, under a boss who knew‘not mercy or common
sense, it began to dawn on me that I might do better
somewhere else. But I pondered long before I even
looked at the advertisements. In those days I had an
unreasonable horror of voluntarily' giving - up any sort of
employment, anti this, combined with an infernal capacity
for putting up with idiotic wages, long hours and inter-
minable rows, made me precious in the firm’s eyes.
Other boys, more hard-headed and possessed of less
patience than I, fled from the establishment by ones and
twos while I hung on like a misguided leech. At last,
one day, a clerkly friend told me of a vacant
post in a big legal office situated in Collins-
street. He said he had “mentioned my name”
-impressive phrase I —to the junior partner, arid that it
had been arranged I was to proceed there at 4 p.m. for
inspection. I duly presented myself at the appointed
hour and was interrogated at great length by two severe
men in eyeglasses who, at the conclusion of my examina-
tion, retired to an inner office and conferred together in
whispers. My salary at that period was 30s. per calendar
month, and my duties included—besides a little book-
keeping-sweeping up, dusting, serving in the shop, deli-
vering goods, collecting, going to the bank, chasing bad
debts in the city and rotten ones in the suburbs, acting
as bailiff under hire agreement, typewriting and
general office work. Sometimes I taught nervous
people cycling by holding them up whilst they wobbled
precariously along quiet streets. This, of course, necessi-
tated rushing along behind at a fair pace, and it was a
distressing duty—especially when the weather was hot
and the learner fat. I led a varied and, I hope, a useful
existence, but I had no official rating - . As I sat and
waited in the lawyers’ outer office, I thought, “ Here, at
least, I will have fair hours, agreeable work, and some
sort of standing. I won’t be a distracted combination of
fight porter, bailiff, bad-debt collector, salesman, and
four or five other things. I will be something definite on
a respectable screw.” My train of thought was inter-
rupted by' the entrance of the junior partner wearing
the look of a man with an unpleasant duty to perform. He
explained to mein hesitating accents that both he and his
partner had been impressed by my deportment, ability,
appearance, handwriting, testimonials and general
ensemble , but (here I groaned inwardly) I wag too young !
The only thing I lacked was experience. They required
a more seasoned clerk. I dragged myself together and
inquired dully what salary they were prepared to offer
for the undivided time and attention of a hardened man
of the world. (I had an idea of applying again in another
year or so, when 1 should be in a more perfect state.)
The junior partner—he was a verv junior partner—
instantly stunned me with nine words : “ We thought of
offering five shillings a week.” When I came to, I thanked
him humbly and rushed back to continue my lifelike
imitation of a whole warehouse staff for another five
wretchedly paid years. I don’t know how the lawyers
got on, but I presume they hired a gorilla or something
of the kind. By all means let the Clerks* Union define
the word “ clerk.”
* * * *
“ Adelaide ” ; Rather too ready to believe
all that he sees in the newspaper must be the
writer of par. (B. 17/9’/’08) about “ highway rob-
beries by masked and armed men ” in Adelaide,
and “the desperadoes still at large.” The mid-
night affrays were in the papers all right, and
they grew so thick (in every sense of that word)
that an astonished Commissioner of Police called
for a special report. It appears in the Adelaide
dailies of September 19, and classifies the eight
recent cases thus: (1) Purse-snatching. Police
know the offender, who has disappeared. If
he ever comes back they will gather him
in. (2) Boy has confessed that he spent
/o\ e ~m oney and invented the highwaymen.
(3) Robbery of tram boy. Plain fairy-tale.
JNo such tram boy known, and tram officials know
of no robbery. (4 and 5) “ Nerves ” complicated by
‘ghosts.” (6, 7, and 8) Plain drunks, waking up
m a quiet street or park with no money on them ;
“case marked off as unreliable.” That report, if
untrue, ought to mean at least six libel actions,
but as none of the persons concerned have made
a move, presumably it is fairly true. As a matter
of plain fact, Adelaide is the worst town in Aus-
tralia for thieves. The police know all the few
doubtful characters, and in case of any genuine
robbery they generally have their hands on both
the man and the goods within 24 hours. The
writer of that par should stick to his Petriana
myth and his Six Hatters lie.
* » * *
Business-like “ left luggage ” notice, from
the North West Post (Tas.)
PUBLIC NOTICE.
T SABAH FITZPATRICK, if not claimed bj'Francis
3 Fitzpatrick in fourteen daj's, will be married
again.
„. , , „ (Signed) Sarah Fitzpatrick.
Thiristane, Tasmania, August 28, 1208.
BEYOND THE ORA YE.
Give my farewell to your people, and say we hope to
carry our recollections of Australia beyond the grave.—
Admiral Sperry.
SSPERRY (reminiscently); “O yaas, I remember —
Australia nice place." (Looking round to
see that Peter is nowhere about): “Much
nicer place than this."
Doodeward’s two-headed baby, which has
already cost N.S.W. some money in law, is to
cost it some more. The High Court decided in
JJoode-.vard s favor, but State Premier Wade is
appealing to the Privy Council, “as there is a
principle at issue of great public importance,
involving the right of Christian burial.”
During all the recent squabbling between
the Sydney milk distributing cos. and the sup-
pliers as to what was a fair price for the
product of the tame kine, nobody mentioned
very vociferously the most interested party
to the dispute; and that unfortunate person
wasn’t able to stand up and say a word for him-
self. What was particularly mentioned—and it
was mentioned very loudly at their meetings by
tlie coyv cultivators—was that if the distributing
cos. didn’t accept the cow gardener’s terms no
milk would be sent to Sydney ; in other words,
Sydney would suffer the horrors of a milk famine.
Seemingly it didn’t matter to the cow artist
that even a very brief milk famine would
mean that the Australian infant —the inte-
rested party referred to above—would die
in scores, if not in hundreds. At all events,
it doesn’t appear that any thought of what might
happen to the Australian infant influenced the
cow merchant while he was talking so glibly of
going on strike. During the Sydney tram trouble
the cow manipulator was among those who wrote
long, indignant letters to the papers about the
iniquity of the men in “ paralysing industrv,”
etc v ; yet if the tram men had continued to “para-
lyse industry” for a year, they wouldn’t have
done a millionth part of the evil the cow entre-
preneur would cause in a week by stopping the
Sydney infant’s milk supply.
* * » »
“Uckle”: I was recently in Bathurst,
N.S.W.’s city of the plain (they needn’t adver-
tise the fact, though, that they are a plain-looking
lot), and was amazed to see dozens and dozens of
half-caste Chinese—or half-caste Australians, if
that sounds better. I presume this is the Southern
Cross I hear so much about. But we needn’t have
skited about it so much to the officers and men of
the Fleet.
■**.**
The Sydney carriers are in a state of in-
surrection. At Darling Harbor, where they still
preserve the methods of delivery and receipt of
goods which were in force when the Tank Stream
bubbled along drinkably through Sydney, it takes
a carter several hours to obtain the goods for
which he is sent, or to deliver those that are
already in his cart. The carters have now issued
an ultimatum that they will not go to Darling
Harbor any more unless Railway Commissioner
Johnson does something drastic. Still, if the
carter goes to a wharf to receive a load, his case is
worse—especially at Miller’s Point, where the
quaint little by ways of the’forties are supposed
to carry the traffic of 1908. The modern way of
unloading a 10,000-ton vessel with steam winches,
which pour out a huge pile of cases, mixed up
anyhow, doesn’t improve matters, and the master
carriers are threatening to throw down their tools
(i.e., their horses and carts) unless the shipping
agents and cargo agents invent some classification
scheme.
That sweet singer, Marie Narelle, who
started life as Mary Ryan and became Mary
Callaghan by marriage, has been spending a lot
of good Costs in the divorce court at Sydney, in
trying to get free of Matthew Aloysios Callaghan.
In the end his Honor took the case to what is
called in Scotland “avizandum”—which simply
means that he has gone away to do a big think.
The tale the plaintiff told was that of a home that
had been wrecked by grog, and of a 13-years’
hustle for existence on her own. Andrew Flana-
gan alleged that the respondent used to grind his
teeth in his (Flanagan’s) bar, and sundry other
witnesses narrated things which seemed to indi-
cate that Marie Narelle (who used to be Mary
Ryan) had found life a dreary passage. Appar-
ently it was five years before the end of last cen-
tury when the home broke up, and since then ali
has been gloom.
* * • *
Judge Homburg has set up a precedent
which Adelaide lawyers consider startling. In a
breach-of-promise case in the Supreme Court, the
defendant made various sensational suggestions
which resulted in, first, the lady’s doctor and then
his own being called as witnesses. The details
were altogether unfit for publication, and the
Judge announced that nobody wrnuld be allowed
jn court —this to include even lawyers if not en-
gaged in the case. There was a wide feeling that
barristers (and every S.A. lawyer is necessarily a
barrister) are in some way “ officers of the Court,”
and simply can’t be kept out if they wmnt to get
in. But nobody cared to take the responsibility
of insisting on the right to hear the exciting cir-
cumstames just for the sake of an abstract prin-
ciple ; so the precedent is established. Barristers
can.now be chased out the same as stray dogs.
About eighteen months ago The Bulletin
printed a par. about the manufacture of alcohol
from grass-trees in Westralia. 'A shindvkit
intends starting this industry in Queensland,
where it has secured from the Lands Department
the right to cut all the grass-trees pn unselected
Grown Lands in a tract of coastal country, 400
miles long and 100 miles in width, north of
OaPoolture. Works will be erected at Brisbane
and probably near Rockhampton. The liquor is
not intended for getting drunk on, but to take the
place of petrol for use in motors and fof similar
purposes. _ The same shindykit also has a notion
of extracting industrial from prickly pear.
Lands Minister Bell is Only waiting for the
proposal to materialise to throw thousands of
acres of pear-infested country at the head of the
shindykit. Prickly pear is the one thing that
Lands Minister Bell has to give away to all comers.
* * * *
About the weirdest legal point in the weird
tangle known as the N.S. W. Land Laws came up
in' the Equity Court on September 25. In 1867
the Volunteer Forces Regulation Act gave every
person who served as a Volunteer for five years a
certificate entitling him to 50 acres of land as a
free grant. These Volunteer land orders are, of
course, not now obtainable; but many of them,
when valid, were disposed of for value, being
negotiable documents, and some of them still
remain unsatisfied. It was one of these that
, bobbed up in the Equity Court. It seems that on
July 28, 1906, the Department threw open some
land near Bingara, and after the usual routine
had been gone through the land was divided up.
In 1867, Ellis and Allen, two persons long dead
for all anyone knows, had served as Volunteers
for five years. Forty years after, one Capel pre-
sented their orders and asked for 100 acres 6f good
Crown land as a free gift. The Department
replied that it would see Capel blowed first,
and Capel retorted by having the law on the
Department. Luckily for the State, Caplel lost.
But he lost most curiously. The Equity Judge
didn t say that it wasn’t the intention of Parlia-
ment to allow these orders to hang around unsatis-
fied for 40 years, to be then presented by some-
body whom “ the Crown ” didn’t know from a
bootlace. What the Judge did say was that the
Act under which Capel held his V.L.O. provides
that the only day in the week on which the land
can be applied for is a Wednesday. The day on
which this land was first available was a Thurs-
day, so the day when Capel applied was too soon ;
and by the following Wednesday it would
have been too late. Therefore Capel’s suit was
dismissed with Costs. But there is more than
this. Thursday is the universal Crown Lands
day throughout the State, and land is made
available only on that day of the week. So hence-
forth it will be impossible for Capel or any other
V.L.O. holder to satisfy his claim for the land.
Probably some cute official had the V. L. orders
in his mind when the Thursday practice was
established. Advts. are out calling on all holders
of these orders to combine for an appeal to the
High Court.
* * * *
“ N.” from Melbourne :
“ Viator ” did not go far enough back in his history of
the Jonah organ, at Wesley Church, Melbourne. ‘His
letter to you was incomplete. The organ was built by the
brothers Schlachdalager, at Krakwitz, Germany, in the
year 1313 a.d. ■ They were determined disbelievers in
luck, and organised the famous unlucky dinner of 13
guests, all of whom passed Under a ladder ; and the meal
was attended by two cross-eyed waiters. This was on a
Friday. Next Friday the brothers started to build the
Jonah organ. Each brother had two left hands, and they
were both born on Friday and had red hair. After a
very long time Pastor Dudelsac, of St. Hinnissy’s, wanted
an organ. This Jonah was fished out, and set up. Its
grunts were like those of the bgby hippopotamus. The
difficulty was to stop it. When the player thought he
had done, it would make remarks on its own. It always
gave a yawn before commencing the tune. After a cen-
tury or two St. Hinnissy’s was burnt, but Jonah came
our alive. The Horseshoe was the ship by which the
organ started for Rio, and the first mate killed an albatroig
on the way out. The vessel Was unable to get into Rio,
and it was wrecked at Port Phillip Heads. It was-
an unlucky vessel, with corpse-lights at the masthead
as a regular thing. When it was being built a man wei t
amissing, and it is understood that he was accidentally
walled up in the timbers of the ship. A great many
parsons of one kind and another had voyaged by tlie
Horseshoe, and every time this happened a seaman—
generally a Finn—fell from the topmast and was killed.
This always happened on Friday'. The parson passenger
was invariably standing underneath when the Finn fell
but the Finn never fell on the parson. The first mate—
his name was Gallows, and he was the seventh son of a
seventh son—spilt the salt at dinner, just before the
Horseshoe struck the rocks. It went down in 13ft. of
water. As already mentioned, the organ was saved and
taken ashore. Seven men have at different times fallen
down dead at the exact spot on the wharf where it landed.
It was followed persistently', as it was carted into the
cit.v, by a black cat, a lame boy and a white horse,
and when it was taken into the church, an
old hunchbacked woman, with hairs on her chin,
was waiting on the steps. I don’t know what
became of Gallows, the mate of the Horseshoe, but
the captain—Coffin was his name—was going through
Melbourne General Cemetery one dark night, and broke
his neck through stumbling over the tombstone of a
suicide who used to keep a pet raven when he was alive.
Coffin was also buried in Melbourne General Cemetery,
and for a month afterwards a black dog used to wander
round his grave. It was ultimately struck by lightning,
else it might be there yet. It seemed a very durable dog.
There was also a deformed black boy who used to haunt
Captain Coffin’s resting place. The bell of the sunken
Horseshoe still rings occasionally on dark nights and
when that happens a Finn always falls from the masthead
of an in-coming ship. These are all the facts I can re-
member about the Jonah organ.
THE
CAUTIOUS LOVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
/NUT SIDE your garden gate
- Fuming, 1 wait and wait.
Cursing the cruel fate
Which doth us separate.
Dared I but venture near
And thro’ thy casement peer,
One look from thee would cheer
My heart that’s racked with fear.
Nothing should come between,
I vowed to you, my queen ;
But I had not foreseen
That Fate could be so mean.
I rowed Fd fly to thee ;
Well, that's a lie, you see,
Hid by this friendly tree,
I must contented be.
Do not your lover doubt;
You, I shall never flout,
But your old dad’s about —
He's sworn to fting me out.
Boldly I’d play my lute,
Disking his massive boot,
Chance how straight he can shoot—
But I might hurt the brute.
Not for myself I fear, ■
Life’s not all love and beer.
Be not impatient, dear,
Wait till the coast is clear.
There’d be a fearful fight
Here in the dead o' night;
Oh ! what a shocking sight
For you, my heart’s delight.
I am so brave and stout,
He is half-dead with gout,
’ Twould be an unfair bout;
Let’s wait till he is out.
Lore’s course is never straight,
I've earned your father's hate.
See I it is getting late,
Soon he’ll go out — let’s wait.
VIC.
ALE BRASCH.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS
The “NATIONAL” CAS ENCINE and PLANT
' 1,0 Society’s ’
NATIONAL
(made in England)
beat all comers at the
fll Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the AL
Koyal » « ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented Afthur
by
Leplastrier Co., Sydney.
CAMERON &SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
RENDICO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS ABO SELLERS of all Classes of Hew anU Second-hand MimnK Plaats ” »
- -"OK WU.dldß
ras r«S=U sb s“S»‘ , £?w n -« ~
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
State Treasurer Waddell, of N.S.W., is the man
who was alleged to be such an extravagant incompetent
that Carruthers and his “Reform” crowd couldn’t stand
him any longer, wherefore, from motives of pure patriot-
ism they appealed to the country to throw him out and
put them in instead. The country took Carruthers' “ Re-
form ” seriously ; whereupon, having got into office, the
crowd played a confidence trick on andl,, i
order to strengthen its own position, took Waddell back
into the Ministry, and thus captured his little following.
More than that, the “ Reform crowd not only took M ad-
dell back, but actually put him into the Treasury. Asa
sample of disinterestedness, practical reform and pure
patriotism this was all magnificent.
Quite obviously the “Reform” crowd didn’t
care two straws about Reform, and the fierce indigna-
tion with which it had referred to Waddell’s extravagance
was sheer hypocrisy. It didn’t want Reform : it wanted
office. Naturally, therefore, the Reform has gone up the
spout. Hence, though it had an absolutely unparalleled
revenue, and though it was relieved of Defence and other
costlv services, and though it sold £894,134 worth of
public lands and collared the proceeds it only
managed to pull through last year by borrowing £2,189,000
exclusive of what was required for the repayment of
loans. Presumably there is a point at which the Wade-
Waddell crowd would be able to manage without borrow-
ing ; presumably there is a point at which it would
reckon it could pay its way without passing any of the
bill on to the next generation. But Heaven only knows
where that point is. At present it appears that the
deeper it dips into the pocket of this generation, the
more heavily it reckons it ought to plaster the next
generation with I O U’s.
Stated baldly, here are the N.S.W. figures for
the year:—
Revenue £13,995,865
Expenditure 12,481,8/6
Surplus .. £1,513,959
During the year £1,604,479 has been transferred to the
Public Works and Closer Settlement funds out of
this and previous alleged surpluses. Twaddell repeats
once more the less than half-truth that at least
two-thirds of the net proceeds of the sale of Crown lands
goes into these funds. Again and again the real character
of this statement has been pointed out. Under Land
Alienations” the Auditor-General shows that the
Treasury receipts last year were £894,134, in
addition to large amounts received from the
sale of Centennial Park and resumed lands. Yet the
transfer to the fund, apart from special grants, amounted
to only £346,070, which isn t tw'o-thirds—in -act, is verj
little more than one-third—of the money received on
account of the sale of lands. The fact is that of that
part of the purchase money which ls called interc »t,
nothing whatever is transferred to the Public Woiks
Fund. . . • •
By a piece of bad luck, on the very morning
when Waddell’s Budget speech was reported the daily
papers had to print a cable in which it was said that the
Timks’ Australian correspondent had d es orihed t
NSW surplus as mostly bogus, and had alleged that,
instead of being £1,600,000 or thereabouts, it was really
about £665,000, and that it was stage-managed for
show purposes, and served to make the State look
ridiculous.” The Treasurer, shown the wire, said it was
“beneath notice”; but it was in the main true all the
same. Twaddell wouldn’t be game to risk what an inde-.
pendent accountant, used to overhauling commercial
accounts, would say about the whole business. What
in fact does his own Auditor-General sav about it. Here
are merely two extracts from that officer s last annual
report:— , ~T . .
/i\ As to the grabbing of land sales money. it is
devoutly to be hoped that the recurring credit from land
sales Public Works Fund will not be restricted to
the two-thirds of the proceeds, but will embrace the whole
net amount received from alienation of the public estate.
The importance of utilising all receipts fromsalesof the
public estate exclusively on the assets of the State has
been so often emphasised and is so apparent that further
reference thereto seems hardly necessary. Then it tne
whole net amount received from alienation of the puhhc
estate ” should not be regarded as revenue, but as the
conversion of assets (which it is), off must co “> e least
£BOO 000 of Waddell’s surplus at one sweep. And that on
theauthority of no less a person than the State s own
Al (2) As to the a public Works Fund: “In the provisions
of the Act an authority was given to charge renewals,
and this has accordingly been done by several depart-
ments . The principle of the Act is not carried out by
arty such inclusion of costs, which should properly appear
plsewhere under working expendituie. The fake is
ouite simple. Things, bought with borrowed money,
wear out; but instead of renewing them and charging
the cost up against revenue, the charge is deferred, the
expenditure is thus curtailed, a bogus surplus is thus
„ j pup work is then paid for out of the surplus,
wtothe Public Works Fund. The extent of this little fake
isn’t -mentioned; it may, however, be put down at
£2OO 000. It is probably a great deal more. So that must
come off the alleged surplus too. .
The Times correspondent also alleged that the
NSW railways were starved. Waddell says that is
rubbish. All the same, it is significant that when a new
man arrives to take charge of the railways he always, after
looking round, insists on being provided with a million or
two to bring permanent way and rolling stock (the latter
especially) up to efficiency.
For the current year Waddell proposes to do a
little worse. With an estimated revenue (including land-
sales Toney) of £13.076,000 he reckons upon spending
£l4 449,000, which will reduce the present alleged cred
balance of £1,676,000 to £303,000. Included in the ex-
b ianf,Ti? £3OB 000 (from land sales) to the Works
thereto of and £1,000,000
to the Closer Settlement Fund. As a ".a ter o act, t e
present alleged accumulated surplus of £1,6/6 000 is only
a surplus if vou forget that there is an accumulated deficit
of £1214 516 yet to wipe out; just in the same way that
there’is only a railway'surplus so long as you forget tlmt
there is an accumulated deficiency of £3,/09,418. >
as the result of two or three “ flush ” years, short-sighted
boomsters like Waddell talk of the railways being worth
so many millions more than they cost, it, is just, as well to
remember that £3,709,418, which is the amount short of
actual interest and working expenses earned down t
date by the Department.
The one really satisfactory feature of- the esti-
mates is that Waddell proposes to transfer £1,000,000 to
the Closer Settlement Fund. In other words, he pro-
poses to get about a million of land sales money and put
V. million hack into land. Thats all right, the only
thine- is that the million received shouldn’t go into
thl ,enne at all But if it didn’t Waddell w ! ould have to
show a deficit. ‘ And the most unsatisfactory feature is
that, after assuming' a revenue of ? the
awful drifter proposes to borrow no less than ±2>65a,00U.
Some day Australia may have to borrow, or be smash
modern defensive war, for instance, practically can,tbe car
ried on except by borrowing heavily. When that happens
Australia is liable to find out that it has used up all its
borrowing powers; and then, while the enemy comes in
at the will go out by the had,: door and
throw clods at the tombstones of all the spendthrift
Treasurers whose names he can remember. And there
will be a big clod kept for Waddell, the boomster who
borrowed tremendously even when the Treasury was
alleged to be overflowing.
* * * *
The S. Aus. railways had another rattling good
year in the 12 months to the end of June
Earnings £1,741,259
Expenditure—
Working Expenses . .£969,5.50
Interest .. ..mm
Surplus.. •• £277,091
This is the biggest revenue the Departmeht has ever nad,
for though the wheat traffic was less than in the year
before, the Broken Hill mineral traffic boomed tre-
mendouslv. With regard to expenditure, the last of the
capital cost of obsolete engines and other rolling stock
has been written off to the debit of working expenses ,
and, though there are still probably some repairs
and renewals to be done to the permanent way, the
Department made good use of the metal boom and the
rush of the most profitable traffic 8. Australia has, and
had a pretty thorough cleaning up. Seven years* results
show up like this :
June, Revenue. Expenditure. Loss
1902 £1,085,175 £1,159,304
ml :: i:o76;ei2 i,o»i,iw
1904 .. 1,160,639 1,146,277 14,362
1905 . 1 273,321 1,205,521 67,8(0
IQOK 1 349 765 1,239,340 110,425
1907 ” 1,575,368 1,347,725 227,643
1908 " 1,741,259 1,464,168 277,091
This does not include the scrap of line in the Northern
Territory. The revenue of that was £14,462, and the
working expenses £14,060, thus leaving practically all the
interest (a trifle in excess of £46,700) to be added to the
accumulated deficit.
* » * *
N.Z. Farmers’ Co-operative Association oe
Canterbury (M.L.) Unex _
plained
Addi-
Writ- tions
Visible ten **° E e ' E e "
May, Profits. Dividends. Bonus, off. serves, serves.
i7i-\h io »r = £i$ as s si
tab* 8 091 9 ” 5859 5 188 1535 777 29,398
1903" 16,632 ’,’,6185 7,240 466 250 32,389
1904:: 13>47 9 ;, 5868 6,788 1548 - 31,932
S ; :l:Sw ::S 1?S? « >,SS S|«
1908" 26’,759 9,, ~9250 12,000 1300 11,297-
Some of the figures in the last line are approximate : it is
not known for certain what amount of capital carries the
9 per cent div. for all the year, and for how much of the
vear ttie balance of the capital carries the dividend.
During the year, the paid capital has been increased from
£7l 262 to £113,389. This was mainly on account of the
absorption of the North Canterbury Co-operative stores
Co Ltd.; 20,000 shares at £2 were issued on that accoun t.
A° few other shares have been a lotted mostly a a
nremium of ss. In the table, it will be ODseiveu
that a large amount has dropped into res “'
without mentioning where it came from. _
matter of fact, the total amount which has
dropped in is £13,088; but among the assets
now appear two paper items —“Goodwill and Amalga-
maHon Expenses’’-and these have been disregarded in
the foregoing, thus reducing the unexplained resen e
Lne g, a trifle of this conies no doubt
ESS pr «.“"»!? o, ,t 1, e, S «, JJ?
reserves taken over from the absorbed co. Besides the
uncertainties already alluded to, no mention is made of
the sum which the bonus or rebate to
Rnnim to employees will amount to. In tact, it iuture
accounts Tre made up in the same indefinite fashion as
those of the past, the various appropriations will never
be referred to except in a lump. Partly by reason of the
amalgamations, the growth of the business has been
rapid l9oi . 1907. 1908.
Panital .. £60,988 £71,262 £113,389
Deposits V. .. 74,199 98,529 173,250
Overdraft .. Nil Nil yif’ioa
Advance^ 11 ’ 1168 i*. SsB ftS 157.;449
Advances .. 81) ’ 066 13 4,976 176,165
Freeholds, etc. .. 33,824 42,217 i 2 618
Book Debts • ■ 30,883 50,824 91,632
Cash •• 11.947 18,514 Nil.
Most of the “otherliabilities” are accounts at credit of
shareholders’ current -ocounts-realiy deposit, at call
The total of the deposits and overdraft is, £2/8,412, or
about 335. for every 20s. of the shareholders capital and
reserves The advances are on stock, grain, etc., and on
produce shipments ; and, unless the advances are made on
Tinost conservative basis, that is a risky business Con
sidering the size of that item and of the
other items “ merchandise stock and book debts,
the business can only be regarded as one very liable to be
struck by pretty serious "trouble; and with freeholds
standing at £72,618 there is a good deal of room for
shrinkage there too, especially in Maoriland-the country
which has had its borrowing boom, and sooner “ lat “
will have to stand the consequences. In oidn to
strengthen the reserves the directors wall be very wise if
they bring the dividend back to 8 per cent, at the most,
even if earnings should keep up to their present standard
for the next few years.
* * * *
The Economic Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne). ne g s ToUl Dividend Nominal
June, Profit. Property. Loss. (4p.e.). Reserves
S:: ** “ « = 3
iS :: & IS
.. 833 12.8 p .l? L -
MM - 1007 163 814 “ Re , e ,S
Capital written down from £42,640 to
£17,056 ; £3508 being applied to Reserves .. 213,
1905 .. 1030 1030 £682
Profit. . „ 10 -
1906 .. 1085 241 1326 682. 3120
1907 .. 1133 346 1479
1908 .. 1023 236 1259 767 4414
The capital has been severely written down £3 having
been lopped off the old £5 shares ; and the balance (£2) is
now represented by tw'o shares of £1 each. This allowed
ofTuch a severe writing-down of assets that there has
been a steady surplus on sales during the past three years.
Of course, under those circumstances the profit is only a
profit in a manner of speaking : really it mean that the
loss isn’t so bad as it was feared it would be. The society
is handicapped now by the small amount of new busmess
On building-society terms it has only £5885 advanced; as
against £4982 in 1907 and £4567 in 1906. There is an im-
provement there certainly, but it is very slow. The
deposits, etc., amount to only £3945. _
however, gone into new quarters, where it w ill be hana ei
fo, the borrower to drop in ; and if the borrow ei w 11
drop in there won’t be any trouble about getting mote
deposits. At present the evidently under-vaKmd propei-
ties in hand alone represent over £5 for eveiy £1 ot dent,
so the security is unquestionable.
The Victorian Permanent Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Nominal .
July, Loss. Reserves. July. Loss. Deficit.
1898 ..£7307 £8941 1903 ..£l4/2 £0,060
1899 .. 5648 3293 1904 .. 2081 7,441
1900 3061 232 1905 .. 3120 10.561
Deficit. 1906 .. 3033 13,594
1901.. 2235 2003 1907.. 2941 16,535
1902 .. 1585 3588 1908 .. 2211 18, <46
But among the assets now appears also the item “ Losses
—Properties sold, £6355.” How long those losses have
been accumulating isn’t clear. Hitherto t
and loss account hasn't mentioned sttch a th
losses on sales; in fact, it doesnt mention such a
thing now—the item just falls into the balance-
sheet as a makeweight. Hitherto, probably, the
losses have been squared more or less by the discounts at
which old deposits have been bought up , but lately the
sales have been rather larger than usual, consequently
the losses on that account have outpaced the discounts.
This may not be the explanation ; and, in any case, it
shouldn’t be necessary to do any guessing m connection
with a concern of this kind. A concern with a long pr
cession of unbroken 10 per cent, dividends behind it
might be more or less forgiven if it t
details ; but that doesn’t apply to such a society as this,
whose record is one of appalling miscalculations, which
have produced widespread suffering amongst over-trustful
people The time, anyhow, has come for a cleaning-up of
some When a "society has to. drop in among its
assets- “Losses—properties sold, £6355, the farce has
surely gone far enough. The position compares in some
respects with that of 10 years ago in this way
v , 1898. 1908. Reduction.
:: 3 S »:S
HS2SF:: :: "Kg
Payments in arrear .. 19,,34 10,847 8 -^7
Other assets .. .. 1,129 J 74 •
Total assets .. .. 579,636 417,766 161,870
Thus in 10 years £161,870 (book value) of assets have paid
off £127,830 of debt. But as this debt has been carrying
only 21 per cent.—apart, that is, from the mortgages
has" no doubt been purchasable at a heavy dis-
count ; and as time goes on that discount should
naturally shrink, because 18s., it paid 10 yea is
would be worth more than 20s received to-
day. If the remaining £437,766 of assets could get r
of'debt on the old scale, it would pay off about £329,000
of liabilities ; that is to say, it would pay off the
of debt, and leave £117,625 over. But, for the reasons
before mentioned, that can’t be relied upon Also, the
uick of the assets maybe gone. At any late, the aa
vances” (nearly all foreclosures) brought in gross last
year only about £1 Is. per cent on their book value
That certainly was a better rate than was shown 10 tears
aim but it is very appalling. It means eithei that the
society has a vast amount of idle allotments on its hands
or that the house property is much over-valued. What-
ever it is, it is time the absurd figures were done away
with ; for the less balance-sheets are used as a means of cir-
culating purely fictitious figures the better for
who has anything to do with business-even if, as in this
case there is a note to the effect that the above are the
amounts at which the securities stand in the society s
books.” * ' *
The Second Queen Building Society (Melb.),
which used to be the Queen without the Second before
it was reconstructed three years ago :
Profit Loss _
on on Total Written De-
».. B £lo9 ess - SS £267 °-
110 l " 245 1471 1226 £7260 13/284
Total
Profit. Profit.
1904 .. 311 10 321 - 12,963
1905 .. 469 407 876 1-.087
" Deficit written off capital ; £5571 cash paid
to shareholders ; balance of assets ex-
cnanged for capital in new society (£6&ou).
Loss. Loss. Loss.
1906 .. 13 !» ™
Profit. Profit. Profit. serves
1907 189 25 214 ~ ta « •;
Loss. Loss. Loss. Deficit
1908 .. 6 315 321 300 551
Which recalls the inscription on the tombstone of the
infant —
What was I horned for
To be so soon mourned for!
The new society is simply winding itself up, and appar-
ently isn’t making any attempt to do new business. Most
of the capital has been repaid, and the assets now total
£1863. Last year management alone (apart hom msur-
ance, rates, agents’ charges, etc.) cost £ll9. Really the
society might save something by getting some moderately
affluent bottle-oh to make a sporting offer for the lot
that is left. # „
Mort’s Dock and Engineering Co. (Sydney):
jfet To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
( Pref. 12 p.c. £3OOO ( pot g7o
Dec., 1902.. £2653-, y r(R f - 4500) ’
June, 1903.. 6859 6 „ „ 6000 £SS9 28,729
Dec., 1903.. 5516 ' 6„ ~ 6000 23,^4
June, 1904.. 7438 6 „ „ 6000 1438 29,683
Dec., 1904.. 508ff{SS { ” «* 30,118
June, 1905.. 6102 {££ 5 ” 3?50} 852 3 °’ 97 °
Dec., 1905.. 5879 6„ „ 6000 - 30,849
June, 1906.. 5382 6„ „ 6100 - 30,231
Dec., 1906.. 9650 6 „ „ 6000 3650 a3,88x
June, 1907.. 9375 6 „ „ 6000 33i0 37,-au
T)pr- 1907 7774 6 „ ~ 6000 1/74 «39,0<50
£«:: mo e ;; „ eooo mo 42,740
The reserves move in a mysterious way, being apparently
governed by the final results of works which were in
hand when the previous accounts were made up. In the
past half-year, for instance, the unexplaineo additions to
reserves were unusually heavy; on the other hand, t the
current profit (evidently to some extent estimated) was a
good deal less than it had been lately. On the showing
of profit and loss account only, and disregarding these
surpluses which have been added to reserves, the follow-
ing is six years’ record :
Dec 1902 .. £2859 Dec., 1905 .. £5934
• June, 1903 .. 6392 June, 1906 .. 6237
Dec 1903 .. 5971 Dec., 1906 .. 8111
June, 1904 .. 4868 June, 1907 .. /949
Dec 1904 .. 6169 Dec., 1907 .. 8482
June, 1905 .. 5201 June, 1908 .. 6401
Of course, things may turn out better than the estimate,
in which case no doubt the reserves will spring up at the
end of the current half-year ; but as the figures stand
now, the last line is by no means cheerful. The co., is in
150 000 ordinary and 50,000 preference shares, and it owes
£l4B 300 on debentures. (Of the £150,000 ordinary capital
£3O 000 was transferred from reserves some years ago.)
What amount is written off for depreciation isn t even
hinted at; it is simply stated that something «written
off. Capital may be used up by under-estimating the
necessary provision ; or profits may be hidden away by
over-estimating it. One simply has to trust the directors
that neither the one nor the other is done.
There is a point which seems worth noting m
connection with concerns like Mort’s Dock Ltd., work-
in.. on debentures and shares with a fixed preference.
When times are good and invested money is earning
more than usual, the debenture interest and pref.
dividend doesn’t move up. In the Mort’s Dock case there
are £148,300 of debentures. If that money only earns
i ner cent, more than usual, then,.as the interest is fixed,
up o-o tiie profits to the extent of £3707 per half-year,
auite apart from the improved earnings of the share-
holders’ capital. On the other hand, n the invested
capital is earning J per cent, less than usual, there is a
slump of £3707 on account of the debenture capital alone.
Looking at the movements of profits in a co. of this sort,
investors may come to the conclusion that there has been
a hne improvement. It is just as well, however, tc note
what a little swing of the pendulum will do in the way
of wiping out that fine improvement. In IJO2, ior in
stance the co.’s total net profit was £4800; and though
the pr’ef div. was paid in full, only 8 per cent, tor the
year was paid on ordinaries; and even that meant
serious raid on the reserves. „
Weight, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. off. serves, serves.
Jan 1903 12,926 30 p.c. =10485 2741 18,413
’’ (5,610 10 ~ ~ 3,500 2110 f 28,583
July, 1903 | unexplained additions •• 8000 f
Jail., 1904.. 2,840 10 p.c.-- 3,500 _ 14 274:
Jiffy, WOl.. 2,911 10 „ „ 3,500 13J100 701
Jan., 1905.. 5,052 7? „ „ 20,330
July, 1905.. 6,254 7% ~ ~ 2,6-5 94 298
Jam! 1906.. 6,593 7i„ „ 2 625 - |968 |4,298
July, 1906.. 6,311 10 ~ „ 3,500 29 884
JKSS" ?:« S :::: K 8 = «| jfe
j^;!S *.*• “‘“f*
This co. runs three semi-independent
Heaton and Co. in Queensland capital 000) , mcu
looh Carrying Co., in Victoria (capital, £1
£8137 of' reserves) ; and the parent, husin s
N S. Wales. The co.’s entire capital is £70,000 m 28,uu
shares of £2los. each, with afurther 12,000 unissued,
the past six months the Queensland business shows a low
of £169, and the McCulloch business a pro t of: £1560.
The co. has a general carrying and forage-dea *
ness ; and the value of the forage stocks is liable
fluctuations. Book debts (presumably mainly from th
produce branch of the business) are also heavy uns
comparison shows the chief movements recently.
T.fl.r July, Jan., July,
1902. 1907. 1908. 1908.
T . _ £54 408 £51,470 £58,997 £57,8u2
Liabilities .. •• *54,408 *> . 5 351 16,242
Cash .. _ •• -ik’i7u 18 211 19,911 14,083
Plant, premises, etc. 15,178 18,211
Stock • ■ -• *• 7c’ofi2 85 141 90,567 88,420
Book debts .. .. 78,052 so, » , g 7
McCulloch Co. .. 20,673 18 ,387 ’. ~ is
The reserves include contingency fund, £5OOO, £his is
presumably a provision against possible losses on account
the slump. After paying a regular l p
“ 91 VP n r c and writing off a special £4OOO, tne co. uas,
past 24 years anu ® ‘"yes • and if any slump
wipeTmorethan that out it must, be s o i^hing e xtrai„the
way of disaster —or the mismanagement must have been
something quite exceptional, and, in this ca , q
suspected. * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society op
Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne).
Dividend Writ-
(s per cent.) ten To Re- De-
Profits, and Bonus. off. serves.
SR®: r *s f - &
»® » g
July, 1905.. 1637 1441 Reserves
Jan., 1906.. 2661 1786 440 435 259
July, 1906.. 1884 1804 207 384
Jan., 1907.. 3450 2607 471 37 n 0
July, 1907.. 3483 3000 757
J Dividend only
Jan., 1908.. M9S ( “° goT* g« *B6 3%
July, 1908.. 164 Nd Nll 104
The complaint made against this society almost from the
enterfng^or^ Marathon S races,“before it" had thoroughly
SShp k* it a Sash°ed e off
bonus. ° Then it found that it couldn t keepß up ,
££ 5
ss
The result of all this is a debt of £HWL>
on debentures, £13,000 on f1i,637.
overdraft-all this independent of trade debts,
nothing whatever* S
fittings (£5129). Tne me ti idea has
sr = K £*rb% a a
, T !“ Z'SX S»"'"v i«e° “«»‘M" S .
„a'»h.Dh,< a. i<~
or not is mainly in their own hands.
The Federal Palace Hotel, Ltd. (Mel
bourne)- Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
T Dividends Off. serves, serves.
Julv, Loss. Dividends. _ _ £1,561
1898 .. *lB2 Nd __ __ 1,436
1899 .. 125 Nil
Profit. £544 1,980
1900 .. 2602 lOfp-o.- £1458 _ * )O3 2 , 98 i
1901 .. 3923 -H » __ 1700 4,683
1902 .. 1700 Nd _ 673 6 356
1903 .. 6/3 Nil _ 1753 7j109
1904 .. 1753 Nd _ 1221 8 ,530
1905 .. 1221 Nil _ 18U ; 10,146
1906 .. 1816 _ piaak _ 993 11,139
S :: tin ™* «*» - £
When the Trent boom broke, this co. found itself in 1394
with a paid capital of £!28,586 anda mortga £ *£ fe ’ jted :
as is srshf «&£ #»»
£123,556 to £12,762, 17s. per-sharee ed °" d since
shares were then nominally 8 mak i„ g the
that date a further 2 • freehold had a boom
present paid capital
value of £lol,os- , additions were made and
£65,000. Subsequent y gQO From that
the book value was mcreased to Mean-
£Bso6 has now been written off fo P reduced,
time the old mortgage
until now it stands at £oo,l . proportion of bor-
cases where, on account of! the Urge in the
rowed money at afixed k es a considerable difference
earnings capital \ tance the capital, bor-
in the profits. Suppose, ! bui ] d i n j, a nd furniture
rowed and otherwise mvested m hm /
earns 5 per cent., r l slacker, and the capital
paying interest. But it the prolitj afce r paying
earns only 1 per cent. dut httle more than half of
the interest is only *. 0, . ge This explains
what it would be m the other F {or
the severe fluctuate' ia tion (wear and tear)
!s B cha C r°geTdirect to profit and loss; practically the


HEINE
Water Tube Boilers
Made by
MARSHALL, SONS & CO.,
Gainsborough, England.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
STRAIGHT TUBES.
PERFECT CIRCULATION.
FRASER & CHALMERS, LTD., |° G “ TS
Australian Office:
Equitable Building, Melbourne. [4
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silrerberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning’ mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
Users of steam power will be interested to
know that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a depot in N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having acquired the business of J. W. Glenfield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves and water gauges,
can now be obtained in this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
It * * *
Suitable belting is a very important factor in
successful battery practice, and a belt that will grip and
is least effected by grit or damp, is absolutely the best for
all mining drives. ReddAway’s Genuine Camel Hair Belts
are easily first in these respects, and will outlast any other
belt on the market. Sole agents, Cameron and Suther-
land, Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo, and
agencies.*
* * * *
The big demand for Kemp : s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Genuine Balata Belting. —We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax ” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wim Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
The section of the- American Fleet which has
arrived in our waters has eight battleships which are
fitted with the Babcock, and Wilcox Water-tube Boiler.
Five of these ships are of the Connecticut class, including
the flagship itself. Engineers will be interested to note
that these five ships hold the record for economical
steaming from San Francisco. This is another strong
argument in favor of the adoption of the water-tube boilers
in the navy and the mercantile service, as not only do
they save fuel, but they economise in space and very
materially in weight.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
• * » »
Visitors to the Mephan Ferguson Engineering
Works, Melbourne, will notice that large additions have
recently been made to the premises, and new machinery
laid down in order to carry out some large contracts
which have been undertaken for the supply of railway
girders, water supply and irrigation pipes, etc. The two
largest boilers ever manufactured in Victoria have just
been completed and tested for the Melbourne Harbor
Trust, and amongst other works in course of construction
the most interesting are the patent spiral riveted pipes
and electric welding machinery.*
* * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Gollison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
S * * *
Canbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
★ * * *
As engineers realise more fully the necessity for
boiler house economy, “ Sarco ” specialities for the auto-
matic control of steam plants are springing rapidly into
favor. Among these the “ Sarco ” Feed Water Meter is
becoming particularly popular. It is a very compact
instrument which will measure water at the highest
temperatures, and it has reached a degree of accuracy
and durability unattained by any other meter. The
secret of its success is that the mechanism is constructed
of an alloy of nickel steel which is not affected by fluctua-
tions in temperature. Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7
Bent Street, Sydney, are sole agents in N.S.W.*
Required, a good gold, tin or
COPPER PROPERTY,
SUFFICIENTLY DEVELOPED FOR FLOTATION.
Reply with particulars to Private Box No. 630, General
Post Office, Melbourne.
LOHMANN COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
KRAUSS LOCOMOTIVES
as purchased by the Covts. of N.S.W., Victoria
and Tasmania, and all principal mining- com
parties, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lvell M. &R. Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. i%
amount thus provided out of revenue is the amount spent
on replacements ; just a shade more than that, in fact.
Thus, after the writing down in 1897, furniture and fit-
tings were valued at £10,663 ; they now stand at £8721,
so that besides paying for replacements and repairs, cur-
rent revenue has provided £1942 in 11 years to cover
general depreciation. The recovery has been a slow busi-
ness, and there is still a long road to travel ; and until a
lot more of the debt has been gradually shifted, the net
results for shareholders are bound to be erratic.
* * * *
Now that the smoke of the preliminary skirmish
between the parties to the expiring Broken Hill wages
agreement has cleared away, it is seen that neither party
has taken up a very aggressive attitude. There is good
reason for believing that the cos. do not intend asking
for an unconditional reduction in wages. But they are
not anxious to come in conference and make a compact
with unions which refuse to register under the Industrial
Disputes Act. At present, the Barrier A.M. A. is trying to
secure registration under the Federal Arbitration Act,
a step which may be regarded in the light of a compro-
mise. In the event of trouble, complications may ensue
as a result of the antagonism existing between the affili-
ated unions of the Barrier and the newer non-political
union, which is now over 900 members strong.
Bewick, Moreing and Co. are evidently out for
the stakes in connection with the Broken Hill Pinnacles
lode. The Lady Bevys carcase, which was thrown to the
vultures at the time of the 1906-7 boom, and, after being
picked over by the B. H. Prop., ivas abandoned as un-
toothsome, is now being taken into 8., M. and Oo.’s net,
and will be worked in connection with the Pinnacles
mine, over which the firm secured an option some little
time ago. A few bags of ore from the Lady Bevys have
been treated at the South Blocks mill, and have panned
out fairly well. The Lady Bevys shaft is situated at the
foot of one of the three iron-capped cones from which the
Pinnacles derives its name, and is supposed to be sunk
on the main Pinnacles lode, though the Bevys and the
Pinnacles are about half-a-mile apart.
The Broken Hill South Blocks mine is opening
up in a very promising manner at the 440 ft. level, which
is the lowest level so far. Development is still confined
to the north end. Unfortunately the appearance of the
ore gives no promise of any improvement in silver values,
which is the mine’s weak spot. On the south side of the
main shaft, however, there are indications that future
development work will show better results in that respect.
* * * *
Bellambi Coal Co. (N.S.W.) has had another
good year. Twelve months ago it had a capital of
£175,000, in £1 shares fully paid. Since then another
75,000 shares have been issued, 25,000 of them paid for out
of reserves, and 50,000 issued for cash at par. This money
is being spent jn buying a new coal-bunkering steamer —
the Bellambi, the biggest in Australia—and in developing
the South Bulli, the colliery which the co. bought from
the Vickery owners some years ago. The year’s profits,
as shown by profit and loss account, are £§4,685 : out of
that £13,125 (at the rate of 15 per cent.) was paid as an
interim div. ; and £21,875 (at the rate of 20 per cent, per
annum)is now to be paid, making 17£ per cent, for the
year, or the same as in the previous year. Previous pay-
ments were for some years at the rate of 15 per cent. Not-
withstanding the transfer of sufficient to pay for the issue
of new shares, the formal reserves have increased during
the year from £70,750 to £73,000. These, however, are
not necessarily true reserves: £45,000 is an insurance
fund and £25,000 a reserve for the renewal of steamers
and other purposes. Practically all these reserves are in
cash or public stocks. In addition to the formal reserves,
it is highly probable that depreciation is provided for and
written off out of profits direct; thus steamers, hulk,
etc., valued at £38,500 twelve months ago, now stand at
£35,500. Three years ago thej r stood at £46,145. There
is, however, no way of telling whether they have been
either added to or reduced (the new steamer previously
mentioned is shown in another item). For some years (it
is now aged 20) the co. had a hard struggle ; but when it
got a footing it made very rapid progress, which has been
helped during the past few years by the rapid develop-
ment of the coke business on the South Coast. This co.
has a seven years’ contract to supply small coal to the
Broken Hill Prop.’s coke works near by.
* * * *
The White Cliffs Opal Mines, Ltd., an English
concern which was formed 12 years ago to take over the
principal blocks on the far west (N.S.W.) opal field, is
tired at last of waiting for a dividend, and is putting
the whole concern up at auction. When opal w r as found
at White Cliffs, the Department made a bad blunder and
issued leases. For a while the men who worked them
made a fat thing: then the leases were passed on to an
English co. for £45,000 cash and £85,000 in shares. The
Bulletin can’t find any trace of a dividend ever having
been paid. When the co. cut its teeth and found out
what sort of a business it had got into, it tried to sell out
to the Government; but, though the Government was
willing at one time, it wouldn’t then give the price asked,
and later on it, wouldn’t do business at all. What
between the digger (who should have had the ground in
the first place) and the gem-buyer, there hasn’t for years
past been enough to pay for the foreign landlord’s post-
age stamps.
The English-owned Nymagee Co. has got an
issue of £70,000 ten per cent, debentures underwritten to
complete the purchase of the Growl Creek and Shuttle-
ton mines ; the debentures (10 years currency) are to be
convertible into ordinary shares at par at any time with-
in five years. The idea is to use Crowl Creek and
Shuttleton ores as flux for Nymagee, as recommended by
managing-director Corbould ; and the N.S.W. Govern-
ment is understood to have agreed to carry the railway
on to Nymagee, provided the co. spends £50,000 on the
properties. The two groups of mines are about 16 miles
apart.
•*.***
The Fort Bourke Copper Co. has been floated,
mostly at Cobar (N.S.W.), to find out whether the Cobar
Gold Mines’ lode runs beyond the boundary.
Queen Bee (N.S.W.) isn’t out of its troubles,
and is now stated on good authority to be slowly but
steadily going into debt. The surface equipment is bad,
and in order to pull through on present metal prices the
mine needs most of a complete new plant. Under the cir-
cumstances, calls are almost bound to come ; but the pre-
sent calling power will have to be increased to do much
good. The shares are 10s., paid at present to 7s. 7|d.
An alternative proposal was to issue pref. shares ; but
that idea apparently hasn’t met with favor.
* * * *
Hannans’ Proprietary (W.A.) is alleged by
London papers to have a promising future. Expenditure
has been reduced to a minimum on its Kalgoorlie leases,
and chief attention is now being paid to the co.’s interests
in Victoria and Cornwall. The Victorian property is the
Prentice and Southern, which hitherto has been a mere
sink for money. Satisfactory estimates are, of course,
made now ; but deep-lead estimates have had a habit of
proving baited hooks. The co. has £20,000 to play up
after paying for the interests mentioned.
A local co. has been formed to work the old
Reefers’ Eureka, at Kalgoorlie (W.A.). The knowing
crowd has turned up its nose at the show ever since a
disgusted Adelaide co. gave it best some years back ; but
the people now in possession talk of regular crushings,
and are erecting a 10-head mill as proof of their confi-
dence.
* * * *
Chaffers’ (W.A.) tribute parties are making
good use of their time, which expires April 13 next year.
The agreements place a limit on the number of miners,
and consequently on the quantity of stone raised ; but if
things go well, and the bulges of stone from 10ft. to 20ft.
wide go down, some thousands of tons should be raised
before the tribute expires. Prosser has a month extra,
and his first crushing from the north block has returned
12dwt. The reef has been proved over nearly the length
of the lease. The tribute is fixed on a sliding scale, from
5 per cent, to 25 per cent., according to the quality of
stone ; so Chaffers’ might get from 2s. up to £2 a ton on
the gross return—which is a throw-in, as the co. did
nothing to find the show. All stone below 150 ft. belongs
to the co., which is well protected under the agreements.
The deep mines at Charters Towers that are of
most interest to speculators just now are Brilliant Ex-
tended, which is continuing its underlay shaft below
2750 ft.; Pfeiffer’s Day Dawn, which is sinking on a reef
below 2560 ft. ; and Brilliant Deeps, which at 2413 ft. is
crosscutting to verify some sensational bore-hole pros-
pects running from dwts. to ounces. Deeps are quoted
at 65., which is nearly as much as Pfeiffer’s, though the
latfAr has several levels opened. No religious fanatic
ever developed so much faith as the mining punter.
Brilliant Blocks, which are near to the New Brilliant
Freehold, have about an equal chance of finding the Day
Dawn and the supposed new shoot in the Brilliant; but
at the distance both prospects are rather fanciful. Bril-
liant St. George is going to sink, and, on the chance of
the Day Dawn, a few of the paid-up shares in this mine
and its neighbor (Kelly’s Queen Block) have been bought
as a lock-up. Kelly’s crushing returned £2 15s. per ton ;
but the market is very sick.
» * * *
The crushing from the East Mexican, Charters
Towers, averaged a trifle over £l3 a ton. The market
was unresponsive, because No. 5 (the level above where
the crushing came from) had been driven a long way in
practically blank ground. Since then, however, No. 5
has galvanised the market, a narrow but rich shoot of
stone having been found ; so East Mexicans have found
favor again. No. 6is only 20ft. above the boundary, but
has given some good prospects ; hence this development
in No. 5, if it continues, is important. This level is in
deep ground, and there should be some chance of a rich
shoot of stone in the levels overhead. So much was this
believed a while back, even before a foot had been driven
in the East Mexican, that the Victory, which lies beyond
the boundary, was supposed to have an outsider’s show.
It was remembered that the Victory had paid a dividend
out of development on the Brilliant, and some people
thought the chance of getting the Day Dawn was not so
remote as the position on the map seemed to imply.
• * * ■*
A little more attention is being given by
Charters Towers and Brisbane speculators to the Grant
and Sunset Extended, Ravenswood (Q.). For about a
month’s work a crushing of 225 tons yielded £1843. Less
than £2OO of this was from free gold ; for the reef, which
in places is only 3in., is full of mineral. A 5-head battery
has been bought and will be put up on the lease, and it is
expected that concentrating tables will save most of the
gold. No. 3 south level has followed a narrow vein for
665 ft., and a winze is being sunk on 6in. of payable stone.
+ * * *
“Billycan”: I have been following The Bul-
letin’s Charters Towers notes with great interest. Evi-
dently the writer is well informed re the practices of the
mining magnates of that home of mining manipulations.
But I think in his anxiety to give a view of the case from
all points he displays just a little pessimism with regard
to that eastern Day Dawn shoot. This shoot will, almost
without a doubt, create a sensation as soon as it suits
those who are holding the strings to “let her go.” That
it is patchy I admit; but when one considers the divi-
dends that have been paid by Mills United from the pro-
ceeds of the tail end of a shoot which, according to all
known laws of the occurrence of reefs and gold, must run
down from the Day Dawn P.C. through the East
Mexican, one is impelled to the conclusion that that
shoot, though patchy, is by no means threadbare. This
shoot has not been touched in the Mexican ground as
yet. There is a barren shoot between it and the rich
stone worked in the No. 6 level. The No. 5 level is now
in that barren shoot and may strike gold at any moment.
As the shoots are trending upwards in an easterly direc-
tion, it is only natural to expect that the No. 5 level will
have to go further for the gold than the No. 6 level, just
as No. 6 had to go further than No. 7. A 15 years’ acquaint-
ance with the Wild Cat Column convinces me that The
Bulletin is alive to the fact that the deeper the reef the
less the gold. But, notwithstanding the overwhelming
evidence in proof of this, the general public has more
faith in gold extending downwards than upwards; that
is, supposing it to have been struck at a depth. In
this connection it is interesting to note the following re-
mark in the Charters Towers Warden’s monthly report as
published in the current issue of the Queensland Govern-
ment Mining Journal : “ The No. 6 level is almost on the
boundary of the New Brilliant, being some 20ft. within
the East Mexican ground, so that it is of more real value
to the former.” This implies that the gold is more likely
to go down than up. But throughout this report the
inspiration (though possibly unconscious) of the arch
jugglers of the Northern goldfield is strikingly apparent.
Where a reef is split up into several seams it is so easy to
work either the rich or the poor one as may be deemed
expedient. Perhaps you will say “Why do the public
suffer this sort of thing ? ” I can only reply, “ The public
is no end of a fool.” But by no stretch of the imagination
can the chief directors of Charters Towers be considered
fools.
The Mungana, which was an offshoot from the
Chiilagoe (N.Q.), has done poorly during the year, owing
to the old trouble in the metal markets. In fact, it not
only did poorly this year, but it finds out that it didn’t
do as well in the previous year as it had reported, having
then over-estimated the value of products on hand (and
consequently profits) by £7456. For four years past
things have gone as follows
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1905 .. £5,743 Nil Nil £11,361
1906 .. 31,609 „ £lO,OOO 32,970
1907 .. 32,940 „ 10,079 55,831
Loss.
1908 .. 2,153 „ 2,094 51,584
The other way of putting it is that the 1907 profit was
£25,484, and the past year’s profit £5303 ; and, though
that would not square with the published accounts, it is
really the truer statement. But though the past three
years show a profit of £62,396, less £22,173 written off, or
£40,223 net, one or two things have to be remem-
bered. First, during this period no less than £23,051
net has been spent on mining and charged to capi-
tal account, mostly in the past 12 months; and of
course, nothing whatever has been written off mine-
purchase account. In other words, if actual mining ex-
penditure had all been charged up to working account,
the net profit for three years would have been reduced to
£17,172. Whether mine expenditure can ever fairly be
charged to capital, and considered as an asset, is a matter
of opinion ; but as the quantity of ore in reserve is
estimated at only 71,168 tons, while the past .year's pro-
duction was 41,561 tons, it is pretty clear that in this
case, at any rate, mine expenditure ought not to be
charged to capital. On June 30 the liquid assets, excluding
stores, were valued in all at £12,929; liabilities were £9089;
surplus of liquid assets £3840. Twelve months ago, after
allowing for the over-estimation, the surplus was £25,279.
Thus, in spite of the alleged profit (after allowing for the
over-valuation), things have gone back on a cash basis to
the extent of £21,439 during the year. This money has
practically all gone in mine expenditure which has not
been charged to working expenses.
*•■* *■*
The Chiilagoe Co. has, temporarily at last, got
over its labor troubles in connection with the Etheridge
railway. A conference held in Brisbane, the other day,
between Engineer Frew and representatives of the Amal-
gamated Workers’ Association of N.Q. fixed the general
rate for workers on the line at 95., and the men’s position
is not to be prejudiced by their action in striking.
Certain allowances for Sunday work and time occupied
in shifting camp and travelling to and from work are
made. On the whole, the men’s representatives had the
best of the argument. The co. reserves the right to can-
cel the agreement in the event of a dispute with the men
on other of the co.’s properties, and the workers’ reserved
right is to call out the Etheridge men should the co.
attempt to reduce wages or interfere with the present
conditions on any other of the works. In the meantime,
there is trouble brewing at the Chiilagoe smelters, and it
is just on the cards that the co.’s reserved right may
have to be exercised soon.
* * » *
Stannary Hills (N.Q.) has struck the trouble
that has been threatening for some time, and nearly all
the men, save those employed on the sinking of the
Ivanhoe shaft, have been dismissed. As this shaft was
seen to be necessary (by outsiders, if not by the manage-
ment), why wasn’t it started earlier? Probably when
work is resumed it will be on a reduced scale. The mill,
seven miles out in the bush, does fair work, and would
do better perhaps if it wasn’t troubled with a succession
of bosses.
Stannary Hills has another. reconstruction
scheme on the stocks. There are now 458,150 ordinary
shares, and 191,850 pref. shares, all paid to 2s. 6d. The
idea is to reconstruct in the same number of half-crown
shares, giving' the pref. shares the right to Is. in divs.,
after which all will rank alike; shares to be issued as
paid up to Is. 6d. on payment of 6d. Of the pref. shares
in the present co. 100,000 only have been issued, on the
same terms as the foregoing. The trouble in this case is
that ahead of all the shareholders is £71,320 of debenture
stock, £63,850 of it carrying 6 per cent, and the balance
10 per cent.
* * * *
The Gibb Copper Mines, Ltd., which fooled
about during the greater part of last year with a crude
plant trying to make a series of small reefs near Mt. Perry
(Q.) pay, has decided to put up the shutters finally.
The results of the work done were a few tons of
concentrates worth about £3OO net, along with a
couple of fairly well-developed lodes, which would have
paid well enough had copper remained at boom prices.
Shareholders have decided that prospects do not warrant
spending a few thousand pounds on an up-to-date con-
centrating plant, and are satisfied to meet the liabilities
by putting up a small call and crying enough. This-
closes the Gibbs’ Queensland career for the present, as
Gibb, sen., is reported to have accepted a position in
London for a Central African concern, with which the
younger Gibb is already connected.
* * * *
Lancelot tin mines (N.Q.) are between the ham-
mer arid the anvil. The recent application for six
months’ exemption was opposed, and four months were
given. The mine (for a wonder, considering it’s a tin
show) has a fissure lode, and the tin shoot was over 300 ft.
long. There are various leases and a freehold, with a
poor, inadequate, and badly-designed five-head mill, and
a partly-erected, but far from complete, 10-head mill a
half-mile from the first. The co. is chiefly German, and
its management hasn’t made itself popular in the district.
This Lancelot co. and the “ M. and B.” syndicate, of Her-
berton, have the whole of the country round Silver Val-
ley locked up. In some parts of the North there seem to
be more lease-pegs than miners.
■*•*■**
Residents’ tittle-tattle led the Alexandra Reefs
Co., whose claim is near the town of the name, to try
whether the old hands had left any gold at the bottom of
the Leviathan shaft. Of course nothing was found, the
miners of 30 years ago knowing gold as well as any
modern. With its hopes thus blown out the co. has not
felt like footing the bill for £lOOO needed to sink and
drive. Needless to say, the Anti-Sosh shareholders now
want the State to find the money. Not £lOOO either, but
a cool £2OOO. What’s more, the co. thinks it will get the
boodle. Lucky co. ! But what about the taxpayers ?
* * * *
Minister McLeod isn’t going to let the Fatmen
of the Colonial Bank of Australia hang on to the idle
Coal Creek mine unless they work it. There is little
chance of this, as the bank doesn’t like that sort of busi-
ness risk, especially when it carries the need to employ
labor. Most people believed that Bent was tied to an
arrangement to purchase the property for £2500.
Evident!} there wasn’t any hard and fast arrangement.
Anyway, Minister McLeod has intimated that work
must be started within a time limit; while he also
announces that “ approved buyers ” may look for assist-
ance to the full extent allowed by the Mines Develop-
ment Act. Cash, however, is not plentiful for Gippsland
coal mining at any time ; and just now it would take a
crack team of bullocks to drag out coin for such a show
as the Coal Creek.
* * * *
Lord Nelson North, St. Arnaud (Vic.), is in-
flated by much paper puff. Here, for instance: “Nice
stone has been got during the past week. Gold is show-
ing in the quartz. A change is taking place in the face,
and after this is passed it is expected that
the main Nelson shoot will be entered.” This is
pretty much the sort of blither tliat one heard in the late
J. A. Wallace’s time. When he got tired and kicked, the
show had to go on to the stocks. Putting that on one
side, why, if gold is showing in the face, is there any need
to worry about the Lord Nelson shoot? The last two
levels in the old mine didn’t do much more than pay, and
if the bottom level does not improve, neither the North
nor anyone else will want to worry about the Nelson shoot.
* * _ *
The Ringarooma tin dredge is the child of the
Tasmanian tin-boom, out of which the Long Tunnel
crowd was going to make great riches, but has so far
got nothing but disappointment. At last, however, the
co. actually shows a profit. The dredge started work in
March, 1906, and this has been its record since August,
1906, loss £1449; February, 1907, loss £713; August,
1907, loss £595 ; February, 1908, loss £639 ; August, 1908,
profit £136. The total debit to profit and loss is now
£4575. While this net loss of £3260 has been made in 2£
years, about £lO,OOO worth of tin and gold have been
taken out. Nothing has been written off for depreciation ;
but a great deal of money has been spent on altering and
remodelling the dredge ; and the current half-year ought
to show better .results, partly on account of these
alterations, partly because there is now a fair run of what
looks like good tin ground ahead. At the end of the
half-year liquid assets were £360 ; liabilities, £377.
* * * *
New Brothers Home No. 1. Derby (Tas.) is in
the “ staggery ” state. Last half-year 41,000 cub. yds. of
bottom dirt averaged nearly 111 b., so the co. shelled out
five 6d. divs. and carried forward a surplus of £2937. This
is the only time that the mine has ever neared Mont-
gomery’s estimate, and it will almost certainly be the
last. North of the 900 line 58,000 cub. yds. of drift re-
main ; south, 120,000 cub. yds., but this is mostly poor
stuff. Shareholders, therefore, are told that “it is only
reasonable to expect a reduction in future monthly out-
nuts,” and the warning is given that poorer stuff has to
be handled. All these are signs that the end is approach-
ing. With extinction will go a choice source of profit for
the Briseis.
W.H.S. : (1) Strike of Great Boulder lode is
30deg. west of north. (2) It dipped west to a depth of
900 ft., when it turned east, and its position at 2350 ft. is
about plumb with where it was at 100 ft. (3) The
Ivanhoe’s eastern wall is about 57ft. from the Boulder
boundary, and the lode, which is 44ft. wide and assays
465. 3d. per ton in the crosscut, is underlying west. (4)
Too soon to give a definite opinion, but values (which
were poor opposite the main and Edwards shafts) are im-
proving in driving.
As an instance of the difficulty the Britisher
has in convincing himself that any good can come out of
“ the colonies,” note the evidence given recently before
the Boyal Commission on Safety in Mining. The matter
under consideration was “ whether managers’ certificates
issued in the colonies should not be accepted in this
country [U.K.].” The main evidence available was
that of a professor who declared against such
acceptance, chiefly on the ground that he had
“ seen a certain amount of slackness in the
colonies, and their standard was not up to ours.”
On the other hand, he is quite prepared to differentiate
in favor of Continental (European) managers—this in
spite of the declaration of more than one practical mining
engineer of world-wide experience that the average skill
among Australian underground workers is the highest
they know. Compared with Continental mines, Australia
shows a fatality rate of a little more than half, and simi-
larly, except for coal, we have a slight advantage over the
United Kingdom. Should Australian engineers be barred
out of the U.K., the question of reciprocity will sooner or
later have to be considered.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little G'ollins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steani pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet. 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* ■* *
All philosophic works, and Holy Writ itself,
teem with warning of the uncertainty of life. Deaths by
natural causes have been pushed far down the years of
civilised life, but with the increase of that very civilisa-
tion the liability to accident has enormously increased.
The railway, the ferry, the tram, and the murderous
motor car inevitably cause thousands of people to place
their lives and limbs in the hands of entire strangers, of
whose ability they can have absolutely no knowledge. It
would seem, therefore, to be only common-sense to guard
against the financial consequences of misadventure by
taking out an accident and sickness policy with the South
British Insurance Company Limited ; £5OO Death, £3 per
week Accident and Sickness Compensation for £3 per
annum. Head Office for N.S.W. : 12 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney. Geo. H. Moore, Manager.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
A double 12in. suction dredge plant has just
been supplied to the Tekka Tin Mining Company of
Perak, Federated Malay States, by the Austral Otis
Engineering Company of South Melbourne. The plant
consists of two boilers, two 12in. gravel pumps, gravel
pump engine, air pump, surface condenser, feed pumps,
service pump, steam exhaust and other piping and
connections ; also Oregon barge and housing. The engine
is a marine type vertical coupled compound 350h.p.
The gravel pumps are both fixed on the same shaft, and
can be driven independently of each other. The boilers
are return tube dry back type. The barge is 50ft. x 45ft.
x sft., which gives ample room and sufficient floating-
capacity.* - [4
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, of
London, in its July, 1907, issue, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited : —“ It
is writing well over £1,000,000 of new business every year
in Australasia, the United Kingdom, arid Africa ; it has
accumulated funds which are within a little of £3,000,000
sterling, invested with due regard to security, but,
nevertheless, in such a way as to return substantial
interest; and in the last five years alone it has paid to
policy-holders £1,328,000 in settlement of claims.”


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
From 12/6 per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the
cause. Used the world over to cure a cold in one
day. E. W. GROVE’S signature on box. Is. ljd.
EDUCATION BY POST.-”,'
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping:, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street. Sydney.”
A little forethought may save you no end
of trouble. Anyone who makes it a rule to keep
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera, and Diarrhoea
Remedy at hand knows this to be a fact.*
In the bush, E. J. Brady’s “River
Rovers,” now running through The Lone Hand,
is being eagerly followed. See the budget in the
October number, and also Harry Stockdale’s
illustrated article on Australian aboriginal art.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson, Proprietor
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
A DEFENCE SCHEME.
SAM THE STATESMAN: “ I don’t believe in this
’ere conscription. Wot I says is, why not
compel everyone to be volunteers?”
“■ Talafekau ” : “ Hamer ” notes sur-
prisedly (B. 30/7/’08) that when visiting a pah
recently he was taken to a Maori’s death-bed, “ as
if it were one of the sights of the place.” Why
not? That is probably just what it was. The
modern commercial Maori is all for “earning” a
drink-penny or two by exploiting such family
migrations when opportunity offers. Rotorua
photographers freely sell pictures of death-bed
and tangi scenes. As I write I have one such
before me, showing a dead girl laid out on the
ceremonial mats in a carved whareand surrounded
by the inevitable wailing wahines in various
degrees of grief-distorted ugliness. The Poly-
nesian loves the personal advertisement which the
moribund achieves. Stevenson mentions, apropos,
the case of a fatally smitten Marquesan, who
“ had his grave dug by the wayside and lived in
it for nearly a fortnight, eating, drinking and
smoking with passers-by,” and talking to the end
—mostly about his own end.
“ Iyles Innison ” : Why are the mud
springs that infest the country west of the Dar-
ling River (N.S.W.) ? Out on the plains, in the
driest and most unlikely places, they ooze up—
sometimes several feet above the surrounding
surface. They vary in size from a few inches to
30ft. in diameter. Boulders of various dimen-
sions are scattered, plum-pudding fashion, through
the mud, yet in many places there isn’t a surface
stone within miles. A portion of the Wanaaring
road, near the Pera bore, is macadamised with these
boulders broken into metal, and, as a result, the
rest of the road looks second-hand and uninviting.
The most reasonable theory seems to be that
the stones were part of the “wash” on the
rock bottom far below, and were forced up by some
artesian agency. All the springs are not active,
and the mud of some holds a larger percentage of
water than that of others, and is occasionally made
to yield a little of it to perishing stock ; but the
chief mission of the mudholes seems to be the
engulfing of unwary horsemen, and they are no
dunces in that particular mission. On the Barrin-
gun road, about 40 miles from Bourke, large mud
springs abound, alsoatGoonery Sandhills—which,
by the way, claim the doubtful distinction of
possessing absolutely the worst bit of road in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“ Albatross” (who is a mariner himself) :
“Dandalup” (B. 17/9./’08) enthuses greatly
about Port Hedland (Westralia) harbor. He re-
marks that it is “ one"of the finest natural harbors
in the North,” which statement will, doubtless,
make the other harbors (natural and otherwise)
hang their heads with shame and blush furiously.
I surmise from “Dandalup’s” tone that he is a
forwarding agent. Hedland is full of forwarding
agent; in fact, it is mainly populated with him.
Surmising thus, I venture to assert that “Danda-
lup” has never navigated anything more formid-
able than a spring-dray, and, therefore, can have
no sympathy with the shipmaster, who spends all
his life hanging on to his elusive “ ticket.” Port
Hedland has two channels to the jetty inside; and
in the western channel is to befound “Dandalup’s”
six to eight fathoms of water; but in the eastern
channel there is only one fathom. The west channel
is difficult to navigate, owing to extra sharp turns,
and it is no advertisement to the place to know
that nearly every vessel trading to Hedland has
sat down on the bank at one time or another.
The bank (or reef, I should say) which divides the
two channels is merely Bft. or 10ft. of drift sand
piled on top of solid rock. When the place was
last surveyed, l not many years ago, one fathom
was the least water on this bank, as shown by the
chart, but now it is dry at low tide. The outer
bar, which is from one to two miles from the
entrance, has three-quarters of a fathom for the
least water, while two fathoms O.L.W.S. is the
greatest depth. “ Dandalup ” seems to forget all
about the approaches to his El Dorado. No
amount of dredging will keep the sand from silt-
ing up on the bar ; but the scour of the tide inside
keeps the west channel clear. It is only a matter
of time when “Dandalup” (if he lives long
enough) may be sitting on a box of painkiller
waiting for the camel team by which he is for-
warding it, in the identical spot where the outer
bar now is—that is, allowing for Hedland to
spread., In those gloomy days the “natural
harbor ’’will be an inland lake with a sandbank
covered with mangroves in the centre of it.
A Maorilander with the importing mania
has introduced some sort of owl from Germany to
prey on the imported sparrows which have been
eating his fruit. So successful has he been that
not a sparrow or any bird like a sparrow can be
seen for miles. Also they can’t be seen for
feathers (the owl’s feathers). A proposal has now
reached N.S.W. Agricultural Department to
import some of these owls, and it is not too
early to shoo the suggestion off the premises.
Having chawed up all the bird life in the
vicinity, the owls will have to eat something,
and will probably start on chickens and duck-
lings. It is also obvious that the annihilation
of all small birds except owls would result
in plagues of insects, and the rabbit poison cart
has done enough in that way already. The Aus-
tralian farmer has sufficient trouble on his hands
now without having to get up in the darkest hour
to heave his boot at the midnight owl.
* * * «
A St. George (South Queensland) settler
is trekking to some country above Cairns, in the
Far North, and, like Abraham, is taking flocks and
herds with him—a little jaunt of about 1700
miles. But, compared with this, Father Abraham’s
pilgrimage was a mere stroll before breakfast.
“ Stony ” : The cry of the midnight fowl
is liable to become a pesky nuisance when one is
living in a fowly neighborhood ; but really the
fowl has the worst of it. It’s no wonder that, in
some fowl-yards, the cock crows before cock-crow
is due. Even in the hen-runs attached to most
respectable villas it will frequently be found that
the fowl has an insufferably crowded and filthy
time. There is said to be a regulation to the effect
that the barn or back-door fowl is not allowed to
be herded in quarters containing less than a stated
space, and that poultry must also be kept at not
less than a specified distance from the houses of
their human keepers. Like the milk busi-
ness, the domestic fowl industry suffers
from a lack of proper inspectors. The
house where I live is practically an aviary,
about which all day and night a flock of egg-
layers prowls in search of food and amusement.
They roost in the garden, when it suits them, and
say things like “Crroar!” and “Crrook !” and
“ Cockles ! ” and there is no peace in them. Con-
sidering what the average domestic bird must
suffer in the summer-time from lack of floor-
space, the agitating public is singularly silent;
for the private fowl is quite as badly off as is the
simmering assortment of bird-slaves which dwells
upon that historic ground-floor of the chook-shop
in Northern George-street, hard by the works of
The Bulletin. To be a captive or enslaved fowl
is indeed a bad and thankless biz in the summer
time.
POLITENESS.
OLD BUMKINS (with a father s pride): “My daughter, sir, is at present at her musical studies.”
YOUNG BROWN (effusively): “O, that’s all right, old chap! Don’t apologise! One of our
boarders is learning the cornet, and another plays the Jew's harp, and” (Realises
the purport of old B.’s cold stare, and collapses off the premises.)
“ Cross Nibs ”: Thus spake the proprietor
of the razzle-dazzle and shooting gallery, he who
had dropped into the suburban hotel for liquor.
And the moisture-merchant tapped his cash-
register, passed across the change, and distorted
his face into a smile of encouragement:—
“Nothin’ like travellin’t’ git th’ strong ov th’ species.
It’s out in th’ country towns were y’r strike th’ jagged
joints. I remember a ’ot time I ’ad at Buckinburtie one
Saterdee night. It wuz show-time ; th’ old town wuz
loaded a legion, ’n’ th’ country cousins were scatterin’
their rent with a paw that pulled away fr’m th’ pocket
pleasantly. Good business? My oath! Me off-sider
Jimmy ’ad th’ old rusharound stacked solid with beef
ev’ry trip, ’n’ I wuz kept thet busy shootin’ off shillin’
pools thet th’ old tube smoked like a jerry-built chimney.
“ A burly, freckled rabbiter, who ’ad bit into a few
pewters, ’ad stood in ev’ry round uv th’ rifle, ’n’ ’ad th’
’eaviest ’alf uv a jim pruned off ’im, an’ wuz still lookin’ f’r
th’ winner’s end. A little ’orsey bloke who stood watchin’
th’ weapon work, got gay, ’n’ started wordin’ ’im. Ses
’e : ‘ Toddle fr’m th’ target telescope, Blotches, or you’ll
peel y’r purse lively. Curse me cough if y’r c’u’d ’it a
forty-foot ’oardin’ fr’m th’ edge uv th’ gutter.’
“ This cruel chat scalded th’ bunny expert, ’n’ ’e
whirled out t’ graft dead willin’. With a pois’nous
glare ’e bawled, ‘ A dollar to a dog chain I plant a
squirt pill tighter t’ th’ bull’s optic th’n you, ,
Mister ! ’ Th’ stumpy bloke showed ’s gums in a •
full-blown grin ’n’ said dead brisk, ‘ Yours f’r a '
week, Loppy.’
“ Th’ fur-fancier ’ad first shot and fluked the
lead ’alf ’n’ inch fr’m ’ome. ‘ A quid y’r carnt pile a
pellet closer,’ he roared as ’e laid down the powder
pipe. Th’ ’orsey bloke flicks ’is eyelid ut th’ lads
uv th’ land who wuz ’angin’ around, ’n’ dips ’is
block inter th’ tube. ’E stopped there long enuff’t
find ’is way t’ th’ centre ’ole ’n’ through t’ th’ bell.
‘ Grazed th’ gong,’ ’e said, uz ’e stepped back ’n’ ’eld
out ’s ’ook t’ th’ freckled chap. But ther rabbo on’y
stood fingerin’ ’is whiskers ’n’ starin’ up th’ tunnel like
a bloke wlio’ud missed th’ larst boat. ‘ Ain’t cher goin’
t’ rustle up th’ rent, y’r curry-spotted Guy Fawkes?’
snarled the sport. ‘ There’ll be a rent in y’r listenin’ flap
if y’r don’t stifle y’r sob,’ growled th’ game-gatherer
ominously. ‘ Why, strike me sober, y’r’ve faked th’ fire.
There’s on’y my shot on th’ sheet, ’n’ ’ere goes t' read th’
result.’ Und ’e bucked like a hunger inter th’ tunnel n’
started snakin’ it up th’ straight. * Come back,’ I yelled,
but ’e on’y rumbled out a column uv curses ’n’ crawled
on some more. About ’alf-way up ’e stuck like a damp
stamp ’n’ screeched.
“ In brief time all th’ old tarts ’n’ kids in th’ neighbor-
hood wuz with us. They poured questions all over me,
’n’ I wuz kept busy bluffin' ’em with a tale about th’
mammoth fonnagraif. Soon some gusher worded it wide
thet a bloke wuz shot ’n’ 'ad crawled inter t’ tube t’ die.
Then a frog-faced John got busy orderin’ me t’remove th’
corpse, iz there wuz no room f’r a coroner t’ sit comfort-
able in th’ tube ov death. I’ll be struck stiff if I didn’t
’ave t’ jerk th’ old show t’ pieces t’ release th’ sore’ead, ’n’
when ’e got loose ’e started searchin f’r th’ ’orsey bloke.
‘ Where’s the cheap chirper?’ ’e asked. ‘ I’m goin’t’ paste
’im round th’paddock.’ ‘Seen’im duckin’ fr’m th’ dis-
trict with 10 minnits start,’ ’e wuz told be a bloke in leg-
gin’s. ‘ I’d ’ave rapped th’ rook raw,’ ’e said, iz ’e pulled
out some coin ’n’ counted it. After that ’e wired a few
blokes t’ join ’im in shiftin’ some cellar cordial, ’n’ they
wandered off with ’im t’ th’ Fathom uv Froth shicker
saloon.”
* * * *
‘ ‘ Cict ” : Before the list of bush rain-
signs closes, I would like to add to it that consis-
tent anti-vegetarian, the blow-fly. My money is
on him in wads as a moisture forecaster. Should
he buzz in large numbers on a hot summer day
when other sentient things are decorously coma-
tose, the cocky will predict a fall of rain within
three days, and be right every time. Occasionally
the blow appears during the winter season, when
decent blue-bottles are asleep. Instantly the
bloke on the land ejaculates: “Blarst ther fly,
an’ me ploughin’s not near’ over ! ” A query as
to the connection between the buzzer and the
plough extracts the dreary prophecy that “It’ll
rain ’eavens ’ard afore the day arter ter-morrer’s
well over, blank and blanketty it! ” And it does
somehow too. It is this gift which has won for the
humble meat-ruiner the cognomen of “the
Wragge of the insect species.”
While crossing the sandy bed of the Mac-
kinlay River (Q.), a motor-car, in which F. A. Haw-
ley, one of the London directors of the South Aus.
Land, Mortgage and Finance Co., and a couple
of that co.’s officers were travelling, got a joint
broken, and refused to budge. As there had been
rain, and the river threatened to come down, it
wasn’t considered advisable to leave the huzzy
machine in the sand till repairs could be
effected, so an effort was made to get
a team of horses to haul it out. The
nags couldn’t be got, and it seemed 1 kely
that the engine would have to stay and
drown. At this crisis, Mrs. Stubbins, who keeps
the pub at Mackinlav, reckoned that she had a
team of goats that would pull the thing out. Bets
of almost anything to nothing were made that
they couldn’t even move it, let alone take it up
the bank ; but twelve of William Goat andco. did
the job quite easily. Evidently the strongest
thing about W. Goat is not his smell, after all.
A CHEERFUL VIEW.
UNDERTAKER: “ We’re just about to start. Better
come and pay last respects to poor old Jones.”
ORDINARY MORTAL: “ There'll be enough there
without me.”
UNDERTADER: “ Go on! The more the merrier .”
A kangaroo farm has been founded at
Bath, England, by W. H. Payne and Jack Wal-
who have earned some prominence as collec-
tors of Australian birds and animals. Tour acres
q{ ]and are used- Between 50 and GO hoppers
{orm th@ nucleus of the stu d. All the animals
were imported from north-west Australia, under
th supervision 0 f Wallace, an old hand in those
. t
AN AUSTRALIAN IN LONDON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
We used to scoff at the English toff
Who turned his trousers high,
And loved to poke a gentle joke
At the new-chum passing by.
And Smith would sneer and smile and jeer,
And intimate to Brown :
“ It is dry out here, and the sky is clear,
Tho’it rains in London town.”
And Brown would wink, and say “ I think
Your supposition’s true.
To me ’tis plain we’ll have some rain
Within a year or two.
“ I haven’t spoke to the English bloke ”
(And his glance was sly and deft);
“ But he, no doubt, has just come out—
And ’twas raining when he left.”
But now we roam across the foam
To dear old Motherland ;
And the heavy humorist “ at home ”
Salutes us on the Strand,
And he wants to know if the pumpkins grow
As large and green and sweet,
On their native trees, as those he sees
On the cornstalks in the street ?
We’ve a six-inch bend on our trousers’ end,
And we fiercely grip our gamp
When the cables say, “ It has rained to-day ;
And the Murrumbidgee’s damp.”
We cleave the mist with a heavy list,
And we struggle through the mirk
When the cables add that the roads are bad,
And the train is late at Bourke.
Who cares a damn for ’bus or tram ?
For the English beer is good.
And it’s raining still at Broken Hill,
And the Castlereagh’s in flood 1
Let the punsters pun (though there ain’t much fun
In their humor! Goodness knows),
Our macks we’ll don, and our spats put on
When the Lachlan overflows.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASDEY.


FOR. EVERY EMERGENCY —
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
A PURE SPIRIT.
Unheard-of Prices in
Family Silver*
"yiTE have just completed arrangements with
,T one of England's largest and best makers
of Table Electro-Silver and Solid Silver Goods
which puts us in the position of being able to
sell every line of household Silver goods at the
actual makers’ English Catalogue Prices, less
a discount of 4s. off every pound.
The goods are positively the best and most
heavily-plated of all those made in England, and
we guarantee every piece of the best quality to
wear for thirty years. Spoons and Forks in any
quantities and in every recognised design
Entree Dishes, all sizes and designs. Pie Dishes'
Cruets, Dish Covers, solid and of wire’
Asparagus Frames, Salad Bowls, and every
requisite of a gentleman’s table.
Write for Catalogues.
ENTREE DISH.
BEST ELECTRO PLATE. I OVAL SHAPE (Plain).
10 inch, 11 inch, 12 inch. I 10 inch, 11 inch.
20 per cent. Discount off the Manufacturer’s
London Catalogue Prices.
PLAIN FIGURES*!
CASH. J
Kindly note we only offer high-grade goods.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
The S.A. Government claims to have paid,
during the past three years, a penny each for the
destruction of 30,000 cormorants and 90,000 turtles
—all confirmed fish-killers. The State pays away
£40,000 every year for preserved fish, but it is
hoped that the fish demand will in time be met by
local production. As it is, 2000 tons of food are
gathered in from the sea annually on the coast of
Crow-eater land.
* * • •
The Victorian person on the land, who
describes himself as “the backbone of the coun-
try,” has just been showing how I ttle vertebra or
even brain he possesses. Quite a number of him,
who carry on dairy-farming up at Yarrawonga,
have lost much, if not most, of their stock on
account of the recent dry season, and, as usual,
are rushing to Bent for financial assistance.
They only want £7OOO for a fresh start, and moan
of their terrible misfortunes. They say nothing
of their colossal laziness or ignorance which
allows them to go on, year after year, making no
preparations for dry weather, but just depending
on Nature in a calm, casual way. They never so
much as think of providing an understudy for
Nature when the old lady is cantankerous and
niggardly; so that, when she plays up, they
haven’t anything but cusses. And, since cows
won’t feed on cusses always, they die. Then the
dairy farmer person whines for aid. He doesn’t
deserve it. He only
dead cow that
the dry earth.
deserves the
cumbereth
A TENDER SHIP.
1ST TRAVELLER : “ What makes the boat roll so?
It’s quite calm.”
2ND DITTO: “Must be that core upstairs. He
keeps walking from one side to the other.”
“ Flinderino ” : In the vicinity of Port
Douglas, North Bananaland, the undomesticated
porker is making itself generally objectionable,
especially to the sugar grower. The wild pigs
pay nocturnal visits to the canefields, break down
the wire fences, and plough up the cane. A brace
of grunters do as much damage as a mob of wal-
labies, and that’s saying a lot. To encourage the
destruction of the pest, the Mossman Central
Mill is offering a bounty of 7s. 6d. for every pig
captured within a certain boundary. Conse-
quently pig-hunting is a favorite pastime for the
local youth on Sundays and moonlight nights;
and everyone wboow'ns a double-barrelled dog and
a terrier-gun is joining in the chase. The slayer,
before he can pocket his three half-crowns, must
produce the ears, strip of forehead, and snout, as
proof that the grunter has ceased grunting.
ON THE SURFACE OF THINGS.
'And as for spirituous liquors, ma'am, I never touch them except when I’m ill.”
“ Poor man, how you must suffer.”
“Pooderegah” : “ L’Fou ” (B. 27/'B/’08)
mentions, in a casual sort of way, that he and his
family are at present in mourning for the local
eaglehawk. “ L’Fou’s ” tastes and that of his
family are peculiar. All the eaglehawks I have
ever known are, in point of destructiveness and
savagery, as bad as crows. They are the bane of
sheep-owners. In the Maranoa district (Q.) some
stations are paying as much as 2s. 6d. per head for
eaglehawks. “L’Fou” is presumably a detester
of our primary industries, but it is possible to
carry this tendency to extremes.
* * * *
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : I do not want to
start an unholy Abo.-lying competition in the
shape of a curious-holiday controversy; but the
following is a queer Outback reminiscence.
Old Jack, the cod-catcher, used to save his
money for periodical holidays in Broken
Hill. Frequently he got no closer than
Menindie, because of the awful arrestive-
ness of the local bottled devilment. After
every failure to reach Broken Hill, he
always inflicted a sore penance on him-
self by sending only his swag on the
next holiday by coach. It used to stay
a week, and then return to him. He
used to say: “Well, I’ll swear one of
, us gits ter Silver City this time ; and
as I couldn’t be trustid larst time, I’ll
send Matilda. Tilly is a stiddy old
gal. She don’t spend nothink but ’er
(coach fare, and yet she gits a spell and a
change of air.” On Matilda’s return,
he would talk to her by the hour; and
? was apparently quite happy, for he had
his money and his health, while “in his
mind ” he had had a “ go ” at the flesh-
pots and beerpots of Broken Hill. It
was not uncommon for Jack to take
Tilly to a variety show, if both reached
the city. He said she was dreadful fond
of a bit of fun, “comics, and dancin’,
an’ ’igh-kickin’.”
Great exaggeration, by “Henry Phelt-
hatt ” :
It all took place one Saturday afternoon. I went to
Sydney station to catch a train labelled Homebush. The
smoker was packed, but I found a place where I could
stand in comfort. The carriage looked like a section of a
troop train. Guns, ammunition, and other warlike
things were strewn about. Grim-visaged men talked low
and earnestly of some impending conflict, fondled their
weapons and exchanged cartridges. Surely the great
Yellow Army had come at last! And this brave band of
men —veterans who had fought in many a fiercely-waged
pigeon battle —were they going to engage the foe ? lad mired
them while I listened. “Where was he last seen?” in-
quired one. “On that big tree near the saleyards,”
answered another. “ A fine fellow they say, too.” Now,
the Pagan army, in spite of its monkey habits, couldn’t
all get up one tree. It must be some other menace that
was provoking those stern-looking men to combat. My
curiosity got the better of me. “ Has one of the
loonies escaped and run amok, and murdered
everybody, and routed the police?” I asked of
an old warrior. He looked at me dubiously. “Loony!”
he repeated. “ Yes, the thing you’re going to surround
and flank, and annihilate,” I said. “Oh, the gill bird,”
said the veteran, and presently the whole carriage was
laughing at my expense. At Homebush the sports
tumbled out, and more sports rushed up and greeted
them —crestfallen sports these latter. The enemy had
been slain. It was only a soldier bird. The intelligence
department had failed badly.
Binghi progresses. The music at the re-
cent Atherton (N.Q.) show was supplied by a
band of 12 wind-blowers from the Yarrabah
Anglican Mission. Still Atherton doesn’t look
like a place that would be over-particular about
its music. The township is built where the rail-
way from Mareeba stops in what was once the
middle of the Big Scrub, but is nowadays chiefly
the Big Mud ; and a pretty large section of its
white people live by taking up land and leasing it
to Ah Skew or his brother Skew Whiff. For
themselves, they’ve quite enough to do to keep
their boots from being pulled off their feet in the
mud. But grow—Heavens, what won’t this table-
land grow some day !
A MINER’S LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There was me an’ me mates was stony broke—the four
couldn’t raise a quid—
When Bullocky Morgan up an’ spoke, an’ ’e spoke like a
bloomin’ kid,
An’ 'e says, “Since we’ve tramped it long enough, an’
come to a measly pound,
An’ it’s only luck if ye strike the stuff, let’s sink a ’ole in
the ground! ”
Bill, ’e looked at Bulloeky’s face that was ’id in a crop of
’air,
An’ I seed that ’e thought it was a case by ’is pityin’ sort
o’ stare ;
For there wasn’t a mine for fifty mile, an’ there wasn’t a
lode we knew ;
But the Kid took on with ’is cheery smile, an’ I fell in
with ’im too.
So we sank a ’ole, though we knew ’twas rot, where the
scrub was tough an’ thick,
’Twas the most unlikeliest sort o’ spot that ever a man
could pick.
An’ Bill looks on, an’ smokes ’is pipe, an’ says, “ Graft on,
you slaves.
If you really think that the time is ripe for to dig yer
bloomin’ graves ! ”
At last I ’ad enough of the game, an’l felt inclined to
stop ;
But Bullocky grafted just the same, an’ I thought the
Kid would drop ;
When suddent I hit on something big that felt like a
chunk of lead,
And we pulled to light a lump of ore as large as a loaf of
bread !
And I, that had just been broke before, took out me div.
from the claim —
A thousand quid and a trifle more—and each man took
the same.
That’s what Bullocky Morgan struck ; what prompted
him no one knows.
For there ain’t no law in a miner’s luck —it merely conies
an’ goes.
VIC.
A.B.C.
THE AGRICULTURAL EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A Victorian farmer has directed the attention of the
Agricultural Department to an article on “ Breeding for
Mutton and Wool,” published recently in a country paper,
which advised farmers to give to their lambs as a preven-
tive against tapeworm and ringworm a mixture pf lOoz.
of arsenic and three gallons of water. A farmer took the
advice of the article, and a number of his lambs have
died after being dosed .—Daily paper.
If you give good advice to the man on the land,
As, for instance, “ On How to Feed Bullocks by Hand,”
It’s as well to put it so he’ll quite understand
How to mix it in proper proportions ;
For the beasts of the field are a delicate lot—
If you mix in some poison and serve it up hot,
With good measure for all, it’s as likely as not
They’ll go on with some horrid contortions.
And a beast is a beast
If it gets just the least
Excuse to indulge in contortions.
If you write a bright leader on “ How to Fly Pigs "
And distribute some hints on aerial rigs,
Take great care the bucolic old person who digs
Won’t get mixed with your “ How to Shear Cattle’ ;
If you do you will feel a great yearning to fly
From yourself when the swine squeal and tumble on high,
And fall down in a herd from the beautiful sky
On the roof with a horrible rattle.
And a pig is a pig
When its new flying rig
Lets it down with a horrible rattle.
If you grow very wise on the “ Care of the Herd,’’
And say “ lucerne ad lib,” you will look most absurd
When a muffled explosion shows something’s occurred
To the bovine so puffed and inflated.
For the farmer’s a very conservative sort,
And he doesn’t like cows, when his money is short,
To lie down and go off with a muffled report.
If they do he gets most agitated.
And a cow is a cow
When it makes that dull row
And its owner is most agitated.
N.S.W.
FRANCIS E.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned i :'.'ss stamps (of any State) accompany.
C.E.F. : Sorry to say we are too busy with our
own work to review unfinished novels in manuscript....
S.P. : Splendid sentiments, in pretty good verse, but the
result doesn’t reach print-level. To write acceptable
defence-poetry it is necessary to have the gift of present-
ing a palpable truism in a new form, and you lack that
gift....Jackeroo : Recollections of the sort are out of our
line... A.D.M. : Your jape is belated. The Moreton
bays in Hyde Park have ceased to look devastated these
weeks past.. ..Horney : Without wishing to be offensive,
we are constrained to state that your “ poem ” is blanky
and intelligence-insulting rot lid. H. : You rescued
an ant from drowning, and apropos make this reflection :
If gain I cannot count in cost,
I know of nothing lost,
And naught can come this to exhaust,
It knew life was not lost.
. ...Bawn Boy: You haven’t the requisite skill.... Me-
lville S.: Humor too mechanical Uckle : A capital
“situation,” but you haven’t-managed it well enough
Dynamo : A decent performance, but the theme is too
hopelessly weary... Olive : Opens rather well,but slumps
lamentably towards the end.. ..B.T. W. : Too much
dialect, and badly done dialect at that ...H.G.McD.:
Sentiments admirable, but the job is one for the Austra-
lian Government and not for individual subscribers....
R.E.G.: Main point about your suggestion that the
Federal Government should “arrange with one of the
cinematograph firms to have some faked films taken of
the invasion of Australia by the Japs with trimmings,” is
its startling originality. If a nation lias got to the stage
that it needs faked cinematograph pictures to make it
wake up and defend itself, it is time it went out of the
business Oboe: Verses fearsome. You owe the late
author of “ The Tempest ” a grovelling apology for the
one inviting the young woman to come with you to the
“yellow sands.”... F.H.D.: Don’t know what any of it
means. But it supplies some bright new words. A verse :
Call to the winds, O Master !
Bid the wild raging cease ;
Else all Thy Earth shall ghaster
Sleep in a corpse like-peace.
G.A. : If you are under the impression that we pay
ss. or 7s. 6d. for newspaper cuttings which may, by a
vigorous mental effort, be distorted into meaning some-
thing slightly “ blue ” (though wholly unfunny), you have
been misled Green Leaves : “ The Navy ” says the right
thing in the wrong way... .Lone Alfred :It fails—for one
thing because, to use a time-worn adage, “All is not
poetry that rhymes.” Bushranger : “ Jockey’’quite un-
suitable. Not fit even for the dogbox that you complain
about... .Unknown :We know the Tumut River, yet your
description leaves us cold and puzzled. A fragment:—
Lyre-lifted stream. Swept by Sorrow’s lethal pall
In hells and darker hells of loneliness —
In Life’s waiting quicksands—l heard thy call,
And heard, too, did she who knew thy caress,
One thou restored to me, from out the stress
Of Denial. Thou was droning o’er thy bars
While we maintained with speechless tenderness
With thee, the hush beneath the drifting stars,
The calm upon thy breast, un reached by earthly jars.
Bow: No use—mainly owing to its discursiveness. You
lack the power of consecutive thought... .Ommin : Your
muse wrestles ever with the demon Incoherency—and
gets worsted every time O.W.G. : Too magnificent. A
chunk : “ Hence were accelerated those anti-radical idio-
syncrasies which stand out pre-eminently amongst
Britishers, and they applied themselves religiouslj' to the
task of disseminating a fulsome contentment throughout
the nation by conferring on the emulative organisations
of the time political privileges hitherto unknown.”....
Pompey : Impossible in this column to put “ sardine-w 7 ise
in a nutshell ” the reasons that forbid such rhymes as
“ dawn-morn,” etc. Commandeer a work on prosody....
Caesar : Moderate rhyming, but it gets nowhere in par-
ticular.... Hampden : As your par. advocated not our
defence policy, but that of which Willy Kelly is one of
the few remaining props, and as the thing was, more-
over, dully and evilly written, and carried no
stamp, it was ash-binned, and has now been
mingling with the elements for ten days past
H v (Kobe, Japan): In objecting to our statement
(2/7/’08) that “Japan w»on’t allow a foreign country to
serve any document of a legal character upon any Japanese
subject in Japan,” you say, “If a Japanese in Australia
wished to sue the editor of The Bulletin for debt or libel,
the summons would not be served by the office boy from
the Japanese Consulate, but by an Australian police-
man.” It hasn’t much to do with the ease, and it is also
wrong. A dozen summons citations, writs and things are
served by office boys and such like in Australia to every
one that is served by a policeman J. F. Stewart: If it
was arranged that B. should toil Sundays—(say) £3 4s. 3d.
If the bargain was for a six-dav week and the Sunday
work was extra, £3 155... .Geordo: Yankee fleet items
are off. Nothing short of the news that the Sperry had
rammed the Father Gleeson, and then foundered in mid-
ocean, bearing with her the cruisers Tenderloin and
Cuspidor, would avail to stir us now:...A.R. : Maledic-
tions on you for getting The Bulletin subscribed for at
the Invercargill Athenaeum. It is, such false friends as
you who lose this paper the price«*of many drinks..
G.: Yarn about the parson’s wife just missed the mark.
....Emdee: Influenza yarn sneezed itself to death....
Womba : Required a firmer touch to give it interest!."!!
8.8. : The little story has moderate merit, and the
original reflections are good, though not quite in out-
line... .Taminga: Doesn’t cry out for print T.W.S. :
Spoilt by a couple of bad rhymes and a few lines that
won’t scan Dripper: You don’t drip to any advantage.
A.T. : It discoverable backbone of idea.
T.P.: Sydney P.O. has more floor space ; but there is no
record as to other public buildings.... Exile : Thought long-
over it and then chucked it with a great chuck..
W.J.W. : Nicely rhymed, but the aspiration to throw "up
work for “ the harbor’s glancing waters ” is so general in
these balmy climes that verses on the subject have
become drugs on a glutted market Kangarooster •
Your hide is wonderful. The verses re the “ little brown"
hen and the rooster ” appeared in London Winning Post
two years ago.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Rine: Drawing of person with a face like a Skye-
terrier, saying something about Brother Tregear to a
friend who resembles a clothed gorilla, of no value...
G.B. : Declined, partly because each preacher has <>ot
only one leg L.G.C.: Wooden-legged person of”no
interest even if the drawing wasn’t impossible R. G. A.
Macdonald : Please send address to Bulletin Accountant!
Midge : Can’t say for certain whether you are getting
worse or not. Quite forget how bad you were before.
But the present picture is only fair, and the joke is very
ordinary G.R.: Picture of boy cutting wood of no use
whatever A.E.W.: Very crude picture, and even a
badly-drawn kangaroo in the distance hardly justifies it.


MELBOURNE, CANBERRA, &c.
"T^e. ( I io<7eev^
1908
Site -for
'Feder *l C \h t le>,l^
I "
I !
J IS 35
(Vielb) ’W \ fine
Site village
Sta*ieless rl y mma,
old | h&'F'
oj* st ldo |
Tift. Quezon TlivS
tn s o(- nof"Al'o'^' t if>.
|yjo*t«y fe«de»x +"o become
Syna,<^>^^
Suretell Ope be
He f° r - l ,u ' r ~ w '* e
• '€^Ofry>
Confess^
10 Y«VS °f **« offlC *' ' n » ,v ’V~' '
[je i<> no** * ‘W'fc Au s +?i».V> cH.«f/y
Cokvcv-sJv+To-s w
/\w 7 €»''CA*» rlea*'
'
/& w I
r O^'W.oh
(4o Eqa.hy Lawyer) |,.
* ti*l •■foe I
H°S e
x/b fW*>ys\
&ur~ ar
Xorr, 6<iwf
Wse mfuc^av
WW
Torn Be*+ /
l //,/•* f ,ue ’ , Y K ' /
k, v,
i
Someone
M r l?euA It a^)><^e«* '•'o
■<o
- frrovuied W 'S found ..
'fb "be elt <
The Wy fx^s i
irt v '* m J°’ r
vntjile +nC
etc. o * n,_r_ J°*^ e s
T>l«(.t»owt Scr-^cc)
? “
- you do»T dnnK, h-Me do you .
• 1 urvT !
" MAUCE.R . HALLO Nau<;£.R !!'
MAUG EH !!


BRUCE SMITH AND OTHER SMALL MATTERS.
Here you have
searching for the man who opposes the Daigety Capita l ! 1
site. He thought he had found him in an obscure
suburban pub, but when the man saw Bruce Smith
he changed his mind.
When last heard from Bruce was still pursuing his bootless quest.
WHAT TO DO WITH OUR BOYS.
An Australian jockey has refused a retaining fee of
£2OOO for fiding In France.
Perth, Sunday.—. Tom Burrows, champion
club-swinger, has beaten his own
previous record by 40 minutes,
keeping going for 66
hours three minutes.
The Linton Agri-
cultural Society, near
Ballarat, offers this -*■
year a special prize
for the best love- _
letter written by a
member of either
sex. The accepted
letter is to be read
from the stage on
show night.
The limited resources of black and
white are unequal to the task of depict-
ing the blushes of a fair prize-winner
on "show night. 1 ’
BRUCE SMITH, IN HIS LAUGHABLE
CHARACTER OF SAMSON,
Notice has been given by Mr. Bruce
Smith of an amendment to the second
reading of the Capital Sites Bill, direct-
ing the Government to take proceed-
ings for an amendment of the Consti-
tution, so that Parliament shall con-
tinue to meet in Melbourne until the
end of 1910, and shall afterwards meet
in Sydney until the end of 1920, the
choice of a N capital to be made in 1921.
He called his two boys
to his knees. “My sons,”
he said, “ the time is rapidly
approaching when you must choose
a vocation ; have you thought “ /
have, father ; I’m going to be a jockey,” said Bill.
“ And 1,” said Jim, “ intend to be a champion dub-swinger, and beat all my
previous records.” “Thank Heaven!” said the sire,
•* that is off my mind. Now that I know my boys
have a fixed purpose in life, I can die in peace! ”
This is an age of
competition.' As a
natural corollary to
the Love Letter Com-
petition, someone has
started a. Largest
Family contest.
Bulky Competitor: “When ye says ‘largest family,’ dy’e mean in noombers
or boolk ? ’*
Judge: “Bulk, ma’am, mere bulk, will be-er—• Highly Commended.’”
King Edward VU.: “ What do you say to my taking a trip to
First Lord of the Sugar Basin: “ Well, your Royal Ighness,
would be giving you one more chance 1


INSUFFICIENT ATTENTION
is too often paid to keeping the month pure.
The month is to the body what the entrance
hall is - to the home, and the mouth is
consequently particularly exposed to pollution
by noxious germs drawn in with the breath,
or arising from small fragments of food
remaining in the mouth and becoming foul.
To counteract these evils, which lead to
various disorders of the mouth and to decay
of the teeth, the mouth should be regularly
rinsed with an antiseptic mouth wash of a
solution of Odol. Everyone who daily cleanses
the mouth and teeth with Odol will soon
discover, from, a general sense of freshness
and stimulated energy, how beneficial is
the purification of the mouth with thi»
preparation.
For acute kidney ills, or for chronic,
Unequalled are Pills Laxo-Tonic,
Liver troubles they cure,
Make tainted blood pure,
And the nerves act in manner harmonic.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, Io|d. and Is. Gd.*
<< Woods’ Peppermint Cure appears to bring
Your trade amongst the snuggest,
I ’spose it won’t cure everything ? ”
“Well, no,” replied the druggist.
“ It won’t cure everything, at least,
Unless I’m much mistaken ! ”
“ What won’t it cure in man or beast i
Said he : “It won’t cure bacon ! ”
The Lone Hand this month gives inter-
esting early-day pictures of Mr. T. A. Libbs,
Miss Rose Scott, Professor Anderson Stuart,
Tasmanian acting-Governor Dodds, Mi. Justice
A’Becket, Mr. Justice Cussen, and Senator
Keating.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Austin Chapman, Minister for Customs as
Kingston was, is adding himself to the list of sick
men in Federal politics. He is apparently
developing a “heart,” and, though warned to go
slow, he couldn’t resist rushing into the fight over
the Federal capital. His speech for Dalgety was
recognised as the finest he has been guilty of ; but
the doctors who had warned him were right, for
next day he collapsed, and will now have to go
slow in earnest for a bit.
N.S.W. ex-District Court Judge, William
Hattam Wilkinson, who died at Glebe (Sydney)
last week, aged 78, was a London native, and a
son of Captain Henry Wilkinson of the East
India Co.’s navy. He came to N.S.W. in 1852,
and for a time cultivated the young Cornstalk in
a school at Enfield. William “read law” with
the late Justice Wise (B.R.’s father), and was
afterwards his Associate. Later he hung out his
own shingle, and after that he was a Parliamentary
draughtsman and law reporter. He was Acting-
D.C. Judge before he got a permanent seat on the
judicial timber ; and he also had the job of Presi-
dent of the Court of Claims. The legal handbook,
“ Wilkinson’s Magistrate ” (of which he was the
editor), is better known among the folk who grind
out a crust in the law mill than the Holy Scripture.
Died, on September 21, after an operation
for peritonitis, aged only 36, H. P. Seale, assistant
manager of Mount Morgan (Q.). He was born at
Maitland (N.S.W.), and in 1891 entered the
engineering school at the Sydney University. He
graduated in 1894 with first-class honors and as a
gold medallist. After leaving the Uni. he worked
for B. C. Simpson, civil engineer, and supervised,
among other works, the construction of the "Rose-
hill (N.S.W.) railway. He went to Mount
Morgan in 1896, and took charge of the
construction of the western works there. Subse-
quently he was engaged in mine engineering and
surveying, and was so conspicuous a success that
in 1902 he was appointed mine manager. Soon
afterwards he accompanied Captain Richard,
general manager of Mount Morgan, on a business
tour through America and Europe. In 1906
he was appointed assistant general manager,
and when Captain Richard weftt to America again
last year he was acting general manager. He was a
shining instance of what Australian brains, aided
by Australian training and education, are cap-
able of.
Some Australian birthdays in October :
Garnet Walch, 65 on the Ist; Bishop Camidge,
71 on the 2nd ; Hans Heysen, 32, and Rose Scott,
61 on the Bth ; Education Secretary Stanton
(S.A.), 65 on the 14th ; editor Bonython, 60, and
J. G. Duffy, 54 on the 15th ; J. R. Fairfax, 74 on
the 17th; President Wrixon (Vic.), 69, and ex-
wicket-keeper Jarvis, 48 on the 18th ; Senator
W. Russell, 69 on the 20th ; ex-Premier Lewis
(Pas.), 50 on the 27th ; Murray Smith (Vic.), 77,
ex-Judge Boucaut, 77, and Police Magistrate Jim
Gordon, 61 on the 29tli; A. J. Thynne (Q,), 61 mi
the 30th; effective-voting champion Miss 0. H,
Spence, 83 on the 31st.
About a Rich Landlord :
The Hon. Tom Brunton, miller, and late of Victoria’s
House of Wealth, who passed out. recently at Ascot Vale,
was one Who rode right on top of the mad boom wave of
the ’eighties. But instead of being overwhelmed, BrUnton
got off in time and landed high and dry, also wealthy.
When the boom Went to pieces and beggared , a host of
poor unfortunate workers and others, Brunton tried to
relieve the distress in his own locality by opening a
soup kitchen in his mansion near Ascot Vale railway
station. During the early hours of the cold, wretched
winter mornings following the bootn burst, scores and
scores of kids of all ages came regularly from all
parts of the Vale, making for Brunton’s With billies,
quart pots, jugs, and any sort of utensil that would hold
soup. The kids were passed in at one gate, marched to
the kitchen, got their soup, then were passed out at
another gate. Brunton made it a rule to give the first
kid 3d. Whether this was to promote healthy running
exercise or not is unknown. Anyhow the early kid and
the swift kid and the long-legged kid ran like deer for the
daily “thrum.” After a few days, however, word went
round that those who were last got the best and strongest
soup, because soup was alwa3's thickest at the bottom,
and then the slow kid and the late kid found consolation.
The soup distribution was kept going all that winter,
and Ascot Vale was at least a little less hungry in
consequence.
The lone Swede who used to walk the
Melbourne streets all day with a swag still walks,
but without the swag. It fell off somewhere, like
Christian’s in the “Pilgrim’s Progress.” The
man who “ lives close to Nature ” and tells you so
by a placard on his stomach, and sells a penny
book telling how to do it, has disappeared. He is
replaced by a long-haired person who goes about
all day reading a Bible or some other book.
Bobbies have to look after him at the crossings.
There’s a woman who talks to herself all day and
sells matches. If you give her a penny without
taking matches, she will fling the penny on the
pavement and make a scene.
The Oldest Inhabitant rambles :
Mr. Arthur B. Chisholm, one of the sons of the late
James Chisholm, M.L.C., has passed hence at Goulburn
(N.S.W.), aged 66 years. The original Chisholm, father of
theM.L.C., wasin thelo2ndregiment,and his name isgiven
in 1809 as one of nine sergeants of the regiment licensed to
sell spirits. On leaving the corps Mr. Chisholm opened
the Thistle Inn, in George-street, which afterward be-
came the head office of the Bank of New South Wales
(the original bank was in Macquarie-place). There is a
legend that Mr. Chisholm bought a big slice of George-
street from an officer for 12 dozen bottles of port wine, six
gallons Holland, two pieces of broadcloth, 251 b. of Ameri-
can tobacco, one chest of tea, two bags of sugar, one set
of gig harness, one saddle and bridle, one single-barrelled
fowling piece, two canisters of gunpowder, and four bags
of shot. It was considered then that the officer had done
welt, and that the buyer of George-street property had
fallen in. Mr. Chisholm had a large grant of land at Red-
fern, which Henry Parkes purchased for railway purposes.
When the Savings Bank was established, in 1832, the
original Chisholm gave a room in his house in George-
street for the purposes of the bank until it could afford a
humpy of its own.
GRANNIE FAIRBAIRN, OF TOORAK,
VIA OXFORD.
Another Crimean veteran has no farther
use for his medal; for James Brett, 86, late of
Lismore (N.S.W.), saluted Peter week before last.
He took part in the scuffles at Balaclava and
Inkermann, and was also in the trenches before
Sebastopol. His medal bore three clasps, and the
Turkish medal of the same period also helped to
hide the hole in his coat.
South Aus. has discovered that it has been
harboring a great fishing expert unawares. Dr.
Ramsay Smith, who was imported from Scotland
as the result of a strike at the Adelaide Hospital
a number of years ago, forgot to mention at the
time that he had qualifications in this direction,
and it was not until the delegates of the Scotch
fishermen opened their eyes wide and said, ‘ Eh,
mon you here?” that South Aus. suspected any-
thing. Ramsay Smith served, it seems, on several
“fishing 95 inquiries in Scotland —which is pro-
bably why he afterwards applied for and got the
iob of City Coroner, in addition to his numerous
others. Now it is possible that he will be offered
still another billet on the Fisheries Board which
SA. proposes to appoint. In any case, it is a
foregone conclusion that, if the Scotchmen come
out at all, a big batch will go to South Aus. Dr.
Smith has drawn them up a scheme which appears
acceptable; and if the delegates’ report is favor-
able the first batch of the men should arrive m six
or seven months.
“ Wang ” stirs up old memories
Par (B. 17/9/’08) re Mayor Pearse, of Ballarat, reminds
me of the old warrior as I knew him about 15 years ago.
It was in the days of my apprenticeship to the Cow and
the art of being generally useless, on a farm down at
Russell Bridge, a dot on the map of Victoria, about 17
miles north of Geelong where they have the sleeping sick-
ness. Old man Pearse used to make a weekly trip from
Ballarat in a huge covered-in caravan, drawn bv a huge
pair of horses, and bought up all the dairy produce, and
hen fruit, and hides and sundries he could on his rounds.
His weekly appearance was quite an institution along
the road. Far away, a rumble would be heard, and pre-
sently, out of the distance, Pearse’s moving cathedral
would emerge. This was the signal for the old women to
bustle and give a finishing touch to the poundsof butter
and count up the eggs for the tenth time. And from the
fowlhouse Billy and Jimmy would emerge with a couple
of pairs of Cochin-Chinas protesting vigorously, head
downwards, in their hands, and presently great would be
th fsaiah knew everybody on the road. He traded with
everybody. He blarneyed everybody. There was nothing
smaller than an elephant that Isaiah vvouldn t buy if it
was capable of being sold again. He arrived in a cloud of
dust and he left in one. His enormous turn-out was a
whole farm on wheels before his day’s work was done.
He was old even then, and how old he is now I can t guess.
May he live long to have the rabbit-skin Of office round
bis old neck if it gives him any pleasure. He knows all
about rabbits. I fancy he must have bought millions of
them.
From latest accounts, Pastor Wilbur
Glenn Voliva, who succeeded ’Lije Dowie as
Emperor of Zion (U.S.A.), is having a harsh and
troublous reign. When ’Lije went up (or down)
in his chariot of fire, Voliva, his impressive am-
bassador in Australia, packed up his expensive
clothes and made a tremendous sprint for Bije s
iob. He succeeded, but apparently he has been
threatened with the sack ever since. _ Dissension
and intrigue have broken out in his kingdom, and
the tabernacle is rent m twain. Four persons,
whom he gently characterises as a “ quartette ot
religious vagabonds and renegades,” have cost
him many a pang; while one Lewis, who is de-
clared to have coarse designs upon his blessed
throne, has aroused yards of vituperation. Guite
a lot of Voliva’s subjects are dead weary of his
rule, and are requesting Lewis to come and seize
the reins of government. Lewis, however, isn t
too sprightly in accepting the invitation, and
meanwhile Voliva remarks that “those who stand
for truth and its principles can do no less than
leave Lewis and the rebellious ones to their own
fate to batter their ecclesiastical brains out against
Zion’s immovable walls.” On the whole,_V ohva
seems a very fitting successor to Dowie. He can
curse beautifully.
The cable is an enormously useful institu-
tion. The other day the great Australian dailies
employed it to inform the eager millions of this
Commonwealth that Miss Asquith, daughter of
the British Prime Minister, fainted in the dark.
Apparently this was the direst mishap among
Britain’s 40,000,000 people in 24 hours.
“Adelaide”: There is one small section
of Adelaide that will badly miss the late N ickolas
Fitzgerald, of Melbourne. In a general way, he
was quite unknown here, but once or twice a year,
for at least 20 years, the shareholders in the big
S.A. Brewing Go. sat spellbound under his be-
wildering blarneying eloquence. He and Malcolm
McEacharn represented a lot of Melbourne capi-
tal and they had ornamental seats on the Board
of Hirectors. Latterly the shareholders asked for
local men, and McEacharn was dropped; but
Fitzgerald still came over to the half-yearly meet-
ings to congratulate everybody on everything,
and to wish to Heaven his undertakings m Mel-
bourne were one-half as well managed and as
prosperous. And shareholders who had come to
ask questions, and possibly to “barrack,’ re-
mained to purr, and to vote pleasantly for any-
thing that might be laid before them—even, on
one disastrous occasion, for the passing of a
dividend.
“Bloggs ” writes :
Herewith some samples of Crick’s calm and high-handed
dealings with his Bla.yney constituents, referred to by
“D” (B. 3/9/’08). Speaking out Oberon way on one
occasion, Crick was accused by a member of the crowd of
havino- “ratted” in Parliament on an election pledge.
With much vehemence he gave the interject or the he.
“ Ri«-ht,” said the latter. “ And now if you 11 shut yer
mouth fer a minute I’ll read yer what yer saul
out of Hansard”—and he produced a Hansard from his
pocket. For about two seconds Crick was non-plussed.
Then he said contemptuously, Hansard. That Free-
trade rag! What sort of justice d yer expect it to give a
Protectionist like me?” And in the roar of cheers that
followed he changed the subject. . , „
Crick’s idea of light persiflage was rather quaint. He
was addressing a meeting in one of his strongholds one
ni< r ht The audience was with him to a man. His theme
was the dastardly conduct of his opponents. And now
o-entlemen,” he hissed bodingly, I shall tell you a tale
that must inevitably make you shudder in your socks
those of you, that is” (he added in a courteous aside)
“ who happen to wear socks.” , . .
Crick never troubled to remember anyone s face. A
supporter whom he had known since boyhood sent a man
with him on horseback to a distant centre once. Crick
rode beside the man all day. Arrived at his destination,
he proceeded, in accordance with the imploring requests
of his committee men, to shake hands with all and sundry.
Presently he haDpened across his guide. Crick wrung
his hand warmly and asked after the state of the local
crops. The man was dumbfounded. He exp ained
matters. “ Blank and asterisk those committee fellows
said Crick warmly; “I’ll never shake hands with
M. constituents in Peril,,
ment added much to the cheerfulness of that dreary
place. A carping member accused the chosen of Blayney
of never going near his constituency. [Crick often
explained that the two best points about being member
for Blarney were (1) that the Blayneyites never expected
Wm to go there ; (2 that it was too far away for them to
visit him.] However this time Crick took exception to
the charge “ I do,” he said, “ I constantly go to the
constituency ” “ I have here,” said the carper, flounsh-
i°"&a sheet of notepaper, “ a letter from one of your own
constituents complaining that you l >aven into the
electorate for two years. A self-evident he, replied
Crick briskly, “ none of my constituents can write.
THE IDEAL LEADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The gt-eat want of Australia at the present moment is a
political leader, with a clear eye for essentials, ami reso-
lutioh enough and influence enough to whip lntO-submis-
sion all the factions outside the Labor party, which is now
the only party in Federal politics which deserves to be
called a party .—Daily paper.
The Classes need to-day a Superman
To marshal them. No ordinary type
Will fill the bill. The leader of their van ,
Must draw all sorts, as with a Hamelin pipe.
It is a prime essential he should be
A staunch Freetrader. Johnson, Wilks and Co.
Would loathe him else—yes, that is certain, he
Must spurn the Tariff Blight like billy-oh.
Yet must his spurns be cautious, mild and deft;
Wilks, Johnson and the rest their rage would vent
On him, if, through'his fault, the Blight were reft
From any of the towns they represent.
That he should, he an Anti-Socialist
Goes without saying. Private Enterprise
Would strike the party from its calling list
If he who led it saw with Soshite eyes.
Nevertheless, he must unceasingly
Pursue State Aid, spending the public splosh
On roads, dams, wheat and things, a policy
Dearly beloved by those who rail at Sosh.
As to religion, a firm Methody,
With Unitarian leanings, and a trace
Of Plymouth Brother-Anglican-R.C.
Is necessary in the present case.
“ Defence ” must find in him an enemy ;
With certain reservations—such as that
If Office seems to lie Defence-wards he
May execute a diplomatic “ rat.”
A fearsome task, you’ll say, to disinter
A statesman'of this sort to take the lead
’Gainst Deakin and his hordes. That’s where you err.
We have him now. The name of him is Reid.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
POSTERITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I would borrow the money, and so let posterity pay.—T. Bent.
/SAW a manfneath burdens lending low,
And as he went he cursed a bitter curse.
“ Old dad had ripping times,” he said, “ but oh!
Things go from bad unto a darned sight worse.
My hands ache dully, and my sense is numb !
It’s graft, plain graft, from daylight until dark;
S.A.
There is no time to talk, I might be dumb,
And everything"s a beastly rotten nark.”
“ Then who are you” I asked, ‘" and tell me why
Your life is such an empty, ceaseless drag 1 ”
“My name's Posterityhe said, and I
Am working off Adolphus Pent s dead nag.
GROPER.


iHH
if. MM
k i
ri
% m
P fl
jP
Hfei
v w"
wall
w
4^
WidS
Jr
.>
-
. ■
*.. j
■"•“‘Safe
-s
II
PS
#jpi
.-
. ? ,(-• . *v- ■■?. : •
r- : ■• : ■-■■
JraEffit '■ ■ • • v‘
ffr p: "" : 1-
‘ ~ -faM-te*:?,
*
■
..
MM,
Mi*
ftb r.; :W
m
V
Jsr! yA
■
\ , :**■
a
.
i®M©fcwvH
■ ** Wifi#
A
■* ■'
*«B?aS£i‘>
mm
m
mm
■
S 3
“Now, now, don’t be nasty, or I won’t g'ive
you a CAPSTAN CIGARETTE.”
‘ CAPSTAN ” (Tobacco & Cigarettes)—the brand tbat made W. D. &, H. O, Wills popular.


As for wit and
Humor good,
Bet a bit and
Back Tom Hood !
And as Hood’s great
Humor’s pure,
So is Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure !*
Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have fob Pkivate Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawings.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
In spite of what pessimists say,
Science holds all diseases at bay,
And nine-tenths of our ills
Can be treated by pills,
Laxo-ionic is leading the way.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 101-d. and Is. 6d.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free, by post, throuyhout
Australia
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
Mrs. S. H. Walker, 230 Humffray Street,
Ballarat, Vic., writes “ Have used Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy for four years, and know it
is excellent. Have found it most beneficial. Can
recommend it to anyone. In fact have done so
many times, and it has accomplished good results
in every case.”*
There is much of absorbing interest to
Australian Nationalists in the October Lone
Hand now on sale. C. H. Kirmess absorbing
political romance, “ The Commonwealth (ho-
telling of a “peaceable” Japanese colonisation of
Australia, begins; Louis Esson writes, from
studies in Yokohama, of Japanese Imperialism
A new feature is a review of the month s haate
politique."
HADN’T AN ATOM OF STRENGTH.
Sydney Woman Helplessly Weak Fok Years.
Treated by Various Methods Without
Success. Now in the Best of Health.
Cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
The following statement is given by Mrs. D. N.
Howard, 42 Fountain Street, Alexandria, Sydney.
She was a victim of antenna and her case was so
severe that it baffled doctors’ treatment. Tor
years her blood kept getting weaker and poorer.
Then she read about Dr. Williams Dmk 1 ills.
She gave them a trial, with the result that her
health was fully restored and she has nad no
return of her trouble since. This is just one in-
stance of how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills can cure
bloodlessness when all other means prove useless.
“I was very healthy as a young girl, but as 1
grew up I lost all my strength,” said Mrs. Howard.
My appetite got very poor. I’d never touch a
bit of meat, I was only inclined to sour things
such as lemons. I got worse as time went on and
not better. All color went out of my face and
lips. I looked ashy white and I hadn t a scrap of
flesh on me. My feet and hands always felt cold
and numb, and if I stood much my ankles putted
up as if I had dropsy. Just over my eyes and
across the temples I always had a dull, heavy
headache. I never slept well. I’d toss from sude
to side for hours, then doze off lightly and feel
each morning as if I could hardly get up.
would feel drowsy all day and would lie about
most of the time. I was very low-spirted. L Had
no strength at all. The least bit of housework
was beyond me. Occasionally I d get faint turns,
as if I were going to swoon. I d have to sit down
at once, as the room would go dark and every
object seemed to fly past me I thought I was
going into consumption, and fully looked it. I
never cared to go outside the door. TheAeast
exertion made me breathless. A lady friend told
my mother about Dr. Williams Pink Puls. Be-
fore I had finished the first box I found my strength
coming back. I got a little color in my face and
began to fancy my food. I improved steadily
with the second box. The headaches left me an
I felt no longer low-spirited. The pills seemed to
make new blood in me, and my circulation mi prov-
ed. I got a third box but only needed to take
half of it. I am now m the best of health. I
sleep and eat well. I’ve lost that pallor and the
deathly faint feelings. I gladly recommend Dr.
W Remem£r? Dr'williams’ Pink Piflsarefor any
complaint that a good supply of rich, red blood
will cure, but you must have the genuine km .
Sold by chemists and The Dr. Williams Medicm
Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box
six boxes for 15s. 3d., post free.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
ħ
h
ĥ
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
| Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
denyer brothers
Also at Melbourne.
(oyp. limiter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAT
POINTS
Daily paper item
Mr. Johnson, M.P. (N.S.W.), says Dalgety is impossible
as the site of the Federal capital, being treeless, desolate
and snowy.
Well, London is fairly treeless, and it is decidedly
snowy in winter, and it was desolate till popula-
tion came. Yet London hangs out somehow.
A GAMBLE.
Mr. Wade calls out loudly for the settlement of the
Federal Capital site, and yet permits it to be stated that
should Dalgety be selected he will not allow the Com-
monwealth to have it.
WADE: “ Come on, Alfred, Dalgety or Canberra?
Heads I win, tails you lose.”
Postmaster-General Mauger looked in at the
Postal Sorters’ annual social, the other night, and
handed round a few statistics which might be
calmly considered by the unreasonable nuisance
who writes letters to the papers about alleged
“ Postal Chaos ” :
Last year, 309,978,938 letters were posted for delivery
within the Commonwealth. No fewer than 504,689,070
letters, packets, newspapers and parcels were handled.
The number posted and delivered within the Common-
wealth was 465,000,000. If one in 200,000 were delayed,
they heard about it. The value of money-orders issued
last year was £11,000,000, besides something like
£5,000,000 worth of postal notes. There were 61,800
telephone subscribers throughout the Commonwealth.
Of these, 61,000 must he fairly well attended to, as the
Department did not get 800 complaints during the year.
The revenue last year was £3,297,713. No less than
£1,670,073 went for salaries and wages to 24,992 em-
ployees. Among these there must naturally be some
lazy, some indifferent, and some impertinent men ; but it
ought to be remembered that Judas betrayed and Peter
cursed ; the other disciples were faithful.
Provision is to be made this year to start
the Sydney Harbor Trust sinking fund. Where-
upon Sydney Daily Telegraph :
It is obeying the Act, but might well be dispensed with
all the same. The harbor works are permanent, so why
should not the debt be so?
In short, what’s the use of owning anything your-
self when you can pay a Cohen to own it for you .
The distressful tariff has hatched another
industry at Newcastle (N.S.W.), and threatens to
provide still another little lot of 40 men with con-
stant work. The new concern is the Newcastle
Bolt and Nut Co., and from its title one can tell
the job it has taken in hand. It needs more
machines to make a bolt and a nut to fit it than
the first man you meet would probably guess;
but they have all been put in at the Newcastle
works. When the tariff arrived, a man who had
been in the business took the first train from
Glasgow, and already he reckons that he can
supply as good an article as the best that Britain
can sell. And, while the price won’t be higher,
the merchant who has hitherto bought only
the imported goods will save thousands because he
won’t have to carry huge stocks. The merchant,
for one, knows that the old yarn that ironmongery
doesn’t eat anything is all rubbish ; stock mops
up interest, and when the factory is next door, so
to speak, instead of at the other end of the globe,
the merchant with his eyes open can see the
money that he used to pay in interest flowing his
way in the shape of extra profits.
Such a good, honest paper is our S. M.
Herald ; not even by accident could it hit below
the belt. Still, the other morning, during the
Federal capital debate, it printed a conspicuous
map, showing the relation of Dalgety and Can-
berra to Sydney and Melbourne. The idea, evi-
dently, was to show that Dalgety was a
“Victorian conspiracy,” wherefore the name
“Dalgety” sprawled over the map towards
Melbourne, and “Melbourne” sprawled up to
meet it. So, between the sprawl of one and the
stretch of the other, “Melbourne” and “ Dal-
gety ” were brought just three times nearer one
another than “Dalgety” and “Sydney.” Yet,
on the scrupulous old paper’s own showing, Dal-
gety is only 296 miles from Sydney while it is 353
miles from Melbourne. And right underneath
the map it stated : “ Dalgety is 2500 ft. above sea-
level — 600 ft. above Canberra.” Which was part
of a lie, anyhow, for portion of the Canberra site
is officially described as 250 ft. above Dalgety.
Bent, who wanders around a great deal in
his political mind these days and arrives nowhere,
propounds an idea about a law to prohibit any
man owning over £150,000 worth of Victorian land.
People with more land than that are to have 10
years in which to sell the surplus, and if they
don’t sell it the Government may do the work
itself or it may not. If it were proposed that no
man should own more than £25,000 worth of agri-
cultural or pastoral land, and people with more
than that had to start disposing of the surplus
next year, and get rid of one-tenth of it every
year till the surplus land was all sold, there would
be something in the idea. But anyhow it doesn t
matter, for it is 1000 to one that Old Tom means
nothing. He has now got on hand a land valua-
tion scheme, a land-tax scheme, and the land
scheme mentioned above, and the chances are
that they are all sections of the same hoax.
W. Lyne’s Protectionist tariff goes on
doing things, The people who supply Kodak
photo, goods lately decided that it would pay them
better now to do their manufacturing inside the
protecting wall, and to use Australian men and
materials in the process. Consequently a strong
co. has been formed, and a circular has been issued
drawing attention to the revised prices. Accord-
ing to all the lies that the importing crowd ever
told, prices ought now to bound up; but they
don’t bound worth tuppence. In fact, what the
circular draws attention to is their reduction
A comparison of the old and the new prices will show
the very considerable reductions it has been found pos-
sible to make in thus establishing another local industry.
And yet, after this and a hundred other experi-
ences'of the same sort, the N.S.W. constituencies
will next time probably return the same old W.
Wilks, and G. Reid, and J. Cook, and B. Smith.
With some constituencies, it doesn’t seem to
matter whether a man’s politics have been
exploded or not. Yet, if a carpenter built even a
henroost that leaked, the same constituencies
wouldn’t give him a second job. Some constitu-
encies are much more careful about their henroosts
than about their country.
Recently a man holding a building allot-
ment of 274 perches within 25 miles of Sydney
was the successful balloter for a con-
ditional purchase lease near * Forbes
(N.S.W.); but because the 271 perches
are not “town
or suburban
land,” as de-
fined in the
Crown Land
Acts (though
the allotment
is under the
Towns Police
Act), he is dis-
qualified under
Act No. 42 of
1905, Section
14. Thisisonly
one of the in-
numerable
blunders in the
lovely Land
Acts of N.S.
Wales, but it
is an awful example of how not to put people on
the soil. And the Department hasn’t got the ex-
cuse that it didn’t know about the absurdity, be-
cause attention was drawn to it in The Bulletin
close upon a year ago.
Melbourne Age puts a personal query ;
But the question all Victorian citizens will be asking
themselves to-day is this : Can we reasonably hope for a
statute redressing abuses and imposing honesty on com-
pany promoters and legal managers from a Bent Govern-
ment?
The query might be extended to the State Parlia-
ment which permits Bent to continue.
AN INTERESTING FIND (3729½ A.D.).
Historical picture of Canberra as it was to appear as the Capital of Australia. The. event
didn't come off, but the picture is interesting as a revelation of the manners and habits of
the early Australians.
The Times “ declares ” that the Empire
can hold empty spaces for Australia “ only if she
will do her utmost to utilise them. Whence this
sudden antipathy to empty spaces on the part of
the Empire that has been steadily grabbing them
for a century past? And, anyhow, it’s about up
to somebody to telegraph to Britain, telling it that
the Barcoo Banner declares that the Empire
can’t rely upon the Barcoo’s aid in holding Ireland
if it doesn’t make a much better job with that
country. Australia may hot be Rppulatmg its
back paddock very fast, but, anyway, it hasn t
vet managed to seriously depopulate any portion.
Ireland had 251 people per square mile in 1841,
and only 137 per square mile in 1901,. and a
country that has managed to do a small thing like
that for one of its home paddocks might at least
give Australia a few years to get its back-country
into use without making veiled threats,
“ Comp ” writes :
Have been battling at tbe trade all over Australia for
the past.3o years, and never during all thpse years ala
see or hear of a printing press or machine that was built
in our own country. But to-day, in the current issue of
the Typo Journal, there is an illustration of a machine
and specimen of work that I have much pleasure in for-
warding you. I will get another and have it framed. It
is a double-demy machine that prints four colors at the
rate of 2000 per hour. If poor old Parkes and the others
who did so much to prove that nothing could be made
here were to see this machine and the class of work it
turns out they would have a fit. As The Bulletin is
never averse to giving an Australian manufacturer a lift,
I mav mention that the article was built by Bell afid
Valentine, of Sturt-street, South Melbourne. It is an
object-lesson to the printers of Australia—and no class
wants one more—of the curse of Protection.
Tlie first hitch in the great scheme for
combining the disjointed elements of Anti-Sosh
in the House of Heps, was the failure of hr, Keid
to turn up. There was to be a meeting and Keid
was to sky the towel of nominal leadership, and
then an effort was to be made to find a leader
whom both the Cook-Bruce Smith Tories and the
Knox-Irvine Tories would follow. But the day
came, and Reid neither skied the towel personally
nor by letter nor by wire, so matters had to be
postponed.
KELLYS BUTTERFLY HUNT.
WILLIAM LYNE : I won’t be drawn into your net,
anyway.
K ELLY: Nor do we want you.
Little hoy Kelly, M.H.R., is a tiger for
information. The other day he asked Defence
Minister Ewing whether “universal training
would be “ compulsory or voluntary ? it was a
puzzling question, and caused the same sort of
mental dejection as would the query : Is bream-
ing obligatory or optional ? ”
Though the Yic. Indeterminate Sentences
Act came into force on July 1, and though several
criminals have been placed under lts operation,
Bent and his Chief-Sec. Peacock have so far
gazetted no regulations, set apart no reformatories,
and made no provision whatever for administering
the Act. The measure is not provided solely for
the purpose of confining irreclaimables more or
less permanently ; in fact, it applies even to youths
of 17 with three convictions. It was cnieny
intended as a reformative measure, and neces-
sitates the provision of separate gaols or reforma-
tories and an ample measure of useful employment
therein. To sentence an offender indeterminately
and expect him to rehabilitate himself in the idle,
shiftless, crime-sodden atmosphere of Ppntndge
prison is a cruel injustice as well as a farce.
AUSTRALIA THE INSANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
There seems to be no stopping this Closer Settlement
craze. —Dangar, M.L.C., of N.S. W.
The buff wheels swift are buzzing in
Our shattered cocoa-box ;
For we are “ off our pannikin ” ;
We’ve fairly “ done our blocks ” ;
We’re ratty, touched, our brains are gone ;
In words of former days—
We are non compos mentis on
Our little farming craze.
A loony crowd are we who’d take
The land from harmless sheep ;
To give to men —a sight to make
The very angels weep.
Our dottiness would make us dot
The bush with farms galore ;
And good, kind squatters we would not
Be wanting any more.
A set of wild, destructive cranks,
With twisted minds, are we,
Who’d leave no profits for the banks,
With everybody free.
We’re “ up the pole ” so very far
That we would like to see
All wages higher than the}' are,
And wide prosperity.
Indeed, indeed, it’s very sad,
As Mr. Dangar says,
To see a people ail so mad
Upon a foolish craze ;
A project ill-digested, rash,
And so ridiculous,
That some of Mr. Dangar’s cash
May drift in time to us.
N.S.W.
MILTON MACGREGOR.


PALING’S
VICTOR PIANOS are to be found throughout the
length and breadth of Australia*
No matter what the climate may be, we guarantee
them to give satisfaction*
They are grand wear resisters, and are specially
recommended where work is heavy, as they are fitted
with an extra pedal or a moderator stop acting as a
pedal—for use when practising* This adds years to
their life*
WE SELL Victor Pianos on EASY TERMS*
SOLD ON E.ASY TERMS.
VICTOR
PIANOS.
Catalogue and Full
Particulars Post Free.
W. H. PALING & CO. Ltd.,
338 <S€OR<S€ STR€CT,
SYPNCy.
BRISBANE«»
NEWCASTLE
* *
- Of
*f:«/ 5L '*'-£■. Jiffs' J?. "**
: : TZC&fe&'ihS?- -. ■
©fe 1 * ~vj>^ r „
iH i
H
■
. . :
■
m
. '■ ■;-
:
:■■■■.
- M
'
V-"* -
a /
’. v ’,y
■
■n
M
W ■:■
.. ~S X
HH
!SS‘
ia.*-i v t - *
MRBHI
*7 - S^^tssli
• ” —*ip «*-•..* :
r .■
/fa cKine
Pi 0 -? r cK^"'^» ctOC '-
&Th ,c * i n o<* r
We are Ali ve
Manufacturers & Designers
of Furniture. Fitments &-
Mantelpieces.
All the Latest Machines are installed in
Our New & Modern Factory.
J/e claim to grilse ?Ae Lowes? Possible Prices
wiiA /Ae Afbxi/num Stondard o/ /figrA C/ass kbrA.
ESTIMATES & DESIGNS FREE OF CHARGE.
BUCKLEY (r NUNN LT?
MELBOURNE.
The Only Way.
There is but one rational way of building up a library, and that is by .taking every
opportunity of securing the books you want at reasonable prices. There is one
place in the world where the best books and . the newest-books may be bought
cheaper than any where else. That place is :
“The Times BooK Club,
376-384 Oxford Street, Condon, England.
You have heard this statement before. Convince yourself of its truth by sending
for the latest Special Catalogue which has just been issued. Thousands of book-
buyers from all over the world look upon the appearance of our catalogues as an
event. Add your name to the list of those to whom we send them regularly as
they come out.
By leaving the selection of books to us, in-
dicating only whether you wish fiction, on the
one hand, or biographies, books of travel,
essays, poetry, etc., on the other, purchasers
will make an even better bargain than by
ordering individual books. In every case the
parcels will contain books of which the value
exceeds the total of the sale prices given in
the catalogue. The parcels will of course con-
tain no duplicates.
For &5 you can have 90 assorted books,
biographies, books of travel, fiction, etc.
For £lO you can have 190 assorted books,
biographies, books of travel, fiction, etc.
Purchasers who wish books to be despatched to
any address outside the United Kingdom by post
should enclose an additional sum for postage at the
rate of 7d. a volume. Parcels not thus prepaid
will be delivered abroad through Messrs. Van Oppen
carriage forward.
SOME OF THE BARGAINS.
Bismarck.* By Dr. Busch. 3 Vols. Published,
Cloth, 30/- net; sale price, 6/11 ', Half Leather,
18/-, set. (Postage, 2/2.)
This is the handsome three-volume library edition
of the famous diary kept by Bismarck’s secretary.
The tortuous workings of the great man’s mind, the
diplomatic steps by which he attained his objects,
are fully displayed, and the revelations are full of
interest at the present moment, in view of the extra-
ordinary disclosures of the Hohenlohe Memoirs.
Life of Napoleon Bonaparte.* By Professor W. M.
Sloane. 4 Vols. Published, Cloth, £4/16/- ; sale
price, 45/- ; also bound in Half Morocco, 60/- ;
Vellum, 70/- ; Full Morocco, 96/-. (Carriage
forward.)
Professor Sloane’s great work on the standard bio-
graphy of Napoleon in the English language. Gifted
with remarkable historical acumen, and the possessor
of a vivid and attractive style, the author approaches
his study of the great Emperor with warm but
discriminating appreciation.
Mr. Asquith.* By J. P. Alderson. Published, 7/6
net ; sale price, 1/11. (Postage, Bd.)
Mr. Alderson begins with a sketch of the Asquith
family history, and then he traces the career of the
statesman from his birth up to the defeat of the
Liberal Government in 1895. Dr. Abbott has
furnished some interesting reminiscences of his dis-
tinguished pupil’s career at the City of London
School; and the President of Magdalen, a con-
temporary, has given assistance in the Oxford chapter.
Rambling: Recollections. By the Right Hon. Sir Henry Drummond Wolff, G.C.8., G.C.M.G. 2 Vols.
Published, 30/- net; sale price, 15/-. (Postage, 2/-)
The interesting record of a wide and varied experience. The author has been politician, and
traveller in turn, and has met an unusual number of eminent people. The hook abounds in amusing stories
The Life and Letters of Mandell Creighton. By
His Wife. 2 Vols. Published, 28/- net; sale
price, 9/-. (Postage, 1/8.)
The keynote of this biography of one of the most
famous Bishops of London is sounded clearly and
distinctly in the following passage extracted'from
Mrs. Creighton’s own preface to her work “ I have
wished always to tell the whole truth, to remember
that l am the wife of one who said that he would like
his epitaph to be, ‘ He tried to write true History.’...
No doubt I shall be told that this, like all other bio-
graphies, is too long. It is an easy criticism. But
will those of my critics who appreciated my husband
for his literary gifts remember that there are others
to whom he was primarily a shepherd of souls, and
will those who are curious to discover his ecclesiasti-
cal policy remember that to others his activity as a
historian seemed of even greater importance ? ”
* New Copies.
WHAT YOU’VE TO DO GET DONE TO*DAY.
“The Times” Book Club,
376-384 Oxford Street, London, England.
Please send me your latest Clearance Catalogue and
future issues as they appear.
I enclose
Please send me a parcel of ....'
(Specify whether Novels, miscellaneous or assorted)
books of your selection.
Please send me the books indicated on the attached
sheet.
Najik
Addi:
(S.B. 1) ...


Q
V
CHARLES
o
ECK
DSI
E
H
FOR
0
*
o
*
s^ 0
Results of The Lose Hand Beaut v Quest for
the States of N.S.W. and Victoria are announced
in this month’s issue of that popular rnagazincj
and special photographs published of the winners.*
tf you are not yet a devout enthusiast of Valaze,
Mile. Rubinstein’s incomparable skin-beautifieij and the
matchless company of the Valaze remedies, try an ex-
periment. You have your share of irritations. You are
bothered, perhaps, with troublesome blotches. Open
pores annoy you, and blackheads creep in to heighten
your distress. To start with, you should feed your face
with Valaze, then you need the Valaze Blackhead and
Open Pore Cure, w'hich will banish all these blemishes
and prevent their recurrence by destroying their cause.
2s. lOd. posted. Another preparation is the Valaze
Liquidine. This is the latest and most absolute cure for
a greasy skin, red nose, and all complexion blemishes. In
any case if you are really interested in your looks, write
for Mile. Rubinstein’s new booklet, “Beauty in the
Making,” 3d. by post. Valaze preparations obtainable
from Mile. Rubinstein, Valaze Massage Institute, 158
Pitt Street, Sydney, and 274 Collins Street, Melbourne, fl
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
I’m trying all I can to fill
everybody’s tea caddy with
Robur tea—it is really good
tea, you know ! —so much so
that it’s quite a pleasure to be
in any way connected with it—
you’d be simply amazed if I
told you how many pounds we
send out of our warehouse each
day—it would need a caddy as
big as a house to hold them.
Robur goes all over Australasia,
you know ! —and the beauty of
it is no matter whether you
buy it in a city shop or an
up-coun try store you can always
depend upon getting exactly
the same tea under the same
grade number. It’s put up in
different size packages, from
half-a-pound to twenty pounds,
so you can buy as much as
is convenient at a time, and
always have it fresh, and
freshness is the great thing
in tea.
No. 2 Grade is splendid
tea —quite a number of people
are using this grade now—it
has a nice flavor, and it will
make a great number of cups
to the pound—just the tea for
everyday use
“The Connoisseur’s Friend.”
“BLACK and WHITE.”
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Is the acme of perfection, and the high-class standard
stimulant of the British Empire.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, September 29, 1908.
My Dear Arint,—
The wreaths hoisted on the Powerful and the
Challenger last Thursday signified that a person
from each vessel was going to join the firm of
Orange Blossom and Co. Lieutenant Thoms and
Lieutenant A. E. Evans were the bridegrooms,
and the blossoms they garnered were respectively
Miss Morgan Martin, daughter of a Sydney medical
man, and Miss Christina Mac Neil, daughter of Mr.
Hugh Mac Neil, the golfer with the gorgeous dog-
slaying motor-car. It is anotablehen-extermiuator,
that same car. Both brides seem to have followed
the orthodox bridal dressing—white satins, tulle
veils, lace yokes, and wreaths. When I know of
a bride who will wear a red kimono, a purple hat,
and green kid gloves when she takes the as-long-
as-ye-both-shall-live vow, I’ll go to her wedding
whether I’m invited or not. I did know of a bride
who was married in a sort of ready-made slop
dressing-gown and misfit shoes, but her case was
exceptional. Her father’s house was burned down
the night before the wedding, and her trousseau
was reduced to ashes, and she escaped through the
window dressed in sundries. To the Evans-
Mac Neil bridal went Lady Poore, supported, in a
moral sense, of course, by Flag-Lieutenant Fisher,
who wears such a lot of gilded cordage on the left
half of his chest.
Ada Crossley lighted upon Sydney station on
Saturday morning, looking like the materialised
goddess of spring. She was a long, slender,
glowing apparition, pink and blue and gold in the
matter of coloring of face, eyes, and hair, and
as fresh and untired-lOoking as if she had
come out of a ten hours’ sleep instead of a nerve-
wracking train journey made up of two pieces of
daytime and a whole night. A white cloth cos-
tume with white silk braidings, a big hat with a
wreath of pink and Natier roses, and a wide veil of
Natier blue vestured the star. Half a minute
from her alighting time a circular mountain of
flowers and a same-shaped wall of humans closed
in around her and shut her from sight. Lieder-
tafels, Amateur Orehestrals, Philharmonics,
Madrigalists, J.C.W., Mr. Marich, a thous-
and or so feminines of more or less import-
ance made a confusion of joy, in which
amber there was no fly until a chevalier
of the asphalt industry, carrying a nice, big,
moist, warm, tarry mop, bumped—mop end first
—into Mr. Claude McKay’s honeymoon-looking
suit. Even that incident didn’t fly any amber
but his own. As a great writer has remarked,
“There is something in the misfortunes of our
best friends to make us laff.”
At five to three on Monday afternoon Ada
Crossley and consort entered the Town Hall. At
three thirty the contralto was suffocating in the
middle of some 3300 persons—that’s all that can
suffocate in the Town Hall. Every now and then
her plumed hat could be seen bobbing above
the crowd like a white sea-bird swimming on
the breakers or Henry of Navarre’s feathers at
Ivrv, then sinking as she either stooped to speak
to small adpiirers or else sank and was trodden
under foot and rescued with difficulty. A long
trained gown of palest yellow charmeuse with a
front panel of oriental silk and mother of pearl
embroidery, a transparent cloak of pale green
chiffon outlined and slashed with silver, andahat,
ostrich-plumed, and a boa, both of the same deli-
cate shade of jrnllow as the gown—these things
made up the dress-treat that Ada gave to her
receptionists.
At first night of “The Merry Widow,” Ada
Crossley, who got a thunderous reception, beamed
from the J.C. W. box in a pale green chiffon gown.
A wreath of green leaves played accompaniment
in hbr hair, and the bouquet she carried was a
cabled order from London. A most artful little
muff of heliotrope gauze, with sprays of lily of
the valley skewered on it, was an accessory. The
gown and the leaves of the valley lily matched
in hue.
The frocking in “The Cheerful Relict” is as
beautiful and immaterial-like as those mist cur-
tains you may see at dawn in the Blue Mountain
gorges. And as to putting a name to the
materials of the immaterial-like confections, I
haven’t the knowledge or the courage. “ They
were gowns,” as some writer has remarked of
those worn by a New York Smart Setter, “that
a head waiter would view with respect and meet
at the door.’’ For shimmer of things chiffon-like
in pink, white, silver and gold, and jewel-dusted,
Miss Carrie Moore, as the Relict in Search of
No. 2, takes the prize. Miss Young’s emerald
green cloak of charmeuse, and big black feathered
hat with green under the brim, is the millinery
allurement of the last act, especially when it makes
a background for the numerous posies of the well-
wisher.
“Danilo” Higginson is much younger than
Sydney expected. And he doesn’t look as if he
were noting, which is an artfully artistic way of
looking when one is acting. He suggests not the
mummer at all, but the captain of a college sports’
club put for a gay and doggy time. And he is
getting it. Danilo’s reputation, like that of most
young princes, has to be taken with chloride of
lime, but you know that when the widow has har-
pooned him he’ll be put in a coop.
Lady Poore is overworking her dancing floor
and the grounds of Admiralty House (to say
nothing of herself) with dances and garden
parties. The chronic invitation is out for the
chronic tennis party and dance, and both functions
“present a brilliant appearance” and are very
“enjoyable.” Good old “brilliant appearance !”
Good old “enjoyable!” That kindly and good-
looking order, the Kilburn Sisters, has a vogue at
Admiralty House —possibly because the Admiral
has a sister in the sisterhood.
Mr. Tommy Burns and Jewel, or “Tool,” as he
calls Mrs., are at Kosciusko, above the alleged
“ blizzard-swept ” Monaro. It is a most desirable
place to inhabit for a holiday. Stousli can afford
Kosciuskos. Literature stays to be pickled by the
sea, no matter how much it hates brine and the
winds that blow in from the great deep where the
prawn walketh in darkness.
Governor Bedford, who is due in Sydney this
week, on his way back to W.A., will “bide a
wee,” it is expected, with Governor Rawson.
Bedford served in the Black Sea during the
Crimean War; Rawson stormed the Taku forts
in 1858. Bedford organised a flotilla on the Nile
in 1884; Rawson hoisted the British flag on
Cyprus and bombarded Zanzibar in 1896. Both
made war upon and concluded peace terms with
black men, brown men and white men, and each
is now the drawing-room head of a State where
his chief functions are presiding at bazaars and
saying “ Howdy ? ”
Percy Grainger has two huge Steinways on his
conscience this trip. But it’s better than having
them on his chest. One was sent him by
Nicholson’s as soon as he arrived, and it now half
fills his bedroom at the Wentworth. The other
was brought out on the Runic by a sprig of the
Steinway firm, and it is this instrument that will be
on the platform with the Percy player. Its com-
panion on the voyage—the Stein way sprig—will
float around all the tour-time just to tune the
pianos. That’s a melodious luxury if you like.
Such a black-and-gold young butterfly-ish look-
ing being has Percy Grainger for a mother!
You’d expect to hear him address her as “ Fairy,”
or “ Birdie, ” instead of “Mother,” for she looks a
trifle younger and spryer than Percy himself.
They have the same coloring, and her figure
hasn’t over-blossomed. She frocks it in fleecy
black, or chiffony brown, and wears enchanting
big hats with wide-mesh veils.
Talking of music : Miss Katherine Goodson
mentions that her master, Leschetizky, puts the
Russians first as melomaniacs, and —this is where
you raise your eyebrows in surprise—the Ameri-
cans next. As musical gourmets the Germans
are supposed to take a seat that is fairly close to
the footlights. Perhaps of the three front rows Les-
chetizky would give them the third, but it is to
the Americans, who are supposed to be always at
work making corners in wheat and hogs and put-
ting foreign bodies through the sausage machines,
that he gave second place, and what L. says
“goes.” The next item doesn’t hitch any too
well on to the foregoing, but that doesn’t matter.
When Miss Goodson became engaged, her matri-
monial proposition gave her, instead of an engage-
ment ring, a large chunk of opal matrix set in
gold, and this she wears on a chain as a pendant.
Miss Ruby Lane-Brown, second daughter of the
squatter people, whose Sydney home is the
Brigalows,” Strathfield, was married early in
last month to Lieutenant T. A. Williams, of
King Edward Vll.’s iron-clamped ship Victorious.
The bridegroom was here some years ago on the
Ringarooma.
The Francis Bacons, of Sydney, and their
daughter are on their way back to this city from
foreign parts. Likewise Mr. Philip Toohey and
his bride, and the Francis Foys.
Miss Ruby Baxter, who is mentioned as one of
the members of the Hugh Ward-Palotta co., was
one of J.C.W.’s chorus girls in the Repertoire co.
The inclusion of Miss Rose Musgrove in the com-
bine is a surprise. She is so far ahead of the rest
of the team as an artiste that she ought to he its
leading woman, yet the charming Palotta would
scarcely go down one without considerable per-
suasion.
Two attractive English swashbucklers, Major
Norris and Captain Bailey, are running about
Sydney, much to the joy of the sex that loves any-
thing that swashes and attracts.
Mr. Hamilton Earle, the baritone of the
Crossley co., is a very aide-de-campish looking
young man with a bleat. One might mistake him
for a someone who puts on gold and macaw and
revolves in the Dudley orbit. Tenor Harrison
looks a basso, and is a real good sport. He is
going to be a favorite through his personality
alone. Sydney has already been gramaphonically
introduced to Mr. Harrison, and because it likes
him so well at second-hand it reckons to like him
still better in the original.
A horrid rumor is meandering about Sydnev
and environs that Mrs. Macarthur Onslow,' of
Camden Park, where the tenants are, intends to
publish the diary and other literary effects of her
grandmother, Mrs. John Macarthur. This work,
unless rigidly edited and sub-edited, will on its
appearance cause the holders of some of our
proudest names to wander abroad for a space
till the fame of it simmers down some-
what. The old lady was extremely haughty—
not to say snobbish —and a confirmed gossip
to boot. What she didn’t know about the society
(of her day, which was incidentally responsible
for the society of our day) is hardly worth men-
tioning. And she is rumored to have said all she
knew in her time—if not more—and to have in-
scribed most of it on tablets of lasting foolscap.
In one of her letters she states acidly that, “at
the time of the arrival of Mrs. Governor King,
there were but four ladies in the community of
Sydney.” She opined, in consequence,, that the
Governor’s lady would make “a. welcome ad-
dition to her circle. But she is mostly more
explicit than this. The sturdy settler with any
sort of scratch, dent, scar or mark on his family
escutcheon is scarified by her till one conceives
him regretting that he ever settled.
Mr. Reggie Suttor, the son and heir of him who
in his lusty prime was justly entitled to the proud
style of “Calves” Suttor (alas that such fair
things should shrink and fade !), is engaged. His
future bride is Miss Hope Mayne. The lady,
who is more than passing fair, was in one of the
J.C. W. companies for a time, and later she played
with some distinction in various Hawtrey shows.
The persistent fashion in which the young males
of our old nobility keep marrying into the stage is
as marked as it is sickening.. The obvious method
of retaliation at the disposal, of the slighted
maidens who wear no grease-paint is to start
marrying stage pirates and other showmen;
and, indeed, if things matrimonial progress as
they have been doing of late, a concerted move-
ment of the sort is threatened.
Another engagement: Miss Daisy Willis, a
Sydney belle, to Mr. Colin Parbury, one of-the
woolly and bonded store clan.
A fortnight’s exhibition of paintings by Dam-
sels Five (Stephens, Norton, Meston, Edwell, and
Teague) has just closed at Bradley’s Rooms.
Many of the pictures were sold, and Miss Teague’s
portrait work (the most ambitious thing in the
show) was voted to be of the kind that promises
faithfully for future fame, and the coin that
accompanies it.
Miss Katherine Goodson will be heard on the
teeth of the piano, at the Town Hall, on Oct. 17,
with a big orchestra, under Slapoffski, to support
her.
Kubelik has bought a violin made of Australian
wood by a Mosman resident. And he has given
written warrant to the effect that it is one of the
best new violins on which he has ever scraped a
bow. Yet the maker, Mr. Stevenson, is not a
professional fiddle architect, only an amateur
enthusiast.
A crayon portrait of Ada Crossley, worked from
a postcard picture of the contralto, is in Paling’s
window. It comes from Wellington (M.L.)and its
erayoner, Miss Bertha Hickson, is a protegee of
the Girls’ Realm Guild. The portrait is the pro-
perty of Mrs. Donne (Miss Jean Ramsay), a girl-
hood’s friend of Miss Orossley’s.
The Playgoers are starting a five-play night this
evening (the 29th) at the Standard Theatre, under
the direction of Mr. Clarence Lee. The operettas
and plays to be given are of Australian manufac-
ture.
A dark iron-grey bulk, the cruiser Gibraltar,
swings at anchor in Farm Cove, between the
silver-grey Pegasus and the Powerful, and ferry-
farers look at him (surely a war-vessel ought to be
him) with more than curiosity, knowing that
somewhere in his interior there is a man in irons.
One of our evening papers said it in huge, thick
type, “In Irons,” meaning the man on the
Gibraltar. So it must be true. The subject
with whose liberty the naval authorities have inter-
fered got a brain storm and (they say) threw some
hundreds of gunsights overboard, and is now on
his way to England to be boiled alive. To make
the culprit : fess or his comrades “tell on him,”
all grog was stopped and the miseries of teetotalism
spread over the entire ship. How different from
the way ancient time authorities would have
“ elicited ” information 1 I lately picked up one
of Marion Crawford’s books, and opened it at
a cheerful passage where a Venetian Dog or
some such potentate was trying to compel a
beautiful young lady to tell something about
her lover. A borer beetle in half a walnut shell
had been bandaged to the damsel’s side, under
her arm, against the skin, and the beetle’s owner
—he made a living by hiring out the insect to the
Government when it wanted to acquire knowledge
—assured the Dog of Venice, or whatever the
ruler was, that the girl would speak at great
length inside ten minutes, as the torture of the
rack and hot pincers weren’t in it with the un-
pleasantness of the borer beetle when it got busy
under the half shell. However, before the ten
minutes were up an insurrection started in the
city, and the populace poured into the square,
knocked the ruler flat, and elected another, who
was a friend of the bored lady. And I fancy,
though I am not sure, that the insurgent forces
stamped on the beetle.
The Gibraltar and its prisoner ought to supply
inspiration for a thrilling story for a local writer.
Disguised as a barrel, the heroic rescuer will float
around the ship until he locates the prisoner’s
dungeon. Climbing through a gun muzzle in the
darkness, he will encounter an armed sentry, who
demands the watchword. In cold desperation,
the rescuer chances it and says “Bunkidoodle”—
which, by a staggering coincidence, proves correct.
Oti the steel chain mat outside the prisoner’s ctell
the adventurer finds Flag-Lieutenant Fitzbagdad
fasst asleep. Prepared for every emergency,
he awakes the young officer and hands him a
document, purporting to be from Lady Poore,
bidding Gold Lace rush at once to represent
her at a Point Piper wedding. The officer rushes
off, and the key of the cell is disclosed.
He had been sleeping on it. Then the prisoner
flees, gets into-his store, clothes, declares, his real_
name and pedigree, recovers his great estates
which had been “shook” by his step-mother
before he was born, marries the beautiful girl, and
enters the House of Peers. Flag-Lieutenant
Fitzbagdad meanwhile wanders round Point
Piper in the dark, looking vainly for the wedding.
He gets back in a muddy state at 5 a.m., and,
being found guilty of desertion and untidiness, he
is shot with lumps of coal at 6 sharp.
A sister of Bulletin artist Alf Vincent is
married to Wilks, M.H.R., the gentleman who, I
understand, is agin’ the Pope and only believes in
Protection for his own electorate. And Johnson,
M. H.R., who blares aggressively against every-
thing Australian, is also related to a well-known
Bulletin contributor. It suggests to me that
The Bulletin staff ought to start a Home Mission
and convert some of these relatives and connec- .
tions into good Australians.
“Mario,” from Brisbane
The Governor’s wife, in a royal purple silk garment, and
the Excellency himself, with all hisorders on, shone at the
At Home given in the British Art Gallery on Wednesday
evening, it was a pleasant little; show, with the 9th
A.I.R. band suffering from Merry-Widowitis on the
gravel outside, and comfortable seats on the balcony to
encourage the unification of young hearts. The most in-
teresting figure in the room was Beatrice Grimshaw, just
back from the wilds of Papua, as brown as a berry, and
plump enough to have tempted the most honorable can-
nibal. Draped in a glittering black robe, with decorations
of emerald silk and gold snakey jewels, she was the
centre of curiosity, but everyone was a bit put out that
she hadn’t come in Papuan clothing and a bird of Para-
dise head dress.
This intrepid dame has been sojourning in the heathen
wilds close on 10 months, and she lias come back with the
firmly-rooted conviction that an Australian navy is a real
necessity, not only' on account of the lemon-tinted horde,
but because of the subjects of his Telegram-sending
Majesty Wilhelm 11., who, she declares, are forming a
naval station in Papua as well as one in the New Hebrides,
and putting them both on a war footing. Already, she
declares, trouble has occurred on our one frontier, and
only the tact of Administrating Judge Murray has kept
the fat from fizzling out loud. Speaking of the Judge,
she says he is a finer statesman than she ever expected to
see south of the line. After a flying visit to Melbourne,
ample Beatrice will turn her attention to Queensland for
a month or two. **
Such a to-do. Such changing of minds, and unpacking
of boxes, and marrying in haste ! Pretty Kitty More-
head, with her ’at in her ’and, so to speak, for Europe,
booked to leave by the Orontes on Saturday, yielded to
the entreaties of an old flame and stood up in a grey silk
gown and a grey silk hat to be wedded to Mr. Ciaude
Munro on Saturday 7 morning. It was a happy ending-to
a romance. The pair hoped to have been wedded at the
latter end of ’O7 ; but sickness and suffering came round,
and ultimately things went wrong and the engagement
was declared off. But most people who knew the devoted
pair said that the clouds would blow over in time. And
they,blew as above-mentioned.
Another small but interesting life contract was that
entered into on, Thursday by Consett Laidley 7 , of your
city, and bonnie Margaret Alice Wade Brown, Of Baußau
station, on the Burnett. The knot was tied by the
attenuated Douglas Price, at All Saints—he who looks
like a fast-day 7 turned sideways.
• Talk of the bull that pot scared in a Melbourne fur-
niture shop, and drowned itself in the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, a local horse beat it hollow here one night jthis
week. While attached to a sulky it took fright at an
engine at the Central Station, and, leaving its encum-
brance against a convenient post, it headed along'the
line for the Valley. Meeting a train at the mouth of the
long tunnel, and missing its mangled doom by half an
inch, it doubled back and streaked for Roma-street.
Better luck attended its second sprint, for the three
tunnels were free when it passed through them, and
when last seen it was scooting by the Roma-street plat-
form at a mile a minute. It should be somewhere about
Spencer’s Gulf when this reaches you.
The death of Harry Seale, assistant manager of the
Golden Mount, was a real bit of bad luck. Peritonitis
was the cause, coupled with anxiety re the late
accident. His “ little girl,” as he called her, Miss Leyden
Raeburn Balmer, had most of her trousseau laid by, too,
and no end of gifts and congratulations had already come
to her.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LTD
VICE-REGAL-JEWELLERS ■ WATCHMAKERS • SILVERSMITHS
BY APPOINTMENT
Best Quality Silver Plate.
WEDDING
AND
COMPLIMENTARY
PRESENTS.
h
LARGE
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
POST FREE.
Nut Dish, with two pairs Nut Crackers and Nut Picks, £2/10/•
3-Glass Cruet, with
Spoons, 17/*
Shell Batter Dish, with Knife, 12/*
Apostle Pattern
Table Bell, 13/-
SELECTIONS
OF GOODS
FORWARDED
TO THE
COUNTRY
ON
APPROVAL.
ĥ
FIVE
PER CENT.
DISCOUNT
ALLOWED
ON ALL
CASH
TRANS-
ACTIONS.
Biscuit, Butter and Cheese Frame, with Knife and Cheese Fork, £2/10/-
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON ADDRESS 19-CHARTERHOUSE-STREET
Java-Australia Line
OF THE
ROYAL DUTCH PACKET COMPANY.
Full-powered, modern passenger Steamers, specially built and equipped
for voyaging in the Tropics.
An ideal pleasure trip—smooth water everywhere, via Torres Straits.
Splendid scenery throughout the voyage. Passenger accommodation amid-
ships. Electric Lights and Fans installed. Large, airy two-berth deck cabins.
First and Third Class passengers carried.
All modern conveniences. English spoken on board. English
Stewardess carried.
Special facilities for tourists to travel by rail throughout Java on
ticket books obtainable here. The Company’s Steamers connect with all
Java ports and adjacent Islands.
.
Steamers will be despatched from Sydney as follows:
S.S. VAN SPILBERGEN, October 27th, 1908.
S.S. LE fIAIRE, December Ist, 1908.
Thence every five weeks, calling at DOBO, BANDA, MACASSAR,
BOELELENG, SOURABAYA, SAMARANG and BATAVIA, via
Queensland ports. The round trip can be made in 54 days, including
eight days’ stay in Java. For BookletsT Time TabiesTand all further
information apply :
AGENTSMessrs. Mcllwraith, McEacharn & Co. Ltd., Adelaide; John
Sanderson & Co. Ltd., Melbourne; Birt & Co. Ltd., South
Brisbane; Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd., Townsville; Burns,
Philp & Co. Ltd., Thursday Island;
The Head Office for Australasia,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 95d City.
STECK PIANOLA PIANO.
STECK
Pianola Piano
THE MOST WELCOME
GIFT OF ALL.
0 more acceptable gift—no gift offering greater possibilities for enjoyment can be
imagined than this most popular of all pianos.
-*■ Its elegance of appearance, the beauty of its richly finished case, pleases the eye,
and adds richness and dignity to all of its surroundings. The fulness and exquisite
quality of the STECK has made this piano one of the world’s greatest favorites.
But, best of all, the presence INSIDE ITS CASE of the most famous of all piano-
players, the Metrostyle and Themodist Pianola, gives assurance of endless hours of keenest
enjoyment, and places within the reach of all one of the greatest of life’s pleasures, that of
PERSONALLY PRODUCING- MUSIC.
The Pianola Piano can be played by the fingers on the keyboard in the usual way.
THERE is nothing to move up in front of the keyboard. To change the method from
hand-playing to Pianola-playing it is only necessary to slide back a panel in the front of
the case, and insert a perforated roll of music.
There is no outward indication which catches the eye to distinguish the Pianola Piano
from the heretofore type of Pianoforte.
A cordial invitation to call is extended to everyone who may be interested in hearing the
Pianola Piano, irrespective of any intention of purchase.
I* unable to call, you should write for a catalogue. Simply write and ask for Catalogue C.
You will get one at once, post paid.
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.,
357 George Street, SYDNEY
(Next David Jones).
COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Also at BRISBANE and ADELAIDE.


Results of Thk Lonk Hand Beauty Quest for
, the Stales of N.S.W. and Victoria are announced
m'this month’s issue of that popular magazine,
and special photographs published of the winners.*
Donald Campbell, Labor colleague of
Treasurer Peake in the representation of the South-
Eastern district of S.A. in the State Assembly,
has begun to study law. He is a journalist pos-
sessed of much dry humor, and with, a drawling
style of oratory which suggests that he looks upon
life and legislating as a dreadful bore. Still he is
always saying good things, and members open
their ears for him in spite of his tired habit.
SB
i
l S 3
si
THE EFFECT OF
P.D
CORSETS.
>»
The beauty of a woman’s dress, however
costly, is frequently marred owing to the
foundation—her Corset—not being correct
in shape or style. The “ P.D.” CORSET
makes all the difference between satis-
faction and disappointment—giving your
dress or costume a graceful hang, without
revealing its presence through materials of
the softest texture.
“P.D.”
CORSETS
Are the most popular make throughout the
world—their great lightness combined with
strength—their elasticity ensuring any style
of figure perfect freedom and comfort,
yet imparting an exquisitely proportioned
and graceful personality—a charming and
attractive stylishness and smartness to
your appearance. See that TRADE MARK
on every pair—it is our guarantee of
QUALITY—PLIABILITY- DURABILITY.
All First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers stock them.
TRADE
m
RD
MARK.
k koola:
The tesl i’lhe courdry
side rikdk.
73S
R-
In Tea, perfection implies the possession of a
number of varying qualities, viz., thickness, strength,
color, point, flavor, etc., and these cannot be found
in their full degree in any one growth.
By combining the various Teas the blenders of
Kandy Koola have obtained a mixture possessing all
the essential qualifications for a perfect Tea.
Kandy Koola is put up in Red. Blue, and Green
packets, and your grocer sells it.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 28, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Findon Harriers Hunt Club races even-
tuated t’other Saturday. “Eventuated ” is indeed
a good word, and comes near filling the bill of a
boiled-down description. Tlie morning was warm
and springy, and womankind ventured out in her
maddest new Mother Hubbard hat and her new
spring gown-of-a-hundred-tails. Then the weather
eventuated, and she was swamped in the embrace
of a Deluge. It rained, it howled, and it blowed—or
blew. The wind split great cracks in the heavens.
The roof of the welkin was shifted, and was last
seen flying into Collingwood. The atmosphere took
up its bed and walked. The windows of Heaven
were opened, and they got stuck, so that they
cnuldn’t be shut again. There was a sound in the
air like a procession of iron-shod elephants hurry-
ing over acres of bottles. Also there were
puddles for new colored suede shoes to paddle in.
and there were frayed tempers and draggled petti-
coats, and hats that looked as if they had been
run over by tanks arid tramcars. Rupert Clarke,
Arthur Anderson and the Millers expected to
receive a Governor-General coming up with a
“toot” and a “ honk ” in a motor. But his
gorgeous Excellency arrived with all the joy of
violet-and-gold postilions and out-riding lancers,
and was “ Gorsaved ” into a new, crimson-hung
vice-regal box. Everything seems new at
Moonee Valley this year—the whole place
is decked out like a toy soldier. There
is a new pavilion for tea, its wide mouth
opening right on to the lawn with a good sight of
the course. The Maddens wore sensible tailor-
mades that looked the same before and after the
Flood ; so did Mrs. Jack Fisken and Mrs. Hewlett
and Miss M’Caughey, and a dozen or so of other
Sensibles. Mrs. Charlie Campbell muffled herself
in sable and seal. There was a monotony of the
much-scalloped coat and check skirt. Before the
Deluge, Mrs. Robert Wilkins was decked in white
cloth, a lace and tulle stole and a wicked and wild
osprey, and Miss Colonel Stanley beamed in oyster
grey daintiness and a tulle hat. The Wrixon
dame was in fluffs of blue; but all save the wise
virgins of the tailor brand went home in despair.
Alack and alas for some froeky bills brought to
naught at the Findon Harriers’ meeting—for all
Sassiety was there in frantically expensive clo’ !
A wedding with enough Frock in it to have
driven a regiment of dressmakers silly was the
Clarke-Mackenzie joining last week. The bride-
groom was Russell, of the Cliveden Clarkes,
and the bride was the daughter of Tasmanian
Military-Commandant Mackenzie. The affair was
theoretically “ quiet” because of the illness of the
Janet Lady mother, and the “ quietness ” was
expressed in the fact that merely a section
of human pomp and vanity was in attend-
ance instead of all human pomp and vanity.
The bride; was a soft white cloud or radiance—
lace and silk and satin and ninon. The three
Clarke bridesmaids were pink as peonies—a very
tussle of pinks, in which the Rupert daughter
Phyllis came out triumphant. Lieut.-Colonel
Owen and his wife lent their house for the recep-
tion, and the ceremony was in St. John’s. It is
the o/ily Clarke wedding for many years that has
not /ad Cliveden for a background. The bride
scut/led to her honeymoon in simple nut-brown
ger/r.
Henley-on-the-Trickle, Melbourne’s society-
cam -athletic regatta, will occupy a position
further up stream in future. The johnny persons
Avho run the show have secured a section of mud
beyond the boat sheds, on the south bank, and
are busily engaged in growing herbage on it.
This site will provide a better show for the
women’s frocking. The winning post will be
placed opposite the morgue, so as to re-
mind competitors that the human race also
ends there; and the events will start higher
up stream where the trickle has been widened
and made to look so like a river that you
would hardly know the difference. It is a mar-
vellous imitation. This move will be an advant-
age from a rowing point of view, as it provides a
lengthy straight and cuts out a bad bend. How-
ever, the paddlers’best girl will suffer. The boat-
shed balconies will be too far away to give the
occupants a good view of the athletes.
The enterprising Hugh Ward seldom makes
mistakes. His arrangement to bring out so many
Australians on his next tour makes us feel quite
anxious for his arrival. Three Melbourne girls
Rose Musgrove, Celia Ghiloni, and charming
Ruby Baxter —are to flaunt in principal’s parts,
beside Gracious Palotta. Managers who exploit
returned Australian talent have a sure claim upon
full houses. There were so many people—especi-
ally if the mummer doesn’t admit to being too
mature —who “went to school with Rougette
Greasepaints, and we were such chums,” and these
will take quite a familiar interest in the produc-
tion. So few people achieve fame, and so many
others are satisfied with pretending to have
played marbles with the few.
Hambourg the Hairy One answers to the vari-
able moods of genius, but he rose to inspired
heights on Saturday afternoon, playing a big
programme to the accompaniment of the Marshall
Hall orchestra. The Beethoven Concerto in C
minor was handled inimitably. That concerto
has come near being hackneyed ; every ambitious
beginner struggles with its movements and throws
them at patient hearers, but Hambourg
played those tortuous memories down and
out of sight, and revived in the concerto perfect
beauty. The orchestra wove “Waldweben,”
that one of Wagner’s few gentle expressions,
and gave Hambourg breathing space before
he attacked Tschaikowsky’s Concerto. It was a
Herculean attack. He seemed to lift all his forces
on high and descend on the piano, which gave up
vast sounds that rocked through the hall. All the
color, all the sensuousness of the tropics are in
Tschaikowsky’s music, and Hambourg has a
special patent from the Devil for loosing that
spirit and flitting into sound the vivid scarlet of
Tschaikowsky or Dvorak.
At the Hambourg-Marshall-Hall matinee Prime
Minister Deakin and Mrs. Deakin took central
balcony state with Mr. Brookes. Mrs. Ivy
Deakin-Btookes was swelling the violin forces in
the orchestra. Miss Goodson, the famous pianist,
who is shortly to appear, was in a box with her
husband—a hairy man of music. The Pinschof
Vons were back in place with a newly-fledged
daughter. Miss Louise has just left school, and
wound her hair out of the youthful pigtail pre-
paratory to following in the social steps of pretty
sister Carmen. The medical fraternity and the
Germanic clan gathered in full force, and the
Saturday afternoon house had little breathing
space,
“The Vicissitudes of Vivienne,” by Miss
Sumner Locke, the first Australian girl to get a
play over the footlights, drew a fashionable chari-
table audience to a charity matinee on Satur-
day at the Princess’s. The City Newsboys are
having a fair whack this year. Their Fleet week
ball was a thing of financial joy, and Saturday’s
house must have held some nice fat ducats,
especially as most generous people had “lent”
everything—beginning with J. C. Williamson and
his theatre, the artists and their services, right on
through an imposing list, down to the very sweets
that the audience bought and munched.
Lady Gibson-Carmichael presided from the
box of honor. Chief Justice Madden was in the
centre circle with his wife and Senator Curly
Keating, Mrs. Keating, and pretty debutante
sister, Miss Monk, alongside. The Madden dame
wore a very tired white face; a cute toque, the
color of her dark hair, made its decorative pink
roses look as if they were balanced by hypnotism on
her left eyebrow. Another tired white face was that
of Mrs. ex-gaudy-MayoressDavy—her first appear-
ance since a serious after-the-Fleet illness. Mrs.
Donald Mackinnon complacently viewed the re-
sult of her energetic secretarial work, and Miss
Beauchamp, another enthusiastic city-newsboys’
friend, watched in brown toggery from the circle.
The small, youthful authoress, all in white, flut-
tered in the stage-box. Miss Stella Gastelle was
with her, also clad in angelic white, with young
Dion Titheradge as cavalier. At entr’aets ex-
cited amateur walking ladies came in “ front” for
dress parade. One of them was Dodo Chenery,
Mrs. George Chirnside’s pretty niece, who shed
her short frocks this year with much flurry, and
was a debutante in Fleet-week frivols.
Buckley and Nunn’s catalogue this spring is a
triumph—a scalp at the girdle of Australian In-
dustry. Australian drawings of Australian goods
reproduced by Melbourne artists, and the pictures
all of goods made in Australia. In fact, the
dresses and hats and lingerie were made on the
spot —in the workrooms of the firm. They keep
300 dressmakers trundling machines, with heads
and minor heads and fitters, all under the thumb
of a brilliant designer—a young Australian girl.
A private view of their newest froeky models gave
me heart disease for a week. Oh, those gowns !
Soft, clingsome, coiling things of mignon silks and
lusciously soft ninons, with a cut of simplicity and
soft color delight that is a very lure of the Devil
to poor, envious woman.
The dresses are delicious—the hats atrocious.
Some were exhibited three feet wide—an appalling
width of straw and plume. They were marked
“sold.” Just wait till races, then we’ll see who
bought the mad chooky things. There is an
adorable new thing in hats, nevertheless, that
makes up in a way: comfy beauties built for
motoring—dandy little “Bairdy” bonnets, that
sit snugly round the. ears, and hold a becoming
frame of thick veiling. There are fascinating
bonnets of drawn silk—like those in old coaching
pictures—that would make a hard face pretty, and
these jolly little beggars will flatten out likea crush
hat. There is some hat joy for the motorist.
A very juvenile engagement is being ecstati-
cally cooed abroad by the conspiring doves. The
youthful eldest son of “ Maples ” Thomas is to
wed Miss Lallie Cohen, a pretty little fair-haired
girl, daughter of a man who manufactures whole-
sale tons of clo’.
Margaret Anglin burst into her “ Taming of
the Shrew” on Saturday night to a packed house
of fashionable first-nighters. It was not a Shaks-
pearian student house, by any means. It is sup-
posed to be the largest gathering ever assembled
in Melbourne to witness a Shakspearian produc-
tion—though the last production of “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream ” at the Princess’s must
have run it neck-and-neck.
Miss Anglin is an ardent lover of Shakspeare.
Ophelia, Beatrice of “Twelfth Night,” Lady
Anne of “Richard III.,” and, of course, Rosalind
in “As YouLikelt” are her other triumphs. There
have been seven weeks of solid graft and rehearsal
for the comedy now running at Her Majesty’s, and
it was stage-managed and produced alone by Miss
Anglin. Manager Nethersole apparently stood
aloof and watched the baby put together its box
of picture blocks.
Extraordinary leg views occur when everyday
mummers drift into Shakspearian gear. Cyril
Mackay’s green legs were a decided shock for the
appendages of so beauteous a youth, while
Petruchio-Kolker, who heretofore has draped his
nether limbs in the wide bags that Americans
consider fashionable gear—well, Kolker produced
shapely, blue-tighted supports that kicked Julius
Superbus into a Napoleon hat. Pretty Mrs.
Kolker sat in the stalls in a greeny-blue frame,
and applauded wildly while her husband dragged
Kate round the stage. Miss Anglin’s Kate
wore wonderful gowns. In the first scene
she was somewhat squat and blue, bring-
ing her inches down to apparently proper
leverage for Petruchio-Kolker’s wild dash when
he carried the scratching, clawing cat of a bride
away. It was no small armful for Kolker. An-
other dress was shimmering gold from head to
foot, and sweet, womanly Kate, of the last scene,
made herself doubly adorable by a dress that
was one web of old lace and turquoise.
Titheradge and his wife were “in front.”
Coming in to an inconspicuous seat in the circle,
the house saw him and thundered a good evening
to him. Son Dion had the small part of a stutter-
ing and terrified tailor, but there was wild ap-
plause for the idol’s son. Miss Stella Gastelle,
the Royal leading lady (who has a “throat”
just now), came all in white with conductor
Lauchlan’s wife. The bunch of amateurs who
played the “Vicissitude” matinee were packed
happily in a box with the small authoress. The
Weedons kept solid state in the circle, and I saw
Nellie Veiteh with a touch of Erin in her hair.
That exquisite blonde, Mrs. Edwards, was with
Mr. and Mrs. Kirkby, and pretty little Mrs.
McKennal and hubby were with the Taits. Daisy
Belmore, a huge vision of pink and white, laughed
the circle to the echo the whole evening.
From the Respectable Country I get this
breathless piece about more or less eminent Aus-
tralians :
I saw Dan O’Connor, and had a chat with him, at an
official spree at the Colonial Office. That is to say, I
stood in silence before him while he apostrophised me
like a Greek chorus with a brogue. He’s in his element
orating to any listener, from Mr. Asquith to the police-
men who prevent him being killed at every cross-
ing. He takes upon himself the whole credit of
the United States Fleet’s visit. The joyful event
was only rendered possible, it appears, through
Daniel’s personal influence with Roosevelt. Florence
Schmidt has entered on a new phase. She now
sings witty French ditties in the Yvette Guilbert manner.
I saw her and the Geo. Lamberts at the Chelsea Art Club
—a dusty, dreary little institution in London’s Quartier
Latin, where aesthetic women, who resemble Blamire
Young’s poster-girls, foregather with their tame husbands
and adorers. Louise Mack is supplying impressions of
Sydney—its society, weather, and the like—to London
1 j.ULY Mail, and theeveningsheets which march therewith.
Carrie Moore’s mill-owner is an established fact. I’ve seen
and met him. He said that she’d be back in December,
and they’d be married here—not on your side. Dear old
G. I’. Huntley let us go along to a voice trial for his new
production, “ The Honorable Phil.” It was the quaintest
episode. There were shoals of women who looked like
Ladies’ Field illustrations, and not one had as much
voice as a house-cat; but they had lots of courage, and
felt over their larynxes in search of notes that weren’t
there, and just smiled picturesquely when they couldn’t
find them. Eileen Castles and S.vd Bracy (who of course
sang Daddy’s favorite, “ Sparkling Eyes ”) both were
there. The Castles maiden has the family plumpness,
but she makes good on a voice which is right out of the.
musical comedy class. Ex-Senator Matheson has aban-'
doned business, and taken to journalism. He’s contribut-
ing articles on Australia to several of the weightiest pro-
vincial papers.
Maudie Thorn, the pretty little mummeress
who stepped into the “Mother Goose” slippers
of Olive Morell when that limp lady drooped off
the premises to get married, has committed the
double-knot deed herself. For two years she was
engaged to Mr. Grundy (what a cute combination
of chaperon and lover). Then the Australian
trip caused a fracture of the contract. Suddenly
the two dovelings “ made it up,” and with such
enthusiasm that he procured a turbine license—
so-called because of its velocity—and forced the
lady to the altar in five hours, lest she should
change her mind again. So she became Maudie
Grundy, which is almost as good a combination of
names as Tottie Macpherson or Deborah Frisk.
Like a flake of snow in summer, or a dead
marine on the deserted field of a Sunday-school
picnic, there is one stray U.S. A. naval officer
left in Fleet-bereft Australia—one dropped
in Melbourne of all the starry-striped hundreds.
He goes round the city chuckling his glee at his
pull over the other “ boys.” A clean, clear Mel-
bourne ; no State Functions —just weeks and
weeks of joyous “shore leave,” with scarcely a
duty to mar its bliss, and (it is whispered) more
than the conventional allowance of smiles from
one of Melbourne’s smart girls. The officer has
been left behind for the very last word in the
Ajax affair. He probably joins his boat at the
Philippines. Meanwhile he is muchly with his
Filippina.
Miss O’Keefe, a Sydney frocker of note, has
just sped through Melbourne to her harbor home,
after ieaping gaily for one year on the surface of
foreign parts. She has been in London, with a
run over to Paris every few minutes, a sojourn in
the south of France, and a scramble round Europe
generally. Among the scalps that trail behind
her at the end of a long string is a proposal from
a lord—a real live lord with heaps of ducats ; also
heaps of years. The hedge of many years was
taken with a little baulk, but the ditch that was
uncrossable occurred when the lady who was to be
if she felt that way was shown the ancestral
dwelling. In the hall, lined with stodgy retainers
like fatted ramrods, were duffed birds. Stuffed
birds under glass! The woo-ed one spread her
wings, gathered up her tail, and flew,
An excited woman on the Adelaide-to-Mel-
bourne express lately jammed on the emergency
brakes—acted on by the alarm cord in every car-
riage—right on the ticklish-looking viaduct in the
Hills just behind Adelaide. When asked rather
pressingly to explain, she could only say that, in
the tunnel just passed through, smoke had come
into the carriage, and some of her neighbors had
screamed that the train was on fire; whereupon
she acted with presence of mind and promptitude,
not to say suddenness. Now it is being urged that
the sudden stopping of trains should not be at the
discretion of every hysterical passenger, and that
the alarm-cord should merely connect with a
signal in the guard’s van.
Miss Beatrice Day and new gowns—one of
them an Irish crochet vision, warranted to com-
mand admiration and respect —will strike Mel-
bourne as Judith in “ The Morals of Marcus,” on
Saturday next. The new henna-headed Maori-
land girl (Nature, not dye, gave the color) will
drift about in the swell part of Dora.
Helena Rubinstein has taken a partner—mot in
the beauty-building business, but just for better or
worse. The man is an Austrian and an old love.
The marriage took place in London, where the
clever, dainty little woman is making a fortune
out of the grand dame’s pathetic struggles to beat
old persevering Pa Time.
“Rosna” writes from Adelaide :
Government House bursts into a dance on October 15—
probably the last of the not exactly enormous list of
entertainments that have occurred there during the
present vice-suzerainty. That is, of course, unless the
present Exes stay on to guard and guide the State a while
longer, as there is some talk of their doing. Meanwhile,
on the supposition that they depart in December, certain
ladies are leaping around among the peerage, collecting
towardsa small token of “affection and steam ” for Lady
Le Hunte. The Exes drifted up to the Strathalbyn
Stirlings for a week-end the other day, and Himself did
a little quiet golfing and driving round the rural neigh-
borhood. Lady Le Hunte was ill most of the visit and
unable to venture abroad.
The Mayoress, Mrs. Mayfield, and her sister, Mrs,
Craven, gave an At Home on Thursday at the Sal. Army’s
annual fSte to entice the moneyed populace to buy some-
thing it didn’t want, and thus help the cause of the big
drum and the garish shirt. A large crowd arrived
through the boss dust-storm of the year, and got there
with large pieces of loam embedded among the feathers
of its best hat and a layer of good soil edging its collar.
The Army citadel is the ancient Albert Hall, which saw,
many a goodly dance and pantomime of old. It had been
decked up by Brother Drum whacker and Sister Poke-
bonnet into a bower of wisteria-covered arches, with a
background of vegetation reaching to the ct iling, and
imitation verdure underfoot. Artificial snow was securely
tethered to the artificial sky. The why and wherefore of
this fails to transpire, but the effect was good. Mrs.
Mayfield was gowned in black glace with a bolero of
Maltese lace, and a fetching toque of pink and white and
blue. Mrs. Craven’s frock was black, made beauteous with
passementerie, and she had a plumed hat. Some nice girls
played and sang and recited, and a brace of pretty daugh-
ters and nieces in summery garb assisted in dispers-
ing the tea and gilded bun among the guests.
The Crossley-Mueekes (it isn’t pronounced “Muck”)
departed last week amid the flowers and farewells of a
crowd of friends. Adelaide is not to welcome them back
until November, wherefore it weeps into its tear-bottle
and feels ill-used. The Mueckes’ garden-party, to which
some 400 or 500 were bidden, struck a deluge, but a large
number of the most valorous took their aggregate life-
belt and swam. The garden-party had to be held in a
flower-pot. indoors ; still it was a memorable function.
Madge Mclntosh has been showing us some gorgeous
costumes, including a white satin with a train of brocade
embroidered in silver, and sundry other human decora-
tions equally beatific. Off the stage, she looks not much
over 22, and proves a delightful damsel, full of energy
and with any number of interesting yarns to tell of Ber-
nard Shaw and his wife and his flat, and of twelve dozen
Other things too numerous to mention.
Our latest prodigy.is Viola Byrne, an infant of eight,
who acts in a manner that is nothing short of uncanny.
She gave “ Mercia Saves Marcus ” and a piece of “ Tragedy
and Comedy ” at last week’s Lyric evening, and the hair
of the audience stood up. She’s a quaint, jolly little
infant who acts because it’s second nature to her, and has
none of the stilted, over-trained actions of the usual child
actress.
The members of Mr. Bryceson Trehearne’s musical class
at the Conservatorium had private theatricals last week
by way of a rest. Being a modest young crowd they gave
Bernard Shaw’s “ Man of Destiny,” and W. B. Yeats’
beautiful legendary play, “ The Land of Heart’s Desire.”
Both were quite brilliant in spots, despite sundry incon-
veniences in the matter of stage-room and lighting.
Napoleon was played by Dorothea Jacob, and, as none of
us know how Napoleon really performed, Julius Super-
humanus couldn’t have done it better to our knowledge.
The same crowd is to give Arthur Adams’ “Minstrel”
one night in the near future.
Adelaide has lost another nice girl through the appen-
dicitis fiend—Miss Bird, sister of the secretary of The
Gadfly. She was ill scarcely a fortnight.
Nigel Brock, who is managing for the Oherniavski
crowd, shot into Adelaide and the bosom of his family
last week. He is a son of the Tom Brocks of 'Woodville,
and has been meandering round the globe, mumming and
concert-managing, for some years. As a small infant he
used to be in great demand at kiddies’ parties as a singer
of the songs that are termed comic.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


.> -y-
- v 'V !N
.
w
-yi
r.-' ;! .J
■ ■' ‘ * V./ V* ;
»£•' '>lg4fSS^
r sspsfe
si
1
\
3£cisSPl ! \iv a
■ iv^vv.
1
\ ■
V*
\ 1
$
5
6c
o
<fc
4/
<
X?
o
p
cr
P
*2
T'
n
*y
/\
/
&
0,
pjr
ocs;
Interstate Mail
Steamshin Lines
ITH the Winter
gone and Spring
in friendly prox-
imity, Me 1-
bourne may now
be brought under
the notice of the inquir-
ing stranger. Though perhaps
it has not the elegant situation that
Sydney has, it has, weather permitting, a lot
to recommend it as a spot for a holiday and
diversion. People can find plenty of amusement
there—it ranges from drama and recondite poli-
tics to egg-cap and rounders—and just now they
may depend upon the sky remaining almost
unanimous in its azure. Pain, of course, may
put in a casual appearance now and again, but,
all things considered, Melbournian weather
conditions will be on their best behavior.
Even during the winter (now in tempo-
rary retirement) the Yarra city was fairly
good to look upon, though to recommend it
as a resort during that season would have been a
rather dubious pastime; seeing that the inherent
cussedness of Jupiter, or whoever monkeys with
the barometer, was experienced a little more than
usual. However, now the city and surroundings
look as fresh and inviting as a summer girl; the
Yarra is dumb, the gardens have started to smile,
and everything is waiting for the severe, search-
ing eye of the visitor from other States. Like-
wise, the country is burbling an invitation, and is
looking real nice. Victorian country districts
generally do at this period of the year, though
little is said about them. As in the past, they
are immensely under-rated.
Landing in Melbourne by one of the steamers
of the Five Companies, the traveller soon finds
that Melbourne, despite the magnificent opinions
of its inhabitants, is a fairly imposing village.
It used to be modestly described as the
“Queen City of the South,” but, owing
probably to the happening of some recent
knighthoods, it got republican, and mostly
dropped the distinction, reckoning, per-
haps, that Queens were quite enough
to put up with in marble. Any-
how, the stranger can ignore
that little bit of informa-
tion, as the city is now quite
penitent about its under-
standable pretensions. He
might see the title alluded
to in a guide-book, yet
wouldn’t hear it even from
a cabman—unless that in-
dividual wanted to take him
down. However, the trams,
which, by the way, are often unjustly ac-
cused of hurrying, will do all the taking
that is necessary, and, boarding one in Flinders-
street, the newly-arrived visitor is soon propelled
into the region where board and lodging may be
obtained for a consideration. Melbourne, like
every other place that inclines to size, can accom-
modate everybody, from a prince to a pub rouse-
about, and, if the stranger is too shy to ask the
extremely courteous policemen for directions to
lodgings suitable to his purse and station, any of
the offices of the Five Companies, which are but a
short step from the wharves, will supply the in-
formation. As a matter of fact, it is not easy to
get lost in Melbourne, which the stranger will
easily discover.
The itinerary of the visitor who wants to see
Melbourne more generally than intimately should
embrace the public buildings and public gardens,
anyway. Semi-private resorts and amusements!
of which there are many, can be left to
his own preference; but the public buildings, etc.,
should not be omitted. The most interesting,
both from its national importance and archi-
tectural impressiveness, is certainly Parliament
House, which stands in Spring-street, at the
eastern end of Bourke-street. Formerly the
home of State politics, it now houses the Common-
wealth Parliament, which, by the way, is at pre-
sent in session. It is a portentous-looking build-
ing without, and, during debate upon such things
as, say, the Surplus Revenue, or the Post Office,
presents a very animated appearance within!
Both chambers—-that of the Senate and Repre-
sentatives, have lofty and dignified interiors.
I urther along towards Flinders-street, are the
State Treasury and State Government Print-
ing office. Adjacent thereto, lie the Fitz-
roy Gardens, the most shaded and select
refuge in all Melbourne, and presenting some fine
specimens in imported trees. The Exhibition,
where the State Parliament meets occasionally!
is in the Carlton Gardens—themselves typical of
the careful attention that all public “gardens
receive. In the Exhibition is also the Aquarium,
with collections of live fish, seals, and marine
birds, and housing besides, a museum, possibly
notable in that it has on view the crude iron-
mongery that Ned Kelh r donned in his last stand
.(he had to stand to avoid falling down) at Glen-
rowan. A short walk from the Aquarium will
bring one to the National Gallery and Museum in
Swanston-street. This building, which is open
for certain fixed hours on every day in the week,
treasures possibly the most artistically valuable col-
lection of picturesin the Southern Hemisphere. The
works, though mainly representative of British art,
include several by foreign and Australian artists.
They range from genre paintings to portraits,
and, moreover, number among them excellent
examples of foreign and local black-and-white
work and etching. The collection of antique and
modern china, metal ware, fabrics, and native
weapons is alike fine ; while the Museum has a
specimen of practically every animal and creeping
and flying thing known to Science. Upstairs is a
library of thousands of volumes, where the silence,
after the roar of the streets, is really wonderful.
Along the broad avehue of the Sydney-road
stands the University, and near by are the Royal
Park and Zoological Gardens, the latter similar
to the National Museum in its occupants—
except that the animals are alive and fed
daily. The G.P.0., at the corner of Elizabeth
and Bourke streets ; the Town Hall, at the corner
of Swanston and Collins streets ; the Law Courts,
in Lonsdale-street; and, perhaps, the gaol, in
Russell-street, are about the whole of the re-
mainder of the public buildings that the visitor
would care to see.
Once upon a time, the banks of the Yarra on
their southern side were uninteresting, not to say
drab and disfiguring; but, owing to the enterprise
of the City Council, they have been adorned out
of all recognition. The Alexandra-avenue along
the southern bank is now delightful to look upon,
and the Botanical Gardens in its neighborhood
beautiful, as they always have been. The statue
of her late Majesty Queen Victoria now decorates
a knoll that used to echo to the fulminations
of Yarra Bank agitators; and the coarse
ground, that used to provide room for open-air
religious services, is now grinning with grass,
shrubs, rockwork, paths, and seats for two. Indeed
the landscape around this first approach to the
city is something for the Melbournian to be proud
of. Naturally the traveller can find heaps of other
diversions, if he cares to look for them. There
are the theatres and picture shows, skating rinks
galore, and the seaside resorts of St. Kilda (soon
to break out in its manifold shore attractions),
Brighton, and Sandringham. There are also the
trips inland to such places as Macedon, Ballarat,
Bendigo, and Geelong, though the jast is better
reached by sea—not to mention
the jaunts to such spots as
Heidelberg, Glen Iris.
Mornington, et£ Alto-
gether, the visitor
will find that he has
been divinely in-
spired w hen he
comes down to i
Melbourne in one J
of the steamers 1]
of the Five Com- I
panies. 1
V\VTH
Q
4b
SC
O
*
v
4
W
CO
%
<
cc
Y
3SJ
'l
*
a:
Ct
-;A ; v 'Vv
& c^X
o <=ss=£f Q
£


The Lone Hand
Australia’s Magazine
BEGINS October with some new features ;
and with all the old interest. I ake a
oflance at some of the features.
o
“The Commonwealth Crisis. C. H.
Kirmess begins the most absorbing forecast
story ever written in Australia.
The Mysterious Sausage is often half
water. The Lone Hand exposes a widely-
advertised machine, the merit of which is that
it will add 50 per cent, of watei to sausages in
the making !
“Our Rulers.” —Will Dyson concludes
his fine caricature series of Federal legislators,
and F.F. accompanies with chat about their
personalities.
A Review. —In obedience to a widely-
expressed wish, The Lone Hand in future
will review the month’s events from a point of
view which is Australian without being partisan.
The new feature begins in this Octobei numbei.
“ River Rovers.” — E. J. Brady continues
his picturesque story of The Lone Hand motor
boat trip down the Murray.
The Woman in Industry. —Beatrix Tracy
forcefully summarises the conclusions drawn
from her “Explorations in Industry.
Stories. —T. here is a fine budget of stones
by G. B. Lancaster, Milton Macgregor, Frank
Myers, and Alice A. Kenny.
Verse. —Victor Daly, Hugh McCrae,
Roderic Quinn, Dorothy IVlcCrae, and R.
Crawford are the singers of the month.
The AsiATic Menace. —Louis Esson con-
tinues his Asiatic impressions with a study of
Japanese Imperialism, and a fine sketch of
Benares, the holy city of India.
The Beauty Quest. —Results of N.S.W.
and Victorian competitions are announced, with
special photographs of the winners.
Dr. J- B. Nash writes on the anatomy of
Kubelik, the violinist. Fred Bromfield con-
tributes an impression .of Sir James Boucaut.
The series of Australian celebrities in their youth
' is continued with some most interesting photo-
graphs. And there are many other features.
Buy “ THE LONE HAND ” for October,
buy it early.
h
BY APPOINTMENT
ĥ
TO H.M. THE KING.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’SHIMNIOMIA
marvellous preparation
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all urpose
S Splendid Cleansing Preparation for J^eHair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing Etc ‘
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites. r nets
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Ca p
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Soft ? n ! t J H -J+o ’
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubh & Co. on eac o
ħ
•m
GIVE THE PLUM A TRIAL
—and you’ll admit that for quick, easy shaving there isn’t a Razor
ton We guarantee its blade to betteiVound
make, because it is of Silver Steeh k'a y a ° rs fre& qf charge,
extra hollow. Guaranteed and kept in^orueri * f the -ty or ld.
PRICE 10/G, Post Freeto a J sharpener, 6d
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 ™ z r ° in Mo rocco Leather Case,2l/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Handsome Case, 30/-
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6 Pair i A „ the above Post Free.
Sing,. ««or, '•"g e "“ n »M S se, Kax.rs, >/■ ««*•
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYUiNtI
Established 25 Years.
FOOTLIGHT TALES.
«Infuria": After sitting out most of the musical
comedies produced in these parts, I have arrived at the
conclusion that the musical comedy stage is no ph* c ® f °
n man Observe the expressions of most of the men
choristers in any of these productions, ° n *
.lico-nst and a furtive, shamefaced look vvmcn sajs
„l' a i n ly “My God, what rot this all is !” Not so the hero.
Sometimes lie wears a half-amused expression, and trifles
through the necessary love-making ; hut more often he is
a humorless youth, inflated with vanity, who takes him
self and the "leading lady seriously, and embarrasses the
audience with his fervid nonsense. I don t know when
the female “principal boy” was first I ' ,tr °
modern pantomime, but I reckon its about up to the
theatrical potentates to introduce her into musical
comedy in place of the usual affected young man whose
heroics we have all learnt to hate. After looking at any
of these shows the thought always strikes me with fresh
force that the stage—especially the musical corned}
stage—is essentially a woman’s job.
The variety show makes a considerable quantity of its
daily loaf by giving life-like imitations of itself. Origi-
nality is a scarce product in the halls, and every artist of
any note has imitators in scores. But the spectator gets
deadly tired of the mimics— declared or otherwise—and
wishes fervently that they would drop echoing other per-
formers and be their indiflerent selves for a change. The
parrot-like cry of, “Ladies and gentlemen, with your
kind permission I w-ill now endeavor to give you an
imitation of ,” is heard at least once during every
vaudeville programme. As a rule, it is only an endeavor,
and it is always given—or made—without permission.
Some night this scribe will rise up and loudly refuse his
sanction to the attempt, and, even if he is cast violently
into exterior darkness for it, he will have the satisfaction
of knowing that he has registered his protest against the
deadly sin of needless repetition.
“ Blister ” : As a battler, the old “ pro ” can give points
to a life assurance agent. A stand-by for more than one
has-been is the trial-company dodge. This is worked
through the advertising columns of the daily paper. A
bob advt. calls for “A
leading: lady for a touring
company: no previous
experience necessary,
and a stream of stage-
struck girls flows to the
address given. The Old
Pro tries their voices, to
the accompaniment of
chords on a more or less
broken-winded piano,
and then hears them
elocute in single file. He
picks out the best-look-
ing and most promising
girls, and assures them
of places in a company
going on a trial tour
of the suburbs, prepara-
tory to touring Australia,
Maoriland, America, and
Europe. All of them
drop in for a certainty,
and some of them empty
their purses to pay for
preliminary expenses. Re-
hearsals go on for a few
weeks, and then, with the
assistance of one or two de-
caved professionals, the sub-
urbs and the outer town-
ships are bravely attacked.
Having got his company for
practically nothing, it is
hard lines if the battler-
■ manager doesn’t knock out
a couple of pounds a week
over expenses. When the
stage-struck girls get tired
of waiting for the big tour,
with salaries added to the
prospect, they drop out,
and a new company is
FREDERICK
BLUETT,
of Rickards’ Co.
formed. The company is new, but the battler-manager
and the dodge are old.
“The Swimmer”: Patriotism is not always a fine
rh ~,,„:o n allv it is even undesirable. I had an
quality— occasion y “ , h n ente rtainment in one of
A July, with EoW e n
couple oi mi j nroe-ress with a sad smile for a few
“ fnhn ” appeared and led the lady gently forth. I got
the effects of her patriotism the next day when I went
the effectsor m: p person x knew felt it incum-
down the street, a e j P me thafc Maonland
S They seemed to think I
was responsible because I am also an Australian.
“Harrison O”: Stage realism to-day is different from
the fame commodity of a few years back A short time
th iL hero or heroine of “ The Nihilist’s Revenge’
It!Snouted said knouting was a very tame affair.
the scenes by the striking of bamboos upon a block
wood, and the screams of the floggee and the grunting
of the tired and breathless floggeress helped out tn
realism of the disturbance. A still further impro
ment has lately been effected by George Cross.
Pitying in a revival of “A Life’s Revenge,’ he
made his knouting appear the Real
wearing a white sweater liberally, but withal artas
tically, decorated with streaks of theatrical berlu .
Some day, I suppose, they will apparently strip the
Nihilist heroine to the waist, and give her beans on an art-
ficial iron back, colored to look like the real thing,
artificial iron back will be first painted bright red .and
the paint allowed to dry. Then it will have a coatnig
of fresh white paint over the red, and the'. ™j”P
remove this in streaks so that the spinal r e|' < ? ns of t e
heroine, when she is completely and satisfactonl
flogged, will be a thrilling spectacle. Of course,, if b> a
chance the artificial metal back falls off in the mid
the proceedings, the audience will laugh horribly,
the heroine will rush for her clothes.
‘‘Star’’: A derisive and possibly envious veteran of
the ballet supplies these facts concerning the P rodu °^ lon
of one big Australian success. It was a musical and tern-
sichorean outfit, and the proprietary was bestirring its
to knock this continent. Ve ballet was largely increased
and renovated for the occasion, and on the first eiem
when the theatre was full of dreadful not ®® ed
tion, Lucy stole to the important personage who mana ed
the make-up and fit-out of the girls, and said. Oh Ido
hope you’ll make me look very nice to night I particu
larly want to be striking. You see, Mr ,Blank (one of
the proprietary) “is interested in me. Madame pro
mfsed to do her darnedest. Three minutes later Kate
edged up with an air deep of mystery. I want yoff, please,
to make me look awfully stunning to-night. You will,
won’t vou? You see, Mr. Blank is interested in me,
The next applicant was Jane. Jane said . Oh,
I’d just give anything to look perfectly lovely to-night
You'll try your hardest to make fmr came
interested in me, you know, and was deeply
Floss and Tilly, and Joey, and Mr. Blank was oeepij
interested in each, for which reason the dear
to be a ravishing feature of the production. mat ,ter
is a pold and moral man at heart. It was mere y
of business tactics. , ,„ v „
The comic singer—or B j n^? r Perce
calls himself Billy instead of William o •>
instead of Percival or P. Likewise, too if he h;as be,e
christened Charles, he is programmed. as Chaihe and
his parents labelled him Augustus he is Gus. This ,s o J )g
some insidious way productive of familiarity a joy o
cat-calls when, with his nose pa.nted red he glares
anxiously from the wings to see if the hired °y
evenina- is ready for him. The serious recite
who babbles publicly of blood and corpses and goes on
generally like a talkative undertaker, invariably uses ms
full mn.e as Charles Gorestormer or, better still, onaries
R Gorestormer Even Charles Ravingchump Gore-
ft'ormer is imt beyond him if the occasion seems to
warrant a little extra frill. Despite f
a good deal in names—especially if you are a l
babbler or a red noser.
“N.”: In one of our big Australian theatres last
day night the stalls were full of orders. You t was at the
by the slack attendance of smlhngers. Once I was at the
pay-box of a show, and the manager said, ' e .»
have that, you know !Go right inside Excuse m
said I “but my invariable practice is to pa>. y
had tickled him over his be-diamonded epigas riu
a feather he would have fallen down. He was like a Mel
bourne brewer who showed the three reporters of the
daily papers around his establishment, and was
aghast to find they were all teet ° ta l , lse and
Doomsday near. I go into a paperedplaidiouse^ ana
can tell it directly. In London the order p P
are called Humphs. Also Wanglers, and there is
rendezvous named the Wangling Exchange, w er
are trafficked in. Take me into any stalls, and Iwm
nick out the pays from the rest with the lnfallib y
Gabriel. There is a stuffy, shabby, hang-dog look about
Wanglers and Humphs. They are second-class peopl»
the first-class carriage. You have a sensation that they
only weigh so many lb. apiece, instead of so many stone
They never applaud. When one who pays does so, the
Wangler glances round with a Sullivan,
asks if you’ve ever heard of G. V. Brooke or Ba y
The deadhead gives you an uncanny prunella'feeling
possessing the shell of a body without any inside.
Maud Allan, the beautiful descriptive poseur and
dancer who has got all London at her charming,
feet, thanks to her wonderful talent (combined with he,
want of wardrobe), shows a recent photo m Blac t an
White. To make up for any scarcity of drapery the laoj
leans on a picturesque stone seat. There is n ..
her" she just leans forward in a listening attitude aisff
she thought she heard someone whistling Gome In
the Garden Maud ! ” and Maud makes you understa ,
from her rapt expression and the one visible bare foot,
that she is going into the garden for a dead certainty.
“ Star ” : Walter has since deserted the theatrical pro-
fession and is pursuing a wild career as an artist ’
hiit he'tells me that his most lucrative engagement
nro h was provided by Publican Ferguson at Katigaroopn ,
thereabouts. Wally went out into the cruel world with
» The Mother’s Sin ” Dramatic Co He was scene-pamter,
bill-poster, and general utility. Gen e y bee r, and
playing*Binaffan de^r \y parts sCTving-maid^Md
scattered £" and adjacent
places and Wally was left with his
female wardrobe, and mnepence m coppers, a Strang r
a strange waste. He was busy leaping over the landwape
search'of food and employment when he came in o cotaon
with Ferguson, to whom he owed £2 for matters
and drink and Ferguson suggested a solution o
mediate difficulties? The barmaid kad n = d ahorse )
dealer in an unguarded moment. Fergus , hi l
Walter play Sarah in “ A Mother’s Sin,” and he took mm
week*an!
endoithe fifth week, and Kangaroopn..neve*
When it does know, Publican I erguson willproba
a hand-to-hand argument with those furious suitors^
TERTIUM QUID
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
A little world, a world of Life, we lie,
Just you and she, and she and you. and-me.
I am the girl, the girl who isn’t free.
I met you first. Am I the best, or she ?
Our little world, a world of strife are we-
Theone and two, and two and one, and— three.
THURSDAY ISLAND.
SIDNEY S. SEVERN.


If you took a Plank o/ Wood
about 5 feet long, 9 inches wide, and an inch and a half thick; and you
drilled two hundred and sixteen holes in it, each hole an inch and a
quarter deep, and a quarter of an inch in diameter; hammered two
hundred and sixteen steel pins into those holes, each pin slightly larger
than the hole it was driven into; and then hung a weight of about thirty
tons upon those pins what result would you expect in a short time P
Would you expect the pins to remain firm and tight P
For one thing, each pin is tightly jammed into its hole, and thus,
acting like a wedge, tends to burst the plank asunder.
For the next thing, the tremendous strain on the pins makes them
like so many levers, ripping the plank apart lengthwise.
But suppose, in addition, some man comes along regularly and
twists those pins backwards and forwards with a tool.
They won’t be long in getting loose, will they ?
Now, what if that plank, instead of being wood, were made of
solid, tough, homogeneous iron, equal in strength to steel; and the pins
are merely put into the holes, not hammered in P The thirty-ton strain,
or even double or treble that strain, will not have much effect, will it P
and, seeing that the pins are case-hardened steel working in smooth
metal bearings, the aforesaid man may twist them about a few thousand
times without materially loosening them.
Now, all this applies to pianos.
The wooden plank, with its two hundred and sixteen wedge-
THE BEALE=VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 3.—The Beale-Vader
Patent Piano-frame, re-
moved from the piano,
and the end of the wrest-
plank cut off to show the
wrest-pins in the solid
iron frame.
levers, is in imported pianos, because neither British
nor foreign manufacturers have as yet invented a
thoroughly practical metal wrest-plank.
The cast-iron wrest-plank, or plate, with its
steel pins, is in all Beale Australian Pianos, because
Beale & Co. are the first piano-makers to invent a
reliable and effective metal wrest-plate, a part
of the usual iron frame.
Therefore p
CATALOGUE FREE.
CASH OR TERMS.
TEN THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED and SEVENTY-FIVE BEALE
AUSTRALIAN PIANOS have been manufactured to date. We sell an
average of thirty-five per week, which is more than the average of
any other piano-sellers in Australia. And the demand for our Pianos is
continually increasing. Lately we received an order for twenty Beale
Australian Pianos for the newest, largest, and most beautifully furnished
hotel in London—the Strand Hotel. We have hundreds of testimonials from
buyers in all parts of Australasia, and from other parts of the world; and
we can show the opinions of the highest public men in Australia with
regard to our factory equipment and methods of manufacture.
1
Ilf
, ' Ui
£
*%<&*&*; ... • *<
.'"■ ' I,ltenor vievv of an imported piano, showing the relation of the
nuue to the wooden wrest-plank. The wrest-pina and strings'have been
removed so as to show the parts more clearly.
wm.
9
4
m
m
m
'AAvltedl
Fig. 2.—A nearer view of the wooden wrest-plank of the piano shown in
Fig. 1. The first layer of the wrest-plank has been removed. Note how
the timber has split under the strain of the wires. This is an average
wooden wrest-plank, neither better nor worse than is usually found in
imported pianos. All pianos with wooden wrest-planks are, of course,'
subject to the above fault, which cannot be remedied except at great
expense.
* - -***#•** -wws
«■
■
• '
< ;
#
THE BEALE=VADER
PATENT,
Fig. 4.—A nearer view
of the Beale-Vader frame
shown in Fig. 3. Note
the wrest-pins and ten-
sion-screws contained
entirely in solid iron.
It is important for
piano-buyers to note
that these pins can be
adjusted to ANY ten-
iion, tight, medium,
Dr loose, by means of
the tension screws at
the back. We always
adjust them to resist
the pull-round of the
strings, but at the same
time they are easily
turned by the tuner
without touching the
tension screws. Our
pianos are tuned in the
ordinary way, by one
man only , from the front
only. Be sure to note
this, and when you go to
compare our pianos with
the imported you will
know what to think if
you are told otherwise
by unscrupulous com-
petitors.
BEALE’S
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the G.P.O.
1
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth.


ROVL&ND’S
KALYDOR
FDR - SKIN
d«ia/iii/»ac enff ■Pa it* dslicstt© skin, ligB.ls B^ll
s?s™ s “»a a, chSutr
PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
p a v,o OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
fate of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2 & . M.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
Charles Cameron Kingston •
Previously acknowledged • • •
G.B. and H.D.
Mulga Bill
Fred J. O’Brien
J. Barker ..
T. P. Kelly
£54 f> R
The Queensland Railway Department
ought to live felt pretty much shamed
after it read a recent report by the State Goyeim
ment’s own Director • discovered a
tnr m ao—* s
rip out sleepers that asset;
thus tearing up a fine and rapidl g K gave
to nut a good financial face on things ana
Sisiliils
ssu-
pulls through on schemes like that. .
Wakino- on the Defence estimates the truer
sa & f“»i "IrErif si
not stand compulsory servi . h the
came a time m the history of with
people would not stand being loadnU ip
armor and dragged out to military exems
the Roman Empire went « S er , tho
isi£
sa
educated up.to it. And that s] |
between political acrobats like Ward am.
ifke. sav. Kruger of the Transvaal-
A GRE NOT A
CURE-ALL.
We do not claim that Dn Morses IndmUf Root
Pills are a cure-all, but as a con
0?
directions
INDIAN ROOT
PIUS
complaints arising from
disorders of the Wood, the
stomach, liver and honeys,
they are unexcelled, a,
however, nine out of ever
ten ailments are due to
these causes, Dr. , M ° r f ®
Indian Root Ms JU a
want in every Wiusehol •
Indeed, they are a house
hold necessity, as effective
with the strong us with the
most delicate, and com
pounded to meet the re
quirements of every ag ,
from infancy to advanced
llf^; For some years,” say®
Mrs. .T. Rogers, Macauley
Street, Albury,
with severe headache
and I obtained n<> per
manent relief until
lndian d^J^al f“SeA
trongly recommended to me t S and ever
aents. They did me a deal ot h
;SoV. TcmcoiSenK”?
s='r»i- ,?>“•” «■* “
women for general ailments.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LA<5€R
E RESCH, Brewer , by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
absolutely pure.
West Australian Agents— Messrs, t. H.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
FOTHERCILL & CO., ie Mouatt Fremantle.
Brewer* anp Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
of *. a
boxing tournament is to be held • for them
»»•> »■»»“>
cause needs no booming. * *
match for ±.50, ana one uiiiv named Haydon, by a
beating the other unknown man, nameu fcwo
;;£:r: n,ss »»«
exciting !happened. That was about all. +
m. 0 w lire of Hawkesbury Spring Meet on
that had previously more or ess d.sappoi p getting
nections as well as , th fJ°"und wanting more than once re-
SSfS* “Sri -i““4%ri o “ve, dd or’ » nd
ssfrr “vr*. ~'i„ o, s r ' j '«sr‘cf
supported two wont Sext Saturday’s Epsom,
hatsful of com to couple of tunes since,
and apparently much fancied and thiB time ,
once more carried a „ood ;, P n i a(>ec i than Guarantee.
sa a&i ®jaa-&SBe s»2«?f
nine lengths. Last Saturday „, ar t e rs in Tatt.’s Handi-
rearward of seven or; ei w t jtion in Kosehill
Highweight Handicap P‘°' e 1 Lancaster Bose outstayed
handily, borough stayer might
tie expected to. M * •
e lafo W P Crick s Collant on
Reappearance of i ' llsem ories. He hasn’t
Kandwick training track- awakens me . h is load
figured in public al » u % la Few, if any, good
was 9st. 101 b., and h ® fi "’ s d h , used- Australia never pro-
horses have been so Collarit proved, but
duced a better three-year-old him .
SKSSS <*»■“£-*"’ 01 th "
were gained at the of two y eais. .
Men versed t sprfng l °meet a iith t deep
possibilities of < zonni . • • appears to be surely
Husoivin-s. whether"he pays out largely
in for his usual harvest. 0 a solid margin to the
on winners or not, he m “ speculation will take,
good, because of the ” ore Epsom eligibles
Writer would pick out a, dozen ghakg q{ J hat t 0 decide
and be agreeable to allow t MaOrilander Soultline, on
the placing of hismvestment. ‘ ao , event at Rose-
bis manner of gathenng.that six ur ong
hill the other day, hasi particma (;an . fc run
pects, hut Maorilande - over three-quarters, he
the mile out. Though two furlongs—this despite
fades to nothing in the hig credit .
the fact that there s a . aad things generally,
However, borses as 'ie l a reagon why j t should be
can improve, and ."™'* e E v i der ,tly those closely associ-
different with Soul time. doubts regarding the
ated with the horB ® ' ia n th g money available against
question, for they scooped all the g second
him at Hawkesbury, and ? e t „ 0 further than six
favorite. Nags that eoul * nd benefited Moses
furlongs have surprised the publm ana fcwo . mile
many a time by r °™ P wfr mT ,olitans 0 litans fell to such
races. Successive recen and y| a niapoto scored,
animals when d „ erie have good prospects in
Yiatu, Parsee, and Kvadg , dou btful starters because
the Epsom, but are A high-strung
other events appear to’be th r week sent him
•®to en flvora g nd ff he° P nowto P s the list despite that he got
away badly in Tatt. Spring n)ile a
and was hopelessly out of it had «e a „ o od return for
<=<*•'"" “ a p "“"
the eye. , * *
Best fired nags, * BIJI£S%E
A.J.C. Me.rop., Monday, are hag
nui, \irou and Peru. because of speed accumu-
impressed writer m° st > . his o-allops—particularly
lated so much as the merit of h p wherli though
last Thursday’s showing over nine no g das h that
by no means all an army of backers
there was no questioning. Maranu didn>t do g 0 well
for last year’s Epsom and Metr atio n, and lacked
during the latter part o different now—every day
seasoning to some exfce ' T bulletin could refer to
sees further improvement. The b i w hat’s the
others who are sure *°^" b P e r S best, though he may
<rood? Maranui appears to De aon g which look
prove as much out of the hun a . g this possibility
to have the winner among the • 1 ena bled him to
W fir “
the public fancy. * *
A..T.C. Derby S
forfeit, and despite thes fact s th f v^agour and others
Medallist, Borodino, Matchmaker, va winner will be
might be rated ™ att *£f, fcl ?* ord - ,3 p er keo, Parsee,
supplied from Monobel, hord oia , High-priced
Orcus, Golden Slipper a "d Mother s Derby
Golden Slipper may pr >' bm reC ently suggested,
than her running at Roseh ilh Welco me Tnst
and she shaped well in a. gall P " fch consider-
last week. Monobel and e JSXpWet» as any-
ing, and Perkeo looks ‘ t be Victorian rep., Mothei
thing, but in all probab' t. the Vice th p re j s not
Goose, provided she has will appropriate
“by" him in P»Wt« U “ t
likelihood. * * *
A, Melbourne W^tGjoond.
SCUTS f "S •: .»r
high wind and the villainous dust the gam set y f
been worth the wind, have been
it must, but for ti.e day
an event to be remember » „ ame to play—
the Collingwood game " d tbe svv ift, short pass,
the low, skimming kick and practice , and the
Kssendon tried it, but that, f.t along the grass.
-Dons mostly sent markTng straight kicking and
Carlton excelled iti high mark g ” set off with a
gathering in the ball, xhe and a behind,
will, and in five minutes sc £i bin * W as painful. An-
The ’Dons fumbled, and the ki m ue . and . w hite bar-
other goal . followed and their teetb
rackets a^ r ' e . k ® d J?, r TO- windward wing, and
a !' d , iol Zv wind robbed them of a pro-
shot: out tne WUIU . «« they
bable goal, and only a P°J" . ag the ell ra ng a quick
drove the bladder along, 3 g 3 behinds to 1 goal
shot gave them a 2 - duplicate of the first,
1 behind. The next £ than the strenu-
Carlton s methodical play prouui>„ *< same old. At
ous but ill-directed
half-time Carlton had 5 g - “Old Blues” ran the ball
4 behinds. Starting again, the Oia uUy
down and, notching ifc stopped to the end.
to 35 points-and there it e PP reßo]lec tion is of
Of those two last <F ar tf rs re d-and-black battlers ;
a fierce bogging-in of the r rotten luck and
of a determined atta ° k a ° 0 C e aft er chance missed or
worse kicking ,of • Car iton never again got
mulled or spoiled by the wi fc the . I)ons were at-
a chance it could tut t c out of five scoring shots
tacking right to the ena, d >ballerg W ere striving
ra»"jS '-js &
the other side, across th ,» { the packed mass.
cited barrackers poured out and branches of
Two women got into » the . ba llers played
the overloaded ® lm ® , b a ° q seemed to be every-
on. And ever th “ to no effect. The
where, and always to ha nlacing an untried man—
-Dons had made the mistake of Placing a level-
good, but inexperienced—an ay for everything,
headedness and straight shoot ng gh They had
and that mistake co . st r td ™? b p latter half; they had,
practically all the play ~ q > lO but the man whom
in all, 11 scoring flhote to OarjM« 1 8 to account was
sEJSS&rJ&tzs 11 ** b ' hinds
to 3 goals 8 behinds. # *
It is worth noticing how, mjpite of
promises and threateni d tQ the possibility of
certainty of the a\era ft a ” pp he {our leading League
the unexpected. This yea that Essendon
clubs are the same as last J ■««,, new arrival,
replaces “ South, has J Vjarlton and ’Wood divided
For four years before that Roy, Carlton on)y one
the places among them , » The man who wants to
new team ‘“ n X e l llr ,? f or next year can pick three of
thls°yeaA contsunts and feel easy about his money.
A champion team isn’t bu.lt in a day.
While the big ra progress
but less scientific, s “ ap ‘ Juniors and Yarra-
MelbourneGluepot, betwee F t . Junior fina i last
ville, the same clubs that worne was was
vear. The aud.ence wasn
noisy, in attire and .otherwise, el | ow .j a b was acknow-
enough, but five mm “t the eager barrackers
ledged by a straight left, ana or hand « he two teams
could swarm over the fence - Ifc wasn - t too scientific,
were going at it hammer committeeg rushed to
but it was willing. P barrackers’ share of it;
quell the riot, a " d T 'JZ sweet peace around, per
but the police finally spread sweet peac
baton, and the bu aTter the half-time
ville seemed to have heart, dul ed
spell it got °ver ; the shock eg ana lemon . time _
sufficiently to efioali The ] ast> quarter saw
3 goals 3 beb'nds each. barrackerg , behavior
decent football, tho g when the bell rang with
and language continued aw ul When u. etnitted
both scores 4 ? oals , “BH-me ’’ and further prof-
one general, comprehensive j was beyond him,
feredthe information that the Ration is to
or something to that intent. J t bether ’Scray and
be another “.positively will decl de the
Yarraville will toss up, local Quarries, this
Ltte,«i.hbl«e.ton, .P-IJJ th, „\cU„
be done. * * *
»£r
dav, when St. Hilda ex ? r a ’ s , s rollim-'wood had handed
against P’ran. ? n this season, and Fran had
the Saints their first defe tth violent exhibitions of
downed South. B° fcd^ a ®t collision between P’ran and
bogging-in, but the resultant g two m
-Wood was somethin,, extra. and this unsports-
whom it had no J'f d y° b P roug h the dis-
manlike action tura o^te^ oU |" d „i C e manners
appearance of a vV ° bile it was laying out casual
tn 90 The Wednesday League
finally won bv 46 points to A. playingf the unauthorised
subsequently fined gt ju stood, the infliction of that
’bailers, but, as the imatchi sti l d . The .. challenge
penalty was no satisfaction woo comparatively V vi d
final proved a well-atte Hilda’s grotesque kick-
episode, chiefly -lately won by 41 points to 16,
ing; still the Saints ultimately oafs once
retirement, and the barracker awakes
from his summer sleep. _
The aforesaid barraekers,
diminished by a few score n {ormed ’ a i ea gue, compris-
enthusiasts ofßent’scity ingtead of
ing eight clubs, and will P y , They will have
standing around awhi j e> as there aren’t
an grounds available. .
Announced that Joe darling, ’Lott™** retired.
HiB^life’8 1 innings, 26 hunniings^o^h^s
bat, and 10,563 runs at an av of life J 9
players who made cnc. and Ti]K bulletin hopes that
dropping out very fast no , ther Cricket is a good
it will not be succeeded active ijf e a man requires to
thing, but at the close o made 10,000 runs.” And
be able to a vice when a man neglects
?r%ssi“ - ejx asxus
there are others. . * *
Darling, speaking at wt^hard
Association is hard up • \ av j s h generosity. Another
that Darling represents with la\ is g s the ganie
reason is that it has done its d |ty m a
of cricket in m a p " d nu a rs e to buiM up various club grounds
big hand an d .°P e " f' ' ~I ; .u j e result that Sydney turns
in the city and suburbs, with t e cricketers,
out easily the biggest 7™ d Trust has
Another reason is that Dro fit from the inter-State
reaped the larpr share of fey the
and club matches—so large Association has had
time the exes were P»' d ‘ he P u r S g oo d, sterling work
scarcely the price of a b • b £ st 0 f ;t s resources
«’ down <•„ their -■»'>««
and worship it. * *
Peter McAlister of: Victorin, is
—one of the best, in fact > teams is a mistake,
n.ent as a sole selector of i No man is
The sole selector business is b^ l " u should always be
infallible, and a committee of three «no work>
retained for the job. Last year, probably the
and the present violent change to one , f five - were
outcome of the bickering . Trumble and Bean
sraftfisa sM?;
first-class selection committee.
l( . r • ,*» wr ;tes • “Why should the cricketers
A (xirl wrioe.. y b(j unsoU nd doctrine from
play for nothing ? T *?? see ™ of competition the best de-
Tup bulletin In this P the p , ayer3 to resist
mands the highest pnc . sportsmen to be far
the money-making craze « P breaches against cheap
ahead of the times. applicable to cheap
labor, and doubts about the sex-
cricket. The BOLOTIN na b voiced the query of
of this “ Girl,” but anyhow, she ha al ; out the
quite a number o£ P’ ay b ® t) . en found necessary. To
rigid economy that has are forced by the
begin with, the cricaete allowanceBf n 0
financial position “OOP fh(> Associa tions may
matter what the * ee - f Euripides, they are
be. m the rpbe"pobit of the business is that the
up against it. The P amateurs and to play the
cricketers are supposed to at the Bulletin
game for nothing but love o* value o{ their
doesn’t object to them r g and bo ldly declare that
services—if they turn pr make but of it. But
they are in cricketi for what they can ma fQr a
they pose as amateurs ana am ateuv at
single match l^ in spectacle calculated to
£5O per week is a humor TH / BuLLRTm doe sn’t argue
flavor of cheap cricket, or cheap anything. But it
flings bricks at hypocrisy. # *
Sydney inter-club junior e Cncket mgang
stricted to players und . - A really junior cricket,
which is inacc'ordance'with the Commerce Act, and right
and * * »
The United States is just now filled wither
and clamor by the b and cusfcomary Yankee
Olympian Games tor , h kinc the heavens with
methods, and these peop » un-
their squeals about Bntisn pr J fc He makes a
fairness. The Yankee at : fch business on the same
business of wmmng and conducts cQUntries
lines as he does his other cornu measures against his
of the world have taken or , tins authorities of
commercial methods, and uow likewise. At Athens
the world have betm driven tod° to cope
the unsophisticated Greeks d reat time . A t Shep-
with him, andl the Yankee nau gkjUed athle tic
herd’s Bush he , remorselessly every time
judges, and they ruled him rectitude. Wherefore
he left the narrow of ll thetug-
the Yankee is sore. But his greates and skill, a
of-war, in winch, through lack ot line “like a
team of Yankee Rian tsw o{ Liverpool policemen,
crowd of schoolboys b. saueal instanter, and
The Yankees commenced
charged the PO |lc 6™o f oo t,o-ear was examined
spiked boots ; but th t e he £o r e„uiation John Dunn
it turned out to be m««'y T h e hollowness of the
type issued by the auth o" tl : the Liverpool police
Yankee protest Yankees again in any sortof foot-
team offered to pull the Yan n - ame so long as both
wear the U.fe. persons useu declined, and gave
teams were shod alike. T ( j anad i an s, on the other
their whole case away. Tto Un““ e ’fairness of the
hand, were loud in t P d i n support of the
Yankeie*cobtenrion KenTaised by the competitors of
any other nation. » * *
Australian V**"}
match for £2OO a side over decent)y with
favorite distance , he n {or tha t particular sprint,
the medals and cash he h hj Water ioo, for the
But when he met PostleLe strucK
Australian wiped him o niil • foot-racing is not a
previous best by 4yds. Appar j 10,000 people
kioked o P „Tbut See" ** Victor was equal
to 30,000. # *
The 25-mile
tralasia happened on the P . fl remarkable for
Melbourne, on Saturday, andwascmeny naBty fall
the fact that the wnner, up his leeway and
when four miles out, by’lOOyds., and that I. st-
rode home a { n .. eas L b " ne rod Jwitli both hands in band-
srA’toTffl “*» . b»*. «>-'•
19imin. # ' » * *
“ M.P.” The re£er “ i “g m , S 0 S e m™'SS
biffing struck me as a wee bit and
in question, though case the necessary
mentally qualified for his and control two such
physical qualifications to p . , b moving pictures
Lawny specimens of humanity. me aty
of large Yankee stoushings aljd j ay s down
figure of J. J. Jeffries se P a U. on a ff a ; r a referee should
the law. In the v- We o{ handling the men
LnSao' lf'Vuch a person is unobtainable, then a
hi? father and brother, and be a squatter or someehu^
KS=^sSFsS
r^rsirissr^W'fr
actor with a punch. , * *
Clarence Weber, Melbourne's foremost muscle
if „tnr is measurement to his biceps by
cultivator, is admn 1 (ig His latest effort easily
pushing of pih -iron } hpg in that direction, and
surpassed most previou -V out a world’s record,
was within an ace f bl t {rQm the ground to
Clarence luted w “ . without requiring the
arm’s length actually conveyed 811 b.
mor’ethlh hiolwtt wehsht toward, the ceiling.
uc tl r.L-* (his curse): You have been raisin-
fTTtf **
“3s£ fesw wi?
disease games-13 ffoals to » - season. After-
k—<>•» •»«»
Australian premiership. * *
The V»VS'th h ,"S“ ea S WSf A?S
preliminary tie of the Da s C P, world>B tennis cham-
have a smack at Australia 1 ents the Eagle will
pionship. According to arr. * ber and un l e ss
swoop down on the hangar of practice, the talons
the Australian team puts in P ■ L. tas j c 0 f picking
of the bird will carry °* hwd. of Xrman
S'S S h“hLVI." the B.n. 5t...,
a a Riflp Association meeting at Tort Ade-
laide last week, brought g°rown. & IP
proved to what a fi " shots at 200, 500 and
the first stage of the Kn i£. 0 . . u i\» s . e y6 once
600 yards), J. finished with 103 points out of
at 200yds. and 500yds. and finished with
the possible 105. lneie w aOOvds., Lieut,
totals of 102. Later on, wi score d 74 points out of
ability^ m perforate a°rigid Object at a reasonable distance.
THE SIMPLE LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
0n, .. u» *v£s&r3s ffisr e ""'" ,,y
for the restoration of the animai.
Now smite me largely on the jaw and punch mem
And hear me roar on this tame shore
The cave-man's battle cry.
Burn down my dwelling to the ground, my books and
papers tear,
Destroy my cook, and let me look
For bones like any bear.
Tear off the clothes that cover me, and let me take
my way .
With naught to wear except my hair
A large white beast ot prey.
T will not drink the triple X, T will not smoke a pipe,
I will not eat of sausage meat,
1 will not dine on tripe.
But I will hunt the madding ox, and slay the wilding
cow,
And I will tear my reeking tare
Beneath the apple hough.
Then with a waddy forth I’ll roam to win a blooming
her back with thump and whack
To slumber at my side.
So shall the golden days return, and all our woes be past,
Mankind shall reach hope’s highest peach,
And suck the juice at last.
\f aorilasd.
D.M.W.


DEAFNESS
CO
UJ
CO
UJ
Ringing in the Ears,
COMPLETELY CORED.
Do not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced you incurable, and do not give up in despair
because the many so-called Treatments have failed to do you any good. The successful cures accom-
plished in some of the most obstinate cases of 30 and 40 years’ standing are sufficient evidence of the
efficacy of this treatment in every case, whatever the cause may be, whether Catarrhal Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, or any other Aural Complication causing Deafness, Head Noises, Ringing in
the Kars, etc., as well as Deafness and other ear diseases caused through an ACCIDENT.
Read these Unsolicited Testimonials.
DAVID LINDSAY, Esq., of 98 VICTORIA STREET, DARLINGHURST (N.S.W.), was troubled
with deafness and other serious aural complications. Doctors said “no hope.” Mr. Lindsay wrote:—
“It is only a question of time when I shall be stone deaf, as the doctors told me I will never be cured.”
To-day Mr. Lindsay is a healthy man, enjoying acute hearing, and the disagreeable noises have all ceased.
The “ EAROSCOPE ” did it in a very short time. As a tribute of gratitude Mr. Lindsav writes :—“The
‘ Earoscope ’is certainly a wonderful treatment. I never expected to be cured, and it was indeed a happy
surprise after so many years of suffering. I thank you heartily for the good you have done me, as you
have made a new man out of me entirely.”
A MINISTER’S TESTIMONY.
REV. HENRY GAINFORD, OF THE HIND-
MARSH SQUARE CONGREGATIONAL IN-
STITUTIONAL CHURCH, ADELAIDE, S.A.,
writes The Earoscope you sent me has
wrought a marvellous change in my hearing.
The change is indeed so pronounced that I feel
it my duty, even at this stage, to recommend
it to anyone suffering- from deafness, in what-
ever stage, it may be. ”
A NURSE’S TESTIMONY.
THE WELL-KNOWN AND HIGHLY-
ESTEEMED NURSE STUART, OF 62 BONDI
ROAD, SYDNEY, writes:—-“I am happy
to tell you that after 15 years of suffering- I
am now completely cured from the distressing-
head-noises, and my hearing is as good as ever
it was. I hope that all unfortunate victims
will be fortunate enough to hear of your
wonderful discovery.”
All it will cost you to get full particulars of this great boon to humanity is the postage stamp. Send
us your name and address, and we will forward to you FREE OF CHARGE the “ EAROSCOPE
REVIEW,” with abundant testimonials from patients successfully cured with this “EAROSCOPE’
after all other treatments having failed to do any good in their complicated cases of many years’ standing’
“ EAROSCOPE C 0.,” SO Pitt St. (Dept. 26), Sydney, H.S-W.
You can he
like this.
DON’T STAY THIN.
THERE is no reason why every man or woman should not acquire or
regain a Perfect Figure. If you want to add flesh, be made
plump and rosy, gain weight, strength and beauty, send for Free
Booklet and a Free Trial Treatment of the “ Miracula ”
Nerve Food and Flesh Developer. This newly-discovered
Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing Agent and Fleshi Builder.
It will soon put your nerves right, tone up your digestive organs ; and the
alteration in you will astonish yourself and'friends. Attenuation, be it in
man or woman, is due to a lack of flesh where fl.esh ought to be, and the
prominence of bone where no bone should be visible. Would you like to
have perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all scraggi-
ness ? You can easily obtain this blessing. There is no time xo
lose. Every day you delay means possibly further decrease in
weight, so write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps, to pay
postage on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
If You are
like this.
London Specialities Agency, Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh St., Sydney
The Moustacheless Man's Friend 1
A dermatological preparation that never fails to produce a long, flowing
Moustache.
That’s CAPILLARJNE.
■aj. >: ‘-
For over 25 years it has been satisfying men, and to-day is more popular
than ever. A little rubbed on each night will work wonders in your case.
TRY IT.
Price 10/0
POST FREE TO ANY PART
OF THE WORLD.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
Makes you look manly.
The People's Prudential Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.,
84- Fitt Street, Sytls&ey.
Shareholders of the people's pruden-
tial ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD., are hereby
notified that a DIVIDEND at the rate of FIVE
POUNDS PER CENTUM has been declared, and is
now payable at the Company’s Offices, 84 Pitt Street,
Sydney. p. SPARROW, F.S.S., Secretary.
To Users of Acetylene
LU>
Gas
Reduce your
CARBIDE BILLS
and increase your
light by using
OUR BURNERS.
Send 10/- and we will
forward, post free, 1 doz.
assorted patterns.
ROBERT C. SWAN (8b CO. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
h
(jIVEN away,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
" post free.
Three Biack Tips,
or Biack Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Ifcfllilleir’s Fea.tb.er S3ia.o>£3,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanstcn Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
ĥ
IuEAL HAIR-DYEING COMB
No Trouble. No Mess. Will not Stain
Scalp or Skin. Colors the Hair ct onoe
or gradually as desired. Price. 7s. 6d.,
disoreetly packed and delivered -
anywhere. Particulars free.
Obtainable only from THE /.'ZL
UNION COMPANY. 209 / U
Elizabeth St., Melbourne, t s
ħ
* POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH
r\ Pnctj, ul.
Wealth in WHEAT
SS.
THE “ SUNSHINE ” HARVESTER.
Cheapen
Cultivation
BY USING
!
iP
THE “ SUNFLOWER ” CULTIVATOR
Write to any of the undermentioned addressees for: —
New illustrated Catalogue “M 10,” Farm Implements
(Posted Gratis). f
Show 42 ENGINE STREET, SYDNEY.
Rooms 102 SPENCER ST., MELBOURNE.
56 NTH. TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
Sandover & Co., Perth, W.A.
Mott & Barlow, Toowoomba, Q,
H. V. McKAY,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER
WORKS.
Head Office and Works : SUNSHINE.
*
. ■
vo
iV' 0 v <•<.
y tj • *!.
US&SiJe-L±
Dr. Ida Carlson’s
Remedies.
Established 16 Years.
Health for Women.
Why Buffer? Send 2d.
Stamp for this Great
Specialist's Book on Home
Treatment.
BRITISH DRUG CO.
4th Floor E.S. & A. Bank,
Cor. George & King Sts.,
SYDNEY.
AWARDED
20 FIRST
PRIZES.
J*
GRAND PRIX,
ST. LOUIS,
1904.
&
GOLD MEDAL,
PARIS,
1900.
Unrivalled for the Complexion.
KALODERMA-SOAP * KALODERMA-JELLY * KALODERMA-POWDER
KALODERMA F WOLFF &SOHN
Sold by Chemists and Perfumers.
SOLE
AGENTS:
Lohmanr
& Co.,
Melbourne
and
Sydney,
ECKERSLETS
KEEPS A FELLOW FIT
AND FREE FROM COLD
Eckersley’s Mentholine is not only a certain CURE for Coughs,
Colds, Influenza, etc., but it is also a positive PREVENTIVE of
Cold. The little bottle can be conveniently carried in the
pocket, ready for instant use on the preliminary symptoms of a
cold—sneezing:, sudden chill, etc. Its use thus secures good
health and absolute immunity from Throat and Chest Com-
plaints. Outwardly applied, it also cures Headache, Neuralgia,
Sciatica, etc. At all chemists and storekeepers, or posted free
for 1/- bottle, 4 bottles 3/6, from Eckersley and Sons, 628 Bourke
Street, Melbourne. Free Trial Bottle for 2d. stamp.
h
D -ftTO/V*
50 POST CARDS FOR 9£d.
_________ Each card different. Views, Actresses, Children and others.
Post Free to any
part of Australia,
Is, o|d.
Biggest value ever offered to the Public since the
beginning of the Post Card craze. Agents Wanted.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO., Post Card Publishers and Importers, 192-194 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
At time of writing, the barque Loch
Lomond was 2Jj months out from Newcastle
(N.iS.W.) on the voyage to Maoriland, so ap-
parently it has also gone to pave the floor of the
Tasman Sea. Now there is talk of holding an
inquiry to decide what state the vessel was in
when it started on its protracted voyage, but as
the ghosts (presuming that the crew are ghosts by
now) won’t be there, it seems a rather hopeless
sort of business. Of course, it may lead to the
digging up of interesting information, as hap-
pened in the case of the Orion, which left a Tas-
manian port with cargo on the main deck and the
upper deck, and oats in the smoking-room, and
potatoes everywhere, and was never heard of again.
But there are just tjyo weak points about this
post mortem business!: it doesn’t bring the
drowned ship back, and often the law is so
pleased with itself when it has clearly stated what
was wrong with the last ship that it quite fails to
do anything about the next ship. Lost in admira-
tion of the beautiful inquest it has had, it often
forgets that even a pint of very poor medicine is
better than the finest inquest and burial on earth.
The medicine may keep you alive, but the inquest
only makes quite-sure that you are dead.
Sydney Telegraph on Tuesday cheekily
ascribed to Wade’s little half-caste Industrial
Disputes Act, which has only just started to
muddle through life, all the benefits that had been
won for the workers by B. R. Wise’s N.S.W.
Arbitration Act and the Federal Arbitration Act,
including the raising of shop assistants’ and
shearers’ wages !
W. Irvine, the political penny ice who
was mistaken for an iceberg, after opposing the
White Australia programme for 10 years now
announces himself a convert to that principle.
He admits that his conversion is due to conversa-
tions he had with United States Fleet officers, who
described to him the fearful consequences of the
introduction of the negro into their country. This
confession just about fixes the face value of the
penny ice individual as a Parliamentary leader.
The man of our time who could wage war for a
whole decade against such a tremendous national
aspiration as that expressed in the White Aus-
tralia movement, and then be converted by a few
facts mentioned by a chance visitor—facts that
every fairly educated person knew long ago—isn’t
to be trusted with the fate of a basket of pups.
SOL
Dunlop Tyre Successes
This Season’s Big Road Events.
100 MILES VICTORIAN CYCLE TRADERS—Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and Fastest Time.
CONTINENTAL—BATHURST-SYDNEY RACE (133£ miles)—lst, 2nd, and Fastest Time
HOBART=LAUNCESTON ROAD RACE (116 miles)—lst, 2nd, 3rd and Fastest Time.
BEVERLEY=PERTH (116 miles) —Ist, 2nd. 3rd and Fastest Time. In fact, out of
24 finishers, every rider but the 12th rode “ DUNLOPS.”
DUNLOP TEST RACE, HOBART to LAUNCESTON—Fastest Time.
N.S.W. CONTINENTAL INTER-CLUB ROAD PREMIERSHIP-Won by Newcastle
Team, all of whom rode DUNLOP TYRES.
OOULBURN=SYDNEY DUNLOP RACE—lst, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and Fastest Time.
25 MILES AUSTRALASIAN CHAMPIONSHIP, 1908, held on SYDNEY ROAD, near
MELBOURNE—Won by M. Chappell on DUNLOP TYRES.
That’s how “ Dunlop ” Superiority
is asserting itself this year.
“ DUNLOP ” riders Know their
superiority! Other riders miss it.
are: you missing it?
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., 108 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
All States anti New Zealand,


RELY on YOUR OWN JUDGMENT
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold
“Forget-Me-Not”
Spray
Heart CHARM.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold 2 Bar BROOCH, set pure Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires,
25/.
15ct. Gold, £2/10/.
As to the beauty, finish, and style of an article, but in making your pur-
chase remember that we can give better goods, better prices, and more
satisfaction from all standpoints than any other house in Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
Heart CHARM,
10/.
Larger, 12/6.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
An efficient mail order depart-
ment offer prompt and satisfac-
tory service to distant patrons.
All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
h
ĥ
A. SAUNDERS.
Set. Gold Curb Padlock BRACELET,
with Safety
Chain attached, as illustrated.
£3.
Larger, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/.
biiialler, £5/, 30/ 35/, 40/'
60/.
In 15ct. Gold, £4/5/
£4/15/, £5.
ISct. Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE.
Write at once for a copy of
our 304-page illustrated cata-
logue. You'll receive it by re-
turn mail, post free. Write to-
day.
m
JKofli
O
Qk
o
0$
01
oct. Gold Sword and Crescent BROOCH, Set Pearls or
Pearls and Turquoise,
27/6.
OPEN
FACE,
10/*“
A. SAUNDERS.
Larlv’s Black Open Face
Keyless WATCHES,
Shortwind, Stem Set,
Perfectly Regulated.
io/.
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold 2-Bnr BROOCH, set Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
T*
WHZNs me
wsasemo
AREJBSENT
ONE FROM
a N O.T/H £**
+ r
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah and Ivy Leaf
Spray BROOCH.
12/6.
A. SAUND.ERS.
18ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Get. Gold LOCKET,
set Ruby or
Sapphire,
35/.
Silver, without stone,
4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
In its construction special care has been given,
bo as to assure exceptional strength, durability, and
absolute accuracy.
Each watch carries with it our written guarantee
of free repair for one year—breakages excepted.
“GTJAED”
Nickel open face Keyless Lever, shortwind,
stem-set, patent adjusted balance, non-magnetic,
dust and water proof cases, fine or bold dial.
The “Guard,” 157-
Higher grade, the Railway 20/- Guaranteed fot
10 years, arid kept in free repair for one year.
THE
“RAILWAY.”
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Get. Gold Bird and Floral Sprav
Bar BROOCH, *
8/fi
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Bct. Gold PEN-
DANT, set with
Pearl, Ruby, or
Turquoise, with
photo, recess,
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
lieyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 50 /
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/,
£5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/.
SOLID
GOLD,
£,3
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH,
Bet fine Pearls and Turquoise,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT or
BROOCH, set fine
White Pearls,
£6/6/.
Complete in Case.
. A. SAUNDERS.
Cct. Gold Double Curb ALBERT, £3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/. 15ct. Gold,
£5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £io, £l2/10/. In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
14ct. Gold Filled, guaranteed, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
35ct. Gold PENDANT
or BROOCH, set fine
Pearls and Amethysts,
£4/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines.
£5/10/.
OPEN
FACE.
, A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES,
f-plate, shortwind, patent
balance, dust and water proof cases,
20/.
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/. 35/.
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
HIGHER
GRADE.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set
Diamonds or Rubies, or
Sapphires,
£3/10/.
5 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Forget
Me-Not Spray BROOCH,
10/.
01
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Oval and
Bar LINKS,
17/6.
15ct Gold, 35/.
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set fine Pearls
and Amethysts,
£5/5/.
Pearls and Tourmalines,
£5/10/.
Diamonds and Sapphires,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold, Opals and
pure Double-cut Dia-
monds,
£4/10/.
SAUNDERS.
15et. Gold Buckle BROOCH, buckle
set with fir - white Pearls,
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pet. Gold Shield and
Dumb-bell LINKS,
21/.
15ct. Gold 40/.
Silver, 4/6.
SOLID
SILVER
ħ
SOLID
GOLD.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVER,
i-Plate Movement. Fully Jewelled, £2.
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£5, £6. Solid Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lo,
£l2/10/, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


RHEUMATISM. INDIGESTI
BACKACHE.
Muscular Rheumatism
and Neuralgia.
REMARKABLE TESTIMONY.
Mr. John Shepherd, of Rand wick, writes :—“I
was suffering from acute neuralgia down the veins
of the neck and over the whole neck and face.
My mouth was much swollen. lam subject to
these attacks, and was six weeks under a doctor.
“After commencing to take ‘FISHER’S’
Phospherine I had immediate relief, and in one
day was cured; there only remained a slight weak-
ness from the excessive pain I had endured.
“ Whatever is the matter with me in the future
I will always use ‘FISHER’S ’ Phospherine,
for it is a most wonderful MEDICINE and
NERVE TONrC.”
LX
Stomach
f Feeling”
1 AND \
Burning Sensation
ofthe Throat
TAKE
“Fishery
xHosphefiHV
ALE
n >
-jy
INDIGESTION and HEADACHES.
Kidney Ailments.
When you have any suspicion that your kidneys
are getting bad, take “FISHER’S” PHOS-
PIIERINE to cleanse and strengthen them. It
is invaluable as an agent to ward i ‘f Diabetes,
Bright’s Disease, and Backache. Thousands of
people take an occasional dose of
“FISHERS” PHOSPHERINE
to keep their kidneys in perfect order and up to
the mark. A most efficient doctor at small cost.
All Chemists, 1/- ; four times the quantity, 2/0.
Five to ten drops of “ Fisher’s ” Phospherine in water after meals is the greatest aid to digestion known.
The after-effects of over=eating and excess-drinking are removed by this Famous Tonic.
Ten drops in water half-an-hour before breakfast remove a sour taste from the mouth and make the breath sweet and pleasant.
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr. THOMAS FORSYTH, of Ashfield, writes and declares on oath, the following:—
“ I suffered from acute inflammation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue got a thick coating over it, and I constantly suffered from
nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly vomiting. I consulted two doctors in Ashfield for years, without getting relief. But in three weeks
.USHER’S PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.0.0.F. I have been in the lodf’e for 18 years. Most
ot the members know of my illness. Five to ten drops of FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE always takes away a sour
taste in the mouth, and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone know of my case.”
Subscribed and declared at Ashfield, this twentieth day of August, one thousand nine hundred and three,
before me, A. R. LEMAIRE, J.P.
7xaj
THE SPEEDIEST CURE FOR
Indigestion
Headache
Neuralgia
Rheumatism
Kidney Ailments
Nervousness
Anaemia or
Bloodlessness
UNSURPASSED FOR HOT WEATHER,
Clear as Crystal. Fresh and Potent. Prepared Daily. Obtainable at Washington H. Soul & Co., Pattinson & Co. (All Shops),
Anthony Hordern & Sons, and All Chemists.
ALMOST A MIRACLE. Stomach Washed Out with a Tube Daily.
Mr. Samuel James Miles, of Wells Street, Redfern, for over ten years in the Railway Service, sends the following, and confirms the same on oath :
Messrs. Fisher and Co.
“Sirs, —I suffered for months with Acute Dyspepsia ; terrible burning pains and swellings in the stomach, accompanied with constant vomiting, made
life hideous. The pain in the stomach was so acute that it doubled me in two. There was no relief in any position, and I would walk the floor at night
praying for death to end my sufferings ; people living in the house can testify to the truth of my statement and the reality of my agony. I was treated by
Dr. and Dr. , and took all kinds of medicine, and had my stomach washed out daily with a tube. At last I became a patient in Prince
Alfred Hospital for four months, and, after leaving, was sent to Rookwood instead of Camden Convalescent Home. This was so that I might have constant
medical attendance, my condition being so serious and critical. T stayed at Rookwood for two months, and left terribly emaciated, a complete wreck. The
doctor told me my heart was affected and altogether out of order through Dyspepsia. Any exertion, even walking a short distance, would cause me to pant
for breath, and sink down from sheer exhaustion. I was seldom without pain in the back and head. About this time a friend, Fred , advised me to
take Fisher’s Phospherine, but I had taken so much medicine prescribed, and also patent medicines, I said to myself, ‘ What good can Fisher’s Phospherine
do me 1 ’ But each time Fred saw me he kept on saying, ‘ Why don’t you try Fisher’s Phospherine 1 ’
“At last I bought a bottle, and after two days I felt greatly relieved and much better. I gradually regained strength, and in about a month all pain
had gone from the stomach, back, and head. I felt a new man. Dr.’ met me after I had commenced to take Fisher’s Phospherine, and he said,
‘ Why, Miles, you are getting better ; you are a marvel, my medicine is doing you good.’ I replied, ‘Yes, doctor, the part of it I have not taken.’
“ T make this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to be true.” SAMUEL JAMES MILES.
Subscribed and declared before me, RICHARD M. WALSH, J.P.
“FISHER’S”
1/- PER BOTTLE. Four Times the Quantity, 2/6. Post Free
from Headquarters to the most Distant Places.
ABSOLUTELY INSIST UPON BEING SERVED WITH
PREPARED BY THE SOLE PROPRIETORS—
“ FISHER’S ”
FISHER & COMPANY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL
CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS,
337 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE
This Famous Tonic is sold outside of New South Wales under ihe name of “Fisher’s Great Nerve Tonic.”
THEREFORE ALWAYS ASK FOR “FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC”
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
MELBOURNE : Rocke, Tompsitt & Co. ; Duerdin & Sainsbury,
ADELAIDE: F. H. Faulding & Co.; A. M. Bickford & Sons.
PERTH : F. H. Faulding & Co. ; Felton, (uimwade & Bickford Ltd.
BRISBANE : Elliott Bros.; Taylor & Colledge; Thomason Chater, Ltd.
TASMANIA : H. P. Miller & Son, Hobart;
Fairthorn & Son, Hatton & Laws, Launceston,
ALL THESE AGENTS STOCK “FISHER’S GREAT NERVE TONIC” WHOLESALE


GIRL A MARTYR TO
TERRIBLE ECZEMA
Began with Teething and Lasted
Twelve Years—Tried Every Imag-
inable Treatments No Effect-
Head and Body a Mass of Humour
—Almost Mad with the Torture.
CURED IN THREE WEEKS
BY ONE SET OF CUTICURA
“My daughter, now thirteen years of
age, had been a martyr to eczema on
her body and head
ever since cutting her
teeth. We had a doc-
tor off and on for the
first five years and
have been trying dif-
ferent chemists from
time to time, using
many ointments, but
to no effect. We tried
'everything imaginable
and only kept hoping
that she would out-
fS,
D'f
growit. At last, after sufferingfor twelve
years, her body and head were a mass of
sores and she was almost mad with it.
Then I sent for a set of Cuticura Soap,
Cuticura Ointment, and Cuticura Resol-
vent Pills. After ten days’ use of the
Cuticura Remedies she began to get
better. In three weeks there was not a
vestige of eczema left. She only took one
vial of the Cuticura Pills and we have
some of the Soap and Ointment still.
Mrs. C. Brasier, High St., Godstone,
Surrey, Aug. 8 and 12, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
AWFUL ITCHING
Torturing, Disfiguring Humours
Instantly Relieved by Cuticura.
Even a single gentle application of Cuti-
cura, the great Skin Cure, preceded by
a warm bath with Cuticura Soap and fol-
lowed, when necessary, by mild doses of
Cuticura Resolvent Pills, affords instant
relief, permits rest and sleep, and points
to a speedy cure of the agonizing itching
and burning of the skin, as in eczema;
the frightful scaling, as in psoriasis; the
loss of hair and crusting of scalp, as in
scalled head, and the awful suffering
of infants and children, as in tetter, or
salt rheum.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout, the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5. Rue
de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney;
So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Capetown, etc.; U.S.A.,
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
An Impression
of the
Steinway Piano*
The perfection of Piano Construction
has never been exemplified so wonder-
fully as in
THE STEINWAY.
The STEIN WAY is an instrument that
has won its way into the very heart of the
musical world. Our greatest living musi-
cians pay it the highest compliments,
while in the past it was a delight to such
men as Liszt. Wagner and Rubinstein,
who have left behind them testimonials of
its rare qualities. To-day the models are,
if possible, better than ever. They pos-
sess that full, deep, rich tone that thrills
the hearer, at the same time the exquisite
sympathetic singingquality that has gained
them so much of their artistic renown.
The STEIN WAY is an instrument that
makes a direct and instantaneous appeal
to all who hear it. Though we are busi-
ness men, and to sell these instruments is
part of our vocation, still underlying this
there is a strong sentimental feeling that
we are helping forward all that is beauti-
ful in music when we submit a STEIN-
WAY Piano.
We ask you to allow us the privilege
of meeting you in our Showrooms just
to discuss a Steinway.
Easy Extended Payments Arranged.
Old Instruments Taken in Part Ex-
change.
SOLE AGENTS:
342 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
eA@)
e Value Our
Reputation
which has been built up by supplying One
Quality only. Granville H. Sharp, F.C.S.L.,
an eminent British Scientist, says
«No. Eau de Cologne
is of the best quality and absolutely pure.” We
say the same about our Soaps, Perfumery and
Toilet Requisites. No. 4711 stands for Quality.
Bad food or bad drink means a bad Liver. LAXATINE
is the great Liver correeter. Obtainable everywhere.
fjA
BLACK DESPAIR
RIDES AWAY
before Mother Seigel’s Syrup. You
know that despair —the depression
and despondency which come from
constant headache, pain after eat-
ing, sickness, nausea, sleeplessness
and dizziness. Such constant
troubles make life almost a curse to
sufferers. But Black Despair rides
away, and the shadow on your life
is lifted, by Mother Seigel’s Syrup.
It is a purely vegetable remedy
which acts directly on the stomach
and liver, and thus removes the
cause of all these troubles —Indiges-
tion —a disease which takes many
distressing forms, and is responsible
for nine-tenths of human misery.
It cured Mr. Driscoll (who now lives at
42, Mount Street, Pyrmont, N.S.W.) of
acute indigestion many years ago. Writing
on March iBth, 1908, he says : “ I remain
absolutely free of my old troubles and can
eat, work, and sleep as well as any man. I
cannot be sufficiently grateful to Mother
Seigel’s Syrup for having restored to me
my lost health.”
MOTHER „
SEICJEIjS
A Pretty
DRESS SHOE
for Ladies, 23/0.
h
I The builders of this Dainty Dress Shoe are|
Hilliard and Tabor, one of the most famous
American manufacturers of footwear.
lts graceful lines and solid workmanship
stand for the very best in modern shoe
making. Pitted with extra high VVurtem-
burg heel, its price is 23/6.
-Postage to any other State is l/-extra, and in
Victoria this should be added when ordering.
I Ufive you got a copy of our Booklet “ Shoe- I
| light" i We’d like to send you a copy — Free. |
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne ; 1 & 3 Errol St.,
North Melbourne ; 303 Chapel St., Prahran.
I?\
WHY
STAY
FAT
I?
ĥ
N
A Sydney physician, who
knows, says that until re-
cently a fat person had no
real hope of relief, but now, thanks
to the discoverer of “Fatcure,” Obesity
and Corpulency can be easily, speedily and
permanently cured.
“FATQURE”
reduces by as much as four pounds a week,
and cures permanently. It is harmless
to take, and is non-poisonous and does not
affect the heart. Full particulars and free
trial sample for 2d. stamp. Write or call
at once. Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance Castlereagrh or Market Streets. [33
CZERNY'S
CONJURING CARDS.
Complete set, with full directions.
Three splendid Tricks easily done by anyone.
Post Free ONE SHILLING (Postal Note).
CZERNY, P. 0., Hawthorn, Vic.
115,000
X.Axe WaybacK Series.
' ! ! ! No. S.
' 'MttdmieiM laujjkiny. Red Harry Is.
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“ URICA.”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ly i ness and kindred ailments, i.
! lli| >uiiiiiiiiiiiini|||||||||||iiiiii
Others are being cured while
you are thinking about it.
These Rings are scientifically made from
specially-prepared metals with four zinc
and three copper coils, forming a complete
battery, which have an affinity for drawing
the uric acids to that part of the finger
that the ring is worn on, and causes it to
leave the body, and at the same time
freeing the system from Rheumatism and
other kindred ailments.
PRICES, POST FREE—Silver, 55.; Gold=
Filled, 55., 7s. 6d. and 10s. each.
When ordering cut hole in piece of cardboard for
size required, or send for measurement card.
DUNKLING,
The Jeweller,
315=317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria.
and Mirth 2
The opportunities for enjoying’ a good,
hearty laugh or listening to excellent
music, excellently sung, have wonderfully
increased since the introduction of the
Edison Phonograph.
Every home with one of these machines
becomes a palace of melody and mirth, be-
cause among the genuine Edison Records
you will find any kind of entertainment
represented.
Stirring hand marches, witty dialogues,
catchy coon songs, pretty lullabies, the
favorite old ballads, new songs and selec-
tions—all are available on the Edison.
You certainly should have one for the
coming Summer —when you will want to
be agreeably entertained without stirring
far for it.
Write for a list of machines and records,
and the name of your nearest dealer. He
will let you hear how good the genuine
Edison is.
The Edison
Phonograph.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
<( BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WHITE FOK PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
The most humorous Vol 1. No. 1 that has transpired
for some time arrives from Edinburgh, and calls itself
The Thistle. Vol. 1 No. 1 runs to 16 pages, and six of
them are'given over to an awful thing that has happened
in Australia without Australia knowing anything about
it. Some time ago the Commonwealth agent in London
wanted to hoist a sign over the office in the Thick Fog,
wherefore a Commonwealth coat-of-arms had to be hur-
riedly fixed up. It had to have a shield and a cross, eft
course, and it happened that the cross arrived at was
drawn the same way as the St. George’s Cross—that is to
say, one line ran up and down, and another line across it,
which is a pretty common way of drawing a cross anyhow.’
But when it saw the Thing the great heart of the St.
Andrew’s Society of Edinburgh went off with a loud report,
and Alfred Deakin was written to and asked how he dared
heap insults on Scotland like that. Alfred Deakin replied
in his most affable way that really he hadn’t meant to,
and that the cross had just happened ; but if it would
make things any better he would spill some blue paint
somewhere, as he understood blue represented Scotland
in the national red-white-and-blue. But if Alfred
Deakin reckoned that a little thing like blue
paint Would fix up matters with the St. An-
drew’s Society he didn’t know the society with
the thistles initshair. Still, asthethinghadbeendecided,
all the society could do was to fiercely ask in the House
of Commons whether the Lyon King-of-Arms of Scotland
had been consulted, and, on being told he hadn’t, to in-
form the other king, whose name is Edward, that he had
“ignored his regal duty.” Also it remarked that “pro-
bably the occasion was deemed an excellent one for him
to once more show his dislike of Scotland, and his con-
tempt for her national sentiment and honor/’ Meantime
Australia’s Emu and Kangaroo (about which, by the way,
The Thistle makes some nasty remarks, as though they
didn’t have any sentiment and honor) are looking at the
shield between them and wondering what the dickens the
row is all about, and how much better off Scotland would
be if the Commonwealth had used up a whole paintshop
in making crosses,, diagonal and otherwise.
.** * .
Bob Sutton Sievier, who lately escaped from a charge of
blackmailing Jew Joel, the S’African millionaire, lately
gave a new fillip to his notoriety by publishing a sultry
summer annual in connection with his warm weekly
paper, the Winning Post. The success of Sievier’s sum-
mer annual reflects somewhat on the beautiful morality
of Britain and the rigid respectability of its principal
booksellers, W. H. Smith and Son. Although there was
nothing much in the booklet to tickle the jaded
palates of French or German readers, some of the stuff
was sufficiently in the direction of obscenity to justify an
industrious social purist in getting a police-court sum-
monsagainst the sellers of it. The defence revealed the
fact that W. H. Smith and Son had, in the first place
taken 40,000 copies of the Winning Post Summer Annual
on sale or return, which large order was said to
have been given in all innocence of the nature
of the goods. The character of the Winning Post
is well known, but no simple-minded bookseller would
have expected the editor of the paper to repeat
himself in a summer annual—of course not. A
wild rush of Cockney purchasers merely confirmed Smith
and Son in the belief that the book was irreproachable so
an order for another 40,000 copies might have ensued if
the social purity man hadn’t taken out a summons
Whereupon the firm of W. H. S. and Son, “ having their
attention called to the matter,” withdrew the annual
from sale, and promised the magistrate that it should not
bring a blush to their bookstalls in the future.
* * * *
John Guest, a habitual pressman of long standing took
the skyward track from Traralgon (Vic.) on 29th August.
The defunct gentleman, who was a native of Castleblaney
Co. Armagh, Ireland, landed in Victoria in 1862, and from
that time onwards he shed inkin the service of various
journals. For some years he was attached to the Bal-
larat press, but yearning for fresh troubles, be broke away
to manage Mount Alexander Mail at Castlemaine. Fol-
lowing, came turns of furious industry with the Hamil-
ton Spectator and Western Agriculturist, until he
became the proprietor of the Traralgon Record. That was
18 years ago, and it is just 18 months since the old gentle-
man retired from active service on that organ on the
ground of ill health. He was 64 in his coffin.
* -K *
The three representatives of the Yankee press who
visited Australia with the Fleet provided three distinct
types of citizens of the great Republic. Patchin, who is
Washington representative of the New York Herald
when he isn’t specialising on battleships, is young and
beautiful as the Yankee youths we know through the
medium of Dana Gibson and Chandler Christy, though
like Strephon in “lolanthe,” be has a tendency to stout-
ness in moderation. Franklin Mathews, of the Sun, is
middle-aged, unobtrusive in attire, and fitted with grev
moustaehes. He was formerly one of the Sun’s sub-
editors, but now vegetates in Washington. Professional!'
he is the star man of the lot, and is reckoned in his
native land one of the most capable pressmen on “ Gahd’s
green airth.” Clotworthy, the third visiting journalist,
looks like a poet or a footballer, or something equally
gruesome. He has a shock of long, grey hair parted in
the middle till it waves over his ears, enframing a sad,
soulful, earnest, clean-shaven face, which may be that
of a man of 20 or a man of 80. Experts consider that
Clotworthy’s age is something between those two figures
He is the United Press Agency man, and the poetry of his
hair comes out when he rises to make a speech. Alone of
the three, Clotworthy makes any endeavor to adhere to
the principles of the Yankee spellbinder, who talks about
the Aurora Borealis, and the sunset and the eavle The
fourth newspaper man, artist Dart Walker, was a m vth as
far as Sydney was concerned. His name was on the'books
of the Fleet, letters for him were lying all over the place
but nobody ever saw him turn up to collect. His name
was Walker, and evidently he thought it was up to him
when the anchor was dropped.
* * » *
W. A. O’Carroll, who cut his connection with the Bris-
bane Newspaper Co. recently, represented the third
generation of a family that had been employed on that
co. ’s section of the Inky Way. His grandfather was at
one time editor of the Courier, and his father was a re-
porter on the same dull old journal.
CREATORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Of tne making- of books there is no end.— Solomon.
Builders, build your house of words
That new ghosts may dwell therein ;
Fill the courts with phantom birds,
Wraiths of joy and spooks of sin.
Coin new shades in verse and prose,
That the house be tenanted ;
Burden each with hopes and woes
Out of void and chaos bred.
Codes of love and honor make
For your marionettes to play ;
Laws to keep and laws to break,
Deeds to do and debts to pay.
Set the shadow-men about
Where the spectral scene is laid,
Ghostly, winding in and out,
Phantascopes of man and maid.
W'ords, and ever words, they say ;
Deeds, and ever deeds, they do •
Furbished words of yesterday,
Ancient doings clad anew I
Deepest of all sayings said,
Sweetest of all verses sung,
Are but echoes of some dead,
Old, and long-forgotten tongue.
Must ye ever ghosts create
Out of nothingness, to walk
Aping still some mortal state,
Strut, and mouth their parts, and stalk
On the stage from door to door
Apparitions of the dead ;
Into turmoil evermore
Drag the sprites that ye have bred ?
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Missing: Friends.
STOTEN WILLMOTT (Jim), laborer or
butcher, aged about 40, wrote from Wee
Wee Reefs, Victoria, in 1888, came home to
Avoca 1889. Any information to E. F. G.
JOLLEY, Solicitor, Maryborough, Victoria.
RICH ARDSON —Marmaduke Richardson,
killed Mine California Gully, Bendigo,
Victoria, about 1873. His widow or children, or
any person knowing their whereabouts, communi-
cate- at once with
EDWARD C. RIGBY & FIELDING,
Solicitors,
60 Market Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. O. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING at 7.45 sharp.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
(Including' MISS CARRIE MOORE, MR. ANDREW
HIGGINSON, VICTOR GOURIET, REGINALD
ROBERTS, W. S. PERCY, CLAUDE BANTOCK,
D. B. O’CONNOR, IVY SCOTT, FLORENCE YOUNG
and others), in Lehar’s World Famous Work,
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Theatre royal, Sydney,
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 3,
Australia’s Favorite Dramatic Star, MISS TITTELL
BRUNE, will inaugurate a brief season in
DOROTHY VERNON.
SUPPORTED BY MR. THOMAS KINGSTON,
MRS. ROBERT BROUGH,
and a Great Combination of Established Favorites.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell and Gunn’s Season.
THE BRILLIANTLY SUCCESSFUL
MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE BELLE OF MAYEAIB.
Music by LESLIE STUART, composer of “Florodora.’
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices as Usual.
HE LYCEU M HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES —2s. 6d., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
PA LACE THEA T R E, SYDNEY.
Direction of Edwin Geach.
POSITIVE FAREWELL NIGHTS OF
FRANK THORNTON, supported by his NEW
LONDON COMPANY, as
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
Prices 55., 35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s*
Albert Clark, Manager. >
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manasrer —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
BURT SHEPARD, Raconteur, Pianist and Entertainer.
THE BARNARD FAMILY, introducing a New and
Delightful Specialtv, DOLLS ALIVE.
12 ABDULLAH’S MOORISH ARABS. 12
THE MEY MOTTS, Comedv Sketch Artists.
HARRY ROCHFORT and'HARRY HART.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES —35., 2s. 6d., Is. 6d., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manasrer, Mr. Harry Rickards.
MILES STAVORDALE QUINTET, Musical Entertainers.
MIGNONETTE KOKIN, Comedienne Dancer.
OSBORN AND BROOKS, Musical Comedy Artists.
GALETTI’S PERFORMING DOGS & BABOONS.
TOD LOWAN, Quaint Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. &3T PRICES —3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
Theatre royal, Melbourne
(Kindly granted Free bj r J. Wren, Esq.).
MBS. ERIiEMAN NOTTS’
MATINEE
IN AID OF THE WOMEN’S HOSPITAL,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 3,
AT 2 O’CLOCK.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Also 2s. Tickets for Early Door.
Amphitheatre Door opens at 1.30.
tour.
THE ROYAL WELSH MALE
f I [T/'AT'D Sole Direction of
OxiUlxv. j. & N _ Tait>
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
COMMENCING THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1.
TOWN HALL, ADELAIDE,
OCTOBER 17 to OCTOBER 24, Inclusive.
WALLAROO—MONDAY, OCTOBER 26.
PORT PIRIE—TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27.
PETERSBURG—WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28.
BROKEN HILL—OCTOBER 29, 30, 31.
FULL PARTICULARS LOCALLY.
Touring Manager: A. W. Batiste.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY', OCT. 3, ' FRIDAY, OCT. 2,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE LILY OF KILLARNEY.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 3,
THE NATIONAL OPERA CO. in ’
W T . Vincent Wallace’s Sparkling and Delightful Work,
MARITANA.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Cole’s Book Arcade.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
MISS MARGARET ANGLIN in Shakspeare’s Immortal
Comedy,
THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
THE GAYEST OE THE GAY.
Popular Prices.
Plan at Allan’s.
Amusements.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 3,
HERBERT FLEMMING’S
NEW ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY
in the Great London Success,
THE MORALS OR MARCUS,
A New Play in Four Acts by W. J. LOCKE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Under the Sole Direction of Miss Florence Baines.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 3,
MISS FLORENCE BAINES,
—in—
MISS LANCASHIRE Limited
FOR A SHORT SEASON ONLY.
PRICES—3s, 2s, Is. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES THE S S L, I .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST'S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
MELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
SKATING ON ICE, MORNING, AFTEROON,
and EVENINGS.
SEASON CLOSES ON SATURDAY,
OCTOBER 3.
RINK WILL RE-OPEN ON MAY 1, 1909.
Auction Sale.
Preliminary Advertisement.
TO BE SOLD EARLY IN NOVEMBER.
To Farmers, Graziers, Agriculturists,
Indian Horse Buyers and Others.
FIFTH SUBDIVISIONAL SALE
Of 10,000 Acres,
Portion of Diggers" Rest
and Rockbank Estate,
Near MELBOURNE, and ALMOST ADJOINING THE
DIGGERS’ REST R.S.,
IN FARMS FROM 100 TO 640 ACRES,
including- the
FAMOUS PLUMPTON PADDOCK.
EXCEPTIONALLY GOOD TERMS OF UP TO TEN YEARS,
WS. KEAST and Co. have received instructions from
• Sir Rupert Clarke, Bart., to SELL by PUBLIC
AUCTION,
10,000 acres, portion of the DIGGERS’ REST and
ROCKBANK ESTATE, situated from 16 to 20miles
of Melbourne, in blocks from 100 to 640 ACRES,
included in which is the Famous Plumpton Pad-
dock (which has been specially subdivided, with a
view to closer settlement), and which, for years, has
been looked upon as one of the best fattening- pad-
docks in the district.
A large portion of the land is fit for agriculture, and is
all first-class grazing country.
The situation is one of the best to be found, being so
near the metropolis (to which the railway freights from
the furthest end of tiie property will not amount to more
than 3/- per ton), which is the principal market in Victoria
for all produce, and, in addition to this, buyers can drive
their sheep and cattle to Melbourne in a few hours, or
even cart their hay direct to the hay market.
This portion of the estate is being subdivided by Sir
Rupert Clarke for closer settlement purposes, and each
block of land will be surveyed so as to give a fair propor-
tion for both agriculture and grazing, sufficient land
being surveyed on each lot to enable every farmer who
buys a block to make a good living off his purchase.
Very liberal terms, extending over a period of 10 years,
will be given.
The success of the last subdivisional sale in the Rock-
bank Estate should be sufficient to inspire the confidence
of buyers, and warrant an early inspection, as the whole
of the land is for absolute sale.
Buyers will he met at either the Diggers’ Rest or the
Rockbank R.S., and driven over the property free of
charge by giving two days’ notice to the auctioneer.
Terms —10 per cent, cash, 5 per cent, each year for 6
years, and the balance at the end of 10 years at 4£ per
cent.
Plans in course of preparation.
For further particulars apply W. S. Keast and Co.,
608-10 Collins Street, Melbourne ; and as to title, Messrs.
Whiting and Aitken, 101 Collins Street, Melbourne.
LADIES’ TAILOR CUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for:
JERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/6.
SHIRTS from 4/-
AT POVERTY POINT.
The trio of Cherniavskis, now appearing at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, are a most difficult subject for
fair criticism. In the first place, their Bunthorne cos-
tume excites almost as much prejudice against them as
it creates in their favor. Also it leaves the sceptics
doubtful as to whether they would look older or younger
if they were not so picturesquely “ dolled up.” Garbed
as they are, the writer takes their gges to be about 22,16,
and 12 respectively, but they are declared to be
years younger all round, and, if so, the velvet
knee-breeches, bows, etc., though intended to
heighten the effect of their talent by making it look
very precocious, really disguise it from many people.
Comparative criticism of their performances, indi-
vidual and collective, is naturally guided by the critic’s
estimate of their ages. If Leo Oherniavski, the violinist
of the trio, be a man of 22, one would say that the local
Bertie Zelman was a better player at the same age. If
the pianist, Jan, be 16, he is not a patch on the youthful
Mark Hambourg of yore. Mischel, the nipper who plays
the ’cello, is not a less uncertain quality as regards his
executive ability or genius, though his musical feeling is
undeniably exceptional in a small boy. Little Mischel’s
competent performance of his part in a concerted piece is
the most impressive feature of the show, and Jan’s
sympathetic piano-accompaniment to Mischel’s solo is,
perhaps, the most charming. For the rest, nothing is
certain except that the work of the three youngdrtists is
very clever, and some of the gushful things said about
them in the Melbourne dailies are absurd.
Absorbing item from “Sr.”: The eldest of the Cherni-
avskis (Heaven send that I have come near the spelling !)
yclept Leo is the “ dead spit ” of Nark Hambourg—he of
the Lucifer-like dial and the hair of Cain. A leaning
towards heavy music begets seemingly a countenance and
jaw of ferocity and a shock of head-wheat that would
make the champion fur-restorer ad. of the universe. I
have observed these traits in seven different Dago organ-
grinders of my acquaintance, and you may have noticed
(I haven’t) that the dog which howls at night (he thinks
lie is making music) is hairier than the quiet dog.
“ M.” • In the building of the additions to Melbourne
Town Hall, north side, they have just Covered up a dead
wall which had been seized upon for posters of “ Robbery
Under Arms,” “ Les Cloches de Co|meville,” some of
Margaret Anglin’s pieces, and so fortffi. Will these be
uncovered in the 21st or 22nd century, or when ? During
a recent pulling-down operation a wall was disclosed
which carried playbills of G. V. Brooke, posters of
Tom Stubbs, etc. W. Carrington, on the Evening
Herald, had a brilliant idea. Knowing a copy of the
paper was to be placed in a foundation stone cavity, he
printed in it an Address to Posterity. What posterity
will think of the address when it is dug up again in the
long-protracted future no man knoweth.
Touching the fact, proved to the satisfaction of all good
Shakspearolators, that “ The Taming of the Shrew” had
never been performed in Australia previous to the present
production at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne), claimant Hallo-
well writes to The Bulletin: —“ I am, of course, aware
that Montgomery, Barry Sullivan, G. V. Brooke
and Dewhurst played in Garrick’s emasculated farce,
‘ Katherine and Petruchio,’ but this could not be called a
work of Shakspeare. I well remember Dewhurst, who
was a very indifferent actor from England, playing the
Garrick farce in 1881 at the Theatre Royal, Melbourne,
when a Miss Anstead was the Katherine to his Petruchio.
The night I saw the piece ‘ The Merchant of Venice ’ was
played in conjunction with it. I have been told about
G. V. Brooke’s performance of Petruchio, and should
not imagine that it was anything to be proud of.
Miss Margaret Anglin, seemingly, has the distinction of
introducing to Australia one of Sbakspeare’s comedies.
...In recent years ‘The Taming of the Shrew’ has
become one of the most popular of his plays, and much
money has been made out of it, notably by the late
Augustin Daly’s co., headed by Ada ltehan, and also by
Oscar Asche (native of Sydney) and his wife, Lily Brav-
ton.” Among the people who talk reverently' of the days
when Drama was nothing if not “ legitimate,” and great
aet-ors were Great indeed, it is satisfactory to find at
least one who imagines that G. V. Brooke’s farewell per-
formance in Australia was “nothing to be proud of.”
Which is to say that a respectable old comedy was wildly
burlesqued to suit the taste of the public—s 2 years ago,
when the public in Melbourne was entirely an imported
one. What shocking tricks those old legitimate act-ors
used to play on their legitimate drama 1
“Hamer”: The common-sensible idea of numbering
theatre seats and limiting the issue of tickets to the seats
available has been introduced into Maoriland by the
Christchurch town council, which owns the local barn-
stormers’ home ; and theatrical managements are saying
“Bah!” as though they were annoyed about something.
It is the habit of Private Enterprise, theatrical and other-
wise, to protest against such things ; and yet the scheme
will assist theatrical managements bv being the best
check as yet devised on the door-keepers. Still Christ-
church, of all places in Australasia, is about the last that
cries aloud for such a restriction ; for only' in Carnival
week are the theatres there rushed to any considerable
extent. In fact, Christchurch is such a poor show town
that, numerous first-class shows catch a chill whenever its
name is mentioned.
Clyde Meynell, of the Syndicate, has secured the
Australian rights of “The Hypocrites,” by Henry Arthur
Jones ; also of “Lucky' Durham,” the dramatic swan-song
of Wilson Barrett, deceased. A special co. will journey to
these parts to perform the plays.
Died, the other day, Adam Cowan, the very quiet, very
deaf, and thoroughly' kindly' fellow who acted as treasurer
to Charles Arnold of yore, and has since been associated
with Edwin Geach in matters theatrical. Among the
many stage purfesh’nal people, pressmen and others who
knew Cowan as the most unpretentious man of his busi-
ness in all Australia, the news of his death will be learned
With sincere regret.
In Courtneidge’s revival of “ The Dairymaids,” at the
Queen’s Theatre (London) the much-photographed Phyllis
Dare took the part that Carrie Moore created. Florence
Lloyd was the ’Liza maid-of-all-work, Ambrose Manning
played the character which is Bantocked in the Austra-
lian production, and a son of the original Fred Leslie had
a place in the cast with “junr.” appended to his name.
If the Fred Leslie of the Williamson co. were to go to
London he would probably change his stage name, seeing
that the other young fellow acquired a sort of English
copyright in it when his father died.
“ Blue. Peter ” : I fail to discern the strong points of
resemblance which “ S.S.” notes (B. 10/9/’08) between the
voice and methods of Margaret Anglin and those of
Nance O’Neil. One of Margaret Anglin’s chief charms is
her freedom from “ rant.” She employs her voice so
skilfully that it never gets throaty, even in her heaviest
scenes. Nance O’Neil knew nothing of voice production.
As a result, her fine organ was, at the end of the evening,
hoarse and frayed and broken. Her first Sydney season
ended with “ Macbeth,” and she made her farewell
speech in a husky whisper. No ; even if “ S.S.” can find
a resemblance between the highly polished art of Margaret
and the baby-mastodon methods of Nance, I decline to
accept the idea that he or anyone can seriously class the
voices of the two players together.
“Hiphen”: “The Thief” has three distinctive points
about it (one in each act) which alone would raise it
above the ordinary run of problem plays. In the first act
the curtain rises and discloses the whole of the cast on
the stage together. The entire second act is worried out
by the two principals alone. The point of distinction
about the last act (a point which almost redeems its weak-
ness) is that it ends neither happily nor unhappily, but
just in the ordinary, durned, commonplace old way that
life, off the stage, has of settling its difficulties. Margaret
Anglin is undoubtedly all that is claimed for her, but
Kolker, once one gets past his American accent and his
atrocious American clothes, runs her close.
“Melb.”: Titheradge had a great reception when he
appeared in the dress-circle on Saturday night, for the
premiere of “Taming the Shrew.” Miss Anglin and
Kolker were not even more warmly received on the stage.
The meaning palpably was that Titheradge ought to have
acted Petruchio. He might be pardoned for thinking so
himself. Yet, after seeing Kolker, Titheradge must feel
that he was rightly passed over. Kolker, in this parti-
cular thing, stands where Titheradge would have done 20
years ago. Petruchio must be young or he will not be
convincing. A reminder that the famous Boy-Girl
acted Katherine with amateurs, at the Melbourne
Bijou theatre, in the last generation. People were
talking about it in the theatre on Saturday night.
The so-called Boy-Girl was a daughter of Mrs. Johnson,
widow of a rich squatter, living in the principal Toorak
house, that built by Jackson, the ironmonger, in 1849,
and afterwards inhabited by the Victorian Governors,
Charles Hotham and Manners-Sutton. When the Gover-
nor was removed to the Domain, Johnson bought Toorak.
Miss Johnson was the only woman who dared to appear
on the Collins-street Block with hair cropped short. At
the height of her Boy-Girl vogue, she acted Kather-
ine in “ Taming the Shrew.” The Petruchio was Arthur
Coppin—no relation, I believe, of the Honorable George.
Reverting to Saturday’s “Taming the Shrew.” Amaz-
ingly did Kolker come out of his shell. Maybe he was
stung by the idea that the public wanted Titheradge. A
better Petruchio than Kolker cannot walk. Yet, even if
he was perfect in this rough-hewm chunk of art, he could
not be equal to Mag’s Katherine. I went home deeply
edified after sermon.
“Hiphen”: In a popular Melbourne seaside suburb is
a band of Pierrots. “ English Pierrots ” they bill them-
selves, so one is assured of a refined entertainment. In
the troop are two rival (alleged) comedians. They are
both fat and sing comic songs (strictly proper). Their
comic songs are not funny nor are their funny stories
comic. But their attitude cowards each other’s humorous
efforts is amusing. While corpulent comedian
No. 1 is singing, adipose artist No. 2 sits
with a resigned, long suffering look on his fea-
tures. As No. 1 bows beamingly at the scanty
applause meted out by a tired audience, and takes an
unjustified encore, No. 2 writhes in undisguised agony.
When the singer, mistaking a dog scratching itself for
encouragement, gives a trencore (they give trencores and
even quancores on the slightest provocation) the second
humorist snorts disgustedly into his white ruffle and
rushes off the platform into the baize-screened hut,
where he (presumably) stuffs his ears with cottonwool.
When No. 2 comes on to give his item with the double
recall, No. 1 suffers the same mute agony. As a study in
competition it is entertaining, but as an entertainment
it is out of place and unnecessary.
“ Hiphen ” : Saw Tommy Burns with a family party in
a box at “ The Red Mill ” t’other night. He never smiled
once. He applauded once or twice, feebly arid with
visible effort. He allowed his right paw (that dirty right)
to fall wearily on to his left (that none-too-clean left), but
his rock-like jaw never relaxed: except to yawn. It made
me wonder what was the matter with' him, anyhow.
Hang it all, if I’d won twm championship fights within a
fortnight and snared a few thousand pounds for my
trouble, I’d laugh at anything. I’d lean right out of the
box, so’s everybody could see me, and I’d pass remarks
about everything. I’d applaud loudly and annoy my-
neighbors ; and then I’d turn round and ask them What
they were going to do about it. What’s the good of being
able to belt out an unlimited quantity of your fellow man
if you don’t let him see that you know you can ?
“ J.D.” : He of the Red Page speaks this untrue thing
(17/9/’08) : “ In the modern French novel and play hus-
bands don’t count.” The italics are mine, and are
designed to spill discredit on the Red Pageant’s item in
the place where it most needs discredit. The fact is,
there has been a complete change in the form of the
modern French play during the last few' years. The said
play is just as naughty as it was; there are the same
stock of bedroom episodes and the same innocent
remarks at whose delicate suggestiveness the house
rocks. But the lover is no longer the hero, as
of yore. Far from it. The modern hero is the
husband ! I saw numberless plays at the Palais Royal,
the Nouveaute’s and the Grand Guignol w'hen I was in
Paris three years ago. In all of them the lover was a
ridiculous ass with an eyeglass. The heroine despised
him, and only allowed him to dangle abjectly in her
wake because her husband had annoyed her, or because
there was some misunderstanding—well capable of up-
clearance in the third act. In every case the lover w’as
placed, a few minutes before the final curtain, in a plight
so humiliating, not to say degrading, that one’s heart bled
for him the while one reached under the seat for one’s
coat as a preliminary to bolting for the exit. And the
husband ! What words can do justice to the modern
French stage husband ! He is as glorious and as pictur-
esque as the striped tail-coat and check trouserings he
mostly wears with a diminutive straw hat and patent
brown-topped boots. As a maker of torrid love to his
beautiful and (despite appearances) pure young wife, as
an astute exposer of the tricks of her miserable and futile
follower, as a kindly host and as a dashed good sort all
round, we have simply nothing on the English-speaking
stage in his class. No ; the day of the negligible husband
has departed from the French stage—if not for good, at
any rate for the present. That erstwhile contemned and
jumped-upon person attracts more calcium light just
now than the latest vaudeville star to w'hom the King of
the Belgians has given a pearl necklace.
THAT DARNED OLD BALCONY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Palace of the Capulets, at Verona, Italy, the scene
of portion of the play of Romeo and Juliet, has been com-
pletely' destroyed by fire. — Cablegram.
Romeo and Juliet—
Lights are down and cheeks are wet;
Same old moonshine- —same old speeches,
Same old sighs and same old screeches.
Ladies with a heart “ To Let ”
Always weep at Juliet.
Romeo and Juliet
Say the things we can't forget;
Talk of love for hours and hours,
Potions, friars, tombs and flowers.
Man in stalls is filled with woe
When he looks at Romeo.
Romeo and Juliet—
Actors fume and actors fret,
Squirm and fall till you are dizzy
(Undertaker very busy).
Oh, she was a sport, you bet!
Injudicious Juliet.
Romeo and Juliet,
Pity that they ever met !
Would have saved a lot of worry
For the folk who have to hurry
For the trains that homeward go
When the tomb has Romeo.
Romeo and Jsliet—
Where that gushful scene was set,
And they made such awful hashes
Of their lives, is dust and ashes;
But I never shall regret
Balcony of Juliet.
N.S.W.
FOE.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
M KMiO'UtNK A of. nts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adki.aidk & Fbkmanti.b Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The (oionial (Tjutual Cite
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111.527 —Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wares :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hot. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The lion. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 188 S.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Cor.ier George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Quef.nsdand.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Dew Z ea ' an, l
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up ' £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
The Commercial Banking Co.
ot Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,240,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,250,000 0 0
£3,740,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. COIIF.N, Esq Chairmdn;
Hon. H. E. Rater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. E. W. Knox, Esq.
A. ,1. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Auditors : F. W. Hixson, Esq. ; W. L. Docker, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dihbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector :
H. H. Massik.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: VV. R. Sayers.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
H. H. Massik, W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H. Si Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New Soutli Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies.throughout the world.,
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS,
WE
($»
&
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
UNT-S. W .
(flout Co.,ttd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLiiKIiAerH; S t., 74, SYDNEY
ANO AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and G-uarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright &Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq.:
S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
©eneral Manager for Australia ; JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A,
Write lot I'roupcctiub. 151 Pitt St., SYDNEY,
Shipping.
nxr. id. L.
(NORD-I)EUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar. London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, YAP, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
MANILA .. 20t,h OCT.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 17th NOV.
PRINZ SICISMUND 15th DEC.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO.. 7 Bridge-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland
JjJBIITKIh ■
Capital Paid-op .. . .. .. £485.003 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve EnNnGnvested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE,
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. 11. Matthews
London office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Ai/entsand Correspondents
Throuahovt the. World.
POLICY for thk COMMONWEALTH.
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
WHITE STAR LINE.
h
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail on
October 2.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
October 26.
AFRIC, SUEVIO and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Lay of Sailing.
DaUjetn oik/ Compani/. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
♦Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
I HOLIDAY
TO
N, QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
•••
CRUISES. C
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., W Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
Bank of ||eui South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. ..£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. .. 1,560,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,500,000 0 0
£6,560,000 0
Directors :
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnib, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Norm and MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald Jambs Black, M.L.C.
Sir Jambs Reading Fairfax, Kt.
.... \ Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
Auditors . -J \y ILIjIAM Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The Bunk of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. ..£1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,550,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,750,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
UNITED
THE
i INSURANCE
I CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marina Risks..
Rate* Very Low.
effected oil all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured,
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc,
XUQMAS M.TINLKV, Ma»as«.
EORGE HOTEL
" St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St.* London* W*
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality. ■
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon rrield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
-L the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City,
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
-j~ H E TRUSTEES. EXECUTORY
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP ... £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(investedin Debentures .
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey,Esq.,Chairman:K.MUrray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORKOWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Uauilogues ami Price List before buildinjr
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Oastlereagb Street, Sydney.
j. J. STKBiiK, Sole Airent.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Gran tala, Saturday,
October 10.
For Caulfield Cup.
S.S. Riverina, Saturday,
October 24.
For Melbourne Cup.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Claims.
S.S. Yongala, Oct. 3.
S.S. Wollowra, Oct. 10.
Kent and Cheapest Houle to (told I eld*.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSAGEFIIES jyjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October 3.
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October 10.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
KANOWNA, 12 noon, SATUR
DAY, October 31.
BRISBANE A
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, October 3.
BUNINYONG, 5 p.m., TUES-
DAY, October 6.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October 10.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Foil particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE
the: best route to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F. H. A.
Federal-Houider-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Sukz Canal
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE.
Ll 900 Tons. B. Coull, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
jassengers. , .
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - October 20th,
SYDNEY - October 31« t,
~ MELBOURNE - November 7th,
” ” ;> ADELAIDE - November 12th.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
3abins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class. ,
LONDON and I £49 10s £l3 139. £l6 15s. 3017 17s.
LIVERPOOL.. \ „ n ■
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra* (
To be followed every four weeks by other fast twin-
screw passenger steamers. For further information, Illus*
trated pamphlets, etc., apply to—-
BIRT & CO.. Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ,
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne j
ELDER, SMITH * 00,, Ltd., Adelaide.


“ THE IDEAL WAY TO
SEE EUROPE.”
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to sceneny
and places of interest to suit his clients. Also First-Class
Touring-Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
NORTH COAST LANDS.
4500 ACRES. 4500 ACRES.
Subdivided into 28 Farms from (50 to 500 acres.
SPRINGROVE ESTATE
Pick of the famous Casino-Lisniore Districts (Richmond
River) —the Greatest Butter-producing- area in the Com-
monwealth. Each block available for immediate dairying,
3 miles from deep water, and close to rail.
Paspalum well established throughout.
Rich Volcanic Soil.
Magnificent water supply. Ten years terms.
FOR AUCTION SALE AT THE MASONIC HALL, CASINO,
ON
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 17* at 11a.m.
Pull particulars other issues. Lithographs and all infor-
mation from
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE
AGENCY CO., Ltd., Sydney and
all Branches.
O. H. ANDERSON, Casino
J. B. McDOUGALL, Casino
HINDMARSH & JOHNSTON, Lismore
All
Auctioneers
in
Conjunction.
MOLLER’S
COD LIVER OIL
For Colds, Chest and Lung
Diseases, the safest remedy.
NO DISAGREEABLE AFTER EFFECTS
so often experienced when using'
ordinary oils and emulsions.
Expert Opi ions :
Indian Medical Gazette :
“ Superior to any we have seen.’’
Medical Review : “It is qui e
unexcelled.”
Sold in capsuled bottles only.
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, High Holborn, Londrn.
Factories; Lofoten & Ctristiania, Norway.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
_l_ Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
LYONS,
256 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
LYONS
HAS
REMOVED
to larger
premises at 256
Bourke St.,where his
fine stock of Musical
Instrumnnts can be
shown to advantage.
A Welcome awaits old and
new Customers.
yv,
YOUR NEED
met in these Splendid VIOLIN OUTFITS.
ALL the VIOLINS, even in the very
Cheapest Set, are HAND-MADE, and of
Superior Quality. Good Case, Bow,
Extra Set of Strings, Bridge and
Instruction Book, FREE, with every
Set.
PRICES:
Student’s Set 21/-
Scholar’s Set 42/-
Conservatorium Set 63/
University Set £5 ss.
The Ideal Set £8 Bs.
Send your address
for Best Musical
Instrument Catalog
in Melbourne.
Musical instruments Carefully Packed and Forwarded to any address.
THE MEZON
ACCORDION.
The name is sufficient
guarantee that you are
getting the WORLD’S
BEST.
PRICES:
Organ Mezon 35/-
Wonder Mezon 427-
Grand Organ
Mezon 63/-
Chromatic Mezon, 90/-
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bu.lleti.xi ” Office
It’s Hard to over-estimate
the Advantages
ĥ
of a Medical Battery in the house. For Rheumatism
right through to Toothache, Nature’s own healer—elec-
tricity—is supplied in the best possible manner by the
JERDAN HOME BATTERY
with Dry Cells. The apparatus requires no previous
knowledge to use it. It costs nothing to operate—
only an occasional renewing of cells, which are very
cheap. It can be regulated for the age or health of
any person—has nothing to get out of order—and.
being practical electricians, we test and guarantee
each battery that we send out to purchasers.
PRICE 35/- post free.
Our Battery Booklet is FREE on request.
JORDAN’S
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET, koyIIToV SYDNEY.
(formerly Osborn &, Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes.
Of all Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY 1 .
GOUT. RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blairs
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fait.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i£ & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
Pills
ħ
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers: E. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
A Half-Page of Beautiful Thing's from which
to Choose
How do you liKe the New Style of NecKlet
Set with the Fashionable Ttircftioise Matrix?
Very effective when worn, we can assure you;
and the Style and Color suits the majority of
people. We have a variety of designs after
the style of the one we picture here.
(AUSTRALIA). Ltd
h
Then we have the Malachite Necklets—rather
a pretty stone in shades of green. They come
out at the following prices—Bos. and 90s. If
you want to wear the very newest you can
order one of these with safety.
ft
w
Rk
C 2 Gold and Real Pearl Set Necklet, in case, £4/70/-
Fine Opal and Diamond
Marquise Ring, 3Set. Gold, £ l7llO/ •
Cl. —Fine Pearl Sel
t 15ct. Gold Necklet, in case, £4/15 /-
No. H 1549. —Real Pearl
Set, Amethyst and Gold
Pendant, £ 2/10/ -
, o. G 9396. —loot. Gold and Fine Pearl
Sec Brooch, £lll7/6.
No. F729B—Pearl Set Gold Spray Brooch,
211- • with Pearls and Olivines, in 15ct.
’ Gold, £2.
No. H772?—lSct. Gold, Pearl and Exquisite Enamel
Pendant, with Gold and Pearl Necklet, in Morocco
Case, £B/10/-
No. G50G9.-
Sapphire,
Pearl and
16ct. Gold,
Pin, 25/-
The Latest Style of Necklet. Real Turquoise Matrix and Pearls, mounted
in Gold, J65/5/-.
Other styles, somewhat similar, for 70/», 80/« and SO/».
No. H7729.—Pearl and Tur-
quoise Tortoise Brooch in loot.
Gold, £-115/-
Slfa
No. H772B—Whole Pearl
Acorn Brooch, in lSct.
Gold, 35/-
Fine Gold—Whole Pearl—Diamond
and R. Ruby Brooch and Pendant,
in case, £3O.
9ct. Gold Tie
or Safety
Pins.
lin., 3/6
ljin., 4/6
1 Jin.-, 5/6
2in., 8/6
No. H7726— Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Necklet and
Pendant, in Morocco Case, £9/10/-


Concerning the recently-discussed Auckland
(M.L.) tramway muddle, it is interesting to note
that the tramway systems in Maoriland are an
object lesson to all students of municipal owner-
ship. Wellington, Christchurch, and Dunedin
have kept their own electric car services ; Auck-
land has handed its rights to a private co. Com-
pare Auckland’s service and privileges with those
of Christchurch, and you have both sides of the
case. The former is at the mercy of a co. that
built rickety lines in a hurry, on which lines it runs
second-hand, imported Yankee cars thickly be-
spattered with pill advertisements. The cars
bump and rock like boats in a choppy sea,
and are so narrow that the conductor wipes
his boots on your wife’s Sunday dress
when he struggles through to get the
fares. Extra cars during the rush parts of the
day are unheard of (the co. would faint at the
mere suggestion). Regular travellers get no con-
cessions, the sections are noted for their brevity,
strikes are always on deck, and grumbling and
bad language are eternal. Christchurch, on the
other hand, has 40 miles of beautiful track, laid
with 901 b. steel rails, and the whole business is
controlled by a Board elected by the ratepayers,
who are the owners. The only advertising per-
mitted is on the backs of the tickets, the cars are
among the finest in the world, and most of
them were designed and made in Christchurch
from Maoriland woods by Maoriland workmen.
They are roomy and comfortable, extra cars are
always on the spot to handle a rush of traffic, the
penny sections are the longest in the State, and the
regular rider is liberally treated as regards con-
cession tickets. There you have the two sides—
good old Private Enterprise after dividends, and
Socialism out to serve the public, with Socialism
winning every time.
WINCHESTER
M
¥
tik^i
:
f-L
ij*
ilk tj fmm £
: i;
/'W^i
M
m
“REPEATER”
Smokeless Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Repeater” cases are
carefully and accurately
made and loaded with
high grade powder, shot
and wadding by exact
machinery. That’s why
they shoot so strong and
so uniformly and make
such even patterns.
Price considered no shot
gun cartridges on the
market equal them.
Try Them. Sold by All Dealers.
PATERNOSTER’S
■I PILLS ■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
h
ĥ
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Free, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 , G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
milE LONE HAND is the logical complement
| of The P>UU,ktin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Mantifa.ctti.rers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
The SPRING is approaching, and with it comes the SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Med low Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do It well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
) 29 Katoomba.
i Full Details at CITY OFFICE,
38 Castlereagh Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
OR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
CHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHCEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP. AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing: Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
ħ
WHAT IS CATARRH?
iCATARRH'is inflammation of the lining- membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs : it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi., Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet,.or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
P5J5'"
\Wo Mother sYvouVi 'N'vWxo'oJc Vt
\
, a /yg> .Vatf\yV\eX -
sewt ow request.
e A progress/ ye d/etary adapted to c/?e prorntp d/pest/Vepowers
ftfiSk Pood N?l
from A/rf/ /<? 3months
Milk Food m 2
from 3 do 6 mood/rs
Malted Food N^3
from 6 muuMs upwards.
h
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
'V
\\ x
ĥ
WHY don’t you stop it? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
you.-You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity ! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. Yon DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
.apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health-even life-is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC RELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
1,1 i a. Q A yti nr if r FI->o rlr\r*fr»r»’a Via.
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor s battery is crude-shocks too much, and at beat can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor s office.never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to-date method. No shock, no burning or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£.500
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit £5OO to anyone proving
+.Tip rnntrarv.
. ib a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
ambago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
GALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
with your name and full postal address clearly written
we will send you post
paid a copy of our new
100-page illustrated
FREE BOOK
which every
man should
read.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
OFF3CE HOURS : 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
JOSEPH F, CORCORAN
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name
Address


Reuter item (16/9/’08) :
The interruption of thousands of unemployed stopped
the service in Manchester Cathedral yesterday.
Presumably they wanted to sing a hosanna or two
in praise of Freetrade.
“Leslie 8.,” from Johannesburg :
Things politically are moving here in South Africa at
express speed. We are going to have closer union, and
that right soon. And when it comes it will not be any
mongrel, half-breed, quarrel-fermenting federation, but
the unification of the four self-governing colonies of South
Africa. We are dead off having any such encumbrances
as State legislatures and State governors. We do not
propose to allow into our elysium an3' States Frights
politicians. We distinctly bar any Bents or Wades in our
coming scheme of things. We are content to leave that
sort of people to Australia. A preliminary' conference
has already been held, and a further conference is to be
held at Durban (Natal) in October for the purpose of
drafting a Constitution. This, when drafted, will be sub-
mitted by the members to their constituencies, and dis-
cussed by them. After that, I suppose, a referendum will
be taken. We are all very hopeful that the scheme will
go through, as it is enthusiastically supported by all lead-
inffSouth Africans. YVe are not free from the pest of
shilly-shallying politicians, but we have not been visited
Ti,.u- ny “ y ? s ’ no ” P ersons of the George Reid stamp.
All things being considered, we are getting a move on in
conservative Afrikanderland.
“ Regulation 450 ” writes :—-
In our service (Ma’s service) every clerical Johnny at 21
years of age is entitled to a salary of £lOO a year, pro-
vided he can pass one of Daddy Irvine’s examinations.
But in the general division there is no minimum. In the
Federal service the minimum wage of £llO is paid to
every member when he reaches the age of 21 years. A
move is on to get Wade to raise the general division
to the Spate’s minimum of £lOO. Wade has refused,
on the ground that it will cost money, and that as the
Australian Parliament has curtailed the returns under
the Surplus Revenue Act, the State cannot afford it.
JNow, the demand is a very old one, and Wade professed
himself just as unable to afford the money before there
''’ as any Surplus Revenue Act. Wade npwadays drags
the Australian Parliament into his explanations till the old
gag becomes a weariness.
•aidiDUUfj lenjnii,’ gqj uo aoutunssy s>//7 joj -om aaHsnavisa
‘Xpfaog uujpjjjsny
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freeh o| d and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
or Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repavin''
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors— The Hon A. W Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairnian : Beniamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. .M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. ,T. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. :
ax \. Esq ' General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
h
EDUCATION
ĥ
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training* within your reach. Distance No Obstacle . We teach j r ou at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANV ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, ts. Packet of TEN. lOd
PLASMON
INCREASES THE FOOD
VALUE ENORMOUSLY”
lancet. ~T
tJ&L
JO TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA
DELICIOUS
■DIGESTIBLE
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
ftI EYE„
°ihtmeht
CURES
HE ARNE'S BR %r
Tire Famous Remedy for
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA
Cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —From a strict sense
of duty I feel that I should publish the following state-
ment, so that others may know what to do when the
awful fact is evident that a life is in danger of being
lost:—ln September, 1906, my little girl, aged at that
time 3 years, contracted Measles, and in the following
-October was attacked by Bronchitis, Pneumonia and
Congestion of the Lungs. She was attended by a
legally qualified doctor of high standing, but his treat-
ment was not successful in arresting the progress of the
illness. pn Saturday, the 21st October, 1906, he said
that her life was in danger—that there was very little
hope for her. For eight days and nights she had been
prostrated by Cough, Pain and Fever, and was lying
like a statue, unconscious. At this stage I was per-
suaded by a friend to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure,
with its auxiliary medicine for the Fever and Conges-
tion of' the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue of
Medicines which accompanies each bottle of the Bron-
chitis Cure. I gave the medicine as directed, and there
was an improvement from the first dose -of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure. The improvement continued after
cdch dose of the medicine. In a week she was perfectly
free from the Pneumonia, Congestion, Cough, Pain and
Fever, and was well, except that she was.still weak. . In
a fortnight she was quite recovered;' and is now in
splendid health, and stronger than ever. Any person
asking for, information about this grand medicine can
be supplied by me, or by any of my neighbours who have
witnessed its wonderful effects. It absolutely snatched
my child from an early grave.—Yours gratefully,
_ ... D. GARDINER,
Police Station, Geelong East, Feb. 5, 1908.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age.
Thoroughly Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief-Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l was very ill with Influenza
.and Bronchitis. A friend of mine, persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me imme-
diate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am
thoroughly cured. Its .effect on me has been most
wonderful. am 73 years of age. - I trust you will
make use of this statement by publishing it for the bene-
fit of humanity generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS: R. TREZISE,
..... ~ . Reedy Creek, Victoria.
PNEUMONIA and PLEURISY
cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
I, Prudence M'Kee, of Carr-street, South Geelong, in
view of the importance of a person making it quite clear
what treatment was successful in curing a serious and
complicated case when the medicine, directions and treat-
ment of a legally qualified doctor had failed, state as
follows:
My son, Henry M'Kee, then aged 8 years, had been
attended by a legally qualified doctor, who pronounced
him to be suffering from Pneumonia, Pleurisy and a
stoppage of the passing of Urine. Under the doctor’s
treatment the child gradually got worse, and the doctor
pronounced the case hopeless. He told me that the
child could not live. At this stage I obtained from
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Chemist, of Geelong, a bottle of
Hearne s Bronchitis Cure, and gave it to the child, ac-
cording to the directions which accompany each bottle
of it. , The child improved after the second dose of
*^ e ?. rl i e s bronchitis Cure. He continued to improve
each day from each dose of Hearne’s Medicine alone, and
within three days he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy, and the Urine was passing satis-
factorily. He was out of bed’ at the end of a week,
completely recovered, and he is now in perfect health.
PRUDENCE M'KEE,
Carr-street, South Geelong, Feb. 6, 1908.
CONSUMPTION.
Too 111 to Leave His Bed.
A Complete Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonder-
ful cure your medicine has effected in my case. About
three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough
was not severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became
very Weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my
chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several oc-
casions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I
had'been treated by a doctor who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill
to leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at Once, and
gradually improved. lam glad to say that the two
lots of_ medicine you sent have effected a complete cure,
for which accept my very best thanks.—-Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
BRONCHITIS and PLEURISY.
A Severe Case Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
After Other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered
from a severe attack of influenza, arid was confined to
my room for about a week, at the end of which time
feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact
my business as usual. But I got up too soon, for the
very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from
what the doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis.
The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders
was frightful, and for four long weeks I was confined to
m y i, un<^er . the care of a well-known Sydney doctor,
and all the time his medicine gave me but temporary
relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), wherd
X resided, told me of a medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis
,om Victoria, which had cured her of a bad at-
tack of bronchitis and pains in the chest, and begged
of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude
t° y° u > tell you that, after the second bottle, my cough
had ceasedbut what is more astonishing, the pains fro'm
pleurisy entirely left me, and in about a week I was able
to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully,
~ ~ __ , „ J. BRAHAM.
Melbourne “Punch” Office, Melbourne.
ASTHMA—A 17 YEARS CASE.
Previous Treatment Failed.
Cured by Three Bottles,
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville
Queensland, wrote“ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine I quite got rid of the asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it.
The medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure
m recommending it.”
Speaking in February, 1908, he states:—“l am keeping
very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
“ Hearne’s Medicine cured me of Asthma, from which
1 had been suffering for twenty-five years, during which
time I had used almost every patent medicine on the
market -including asthma inhalations—without getting a
cure. It 8 _ years ago that the cure was effected
by Hearne s Medicine, and I now feel stronger than I
have felt for years—in fact. I feel splendid.”
C. WISEMAN,
Meredith, Victoria.
Imitations ! The great success of HEARNERS Bronchitis Cure has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving
the unsuspecting, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you
in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S, and see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 26; Large Size, 46, Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTlCE— Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1a does NOT contain any Morphia or any Opium whatever. It is equally beneficial
for the youngest child and the most aged person.
\1
A
o
m
*
n
ħ
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Bengers rood.
To start the stomach after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger ? s Food.
. , . {Bengar’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c„ everywhere.


Haymarket; Sydney, N.5.W.
Ghe LEADING
HOUSE
FOR.
h
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
"WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
ĥ
"the MAINE
Pi He - -
SheuJin_g Pifl?,AP ar ;_
ANT
B
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
and rifled y with P the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 3)0
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain V back sight 12/6
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards 15-
Postage on.one Rifle-ls 3d, N.S.W.; 2s 2d, Inter-State.
ħ
99
n- •
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,' illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book. Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The BullePin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. ’ Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. .Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British 4d Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Ja'ms and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
H
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr, E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a.superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced,
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6a.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’S Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Wayracks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Yeats.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROfl THIS ADVT,
Write for my ......
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Odd Busii Sonus, Is 3d oost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoli/s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassb’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
3
BEST
FLAT
SHAPE
:gbd
SA[J
The is THE Pipe
that does not cracK or burn.
ALL TOBACCONISTS
KELP IT
Wholes die Depot
for Australasia,
23! Clarence S'. Sydney.
, TT „ I>TTT , IfT TN POST CARDS.—New
r 1 I V V VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
■ , lOd." Posted free to any address.
gsaiir-Vr* l " BraLlTm
214 George Street, Sydney.
h
F reel
2-ft High
R LIFE-SIZE OOLL, ETQET I I
©R R BOY’S RIFLE r nLL - -
The Life=sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-Dainted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks,brown eye , and represented with flesh-coloure body, red stock-
ings, biack shoes, and will standalone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highlv
finished, a.l work, ng parts are of. best material rapid in lts action, and
ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver Wfl ICH
CHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets ot our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
. we will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
' return the money b/>, ano we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those wn
wilt help us to introduce*them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our I>rerun m List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre
sents-a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by rej”rn.
Windsor Wright &Co„ Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st, Sydney, fl-S.W.
ĥ
Boy’s Rifle
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
ami bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
ħ
tMikotecra Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established,safe, reliable, and
handy to use.
• Insist on having NIK OTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
‘ists, storekeepers, and by E. J>. MOItRISON,
Proprietor, 39 Hunter-street, &ydney.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by poet ,
Is. 4d. I stamps) to make 3 gallons spray.
ASTH MA CURE
GRIMM'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
m
■**
British’Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London. . ... - ...
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunslmmv
in magazine form. It s the finest shilling -»
worth the Australian can buy for home consump
tion, or for sending abroad to answer-detractor
of our great Commonwealth. --
-I, A.'i., -A.tr, -Ortr-ir • ¥•-, » «-w ~ 4T


NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE
California Syrup of Figs restores strength to
the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
stimulates the action of the Liver and Kidneys
when the inactivity of those organs indicates a
constipated condition. The valuable tonic action
of California Syrup of Figs gradually over-
comes the tendency to Habitual Constipation.
UjllmttHH
ilMi
ilullllliM
m
iIiMIBI
%
HTTTTTTtTWj
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative, pleasant to
the taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in results.
The most agreeable family remedy for con-
stipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion,
depression, feverishness, loss of appetite,
headache, and all kindred complaints;
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and
good spirits. Of Chemists, in two sizes.
AGREEABLE, MILD AND SURE 1
0
e
Ho $OOl . No sm©King
U<?ht once
Well tried!
rmnnwTTTTi
u
INVERTED
%tr£l>^ r P'
Sun Indoor SOf-
Suas€f Wincfproof—6s/-
3alma-%SoZr — 65/-
122 Candle Power.
/M«w TWencenf
l\eroj ene Incandescent
h
w
of Australasia
441 Kent Street, Sydney. Perry Bros. Brisbane-
-230 Flinders Lane .Melbourne.
Burner, comp/ere
76CP 7/6e<?ch.
Lamp comp/ete
centre draught
PRIZE |
.MEDAIAJ
i
fjfilflT 13 YOUR “Cue”
When ordering Billiard
„ requisites or
Athletic goods
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
For over fifty years the name“Aleock”
has been closely associated with Sporting
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
Melbourne, Sydney, Perth.
Wellington .n.Z&lpndon .
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sever*
Prize Medals,
Works r Birmingham, England
ĥ
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Fiona Sunfish.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The magnificent sunfish brought into Sydney Harbor on
Friday on one of the blades of the propeller of the steamer
Fiona' is probably the record world’s catch for this variety
of slow-moving sea monster. ItislOft. long, 6ft. wide, and
2ft. thick ; the eyes are 3jiu. in diameter, mouth Bin.
wide, dorsal fin 4ft. high and 2ft. 6in. across, anal fin
3ft. 6in. long, and tail 22£in. long. The weight is esti-
mated at about two tons.*— Daily paper-
I LEANT upon the sunfish pensively,
His eye (four inches round) was fixed and
glazed.
s About us was the odor of the sea—
i The sad and salty odor of the sea
That has been ever praised
... j ■ v-
l Lv many bards, who twanged with tarry thumbs
\ And strove to make the epic of the sea,
With “Yo-heave-hos” and shouts of “Round
she comes”
And talk of “Peg” and never-ending rums
■ i And strange cryptology.
I leant upon the sunfish mournfully,
And gazed into his mighty eye; it stared
As if it saw the bottom of the sea—
The swaying weed amid the density—
X • And for no poet cared.
The odor of the Deep majestic grew.
; Immersed was,l,in thought, when suddenly
The sun went out and --could it be we two
Were walking side by side down in the blue
tUg Depths of the outer sea !
,My arm was’neiith his fin. We strolled ’ and
p. strolled ’ r
By weedy forests and dim plains of sand,
< And, as we went, his story sad he told,
In a gruff voice that somewhere in him rolled
■ Like a strong German band.
“ Oh, I am old y’ he said. “ I know all things !
The- Chief Spa Serpent and the Elder Shark
, Are ancient friends. To me the Serpent sings
Mermaidens’ songs by the green ocean springs
Down where the Dog-fish bark !
Here in the depths you find the perfect peace—
Tlie soundless calm you never get on top—
W here the good. Cod-fish whom you kill for grease
Ploughs the sand-fields he farms on a long lease
A’pd grows the weedy crop.
Sometimes Whale patriarchs, crusted with
shells,
Swim in with stories of some surface gale
Or brand-new wreck. But what an old whale
tells
Is rarely pumped from out the sacred wells
Of Truth. There was that tale
“Of Jonah. I have often heard that told
By whales \ybo mhst themselves ' have been
deceived, , —.
Sm'ce they all seemed and. proffered gold
As proof of \list they said. The jest is old—
“It is unwise to listen to a whale.
Whales are the politicians of the sea.
They spout, and you . . . WAKE UP ! ” . . .
An odor stale.
Unique and solemn did my nose assail—
Something kept shaking me !
I woke and stared indignantly around.
The dead sun-fish mute testimony bore
That I had slept. Jogging my arm I found
A mariner who made no human sound,
But pointed at the shore.
N.S.W.
E. O'F.
Blood-Echoes!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
\H) damn ! ” she said softly, stamp-
® W ing her little foot.
7 My ! ” said the other girl wonder-
ingly, looking up from the foolish-looking garment
she was so busily intent upon.
“I can't get these sleeves right! I can’t sew—
in fact, I never could sew ! I detest being a nice,
domesticated, womanly woman ! ” burst out the
first girl, gazing over at her sister, who. placid
and useful-looking, glanced at her with an affec-
tionate shrug.
■‘l must admit, Gretel, I intensely admire
women like you, who are always in the picture,
whose blouses always seem to fit and never wrinkle
at the waist, whose hair is never untidy, and who
(O, Lord ! Think of the economy of it !) can
make their own clothes. But 1 can’t—l never
could and never will, so there ! ” and she pitched
the offending bodice, sleeves and all, across the
room. Then she went to the mirror in their joint
bedroom and gazed ruefully at her undeniably
interesting face, with its even more undeniably
untidy head.
Gretel crossed the room, very gravely picked up
the blouse and sleeves, and commenced to rectify
the trouble.
The younger girl watched the quiet, beautiful
face with its irritating regularity of outline, the
sweetly-parted, waving hair framing the broad
brow, Rosetti-wise, the perfectly-kept hands with
their rosy nails, and sighed. “ How do you do
it, Gretel ? ” she said, suddenly, balancing herself
on the table, even forgetting to swing in sudden
interest.
"How do I do what, dear?” said Gretel, look-
ing up with a smile in her clear eyes.
"Why, the whole thing ! ” said Valerie, miser-
ably, “the neat hair, the spotless perfection of
your attire (as our German dad would say), the
general all-round usefulness (I call it downright
cleverness). You can do pretty well everything.
You are an ornament in the household and a com-
fort to our dear parent ! ” concluded the girl, in
a prim, parsonical voice, droned out in comical
imitation of- her sister’s fiance, the Reverend
Hugh Townshend.
"You always speak in brackets,” remarked
Gretel, whimsically, her eyes smiling—a some-
what surprising manifestation for Valerie to
ponder on.
"I always think in ’em,” answered Valerie, un-
grammatically ; " but you are what I should call
a thoroughly respectable, correct, good woman!”-
and after each adjective she hit the table hard
with her dear little fist. ‘ ‘ Whilst I—o, Lord !
I was expelled.from the convent for announcing
that I was a freethinker before I knew what
it meant.” She laughed merrily at the recollec-
tion. "lam almost a disgrace to my family. I
give dad the jim-jams when we have visitors —
. and I suppose if mother were alive I’d break her
dear heart—though ” —and the sweet voice paused
a little wistfully—“ perhaps there is something of
mother in me. She might have sympathised with
my general impossibleness as a member of this
correot family. She was Australian to every drop
of her blood—so she couldn’t have been so very
respectable. I mean, of course, conventional, like
you and dad ! ”
“ Mother was an artist. I believe father had a
great deal of trouble with her ! ” said the elder
girl in an unpleasant voice, shredded with the
preponderating heredity in her from her father’s
side.
Valerie looked up, feeling suddenly aloof and
strange—her dead mother’s brave, independent
spirit throbbing fiercely within her.
“ Poor little mother ! ” she said softly, in sudden
pitiful understanding. “I can imagine how it
was with her, between you and dad ! Think of an
artist in this atmosphere! ” waving a rebellious
hand round the eloquent severity of the room.
"I wish I could remember her! Was she any-
thing like me ? ”
Gretel eyed the girl with that cold, unconscious
resentment felt by all the good people for the
great ones.
Ves, very much like you. She broke father’s
heart,” she answered, between her beautiful
teeth.
“Yes —she would!” said Valerie, softly, an
ominous glint in her grey eyes. “ I shall pro-
bably follow her example. I don’t see how it’s
going to be avoided, seeing what dad is, and what
I am.”
“ Valerie !” Horror, disgust, reproach were in
the even tones.
“Well, lam mother’s. You are father’s. I
suppose there is something in heredity after all?
lean often hear mother’s spirit calling within me
to defy—to live ! I often feel I don’t belong to
you and dad —and I know, I know ” (between her
little set teeth) “ that mother felt the same ! I
suppose after I came she just fretted herself to
death, and you and dad had her buried politely,
and went into the most elegant mourning.”
Gretel eyed the small rebel in cold contempt.
“It is so vulgar to lay all one’s faults on the
shoulders of ‘heredity,’” she said, cuttingly.
“ The lower classes always explain their
drinking habits in that way. Besides—and I
think you ought to know it now; it might serve
as a warning—mother left father for another man
—an artist. She died—after father divorced
her.”
The silence that followed was caused by the
obvious effort of the disclosure—though Valerie
found herself curiously unshocked. Only the
tragedy of the story appealed to her.
“ The call of the blood, I suppose ! ” was the only
and somewhat curious comment she offered.
“ No doubt ! ” said the older girl, acute distaste
in her voice.
“ I suppose, now, you could never imagine your-
self doing such a thing, Gretel ? ” said Valerie, in
young recklessness.
Gretel simply raised her eyes in cold surprise.
“Couldn’t you run off with—Mr. Townshend,
for instance, if he were married, and. it was the
only way of*being together ? ”
“No,” said Gretel, dispassionately.
“ You would give him up if lie were married ? ”
“Naturally!”
“Then you don’t love him !” announced the
young wiseacre definitely.
“ What do you know about love?” asked her
sister in superior amusement.
“ Real love would know no law ! ” said the girl
simply, voicing unconsciously her mother’s creed
before her.
“A nice sentiment!” commented Gretel, con-
temptuously.
‘ ‘ Mother thought so, at any rate —and mother
couldn't have been bad.”
Gretel compressed her lips and bent over her
sewing.
“ I suppose there are some things that even you
couldn’t say ! ” flashed Valerie, banging the door
after her.
* * * *
The introduction of an opera-singer into his
quiet, conventional household was faintly felt by
Mr. Bock, father of the two girls, as somewhat of
a risk. He had always believed that artists are
best left in their workshops—the unwritten laws
of hospitality having no place in their repertoire.
Yet the fact that this particular opera singer
was a fellow-countryman and a fine artist had its
effect on the thorough German that Bock was.
“I am bringing Langer, the tenor, home to
dinner, girls,” he had said on that important
morning at breakfast.
“Oh, father—atenoi —too!” protested Valerie,
forestalling the inevitable snub. “Does he take
his fur-lined overcoat seriously?” she went on,
quickly.
“I don’t understand you, my child.”
“Well you know, dad, what Hubbard says
about the actor who does. He says, ‘ Beware
of him—lest in taking his own so seriously, he
should also take yours !’ ” And the girl ran out
of the room laughing.
Gretel looked at her father sympathetically as
a shade passed over his face. Valerie’s senti-
ments and general flippant cynicisms were so
horribly like her dead mother’s. He said nothing as
he stooped and kissed his eldest daughter’s beauti-
ful smooth forehead. And Gretel didn’t draw
his somewhat weary face any nearer to hers. It
wasn’t her way. She mistakenly imagined that
men understand silent sympathy.
Langer, the tenor, arrived that evening, notwith-
standing the warnings of Valerie against his kind
and race. And as they all sat at dinner the girl
watched him curiously out of her wise eyes. The
fact that he was a tenor prejudiced the healthy
young womanhood in her. His graceful height
and handsome effeminate face with its somewhat
amorous blue eyes angered her. The artist in
him appealed to her, of course ; but she was artist
enough herself to realise that even the elements
of greatness do not exist where there is abnormal
vanity. As she sat and listened to his very
melodious voice intoning polite inanities to her
father and sister, the girl summed him up in her
wise, quaint way: “ The representative of the
artistic temperament without any art to back it
up.” It was quite evident that Gretel’s white
and gold beauty called to the animal in him. He
would probably have called the sentiment she
provoked “love”; and it seemed to the amused
eyes of the girl-cynic that Gretel’s color was a
little more striking that evening than usual.
“Gretel will probably want the lifebelt thrown
to her if all goes as it generally does in these
matters,” thought Valerie, as Langer followed
the elder sister into the drawing-room and arranged
the cushions of a comfortable chair.
Lunger’s methods were fairly unnovel, and
quite justified by precedent. He delighted Bock
by his undoubted knowledge of music and by the
beautiful German which he occasionally broke
into. He delighted Gretel by his caressing ways
and his theatrical attention to her comfort—a
somewhat superfluous consideration in her luxuri-
ous drawing-room. He deftly steered the conver-
( Continued on next page.)


Outdoor Workers
Need Zam-Buk Balm.
OUTDOOR workers generally have skin-trouble of one kind or another.
Perhaps the skin gets hard and cracks most painfully; or it may be
that the cold or dirt gets into some trivial injury, inflammation and
disease almost certainly following. Cold-
sores round the mouth and nostrils are
also common, and so are rough and
chapped hands. Zam-Buk Balm is
equally soothing, healing and curative
for all such conditions of the skin, and
is consequently a real boon. This pure
and powerful balm takes the “ smart ”
out, kills pain, “cools” inflammation,
and allays itching. Continued use of
Zam-Buk Balm ensures perfect healing with new
healthy skin- Every outdoor worker should carry
a pot in his pocket or tool bag.
“No home, and especially those of working-men,
should be without a pot of Zam-Buk,’ says Mr. G.
Ritchie, of O’Sullivan Street, Wood End Pocket,
Ipswich, Q. “My occupation of pipe-fixing necessitates
climbing ladders, and recently I had a nasty fall through
the ladder slipping from beneath, resulting in a wound aboutj
two inches long on my leg. It became swollen^ and w? =
very painful, but knowing already the value of Zam-
Buk, as soon as I arrived home I bathed my leg and applied the balm,
and the very next morning the pain had all gone, and in a little
while the swelling went down and the wound disappeared. I was soon
at work again, which, for a man of my age, sixty-four, is very gratifying,
and shows how quickly and well Zam-Buk did its work. There is no doubt
Zam-Buk is the working-man’s friend.”
Zam-Buk Balm is the natural and ideal application for
pimples, rashes, eruptions, blotches, spots, sores, wounds,
ulcers, eczema, psoriasis, ringworm, scalp diseases, piles, etc.
Keep a pot handy for cuts, bruises, burns, scalds, sprains,
pains, swellings, chafings, sore feet or hands, etc. Of
all chemists and stores at is. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per pot
(3s. 6d. size contains nearly four times the Is. 6d.).
'i
m
Liii-3
mi
Mi-:
B IT |
9
A
ami laMlmaf&tt ll
sation into the one channel of interest to him—
his own exploits, his press-notices and his enor-
mous salaries in the various capitals in which he
had sung.
Gretel found herself comparing him to her
lover; she drew dangerous, because foolish com-
parisons beween his appearance, his superficial
brilliancy and savoir-faire and her lover’s solid
common-sense and deep learning. She mistook
Langer’s loud assertiveness for unconscious belief
in his own genius, and failed to see the vulgarity
behind this persistent adherence to the topic of
himself in her house.
Later —and this was his fibcc-de-rdistance —he
sang Romeo’s love song to her accompaniment,
and even Valerie, the artist in her madly awake,
almost wept her thanks to him.
“ Oh, but you can sing,” she said to him, uncon-
sciously trying to justify the singer to the creature
she saw, with her unerring eyes, underneath.
Gretel’s pleasure was characteristic, as also was
her father’s. The exquisite management and cul-
ture of his voice appealed to them, not the passion
which he had put into it. As he bent over her
hand on saying “Good-night,” purposely exag-
gerating the kiss which his nationality only made
acceptable in Australia, the girl, for the first time,
felt the answering call within her—the call which
has made creation possible, which empties
Heaven and fills Hell. But she was her father’s
daughter, and heredity had its clasp tight about
her body and soul.
* * * *
Valerie was seated before the glass, brushing
her black, tempestuous-looking hair.
“ I can’t understand what you see in that de-
corative poster downstairs with father, Gretel.
Every evening he doesn’t sing he is here, smoking
dad’s cigars and keeping me out of the drawing-
room by (I presume) boring you to death. He is
becoming a positive habit in this house. To what
do we owe the extremely flattering regularity of
his visits ? Is he enamored of dad, or dad’s cigars
or ” (and she suddenly faced her silent listener)
“can it be that he has presumed to raise his eyes
to the correct Miss Gretel Bock, fiancee to a ris-
ing young clergyman ? ”
“Valerie!”
“ Well, Gretel, it’s no use trying to sit on me
and snub me with Lady Disdain virtuous airs.
The creature wouldn’t be wasting his time on a
little family circle out of any decent appreciation
of our domestic qualities. He wants you. Not
because you are you, but because you are very
beautiful. The peculiar masculine sternness in
you has appealed to the effeminate weakness in
him. He would begin by wanting to make love
to you, and end by wanting you to make love to
him. It’s pathological. These desexed men are
tragedies for wholesome women—and ”
“Valerie! How dare you?”
“Pooh !” said Valerie, tying the white ribbon
to the end of her plait. “That doesn’t cut any
ice with me, Gretel. I have read a bit, and
watched a bit—and humanity interests me. I
know this much—we women want men as lovers
—not tenors ” —and she snuggled herself into her
pretty white nightgown. Gretel shuddered away
from her sister’s bright, wilful, intensely alive intel-
lect with all the horror of the ordinary woman, to
whom truth ungloved is always vulgar.
“Vour intelligence is wasted outside the sur-
geon’s dissecting-room,” she said as she got be-
neath the bedclothes.
“My dear, you are mistaken,” said the sleepy
Voice from the other bed. “ Life is a dissecting-
room, and you and Langer are under my knife at
present. lam j ust wondering if father or mother
will call loudest in you —when the time comes.”
Silence fell over the darkened room, and Gretel,
awake and vibrant to all impressions in her ner-
vous condition, heard the gate click as her father s
deep voice bade Langer good-night. Townshend
was calling to-morrow, and she wondered whether
she would rather Townshend should go away for
a trip—a very long trip—or not. Did Langer love
her as Valerie said, and did she love Langer ?
What was the use of worrying, anyhow ? She was
engaged to marry, and Langer was probably mar-
ried or divorced. These people always were.
f # #
Townshend was perplexed at the subtle change
he saw, or rather felt, in the girl. She was barri-
caded behind her emotions, and he, who had
never felt any, was outside the present radius.
“ I have come to ask you for something definite
about the date of our marriage, Gretel,” he was
saying, and the girl bent her fair head lower over
the work in her lap.
Valerie had seen it in his face that afternoon,
and had promptly retired into her own corner of
the sunny garden.
“ Why this sudden haste, Hugh?” was Gretel s
only point of defence.
“Why this sudden desire for postponement?
was his very natural rejoinder.
“ I don’t like leaving father ! ” she murmured,
weakly.
“Your father will excuse you, lam sure, he
said, with biting sarcasm. And noting the com-
plete want of enthusiasm of her attitude —“Gretel,
do you want to go back?”
“Oh no, no, no !” she said, with all a woman s
terror of the indefinite. “I only want —oh, I
don’t know—please, please, Hugh ! ”
With all a modern man’s horror of emotion, her
lover missed the psychological moment. His com-
plete surprise at the sight of tears in this hitherto
unemotional, self-contained girl blinded hint to
the subtle appeal in her sudden clumsy unmask-
ing. If —if—oh, but what is the use of “ ifs” in this
topsy-turvy world ? If Hugh had been the man
to cope with this sudden glimpse of the all-com-
pelling claw of heredity, he might have taken the
girl in his arms and throttled it; but what was
there to hold her faithful to this straight-laced,
unimaginative, reverend young man ?
The profound falseness of woman compelled this
spotless young girl, even in the birth-throes of her
awakening instincts, to pretend loyalty to the
grave-faced man before her.
“I love you, Hugh. I will marry you—only
wait a little while ! ”
Being as non-moral as many other women, Gretel
believed that she was acting honorably in thus
easing her mind, dully awakening into suspicion.
She had the feminine horror of reproaches,
and the feminine dislike for inflicting pam.
She did not trouble to sit in judgment upon her
integrity—she was simply convinced of it—and
vet at the bottom of her consciousness she knew
qrjite well that, if Langer asked her to marry him
to-morrow, she would have to say Yes.
Valerie had said “Love knows no law,” but
Gretel was acting it; and if she thought of it at
all as she watched Hugh’s white face, she
wondered whether the people who said things
were half as dangerous as the people who were
shocked at them, like herself.
When Hugh left her, almost satisfied of her
love, she drew a long breath, relieved from the
restraint e P take it 9 ” asked Valerie, strolling
on to the her sister was sewing.
•• Take what ? ” asked the latter, trying to brush
the dreams out of her blue eyes.
“Why, I suppose you told him you couldn t go
on with"tlie engagement?”
“ Indeed I did-nothing of the sort. Why should
I pain the poor man? ”
Valerie’s intelligent eyes shone with amuse-
ment. “ Then you are going to marry him ? ”
“ I suppose so ! ”
“ Even if Langer proposes ? ” continued Valerie
relentlessly.
“I believe Langer to be married,” said Gretel
with tight lips.
“ Even so, that doesn’t prevent you from loving
him and from not loving Hugh.”
Gretel looked at her curiously. “What would
you do, Val?”
“I’d give Hugh his cong6 and bolt with
Langer ! ” said the girl mischievously.
“Oh—oh!” faltered Gretel, her beautiful face
paling, as though in horror of hearing her own
thoughts uttered. “ Oh, Val, Val, a girl couldn t.
It’s mean—it’s mean to his wife and to Hugh !
“ No meaner than telling Hugh lies, as you have
been doing this afternoon, and pretending to be so
much better than your own mother. Now perhaps
you understand why mamma bolted. She couldn t
stand dad’s respectability, and you won’t be
able to stand Hugh’s. Men of that sort smother
women. They won’t let us be what they
call good.” And Valerie pitched a scarlet cushion
into the hammock and curled herself into it.
“I still say there’s no excuse for a woman to
break a man’s heart and disgrace herself.”
“ Probably that’s why no woman ever comes
back and makes excuses,” said the young voice
from the depths of the hammock. '"Mamma
didn’t come back to ask dad’s forgiveness. I
guess she thought the thing worth the price and
she knew she wouldn’t have got it, anyhow.
When she was finished being disgraced she just
died. As for breaking men’s hearts —pooh !
Didn’t dad break hers for years with his coldness
and correctness?”
Gretel walked into the house, out of the disre-
putable atmosphere of the girl who said the
things which shocked.
* * * *
“Valerie, Valerie !”
It was her father’s voice calling her. Human
agony always hurt her, and she heard it in his
voice. She jumped out of bed for it was scarcely
daylight, and she barely noticed that Gretel, who
had been to the theatre the previous night with
Langer, had not slept in her bed.
“ Your sister has eloped with Langer—and the
man has a wife. Oh, God ! Oh, God! My
Gretel ! ”
Valerie’s arms stole around him softly. Poor,
poor dad! It had to be, daddy. Give in!
Hers was hidden and suppressed all her life —
that sort are always easiest caught.”
The father looked at his unknown daughter
curiously. It was his first mental look at her.
She caught at the chance.
“Dad, women have to have love and sympathy.
Remember mother ? It was like that with her.
“But Gretel—Gretel was so different—so
good ! ” .
“Oh this goodness of man’s !” said the girl, im-
patiently. “These good women—like Gretel—
don’t know themselves. You and Hugh, between
you, hadn’t a chance against a man like Langer.”
“ It’s her mother over again ! ” said the father,
hopelessly.
“Perhaps, dad; and only dangerous because
ignored. A woman must always be provided with
a fire-escape ! ” finished the girl, wisely,
“ And what is yours, my darling?’
“I—was —always—shocking Gretel —dad! ’ she
said, slowlv and thoughtfully.
Her father looked at her in sudden under-
standing.
HELEN JEROME.
Ad Astra!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
HAND on the Torch of Heavenly fire,
Prometheus stole to light the world;
Let Man to godhead still aspire,
Nor back into the brute be hurled.
Though Zeus plague us till we die,
Hand on the Torch ! Man marches by !
Hand on the Torch ! The Night is long,
And Man goes stumbling through the mire,
But in one purpose we are strong —
To find the immortal fount of fire ;
Through night and pain and leaguing odds
March on until we stand as gods 1
Hand on the Torch ! Though shadows lurk
And monstrous shapes sway to and fro,
Far seen through the surrounding murk
Its blaze gleams bravely as we go !
The darkness swallows up our lines
But follow— follow where it shines !
Hand on the Torch ! Its light and flame
Of three-fold fire shall guide and stay
The hands that slip, the feet that lame
And bleed upon the flint-strewn way ;
Our leader falls—Ho ! from his hand
Take up the bright and burning brand !
Hand on the Torch ! And by it give
Fell Superstition to the flames,
That man no more in fear may live
Of foolish myths with ogreish names ;
A moment stoop the sacred fire
And kindle here Oppression’s pyre !
Hand on the Torch ! Though Zeus’ ire
Peal doom-like down the heights above,
Man’s is the Torch, the three-fold fire
Of Knowledge, Sacrifice, and Love.
Look ! Ever where the Torch has shone
Humanity goes marching on !
Hand on the Torch ! That guarded Flame
Had being at life’s fiery spring,
Ere any god was named by name—
And what shall quench it ? Neither king,
Nor priest, nor law, nor word, nor breath,
Nor e’en the boorish hand of Death !
Hand on the Torch ! Though grim as Hell
Time’s battlements loom up before,
We march on Zeus’ citadel,
From which our Race was thrust of yore ;
Nor all the thunders of his wrath
Shall turn us from the perilous path !
Hand on the Torch ! We faint, we die ;
But see, ye scornful Powers, the host
Of man press up toward your sky,
Indomitable; ere long to boast
Of naught untried and naught refrained—
Of Jove defied and Heaven attained !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


h
“I was troubled greatly with
pimples on the face and neck,
which so-called blood medicines I
used did not remove. I then,
about two years ago, began with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and I have
not been troubled with the pim-
ples since. You can use this photo
and testimonial as you like. ”
Miss B. Johnson, Adelaide.
Blotches, rashes, pimples, eczema, boils, are not sim-
ply signs of a little trouble on the surface of the body. '
The real trouble is down deep in the blood itself.
AYER’S £ arsaparilla
purifies the blood and brings back to the skin all its soft,
natural, and healthy condition.
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Look
outforimitationsthat will only disappoint you. Get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
SEEDS
SV-
WiU
tm
i
7-:
NO •*
MONEY
WANTED
TN order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
1 yutp every hpine, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER W, TGHES and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES' MUFF
CHAINS, S'OLII} Ci.OLD RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE
to the value .of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable arid flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE
CABBAGE, TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAiLLARDIA, etc.: Sell the packets at 3d.
per packet, send us our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our grand list.
WE TRUST YOU—THE RISE IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
I—M ■■» n,,l»— - H Ail/
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY C 0,52 BOND ST SYDNEY, N SW.
ĥ
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
m
48 hours.
Each Cansule bears the name l®" -
mm
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait ; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
WEARME & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OP
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Oentunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1696.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambetli Road, London, Eng.
THE ABBOTT
AUSTRALIAN
FILTER
HAS PASSED THE SEVEREST TESTS.
Vide Bacteriological Reports.
Pressure Filter
and Receiver.
FOUNTAIN FILTERS
in Majolica from 22/6 ;
Glazed Stone from 20/- ;
Terra Cotta from 20/-;
Water Bag, 14/=*;
Tank Filter, 35/-
IF YOUR STORE CANNOT SUPPLY*
SEND TO THE MANUFACTURERS—
ħ
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY;
486 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
COLO ?„IV |S PO
POST CARDS.
eg.oou
]pf GOOD LUCK |j^
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose from the list of jewellery which we forward
yC "^s£‘; ontl „ nuing the sale of our car ds, you can earn a LADY’S
° r r ‘ S and CHAIN . a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use. SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
™ a ' Hi » CA J' INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
liK.ttbbi.Nijf replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WK TAKE ALL THK RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
post cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
lr’i r^,??t < ;. TJOSltlvely as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MOffgY. Your name and address are all we want.
REGAL POSST CARD C?, 126 O'CONNELL ST,S> ONEY.
COME WHAT MAY,
you must have health. Without it you cannot get wealth.
Only those who are ill know what they have lost.' Of course,
you yourself have “off days”; and how dismal existence is
then ! You want to be always bright and cheery, alert and
eager, never ailing, perennially “ fit.” Many people you know
have the secret, leading vigorous lives without strain, and are
everlastingly “up to the mark.” The secret of such good
health is
BUGHAMS
PI US
When you feel the least bit out of sorts these pills will pull
you together, avoiding the graver evils which neglect always
brings. You can easily blow out a match ; but a house on
fire is serious. If you take it in time, an ailment disappears
at once; neglect it, and you are ill. A dose of BEECHAM’S
PILLS now and then drives out all impurities from the body,
cleanses the liver, tones up the stomach. Let the smallest
indisposition run, and it is amazing how soon one’s health is
thoroughly broken. It is so easy to keep well. Only a
corrective occasionally, though it must be BEECHAM’S
PILLS. This famous medicine will quickly recover your lost
health. If you have neglected little symptoms, and your
condition is an anxiety to you, stop worrying—you will soon
be as “fit as a fiddle.” BEECHAM’S PILLS
Will Befriend You.
Sold Everywhere in boxes, price 10y 2 d. (36 Piiis) t
1/1% (56 Pills), and 2/9 (168 Pills).
m
••s
fl New Cure for Thirst
Administer pure, clean water in
regular quantities to your stock.
USE A
“Steel Wings” Windmill
A recent invention which pumps large
quantities, regularly and quickly, as it
works in the very lightest breeze.
There is a fourfold reason for this :
Large Sail Area. A Bearing on EACH
SIDE of the Windwheel. Long Stroke.
A Balanced Pump-rod.
Built in ALL SIZES UP TO 100 FEET in diameter by
Steel Wings Windmill Co., Ltd.,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY,
Information, Estimates, etc., to be had for the
asking from Department C.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21 s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift.
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &o.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Svo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
men
NO
WOMEN
h
To all persons suffering- from an}' ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copyef
this great work Free on enclosing-five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments”
on receipt of this adversisement. J3P" Note Address l
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“Elmley House,”
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Did You Ever Try
A Vapor Bath?
Whether you live “way-back" or iu the city you
can have a splendidly invigorating vapor bath in your
own home at very little expense.
For 21/- we are offering- the famous
Buckeye Bath Cabinet which usually
is sold for 25/-. It’s splendidly made
throughout, and so built that the user
is quite comfortable all the time. The
heat can be gradually lessened so that
you get a bath equal to ,a Turkish or
Russian.
It folds up when not in use and can
be adjusted in a few minutes. The
framework is of steel, galvanised to
prevent rusting.
The “Buckeye” has the approval of hundreds of
medical men, and we will send it freight free to any
Railway Station or Port in N. S. Wales. You ought
to get one. 8
Perdriau Rubber Go., Ltd.,
“The House for All Rubber Goods,”
Georg'© Street. Sydney.
ĥ
THE « DEMON” AUTOMATIC
BIRD & FLYING FOX SPARER
Fires off with a report like a cannon every few
minutes, or as often as desired.
Works day and night without attention.
Birds never get used to it.
Will save pounds perday to Orchardists, Vignerons,
Nurserymen, or Market Gardeners, etc.
Cost to run about ONE SHILLING (1/-) per day.
Send for testimonials from Strawberry Growers,
Vignerons, Market Gardeners, etc., to
TYREE. LIMITED,
314 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVE: 20 H.P. IN EVERY 100 H.P.
HYATT FLEXIBLE ROLLER BEARINGS.
Agents—W. &J. LEM PR SERE, Melbouma.
Water
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using:
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
&
ħ
Rider.
Write tor
“B"
J Catalogue
IMPLICITY
TICIENCY.
ATT S
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
mmmmm
Cq he
Mbb
WOLF
07
AX
f's.l
At the Showrooms-
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
SYDNEY
“THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J. & J. laxfield, Ltd., Sheffield
DURBAR
LEATHER PRESERVING BOOT ROUSH.
DOUBLES THE WEAR OF BOOTS. NURSERY RHYMES POST CARDS, Packet
of Six Beautifully Colored Post Cards and Large Tin DURBAR, POST FREE,
Dept. C, DURBAR POLISH CO., 18 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE BEST AND CHEAPEST.
Mat-Virtue
All Users Fullv Satisfied.
SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINERY.
Head Office :
SVIOFFAT-VIRTUE
NEW MODEL (Small Case) MACHINE.
h
ĥ
LIMITED,
7 Bent Street,
Sydney.
Scb-Agbnts :
VICTORIA: D. A. Skene, 464- Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND : Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing(W.A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Messrs. Murdoch Bros., 77 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Duplicates and Supplies obtainable from all Agents.
a
INDEPENDENCE
:
ALWAYS RUN TRUE.
Zd/jq most generally serviceable, as well as the
most inexpensive Pulley, is without doubt the
Wood Split variety. The best is tbe DODGE
“ INDEPENDENCE.” Every Pulley is balanced,
bores are standardized, and sbaft compression
is perfect. Keep tbem dry and tbey last for ever.
PARKE <& LACY COMPANY, Ltd.
SOLE AGENTS FOR AUSTRALIA,
60 CLARENCE ST., SYDNE"
A VERY LARGE STOCK
ON HAND.
(D, CO
jg'm
><•
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND FOR
THE BLAKE STEAM PUMPS
SUPllPmWiaMfflWtfM* I lull I'll ■llllllll— ■ — «——— l^——— T
For Every Possible Service.
Boiler Feed, Tank, Light Service, Mining, Horizontal & Vertical, Combined Boiler & Pump,
Single and Duplex and Triplex Power Pumps . all pumps thoroughly tested, and fully warranted.
THE. KEYSTONE DRILLER CO.
IS THE OLDEST
MAKER OF
ħ
DADTADI IT HPII I C for We " Borin& Ma «>* >,n *
rU ll I ADLCi UEIIL LO Alluvial Deposits, and
Exploring 1 for Coal and all Minerals.
Awarded GRAND PRIZE, WORLD’S FAIR, ST. LOUIS.
Catalogues containing very full information furnished on request.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Ag'ents,
203 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, and
480 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
