

Word to the Wise is sufficient-“ DEWA
3
waia^
R. G. WATI£mS «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
-FO—
R and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining’ Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Sf
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .. .
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
HOBART.
(jadleys Orient fjotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son. Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
\
Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand I
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS.
r
THE COMING MACHINE.
Nothing Succeeds Like Success.
THE COOPER is a
SUCCESS.
Cost of up-keep Reduced.
Efficiency Increased.
BOY THE UP-TO-DATE MACHINE.
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING MACHINE
PY., LTD.,
16 Yeung: Street, Circular Quay,
Sydney.
Inventors of the Double Rocker Fork
Wide Cut Machine.
all , h)ct/JZ&u) MiulCu a -tit fy&t.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
are ■ • • • •
99
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
instructions
Free.
THE " SILVERTOWN ”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
.'/ '
Sydney Branchi
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
AMSIHM HQxOQo u lO gw WWW A A AJA
..saaoi 10 asaoH,, 5«31M03
“LYSAGHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 FIXX STREEX, SYO3VBY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC ICNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIM
ECONOMICAL
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
goneral Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Enginesco
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
EAST WAT’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
C. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WATER.
HELIDON SPA comes from Nature’s own laboratory,
absolutely pure beyond reach of contamination.
GOLLIN & CO..
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.29.— N0. 1474.]
[Thursday, May 14. 1308.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE NEWEST
BOOKS.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Swinburne, A. 0., Duke of Gandia, ss, post 6d.
Rees, J. D., Real India, 9s, post 9d.
McClintock, Sir F., Voyage of Fox, 3s, post 6d.
Campbell, Passer-By in London, 6s, post 7d.
Cheney (Warren), His Life, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Thurston, K. 0., The Fly on the Wheel, 2s 6d &3s 6d, p 6d
Oxenham, J., Pearl of Pearl Island, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, post 6d'
Danby (Frank), The Heart of a Child, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. 6d ’
Highways and Byways in Hampshire, 6s, post 7d
Lucas, Practical Pharmacy, 2nd ed., 15s post Sd’
JOhn T? U^he^ ord: The Whit ® Chief, 3s 6d
post 6d. hyelvn s (John) Diary, 3s 6d nost ’
Old-Fashioned
WITH JULIET IN ENGLAND, by GRACE RICHMOND .
Second Violin." Cloth 3s. 6d., Postage od. “ 1 chlrmfng ftory!” 6 ° f Jullet ” and " The
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
DOST- AN IDEAL REMEDY
G.hvjdso/v.
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing: Ho Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bactericidally,
as is creosote."
Unlike cough medicines, “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES”
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antisjept' o
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of th^/food.
Sold by All Chemists, or -| /£* o tam Lc
Post Free on receipt of I/O in Stam lps.
G. HUDSON
Manufacturing Chemist , 5 ®. 7 Queen’s Place* <Sydfney
THE RED PAGE
THE COLISEUM.
Over the Coliseum watched the moon
Like a forgotten lover who returns
Faded with years, and, still remembering,
Yearns from afar over a loveliness
Long faded, too.
So through the dying years
The wan old moon is drawn again to her
Whom once he loved, and drapes her in the gre
And silver of his memories ; so through
All Time these two white things keep helple
tryst,
And gaze and gaze blankly at a blank face,
And with a pang almost forgotten pass
Heedlessly into forgetfulness again.
Dumb as Eternity, Home drowsed outside.
So many histories she had outwatched ;
So many crimes and splendors folded down,
And underneath new ruins long forgot;
Over so many grandeurs softly drawn
Her grey oblivion ; and of Time so much
Had vaguely obliterated, that slie slept,
Sated and tired of Empire, sick of sway,
Content among her palaces to dream ;
Beneath her old, tremendous memories
Bewitched, like drowned Atlantis, from tl
world.
And in the quiet of the Coliseum,
In that wide crater of dead passions—l,
In all my arrogant modernity !
Only the night lived there. Arch upon arch,
Tier over tier, the Coliseum seemed
Built of white silence, or a dream thing drawn
From waning memories by the wizard-moon.
And on these quiet galleries, that once
With the quick pulse of life had richly throbbed,
A throng of mute, incurious stars looked down ;
And on the edge where once the sailors stood
To roof the universe with painted silk
A swirl of pigeons fluttered distantly.
And as I stood and watched, Antiquity
With all her centuries whirled in on me
Like a swift ruthless rain ! Within this pile
Of buried passions drowsed Eternity !
I felt Time like a weight that crushed me down
And held me breathless and impersonal.
'Beneath that vast and pitiless regard
My frail modernity was stripped from me,
And I lay naked in the dust of Time.
And all the years—impassive lookers-on—
Sat in their high seats, tier on tier, at gaze !
I knew I did not live—had never lived—
This transient life that jealously I called
My one, and clung to as,a child her doll,
And draped it with a thousand lordly dreams.
For in my body dead souls stirred and waked ;
And I was but the grave of unquiet ghosts
That moaned and wondered, twitched and stirred
and fought,
And maimed and murdered endlessly. This soul
Was but the desolated battleground
For issues undecided, ancient feuds
Begotten in the ape, revenges vowed
Before my earliest self strangely erect
Stood balancing uncouthly. Centuries
On centuries of strife were summed in me.
What fierce vendettas cunningly bequeathed
Down the long generations snarling went !
And in this self were sometimes victories,
With their fierce slaughters and their fiercer
paeans,
Sometimes defeats, despairs unmitigaHle
But never silence, nightfall... never death!
And all the years—impassive arbiters—
Sat in their high seats, tier on tier, at gaze !
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Ibsen
IT was an uncouth and unprecedented
blossom that suddenly flowered from
the cactus-stem of Henrik Ibsen’s
mean and unpretentious ancestors.
Genius works that way. Life takes
generations of the undistinguished and
the conventional to produce the revolt
that js called genius. It is from an
unimaginative and obscure stock that the
exotic blossom comes, and after its
strange flowering the plant goes peaceably
on again with its normal' life. It has
exhausted itself with its one miraculous
effort.
Henrik Ibsens life was a dour and ter-
rible one; and Ibsen’s genius would
have probably died unacknowledged had
not the State—more than once—come to
his aid with a pension. His was a
nature that developed late, and only
with extraordinary difficulty. Hone
of us |would wish to have had the
youth of this ugly duckling— the un-
gainliest 'in literary history. “ A surly
dunce,’ he had a kind of schooling in
his bleak Norwegian home, and at the
age of sixteen he was apprenticed to an
apothecary for five years. As Edmund
G-osse says in his altogether admirable
life of Ibsen (Hodder and Stoughton,
per Dympck’s Library, Sydney), it
was the-atmosphere of Grimstad and of
its drug-store which moulded the
character of Ibsen. He hated this re-
mote Norwegian coast-town as he had
hated his birthplace. He was savage
in manners, short in stature, truculent,
and “not quite nice.” The estimable
girls of Grimstad did not like him
“ because he was so spectral .”
\f>
At the age of 21 this rumbling volcano
was shaken into activity by. the upheaval
of the French Revolution. His youth
had been one ineffectual struggle to
express himself, to find his tongue. But
Grimstad had set its seal deep upon him,
and though he ultimately became a
medal-decorated citizen of Europe, an
exile from his family and his hated Nor-
way, in his art he could never escape
from Grimstad. An understanding of
Ibsen can only be acquired when Ave re-
member that every one of his social plays
was set in Grimstad.
He escaped from the chemist’s shop to
Christiania, where, dreadfully poor, he
yet managed to exist on journalism. At
last a little play of his was produced.
It failed. He founded a neAvspaper. It
failed. Then the Avay opened for him—
an insignificant and depressing way. For
Norway had, what Australia has not yet,
national theatres. To the newly-opened
national theatre at Bergen Ibsen went
as manager at an annual salary of less
than £7O.
This (says Gosse) was the turning-point of
Ibsen’s life ; this blind step in the dark,
taken in the magnificent freedom of youth,
was Avhat made him what he became. No
Bergen in 1851, Ave may say, and no Doll's
House or Hedda Gabler ultimately to follow.
For five years he remained at Bergen,
making no friends, doggedly managing
his little theatre, uncertain of himself,
himself unripe. Now, “in his dark
way,” he fell in love. He was offered
the directorship of the Norwegian
Theatre at Christiania. He married.
The theatre was badly supported, his
slender salary seldom paid. There his first
acknowledged masterpiece, The Pretenders,
was at last written and produced. But
still Ibsen, as director of the theatre,
. starved on his pound a week. He appealed
in vain to the Government for a dichter-
gage—“'a pension as poet,” such as (O,
Australians !) is freely given to talent in
the Northern countries. In despair, he
applied to the King, and was granted a
pension of £9O a year. The Christiania
press announced the news with despicable
insults. But Ibsen Avas enabled by this
help to leave his narrow native North
for the Avorld. He found it narrower.
He Avent to Italy, and there, at last, he
wrote Brand.
Brand placed Ibsen at a bound among the
greatest European poets of his age. The
advance over the sculptural perfection of
The , Pretenders and the graceful wit of
Love’s Comedy was so great as to be start-
ling. Nothing but the veil of a foreign
language, which the best translations are
powerless to tear aAvay from noble verse,
prevented this mastery from being perceived
at once. . . It bears some remote likeness
to Faust, but Avith that exception there is
perhaps nothing in the literature of the
world which can be likened to Brand, except,
of course, Peer Gynt.
But the literary success was not a
pecuniary one; and Ibsen, at his pence’s
end, appealed to the King of Norway
and Sweden for help. The Storthing,
almost unanimously, voted him a small
“poet’s pension.” Then Ibsen folloAved
lip his initial success Avith the equallv
remarkable Peer Gynt. Of this bewilder-
ing drama Gosse says :
It is, I think, no exaggeration to say that
nowhere in the dramatic literature of the
world, not .by Shakespeare himself, is there
introduced into a play so much loveliness of
scenery, and such varied and exquisite appeal
to the eyes, as there is in Peer Gynt.
. a g e of 50, Ibsen was recog-
nised as the greatest living poet of the
North.' But he was moving slowly on to
prose. He had outgrown the metrical
form, the legends of his youth ; he saw a
stronger, sterner work ahead. He was
ready to treat psychologically of modern-
ism, and the only vehicle for that was prose.
Incidentally, he was also re-making him-
self. He developed from the poet into
the man of business. The velveteen jacket
was discarded for the frock-coat.
V ith his gold spectacles, his Dundreary
whiskers, his broadcloth bosom, and his
quick, staccato step, he adopted the pose of
a gentleman of affairs, very positive, and
with no nonsense about him.
At the age of 30 he had been a
commonplace-looking little man ; but
with middle-age he began to dress the
part. W illiarn Archer remarks upon
“ the high and massive forehead, crowned
with a mane of hair, the tight-shut, thin-
lipped mouth.” And in 'Christiania, in
his old age,
He looked quite small under the blaze of
crosses, stars and belts which he displayed
when he unbuttoned the long, black over-
coat. His little hands were always folded
away as he tripped upon his tiny feet. . . .
He must sit day after day in the same chair,
at the same table, in the same corner of the
cafe. ... It was a pain to him to have the
chain of his thoughts suddenly broken, and
he could not bear to be addressed by chance
acquaintances. He never went to a theatre,
except on the very rare occasions when he
could be induced to be present at the per-
formance of his own plays. He possessed
very little knowledge of literature.
As for his change from poet to prose-
writer, he justified himself when re-
proached for not having written Emperor
and GaliUeau in verse :
We are no longer living in the days pf
Shakespeare. I wished to produce the im-
pression qn the reader that wdiat he was
reading Ivas something that had really
happened. . . . What 1 desired to depict
were human beings, and therefore I would
not let them talk “ the language of the
gods.”
vl/
And now we come to Ibsen’s little love
affair. Of course he was married; and
his wife survived him, and nursed him
with devotion all through those last
silent years of the dramatist’s life. But
when he was over 60 he fell in love with
a Viennese girl of 18. She used to sit on
a bench and watch the poet stalk past,
and one day she smiled at him. And
Ibsen smiled'back, and she made room
for him on the bench. And when they
parted Ibsen wrote to a friend, “ Oh, you
can always love, but I am happier than
the happiest, for lam beloved.” It was
great fun—for the girl; but for the old
man it was “ the most beautiful and the
most harmonious portion of my whole
existence.” And—a characteristic femi-
nine touch—the world was quite ignorant
of the episode until the correspondence
was published in 1906, “at the desire of
the lady herself.”
By this time his fame filled Europe,
and everywhere his progress was a
triumph. He grew rich, for he was a genius
and also an excellent business man. He
died the richest private citizen of Chris-
tiania, wholly in consequence of the care
he had taken in protecting his copyrights
and administering his receipts.
And now the celebrated afternoons at the
cafes had begun. In Rome, Ibsen had his
favorite table, and he would sit obliquely
facing a mirror in which, half hidden by a
newspaper and by the glitter of his gold
spectacles, he could command a sight of the
whole restaurant, and especially of the door
into the street. Every one who entered,
every couple that conversed, every move-
ment of the scene, gave something to those
untiring eyes. The newspaper ancl the cafe-
mirror—these were the books which, for the
future, Ibsen was almost exclusively to study.
\f>
Not the least valuable portion of this
altogether excellent biography is Gosse’s
criticism of the dramas and his descrip-
tion of Ibsen’s method of writing them.
Ibsen’s conception of a drama may be
summed up as a clash of temperament. His
play is an avalanche which has begun to
move, and with a movement unaffected by
the incidents of the plot, long before the
curtain rises. The later plays of Ibsen
unlike almost all other modern dramas’
depend upon nothing that happens while
they are being exhibited, but rush down
wards to their inevitable close, in obedience
t° a series of long precedent impulses
order to gain this effect, the dramatist
to be acquainted with everything that 1
ever happened to his personages; and
are informed that Ibsen used to build un
his own mind, for months at a time them
history of his puppets. . . . Nothin* w
unknown to him of their experience” a
for nearly two years, like a coral-insect'
was building up the scheme of them
silence.
As to the crop of “ problems” whic
has sprung from these remarkable play
Gosse aptly remarks :
This obsession of the critic to discov
“ problems ” in the works of Ibsen has bee
one. of the main causes of that impatien
and even downright injustice with which h
writings have been received by a lar<
section of those readers who should ha'
naturally enjoyed them. He is a poet
fantastic wit and often reckless imagination
and he has been travestied in a lon* blue
coat and white choker, as though he wer
an embodiment of the Nonconformis
conscience.
But, as Gosse admits,'
In Ibsen, unquestionably, time will creat
profundities, as it has in Shakespeare. T 1
greatest works grow in importance, as trees
do after the death of the mortal men wh
planted them.
And now the end—or the beginnin
of the end—came in an apoplectic stroke
and his intelligence was gradually, bu
surely, overclouded. During his long
six years of illness he was troubled b
aphasia. Manfully, pitifully, he strug
gled with his mental disease.
At the table where all the works of hi
maturity had been written, the old man sa
persistently learning and forgetting the
alphabet. “ Look ! ’ he said, pointing to
his mournful pot-hooks, “ See what fan
doing ! I am sitting here and learning my
letters—my letters! I who was once
Writer.
He died in 1906, in his seventy-ninth
year.
Every one of us should be grateful to
whatever gods there be that he was not
born a genius.
There is good stuff, rather thinly spread,
in Sydney Partrige’s Life’s Wallaby, printed
and published at the author’s press, 90
Edward-street, Norwood, S. Australia. The
little book is composed of short stories
reprinted from The Bulletin and other papers.
If a little weak in theme, these sketches are
touched with some literary quality. Par-
trige is the author of that amateurish, yet
quite promising, novel, Rocky Section. A
book such as this is merely marking time.
The recent exhibition in Sydney of The
Society of Arts and Crafts shows this pat-
riotic movement commendably purged of
many excrescences that in the hands of
women simulate art. Still within this band
of craftswomen are to be found alleged
artists who disfigure nice, smooth wood
by making it take the forms of waratahs
and other curly, knobby things. Still
there are alleged handiworkers who carve
rough and dust-collecting surfaces upon tops
of tables and chairs, which should be smooth.
And still there is to be found the pseudo-
artist who disfigures wood by burning black
marks on it. But, with these trifling excep-
tions, these women workers are effecting
much in the direction of simplicity and
beauty for the furnishing of the Australian
home. Excellent stencil designs, leather-
work, brass-work, painting on china,
enamelling and jewellery, weaving on the
hand loom, the construction of Australian
toys, and bookbinding were to be found in
the recent exhibition; and the society,
which has pow permanent headquarters in
Bull’s Chambers, Moore-street, is valiantly
at work beautifying and simplifying the
Australian house.
In back-blocks Australia there should be a
clamant demand for Harold Seeney’s Home
Doctoring of Animals (Macdonald and Martin,
London ; 7s. (yd). This valuable work is a plain
statement of practical suggestions for the treat-
ment of all diseases of animals ; it is not meant to
oust the vet., but to enable owners of stock to
treat their patients if expert assistance cannot be
immediately procured. It is strongly recom-
mended by Harry Stockdale.
The Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines have brought
out an admirably written and well illustrated
handbook, by Wilson le Couteur, entitled The
Great Outposts of the Empire. It is packed with
interest and information.


‘I '•
Ifir*
4
0*
mi
i \\
mA
cm*
mi
Vid^
Av
: !
No. 305.— Ladies’
Madapolam
Chemises,
inserted and
trimmed Torchon
Lace, 3/3.
*
V’ : <
\
W i
The Palace Cornet— Drab Ooutil, trimmed
Laue, Spoon Busks ; length of Busks, 12in.
Sizes, 18in. to 30in. 5/11.
: -VS
w
' V ’ / / /
No. TOO.
Ladies’ Com-
binations,
in Nainsook,
inserted and
trimmed
Imitation
Torchon
Lace, 4/-
Ladies’
Lingerie.
9 )
k
m
7
IS
ifvwi
assT#
: * m
it
/3&A
* -■;-# i
. ‘- ‘ £
*; : *tf !
*&£**
■ 'U'yß
V,
No 502—Fine Longcloth Nightdress, trimmed Embroidery, with Insertion
and Medallions ; Women’s, 6/3; 0.5., 7/3.
No. 406— Fine Nightdress, in Madapoiam, trimmed Valenciennes Lace
and Insertion, 10/3.
m
No. 766—White Lawn Skirt, trimmed with two Embroidered Frills, 13/6.
WE are only Universal Providers, and the
goods we offer are fresher, and the
assortment greater than It Is possible to
obtain at any other store, whilst everything we
sell Is brought under the economising influence of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES
—recognised throughout Australia as a guarantee
of Top Quality at Bottom Price.
r\
C
No. 109— Nightdress, in Madapolam, trimmed
Torchon Lace, inserted with Ribbons, 5/6.
v'Yiiil >/
/ ' j*jV ;
' ’
j ' ; d ’'
<
The C K. Belted Corset—Drab Coutil, trimmed
Lace, Spoqn Busks, 5 Clasps ; lull length, 14Jin.
Sizes, 19in. to 30in., 10/6.
Out Sizes, 31in. to 86in., tt/6.
Send for our Illustrated
Departmental Price Lists,
POSTED FREE on
application.
No. 708—ladies’ Calico Night-
dresses, trimmed Fancy
Frilling, 3/9.
No. 16?4— Princess Petticoat, in Lon<r-
cloth or Nainsook, trimmed Imitation
Torchon Lace, 13/6.
•ft
SS
v<v v<;.
- « . .
fe ■ .
.1'
* V -5:.:
Wfc V?*’
No. 510—Ladies’ Chemises, fine Longcloth,
trimmed Embroidery and Insertion—
Women’s, 2/11 ; Out Sizes, 3/3.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,


IMMT and other A,so butchers’ produce
SKINS; Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
• re L-’ ya , ellded to J our staff of hi S? hl y efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
H lo ii XCe - P v , aClllbeS , are ofb V? d by tbis Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zoda’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic Reciter,
is. Irish Comic Reciter, is.
Dramatic Reciter, is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, Tiie Husband, and The Lover,
T> ls ; posted is 3d. Mr Neighbour.
Raymond, Is ; posted ls 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron. 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post ls 3d.’
Camille, lsi Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ;post ls. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, ls. The Cuckold, Is;
poBtl/3. Kreuteer Sonata, 1/-; post 1/3. Manning’s
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal ok
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jfrsir, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
Is.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko. a Conjuring- Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts.
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Merrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
{STAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notps of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
w
E.
m
FREE.
FREE PRIZE —No Money Wanted*
This Picture Puzzle represents a Lion and liis
Keeper—Find the Face of the Keeper, and return to
us with your name and address, and we vrill give a
genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free; only one answer is
allowed. We eaake this marvellous offer to advertise our
Mending Tissue. Mending Tissue is an article used for mak-
ing invisible patches and repairing clothing, gloves, furs, or any article of cotton, wool silk,
linen, &c. It will hem any cloth much quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A
boon to bachelors. To all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 12 sample packages of
Mending Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated, we
require you to collect, from each person, with whom you leave a sample, 6d. (half the selling
price of samel. You then return us the money, and for this service we give Free, and in
addition to the Fountain Pen, Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments
Silver Ware, Purses, Bags, Dinner Sets, &c. This is at least worth investigating. It costs
nothing to try, and you take no risk. We simply ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us
your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send you the 12 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according
to instructions and we will send you, P'ree, the prize you choose. Could anything be fairer?
This great offer is only open for a limited time. We will only accept answers from those who
did not answer our previou* puzzle.
Write at once. THE PUTT A PERCH A TRADING CO.. 120 Ash St.. Sydney.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘Fkuit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver Bowels Skin and
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness!
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO’S ‘ FRUIT VATT'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION. ’
Prepared only by J. C. BNO Ltd., FRUIT SALT WORKS London
S.E., Eng by J. C. ENO'S Patent. '
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
To DEFY COMFBTIXIOKT.
WTISTTIS The Bed Br^ tds °niy of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
a LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR H BOY'S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life-siz *d Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-oaiuted
t-rench c eatiou. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, betutiful rosv
cheeks, brown eye , and represented with flesh-col mre body, red stock-
shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dollv
i he Rifle — 1 -— ;
1 he Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ngj arts are of best material rapid in itsaction, and
ccinate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WHTPH
CHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet. aen
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money b/», anti we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awa v these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seed.- in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium Eist includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
- ft High
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
»
Eoy’s Rif.' e.
CD TAILOR-MADE O D
D CORSETS. O'D
Are the most successful corset design ever created.
FROM
8/11
TO
4
GUINEAS
mm
All C.B.
Corsets
have
rust-proof
supports.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets enhance the
beauty of a perfect figure, while they im-
prove ordinary figures out of all recognition.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are the elixir
of elegance, smartness, refined distinction
and comfort.
Light as air, yet guaranteed to outlast
two ordinary corsets.
In 50 different styles.
A single test has convinced thousands cf
women that here is a' type Immeasurably
superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for
book of types to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS CSb CO.,
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE; 16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY;
and BRISBANE.
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson St., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
THE CELEBRATED
JAY
UNSHRINKABLE WOOLLEN
UNDERWEAR
Always warm and comfortable, and yet thoroughly ventilated,
adapting itself to the figure perfectly. All wearing parts are
strengthened by patented improvements, and there are no
irritating seams.
THE BEST FOR ALL CLIMATES AND WEATHERS
Observe this mark
on every garment.
ANY GARMENT SHRINKING IN
WASHING WILL BE REPLACED.
Sold by all Hosiers
and Outfitters.
MARK
Wholesale only- I. and R. Morley & Co., and Geo. Brettle & Co., London, ENG.
o
r\
l
a
I>ILLS.
Is your Liver right ?
It s one thing to feel well and bright and happy, and
another to have a sluggish liver. A sluggish liver positively
kills enjoyment. You cannot even rest, sleep or eat comfortably.
But you would after a Cockle’s Antibilious Pill, for Cockle’s Pills
liven the liver and give it strength to do its work. Used for over 100
years and still prescribed by physicians and preferred by the public
throughout the world.


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
now in London
writes under
date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 55 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
ylger’s
Hair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Cn., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
r
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to an. one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at leas than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, ami
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODELS £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS S ted SrT ( h r„t
easily made. Write a. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
an sample machine.
i.IEAO CYCLE C0..p.p,.280 LIVERPOOL
rpHE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
JL in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
u Other preparations having failed to do
good, I gave SCOTT’S Emulsion to my
son Harry, who was completely
run down
HARRY LISTON
and had be-
come pale and
thin through
sleeplessness
and loss of ap-
petite. After
the first bottle I
noticed a great
improvement;
he was able to
enjoy his food,
and looked less
delicate. He is
now full of life
and energy and
looks like a
different child. He likes SCOTT’S.”
8 Princes Street, Dawes Point, Tvr t TCTHN.
Sydney, N.S.W. 29/8/07. W. LlilUN.
Above is the Proof in the Facts.
Here Is Proof in the Reason Why:
It is not what we eat that does us good, but
"'hat we digest. The superb quality Lofo-
ten cod liver oil, of which SCOTT’S Emul-
sion is always made, is full of nourishment;
yet this nourishment would be of little avail
to the sufferer were not the oil made per-
fectly digestible by the original, perfected
SCOTT process. This is why
SCOITS
Emulsion
j s able to stop wasting diseases, rickets and
jpng trouble, when every other form of cod
liver oil and every other cod liver oil
emulsion fail. Therefore, when purchasing,
don t ask for “ Emulsion ; ” ask for and
?et SCOTT’S Emulsion the difference
between them means a cure for you!
bee that the Fishman with the Fish ”is on
he package. Of all Chemists and Dealers
in Medicines.
IRISH
©S' S
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, «**
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
|/~
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
Tbe New Frag'rant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
«S3SP3S
Facsimile 'reduced) of ®oz. tin.
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers:
If you cannot get
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
ZEISS
PALMOS CAMERAS
in all the usual sizes.
Made of
Light Metal.
Fitted with
ZEISS
OBJECTIVES
and Focal
Plane Shutter.
Illustrated Price List c7B Post Free on Application ,
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL DEALERS IN OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS AND FROM:
CARL ZEISS,
JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH
29, Margaret Street,
Regent Street,
London, England.
THE fIOCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Kotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postajre to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price J£l 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc,, 210 QU6611 St., Brisbane
MAKES »e SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
0
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T*n, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A. 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cbeltenham, England.
Agants—Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Qrimwade & Co., Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sealed.
No matter if the way we chose no penances could
e’er make right,
Somewhere, when star to moon-heart glows, we
climbed the way to Heaven last night.
And you leaned down from out the years that,
mocking, had not let us meet,
And with the tenderness of tears set on the road
my anxious feet.
Oh ! there, between the dawn and dark, between
the star-rise and the grey,
Was lit the fervor of a spark no earthly winds can
waft away.
Though we should say good-bye to-day, knowing
we looked last each on each, '
No miles between can steal away the something
that is more than speech.
And should you follow other eyes, find other hands
can fondly cling,
From its low grave the wraith will rise of that
which was no purchased thing;
And if as strangers we must part, bound by no
law, held by no vow,
My fingers leave lon your heart... my seal I
leave upon your brow !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The New Souls.
Against the door that hath no key—
The doorway of the outer pale
Through which no mortal eye may see,
Within the wall that none may scale—
I leaned my ear. Beyond the gate
I heard strange voices in debate.
Strange voices in the dark I heard,
That sighed like some HColian breath ;
At first I could not catch the word
That hovered in the deeps of death —
Where death and new-born life abide
Like dreams, upon the other side.
At last I followed that dim speech ;
An inward understanding woke ;
I heard souls speaking, each to each,
And in dark fear and doubt they spoke;
They were about to enter in
The world, and feared its grip of sin !
“ What body shall I have to guide ? ”
A trembling, tender spirit said,
“ And shall its strength be over-tried
Ere I be free, and it be dead ?
Is it ordained that I shall fall
To endless torments, after all ?”
“ Nay,” said another, “ surely not!
We go from immemorial peace.
No scheme of Justice could allot
A punishment that did not cease,
Whatever our frail garment did
Before they closed its coffin-lid !
“Yet we that walk in human ways,
Though wholly sprung from innocence,
Are doomed to suffer many days
When in the flesh ; both then and thence ;
Set round with changing circumstance,
And made the sorry sports of chance.”
“ I hear, upon the other side,”
A third cried out with subtle pain,
“ The roaring of that pulsing tide
That surges through the human brain ;
Wherein are drowned a thousand creeds ;
And death alone shall end its needs !
“ And we that take our place therein,
And struggle through the mazing round,
Shall not escape some taint of sin;
To erring flesh we shall be bound.
Though strong as ten we yet shall fall,
And go, like weakness, to the wall!”
“Yon life,” another voice replied,
“ Is but a twinkling in the deep—
‘ He woke to consciousness, and died ! ’
Shall sum that nightmare of our sleep.
We there shall some brief moment burn,
Then evermore to sleep return ! ”
And from the door that hath no key—
The doorway of the Outer Pale
Through which no mortal eyes may see,
Within the wall that none may scale—
I drew. The voices passed, to bide
Their time upon the other side.
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Witness.
We sit in the twilight, your head on my knee—
But one whom you know not sits opposite me.
Each tender endearment, each intimate word,
Is known to another—a shadowy third.
She stood by the altar, a witness unseen.
What time you were kneeling where she should
have been ;
And I looked in the eyes of a soul that had fled.
While a judgment was done ’twixt the quick and
the dead.
Though your love may obscure it, the judgment is
plain,
And a love that is greater shall sever us twain.
While the eyes of my lost love accuse nor con-
demn,
I read, as they hold me, her message in them.
I learn till it haunts me the triumph afresh
Of the bride of my soul o’er the wife of my flesh.
“ The spirit accounts not the clay in the shrine ;
For Time thou art hers—for Eternity, mine ! ”
And thus for Earth’s lifetime, whatever if be,
That other you know not sits opposite me.
VIC.
KETTLEDRUM.


WUNDERLICH
• ? METALf^fc
CEI LI NGS
Originated by expert Designers • * «
MODELLED BY FIRST-CLASS ARTISTS
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists •
Erected by competent Tradesmen « •
Decorated by skilled Colorists « « •
Modelled by first-class Artists
skilled in the interpretation of the
Designer's intentions, thus pro-
ducing the excellent modelling
for which our work is famous.
Write for JUustrated Catalogue.
W6e Wunderlich Veiling # Roofing Qoy., jbtd.,
SYDNEY. 58 PITT ST. MELBOURNE: 123 QUEEN ST.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. Director.
Under Vice • Reg'al
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereaph Streets.
TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
gRDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
e 2
un&s
Cocba
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
streng'.himparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures
robust health.
rJoy
of Living
A
'DC?
I
N
RHAMS
DOM
English
Watch es
Prize Awards:- London 1851, Paris 1889,
London 1862, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
SOLD BY
All Jeweli.f.rs
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
3M
e
w
A Miniature
Paint Factory
AN exact reproduction of
a complete paint works
on a small scale —is main-
tained by The -Sherwin-
Williams Co. for the manufacture
of sample batches of all classes of
paint products, and experimental work to even further
improve the quality of Sherwin-Williams Products.
Here are in operation a complete equipment of
Mixers, Grinding Mills and other apparatus which
will make in a small way every kind of product made
in their five factories.
This is but one of the many things done by The
Slierwin-Williams Co. to enable them to produce
goods of such exceptional quality that they have
grown to be the largest manufacturers of Paint and
Varnish Products in the world, as a direct result of
quality. It will pay you to use Sherwin-
\\ illiams Products. There is a special
product for every paint and varnish
requirement.
When you have need for Paint or
Varnish in your Home, Shop, or Factory,
or anything in them, ask your dealer for
Sherwin- Williams.
n
Write to-day for valuable little booklet, “ Who Makes the Best Paints and Varnishes. 1
J. GRAHAM & Son, Wauerly, Sydney, New So
A. Parsons & Co., Wollongong,
D. COPELAND & CO., Wagga Wagga,
Frederick Ash, Ltd., Newcastle,
Charles Regan. Tamworth,
T. J. PHILLIPS, Dubbo,
Bragey's Limited, Lithgow,
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. Morrison, Sydney, New South Wales.
<ew South Wales. John Meagher & Co., Ltd., Temora, New South Wales.
Brooks, RosiNSuN & CO., LTD., Melbourne, Victoria.
1 “ CROOKS & BROOKER, Port Adelaide, South Australia.
" " " COUCHE, Calder & CO., Perth, West Australia.
u ‘ t ” ROONEY & Co., Townsville, Queensland.
tt " G. S. EXTON & Co.. Brisbane, Queensland.
HOCKLEY & CO.. Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. Fred C. Donnison, Loch Box 811, Sydney , New South Wales.
810
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living in it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and yet, our price.
5 Mtxttaal Life Building's, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.-
fttW.
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to Thb Manager.
W.V'v- , ,N-
-ffiNEIROO F INO
wm
FOR AjfilMNlDlS OF
A'!
PWr
:
s
E. RICH £> C 9 LIP Syc/ney & Brisbane


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
VOL. 29.—N0. 1474.
THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1908.
Prick 6d
HALF-MAST.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
MuSgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sending direct to Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tobeaddressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Jlotc to A (Dives* Betters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bulle tin ivould oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods o f address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Entice..
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in lllacle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or icash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London , IV. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street ; Norman ,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
U.S.A. —Jones News Co., New Orleans, Lo.’
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6 fin. x lhin.,
will be fonvarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
77ie
THURSDAY, MAY 14, 1908.
THE STATE DEBTS AND THE FEDERAL
PROPOSALS.
The proposals of Prime Minister Deakin and
Treasurer Lyne for taking over the debts of
the States are the simplest yet put before the
State Premiers, and, on the whole, vastly the
most favorable to the States. George Turner,
looking at the matter just as he would if he were
acting for a client in his plain little family-lawyer’s
office, demanded very much more. “If I take
over the debts,” he said, “what about the security?
Please pass over your railway revenues. I may
not want all of them ; and if I don’t I’ll hand the
balance back to you.” He knew that, acting for
a client, he would be required to do that; and he
knew that the other party wouldn’t think of seri-
ously objecting. Deakin and Lyne, though they
have less reason to trust the State authorities than
George Turner had, stop long before they reach
the point that Turner reached. They ask that,
if a State refuses to pay to the Commonwealth its
proportion of interest and sinking fund, a Council
of Finance shall have power to refuse authority to
that State to borrow for 10 years ; and 10 years’
compulsory absence from the loan market is a fairly
small penalty for default. “ We back your bill,”
says the Commonwealth, “and if you dishonor it
then we require two things—(lj that we shall
have the right to say that you shall not borrow
any more for 10 years ; and (2) that we shall have
the right to put a special tax upon you in order to
get the money in.” No honest State could object
to that; the most amazing thing about the pro-
posal is its moderation.
Boiled down the scheme amounts to this : The
States now have to pay about £8,750,000 a year as
interest. The Commonwealth undertakes to pay
£6,000,000 of that annual liability out of
Customs and other revenue, and requires the
States to undertake to pay the other £2,750,000.
That is for the first five years after the
Braddon clause runs out in 1910. After the
five years the amount payable by the States will
be reduced by one-thirtieth every year; and at
the end of 30 years the States’ indebtedness, so
far as existing debt is concerned, will be abso-
lutely wiped out. The States will go on owning
the railways, the tramways, the waterworks,
and all the other now-existing permanent and
reproductive undertakings, and there won’t be
so much as the shadow of a mortgage on any of
them. In 35 years from the starting of the
scheme the Commonwealth is to take the whole
responsibility on its own shoulders, without any
security whatever—apart from the security it has
under the Constitution in the shape of powers of
taxation. Yet, in order to get clear of debt in
this way, the States are not required, so far as ex-
isting loans are concerned, to pay a sinking fund.
There is to be a sinking fund, but the
Commonwealth is to provide it in two
ways—(l) by paying its own revenue into it,
though the amount is not specified; (2) by
paying into it all savings of interest. Thus
if there is a loan now carrying 3f per cent., and
the Commonwealth converts it into one carrying
3J per cent., the salvaged per cent, will be put
into the sinking fund, which will be invested in
the most suitable Australian public stocks.
* * * *
Up to that point there doesn’t appear to be
much that even a professional grievance-monger
could twist into a wrong to the States. Yet it is
grumbled that the Commonwealth ought to under-
take to pay more than £6,000,000, and thus make
less demand on the States. G. Reid and others
point out what an awful discrepancy there is
between the £6,000,000 and the three-fourths of
the revenue to which the States are entitled
under the Braddon “Blot.” Certainly
there is a discrepancy; last year the three-
fourths amounted to £7,037,573. “We ought
to have that much paid for us,” say some of
the State Premiers —“anyhow, £7,000,000.” In
other words, the Commonwealth should enter
into an undertaking which would most likely pre-
vent it doing any more in the future than it has
done in the past. There are the transcontinental
railways to be built; there is the Asiatic peril
threatening, and a large outlay on Defence is im-
perative (and the Commonwealth alone has the
power to carry out Defence preparations); there
are the State Premiers themselves clamoring for
more lighthouses ; there is a Federal old-age
pension system crying for establishment; there is
a persistent State-frights demand for more postal
accommodation —and in the face of all that
the demand is made upon the Commonwealth
that it shall undertake to pay in interest on the
State debts practically the full amount to which
the States were entitled last year under the
Braddon “Blot.” That “Blot” was useful to
tide the States over the early years of Federation.
Two things were realised —one, that in the early
years of Federation the Commonwealth’s activi-
ties would be limited, and it would only enter
upon its complete work by degrees, wherefore it
wouldn’t at first want as much money as it would
later on ; the other, that the States would be doing
some work which they would be relieved of
later, and that, anyhow, it would take some
little time to make the financial adjustments
rendered necessary by the loss of the Cus-
toms. So the Braddon “ Blot ” was a
temporary convenience. The Commonwealth
practically offers to extend that temporary con-
venience for 35 years—a convenience that it is not
bound to extend for one day. It says that, in
spite of the imperative demand for a large
Defence, railway, pension, and other expenditure,
it will hand over to the States (or to the States’
creditors, which amounts to the same thing)
£6,000,000 a year for the first five years, and there-
after something more; and, beyond all that, it
will pay contributions into a sinking fund to
extinguish, not the Commonwealth’s, but the
States’ debts. Yet the Commonwealth, which
proposes to do all that, is accused of making a
niggardly offer to the States !
• • * *
The one tolerable argument used by those who
say that the Commonwealth’s offer in this respect
isn’t good enough is that m years to come the
Commonwealth revenue from Customs may be
enormously larger than it is to-day ; in 35 years, it
is suggested, the population may be twice what it is
to-day. But no enormous increase of Common-
wealth revenue—especially Customs revenue —is
likely even with increased population. Australia
has adopted Protection, and effective Protection
means reduced Customs revenue. In the United
States the Customs collections amount annually to
less than four dollars (19s. 4d.) a head; and for
the present the Commonwealth proposes to pay
the States no less than 30s. a head, besides pro-
viding a sinking fund to wipe out the States’ debts.
And, anyhow, supposing the Commonwealth,
after paying £6,000,000 or upwards on behalf of
the States, and after providing sinking fund,
and after building transcontinental railways, and
carrying out Defence schemes, and relieving the
States of the payment of old-age pensions, and
providing the extra lighthouses that the State
Premiers demand, and undertaking quarantine
and other obligations—supposing, after doing all
these things, that it has something left over, the
States may reasonably assume that the Common-
wealth won’t burn its own people’s money. Last
year all that the States had a right to under the
Braddon clause was £7,037,573. The Common-
wealth had something over, and actually paid
£7,845,574 to the States. From the beginning of
things the States had a right to £43,191,357 ; the
Commonwealth has actually paid them £48,919,706.
Out of the difference—£s,72B,349 —State Govern-
ments have made their surpluses, and State
Treasurers have made their haloes ; and all the
time they have snapped at the hand which has
been voluntarily providing the money.
Then there is the matter of future loans ; and it
is at this point that the State Frighters collapse
into a shapeless heap, overcome with the awful-
ness of the proposal. Nevertheless, the unmen-
tionable thing which Deakin and Lyne propose
is so mild that there isn’t a sane banker or other
money-lender in the country who, during business
hours, wouldn’t reject it with the laugh of
scorn on the ground of utter inadequacy.
“ If I’m going to take over your debt,” every
banker would say, “I must have command over
your future borrowings—unless you hand over to
me ample security for my loan.” In other
words, so far as the States are concerned,
the railways, the waterworks, the public build-
ings, and the unsold lands —a great proportion of
the lands, anyway. That would be the ordinary
business proposition. The Commonwealth doesn’t,
however, ask for anything of the sort. It doesn’t
even ask for the right to restrict further borrow-
ing except in the one event of a State’s default in
payment of its small direct contribution towards
the interest on debts taken over by the Common-
wealth. All it does require is the appointment
of an expert Council of Finance, which is to
fix the order in which loans are to be raised so as
to prevent clashing. Further, if it thinks that in
any one year the States want more loans than
Cohen is likely to stand, the Council of Finance is
to be empowered to settle, in consultation with the
State Treasurers, the proportion to be raised by
each individual State. A State may propose to
spend a loan in any wild-cat scheme that its
Ministers may conceive, and the Council of
Finance will have no say in the matter. No
State Treasurer’s cat can be so wild as to justify
the Council’s interference. It will have other
duties—the care of the sinking fund, for instance
—but so far as the flotation of new loans is con-
cerned, it is about the mildest sort of a check that
could be conceived. The idea carries all over it
the brand of Alfred Deakin’s own excessive
affability. Notwithstanding all that, N.S.W.
State Premier Wade says he can hardly trust
himself to speak, and Waddell says the scheme
is a ravening tiger, and the Sydney Telegraph
shrieked wildly about “a State-strangulation
scheme ” before it knew for certain what the
scheme was.
«■*■*■*
Just at that point it is interesting to pull off
the track for a minute and consider the Local
Government Act passed in 1906, on the strength
of which the Wade-Telegraph crowd asks N. S.
Wales to regard it as possessing something special
in the way of statesmanship. That Act, which
professed to extend local government so tre-
mendously that even the land tax was handed
over to the local governing bodies, binds these
local bodies to borrow no more than 10 per cent,
of the unimproved capital value of their ratable
lands. If a body wants its loan guaranteed by
the State, it must apply to the Treasurer, who may
absolutely refuse the guarantee, which means, in
practice, that he may block the loan. If a local
governing body wants a temporary loan, it has to
apply to the State Government for permission to
borrow, and it is barred from borrowing until
consent has been obtained. If a local governing
body defaults, the State may simply put in
an administrator, or receiver, or bailiff. The
position of the State in relation to these
bodies is just about the same as that of the
Commonwealth in relation to the States; and
when Wade and the Telegraph are the Federal
authority, that is the sort of agreement which
they reckon is necessary. Just how speechless
Wade would have been if Deakin and Lyne had
proposed anything of the sort, Heaven only
knows.
* * * *
There is one feature in this excessively affable
scheme which is so good that naturally the State
Frighters allude to it as impossible. DeaklN and
Lyne propose, in effect, that the States shall be
honest with regard to future loans to the extent
of a \ per cent, sinking fund. This very gradual
repayment horrifies certain State politicians who
have, so far, only borrowed and “blewed,” and
thrown the bill into the cradle for the baby to
wrestle with by-and-bye. The Commonwealth
must, however, insist upon a sinking fund. If it
doesn’t do that, is mighty little advantage
in taking over the existing debts; for the present
position will simply be repeated a few years
hence. And a few years hence the chances are
that the very existence of white men’s govern-
ment in Australia will be threatened, and when
that happens the Commonwealth will have to
borrow—practically no country can carry on
modern war without borrowing. For that
reason the Commonwealth is vitally interested
in seeing that the limit of Australia’s bor-
rowing power is not l-eached in time of peace.
In their struggle to meet the snapping,
snarling State-Frighters more than half-way,
it is very doubtful whether Deakin and Lyne
have safeguarded Australia sufficiently in that
matter; but the \ per cent, sinking fund is some-
thing, and that, anyhow, they must insist upon.
THE GUN THAT WAS LOADED.
One day last week Australian Treasurer William
Lyne propounded to the State Premiers his idea
of how the Customs and Excise revenue should be
disposed of after the Braddon clause ceases to be
mandatory, and the Sydney Telegraph stated
that the proposal had struck the State Premiers
with “consternation.” Lyne’s suggestions look
amazingly liberal, especially when the circum-
stances are considered ; still they won’t leave the
State Governments quite so well off as they are
now, and therefore they have made the Tele-
graph very mad indeed. Just about here it
seems to be up to that beautiful paper to look
back a few years, and remember how these pro-
posals came about, and how this “ consternation ”
arrived, and how the whole situation originated.
It is now 14 years since Premier George Reid,
of N.S.W., a politician who shifted with every
wind, and whose doings were as unaccount-
able as the banquets of an insane Roman
emperor, changed suddenly from a violent anti-
Federalist to an enthusiastic Eederationist, and
called together the conference that started the
latest Federal movement. As a result, certain
things were agreed upon. There was to be a
Federal Convention elected by the people; the
Convention was to draw up a Constitution; the
Constitution was to be submitted to a popular
rote ; and in N.S.W. it was to be accepted if the
voters gave a majority in its favor and if the
affirmative vote counted not less than 50,000
suffrages. The Convention was held and the Con-
stitution was drafted. But while all the other
States kept on the straight track, the N.S.W. Par-
liament, without any very active opposition from
Reid, who had broken out in one of his unaccount-
able new places, like the deranged but magnificent
Roman potentate who suddenly wanted boiled
lion for his banquet and wouldn’t be happy unless
he got it, did a curious act of treachery. It
passed a law whereby the Federal Constitution
would not be accepted in N.S.W. unless there was
a majority in its favor and at least 80,000 affirm-
ative votes. The Act would not have been passed
if Premier Reid had staked the existence of his
Government on the keeping of faith with the
other States, but Reid did nothing of the kind.
After asking the other States to join N.S.W. in a
Federal union, and voluntarily entering into an
agreement with them, he broke it as if it were a
joke. And the Sydney daily press supported
Reid in those days, and boomed him as a sort of
Heaven-born statesman, when he was merely a
jester or a clown, fooling round the engine-room
and turning handles at random to see if the boiler
would burst.
The Federal Convention, consisting mostly of
serious men, drafted a Constitution. One clause
of that Constitution —the famous Braddon clause,
which was then called, by the Sydney daily
press, the Braddon Blot—provided that, until the
Constitution was amended, the States should have
a permanent claim upon three-fourths of the
Customs and Excise revenue. The money was
either to be paid to the State Governments or
applied to the service of State debts taken over by
the Commonwealth. That clause put the State
Governments in a position of magnificent affluence.
But there was George Reid in the way— George
Reid the irresponsible, the performing bear and
dancing dervish of politics, the individual who
unaccountably built an edifice to-day and un-
accountably burned it to-morrow. Reid had not
cut the figure he might have done at the Federal
Convention. He looked rather like a side issue
and almost like a back number. And, in his own
words, he “liked to be top dog.” Therefore,
it was clearly up to Reid to demonstrate
that there could be no Federal Constitution
unless it was such as he pleased, and he was due
to pose as the god in the car generally. Reid
stormed the country with speeches in denunciation
of the Braddon clause, which provided that, until
the Constitution was altered, three-fourths of the
Customs and Excise revenue should be secured to
the State Governments. He called it a Blot.
Certain servile Sydney dailies, which had a wild
idea that Reid could do no wrong, and that
N.S.W. was vindicating its position and import-
ance by being nasty and insulting to the other
States, backed Reid up, and also hollered about
the Blot. When the figures went up the original
Constitution was accepted in every State where a
referendum was held, but as the affirmative vote
in N.S.W. numbered only about 72,000, and as
the breach of faith which the N.S.W. Parliament
had perpetrated on the other States required an
affirmative vote of at least 80,000, the Bill was
technically lost in N.S.W., and all the work done
was wasted.
» * * «
At this stage of the proceedings, it was plainly
time for George Reid, the person who upset the
affairs of a whole continent for no apparent reason
save to show that he was top dog, to do some-
thing. In spite of all his efforts, the people had
given a majority for the acceptance of the Con-
stitution. That majority had been nullified and
cancelled by the N.S.W. Parliament, but
it was a large and angry majority, and
unless George Reid got back suddenly from
anti-Federalism to Federalism it was bound
to make an end of him at next State
election. The only thing to be done was to get
some alteration—any old alteration made
in the Constitution which would excuse
a change of front, and enable Reid to say
that this was a different Bill, a new and im-
proved Bill, the sort of Bill that G. Reid could
conscientiously support. So there was, at Reid’s
invitation, a hurried and scrambling conference of
State Premiers, and sundry alterations were made
in the Constitution drawn up by the people’s
representatives. One of them was to the effect
that the Braddon clause was to last for only ten
years, and as nothing was devised to fill its place
after that period the Australian Parliament could,
if it chose, retain every penny of the Customs and
Excise revenue, while leaving the State Govern-
ments all their debts, and thus compel the States
to levy an income tax of about ss. in the £, and
a land-tax to correspond, the alternative being
blank insolvency. George Reid came back, with
a large smile on his countenance, from the Con-
ference at which he had driven the other Premiers
to accept this proposition. He would probably
have come back with the same smile if
he had got a clause inserted to provide
that the Governor-General should open the first
Parliament with a comic song. He assured the
people of N.S.W. that the Bill was now all right,
and that it might be supported with enthusiasm.
He had found his excuse for getting round the
corner, and changing from Anti-Bill to Pro-Bill.
He also had the satisfaction of posingas top-dog—as
the overwhelming individual who had taken the
job in hand and put everything right, after the
elected representatives of six States had only suc-
ceeded in putting everything wrong. And so
much were the N.S.W. people obsessed with the
belief in Reid which the Sydney daily papers had
preached to them as a gospel, that quite a large
section took the absurd person at his own valua-
tion.
* * * *
And now the Sydney Telegraph, which poli
tically created, or largely helped to create, the
crazy political jester Reid, says that the State
Premiers are struck with consternation at
William Lyne’s proposals for the division of the
Customs and Excise revenue after the Braddon
clause (formerly Blot) ceases to be mandatory.
If they are so struck, they should devote them .
selves to denunciations of Reid, the muddler, the
man who couldn’t leave things alone, the indivi-
dual who must show his little importance by
painting the building bright green with red stripes
when there was no need to do it, the consequen-
tial person who insisted on striking an attitude as
the god in the car when there wasn’t any car, and
who would pose as the Party Who Did It
All. If it hadn’t been for Reid, the State
Premiers could have, to a great extent, made their
own terms with William Lyne. They would
have had a lien on three-fourths of the tariff
revenue, and could have fixed their own price,
within any reasonable limits, for giving it up.
Thanks to Reid, the Commonwealth Government
need not give the State Governments a penny,
and William Lyne’s offer is wildly munificent
under the circumstances. But though, thanks to
the liberality of the Deakin Government, the
results of Reid’s very poor joke are not serious,
they might have been very astonishing indeed.
One moral is that it sometimes pays to be politi-
cally honest, quaint as the proposition may seem
to the Reid variety of politician. Anotheris that
it requires some brains to be politically dishonest
with advantage. N.S.W. should paste both facts
in its hat. It has now got another weird specimen
of a State Premier who, in the matter of the Aus-
tralian capital, wants to break faith with the
Commonwealth even as Reid broke faith with tne
other States. If he succeeds, this gun may also
prove to be loaded. There have been quite a lot
of gun accidents of late.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Our Honest Federal Government.
The scheme propounded by Treasurer Lyne for
the transfer to the Commonwealth of the State
debts is a good scheme all round, and it embodies
one feature so especially and magnificently good
that, if the whole Australian nation arose and
cheered till its voice ga.ve out and it had to retire
for refreshment, it would still have done the case
scant justice. The Australian Government lias
come forward as the first —the one and only—
Government this continent has seen which has a
definite purpose for getting Australia out of debt.
So far the Commonwealth has borrowed nothiW,
and the rarity of that good deed has been like the
spectacle of a just man in Sodom or a telephone
in Gomorrah. It has done very extensive
works—such works as the States have always
charged to loans —and has paid for them
wholly out of revenue ; and the daily papers have
looked at the post and telegraph returns, an
compared the cost of management, maintenance,
and new works under Federal control with the
cost of management and part of the maintenance
only 7 under State control, and they have sboute
“ Federal extravagance ! ” for as much as three
hours at a stretch. If the Australian Parliamen
is ever compelled to borrow (which Heaven tor-
fend !) it is certain that its loans will have a large
sinking fund attached for their extinction. As
regards the £245,000,000 or so of State debts whicn
it is proposed to take over (the States have been
piling up liabilities in a fearsome manner of late,
the debt was only £203,000,000 in 1901), the
Commonwealth is solemnly pledged by ®
Deakin-Lyne scheme to create a sinking


fund, and start the immediate repayment
of the gigantic liability. And, according
to the scheme, all new State borrowings are to
have a sinking fund attached, and the Council of
Finance is to overhaul that sinking fund and make
sure that it is really there. In short, under the
DeaKIN-Lyne method there will be no debt—State
or Federal —in all Australia which won't be in
steady process of repayment all the time. Con-
sidering the ghastly profligacy of State Govern-
ments past and present, this idea amounts to a
revolution. It is the biggest reform that Aus-
tralia has yet attempted. And Australia owes
the idea solely to the Commonwealth. The begin-
ning of Federation brought together in one Par-
liament most of the few honest capable men who
had previously been scattered among the
State Legislatures. They were an infinitesimal
honest minority in the six State pandemo-
niums, and so did little good; but when
(UoSt of them were brought together in
one Parliament they were sufficient to make an
honest majority, and to start cleaning things up.
Of course, the State Treasurers object to be
cleaned up, and their language is the language of
the sow that heard it was going to be washed—or
even worse language than that. But Australia
will appreciate the Dkakin-Lyne financial pro-
gramme, as soon as the dizzy feeling wears off and
the world ceases turning round. It is a very
dizzy sensation at present; when Australia
learned that it had an honest Government which
definitely purposed paying off the country's
£245,000,000 of debt, it got the same shock that a
pauper does when he hears that his uncle has left
him £3,000,000. But that will wear off, and,
meanwhile, the great bulk of the community cares
nothing at all for the shrieks of the hogs who
thiiric they are going to be washed.
—— ♦ —
Australian Defence: A Sane British View
In the next number of The Call, the official organ
of the National Defence League, will be published
an article by the military correspondent of the
London Times (who is the highest journalistic-
military authority in Great Britain) on the defence
of Australia. The Bulletin is indebted to the
courtesy of the editor of The Call for the right
to make the following extracts in advance from
what is a remarkably able review of the case for
Australian Defence :
In considering external dangers it is the part of states-
manship to regard all Powers as potential enemies, no
matter what their present attitude. History shows that
international alliances and friendships only endure tor so
long as the interests of allies and triends coincide. An
Army takes twenty years to create, and a Navy half a
century. It is too late to create armed force when a
crisis comes. . . .
Australia has hitherto relied, and she relies still, upon
the protection of the British Navy. But the pressure of
foreign naval competition has compelled us to concentrate
our armored fleets at home. We no longer maintain
quasi-permanently an armored fleet in the Pacific, and it
is uncertain whether we shall be able to do so again. Our
main battle-fleets —exclusive of the Mediterranean fleet,
which, if it be removed, must be replaced—are 11,257
miles from Sidney by the Suez route, 12,500 miles by the
Uape route, and 12,250 miles by Panama when the canal
is opened. Allowing an average and continuous sea-speed
of 12 knots lor a battle-fleet traversing such distances —
an average which would scarcely be maintained in prac-
tice —our battle-fleets, provided all preparations for coal-
ing and supply were made beforehand, would take 39
days to steam to Sydney from Plymouth by the quickest
route, and 47 days by the two other routes. But Sydney
is 22 days’ steaming at the same speed from San Francisco ;
15 days from Yokohama ; and 10 days from Shanghai.
Suppose an attack from one of these ports upon Sydney,
and allow that our fleets and those of the enemy start
simultaneously, Sydney would have the enemy at its
doors and on its hands for 17, 24 and 29 days respectively
before the British navy came in. The time might be
much longer. It could scarcely be less. Australian trade
on the high seas and round the coasts would, equally
with Australian interests ashore, be in peril for that time
provided, of course, that the enemy’s force is superior to
that of our Eastern fleet at the time. . . .
The enforced concentration of Britisli battle-fleets in
home waters has radically altered the situation of Aus-
tralia in war, and has seriously altered it for the worse.
When, therefore, Australians are asked, as I judge from a
speech by Mr. Reid that they are asked, to be confident
that their greatest danger is a raiding attack by a few
unartnored cruisers and a landing by 1000 men, 1 think
that the enemy is credited with a degree of forbearance,
and a capacity for sauntering, on which you cannot
count. ...
There is only one means by which Australia can
remain secure, and that is by making herself so strong
that the temptation to attack her may be removed. The
best defence of nations is attack, and an insular State
cannot attack without naval force. Consequently it is
the duty, as it appears to be the wish, of Australia to
create this force, if the naval power of the mother coun-
try does not, or may not in the future, completely cover
Australia as with a shield. The idea that m an Empire
of 40b millions of people, occupying 11 million square
miles of territory, the cradle of sea-power rests exclu-
sively in certain islands containing 44 million people and
measuring 122,000 square miles, is not a proposition that
can easily be demonstrated. I should rather say that 50
years hence the predominance of the British flag in
distant seas is not conceivable unless the self-governing
colonies begin at once to lay the foundations of their
future navies.
It will be by means of the gradual creation of an Aus-
tralian Navy, closely linked to that of the Motherland in
sympathy, tradition, and training, that, in my opinion,
Australia will best serve herself and the Empire ; and it
will only be when this Navy exists that Australia can pass
to the attack in war without help from home. But to
insure liberty of action to such attack, and to render the
home territory secure, whether now or eventually, the
Australian people must be armed. It will be 50 years
before an Australian Navy will seriously count in world-
politics, and during that time Australia must lay herself
out to create such defensive power for herself that she
will be uninviting to attack. It is not until the defen-
sive armor of a people at home is forged and riveted on
that they can pass to the attack and safely' transfer the
operations of war, and consequently its terrors and its
evils, to an enemy’s waters and territory. . . .
How can this defensive armor be best provided ?
There are three courses open to Australia. First, to
lean on support from England ; secondly, to improve the
existing militia and raise its numbers ; and, thirdly', to
create an armed Australia by means of universal training.
The first course alters nothing. It leaves Australia de-
pendent upon that blind god chance, and allows a mem-
ber of the British Parliament to ask why a wealthy'
community like Australia allows its defence to be paid
for by the starving peasantry of Connemara. , . . I
remain profoundly convinced that Mr. Deakin’s
solution is the right one. I believe that an
island continent like Australia requires very large
numbers for its defence ; that these numbers must
be found, and that only the Deakin principle can provide
them ; that the increase of your existing Militia to 40,000
men will do little more, when you closely examine the
question, than provide those obligatory and sedentary
garrisons of which Australia has peculiar need owing to
the exposure of her vitals upon the coast ; that in these
days an army must he national or nothing ; that the
defence of a State is the business not of a Government or
of a class, but of the people and of all the people ; that all
or most of the things demanded by the advocates of the
second course can be grafted upon the Deakin plan in
time and season ; and, finally, that an enemy who will not
hesitate to attack you if you adopt one of the first two
courses, will not dare to do so if you adopt the third and
Pursue it in a conscientious and tenacious manner.
All honor to Mr. Deakin for his great initiative ! And
all honor to Australia if she leads the British World, and
takes a step which will not only—as nothing else can —
make a White Australia practical politics, but will also
•hr the pulse and prompt the imagination of Anglo-
baxons far and near.
, ♦
State Insects and Federal Finance.
The shameful and almost incredible lack of
patriotism of certain State Premiers in their deal-
lnffs with the proposed transfer of the public debts
should make Australia blush to think that it ever
put such cattle into office. This is the situation
n a fairly condensed form :
(1) Last year the Commonwealth paid the State Govern-
ments £7,345,574.
(2) The State Governments were only entitled, under
the Braddon clause, to £7,037,573, but the Common-
wealth gave them £BOB,OOl over. It got no thanks for
this—only curses.
(3) After 1910 the Commonwealth isn’t bound to pay
the State Governments anything at all.
(4) But it offers, for the first five years, to pay the State
Governments £6,000,000 a year ; to relieve them of their
present sinking fund expenditure ; to relieve N.S.W. and
Victoria of about £700,000 a year which they now pay in
old-age pensions by making old-age pensions a Federal
charge ; and to save Queensland, Tasmania, S.A. and
Westralia the otherwise inevitable outlay for old-age pen-
sions in the future. Also the Commonwealth offers that,
after the first five years, it will increase the direct subsidy
to the State Governments by about £91,000 each year
till it reaches £8,750,000 and stands at that. (These
sums are -not to be paid to the State Governments in
cash, but will be handed as interest to the States'
creditors, which comes to the same thing.)
(5) So the final result is that the State Governments
will get £8,750,000 a year, and will be saved a million or
more in old-age pensions, making about £9,750,000
instead of the £7,845,574 they received last year. Also
they will be saved an indefinite amount in sinking fund
payments.
(6) The actual temporary reduction in payments to the
States, allowing for old-age pension and sinking
fund outlays that the States will save, will be
less than £BOO,OOO as compared with last year.
The Commonwealth, as everybody' knows, wants
this money badly. It has two transcontinental railways
to build, an adequate defence system to provide, the
Northern Territory' to open up and settle, and other big
things to do for the good of Australia.
(7) And most of the States, by their own showing, don’t
want the money, and can perfectly' well spare it. They
are mostly boasting of big surpluses. N.S.W. has knocked
off £600,000 a year of taxation—most of it was knocked
off the rich ; and it claims that it will have a surplus of
£1,000,000 even after that. It will no longer have any
need of surpluses to pay off its debt with, for the Aus-
tralian Parliament is going to take over its debt. All it
wants surplus revenue for now is to build public works
with, and if it likes to restore the recentl.v-abolished
stanqi duties, it can, on last year’s figures, have about
£600,000 or £BOO,OOO a year clear for that purpose.
That is how matters stand, and, on the face of
things, the cantankerous State Insects should have
gone down on their knees to old Bill Lyne in
thankfuless for his liberality. But they are only'
Insects, and they must needs act Insect fashion.
Twaddell of N.S.W. expounded the State In-
sect position, and his pronouncement is to the
effect that the State Insects want two things : (1)
Unlimited borrowing powers, and (2) a share in
all future increase in Customs and Excise receipts.
Formerly they clamored for “fixed payments,”
so that they would know where they were ; now
they are offered fixed payments and they want
unfixed payments. That is to say, they want to
be partly fixed and partly unfixed ; they ask that
they shall never get less than the amount now
offered and that they may get any amount more.
The States get, under present arrangements, not
merely a share in any increase in railways,
lands, land-tax, and income-tax revenue, but they
get the whole increase under those headings, and
they want to grab a share in any increase of Tariff
revenue also, and to stand no share of any de-
crease. They want to leave the Commonwealth
with practically no prospective expansion of
revenue at all—with no money to provide
for the naval and military defences which
are absolutely necessary to the existence
of Australia, especially now that this country has
received so many broad hints that it must no
longer rely on Britain for its defences—for the
transcontinental railways, which are essential both
for defence and for settlement—for anything at
all, in fact. Deliberately they propose, as far as
they can, to cripple Australia, and to render it
helpless and defenceless, by grabbing money
which they don’t require, and leaving the Govern-
ment which has to provide for the country’s
security as nearly as possible a beggar.
Some of the State Insect proposals were
incredible in their audacity. One State person
suggested that the Commonwealth should guaran-
tee the States a subsidy of £7,000,000 a year
(about 355. per head) on the present population,
and 30s. per head per annum on all increase of
population. Under this scheme, when the popu-
lation reached 10,200,000, the Australian Govern-
ment, before it could find a copper to pay for
army, navy, civil service and all other charges,
would have to find £16,000,000 a year for the
States. The chances are that by that time, owing
to the replacement of imports by manufactures,
the whole tariff revenue won’t exceed the amount
which this State person demanded in perpetuity.
He practically wanted the lot and something more
besides.
“I Accuse.”
Dr. Richard Arthur, M.L.A (of Sydney),
formulates his charges :
I accuse the people of Australia of the blindest and
most insensate folly that a nation was ever guilty of.
Though over them is suspended the possibility—nay, the
probability—of an unspeakable fate, they avert their eyes,
as they laugh and play, lest some shadow of the future
cloud the delight of the moment.
I accuse the manhood of Australia of an incredible
denial of their first and most claihant duty—the duty to
make sacrifice of their pleasures, and give themselves to
the defence of their country. In season and out, they will
lavjsh their time, their money and what brains they have
on some trivial pastime, while the call to arms leaves
them cold and undisturbed.
I accuse the Parliament of Australia of an absolute in-
capacity to grasp and grapple with the stupendous prob-
lems that erv for solution to those who are the rulers of
the Commonwealth. For three long years the writing
has been on the wall for the dullest to read, and the
weapons of Australia —the army, the navy and the in-
creased garrison—yet await to be forged.
I accuse the State Governments of Australia of a callous
and purblind indifference to their chiefest function, the
making-ready and filling-up of the empty lands of Aus-
tralia. Called to great tasks of constructive statesman-
ship, they are content with the struggle for power and
the politics of the parish pump,
I accuse the Labor organisations of Australia, in their
opposition to compulsory defence and immigration, of an
astounding short-sightedness and ignorance of history
which will bear their fruit of bitterness and mad regret in
the lives of some now liviug. It seems impossible for
them to realise that it will be themselves and their child-
ren who will bear the brunt of the murderous competi-
tion that will arise when Australia has to open its gates
to Asia.
I accuse the possible parents of Australia of placing
deliberately their individual pleasuie before the future
welfare of the race, and of that shirking of their duty
which for Australia means the doom reserved through all
the ages for those people that have ceased to multiply.
For, at the present rate of increase, the population of
Australia will not have doubled till 1955.
I accuse the press of Australia of a pandering to the
idolatry of sport, and the lust for sensation, and of a
faint-hearted and infrequent warning of the people as to
the dangers of the days to Come. And yet they are the
teachers and the preachers of the present generation, and
forth from them should go without ceasing the cry to
awake, to garrison, to arm !
I accuse the great landowners of Australia of a lack of
patriotism and a cynical oblivion of the future that will
make posterity execrate their memories. Those who
keep sheep on broad acres where men might he, and call
consistently for “couples with no encumbrances,” are
each and all the veriest traitors to their country.
I accuse those who would undermine the doctrine of a
White Australia of the most pernicious and damnable
heresy. This is a sin against the people for which there
can be no forgiveness.
Finally —
I accuse the people of Australia of the levity of
Babylon when Cyrus lay beneath its walls; of' the
paralysis of Carthage when the Roman Senate had pro-
nounced its doom ; of the indifference of Rome though
the Barbarians were across the Alps ; of the heedlessness
of Poland when the wolves on its frontiers gathered from
every side ; of the imbecility of Paris when, rotten to the
core, its people shrieked “ & Berlin.” And with heavy
heart I see no other fate for them than that of the nation
which lives only for the day and takes no thought of the
morrow.
The Lamentations over the Few and the
Placid Ignoring of the Many.
Australia, and especially Victoria, stood aghast
lately over a sudden calamity that caused the loss
of 44 lives and partially wrecked a hundred or so
others. Further, Victoria had no sooner got over
the shock than it set about finding the reason of
the trouble, and taking all sorts of precautions
that the disaster should not be repeated. Yet
the same State that thus rightly mourns the loss
of 44 lives, annually sacrifices, in Greater Mel-
bourne alone, 700 lives without taking any steps
to stop the slaughter. The railway disaster,
costing 44 lives, was casual, non-recurrent, and
accidental; the other, which is regular, sure,
and the result of wilful neglect, wipes out
700 Australians, not once in many years, but
every year. On the Thursday after the Sunshine
smash, Ur. A. Jeffreys Wood told his Austral
Salon audience that, out of 2537 infants under one
year old, who died in Melbourne and suburbsin 1906,
no less than 700 were victims of “diseases which
resulted from changes in milk caused by heat and
staleness”; that is to say, the big city lost 700
lives that year because of a defective milk supply.
And not in Melbourne only ! The death-rate per
1000 of infants during the last five years
stands thus: Westralia, 122 ; Victoria, 94 ; Ma, 93 ;
Tas., 90; Q., 89 ; S.A., 82; and Maoriland, 73.
Note the high rate recorded in the Western State,
where fresh milk is scarce and the tinned abomi-
nation obtains. Further, to drive the lesson home.
Dr. Wood quoted the statistician’s record of the
infan tile death-rate in Melbourne (113 ’5 per 1000) as
against that for the rest of the State (79’2 per 1000).
Roughly the figures mean that Australia, every
vear, and not merely once in a decade or
more, loses some 4000 lives which it might
easily save. There are no columns of de-
scription of the deaths of these 4000 ; no
photographs of the scenes of their demise; no
searching inquiries into the why and wherefore;
no sympathetic messages from Governors and
elevated cattle generally. They just slip off the
stocks, so to speak, and are put- underground ;
and the milkman calls at one house no more, but
hunts up another where there is a new baby, and
purveys his overheated and stale liquid there,
till the new victim also joins the 700. Dr. Wood
not only diagnosed the disease, he also suggested a
remedy. He pointed to the infants’ mijk depots
that exist in parts of America, of England, and of
France as means of saving infant life'. These
depdts are municipal undertakings, where pure ,
fresh milk, not stale, preserved, adulterated fluid
masquerading under the name of milk s is sold. If
Australia is to make any honest attempt to save
these 4000 lives annually flung away, it must
establish such depots. The chances are, indeed,
that it may have to make their use compulsory,
wiping out the private milk-dealer altogether ; for
as long as that person exists, there will be ill-
regulated persons who will patronise him ; and
when the baby dies, these persons will put it down,
as they do now, to the act of God, or anything
else in the world except th areal cause—the milk
supply.
A Plan that Won’t Work.
“ F.C.” writes, with a great deal of truth :
If the Commonwealth Conference of Political Labor
Leagues, which sits in Brisbane in June next, hopes to do
any good for the party generally, it will have to take a
much w'ider and more workable view of some of the
proposals that will come before it than has been its habit
hitherto. Among concrete practical proposals, which,
however, are not to be settled merely by the passing of
resolutions, are such as the amendment of the Constitu-
tion to provide for uniform industrial legislation, a pro-
gressive tax on land values, and the adequate inspection of
shipping in Australian waters. Other items that the
Conference will be asked to accept are the Deakin Defence
scheme, the Commonwealth ownership of the railways,
elective Ministries, the abolition of the Braddon clause,
more stringent administration of the Immigration laws,
and a Commonwealth Bank. It is a very pretty pro-
gramme, and, if the Labor party had a good working
majority in the Australian Parliament, a large part of it
might be carried out in a mere handful of years.
But it looks—it looks—very much as if the Labor
Leagues don’t really want to see it carried out, for
another proposal before the said Conference is that “ no
alliance or coalition be permissible for the Federal Labor
party with any other party, and, pending the arrival of
elective Ministries, no member of the party shall accept
a portfolio in other than a purely Labor Ministry.” As
parties are at present, in the Federal Parliament, equally
with the State Legislatures, the acceptance of that pro-
posal means paralysis. The men who advance that reso-
lution know well that in no House in Australia has the
party on absolute majority ; they are not willing to make
a working and workable agreement with the party nearest
to them, which would go a long' way with them on
the road they have mapped out; they apparently
want all the rights and all the privileges they
can get, yet are unwilling to accept their re-
sponsibilities. It won’t work! The party can do
nothing positive u til it gets a majority—and what hope
has it of getting that majority while it declares its inten-
tion of holding itself aloof, and thus sacrifices the chance
to carry out part of its policy and the advertisement and
kudos it would thereby gain ? The Leagues have before
them the evidence of what Ballancb, Seddon, Kingston,
Price, Deakin and others have accomplished with the aid
of the various Labor parties, unreliable though that aid
has often been ; they know'that the same impracticability
that this proposal accentuates has already served to
baulk Watson and drive him from politics, and is hamper-
ing Fisher to-day ; yet, when there is a certain half-loaf
in front of them, and a very good prospect of the whole
quartern presently,, they refuse the half. Well, the
lesson will doubtless be learned in time, but some people
make very dull scholars.
Concerning an Act and a Partially
Somnolent Politician.
Towards the end of 1906 the Bent Government
formulated, and finally passed in haste, the
Amended Gaming Act. It was a distinctly urgent
measure, necessitated by the growing influence of
Tote-Boss Wren, whose rigi me was assuming the
respectable proportions of a satrapy. Gambling
then, just as it is now, was, for economic and
social reasons, an evil. Two-up and hazard-
schools flourished exceedingly ; indeed, the state
of things generally in Melbourne was, for a
period, iniquitous. As far as it went, Bent’s
Act was drastic enough—so long as it was
respected. And it must be said that, in the first
few months, it was fairly well enforced. The
facilities for betting outside a racecourse were, if
not altogether suppressed, at least severely
limited. The parasitical hazard joss retired into
obscurity with his inelegant crew, while citizen
Wren evacuated his notorious tote. That wasinthe
early part of 1907. Latterly, however, there has
been growing up a feeling of indifference, as if the
Gaming Act were about as negligible as a
worm. Street-betting is spreading; a vigorous
hazard school is stated to be in full swing
in the very heart of the city; and intima-
tions of “open betting,’’ despite the fact that
their publication is an offence, are dreadfully com-
mon. Such are pasted upon the interiors or ex-
teriors of pubs, or else cheekily advertised in the
daily papers, as they were like this on 24th April
last :
TO-NIGHT,
Good Sport, Well Conducted.
Flemington Running Grounds.
Sheffield Half-mile and Youths.
£25 Prizes £25
100 Entries 100
25 Events. Five in a Heat.
Open Betting. North Melbourne Cable Tram.
Next Meeting, Friday, Ist May.
The Bulletin has already drawn attention to that
open and flagrant violation of the law. The
papers that print such notices profess to regard
the “ lor” and public morality as things of divine
origin. At times they may be heard from an
awful eminence reviling the want of purity in
private life, or else dissecting questions like
Preacher Nash and the Unspecified Thing with
the sniffs of a superior deacon. Yet, if it comes
to a question of breaking the law for the sake of
a shilling or two, their scruples vanish with amaz-
ing ease. Their impunity is the result of the
supine administration of Victorian Chief Secre-
tary Peacock, who nowadays is futility and
feebleness personified. If he had displayed any
energy and courage, the Amended Gaming Act
would have been respected. Now ic is an indif-
ferent sort of thing, entitled to the scorn of the
“ gun,” and the scoff of the unspeakable “fizgig.”
Meanwhile, for the benefit of those hotelkeepers
and other persons who display bills on which
“open betting” is printed without any fuss, this
is appended (Sec. 23 of Bent’s Gaming Act): —
Every person who placards posts up or exhibits or
permits or suffers to be placarded posted up or ex-
hibited or who assists in placarding posting up or ex-
hibiting in or on or about any land building or premises
any information or notice or list directly or indirectly
relating to betting or totalisators or any unlawful game
shall be guilty of an offence.
Ignorance of the Act will not be accepted as a
defence in a prosecution, and this is what it
costs :
First Offence (Minimum) .. .. £5 or 7 days
Second ~ £25 or 1 month
Third and Subsequent Offences (Mini-
mum) .. .. .. .. .. 3 months
Yet, after all, that information seems rather
superfluous so long as the administration is left to
Alexander of the loud laugh and the flexible
spine.
A Palpably Bent Government.
The Bent Government in Victoria is beginning
to assume the appearance of a candle that has been
left in the oven. The Premier seems to have
very little real authority left. He wanders around
the country making explosive statements and—
to use an inevitable Australianism—“acting
the goat ” generally. When he says anything
important it is, as like as not, denied the next
day or explained away by one of his colleagues.
Last week Bent made an attack upon Mead, the
new Engineer for Water Conservation. In effect
he put it that Mead didn’t know his place, that
he was usurping a position and the privi-
leges of a position to which he had no
right, and that he must come to heel.
The next day, Swinburne, ostensibly a subor-
dinate member of the Bent Cabinet, made a
public statement that Mead was all right, that
Bent was quite mistaken in his strictures, and, in
effect, that Bent had better mind his own business.
A few days later Bent announced to the press
that Croker, the inevitable Choker, would re-
Concession.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Wade: “The desire of New South Wales is to
approach the various problems in a spirit of conciliation
and concession.”
Mr. Kidston : “I as firmly believe in conciliation
and fitting concession as any other member of the Con-
ference.”
Mr. Bent : “ There must be concession, and it is a
question whether the Commonwealth will meet us
adequately.”
Mr. Waddell: “ If the demands of the Commonwealth
are such as suggested we may bring sufficient pres-
sure to bear to secure modifications.”
From . Sydney Telegraph’s report of State Premiers’
Conference.
Why this never-ending chatter?
It’s a very simple matter,
When it’s looked at in the right light; and the
bitter, venom’d cry
Politicians have been raising
About “ friction ” is amazing ;
We can settle the vexed questions in a moment if
we try.
Let there be conciliation
On the part of State and Nation—*
All too long have hate and envy and unkindly
thoughts been rife— *
And concession, yes, concession,
In the place of dire oppression
And a clear exchange of views instead of blatant,
wordy strife.
There’s a difference, doubtless many
Where there ought not to be any,
We’ll approach each problem fairly (though we
trouble see ahead);
First we’ll hear Australia’s version,
Then, with no force or coercion,
We will point out in a friendly style the path she
ought to tread.
It may be she will not heed us,
She, who always wants to lead us,
In her blindness may not realise the truth of what
we say ;
But, ignoring her transgressions.
We will introduce “ concessions,”
And the matter will be settled in a true provincial
way.
There are points that need discussing.
With some talk and lots of fussing
We will deal with what concerns us and with some
things that do not ;
We are here in force and mean to
Fix up all that should be seen to,
We’ve decided on our verdict and we will not
yield one jot.
Let “ State Rights ” our watchword ever
Be, we’ll see to it that never
Shall we recognise Australia in the things that are
her own.
Then, if there is no progression.
We will fall back on “ concession,”
But please understand it must come from the
Federal crowd alone.
N.S.W.
VELDT.


If the hospitalities to the American fleet
are to be dispensed with a glory worthy theoccasion,
a considerable portion of the £50,000 voted for the
purpose should be invested in D.C.L. Whisky.
Gaieties, of which the brand of the Brave and the
learned is in chief command, are assured of having
genial wit at the Wheel and clear-eyed Wisdom
on the Bridge.*
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best Film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films every week, and our
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 CEORCE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Qukkx Street, Brisbane.
CHAMBERLAIN'S COUGH REMEDY
draws out the inflammation, kills the germ o
disease, strengthens the mucous membrane.
present the Government at the Braybrook disaster
inquiry. Promptly, the following day, the papers
announced, on the authority of other members
of the Cabinet, that the announcement was
“ premature,” that the Cabinet had not yet dis-
cussed the matter, and evidently did not think
with Bent that Croker was quite inevitable. It
is an interesting Ministerial position. Bent
seems to be Premier in name only. In effect, he
is Minister for Comic Songs and Extraordinary
Antics, but his serious actions can always be
countermanded by his Cabinet subordinates. Is
the Victorian Parliament satisfied to have a
roi faineant as Premier?
The Sunshine Smash.
The report of Professor Kernot, on the condition of
the brakes on the Bendigo train which did such a
ghastly deed of slaughter on Tait’s Victorian
railways, suggests that it is up to Tait to consider
his position. Stripped of as much verbiage as pos-
sible, the Professor’s explanation is as follows :
As the quantity of air in each small reservoir is limited,
the power of brake may be lost or reduced by either
leakage at the niston, or too long movement of the piston.
With leaky piston the brake may be firmly applied for an
instant, but it speedily leaks off and becomes inoperative.
With a too long stroke the pressure continues, but is
poor and feeble all the time. The first of these evils is
met bv carefully and frequently examining the pistons,
keeping the leather packings of the latter well lubricated,
and renewing them when worn out. The second evil is a
constantly growing one. Every application wears away a
certain amount of metal from the brake blocks, thus per-
mitting the pistons to travel further in their cylinders
and reduce the effective pressure by expansion. To meet
this, adjusting screws and pins are provided in the con-
nections, and these need constant attention. If these
adjustments are wrongly treated or neglected great evils
ensue. If the piston travel is too small the pressure on
the brake is too high, and the wheels may be skidded,
the result being loss of brake power and grinding of flat
places on the wheels. If too large—and this is the more
likely to occur, as the blocks wear away—the brake
becomes weak, andfinally quite useless. The Westinghouse
Company publish instructions on this point, giving maxi-
mum and minimum travel for each type 6f cylinder. Ap-
pendix 5 attached will show how these have been neglected
in the train responsible for the collision, the piston travel,
as measured prior to our tests of 28th April, being in every
case except the second engine and tender abnormal. A
further appendix, No. 4. giving the result of careful
examination of brake blocks supposed to be effectual on
five different occasions, shows that out of eight vehicles
onlv four acted properly every time. Two acted four
times out of five, one acted feebly and partially four times
out of five, and one never acted at all. These results I
regard as most unsatisfactory.... I should say that
the brakes on the Bendigo train were certainly feeble.
That report seems to leave three alternatives : (1)
That there was needless neglect on the part of
somebody who should have kept the brakes in
repair; (2) that there was excusable neglect
because there weren’t enough men to do the
repairs, and considering the hideous economy in
the number of employees for which the Victorian
railways are notorious, this possibility is worth
looking into ; (3) that the brakes were so old,
worn, leaky and inefficient by reason of the
starving of repairs that no one was responsible
save the people who invented and maintained this
starving process. In the face of Professor
Kernot’s report, why is not Commissioner
Tait included among the offcials who are sus-
pended pending inquiry?
The Braybrook smash is pretty certain to revive
“the battle of the brakes” in a more or less
aggravated form ; for whatever they may decide
about it, the fact will remain that when tests were
made, the brakes on certain carriages and trucks,
as well as on No. 2 Bendigo engine, failed utterly.
The brakes in general use in Australia and
America have got such a grip that no other sys-
tem can push its nose in ; and the chancesxre that
that isn’t good for the system that has gdt the run
of things. Besides, the thing isn’t settled for
ever. Six years ago the Railway Engineer
and other technical papers published particu-
lars of most exhaustive tests, made on
the Austrian railways, and the results that
time were in favor of the vacuum brake,
which is the great rival of the compressed-air
system. What, however, is of more immediate
interest is that the examiners in that case said
that the compressed-air brakes occasionally failed
in an ordinary application without any apparent
reason. Now, a day or so after the Braybrook
smash, a sort of full-dress rehearsal was held, and
because the brakes pulled the train up, it was sub-
mitted that the smash couldn’t have been caused
by a failure of the brakes —just as though it had
been suggested that the brakes would fail every
time. In the English Board of Trade returns,
brake failures have a place; and, moreover,
the barrackers for vacuum brakes are careful to
point out that for years past their system is de-
bited with fewer failures per train mile than the
rival compressed-air system. It is ' altogether a
complicated and highly technical matter ; but even
the layman can see that the last word hasn’t been
said, while a study of the vast literature of the
subject shows that the public’s—and a good many
railway men’s —confidence in the infallibility of
the apparatus is very touching, no doubt, but very
foolish.
♦
“A Sugar Worker” makes these statements
about wage rates in N.Q., which suggest that the
white man can’t live there—at the rates :
In the 00-operative Central Mill at Nelson, about 30
hands were employed to overhaul everything preparatory
to crushing, at wages from 225. 6d. per week downwards,
and what is commonly called “ tucker.” The quality of
the latter shows that the authorities of the con-
cern have not quite grasped the idea of a white
labor industry. Corned shins, a casual bit of steak
fried in water, now and again a few spuds as a
particular luxury ; tea, sugar, and bread without butter
or even molasses, constitute a fare not designed to keep
a white man in good health. The men decided to bring
the matter before the manager. They did so, and the
four spokesmen w r ere sacked, whereupon the rest, as
loyal mates, came out, but the evening saw all their
places filled again by other men.
During the last season the Central mill w r as famed
for its genero-ity. The men were “ found ” in a way,
and received 255. per week, out of which they almost
invariably spent 6s. Bd. to improve their fare.
It is a very mistaken idea in the South, that only the
scum of Australia’s toilers is coming here to work in the
sugar industry. I never saw more orderly men engaged
in any industry. There is no room here for the city
wreck, as he could simply not endure the hard graft.
The sugar workers formed last season a Sugar Workers’
Association, but out of nearly 500 men employed in this
district only about 150 joined, and these were all cane-
cutters. The mill hands, much abused as they u'ere by
their employers, could not muster the pluck to defend
themselves.
The workers here have, in the majority of cases, to
deal with employers still hostile to a white labor policy,
though it has been proved in the busy time cheaper and
more reliable than alien labor. Men are particularly to
be warned not to.tumble into any kind of agreement held
out to them by mills or cane-growers, but to inquire first
into the prevailing conditions, for the southern man is
practically a “ new chum ” in the North.
THE GREAT DEAD.
There died last Monday at the age of 57,
Australia’s Noblest Son, though no one ever
fastened the gaudy title upon him. Charles
Cameron Kingston, of South Australia, was
a good Australian all the time, an ! a good
Democrat all the time. Moreover, he
was a Whole Hog Australian and a Whole
Hog Democrat. His brilliant intelli-
gence and his great administrative capa-
city lifted him high above the category
of good Australians and good Demo-
crats who can merely talk but not act.
Kingston was the first stable influence that
came into S.A. politics. Before he became
Premier, the State had had 39 Ministries,
of which eight didn’t live a month and
21 didn’t outlast a year. Kingston’s Min-
istry lasted 61 years, mainly by reason of the
fact that it was the first strong, honest and
capable Democratic Government S.A. had
possessed. Its leader battled for woman
suffrage, for the graduated land-tax,
for a State bank, for industrial arbitra-
tion, for Protection, for payment of mem-
bers, for land settlement, and the break-
ing up of big estates, for Upper House
reform, for honest finance and the re-
duction of borrowing ; and he carried a won-
derful number of his ideas into the region of
what is called “ practical politics.” He was
one of the mostenthusiasticofFederationists,
and hebroughtinto theFederalmovementthe
all-Australia idea —not the idea that Federa-
tion was a scheme whereby each State should
try to get something at the expense of its
neighbors. While Turner and Forrest
were half-hearted, and Reid looked on the
Federal movement as one of the jokes of his
humorous political career, Kingston went
into his country’s business heart and soul.
When he appeared in England, along with
the polite Barton, and the affable Deakin,
and the pleasant but ordinary DICKSON,
and the fussy but painfully inadequate
Fysh, to see the Australian Federation
Bill through the British Parliament, he
was, according to common report, the
one member of the delegation whose
strenuous advocacy of Australian interests
made the tail of the Colonial Office swell to
unwonted dimensions. When the first F ederal
Cabinet was formed, Kingston was Minister
for Customs. The Bulletin urged his claims
as Prime Minister, and on his record no other
man in Australia had so good a claim. He
was the greatest man in Australia’s first
Parliament. But the pomp and dignity of
the Big States had to be considered, so the
first and third portfolios went to N.S.W.,
and the second and fourth to Victoria, and
Kingston, the very big man from the small
State, came fifth. In his new capacity he
toiled enormously, as he had always done;
he is reputed to have worked 15 hours a day
while preparing the first Federal tariff.
Then the Foreigntraders killed Kingston.
He and George Turner shared the work
of carrying the tariff through the House of
Representatives, but Kingston fought, while
Turner mostly compromised. It was in the
days when there were practically no Stand-
ing Orders, and when obstruction was un-
limited. Then McMillan, the importer,
was deputy-leader of the Opposition, and
Pumpkin Smith, the importers’ friend, who
could talk for seven hours and say not one
word worth hearing, was his chief organiser.
The Foreign-trade minority, clamoring for
the destruction of Australian industry, howl-
ing that the goods of every cheap nigger on
earth should be introduced to Australia free
of duty to cut down the wages of Australian
workmen and destroy Australian capital,
shouting through endless night-and-day
sittings for the abundant and un-
checked influx of the products of Ah
Sin, the Chinaman, and Ram Bux,
the Hindu, brought about Kingston’s
death, even as the interminable snarling of
many small animals may wear out a lion
through want of sleep and incessant worry.
He was a very sick man when the trouble was
over,andheneverrecovered. Heretiredfrom
the Ministry in 1903, because the Cabinet was
not progressive enough to sui thi m; th e trouble
was over his demand that the benefits of the
Federal Arbitration Bill should be extended
to railway employees. But, in any case, his
career was finished, and he spent the remain-
ing years of his life in a slow process
of dying. Of the miserably small men
who talked the great Kingston to death in
the anti-Australian cause, somearedead, some
have dropped into the contemptandobscurity
that they deserve, and the rest are mostly
dropping. And they can’t drop faster than
they deserve. It was a great tribute to the
falling giant that in 1903, when he Was notori-
ously decaying, and in 1906, when he was
known to be dead to all intents and purposes,
he was returned for Adelaide unopposed. It
was felt that he had a claim on his State and
on Australia which wouldn’t be paid in full
till he was really in his coffin.
From the Federal gallery :
C. C. Kingston had been a failing man these
several years. The first tariff fight killed him.
It is necessary to know all the circumstances to
understand how bitter was the stress of that fight
to him. The original Kingston tariff did not repre-
sent Kingston’s idea of Protection, nor did it rep-
resent the ideas of Deakin, of Turner, of other
Protectionists. It was a compromise on Freetrade
and Protection, a compromise dictated partly
by the financial needs of the Commonwealth,
partly by the desire to conciliate the Freetrade
sectaries in New South Wales. Another considera-
tion was the political one that a compromise tariff
would probably get promptly through the House,
and allow the pressing work of the nation to be
proceeded with. To the disgust of Kingston, the
tariff was met with frenzied hostility by the
Opposition. The anti-nationalists fought it at
every turn and with every device of unscrupulous-
ness. There were no effective standing orders, so
the opposition, which was not argument, or reason,
or fact, but merely yap, yap, yap, had a full oppor-
tunity for expression.
The struggle against that degraded guerilla
attack killed Kingston. He with his colleagues
had sacrificed much for peace sake, ant) as a reward
reaped an opposition of petty-minded malignancy
and sordid unpatriotism. Kingston worried the
tariff through, but the effort sapped his giant
strength. After facing that opposition and the
storm of obloquy which his campaign against the
faked invoice of the dishonest importer raised,
Kingston turned his face to the wall, and was a
dying man thereafter.
The first sign of collapse I noticed was at an
historic meeting in the Sydney Town Hall. The
campaign against the dishonest importer was just
then at its bitterest point. The Sydney papers
were full of the fiercest denunciations of the
honest Customs'Minister. So the masses of Sydney
(who at heart are just as Federal and national as
the people of any other Australian city) gathered
to the hall to do honor to the champion of
honesty. It was a splendid meeting, and cheered
Kingston again and again. His speech in response
was poor—a weak, rambling complaint of some-
thing the papers had said misrepresenting the
number of flags flown in his honor at Newcastle.
Shortly after, Kingston resigned from the Bar-
ton Ministry. I can recollect breakfasting with
him the next morning. His speech and manner
were those of a man whose brain was clouded.
From that onwards the degeneration of a great
mind was rapid, and led to some pitiful scenes in
a House where he had been the strongest figure.
Like most men who serve their country faith-
fully in politics, Kingston died poor.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty.”
Theatre Royal “ Brewster’s Millions.”
Criterion “ Her Love Against the World.”
Palace Maskelyne and Devant’s Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
1 Kubelik (19th, 21st, 23rd).
Town Hall -[ West’s Pictures (18th, 20th,
1 22nd).
Tivoli Rickards’ 00.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirth Bros.’Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Merry Widow.”
Princess's...- “The English Merrymakers.”
Bijou “ Home Sweet Home.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Town Hall “ The Scarlet Troubadours.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Lacking “ Camille,” the repertory of the
modern emotional actress is held incomplete ; and
so at Sydney Criterion on Saturday night last the
management revived the dreary play of Dumas
fils, and gave Madge Mclntosh a chance to
show that she could love and die as strenuously as
the best of them. There never was a human being
like Camille; wherefore she may be played in a
multitude of ways, none of which is one whit less
convincing than the other. She may be sniffling,
a little hysterical, altogether pathetic (as in the
hands of a Nellie Stewart); or agonisingly mag-
nificent in the wounded megatherium or Nance
O’Neil manner; or, again, she may be energetic,
round-voiced and alluring till her painful end.
Madge Mclntosh conceives her in the last fashion.
The Bulletin never before saw so spry a gallop-
ing consumptive as Miss Mclntosh’s Camille;
nor heard so resonant a voice in one moribund.
True, Camille sways with half-closed eyes ever and
anon ; but one realises always that this is merely
in courteously conventional deference, as it were, to
the disease. There is little doubt in the onlooker’s
mind that, given provocation, this patient could
banish her fainting tendencies in short order,
and perform feats of strength to amaze a young
ladies’ gymnasium class. The anguish-effect of
Camille’s position isn’t lessened materially hereby.
The consumption business is. after all, but a side-
horror ; the essence of the lady’s tragedy (and the
one altogether human note in the play) is the
world-old tragedy, that occurs inevitably when a
follower of the globe’s oldest profession dreams of
becoming “respectable.” Madge Mclntosh, if
only in that she expresses with so much art the
unrestrained anguish of the spoiled woman, all of
whose life has been unrestrained, on learning that
the greatest joy life has to offer never can be hers,
compels warm praise. Nothing so good as her
farewell scene with Armand has been seen by
Criterion audiences for years past.
* * • •
Harcourt Beatty plays Armand earnestly
and well. Long practice in debonair parts has
given this actor a certain manner—almost of
jauntiness—which will out occasionally in the
wrong place. At any moment during the ball-
room unpleasantness one expects him to whip a
rapier from his trouser-leg, and, with a.rattling
military oath, to have at de Varville. But in his
scenes with Camille stageiness falls from him, and
he is quite excellent. Gaston Mervale gives a
fine rendering of de Varville; and notable, too,
is James Lindsay’s impersonation of the elder
Duval—true type of the prim, sombre bourgeois
parent so general in the France of reality, and so
rare in the France of the footlights.
*
At Sydney Palace, Maskelyne and Devant’s
show is plunging from the mysterious to the fear-
ful. In the latest novelty a doctor, while making
an incision in a patient’s neck, is startled by the
entry of a servant who lets a tray fall. A wild
flourish by the startled surgeon, and the man’s
head vanishes. The scared surgeon places the
top piece on a side table, where it makes nasty
remarks at him, and inquires anxiously how long
this silly sort of joke is going to last. The
doctor explains that the head is dead, or
ought to be, and begs of it to keep quiet
while he thinks how to dispose of the body.
But the head is insistent, and jabbers away
while the doctor and an assistant place the trunk
in an ice-chest. Having temporarily concealed
the body, the medico goes out to steady his nerves
with limejuice, and the body gets but of the ice-
chest, and wanders round the room trying to find
its head. The head assists it by giving directions,
and a union is at last effected, the body getting
hold of the head and reeling round with
it tucked comfortably under one arm. It
is amazingly clever, but creepily realistic.
A more pleasant illusion is that in which a man is
chained and manacled to the furniture and held
by the hands by members of the audience, yet,
like the dead on Resurrection morning, he changes
in the twinkling of an eye when a pistol goes pop.
One moment he is there, and the next he has gone.
Barclay Gammon has introduced a fresh stock of
tarradiddles and musical juggles which stamp him
as a past master in the manipulation of an audi-
ence. Altogether, the visitor to the Palace
is getting better value for his money than
when the eo. opened, which is more than can
usually be said for show companies.
** * *
There is no whisper of a change at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), where “ Humpty Dumpty ”
breaks his shell and hatches a variety show, strung
together by a pantomime plot that is liable to be
hung up at any moment when it gets in the way
of a ballet, or a joke, or any other old thing. It’s
a good show, too, and deserves the run it is
having.
Down at Prince Afred Park, Sydney, the
great Circus booms along, and the booking office
begins to suggest the need for a permanent build-
ing. The acrobats and the rest now defy death
in totally different positions, which proceeding
while giving the spice of variety to the spectacle’
doesn't in any way reduce the risk. The public
gets its cold shivers in the old strength and
quantity. Of course one can always rely upon
any performer who can talk to instil some variety
into his performances—he is built that way ; but
at Wirths’, even the very animals seem to be’pos-
sessed of a repertoire, and the Wild Beast School
has apparently struck out in a new curriculum
Those wild beasts can apparently do all but talk
and are certainly quite able to understand every’-
thing their trainer says to them. Those who revel
in the classic should derive much joy gazing upon
the muscular Crotons, who now pose as living
statues on a revolving pedestal, and prove that
the ancient “Grakes” and “ Bowmans ” of whom
the only Dan’l O’Connor flutes so eloquently did
not possess a monopoly of manly finish.
* * * *
At Sydney Lyceum, Spencer’s Theatre-
scope pictures range from a journey across the
gloomy Atlantic in an up-to-date Cunarder to the
inter-State League match at Sydney Agricultural
Ground on Saturday last. ' Another fine film
shows the progress of the hide from the back of
the animal among the clover to the foot of the
dainty inhabitant of the boudoir, and the back of
the chair on which she reclines her tender form.
And it is good, and gives Australians some slight
idea of what a great industry means. A few more
films of the same sort would knock the last linger-
ing dregs of the old importing disease out of
the Sydney mind. A very fine film, entitled
“ Cossacks in Moscow,” shows what a lot of most
undesirable people can be gathered together in a
Really beautiful city. The Russian, however, on
tjae evidence of the films, is a good city builder
and recognises the wisdom of having great spaces
in a city of magnificent buildings. This causes
one to regret that a few eminent Russians were
not brought out with the First Fleet to give hints
to the Englishmen who are responsible for the
crooked lanes of Sydney.
* * * *■
Sydney Hippodrome, in a new version of
“ Under Two Flags,” is making play these nights
with a batch of British Guardsmen according to
“ Ouida’’—she (as the programme notes) “whose
sad death in Italy was recently chronicled, and
caused a thrill of emotion throughout the civilised
world.” The amazingness of these extraordinary
warriors is brought right home to the Common-
wealth resident. Lord Bertie Cecil (as to how,
why or wherefore Bert—the son of a mere Viscount
—comes to have “Lord” tacked on to him the
Hippodrome is silent) proves to be the typical
swell in the Guards of our housemaids’ dreams.
One conceives him on sight (even as his creator
did) in an incessantly changing kaleido-
scope of London seasons, Paris winters, ducal
houses in the hunting months, dinners at
the Pall Mall Clubs, dinners at the Star
and Garter, dinners irreproachable everywhere,
cottage for Ascot week, yachting with theR.V.Y.
Club, Derby handicaps ; dashing rosi&res taken
over to Baden ; warm corners in Belvoir, Saver-
nake and Longleat battues ; and all the rest of the
general programme, with no drawback to it
except the duties at the Palace, the heat of a
review, or the extravagance of a pampered licmrte,
etc. Bert’s brother, the Hon. Berkeley Cecil,
in his small cloth cap (so imposed as to show a
neat wall of head-growth upstanding starkly from
the forehead), his made-up tie, and his fine watch-
chain collection of C.T.C., Suburban Railway, and
other metal badges, is the Brigade subaltern to
the life. As to the Marquis of Rockingham
(known}as the Seraph), “ Ouida’s ” “ tall, fair man,
with the limbs of a Hercules, the chest of a
prize-fighter, and the face of a Raphael Angel”—
well, at Sydney Hippodrome, P. Goodwin is just
that particular sort of marquis.
There are divergencies from the parent-
story. Mr. Rake, the peerless English valet,
whose life was embittered owing to the hopeless-
ness of doing justice to his master’s “ tops, jacks,
moccasins, moor boots, Russia leather crickets,
turf hacks, and Hythe boots,” is interpreted by
Jack McGowan as a rather less than half-witted
Irishman with red hair. Baroni, the vindictive
Hebrew bill-discounter, “excellently dressed,
without a touch of flashiness and eminently re-
spectable looking,” is a fantastic creature, appear-
ing as Thomas Bent would had some enemy
slapped an outrageously large false nose on
him, and rolled him down 14 long and dusty hills.
The well-known incident where Rockingham
“ flings himself upon the Hebrew, tosses him up-
wards to the painted ceiling, and hurls him down
again upon the velvet carpet as lightly as a re-
triever will catch up and let fall a grouse,’’ is
omitted. It would need a steam winch to play
those sort of games with the Hippodrome Baroni.
But the grand old “Ouida” moral, which insists
that the person of rank shall be immune from all
unpleasant consequences, human and divine, is
there in full bloom. “Beauty ” Cecil is the Pet
of the Regiment in Algiers—for is he not
Noble? Arab Caliphs, sheiks and such-like fall
dead before him, (he is of the Blood); his
superior officer is * unable to assault him
(it is notoriously a physical impossibility
to biff a Lord); the Grand Marshal
of France, who never reprieved a man in his life
before, on learning that an inhabitant of Debrett
has been condemned to die, breaks up utterly and
sends urgent despatches countermanding the
sacrilege. And so on. If there is an objection
to be levelled by carpers at the Hippodrome show
it is that it concerns a British Household Brigade,
instead of, say, an Australian Police or lire
Brigade.
# * * *
Sydney is promised a chance of seeing
actual drama, something different from “-The
Forged Birth Certificate” or “The Breath at the
Window,” or “ The Girl from Everywhere Else.
The Stage Society, recently formed, means to pro-
duce Drama —the sort of plays that are n0 “
mere gold-mines for theatrical managers, y'*| 10U r
the Stage Society of London, the works of Shaw,
Yeats, Galsworthy, L. Hausman, Granville
Barker, Locke, and others, would have remained
in script; while that society was also responsible
for introducing to England the best work of the
European dramatists—despite the efforts ot tn
censor—and of masterly translations of thei Gree '
tragedies. In Dublin the Irish National Theatre
has actually created a living Irish drama wit in
five years. It is proposed to run the bydney
Stage Society on the lines of the Sydney musica
societies, giving subscribers substantial privileges.
And, as a necessary corollary to the presentation
in Australia of the best modern drama, the society
means to produce the best work of Australia
playwrights. There is here the long-wante


—Lefn E i^ ONEY with the Cinematograph.
to-dav--fr(.° W \?r U I OVV — wrlte f<? r full particulars
•nan r e u ave everything for the show-
Ltd.' Oina ar i S tc l'' l ate Osborn and Jerdan,
3‘J3 Q (Jf m^, t 0 Specialists and Electricians,
BOr B e Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
“Che Clarion,”
Randolph Bedford’s Paper,
will appear Monthly from 15th MAY.
PRICE - - 6d.
A MONTHLY OF A NEW KIND.
Cartoons in Colors.
A NEWSPAPER in its Political, Mining,
Financial, Social, Theatrical, Musical, Art’
Literary and Fashion pages, and in its
Articles and Cartoons; and
A MAGAZINE in its Story Matter, Verse
and General Criticism.
“ THE CLARION ”
for 6s. posted to any Australasian address
for a year.
You’ll want it longer than that.
The Biggest Value for Money
Australia has ever seen.
" THE CLARION” for a year 6s.
New ! Distinctive ! Individualistic 1
Address—
RANDOLPH BEDFORD, “ Clarion ” Ofliee,
414 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
chance for the Australian playwright—a chance
which the Australian theatrical manager has so
far missed. Given the opportunity of production
the plays will come. There were no plays, no
dramatists, in Ireland five years ago. To-day the
Irish drama takes its place beside the European
drama. In five years, if the Stage Society is well
run and well supported, there will be a virile
Australian drama.
** * *
Although the great Alfred Dampier him-
self is a very sick man these days, the Dampier
Dramatic Co. has just finished a successful tour
of the Western district of N.S.W., and is now
playing in the principal towns of the Northern
part of the State. the North has been
sated with the romance of “Robbery Under
Arms,” and other tales of derring-do, affection,
and passion, the co. will move on to Brisbane’
and thence carry civilisation and the drama
to the benighted heathen of North Queensland.
*■ * # *
Most of the printer’s ink on the Tivoli
bills is just now devoted to people who don’t
make a noise ; and considering the bad noises
some people have been paid large amounts for
making at the livoli, this is a pleasant change
anyway. Ihe newest arrival of this sort
is 24 hours too new for inspection this
week. In the bills they call him “The
Human Frog,” but his front name is Ardo,
whereas the last human frog in these parts was
Ferry, and if Ardo is a better frog than Ferry
was, he deserves to have a large pond and a herd
of mosquitoes all for himself. In other respects,
the bill is what it was, except that the distressful
“English co.’ which played drama-ettes has gone,
and that makes the show worth 3d. extra at
least.
** # *
Bland Holt’s sensational bicycle ride, from
the stage of Adelaide Royal into the orchestra of
the same, had consequences more serious than
were apparent at the time, and he has had to
stand out of the revival of “One of the Best,”
with its English perversion of the Dreyfus case.
The Great Millionaire holds the boards at pre-
sent. The Tivoli has been adding to the
gaiety of its patrons by showing flickers of
the Sunshine catastrophe; and the Hippo-
drome has suddenly broken out with “The
Midnight Special, ’ which it considers appropriate
as depicting a replica ” of the Victorian
horror. The Scarlet Troubadours have left the
Town Hall. It is to be feared that Australia will
not take kindly to their London habit of charging
for a programme, even though it is loaded with
elaborate jokes at their own expense. “Robbery
under Arms,” per flicker, now occupies the Town
Hall. Even the Salvation Army has had the
nerve to produce flickers—faked, Heaven knows
how—of the shipwreck and massacre of some of its
emissaries. Other items of the webk are a fare-
well by the Appendreena Society to Neil Hepper,
who is going on I j regular stage ; and an Orpheus
concert that ini .duced Nellie Field, a 17-year-
old Adelaide u.il, said by her admirers to be on
the track of Ada Crossley.
** * *
Revived at Melbourne Her Majestv’s last
Saturday night, “Sherlock Holmes” demon-
strated that it is still fascinating, despite its
patent artificiality and unrealism. Very likely it
will long remain a popular madness, like love or
the seven deadly virtues. There is the central
figure, preternatural in his tall calm, uncannily
gifted and wise, and inhumanly courageous. Such
a man—a godlike sleuth and psychologist—has
well earned his pedestal of packing-cases
and his claim to strike attitudes on the gas-
box. Hour by hour, as he gathers into his web
of finely-spun postulates and deductions even that
incredible criminal Professor Moriarty, one feels
that right here is the master magician of the
bob ’ novel. His clothes fit him, and he scorns
death. His tastes include weird narcotics and
red dressing-gowns. Even his commonplaces
have an awesome significance. Yet he has his
human side—that is, he can be just as fatuously
irresponsible with the right sort of girl as a ’bus-
driver or an’Arry. This is pleasant to consider.
One likes to think of him as married to Miss
r aulkner, and rearing seven little Sherlocks, and
growing roses and cabbages, his domestic bliss
only suspended for a minute now and then, when
he steps out and detects an unfathomable crime,
or while he points his infallible finger over the
fence at the passing forger. But lie doesn’t get
really married in the drama; he merely bowls out
"rofessor Moriarty, the malignant being who
breathes fearful instructions down a tube.
* * *• *
Thomas Kingston isn’t entirely successful
in the name part. Indeed, he never thoroughly
giasps what a. frigid personality is, and suggests
that his familiar vices are raw meat and voice
jubes rather than tobacco and cocaine. On the
other hand, J. B. Atholwood, who gets fewer
chances, and who has lately been accused of
agamy m private life, makes a powerful Pro-
essor Moriarty— a part he created five or six
.'ears ago. Looking like a gaunt and evil bird, he
achieves a repellent effect without any fireworks.-
-s. James Larrabee, Cyril Mackay is at times
needlessly emphatic; while Gregan McMahon,
wTi , tson > t s . as vital as circumstances allow.
w 1 the exception of Mrs. Brough, who, as
.abge Larrabee, makes a vivid and artistic Cat
uth high-born characteristics, the ladies are not
w ir lns P irin g- The Alice Faulkner of
* issJNelhe Calvin is just an exceedingly pretty
\r un Wlth a nico Profile, and Miss Irby
arshall, as Terese, is painfully mechanical.
* * * *
Next Saturday night, rhe Royal Comics
open at Her Majesty’s with “ The Merry Widow,”
whiok A/r of “ us . ic - chortle, and bright dresses, in
.l- c 1 A r ISB ,V' arr ie Moore will reveal some of the
gs she did or didn’t learn in the Big Fog.
** * *
wh«Jr« fc L y nne >” the emotional drama
sierra , nse died and decomposed, and Art re-
tom hAt \\ a travellin g circu s, arose from the
And r^ b n Urne Bij ° u ,ast Satu rday night,
which IIHEl lHE Bulle tin knows it, it is a play in
bad hco ln terval is a Paradise, during which
able three P en ny bar is at least support-
all , greater satisfaction it might be
alien hm h nd - leave the rest t 0 irnagin-
for the ~ having some wretched lesson
bulk ■ young person secreted in its inordinate
ig a erm*? 11 V- “East Lynne*” imbecility
v al. T> k C e thmg and religion is a poster carni-
death in . e^ lnS i , wi th a murder, and ends with a
seeniina-lv d °, b e . dec b introduces lengths of
of the m u ' ter “ ln able pathos, ardent affection
iterated hu ll 1 klnd ’ an awful and cruelly re-
ballad— and the death of little Willie.
Little Willie, throwing a seven, grows more fear-
some with repetition. His flaxen hair and tiny
white nightie remind one of the fatted anJels
peculiar to Christmas almanacs. And he always
pegs out with the distinction of a well-bred child.
Un Saturday night he gurgled in splendid form,
escribed the pasturesand dandelions of the Jasper
Shore with exactitude, stretched his arms to the
saints lounging on the back fence, and finally
jerked upwards in record time. Beyond Willie
it may be noted that the town of East Lynne
has risen to some renown of late. Its main
street now possesses a Town Hall, quite as small
as st. Beter sat Rome. Furthermore, the indif-
ference of sir Francis Levison as, manacled, he
strides jauntily to the hulks or something, sug-
gests that a race in the matter of calmness between
him and bherlock Holmes—the calmer of the two
to get the gate money—would be a good sporting
event. However, despite the colossal torture of
the theme, the play is at times surprisingly
well acted. Miss Frances Ross and Robert
Inman, as Lady Isabel and Archibald Carlyle
respectively, increase this paper’s estimation of
their capabilities; while Miss Maisie Maxwell and
Miss Georgie Leighford render fair service. Also,
.Leo de Chateau looks like an asset in Irish
characterisations of the robustious sort.
** * *
These days, thought upon “Miss Hook of
Holland, at Melbourne Royal, is mostly a
retrospect, in which Mr. Simon Slinks intrudes
Tvfu- vr i f n wa .V> Simon is inimitable.
All his life he has been afflicted with a magnificent
weariness that almost overcomes him. Yet, para-
doxically enough, his lethargy is the cause of his
activity. His fear that a job may overtake him
keeps him on the move. He toils hard at dodg-
ing work, and can’t be a fixed landmark for any
length of time. Even leaning up against the wall
of the Arndyk Canal is only a partial rest, for he
all the time hears the howling of the imaginary
job on his trail. To such a man life must be a
perpetual jim-jam, let alone a lament.
** * *
At Melbourne Olympia West’s Pictures still
flick humanity all over the atlas, while the froward
steam roller and other heavy implements go
wickedly on the jag. They take an hour or two
off, do these drunken luggages, and suddenly ex-
tinguish the peace of a village, besides an obese
John Hop. Proceeding, they prance through
oyster saloons and lending libraries, followed by a
gradually increasing population with very fat
legs. The legs are discordantly clothed, striped
like the creed of B. Smith, and make every ob-
struction a reason for falling down. And thus
the race continues over town halls, mountain-
chains, and distilleries, until the frisky imple-
ment has been captured in its flight.
** * *
“Peter Pan” leaves us on Friday, and
goes off to Queensland, where it is hoped he’ll
find an atmosphere more suited to his tenderness
and grace. In Melbourne he has wilted before a
nerth-easterly gale of public opinion. He has been
misunderstood and maligned by people who prefer
an Ethiopian epileptic’s gyrations to simple poesy.
He deserves to be cherished. “The. Merry
Makers ” take possession of the Princess’s on
Saturday, the 16th.
** * *
Melbourne Opera House bill remains in
the same exceedingly limp condition as yester-
week. Frank Harwood manages to sustain the
atmosphere of a suburban drawing-room, which
is like unto Irish stew grown cold and un-
sympathetic through long waiting. Alma
Grey, in riding togs and a brown wig, is
chortling “Take me Back to Bendigo” rather
tamely. And the Gibson Girls and Clarence
Tisdale are very obviously tired.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Hiphen”: Whatever else Meynell and Gunn have
done, or intend to do, in their theatrical venture, they
have already introduced to us the daintiest dancer that
has graced Australian boards for many years. Miss Essie
Perrin, of the “ Hook o’Holland” Co., is the nearest
approach to the great Genbe that I have seen in this
hemisphere. In many respects also she recalls memories
of our own gifted Maie Saqui. She is one of the very few
dancers one meets who know how to use the hands and
arms. As an exhibition of grace, it is quite as entertain-
ing to watch Miss Perrin’s expressive hands as it is to
behold her eloquent feet. Unconscious ease is the crown
of art, and that is just the fair lady’s strong suit. She
dances all over like unchained sunlight. She realises all
the floating, soaring grace that Tittell Peter Pan Brune
essays, when on the end of a stout wire she shows the
kids how to fly. If dancing is the poetry of motion, I
claim for the dainty “ Hook o’ Holland ” lady the poetess-
laureateship and any “ Red Page ” tin wreath, or iron-
mongery, or flotsam that may be vacant.
“D.’’: “The Lady of Lyons,” with which Julius
Knight wound up his last Sydney season, is the
grandmother of all British beliow-dratna. Take the
famous Act IV. The widow is recommending- her off-
spring to Pauline. “He is,” she says, “of poor though
honest parents.” Whereupon the ancient female is forced
to pause while the gallery rocks with emotion at the
dear, familiar phrase. Consider Claude’s magnificent
Bilandersonism later on. He wishes Pauline to under-
stand that there is no need for her to lock her bedroom
door. This is how he puts it: “ The sleep of virtue
never beneath my father’s honest roof e’en villains dared
to mar. (Loud and continued applause.) Pauline is no
slouch at the same game. When the noisome Beauseant
gets a strangle-hold on her, and strives to introduce into
the act some of the worst features of “ The Sign of the
Cross, she declaims: “Sir! leave this house. It is
num ole . but a husband’s roof, however lowly, is in the
eyes of God and man the Temple of a wife’s honor!! ”
Beauseant departs lest worse befall. However, “I
will not die till I am avenged,” he howls while
slinking off. How many of his moral calibre have
been saying the same thing during the last 70 years 1
Some of Beauseant’s exit-tags have lapsed, and aren’t
purloined for modern use except by asylum-dwellers.
P nnstance, when Melnotte returns and undoes him for
the manyth time, saying to Pauline’s father, “ I have a
prior claim. Before the face of man and Heaven, I urge
it. I outbid yon sordid huckster for your priceless
jewel, Beauseant (the “sordid huckster” referred to)
shrieks, “ Torments and Death ! ” before slinking off, No
villain observes “Torments and Death” nowadays.
“ Wrock ” : It takes a lot to discompose the practised
mime. Witnessed ail incident in point during a per-
formance of “ The Mummy and the Humming Bird,” in
Christchurch (M.L.), last Easter. The audience sat
spellbound while D’Orelli (Humming Bird) and Lord
Luinley (Mummy) raged at each other. Threat followed
taunt in quick succession, and Lumley hurled himself on
the disturber of his domestic peace. During the catch-as-
eatch-can exhibition that followed, smoke was seen to
rise from a paper shade over one of the ornamental lights.
Tnen a small tongue of flame shot up. An alarmed
whisper ran through the crowded theatre. The air was
electric. A woman rose from her seat with a half-
suppressed scream. Then the Mummy caught sight of
the conflagration. Dropping the Humming Bird he tore
down the shade and bore it blazing off the stage. D’Orelli
followed with the smouldering remains. The twain
returned within 10 seconds, breathingstertorously through
its several nose, and, ere the house had recovered its lost
breath the Italian fell back into position, the Mummy re-
sumed his stranglehold where he had dropped it, and
secured the fall in a trifle under even time.
“ J:A.C.” : F. Burnand, ex-editor of London Punch, has
written to the press to say that “Anton Strelezki,”
recently dead, a tolerably well-known composer of songs
and pianoforte music, was not his son, but the son of a
cousin, one Bransby Burnand. Some 30 years ago
“ Strelezki ” was a teacher of music in Sydney, but under
his family name of Burnand. He was then a young
fellow of about 20. One of his first pupils was Miss Maud
JntzStubbs, familiar to Sydney musical amateurs, then
little more than a child. The real teacher, however of
the lady was Giorza. Burnand was somewhat erratic in
ms methods, and one day suddenly disappeared from
Sydney, to blossom forth again in another laud as “ Stre-
lezki. It was then that the late J. A. Delany dubbed
hnn “ Stray latch-key.”
This is the advt. bait Messrs. Rupert Clarke, Meynell
and John Gunn have been throwing to the astonished
people of Brisbane:—“ Within the beautiful flower-laden
hedges on the roadside of life is often hidden the deadly
serpent of venomous purpose. Mankind walks stead-
fastly on the centre roadway; but some cling to the side
track, arid the serpent whispers to them. Thus good
deeds and bad deeds are created, and life’s drama is
materialised. But there is a reward for the good,
for when the sun sinks and the bespangled stars
glisten in the heavens, life is closing, and for those who
have been steadfast and true, the roadstead leading to the
Great White Gates is an open way. Lurkers will be found
m the hedges off the side track, where the flowers are
dying for sheer pity, and the serpent is grovelling in the
darkness. Now just think how the serpent would jump
if someone poured a shovelful of hot coals on him in the
midst of his dark grovel.
“Cockaigne”: An autobiography of John Hare, the
actor, could not by any miracle be made as attractive as
that of Sarah Bernhardt or Ellen Terry, yet Hare
launched off charmingly in the last Strand. His name is
Fairs. At school in London he spent as much time as he
could in theatres, much admiring Charles Kean, Phelps,
Robson, Mathews, Webster, Buckstone, and Boucicault!
Then he returned to his home in Yorkshire, and lost ambi-
tion for the drama in study for the Civil Service. However,
his talent was so remarkably evoked in amateur perform-
ances that he resolved on being an actor. His friends took
a very unusual course. They senthim to London to study
with Leigh Murray, an eminent retired Thespian.
This was the making of Hare, and he is un-
bounded in his gratitude to Murray. Here the chapter
of autobiography stops. Its most salient feature is the
suggestion Lhat actors are not so good as they were.
While insisting upon the value of conduct, Hare pleads
for that degree of innocent Bohemianism which consists
in the actor refusing to mingle with what is called Society.
Don’t let him be known off the stage, except in that
mysterious way affected by the histrions of Hare’s youthful
time.
Max Schliiter, the Danish violinist, is a bold fisherman,
and he was feverishly anxious to get permission to angle
for the eels which rise to the surface to snatch the bread
dropped into the lake at the Melbourne Botanical
Gardens. It took quite a lot of argument to persuade
him that it would be the worst kind of confidence trick
to entrap them.
“J.A.0.”: When last mail left London an Australian
arcanum was being evolved at the Alhambra, Leicester
Square. The mystery was a vision, announced as Aus-
tralian, in a pink gown and wearing a black mask, which
appeared on the stage and sang several songs of the florid
order of architecture. The papers stated that her voice,
though light, w’as pleasing and of great extension'
reaching E above the treble stave, and that she sang w’ith
grace. Australians in London were flocking to the
Alhambra to take part in this guessing competition. The
lady in question is Miss Violet Mount, a Maorilander, I
believe, who studied here with several teachers—amonu-
others the departed Hazon.
The cathedral city of Warrnambool (Vic.) was lately
treated to an unrehearsed thespian effort. The manager
of a touring dramatic company came across the local
bill-sticker, armed with two paste buckets, earnestly
occupied in covering the show-bills, W'hieh he had posted
only afew days previously, with vulgar, commonplace trade
advertisements. “ What do you mean 7” demanded the
justly incensed mummer-manager, and the other replied
with voluble cheek. Then the outraged man of the
stage seized one of the cans and inverted it on the head
of the man of paste. The bill-poster, breathing paste
and language, announced an approaching homicide, and
had to be soothed with the contents of the other can.
He w'as no glutton, and, thinking he had had enough
flour and w'ater to last him some time, took to his heels,
but not quickly enough to avoid being caught in the
small of the back with an empty bucket. The onlookers
agreed that performance was about the best seen in the
town for years.
Mrs. J. P. Burnett (Jenny Lee), whose stay in Australia
has been shortened by the death of her daughter Joan
(Joan came out under engagement to J. G. W. for “ Peter
Pan”), sailed for England in the Oruba. Her benefit
realised £250. At the matinee she simply crossed the
stage as Jo, the character in which she made her fame,
trailing the historic broom. In trying to make a speech
of thanks, Mrs. Burnett broke up.
Oscar Asche, sometime of these parts, is trying the ex-
periment of bringing London theatre prices down to the
Australian level—from five shillings down to one, with a
few stalls at 7s. 6d. As things are, stalls in any London
theatre of sorts run from 10s. 6d. up, and the public
mostly doesn’t fill them with great enthusiasm. Theatre
rents seem to be the biggest obstacle to reduction. In
London, Asche pays £375 per week for His Majesty’s, and
other houses of any standing bring anything from £250
upwards. Still, it’s been left to Asche to find out
whether full stalls at 7s. tid. are not more profitable than
partly empty ones at half-a-guinea.
nu-S°i e : Wlthout impugning the propriety of N.-S.W.
Chief Justice parley’s remarks about the exhibition of
the armless girl Licciardo, I would mention that Annie
a^ou t 30 years old, born without; arms, w r as
exhibited here with Cooper and Bailey’s Circus. She
was q m te happy, and made a good deal of money.
Women were intensely delighted with her aptness in
sewing, writing, etc. She sold her autobiography,
mentioning* that she had married an engineer named
Thompson. Also that she owned the Learned Pi", Bis-
marck, which erudite pork proved highly remunerative.
Bill Anderson notifies in a Melbourne paper that he is
offering £5 for the most suitable name for his new Mel-
bourne theatre, which is nearly completed. How about
calling it the Theatre Eugenie 1
Mrs. Harrison Lee, temperance and social-purity gad-
about, comp ains bitterly of lack of enthusiasm on the
part of Rechabites. At one cold-spray function, she
alleges nothing was doing for nearly 20 minutes, and
when the chairwoman pleaded, “ Won’t somebody please
rrih° methl ” g L a . s T, al1 ’ hairy ruffian of the leaning-up
tribe arose in the hall and said, “ Yes, mum.” Then he
climbed on to the stage, and very carefully stood on his
h!w*V> 3M act u hat man was turned out is evidence
that Rechabites have no gratitude, and do not know how
oblighT a B ' er,t eman who wishes to be agreeable and
Marie Lloyd, back in London from the United States
tells an interviewer that she is going there again, and
will move on to Australia before the end of 1909. “ After
v. s oPP° se I shall start ‘ farewelling,’ and then I
shall be persuaded’ to return to the stage for a few
years, and then I shall go farewelling again.” The onlv
thing about the enthusiastic Americans that did not suit
Marie was their invariable habit of having two shows on
Lloyd ’ 1 d ° hke my IUUe bifc of rest ’” nioanB Miss
When Frank Thornton was in London, 18 months or so
ago, looking for something to put the wealth of “ Charley’s
Au "t mto, somebody laid him on to the usual “real
good thing —a Broken Hill wild-cat with a magnificent
name lyd. 2ft. long. As dividends didn’t happen as ex-
pected, and news about the concern dwindled to nothin "■
or thereabouts, Thornton called at the co.’s office and
said he was leaving for Australia, and please would they
tell him where their mine was. Then Thornton waited
on the mat while a stupendous young gentleman went
behind a screen to find out where the mine was, and when
the stupendous young gentleman returned, he broke
Thornton up with this reply—“ Box 967, Broken Hill.”
Thornton looked into Box 967, but somebody had evidently
posted the mine away, for all that the receptacle held was
2in. of dust and an old bill.
A “command” performance is looked upon as a
great affair by London actors, but it is not all beer and
skittles to the management. The great Boss of the Empire
only provides first-class return tickets to Windsor or San-
dringham, as the case may be, and a good square feed.
All other exes—transport of scenery, properties and
dresses, cab fares for members of the company, etc
—come out of the manager’s pocket. London Chroniclk
stated that a recent appearance before the King cost
John Hare £BOO. A steady series of royal commands
would ruin any manager.
Amidst all the snapping and snarling at
the Commonwealth indulged in by the State
Premiers at their miserable conference in Mel-
bourne, their attitude on the lighthouse question
stands out as a contrast. Having asserted with
bitter reiteration that the Commonwealth is unfit
to shine boots, the Premiers with one voice urged
it to take over control of lighthouses, buoys and
beacons. Ihe reason for this strange conversion
lies in the fact that these works yield no return,
and the States’ representatives wish to be free
from the necessity of finding the funds for the
maintenance of the present and the erection of
future lighthouses. Also, they are under the im-
pression that, if the Commonwealth takes charge
of these works, it will at once draw a stupendous
cheque in payment of their cost to the States.
Pent declared that Dyne was at one time keen on
exercising the right given to the Federal authority
under the Constitution in this matter, but that
when he discovered that it would cost £16,000,000
ho dropped the matter. If the States imagine
that they are going to draw on the Common-
wealth for that amount for their present light-
houses they ought to be making a big mistake.
Do the State Premiers think that the Common-
wealth is some foreign body which intends to buy
up the old lighthouses in a job lot and ship them
to Darkest Africa ? There appears to be no end
to the list of people in Australia who believe that
the Commonwealth is something outside of, and
apart from the people of this country.
The Commissioners of Savings Banks are calling
tenders for their thirteenth issue of Government-guaran-
teed debentures for £lOO,OOO at 3* per cent., to mature on
31st October, 1919 ; the minimum price is £9B, and
allowing for redemption at par, the net return to in-
vestors will be £3 14s. sd. per cent. A deposit of only 5
per cent, is required with the tenders, and the balance
may be paid at any time up to 30th November, 1908.
Brokerage of 10s. per cent, will be allowed to members of
recognised Stock Exchanges, and tender forms may be
obtained from them or at any Savings Bank. Tenders
must be lodged with the Commissioners, before noon on
Tuesday, 2nd June.*
Though Kidston is keen after the siller
where the State is concerned, he isn’t without
compassion. In Queensland, as in most places,
the distressed mother can get State aid for the
support of her children. But if, with motherly
instinct, she resolves to cling to her children
rather than let strangers have the care of them,
she used to get less aid than the stranger got.
In some instances the stranger got 66 per cent,
more. Now, however, both are put on the same
footing, it having been recognised that a child is
more likely to receive proper treatment from its
mother than from a woman who, as a rule, is in
the business for profit and nothing else.
APART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s a crowd on the terraced boulevard,
There’s gaiety in the air,
There’s beauty filled with a disregard
Of consequence or care ;
There’s Paris gay, and there’s Paris bold,
Intent on its joyous quest—
But one fair form in the sunlight gold
O’ershadows the whole bright rest.
The picture’s naught but a frame, forgot
For the light of her laughing eyes ;
Enchantment’s wrought on the furthest spot
Where her thought for the moment lies ;
Dulled themselves are the summer’s rays
Where her smiling glance is thrown ;
And my heart leaps gladty before her gaze
As it frankly meets my own.
She smiles to me as a lover true—
To me, of that great bright band—
Her face lights up with a beauty new,
As she waves a dainty hand.
Her parting lips and her shining teeth
Speak loud of a love divine,
That round my soul she has come to wreath—
And they tell me she is mine.
And I —l am fired with a passion grand,
But never a word I say ;
I give no sign that I understand,
And I let her pass away.
The love that I feel she’ll never know,
For there’s half a world between—
For I’m at the back of a Sydney show,
And she’s on the biograph screen.
x.s.w.
MILION MACGREGOR.


WINTER and OVERCOATS.
\<r /
I
Just a word on Overcoats.
We have a better, more varied, and wider ranged
in priced stock, of Overcoats than we ever had before.
This is no exaggeration, we are sellers of our goods
and are naturally not going to understate their value,
but we are also careful not to overstate, for that we
realise is just as harmful.
Take this line as an instance of our moderate-
priced Coats.
Men’s Rainproof Overcoats.
In rough Surface Scotch Tweed, Grey, Fawn, and
Brown mixtures, overchecked in Dark Grey and Red
mixed stripe. Full cut Skirt, patch pockets with
Flap, Strap at cuffs to tighten up and prevent the
air getting in.
The illustration shpws the style of the Coat, but
gives the impression that the Tweeds are light in
color ; in reality they are a medium shade, admirably
suited to our winter.
These are particularly dressy Coats, at /_
the moderate price of
All sizes are stocked, and they are sent carriage
paid at the advertised price, with the understanding
that if they are not entirely suitable they may be
returned and the purchase money will be refunded.
Write for our Booklet called “ Clothes Craft.” It
shows pictures and prices of Men’s Suits, Coats,
Underwear, Shirts, Hats and Boots. We send this
book post free.
David Jones Ltd • » Sydney.
A Remarkable Lens
for Instantaneous Photography.
The GOERZ
Double Anastigmat
“CELOR” I B.
Nos. oto 2, f/4.8 ; Nos. 3to 5, f/5; No. 6, f/5.5.
THIS Magnificent Lens is a wonderful power in the hands of the photographer j egg- por
take speedy pictures. It gives fully-exposed negatives, with 1/IOOOth of a sec k ; t jg
Portraiture in dull light, Children’s Portraits, Running or Jumping Horses, and for all- goERZ
unsurpassed. Prices from £6 12s. 6d, for 4jin. x 3Jin. (at full aperture).
“DAGOR,” “PANTAR,” “ SYNTOR.” Lenses for all kinds of special work.
C. P. GOERZ
holbokn circus,
LONDON, E.C.
Sole Agents for Australasia :
HARRINGTON & CO. LTD.,
Photographic M f r ®£® ntB
and Manufacturers,
380 GEORGE STREET, near G.T.0., SYDNEY.
Branch : 93 yUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
AFTER THE COUNTRY BAND
CONTEST.
“ Look ’ere. Professor, I don't consider as
’ow you wuz fair to our team, in that
last item.”
“ Veil , hut the trompetts ”
“ The trumpets be Mowed! What about
the drums!”
“O, very true! The troms couldn't be beat.”
Something like 500 claims have been
lodged against the Victorian Railway Depart-
ment in connection with the Sunshine horror.
Doubtful if there were more than 500 people on
the luckless Ballarat train. Some of these claims
are almost humorous, scores of them being for
damaged attire, lost effects, broken property, un-
fulfilled engagements, and so forth. One victim,
formerly a firm believer in imported railway
managers, is said to be claiming damages for a
compound fracture of his "misplaced confidence,
which is smashed beyond repair. Another claim
is by a lady who was travelling with a dozen
gallipots of home-made jam. which she had stowed
on the rack above her. There was the wreck
of the next carraige on top of the one she
was in, the jagged points stuck through the walls,
a dead body lay beside her, and blood was oozing
all around, but the dame grimly opened her
hamper, and exclaimed dramatically : “ I here,
every single jar broken ! ” She herself escaped
without a scratch, and lives to make the depart-
ment pay for all that jam. Another claimant
bases his demand on the fact that a portion of his
belongings was spattered with the life-blood of
the department’s passengers, and that it is the
contract of the department to land him with his
clothes unsoiled. The department is considering
whether it didn’t kill the wrong passengers.
*,* * *
The breath of “ Spring ” :
One event which the Law should place its large, horny,
corny foot upon at shows is the Novice Equestrienne
episode over hurdles. It is a dangerous, ungraceful exhi-
bition, and seems to be put on only as a draw, not as any
great test of skill. Easter Saturday at the Sydney Show
saw one foolhardy woman endangering her own fair neck,
the horse’s grey neck, and a large quantity of the public’s
craned neck. Her mount was a spirited grey, whose fight-
ing blood got up after he had leaped the first hurdle. His
rider hadn’t the faintest idea of managing him along a
circular track ; she simply hung on to the reins with one
hand and held her whip and her breath with the other,
and let the grey do his own sweet thrill. The result was
that after the second hurdle was negotiated the steed
started to sow wild oats all about the arena. In his
career he just managed to miss knocking the judge off
his dignity and the lady off her seat. Then he charged
straight at the low surrounding fence, behind which sat
theprecious women andchildren of thenation. He thought
it was another hurdle he was up against, but luckily a
garish ad. for somebody’s Vile Greens hit him in the eye in
time to swerve him off to the exit, where his rider fell
fainting into the arms of Ma Earth. Most of the sight-
seers thought the event was great. When the lady
was well enough th reappear in public, they gave her
thunderous encouragement to do it again, and when she
could only give a faint, exhausted bob of thanks, the dis-
appointed silence could be heard. Yes, let the men risk
their necks because they know what they are capable of,
bur, somehow a woman never knows what she can’t do,
and very often she does it whether she can or not.
* * » •
Ballarat seems to be a first-rate place to
choose for getting rid of your enemy. In the past
few years it has seen Nicholls, Heeney, Johanna
McCarthy, Sultan Allum, Lizzie O'Reilly and
Madge Graham done to death, and in no case has
the criminal been traced. Yet the Victorian
police calmly stack the papers away in the usual
pigeon-hole and cursorily say—“ Nothing can be
done; it is ended for ever.”
♦ * * •
Having recovered from the excitement of
the tragedy of Madge Graham, and placed W.
lies away in a mental pigeon-hole, Ballarat has
been giving its attention to some episodes con-
nected with a band of alleged gipsies, who are
understood to be trekking towards Adelaide with
intent to return to their homes (if a gipsy ever has
a home) in Bohemia or Thessalonica or there-
abouts. These wanderers are apparently the
alleged “Greek gipsies,” who happened into the
Commonwealth some five years ago. Presumably
they have wandered around, laying up a com-
petence, ever since; and they still “tell
the pretty lady’s fortune,” and otherwise
acquire coin without toiling for it. One
dark-eyed damsel, forecasting the future for
a Ballarat youth, told him to tie up his
money in his handkerchief, expectorate on it, and
keep it tied up for nine days, when he would learn
something. He did—he learnt that the cash was
less by ss. Then he called the Law in. Of
course there was no case, and Ballarat laughed
loudly. Another youth, a Bunararee farmer’s son,
became so smitten with the charms of a dark-
skinned wanderer that he has abandoned his pro-
spects of sharing the old man’s wealth, and pro-
mises to follow the damsel to the ends of the
earth. The old man has passed the youth a warning
about the proverbial shilling ; but a wiser course
might have been to allow the youngster to camp
with the gipsies for a month and hustle round after
the shy coin, and the scarce meal, and generally dis-
cover the drawbacks of the Bohemian life. That
would have probably cured him. Still, one never
knows. A pair of deep, dark eyes have drawn a
man away from home, comfort, and fortune many
a time ere this. Mostly he was sorry afterwards ;
but when he didn’t go he was mostly sorry too ;
so it’s hard to say when to go and when to stay.
One poet wrote the song of Maud Muller showing
how the rich man didn’t marry Maud of the rustic
sun-bonnet and the fresh young beauty, and how
his life was miserable ever afterwards. And then
the other bard wrote about how he did marry her,
and she developed into plain, red, coarse, large-
waisted Mrs. Jenkins; and then also the rich
man was sorry.
“Adelaide”: So the Parliament House
of Australia in Melbourne is to be connected with
the drains ! (B. 16/4/’08.) Well, well /-as a noted
swearer used to say when words failed to express
his feelings. Really, I doubt if you could make
the average person in Adelaide believe this piece
of information. We used to call it “ Marvellou
Smellbourne,” of course, but we did think that
particular reproach had been removed. As for
our own city, one has to be a very maturely
middle-aged person to remember a time when we
had not deep drainage throughout, and by now
even distant suburbs have it for every two-roomed
stone cottage —we don’t use wood for building
purposes here. And yet Melbourne talks wag-
gishly of us as behind the times. Well, well!
THE KNOWN AND THE UNKNOWN .
Distinguished Foreign Visitor (who has mistaken the house);
“ But your mistress —she is vie expecting!"
M AID: “ Gammou! You're the foreign count what ruins 'appy ’omes! I know! I ain't read
the Family ’Erald fer nothing!”
Around Melbourne, the hog in the car is
getting liogger than ever. In fact, he seems to
have got hoggest. On tlie Point Nepean Hoad
alone, for the last few weeks, the police record of
casualties runs : a lady’s nose and wrist broken, a
horse killed, two men injured, a buggy wrecked
and another damaged. And the hogs have not
been identified or caught or even shot at.
* * * *
Among Vic. Commissioner Tait’s regulations
applying to guards are some enacting that trains
must not remain at suburban platforms more
than 30 seconds, that the guard must assist por-
ters in closing dioors, and that “ the guard must
not enter the train while in motion ” ! It was
just such regulations as these that led to the re-
cent “ lazy strikes ” on the Austrian and Italian
railroads. The “lazy strikes'’’ afforded much
merriment to Australian Fat papers ; but they
did their work—they directed attention to rules
which were not really laid down for the observ-
ance of the employees, but were designed solely
for the protection of the railway companies in case
of accident. If Tait’s regulations were strictly
acted up to, the system would he disorganised
in a day. How, for instance, is a
guard to get passengers out and in, and shut the
doors of a long train, and yet get back to his
perch before the train starts, all inside 30sec. ? It
is impossible. Even the 30sec. is impossible—one
fat woman with a child and three parcels takes
longer than that to get out. But if the train is
late, and the lateness leads to an accident, Tait
isn’t to blame—the stoppages shouldn’t have been
so long, and there is the regulation to prove it.
And if the fat woman is injured by the efforts of
the officials to keep to the 30sec. rule, Tait is
wholly free from responsibility ; according to the
regulations the train must not start while fat women
are half out and half in—even though the delay
runs to five minutes. And if the guard is injured
while leaping for the moving train —well, it is his
own fault. The regulations say that he mustn’t
leap even though he has to make up the 2min.
lost by reason of the fat woman.
Pushful Potts, director of the Hawkesbury
Agricultural College (N.S.W.), lectured the
Dairy Factory Managers’ Association the other
day, and declared that the milking machine was a
proved success, and was quite capable of dis-
placing child-labor in the milking yards of Aus-
tralia. Potts’ positive assurance on this point
suggests that the parsons of the Cow districts
might give the Ark and other ancient pieces of
mechanism a rest, and take the milking machine
for a text now and again. It mightn’t be quite
orthodox, but if God has half the pity they allege
He has, and half the love for little children, there
will be a special entry made in the ledger in which
those parsons’ records are kept.
Vehicles of contempt, ranging in size from
pantechnicon vans to mere “ bottle-o ” carts, are
driven daily through C. (1. Wade’s futile anti-
gaming legislation. Thus a Sydney grocer lias
taken to offering a sweep ticket instead of the
customary teapot or fingerbowl coupon for pur-
chases over a certain amount, whereby families
never before interested in the gambling curse are
now enabled to get a regular supply of the article.
Apparently the only effective way for Parliament
to squelch gambling of this kind is to pass (by way
of an addendum) a provision enabling the Execu-
tive to apply the intention of the Act to all new
schemes invented to defeat it.
* * * •
There was something ghoulish about the
long wait to open the Sunshine railway-smash
inquest. If a jury were empanelled it would ie
necessary to go through the farce of “ viewing the
body ” —any body would do, so long as it was that
of one of the victims. Forty-four people weie
killed outright, or died within a few hours, ana
they were all promptly buried by undertaken
hungry for so well-advertised a job. A dozen
others were so badly injured that it was regal e
as certain that some of them would die; so e
question of empanelling a jury didn t seem
pressing. In fact, there was an idea
the Coroner might very well sit, wit o
a jury. But the public wouldn t stana
that, so the Crown Law Office decided that it mig ■
he as well to have a jury. But there wasn ,
corpse to view; so day after day the eni P‘ l ,
ling of a jury was hung up, waiting for some o
mangled victim to perish—and day by day. ■
other thin excuse had to be offered for the ■ . •
Of course, the difficulty could have been go
by exhuming one of the 44 corpses; hut as
ghoulish wait grew longer, that way ou o
trouble became less and less pleasant, hj •’
sort of temporary arrangement was decide
in the shape of a jury to “ assist the Oor ,
a sort of stop-gap that could be turned m 1 .
jury if anybody would oblige by dying and v °
the 45th.
THE FRANTIC PRAYER OF CERTAIN PAPERS AND
POLITICIANS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Leave us our debts, O Lord !
Give ear to our sad groans ;
You know we can’t afford
To lose our precious loans.
Yea, hear our bitter cry ;
Our beards with tears are wet—
If we are not to die
Continue us in debt!
O, hear us as >ve nioan,
Our prayer do not refuse—
Grant us our daily loan
Our weekly I O U’s !
In w'eak financial health
We lingered, day by day ;
Now, this vile Commonwealth
Is urging us to pay.
To pay —O dreadful doom !
For this \ve make our moan ;
O God of Wrath and Gloom,
Give us our daily loan 1
Arid send us forth a sign—
The Sign of the Triple Balls—
To stay the ravening Lyne
That waits without the walls.
Restrain his fury, Lord,
For solvency and cash ;
Let things go by the board
Right to Eternal Smash !
For what to us the name
Or what to us the weal
Of this, our Land? The shame
Of debt ive never feel!
Lord, let us rest content
And cherish unafraid
The tinpot pomps of Bent,
The feeble pride of Wade.
So may we spend our days,
And borrowed money—set
Far from all solvent ways
Amidst Eternal Debt.
Amen.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


THIS RING
CURES RHEUMATISM
slowly but surely ; it first relieves —then cures the
dreaded Rheumatism and all kindred troubles,
and we shall be glad to send you testimony to prove
it. Imitations do no good—don’t accept them.
Their only recommendation is cheapness.
Ask for the GENUINE RHEUMACNETIC RING
(Patd.)
. Made ef Highly - Polished
' Steel, nickel plated, 7/6.
Booklet Free on Application.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. 52
“ Woods’ Peppermint Cure appears to bring
Your trade amongst the snuggest,
I ’spose it won’t cure everything ? ”
“Well, no,” replied the druggist.
“ It won’t cure everything, at least,
Unless I’m much mistaken ! ”
“ What won’t it cure in man or beast? ”
Said he : “It won’t cure bacon ! ”
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
ONE OF THE NEW OVERCOATS.
Just one of them. We have a collection from which you could
not fail to select precisely the one to suit you. Its noteworthy
features are:
Stylish, wide skirt—loose fitting—rainproof—smartly cut—finished
in tailor=made style and is in so many sizes that we can fit YOU
Materials are Mid and Dark Grey with overcheck designs introducing reds
and greens faintly, producing verv fine .
effects. PRICES— 45 - to 70 -
'
PEAPES LTD., Sydney.
ORDER FORM.
Please send
measurement...
sleeve
; one of your Overcoats, at Chest
Measurement from centre of back to end of
Waist Please measure over ordinary coat.
Name
Address
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
“ MEN’S
OUTFITTERS,”
Hi
30-311 GEORGE STREET,
... SYDNEY.
“ A man shall not marry his grandmother,”
the Book of Common Prayer artfully begins, and
then it goes on to forbid him marrying quite
a lot of people whom he really might be disposed
to think of in a matrimonial sense. Those canoni-
cal prohibitions against the marriage of kindred
have been incorporated in the British law,
and from it have come to Australia. We
have modified them somewhat here, as, for
instance, in allowing marriage with a deceased
wife’s sister, which is still forbidden by the
British law. The question came before N.S.W.
Divorce Court last week whether the marriage of
a woman with a deceased husband’s brother was
legal. The Court said emphatically “no,” and
didn’t even ask for the question to be argued.
Yet it would seem to be reasonable in this matter
to take the obvious intention of the Legislature,
which undoubtedly was to make the relation of
brother-in-law or sister-in-law no bar to marriage.
Parliament probably didn’t mean to differentiate
between the deceased wife’s sister and the de-
ceased husband’s brother, but simply forgot the
latter, who as a matrimonial factor is a very rare
bird.
* * * *
Sydney’s primal physical geography is a
largely-forgotten circumstance nowadays, but it
still makes itself remembered in a few odd spots.
The old Tank Stream, which early settlers found
so convenient for rum-diluting and other domestic
purposes, has disappeared from the surface of
Australia under a mass of shops and warehouses,
but builders know that it is still to be found wetly
at its old address down under. The men who dug
the foundations for the new Challis House, in
Martin Place, met it in such a damp state that
they worked waist-deep in water part of the time ;
and a big concrete retaining wall had to be built
and a pumping apparatus installed to keep the old
stream from going up in the lift and washing away
the staid family solicitors and other professional
folk who toil jn the upper storeys of the big
erection.
THE UNHAPPY MEAN.
“ Her face is her fortune."
“ Oh, well, it won't bar her from the old age pension.”
Servia’s notable drunk is its Crown Prince,
who has been whooping things up ever since his
father got to the throne ; apparently he was so
staggered by the improvement of his prospects
that he went off any little dot he ever possessed,
and became a roaring maniac in all the public
houses of Belgrade. His latest performance was
a shaky attempt to shoot the ash off a cigarette in
a soldier’s mouth. He failed badly, and there was
a dead soldier, and the royal lout didn’t even
apologise to the relatives of the corpse. Poor old
King Peter is said to have a firm conviction that
he will be the last Karageorgevitch to sit on
the reeling throne of Servia. No dynasty can
last in that unstable land when the next heir to
the throne is such a bad shot and so devoid of the
graces of a Chesterfield.
“Jay bell,” from Brisbane :
Booth 8 anti-suicide bureau ought to do fair business if
*" £y er stret;c hes its tentacles into this district.
Three more or less determined self-destructors hap-
pened almost simultaneously in a country district not far
from this city. They suddenly resolved on taking the
great soul-journey within the same week.
No. 1 booked his ineffectual passage per medium of a
disreputable razor dragged across his windpipe. But the
weapon was blunt and cheap. So the world-weary one
threw himself listlessly into an adjacent “erik.” The
rivulet must have been a first cousin of Canberra’s trickle
of mud and tadpoles; it lacked the necessary amount
of moisture to float a tired soul even two inches along
the track to Tophet. So the interrupted traveller came
in out of what he thought was wet, and again cut his
throat with the crowbar that called itself a razor. The
last I saw of him he was still travelling, but not to
Tophet; he was in a spring cart going to the hospital.
Later, a police magistrate, in fine linen and a tailor-made
suit, committed him for trial before a gentleman with a
doormat on his head and a long petticoat hanging from
his shoulders. And the gentleman with the outlandish
female raiment said “Six months.”
No. 2 was a survey-camp cook—a clean, experienced
preparer of corned beef and swollen dough. He held his
head over an empty kerosene tin ; and did the sudden
episode. He was always neat and considerate, and there
was little or no splash. Came howling round the camp, a
few weeks later, his widow, accusing, in turn, each mem-
ber of foul play. But, when the circumstance of the tin
was explained to her, she said, “ Poor Gawidge wuz alwuz
so neat and tidy, he must ’ave did it ’isself.”
No. 3 cloud-chaser was found roped by the throat to an
ordinary post-and-rail fence one chilly morning. There
can be only one theory as to how this harmless bush indi-
vidual made his soul leap off the planet. He wore down
quite two square yards of verdant cow pasture in the
final skirmish with existence. Before the ultimate jolt
he had driven his heels into the lower rail of the fence,
and so he jibbed to the banks of Jordan. Had only a
Booth bureauist happened along, there might be another
live man on the land to-day, instead of merely hisblucher
footprints on a slab of timber in a countryside fence.
* * * *
“D.” on a stricken revelry resort :
“ The Continental,” known intimately for well over a
decade to every gilded youth in the British Empire who
visited London and saw anything, while there, of the life
Jud is understood to abhor, has gone the way of all un-
masked British haunts of its kind. It was a curious
resort, unlike any other in the world in many respects.
Situated in Regent-street, within 100yds. of the Athenaeum
Club, the exclusive assembling-place of Britain’s saintliest
Bishops, and near to the Carlton, one of the
finest hotels in the world, the Continental by day
held its head up as respectably as any of its
neighbors. By day you could entertain your maiden
relatives there to lunch or tea, nor fear untoward
happenings. Also you might take them to dinner
—and get a fair meal withal—in peace and an atmosphere
of staid holiness. However, you would be well advised
to get them out by 10.45 p.m. sharp. For at that hour
Flossie—who was once Florence and the incredibly inno-
cent daughter of a provincial vicar—was wont to arrive
in riotous Lutetian droves. And very soon the hostelry,
erstwhile so staid, overflowed with her in all shapes,
sizes, ages, weights, colors and nationalities. She filled
a suite of supper-rooms on the ground floor ; packed
every step and each landing of the wide staircase ;
and teemed considerably at scores of tables in half-
a-dozen big supper-rooms on the first floor. Amongst
her roamed every brand of British and foreign
youth, joyous in theconviction thatin thus seeing Flossie
—who was once Florence —he was seeing Life, and com-
porting himself like a Perfect Devil generally. Flossie
purchased little drink and less provender. Each of her
disbursed a shilling for her table-seat, and the proprie-
tary scooped its dividends from the swarms of male
admirers who bought her “ wine ” and kidneys on toast
at exorbitant rates. The scenes on the Regent-street
sidewalk mid-nightly, when she and her acquaintances
sallied forth, were distractingly cheerful. Mostly the revel-
lers refused, or were unable, to sally when closing time ar-
rived, and so were heaved out forcibly by minions attached
to the hotel. London stood the Continental till last month,
when the licensee was prosecuted (25/3/’08), on behalf of
the Commissioner of Police, and fined for having “ know-
ingly permitted the premises to be the habitual resort,”
etc., etc. It was characteristic of the good old British
directors of the place that they wrote to the prosecuting
counsel immediately they heard of the proposed action,
suggesting that the summonses should be adjourned
sine die on an undertaking being entered into that the
premises should be closed at eleven o’clock, and pointing
out that they had no suspicion that the premises were
used for this class of business at all. The move availed
not, and they are debarred from re-opening the hotel on
the same lines. The sole result, so far as the non-royster-
ing public is concerned, is that the streets of London will
be flooded thereby with a still denser crowd of mislaid
females than already patrols them between 11 p.m. and
the small hours.
“ Corso ” writes :
The Full Court (N.S.W.) has decided that the attempt
on the part of the authorities to regulate the crowds on
the Manly ferry boats, by restricting them to the distri-
bution on their decks as described in their passenger
certificates, is abortive. The test Case Was the Brighton,
which has a passenger certificate for 1188 people, 833 being
allowed after measuring the main deck, and 274 after
ditto the upper, and the balance for the cabin. In the
test case it was shown that on the upper deck some 650
people were on the space calculated to accommodate
274. The Court held that the Marine Acts, did
not differentiate between the decks, and as long as
no more than 1188 passengers were carried, they
could all legally congregate on the upper deck.
As the law stands, C. J. Darley, who decided the point, is
probably right, if he doesn’t mind me saying so. His
dictum should make next season’s holiday traffic from
Sydney to Manly a first charge on the resources of the
Harbor authorities. This traffic is now of enormous
dimensions, and is difficult to handle. With a little less
luck this very Brighton would last summer have provided
a catastrophe which would have put Sunshine in the
shade. One obvious duty of the marine authorities
is to see that if, say, the Brighton claims the
right to crowd 1188 people on its upper deck, that
deck should be strong enough to carry them, and not
merely the 274 already mentioned. In other words the
passenger capacity of the boats is to be calculated on the
basis that the whole number allowed is at liberty to
crdwd on top, and the vessel must be still good enough
not to topple over. Wanted a picture of a boat that will
be quite safe going round Middle Head in a blow, with
1188 passengers on the extreme top and a few bags of coal
in the extreme bottom.
Loyalty breaks out in strange language at
times. Lately at a temperance banquet at New
royal highness” and sometimes as “the king of
kmgs.” Further, he said that Edward Yll.’s
actions had been tampered with justice,” and
ne remarked that if Edward ever dropped in
along with her highness on his way home from
JJenmark, Maoriland would give him a hearty
welcome. Ihen he sat down with his blushing
honors so thick upon him that they had to be
scraped off with a knife.
If only the Sunday-school teacher dared,
what an illustration he could get out of a
recent medical case to drive home the frayed
copy-book maxim—“Be spre your sin will find
you out.” The woman in the case was young and
charming, and the man she loved too well was a
married person, who masqueraded as unattached,
and turned up frequently in that disguise at the
house of the charming young woman’s parents.
When the consequences began to show up, the
married masquerader took the lady to a well-
known and reputable city doctor, who promptly
diagnosed the trouble. Then the married mas-
querader made such very complete arrange-
ments for the “trouble” that nobody else
in the wide world was to know a thing
about it—even the nurses wouldn’t learn
who the interested parties were. Then, just when
everything was going so smoothly, the lady fell
down some railway steps. A serious operation
became necessary, and the highly-skilled doctor
who knew the secret undertook the work. Then he,
too, must meet with ill-luck —he who was declared
by other doctors to be one of the most skilful men
at this sort of work in the city. When that hap-
pened the masquerader had to bring the lady’s
family to her deathbed ; and, to complete the
misery of everybody, the circumstances cried
aloud for an inquiry. Next to turn all eyes to the
inquiry, the doctors differed, some alleging gross
negligence, so the Coroner committed the operator
to take his trial. He was acquitted ; but by that
time nobody was wearing any disguise—the
public was looking on at the plain, drab facts.
* * * *
The alleged evils of Protection, as exem-
plified by the female factory operative, are one of
the stock jokes of the Foreign-trader, and he has
a yearning for our womankind to go on the land
and be happy. Here is the tale of One who did it:
Melbourne, Tuesday.—At the Horsham Police Court,
yesterday, Johann CarlJende was charged with leaving
his wife without means of support. Complainant stated
her husband forced her to shear 150 sheep, and lift
heavy wethers. During the last two years he had given
her £4 or £5. She and the children could not get enough
to eat, and had lived on potatoes and eggs. The grocery
bill amounted to only ss. per week. Defendant owned
3700 acres freehold, and had live stock worth £20,000.
The case was eventually dismissed.
Poor she-beast of burden, married to the econo-
mical “ backbone of the country ” ! She might
have been better off toiling in a boot factory.
There she would at least have got more than £5
in two years, and there would have been a surplus
wherewith to buy a hat and a big feather, and she
could have been a happy Collingwood tart and have
ridden on the front of the tram-car on Saturday
night.
Maoriland has fired the first blast at the
stupendous Arthur’s Pass tunnel, which is to
pierce the Alps at Otira, and cut the magnificent
Otira Gorge scenery out of the traveller’s
itinerary, and make a line across the South Island
from west to east. The stupendous hole is to be
nearly six miles long, and is to be’built in five
years at a cost of £600,000. This will take a high
place among the horizontal orifices of the earth.
England’s biggest tunnel—that Under the Severn
—is less than miles long, and took 13 years to
build.
The amorous adventure of Policeman
Holden in Fitzroy Gardens (Vic.) recalls the sad
case of Smith, of Adelaide, who was sitting with
his girl by the Torrens Lake, when he was
annoyed by Blokes. He explained quite clearly
what he would do to them if they did not leave.
Then two things happened simultaneously. (1)
They left. (2) Policeman X, becoming aware of
angry voices, strolled up to see what was the
matter. And Smith, hearing feet behind him,
and concluding that one Bloke had come back,
just remarked : “Well, if you will have it”
and, whirling round, he did to the astonished
copper as many of the things promised as he had
time for before learning the horrid truth. The
Police Magistrate in due course sympathised
with Smith, but fined him £1 to teach him to be
more wary in distinguishing between policemen
and Blokes.
* * * *
“ Mate ” tells some truths :
“ Bobstay ” (B. 23/4/’08) enthuses some re the Union
Oo.’s training ship for officers. This idea is a good one as
far as it goes. Britain is a broken reed to lean on for
officers to man our ships, as for some other things.
It needs all, and more than all, the fast declining
sailing ships now produce. It’s not lack of means
for training that is the cause of the shortage. It’s
the disadvantages and lack of decent prospects that keep
boys who look ahead from going to sea. There are stiff
exams, to look forward to, and exemptions for all Aus-
tralian ports to get later on. The pay is not in pro-
portion to the position and responsibility. The work is
hard, and means long hours, in spite of Justice O’Connor’s
alleged reduction. Take a mate’s job in any of our ships.
He has to keep the ship clean and in order, inside and
out; indent for and supervise the use of all deck stores,
such as paint, oil, rope, wire, and many oddments ; see that
all cargo gear is in order, and renew it when it shows
signs of wear (if anything carries away he is held respon-
sible) ; keep note of the sailors’ overtime (doesn’t get
any himself); engage and discharge the hands—
plan their work, and see it properly carried out.
He’s always in request by stevedores, colliers, and
101 other people when in port. He must be on the bridge
coming in and going out of harbor, and all in addition to
his regular watches at sea. In some ships you never get
a Sunday or holiday at home—nothing but the 10 days a
year at the owner’s convenience. When you compare
this with the case of the average shore-going person who
knocks off at noon on Saturday every week, has all Sun-
days, and a dozen or more other holidays every year (as
well as the usual two or three weeks, in many cases), you
can’t wonder boys are shy of sailoring. There is a
remedy, but its chance of adoption is small as yet.
A CLERIC SEES THINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Speaking at the Presbyterian General Assembly last
night, Rev. John Paterson, who has just returned from
the Barrier, painted a vivid picture of Broken Hill—the
corrugated roofs, scorching sun, and consequent thirst of
the population.
It was the third city of New South Wales, he said a
place with a population of 50,000, largely men represent-
ing the young manhood of the world. The brainiest men
from all Europe were there ; but there, also, were forces of
immorality too awful for him to speak of in that audience.
In Broken Hill the forces opposed to Christianity were
organised as, perhaps, they were in no other city in the
Commonwealth. They had an aggressive and almost
triumphant Socialism, that made a scorn of the things
they held sacred.—S. M. Herald, 8/5/’OB.
Woe ! Woe ! And moral Horrors manifold !
Cling to your pews, my brethren, and prepare
For dialectic squalls. Hear me unfold
A tale to chill the spine and raise the hair.
For I have viewed the Place of Awful Thirst—
’Neath its scorched roofs men nothing eat, save beer :
All hands on an interminable burst
Go day and night, and howl and shriek and cheer.
The brainiest thinkers flock here from afar
To heap their intellects upon a pyre
Of alcohol. Success is not the Star
These aim at. All they seek’s Eternal Fire.
The Sabbath dawns ; the kirk bell tinkles loud.
Do worshippers haste—thrippences in hand—
To hear the Word ? They don’t. The Barrier crowd
The normal pulpit-basher cannot stand.
There are some social features at the Hill
Which, if I touched on, I were shamed quick :
(Alas ! The Darnce—the Busted ’Ome—the till
Rifled that Youth may watch a Soubrette kick.)
You ask the cause ; I give it, friends, with grief—
And G. H. Reid will prove I talk not bosh—
The reason Sodom’s beaten by the Reef
In wickedness, is (hearken, brethren)— Sosh 1
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
HUN TED
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r post-supporter limply leans,
The fish shop spreads its
smell;
The west wind wilts
the table greens,
The ice-cream ven-
dors yell.
My arms embrace a
gurgling friend
(Won by a woeful
tale) ;
A voice behind me
starts to rend
The air with cries
of bale.
I hear the flop of
slippered Jeet,
I know whose leys
they're on ;
I’d fain dive down
some dark side-
street
And hide till they
pass 07i.
Perchance this blowse with reaching hands
Imagines that Pm flush,
That she should shriek her shrill demands
And cause my cheek to blush.
My hast’ning feet would fain create
Distance ’tween her and me;
But spectre-like and obdurate,
She follows as I flee.
N.s.w.
I feel her breath upon my neck,
And hear her insult base.
Like Jud, from flighty Flossie's beck,
I turn away my face.
At times I whisper to my bloivn
And spavined Pegasus,
That some day, when my worth is known,
Famk will pursue me thus.
WAUKARGO.


National Gas Engines & Suction Plants
MODEL 1908 GAS ENGINES STOCKED.
N.B. National Suction Plants at Royal Show, England, awarded Gold
Medal (highest award) against all competitors.
ARTHUR LEPLftSTRIER & CO., 64 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post ofTi ee ch b j5 e t
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge S 1
BALLARAT: Lydlard Street.
rENDICO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Q""* l **. ft „
IN STOCK— Winding- Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam um P
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping, all sizes.
Sole Agents for Camel Brand and Camel Hair Beltings, made only by F. Engines'
Manchester; Ransomes Sims’, and Jefferies Ltd’s Portable Traction and StatiomM^i^^^^^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mr. Ben H. Morgan, commercial editor of
London Standard, is wandering through Australia as
special commissioner for the British Manufacturers’ As-
sociation. This is another consequence of the disastrous
tariff. Before that arrived the British manufacturer
would have sent out a circular intimating that he would
have a new line of tweeds ready in three months, or a
new pattern of bedsteads, and would Australia please
send its orders by return of mail. Now the British
manufacturers look hard at the tariff wall, and then send
Mr. Morgan out to see what the prospects are in the way
of establishing industries inside the obstruction, and thus
getting the work done in Australia that hitherto has
been done in foreign parts. That is the first object of the •
commissioner’s visit.
The second object is to stir up Australia to
appreciate the antics of the English shipping ring. On
that subject members of the Labor party have talked to
Australia frequently during the past couple of years ; also
The Bulletin has mentioned the matter several times.
Australia, however, was frightfully busy discussing
whether Trumper really shouldn’t be dropped out of the
Australian Eleven, so the other matter received very
little attention. Now, however, that the representa-
tive of British manufacturers talks, it is quite
another matter. The situation simply is that
the big English shipping cos., passenger and freight
lines alike, have formed themselves into a close asso-
ciation, not only to regulate rates, but to prevent the
“ intrusion ”of any outsider. The regulation of rates is,
to a certain extent, right enough ; it isn’t good for busi-
ness to have freights cut to 255. a ton this week, and
then, to make up for it, sprung up to £3 15s. next week.
That sort of thing turns commerce into a gamble ; the
merchant who happens to get his stuff shipped during the
255.-a-ton week is dealt the joker and right bower, while
the £3 155.-a-ton man gets all the sevens in the pack.
There is no serious objection to regulation of rates within
certain limits ; there is very serious objection to the
choking-off of the outsider, and the elimination of all
competition.
This part of the business is “ worked ” through
deferred rebates. The shipping co. charges, say, 60s. a
ton. On top of that it charges 10 per cent, good conduct
money. The good conduct consists of the shipper abso-
lutely boycotting every shipping line that is not in the
ring. The good conduct money, or deferred rebate, is
held nominally for six months, but practically for as
much as twelve ; and if the shipper has behaved himself,
and given no encouragement to anybody outside the ring,
then he gets a refund of what by that time probably
amounts to some thousands of pounds. Thus the shipper
keeps in existence a ring whose business in life is, of
course, to maintain high freights. The United States had
precisely the same trouble ; but they got over it by a
simple provision in what is known as the Elkins Act,
prohibiting the carriage of any goods to the country
under any system of deferred rebates. One result is that
the American trade is w 7 ell catered for. Any old tub
isn’t good enough when the shipper has the right to go
wherever he likes to have his goods carried. The fear of
outside competition keeps the people in the trade up to
the collar all the time. B. H. Morgan has had conferences
with Prime Minister Deakin, Labor Leader Fisher, J. C.
Watson, and others ; and it seems likely that the Elkins
Act will be repeated in Australia.
To see the effect of competition—and also
the effect of the absence of it—compare the freights
for British and German or American goods on the vessels
within the English ring. There are three American lines
reaching out for the Australian trade ; consequently, in
order to compete with those lines, British ships will carry
American goods from Liverpool for as much as 30 per
cent, less than they will carry British goods. That is
where the shoe pinches the British Manufacturers’
Association. That body probably doesn’t trouble much
about Australia ; what it does trouble about is that, in
consequence of the ring, which is fed and kept alive by
the rebates, its members are placed at a disadvantage
compared with the foreigner. Australia is, of course,
most interested in having its own industries. It doesn’t
want to give work to either British or foreign factories.
But if it must draw from elsewhere, it is best that it
should draw from Britain ; wherefore it is now fixing up
a preferential tariff. And obviously this ring, or con-
spiracy, or whatever you like to call it on the part of a
few shipping magnates goes a long way towards neutral-
ising that preference; so from that point of view Aus-
tralia is interested in stamping on the thing.
* * * *
The Premiers’ Conference in Melbourne tackled
the question of the relations between the Governments
and the Stock Exchanges. Lately, when South Australia
tried to float a loan in the Commonwealth, the Stock
Exchanges virtually dictated terms, first, as to what
rates of brokerage they would charge, and second, as to
who would be permitted to quote or sell the stock.
Failing acceptance of their terms, the brokers agreed to
boycott the loan. The Price Government had to capitu-
late. When S.A. Treasurer Peake asked the Premiers’
Conference for assistance, Wade, Waddell, and Ashton,
the N.S.W. delegates, all threw cold water on him. They
remarked that, supposing the States passed laws, insist-
ing on Stock Exchanges dealing with Government
securities at a fixed minimum rate of pay, the Exchanges
would nominally bow to the law, but each individual
broker would say he wouldn’t quote the stock ; and if
this individual action became general the Governments
would be in a more parlous state than ever. Wade,
Waddell, and Ashton are jointly authors of the Indus-
trial Disputes Act, under which any trades union may be
forced to put up a money bond that its members will obey
any award fixed by the Industrial Court; but it evidently
didn’t occur to them that they could extend the principle,
and if any member of any Stock Exchange refused to deal
in any particular stock in which a boycott was sus-
pected, the Exchange to which he belonged could be cast
in damages.
* df 1r dr
The Electric Light Department of the
Sydney City Council :
Sinking Deficit
Fund less
Contri- Written Sinking
Dec., Loss. bution. off. Fund.
£4,794
1904.. £1,921 £1767 6,715
ion 7; / 661 2044 £1404 B>7Bo 8 > 780
*" \ Loan flotation expenses, £787 .. .. 9,567
Profit.
lOOfi ) B>64S 8 > 64S 3349 14(10 2,319
'■ j Net profit on Loan flotation, £357 .. 1,962
(Loan flotation and other expenses, £lOl 2,063
Goodwill Empire Co., £31,000 .. .. 33,063
1907.. J Compensation for disturbance, £13,300 19,763
I Profit. Sinking Fund. Written off.
I 19,142 3587 1400 2,019
This is a bit complicated ; and even then it doesn’t ex-
plain the whole position. First, as to the amounts shown
as written off. In 1904 the actual loss was £3688 ; but the
City Fund had to make good the annual contribution to
the sinking fund, and it did so. Nevertheless the debt
was not shown as a liability. Since then, however, the
advance has been paid off, the last instalment of £l4OO
being provided during the past year ; and for the sake of
convenience these amounts are represented as written
off. Then as to the deficit. It began with loan flotation
and preliminary expenses and “ damages.” With regard
to these paper “assets” a very gradual policy is being
adopted : they are being wiped out by annual payments
spread over 25 years 1 In the foregoing table, of course,
they are not regarded as assets at all. Then £31,000
appears among the assets as “ Goodwill, Empire Co.”
This, being paper, is also not regarded as an asset. The
Empire Co. was one of several which competed with the
municipal business. There were two courses open : one to
go ahead and possibly eventually run these older private
enterprise concerns out of business ;' the other, to buy
them out at a fair price and be done with it. The latter
policy, which had several things in its favor, had been
successfully adopted by the older municipal undertaking
in Melbourne, and was also adopted in Sydney. It in-
volved, however, paying something substantial for the
goodwill of the business. In fact, there was nothing but
the goodwill that was worth anything to the munici-
pality. One other business (the Strand Co.’s) has since
been bought: a third (the Oxford Co.’s) is now the sub-
ject of negotiation.
The following will perhaps make the present
position plainer :
Deficit, profit and loss account .. £1,308
Goodwill, paper assets .. .. 35,137
Total deficit .. .. £36,445
Sinking fund 10,747
Depreciation account .. .. 10,379
, Special Reserve 13,300
34,426
Net deficit .. .. .. £2,019
Up to now, therefore, after providing £10,747 for sinking
fund and £10,379 for depreciation, and paying off £llBB
of preliminary expenses, the profit and loss account of the
whole undertaking is only £l3OB to the bad
Sinking Fund £10,747
Depreciation .. .. .. .. 10,379
Preliminary expenses .. .. .. 1,188
Total £22,314
Less 1,308
Net profit in four years .. £21,006
But that reckons in the depreciation allowance as profit.
Wipe that out, and there will still be £10,627 left to show
for less than four years’ work.
This presents some more details of the working
of Sydney’s electric light and power business :
Working Net
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue. Interest. Loss.
1904 .. £4,061 £5,313 £2,436 £3,688
1905 .. 22,176 15,005 £7,171 7,874 703
Profit.
1906 .. 40,983 21,567 19,416 10,931 8,485
1907 .. 65,868 31,899 33,969 15,025 18,944
The figures in the last column don’t correspond exactly
with those of the front column in the first table. The dif-
ference represents the interest received on the sinking
fund ; and that interest doesn’t, of course, go into the
working account, this being an honest sinking fund, and
not like the one Oarruthers established for the State in
N. S. Wales. The taking over of the Empire Co.’s busi-
ness has disturbed some of the figures. The whole basis
of the transaction was unusual. The City Council took
over the Empire Co.’s customers, and charge them
the usual rates. Of that revenue the Council
retains a penny per unit (which is about the cost of
generation) and hands over the balance to the co. in
payment for the undertaking. Thus the Council had to
float no new loan to acquire the business—the business
provides the money to pay for itself, and while it is pro-
viding that money the Council is nothing out of pocket,
except for 5 per cent, interest on the unpaid balance of
purchase money, now £22,670. There isn't any apparent
reason, though, why the Council should go on paying
5 per cent, on that amount ; it would seem to be good
business to wipe the debt out promptly, in which case, of
course, the Council wouldn’t return any of the revenue
to the co. Apparently the position with regard to the
co. last year was as follows : The municipality got £1938 for
supplying the co.’scustomers, at a cost to itself, it seems, of
£1359. A further £6126 was collected, and was available
for paying off the capital debt. As against that, £1796
was paid as interest on the unpaid balance of the debt.
The City has borrowed £350,000 on debentures,
and, besides the £22,670 owing to the Empire Co., it owed
the bank £23,005 and sundry creditors £10,370. The
annual contribution to the sinking fund is 1 per cent. ; so
the City Council’s honesty is twice as rapid as Deakin
and Lyne have horrified some State politicians by propos-
ing that the State’s honesty should be. The depreciation
allowance (2 per cent, on £250,463) isn’t so satisfactory ;
2 per cent, isn’t half enough so far as a very great many
of these appliances are concerned. The Melbourne City
Council, which started with cent., found that it
wasn’t enough, and almost immediately made it 2 per
cent. But as it got more experience it saw the need for
further liberality ; so in 1906 the extra provision ran to
5% per cent., and last year it ran to 6 per cent., or a total
of 8 per cent, for the year. The Sydney undertaking will
almost certainly have to go the same way. In fact, until
it goes that way, any statement as to its net profits must
be viewed with a good deal of doubt.
* * x «
The Australian Mutual Fire Insurance
Society (Sydney):—
Bonus
to Added Total
Policy- to Re-
Profits. Dividends. holders. Funds, serves.
Mar., £ £ £ £ £
1898 .. 17,647 22J p.c. = 5,720 3720 8,207 108,679
1899.. 17,530 24 „ „ 6,055 4055 7,420 116,099
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 103,599
1900.. 17,213 18J p.c. = 7,087 4087 6,039 109,638
1901.. 19,963 18| ~ „ 7,036 4036 8,891 118,529
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 106,029
1902 .. 17,952 16£ p.c. = 8,224 4224 5,504 111,533
1903 .. 17,184 16| „ „ 8,248 4248 4,688 116,221
1904.. 23,313 16£ „ „ 8,290 4290 10,733 126,954
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 114,454
1905.. 21,447 14§ p.c. = 9,312 4312 7,823 122,277
1906 .. 20,403 14J „ „ 9,262 4262 6,879 129,156
1907 .. 21,562 14| „ „ 9,237 4238 8,087 137,243
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 124,743
1908.. 21,230 14 p.c. = 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
This co., one of the very few which remain unregis-
tered under the limited-liability provisions of the Com-
panies Act, has nominally a capital of £lOO,OOO ; and
it is steadily building up the paid capital to that height
by transfers of undivided profit. It began in 1872 with an
actually paid capital of £6250 ; so if the present dividends
were based upon that, they would amount to something
dazzling—a trifle of 165 per cent, or so per annum. The
present dividend is actually, however, not referred to as
even 14 per cent. The plan adopted is to pay a fixed
8 per cent., and thereafter to divide 20 percent, of the
premiums among policy-holders and shareholders in
equal parts ; consequently the policy-holders’ 10 per cent,
bonus is shown in this case, whereas in connection with
some other offices, which pay the same bonus, the amount
is simply deducted from premiums received. Recently 7 the
transfer of reserves to capital has been rapid; consequently
the increase of capital has completely outpaced the in-
crease of business (and, therefore, bonuses); hence the
reduction of the total dividend from 24 per cent, to about
14 per cent, inside 10 years. (This dividend, of course,
includes the shareholders’ half of the bonus.) It was said
just now that the increase of capital had outpaced the
increase of business. This is largely the result of the co.’s
policy in confining business to N. S. Wales, and strictly
selecting its risks. The refusal to take risks outside
N. S. Wales was largely the result of the non-limiting of
liability : practically all the shares of the partnership being
held in Sydney, it was held that business should not be
pursued, as it were, out of their sight. But the time is
passed for such restrictions, and the directors now propose
that the co. shall be entitled to do business anywhere in
the Commonwealth and Maoriland, and not only fire
business, but every 7 other insurance or guarantee business
“known or hereafter to become known,” except life-
assurance. But no announcement has yet been made
with regard to an alteration of the basis of the co. en-
titling it to write “ Limited ” after its title—an alteration
which the two big Maoriland cos. lately carried through
without in the least affecting their credit or their popu-
larity with insurers, so far as can be judged by results.
Some further particulars regarding the Aus-
tralian Mutual:—
Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £29,416 £6717 £12,828 22'8 p.c. 43 6 p.c.
1900.. 33,888 8131 13,765 24’0 „ 407 „
1905.. 36,088 7149 15,009 19’8 „ 41'6 „
1906.. 36,137 8535 15,420 23‘6 „ 427 „
1907.. 36,358 7471 15,694 20'6 „ 42'6 „
1908.. 37,462 7710 16,818 20'6 „ 44'9 „
The effect of the restrictions is seen in the comparatively
small increase in premium receipts: the effects of the
strict selection of risks are seen both in the low loss rate
and the high expense rate. Certainly the Australian
Mutual can never forget its constitution ; it is bound to
a policy of great caution. All the same, if the premiums
had been increased to £60,000 at a cost of 33 per cent.,
and with losses of as much as 45 percent., the underwriting
profit would have amounted to £13,200, as against £12,934
actually realised for the past year. The investments are
not specified fully ; they are described as “city freehold,
mortgages, fixed deposits, and money at call,” and they
show a return all round of just under 4 per cent. ; but
whether that can be considered good or only fair depends
upon the proportion of call money, fixed deposits, etc.
* * * ♦
The Royal Bank of Queensland lately decided
to alter its balancing months from June and December
to March and September ; and, while the change doesn’t
affect the public, the abolition of the extra grind at mid-
summer is something that the staff will be grateful for.
Under the new arrangement, the books were made up as
at March 31, and accounts have now been issued. For the
quarter a net profit of £6304 is shown, as against £12,626
for the previous six months; so the recent fine improve-
ment is just about maintained. Out of this, a dividend
at the rate of 4£ per cent, per annum is paid, absorbing
£5708, and £596 is carried forward, bringing the re-
serves up to £71,206. The amount left over after pay-
ing the dividend is small, as usual; but from
the steady increase in the earnings of the bank’s assets,
it looks as though the latter have, been steadily written
down out of undisclosed profit. From the fact that for
many years past the shares have been and still are at a
discount, investors have obviously assumed that there
was a good deal of writing down to do, and that, in fact,
there were no real reserves at all. Rather than add largely
to reserves which pretty evidently don’t exist in fact, it is
understood that the policy of this carefully handled bank
has been to quietly write down the book value of assets in
the hope that presently book values and market values
will correspond ; and when that happens there
will, of course, be no deficit so far as capital is
concerned. And that some people reckon that the bank
hasn’t much, if any, further to go in that way is proved
by the further fact that it has latterly been getting in
some new capital at par. The total paid capital is now
£485,003; the total liabilities are £1,157,611. Even
making a liberal allowance for over-valuation of assets,
capital and reserves are thus large in proportion to
deposits and other liabilities, so the latter are very well
protected.
* * * »
The Illawarra and South Coast Steam
Navigation Co. (N.S. W.)
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1902 .. £2392 8J p.c. = £2490 £26,403
Sept., 1902 .. 2508 8| „ „ 2490 £lB 26,421
Mar., 1903 .. 3060 8j „ „ 2490 570 26,991
Sept., 1903 .. 2319 8| „ „ 2490 26,820
Mar., 1904 .. 2692 8J „ „ 2490 202 27,022
Sept., 1904 .. 2192 8| „ „ 2490 26,724
Profit made on sale of wharf .. 21,051 47,775
Assets written down, £15,377 .. .. ..32,398
£24,898 of reserves transferred to capital .. 7,500
Mar., 1905 .. 3562 7 p.c. = 2614 948 8,448
Sept., 1905 .. 2086 7 „ „ 2614 7,920
Mar., 1906 .. 3062 7 „ „ 2614 448 8,368
Sept., 1906 .. 3079 7 „ „ 2625 454 8,822
Mar., 1907 .. 3348 7 „ „ 2625 723 9,545
Sept., 1907 .. 2628 7 „ „ 2625 3 9,548
Mar., 1908 .. 2466 7 „ „ 2625 9,389
Besides the reserves shown in this table, the co. has a
“ Repairs, suspense, and contingency account,” which was
in credit £1557 at the end of the half-year, a reduction of
£llOO during the term. This money and more was put
into the steamer Bega ; and just after the half-year closed
that unsteady vessel took a list first to port and then to
starboard, and finally capsized and sank. The co.’s luck
has been right out lately. First, the South Coast felt a
drought worse than it had ever experienced before ; then,
tired of the exactions of South Coast landlords, there was
a steady exodus of population to the North Coast and
other districts ; thirdly, the co. was importing a new
steamer, the Moruya, and had got it out as far as the Vic-
torian coast, when it ran aground, and was badly
damaged; (4) the co.’s trade during this past half-
year was disorganised by a strike; (5) the Bega
sank as before mentioned; and, finally, it was
announced the other day that an inter-State co.
was going to call in at the South Coast, mainly
in order to promote a direct trade between there
and Melbourne. The co. had done very little in the way
of strengthening its fleet of late years ; but with the Eden
laid up and the Bega laid down, it has had to give an
order for a new vessel (in Great Britain, by the way—the
Moruya’s troubles on the way out didn’t teach it to go to
an Australian yard), and it has also bought the Kempsey
from the North Coast trade. At March 31 the position
compared with that at corresponding dates in this way :
1905. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Capital .. .. £74,695 £74,695 £75,000 £75,000
Debts to public .. 1,165 5,848 1,845 3,850
Ship property .. 40,393 42,471 40,376 39,366
Cash, etc 42,235 44,303 43,515 46,256
Other assets .. 6,295 7,252 7,782 6,799
Fortunately the cash position is very strong, so the pay-
ment for the new vessels won’t be a worry to the co.
Moreover, the co. apparently carries very little of its own
insurance (of the reserves £9343 is insurance fund), so the
loss of the Bega may not make a very big hole in the re-
serves. The profits, it will be noticed, are shown net;
something unknown is written off for depreciation. The
book value of ship property has been written down from
£42,471 to £39,366 in two years, notwithstanding that the
Moruya has been added to the fleet in that time, though
possibly some payments may have been made previously.
It appears, therefore, as though the profits are by no
means over-stated.
The Trustees, Executors, and Agency Co.,
of Maoriland (Dunedin)
To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1902.. £1370 9 per cent. = £9OO £470 £5,180
1903 .. 1365 10 „ „ 1000 365 5,545
1904 .. 2234 12 „ „ 1200 1034 6,579
1905 .. 4138 15 „ „ 1500 2638 9,217
1906 . 2880 15 ~ „ 1500 1380 10,597
1907 .. 1697 15 „ „ 1500 197 10,794
1908.. 1880 15 „ „ 1500 380 11,174
As a whole, Maoriland trustee cos. are not very satis-
factory, mainly because they mix the trustee industry
with other business. One (or perhaps more) of them even
goes in for sharebroking. The extent of this co.’s sinning is
not clear ; in setting out a “ statement of assets in the
hands of the co. as trustee, executor and agent” it
observes that the amount is “ exclusive of value of share
scrip ” ; and, though that sets one wondering, it doesn’t
necessarily mean that the co. is a sharebroker as well as
a trustee. In Maoriland, however, it is advisable for a
real trustee co. to make its position clear, because in no
other Australasian State do trustee cos. mix things as
they do over there. The trouble is that, when
other business is taken in hand, the capital
and reserves can no longer be , egarded as a
fund wholly available to guarantee the right performance
of trust duties. The position is worst where deposits are
taken and other liabilities assumed in order to carry on
an advance business. This co., fortunately, seems to keep
clear of that. Certainly there are “ balances due by the
co., £13,485,” but that is rather more than covered by
cash and “ balances due to the co.” Apparently these
balances are in connection with the agency business.
The trust assets in hand total £1,490,368; in 1906,
when the corresponding statement was first published,
the total was £1,290,047. The gross revenue from com-
mission was £3804, or ss. Id. per cent, of the value nf
trust estates in hand ; so the charges appear to h
moderate. And yet the profits ran to £9 Os. 10d r>
cent, on combined capital and reserves—anotherinstane r
of the remarkably profitable character of trustee busf
ness, which requires so little paid capital to conduct
that one quite understands why for so long a period it
was regarded as a choice plum by the Gent One who nur
sues six-and-eightpence and as much more as he thmtl
he can catch. ns ®
* * * »
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors A v n
Trustees Association, Ltd. (Launceston)
Dividends and To Re- R e -
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves
Sept., 1902.. £626 6 per cent. =£3ls £3ll £9OOl
Mar., 1903.. 510 6 „ „ 315 195 247fi
Sept., 1903.. 470 6 ~ ~ 315 155 oeo.
Mar., 1904.. 815 6 „ „ 315 500 31S,
Sept., 1904.. 667 6 ~ ~ 315 352 348.9
Mar., 1905.. 696 6 „ „ 315 381 asal
Sept., 1905.. 1148 6 „ „ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906.. 1040 8 „ ~420 620 5317
Sept., 1906.. 818 8 „ „ 420 398 5713
Mar., 1907.. 714 8 ~ „ 420 294 raw,
Sept., 1907 . 827 8 „ „ 420 407 6416
Mar., 1908.. 841 8 „ „ 420 421 6837
This trustee co. improves the form of its accounts
and makes its position a little plainer this time. For
years past it has shown among its liabilities a large' item
—“ Amounts owing by the association.” Six months avo
the total was £11,606, or £1606 more than the co.’s
capital. Now, when trustee cos. owe large amounts on
overdraft or on deposits, and lend out the money, obvi-
ously their capital (or more) maybe required to’niake
good a slump in the value of the securities into which the
borrowed money has been put; and that isn’t the posi-
tion any trustee co. ought to be liable to fall into. It
looked as though this co. might be doing that sort of
business ; but the more complete accounts show that
the position isn’t as bad as it might be by a
long way. The “amounts owing” are now
shown as “clients’ credit balances” (£20,820);
and on the other side the whole of ’ that
amount and a trifle more is represented by cash
£18,545 ; and clients’ debit balances, £3796. The interest
on investments (now stated separately) amounted for the
half-year to £367, showing a return of £4 12s. per cent.—
very reasonable, seeing that nearly one-third of the in-
vestment is on fixed deposit in the name of the State
Treasurer. The business (like most trustee businesses) is
very profitable, looking at it from the point of view of
capital invested ; capital and reserves show a profit equal
to £lO 3s. Bd. per cent, per annum.
■***■•*
Coraki Co-operative Butter Co., Coraki
(N.S.VV.): —
Bonus
Dividends, to Sup- Written Re-
Profits. per annum, pliers. Off. serves.
Jan., 1905.. £349 5 p.c. = £52 £246 £233
July, 1905.. 417 5 „ „ 54 £260 119 217
Jan., 1906.. 218 Nil 89 346
July, 1906.. 53 Nil 195 204
Jan., 1907.. 991 5 p.c. =£B2 257 856
July, 1907.. 865 5 „ „ 83 224 254 1160
Jan., 1908.. 334 5 ~ ~ 83 362 247 802
No regular bonus has been paid to suppliers during the
past half-year ; but an export reserve fund, previously
built up to £362, has been divided. On the turnover
(butter sales have amounted to £22,879) the profit is cut
very fine ; even disregarding the distribution of the
export fund, depreciation and dividend mopped up all
but £4 of the profits ; and that isn’t satisfactory in a
business which must inevitably make some bad debts.
The grade of this co.’s product doesn’t appear to have
been as high as it ought to have been, and the Board,
reckoning that the quality of the cream supply has been
to blame, proceeds to make some severe remarks to the
local Cow man on the subject.
* * * *
S. M. Herald has had an article on “The
Darkest Cloud above the Horizon of our Prosperity.”
Said darkest cloud is alleged to be “ undoubtedly the
depression in the mining industry,” due to the low price
of silver and lead ; and, as usual, the Government is
urged to “bog in” and play up some more borrowed
money—of course, on the same old “ reproductive public
works.” Most of this is plain rubbish. Unless you judge
by the standard of the phenomenal boom of 1906-7, there
is no mining depression —especially in N. S. Wales—and
the metal markets are not extraordinarily low. Lead now
is £l3 per ton. In the 20 years preceding the recent
boom (that is to say, between 1885 and 1904)
lead averaged less than £l3 in no fewer than 12 years.
Copper is worth about £5B. In 14 years out of the2oprevious
to the recent boom its average was lower than that. In
10 years out of the 20 the yearly average was, in fact,
below £5O. Tin is worth £142 or more. Before the recent
boom it never once in the previous 20 years averaged so
much as that for 12 months. In 1894 it averaged £6B
(omitting shillings and pence); in 1895, £63 ; 1896, £59;
1897, £6l. The alleged extraordinary low prices of metals
are therefore a myth. They don’t exist except in the
minds of people who can’t remember further back than
the remarkable boom of the past three years.
Whether price levels have moved up on account
of the extraordinary increase in the output of gold—the
metal by which we measure other things—is another
matter. In the last 20 years gold production has trebled.
Going back no further than 1901 the output was worth
£52,000,000 in round figures ; in 1906 it had gone up to
£83,000,000. To what extent this affects prices is dis-
puted, and can’t be definitely settled; but it is pretty
certain that it must affect them more or less. Theretor
what would be a normal price for silver, lead, co PP er ’
etc., 10 or 20 years ago would be below normal now. ine
market boomster stops at that; the man who tries to
honest can’t afford to, for he has to admit that it
cheapening of gold sends up the prices of lead and copp
it must also send up the prices of timber, niacmner},
wages, etc. In short, the same movement that sends p
the price of the product sends costs up also.
* * * *
British Broken Hill cables that its accounts
show a net profit of £14,367 for the six months to the eno
of December ; and it puts the money in the stockin„,
paysnodiv. The co. is doing hardly any work. The >
managingdirector Woodhead isvery much annoyed,
the agreement with the miners came up for rene
otherwise nearly two years ago, things we £®. k ’ h 0
general-manager Delprat, of the Broken Hill rr P->
had the business with the miners in hand, settled
bv conceding a 12£ per cent. “ rise ” for two years ■
'Woodhead, having little confidence in them
markets, was rebellious ; but it was no use. 1 .
merit was endorsed, and the advance still ’
spite of the fact that lead was £2O, an ,
only £l3. Of course, employers always obey
in Arbitration (this agreement was maa
award of the Court) ; it is only the employees
the findings. Premier Wade and the tory pap n
quite sure of that. All the same, the Britis
practically closed down since Christmas; a ’ ‘ h t j, e
mine horses were lately sent away, }°° ks as J\, market
intention is to keep it closed down till the meta
is bucked up again. .
Three years’ record of the Broken Hill Junctio
North :
Written
Loss. Dividend. off- a)D4,7 67
Mar., 1905 .. 20,290
Sept., 1905 .. £523 Nil ' «
£50,000 new capital issued ; deficit written
ProfiU ..., r.rnoo 2,061
Mar., 1906 .. 2,939 Nil £ & ouo
Loss. 5,126
Sept., 1906 .. 3,065 NU 15,373
Mar., 1907 .. 3,039 Nil 7ius
Profit - xt-1 7891 5,538
Sept., 1907 .. 17,726 Nil , 5,791
Mar., 1908 .. 7,376 Nil ™,
That is mournful, considering that there asij. o( j era .
boom in the metals which this co. P r ? lhe s , n ful
tion. It is more mournful still considering
booming which this stock had last year. value of
ago this booming had given the f’ 0 ®' 1 , a J ® £ i 35 000, a" l *
over £300,000; to-day it is back below £W>. UW '


HEINE
Water Tube Boilers
Made by
MARSHALL, SONS & CO.,
Gainsborough, England.
HIGHEST EFFICIENCY.
STRAIGHT TUBES.
PERFECT CIRCULATION.
FRASER & CHALMERS, LTD,,
J»“ „
Australian Office:
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
[4
1 he Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. &J. Leinpriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* # * *
A copper smelting furnace, designed to embody
the recommendations of the best Australian and American
experts, has just been constructed for the Great Fitzroy
Gold and Copper Mines Ltd., Queensland. The furnace is
of large capacity, being capable of turning out 100 tons of
matte per day. It is rectangular in shape, and is higher
in column in proportion to its hearth area than is
customary. By this means both the roasting and
oxidising operations will be conducted in the same furnace,
the oxidising being done in the upper portion and the
smelting in the lower. The furnace has two tiers of mild
steel water jackets. The lower tier rests on a c.i. plate,
supported on c.i. standards, or, should hearth plate be
removed, the tier will be swung on girders ; the upper
tier of jackets is always swung from girders supported on
columns. The columns are held together by a strong c.i.
frame. The air blast passes from a pipe encompassing
the furnace through Hustle pipes to the tuyeres. The
Austral Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne,
have designed and built this furnace.* 11
* * * •
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, of
London, in its July, 1907, issue, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ It is
writing well over £1,000,000 of new business every year
in Australasia, the United Kingdom, and Africa; it has
accumulated funds which are within a little of £3,000,000
sterling, invested with due regard to security, but, never-
theless, in such a way as to return substantial interest;
and in the last five years alone it has paid to policy-
holders £1,328,000 in settlement of claims.”*
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £690,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1907) £642,759.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * *
Cameron and Sutherland’s new catalogue, just
to hand, is the best thing of its kind that has been pub-
lished in Australia. There is hardly a line of machinery
and mining plant required for either copper, tin, gold,
coal, or indeed any class of mining, that is not illustrated,
described, and quoted in this issue. They are distributed
gratis, postage paid, and all mining managers will find it
to their advantage to secure a copy. The firm’s addresses
are: Post Office Chambers, Sydney; Queen’s Bridge
Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street, Ballarat; and Pall
Mall, Bendigo.* .
* * * *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
* * * *
The King Screen has been remodelled and
important improvements effected for which new' patents
aie pending. We shall shortly be putting this essential
machine on the market. N. Guthridge Ltd., Sole Licensees
and Manufacturers.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles ;
chemicals ; etc.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
» ♦ » •
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
just now. We nbtice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust ; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. ; also fluming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’ iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, wdth a pressure of 520
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 48in. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water supply, a contract for which has been signed.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney'. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a lteavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
• « * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * •» *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
With the advent of high-speed steel into the
engineering world has come a demand for more powerful
machine tools. To meet this, J. and P. Hill, of Sheffield,
have introduced a high-speed screw cutting lathe, which
has been specially designed to avoid complicated motions,
which may cause trouble, and to enable it to successfully
combat the severest strains. Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street,
Melbourne, have just landed one of these lathes, and those
interested in machine tools should not lose the oppor-
tunity of inspecting it.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
s.u »ce.t. ..r ottos AERIAL ROPEWAYS.
Manufactured by. J. Pohlig, Cologne, as
supplied to Mt. Lyell, Broken Hill Blocks
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY. Excavators and Dredging: Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [3
on its record it ought never to have gone beyond that.
Even now there is insidious booming ; the public is cun-
ningly told, for instance, that for the past half-year the
working account showed a profit of £9619. What is the
use of humbugging people like that? The things that
have to be paid out of that—insurance, lease rent, office
expenses, etc.—are just as imperative as the other costs.
At March 31 the position was that the co. owed £7285,
and, apart from stores in hand, it had £5946, represented
by bank balance and cash (£492) and concentrates. It is
a wretched position from which to face a slump after a
metal boom. The co. cannot make a call because all its
shares are fully paid ; but it will be very lucky if it
escapes reconstruction.
Six months ago it was calculated on the basis of
the previous half-year’s work that, without charging any-
thing for depreciation or wear and tear, the co. could
make ends meet with lead at £l3 IBs. 7d. per ton, pro-
vided silver kept its price. For the past half-year 6441
tons of concentrates were produced, assaying 61'5 per
cent. lead. That means 3961 tons. The gross profit, as
shown above, was £7376, equal to £1 17s. 4d. per ton of
lead. The average obtained for lead during the half-year
was £l5 10s. 9d. ; consequently it cost all the silver and
£l3 13s. sd. per ton of lead to produce the metal. Silver
has fallen a trifle further, so that, unless the cost of pro-
duction has been further reduced, the expenses must be
now over £l3 13s. sd. per ton of lead. As to costs, things
may have improved a little ; but they have not improved
enough to show any reasonable amount of profit with lead
standing now at £l3. Indeed, seeing that in the foregoing
the profits are calculated gross , it is pretty eviden t that the
co. must now be really working at a considerable loss
when depreciation is allowed for.
* ■* * *
The modern ore-dressing mill runs away.with a
pot of money. The zinc-flotation plant, which the Sul-
phide Corporation put up for the Minerals Separation
Co. at Broken Hill, was to have cost £lB,OOO ; but when
the bill was made up the total was about £26,000. Still,
the Minerals Separation Co., though it stared hard at
first, feels better now ; for the plant, designed to treat
2010 tons a week, actually puts through 3000 tons.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10 got into very bad trouble
during its last half-year. It made a profit of £24,694 ;
but from this it had to write off £12,338 on account of
previous over-valuation of product. (Final adjustments
are made three months after delivery of concentrates.)
Six months ago, when the metal markets looked a bit
rackety, £9034 was put aside as a special reserve to meet
possible reclamations. All that was swamped, and the
£12,338 besides. Then £10,145 plant depreciation has
also to come off to get the net profit. This co. has writ-
ten off very large amounts, but that has been and still is
necessary on account of so much plant having been at
various times thrown out of use through surface movements.
The co. should have received £lO,OOO from the Zinc Cor-
poration during the term, but actually received nothing ;
it did, however, take credit for current production of
"tailings” at the rate of Is. per ton, and the consequent
£2764 is included in the profits, though this stuff has not
been realised. Still, though the prospects of zinc-treat-
ment were absurdly exaggerated a while ago, Block 10 is
no doubt justified in taking credit for its output of zinc-
bearing tailings. Certainly, if Block 10’s tailings are
worth nothing, it is a cold look-out for the rest.
• * » *
Broken Hill miners are growling. The
trouble is that the mines have cut contract prices
till some miners can’t earn the standard 12s. a
shift. But the thing is not so bad as it has been
described. On account of the changeable nature of
the ground, it is impossible for the most experienced
contract setter to fix the prices for ore-breaking, driving
and sinking so that each man will earn an even 12s. per
shift. A price that would mean good money for one
party would mean starvation wages for another in the
same ground. Here is an instance, audited and found
correct: A party took a contract, and failed to make
wages, so the management increased the contract price.
Still the men couldn’t make a living, and pulled out.
Another party went in at the same contract price, and
made 30s. a shift.
* ■: * * *
J. Bull again did very well last year out of his
lucky purchase of the old Gallymont, Cobar district
(N.S.W.). As the Mt. Boppy it is easily first among
N.S.W. gold mines. Out of 117,150 shares, Bull paid cash
(£1 a-piece) for 47,150, and the vendors got the balance.
That was nine years ago, and since then over £250,000 has
been paid in dividends. Last year, £57,475 was paid ; that
is to say, £36,300 (6s. per share) was paid during the year,
and £21,175 (3s. 6d. per share) was payable after the
annual meeting held recently. From the time when the
co. started, the mine has put up this record :
Stone, Gold, Value Dividend
Dec., tons. oz. realised per share.
3901 .. 12,440 6,092 £18,781 Is. Od.
1902 .. 10,697 7,815 24,211 Is. 3d.
1903 .. 29,312 18,801 79,723 7s. Od.
1904 .. 35,378 20,492 91,460 Bs. Od.
1905 .. 51,878 25,179 116,434 9s. 6d.
1906 .. 72,976 29,983 125,961 9s. Od.
1907 .. 76,339 31,593 133,121 9s. 6d.
Besides revenue from gold, £1059 was last year received
from interest, etc., making a total of £134,180. The ex-
penditure ran to £67,024, leaving a profit of £67,156 —and
you can’t split £134,180 in halves much more exactly than
that. A couple of years ago 11,000 new shares of £1 each
were issued at £3 a-piece, which takes a little of the gilt
off the biscuit so far as a few of the shareholders are
concerned. The end isn’t in sight yet, either. Every
year, in fact, adds something to the reserves, in spite of
the extraction of ore meantime. Thus :
Dec., 1904 170,000 tons
„ 1905 182,000 ~
„ 1906 191,000 „
„ 1907 193,858 „
Such a mine as Mt. Boppy covers a multitude of wild-
cats.
* * * *
Something over 12 months ago, the Mount
Boppy (N.S.W.) promoted the South Boppy to work what
used to be the Boppy’s south block ; the parent took
55,000 shares out of 150,000 for the ground. Manager
Pascoe, of Boppy, has clung tight to a high opinion of
the property, and he had the satisfaction of telling the
shareholders in London lately that he looked like coming
out on top. One shaft, which is being sunk to get the
Boppy lode, was, at time of reporting, in highly favorable
country ; and in a crosscut from the other they had
struck the Canbelego lode, 49ft. wide, with values up to
9dwt. This was at 200 ft. deep.
* * * *
The Cobar Gold Mines (late Fort Bourke)
erected three Elmore units to treat the siliceous, copper-
carrying ore from the unoxidised levels. So far these
units have been a failure. When will cos. learn that it
pays to put up a trial unit first ? The co. is now experi-
menting with concentrating tables. The mine looks well
in depth. Ore averages 80 per cent, silica and 1 per cent,
copper; and the gold in the deep-lying ore is said to be
about lOdwt.
* » * •
Occidental, Cobar, which on a capital of
£4OOO has paid £44,000 divs., besides erecting plant, is
doing g°od work with an awful mill on oxidised ore.
bnoxidised ore carries copper, and will require new treat-
ment. The Moore process, in the hands of metallurgist
appel, works splendidly. Sands cost 3s. 6d. and slimes
(including sixpence royalty) 3s. 9d. per ton. The recovery
is about 7s. 6d. in battery and 9s. in the sands and slimes.
4he residues contain only about llgr.
* * *
, Cobar Copper Mines, late Sans of- Aus-
tralia and Mount Pleasant, are sinking. The ore cut in
the crosscut about 400 ft. looks well, but, as in all mines
on the belt, is highly siliceous.
* * • •
l seven miles north of Cobar, has done a
ot o. development, mostly on the water level (450 ft.). As
ore has been leached to that level, the results so far
6 °f great permanent value. They are now opening
Th h f ev ’el. which will make or damn the mine.
e best thing so far is a band of massive pyrites aver-
u'ncA, percent, copper. As cut in the crosscut this
flnv * t ‘ w ’ < i e : If it lives, it will be of great value as a
, r the richer siliceous ores in the district. The
ean« a °* ea< * carbonates found on the 450 ft. level, which
80 much sensation, appears to be a pocket only ;
ans a. 01 ?, 11 the y obtained 8000 tons of high-grade ore,
tion h k Ihe pot boiling. Exploration of this sec-
W j naBb ® en hampered by the water encountered in the
level 68 ii m ' ne * 8 now waiting to rise up from the 560 ft.
i JP ', A t °gether 2300 ft. of crosscutting and driving have
aon ,® > an( l all that can be said is that the mine pro-
mises w eU far as indications go.
* ■* * ft
t se k now Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) never
Pct regular results or constant conditions. The vein
is small, the containing' slate rock subject to explosive
bursts, and the shoots of gold-bearing stone inconsistent.
'? u |r ectors are therefore naturally shy of declaring
dividends, although at the close of the half-year (March
al) they had £.8260 available. Perhaps the good stone
put througn since then may moderate their somewhat
tight-fisted policy. The directors explain that No. 18
level is disappointing, so evidently the last crushing of
z4u tons for 410 oz. did not come from there ; and if No. 17
has to provide all the crushing stuff, it cannot be ex-
pected to last very long. Development cost £2317 for the
six months ; it has been fairly rapid, and the machine
drills did good work in the long crosscut to reach the
reef. There is this much to be said : No. 18 level, which
has so far proved such a duffer, is not right through to
the boundary, near which No. 17 was richest. The winze
below No. 17 has proved payable ore in places, but great
care has to be taken to prevent injury from bursting rock.
The show is only repeating its past experiences, and a
fresh discovery may perhaps put the market in better
heart. An improvement seems likely near the cross-
course and the southern boundary.
* * • *
The closing down of the Eleanora section of the
New Hillgrove Prop. (N.S.W.) came as a shock to ardent
admirers of the hydro-electric power scheme and the
numerous new ideas introduced at the battery. It was
a mystery to old miners why large trial lots could not
have been crushed before going to such great expense.
Past experience certainly did not indicate anything very
wonderful, the average being about 15dwt. The develop-
ment of No. 2 reef, parallel to Smith’s rich little streak of
stone, brought in a few “ buy at best” orders, though all
that can be said is that for a length of 100 ft. prospects
were good. If the gold makes again at the end of the
level things may brighten up. No. 13 on Smith’s vein
should also help to keep the pot boiling. Shares are being
snapped up, but this seems to indicate merely an over-
sold market.
* * * *
New Wylie Creek tin dredge, away up on the
Queensland border, isn’t repeating' its success of 1905-6,
when it paid a pretty regular 3d. per share every other
month. For the past half-year it was only £196 to the
good, and then nothing was provided for out of profits to
cover the rapid depreciation of this sort of plant ; where-
fore the real profit fell a good deal short of £196. The
co. formerly had a substantial contingency account in
liquid assets ; but the bulk of this has now been put into
a new sluicing plant. It is not certain that this will
pay' ; but much of the country ahead was looking very
unsuitable for dredging, and the sluicing plant seemed
the co.’s only hope.
* * * *
As anticipated a few weeks ago, J. Bull’s
Lloyd’s copper mine, Burraga (N.S.W.), has closed down.
The co. had horrible luck. It had got rid of the deben-
ture debt, and was going ahead nicely when slides cut
the lode off, and while manager Corbould was poking
around to pick it up again the co. missed the best of the
copper boom. All the time the ravenous furnaces were
going, the timber fuel was getting more and more remote,
and the smash in the copper market came just too soon
to allow of the co. building' a tramway out to timber
country, for which work it had been saving up money.
* * * *
The easing-off of base-metal mining in N. S.
Wales is followed, as usual, by a shrinkage in the gold
output as well. To the end of April the 1908 yield has
been 71,3010 z. fine, as against 85,8850 z. for the first four
months of 1907.
* * * *
Victorian mining has the blues badly, the
yields of every centre in the State showing a reduction.
For April the total output was 35,8380 z., and for worse
than that it is necessary to go back years. Bendigo has
failed in its deep levels, Ballarat is moulting badly, and
deep-lead mining outside of Rutherglen is a sink for calls.
Not a new mine shows on the horizon, and the Daylesford
frost is so hard that one wants an axe to break it. There
never was a time when shareholders were so gravelled
without any prospect of early recovery.
* * * *
Duke United. Maryborough (Vic.), was a catch-
penny to set the Junction and other deep-lead shares of
the Stoneham group jigging. But the penny did not
multiply, because the gutter went poor. Now, nothing
is being done save to take out some odd patches of wash.
Stanley Hunter, Government Geologist, wants the co. to
go 1000 ft. down the lead to reach the White Cross and
Sailor’s lines of reef. But J. Bull is a very tired man. He
sees that the debit at profit and loss is over £17,000 ; he
knows that disappointment has followed disappointment,
and that £7OOO is wanted to carry out the scheme, while
there is only a chance of getting divs. in return. So he
withdraws —the only wise thing he has done in connec-
tion with such a patchv lead.
* * * . «•
Here it is again ! Mt. Bowen (Vic.), near the
Monaro country, has “ a lode 50ft. wide worth 10 per
cent, copper.” The hundred-eyed Argos says prepara-
tions are being made “ to sink a shaft to test the lode
underfoot.” Also, “leases have been pegged out north
and south.” It all recalls Mt. Deddick and the sad
memories of the saddest of boom days.
* * m *
Great Southern. Rutherglen (Vic.), is a mine
with a future, if—and it isn’t a big if—gold contents of
the wash don’t shrink much. The gutter pans out now
13Jdwt. dirt. This costs a shade over lOdwt. to get out,
leaving 2£dwt. profit. The co. has only 36,000 shares, so
that such yields mean steady 6d. divs. If the gutter
could be squeezed in from 1000 ft. to 700 ft., profits would
be better ; but Nature gave the prehistoric man big
rivers to paddle over before she sealed them up for the
moderns to dig out. The lead north is trending west,
and if it cuts far across-country the “if ” cited above
may have to be reckoned with. Going south the bottom
is uneven and hard in No. 13 block, but it is better ahead.
* * * *
“D.C.E.”: According to Dodd, chairman of
the Oathcart, 8., M. and Co. made a terrible mess of
things in trying to manage the mine (B. 7/5/’08). This
has apparently only now dawned on Dodd, notwith-
standing that he was on the spot and chairman of
directors all the time. When 8., M. and Co. took an
interest in the Oathcart, and were given the management
for all time, the show was about to close down. This was
why the Ararat crowd was so anxious to get Bull’s help.
But J. Bull got tired after keeping the thing going for
eighteen months, and now Dodd has nothing but fault to
find with the way Bull helped him. For once Victorians
had let an apparently good thing go ; but, now seeing
their mistake, they mean to have it back again, and the
27,000 shares should help them. As there are to be no
more calls, the local people should be truly thankful for
Bull forfeiting his shares. If the past management has
been so bad, why did not Dodd demand an explanation
of it?
* * * *
It is significant of the improvement in the look
of things at Charters Towers that a once-familiar monthly
report, issued by a Towers firm of brokers, has resumed
publication after a spell of 12 or 18 months.
* * •» *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, is out of favor
because both the quality and quantity of the ore in the
mine has declined. The directors say “ the output will
be maintained and dividends paid”; they can talk thus
confidently because they have a big cash balance. Last
half-year 24,477 tons produced a profit of £52,954. The
stone averaged £4 4s. 6d., which is a good deal better
than late crushings. A lot of money has been spent on
development and equipping the shaft on the School
reserve, but so far nothing payable has been found, so
naturally enough the reserves are smaller. There is a
large unexplored area both above and below No. 13,
which is the deepest level and has a long way to
go to the boundary. Talking of boundaries, both
the New Brilliant Freehold and East Mexican may
freshen up Mills' United chances, if developments are as
good as the market seems to consider them, which is
very doubtful. There has been a run on shares in
boundary mines, and the parent mine has been left in
the cold. It is hoped the hanging-wall reef in Mills’
United will turn out better than prospects in drives and
rises seemed to indicate, but this is an unstable kind of
hope. The New Brilliant Freehold has also to drive into
the hanging wall, and a cut in that direction may have
given the shares their jump. Yet a sudden improvement
in quality of the stone in such a locality should not carry
speculators off their feet.
Mount Morgan (Q.) wants to add coal-mining
to its industries. It holds 5J sq. miles of country in the
Dawson and Mackenzie field, where two seams have been
proved, three to four miles from the Central railway. One
is as much as 4£ft. and the other 7ft. thick. Prospect-
ing is now being carried out to see if the seams cannot be
cut closer to the steel rails. The Mount consumes 40,000
tons of coal a ye&r, and 36,000 tons of firewood, so this
new work is of importance. The coalfields thereabouts
have long been played with. They will now get a fair
Inal. Hitherto the big quantities of water struck in the
shafts have been the crushing handicap.
I\orth Queensland tin shows are uncertain cattle.
There was Dalziel’s, with a wonderfully fine surface show,
now worth sixpence a share. The remarkable thing in
that case was that for a long while the chairman of
directors, who insisted that the bottom was out of the
mine, wasn’t believed and had clods thrown at him.
Now, within a week of the news that Gilmore’s was show-
ing a great improvement, comes the further news that it
was quite a flash in the pan, and things look distinctly
less favorable than they looked before. Southerners let
northerners have even their Vulcan to themselves for
years ; and|t was the only safe policy.
From a metallurgist who wandered that way :
ite Bulletin’s remarks (30/4/’08) concerning the failure of
Aldershot and the need for a smelter in Queensland.
What sort of a chance has a lead smelter in Queensland,
anyhow ? The history of customs smelting in N. S. Wales
and Queensland so far has not proved the urgent
need of one. The imported metallurgists who formerly
ran these shows do not seem to shake off the
effects of their earlier training at Freiburg, Leadville,
and in the States generally. That training leads them to
assume that lead must be the basis of such a proposition.
There has always been trouble at Dapto and Aldershot,
which had not their own mines to fall back on, with regard
to lead supplies ; and when arrangements for a perma-
nent supply from Broken Hill were made, the price which
had to be paid was always a millstone. The general class
of customs ore received at a Queensland smelter would be
refractory gold ore, not lead ore. Even Ohillagoe, with
its extensive plant, can keep only one furnace going. As
a vehicle for collecting the precious metals, copper will
answer as well as lead ; and it has this advantage—that,
while the lead required is at least 12 to 15 per cent, of the
charge, 3 per cent, of copper in the charge will be quite
as effective. There is a future before a well-conducted
copper smelter in Queensland; but, although customs
lead-smelting may be a success for a time, it is doubtful
whether there is anything permanent ahead. A Broken
Hill is wanted in Queensland first.
* * * *
The Oaks (N.Q.) rush has started in a new line
of business. Several finds of rich tin ore have been made
a few miles to the east of that publess township. The
quantity lying about on the ground was so great that
many thought it couldn’t be tin. An assay, however,
gave 66 per cent, of black tin, carrying 70 per cent, of
metallic tin.
* * * *
Mararoa management (W.A.) hopes to treat
2500 tons a month and lower the grade to 435., or there-
abouts, when the additions to the mill are completed.
On this basis a clear profit of £1 per ton is anticipated ;
and, given management in the interests of the mine and
without regard for the market, the co. should be in a
strong financial position by the end of the year. Taking
the last official estimate of reserves as correct, the divi-
dend value of the developed ore runs out at about 7s. per
share. What it is a fair thing to pay for the chance of
getting more ore and more profits is entirely a matter of
opinion.
* * * *
“H.C.”: Statement (B. 2/4/’08) that Wes-
tralian Red Hill Co. is being financed by tributors’
royalty goes too far. Since the co. acquired the leases on
December J, 1906, the expenditure on mine has been
£22,140, and the total royalty to date is £l7B. The co.
holds 108 acres, and the main reef, which extends 1600 ft.
in length, has all along been worked by the co. The March
crushing was 1065 tons for 3310 z., besides residues; and
April tonnage will be larger. Barring prime cost of leases,
only £750 working capital was provided, and all cost of
equipment and development has been won from ore
taken from about the 75ft. level.
* * « *
Perplexed: Sorry, but can’t give mining market-
tips. Will, however, try to give some special information
about the mines mentioned A.L.S. : A hopelessly
patchy proposition which has been given up as a bad job.
Bedell: Write Staniforth Smith, Commissioner Lands
and Agriculture, Papua.
* * * *
In the past eight years— since the arrival of this
devastating Federation, in short—the Bank of Adelaide
has, besides increasing its dividend,'accumulated £135,000
of reserves, or only £35,000 less than the total for the
previous 35 years. In addition to formal reserves, the
chairman announced at the recent meeting in Adelaide
that the bank had £27,000 of internal reserves available
as the foundation of an officers’ provident fund. By an
overwhelming majority the shareholders agreed to estab-
lish this fund. (Loud applause—even if this paper has to
make all the joyful noise itself.)
* * * *
The result of the voting for A.M.P. directors
(three wanted) was: Black, 70,846; Winehcombe,
65,846 ; Fairfax, 64,387; Campbell, 23,966. Of course the
first-named three were the “ office ” nomination. Only
once has anybody won without that nomination. That
was when Benjamin Short was returned, on the strength
of his long and valuable service as a canvasser, so even
that was a case in which the officers probably had more to
do with the victory than the policy-holders themselves.
* * » *
Though the Westralian State Government is
such a lusty mendicant, the local municipalities haven’t
so far done anything very serious in the way of borrowing.
The State’s Statistical Register shows that, up to the
end of 1906, the aggregate of the loans was £713,350, and
in most cases there is a fairly respectable sinking fund at
work. At the same date the total of the savings in the
hands of the Sinking Fund Trustees was £110,005. Still,
many of the wretched little loans ought never to have
been raised at all; they were got for making roads and
forming gutters—in two or three cases for buying fire-
brigade carts and things—and a community that digs a
gutter and asks its grandchildren to pay for it hasn’t got
much spirit to be proud of.
* 9 * *
The shrinkage in gilt-edged stocks in London
during 1907 was 9 per cent, of their value on 31st De-
cember, 1906, or £342,000,000 altogether. Two stocks
may be taken as an example of the paralysing effect of
this fall in values. Rio Tiritos and De Beers a year ago
were worth seventy millions. On 21st March their market
value was thirty-four millions ! Australian Government
debentures suffered the least on the list, largely because
unusually-prosperous Australia was a consistent buyer,
and thus keDt prices stiff.
* * * *
The Darling Downs (Q.) have a co-operative
dairy co., now in its fourth year. For the past half-year
the profit was £1502 ; but this includes an estimated sur-
plus of £866, to be received from butter exports. This
butter-export business is highly speculative: for one
shipment this co. got 150 s. percwt., and a fortnight later
the market was down to 116 s. It is highly desirable,
therefore, for the protection alike of. shareholders and of
creditors, that a substantial special export reserve fund
should be created. So far no formal reserve whatever has
heen established. All profits, from whatever source, are
lumped. Six months ago the total was £1771, and no
less than £1552 of this was distributed either as dividend
(£224) or as bonus to suppliers (£1328). Apart from
ordinary trade debts, the co., with a capital of only
£3828, has an overdraft of £2lBO, which, with the capital,
has been put into plant. With very little in the way of
unfavorable conditions, the finances could easily become
rotten ; and directors ought to go very slow in the
matter of dividends and bonuses.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF:
12s. 6d. per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL ; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Cough while you can, for after taking
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY you
can’t cough any more. A certain cure in every
bottle.*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the
cause. Used the world over to cure a cold in one
day. E. W. GROVE’S signature on box. Is. lid.
YOU CAN CLIMB
TO THE TOP?
where there * always 'plenty
of room, by equipping
yourself with our courses of
POSTAL Instruction
Shorthand. Bookkeeping
Penmanship. Correspondence,
Commercial Arithmetic, etc.
Our teaching i*thorough, «»
stereotyped methods; every -
thing made aimple and clear.
Direct personal instruction
Irom the most capable
experts in Australasia, j- I
Send for “Home Study.
"" -I
STOTT 8J HOARDS
business college
MOO R E
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
The story of the recent experiences of
Sergeant Whelan, stationed at Coen (N.Q.), shows
what a Way back bobby’s life is peppered with.
He left Coen on January 4, to collect rural statis-
tics ; he had with him five trackers and 12 horses,
equipped as if for some exploring expedition. A
flood swept down the Archer, which, for a start,
meant much swimming of creeks and wading
across plains. Five weeks out, he received
a wire bidding him patrol Weipa Mission
Station and annex a “wanted” black. When
the party got to Mein telegraph station
with its prisoner, murders were announced
amongst the Archer River natives, and the ser-
geant was side-tr. -ked on to that job. After
fording and swimming many floods, he wired, on
March 22, that he could not reach Archer, but
had gone to Pascoe to assist a white man who was
said to be in danger. While there he got word
by telegram to investigate the cause of Paddy
Farrel’s death at Batavia. All this, time the
statistics were waiting. Officialdom then lost
trace of Sergeant Whelan amongst the flood-
waters of the rushing Gulf rivers, but it was after-
wards learned that his camp had been washed out
of existence and the twelve horses lost. Latest
accounts of the party were very indefinite, for the
rain persisted in putting up a record, and it was
reckoned that it might be a couple of months
more before Whelan could get back to a change of
clothes and a dry bed.
ACROSS THE BLACKSOIL PLAINS.
A waggonette for the first travelling school in N.S.W.
is to be delivered next month. It is intended to try the
experiment on the black soil plains, rendered equally
famous by Inspector Finney and G. W. Lambert.— News
Item.
Whoever Tom Ugly was, an attempt is
being made to wipe out his memory. The punt
at Tom Ugly’s Point, on George’s River, near
Sydney, is now called “Dover Point” punt. So
English, don’t you know! Who was Thomas
Ugly, anyhow ? And, whoever he was, why
should his memory be wiped out ?
Deer Bully,—i see be yoar print on the
30 April 1908 Price 6d that mister “Cict” went
campin out. Mong the fernichewer he tuk with
him wos—Half dozzun Yorksheer sawse, 2 dozzun
Seville orringes, Harf dozzun scotch whisky,
Harf dozzun South Aus. wines, 2 dozzun lemmuns
in nise tishoo papur, One Japaneeze camp stool,
One hare come, One hare brush. One dozzun
Sheffilled cutlery, One mirrur, One dozzen Ger-
man crockary, Two tins Amcrickun boot-shine!
Grate Hevings !! Whot ar the yung peepil uv
this kuntry cummin two! Yeu carat immagin
how paned and shocked I am to heer of a yung
man leedin such a low depraved iggsistence—so
unbecummin the son uv an Inglish genttilinun,
too! I remember wunst, as a lad, campin
out with an outfit consistin solely uv a
handelless fryin pan, a billy, a pockit-nife,
a muzzell loader and' a blankit, but nevur, nevur,
did I heer uv such depraved livin’ as this ! Whare
wos his mannykewer set, his bath tub, his hare
polish, his kosmetics, his toilet powder, his scent ?
Did this wofull dejenerate give wun thort to his
starched shirts, his high kollars, his nise silk
hankerchiffs embroidered by the vicars’ dorter and
his ice-pale? I’m afrade not. Did he dress for
each meel as he wood in his deer pa’s ancestral
halls? And in whot form uv dissipashun did he
indulge? Nowhare do I see enny mention of a
post-kard album, dominoes or hunny-pots. Alas !
If only his poor deer ma and sisters cood see him !
Hevings only knows whot theeze beastly colonials
—I-I-I’ll write to the Hargus—l will! ! !—Yours
Bunny Bill.
*** - *
“ Vigilans ” ; Tambo is one of the oldest
towns in Central Queensland, and one of the
most backward. A bore throws 2,000,000 gallons
of water per day, and a stream meanders down
the gutter of the main street. From this the
inhabitants obtain supplies. Water isn’t laid on
to the buildings, because the majority of the in-
habitants object to additional expense. The
gutter is a good trap for drunks ; also at night the
stranger steps clean into it. There are no lamps
in Tambo. The Chow is strongly represented,
three stores and the usual bakery being run by
Confucius Pigtail. Buildings are old and rickety,
the courthouse and post office standing out in bold
relief. The usual School of Arts is not to be
found, and a sense of melancholy broods over the
place like a very large crow. Tambo is one of
those villages where the inhabitants have waited
vainly for something to turn up, and have aban-
doned hope. The barber tries to make life happy,
and is of a humorous turn of mind. This is his
signboard :
Cranilogical Tripsis and Crinicultural Abscission, Ton-
sorial Artist, Physiognomical Hair Dresser, Facial
Operator, Cranium Manipulator, Capillary Abridger.
A. B. Foley, Artist.
Air Kdt
Wile
U Wate.
He is a man of some education, and merely spells
that way because he wants to, which was the
same trouble that Billings (Josh of that ilk) had.
The fly is the curse of humanity in the
great, thinly-peopled areas of Western Queens-
land. Probably if there were more people there
would be fewer flies. It is pitiable to see in those
parts the large percentage of school children
whose sight has been injured by the ophthalmia
that the little buzzer carries around. The Kidston
Government has tackled the fly question, and Dr.
Taylor’s report is now before Parliament. The
public schools are largely blamed as the media of
contagion, and
improvements
are recommend-
ed. When the
disease has been
acquired, fre-
quent bathing of
the eyes with
boiled rain
water, to which
salt and boracic
acid have been
added, is recom-
mended ; it will
alleviate the
affection until
medical , assist-
ance can be se-
cured. Dr. Tay-
lor suggests that
the complaint lie
declared conta-
gious; that where
practicable, pro-
vision should be
made for its
scientific treat-
ment, either locally, or at the nearest coast centre ;
that chronic cases be treated at a sanatorium
near Brisbane; that qualified surgeons be ap-
pointed for the Northern, Central, and Southern
districts to superintend the treatment of patients ;
and that the doors and windows of schools be
enclosed with wire gauze.
■* * * *
“ Kink ” : River traffic on the Murray has
dwindled to almost nothing now. The droughts
and the railways to Cobram, Swan Hill, and
Mildura account for this. Still there are a few
timber barges plying on the Big Trickle in flood
time, for Echuca’s main industry, since the boiling
down works closed, is sawmilling. Round the
bend from the border town is a spot called Rotten
Row. Here a score of the staunch old crafts of
lang syne are rotting—hauled to the N.S.W.
bank side—unhonored and unused. On the
Victorian side, embedded in the mud, a few feet
from summer level, may be seen the remains of
the first vessel ever used on The Trickle. It was
made of staunch stuff, and was only the size of a
whale boat. It was sent overland to the river per
team by an unmarked route. One thing strikes
awe into the gizzard of the voyager Swan Hill-
wards, and that is the large tracts of country
visible on both sides of the Murray that seem
never to have carried timber for centuries—
certainly never in the recollection of the earliest
white man. Yet, here and there, where the
floods have worn the banks away, blackfellows’
ovens are made visible by the ashes, showing where
the tribal revels of long ago were held. How did the
blacks get the fuel to make their fires? Was it
carried long distances across country, or canoed
up pr down stream ? Anyhow, a large note of in-
terrogation lingers on the tongue when one views
the country from the river, barren and bare for
miles, without the tell-tale trace of a gum-root, or
of a snag long submerged, If timber ever did
exist in these areas of solitude it must have been
ages ago—for there is nary a characteristic of
timber country apparent, yet the relics of the
corroboree days are discernible in the buried ashes
of the past!
A RANGER.
MRS. REGISTRY (to cook from up country); “You are sure, Bridget , that you are accustomed
to ranges .”
BRIDGET: “An wasn't I horn an' bred on wan ?”
“ J.P.K.” : On the Paparoa Ranges, near
Blackball (M.L.), the Paparoa Coal Co. is opening
up a fresh mine. One of the new camps is called
“Soldier’s,”because an old soldier worked a sluic-
ing claim there years ago, and left a gruesome
story behind him. Several of the diggers near
by, on their way to Blackball for a spree, called
on the soldier, and asked him to join them. He
refused. On their return, a few days later, they
found him dead in his claim. A priest was
brought, the funeral service read, the sluice box
turned over on the body, and then the hole
was filled in. Many months afterwards, some of
the party were again on the spree at Blackball,
and their funds ran out. While discussing means
of raising money, one of them remembered the old
soldier buried under the sluice-box, and suggested
that they should go back and see if there was any
gold on the body—because “hatters” usually
carry their gold about with them. They went,
and, unearthing the sluice-box, started to work
putting the stuff through, bones and all. The
sight was too much for one of them, an old Ger-
man, who exclaimed “Mein Gott ! I can’t stand
this!” and left in a great hurry. The others worked
on, but found no gold. It was a dispirited lot
that got back to Blackball. There they were
astounded to find the old German in a state of
supreme happiness, and “paralytic.” It turned
out that when he had departed he had sneaked
away with him what were left of the decayed
soldier’s trousers, and in the pockets had found
over an ounce of gold. Then his mates made
remarks.
♦ * * *
The story of a close call :
Jones’s Flat, near Ross (M.L.), had been first of all
honeycombed with shafts by the alluvial gold miners,
and later on the sluicing claims had deposited their tail-
ings there, covering the surface 10ft. or 15lt. deep. In
the late ’sixties, one Kelly had his tent pitched on these
tailings, and one evening, while he was frying his bacon,
there was a roar and a rush, and Kelly, frying-pan, fire
and all disappeared. When the camp turned out there
was no sign of Kelly—there was merely a hole in the
tailings, and below that another hole. Kelly had
pitched his tent immediately over an old shaft, and
he was now buried in it. Men came in crowds—all Ross
was out. In 20-minute spells they toiled, two at the
windlass and one in the shaft, while others prepared the
slabs to timber the sides. They had got down 50ft. when
one of them heard a knocking that seemed to come from
half-way down the shaft. They located the sound at last,
and found that 30ft. from the top there .was a drive
which they had not noticed, as the tailings had
blocked the entrance. The drive was cleared,
and there they found Kelly about 20ft. from the
entrance, unharmed. He had come down the shaft
, with the first rush of the tailings, and had heen hurled
into the drive, which the tailings had not completely
filled. Kelly, who was the possessor of a substantial
balance at the bank, spent the .lot that night, and there
are still some people in Ross who talk about the spree
when the people of Jones’s Flat drank all Kelly’s loose
change.
» * * *
“ Janor ” : “Jimmie Pannikin,” re goat
(B. 9/4/’08), presents the usual glimpse of the
Bush from the towny’s point of view ; conse-
quently he garnishes his goat yarn with a
‘‘haunch,” a joint unknown in the Bush, and
which the average bushie wouldn’t recognise if it
fell on him. But any of him can distinguish goat
meat from mutton by the color, texture, and lack
of flavor. No need for the tell-tale hairs with
which “ J.P.” adorns his haunch. Why drag hair
in, anyhow ? Mutton is served without wool;
why not goat without hair? Goat flesh is de-
spised in the Bush, and rightly so in a country
where good mutton is cheap and plentiful. It is
only fairly palatable in the kid stage, and then it
is usually dished up in a pie, with plenty of
seasoning to hide the dry insipidity of the flesh.
The tough, tasteless galah also appears under a
crust for the same reason. As food the galah is a
horror, and rarely eaten. Leaving out a few
faddists, food maniacs, and misers, the bushman
only eats tucker of the goat, galah, and gohanna
kind from necessity, and it is sad feeding for him.
As for the allegations about “ colossal ignorance ”
and “ unreasoning prejudice,” bah!
On the disputed subject of aboriginal
glass spear heads, Alfred Searcy (who wrote “In
Australian Tropics ”) sends along this letter which
he has received from Dr. Lynch, formerly Govern-
ment Medical Officer at Australia’s back-door
The only glass spear-head I ever saw in the Territory, I
had the good fortune to secure. It was at a big lagoon,
“ The Serpentine,” about 20 miles west of the Daly River
Mission Station. This was in 1892, on one of my periodi-
cal visits as Government Medical Officer, and a big mob
of niggers from the westward (Fitzmaurice district) were
camped there. They knew very little English, but I
managed to make them understand our visit was a
friendly one, and, -after some presents of beads and to-
bacco, they gave me a dilly bag, which contained,
amongst other things, a beautifully moulded spear-head,
fashioned from the side of an aerated (glass) water bottle.
The concave-convex Shape is distinct, and leaves no doubt
as to what it is. There was also in the bag a barb about
six inches long from the tail of a stingray ; this was
ground off to a sharp point, and wrapped round with some
wax and string. Both the glass spear-head and the barb
had been dipped in decayed human flesh, and the natives
most demonstratively warned,me to be careful of scratch-
ing myself with them. They gave me to understand that
the barb was kept in great secrecy by the old gins, and
used as a lethal weapon during the victim’s sleep, or in
the excitement of corroboree orgies. The victims usually
died a few' days after. These were the only poisoned
weapons I ever heard of or saw.
UNDECIDED.
NED: “ Blimey, Gladys, yr do look a peach!
Where yr gain ’ t'r spend th’ arftemoon!"
GLADYS: “ Well, you see, I don't know whether
to get me photo taken or go for a spin in me
motor-car .”
Winton (C.Q.) is “ skiting ” about a queer
horse it owns. The yarn is that, some time ago,
while feeding from a nosebag, the hessian caught
fire and the scared animal bolted. In its career
it collided with a sharp stick, which penetrated
the forehead bone. The burns, as they healed,
closed up the nostrils, but the hole in the forehead
does duty instead, and the animal now breathes
that way regularly.
TRUSTFUL WILLIAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The team comes to a standstill, and Bullocky Bill is
glad to stop and have a yarn with you. However in-
credulous other people may be at the length of your
journey, he can exchange faithful confidences with you,
and will slowly remark, “ Long stage, Boss,” whereas the
ordinary passer-by will say, “ Ah, garn, what are ye
givin’us?”— W. M. Hamlet's “ Travel Pictures” (S. M.
Herald, 2/5/’08).
A wonderfully pleasant soul is Bill,
Who calls the cattle home (and other things) ;
No carping doubts his kindly broodings fill,
Suspicion William far behind him flings.
Hast a loved snake-yarn that has time and oft
Been jeered at, as mendacious, in the town ?
Take it to Bill; his heart (and brain) are soft—
With William it will certainly go down.
Do you require an audience of one
To listen to your travel-stories, and
To cheer at intervals ? The thing is done
When Bill arrives with bullock-whip in hand.
Mayhap your fav’rite lie revolves round beer,
Or stoush, or rum, or other things that kill
When earnestly partaken of ? Don’t fear.
Gather it up, and sling it off at Bill.
Writers have hitherto passed Bill the bun
As linguist with a voice like war’s alarm.
Yet when methinks the truth is forced on one,
Bill’s simple hound-like trust’s his chiefest charm.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
The Lucky Opal
BLACK....
The opposite of white opal. Marion
Crawford writes as under in “Soprano” :
“ I wish you stood luck,” he said lightly.
“Thank you,” she answered. “One can
never have too much of it, never. Get
talisman, a charm, a ‘Jagoo.’ . . .
> P
Exquisite Ruby and
Sapphire in centres
surrounded by
Diamonds, £3B.
Exquisite Fire Opal
Centre and
Diamonds, £l2 12s.
Opals and Olivines,
our own make,
BLACK OPAL is the best, but if you choose that you must get it yourself—you must buy it, find it,
or earn it: otherwise it will have no effect,”
We hold the finest stock of this beautiful Gem in Australia. We receive it in the rough from the
mines. We cut it—we mount it—we set it—in Sydney. We export it largely. We retain some of the
best for our Sydney retail trade, and sell it at half London retail prices.
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH.
]
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
“ K. D. Starr ” : In the matter of chained
tykes, some people have a mania for tying-animals
up. At a put) near Wentworth (N.S. W.) there
used to be a captive dingo securely fastened by a
bullock chain. In time he grew tame enough to
the family that owned him, down to the youngest
baby; but outside that circle no one dared ap-
proach him, not even the butcher boy who passed
him everyday. All day long the captive used to
sit, watching with implacable yellow eyes, and all
night long he howled dismally to his kin afar in
the scrub. Ido not think he ever slept. Why he
was kept Heaven alone knows, for he was neither
use nor ornament, and his owner frequently used
to beat him with a rail for howling the howl that
God had given him. But one day, after the years
of his pitiful captivity had numbered eight, the
Lord remembered him. A neighboring child ven-
tured within the ring of his chain circle, and
retired with a torn cheek and reduced calf, and to
satisfy the neighbor the animal’s owner reluc-
tantly shot the beast. It was a merciful relief.
* * * *
‘‘Polstan”: We have all heard of the
man who can tell you the time to the minute,
although he may not have seen a timepiece for a
month ; of the man who can mimic every-
thing on earth, including a fried egg
in the distance ; of the bloke who
plays Wagner on his front teeth with
a pen-handle ; and so on. But my
expert is a catcher of falling ar-
ticles, and he arrests them in the
air as easily and naturally as a cat
drops on its feet. Was watching
him, the other day, sitting at a bench,
working. He moved his elbow and
swept a bottle of ink, two pens and a
ruler off the board, and he caught the lot
before they got halfway to the floor. Just
to try him, L knocked a pailful of assorted
articles off the bench when he wasn’t look-
ing. Like a flash he turned instinctively
and grabbed so fast that I couldn’t see his
hands going. He caught the lot. That
man has never smashed anything, through
letting it fall, in his life. All the same,
the knack has its drawbacks. Recently
his sister commenced to pour out a cup of
tea whilst he had his back towards
her. Like lightning he revolved
as the sound of the falling liquid
reached his ear, and grabbed at the
scalding tea as it left the pot. For-
tunately he caught his breatli in time, or his
sister might have been shocked.
Groper”: “But a few days ago it was
reported that half-a-dozen farmers were off to try
Njwluck in Westralia—of all places.” (Bulletin
26/3/08.) Well! Why not? Why shouldn’ they
Ro to Westralia? What’s the matter with it? In
the farming areas there are no droughts. The
rainfall is certain. The land, though not of the
>est, will give a return every year. The poison
Plant is easily dealt with in small areas if you
Know the way, which a lot of cussing, returned
didn’t take the trouble to find out.
there are spur lines being built that open up more
country. The Agricultural Bank lends a helping
hand. There are settlers to-day in good positions
Jiatseven years ago were stone broke. “ Westralia
of all places ” ! That’s meant for a good, honest,
hr-sounding snort. I hope you can hear it.
Vestralia indeed ! Well, why not ?
THE DEGRADATION OF IT.
SAVED SAM (gloomily): “ Yes, it's drink an gambling that brought me to this."
Jimmie Pannikin ” : At last the motor-
car has reached the Hindquarters of Beyond for
practical purposes. Recently Mr. 0. E. Taylor, of
Bootra Station (N.S.W.), defying the sand and
saltbush, drove a 10 h.p. De Dion motor-car from
Broken Hill to his home, which is on the Farther-
out-side of White Cliffs, 240 miles from Silver
City. The actual travelling time was 15 hours
45 minutes. The car has been over the Open
Spaces track twice. The only mishap was a
puncture. The chauffeur in charge has come to
the conclusion that the regions which drag at the
Tail of the Sunset no longer offer serious obstacles
to the practical motorist. He asserts that he had
no trouble in getting through the sand. But three
years’ experience West-o’-Darling leads me to
fancy that motor-cars will not be successful in the
Dim Remote unless provided with very wide tyres
for the sandy stretches. It will be interesting to
learn how the motor-car affects the stoic gravity
of the camel-trains. Petrol smell cannot be worse
than the odor of Afghan camel-conductors. How
the horse-teamsters will rejoice if the motor-car
terrifies the ship of the desert just as the said shic
maddens the average steed !
A SIDE-SHOW.
THE JOHN: “ Well , y're back? What did ye
think of the Harbor?”
THE CIVILIAN (from Sydney): “I never went to
that; but , by cripes, the Waxworks was good!”
“ Bert ” : Be “ Cict’s ” account of names
tacked on to N.S.W. towns (B. 30/4/’08). On
Adelong Creek, and within 3£ miles of Adelong,
there are four towns —Grahanjstown (which boasts
two hydraulic dredging plants, one of which is
the largest in N.S.W.), Shepherdstown, Perkins-
town, and Cornish town. These names seem to
me almost a record for poverty of invention.
THE LOVES OF THEN AND NOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
0, the western girlies’ love we knew in the days of
Auld Lang Syne ;
0, the western maidens’ love was true, and their eyes
’ were large and fine I
Yet we lost them all, aye, one by one, as the sad years
onward rolled—
But their cheeks were kissed by the rising sun, and their
hair was brown and gold 1
Ah, our love was then a sacred thing, untarnished by
change or chance,
And you?... You smiled for your Youthful King and
wept for your First Romance !
Yet well you kept your innocence—learned nothing of
Words or Art;
But I loved those things with a love intense, and so we
drifted apart 1
We met each night where the roadway twists, and we
wandered out by the streams
When my hopes were vague as the mantling mists, and
our world was a world of dreams !
And I lived for you while the cynics said that love was
wasted and wild ;
But you were a thoughtless maiden led, and I was a
foolish child !
I told my love (Oh, the world was fair!) and vowed it
would never change
(But what could I know' of The Days to Come and The
Cities Beyond the Range ?)
I said your eyes in their softening shades were brighter
than all the stars
(Ah, but what knew I of the Mateless Maids, and the
Houris Behind the Bars?).
I said my love was a lasting love, and you kissed me in
reply,
While the glistening frondage waved above, and the
planets swung in the sky !
And I believed my words that night, though the passing
years have proved
That the Loves of Then and the Loves of Now are a
thousand times removed !
I toyed with your clustered curls, as we leaned and
laughed on the boundary fence,
And the hushful hours that intervened were filled with a
lone suspense.
I said your cheeks were gardens fair, where red roses ever
bloomed
(And often I kissed the blossoms there—what though they
were unperfumed !).
Your love was a sacred treasure then, and mine was a
youthful pride ;
But I felt the longing to write of men where the walks of
the world are wide.
And you? . . . You shielded your innocence (and that is a
w'oinan’s art) — La
But I loved the world with a love intense; and so we
drifted apart!
0 the Western girlies’ love we knew in the days of Auld
Lang Syne !
0 the Western maidens’ love was true, and their eyes
were superfine !
Yet we lost them all, aye, one by one, as our hearts grew
warm —or cold—
But their cheeks were kissed by the rising sun, and their
hair was brown and gold !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
John McL. : Is it worth wasting the space?
(1) Your original statement was that N.S.W. gave the
other States the run of its open markets, while they
closed their markets against N.S.W. Now you admit
the N.S.W. sugar duty, wine duty, bacon, cheese, ham,
tobacco, etc., duties. (2) You also admit that the other
States were large buyers of N.S.W. goods, which you
previously denied. (3) The correspondent in question
didn’t, as you assert, “ overlook the very important fact
that out of Victoria’s imports from N.S.W. of
£3,294,618 worth, the sum of £1,399,442 represented
wool for oversea export.” He drew most special atten-
tion to that, and also to the fact, which you overlook,
that of N.S.W.’s imports of £5,301,214 from Victoria no
less than £3,489,150 was gold. (4) Is it, in any case,
worth arguing further about the alleged “Freetrade”
of N.S.W., which used to collect over £2,000,000
a year in Customs duties, practically all of them
protective duties ? In 1892, and several other
years, the Customs revenue collected in N.S.W.
were more than those in Victoria Sydney
Native : Many thanks for letter... .Humanitarian : Try to
be more accurate. The S.A. man is Kirkpatrick, not Fitz-
patrick, and there are other blunders Dumper : No
value, and as there was no stamp for return, the basket
swallowed it, even as Jonah ate the whale Robert
Thomson : There is just one large hole in your argument.
A Protectionist country doesn’t tax the things it can’t
produce itself, therefore Freetrade and Protectionist
countries both buy our wool. But the woollen industries
of some countries are growing because of Protection,
while those of other countries are decaying owing to
Freetrade. So it comes to pass that in 1901 the United
Kingdofn bought about 60 per cent, of our exported
wool, while in 1906 it only bought about 45 per cent. If
’T&jjrtain takes to Protection and rebuilds its wool indus-
tries it will want to buy more Australian wool ; if it
keeps ■on with Freetrade it will probably want to
buy a great deal less. And until we can use
our wool in our own manufactures we would
sooner sell to J. Bull than to anybody else....
Paynim : Can’t answer questions as to the value of early
editions of books. Write a reputable bookseller.
Keka : Don’t know... .Albert Mack : Don’t want poems
with morals—don’t want your poems with or without....
W.P.B. : Sent to your address—the dialect did it....
J. G. Martyn : Yes, we recommend it M. Turberville
Smith : Vague and pretty-pretty, with about as much
point as a policeman’s boot. One nearly arrives at some-
thing....N. A. Tanish : Paterson’s “ Transport ” verse
wag published—in an expurgated form—in Bulletin, and
other papers during the Boer scrap E.L. : But in that
story the Methodists didn’t know for certain that
Brother Tresize was dead, so they might have prayed for
him on the off-chance M. A. Mac : Both old. The one
about the nigger who smashed the publican’s license
dates from Genesis. Noah, during his first drunk, hung
out the sign “ Colonial Wines,” and Ham, the aboriginal,
threw a fossil at it.. ..G.A. : Have you the unspeakable
“front” to offer the verses beginning “If I should die
to-night ”as original ? They began their career in an
American paper at least 20 years ago. If we had chosen
to pay you for them and had taken your receipt,
we could then have had you criminally prose-
cuted for getting money by false pretences
Cockatoo : Not amiss, for your age. You have a good
verse-ear, and should achieve print in time. At present
you use great wealth of language, without producing any
distinct impression... .A. E. 8.: Your own estimate of it
was correct. Basket! P.0.K,: Sorry verse not good
enough. As for the-sssertion that all moral reforms are
due to fanatics, Christ was certainly no fanatic, and that
screeching parson would be professionally bound to admit
that Christ was the greatest of all moral reformers
K.E.B. : For a beginner, good. But it has no fresh idea,
or no old idea put in a new way R.E.S. : “Sammy” is
mere jingle, and very cheap jingle—about lpl. a yard....
G. O’it. : “To My Wife” is estimable in regard to senti-
ment, but as poetry it is horrible. It is the possession of
husbands like you—ready, on any pretence, to discharge
crude verse at them—which induces in so many wives the
disease known as “ oikophobia,”or “dread of going home.’ *
..N.O.A. :Quip concerning Isaac, his client, and the ready
reckoner was first projected about four centuries B.c.
It emanated from an acrid dispute in connection with a
mortgage-deed that was held by a contemporary Israelite
over the tomb of one of the early Pharaohs... .F.A.R. :
Sporting tit-bits re Ned VIL, such as: (1) “ It is His
Majesty’s habit to lunch at the Marienbad Golf Club
House, and to watch the game with the keenest delight
for the rest of the afternoon,” and (2) “ his mountaineer-
ing is well-known, ior he is a constant subscriber to the
Alpine Gazette,” while absorbing to the ultra-loyal, con-
stitute dead, not to say decayed, news-caviare to the
general... .K.D.S. (Mildura): Interesting pen-picture of
the inventor of a new bullet, but, so far, have not heard
the new projectile whizzing round. Neither has the
office milingtary representative... .C.L.E. : “ Diabolo ”
was accepted. Payment would have trotted along before
this if you had remembered to give an address
Groper : The murderous habits of the T. Cat
are too well-known to require description
Dog-growl: Nothing up to the mark so far, though the
verse has some spirit ... Silas : Pleasingly unintelligible
C.L.M. : Sorry they don’t suit... John C. : We
couldn’t make any use of that P.S.C. : Might have
been a good thing in stronger hands... Grass-Tree : Well,
it might have been worse Fair Dinkum : Fourth-class
work 0n1y... .Eric B. : Neat, but very thin.. .Onward :
Noneof them anygood.. ..Elsie May : Very promising for
your years. You get the poetic “ atmosphere,” but you
haven’t verse skill enough yet.... Alf N.: We fear it’s of
no use for you to persevere. You have ideas, but you
lack education and experience Bunny: A severe
attack, but you’ll get over it....J. Leo: Your poetic
fervor is badly backed up by your syntax and spelling....
Walter D. : The last verse almost carried the other two
weaker stanzas... .Rob H.: The contract is too big for
you. Try some less ambitious theme O.C.T. : Well, we
shouldn’t like to say there’s no hope for you, but the
promise is small as yet.... Wobbler : Your verse doesn’t
wobble, at all events ; but your ideas carry no conviction
... .Ben. W.: You have the makings of a poet, but you
greatly lack literary experience Max: We “can re-
write if we wish.” Well, we don’t wish. Why should
we ?... .Swamp-oak : The prose sketch might have been a
lot worse, but the verse is hopeless... .Dobbin G. : A
series of short, sharp barks about nothing in particular
F.T.B. : It hasn’t a shred of human interest
Fair Dinkum : Humor which has its origin in the resort
you mention leaves us in a condition of chilly un-
amusement. Rabelais exhausted all possibilities in that
line four centuries ago Bendemeer: Rather pretty
verse, not holding any idea worth remembering H.D. :
It has hardly “bite” enough for the subject R.E.S. :
Game very near scoring, this time.... J.B.H. : Don’t care
for either. There’s a good swing, but the general impres-
sion is vague and unsatisfactory.... W.P.B. : You are evi-
dently a facile versifier, which is possibly why you don’t
get enough weight into your effusions. Scribble less,
take more pains, and remember that “easy writing’s
damned hard reading.” S. T. James (London) :
Absolutely innocent of the “present whereabouts of
Louisa Burton Phillipson, late of Tottenham Court
Road, London, W., said to have settled in Australia some
45 years ago.” If she materialises, will endeavor to head
her your way....4x4 : Decline to hold either your “coat or
your celluloid collar whilst you dance durned hard on ‘ Bill
Outback’s’ chest.” William is now numbered among the
dead things on whom no man may jump Grey Lynn:
You boast loudly that you are “ cognisant of the where-
abouts of the smallest cemetery in the Commonwealth —
a passing place of souls which holds but six passengers,
and nevertheless hangs out the sign ‘ Full House ’ ”
and yet carefully withhold the name and address.
Crimson Wing : Interest too 10ca1... .0.W.: A tantalis-
ing mixture of good and bad P.McG.: Entered
for the Awful Verse competition R.J.D.: You
don’t make your point clear enough L.G.B. :
Now, who in creation wants the “ Braybrook Calamity”
all over again in extremely bad verse ?... .Pip: Not
good anywhere, and when you tried to rhyme “root”
with “feet” you wrecked it utterly John D. (Hill-
ston): (1) Midwinter w'as born in Victoria in 1852 ; (2) No,
not if he has a permit to return.... P.M.S. : Thanks, but
the testimony of people w'ho knew and approved of the
Monaro district half a century ago isn’t anj' better than
the testimony of their descendants who know and ap-
prove of it to-day E. 8.8. : The sender of the “ original
child joke ” is a thing abhorrent to this office Unsuit-
able : M. L., MacA., P.N.R.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
S.F. (Kensington): Suggestion for barber picture is
older than Kosciusko. It was the first joke Adam found
sculptured on the rocks outside Eden, after the kick-out.
. ..G.H.S. : Neither of much account, and the marine
joke has been used too often... . L.J. : Picture of the man
who dreamed that he gave the other rhan 2d. rejected
with scorn.. . C.A. : Proposed sketch of two illegitimate
children under a mulberry tree has many drawbacks.
For instance, how is the artist to show that the children
are illegitimate? . C.M. : Belongs to a familiar and old-
established family of jokes. It is a poor relation
to the pictorial yarn about the man who was hit
three times —once on the nose, once on the veran-
dah, and once on the 13th of the month Pike :
The work is far too stiff and conventional. Also
the stamps you say you enclosed for return weren’t there.
Midge: Not humorous nor artistic J.H.R. : It is
an old joke, but it was a mighty good one till you spoiled
it in three places. The saddest man this writer ever saw
was Ferguson in a boarding house. Ferguson, who was
brilliant, told a good story with appropriate action, and
we all laughed like Gehenna. Next night Jones, who
was wooden, and who had quite forgotten where he heard
the story, told Ferguson’s own story to Ferguson, and
spoiled every semblance of a point, and his action was
just as appropriate as that of a railway semaphore trying
to do “Othello.”.. ..J. Sharp : Picture perished on close
inspection Kathleen G. : Illustrated jape re Finningan
and the milk treated with scorn.
The nearest approach to shaving water
thrown up by any of the artesian bores in
N. S. Wales is to be had on the track between
Wanaaring and Milparinka—and that’s almost too
far to bring a mug from every morning, Mil-
parinka being 811 miles from Sydney, and the
track not asphalted all the way. There are two
bores in that road, the Clifton and the Tinaroo,
where the water is 139 degrees warm when it
reaches the surface. The depth of the hole doesn’t
seem to have much connection with the heat of
the water. Clifton, for instance, is only 1638 ft.
deep, while a private bore on Warrana, practically
the same depth (1660 ft.), gives a flow which is a
mere 90 degrees warm. The Kenmare geyser, on
the track to Hungerford, is probably the best—
anyway the biggest—of the State-owned supplies;
it yields a trifle of 2,050,000 gallons a day. But
numerous private bores top that; one on Lila
Springs runs to 4,000,000 gallons, and Lissington
station’s No. 4 is about the same size in waterspouts.


THE IMPERIAL CONNECTION.
‘The Premiers were earnestly discussing the urgent necessity of State
Governors, instead of the Governor-General, being authorised to exercise
the prerogative' of recommending fit and proper subjects for titular dis-
tinctions.”—Age.
AN AIR FLEET.
" constructing a fleet of airships,
properly equipped, and stationed at
suitable distances, at all vulnerable
positions on our coasts, we could antici-
pate and easily destroy any invading
force before they land.”—Argus.
A fine Idea, that shows us how we
may drop certain fat politicians to
great advantage. It may yet be
George Reid’s proud privilege to
sink a warship.
rt sv i ney Trad “ and w~
murderers. (Hear, hear) "~T,,j2Th II S ° ldlerS aa le « ali »« d
But ♦«, l'tides Hall meeting.
t h.. e :;r^rT,ht: *~ -«--«
chances along to prosecute hi? ~cen“ d murderer
to have our own licensee on the premises. “
"' "£ st “rsrsr,* h -r- -
to those Who have the ear of
Mis Excellency ?
MR BENT’S INDISCRETIONS,
could nltT/n.’^Zvy l^" 0 CirCUmSt<,nCeS in which Mr Bent
Certainly. How’s this, for Instance ?
“The Treasurer at this point said across the
table to Mr. Reid, 1 It’s no use going further.
I understand the Standard Oil Co. has got the
majority of members in the bag.”’
"Anyhow, Sam, If you’re out to bag (Ts.P.,
you’ve come to the right country. We’re
literally awarmlng with ’em.”
PARTLY FEDERAL AND PARTLY CABBAGE GARDEN.


Sportsman : •• It Is a fine day. 1 will
go out and kill something.”
Some cheerful Idiot suggests that the
defence o( Australis should be carried
out by msaits of balloons and living
machines exclusively. The proposition
is to drop hot bricks and things from
aloft on to the decks of hostile ships.
Which he does.
A A CHINESE SUFFRAGETTE MEETINQ.
“Miss W Sal Gaang addressed the audi-
ence. She was so excited that she fell to
the ground In a fainting fit. One of the
females applied some ginger pre-
served In snake bite, and brought
her round again.”
- South China Mall.
THAT VISITING A/TERICAN FLEET.
A dooce of a time in sight!
“ Hop” doubts If this Is as effective
a snake-juice In practical politics as Old
Rye.
the baq trick.
Conjurer Lyne: “There, you see, there was nothing In it, after all I"
Comic-Relief Reid: "’Ceptln’ only me with my cake o’ chocolate what
a manufacter glv me.”
“HOP’S” VISIONS.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
’ | 'HIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences Tel. 321.
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
Don’t be afraid to give Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy to your children. It is intended
especially for coughs, colds, croup, and whooping
cough, and is the best medicine made for these
diseases.
When Bill the Burglar got run in
He’d close cropped hair and shaven chin.
“Why groanest thou?” the warder said.
Bill pointed to his chin and head.
“’Twas just my luck,” said he, “ to pay
For this short crop and shave to-day !
But all these troubles I’ll endure
If given Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure !
If you are suffering from biliousness, con-
stipation, indigestion, chronic headache, invest
one penny in a postcard, send to Chamberlain’s
Medicine Co., 608 Harris Street, Sydney, with
your name and address plainly on the back, and
they will forward you a free sample of Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The widow of Mark Hammond, ex-
M.L.A., did not long survive her husband. She
died on May 3, aged 02 years.
Sample of the learned eloquence of Motor-
car Kelly, M.H.R., of Wentworth—he of the
motor-car aDd the simper : “ I’m not going to be
barked at by a thing like you ! ”
Charles Tucker, ex-Mayor of Adelaide—
who defeated King O’Malley at Encounter Bay
for a seat in the S.A. Assembly—-was released
from Yatala Stockade on May 5. He has grown
quite grey while in seclusion.
Premier Tom Price made the directors of
the Colonial Mutual Insurance Society tremble,
for he has a policy of £lOOO with them, and when
motoring in England, last month, the driver
nearly carried him over a precipice, owing to a
sudden fog. Tom generously remarks that he is
glad the society did not lose its money.
Obit in London, aged 90 years, Isabella
Baker, widow of John Baker, one time Premier
of South Australia, in which State he arrived in
1838. The deceased lady was the daughter of
George Allan, of Allanvale, Tasmania, and was
married in June, 1838. Her eldest son is Richard
Chaffev Baker, late President of the Senate. Old
John Baker made only one appearance in S.A.
Ministerial life ; he was Premier for 10 days, and
iheld no portfolio either before or afterwards.
JOE THOMAS , M.H.S.
A pioneer miner, Richard Higgs, died
recently in the St. Arnaud (Vic.) hospital. Higgs
was one of a party that, in 1855, struck gold in
New Bendigo, now known as St. Arnaud North.
A rush followed, the area of discovery was ex-
tended, and the town of St. Arnaud was the
Jesuit. It was named after the first French
Commander-in-Chief in the Crimea—the amaz-
ingly diseased person who got the command in
his last hours as a reward for services rendered
and murder done in Nap. lll.’s usurpation.
George Connolly, Government Architect
in Queensland from the early ’seventies till ’93,
when he retired, is dead. Most of the fine
structures that recall the profligacy of the Con-
tinuous Government were either designed or
completed by him, and his hearse should have
been dragged grave-wards by a white elephant, in
memory of the work he had to do.
V ” : I have no idea what kind of
politician Redwood, of Toowoomba (Q.), makes,
but the barley-growers of the Darling Downs
should have a good word for him. Back in 1877
barley-raising was a big thing on the Downs, and
Perkins’ brewery was taking all that could be
grown. When the brainy E. W. Pechey re-
signed, Patrick Perkins and Angus Mackav
had a tussle for the seat (Aubigny), and
Perkins won. Somebody said that the
barley-growers voted for Mackay ; any-
way “Paddy” suddenly discovered
that Queensland barley wouldn’t
malt, and those who had a crop on
hand had to make bacon of it.
There was one exception—he sent
100 bushels down to Castlemaine,
and, between one charge and an-
other, he was called upon to send
a postal note for 9d. to square
accounts. Barley-growing at once
fell into disgrace, and remained
so for nearly 20 years. In the
mid nineties the Redwoods
came over from Maoriland,
Vernon being under engage-
ment as maltster in Perkins’
brewery. He tested Queens-
land barley, and said it made
first-class malt, and then barley-
raising boomed again Since then
Vernon Redwood has run his own
malt-house, and Darling Downs barley-
growing has gone on prospering.
Queensland District Court Judge Rut-
ledge, who was a Wusslean parson before setting
out in pursuit of Costs, had a racecourse sharping
case to try the other day, and declared himself
ignorant of the meaning of “deaden” and
( punter, although he admitted knowing what
stiffen means. Rutledge, who probably was
never on a racecourse in his life, was once
Attorney-General in a Philp Ministry, and should
have picked up some worldly wisdom while hold-
ing that job.
Some idea of the length of time over
which the late C. B. Fisher’s manhood stretched
is given by the fact that he won the prize for
“ potted butter ” at the first Adelaide Show in
1844. His father, James Hurtle Fisher, came
out with Governor Hindmarsh, in 1836 ; they had
co-equal powers, one as Governor, and the other
as Resident Lands Commissioner representing
the South Australian Company. They quarrelled
so, however, that both were removed from their
positions, and the next Governor was made
supreme in S.A.
S.A. “ Union Parliament,” a debating body
which trains the young men of Adelaid’e in a
knowledge of public affairs, has just celebrated
its 25th year. Its first “Ministry/’ in 1884 in-
eluded Jenkins, now Agent-General; Sowden
now editor of the Register ; and Johnson, now
Mayor of Adelaide. The Parliament is made up
of the picked men of close on 50 literary societies.
Prominent in it at various times have been Price
Premier of S.A. ; Propsting, since Premier of
4 asmama; Vardon, of the Federal Senate; and
Willis, M.H.R.
One John Gallagher turned up in N.S.W.
Full Court last week to remark that he wasn’t
dead, and would the Court please give him back
100 acres of land which had been sold by the
administratrix of his estate, she having some
years ago told the Probate Court that he was
deader than he was. The Full Court looked at
the probate papers, then its component parts
looked at each other, and then they all looked at
Gallagher, and the decision was that Gallagher
was at least dead enough for probate purposes.
Jell Stow, about the most picturesque
old party that ever sat in the editor’s chair of an
Australian city daily, has died at last. Parsons’
sons are rarely just average boys ; they either get
into the rut that leads to the old man’s pulpit or
they rebel and run wild. “Jeff” ran wild, and
roved about the northern parts of Australia
mainly because there was more room there to kick’
Then he pulled in a bit, settled down on the
?• Aus. Advertiser, and let his hair run wild
instead. He reached the Advertiser’s chair-
but he was never happy in the confinement, and
so he got himself appointed a Stipendiary Magis-
trate, and held on to that job till he was called off
at 70. He was the best yarn-spinner in S. Aus
and wrote a readable book or two, mostly of travei
and knockabout life.
This year the Sydney Observatory cele-
prates its jubilee. On a tablet on the building is
inscribed the legend : &
Erected 1858.
Sir W. T. Denison, K.C.8.,
Governor-General.
The first Astronomer was Lieutenant Dawes of
the Marines, whom Governor Phillip located on
Point Maskelevne, now Dawes Point. Sir Thomas
Brisbane, in the early ’twenties, dabbled in
astronomy, and built himself an observatory at
Parramatta. We have also had several amateur
stargazers, but the first Government Astronomer
was Rev. William Scott, who retired in 1865, and
is understood to be still living, He was followed
by George R. Smalley, who filled the post from
1865 to July, 1870. The late H. C. Russell was
then appointed. The just-deceased H. A. Lenehan
was Acting-Government Astronomer from 1903 to
the end of 1907.
Robert Dunbar, who voluntarily retires
from the General Traffic-Managership of Banana
land railways, has been continuously in the same
service for 44 years. His age alone stood between
him and the Deputy Commissionership, filled a
few months ago by the appointment of ex-Auditor-
General King. Dunbar was appointed to the
charge of the Ipswich railway stores in 1864, and
in 1870 was transferred to the traffic branch over
which he now presides. In 1884 he was appointed
auditor and inspector, and in 1885 he became
of the northern railways. 'After
filling a similar position in the central and southern
divisions, he was appointed General Traffic-
Manager in succession to Thallon, who was raised
to the Commissionership. Mr. Dunbar is entitled
to a small pension as one of the contributors to
* l 4'?Lo erv L ce Superannuation Fund under the
Act or 1000. bo a capable canny Scot drops out •
and one of Australia’s records in the “stiddv
job line is ended. J
Captain W illiam Cottier, a very ancient
mariner, who retired from the sea 20 years ago,
and went to live on an arm of it at George’s River,
near Sydney, died on May 6, aged 87 years. For
many years he was connected with the old A.S.N.
Company, and he was commodore of the fleet
when the company merged into the A.U.S.N. Co.
In his time he commanded the Clarence and The
Lady Bowen.
AN INVITATION .
His Royal Highness emphasised “the wisdom of
strengthening our social relations with the colonies
making it clear to the colonists that they are alwaye cer-
tain to find here a home, not in name only, but in reality.”
—Cable.
THE COLLONIST: " Here, Bill! The little Dook
what was is asking us to go and, stay at
Marlbro' ’Ouse a while.”
Quayle Hudson is fast graduating for the
position of a historical character. He, or what
remains of him, resides at Germanton (N.S.W.).
A short time ago a pea rifle went off accidentally’
and took away a couple of his fingers. Next, his
house was burned to the ground. Next, while
rushing to meet his mother (or his mother rushing
to meet him), a pair of scissors she was carrying
entered his abdomen, and he retired for overhaul
and repairs. Just after being mended, he laid
hold of a knife to trim a horse’s tail, and the blade
slipped and severed an artery in Hudson’s leg.
That is as far as he has got up to now ; but there
are still possibilities.
Daddy Young, ex-Minister of N.S.W., ex-
Speaker, ex-Protectionist, ex-Freetrader, and
latterly in the cold generally, drops off at 74. He
looked, felt, and was, mentally, older. In Parlia-
ment his voice never counted as a saving or
making influence, and his knowledge of politics
was rudimentary. As Speaker he was a calamity,
but he regarded himself as something specially
excellent in that line of business. When he re-
signed the wig and the income he felt quite
certain that a sympathetic vote would restore him
in a few months, but the durable Abbott had got
the job, and Abbott stuck, and no one seemed
to notice the absence of Young. His life repre-
sents nearly 28 years of Parliamentary service. In
his private capacity J. H. Young led an unevent-
ful life. He was . born in Hampshire (England).
He did a little time at sea in the P. and O. ser-
vice, but gave that up in ’53, and went storekeep-
ing at Port Macquarie. Then in 1860 he moved
to Sydney, and for most of the rest of his days he
did battle with the onion in Sussex-street. His
death leaves only one N.S.W. ex-Speaker above
ground—Justice Barton of the High Court.
C. B. Fisher, “father of the Australian
turf,” weighed-in at Glenelg (S.A.) last week,
aged 90. He arrived in S.A. in 1836, and started
out to raise the woolly sheep with his brother
Hurtle. In the latter ’so’s the two brothers
founded the Maribyrnong stud, near Mel-
bourne ; and when Hurtle dropped out, in
1859, as the result of being knocked about
m a shipwreck, C.B. took charge of the
steed foundry, which has made a name for
itself as big as a mastodon throughout this
Commonwealth, and has supplied winners for
most of the events on the card. Mr. Fisher
was a prominent member of the Victorian
Racing Club from its inception, and for a
long time its Chairman. The two-mile flutter,
the C. B. Fisher Plate, was instituted in acknow-
ledgment of his services to the club.
“F. Croson,” from Melbourne :
Selina Murray Macdonald Sutherland, as the Govern-
ment Gazette calls the lady whom all Melbourne knows
and loves as Miss Sutherland, has been having* trouble
With her catmittee. Years ago, she and Dr. Strong, then
pastor of Scots’ Church, started the Presbyterian
Children s Aid Society, and, the lady being born for that
work, it succeeded. Presently the Church became
jealous of the woman and took over the business, where-
upon Miss S. started a society of her own. She called it
the Victorian Neglected Children’s Aid Society, and an
ornamental committee of cats was appointed as a o*uarari-
tee of good faith with the public. Miss Sutherland
her self-appointed work well, and thousands of
children passed through her home from helplessness and
hopelessness to self-respect and safety. But latterly a
new catmittee arose which knew not'Miss S. This cat-
mittee—or at least a majority of it—desired her to resign.
She declined. The cats met, with great enlargement of
the tail, and squalled fiercely on the roof. Also they
interviewed Chief Secretary Peacock, who told them they
must “ relieve ” the lady, appoint a new manager for the
Home, and inform him, whereupon he would gazette the
withdrawal of Miss S.’s license as guardian of the children,
.and appoint a new manageress in her stead. All this was
done, and the catmittee prepared to step in and run the
business—which another had built up—on its own new and
approved lines. Unfortunately for the new cats, Miss
Sutherland wasn’t taking any fluffy, superior Lady Bounti-
fuls, and promptly denied them admittance to the Home
■where the city’s waifs have ever found shelter. The cats
threatened a raid in force. Miss S. requisitioned a con-
stable to keep the peace, and there promised to be a
notable siurmish, with some of Melbourne’s leading
ladies facing a magistrate on a charge of common assault"
and ordmarv bashed hat. But friends intervened
and the stern-faced but kind-hearted comforter of Mel-
bourne’s lost will, in future, hang up her sixpenny hat
and hold out her friendly hand at the Receiving Home in
Latrobe-street. How the cats and the new matron will
shape at the Parkville Home remains to be seen, but they
W ,‘ Ilxt® t 0 show almoBt the sympathy and the tenderness
of the Nazarene to equal Miss Sutherland’s record. And
the average catmittee is wont to motor out with the
gjn-e rather than tramp along with the Carpenter’s
Mrs. Elizabeth Hogan, who died at Minvin
(Vic ) on Sunday week, was born in WoolloorrL?
100 (Sydney) in 1830. and was married at A b
when it consisted of but one hut. Woolloomn!7
100 was not very populous when Mrs. Hogan
born Commissary Palmer’s old housf "] !,
stood across Palmer-street within 100yds" of
William-street, comprised almost tlm
locality in those days. who,e
“N.F.” writes:—
Not all our once famous army of pedestrians font
beery road to obscurity, as witness the the
Mick Morrissey, who in the boom days of* the CarrWt °
and Botany tracks was about the best half-miler
iralia, and also a hurdler and sprinter of the first
Mick, a blacksmith by trade, never lost touch with
though he was one of the most travelled of the spZd’
shoe brigade, and when the bottom fell out of the rm ni,»
boom he went straight back to the forge Yet hi g
always ready to drop the hammer and interview a
and pleasing handicap. He is now past 45, and wo,'k!„ P
as head smith at Mount Morgan, where, at Easter h» >
the quarter-mile, off 16yds., in 50Jsec., and the’
hurdles, owing 12yds., and running the 132yds over in
i U Tvr ,n ,! B J‘ 5S t C - In SeV T al other events in North Queens
land Mick has shown, within the past two years wW «
wonderful piece of wire and whipcord he still ’is w
instance, at Rockhampton and the Towers he reeemw
won Sheffield heats in 6yds. worse than evens; and ail
this without any training other than his work and hi.
teaching in the Mount Morgan gymnasium. ' 8
The late C. B. Fisher was responsible for
many of the best stories told about Hindtnarsh
bouth Australia’s eccentric first Governor flip
Governor’s first levee in Adelaide was, according
to Fisher, the most striking ever held in Aus^
tralia. “My goodness !” said Hindmarsh “what
does dis mean ? ” He had been in Heligoland and
was something of a Dutchman. The mystery was
explained later ; there were only two dress-coats
in the settlement, and the loyal subjects, as they
retired, had to undress and give the garments to
the next persons with right of entree. Hind-
marsh had noticed the undressing and the fleeing
of his subjects in their shirt-sleeves. George
Milner Stephen, the man who breathed on the
sick and the dead and cured them with red flannel
was a great power in that vice-regal court. Hind-
marsh was his father-in-law, and Stephen ran the
show for a time. That was before he became a
curative breather. George Stephen, who died a
few years ago in Sydney, was born in the primi-
tive mansion, and Harold, the well-known littera-
teur, picked up as a nipper much of his know-
ledge of high life by observing the rows that went
on between Hindmarsh and his dad.
Dr. H. R. Horne, who drove out of his
Traralgon (Vic.) practice in a capsizing motor-car
recently, had two close calls before the fatal one.
First, he was shot through the lungs and heart in
the Boer war; and, later, he was unexpectedly
engaged by bandits what time he was pushing
business in Tungau (China) for the China Mutual
Life Assurance Society. The doctor and his fellow
fiend (Eadie) put up such a willing fight (although
severely mauled) that the Chinkies got the tired
feeling, and left. Horne had no business after
that to go motoring, or riding, or driving, or to
patronise Tait’s trains, or to go out on Friday, or
to sit down 13 at table. After two such close calls
as he had, he should have recognised that he had
used up his luck. In each of his first two scraps
with Death he was killed quite dead according to
all the rules of the game, and his recovery almost
amounted to unprofessional conduct. A great
recoverer was Dr. Horne. He even recovered
£lOOO damages from the Chow treasury.
THE DEVILS’ UNION SMOKE-NIGHT.
"Say, George, that’s a terrible weed you're
smoking. ”
“ Yes. It’s one of the last batch of larrikins.
Yours is a rotter, too.
“ Oh, well, it’s a blooming capitalist.”
It was a grizzled old warrior, a monu-
mental mason named Tope, who raked up the
scandal in connection with the St. Kilda (Vic.)
cemetery, and hung on grimly to his grievance till
the chief executive officer went away for a while
into seclusion. But the ancient isn’t finished yet,
and in flaming-red handbills he scatters the infor-
mation around Melbourne that “ shocking things
are still allowed to exist,” and he threatens a
public meeting at which he will expound what
they are.
Chief-inspector A. P. Stewart, who follows
Francis Adams as General Manager of the A.J.S.
Bank, and thus takes on about the toughest con-
tract in Australia, didn’t begin banking till he
was 24, and then started with the A.J.S. as a
junior at £5O a year. Up to that time he had
been “on the land” on the northern rivers
(IN.S.W.), where he was born. He was still a
country manager at Armidale when he w 7 as ap-
pointed chief inspector) He got the job, it was
said, because he had pointed out that there was a
horrible smash coming ; and when it did come
they reckoned that he was too good a prophet to
waste in a country town. Though reputedly a
humorist, A. P. Stewart —largely, perhaps, on
account of the job he has had —hasn’t made many
people smile these last 12 or 15 years.
A STATESMAN AMONGST THE GIRLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There was on Friday afternoon, at the Max Schliiter
“ At Home,” a fantastic fascination in watching Mr. Bruce
Smith, K.C., who sat in the winter garden with the
“ Salons of the Past” still on his mind. Few of us can
eat a cress sandwich with grace. —Sydney Star “ Woman's
Chatter Column,” 6/sl’oB.
He is so fine,
So big, so grandiose ; an almost regal air
Pervades our afternoon “ At Homes” when he is there,
So that from ev’ry suburb worshippers repair,
Winding (not vine) but blameless tea-leaves in their hair,
To watch him shine.
Observe the clothes 1
Consider how resplendently his plug hat gleams *
There on the floor, his gamp beside. By Heaven, it seems
Like some huge sable Koh-i-noor—a gem o’ dreams :
Ah ! do you wonder that we girls pour forth in streams
What time Smith glows ?
But hush ! he speaks :
Place gently down the cup, put by th’ unfinished bun,
And list! Sesquipedalian discourse has begun,
And till this course of polysyllables has run,
Let no one move. Shame, shame on the anarchic one
Who causes creaks.
’Tis o’er at last.
And now occurs one of his very grandest feats :
Couchant upon a stool the great man deftly eats
A sandwich made of cress ! ! Cheer upon wild cheer
greets
The deed. Then silence—and a small voice fain tly bleats
“ My, but he’s vast 1 ”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


.W'
r * *}■;
S,
"Ti
m
*r
4.
w.
■■■'
Vz
■j#z M
%
sy;
m
S&hjTJL
MSk
i J&^r
Si
a*
V
J*'
u<*.
»«. .
>■:; •
k 'i
0
n
~ ,
rfp
w, #;•-.
V .<
<v>SS
vs:
NS>
<*>-scv
m a*"
fr *»
■4 f|
o &<.
m
Jolly Good Friends —
HAVELOCK TOBACCO and I!


You can cure that miserable cold you have
by taking CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH
REMEDY.* UUbJI
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOOK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantied.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent M.n.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTFR BRADLEY and CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
As for wit and
Humor good,
Bet a bit and
Back Tom Hood !
And as Hood’s great
Humor’s pure,
So is Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure !*
pe&
GO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bougrht. Prioe Lists Gratis
Use Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It
relieves the lungs, aids expectorations, and effects
a prompt and permanent cure.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-dozen, free by post throuyhout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
HANDSOME POST CARDS FREE.
Three artistic post cards, being high-class
reproductions, in colors, of famous paintings of
Australian life, will be sent free of cost to anyone
who has ever used Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Just send your name and address on a post
card, mentioning that you read this announce-
ment in The Bulletin, and the cards will be
sent by return post. No more artistic cards
have ever been produced in Australia. Send
your application to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Australasia, Ltd., P.O. Box 594, Sydney.*
GOOD BLOOD MEANS GOOD HEALTH..
Pale, Weak Sydney Woman Built up by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.
Just a Shadow op her old self ; Cold Hands
and Feet ; Ankles Puffed up ; No
Strength to do Anything ; Unable to
Sleep.
The lack of sufficient red health-giving blood
doesn’t end merely in a pale complexion. It’s
more serious. Bloodless people are the tired,
languid, run down persons who never have a bit
of enjoyment in life. Everything’s a bother.
Food doesn’t nourish : there’s indigestion, heart
palpitation, headache, backache ; sometimes faint-
ing fits and always nervousness. If anaemia or
bloodlessness be neglected too long, a decline often
starts. Sufferers become so downcast and disheart-
ened that they believe they have most of the
diseases possible to have.
Just a little more blood cures everything. To
cure everything, so simple too. Just more, rich
red blood ; then abounding health and vitality and
a pleasure in life. To get more blood the remedy
is Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People.
That’s what they are for. No other medicine
increases the blood supply so quickly—the cure
begins with the first dose. This is not a mere
claim. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have been doing
this over and over again in Australia for twelve
years.
* ‘ A few years ago my blood got very weak and
watery and I was very ill indeed,” said Mrs.
Nellie Mitchell, 20 Broughton Street, Glebe,
Sydney. “ I couldn’t bear to sit down to a meal;
if I ate a little I’d bring it all up again. I had a
terrible weight on my chest, as if I had a leaden
weight there ; some days it was worse than others,
and there was also a dull ache between my
shoulder blades. I grew very thin ; I was just
like a shadow of my old self. I hadn’t a particle
of color in my face or hands, my ankles puffed up
so that I couldn’t get my boots on. and my feet
and hands were as cold as stones. I hadn’t any
strength, it was as much as I could do to struggle
out of bed and dress myself. If my sister hadn’t
come and given me a hand I would never have got
through my housework. I attended the hospital
for two years, but I might just as well have stayed
away. Straight down the centre of my forehead
I had a most dreadful pain, and I had some very
bad bouts of neuralgia. My face seemed on fire.
What mostly killed me was the sleeplessness. I’d
toss about the whole night through. I seldom
went out My heart troubled me a lot. At times
I thought it would stop beating, and then again it
would beat like mad and I thought that I was
dying. At the slightest sound I’d tremble like a
leaf. One day I picked up a book telling about
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. As the doctor’s medi-
cine wasn’t doing me any good I thought I’d try
them. I took four boxes before I could see that I
was any better. After that I began to get a bit
of an appetite, and presently I could sit down to
the table and eat without any unpleasant after
effects. As I kept on with Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills I got a little color in my face and gained in
weight. I also began to sleep better and felt less
weary in the day time. Now I Dan do a day’s
work with anyone, for my health is excellent.”
By their direct action on the blood Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills actually har« cured anaemia, sciatica,
indigestion, paralysis, biliousness, nervousness,
headaches, backaches, neuralgia, debility, rheu-
matism, and all ailments of women.
Sold by all chemists and storekeepers, and by
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Australasia
Ltd., Sydney, 2s. 9d. a box, six boxes, 15s. 3d.,
post free.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
!'X*v
' S
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
IJYDNEV^
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
One of the jokes of the N.S.W. by-
elections these times is the clamor that the people
should support the Wade Ministry (which is partly
Waddell and Perry) because it put an end to the
fearsome extravagance of the See Government
(which was also partly Waddell and Perry). This
makes things look mixed for Waddell and Perry.
The blowfly party” in the Federal
party —Reid and the lijjJe section of Reidites,
whose main happiness is to blow on the reputa-
tion of Australia—is just now filled with anger
because the Australian Government circulated a
reprint of an article from The Lone Hand
“ Prolific Australia,” saying a good word for our
motherland. It evidently hurts the Stinking
Fishites keenly to think of Australia being
praised.
The license-reduction party in Sturt, an
outlying district of Adelaide, owed much of its
recent victory at the poll to a skilfully-conceived
and stage-managed advertisement. Joe Coleman,
a popular fisherman, is in gaol awaiting his trial for
slaying policeman Ring. Legally, the shooting
was done in cold blood, but as a fact the blood
was heated by much liquor. And the day before
the poll there appeared a prominent advertise-
ment, by two persons who “have had recently
brought home to us in a very tragic way the evils
of the Drink traffic,” and want “the places of
danger reduced as far as possible.” That appeal
was signed simply “Ida D. Ring, S. Coleman ” !
EXIT—UNION JACK.
In the official statutory rules, issued by the military
authorities, is found the following :—Regulation 35: The
leading “Union Jack” is cancelled, and “Australian En-
sign” substituted.— News Item.
AUSTRALIA (to J. Bull): “ Returned with thanks."
When we get a decent patent law and some-
thing like real Protection, Australia will simply
boom along. The stump-jumping plough, the
reaper, the harvester, the forest devil, and a few
other things invaluable for the man on the land
havebeenevolvedby Australians, only to be pirated
by the Yankees. And now a Victorian has
blown along with a new machine milker which is
said to knock the Canadian idea kite high, and a
Queenslander has invented a motor plough which,
with 22h.p., is calculated to plough five acres per
d a y ; There is plenty of inventive talent in Aus-
tralia if it could only get the chance to do some-
thing with the things it creates.
A letter from Perth :
Sir,—ln writing of the exodus of farmers from
Victoria to New South Wales and other States,
you say it was reported that half-a-dozen were
off to try their luck in Westralia “of all
places. ”
It is inexplicable to me that such a usually
well-informed paper as Thf, Bulletin should
display such ignorance, or prejudice, in making
such a contemptuous reference to the agricul-
tural capabilities of this State. I have con-
siderable knowledge of South Australia; l
also know something of the other States, and
I am satisfied the opportunities presented by
Westralia are superior to any of them.
There are millions of acres still available
here for farmers at 10s. per acre, with 20
years’ credit free of interest, where the rainfall
is regular and reliable, ranging from 12 to 40
inches, and suitable for cereal and root crops.
Light agricultural railways are being pushed
out from the main lines, at a cost not exceed-
ing £lOOO per mile, wherever they are re-
quired.
There is a land boom on here, and the
Government office is crowded daily with selec-
tors.
I will not trouble you with figures to prove
what I say. These are easily obtainable if
you care to pursue the inquiry.
This State has, during the past two years,
been suffering a mild reaction from the gold
boom, but it is now building up a firm and
lasting prosperity upon a much firmer basis
than that of mining, though the latter will,
for very many years, be a great industry
without a doubt.
A few years ag > we were large importers of
foodstuffs, and now we are exporters, perhaps
to a small extent as compared with some of the other
States ; still the available surplus is rapidly increasing
each year.
Our wheat average will compare very favorably with
any of the other States. In horse feed we have helped
to supply the shortage in N.S.W. and Victoria to the
extent of 3000 tons, notwithstanding the heavy freight.
In cattle we number upwards of 700,000, and our sheep
are increasing at a rapid rate. During the last year or
so we lost to a small extent by emigration over im-
migration, but the tide is now setting the other way, and
our population is larger to-day than ever it was.
I fear you are not posted up in the agricultural and
pastoral statistics of W.A., or you would hardly have
allowed such a sneer to escape you.
I am, sir, etc.,
Thos. Ooombe.
138 Murray-street, Perth, W.A.
Queensland State Premier Kidston goes to
England fairly well convinced that, if he joins
Philp or if Philp joins him, he will not be able to
reckon on the continued support of either Treasurer
Airey or Railway Minister Kerr.
“Larry” O’Loughlin, in the absence of
Premier Price in England and two of his col-
leagues at the Premiers’ Conference in Melbourne,
ran the 8. Aus. Government on his lonely own
for two weeks without turning a hair. Probably
his only regret was that he was not allowed to
draw the four Ministerial salaries during the
period.
“ Croson ” : The latest proposal of the Fat
papers is that Customs Minister Chapman shall
withdraw his 2001 b. bag proclamation, and that
the States shall then restrict the use of heavier
bag by railway regulations. But if the State
insects are honest in their professions anent
the heavy bags, there is nothing whatever
to prevent them making such railway regulations
forthwith. And they don't. They say the regula-
tion of the size of wheat bags is their business,
but they don’t attend to their alleged business.
The first case dealt with in Victoria under
Bent’s Closer Settlement Act was that of the
Konongwootong estate, and the result is that
Thomas has to pay all the law costs and
£100,330 2s. sd. The Court laid stress on the
fivepence. In return he gets 10,000 acres of land.
He can settle, say, 20 families on this at a price
that would nearly pay for a railway accident.
No wonder Swinburne is looking round for
another way of dodging the inevitable Land Tax.
This way is too slow and too small and too dear.
“H.S.R.” : I had an idea that the Aus-
tralian capital beside the Snowy River might be
called Megalopolis, or the Great City, for it would
have a chance to be great on that site. But if the
Little Australians have their way, and build a dry
and hopeless hamlet at Canberra, I suggest as a
name Mieropolis, or the Little City. Let us end
the shindy by making the Northern Territory a
J ederal State, and let us have the capital there.
Then there will be room for expansion, and the
metropolis of a continent will be out of the reach
of halfpenny State jealousies.
According to the S. M. Herald, N.S.W.
Premier Wade has announced that there is no
objection to the Commonwealth advertising Aus-
tralia. The difficulty is to decide where adver-
tising ends and encroachment upon “our inter-
national policy begins. Hooray ! But, who the
deuce is Mr. Wade, and what nation does he
represent, and what use has he for an international
policy any more than a serpent has for a plug hat?
A cry from the shore :
The aldermen of Vaucluse (Sydney) have alighted with
all their feet on the sellers of ice cream, peanuts, apples
buns, gingerbeer, and lollypops, who come down from
Sydney by the Watson’s Bay boat and sell their wares to
the detriment and discouragement of the Watson’s Bay
shopkeepers. Protection to home industry is their motto
and they have booted out the importer by municipal by-
law. Yet when it comes to protecting the industries of
Australia from outside competition, Vaucluse goes solid
for Willie Kelly, Foreign-trader. It can understand Pro-
tection for Vaucluse, but Protection for Australia it
doesn’t comprehend worth a cent.
Interesting slab from the fierce debate in
the Reps, on the oil duties:—
Mr. Dugald Thomson, N.S.W., did not altogether
agree with the last speaker. When statements were
made outside they should be ignored, unless they were
precise and definite ; but when remarks were made in
that Chamber which did impute dishonor to members of
the House, then it was time notice was taken of them
(Hear, hear.)
Mr. Fisher: What about the marriage tie?
Mr. Dugald Thomson : I beg your pardon ? (Laughter.!
Mr. Fisher (loudly) : The marriage tie ? ’
Exactly. It is a horrible thing, that makes G.
Reid’s stomach rise in fierce revolt, to even sug-
gest that members have been “persuaded” by
the great oil octopus ; but it is quite fair and
clean and proper for G. Reid’s Anti-Sosh crowd to
accuse mere Labor men of designing to tear the
marriage-tie to rags.
FREETRADE HUMOR.
MR. COON : The industry would give employment to
thousands of people.
MR. REID (N.S.W.): Thousands! (Opposition laughter.)
MR. KELLY : Millions!
Extract from Tariff Amendments Debate.
THE IMPORTER'S PARTY: “ What I Vote Protec-
tion just to give them fellows food and em-
ployment! Well, I never ! Ha, ha, ha, ha!"
When the threatened reconstruction of
Victoria’s Cabinet happens, it isn’t impossible
that the new team will omit Bent himself. The
Brighton bellower has been making some extra-
sized blunders of late, and Swinburne and one or
two others have shown signs of restlessness.
Thomas’ latest break was the announcement that
he had appointed the genial Croker as “counsel
for the public,” to assist the Commission of In-
quiry into the Sunshine Railway smash. Bent
similarly appointed Croker to assist the Butter
Commission, and when the favored lawyer’s bill
came in—for £sooo—Thomas had to do a lot of
earnest explaining. This fearsome account was
subsequently reduced to £4OOO, which the public
paid. Now, it remembers the bill and begins to
ask what the country pays its own law officers for.
Premier Kidston, of Queensland, is paying
back the Courier in its own coin. Before the
elections the morning paper—confident of the
defeat of Kidston and the ascendancy of Philp—
almost ignored not only Kidston’s candidates, but
Kidston himself. Now the politician is giving
the paper an anxious time by seeing, accidentally,
that all important official information is supplied
to the Courier via the news columns of the rival
Daily Mail. T’other day the Courier printed a
sensational charge of repudiation against the
Government, and then waited breathlessly for
Kidston’s explanation. None was offered. The
paper editor wired to Kidston for information.
The answer explained everything—but it wasn’t
wholly satisfactory to the Courier. The cynical
Premier wired his information to the Mail, and
the Courier didn’t see it till next morning’s issue
of the “reptile-contemporary.”
Twofold Bay, the outlet of the Australian
capital at Dalgety, is fast becoming a live port.
The Melbourne Steamship Co. has announced that
its big inter-State vessels will call there fort-
nightly in future, with the chance of a more
frequent service later on, and the boats of the
Union S.S. Co. of Maoriland also look in.
The papers have lately been full of a
scheme which is to end in the establishment on the
N.S.W. coast line of some thousands of Scotch
fishing folk, who are to transform the local fish
supply, and to start canning and exporting fish
on a big scale. Obvious difficulties obtrude them-
selves, but the Sydney papers profess to regard the
thing as settled. Many things are openly quoted
as the cause of the coming invasion. The
N.S.W. climate, the convenient coastline, Frank
Farnell’s politeness, and other like reasons are
given. The real cause (if the industry ever is
established) hasn’t been even mentioned. If the
despised Deakin Government had not offered a
bounty on canned fish, the Scotch persons would
probably never have been heard of.
The second latest by-election in England
was at the manufacturing town of Wolverhampton
Two years ago the Liberal and ‘ ‘ Freetrade” majority
at Wolverhampton was 2865, and the same old
Freetrader held the seat for 28 years. This time
the Protectionist was only beaten by eight votes.
The London Daily News, which is strongly Free-
trade, says with tears that there is no explanation
of the downfall, “save that tariff reform is a
growing force.” There have been over 30 by-
elections since the present Parliament was created
and in every case save one the result has been
either a victory for tariff reform, or an awkward
scrambling home of the Freetrader by a
sadly diminished majority. The Wolverhampton
majority of eight in a poll of 9020 is a very poor
scramble home. Still Winston Churchill has got
in by a split vote at Dundee; he got 7079 votes
out of 16,208 polled. Two years ago the Free-
traders could collect 9276 votes at Dundee.
SANCTUARY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas midnight at the Sydney G.P.0.,
The clock-face said the hour was One-past One,
And yet the chimes
Rang forth twelve times
And gave the dial the lie direct! And so
Those chimes (alas those chimes !) have ever done !
There is no other earthly timepiece, none,
W> lose dial is always marking One-past One !
A lurching stranger staggered up the steps
And lay there in the lengthy colonnade ;
Eftsoons to snore 1
He’d taken more
Than cocoa made by Cadbury or Epps
A passing bobby saw him in the shade.
And, after due investigation made,
Awoke the man, who started this tirade:
“ Rash minion of the grim, parochial Wade
Wherefore disturbest thou my slumber snory !
Upon my word
Thou art absurd !
A truly monstrous error thou hast made !
’Twill make indeed a very pretty story !
Seek thou, State myrmidon, elsewhere for glory?
This colonnade is Federal territory ! ”
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE
MORE TROUBLE DOWNSTAIRS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Premiers’ Conference, “the Premiers were
earnestly discussing the momentous question of ‘channels
of communication’ with the British Government, and the
urgent necessity of State Governors, instead of the
Governor-General, being authorised to exercise the
prerogative of recommending fit and proper subjects for
titular distinctions.”— Age, 5/5/’OS.
What do we lack in nationhood ? What dignity not ours
Is yet within our grasp if we but use our native powers ?
And They that sit around the State’s deliberative oak
Where all the bloated inkpots are—these staid and
solemn folk
Who scribble on pink blotting-pads—they deal in crimson
speech
Because— because the knighthood-gaud, is ravished out of
reach !
This is the great State-masters’ moan ;
For this, in turn, they grouch and groan !
Now, wherefore should they dwell upon the Crawl before
the Throne?
Why now, amid the issues of this nation-making time,
Do these, our men of State, put forth their eager hands
to climb
To higher planes before they pass, dead gods, beyond the
pale ?
Ah, this is where we common men of simple methods fail
To know the utter need there is that we should use our
“rights ”
To dignify the nation with another bunch of knights.
This is the time, undoubtedly,
When we our leaders’ worth should see—
Now, when they’d bow the knee to bring their States more
dignity!
A thousand noble men are here to help Australia on,
But (this i* in a whisper) where are all the knighthoods
gone l
The knowledge of our leaders’ deeds is fresh within our
hearts,
And they should get their ticketing as men of many
parts;
So may they look ahead with hope to that entrancing
time
When they will reap the grand rewards they earned while
in their prime.
So may each man of State grow fat
Beneath an ornamental hat,
And sport his splendid presence at bazaars, and things
like that 1
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


THE CLA VIOLA,
The 72-Note Piano-Player.
Madame MELBA
... WRITES OF ...
THE CLAVIOLA,
The 72-Note Piano-Player.
“ Flete,”
Malvern, 20th February, 1908.
I have had little sympathy with any Piano-
Playing Inventions until having the opportunity of
hearing the Claviola, and I must say the capabilities
of this instrument have greatly surprised me.
It is astonishing to find such delicate touch,
and every expression from the lightest to the most
powerful is so easily at command that the Claviola
is capable of almost perfect piano-playing.
Beyond all, the advantage of the Artists' Music
Rolls gives the Claviola a distinct artistic character,
and removes the objections that have hitherto been
raised against the ordinary piano-players.
NELLIE MELBA.
WRITE FOR BOOKLET, giving full
particulars, POST FREE on application..
WE SELL CLAVIOLAS
..ON EASY TERMS..
W. H. PALING ®. CO., LTD., 338 George Street,
And at BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
SYDNEY.
• • •
iff
WRITE
at ONCE
/O!
Jiley s
n 5
3/ Hve
Day”
Autumn and
Winter
Fashions
500
Bcauli/ul
Illustrations
Posted Free on Application
BirCKLEYfrNUNN fc‘
.Melbourne.
Collect Green Coupons
THE COUPON SYSTEM.
CHAPTER I.
pHE credit system for years weighed
heavily on all Householders, chiefly on
people with small means and women in
particular whose duty it was to make the
weekly wage or the weekly salary go as far as possible. Honest
people who paid their bills at the end of the month had always two
additions to reckon on —first, the storekeeper’s charge for giving them credit,
that is, for being kept out of his money for a month ; and secondly, the
“ squaring ” charges which all business men have to make to save themselves
from the losses they make through dishonest or unsuccessful persons who do
not pay at all, and everyone who thinks for a moment will see that in acredft
business it is absolutely necessary for the .Storekeeper to take these two
elements into consideration in fixing his charges, and so it is that the honest
public who do their business on a credit basis have to pay more for their
goods, not because the goods are worth more, but because, unless the Store-
keeper increases his charges to provide for these two items, he would soon
find himself on the wrong side of the ledger. And then again there is a
third objection to the credit system, viz.—the possibility of mistakes in
charging for goods already paid for, and which mistakes might occur in the
best-managed business. Add to this the fact that the Storekeeper who did
a credit business would not have as much cash as the man who did a cash
one, and would not therefore be able himself to buy from the wholesaler on
such good terms as the Storekeeper who had the cash, and it will be seen at
once what the credit customer had to contend against, and how much more
he or she, principally she, had to pay, than would be the case if everyone did
a cash business.
It then became necessary to look round for a system which would give
the man who paid cash some inducement to do so, and so save him from
having to help to make up to the .Storekeeper for his bad marks. The
Coupon System does this, and we shall tell you more about it in our
next chapter.
Visit tHe Showrooms:
Georg'e Street, Sydney
(Opposite The Strand).
387


Cherry Brandy
... THE BEST is ...
Peter F. Heeringfs.
V NO COMPEERS. //
“PRICOTA”
LIQUEUR
The Ideal Ladles’ Liqueur
If you want a liqueur,
Why not try a “ Pricota ? ’’
It is wholesome and pure
If you want a liqueur.
To its praises I’m sure
You will soon add your quota;
If you want a liqueur
Why not try a “ Pricota."
WHOLESALE FROM—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld., Sydney & Melbourne
The Desire to be Beautiful is only natural,
indeed it would be unnatural for any woman to wish to
be otherwise. You cannot afford to neglect your skin and
complexion if you wish to be beautiful, for without a
good complexion you haven’t a chance, and yet any girl
can have a skin to match any beauty’s in the world.
Valaze. That is the secret. Valaze is at once the
mightiest guard and the finest food of beauty as concerns
the beauty of the skin. Valaze is of incomparable value,
but its actual cost is 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., postage 6d. The
Valaze Massage Rollers will banish wrinkles, fill out
hollows, and rejuvenate the whole appearance of the face.
To the woman who desires to keep her skin permanently
healthy and beautiful, these are the absolute necessaries
of the toilet. Single Roller Bs. 6d., a set of two 18s. 6d,,
and full set of three in case 255. From all chemists, or
direct from Mile. Rubinstein and Co., Valaze .Massage
Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney; 274 Collins Street,
Melbourne ;or 9 Brandon Street, Wellington, N.Z.* [2
In London Sunday Strand F. A. McKen-
zie writes thus :
The Japanese have exploited the most corrupt section
of Korean politicians. For their own benefit they have
stolen the lands of the people. They have worked with
the aim of making the Koreans a subservient race, and
themselves not merely the dominant power, but the
owners of all the wealth of the land.
Eebar
I’m the Robur Tea Girl,
and wish to explain that
there are four grades of
Robur, viz.: “Special,
No. 1, No. 2 and No. 3, the
difference between each grade
is entirely a matter of fineness
of quality—all are pure.
Each package is distinctly
marked to show the grade
of Robur it contains, so with
ordinary care it is not possible
to make a mistake.
The No. 1 Grade is
beautiful tea —it really is.
(<
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prinoe of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE.”
ftFMPER IDEM
-
FACILE PRINCEPS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 12, 1908.
My Dear Arint,—
When contradictory reports, mostly untrue,
and some of them quite uninteresting and all
crossing each other like weather currents, begin to
be circulated about a person, the significance is
that the person is of importance. Miss Carrie
Moore is feeling hot about the collar over the
insistence of interviewers who ask her if the man
to whom she’s engaged cameout herewith her. She
is getting tired of the question. He didn’t come, he
isn’t coming, and she doesn’t know exactly when
she’s going to be married. Her Australian thea-
trical engagement, as it stands at present, is for
twenty-six, or so, weeks. Then she goes back to
her London work ; but from sisters Eva, Lily,
Bobbie and Olive a second Moore gemus may be
selected to be let loose on the Commonwealth.
Carrie has an ingenious Birmingham toy that is
sprung on her callers. It is a little box in which
is hidden a tiny gold bird. The pressing of a
spring causes the bird to fly out and chirp most
melodiously for a minute. Mr. Frank Gardner,
on his late visit here, used to show a like idea,
only his boxed bird was once a Papal treasure —a
fearsomely valuable thing of wrought and
jewelled gold. The box had also been a Papal
treasure. The production by Carrie of her metal
warbler is always made, she explains, when the
interviewer for the Daily Alligator gets too
pressingly personal, and asks how He parts his
hair, and which of the Kohinoors on the third
finger of her left hand is the engagement loop.
Talking of mummers. A betitled physician in
London has been commenting on the fine health
of actors and of the female of their species. Their
complexions are also a theme of admiration,
and they never look old. He says he thinks
he’ll recommend some of his patients to go in for
the stage cure. And yet the outsider thinks that
by all the laws of everything the actor and ’ess
ought to be below the normal in health, by reason
of the conditions under which they work. Their
dressing-rooms are poisonous little cubicles, un-
ventilated, and over-lighted (as must be for the
necessities of make-up); the stage on which they
fume nightly is atmospherically vitiated, or they
are exposed to draughts in extremely ventilated
costumes, and to sudden weather changes.
Further, their everyday mental processes,
the outsider thinks, are mainly composed
of envy, hatred, and ever present fear of
the coming rival. And everyone knows how in-
dulgence in these passions gives one a lowering
brow and a moutji of scorn, like King Tarquin’s,
when he stalked in the Forum with the twelve
tomahawks waiting on him. The actor who can
keep the corners of his mouth curled upward,
after reading in the great daily the first-night
notice that he, Mr. Wyndham Sawkins, “ap-
peared as Romeo, but that the subject is
too painful for further mention,” must
(the outsider thinks) have a heart that
plays like a brass band. Especially if
the Mercutio of the production be praised in
terms past all whooping. Another delusion of
the outsider is that the actress (leading women of
the species understood) nightly joins a gay supper-
party after eleven with a rabble of men, and pro-
longs her supping until the lark at Heaven’s gate
sings, and that she gets home to her couch what
time Phoebus begins to fall out of bed and bump
his head against the floor of another day.
Actor and actress have pretty good consti-
tutions to begin with, or they make no headway
in the profession. And if they “gave in” to
passing ailments—to influenza, “blues,” rheuma-
tism, neuralgia, and overdoses of crayfish, as
members of other professions would—their ex-
tremity would be the understudy’s opportunity.
Horrible thought ! Consciously or otherwise, they
are Christian Scientists. They sandbag them-
selves, if necessary, into the belief that they are
at the top of their physical condition. They get
the habit of good health, and travel and frequent
change of scene count in their favor.
Miss Ola Humphry is the most marked case in
point your “ Akenehi ” has met. She suggests the
possession of a skylark for a heart. Under
adverse conditions—as when playing an exhaust-
ing rdle in weather that would try a lorrv driver
and which prevented her eating and sleeping’
when chased by hostile comment, or haunted by
delayed gowns, or piles of correspondence that
came at the same moment as thoughtless callers,
or absorbed in the studying of a new part when
her.fragile, small-boned frame must have been on
the verge of collapse, she still seemed as gay as a
skylark. She would not give in to sickness, or
worry or weather, and presently those drawbacks
-gJve into her will-power, and she no longer had
to act the thistle-down buoyancy part. She was it.
As for the late suppering. The average actress
and singer of any standing loathes it. Instead of
going to her hotel with the rabble of men at her
heels, she hurries there with her maid, laps a lot of
hot milk or soup, and scamps her prayers in her
haste to get to bed and to sleep.
Miss Patricia Mort, who will be the first known
Australian to become a foreign baroness, is staying
at Naples with her baron’s people.
Mrs. Margaret Thomas Gordon has lost some-
thing in a watery grave. Her Pa had shipped to
her a grand piano. It was on the Star of Japan,
but the luminary was wrecked, and sank, taking
the music with it. However, Pa is sending
another to Mrs. Big Eyes.
The Man of the Moment in N.S.W. during the
past week-all assertions to the contrary in * ‘ The
Lady Dandies ” notwithstanding—has been Prime
Minister Deakin’s athletically capable youn<*
nephew, N. E. Brookes. He is other things
besides champion lawn-tennis player of the world.
For instance, he is as good a billiardist as the
average professional. At the Australian Club
where he abides when in Sydney, it is not unusual
tor him to register a couple of century
breaks m a game of “500 up.” Also lie
worthily represents Victoria at the strenuous game
of golf. And finally prime social consideration
—he has a generous private income. Can the
local maiden be blamed for loading herself with
the gladdest chiffons or furs (as the weather may
be) in her ammunition wardrobe, and discharging
the result at so alluring a matrimonial target. It
has been said of Mr. Brookes, as it waft of
Henry 1., that he never smiled again. But that
statement only applies to his attitude while play-
ing tennis. He has quite a pleasant smile at
other times. It is also alleged that, even in the
hottest weather and the swiftest tennis game, he
never perspires. When I heard this I rang up a
doctor of my acquaintance to ask if a man who
never got hot was quite human, and if he wasn’t
really a vampire from Dalmatia, but the reply
allayed my fears.
Mr. Willie Watt, who died of malaria on board
the Himalaya last week, was one of Sydney’s
most important young Society men. The owner
of good looks and a large income, it seemed at one
time that Fortune had a permanently favorable
eye on him. He was never quite well again,
however, after the East African illness he con-
tracted 18 months ago, and to the very last was
hesitating as to whether or no he was fit enough
to start for cold climes. The damp heat of Cey-
lon’s “spicy breezes” aggravated his old trouble.
His brothers, Mr. Ernest and Mr. Oswald Walt,
are both in England just now ; and a married
sister is also in those parts.
Miss Khadijah Cooper, the girl whose first name
suggests the tinkling of a camel’s bell, is preparing
for a trip to New York, leaving on June 8.
Mr. Sam Hordern, senior, is said to be wander-
ing in the Garden of Allah —that is, if Egypt be
part of the Garden of Allah. The point of his
absence is that, through it, he missed seeing his
new Bronzewing swim out of the air into the
water last week. Bronzewing 11. lies at a ship-
builder’s pier at Balmain, getting its final silver
point etchings, so to speak. The baptism
of the sea-bird was achieved by a small
Hordern girl—the owner’s grandchild. It is
110 ft. long—the boat, not the grandchild—
and, on the word of its architect, Mr. Walter
Reeks, is the largest oil motor boat in the world.
The ceilings are white and gold, and the uphol-
stery salt-bush green, a most artistic tone. Aus-
tralian flowers are wrought in the oaken carvings,
and there are arc lights, and telephones, and a
huge ice-chest, and a powerful searchlight. The
saloon is over 20ft. long, and nothing in the way
of anchors, and chocks, and davits, and coils, of
rope, and funnels, is missing. The stylish bird
cost some £BOOO.
EVA CHAMPION , a promising Contralto.
Mr. Buckingham, the manager of Kubelik’s
tour, looks a medium-sized edition of Shakspeare.
His star fiddler’s young life, from the time he left
his wooden cradle up to, May, 1908, has been raked
through and through and crosswise by a thousand
inquisitorial pens, so naturally the manager with
the great name and the small pointed beard hasn’t
much of what might be called exclusive informa-
tion. Young Kub’s first engagement, in Vienna,
after his father died, brought him four guineas,
and of this sum he sent three to his
mother. Since then, he has settled £lOOO a year
on her. He is a great cat-lover, and didn’t some-
one say that the boy who is kind to his mother
and the cat will make a good husband. Mrs.
Kubelik (she drops her title and calls herself
Madame) is quite satisfied with her Jan.
As for Manager Buckingham’s own observa-
tions in this country, two things struck him with
the force of a brick travelling rapidly—the high
standard of physical beauty attained by the Aus-
tralian women and the seriousness and thorough-
ness with which the Australian reads his papers.
The Englishman reads the summary of one (or
more) papers, then throws it aside. Here, he
reckons, we know our daily and weekly press from
soup to nuts.
Marie Narelle leaves in a few days on a joyous
song tour of the northern rivers, commencing at
Raymond Terrace. The tour route is off all rail-
way lines, so the singer has bought a coach and
four spanking steeds, and borrowed a brother-in-
law, who can drive anything that neighs, to
dominate the box-seat. The coach party will
appear at a fresh township every night; and if
only there was room for passengers, what a rush
of applications would occur !
Max Schliiter left for Melbourne last night, after
a successful trio of concerts. He will make it six
after Kubelik has poured his rain of melody over
Sydney.
Next Friday Miss Ella Crosse, who is making
elocutionary fame in this State, will give a
dramatic and humorous recital at St. James’ Hall.
She will be assisted by Misses Ernestine Louat
and Lilian Frost, also Mr. Cyril Monk and Mr.
Lawrence Campbell.
Mr. and Mrs. T. J. West, of the wonderful
West’s Picture Films, are off on Saturday for a
round-the-world jaunt, and, incidentally, to catch
more moving pictures.
This was sent to me by a friend in Maoriland—
it is from the Mataura Ensign, published at the
prohibition town of Gore :
JJOEOUGH OP MATAURA.
ELECTION OP MAYOR. ’
PUBLIC NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that, at
the Nomination of Candidates for the Office of Mayor,
the following- Gentlemen were nominated,. namely
JOHN GALT, proposed by John Gray, of Mataura,
J.P.,and Robert Duncan Yule, of Mataura,
Gentleman.
THOMAS MAOGIBBON, proposed by Catherine
Cameron, of Mataura, and James Smith, of
Mataura, Builder.
1 Bay COLT, syrs., by Kentucky Yet (broken to
saddle).
1 Bay Hackney MARE.
Personally I hope the bay colt will be elected.
Municipal balls and functions are, as a rule, dreary
things in small towns, and the election of a horse
as mayor might break the dreadful monotony.
A romantic-looking captain in the Coldcream
Guards (or should it be Coldstream Guards ?), and
the romantic port of Ceylon, and an unusually
pretty girl with a voice to match —a romantic
bunch of persons and place ! He knew and ad-
mired her in Sydney, and when she and the
party with which she travelled got to Colombo,
he came down a long, long way from the fast-
nesses of his rubber plantation to go on board and
say adieu, and then later to wave his hat and
stick from the small boat manned by the pic-
turesque nigger as the liner wore to sea again. He
went on board, but he didn’t do any foolish waving
later on. He bought some shop suits, drew some
money from a bank, and went on in the vessel
with the Sydneysiders. And now the girl’s
friends are asking will she cultivate that voice or
will she accept the usual marine product.
On a day last week something in the nature of a
portent or omen was to be seen. It was a respect-
able, middle-aged, married woman, and she sat
calmly in the Winter Garden of the Hotel
Australia, smoking a cigarette. I conceive that,
had Mr. Judkins entered in quest of a “straight
water,” or “hot milk shake,” or “small bottle of
plain soda,” or other refreshment of the kind, and
seen her, he would have fled thirsty, frothing at
the mouth, and from the handiest stump have
delivered an oration proving to demonstration
that ruin came upon the pubs of the Plains, and
on the frequenters thereof, and on the Cities
which harbored them, owing to just this sort of
wickedness. However, fortunately, Mr. Judkins
remained without and at peace. And instead the
fond gaze of approval was directed at that
gallant pioneer female by many a secret smoker
of her sex who lacked the nerve, hide,
cold-steel cheek, or whatnot to do like-
wise. Scores of women partake of the harmless
cigarette in the home circle these days. More-
over, the husband of judgment mostly approves ;
it acts as a combined nerve-soother and scandal-
prophylactic. To one who has grown used to a
cigarette after a meal it is a plaguey, uncom-
fortable matter to forego it. Throughout Europe
nowadays ladies —as opposed to lydies—light up
readily in all the great hotels. And a growing
feminine section here doesn’t care how soon the
convention spreads to local caravansaries. The
old mid-Victorian idea of naughtiness and
nicotine being indissolubly wedded, is deatb-
rattling noisily on all sides, so the day of emanci-
pation in this regard should not be far distant.
Wandering Australian girls who have brought
out dream-frocks in their carpet-bags for the envy
of the stay-at-homes, tell what look like fabulous
stories about the size of the bill. But in most
cases the prices really haven’t grown at all on the
voyage. Paquin’s and other dream-gown factories
have to carry such a tremendous lot of money on
their books, and they have to carry it for such ages,
that the customer has to pay a pound for material
and about three pounds for interest. It takes
such a mint of money to run one of these
businesses nowadays that when the Paquins
started in London 10 years ago they insisted on
the new co. having a whole half-million capital;
and though tens of thousands of pounds are
scratched out every year as bad debts, the con-
cern still had £273,000 of unpaid bills out when
it made up its books a few weeks ago.
Still, don’t go and waste sympathy on
Paquin; for, in spite of the unpaid bills, he
managed to pay a 20 per cent, dividend for last
year —and a man who has an uncle that knows
about dividends and things says that, while
Paquin gets 20 per cent., he ought at least to be
able to pay his laundry lady something on account.
Talking about the laundry lady, the London
Laundry Record (yes, there is such a paper,
though the Chimney Sweep’s Chronicle hasn’t
been actually published yet) announces that “ the
first Chinese laundry established in London to
accommodate the Englishman ” has just hung out
its dragon “in Manor Park, Ilford”; so J. Bull
has a chance now to get his boiled shirt sent home
in a paper marked with characters that look like
horned caterpillars writhing in great agony.
The Montefiore Home Annual Ball occurs in
Sydney Town Hall on Tuesday, June 9. This
frisk is in aid of a worthy charity, besides which
it is one of the occasions on which the Town Hall
“presents a most brilliant appearance.” The
Home’s supporters frock themselves splendidly.
Hon. treasurers are Mrs. Nathan Jacobs and Mrs.
A. Diamond. Hon. secs., Mrs. L. R. Wilson and
Mrs. Victor Wilson.
I have it from one or two who have come in con-
tact with the shipment of English domestics that
those special importations are keenly disappointed
in their Australian employers. The trouble is
that the local families are distinctly “no class,”
and it is a grievous hurt to the pride of the British
menial to be in the service of common people who
do not say “ Haw ! ” and who have no connections
whatever with the first cousin of an earl. The
absence of “ dog ” in the Australian home is felt
with a keenness that can only be understood by the
Australian who has put up at a cheap Cockney
boarding-house in the Cold Country, and wit-
nessed the painful efforts of the 305.-a-week clerk-
lets to live up to aristocratic ideals as presented to
them in the Society papers. “ These people go to
the theatres, and sit to dinner in morning dress !”
shrilled one disillusioned domestic. “Why, my
brother wouldn’t do that! ” And then the
harried kitchen demoiselle broke down and wept
bitterly into the dust-pan,
A correspondent from M.L. writes about a day
of muggy heat—the weather that mushrooms and
such-like fungoid growths flourish in, but under
which the normal woman wilts and demands why
the Almighty has fixed his canon against self-
slaughter. The correspondent met a lady friend
and her little girl, and openly admired the pretti-
ness of the babe. “ Oh, no.” declared the child’s
mother, “ Peggy is not a bit pretty, really, but a
day like this does wonders for her. It curls her
hair, brightens her eyes, and gives a pearly texture
to her skin. When she grows up I intend to take
her to some climate that is always like this, and
so give her every chance to make a good marriage ”
There’s a fair emigrant maturing for a land of
warmth and everlasting mildew—a land like
(Jeylon’s perspiring isle.
“ Mario,” from Brisbane :
Much success dangled round the annual ball of the
Commercial Kowing Club on Tuesday evening, the sth
when no less than 15 duffers burst forth in goodly
raiment. Their Ex.’s arrived early and stayed late and
the aforementioned little bits of fluff were duly yarded ud
after the first dance and presented by Captain Vernev of
the twinkl.y eye. Some of them shuffled through the
ordeal, and some of them floundered. One alone got
through with absolute grace, and she was a Miss Greenup
a real “ daughter of the gods.” Bonnie Yda Buchanan
Hilda Ohmau(a real “ Kitty Asche”), and Moya Cuppaidge
were neck and neck as runners-up.
Invitations are out for a lawn party at Government
House on the 27th. In the meantime the pale but reso-
lute viceroy is “ visiting round ” among the stations, and
will probably be the guest of the Tamrookun Collins for
the Beaudesert show. Speaking of these representatives
of Ned VII., there are dark rumors in the air to the effect
that, after our next August show, the august lady will
pack up her traps and shake the Queensland dust off
what she stands upon. Ah ! well! Life is mostly parting.
We shall miss the practical commonsense and kindly
interest of Her Who Putteth Down Her Foot.
A great gathering there was entirely on Saturday last
the day set apart for the official opening of the New Farm
Bowling Green, just completed. The air was heavy with
Jerusalem. There was lashings of it, each with its nose
and its accent bigger than the last. The speech, the
applause, and the very heavy afternoon meal were right
up to standard ; but when the band let out on the solo
“ Jerusale'm ’’—well, it was too much for the few strayinv
Gentiles, and they fled for home.
The wedding of the month was that of pretty Miss
Hickson (a niece, by the way, of that Agr lady, Henrietta
McGowan) and Mr. Flower, of Warwick, which whirled in
a mist of orange flowers and rice, on Saturday last.
The moon is honey somewhere near Katoomba (N.S.W.).
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


BY APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS LTD
VICE REGAL JEWELLERS • WATCHMAKERS SILVERSMITHS
Visitors to the
City are
invited to
inspect the
Showrooms.
.•: "<V
4'i
ffICE
€1
R
The
LeadlngHouse
for
High=Class
Solid Silver
Toilet
Requisites
in Australia.
J
«3St
£1;
Goods
forwarded
on approval.
Write for
Illustrated
Catalogue.
Post Free.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON • ADDRESS • 19-CHARTER-HOUSE -STREET
wir; : m?
m
1j
£>END
FREE SAMPLER
Congo is “Never-Leak” High
Grade Ready Roofing. It is
durable, weather-proof, rot-proof, and anyone can lay it them-
selves. Ihe material is carefully tested and inspected in
manufacture and every roll is perfect.
Congo will last indefinitely. Is cool in summer and warm in winter.
It is also excellent for damp-proofing foundations and for lining
buildings.
Write for free samples to any of the following:
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co., Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by C. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd., Sydney; John Sanderson & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne; George Wills & Co., Brisbane; Millar’s Karri
Jarrah Co., Perth, West Australia.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
*
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
/ all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, e ng.
THE GEM OF MONARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil is equally
rich—growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptionally EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
Farther information may be obtained froth the Secretary, Mount Cooper Estate, Ltd., 117 Pitt Street,
P ; H. A. Merewether, Royal Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney; The Manager, Mount Cooper
tate, Holt’s Flat, N.S.W. ; or The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Announcement to
GRAMOPHONISTS.
SWEEPING REDUCTIONS
in prices of
GRAM O PHONES and
GRAM-O-PHONE RECORDS.
FULL PARTICULARS MAY BE OBTAINED FROM
All GRAM-O-PHONE Dealers.
K
m
.22*
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. ,22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
I/OUTS Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL = DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
tor pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well
you should just see how beautifully it drapes*
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from,
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies .
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
OUIS
*7.
WELSBAGH Incandescent
Acetylene Burners.
A Brilliant Soft Light of
65 CANDLE POWER.
Burner Complete - ss. each.
Extra Mantles - - 6d.
Extra Chimneys - - 2\d. ~
The Use of this Burner effects enormous saving in Carbide.
Does your local Storekeeper stock these Goods? If not, write
for particulars t 0...
WELSBAGH LIGHT COY.
Of Australasia, Ltd.,
439-441 KENT STREET.
230 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. 48 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
PERRY BROS., Brisbane. HARROLD, COLTON CO., Adelaide
F. M. FERGUSON LTD., Perth, W.A.


The food rhafjttakes the Baby Grow-
<&?*
H
'm
y/A
( n\
y
NEUROSINE PRUNIER
Elites P/CTIATINE
by all
and Grocers.
Pure Glycerophosphate of Calcium
Recommended biy Specialists lor General
Debility, Influenza, Nervous Disorders, &c.
*
J N
''
Gracefulness
and Beauty
Of figure—smartness and attractiveness
of appearance—are features desired by
every woman. “ P.D.” CORSETS are
famous amongst leaders of Fashion
throughout the world as the ideal in
these respects. Skilful French cor-
setierres have embodied in every pair
those exquisite lines —the perfect sym-
metry that adds dignity to your
carriage—a distinctiveness of style
combined with the acme of comfort
and excellent service. You will be
delighted with them —but you should
insist, and be careful that you get a
“P.D.” —initials only on every box.
Corsets
U
Corsets
First-Class DRAPERS
Only*
A BOOK OF CLEVERNESS.
fITTC AVf By EMMIE ROBB j nte d
I ML, I ISAM. dainty volume P r '" te
J '."I. attractively in two colors,
bound by silk cord. First Edition almost ex a
ONE SHILLING; Posted 18. Id
T. C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins Street, MeIBOURK*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 11, 1908,
My Dear Yarrik,—
Siege and battle and clamorous strife have
raged at the Miss Sutherland Home. A rather
recent Catmittee decided to elect a new matron in
Miss Sutherland’s place. Miss Sutherland refused
to be superseded. The committee thinned out
because of resigning and exploding members ; the
remaining Cats went doggedly on, and eventually
elected a new matron and a new nurse, and
went to instal them personally. Since then
tnere have been installations and ejections
and ructions generally, and the kids have
been having a good deal of amusement.
Matters were fixed, or supposed to be. Then
they were reiixed. After that they were unfixed.
According to the latest report, some action done or
proposed by the new matron caused Miss Suther-
land to take umbrage. That wouldn’t have
mattered so very much, but she also took the
front door key. The latest arrangement was that
Miss Sutherland was to give up her old billet and
take charge of the receiving house in Latrobe-
street, anti the latest disarrangement is that the
strenuous lady is now in charge of both places.
The Catmittee apparently couldn’t manoeuvre, or
reconnoitre, or form a hollow square worth a
copper (in fact it seems unfit even for sentry
duty), and it was outflanked in an absurd manner,
and its agent is said to have found herself in the
street after midnight, with a very vague idea what
to do next, and a very clear idea that the last
tram had gone.
The trouble is that Miss Sutherland began and
wmt on and prospered without the help of a com-
mittee. Then the lately established “Board” of
women who “sat” on her doings rather ruffled
matters. Miss Sutherland was inclined to
ignore the committee. Naturally, the com-
mittee objected to being ignored. Miss
Sutherland is given to abrupt speech and is
wont to strike straight out from the shoulder —
and they are mannish shoulders, holding
a mannish head. But her heart is all woman,
and any baby will go right to her. Babies
that no one else would take, or cquld take
—poor little strays —always were packed off to Miss
Sutherland, and were never refused, though want
of space and help has meant her having half-a-
dozen wailing waifs sleeping in her own till
the day found some place for them. Now Miss
Sutherland is growing pld, and some of her
methods are old—so some think she should be
pushed to the wall, and roughly, clumsily, at the
point of the Claw. Yet she is one of the biggest-
hearted and most unselfish workers in Melbourne.
There is a boom in brides in Melbourne, hive
Toorakities have just returned from a Mediow
moon. Imagine five worshipping the same moon
on the same acre at the same time ! One youthful
newly-wed was ill all her sweet moon with an
abscess on her little face—yet she chortles
delightedly'at the elevated status she thus gained
in “fuss” and notice over the four every-day
land of brides. A dubious joy—but, mebbe,
abscess makes the heart grow fonder.
A solid wedge of a big grown-up family de-
parted from Toorak with the last crusade of Fog
worshippers, and last week a youthful member of
the clan celebrated his position as vice-Head of
the Family by sending out pasteboards for an all-
embracing dance frivol at the ancestral halls. It
was a Ball in a Thousand, and showed
masterly management. The chief decoration
in the ballroom was a huge map of the
house and grounds, with judicious nota-
tion for the guidance of dancers and sitters-
out. “ Shrubbery to the left of the lawn
path—room for six carefully assorted”; "Tool-
house, mind the lawn mower—key hangs on
left-hand corner” ; “ Rosery, standing room only
—voices may be overheard in shrubbery ” ; “ Cosy
seat under the big chestnut—may be seen from
balcony at angle of 32£ degrees ’’—that was the
kind of chart which possibly saved some girly
Columbus and her first mate from striking a reef
on the sea of love, or at least fluff. The event
slipped as smoothly as a toboggan down a
precipice, and was marred with but one blot —a
furious breach-of-guidance action against the host
by two doves whose cosy corner was pointed out
vividly by the fierce acetylene eye of a belated
motor whirring up the drive.
In uttering a plaint apropos the lobbyists
who rush up to him, and deaden his ears with the
loud voice that shows the excited mind, a member
of the House of Reps, voices a saving clause. He
mentions the Ladies of the Lobby—the encyclo-
paedic dames who battle on either side in the
War of Importers and Manufacturers. He quotes
them as notable gauges of the Australian woman’s
interest in her nation’s destiny, and the suita-
bility of the said woman to her lately gained re-
sponsibilities. One lady, in the cause of Protec-
tion, has never missed ten minutes of the
tariff debate, and is said to have carried
a dozen amendments to date. On tariff-
showing, it can be prophesied that Aus-
tralia is going to supply history with a new type
—the woman who abdicates not an inch of her
hereditary territory, the kitchen and the nursery,
yet takes her place amongst the rulers of a
continent, and guards the future of it with the
far-reaching instinct of a generous mother.
Amongst the tariff jokes perpetrated by wag-
gish Mr. Chapman is one which reflects upon
that acute person’s discretion, and relates to the
doll who shares infancy’s devotion with infancy’s
progenitors. Mr. Chapman says—with an air of
immutable decision like unto that of the young
man who bets on forgotten cricket-scores —that
dolls who wear stockings painted on their sawdust
legs are dressed. The modest dollie who wears
a little shirt over her futile little trunk is
catalogued as undressed, and gets through with a
lesser duty—and her shirt. Sisters mine, we must
reorganise our ideas! Paint on stockings, and
we could pass the Customs, with our reputations
for respectability and Mr. Chapman’s approval.
Wear a shroud over our dear contours, and we’ll
be treated as though Mr. Chapman saw through
it.
Fred McCubbin gives a show of his pictures at
the Grand Hotel somewhere in the middle of this
charming month of May. Mrs. Fred gives a
reception at the opening of the show. The whole
family will be able to hold festival after it, for
many of the paintings will be as eagerly snatched
up as unique dress-lengths at reduced prices.
“Mac” has been most subtly affected by his
European jaunt, and since his return has done the
best work of his life.
Nowadays that suave-voiced hero of a hundred
and fifty melodramas, Walter Baker, is a retired
actor. No more will he have the X-rays_ of
dramatic sequence thrown upon his theatrical
character. He has resolved himself into a man of
business, who takes a live interest in bulls and
bears and various other Apocryphal animals. And
he is restored to a state of 13-stone health.
I hear of Ruby Baxter, a delightful little lady
who once hid her light behind a bushel of J. C. W.
choristers. She is beginning to make an English
reputation as a clever character actress, an estab-
lished quantity, and is booked for the next year with
various managements. Already she has had the
distinction of being borrowed by an author for
the provincial tour of his latest success.
The Commonwealth has just issued an eighteen-
page report furnished to it by the gifted Dr.
Dunbar Hooper. It treats of infantile mortality,
and particularly of the decisions of the Inter-
national Congress upon the protection of child-
life, held at Brussels last September. The fact
that 11,627 children under the age of five
died during 1906 in Australia is an eminent
justification for the publication. _ The de-
voted Hooper describes the institutions
already existent on the European continent,
which tend the babes of the poor, and train
mothers for the earthly salvation of their off-
spring. (Health is our earthly paradise, without
doubt.) He details how pure milk is distributed ;
how mothers are given every adventitious aid in
the rearing of their infants; how even school-
girls are instructed in child-rearing by provident
optimists‘bent on humanity’s renaissance. Inci-
dentally he estimates that more than a third of
Australia’s infant mortality is preventable. It is
a document which should be printed in the shape
of a mothers’ manual,' and as widely distributed
as an enterprising tradesman’s circular. One wise
provision made in Europe is the award of sub-
stantial premiums to wet-nurses and foster-
mothers. The State in Belgium, for instance,
assumes the major part of the responsibility
for the life of every embryo citizen. The
whole report might make a text for Aus-
tralian legislation on this question. Certainly it
offers a biting reproach to the casualness of local
measures for benefiting the baby.
“A certain man,” in the Bible, at one time
raked the lanes and hedges for “the lame and the
halt and the blind,” and hauled them in to a
feast. In like wise Williamson sent out scouts to
the highways and byways, to the mayors and
councillors of poor suburbs, and to Charity Boards
and reformatory schools, and rounded up the
children, the poor waifs of the city, and gave
over to them the Princess’s, with its “ Peter
Pan,” and its Pirates, and all the other de-
lights, for a Saturday matinee. There was a
2000 child-power appreciation that would have
warmed Barrie’s heart. The play was more real
than reality to that house. Boys barracked for
the Lost Boys against the Pirates, and yelled en-
couragement to little Michael. Anxious voices
called “ Look out, Pete ! ’’ to sleeping Peter with
Captain Hook creeping stealthily upon him.
The saddest group was that of the blind
children. They knew the story, and sat still
through any pantomime, but greeted sounds with
delight, and almost came to blows in discussion
with each other. Some nurses sat in the orchestra
stalls, with bandaged babies—bound up in splints,
with nothing but hands and head free. Their free
hands clapped their belief in Fairies when Tinker
Bell was dying. There was not a doubt as to their
ideas of Fairy doings.
The Empire claimed another victim last week—
,lohn Malcolm Borthwick, son of an old Gipps-
lander, Colonel Borthwick, of the 10th Light
Horse. Young Borthwick was a bright lad, and
worked hard to obtain a commission in the British
Army, which he secured at the age of 20. A
paternal British Government sent him to Aden,
where there ain’t no Ten Commandments, and
where the fever-germs sit on the piers awaiting
new-comers. The Gippsland boy proved an easy
prey, and a month after his landing they buried
him.
Miss Emma Sugden, a youthful daughter of the
jolly Master of Queen’s at our University, is
engaged to Mr. Le Souef for a life contract.
Young Le Souef has taken this year’s Rhodes
scholarship. He is the son of the Le Souef who
is guardian archangel at the Zoo, where he acts as
uncle to the lion, and gives good advice to the
perplexed rhinoceros. Miss Emma inherits her
father’s musical bump, and does rather clever
things with her violin at the Conservatorium.
“The Scarlet Troubadours ” continue their tour
of the States in Melbourne on the 19th. Sounds
warm and vivid for this cold, grey weather. Mr.
Edward Branscombe, who ran the Westminster
Glee Company, is responsible for the Gaudy
Singers.
A gadding Australian writes:—
The Rupertswood Dame has been dazzling the crowds
at Monte Carlo just lately. She is back again in the vast
Fog, frisking while the spring cleaners chastise the cock-
roach and the moth that consumes at Park Lane.
Captain Staughton’s young widow is in the Bull capital
with a swagger crowd at Hyde Park Hotel, and prepares
her wedding ruffles and things in a delighted sort of
flurry. These widows can look so naive and debutantish
when facing the rails for a second run over the matri-
monial course. She is to marry an Armitage, of Como, a
strong- force in the social and squatting world of Victoria.
The Jack Alston Wallace couple are touring Europe
with ever-accumulating band-boxes and boot-trunks,
for the large, showy wife likes the Rue de Rivoli
label on her hat and the Piccadilly badge on ber theatre-
coat. And so the lengthy spouse has to follow the Man
from Cook’s with a Himalayan lot of luggage.
Beaumont Smith has just been attached as an
Andersonian secretary. It seems to be a fashion
for press-inclined men to enter a theatrical atmo-
sphere. Instance Darbyshire, of the Age, who
recently went over to Her Majesty’s (Melbourne),
and Claude McKay, of Sydney Telegraph, lately
annexed as Williamson’s secretary. Young Beau-
mont Smith is a budding dramatist. Anderson
has accepted a play of his (top-notch bellowdrama),
and will produce it at the New Theatre. He has
also dramatised Steele Rudd’s “On Our Selection,”
which MS. has got as far as a “favorable con-
sideration ” from Williamson.
Ernest Toy, a Bendigo youth, who has studied
“ abrawd,” and now tours his native playground,
gave two violin recitals at Glen’s Hall last week.
He is an accurate and careful player ; too careful
for warmth and vivid life —and his recitals won t
spoil Kubelik’s chance of a hearing. The concert
was a judicious sandwich of the Ernest boy and
Miss Hortense Fyfe—a solemn young lady who
warbled passionate Indian love songs with the
placidity of a gentle moo-cow.
Mrs. Walker, the plucky little woman whose
domestic finances collapsed so suddenly, is
buckling-to like a Trojan, helping the wobbly
beginner how to skate on slippery ice. She is a
dainty skater herself.
From “Rosna,” at Adelaide-in-the-influenza
State: —
His Ex. temporarily dropped the reins of office last
week, and, in company with Lady Le Hunte, Miss Clowes
and an aide, fled off'on the Rupara up our turbulent
Gulf. The Rupara is a goodly little craft, and this Gulf
trip is much patronised by the nobility generally. It
takes five days, and includes a glimpse of Port Lincoln
(which says it has the best natural harbor in the demi-
semi-hemisphere), Tumby Bay, Port Pirie, and variousother
exciting places that contain two jetties, one post-office
and a dog—especially a dog. The gubernatorial visit to
these cities was an unofficial one, so the local mayor was
discouraged from sounding the loud timbrel or flourishing
his little piece of red carpet in welcome.
Private Secretary Walter Stuart Baillie-Hamilton (no
less) came sailing back last week from a five-months’
holiday in India, where he has been pursuing elephants
and health. He brought a guest back to the Residence
with him, Captain Buchanan, of the severalth Regiment,
stationed in the Punjaub. King Edward keeps a military
force there to teach the gospel to the Hindu.
There has just passed out, at the age of 87, Mrs.
Turner, widow of the late Stipendi ry Magistrate F. F.
Turner. She was a charming and brilliant Frenchwoman,
and in her younger days a great Society dame. Her
cousin and life-long friend, Miss du Chesne, resided with
her until her death a few months ago, and the two went
everywhere together. Another recent death is that of
Miss Kingston, sister of Charles Cameron Kingston, the
statesman.
The Olympia Rink had a fancy dress and poster carnival
last week, and the populace wandered in and packed
itself sky-high to see the fun. It is wonderful how
many people seem to consider it an intellectual entertain-
ment to watch their brethren falling over each other on a
hard rock floor. Colored electric lights gave a festive air
to the rink, which is not ordinarily what you would call
decorative. The chief hilarity was caused by the antics
of a burlesque motor and its freight of lunatics ; also by a
dilapidated gentleman representing Rags and Bones, and
a white-gowned individual with a candle. He was labelled
“ Good-night.” Considerably over a hundred enthusiasts
slithered to the strains of the band, and nobody broke
three or four of his necks and limbs, though a medico tells
me the rinking fever has occasioned an epidemic of
sprains this year.
South Australia is somewhat pluming itself on captur-
ing several of the chief literary awards in the Woman’s
Work Exhibition. Mr. Barr-Smith’s £5O for a novel of
100,000 words goes to Mrs. Stone (Sydney Partridge), and
the second prize of £3O to Miss Mary Austin ; while the
whole £5 for a novel on temperance has been collected by
Mrs. H. A. Doudy, also of S.A. Mrs. Stone, by the way,
was responsible for the beauteous printing and get-up of
the Exhibition souvenir, presented to Lady Northeote.
There died in Adelaide last week, aged 90, Mr. O. B.
Fisher, one of S. A.’s earliest squatting and racing men.
He came to the province in 1836, in the Buffalo, which
carried our first Governor, Hindmarsh. And he rode at
our very first races, which were held in 1838, out in the
wilds of what is now Thebarton. Mr. Fisher was a son of
the late James Hurtle Fisher and brother of the late
Dame Morphett.
Poet E. J. Brady sauntered into Adelaide last week at
the tail end of his Lone Hand expedition, and with his
motor-boat safely stowed away in a carpet bag. He was
pursued by a long string of local ink wielders, and let fall
many pearls of wisdom on the ways of Murray Waters.
The Nurses’ ball is fixed for June 17 at the Town Hall.
Their Exes, will be present, and a strong committee is
hustling things to make the event as furiously successful
as usual. The Mayoral ball and the attendant kiddies’
spree is due to happen somewhere about a week later.
Hymen is working fairly hard in South Australia this
year. On April 25 he lit up his torch at Mount Lofty for
the knotting of Madge, daughter of the late ironmaster
,Fulton, and lawyer Charlie Edmunds ; and on the 29th,
at St. Andrews, Walkerville, he illuminated the binding
of the Barr-Smith’s daughter Jo and Mr. J. Hay Gosse.
Editor Langdon Bonython has bought H. R. Dixson’s
(now H. R. Denison’s) handsome home on the top of the
North Adelaide hill. It is the most conspicuous object
to catch the eyes of arrivals at the Adelaide railway
station, and was built out of the results of lucky gold
speculations in W.A. Poseidon was not H.R.’s only
profitable snap.
You never can tell. When the Fowell Buxtons
served out a scanty sandwich and tart at Adelaide
Guv’ment House a few years ago, nobody ever suspected
them of doing anything piore desperate than opening a
bazaar. Yet here comes news of one of them going out
in East Africa lately, and shooting three lions before
breakfast. Certainly it did prove too much for him, for
he didn’t manage to quite kill the last of the beasties —
probably he heard the sausages frying and was in a hurry
—whereupon a wounded lion interviewed him and chewed
his arm.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
Some people in S. Aus. are very much
annoyed with Chief Justice Way. The pompous
little man is torn by conflicting emotions, asR. D.
Meagher was when he got into the tram-car. On
one side he dearly loves a lord, and if there isn’t
a lord to love then he loves anything else with in-
fluence and wealth. On the other hand, he has a
pretty high regard for his duty as a Judge. Just
an ordinary man, on being lifted up to the Bench,
would go ahead and deal out justice, and it
wouldn’t occur to him whether the party in front
was rich or influential or otherwise. But it does
occur to C. J. Way; so, when a “first family”
rep. turns up, his Honor points out that he really
mustn’t be influenced by any outside con-
siderations, and mustn’t consider whether the
accused is influential, and mustn’t give a thought to
the tonnage of the prisoner’s family. He broke out
in the old familiar fashion, the other day, and thus
drew everybody’s attention to the young fool in
the box, who had written the most asinine letter
on record to a young woman (since dead—the
usual business). Of course there were scores who
had already connected the accused with one of the
biggest commercial and ship-owning families in
the State; but where scores knew it before, thou-
sands knew it after Way, C.-J., had finished
and the papers had reported how he had passed a
sentence of 12 months —“although I do it with
great distress.” Really, somebody ought to beg
his Honor to knock off what nearly everybody
regards as mere apologies to rich relatives for
doing his plain duty.
A highly-degreed graduate of the Sydney
Uni. lately answered an advertisement for a finish
ing governess. The lady requiring the somethin?
extra in the line of young-idea trainers replied to
the reply as follows: “ Dere madmam Reseved
yourn of the twenty-forth and noted contenks
you wld suet me nisely only sarly is to high, has
my chilren as not had any educaon, only the 2
oldest, three of them as not been too schol at a'
Yet I keep no servants and the ehilren is handed
over to the governes and I only want her to help
in the sowing, please let me no by return male as
I have annother in view, hoping you will think
better over the high sarly and let me no I am
youres truely Mrs. .”
“ Stony ” sends this :—•
I haven’t been in dear did London lately, but from
what the little birds tell .me, things in the pet dog lj np
seem to be crazier there than ever they were. One of
these little birds, just out from Drizzlevill'e, says that the
City only knew three really fine days last summer, anil
that in consequence the fur-lined dog-coat has been in
great demand all through the year, which means good
money for the shops that cater entirely for the dog.
clothing trade. A late device is the linen collar and silk
tie, non-removable by the dog, though they mav be
removed by the other dog in the course of the fight
The collar is made in the correct masculine type of the
moment, and worn with tweed suitings. In oiie instance
referred to, a lady dog was dressed in a miniature seal-
skin jacket, a real lace handkerchief being in the pocket
thereof. And in the ears of the lady dog there were
diamond drops. Decadent, degenerate, decaying
London!
Journalist “ Dagonet ” Sims has started a
movement for getting British children to patronise
toys made on home ground. At present the trade
is almost entirely in the hands of foreigners.
“Form a league of Little Britons. Let every
British girl demand at least one British doll to
nurse ; let every British hoy demand that he shall
have at least one box of British soldiers made bv
British hands on British soil,” says Sims. But
what good is this passing spasm compared with
the solid, continuous effects of Protection? A
movement like that has its little day, and does its
little scrap of good, and then it goes out of fashion
like some fleeting cult of small dogs or hand-
shakes.
“ 4711 ” writes from Christchurch (M.L.):
“D.H.R.’s” statement (B. 9/4/’08) that the cotton tree
flourishes in N.Q. without much pampering, is just about
as true a statement as could be made. I had the pleasure
of seeing some very fine cotton-bushes, a few months ago,
a little higher than Bundaberg. Nevertheless, there are
stjll a few misguided State Frighters who go to no end of
bother to air their ignorance on this as on other matters.
I was at a State Frights meeting in the Perth Town Hall,
last year, and was informed by one of Westralia’s alleged
coining men, an employee, by the way, of the importing
firm of Goode, Durrant and Co., that the proposed duty
on cotton goods was robbery, “ because there was not an
ounce of cotton grown in the whole of Australia.” This
sparkling tarradiddle was swallowed by the meeting with
acclamation, and in all probability the A.C.M. felt some-
thing like Mercia looked when she waved the emblem in
“ The Sign of the Bosh.”


wmmmmm
s;«
■S'
f
sSSrer*
W
; 2‘
W^esapT'
V4SE
t.
»
*■“
»—«
0
ast
\
T
w
i r —
$
<£
A.
r^ EA^
o
5
0:
'fe
<C
4/
XI
o
o
o
'2
<
*y
>N
0
0
io lasiai\
1 1 Interstate Mail
Steamshin Lines
OLONEL LIGHT,
who was said to
have founded the
city of Adelaide
in 1836, must have
been devoted to
reg u I arity and
good order, for the city—that is
the southern or more business por-
tion is laid out with the unfaltering pre-
cision of squares on a check suit. Indeed Adelaide
testifies to the prim mathematical mind of either
its founder or its first surveyor, for its blocks,
streets, and squares were carved out of the real
estate by a person who knew his Euclid like the
back of his hand. To the visitor, this view of its
foundation will be found readily apparent.
There is taste and dignity in its arrange-
ment ; unique formality in the planning
of its squares; foresight in its situation;
and, above all, regard for posterity in its creation.
Maybe, the inhabitant of a city less regular in its
details will find the formality, by contrast, a little
disquieting—even to say, grotesque. Yet, for all
that, Adelaide is an enviable example. People
who build cities in their spare time will obtain
many valuable hints from its formation.
North Adelaide, which is less regular than the
southern portion, is, strictly speaking, the resi-
dential quarter. Between it and the city proper
stretch acres and acres of fine park lands,
through which winds the River Torrens. Formerly
this stream was the cause of annoyance and
acrid comment; but, owing to the erection
of a dam, it has been converted into a splendid
sheet of water. Its banks have been beautified ;
a band rotunda has been built; and the general
surroundings materially embellished by the hand
of man. However, where to go, what to see ?
Churches, buildings, statues? Adelaide has
them all in abundance. Where there are
not churches there are buildings—and
that is not written in any spirit of
facetiousness. As' for the statues,
their interest is perplexing to,
say, a greengrqcer. Conven-
tionality has been cleverly
disregarded. The classical rubs
shoulders with the modern. As
cases in point, Hercules com-
placently nods, so to speak, at
Queen Victoria in Victoria
Square; while a trio, com-
prising the Goddess of Love, a
but toll poet, mid an equestrian statue commemor-
a !i n f the Boer War, denote the entrance to the
official domicile of the State Governor. Such
selections may not appeal to the aesthete—but
public taste is pre-eminent in these matters.
Otherwise Adelaide possesses many objects of in-
terest. Ihe Museum has, among other things, a
collection of native weapons said to be the finest
in existence—a point for the ethnologist. The
zoologist may be animated by a survey of 1400
distinct species of animals, birds and reptiles
ror the dilettante there is the Art Gallery, con-
taining the works of many foreign and local
painters ; while the architect can arrive at some
valuable conclusions concerning the structural
qualities of the G.P.0.. or the ornate Elizabethan
style of the bchool of Mines and Industries For
the mere tripper—and the term is not applied in
any contemptuous sense—there are all these
things, and more. The small sum of five-
pence will take one to Henley Beach ; a further
but really infinitesimal, outlay will introduce one
to Burnside, or to Mitcham, or to Paradise, the
road to which is through orchards and market
gardens—as it should be. Adelaide is also practi-
cally surrounded by parks, which contribute to
tiie beauty of its environment. All mav be
reached by tram from Victoria-square, which
according to Adelaidean calculations is’
very properly, the centre of the uni-
verse. Furthermore, amusements are plentiful
Ihey range from drama to ice skating, or from
tram rides to vaudeville shows. All tastes are
provided for ; and, it is needless to add, all tastes
are satisfied. Adelaide is not moribund, as it has
been held to be. It is self-contained but cheerful
respectable but vital. That is the current tale.
It was Governor Hindmarsh who, on 28th
December, 1836, proclaimed South Australia a
British province. This interesting ceremony
took place in the vicinity of what is now
Glenelg. Ihe original tree, under which the
proclamation was made, is still preserved—now
however, decayed and bent in the form of an arch,’
drooping to the earth. It is one of the few relics
of the beginning that remain. Since that his-
torical happening, the development of South Aus-
tralia has gone on continuously—and especially
can this be said of its mining and agriculture.
I he land under cultivation is said to be, in number
of acres, second only to Victoria; while its
mineral deposits—of copper particularly—are ex-
ceedingly rich. As far back as 1838 silver lead
was discovered in the Mount Lofty ranges.
Copper ore was first discovered at Kapunda in
1843, and the same mineral found later at Burra
Bnrra in 1845, and at Wallaroo and Moonta in
1861. Copper-mining is now the staple
mineral industry, though gold, iron, coal,
platinum, other metals, diamonds and other
gems, are all known to exist. In addition, South
Australia has another important industry—that of
wine growing ; an enormous area being peculiarly
adapted to the cultivation of the grape. This
industry provides means of livelihood for a con-
siderable number of Germans, small colonies of
them having settled in various parts of the State.
Out at Tanunda, the visitor may observe acres
and acres of vines receiving the careful attention
of the Kaiser’s countrymen, and, it is not unlikely,
be greeted with “ Wie geht es?” from the
first small boy—for German hasn’t “died
graceful ” in those parts. Tanunda, indeed
the whole of the fertile country given up
to wine production, is reached by rail via
Gawler, a picturesque little town, notable
for its quaint avenue of eucalyptus trees, all not
more than abut 15ft. in height. The planting of
the eucalyptus for such purposes will inevitably
? fcr ik e the tourist as a happy departure, especially
if he be accustomed to avenues of elms and other
imported trees. A rather lengthy train journey,
but one justified under the circumstances, is that
to Me. Gambier in the remote south-eastern por-
tion of the State. This is the centre of volcanic
country, and, years and years ago, there were up-
heavals. To-day there remain dead craters, filled
with water—and caves curiously mystical in
candle-light. Fine caves there are also at Narra-
coorte; while the traveller in search of novel
sights will find a steamer at Port Adelaide, which
will run him across St. Vincent’s Gulf to Edith -
burg, where the salt lagoons, especially in the
summer, present striking effects. If there is
time to spare, Port Elliott is worth while. It is
one of the principal seaside resorts in the State
—for folk regard it like they do old hats. The
mouth of the Murray, Goolwa, and the beautiful
Hindmarsh Valley, are but a few miles distant.
Many of the spots, such as The Coorong and
Lakes Victoria and Albert, will appeal to the
tourist equipped with kodak, rod and gun. One
might also record that Port Pirie might be in-
cluded in the itinerary with profit. Scenically it
is not particularly edifying; but its huge works
where the silver, ore from Broken .Hill is treated’
are instructive* not to say, interesting. That does
not exhaust the subject of
Adelaide and South Aus-
tralia—but space is not
infinite, as it is alleged
to be. Confessedly,
much is omitted. It
is therefore desir-
able that the tourist
supply the blanks.
And the Five Com-
panies will attend to
the preliminaries!
,
V\\TH
e»
-A
<
cc
Y
■%/
V.
o.
&
&
'VAvio ti^szA
*
T
Ct
V
& <*yA


INDIGESTION
Digestion is the foundation of health, and the very ground-
work of life itself. When it fails you cannot be well, because you
have not the same desire for food, and what you do eat fails to
nourish you. Of course, you become weak and ailing, tormented
with stomach pains, wind, headache, perhaps biliousness and
constipation too. Don’t go on suffering. Mother Seigel’s Syrup
will cure you by putting your stomach in order, and purifying
your whole system.
PAINS AFTER EATING, WIND,
HEADACHE
ARE ALL CURED BY
" The little I ate lay on my chest like lead ; my strength
dwindled, and I became nervous and irritable. But at last I got
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, and was cured. Three years later lam
still well.” —From Mr. D. Mitchell, Caxton Street, Paddington,
Brisbane, November' 25th, 1907. ,
MOTHER
SYRUP.
Carlton and United Breweries
Proprietary, Limited,
16 BOUVERIE STREET, CARLTON, VICTORIA,
invites DESIGNS suitable for SHOW CARDS and POSTERS
to advertise its products. Premiums are offered as follows :
FIRST PRIZE - SEVENTY GUINEAS
SECOND PRIZE - - TWENTY GUINEAS
THIRD PRIZE ----- TEN GUINEAS
CONDITIONS s
1.
2.
3.
4.
o.
0.
8.
The Directors of the Company shall be the sole judges.
Suitability for the purpose required will be the principal recommendation.
Each Design submitted shall include a “ Catch Phrase.
The Designs selected for the prizes shall become the property of the Company, which may secure
the Copyright. , . . . . ,
The Company may retain the property and Copyright in any other of the Designs inclusive of
“ Catch Phrase ” submitted, which it may select on payment of £5 ss.
Any “ Catch Phrase ” on any Design, not otherwise selected, may become the property and Copy-
right of the Company on payment of £2 2s.
All Designs submitted must bear a Motto, a copy of which, with the full name and address of the
sender must be sent in a sealed envelope marked “ Design Competition.
All Designs intended to be submitted for the Competition must reach the above address on or
before Noon on 30th June, 1908. T . H. LEMON. Secretary.
i
3 'Peerlessloilef Preparations
unrivalled for the Complexion,
Softening & BeautifyingtfieSkin.
GOLD MEDAL. PARIS.
GRAND PRIX. STLOUIS.I9O4.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
&• PERFUMERS.
Made by
F. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H. R. H. The
Grand Duke
of Baden.
London, E.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all Chemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Store Keepers.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
nnnm
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature oi Scrutoh & Co. on each Bottle.
CONJURING TRICKS,
PUZZLES, SURPRISE
& JOKE NOVELTIES.
The Look and Laugh Glass.
See the Passing-
Show .Y our friends
grotesquely Photo-
graph e d —s tout
people look thin —
thin people look
stout. The Laugh-
ing Camera fur-
nishes all this, and
more. By getting
a focus on passing
pedestrians, horses,
waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the
fifi
PUZZLE
iiißsll!
imiiiiii! in,
;
"Jf-ff iiiii
Igjga
ludicrom'Tctures Thk Laughing'Camera
are witnessed. All grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly made, and cannot get
out of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market. E
our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled, -inr
entirely different moves before the purse can be °P enea :
It is made of superior leather, with inside pocket,
strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated directions -
closed. Post free, anywhere, 2/-. Bo not mIBS
chance of obtaining one of the best and mo
useful puzzles ever produced.
Quite Shocking, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOCRAPH.—A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having* a
microscopic lens fitted into one end. While
the victim is absorbed in admiration of the
prettv picture, and turns the button in the
confident expectation of seeing something!
interesting, a spring syringe is brought into |
action and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, and can be carried
in the vest pocket. Full directions with
each one.
Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue—
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Strkkt, Sydnky.
rv
r
r-
w
710 CEOBCE STREET, HAYMARKET,
H. L. Hotchinson, Manager.
Postal Address : Box 3, Haymarket Pos
SYDNEY.
; Office.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Now that the N.S.W. coastal strike is over, the
North Coast Co. is setting out after its lost monopolies.
It has had one slice of luck. The Illawarra Co., which
trades south, recently lost the Bega. Two boats which
went to rescue the Bega’s passengers were more or less
damaged. Further, the Allowrie arrived in port in such
a state that it couldn’t go out again without repair, and
the Illawarra met with an accident in the bowels or
stomach of its machinery. The Eden was getting mended
at the same time, and generally the Illawarra Co. s name
was sniffed at down the coast as signifying bad luck, the
position was urgent, and the directors hurriedly purchased
the N. Cain Co.’s Kempsey. This was where the luck of the
North Coast Co. came in. The co. had once almost
secured a monopoly of the northern trade by the
simple process of buying up the opposition when it
became dangerous. A few years ago N. Cain, a Port
Macquarie timber man, quarrelled with the North
Coast people, and started an active opposition.
He got immediate support on the understanding that
he would not sell out to the North Coast Co. Cain
flourished, and turned himself into a co., and last
vear imported the fine steel steamship Kempsey
to challenge the North Coast Co. on the Macleay Haver.
The Kempsey was a success, and was in a fair way to
acquire the best of the trade when the strike came on.
When it was over, the North Coast Co. found the Macleay
River business gone, and to get it hack meant a big
fi' r ht The River was joyful, and thought itself secure in
the knowledge that the N.C. Co. couldn’t buy the Kemp-
sev for love or money. To everybody’s rage, the Illa-
warra Co. stepped in where the North Coast agents
didn’t dare to tread, and the Kempsey left the Macleay.
Now Cain’s company has agreed to forsake the Macleay
altogether, while the old concern will clear out from Port
Macquarie and the Hastings River. Each river will thus
have to put up with a monopoly of its own. But it is
understood that Cain’s crowd intends to wage war else-
where against its rival, and it has much profits made
during the strike as the sinews of battle.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The half-yearly
meeting of the Colonial Bank of Australasia recalls
incidents early in its career. It started business in
1856 in what had been a hotel on the N.E. cor-
ner of Little Collins and Elizabeth streets—a hotel
patronised by Lola Montez on her visit to Melbourne. In
the early ’sixties, John O’Shanassy being at the head of
the institution, the bank was attacked by the Age, chiefly,
it was understood, because it was a recognised Roman
Catholic institution. A run ensued, which lasted for one
whole day. The bank kept open as long as people pre-
sented themselves for money. In the course of the day
John O’Shanassy mounted the counter, and in
his best style and his best style was something
enormous —he said things that David Syme never
forgot The bank was the victim of two curious frauds.
On a Saturday forenoon, at the busiest time, between 11
and 12, a cheque for £7OO was presented to the paying
teller. It appeared to have been duly initialled by the
ledger-keeper, and it was paid in gold. In those days the
holder of a cheque presented the bit o’ paper himself to
the ledger-keeper, who initialled it with a flourish easy
of imitation. That expert thief was caught, or was sup-
posed to have been caught; anyhow, someone went up
for it. Soon after the culprit was released, another cheque
for some hundreds was presented in the rush. This one was
perforated, as all cheques were then by the ledger-keeper,
and it was cashed. It also was faked, and the peculiarity
in each case was that the signature was that of a person
who had no account at the bank. A lawyer’s clerk was
arrested for this second offence, and convicted, because
he could not account for his whereabouts between the
hours of 11.30 and 12 o’clock on that particular Saturday.
Amongst the founders of the Colonial Bank was “ Big
Clarke, the great landowner, and grandfather of Baronet
Clarke' who is just now assisting, financially and person-
ally, in certain theatrical ventures.
Our Pathan brethren are apparently as great a
nuisance in India as they are here. A. J. Fraser Blair
writes concerning them in the Pall Mall Magazine, and
calls them the “ Scotch drapers of Bengal.” Fraser Blair
is a Scotch name, so the. owner thereof possibly knows.
At the beginning of the cold weather the Pathans come
down from the hills and spread themselves over the lower
provinces, selling goods on the “ easy ” instalment
plan. Later in the season they go round with
clubs to collect payment. Mr. Blair says :“ A few years
ago they had established such a reign of terror among the
timid peasantry of Bengal that special measures had to be
taken to curb them. They are still an appalling nuisance,
and will remain so as long as Afghanistan marches with
India.” Deportation and long terms of imprisonment
have greatly toned down these time-payment drapers,
and the writer admits them to be fine, robust animals]
“ but from every civilised point of view the most trucu-
lent and treacherous villains unhung.”
“Stony”: The porkly propputy-owner stood
upon the new-laid lawn in front of his crimson house, and
stared up and down the street. “ It’s a reel nice neighbor-
’ood,” he remarked to me, “ an’ the ’ouse is dirt cheap at
the money.” From the pines along the Hawthorn-road,
down south, back to the curve of the quiet crescent, there
stretched a bright array of tuck-pointed brick villas, with
other green lawns about them, and with flowers blooming
down the side fences. Each house had a “ Tradesman’s
Entrance,” with a gravelled track to the rear. “ A very
nice neighbor’ood,” urged the seller. “Hi live in the
’ouse down there with th’ hornamental porch. It’s a very
select neighbor’ood ! None o’ yer riff-raff an’ rag-tail
’ere ! ” He pulled off his hat and scratched his warm
scalp, and spat heavily upon the violets in the border.
“ Yes,” he said emphatically. “None o’ yer shovin’-in
crowd up this street! We’re hall ’v a clarss ’ere all
right 1”
9 * * *
“Hassan”: I used to wonder where the
posterity of the pirates and highwaymen of the past had
got to. I know now ; they sell things at the door out of
barrows. There is an itinerant nurseryman in our
suburb, and his name is Morgan. He is evidently the
heir of Henry Morgan, buccaneer. He sold my un-
suspicious aunt some pot-plants the other week, and,
when they didn’t continue to exist, my Aunt discovered
that Morgan had forgotten to put any roots into the pots.
Unabashed by my remarks, when he came round again
he succeeded in selling me some border plants, which
turned out to be Bathurst burrs. I was rather annoyed,
and waited for Morgan. He came, and told me that what
I wanted more than anything else on earth was a “ nice
’edge—-it’ll make yous nice an’ private, mate.” I said
that there was only one sort of hedge-plant that was any
good to me, and he hadn’t got it. He said he could get
it if I’d “give it a name, boss.” I gave it one—he was
to bring me a dozen tum-tum trees. “ Gord bless me
soul,” he remarked, “ some bloke’s got your leg, mister—
there ain’t no such tree.” I went inside and brought out
Lewis Carroll, and showed him the verse where the tree
grows. He went off to look for it. Sometimes I hope I
will never see him again, but at others I fear that he will
turn up one day when I am out, and sell my aunt the
tum-tum trees I ordered—or something as near to them
as the vacant lot at the back of his house can produce.
* * » *
For all-round handiness, the South Melbourne
Market holds a high place. On any Saturday evening a
lonely bachelor may, within its precincts, chooseacharm-
ing and useful wife from the battalions of girls who work
behind the stalls. He may purchase a comprehensive
trousseau for her, and fit himself out at the numerous
drapery and clothing counters ; buy the ring from the
“ Brum.” dealer ; secure all necessary furniture, with a
wide selection in crockery and household goods; select
the choicest plants for the garden ; stock the larder with
everything, from fruit, bread, meat and vegetables to
cheese and butter; buy pictures for the walls, and
books for the shelves ; snap up a cheap line in
footwear, and cure the resultant corns with a red
liquid prepared and sold by a “’sperienced ” man of
color ; and finally the happy couple may be married by
any one of the numerous Bible bangers who bang and
hold forth in the vacant spaces. The health of the bride
may be toasted in extraordinary penny drinks of all
colors and flavors, and the honeymoon can be spent visit-
ing the freak side-shows. Perambulators and other
neeessary equipment may also be obtained on the spot.
The only things that can’t be purchased are a house and
a divorce, but if you say something rude to the Flying
Anvels push, the Angels will probably heave half a house
at you, a brick at a time, also a few' palings off the neigh-
boring fences.


Two Hundred and Sixteen
Reasons.
There are two hundred and sixteen reasons why you, if you are about
to purchase a piano, should obtain a Beale Piano.
Look at the four illustrations herewith. Start with No. 1.
You note those rows of holes in the wooden wrest-plank of the imported
When the piano is “ strung ” each one of those holes is filled
oy a wrest-pin a piece of steel shaped not unlike a blunt nail
without a head.
Each pin is a quarter of an inch in diameter. Each is driven into its
hole with a hammer-it must fit tightly, so as to resist the pulling-
round of the wire which is wound round it.
Each pin is thereiore like a wedge in the wrest-plank, and when the wire
(or “ string ”) is tightened up by turning the pin round, and thus
coiling the wire upon it, each pin becomes in addition a lever, because
of the pull of the wire.
There are two hundred and sixteen of these pins. The total strain
exercised upon them by all the wires when at concert pitch
amounts to nearly thiyty tons.
Remember that they are only held in a wooden plank.
No one can suppose that a single wooden plank, driven full of wedges,
which are also levers, can for long withstand such a strain.
Especially in a climate like the Australian.
Whence—see Figure 2. Now compare Figure 2 with Figures 3 and 4.
There is the whole story.
In the Beale Pianos those two hundred and sixteen pins are contained
entirely in solid iron.
They will v/ithstand indefinitely any strain that may be put upon them.
Fig. 1 Interior view of an imported piano, showing the relation of the
frame to the wrest-plank. The wrest-pins and strings have been re-
moved so as to show the parts more clearly.
m
Mi
Fig. 2—A nearer view of the wooden wrest-plank of the piano shown in
Fig. 1. The first layer of the wrest-plank has been removed. Note how
the timber has split under the strain of the wires. This is an average
wooden wrest-plank, neither better nor worse than is usually found in
imported pianos. All pianos with wooden wrest-planks are, of course,
subject to the above fault, which cannot be remedied except at great
expense.
the beale-vader
PATENT.
Fip. 3.-The Beale-Vadei
Tateut Piano-frame, re-
moved from the piano,
■ind the end of the wrest-
plank cut off to show the
wrest-pins in the solid
iron frame.
There are other advantages obtained by the use of our
patent iron wrest-plate, notably, a much improved
tonal quality, free from all metallic element.
We shall be glad to send you further particulars if
you will write, or call on us.
TEN THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED and FORTY-SIX BEALE
AUSTRALIAN PIANOS have already been Manufactured
in Australia. We have received many hundreds of
Testimonials from users expressing the utmost satisfaction.
The success of the Beale Pianos is such that competitors
attempt to hoodwink buyers by asserting that our Pianos
cannot be tuned. As will be seen from this advertisement,
the BEALE PIANOS are more easily tuned than any others,
and they will REMAIN in tune for very much longer periods.
WE GUARANTEE EVERY BEALE
AUSTRALIAN PIANO for 25 YEARS.
m
IfWjl
*
V
*'**%.* •*.
, » j*
mm
WM
-
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig 1 . 4.—A nearer view
of the Beale-Vader frame
shown in Fig. 3. Note
the wrest-pins and ten-
sion-screws contained
entirely in solid iron.
It is important for
piano-buyers to note
that these pins can be
adjusted to ANY ten-
sion, tight, medium,
or loose, by means of
the tension screws at
the back. We always
adjust them to resist
the pull-round of the
strings, but at the same
time they are easily
turned by the tuner
WITHOUT TOUCH-
ING THE TENSION
SCREWS. Our Pianos
are tuned in the ordinary
way, by one man only,
from the front only.
Be sure to note this, and
when you go to compare
our pianos with the im-
ported you will know
what to think if you are
told otherwise by un-
scrupulous competitors.
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,’’
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria- 127 Randle street
Adelaide, S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane four onlv’
address in Queensland). y
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded., 2s. 3d.
Tne Jon e Hand
The Second Half-Yearly Volume is Now
on Sale.
It’s a serious neglect of duty for the Australian
who can afford to do so, not to buy, this com-
pendium of the Commonwealth’s life, and send
it to a friend abroad.
You can’t know the best of Australia unless
you read The Lone Hand consistently.
Consider this bound volume. For Bs. it gives
nearly 1000 pages of stories, articles, verse, pic-
tures. “The Public Good” section alone will
save you that much money in a week.
Make up your mind now to subscribe to The
Lone Hand.
T nE bi ,E HflNi)
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents— Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & 00., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING- ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Australian eight-oared championship occu-
pied the murky Yarn, last Saturday, under subdued
weather conditions. The course was over an exact 2£
miles, from Ooode Island to the steam crane just below
Queen’s Bridge. South Aus., Queensland, New South
Wales, Tasmania, Westralia, and Victoria were in posi-
tion in said order from the rails —in a horsey way of
speaking. The three insiders had a distinct advantage
over the first mile, as a bend in the river helped them,
and their water was lively. South drifted, but Vies., on
the outside, lay like a log. Starter Enricott took con-
siderable pains, and got them away as one. Then an
awful churning of wet occurred as the boys put in strenu-
ous efforts to get going. Over the first half-mile the boats
were soldier-like, except that the Swan River men had
dropped astern. Vic. and the Ma State were shifting like
machines, t’others holding their own but raggedly. At
the junction of the old river, the Welshmen and Adelaide
were on equal terms in front, Vic. and Tassv next, and
the Bananaianders and Swanites stirring the spray behind.
The first mile was settled in smin. 19sec.—on anything
but lively water. The mile and a half saw the Welshmen,
with splendid blade work, and going like giants, lend the
locals by J-length, while the little Adelaide brigade, still
battling gamely, had fallen astern. Tassy was chasing Vic.
About the two miles, Jim Donald hit Vic. up. His men drew
on the leaders and looked something like winners, but the
muscle and science in front still kept her nose well ahead.
Meanwhile, Westralia had upset the Banana truck and
was drawing on t’others, but the paddle had long before
devolved into a Ma and Cabbage State struggle—there
was nothing else in it. On the bend for home, a poultry
incident almost occurred, but fortunately missed
the ’bus. Nutta Arnold kept Vic. hugging the shipping
on the inside running, and Donald, battling for dear life,
swelled the yell of Victorian joy. How'ever, despite said
effort, Fitzhardinge pushed the “light blues” well in
front, and was credited with a length and a quarter win
in 14min. 291-ssec. Victoria, Tassv, South Aus., Westralia
and Bananaland finished in said order. A tremendous mass
of humanity lined the banks and followed in steamers and
motor launches.
Prior to the “eights,” scullers Jack (Tas.), •
Brasch (Vic.); Towns (N.S. W.—a younger brother of the
mighty George Towns) and Callaghan (Q.), in that order
from the inside, supplied a fine struggle. At least they
all did save Callaghan, who got left early. The paddling
was over the same quantity of water as the combined
effort. Brasch was first to show' out clear from Towns,
while Jack apparently held something up his sleeve. At
the old river crossing Towns shot ahead with a vigor that
sent up Sydney stocks. The mile, reached in 6min. 45sec.,
saw Towns lead Brasch, with Jack handy. At two miles
Jack took Brasch’s water, and tackled the massive
Sydneyite and beat him for the lead. Then Towns
dropped his bundle or something. Brasch still held on,
but failed to catch the Tassy expert by three lengths.
Time 17min. 50 !-ssec. Callaghan got lost or fell out.
Ivens, the Vic. first string, didn’t turn out —a pain in his
Little Mary caused him to look on.
* * * <•
On Saturday last the All Blacks met a combina-
tion of N.S.W. and Queensland, which cilled itself the
Australian Team, at Sydney Agricultural Ground, and
defeated it by 11 points'to 10. This was due to the fact
that it was Messenger’s dull day, as far as goal-kicking
was concerned ; had the mighty booter been feeling good,
the Maorilanders might have been beaten by about 20 to
11. Many of his kicks missed points by inches only, and
although the play of the Maorilanders in the first half was
superb, it was nothing compared with their luck in the
ma'ter of Messenger’s kicks. Right through the first
half they rolled up the Australian team much as a deft
cook sweeps up prawms for the salad, and, in spite of a
fine defence right on the line, they scored 11 while Aus-
tralia scored only two. The beginning of the second-half
found the Blues still struggling like a small fly in a great
deal of soup. Messenger broke away continually, but,
through lack of combined support, vvas pulled down,
and the leather carried back to Australian terri-
tory. Long shooting by Messenger, well followed
up, compelled the Maorilanders to save the posi-
tion by forcing twice in rapid succession. The Black
forwards dribbled it back, but the Australians took it off
their toes and again got the goal in check. With a des-
perate effort the Blacks carried it out and right down to
the Australian line, where a copious and fluent struggle
took place. Amidst serious excitement the Australian
backs cleared the line, forcing the Maorilanders back a
few yards, but not out of striking distance. There the
game hung, men going down on either side in little heaps,
till Messenger secured, side-stepped the crowd that
sprang at him, and then, being seized on all hands, screw-
punted over his head, and sent the ball down towards the
middle of the field, whence he had one of his many un-
successful Shots at goal. Again the Blacks crowded the
Australian line, but Hedley drove them back by kicking
clear. Jubilation was changed to consternation as Turtill
marked, and Wrigley narrowly missed the Australian
goal. After the kick-off Messenger again got going.
His pass was missed by the man he threw it to, but
another, Lutge, was handy, and, dashing in, secured,
and scored a try which Messenger failed to convert. Almost
immediately the ball was again in play, McLean, of
Queensland, made a dashing run, which carried the game
to the Maoriland line. Another shot by Messenger at an
almost impossible angle just missed, and the Maori-
landers, trying to rush the ball out, lost it. It was
kicked here, there, everywhere, and rebounding across
the Maoriland line, there was a general race to get posses-
sion. Rosenfeld hurled himself in the van, and scored.
This time Messenger did not miss, and a whoop of con-
siderable dimensions split the sky as the scoring board
showed Maoriland leading by only one point. The tail of
Australia was exalted, and every man played hard to
score, but the Blacks put up a fine defensive game. Twice
Messenger took shots, and his last grazed the bar in its
downward curve—but on the wrong side. Then the
whistle blew, leaving the Maorilanders winner by one
point.
* * * *
It seems that in last issue this paper did an
injustice to the All Blacks in mentioning that two of the
men were ordered off the field. They were not; they
only ought to have been, and as a matter of justice
the paper cheerfully puts the All Blacks right. On
Saturday one of them was sent off for swinging his dirty
right too freely, and thereby inflicting severe injury on
Henessey, of NiS.W. Inthisease it appears to have been
nothing but infernal carelessness, and not malice. But
men who fend recklessly and without due regard for other
players’ faces, must be made to understand that it doesn’t
pay. Baskerville, the leading spirit of the enterprise,
played on Saturday, and showed that in his play he is as
perfect a footballer as his well-written book indicates him
to be. Unusually fast and full of resource, he played a
game that shone brightly by contrast in a t6am that
mostly relied upon hard bullocking for success. Over
20.000 people paid admission fees, and the new game has
received a considerable lift by the visit of the Maori-
landers. The Blacks have now gone to Queensland, and
w’ill remain there till early in June, when they will feturn
to N.S.W. and give the game another lift.
While the Rugby Leaguers were struggling
with the MaoHlanders on Sydney Agricultural Ground in
the presence of 20,000 people, one of the finest contests
ever played in Sydney that between University and
Eastern Suburbs —drew' only 7000 to the Sydney Cricket
Ground. It w'as a game of dashing individual w T ork and
splendid combined movements, all carried out at top
speed. The resurrection of the Eastern Suburbs after the
League break-upds amazing. The first half was a series
of finely-worked charges by both sides, in which the
Eastern fullback, the solid and reliable D’Alpuget, played
a star game. At half-time, University, in spite of having
been mostly on the defensive, led as regards the score
by five to three. The second half opened with increased
speed on both sides, and the game became glittersome.
Corbett of the East raged furiously, and, backed up by
Burton, Doyle, and Miller, carried the game into. Uni.
Territory. Uni. responded with well-organised rushes,
which were generally blocked before reaching striking
distance. When the whistle went, both teams were
ready to drop, and the board showed Uni. had won by
eight points to six.
• * * *
For the rest, Glebe made a most unholy show
of Sydney, taking it by the scruff of its neck, and casting
it downstairs to the tune of 34 points to nil. Western
Suburbs and Manly played a scoreless draw at Concord,
and separated with amity between them. Balmain just
managed to down St. George by four to three, and South
Sydney trod on the already much damaged North Sydney
by 14 to three. So far, North Sydney, St. George, Wes-
tern Suburbs, and Manly have not won a game this,
season, although Western Suburbs has managed to
save its face somewhat by making a couple of draws.
University and South Sydney, which now have the front
rank to themselves, with eight competition points each,
have not yet lost a game, and Saturday’s defeat was the
first that Eastern Suburbs has suffered. Newtown has
also lost one, and it and Eastern Suburbs are now in the
second rank, with six points each. Balmain is alone in the
third line with five, and Sydney and Glebe are in the
fourth row, with four each. The other three are together,
with two each, and poor little Manly is at the bottom,
with one.
* * * *
In the Soccer competition, Garden Island still
further astonished both natives and importations by
putting up a great struggle against Pvrmont, the premier
club last year. It was beaten, and fairly well beaten too,
by four to nil, but the winners had to play all they knew.
Sydney won its second game, heating the baby club,
Northern Suburbs, by three to one. Rozelle visited Glebe
at Wentvyorth Park, and got a considerable thumping,
the figures being four to nil, which is a reasonably large
score in the Sydney Soccer game. Balmain and Western
Suburbs played a draw. So Pyrmont and Svdney lead
the competition list with four points, Balmain is in the
next line with three, and Garden Island, Glebe, Western
Suburbs, and Ultimo are together with a pair each. The
rest nowhere.
• * * •
In the Australian League Competition, East
Sydney, Y.M.C.A. and Redfern are together with eight
points, having each w T on the first two games of the season.
Newtown and Balmain have four each, and Sydney, North
Shore and Paddington, having- served as the anvils on
which the three first mentioned have beaten out their
fame, are roosting together in the swamp.
* * * •
The present popularity of Yic. football.is being
well maintained bv the surprising doings of unexpected
teams ; also, it finds vent, as heretofore, in insults arid
attempted assaults on the luckless umpires. As one
courageous youth remarked to the writer, at the close of
the Richmond-Universitv disturbance —“ There were over
a hundred of us, and we were going to give him a doing,
only the Johns kept us off while they put him in a cab.
I had a rock in me pocket meself.” He wore the Richmond
colors, so there was no need to ask who won. The
scores were 14.10 to 12.4, which, remembering the
poor showing made by’Varsity against Essendon the previ-
ous week, argues an unexpected improvement on the ’Dons’
last year’s form, which was fully justified by their per-
formance against Saints. Latter had their best team out,
and played all they knew-, yet they had never a hope on
the play, and finished 38 points to the bad—l2.l4 to 7.6.
Geelong men put up a great fight against South, and but
for weak play forward might eventually have w-on. As it
was, they weren’t disgraced, the board at the finish
showing 7.9 to 4.8. The Carlton men journeyed to the
M.C.C. ground, and there found a tougher proposition
than they had anticipated, the “ Red Legs ” holding their
own for the first quarter, and part of the second. Then
condition told its tale, and the premiers went ahead
steadily and kept, there, finishing with 9'B to 6'B. The big-
gest crowd, anticipating a fierce fight, went to see those
old opponents, ’Roy and ’Wood, settle their differences ;
but ’Wood is not now the ’Wood of other days. It has
lost many of the men whose finished exposition of sys-
tematic play won the premiership, and, though it has
acquired new and good men, it has not trained them up
to the same pitch of excellence. Also it has forgot-
ten that the essence of that system is to pass the ball
to the right man with despatch and certainty ; not to
throw it wildly or anyhow, so that an opponent may
intercept it. To send the ball to the right man
it is necessary to be able to kick straight when
closely pressed. Collingwood’s kicking is shown by
its score—3 goals 14 behinds, to ’Roy’s 9 goals 9
behinds. Systematic, organised, and accurately-timed
play is pretty to watch as well as successful, and ’Wood
should forthwith set about training its men to play it.
The 'Wood-’Roy discussion also saw an attempt to rebuke
the umpire with hat-pins and other persuaders, but the
police were on hand and got him away safely.
* * * *
Like its step-brother in the League, the Asso-
ciation Esserfdon team shows improvement on last
season’s form. On Saturday it tackled the premiers,
Williamstown, when both played a fast and strenuous
game, with a finish that gave the barrackers something
to yell about. Quarter time saw the two nearly level, 20
points to 13 ; but at half time Essendon had increased its
score to 51 points while ’Town stood still. Third quarter
'Don added a goal, while ’Town put on two, latter starting
the last term 32 points to the bad. Then ’Town’s skipper
changed his formation and increased his ruck, and the 17
bogged in. They bogged to such purpose that at five
minutes to knock-off they had wiped out 31 of the 32
points. Here the Essendons made a supreme effort and
scored a goal—and the game was theirs, 10.4 to 9.3
wonderful kicking, considering the youth of the season.
The Brighton novices put up a good game against Foots-
cray, finishing with 7.7 to 9.10. Preston managed to kick
13 more points than the regrettable Ports. Northcote
gave the worst exhibition of the day by scraping together
28 points to Prahran’s 98; and Brunswick handed the
ashes of despair to North, the board showing 112 points
to 54.
* * # *
During the week the League refused transfers
to two individuals who wanted to play for Melbourne, one
because he had foolishly shown a letter from an M.F.O.
official promising him a billet, the other because he'had
demanded 15s. per match for his services from an Associ-
ation club. As this latter player’s previous club has dis-
banded, the refusal practically amounts to disqualification
sine die as far as the League is concerned. The M.F.O.
delegates were quite annoyed at these decisions, which
attitude of theirs argues a short memory. They have for-
gotten that at the annual meeting at the beginning of the
’O7 season their then secretary said it would be necessary
for them, if they were to do any good as a team, to drop
pure amateurism and do as other clubs do—find their
players billets. The Melbourne F.C. can find billets for
so many players that the League is shy of giving it
transfers.
* * * *
Certainly the Norwood (S.A.)Clubisa wonder.
It was champion of Australia in 1888 and 1907, and has held
the premiership 14 years (’7B, ’79, ’BO, ’Bl, ’B2, ’B3, ’B7, ’BB,
’B9, ’9l, ’94, ’Ol, ’O4, ’O7). And it has been second on the
list seven times, and third eight times. In 30 years it has
been unplaced only once. Every good footballer should
take off his hat to the Norwood Club.
All hockeydom was looking forward to the
struggle between Barbarians and Corinthians at Rush-
cutters Bay, Sydney, on'Saturday. And it was a great
game. Corinthians had the prestige of the past season
to back them up, but it seemed to rouse the Barbarians
to greater efforts. Corinthians did not play with their
usual reckless dash. They affected a caution which dis-
tracted from the spectacular side of the business, while it
made for safe play. As befits a champion team, Corin-
thians at once went for the Barbarian line, but
were met with a vicious counter attack which
staggered them. The Wild Men gave no respite,
and the Corinthians suddenly found themselves on the
defensive, but before they had time to fully realise
the fact the Barbarians had scored. Reforming their
shattered ranks, the Corinthians again swept to the
attack. Barbarians struggled frantically, but the ex-
quisite passing of the Corinthians baffled every attempt
to secure the ball, which was carried safely to the Bar-
barian twenty-five. As the backs crowded to the goal,
the Corinthians came trooping down, the ball flying back
and forwards across their front; then there was a sudden
drive and the sphere shot through, making the scores
equal. After that, the game settled down to a series of
splendidly ordered attacks by the Corinthians, all of
which were defeated by the Barbarian backs right on the
goal line, and the struggle ended in a draw, with one
point all.
* * * *
Hockey is making great strides in Victoria. It
was not till last season that an association was formed,
and when it started it had only 130 members. This year
it begins proceedings with a roll of 230, and fresh mem-
bers are joining every week. The premiership competi-
tions commenced on Saturday week, and the outward and
visible sign of championship is a silver cup presented by
Mr. T. G. Watson, the president of the association. Last
season the hockeyites called their clubs by fancy names,
such as lona, Waitangi, Woorigollen, etc. ; but this year,
with a view to rousing healthy local rivalry, the aesthetic
nomenclature has been gently dropped overboard in favor
of sober district names. lona has become the beastly,
common Elsternwick, while the others have changed to
Brighton, St. Kilda (that’s classic, anyhow), and Fairfield.
Rumors of a visit from the Adelaideans has vitalised the
game, and made the players feel that they have attained
an inter-State status. The chief difficulty is the lack of
good umpires, and the association is encouraging a study
of the rules by paying half a guinea for first-grade
matches and 7s. 6d for second-grade struggles. Alto-
gether, the outlook is promising.
* * * *
Victoria finished its cricket for the season, last
week, when Gold-street (Collingwood) beat North Fitzroy
for. the State Schools premiership. These little nippers
now boast two records—they have won the Schools pen-
nant four years in succession, and they have never been
beaten in a premiership match. The weather was all against
the batsmen, and the ’Woodsies, going in first, made only
68—Cole 25, Watson 13, Kelso 10. Then they put their
opponents in and out twice in short order for 20 and 45
Magrath 11, Arkinson 11 (not out). W. Bradshaw took
three wickets for eight, and five for nine; and Cole
aforesaid seven for 10, and five for 30. As very few Vic-
torian State scholars play in their school teams for more
than a couple of years, it is evident that Gold-street’s
proud position is chiefly due to its sports coach, Dominie
A. J. Lumsden, who is a fine cricket tutor.
* « * •
Brookes, the man without a smile, showed
Sydney the science of lawn tennis at the N.S.W.-Vic.
inter-State match. Or rather he showed some ball
juggling which he called tennis. The big glum man
proved himself the finest wielder of the racquet ever seen
in Australia, and his records indicate that he is the finest
player in the world. He does not play spectacular tennis—
he has got past that. His game is mathematical tennis, and
he produces startling results with strokes that look decep-
tively easy. Swishes and drives are unnecessary to him.
Rice, playing his sturdy, old-fashioned game, went down
like a novice before this exponent of the New Tennis, for
lawn tennis is now a game worked out by science.
Brookes apparently knows everything that is to be known
about the “work” to be put on the ball. He has to a
large extent discarded his famous “American” serve;
for the same reason he has discarded the swish and the
drive. He depends on a fierce, exquisitely placed serve
with a cut that, combined with its pace, makes it almost
unplayable. In delivering, he uses the full length of the
racquet, holding the end well in the palm of the hand,
and into that serve he manages to work every ounce of
his weight. Then he saunters up to the net—never
hurrying or running, and anticipating bis opponent’s re-
turn, is waiting to dispose of it with either a dainty flick
or a hard place. His variety is infinite, and his back-
hand work is marvellous, being charged with the same
electric “lift” that characterises his freehand drive.
The main features of his game are coolness and deliberate
placing.
By securing 15 rubbers to six, N.S.W. has
proved that it stands upon a higher tennis plane
than Victoria —with, of course, the exception of Brookes.
Heath, the Victorian, shows remarkable promise. (He
has the advantage of the example of Brookes.) Addison,
too, showed excellent form in defeating C. B. Jones.
Rice’s old-fashioned style made poor showing against the
world champion, but Doust’s remarkable effort in his
second set, running Brookes to five all, and actually win-
ning off one of Brookes’ serves, show’s that the New
Tennis is striking congenial soil in Australia.
* * * *
The Hog-in-the-Car is a grunting Hog at
present. One day last week eleven motorists w’ere fined
£5 each for furious driving in North Sydney. They were
all doing over 20 miles an hour. The law' says that in the
city no car shall go at over six miles an hour ; in the
metropolitan police district the limit is eight miles ; in
the Local Government districts, 10 miles. Sydney to
Hornsby is a favorite jaunt of the Hog, and if the trip is
to be run on regulation time the motor would be as quick
as a cab. Cars on the Gordon-road always hustle a bit, it
being reckoned the finest run in the neighborhood of
Sydney. Therefore, when a bobby, acting under instruc-
tions, waited one fine morning on a beautifully clear
stretch of thoroughfare near Chatswood, he made a good
bag. Recent motor-car fatalities have spurred the police
into action, and active war against the Jigger-Juggernaut
is pronounced. And w’hat is sauce for the motor-car is
also expected to be sauce for the motor-boat.
* * * *
Gotch, in his recent contest with Hacken-
schmidt at Chicago, according to the press accounts,
seems to have done everything but bite. He is said
to have used his fingers to gouge Hack’s eyes, and
to smother him by forcing them into the Russian’s
nostrils. He used his fists and elbows to batter the
Russian’s face till it was quite unrecognisable, and
generally played the wild beast and the savage. In spite
of his filthy tactics, the Yankee ruffian was unable to
throw Hackenschmidt fairly, and in the end was
tossed aside, after which the champion arose and
declined to continue under such conditions. The referee
immediately declared his wild beast to be champion of
the world, but outside his own particular cage no one
will take the decision seriously. Hackenschmidt has
offered to meet Gotch again at the Olympian games,
where, with decent referees and under proper conditions,
the struggle will be a wrestling match, _apd not an eye-
gouging wild-cat scrap. As said many times before in
this paper, the Yankee is anything in the world but a
sport.
r * * * *
Lured by the experience of Eight Hours Day,
when some 6000 persons swarmed on to the Melbourne
Saucer Track to view the discussion between Hock Keys
and Frank Thorn, while another 1000 evaded and defied
the parading troopers and scaled the high fence or
swarmed through gaps where sheets of iron had been
wrenched off, the same management made extensive
preparations to welcome the thousands that were ex-
pected to pay from Is. to ss. to see Peter Bannon throw
Dick Porter, last Saturday evening. As there was no
specified stake the match was apparently for the “ gate ” ;
if so it wasn’t worth the trouble. The entire portal
scarcelv equalled £5O. The match, preceded by harmless
bouts between sundry pupils of Fred Porter, resolved it-
self into a pleasing exhibition of ground and lofty “ wrast-
ling,” Bannon getting various solid holds on Porter and
then placidly allowing him to escape therefrom. He secured
the first fall, from a full-Nelson, in 29min. The pair
rested from their arduous endeavors for 15min., and
then turned, twisted and screwed for llmin., when
Porter, backing away from Bannon’s attempt at a neck-
hold, fell over the platform edge and bruised a tendon of
his leg. He then, as brother Fred unnecessarily observed,
“forfeited the match with a badly-injured ankle.”
Porter stripped at 10st. 31b., Bannon at list. lib. Before the
proceedings began, George Dinnie, a hefty-looking son of
Donald of that ilk, challenged any man in Australia for a
£lOO catch-as-can match, Clarence Weber preferred.
Clarence promptly accepted.
That tall muscle-culturist, Clarence Weber,
gave a humorous display at Melbourne Masonic Hall
recently. A principally female audience gazed, in a state
of fascination, at the statuesque form of the only
Clarence in a series of poses on a revolving pedestal
under a flood of lime or some other light. With partner
J. A. Price he gave some strength exhibitions, but the
gem of the evening ivas when he illustrated the different,
methods of breathing. With a towel wrapped round
where he puts his food he exhibited the displacement of
anatomy caused by tight lacing. He also blew himself
up to such an extent that puncture appeared imminent.
Several star pupils flung ironmongery about in a
more or less marvellous fashion, but after the
pink beauty of the undraped Clarence the girls
vot.ed it all flat, stale and unprofitable. This sort of thing
is all right for Clarence, but it is rough on the ordinary
sort of man who can’t blow himself up. All those girls,
when proposed to, will demand that the wooer shall
exhibit himself upon a pedestal, and the divinity will
regard him with a blasb, critical expression, and if he
doesn’t come somewhere near the Clarence standard he
will be turned down remorselessly. However, disappointed
femininity, like Providence, moves in a mysterious way,
and Clarence may yet live to regret his pedestal business.
It is a fearful thing to be hunted bv beauty-loving females.
Writer knows it from bitter experience—he’s been there.
* » * *
At the Gaiety Athletic hovel, Sydney, on
Tuesday night last week, Montague Andrews, of that
city, put ’em up to James Griffin, sometime of Maoriland,
and the rugged islander fell upon him, and smote him
where he resided and had his domicile. Andrews tried
to clinch, but was shoved off with one fist and smitten
simultaneously with the other something like half a
dozen times. He went down with a heavy meaty thud,
and staggering up in a dazed condition with his back to
Griffin, caught a swing on the back of the isthmus.
The crowd hooted—Heaven knows why. It had paid to
see a scrap, and it was getting the genuine naked article.
The first round consisted of Andrew's being flattened out,
and, getting up again, to be flattened out some more. It
spoke volumes for his training that he survived the
battering. His face was not all that it used to be, his
elbow had been gashed in his falls, and generally his sub-
cutaneous tissue showed signs of extensive dis-
organisation. But he pulled himself together in
a manner that bespoke the blameless life more
eloquently than many trumpets, and after a few
rounds waded in and gave Griffin some heavy deposits.
For a while the hollow reverberations from the neighbor-
hood of Griffin’s ribs suggested the Devil’s tattoo, and
Griffin revolved wildly. But the effect of much collision
in the first round began to tell on Andrews, who was
palpably a beaten man, although he fought with remark-
able skill and courage. He simply hadn’t the steam to
continue, and out of the whirl of blows that Griffin aimed
at him occasional ones got home, and then Andrews
would shoot backwards and go down with that same
eloquent thud that tells of considerable shock to the
system. He battled through fourteen rounds, and then
the accumulated shocks to the system tilted up the beam,
and he gave the signal for the casting-in of the damp
towel of the slugged-out. The distinctive feature of the
scrap was that it was the first really serious disturbance
seen in Sydney for about 12 months.
* * * *
Another billiard champion is in sight in Eng-
land. Reece, who has been receiving 2000 in 9000 from
Dawson, has lately been heating him hv his points, and
has now challenged him to play level for £250. John
Roberts, interviewed on the matter, says that Reece has
improved in a startling way lately, and is certain to be
champion in a few years, but Roberts reckons that in the
present case he is making Dawson a present of £250.
It is high time that the shilling cash prize con-
sultation was smit hard where the Sunday fowl is usually
stricken, and with the same weapon. The thing has
grown to the magnitude of a huge public evil. To the
writer’s knowledge, one half-crown and six one-shilling
sweeps are raging in Sydney at the present time, with
subscription lists ranging from 25,000 to 50,000. Tobac-
conists, newsagents, bakers and grocers, and other
folk who have the run of the back door, are the most
active distributing agents for tickets. Sometimes they
bring round lists of winning numbers. Sometimes they
merely bring the laconic news, “ no luck,” by word of
mouth, and collect another set of shillings. Apparently,
Premier Wade has not heard of this huge stream of afflu-
ence, flowing weekly into the pockets of a gang °f un-
known promoters who draw their sweeps just as they
please, and of whose actions their subscribers have no
knowledge. When a man sends his money to Tattersaii,
he at least gets a fair drawing ; when he sends it to
the unknown Sydney promoter he gets just what-
ever the promoter likes to give him. People who
send their money to such concerns should be protectea
against them selves, and the best way to protect them wou
appear to be the establishment of a lottery drawn and con-
trolled by State officials. The profits would provide money
for the abolition of the Public Debt, and the esta •
lishment of properly run hospitals, and other g' ood ''’orK-.
The shilling evil is said to be rife in Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth, Brisbane, and other cities throughout the Goin
monwealth, and the Australian Parliament might tniriK
hard over its wisdom in blocking business with latte
that it might be replaced by this sort of fraud, lort r“. B
all that the postal interdict on Tatt.’s has accomphsne
WORMS:
Infallible Symptoms.
Intestinal worms afflict both young and old, but
are more frequently found in children than
adults. They are generally the result of detective
digestion, depraved appetite, or unwholes
food. The long thread worm and the pin wor
are the most common, and their presence in
bowels is accountable for the peevishness
irritability of children. A child who is cons a y
hungry is invariably suffering from worms, a
worms cause a gnawing and distressing ,
when the bowels are partly empty. A dep
appetite and a disposition to pick the nose
infallible symptoms of the complaint, J
should not be neglected. Comstock s ,
Shot ” Worm Pellets are perfectly harmless to a
most delicate constitution, but are a sate an
remedy for the eradication of worms. O ~
at all chemists and stores, or from the '
Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, y
Price, Is. 6d. per box (six boxes, Bs.).


For Closer Settlement.
ST. AUBIN’S ESTATE,
SCONE.
FOR SALE BY AUCTION at the
Oddfellows’ Hall, Scone,
on
Tuesday, May 26,1908
at 12.30 p.m.,
On account of Mr. W. BAKE WELL.
This Estate, the pick of the Hunter River Valley, surrounds the flourishing and scenicallv
beautiful Municipality of Scone, and is surrounded by uniquely beautiful scenery fringed
vti TpfS-r h ‘ llS ’ a n d . Cal T ed by W °° ded m °' l ' n tains, and is picturesque?"! he
extreme. The Land is of unexcelled richness, with variety of soil, beauty of aspect and an
ideal climate. The average rainfall is about 26 inches. The soil is Rich Black and Chocolate.
HERE. IS LAND FOR THE LUCERNE GROWER,
WHEAT a nd MAIZE GROWER,
FOR THE MIXED CROP FARMER,
FOR THE VITICULTURIST,
FOR THE DAIRYMAN,
FOR THE WOOLGROWER.
THe Estate Has 8 Miles of Frontage to the Great Northern
Railway, and Scone and Parkville Railway Stations
are on the Estate.
Every Block is within U mile of a Railway station. The Estate is only about 75 miles
from Maitland, 100 miles from the City of Newcastle, and 200 miles from the City of
the most up-to-date Me.t, Butter, an d j£o „
No 1 Subdivision comprises 70 Blocks, ranging from 8 to 400 Acres. Splendid Agri-
" lUs n id^o?S h e ?l a o°„ k g h“ d ClK,o ° lale S ° iL M “ h il *■ cultivation,^and
i? S " bd | vis j on comprises 16 Blocks ranging from 40 to 1360 Acres, comprising
Cultivation Land and Grazing Land of high carrying capacity, most of it with a doubl!
frontage to Glen Creek, all scrubbed, clean country, of high carrying capacity.
No. 3 Subdivision comprises 109 i-Acre Town Lots, and 27 Farm Blocks from 1 to 39
Acres r all lucerne land.
The whole of this magnificent Estate is highly improved, has no noxious
weeds or rabbits, and is well watered.
Lithographs are now Ready, and can be obtained from the Auctioneers or from
the Vendor. Intending purchasers will be driven over the Estate
Auctioneers: Messrs. F. A. SIMPSON & CO., Messrs. EDWARD HTCDTTnV
PAREmSON & CO., in conjunction with Messrs. SNAPE& CO ROWLAND ’
and DODDS, NORMAN EBSWORTH, and H. H. BROWN, of Paterson. D
Solicitors : Messrs. ANDREWS, MOSELEY, and MANNING, Mooke Street, City.
COMMISSIONERS OF SAVINGS BANKS.
FOR ADVANCES DEPARTMENT (known as Credit Foncier).
Thirteenth Issue of
Debentures for £lOO,OOO, at per cent.
TO MATURE 31st OCTOBER, 1919.
To be issued, under the authority of the Acts of Parliament of Victoria, Nos. 11,81, 1722, 1778 and 1878.
CONDITIONS FOR. TENDERS.
Tenders will be receivable at the Commissioners’ Head Office, 29 Market Street, Melbourne, until noon on
iuesday, 2nd June, 1908.
Debentures will be issued in denominations of £lOO, or £5OO, as may be desired.
Interest at 3£ per cent, per annum will be payable half-yearly on 30th April and 31st October the first such
payment being- due on 30th April, 1909, at the Commissioners’ Head Office, or at any Savings Bank in Victoria
Any Tender below £9B per £lOO will not be entertained.
Tenders must be accompanied by a deposit in cash, or by a Bank Draft pavable to the Commissioners of
savings Banks, amounting to 5 per cent, of the face value of the Debentures applied for, and if the Tender be
accepted in full, or pro rata, the balance must be paid on 30th November, 1908, or may be paid at any earlier date
interest at 3£ per cent, per annum will be allowed on accepted Tenderers’ lodgments of 5 percent and over
from date of receipt to 31st October, 1908, and will be payable up to that date on the issue of the debentures
Commission will be allowed only to Brokers who are members of recognised Stock Exchanges, at the rate of
ten shillings per cent, on the face value of Debentures for accepted Tenders.
The due payment of these Debentures, and of all interest thereon, is a charge on all the securities held by
and the funds of the Commissioners, under Division 3 of Part 1 of the Act No. 1481, and is also guaranteed bv
the Government of Victoria. &
Copies of the authorising Acts may be inspected, and Conditions and Form of Tender can be obtained upon
application at the Head Office of the Commissioners or any of their Savings Banks. r
9th May, 1908. By order of the Board, GEO. E. EMERY, Inspector-General of Savings Banks.
A favorite method among gold-stealers in
X.S.W., according to Minister Moore, is to take
"P an abandoned mine and use it as a blind for
their nefarious purposes. That game has been
worked in several States, and eight or ten years
ago the swindle was especially fashionable in
A.S.W. Old mines on the Abercrombie and other
places had amazing resurrections, and every kind
and color of gold—even stuff that looked like
.jewellery boiled down —began to come out of those
long-dead shows. The game was overdone ; the
u? u e^an t 0 prowl round, badly disguised ; and
the shaft that laid the golden egg had to close up
again. Moore proposes to introduce a Bill
tor the registration of mining plants, though what
that will do Heaven only knows. It seems that
>t would be as much to the point to make a
complete list of the skull of Oliver Cromwell.
Melbourne medical authorities have
‘cached the conclusion that Kew Lunatic Asylum
Possesses a specimen of that medical mystery
'nown as a “typhoid carrier.” Despite the
complete remodelling of the drainage and
0 taking of all precautions against the
jpread of infection, periodical outbreaks of
ever occur; so the decision is that among the
patients is one in whose system the typhoid
' cilli thrive without affecting the owner’s health,
wh' ?7 s ' ;em some way producing anti-toxins
le ■ U re l'd er the subject immune. A case is on
. co . °f a person whose system was found to
a i! n .typhoid bacilli 29 years after he had been
„ oy the disease; another case was dis-
nacf r v at Glasgow this year, where, a number of
i f 8 . ln K traced to a local dairy, the source of
milk Vv n was f° un d to be a woman employed to
for ifi 6 cows - This woman had not had typhoid
„ y, ea ?' s > but she was a long-distance carrier of
a very bad description.
COMPETITIVE DESIGNS.
£l6 16s. IN 3 PRIZES.
Ist Selected Design, £lO 10s. j 2nd Selected Design,
£4 45.; 3rd Selected Design, £2 2s.
The above prizes are offered bv SWEET BROS. LTD
“Where Biz Hums,” NEWTOWN, for the most original
and novel illustrated design suitable for advertising
“ WHERE BIZ HUMS,” that is SWEET BROS. LTD., in
connection with the arrival of THE AMERICAN FLEET.
Conditions :
Ist. The selected designs to become the property of
Sweet Bros. Ltd., and their decision as to the
order and merit of designs to be final.
2nd. Sweet Bros. Ltd. to have the right of exhibiting
all or any of the designs submitted.
3rd. All designs to be a uniform size of 18in. bv 12in.
4th. Designs may be in color or Black and White.
sth. Competition closes MONDAY, JUNE 22nd.
6th. Name and address to be marked distinctly at back
7th. Competitors may submit many designs, [of design.
Any further will be given upon application
to SWEET BROS. Ltd., “ Where Biz Hums,” Newtown.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
Catarrh is infl animation
of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages
| which lead to the ears,
throat, and lungs ; it in-
jures sight and hearing ;
the discharge causes dys-
pepsia and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures
Catarrji, Colds, Hay Fever,
Headache, Neuralgia, Bron-
chitic.- Write for free book-
let, or send 10/- for Medi-
cator complete with four
months’-!treatment, post free.
STAR NOVELTY CO .
Collins Street, Melbourne.
9.
ex
o
H
<
o
5
OJ
£
EBSMig
RINCINCinthcEAKS
Mr. Hodgkinson, the well-known retired foreman of the Loco-
motive Work Shops, at Port Melbourne, Vic., tells of his wonderful
cure of Deafness and Head-Noises with Pure Natural Aural Kinetics,
after all other treatments had failed.
_ ' „ 69 Evans Street, Port Melbourne, Victoria
To the Earoscope Company, 90 Pitt Street, Sydney. 18/4/’OB
. D ?i a f Sirs > —In J e Pjy t 0 J’ our letter enquiring- about my progress with the Earoscope Treatment lam
pleased to say my deafness is cured and the head-noises have disappeared P C 1 am
f °- r ,u tr ! P -. to En ? land ’ and wil > certainly take the Earoscope with me, as I appreciate mvcure
rho fr Q UCh t 0 be hOU V t Unt ! return. Thinking of all my friends in the Railway Department I took
the Earoscope with me to our last Executive Meeting of the L.E.D. Society and told them of mv e.me ~1° u
was truly wonderful and unexpected, as the doctors'had considered my case hopeless. y ’ h h
Yours respectfully (Sgd.), J. A. HODGKINSON.
What the “Railway Gazette ” (of April 15th), the Official Organ
of the Grand Council of the Victorian Railway Societies, says:—
fo "i’i 1 be interesting to Railway men, and more especially to those who are suffering from ear-troubles
chronkJcomplamt cured* °' ** * BimP ' e Uttto device > deafness be arfested eveX
.. M r U ?W™° n ’ former l'Y a Member of our Executive, but who has retired from the Service while
6 If , Executive Meeting, brought his Earoscope with him, and demonstrated its acrion to Those
present. Mr. Hodgkinson told the meeting that in a short space of three weeks he had been entirely cured
of Head-Noises and Deafness. He also showed numerous testimonials received from the Earoscope Insti
tute, proving that the little instrument will do all that is claimed for it. We have perused sonm of the
testimonials of well-known men in Sydney and Melbourne, and there appears to be every reason to believe
this treatment is an effectual remedy for all kinds of deafness and head-noises.”
This treatment consists of Pure Natural Aural Kinetics, applied by yourself right at vour
own home, without the assistance of any physician, and without the least interference with
your daily routine work, business or social duties.
All it will cost you to get full particulars of this great boon to humanity is a postage stamp Send us
your name and address, and we will forward you FREE OF CHARGE the “ EAROSCOPE REVIEW ’’ with
“ EAROSCOPE INST.” (Dept. 26), 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
FOR TWENTY-FIVE YEARS.
For 26 years we have been selling the PLUM RAZOR with never a
complaint or return. The blade of the PLUM is absolutely dependable.
It is selected of the best of silver steel and then ground to' a specially
Jearsbe R > e ond^hat. Uarantee “ for tW ° years> bufc aBsure >' ou ir ' wffl last
POST FREE 1016 TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD.
?A z< l r S V'° P ’ 7 / 6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case. 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle! 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
In connection with the Commission, of
Inquiry into the Sunshine disaster, Victoria is,
as usual, paying learned and expensive counsel to
appear for the Commissioners; out the lowly-paid
employees, who have been suspended without
salary ever since the accident, will have to pay
their own lawyers. And consider the wages of
these “highly-paid public servants” —Driver
Milburn, 14s. per day, after 31 years’ service;
driver Dolman, 12s. a day, 24 years’ service ;
fireman Tomlinson, Bs. fid. a day, 19 years; fire-
man Deveney, Bs. day, seven years; guard Darcy,
11s. a day, 35 years; while, after 25 years’ service,
one gold-laced officer, Kendall, has risen as far as
to have charge of Sunshine station, work the
signals, hump luggage, clean the buildings, book
parcels, sell tickets, attend two telegraph instru-
ments, and generally be the whole team and the
dog, at a little less than £3 a week. Even the
banks don’t sweat their clerks like that. And
after being compulsorily unemployed for a month
he is expected to pay his own lawyer in defence,
wmle the well-paid Commissioners, who may be
equally in fault, get one of the best defenders in
the State ,at the State’s expense. And their
salaries have not been stopped.
Mr. J. Thompson’s contribution to Aus-
tralian Defence proposals shows novelty. In what
is called an interesting lecture before the A.N. A.,
at Sydney, the ex-drill-instructor to the Highland
Light Infantry explained that 10,000 men could be
added to the Australian fighting line if, in hostili-
ties, the ambulance and commissariat work were
done by the Asiatics among us. But what if
Australia’s fight were with the Asiatics? Apart
from that, to give aliens (possibly hostile
aliens) charge of the wounded would be a horror,
and to give them custody of the victuals might
mean wholesale poison. How would Thompson
like to march against the Dowager Empress while
having to hold both hands on his stomach. If
Asiatics are to be taken into the Defence service,
it would be better to make them lecturers.
t
This Ideal Flooring
is now being used extensively in
America and Europe. It’s Expensive,
but it has NO equal for Banking
Rooms, Steamships, Corridors of
Public Buildings, Hospitals, Aisles
of Churches, Billiard Rooms, Bath*
rooms, Vestibules, &c.» &c.
Its Advantages :
It is Waterproof, non-slippery,
Noiseless, thoroughly Sanitary,
and so durable that it will last
practically a life-time. Can be laid
without cement on existing floors.
Supplied in a range of colors and
designs. Correspondence Invited.
Designs and tenders submitted.
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
108 Flinders St., Melbourne. 255 Clarence
St., Sydney. 268 270 Adelaide St., Brisbane.
117 Grenfell St., Adelaide. 81 King St., Perth
Worcester St., Christchurch. N.Z.


RELY on YOUR OWN JUDGMENT
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
‘ ‘Forget-Me-N ot’'
Spray
Heart CHARM.
As to tHe beauty, finish, and style of an article, but in making your pur-
chase remember tbat we can give better goods, better prices, and more
satisfaction from all standpoints tban any otber bouse in Australasia.
SHOPPING BY MAIL.
An efficient mail order depart-
ment offer prompt and satisfac-
tory service to distant patrons.
All goods sent carriage free to
any address.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2 Bar BROOCH, set pure Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires,
25/.
15ct. Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open Face
Keyless WATCHES,
Shortwind, Stem Set,
Perfectly Regulated.
10/.
Higher Grade, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
OPEN
FACE,
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6
> WHGN^iHE
:„HC LORD
>;". • 1&V u NOTH £;R
A. SAUNDERS.
pet. Gold Mizpah and Ivy Leaf
Spray BROOCH.
12/6.
A. SAUND.ERS.
18ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold LOCKET,
set Ruby or
Sapphire,
35/.
Silver, without stone,
4/6, 5/6, 6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT or
BROOCH, set fine
White Pearls,
£6/6/.
Complete in Case.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless WATCHES,
J-plate, shortwina, patent adjusted
balance, dust and water proof cases,
20/.
Higher Grade, 25/, 30/. 35/.
Cheaper Grades, 7/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/.
OPEN
FACE.
20/-
HIGHER
GRADE.
A. SAUND.ERS.
get. Gold Curb Padlock BRACELET,
with Safety
Chain attached, as illustrated.
£3.
Larger, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/.
Smaller, H 5/, 30/ 35/, 40/’
50/.
In 15ct. Gold, £4/5/
£4/15/, £6.
lSet. Gold, £7/10/, £B/10/.
In its construction special care has been given,
so as to assure exceptional strength, durability, and
absolute accuracy.
Each watch carries with it our written guarantee
of free repair for one year —breakages excepted.
THE
‘GUARD.”
15/-
Nickel open face Keyless Lever, shortwind,
stem-set, patent adjusted balance, non-magnetic,
dust and water proof cases, fine or bold dial.
The “Guard,” 157-
Higher grade, the Railway 20/- Guaranteed for
10 years, and kept in free repair for one year.
“RAILWAY/’
£
m „ A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Double Curb ALBERT, £3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/. 15ct. Gold
£5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, f lO . £l2/10/. In Solid Silver, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/. ’
14ct. Gold Pilled, guaranteed, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, set
Diamonds or Rubies,
Sapphires,
£3/10/.
5 Diamonds, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Heart and Forget-
Me-Not Spray BROOCH,
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Oval and
Bar LINKS,
17/6.
15ct Gold, 35/. '
Silver, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
35ct. Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set line Pearls
and Amethysts,
£5/5/.
Pearls and Tourmalines,
£5/10/.
Diamonds and Sapphires,
£2O.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE.
Write at once for a copy of
our 304-page illustrated cata-
logue. You'll receive it by re-
turn mail, post free. Write to-
day.
A. SAUNDERS
9ct. Gold
i-Jinna Forget”
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Bird and Floral Sprav
Bar BROOCH,
w- .
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£B/10/. '
All Diamonds, £l2/10/.
SOLID
SILVER,
2 51-
m
~>uon
[UJHifc
U
a
a
9ct. Gold Sword and Crescent BROOCH, Set Pearls or
Pearls and Turquoise,
27/6.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES,
fully jewelled
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 50 1
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/
£5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PEN-
DANT, set with
Pearl, Ruby, or
Turquoise, with
photo, recess,
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold Floral Spray BROOCH,
set fine Pearls and Turquoise,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold, Opals and
pure Double-cut Dia-
monds,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold PENDANT
or BROOCH, set fine
Pearls and Amethysts,
£4/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines.
£5/10/.
SOLID
SILVER,
£2
fit
m
m
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless LEVER,
3-Plate Movement, Fully -Lewelled, ■
Higher Grade, £2/10/, £3, jpjo
£5, £6. Solid Gold, £7/10/ £B/10/. £l °-
£l2/10/, £l5, £2O, £25, £3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Buckle BROOCH, buckle
set with fir" " hite Pearls,
35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold Shield and
Dumb-bell LINKS.
21/.
15et. Gold 40/.
Silver, 4/6.
SOLID
GOLD.
£7/10
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815.
817 George-street,
Opposite New ( Railway Station, S) dney, N-S


E.
R.
VICTORIA
THE CLOSER SETTLEMENT ACTS.
SUBDIVISION OF THE
STAUGHTON VALE ESTATE.
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Lands Purchase Board for the unsold Farm Allotments on this Estate. Applications must be made on the
prescribed form, and be lodged with The Secretary, Lands Purchase Board, Melbourne, accompanied by the amount of deposit necessary.
The Estate originally comprised an area of 9830 acres of plain and gently undulating country. The soil varies from volcanic and strong chocolate
to clay and sandy loam. Good yields have been obtained in the past from the portions which have been cultivated. The rainfall averages
25 inches yearly, and is supplemented by the Little River, springs and dams, and good catchment areas are available. The timber consists of
box, oak and gum, of which an ample supply is available for fencing and firewood. Markets and railways are available at Bacchus Marsh,
miles/ Par wan, l]/ 2 miles; Melbourne, 35 miles; morning and evening trains to Melbourne stop at both stations.
STAUGHTON VALE ESTATE
PLAN.
35
34
JtS Ac. '•
J? 0 °S'
22 •'*
• /
,*•' no *% £ <o o
♦ v y’ 3i
/ / /70 A c 7* K> 0
31
/70 a7?*>o
<£ko£o Lo
/«3 4c
1 f»*"•
1
\' 41 /
39
7
/5.0
/«3 /1c J
«(rf 3 /-;/)
/« Ac »
3i
36
200 Ac
Jj 0.0
r 71 u ;
7 o SLoubi
m Ac T
72 LO
180~
V
•• '/90 4
/90Ac
Sr
7). wo 4 ’^s/o
46
'sA"&&£ Art
Sae-r
/94Ac £iidb y {aoo%,
i 40
46
• V°^“ o /
150 Ac
/^49|
/ L£ 5.0
/ 20\4c
7<.
ft.
£4 5-.0
-e
41
200 4c
Jl O O
200 4c
77 0.0
</«!
75/00
23
NC
JSr
16
/IS
\I6
\ Sol©V.
S< LTV
>22 Ac
137 Ac.
137 Ac
147 Ac
Uooo 0 0
I .kf 1 u i
X 8 0 o
7 ±'*f*
n
«•*
•1' ..
» /
So .0
fa Cttlfrif
noAc
£• 00
10
/9/ 4 t
77 4 0
* , **
'•. V
«h 4
/$5 /it
77 /7 O
OOL
Ac
3 0
n> ftiphy
U Miles
«*3O
%
'&A*
ft«M
&
♦ *
/58 Ac
te»
Copies of plan, application forms, and full particulars may be obtained on application
to the Secretary, Lands Purchase Board, Melbourne.
J. E. JENKINS, Secretary.
Closer Settlement Offices,
Public Offices, Melbourne, 4/5/'OB.
la*
ifon
(#L
Sd
C EEL
IHU
ORHOR
MOO
RMtO
TAUG
■Kv
OUYONC
TH
ATE
m
lath
oc
RBI
2
MURTC
HR*
UR K
VS£-
CM[RIME
Schedule of Allotments, showing approximate Aren, Total
Value, Half-Yearly Instalments, and Amount of Deposit, which
includes the first Half-yearly Instalment.
♦Applications may be lodged for these allotments, but possession
will not be given until the middle of August; and in the case
of those marked t, until the middle of July.


OF LITTLE BOY
Bad Sores Spread Al I Over His Head—
Grew Worse Under Doctor’s Care
—Cuticura Effects Perfect Cure,
Bringing Relief with First Set.
FATHER RECOMMENDS
CUTICURA TO EVERY ONE
“When my little boy was about four
years old (ho is now about six and a
half years) a spot appeared on the side
of his face just under the ear. After
a time it broke and spread further
down. I took him to a doctor as soon
as it appeared. He was under his
orders for about three or four months
when he was much worse. Seeing in a
paper a Cuticura advertisement I went
and got a complete set of the Cuticura
Remedies, the Cuticura Ointment, Cuti-
cura Soap, and Cuticura Resolvent. I
took him away from the doctors and
fave him these Cuticura Remedies.
used two large bottles of Resolvent,
five tablets of Cuticura Soap, and two
or three tins of Cuticura Ointment.
From the first bottle he began to mend
and before he had finished the two he
was wholly mended. About twelve
months after he broke out again at the
back of the neck and it spread all over
the head. I had one large and two
Bmall bottles of Cuticura Resolvent,
three tins of Cuticura. Ointment, and
four tablets of Cuticura Soap before I
got it mended. I think it took me
about three months each time. It is
now about eighteen months since he
was ill, and it has not broken out again,
so I think he is all right now, thanks
to Cuticura. I always recommend
Cuticura wherever I can, and I will
always have pleasure in answering any
inquiries. R. Scarth, 25 Newport Rd.,
Middlesborough, York, June 24, 1906.”
ONE NIGHT TREATMENT
For Sore Hands and Feet
with Cuticura.
Soak the hands or feet on retiring
in a strong, hot, creamy lather of Cuti-
cura Soap. Dry and anoint freely with
Cuticura Ointment, the great Skin Cure.
Wear on the hands during the night
old, loose gloves, and bandage the feet
lightly in old soft cotton or linen.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humourof Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
«fc Co., Sydney: Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props,
oar Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
A Piano of Worth
THE FEURIGH
After you have thoroughly investi-
gated the merits of all other instru-
ments and made a mental note of
their respective qualities, inspect
The Feurich.
Every good piano point found in
other instruments you will find
magnified in this, the piano without
a peer —the piano whose sterling merits
are a guarantee of life-long satisfac-
tion.
Cash, or payments over a period to
be mutually agreed upon — —.
34-2 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYJDKTEY.
115,00 ft
The Wayback SerieSi
Australia laughed, ! ! !
and keeps laughing.
No. S.
Red Harry Is,
DAINTY BEADED
Evening Shoe
FOR LADIES,
18/6
A more dainty Evening Shoe
would be hard to find. It is
most tastefully beaded, is very
light in make, beautifully
finished with padded insole,
and has a luxurious beauty
that cannot fail to please. 18/6.
If ordering in Victoria, add
9d. for postage; if in other
States, add 1./-
Drop us a Post Card for our Booklet “ Shoe-
light,” beautifully illustrated with our
finest footwear. We send it FREE.
LBEMING’S BOOT STORES, 109 Swanston
Street, Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
WOMEN
SUFFER. MORE
THAN MEN.
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men. Ex-
cess fat takes away a
woman’s loveliness—gives
her an ugly, ungainly ap-
pearance, impedes her
ga.it, interferes with her maternal in-
stincts, injures her general health, and
makes life a burden.
FATCURE,
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable. It is non-poisonous and harm-
less. The fat when reduced does not return.
“Fatcure ” is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe
and harmless treatment for Obesity. Send
2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample and
full particulars, or call if convenient.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, CASTLEREACH ST., SYDNEY. [32
MALTED MILK
For all ages, from the nursery
\ upwards, Horlick’s Malted
\MIlk is an ideal food-
\ beverage, easily digested,
\ nourishing, invigora-
\ ting. It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
nes s
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
CLIMES
At
break,
fast
time or
supper time
Horllck's
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Food Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
| POSITION
incMii y I
Qup splendid
' tS^sfemy
£ OMMERCIAI.
BOOKKEEPING.
ACCOUNTANCY.
SHORTHAND.
•PENMANSHIP,
ENGLISH,
LANGUAGES. AC.
GRICULTURAL.
SOIL MANAGEMENT
. DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATION.
BREEDING AND
MANAGEMENT OF
LIVE STOCK. AC.
qommercial art
ORAWING.
LLU ST RATING.
ADVERTISEMENT
WRITING.JP
DESIGNING. AC.
Money.
HIGHER SALARIES and
splendid prospects await
those who take advantage
of our system ol POSTAL
INSTRUCTION. We teach
wherever the mail reaches,
and our methods ensure the
acquirement of MONEY-
MAKING KNOWLEDGE.
Our instruction is thorough,
practical and complete, and
our instructors are men of
unquestionable ability and
experience. Every student
receives careful individual
attention, and the instruction
is . private. We prepare
candidates for all PUBLIC
EXAMINATIONS.
It costs nothing to inquire.
Write TO-DAY for FREE
copy of PROSPECTUS E
and state subject in which
you are interested.
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
56 HUNT E. R ST SYDNEY,
*t2B COLLINS S T MELBOURNE
A
POLICY roil thk COMMONWEALTH
Piice, 6d.
./ ’ A restful relish
of luscious tomatoes—
licked fruits fresh from the garden, fairly
bursting with ruhy nbeness—only these
re good enough for DyVson to use , n the
naking of his Tomato Sauce. All the
lelicacy and daintiness of\a Home Made
preserve—and yet more choicely flavoured
bwing to a score of years''experience m .
... condiment making. •:...»
■r-
There are n& preservatives '
of any kind wlhatever in
DYASON'S
TOMATO
Tomato Chutney,
Tomato Catsup.
Sold by Grocer, every where.
fl
t*
MM!
THIS
RAGING WATCH
(CHRONOCRAPH LEVER),
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
HI
's/r.9wt/ K
fUI
£
# \%\
V/ \
60/-
THIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing- Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It tinies
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable ever}
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dial,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back, tn
Chronograph is only in use when wanted la
ordinary works keep the time of day. It lsatui}
jewelled movement, nou-magnetic, direct quick trai ,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, an
perfectly finished in every detail. It is
and set without opening the case, and in
chronograph started, stopped, and set back b.V B, ®]rJ
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality « u '
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crysta*
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white >
with bold figures. Sent post free, and
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not „£™
complete satisfaction, I will return your pure
money in full. This w’atch is something out of
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as an.v
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. 1
the same works in sterling silver cases and 6
Gold Cases.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE BTREET, MELBOURNE.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
(some illustrated); Actresses' Photos
Catalogue from 1/- with samples (letter postage), J**
A. de SAILLE, 20, Rue de la Michodlere, r
The Inky Way.
“Cit”: The late Howard Willoughby was an able
journalist, an imperfect speller, and a shocking penman.
The compositors were constantly puzzled over his manu-
script, and occasionally fell into errors that brightened
the track of literature. The first team of English
cricketers that visited Australia commenced its opening
match on Ist January, 1862. Bennett, a notable
bowler of underhand slows, fell ill and couldn’t play in a
subsequent event, and Willoughby, then a reporter on
the Age, wrote that the Englishmen would be without
their slow bowler. And the compositor made it appear
that the Englishmen’s “ steam boiler ” was laid up.
* * * *
“K.0.K.”: Re “Sandra’s” par (9/4/’08), one of the
Perth (W.A.) morning papers achieved a cable howler
that simply loses any he quotes. It was at the time Gully,
ex-Speaker of the British House of Commons, was made
a peer. Contemporaneously the Pari Mutuel was estab-
lished on all French racecourses, and the bookmakers
were warned not to cry the odds. The message from
Reuter came through this way: “ Gully Viscount Book-
makers warned French racecourses.” Which the W.A.
cable genius proceeded to interpret: “ Messrs. Gully and
Viscount, the well-known bookmakers, have been warned
off French racecourses.”
* * * *
A feature of Sydney Telegraph is its hankering
after a word or phrase. Last year it was “ disgruntled.”
Everybody it didn’t like was disgruntled. The Federal
Premier was disgruntled, and so were the State Opposition,
Balfour and Chamberlain, the Continental anarchists and
the English cricketers. Lately the Telegraph has been
“linking up.” Broken Hill, Barren Jack, Riverina and
the Canberra Federal Capital site are all to be “ linked
up.” It even proposed to “ link up” the Sydney Show
Ground at Moore Park with the Coogee tram line. To-
day the word is “ aftermath ’-’—the “ aftermath ” of the
Federal crisis, of the test matches, of the Yankee money-
market collapse, of the banquet to Carruthers, and the
Lord knows what. And of course, the Braybrook horror
had its “aftermath.” The Telegraph shows signs of
wanting a new word. This writer suggests “ transmag-
nificandanbanuarity ” to go on with.
* * * *
Sydney Daily Telegraph made a diverting break
(5/5/’08) when, on receiving a letter from the Earl of
Meath—the noted Empire Day fanatic—on the only
topic this particular Earl ever writes about, it treated the
gorgeous one’s historic moniker to the inverted commas
of a pen-name. There will be a shocked Imperialist when
the following—the Telegraph’s page-index—gets to
foreign parts:—
In Defence of Contractors (John Ahearn). 9
Australia’s Opportunity at the Franco-British Exhi-
bition (Daniel O’Connor) 4
The Empire Movement (“Meath”) 4
Rating on Unimproved Values (“E.S.D. and “Tax-
payer ”) 4
The late Earl of Glasgow had something the same sort of
experience once. He was a shabby, dirty-looking old
peer, and on presenting a five-pound note at a London
railway station, he was asked to endorse his name on the
back. He wrote “Glasgow.” “I didn’t harsk fer the
place yer want to go to,” hissed the official, irritably;
“ sign yer name, yer old blank.” But there should be a
distinction between an ignorant Ma-land railway olficial
and an informative Ma-State newspaper.
* * * *
Broken Hill has a new paper, which comes out when it
can—The Flame. There is, on the Barrier, a little band
of whole-hog revolutionary Socialists who can’t stand
the slow trot of the Labor party. So they have broken
away, and with R. S. Ross (late editor of Labor Truth) at
their head, have bought an ancient newspaper plant that
has for years lain idle on the old Mount Brown goldfield,
and they make it shriek their creed once a month at least
for a start. Ross is a sincere apostle anyway ; he fell into
a good, “ stiddy job ” after leaving the Truth, but
chucked it to preach revolution on about a pound a week.
* * * *
“Bob” Sievier, racehorse-owner, betting-man (he was
the first to introduce ready-money bookmaking to Aus-
tralia), and, latterly, editor and newspaper proprietor,
lately bumped the first snag of his journalistic career,
when a Bow-street magistrate fined him £lO and £5 costs
for printing indecent matter in his Winning Post. Since
his libel fiasco, a few years back, Sievier has been
coining much pelf from his paper. It is a weekly
devoted to veiled (and occasionally unveiled) porno-
graphy, and to turf and sporting matters generally.
Sievier’s counsel, with his tongue stored away in his
cheek, contended that the indecencies complained of
wouldn’t do any harm, since the readers of the paper were
almost exclusively “bookmakers and others whose morals
were not likely to be corrupted by reading such para-
graphs,” etc. As a fact the Winning Post, like the Pink
’Un (on which the Winning Post is slavishly modelled),
penetrates to most wealthy British homes. There is no
affluent club in the British Empire which does not take
its Sporting Times (and most of them take their
Winning Post), and the average member endures
the red-hot japes on the front pages of these sheets
with equanimity. There is but one trait that will
keep a newspaper out of those places where well-to-do
Anglo-Saxons congregate—viz , political Radicalism.
Which is why the rabidly Tory Pink ’Un and Winning
Post are greeted with open arms by stout English-speak-
ing people, who would swoon helplessly away if you
handed them a copy of the Daily News.
* » * *
Albert Dorrington has been unburdening his soul
in London Daily Chronicle on the subject of Australian
literature, and quite evidently his liver was troubling
him when he was writing his article. According to Dor-
rington, the newspaper owner in Australia regards the
literary contributor on the same plane as “ the vegetable
hawker, or the collector of old bottles or scrap lead.”
Another cause operating against the growth of Australia,
according to Dorrington, is “ the flash-and-fade tempera-
ment of the native-born literati, the literary twilighters
whose careers resemble the brief light which shimmers
between the Australian sunset and dark. ... It is not
uncommon to discover among the vast army of Aus-
tralian writers the names of mere boys and girls . . . the
bands of young scribes who appear at regular intervals on
the literary horizon. The greenest and freshest are im-
mediately chosen from the ranks, and, like damp, im-
mature cigars, are handed round to a waiting public.”
Those are some of tne expressions in the article, which is
far from being a just statement of the Lets, though it
does contain a considerable element of truth.
A man in India, having received, by request, specimen
copies of an Adelaide paper, emphasises the fact that he
does not intend to become a subscriber :—“ Sirs, I beg to
request you that kindly do not send to me as a subscriber
a paper. You have registered my name for the paper in
the list of subscribers, but I request to not to send it. I
have received your fine paper, but when I received one
copy as a sample (specimen) in payment of that one
copy postal-stamps had been sent for payment. If
you have not got please state the price of four
copies of the paper. If you will send a list of the
papers , which have been received by me, I will send
stamps for the four copies. I can’t send the whole
account of the paper for one year, because I only asked
for a specimen copy, but you have registered me as a
subscriber. Now please do not send a single copy of
paper again. I will be pleased to send a account pay-
ment for only four copies which have been sent by you.
Your paper will not be successful to me in Bombay, and
therefore I request you not to send paper again to me as
subscriber.—Yours obty. ——
THE EDITORIAL WE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are the corpse behind the walls
That writes of sea and sky ;
We are the individuals
Who obsoleted “ I.”
We are the men who turn the wheels—
Cohorts of Destinee 1
We are the saints whom no one paints—
The Co-essential We !
We’ve hitched our dreams unto the stars,
But, oh ! the plural curse
Has quite absorbed our brightest pars,
And commandeered our verse !
We are the sullen slaves who write
That all men may be free ;
But, as I said, we’re really dead—
Our coffin’s labelled “ WE ” 1
N.B.W.
GILROONEY.


Arnott s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Bung isn’t having a very cheerful time in
S. Australia. Another local option poll (this time
in the big Sturt electorate, covering all the south-
western suburbs) has given a vast majority in
favor of the time-reduction of one-third of the
licenses. Still, in spite of oceans of talk, only
a fourth of the electors voted. The busiest man
m the whole, campaign has been S. J. Jacobs,
chairman of the S.A. Brewing Co., who has been
on the stump for weeks past. But the Methody
parsons beat him. In most things the Methody
parsoti has S. Australia in the hollow of his hand.
Amusements.
THE AUSTRALIAN
ORCHESTRA plays for
every leading Society function in Sydney, and is always up-
to-date ; latest music. W. R. GILHOOLEY, Tel. 3931,
St Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
H ER
MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings at 7.45.
Wednesday and Saturday Afternoons at 1.45.
THE GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Tl
I Lessee and Manager :J. C. WILLIAMSON
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, MAY 16 ’
FOR A SEASON OF TWELVE NIGHTS ’ ONLY
Return to Sydney of
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S DISTINGUISHED DRAMATIC
COMPANY, Headed bv
Mr. THOMAS KINGSTON and Mrs. ROBERT BROUGH
First Production (for Six Nights & One Matinee Only)
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS. ’
Box Pl{m at Elvy’s.
CR IT ERI O N THEA T R e 7 SYDNE Y
Lessee: MR. FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, JOHN WREN, MEYNELL and
GUNN’S COMPANY.
Evenings at 8. Wednesdays at 2
THOSE POPULAR FAVORITES
HARCOURT BEATTY and MADGE McINTOSH
Supported by MEYNELL & GUNN’S LEADING CO ’
CAMILLE.
SAT., MAY 16—HER LOVE AGAINST THE WORLD
Prices as Usual. Plan at Elvy’s.
THE LYCEUM HALL SYDN~ E Y
1 Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
. EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS- & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES-28., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
UNDER THE SOLE MANAGEMENT CONCERT
DIRECTION OF KARL JUNKERMANN, LONDON.
SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
Oeneral Manager .. .. Frank Buckingham.
KUBELIK.
KUBELIK.
THREE CONCERTS IN SYDNEY.
THREE CONCERTS IN SYDNEY.
TUESDAY, MAY 19. THURSDAY, MAY 21.
SATURDAY, MAY 23.
(ALL EVENING CONCERTS.)
BOX PLAN AND PRICE ARRANGEMENTS.
Plans for the Three Concerts open at Paling’s. City
applications for Guinea Seats may be made by post,
"ritten applications from Country Residents, enclosing
Money Orders or Postal Notes and stamped addressed
envelope for reply, will be promptly attended to.
PRICES—2Is., Reserved ; 10s. 6d., Reserved ; ss. and 3s.
All Galleries Reserved at 10s. 6d.
H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Local Business Manager.
W' RTH BROS. WIRTH BROS.
greatest show on earth.
PRINCE ALFREeTpaRK, SYDNEY - .
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES— WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
SUCCESS of the GRAND CHANGE of PROGRAMME.
, r *'' me ® ver in Australia of a Real Live
11000 GIRAFFE. £lOOO GIRAFFE.
bsolutely the Largest and Best Circus and Menagerie
Ever Seen in Australia.
: 4/ ' ( Plan afc Palings), 3/-, 2/-, and 1/-.
■dren under 10 Half-price except to Gallery.
- Sc^ofn o (’hTp e fjJrea t Zoological Essay Competitions for
Palace theatre, Sydney.
Direction .. .. HENRY HAYWARD.
everything new
MASKELYNE & DEYANT’S
MYSTERIES.
bn at Nicholson’s. Day Sales, White Rose.
OWN
HALL,
SYDNEY.
MONDAY, 18th MAY, -WEDNESDAY, 20th
FRIDAY, 22nd. ’
MATlNEE—Wednesday, at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES “ The A « e ,? tof
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 1/6. Plan at Nicholson’s.
T IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
~ , I™ priefcor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY,
t irst Appearance of the Human Impossible, ARDO, in
some VVonderfu! Contortion Feats, as the HUMAN FROG.
KAUFMANN TROUPE, World’s Greatest Bicyclists.
r ‘ MILDARE, England’s Greatest Whistler.
„ SYLVO, World’s Greatest Comedy Juggler.
Baby Matson, Olive Robinson, The ‘ Sisters Albert,
Mr. Fred Bluett, Mr. Walter Whyte, Mr. George Dean
„ The Two Colliers, Les. Warton, etc.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
0 P 0 E , R £ HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
w bole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
MURIEL ANDREWS, Child Violinist.
TWO AHLBERGS, Comedy Acrobats.
JOHN HIGGINS, Champion Jumper.
IKE and WILL SCOTT, Comedians.
ARTOIS BROTHERS, Comedy Horizontal Bar Act.
DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. IUgT PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 16,
THE
ENGLISH MERRYMAKERS
IN SONG AND STORY'.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE THEATRICAL EVENT.
MEYNELL and GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By PAUL RUBENS.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
RIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
THURSDAY, MAY 14, FRIDAY, MAY 15,
Last Two Performances of EAST LYNNE.
SATURDAY, MAY 16,
WILLIAM ANDERSON'S NEW AUSTRALIAN DRA-
MATIC COMBINATION in
HOME SWEET HOME.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Early Doors 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
L.IER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, MAY 14, FRIDAY, MAY 15,
Last Two Nights of SHERLOCK HOLMES.
SATURDAY, MAY 16,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Re-appearance of MISS CARRIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
M ELBOURNE TOWN HALL.
FOR A SHORT SEASON,
Commencing MAY 19,
THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS.
A COMEDY COSTUME CONCERT CO.
(From London).
PRICES—4s., 2s. Gd., Is. Plans at Glen & Co.
SYDNEY SEASON OPENS MAY 30.
w I * TH ’S O L Y M P I A
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE “f * IL
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
PgEAL ICE SKATING.
THE MELBOURNE
GLACIARIUM
MORNINGS and AFTERNOONS, 2s. CHILDREN, Is.
Popular Prices Every Evening, Is.
SATURDAY MORNINGS, SCHOOL CHILDREN 6d.
&
U4J
Get Ready for the
Winter Months and
OBTAIN . .
MAXIMUM LIGHT
FOR . .
MINIMUM COST
BY USING OUR .
ACETYLENE
Gas Burners
Sample Dozen Assorted Makes Post Free 10/«
Traders communicate with us. It will pay you.
ROBERT C. SWAN CSh CO. Ltd.
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
Before
WHAT CAPILLARINE DOES.
Where there isn’t the sign of a moustache —just some fluffy
down, perhaps—the application of a little CAPILLARINE
with the fingers just before retiring at night will cause a full
growth to appear. This will increase to a soft, flowing
moustache of vigorous permanency.
CAPILLARINE, 10/6 A JAR, IN PLAIN WRAPPER.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF THE WORLD.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
OUR LATEST MODEL.
THE ...
‘REGENT’
Graph-o-
Phone.
PRICE
£5 10s.
Exactly as
Illustrated.
$
This Model has a
Tone Quality
equal to the high-
est-priced Machine,
IA I
COLUMBIA 10-inch
DISC RECORDS
(New Process),
2/6 each.
BEST QUALITY
NEEDLES, 1/-
per box, con-
taining 300.
Send for full particulars and lists
of Records.
Columbia Phonograph Co,,
Gen’L,
255 Clarence Street, Sydney,
n
- ■
** CHILDRENS
DRINK.*
(^OA
JDixon tp?
“ 0.T.” is the ideal
winter drink for children
—pure, delicious, health-
giving. When they re-
turn from school on a
cold, raw day, a drink
of “0.T.” will ward off
many a dangerous chill.
It is a delightful drink at
all times, and a medicine
in the hour of need.
All Grocers, Chemists,
Hotels, and General
Stores.
[1
MONTSERRf®
SAUCE
>
IT IS NO NEWS
that
Montserrat Lime Fruit
Juice Sauce
based upon a pure natural
product and manufactured
by an old established
English firm is the most
wholesome and appetising
of all Sauces.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed tree from Preservatives.
HUMOROUS RECITATIONS.
m
This is a new and valu-
able collection of some
ot the best humorous
recitations, both in
prose and verse, in our
language. The selec-
tions have been made
with great care, the
object sought being tc
provide the best and
most comprehensive
collection of popular
humorous recitations
ever sold at a low price.
The book contains in all
116 recitations, and in-
cludes selections in the
Yankee, Dutch. Irish
and Negro dialects.
Among the authors rep-
resented are Will Carle-
ton, Eugene Field,
James Whitcomb Riley,
Charles Follen Adams,
Irwin Russell and R. J.
Burdette. We have
space to enumerate only a very few of the titles, as foR
lows: “Sned Skinflint’s Scheme,” “Rory’s Kissing
School.” “De ’Lection for Jedge,” ‘‘Uncle Pete and
Marse George;” “Carl Dunder Talks to the Children,”
“Pat’s Love,” “Uncle Ike’s Roosters,” “DerSphider
und der Fly,” “Managing a Mule,” Etc., Etc. “Humor-
ous Recitations ” is a book of 64 large octavo pages,
neatly bound in attractive paper covers.
Only Eight Pence, posted.
The Union Mfg. &. Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
TOOTH’S
XXX ALE
IS
UNRIVALLED.
A
99
tt
SO IS
TOOTH & CO., LTD..
Proprietors,
KENT BREWERY,
SYDNEY.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending' to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) ... 64.000 0 0
Interminable deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial [Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,781.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon: J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Brucf, Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
gank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
gank of |)eui Z ea,and -
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.— Wl i
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
&
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3ST.S.-W.
|flontdepieteo.i|.Co.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Weeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, Iy.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadk,
M.L.Cp
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
M 412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .- *27,500 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith Esq., C.M.G., Vice!Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
FACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dvson.
! ** Best book of Australian humor, ’ 4s. 6d.
OCEAN
J\T. 3D. 3L-.
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Eg-ypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen,
via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HQNGKON,G, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 2nd JUNE.
PRINZ SICISMUND 30th JUNE.
MANILA
28th JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars -apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal flank of Queensland
LIMITJSU.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £475,041 0 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 174.350 0 0
Reserve FuNDdnvested in Government Stock) 70,000 0 0
£719,391 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUOCE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
Shipping.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about 15th
May.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 10th
June.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. ... 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyet/y and .Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
♦ Twin Screw. t New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
.LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
*******
CRUISES
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. ... ..£1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,470,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,670,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout.,the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
Bank of |)eui South jjjales.
Establish kd 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ... £2,425,400 0 0
In course of Payment 74,600 0 0
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ...
-£2,500,000 0
1.530,000 0
2,500,000
0
0
0 0
£6,530,000 0 0
Directors:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
. =• J Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
Auditors . j William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad Street.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through.
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHfi Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
OSTRICH UPS
From South Africa.
3 for 10l m
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [5
LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office: 214
George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Austral!an,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Wollowra, May 15.
(Transhipping at Mel.
bourne.)
S.S. Grantala, May 23.
(Without transhipment.)
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Olirns.
.8.8. Buninyong, May 16.
S.S. Wollowra, May 23.
Best and Cheapest Itoute to tlnld/lelds.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
jyjESSAGERIES JJ^JARIT/MES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
1908.
Aug. 15
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, inclndine-
Table Wines. *
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia
Tel. 375. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY
May 16.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, May 23.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking- passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
GRANTALA, SATURDAY.
June 20.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
May 16.
GABO, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
May 19.
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
May 23.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—
Federal-Moulder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
(via Madeira).
T.S.S. “ESSEX.” .
11,300 Tons. T i PRlSK H’r C hirTcla" s er '
Excellent accommodation lor saloon and third
passengers. o i()08
Will be despatched from Brisbane on the 4th
„ Svdney „ 10th June, w
Melbourne „ 15th June,
; ;; ;, Adelaide . „ 20th June, IW
The Saloon accommodation consists of an " '
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidsh P: j 0(
The superior Third-class accommodation coropris
2,4, and 8-berth cabins, situated on the main
amidships, with dining-room on the upper de ' riec ks.
lighted and ventilated cabins and K° prov i B ioiis
Third-class passengers supplied with * re9t l P ■ anC i
from cool chamber throughout the voyage- S S, n
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout.
Tickets issued. Prepaid passages arranged
FARES- Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and 1 £49 10g £I3 i 3 s. £15155.
LIVERPOOL - t
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea .
To be followed every four weeks by other fast
screw passenger steamers. For further
illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to.
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney. lb urne ,
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Ca, Ltd., Mel
ELDER SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.


The Secret of
a Happy Home
is to be found in making it the most
attractive spot on earth—a place where
old and young alike can really feel “ at
home ” and have some good health}'
amusement to while the hours away
pleasantly.
Can you think of anything that will
do more to realise this ideal than
The Edison
Phonograph ?
This little instrument costs compara-
tively little, but it reproduces for your
edification the most stirring band
marches, the thrilling notes of eminent
composers, the latest operatic selec-
tions, and every form of music or
speech which will make up an attract-
ive programme.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
MOLLER’S
COD LIVER OIL
For Colds, Chest and Lung
Diseases, the safest remedy.
NO DISAGREEABLE AFTER EFFECTS
so often experienced when using
ordinary oils and emulsions.
Expert Opinions :
Indian Medical Gazette :
“ Superior to any we have seen.’
Medical Review : “It is quiie
unexcelled.”
Sold in capsuled bottles only.
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, High Holborn, London.
Factories: Lofoten & Christiania, Norway.
JERDAN’S .
CINEMATOGRAPHY
We are the principal experts in this business in Australasia.
Can we do anything for you in this line ?
There isn’t an item you want in machines or accessories
that we do not stock.
Our film department has over 250,000 feet of films for hire,
or sale, all good subjects chosen specially for the
Commonwealth public.
We sell or hire machines—do repair work—and give
exhibitions at concerts, etc.
Our Advice
is FREE.
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORQE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
When you ask for
BOVRIL
do not take a cheap imitation. BOVRIL is all beef and is a
standardised strength-giving food.
Always have BOVRIL handy.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
75he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
SKiisr^
FOOD
Of all
Stores or
Chemists
o
M
R
O
Keeps
the skin
soft and
smooth and, by
nourishing it, eradi-
cates lines or wrinkles.
Made by Mrs. Pomeroy
Ltd., 29, Old Bond Street,
London, England,
“ PLASMON increases the
food value enormously."
— Lancet.
inA A* -TTo
fSt*
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
Of all Grocers, Stores, etc.
COCOA
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
X
V
V
<c>
Ni
N>
s<?
*
<s>
a?
M
<o
<v
a?
Sr
is
N>
SS
The,
• : "W
wm Table
■r is the
FMONARCH
r . . o* •
Billiard
Tables.
On which Side of the Line
Do You Buy
Credit is a Commodity —just the same
as goods, and a very expensive Com-
modity. A Merchant who .buys credit
as well as goods, sells you his expen=
sive Commodity of credit, goods,
and profit combined.
You too may buy credit, or you may
be paying Cash at a credit-buying or
credit-giving establishment, but in
either case you are paying the credit
high price. The point is, if you can
pay Cash do you prefer to pay for these
credits, and for those losses of non-
payers, for that is what it means, or just
to buy the goods without these extra
charges attached. If you do, come over
the line!
Stewart Dawson & Co. manufacture or
buy from the actual Makers, Jewellery,
Precious Stones, Silverware, and fine
Leather Goods for Cash and sell them
to you for Cash. If you buy at Stewart
Dawson’s you will not have to pay
inflated credit prices, nor will you have
to pay the bad debts of others', but you
will purchase at prices 10 per cent, to
20 per cent, lower than at an average
shop—whose business and selling prices
are built up, not on a foundation of
value, but on credits and losses thereon.
Call at the Stewart Dawson Showrooms,
or write us, and realise the revelation
in price-saving.
_ A prominent wholesaler called on us the other day with nine samples of Lad es Go d
Waltham Watches. Some of them were open face, and others full hunting- and halt or cut
hunting, but in each case the samples were Engine Turned, as shown in our illustration, n s
trouble was-his trade was not high-class enough to appreciate the smart appearance ot Engine
Turned Cases, and he made us an offer that if we would dear his stock of these watches he
would charge us the Actual Cost in America. When we tell you that the duty on these watches
is 6s. in the £, and the charges for importing another 2s. in the £, you will understand the won-
derful nature of the bargain we were offered. Needless to say we gave him the cheque.
Now You can have the full benefit of this extraordinary piece of good luck if yoni act
Promptly. You have onlv to read the list of prices below to grasp the fact that our otter ■ .
unprecedented in the annals of watch selling. Don’t put the matter off, the quantity is limited.
We post them free on receipt of remittance. Money back if you feel at all disappointed
when you examine your purchase.
1— i4ct. Gold, 0.F., £5
2 ioct. „ 0.F., £5/5/-
3 i4ct. „ 0.F., £tC>
4 iBct. „ H.T.G., £8
5 i 4 ct. „ JH.T.G., £7/7/
No. 6 —i4ct.Gold, H.T.G .,£>5151
„ 7 —ioct. „ 0.F., £5/10
„ B—iBct.8 —i8ct. „ 0.F., £7
„ 9 —ioct. „ 0.F., £5
For 0.F., read Open Face ; JH.T.G., read
Half Hunting : H.T.G., read Hunting.
(AUSTRALIA). LTD.
EE®
tm
•JCWV
IK-llii".
II
48
' /».
igrcr -‘h;
\“'\!4 'Z r^'
% \M r r I
*-r. *
>
5/ > /
>m:
; «
4
=*
s
r"# 1 - s »*
«s V ;?;vi
%fes.-.‘ iv.»&
&•«/:«
-?.■■■-/•
- HH
&


A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
&
PIPES
AS SWEET AS MUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from all Tobacconists ,
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1} & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
a
•KWi!
mj/w
Hi'- R niiiiY -saKYi'.
lift***:
'
Wli
'A
m
vkflm
iiwn
FREE TRIAL !!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
to each per-
_ son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
We will give Free
■V*.
*
%
tollHQ
✓
%
*>/
tnf:
m.
m
*
■ V
; ■■ rC . ~,
■■■-mm.
m
m
■-xss&m
m
(ft
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES. Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
j^ r THOS. SHELTON, 18, Crown Street, Oxford, writes: —“ If the value of ‘ POWELL'S BALSAM OF
ANISEED’ was better known, many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung Troubles would do as I
have done for upwards of 50 years ; I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably
sets me up. It is invaluable. I have several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired
effect. I have had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and 2or 3 bottles had the desired effect when all
else failed. You may make what use of this you like."— December nth, 1907.
Mrs. S. W. BAILEY, 32, Manville Road, Balham, London, S.W., writes : —“ I may add that I recommend your
BALSAM after 12 years constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and 'Warminster,
Wilts, for 35 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers."— -January, 1908.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfrlars, LONDON, England.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland :
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O'Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR
CHGISi
MAR^’
FOR
COUGHS.
t
I
AfI^NJTOJj
\
MW4.
o
It acts like a charm in
DIARRHEA.
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World, in bottles, Is. 1 \d. ; 20z., 2s. 9<2.• 40z., 4s. 6 d. each.
Evei 7 bofctle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
Elephant,” on the wrapper, &e., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
V
\7
□
n
I Swallowed Drugs
enough to stock a good-sized chemist’s shop, and found myself worse
Instead of better when I stopped them.”
That is the story we hear every day; that is what thousands of weak and
ailing men and women are doing to-day; turning themselves into chemists’ shops,
ruining their nerves and stomach with narcotics, stimulants and poisons, only
to find themselves worse in the end than at the start. Sir Ashley
Cooper, the famous English surgeon, says: “The science of medicine is
founded on conjecture and improved by murder. Countless thousands drug
themselves to death annually. Electricity is the remedy provided by Nature.”
If YOU are drugging and dosing yourself, STOP before it is too late; stop poisoning
yourself and give Nature a chance to cure you. If you suffer from Nervous-
ness, Vital Weakness, Debility, Varicocele, Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indigestion, Constipation
or any Chronic Weakness or Ailment, use Nature’s cure—
Electricity as applied by the world-famous
DR. M C LAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT
and it will cure you if you are curable. Don’t waste time, don’t wait for the
final stroke of paralysis, apoplexy or heart failure which will put you beyond a cure,
but act at once ! Electricity is nerve food, no disease or weakness can exist in
a body that is plentifully supplied with it. There is not an ailing man or woman
whom it will not benefit, and it can do no harm when applied with our Belt,
will not burn, sting or shock. The current is “ direct galvanic,” which passes through the body smoothly and evenly,
causing no shock, although the heating, vitalizing thrill can be felt all through the body as it pours its life-giving power into
the nerves, blood and tissues, building them up and driving pain, weakness and disease out of the system. Our Belts are
sold in every civilized country in the world. The thousands of testimonials we have received from all parts of
Australia, and the many years of success we have had here, are absolute proof that Dr. McLaughin’s Electric Belt
is the standard. We have many imitators but no equals. Don’t be misled by false “Free Belt” offers, or the
extravagant claims of those who promise an impossible appliance as a bait for a 20-guinea course of drugs.
take Drugs; use Electricity alone as we apply it and .you will have nothing to regret.
Our prices are within the reach of all. "All Belts are sent by parcels
post, carriage and duty free to any part of Australia.
We have published an illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
It gives the prices and all information about the belts. We will
mail it, together with some of our testimonials, free, post paid to
all who write us, and our specialists will give you a diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict confidence.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
R C «‘ lereae ' h anti MarKet Streets, SYDNEY.
FREE*" 1
ADVICE
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STS., SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book,
Testimonials and Price List.
Name
Address
16


An American paper recently devoted half a
page of its valuable space, and about a furlong of
headlines, to President Roosevelt’s method of cloth-
ing himself. It seems that Roosevelt is one of those
men who can t be bothered changing his clothes
four or rive times a day, and he .cheerfully
ignores all the established rules about wearing a
sac suit in the morning to the office, followed by
a sort of Beaufort, then a frock coat for afternoon
wear, and evening dress after six. His worst sin
—from the dress-expert’s point of view—is that he
will not conform to the fashions, and persists in
having h i garments made according to his own
ideas of comfort. He wears the wroner sort of
collar and the anathema sort of tie, and he has
buttons wherever he wants them, and his out-of-
date, straight-up-and-down frock coat is a service-
able garment, and makes him look like a man, in-
stead of having a waist and making him look
like a bad imitation of a monkey’s wife. Accord-
ing to the excited journal that criticises him so
minutely, Roosevelt gives tailors and clothes-horse
men a fearful amount of pain by his lack of taste.
This, however, should not lie an insuperable
obstacle. If Roosevelt is too busy to change his
clothing all day, let Congress create the office of
National Clothes Horse, and appoint someone to
the position to whom Rags are a Serious Matter.
The Public Clothes Horse might be made Vice-
President.
English and American papers are scattering
information about, the Philadelphian lady, Mrs?
Weightman Walker, who recently married again
after distributing £200,000 amongst her relatives.
She retained only eleven millions, on which pit-
tance she and the new husband have to scratch
along. This lady, now Mrs. Something Penficld,
may have a certain murky interest for Aus-
tralians. She inherited her father’s share in the
Ammonia Co. of Australia, a rich American con-
cern, and the resident partner in Sydney is a
well-known American. Weightman’s wiil was
proved at 75,400,000d015. (it makes one feel a
spendthrift just to write it). He was a chemical
manufacturer, and went in for all kinds of chemi-
cal industries, just like Prime Minister Asquith’s
late father-in-law, Sir Charles Tennant, who
died last year and left his only child,
Mrs. Asquith, £4,000,000 (again that feeling
wt Sh ' 1 p ab f, t i aVI J sh !' ess! ) Mrs - Weightman
Walker Penfield and her new bridegroom have
started on a round-the-world tour, and will be
here about the same time as the American fleet
Personally I don’t mind if I don't see the fleet.
,n, “ sewing a lady worth
£n,000,000 Does she wear the banana-skin
s . k ”, t : b s , Jt cut with a flare at the foot?
And is her facial expression a suppose-tbe-banks-
were-to-suspend-payment one ?
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For p,f e Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LENT) ° n Securit y ot Freehold or Leasehold
W JJXaJat JJ City or Suburban Properties, or on
of Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
traHan States or » re ?’ I " scp,bed Stock or Treasury Rills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortsrajre Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of
r. up to -.0 tier cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman • Beniamin
Jas <) B ' m,S - ES , q ' 1 T he M Hon - R - J- Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. K E wSombe MLC. !
HEAD OFFICE 87 PITT STBFFT wnwv Managrer anrl AcCuarv : Richarrt Teece . F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
U U 1 ' llrr STKEET , SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
V VamyVxVet.
Ho Hotter \ servt OTN Te^ues^
/! d/etary adapted to c/?e prow/?? d/pest/Ve powers
Milk Food IN»I I Milk Food N»2 I Malted Food N°3
tro/n t>/P/> to 3mortt/s I /rom 3to 6trortts I from 6 /roads op wards.
S
Bridge & Loftus Sts., Sydney
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
The Famous Remedy for
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fe Consumption
BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA
Cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —From a strict sense
cf duty I feel that I should publish the following state-
ment, so that others may know what to do when the
awful fact is evident that a life is in danger of being
lost: —In September, 1906, my little girl, aged at that
time 3 years, contracted Measles, and in the following
October was attacked by Bronchitis, Pneumonia and
Congestion of the Lungs. She was attended by a
legally qualified doctor of high standing, but his treat-
ment was not successful in arresting the progress of the
illness. On Saturday, the 21st October, 1906, he said
that her life was in danger—that there was very little
hope for her. For eight days and nights she had been
prostrated by Cough, Pain and Fever, and was lying
like a statue, unconscious. At this stage I was per-
suaded by a friend to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure,
with its auxiliary medicine for the Fever and Conges-
tion of the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue of
Medicines which accompanies each bottle of the Bron-
chitis Cure. I gave the medicine as directed, and there
was an improvement from the first dose of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure. The improvement continued after
each dose of the medicine. In a week she was perfectly
free from the Pneumonia, Congestion, Cough, Pain and
Fever, and was well, except that she was still weak. In
a fo-tnight she was quite recovered, and is now in
splendid health, and stronger than ever. Any person
asking for information about this grand medicine can
be supplied by me, or by any of my neighbours who have
witnes-ed its wonderful effects. It absolutely snatched
my child from an early grave.—Yours gratefully,
„ . D. GARDINER,
Police Station, Geelong East, Feb. 5, 1908.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age.
Thoroughly Curec.' by Two Bottles of
Hearne s Bronchitis Cure.
immediate Relief-Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir, —I was very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me imme-
diate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am
thoroughly cured. Its effect on me has been most
wonderful. I am 73 years of age. I trust you will
make use of this statement by publishing it for the bene-
fit of humanity gener-' I ’v. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TRF.ZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
PNEUMONIA and PLEURISY
cured by
HEARNF’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
I, Prudence M‘Kee, of Carr-street, South Geelong, in
view of the importance of a person making it quite clear
what treatment was successful in curing a serious and
complicated case when the medicine, directions and treat-
ment of a legally qualified doctor had failed, state as
follows:
My son, Henry M’Kee, then aged 8 years, had been
attended by a legally qualified doctor, who pronounced
him to be suffering from Pneumonia, Pleurisy and a
stoppage of the passing of Urine. Under the doctor’s
treatment the child gradually got worse, and the doctor
pronounced the case hopeless. He told me that the
child could not live. At this stage I obtained from
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Chemist, of Geelong, a bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and gave it to the child, ac-
cording to the directions which accompany each bottle
of it. > The child improved after the second dose of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. He continued to improve
each day from each dose of Hearne’s Medicine alone, and
within three days he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy, and the Urine was passing satis-
factorily. He was out of bed at the end of a week,
completely recovered, and he is now in perfect health.
PRUDENCE M’KEE,
Carr-street, South Geelong, Feb. 6, 1908.
CONSUMPTION.
Too 111 to Leave His Bed.
A Complete Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonder-
ful cure your medicine has effected in my case. About
three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough
was not severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became
very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my
chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several oc-
casions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I
had been treated by a doctor who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill
to leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. I am glad to say that the two
lots of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure,
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR.
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
BRONCHITIS and PLEURISY.
A Bevere Case Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
After Other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered
from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to
my room for about a week, at the end of which time,
feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact
my business as usual. But I got up too soon, for the
very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from
what the doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis.
The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders
was frightful, and for four long weeks I was confined to
my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor,
and all the time his medicine gave me but temporary
£ ehef '-j ? he landlacJ y of the hotel (the Cleveland), where
I resided, told me of a medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis
Gure from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad at-
tack of bronchitis and pains in the chest, and begged
of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude
to you, tell you that, after the second bottle, my cough
had ceased; but what is more astonishing, the pains from
pleurisy entirely left me, and in about a week I was able
to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfullv,
, „ J. BRAHAM.
Melbourne “ Punch ” Office, Melbourne.
ASTHMA-A 17 YEARS CASE.
Previous Treatment Failed.
Cured by Three Bottles,
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, wrote:—“After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine I quite got rid of the asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1383—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it.
The medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure
in recommending it.”
Speaking in February, 1903, he states:—“l am keeping
very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
“ Hearne’s Medicine cured me of Asthma, from which
I had been suffering for twenty-five years, during which
time I had used almost every patent medicine on the
market—including asthma inhalations—without getting a
cure. It was 8 years ago that the cure was effected
by Hearne’s Medicine, and I now feel stronger than I
have felt for years—in fact, I feel splendid.”
C. WISEMAN,
Meredith, Victoria.
Beware of Imitations! The great success of HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving
the unsuspecting, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you
in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S, and see tnat you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 26; Large Size, 46, Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1a does NOT contain any Morphia or any Opium whatever. It is equally beneficial
for the youngest child and the most aged person.
A
'\K>
W
r
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.iS.W.
E>>e LEADING
HOUSE «»
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
mm*
uUUut
am
UWiIUUJ
Best Selected SilKworm o\it. Hand Polished.
The “ RELIABLE BRAND,” direct from our Factory in Spain.
We guarantee all Guts sold by us to be the Best Selected Gut procurable.
Regular, 12in, 7d. ; Padron No. 2,14 in., 9d. ; Padron No. 1, l«in., Is 3d; Marana No. 2,12 in., Is 3d ;
Marana No. 1,14 in., 3s 3d : Imperial No. 2,12 in., 4s per Hank of 50 Strings.
No. 328—Sparrow Trappers’ Nets, fitted to order with ropes, pegs & sticks.
Clap or Ground Nets—
Catchers’ Nets, for night use,
fitted in long handles; size
of net, 6x9 feet, 295. each.
A few days’ notice required for Fitted Nets.
Anglers’ Cuide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
Bridles
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving’s, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Gut Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
UNIVERBE, Bd, AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS REPRINTS
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
CußE.lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Park?, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
’<l9
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Mbtal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, hut about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptamf.ron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pT" Established, 15 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Mark Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosh Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 93 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 1# vtd. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all l*egrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Winchester
mm
il
&
tt
/
P.
CARTRIDGES
For Rifles and Pistols
Winchester make of
cartridges in all calibers
from .22 to .50 are accu-
rate, sure fire and relia-
ble. In forty years of gun
making we have learned
many things about am-
munition that no one
could learn in any other
way. When you buy
Winchester make of
cartridges you get the
benefit of this experience
Buy Only Winchester Make
ECKERSLEY’S
EUCALYPTUS
■ Purest A Strongest HH
Analyst's Certificate HB
on Every Bottle.
Mail us vour order direct for a 16 ounce bottle of
ECKERSLEY’S EUCALYPTUS. You get double the
strength and eight times the quantity of oil contained in
ordinary bottle (16 ounces).
Posted all over Australia for 3s. 3d.
ECKERSLEY (£L SONS,
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Are We Becoming
Bald-Headed ?
Baldness More Prevalent Abroad
than in England.
Are we becoming a bald-headed race ?
That is the question which thrusts itself into the mind of the inquiring observer after
an evening at any place of amusement or public assembly. Baldness is undoubtedly
largely on the increase, and the number of bald heads to be seen is quite alarming.
Somewhere in the Western interior of Australia, the Scottish explorer McKay says
that there exists such a race of people. They are not only devoid of hair upon their
heads and faces, but there is absolutely no trace of hirsutic growth upon their bodies.
1 hey are, in consequence, a feeble people, stunted in stature, and particularlv liable to
bronchial and chest diseases.
The fact of the matter is, that when abroad we do not, as a rule, devote the same care
and attention to the cultivation of a good head of hair as the average foreigner, and we
think that if we dash cold or hot water over it regularly, we are doing everything that we
can do to preserve it. But this is wrong. Except in a few cases, where there is a
naturally vigorous growth, the hair requires quite a different style of treatment. There is
no doubt that the lime in ordinary hard water is a depilatory, whereas what the hair
requires to keep it healthy is a non-harsh preparation (like “ Harlene ”) that will prevent
the scalp from becoming heated and dry, and also prevent the hair falling out. There is
no better preparation of this kind on the market than the many-years-old, tried-and-true
iavounte of Royalty, namely, “ Harlene,” which is very similar in quality and character
to the natural oil of the hair, and the absence or poverty of which is the direct cause of
nearly all baldness.
Harlene ” is both cleansing, tonic, and preservative, and may be used safely by
people of all ages. It may be obtained direct from the manufacturers, Messrs. Edwards’
Harlene Co., 95-6 High Holbom, London, W.C., and from any chemist or stores in the
Colonies. Furthermore, in order that “Harlene’s” merits may be tested before
adoption the proprietors will forward a free sample supply to all who send three penny
stamps (to cover postage) addressed as above.
2£ Britisb-flustralasian
T*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUIVIIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received bj
our head cutter :
Copy of Testimonial.
GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY.
Lady Mary Lygon wishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied irith the tiro costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well.
(Signed) C. JARDINTLR.
DYSON’S “ Faet’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d.
and wickedly true.’ 5 *
“ l)e-
On the Trail of the Trust Pricel3
POST FREE.


Note
Trade Mark.
so
i
rl
SSK
HABITUAL CONSTIPATION
KIONITa, UVtl
I XI
“NATURE'S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Acts Gently. Acts Pleasantly.
Acts Beneficially.
Acts Truly as a Laxative.
Overcomes Habitual Constipation,
speedily relieves
Biliousness, Indigestion,
and all disorders arising from
Sluggishness of Liver, Bowels & Kidneys.
Sold by all Chemists throughout Australia in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
HE
THESE
PRIZES
FREE
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us to sell more we offer FBEE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id. each, or 6d. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
we will forward you t> Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Filled Muff
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
Books, Dressing Cases and many others. The more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don't send any money—just your name and address.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
/ Post Card \
\ Department / f
476 George-street, SYDNEY.
COLDS COUCHS CONSUMPTION
This is the order in which they appear. The Common cold, the uncommon Cough,
and Consumption, the white man’s scourge, is introduced. . . . Get rid of and
eradicate the Cough, check the risk of Consumption. The common Cold, caught in
the winter, is the slayer of mankind. Take MRS. MACLURCAN’S CELEBRATED
COUGH CURE, and avoid all winter troubles. IT CURES IMMEDIATELY. Allays
Inflammation, Asthma, Bronchitis, and all kindred affections. Its action is sure.
Mrs. MACLURCAN’S Cough Cure ‘Cures.’
All Chemists & Storekeepers.
Price 1/6 per Bottle.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.,
Sewcn
Prize Medals.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. I hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works s Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
EIGHT YEARS SUFFERING
A PERMANENT CURE.
THE CASE OF MRS. A. WEAVER.
BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.
No one can tell the self-denying work which
good men have done in the early days of this
country, neither can we exaggerate the nobleness
of spirit which animates present-day people in a
desire to ameliorate distress as much as lies in their
power. Therefore, the public should be informed
of some of these efforts, one of which was made by
Mrs. Alice Weaver, of No. 7 Louis Street, Redfern,
who replied to the reporter by saying :
“ About this time last year I was living in
Telopea Street, and it was just before I left there
for this place that I was fortunate in casting aside
a complaint that had worried me for no less than
eight years. What a fearful life of suffering mine
had been all that time, to be sure, and to think that
nothing in the world could benefit me made my
spirits droop lower than they will ever be again,
I hope.”
“What made you think that nothing could
benefit you ? ” queried the writer.
“I arrived at that conclusion because nothing
had done me good so far, and I believe I tried
every medicine going. At the time my second
child was born I was under a doctor, who did
everything he could for me, but still my health re-
mained as bad as it could be. Indeed, at that
period I was nearly dead with indigestion, al-
though I dieted myself and did all that could be
done to keep my torments in check. It was of no
avail, though, for when I ate anything I could
hardly breathe owing to a feeling which came like
a lump in my chest, from which place a sharp pain
went right through to the centre of my shoulders.
I then remained in the utmost agony until the food
was vomited up again, after which I felt so ex-
hausted that I could not think of doing a thing in
the house until I had had a good rest. It would
surprise you if you only knew how poor my appetite
was. You would wonder how anyone could keep
alive with it, and as for my head, oh, my sufferings
with it were awful. The most piercing pains at
onetime, and themost depressingachesat another.
Really, I think it was a marvel how I kept my
senses with the agony I endured in the head ; and
it’s strange that I did not meet with many a nasty
accident through the giddiness which used to over-
take me. I was a misery to myself and everybody
around me, and to tell you the honest truth I never
thought I would live through it all. My eyes used
to feel heavy enough to drop out of their sockets,
and I was affected in the mouth by such a bitter
taste that it made me feel sick of a morning, after
putting in the usual restless nights that had done
much towards making a wreck of me. Even in the
daytime I wasalwaysimagining something terrible
was going to happen, and these were just the very
things that Clements Tonic, which I commenced to
take, showed itself to be the master of ; for it sent
such a vigor through my frame, when I had been
taking it a couple of weeks, that I could not help
feeling joyful in the belief that at last my health
had taken a beneficial turn. I got more Clements
Tonic, and as each bottle was finished, so did my
prospects improve, for I commenced to take my
meals with a degree of heartiness which astonished
my people as much as it pleased them ; and to my
own satisfaction anddelight theformer discomforts
attending my meals were quickly out of existence.
Oh, dear, what a changed woman I am now to then.
My limbs do not ache from weakness like they
formerly did, and I can go about my work as
cheerfully and as actively as any housewife in the
country. Ido not spend any restless nights now;
never dream during my sleep, and the pains that
used to abound have long since been driven away
from every part of my body. Well, Clements
Tonic made me the healthy woman I am, and for
the sake of other sufferers I trust you’ll publish
this interview in any way you think fit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Alice Weaver, of Fo. 7 Louis Street, Redfern, in the
State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, and that it contains, and is
a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by
Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish in any way my statements, which I give voluntary,
without receiving any payment, and I make this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1000.
(Signed) ALICE WEAVER.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this sixth day of
September, one thousand nine hundred and four, before
-ene, L. BREARLEY. 4,».
Banjo Song of Dunedin Lassies.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f girls that come from Auckland
I Have faces pale and proud.
With eyes of summer lightning,
And brows of summer cloud,
And Auckland girls are stately,
And Auckland girls are gay—
But it’s not the girls of Auckland
I’m thinking of to-day.
()h, lass ies of Dunedin !
Your eyes are just as briyht;
They ylow with happy beauty,
They shine with so fter light;
And, lassies of Dunedin,
The gentle southern sun
Has touched your cheeks with color
Of blushes half-begun !
In Wellington are ladies
Not lacking queen-like grace
For poise of head and shoulders,
And clear, wind-freshened face —
Full-breasted like an empress,
With straight limbs swinging free—
Yet little is the heart-call
Of Wellington for me.
Oh, lassies of Dunedin,
Through all your veins there thrills
A blood made warm with climbing
The stiff Dunedin hills !
Therefore no city’s women
Can match your necks and hips.
There are no lips to challenge
The freshness of your lips.
The girls that live in Christchurch
Have glorious waving hair,
And some are dark and regal,
And some are sweet and fair ;
And Christchurch girls are merry,
And Christchurch girls are bright,
But it’s not a Christchurch maiden
I’m wishing for to-night.
Oh, lassies of Dunedin,
Your laughter runs like gold.
For you, the joy of living,
And hearts that grow not old.
To lightsome tunes are beating
The staunch, good hearts of you ;
And, lassies of Dunedin,
Your lips and hearts are true !
For we have gone by Roslyn,
And over Maori Hill,
And by the hawthorn hedges
That lead to Roslyn Mill,
And climbed to Cargill’s Castle
A long December day,
And the lassies of Dunedin
Went singing all the way.
Oh, lassies of Dunedin,
I hear your laughter yet,
The elder days are calling.
And I shall not forget.
Oh, home of silvery laughter!
Oh, house of honest speech !
To you come all contentment,
And one true heart to each !
How through the winter gaslight,
Along the snow-hushed street,
We went to merry dances
With gracious girls and sweet!
How, girt in dainty vesture
And filled with warm delight,
The lassies of Dunedin
Waltzed through the winter night!
Oh, lassies of Dunedin !
When shall I see again
The tender eyes I once saiv
Like bush new-washed with rain !
Whatever land I come to,
Whatever doom I dree,
It’s one Dunedin lassie
That holds the heart of me I
maoriland.
T.P.
The Farmer’s Daughter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TMHE cow-bail was built of bark, and was
large enough to accommodate six cows. In
winter it was up to the knees in mud, in
snminer over the ankles in dust, in both seasons
Mdescribably filthy. But these things were of
die least concern to Mary Gunter and her father,
lhey were used to them.
Mary was finishing the last few cows late one
simmer evening. Her father was up at the dairy,
which explained the familiar attitude of Bill
reenleaf, who leaned comfortably against the
Post and watched Mary’s skilful fingers
squeezin’ the cow juice,” as he put it. All
the time he kept a furtive eye on the door of the
•htiry- Mary was leaning against the flank of the
a,v dreamily. One of her eyes had a squint,
sad seemed to be watching the restless tail of the
while the other looked clean at and through
“I- Her face was slightly freckled, and her nose
seemed to have been flattened from constant
Pressure against the ribs of innumerable milkers.
Just now her cheek was against the cow, for she
''shed to look at Bill. Her ear seemed to tickle
I''eo 1 '' eow ’ a nd it swung its tail round so much that
1 1 began to speculate when it would catch Mary
!" “ er Btra ight eye. He became so interested that
almost lost the thread of his talk, and gave
the impression that he was absorbed by her
' ufy, so she stared harder and tried to raise a
“y blush.
u *^ re y’on fer riskin’ me ? ” said Bill.
Will yer risk the dad ? ” she replied, and
to wink as the tail swished past her eye.
I don’t think ’e\counts so very much if you’ll
take me.”
“Then yer really and truly loves me, Bill.”
ine milk gurgled excitedly into the bucket, and
the cow kicked towards Bill, as if it suspected he
might be tickling its flanks.
Yes, Mary, I trooly loves yer, and wants yer
ter marry me.” The sparkle in Mary’s straight
eye deepened, and Bill watched her anxiously,
to see if there was a gleam of love in it, and at
the same time he saw the tail give a preliminary
swing. His eyes lighted with interest, and left
Mary s face to watch it. With a sudden twisting
swish it flung round, and for a brief instant Mary’s
eye vanished.
“ Got yer,” he said.
' I’ll be dommed ef y’ave, ’’ said Mary rising in
sudden wrath, and before Bill could turn, she
flung the whole bucket of milk, bucket and all,
over him. Even the plainest girl hates to be
thought cheap.
It took Bill a month to explain that he did not
mean what she thought he meant. But her final for-
giveness was sudden as unexpected. It was on
the day of the arrival of her cousin, Kate Willow.
Bill had often heard Mary speak of her cousin ;
but not taking any particular interest, he never
remembered what she had said. He only retained
an impression that Mary considered her a
very pretty girl. When he saw her, he came
to the conclusion that Mary had very much
understated the case; or he had forgotten most
of what she had said. There was no hope of
meeting Kate in the house ; for Mr. Gunter re-
garded every young man as a prospective thief.
Most particularly was he suspicious of Bill. So
was Mary, which perhaps justified her misunder-
standing his remark at the cow bail.
Kate Willow was riding into the township
beside her cousin when Bill first saw her. He
said afterwards that he nearly fell off his horse,
but that was probably an exaggeration. Mary
said he looked like a fool when she introduced
him. Which was probably true. Kate was a
fair girl of 18. Her hair was still down, though
her figure was already that of a woman ; her skin
was fresh, her eyes blue and bright as good
health and simple-mindedness could make them.
She appeared shy at first, and Bill found her shy-
ness fascinating. After going to the township he
felt that there was only one girl in the world for
him, and that was Kate Willow. Mary was quiet
at first, and seemed distressed. She cheered up a
little by the time they reached home, and dis-
missed Bill with a curtness which he didn’t see.
As they were undressing that night, Mary looked
at herself in the glass, and came to the conclusion
she had no show against Kate, which was curious,
after the bucket incident. Then she asked :
“ What do you think of Bill ? ”
Kate giggled. “’E’s a gawk,” she said, and
giggled some more. Mary understood.
“ Anyway, ’e’s a fool,” said Mary. “’E wanted
ter marry me.”
Kate shrieked with laughter, till Gunter
thumped on the wall and bade her be quiet.
Mary’s freckled face turned scarlet. She began
to think that she didn’t like Kate. “ I wouldn’t
’ave ’im at any price,” she continued. “All’e
wants is me money. At least dad thinks so.”
“ Is ’e poor ?” asked Kate.
“ Poor as eight brothers and sisters and a mort-
gaged farm can make ’im. Still ’e’s strong, ’an
can work.” She said this very thoughtfully.
Bill brought up the cows the next evening. He
used to do it to see Mary. This time he hardly
looked at her, but watched the house. Mary buried
her face in the cow’s flank.
“D’yer think Kate’s pretty, Bill?” she asked
carelessly.
“A bit,” he answered casually, still eagerly
gazing at the house.
“She’s cornin’ in for a good big farm some
day,” said Mary, softly. This was an invention.
“ Blow the farm ! ” said Bill, looking quickly
down at her. Her face was still hidden, and
Spotty’s tail swished her back hair unreproved.
“I mus’ be goin’ now, Mary,” he said, reluc-
tantly. Then he bolted. Mr. Gunter had caught
sight of him, and was rushing to the cowyard
bellowing wild threats.
■***■»
A month passed, and Kate was still with her
cousin. By this time they had discovered they
had very little in common, and Mr. Gunter dis-
covered that his house was under some kind of
surveillance. Several times he had seen a shadow
fitting out of sight when he went out for wood after
the girls were in bed. He suddenly grew suspicious,
and, sneaking to the door of Mary’s room, he
softly opened it and peeped in. There were two
figures in bed. Mary didn’t think it worth while
telling him that one of them was built out of a
pillow. She was loyal to Kate, though she had
begun to hate her badly. Kate was always letting
her see that she would never have a chance of
getting a husband, and saying things which re-
ferred to her plainness and its drawbacks. It
requires a lot of patience, or a lot of sense, for a
girl to put up with that sort of thing, particularly
from one prettier than herself. Mary must have
had a great deal both of patience and
sense, for she listened with downcast eyes,
yet with that appearance of interest which might
have warned a less conceited girl than Kate.
When Bill first sneaked up to their window, and
whistled, Kate giggled and nudged Mary
vigorously, giggled again, and pulled the clothes
over her head. She asked Mary what she ought
to do, but was out of bed and dressing before she
could answer. In a week Kate did not trouble to
undress, and the pillow was sufficent evidence
for Mr. Gunter’s casual eyes.
* * * *
Kate had taken to going into the township,
ostensibly for the mail. Bill tried to go for the
mail too, but his dad had something more useful
for him to do, so it was one of Bill’s younger
brothers whom Kate always met. She was
learning to dislike Bill’s younger brother.
One morning Kate was standing on the plat-
form waiting for the train, when Mrs. Jones, who
lived on the side of Gunter’s farm nearer the
township, came along with two of her daughters,
bovine-eyed lasses of sixteen and seventeen. Mrs.
Jones didn’t see Kate till one of her chicks went
to speak to her. Then she broadened like a
flustered hen, and uttering “ Cissie ! ” in a tone
exactly resembling a hen calling her chickens to
cover, she passed on with an outward thrust of
her chin and a tilt of the nose that made Kate
turn scarlet. She crawled to the end of the plat-
form, her ears singing and her heart bursting
with wrath, and with a face which tried its best
to appear coldly indifferent.
An hour later she burst into the kitchen where
Mary was busy making bread, and amidst angry
tears and angrier questions she related what had
happened. Mary listened silently, as usual, her
unexpressive features struggling hard either to
show or suppress sympathy.
“ Some o’ the Jones kids must ’a seen yer out
with Bill,” she said at last.
“There wasn’t no ’arm in that, was there? ’
and Kate tossed her head.
The Jones kids had seen Bill vigorously kissing
Kate behind the barn. Mary had told them there
was a native cat in that barn, which might be
(Continued on next page.)


AGONISING
WEAKENING
A Five Years’ Sufferer Cured.
Only those who suffer, or have suffered,
from Piles, know the agony which this
ailment causes, and only those who have
tested Zam-Buk Balm know the relief it
brings. Piles are caused by congestion
of the hemorrhoid veins. Zam-Buk cools
the burning surfaces, stops the bleeding,
softens the walls of the congested veins,
and gives prompt relief. Even in chronic
cases, Zam-Buk will not be found to fail.
It cures when all else fails. The follow-
ing case was of 5 years’ standing, yet
Zam-Buk proved equal. Read the details.
“For five years I was troubled with bleeding
and protruding Piles,” says Mr. J. O’Hanlon, of
Tqcker Street, Horse Shoe Bend, Gympie, Q.,
“ during which time I tried many remedies, both
internal and external, and also consulted a doctor.
All the so-called remedies I tried, however, failed
to cure the trouble, and the doctor strongly
advised me to undergo an operation, assuring me
that I should not get rid of the Piles unless I had
them cut out. I was' suffering great agony ;
intense inflammation had set in ; sitting down
was out of the question; and I was rapidly be-
coming incapacitated for work. At this time I
&
tM
mm
■
m*
m
Mr. J. O’HAftLOiM
chanced to come across a sample pot of Zam-Buk, and commenced to use it before making
up my mind to undergo the operation advised by the doctor. The first application of the
Balm brought immediate relief, cooling and soothing the aching parts. I continued with
the Zam-Buk treatment, and gradually, but surely, the Piles went completely away. I
feel a new man, and have not been troubled with this distressing complaint for the"past
year, which proves conclusively that Zam-Buk cures surely and permanently.”
NATURE’S SOOTHER AND HEALER.
So pure that it suits even a baby’s delicate skin, and so powerful that it expels disease from its
strongest refuge, the frame of old age, Zam-Buk is the world’s great Healing Balm for all injured,
diseased, irritated and inflamed conditions of the skin and tissue, such as Cuts, Bruises, Burns,
Scalds, Abrasions, Sprains, Eczema, Pimples, Children’s Sores, Scabs, Scalp Troubles, Poisoned
Wounds, Festering Sores, Running Sores, Piles, Bad Legs, Abscesses, Boils, Ulcers, Ringworm,
Psoriasis, Barber’s Rash, Rheumatism, Neuralgia, Sore Chest, Sore Throat, Chapped Hands,
Chilblains, etc.
am-
Obtainable from all
Chemists l and Stores at 1/6
per pot, and 3/6 large
family size (containing
nearly four times the 1/6),
or direct, post fiee, from
the ZAM-BUK 00., 39
Pitt Street, Sydney. *
RUB IT m r
'v
9
I
r
mddud dmdt d
caught about 10 o’clock. She did not tell Kate,
who had other game to hunt.
* * * *
“ Bill,” said Mary next evening, when she was
making the milk hiss and bubble into the pail,
“ Dad’s goin’ away for a couple o’ days from
ter-morrer. ”
“I ’opes yer won’t be lonely, Mary,” said Bill,
eagerly.
■‘l’ve Kate,” she answered, pressing her nose
deeply into the cow’s side. The cow kicked
against the leg rope fretfully.
“ There’ll only be the two of yous,” said Bill,
hopefully. He just missed a kick from Spotty’s
free hind leg, as he leaned against the post behind
her.
“Kate’s thinkin’ o’ goin’ ’ome soon.” Mary
turned and looked at him from between the cow’s
hindlegs and tail as she spoke, and saw his face
fall.
“ Anythin’ wrong,” he asked.
“’Er father’s lost ’is farm,” she said sadly.
(This was also an invention.) Bill’s face was a
study in conflicting emotions, mostly fright.
“ What ’orrible luck,” he said.
“ Who for ? ” she asked, innocently.
“’Er father,” he answered, quickly, trying hard
to read the differently directed eyes of Mary, and
remembering that to see a squint was unlucky.
That night Kate lay on her bed dressed. At
nearly midnight she grumpily dragged off her
clothes. Mary said Bill was a low down sort of
sneak. Kate agreed; then she defended him.
Mary agreed with the defence and invented
further excuses for him, which Kate said were
rubbish. Mary thought they might be, too. But
there was no pleasing Kate, who sat up at every
sound, only to drop back with a sigh. Mary got
tired of it, and told her to go to sleep. She wept
instead. In the morning she got up with a hard,
set look on her face, and announced briefly that
she was going for a long walk.
Mary sang at her work all that day. There
was the making of a fine cynic in Mary, for she was
pleased to think that Kate was a bigger fool
than herself. She felt no real malice towards
Bill, though she had told her father to call at
Mrs. Jones’ for a pattern on his way back.
* * » *
The sun had just set when Mary was finishing
her last cow on the following evening. The day
had been hot, and she was unusually slow. Bill
was leaning against the post, carefully watching
her straight eye. The other eye was intent on
Spotty’s vindictive tail, and he was not curious
whether the tail caught it or not. Mary was
becoming a puzzle; a man always gets interested
in a woman when she puzzles him. He had
blurted out that he wanted Kate “to explain
things to her,” he said. Mary didn’t even smile.
The puzzled frown had deepened on his forehead,
and he was just beginning to think he ought to
explain things to Mary, remembering suddenly
that he had said he loved her. He began to
sweat, and had already mopped his forehead
several times. Then he saw Mary smile. The
sound of a quickening footstep reached his ears.
The smile deepened. He turned lazily, and
found himself looking into the angry eyes of Mr.
Gunter. There was no time to walk away, and
he would not run. Mr. Gunter was a big
brawny man, with heavy eyebrows that met, and
gave him a peculiarly savage aspect when he was
angry.
“So you’ve bin ruinin’the good name of me
niece, Kate, have yer, yer unlicked whelp. Seen
kissin’ her behin’ me barn, eh ? S’pose yer think
she’s cornin’ irt fer money, too, eh?” His voice
rose. With a fine assumption of indifference
Mary released Spotty, and, picking up her pail,
walked slowly to the dairy. There she hastily
emptied the bucket and went to a small window.
She saw two figures in a cloud of dust. A large,
thick one was blindly butting and hitting; a long,
thin one, which was Bill, was blindly defending
itself and being forced back to the fence, where it
got a blow that sent its head with a bang on to the
high rail. Mary ran swiftly back to the yard.
Bill was on the ground now, vainly struggling to
get up under a rain of blows from a split picket.
His nose was bleeding, and one eye was black.
She did not see that both the eyes of her father
were black.
“ Stop it, dad ! ” she screamed.
“ I’ll teach’im ter play the blackguard about
me barn !”
“Stop it!” screamed Mary more loudly. He
took no notice. Rushing to the bail, Mary ripped
off another picket. Mr. Gunter gasped as a
whack on the chest knocked the wind out of him.
Dropping his stick he turned on Mary furiously,
to be checked by another on his head. Mary was
Dutch-built, with plenty of breadth in the beam,
and long in the arm. Luckily her dad had on a thick
felt hat. As he raised it to feel his head, he saw
his undutiful daughter throw herself beside Bill,
and begin to mop his face with her skirt. Then
she took his head on her lap and kissed him.
Mr. Gunter walked away in a state of helpless
bewilderment.
• * * *
When Kate returned she was tired out and
snappy-tempered. After tea she said she would
return home in the morning, and did not speak
again till they were in bed. Then Mary spoke
softly:—
“ Kate.” she sighed.
“ Kate,” insisted Mary.
“ What is it ? ” mumbled Kate, surlily.
“D’yer remember me tellin’ yer Bill ast me ter
marry’im?” There was a dreadful silence. “’E
ast me agen ter-night.” Kate sat up with a jerk.
“ And what did you say?”
“ Nothin’ much —only ‘ yes.’ ”
Kate lay down and wept for the rest of the
night.
W. BRENTA.
The Goat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN Newcastle (N.S.W.) the rank odor of
the male goat mingles in some quantity with
the heavy, coal-laden atmosphere. The
Queensland towns may boast of more numerous
herds, but for smashage of the Ten Command-
ments the jam-tin goes to a herd of rank and
truculent venison which haunts the Newcastle
wharfs.
We were coming down from the North, and had
to lie up for repairs to the stomach of the ship.
The time hung on our hands like a curate who had
committed suicide, so to lighten the dead weight
of the evening the second engineer suggested that
we should sally forth and capture a few goats.
The goats just then came down and tried to eat
the ship’s repairs, and the perfume of the Head
Goat was lofty, even as the crest of Chimborazo.
The captain exclaimed that, if he owned half
of that Billy, he’d kill his half. We took this for
a command, as King Henry’s hangers-on did
when the monarch said he could struggle through
without T. A’Beckett. It was raining as the Devil
reigned in Heaven before he was bounced from
the ranks of the Seraphim. We told the captain
we would be back before that chaliced hour when
the dark mantle of night is drawn from off the
golden tresses of morn. Then we stepped ashore
and buffeted our march towards a dark, for-
bidding bump in the landscape, behind which we
had previously investigated the enemy preparing
for the night’s restlessness. The second mate was
first, and the first engineer came last. The first
mate was in the middle, and the third
mate was fourth. Behind the fifteenth engi-
neer marched the hordes of Small Boy,
and Chips, our Chinese ship’s carpenter.
The Chinese crew was with us to a woman—they
couldn’t be called men by reason of their skirts.
Chips was clad in all the glory of the Orient. He
had upon him a blue blouse of eatable cut, a
passionate pair of baggy pants, and a pair of fried
leathers.
Despite the opposition of a reptile press and
the machinations of the Labor party, we mo-
bilised ourselves and rushed upon those goats.
Immediately the Chief Goat put his head down,
and butted Chips right in the forecastle. Chips
went down like the Polish monarchy in 1793 or
thereabouts, and fell into a state of profound
reticence. He was aroused from deep stunned
thought by the Chief Goat eating his clothes,
which, as already mentioned, embodied all the
glories of the East and vaguely suggested what
the Taj Mahal would have been if it had been
painted bright red and had cost 3s. fid. He leaped
up, and kicked the animal on the thickest part of
its fragrance, and bounced right up into the
atmosphere and again dropped temporarily dead.
While he was dead the animal made a champagne
supper off his boots. It was devouring his pigtail
when Chips awoke some more, and in frenzy he
again kicked the loftiest pinnacle of the William’s
odor, and sank down with a shriek, a broken toe,
and a heartrending cry of “ Whaffor ? ”
Just here the general battle had deployed, and,
getting mixed, had retired in disorder to the
original scene, leaving behind it its artillery and
most of its prestige. The engineer said that
if Australia had a system of compulsory military
training this disgrace would never have fallen
upon us. He was moved to tears, and recited ex-
tracts from “Grey’s Elephant in a Country
Churchyard.” We rescued Chips. Then we re-
turned to the ship carrying one nanny as the
plunder. The captain concealed his joy at seeing
us, and said he would stop the goat out of our
wages, which he did. And what I want to know
is : Have we a good ground of action in the High
Court ?
THE DRUNK.
The Seeker.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE warm air blew against my face,
Its heavy rose and lily scent
Slow-pacing up her starlit halls,
Unto her throne the Queen-Moon went.
Far down, lit by a million lamps,
The town lay dreaming at my feet,
And, close at hand, a singer trilled
A happy love-song, old and sweet.
The music set my heart on fire,
I, whom no man had ever kissed,
Whose youth had been a barren thing,
Who had life’s sweetest glory missed.
My dying youth awoke again,
My old heart flamed with discontent,
And down into the dreaming town
In search of love and joy I went.
But, blinded by the myriad lights,
I stumbled over ev’ry stone ;
The laughing crowd in groups went by,
But I passed on my way alone.
Then one came near with godlike steps,
With glowing face and careless eyes,
A happy song upon his lips,
A song of spring and sunlit skies.
I barred his way with outstretched arms,
And cried of love and longing heart,
And my lone bower upon the hills,
From all the sordid world apart;
There we would dream through summer days,
And when night came with shadow deep,
Beneath the glory of the stars
My lips should sing his soul to sleep.
He looked me, scornful, through and through,
He said, “ Though you are passing fair,
Your eyes have autumn’s fading tints,
And winter’s snows are on your hair.
My godlike youth is in its prime,
My heart must find a spring-born mate ;
For autumn’s but a mourning time,
And winter nights are desolate.”
So, crushed and shamed, I passed along,
My erstwhile joyous hopes laid low,
Till one came by with snow-white hair
Through all the bustle limping slow. s
Then thought I, to Midwinter’s chill
Dull Autumn’s days are Summer’s prime,
Though we may think the wind blows drear,
They call it Spring in northern clime.
I laid my hand upon his arm,
And cried, “ Oh, surely we may love,
We both have lived and suffered long ;
Come to my hill-set bower above.
Within that sunnier land may we
Find Happiness and Youth again,
And Love may come to dwell with us,
And Joy be born of years of pain.” 1
He stroked my whitening red-brown hair,
His trembling voice was strangely kind.
He said, “ Go, seek your hill-set bovyer
And leave the noisy town behind.
Dream not of blissful joyous hours
That still may be your heritage,
For Youth’s the only time to love,
And madcap Joy’s not born of Age.l-
- sad grey dawn was in the sky,
As back unto my bower I went,
My heart’s red fire to ashes burnt
With wisdom grown of discontent.
And but a string of words have I
My lonely longings to assuage—
“ Youth is the only time to love,
And madcap Joy’s not born of Age.”
N.S.W.
R.B.


ft
“I was troubled greatly with
pimples on the face and neck,
which so-called blood medicines I
used did not remove. I then,
about two years ago, began with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and I have
not been troubled with the pim-
ples since. You can use this photo
and testimonial as you like.”
Miss B. Johnson, Adelaide.
Blotches, rashes, pimples, eczema, boils, are not sim-
ply signs of a little trouble on the surface of the body.
The real trouble is down deep in the blood itself.
AYER’S s arsaparilla
purifies the blood and brings back to the skin all its soft,
natural, and healthy condition.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Look
outfor imitationsthat will only disappoint you. Get“AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
13%
v
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
T a ,n,Ki ving , away P nzes such as MUSICAL
M £?,?S,LAD IhS and G ENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS. SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME) AND ADDRESS and we will forward vou 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Sto'ck, Mignonette
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return the seeds if not sold
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every ca»e
positively as represented in our illustrations.
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name al®
m.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australianßlight,Failing Eyelashes,Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or -write
S. GREEN, .10, Lambetli Road, Loudon, Eng.
riIHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
JL Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
jC I(' (£ J)* y
mm
m.
» m
WK
mm
'j.
mmm
mmmm.
tmi
Wm
W&
s mm
m
mm
mm
St&
WA
you understand me!
omme
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THU BEST REMEDY KNOWN 1 FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England—l/Ik, 29, 4/6.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to everv home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where Hies
among whom are
axe troublesome.
Clean, neat ami
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
druggists,
Groce, s and
Hardware
Dealers,
Sydney —-Anthony Hordern <fc Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd ,
O'Connell St. ; F. H Fanning & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co.. 2CB Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. . S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheini, Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd,
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S. A
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George street, Sydney
STEEL WINGS
Tremendously Powerful,
Long Stroke, Automatic.
Australian invention.
Write for Catalogue “C.”
STEEL WINGS
WINDMILLS can be in-
spected working at Bay
Road Railway Station,
North Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
the old reliable
ENGLISH REIVIEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
A New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatriqal and
Domestic History.
Post Froe, Is.
The Lite, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULfS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT <fe Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. So.d bu all Citemitt*.
me is
A NO
WOMEN
H
Dr. John Martin, M.D. & B .
Consulting Physician in ail Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. iVo similar book has ever been published.
CD CC To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
■ & “ ■ this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men's special Ailments ”
on receipt of this adversisement. Note Address :
DR. MARTIN , M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing:.
“Elmley House,”
151 Elizabeth -st..
__ HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


The " Clontarf ” is a double tex-
ture Macintosh (rubber proofed be-
tween two cloths) of dark grey or
fawn Oovcrting. It is extra full cut
on the la test English model, and has
vertical pockets, cuff straps, and
non conductors on r uffs and skirt.
It is light, and yet w ill keep the
wearer perfectly dry. You could
nor, get a better Macintosh than
this, and our economical price is
45/- post free to your address.
You simply have to send your
height and easy chest measure-
ment over clothes to ensure a
perfect fit.
We will send samples of material
and our Winter Catalogue, No. 17,
on request. It tells all about
Goloshes as well.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.,
“ The House for Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
RABBIT
DESIROYERS
■
will clear the run in
a few weeks. Now
used all overN.S.W.
SPRAYERS
will save a Pastoralist 10 per cent, of his
breeding ewes if sprayed before lambing.
TYREE LTD., 314 GEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by comm-essed air. consumimr about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE. .CENTS : W & J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64- PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Water!
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
V<PA
“ B’
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
Rider.
ATT’
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
030000
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time.
WOLF
Abb
or
At the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also . SYDNEY
"THE BLOCK,'
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS S
J. & J, Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
JOHN HURST & CO.
Watchmaßers and Jewellers,
HAVE REMOVED FROM
321 George St. to 4 Hunter St., Sydney
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINERY
Head
Office :
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED,
7 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIA: D. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street. Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing' Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing(W. A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Bon, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
DON’T DECIDE
on fitting your shed
until you have ch-
are giving specially
when quality counts
tained our PRICES. WE
attractive quotations, and
the M-V is always the CHEAPEST machine. SEND
us an enquiry —not to-morrow -NOW.
N. B. —Duplicates and
Supplies obtainable
from all Agencies.
PARKE & LACY COMPANY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Mining Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR
ATLAS ENGINES & BOILERS
•jskp
A Good Stock kept in Sydney -
ATLAS ENGINES represent the Highest
standard of manufacture, in every type.
Catalogues, Prices, and all Particulars on application .
(To the Editor of the “ Star," Sydney.)
Sir,—Under the above heading-, your Saturday issue of 2nd inst.
states that the men engaged on sewer works “contend that the smoke
from rackarock, which is largely used, is specially irritating and
injurious.”
I introduced “Rackarock" from America in 1885, and until the
patents expired, in about 1894, I manufactured every ounce that was
used in Australasia, amounting to some hundreds of tops. Since that
time some brands have been placed on the market at prices with which I
could not compete without lowering the quality, which I would not do.
Unfortunately, many people consider an article at, say, 4s. must be
cheaper than ahother at 55., whereas, in actual work,'the low-priced
stuff may be 50 per cent, dearer.
With regard to my “ Rackarock,” I would state that if the holes are
Sewer Construction a Menace.
properly charged and tamped the combustion is complete, and there are
practically no fumes.
A good explosive saves cost in drilling, as less of it is required to shift
the burden, as it can be put into the bottom of the hole and leave plenty of
room, for efficient tamping, whereas a larger quantity of the poorer quality
is required to shift the same burden, and ifry often there is not sufficient
room left for good tamping, consequently the combustion is imperfect,
and the drive is filled with the smoke and fumes to which the men object.
Blasting is a talent, and I may safely say that in about every SO
miners one man would have the “ instinct ” which would enable him to do
at least 25 per cent, more work ivith the same amount of explosives than
anyone of the remaining 19. This man would know' to an ounce the
quantity of explosive to Use to shift a burden, consequently he would never
overload a hole, which always results in Jumes and extra cost on the
explosives bill.
If I had a contract only employing .four men, I would find one of
these men better at blasting than the other three, and in my own iterestt
I would place all the blasting in his hands, as I know my expl five bill
would be far less, the men could work in the headings under better condi-
tions, and with one man in charge of the explosives, which should a l be the
very best of their kind, the risk of accident would be almost nil. .
In the Sydney sandstone “Rackarock” is by far the most effioien
explosive, and if properly used, would cause the men much less discom
fort than any other class of explosive.
There is no doubt in my mind that every man engaged on the sewer
jobs will join me in heartily thanking you for ventilating this matter as
you have done, and which I trust will result in better conditions an
round.—Yours, etc., R- A. HERVEY.
Sydney, May 4, ’OB.
All .Store Keepers,
or direct from
R. A. HERVEY,
_ *
Cor. Clarence and King Streets, Sydney.
Explosives, Machinery and Supplies for Mining, Quarrying, Dredging, Sluicing,
Sole Agent for Patented Articles and Goods of special manufacture.
Established 1884- Telephone 618.
Irrigation, etc. ; Contractors’, Engineers’ and Builders’ Sundries.
Hard Work Saving Devices a Specialty.
The Simplest Thing
lmaginable
WILLIAMS’ PATENT OIL FILTER.
Makes 5 Gallons Dirt/ Oil Bright and Clean in 6 Minutes.
PRICE
Sav i n g
Effected
70
Per Cent.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd ■j Sole Licensees and Manufacturers,
Sydney and Melbourne.
Anchor Tin Mink Ltd., Tasmania,
WILLIAMS OIL FILTER. April 28th, 1908.
We have fonnd this entirely satisfactory, and it shou
shortly repay its cost. It is easy to manage and effective.
J. B. Lewis, Manager.
Junction Mink, West Wtadono,
April 21th, 'OB..
We have been able to effect a considerable saving In our oil
bill since installing your “ Williams Oil Filter.”
James Williams, Manager.
