

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—" DEW-A^IVS-”
R. Gr. WATKINS «S& 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w*
.. . AND .. .
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
Sxtitfx & SSr
For Mining, Milling,
Pastoral and Agricultural
Machinery.
HOB A.ZET.T.
——
fiadleys Orient Ijotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
BELTING!
Ef\/ERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
\
"Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON* SI
Fine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S BIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
low can Australia
advance till
YOU ASK FOR
SWEET iS,
PLEASE!
Fresh Made Here.
QltiA, aM, (doMfou) -& ikft.
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE FVERY BOTTLE.
THE INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA-PERCHA AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY LIMITED
Manufadurers of
Dynamos, Motors, Switchboards, Cables, etc.
279 GEOROE
(THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER CO.),
Contractors for
The Erection and Complete Equipment of Generating Stations for Light, Power and Traction.
STREET SYDNEY.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDISTE'S’.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit*Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
BENSDORPS
r AL
rcH
is the Queen of Jill Cocoas
I FOI^
Arom^Strc^tKt'PuritK
THE
BEST
ROOFING
IN THE
WORLD
HAS
OUR
PATENT
FIRE
JOINT.
In
ft
FERRIER-’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HFII MIN SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA WATER is a Natural ilineral
Wotai* cnrmodniv fi*AW util/nmvn flpnihc
u+uujuv
■OO V NlllOO
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1495.]
[Thursday, October 8, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.V., Australia, f Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Geo. Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
SOME NEW AND RECENT BOOKS.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Sturgis, The Appreciation of Pictures, 73 illus, 7s 6d, p. 9d.
Lunn, Municipal Lessons from Southern Germany, illus.,
2s 6d, postage 6d.
Tookey, The Gas Engine Manual: A Practical Handbook
of Gas Engine Construction and Management, 4s, p. 6d.
Tintoretto and Gainsborough, “Masterpieces in Color,”
Is 9d each, postage 3d extra.
Technological and Scientific Dictionary, 22s 6d, p. Is 6d.
Hobson, Evolution of Modern Capitalism, New and
Revised Edition, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Whistler as I Knew Him, by Mortimer Menpes, 125 illus.,
in color, etc., quarto size, 255, postage 2s 6d.
Fitchett, Rev. W. H., Pawn in the Game, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Conrad, Joseph, A Set of Six Stories, 3s 6d, post 6d.
THE STANDARD HANDBOOK FOR ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS, Written and Compiled by a
Staff of Specialists, 1283 pages, leather, gilt edges, 20s, postage 9d.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “ Eumenthol Jujubes”
jgpgr- AN IDEAL. REMEDY.
G .V\V JDSO/V
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing' No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says : “Proved to be effective bactericidally,
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOLJUJUBES
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on receipt of
"1/0 in Stamps.
G. HUDSON, Manufacturing Chemist, 5 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney
The RED PAGE
The Cosmic Machine
’V/V7~ITH the daring sweep and the
f f grandiose hypotheses of modern
science it is evident that the
scientists of these days must be poets.
Indeed, it would be possible to advance
proof that every scientific discoverer has
been a poet. Newton’s exposition of the
law of gravity is a closely reasoned piece
of mathematics ; but it needed the poetic
imagination to conceive the possibility of
such a stupendous theory. And since
the opening of this century the scientific
imagination has been exalted by a series
of unforeseen discoveries that have set
speculation upon wings of poetry to soar
into the infinite. Every hypothesis is
merely a guess ; and the merely mathe-
maticalminddoesnotguess. So, at present,
with new worlds opening to us on every
side, with space widening and deepening
with swiftly accelerating speed, there,
has come an outburst of speculation, the
birth of theories of life, of cosmic
and atomic mechanism, that suggests
somewhat a strange exhilaration of the
scientific mind. It seems as if the sight
of the goal, apparently so near, had given
the man of science more than the rapture
of the poet.
However, let us get down to business,
which is a consideration of the comprehen-
sive work of Carl Snyder, entitled The
World Machine (Longmans). Snyder has,
above all the writers on scientific sub-
jects, a literary grace, a poetic imagina-
tion, that make bis works as absorbing
as a good novel; and in this great
work—a history of scientific discovery
—Snyder has put in popular form
exactly what the intelligent man wishes
to know. Snyder is no scientist; but
his services as a popular expositor of
science, by the wide diffusion of the new
knowledge, are as valuable as those of the
patient investigators of small facts or the
framers of giant hypotheses. Such
writers as he are the printing presses of
the scientific world. The World Machine ,
a bulky book summarising the rise of
science from the earliest times, is but the
first phase of a work which will include
in its scope the mechanism of life and the
social mechanism, explaining the whole
process of evolution in terms of mechanics.
And such a survey as The World
Machine is of unique value. It is
a world history in terms of science.
Most histories in the past have been
literary histories, or battle histories, or
trade histories, or racial histories, or
dogma histories. In Snyder’s eyes Para-
dise Lost counts less in the summing of
the world’s progress than Hero’s primi-
tive steam engine ; and in this book
princes are valuable only insofar as they
encouraged scientific investigation, and
races are useful only for the scientific
minds they produce. And in this scien-
tific estimate of the world’s progress it is
natural that many reputations should be
shattered—Plato, Aristotle and Lord
Bacon, and others of the genus of philoso-
phers are politely pulverised—while for-
gotten reputations are satisfactorily re-
furbished.
To the memory of one of these
great minds of antiquity, Democritus
of Abdera (400 8.C.), Snyder dedi-
cates his book. He terms Democritus
“ founder of the atomic theory, and first
of whom we know, historically, to con-
ceive this world and all it contains as
mechanism.”
To his ideas, 2000 years of invention, dis-
covery and research have added much but
changed little.
The account of this genius, Democritus,
forms the most interesting chapter in the
historical section of the book. Most
readers will have hitherto known him only
as “The Laughing Philosopher,” though
Bacon esteemed him as “ the weightiest
of the ancients.” But in Snyder’s view
the remarkable poem of Lucretius is but
the echo, three or four centuries later, of
Democritus’ great conception. And in this
book the outstanding position in science
occupied, by the ancient Greeks is vividly
revealed. Few modern readers are con-
versant with the fact that it was known
that the earth was round two thousand
years before Columbus set out to prove
the theory ; while Strabo is quoted
gravely discussing the question whether
“there may not be two or even more
habitable continents on the globe.”
\\f
Snyder pictures the educated men of the
world of Julius Csesar as in many ways
differing but slightly from the men of
our time. That man of the Homan
world understood that the earth is a
sphere hanging in empty space ; he
understood the size of the earth, had
fixed the distance of the moon almost
correctly ; had made mechanical models
of the solar system, and had grasped the
conception of an infinity of worlds. A
few of his philosophers had taught that
the earth revolved on its axis and round
a fixed sun. Hellenism was nearer to
our own stage of civilisation than any-
thing in the thousand years which inter-
vened. This eclipse of a thousand years
was not wholly due to, though coincident
with, the rise of Christianity. Snyder
merely suggests an inevitable fallowness
of ideas that followed the brilliant flower-
ing of Greek culture and art. And it is
curious to note that it was the Saracens
who during the dark ages lit again the
smouldering torch of knowledge. As a
mark of the depth of the darkness of that
eclipse, it will be enough to quote the
pleasing judgment of the Church upon
Galileo in 1633 :
To assert that the sun, immobile and
without local movement, occupies the centre
of the world, is an absurd proposition, false
in philosophy, and, moreover, heretical,
since it is contrary to the testimony of the
Scriptures.
v!/
The author’s illuminative and careful
method can be seen in the history of
Newton’s discovery of the law of gravity.
He details all the steps, and they were
many and minute, and all the contribu-
tions of preceding or contemporaneous
minds, that led up to this momentous
proof. Of course, the fall of an apple
had nothing to do with it. Doubtless it
fell, and others have fallen since; but
Newton makes no mention of it. His
mind was not one to be set in motion so
haphazardly.
In the latter portion of the book
Snyder depicts in glowing phrase the
bigness of the universe ; and conse-
quently the cosmic insignificance of our
solar system and us. He shows by
comparison with Canopus, a sun a
million times the size of our sun, that
we are really of no account. Our
sun is not unique, it is one of
millions, one of a crowd, a mob, a
multitude, an infinite swarm. Snyder
suggests the comparison of a huge moun-
tain, streaming with millions and billions
of ants.- One of these ants would be our
sun. Thus the cosmic insignificance of a
State Insect like Wade upon the eyelid
of that ant is quite inconceivable. Yet
apparently Wade goes on being insignifi-
cant without a qualm.
While the solar system is obviously
one of the types of cosmic evolution, it is
not possible to' conclude that it is the
predominant type. Recent observations
have gone to show that a huge proportion
of the solar systems in space are composed
of two suns revolving about each other.
As Snyder says, the number of these
binary systems is obviously enormous:
and it is a fair inference that the double-
star system is the general pattern of the
universal arrangement. But this in-
ference is vitiated by the fact that there
are many triple and multiple solar sys-
tems. The conclusion must be that there
is no single type, no common mould for
star systems. All varieties of blossoms
seem to flourish in that vast and un-
kempt garden space.
viz
In his speculations as to the shape of
the galaxy—the visible, and presumably
finite, universe of stars, Snyder ranges
through all the latest theories save one—-
the latest of all. This theory—that we
are in the midst of two universes of stars
which are now colliding—-will have later
mention. The universe of stars looked
up to at night from this troubled and
whirling globe, seems to our transitori-
ness an unchangeable and eternal set-
piece. Looked at through the mind, the
starry system is seen to be a welter of
motion. The stars are rushing helter-
skelter through space in directions and
at speeds which it seems impossible
ever to reduce to a system or order. There
is a riot of stars, comparable only to the
frenzied rush and scurry of the molecules
of a gas, colliding for ever, and for ever
rushing on. And the mind of man, ever
impatient to find some solution of the
enigma, has played with the possibility
that perhaps there is a vast system of
which each star’s motion and direction
is an orderly part.
The suggestion has been made,
purely upon analogy, that there may
be a vast central body .(or bodies)
round which the whole of the sidereal
system (including, of course, our sun)
may be revolving. This would call
for the proof that our sun’s course
through space were an ellipse and not a
straight line ; but no sign of that proof
is yet possible. This central sun (or
suns), if aglow, would doubtless be ap-
parent to us; but there is no reason
why it (or they) should not be of
enormous mass and yet opaque and
dark. As we now know, the number of
invisible stars is probably much greater
than that of those we can see ; and,
indeed, it seems more probable to scien-
tific minds that such a vast centre would
be dark. But so far no perturbation has
been found in our planets to suggest the
existence of such a vast mass. But some
few millions of dark suns may lie in the
space that extends between our sun and
the nearest star.
For that once empty abyss is now
known to be full of unexpected things—
cosmic dust, nebuke and dark suns. In
fact, the dust nuisance is almost as bad
in space as it is in Melbourne.
If our planetary system, with five or six
hundred permanent members [including the
asteroids—or “shattered planet”] is a type of
solar arrangement in general, the number of
planets, satellites, asteroids, and comets may
be hundreds of thousands of times the total
number of central masses, glowing or dark,
just as the number of dark suns may be
hundreds of thousands of times those of the
visible suns.
Add to these the meteorites, with which
space is swarming, and the cosmic dust
nuisance. It seems, therefore, that we
see the stars through a veil, which
throws doubt upon the apparent distance
we give the stars—-except those whose
distance has been accurately determined
by their parallaxes. It seems possible
that this veiling of the light of the stars
could b 3 determined by a comparison
between the apparent visual distances
and the computed distance of these few
stars; but this suggestion has not been
made, to the writer’s knowledge, in any
recent scientific work.
\f>
In this book, however, Snyder does
not deal with the most recent speculation
of all, backed, as it is apparently is, with
valid proof. This is the hypothesis that
there is at the present moment going on
a vast collision of two sidereal universes
—that the stars visible to us show evi-
dence of two main drifts, suggesting the
penetration of one wandering universe by
another. The measure of time in infinite
space is so vast that to us this railway
collision in space, fraught with cosmic
consequences, is apparent, through his-
toric times, only in minute changes in the
arrangement of the stars. To us that
terrific impact will not matter. Long
before it has been completed we shall
have lost interest, and our sun, with a
cold, tired feeling, will be wandering
alone through space looking for trouble
in the shape of a little collision of its own.
A concise conception of the life history
of a solar system is given by the author.
The life-history of a star begins with a
nebula which contracts to a sun with
planets circling round it; the planets
cool, life appears on them, life becomes
extinct as the planet freezes; the sun
cools, life flutters a brief while there and
is frozen out; the dead sun goes on its
wallaby till it meets a nebula or another
dark or light sun ; and out of the col-
lision a new nebula is born, to begin the
eternal and wearisome round again.
\»
But, while giving our admiration to such
a stupendi »us and complicated mechanism,
it seems but a clumsy arrangement, lead-
ing nowhere. An infinite time is re-
quired for a nebula to condense, a vastly
lesser, but still, to us, an infinite time is
required for the sun stage—this period is
but an incident, a few seconds in the arc
of this unceasing circle ; and of this brief
cosmic moment life is but an infinitely
shorter portion, and conscious life a still
inconceivably lesser moment. And after
that there is another stupendous period
of darkness and cold and death, before
the chances allow our icy dark sun to
collide and give birth to another nebula.
It suggests an inventor who made a
machine for, say, making boots, the com-
plicated mechanism of which had to run
for a million years before it made one
boot, and then the machinery got out
of the way of making boots, and even
then there was nobody to wear that boot,
and it wasn’t much of a boot anyway.
Possibly the main interest of the inventor,
however, might be the working of the
machine and not the production of the
boot. The mind that conceived the
stupendous mechanism might take a keen
pleasure in the working of the machine,
and if it ultimately produced a lonely
boot, that wasn’t the inventor’s concern.
The main thing was that he had got a
machine that would run for a million
years. Life thus appears to us as a
lichen on the stone, a brief efflorescence
for which the inventor has really no use.
It is one of the waste-products of his big
machine. No doubt the lichen on the
stone thinks the stone was made for it to
sit on • and the one lonely boot may be
pardoned if it thinks that the machinery
was made solely to produce boots,
viz
But, even so, the machine will ulti-
mately run down. The tendency of the
whole universe is to clump together under
the influence of gravity, in one vast,
inert, and chilly mass more depress-
ing to contemplate than a wet Satur-
day afternoon. Conceive Canopus, a
sun a million times the size of our
sun. He is presumably engaged at pre-
sent in sweeping up comets, meteorites,
and stars as he crashes through space.
He would swallow our solar system in
one gulp. If he goes on in this reckless
way, by-and-bye he will have become so
big that there will be no chance of his
ever being dissipated into nebula by a
collision. So he will go on, sweeping up
every available star in the universe,
until, having eaten all the food in sight,
he will die of dropsy, with the rest of the
universe inside him.
Also, if the universe be finite, some
loss of heat, some dissipation of energy,
will take place. It would radiate ofl the
outer edge of the affair, whatever that
outer edge is, and be lost. And if any
loss of energy occurs, the clock will ulti-
mately stop, unless there is some compen-
sating check to this apparently universal
process. But, though Snyder doubts,
there are not wanting scientists who
suggest a reciprocal process which will
keep up the store of energy at a constant.
In Worlds in the Making (Harper),
Svante Arrhenius, a Stockholm professor,
attempts this final problem with some-
thing like success, but his remarkable
theory demands greater space than is at
present available.


A
w am
THE LATEST
FASHIONS
*j ANTHONY HORDERNS' Famous Low Prices.
i': ' i
Our business as only Universal Providers to the People
of Australia enables us to offer a greater assortment
than any other house, and our unique system of Spot
Cash trading ensures Top Quality and Bottom Price.
The Spring Modes, direct from the realms where
Fashion reigns supreme, are artistically and accurately
presented in our Illustrated FASHION PORTFOLIO.
Write for a Copy, posted free on application.
Moderation
in Motor
Modes.
No. 502-FULL LENGTH DOUBLE
BREASTED SICILIAN DUST
COAT, in Cream and Navy, 29/6.
No. 500—FULL LENGTH DOUBLE-
BREASTED CREAM SICILIAN
MOTOR COAT, Swing back, 27/6.
No. 805-FULL LENGTH CREAM
SICILIAN DUST COAT, S.tcque
back, trimmed tucked Cream Silk,
23/6.
No. 501—FULL LENGTH CREAM
AND NAVY DOUBLE-
BREASTED SICILIAN DUST
COAT, Strap at back, trimmed
Black and White Silk, 30/-
No. 807-FULL LENGTH SICILIAN
DUST COAT, Saeque back, trimmed
Silk Strappings, Cream and Navy,
21/-
No. 410-SMART CREAM SICILIAN
SHORT FITTING HIP COAT
AND SKIRT, 49/6.
z'sv
C oa/s
P.
I
O'O
o a
tm
%4
xm
m
m
J&chony Horderns
m
csZi>/ ’ / c ?~f
80
%
• - ;r
6155
■l:'.
6188
Ui
w
Anthony. T -
tJA-oDSP 10
<><_i
A'mart \SKirts
and Chic
Costumes.
No. 142-SOFT WHITE INDIAN
LAWN COSTUME, elaborately
trimmed Embroidery Anglais Inser-
tion and Pin Tucks, 63/-
No. G155—9-GORE SKIRT, with lapped
seam, in fine Stripe Dark Sicilian,
with material for bodice, 31/-
No. 642— FRENCH COAT and SKIRT,
Black and White Check Flannel
Skirt, with or without Black Band
at foot, and short Black Vicuna
Cloth Coat, 70/-
No. 615-9-GORE STRIPE SICILIAN
SKIRT, with material for bodice,
Light Colors only, Sky and White,
Heliotrope and White, Grey and
White, 27/6
No. 6188-STRIP-E SICILIAN
SKIRT, with self-strappings, 9-Gore,
with material for bodice, 32/-
No. 413—CREAM. FLANNEL NOR-
FOLK COSTUME, with fine Black
Stripe, Coat lined Satin, 45/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S


VIOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
x,t «a.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
aie carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
o weighing, classing, disposing to verv best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
jiixceptional facilities a)re offered by this Company to WHEAT for free storage of
tneir grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade for BOOKS.
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248 pages, 400
colored plates and engravings, 7/6
posted. Dr. Faulkner’s Original
Book op Nature, 1908 Edition, 4/-.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Comic Reciter, 1/-. Billiard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
Kino Koko, Conjuring- Instructor,
1/3. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/-.
R.eady-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
How Me Doug all Topped the Score, 1/3. Lover’s
Letter Writer, 1/-. Boccacio’s Decameron, 2/6.
Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the First Night, 1/3.
That Rascal Gustave, 1/3. Love Under tiie
Tiles, 1/3, My Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Bill Edwards, 1/3. Percy Ramage, 1/3. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3. New Tricks with Coins,
1/-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-to-
Date, Easy Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Cordapre, 1/3. How to Mesmerise, 1 /-.
Astrology, 1/-. Fruits of Philosophy, 1/-. Mid-
wives’Handbook, 90 illustrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit, 2/-. Reynold’s Court of London Series, 2/-.
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. How to Be-
come a Clairvoyant, 1/6. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen of Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, 1/-. Wipe’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture,’ lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
lOd. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/3. Zingara Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/- ;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise, and all Zola’s, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, 1/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, 2/- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. How to Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/8. Australian Bushranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3. Smilkr Hale’s
Novels, Bd. each.
m~AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATiNG
3 Sets Bell-Metal. Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
9 as you like it>,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Music
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect !
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours— Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Coliins St.. Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO IDEI’Y COMPETITIOKT.
WINES Bed *£* My of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kesit BarewOTy, SYDNEY.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
V
TWIX*
K
Co*S*“s
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From B/li to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STOREB.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’s Lane. MELBOURNE.
„ n „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House.
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
[SjiTm
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
Wm. ATKINS&CO. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS,
449 & 451 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
TURTLE BRAND
MINERS’ DRILL STEEL.
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
STEEL FOR EVERY PURPOSE KEPT IN STOCK.
Contractors to New South Wales Government.
DISORDERED
KIDNEYS.
Violent Headaches.
At No. 37 Lymerston Street, St. Peters, where
this interview took place, Mrs. Maggie Trusty
looked back through a mental record of her afflic-
tions, and then declared, with conviction: “It
is only right that I should lay bare the facts con-
cerning the manner in which I threw off my old
sickness, as by doing so, it will assuredly help
many more towards the same desirable end.”
“ What was your complaint, Mrs. Trusty ? ”
“My kidneys were disordered, without doubt;
and for that matter my internal organs generally
wanted attending to badly. Three years have
passed since, by the aid of Clements Tonic, I
acquired the grand health I now enjoy, and they
have been three of the happiest years of my life,
for real good health will always bring brightness
and contentment. The aching sensation I had in
my back for long enough was awful. When I sat
down the small of my back caved in, owing to its
being too weak to enable me to sit up straight,
and such a sickly sensation generally was experi-
enced through those incessant aches, that I went
about like a person living without knowing the
why or wherefore. A dazed, listless, despondent
feeling was always uppermost. When I looked,
out the beauties of Nature were obscured from my
vision, and everything and everybody seemed to'
move mechanically, in a dreary sort of way, with-
out, to my dyspeptic view of things, having any
specific reason for doing so. Well, I know now
that when a person feels like that, as if the uni-
verse is enshrouded in gloom, because the
liver and kidneys are out of order.”
“Exactly,” assented the writer. ‘ And then
proper treatment is required.”
“But so many don’t know what the proper
treatment is, and waste their money in search of
it, that I deem it my privilege to put them on p the
right track, in the same way that a friend guided
me. It was this way. I was at a lady s house
one day and was telling her that my appetite had
left me altogether, I was very restless at nights,
usually not falling asleep till it was nearly time
to get up and when I did I felt more dead than,
alive with a bitter taste, and my tongue all coat-
ed, and feeling very impatient and cross generally,
and working myself up into a state of nervous
excitement all about nothing, when she said :
‘ That’s just how I used to be, only I am all right
now, through taking Clements Tonic. I’ve a little
in a bottle left over, and will give you a dose.’
So I drank it, and then bought some on my own
account the same night. Oh ! how nervous I was
—all of a tremble, just like that (here Mrs. Trusty
demonstrated her meaning by shaking her hands
and wrists convulsively), and I would not stay in
the house alone for any money. In addition, there
was a nasty heaviness on my chest after food,
when the stomach felt overloaded even from the
smallest quantity, and each day I was tormented
with violent headaches. When going down the
road I have often had to catch hold of something
to save myself from tumbling down through a
sudden giddiness coming on, and in the fretful,
nervous state of mind I was everlastingly pictur-
ing some dread evil transpiring that was shortly
going to overtake me.' In my abject misery I did
not care what happened, and when my friend put
me within reach of something to rid me of those
daily persecutions, I thanked God from the bottom
of my heart. Prior to taking up with the remedy
that gave me a new interest in life, that enabled
me to see the sun shining everywhere instead of
desolation being on every hand, I was even denied
the pleasure of reading for any length of time, be-
cause of the haziness that hung before my eyes,
but that trouble went along with the rest when
Clements Tonic had been given a fair chance, and
in due course I was perfectly free from the bur-
den of ills I had carried so long.”
“ And have not been troubled by them since?”
“ I am grateful to say that Clements Tonic did
its work thoroughly, leaving nothing undone, and
for the benefit of the sick and afflicted who may
read these words, you may publish them as
you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, MAGGIE TRUSTY, of 37 Lymerston Street, St, Peters,
in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a true and faithful account of my illness and cure
by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any way my statements—which I give
voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act, 1900.
Subscribed and declared at St. Peters, this twenty-eighth
day of February, one thousand nine hundred and eight,
before me.
tO]
WILLIAM DIGBY ROWE, J.p,


1
The Best
Cough Drops
Are Drops
of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral.
Sixty years ago physicians first
used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, and
ever since then it has been the
standard cough remedy all over the
world. Thousands of families, in
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America,
keep a bottle of it in the house
ready for an emergency.
Mger’s
'Cherri( teetered
controls the spasmodic efforts of
coughing, relieves the congestion in
the throat, quiets the inflammation
in the bronchial tubes, and prevents
the lungs from becoming involved.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Be sure ycu get Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. It contains no
narcotic or poison of any kind.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to am one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dis-
trict. Larce profit t
easily made. Write u. onee, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
on sample machine. ,
MEAD CYCLE C 0„ ,>>,,2.0 LIVERPOOL.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street Svdney.
(“ My little Victor, aged 1 year
and 8 months, was very ill while
teething
m
. Victor Beatty
until I tried]
SCOTT’S I
Emulsion. 1
After about,
half a bottle, 1
I saw a great |
improve-
ment, so
continued
to give
SCOTT’S
and have never had any trouble
with him since. He is now a
strong, healthy child.”
(Mrs.) BEATTY.
12 Sraithers Street, Chippendale, Sydney,
13/8/07. N.S.W.
Above i? the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why:
1. SCOTT’S Emulsion provides
the little system with the material it ,
so badly needs for the making of
straight, strong, white teeth.
2. SCOTT’S Emulsion at the
same time fills the system with
strength to bear the great strain of 1
teething.
3. SCOTT’S Emulsion is taken
willingly and cannot upset the
digestion.
Therefore, when purchasing, don’t
ask for “ Emulsion ask for and get
scorn
Emulsion
—the difference between them means
a cure for you !
See that ** the Fishman with the
Fish” is on the package.
Of all Chemists and
I Dealers in Medicines. (
IRISH
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough, &
Troublesome Cold,
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS.
NORTH COAST DAIRY FARMS.
CASINO—LISMORE.
SUBDIVISIONAL AUCTION SALE OF THE WHOLE OF THE
SPRINGROVE ESTATE
(By instructions of the owners, the Springrove Estate Limited).
Saturday, 17th October, 1908, at 11 a.m.,
At THE MASONIC HALL, CASINO.
4500 Acres (Freehold, Torrens Title). Subdivided into 28 Farms, areas from 60 acres
to 500 acres. Average rainfall 50 to 60 inches.
SPRINGROVE is situated between Casino and Lismore Townships and railway
stations about seven miles from Casino and 12 miles from Lismore, the two most important
centres on the North Coast, at both of which there are large Butter Factories producing over
150 tons of butter per week. Also only three miles from deep navigable water, viz., Tomki, from
which point freight to Sydney on all farm products is only 20s. per ton.
Good roads in every direction.
Paspalum is well established all over the Estate.
The whole area is deep rich volcanic soil, and every farm has a large proportion of land
suitable for cultivation. Stock fatten quickly.
Lucerne, maize, potatoes, and all crops grow luxuriantly.
The water supply is magnificent, every farm being abundantly watered by permanent
running water from creeks and springs. Water also is obtainable anywhere at shallow depths.
On each block dairying can be commenced and returns obtained therefrom immediately on
locafmarkets at Lismore and Casino, the populations of the police districts of which
are 13,326 and 6124 respectively, and growing rapidly.
A Goverment school is established in the centre of the Estate.
On five of the farms there are all improvements necessary for dairying, including the home-
stead, which is magnificently improved. . , . .
The railway connecting the present North Coast railway with Sydney and Queensland is
now in course of construction, and must vastly increase the value of these lands.
Buyers driven to inspect from Casino or Lismore.
Ten years terms for payment.
Lithographs and all information obtainable from
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & MERCANTILE AGENCY '
CO., LTD., Sydney, and all branches;
C. H. ANDERSON, Casino;
J. B. McDOUGrALL, Casino ;
HINDMARSH & JOHNSTON, Lismore,
N.B.—Commission allowed to any agent introducing buyers.
Auctioneers
in
Conjunction.
MOLLER'S
hydroxyl-free
COD-LIVER OIL
(Sold in Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption and
all Lung* complaints.
/Is a food and huild&p-up for* both children
ana adults, MOLLER’S OIL is unequalled . «
BEG A USE: It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell.
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, emulsions, &c.
MOLLER’S HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
A GUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS S4YS ABOUT MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
Medical Review.—" We have no hesitation in saving it L quite** * s
of a pale golden colour ; it is free from any trace of free acid , itio easily assimuatea,
and, what is most important, it dobs not cause eructations ok nauba.
Medical Press.—" Messrs. Peter Moller, Ltd., by the °j
Hydroxyl-Free Cod-Liver Oil, have placed in the hands of medical men a most excel-
lent aud valuable preparation which i- almost free from taste, lmipia ni cjiaractei,
and, what is a still greater charm, does not cause the objectionable repeatings we
are so familiar with in certain brands.”
MOLLER’S COD-LIVER OIL has been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and the only Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. To be obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve Is.
Packet of Ten ... ... 10d
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Captive Harbor.
The stars climb up the sapphire arch,
Across the house-tops, spark on spark,
Her silvered breast reflects their course
Along the sadness of the dark.
Above, in attic-land, I hear
Her heart-beat on the steely bars.
I listen, and her deep unrest
Awakes the sympathy of stars.
Below she lies, a captive thing,
Her breath a sleeping furnace-fire ;
Her spirit aches for strength to tell
The passing stars her heart’s desire.
A thing of beauty, shamed with chains,
She listens through unquiet sleep
To waftures blown from starry wains
Across the verges of the deep.
Grave sentinels, the tallest spars
Along the wharves keep watch all night;
Time was her life, awake, asleep,
Knew only guardians of delight.
Her beating veins are drunk with fumes
Of Vulcan’s greedy furnace-fire ;
The stars and wandering ocean birds
Alone can read her heart’s desire.
All night she dreams of virgin land,
Unstained, till conquest desolate—
Fair dreams sublimed with sudden sound
Of ocean-heralds at her gate.
At dawn her rumbling energies
With heavy pulses beat and stir ;
The hoarse commands of tyrant men
Subdue the truant heart of her.
The furnace-fires, asleep all night,
Awake to vomit tainted smoke ;
She turns an anguished seaward face,
And then, a slave, renews her yoke.
A hundred breathing years and more,
And nought of virgin hope survives ;
The strength of men hath made her slave
And mother of four million lives.
N.S.W.
W. M. WHITNEY.
Mamuku.
When we went up the Mamuku,
A-roaring on the grade,
The rain had ceased, and glorious,
The sunset spread and played
Across the forest, scarlet-hued,
And lit the leaves again.
’Way up the hill of Mamuku,
So bright with light and rain.
When we went up the Mamuku
The white steam sang and blew —
Up from the level tableland
The mighty engine drew
The cars, each with a scarlet hood,
And jewels on each pane.
A-climbing up the Mamuku
Just after summer rain.
When we swung over Mamuku—
The Rotorua train —
The mountains and the colored lakes
Were vivid with the rain.
The red roofs blazed, a scarlet brood,
Mokoia’s green was gold.
Above the ridge of Mamuku
The carriage windows rolled.
Down from the heights of Mamuku
The train of splendor swung.
Its glass a gleam of diamonds,
Its chains with rubies hung.
And like brave knights in scarlet, stood
The tall trees on the rise.
When we came over Mamuku
Beneath the rain-washed skies.
When we looked back to Mamuku
The sunset lights were gone.
The hill frowned dark and ominous
Where all the gold had shone.
(We deemed such vivid scarlet would
Forevermore remain.)
Dim clouds crept over Mamuku,
And gently fell the rain.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
Spring.
She comes with lobsters in her glowing hands,
Down pea-green vistas splashed with orchard
bloom ;
And gaily skip we off at her command—
Perchance ’tis “ 43T Upstairs to the Private
Room.”
Lemon and parsley strew her fragrant way,
And oyster-shells macadamise her path ;
So fare we on—till redly breaks the Day,
And brings the dark brown taste of Aftermath.
Glad girlish giggles percolate The Park,
The moonlight gleams on mounds of white
"shitfong”;
The air is vibrant with the Lurid Lark,
Whilst “ Mum,” at home, “ hopes there is nothing
wrong.”
Down dim arcades swish scented silken skirts,
Afar there sounds a drunken reveller’s shout—
Glad nights of Spring, replete with crumpled
shirts,
And over all the squirt of Bottled Stout!
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


<3
o
iVi
It Stands for Wunderlich Metal
Ceilings— The Safest and Best.
These famous steel ceilings represent the most modern development tn house building
and add a distinctive charm to the home that is pleasing to every person of taste.
They are permanent, adaptable, fire-resisting, and do not harbour dirt or microbes.
And they cost so little for freight, too! The expense of sending the lime and sand
for ceilings of a hot. se is over four times as much as that for Wunderlich Metal
Sheets. Is that not worth considering ?
Send for our new catalogue, which tells you all about these beautiful steel ceilings—
the most artistic form of Interior decoration yet devised.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
Sydney Showrooms t 56 Pitt Street.
Melbourne Showrooms i 243 Collins St.
Postal Address :
Box 474, G.P.O.
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superband marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Buildings. B’fr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Cl-.arr.bcrs, t!G Pitt Street.—Eon. W. G. HECGS, Local Director.
Patronage.
Under Vice«R.egal
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ....
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castiereanrh Streets.
®*r- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
AIMS’ WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Give
-5
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living: n it.
us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our pn .
Mutual Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, NYDNE '
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
PUZZLE
POCKET KNIVES.
fl
A Puzzle Pocket Knife
is one of the most useful
novelties obtainable.
Best quality steel blade,
buff horn handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut as
well as to open. Makes
a splendid knife for
general use, also a
superior rabbiter’s knife.
Price, with full direc-
tions, 2/2, post free
anywhere.
Send for our neiv Illus-
trated Catalogue —just
published.
Wholesale and Retail.
The Multiplying and Vanishing Billiard Ba I Trick.
Unique Billiard Ball.
By far the best and most effective billiard
hall trick ever invented. This is a superior
method to any other billiard ball trick ever
yet performed. The pecularity of it is that
the balls can be given for examination as
they are produced, to show they are solid.
The performer having turned up his sleevefc
and shown his hands empty, gives a minia-
ture billiard ball, about one inch in diaine-
ter, for examination. The audience being
atisfied, he takes it in his left hand and
Passing his right hand over it shows two.
Again a mystic pass, and there are three,
which he shows are quite solid. The audi-
ence now see, to their astonishmet, four
balls. These gradually vanish one after the
other, till there is only one left, which is
again passed round for examination. An
adequate description cannot be given of this
most delightful effect. If is one of the
prettiest little sleights seen for a long time.
The billiard ball set is made in *• ivoriue,”
and car. be made in any size. The illustra-
tion will give our customers some idea of
~ t I>ol u u 4 ;1, tliis complete set. The sleeves are turned
back whilst, performing- this trick the whole time, the hands shown empty and
at any minute, whilst the trick is being- performed, the balls can he passed tor
inspection.
This trick requires no sleight of hand, and can be performed by any person.
The balls can be made to multiply or vanish at the will of the operator.
Price (with full instructions), 1/6; or post free anywhere for 2/-
MEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch : 2o and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 GEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. Ij. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarlcet Post Office.
THe Carrington Hotel,
KJatoomlsa, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
Ideal Winter Climate.
Winter Terms, Bs. per Day ; £2 2s. per Week.
A. L. PEACOCK, Proprietor.
DEPOSE E
MARQUE
“RATITE”
IS USED
bv Municipal, Military and Naval Authorities,
by Steamship Companies, by Grain Stores,
Slaughter Houses, and Factories all over the
civilised world.
SCIENTIFIC and INFALLIBLE
RAT
Exterminator.
Harmless to Man and to all Domestic Animals.
3/6 per Tube; 3 Tubes, 10/- Post Free.
Regular Weekly Supplies received by
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD.
The Surgical and Veterinary Supply House,
246 Queen Street, BRISBANE)
as Agents for
Pasteur Vaccine Co. Ltd.,
7 Rue Meyerbeer, PARIS.
-
‘ Bi -
n
PH
I
iisi
• ; : ■ ;.
■* !
¥
'
a^gs
o
e
»
i
I
m
Hfi
■ . .
■
0
'
‘-, ki \
'
*
»
o
' '
m&aMm
l : : :
-, • - k
m
.
J
_
&,SUCJ\ I 1L
A Prominent
Architect
says:
“ One can tinder-
stand people in
the country, wbo
do not Know of
Ruberoid
using galvanised
iron, but to find
people in the
suburbs using
galvanised iron,
witb
Ruberoid
obtainable at
tbeir doors, is
something I can-
not understand.’*


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1495.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1908.
PltlOß 6 >)
THE N.S.W. IRON INDUSTRY.
FIRST POLITICAL MEDICO: “WHAT HE WANTS IS PROTECTION.”
SECOND DITTO: “WHAT HE REALLY NEEDS IS A BONUS.”
THIRD DITTO: “WHAT HE MOST REQUIRES IS NATIONALISATION.”
AUSTRALIA: “SEEMS TO ME WHAT HE MOST WANTS IS BURIAL. HE’S DIED WHILE YOU WERE TALKING.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosraan, for
Titk Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sidney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... s 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ’’’ 0 7 0
Ry ne.vdina direct In Tin? Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings xterthi.fi yon can have Tire Bulletin -posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tone addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director,
Jloir to Address Bettors.
Correspondents to Tire Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
out to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the propes
superscription for "copy.” Delay, and even loss, if
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead or
ojliaals. The person may not be there; the official
a lways is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. 'The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will ea,ref ally read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not. exceeding
tivc columns in length, or, say, HOOD words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Eeivspa.per Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded, without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not. acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that, it is not. responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amu tours in ltlaclc. and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
A oents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6fin. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
xllelz/Ji.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8,190 S.
THE FEDERAL CAPITAL; COMING
TO A DECISION.
The lengthy Federal Capital question has been
formally re-opened, and this evening, unless the
arrangements happen to get turned upside down
once more, the House of Representatives will hold
a fresh ballot, at which eleven proposed sites will
be voted on. The ballot will decide what place
is to be mentioned in the Bill which purports to
refix the site that has already been fixed for four
years; and, provided nothing befalls to stand the
arrangement unexpectedly on its head, the Bill
will then be carried, so far as the Representatives
are concerned. After that it will go to the
Senate, and if Dalgety has been struck out and
some other place substituted, the Senate will pro-
bably put Dalgety back in the Bill, or knock out
the new choice of the Representatives in favor of
some third place, or hold a ballot of its own.
Under such conditions anything may happen. In
fact, if one House proceeds to upset the decision
previously arrived at by both Houses, and thus
turns chaos loose again, there are great possibili-
ties ahead. When once the capital moves, it may
keep moving for a long while.
The matter at issue is really the absurd and in-
solent claim of certain persons in the N.S.W.
State Assembly that their purely State House
shall rank as a Federal authority. This isn’t
merely as regards the question of the Federal
capital; if the claim is allowed in that matter
there are already abundant signs that a similar
demand will be made in others. For instance, in
the affair of the Northern Territory these ques-
tions and answers happened along casually in
N.S. W.’s Lower House the other day :
With regard to the proposal of the Commonwealth,
made in the Federal Government’s Sessional Programme,
to take over the Northern Territory—will this State be
called upon, directly or indirectly, to subscribe the
largest share towards this movement and railway projec-
tion therewith, and has it the largest interest at stake?
Answer by Premier Wade : Yes.
Is it a fact that New South Wales will have no
boundary upon the new State, as boundaries stand and
are proposed, whilst Queensland, Westralia and South
Australia encompass this new territory?
Answer : Yes.
Is it a fact that, geographically, Sydney is to this
territory the nearest and most accessible centre for the
distribution of trade, which will have to be transported
across Australia ?
Ansu'er: As the crow flies from Port Darwin, yes.
n . v ' ew the position of the City of Sydney, and
the immense importance of the question to this State,
will the Government of New South Wales at once com-
municate with the Commonwealth Government regarding’
this matter, stipulating for full and open unrestricted
access for this State’s share of this trade through the ter-
ritory of South Australia, with full power to construct
future, railways from our Western lines now existing,
establish depbts, and to do other things necessary to
secure convenience and protect this trade ; and to con-
nect our railways to the proposed Federal line from
Oodnadatta to Pine Creek.
Answer: Jam unable to announce the intentions of
the Government until the proposals of the Commonwealth
are specifically declared.
That shows with reasonable clearness that the
party which runs things at present in the N.S.W.
Assembly doesn’t intend its claim, that the Assem-
bly shall rank as a sort of third Federal House, to
a PPIy to one case only. In the matter of the
capital it interfered in a truculent and high-
handed way on the plea that N.S.W. “ had to
provide the Federal territory,” and so was
specially interested. N.S.W. hasn’t to provide
the Northern Territory, and in that case it isn’t
specially interested. Yet when a loud and
piratical member proposes that the N.S.W.
Assembly shall demand the right, provided
the lerritory is taken over, to build railways
through another State, and to occupy land belong-
ing to another State, he isn’t reproved or dis-
couraged. In fact, he is encouraged by the hint
that the N.S.W. Assembly will put its oar into this
Federal matter as soon as it has details to go
upon. Also, his outrageous claim is supported by
the outrageous lie that Sydney is the nearest port
to Darwin in a straight line, which lie is presum-
ably to be the groundwork of some other claim for
special advantages in connection with the Terri-
tory, and for some special right of interference
thereabouts.
* * * #
The plea that N.S.W. is the greatest and most
populous State, and that its Assembly should,
therefore, hawe a special voice in the settlement of
I ederal affairs, has already been worked for all it
is worth in the demand of Premier Wade and his
crew that the Australian capital shall be shifted
from Dalgety to Canberra. If the claim of the
N.S.W. Assembly to be a sort of third Federal
House succeeds in the case of the capital, that
body will probably arise like a giant refreshed
when the time comes to put in the demand that the
trade of the Northern Territory should be carefully
diverted to Sydney, and that N.S.W. should have
the right to build railways in, and partly control
the soil of, another State. The tale on which this
claim to Federal authority is based is a glaringly
absurd theory in every respect—so glaringly
absurd that it amounts to lunacy. N.S.W.’s
superiority in population is recognised in the fact
that it has 27 Federal Representatives, as com-
pared with Victoria’s 22 and Queensland’s nine,
and there the matter ought to end. The demand
that N.S. W. shall have practical]y 117 Representa-
tives and six Senators, through the 90 members of
the State Assembly all taking a hand in Federal
affairs, is mere silly bumptiousness, and is calcu-
lated to make N.S.W. the worst-hated place in
Australia. The individual citizen of N.S.W.
pays not a cent more towards the support of the
Commonwealth than any other individual citizen.
The fact that he happens to be grouped
for State Government purposes with a larger
number of other Federal citizens than the Tas-
manian or South Australian or Queenslander
gives him, in equity, no special right to interfere
in Federal business. Some men in Australia are
members of the biggest State community, and
some are members of the biggest municipal com-
munity, and some are members of the biggest
religious community, and some belong to the
biggest friendly society community. But if the
N.S.W. Assembly is to meddle perpetually and
violently with Federal concerns because it speaks
in a purely State sense for the largest body of
Federal electors ; and the Melbourne corporation
is to do the same because it possibly speaks in a
purely municipal sense for the biggest crowd of
Federal electors ; and if the Anglican General
Synod is to fix the Australian capital because it
represents the biggest horde in a religious sense ;
and the chief of the Oddfellows or the Rechabites
or the Aged Disorder of Buffaloes is to unfix it
because one of them represents the biggest multi-
tude in a friendly society sense, and the Board of the
A.M.P. Society is to unfix it some more as repre-
senting the biggest body of life-insurers in Aus-
tralasia, there will be a great deal of chaos and this
continent will be governed too much. As a solemn
matter of fact the Archbishop of Sydney has more
right to dictate about the Federal Capital than
Premier Wade ; according to the figures of the
last census the eminently reverend Smith repre-
sented 1,497,57(1 people, while the N.S.W. State
Premier only spoke for 1,375,240 people. The
Anglican community, in the eloquent words of
the chronic State Fright, will put up a larger pro-
portion of the cost of the Federal capital and of
the opening up of the Northern Territory than
any other denomination ; so if the N.S.W.
Assembly has any claim to a voice in the business,
the Anglican Synod has a still greater claim.
* * * *
One solid reason why the Australian Parlia-
ment should stick to its original choice of a capital
is that, if it fails to do so, it thereby admits the
claim of a State Government to interfere in a
purely Federal matter, and establishes a prece-
dent which may keep it in partial subjection to
the N.S.W. State Assembly for many years to
come. When the original selection of a site was
made the N.S.W. State Government was courte-
ously consulted. It appointed a trusted officer,
who made certain recommendations, and these
were accepted. Then a new State Government
arose, which denounced everything and cursed at
large. It demanded the right of veto. It re-
fused the Monaro site (1) because the country
thereabouts was so rich and populous that
its loss would mean the sacrifice of the most
valuable part of the State, and (2) because the
country was so barren as to be quite unfit to be a
capital. It demanded that the Federal territory
should have no port and should be approachable
only by such road and railway communication as
the N.S.W. Assembly chose to allow. It agitated
for Lyndhurst or Tumut or Canberra—in fact, so
long as it established the domination of the
N.S.W. State Assembly over the Parliament of
Australia, by making the latter body abandon,
at the dictation of the N.S.W. Assembly, the
capital it had chosen, it didn’t seem to mind very
much where the new place was located. The
whole reason why the capital question, which was
nominally settled four years ago, is now coming up
again for re-settlement lies in the fact that the State
Premier of N.S.W. is resolved to make the N.S.W.
Assembly supreme over the Parliament of all Aus-
tralia, and the Parliament of Australia has lacked
the courage to assert itsrightsand those of the Aus-
tralian people. And it is already evident that the
attempt will be carried further, especially if the
presen t movement meets with success. The N. S. W.
State Premier spoke kindly and encouragingly to
his follower who proposed that the N.S.W.
Assembly should demand “full power” to con-
struct railways in South Australia, and his false-
hood to the effect that Sydney is the nearest port
to Port Darwin “as the crow flies” plainly sug-
gested that the foundation is being laid of a claim
for some special facilities whereby N.S.W. is to
annex the Northern Territory trade. These things
are eminently significant. They suggest a fixed
intention to push the doctrine of the domination
of the N.S.W. Assembly over the Australian Par-
liament into every branch of politics. Yet there
is not the slightest sign that the people of N.S.W.
endorse the attitude of their ridiculous State
Go vernment or State Assembly in this matter; in
fact, during all the four years of clamor and vitu-
peration about the selected Federal capital it has
been impossible to scrape up even one public meet-
ing of protest against Dalgety. The shindy has
been, from first to last, a row or disturbance carried
out without the authority of anybody save a hand-
ful of violent demagogues and about six frantic
and unprincipled newspapers. But these few
influences have, like the howler monkey, made a
row quite disproportioned to their size. To-night
a serious attempt will be made to resolve whether
the people of Australia are to rule Australia, or
whether it is to be controlled by the State Fright
crowd in the N.S.W. Assembly—and a lot of
things may hang on the decision.
PASSING IT ON TO THE KID.
The Bill providing for compulsory military train-
ing, introduced into the House of Representatives
by Defence Minister Ewing, is considerable of
a disappointment. Asa means of providing for
the future there are points about it, but the
future it provides for is too far away. The
measure is built on curiously apologetic lines; it
puts in the thin edge of the wedge, but the edge
is needlessly thin and it isn’t shoved in far enough.
Yet the outline of the scheme is fairly good. All
able-bodied males who are not aliens, and who
have put up six months’ residence in Australia,
are to be liable to compulsory training: (1) as
cadets or senior cadets from the age of 12 to the age
of 18 ; and (2) in the Defence Force from the age of
18 to that of 26. That makes 14 years’ training, and
is fairly satisfactory. The cadet is to have one
hour’s training per week, and also four clear days
per year. The Defence Force man is to have 18
days per annum for the first three years, and
seven days per annum for the remaining five
years. The employer who discharges an em-
ployee or reduces his wages on account of absence
at military training, or in any way attempts to
prevent him doing his duty to the Commonwealth,
is to be fined £loo—which serves him right. He
ought to be fined more. There are provisions for
making the non-efficient individual put in addi-
tional spells of service to make up for the period of
his non-efficiency. And there are a lot of other
wise provisions. In fact, so long as the reader
keeps strictly to the wise provisions of the Bill it is
liable to strike him as a very wise Bill indeed.
* * * *
Then the reader strikes the curious proviso that
every person who is over 18 years of age on the
New Year’s Day which succeeds the date at
which the Act comes into force shall be exempt
from the law of compulsory military training. If
the Act comes in force on December 31, it will
therefore not apply to anybody over 18; if it
comes into force on March 31, it won’t apply to
anybody over 17J. In one stupendous deed all
the present male population of the soldier’s age is
wiped off the list. Of course it would be no use
starting to train girthy citizens of 45, on the
ground that they had missed the training they
ought to have had before they were 26, but to
abandon all idea of training the men who are now
between 18 and 26 seems a wild absurdity. It
means the sacrifice of about 250,000 trained
defenders—the best men of the nation. Yet
service remains compulsory for the whole male
population, though training isn’t. In case of great
national emergency the (Government may call out
all the able-bodied male community in five suc-
cessive levies—(l) unmarried men or childless
widowers aged between 18 and 35 ; (2) the same
class of men aged between 35 and 45 ; (3) married
men, or widowers with children, aged between 18
and 35; (4) the same class of men aged between
35 and 45 ; and (5) all the rest of the men up to
the age of 60. If that great emergency and that
call were to come next year all these men would
be wholly untrained, and they would go helter-
skelter into the field as a cumbrous and utterly
tangled and almost useless and wholly incompre-
hensible mob. On the other hand, under the sort
of Defence Bill that we should have, about 250,000
of them would have received, even if the trouble
came very soon, the first rudiments of train-
ing, and would know how to preserve a certain
amount of order, and would have learnt the
difference between a general and a sentry-box.
Possibly the idea is to buy the support of the
people who have votes —the only people who
count in a case like this —by assuring] them that
they won’t be put to any inconvenience; the
trouble will all fall on young Posterity, who is to
carry the gun as well as the public debt. If that
is the idea, it is bribery and corruption as well as
cowardice and superfluity—for it is fairly certain
that no such inducement is needed. Possibly, on
the other hand, it simply means that the Defence
Department is shocked and staggered at the
magnitude of its own job; that it doesn’t feel
equal, the first year, to rushing 250,000 young men
into the tented field even if it took them by very
small instalments ; and that it is simply breaking
its own news to itself gradually. If that is so,
the position isn’t so bad, yet it is ba.d enough.
* * * *
But then comes another astounding statement.
The cadet service—that which includes the infant
between the ages of 12 and 18 years—is nominally
compulsory, that is to say the youths are “liable”
to serve. But it is announced that so long as the
voluntary cadet forces keep growingat the present
rate the liability won’t be enforced. Yet the pre-
sent rate of increase is only about 10,000 a year,
and, under an efficient compulsory system, it
should be more like 40,000. This arouses a fear
that perhaps the compulsory arrangement won’t
be enforced in any too vigorous a fashion among
the grown-up defenders, for the Bill doesn’t say
positively that even they must be trained; they also
are only “liable.” Anyhow, assuming that the
law is enforced in the case of the males who reach
the age of 18 on or after the first New Year’s Day
succeeding the passing of the Defence Bill, a time
will apparently arrive when Australia’s available
trained forces will consist of the following:—
Permanent Forces ;• •• 1>3'29
Militia as at present existing (to be retained till
the new system is in working order) .. .. 15,445
Volunteers as at present (these will gradually dis-
appear and become compulsory service men) 5,137
The first compulsory man who has come of age
(18 years), assuming that he has learned his
business as a cadet, and can thus be classed as
“trained"
21,912
The cadets, of course, don’t count. They will be
in training, but they won’t be liablg for actual
service till they reach the age of 18.
So, even if the men who are “ liable ” have their
liability rigidly enforced, the great Australian
citizen army will go very slowly. But unfortu-
nately the apologetic and half-hearted Bill seems
to so arrange things that the Government won’t
have power to rigidly enforce the liability even if
it wants to. The man who is ordered to turn out
for his annual training, and refuses to appear,
isn’t thereby qualified, it seems, to be hanged
or imprisoned or heavily fined. He simply
loses his Federal vote (but he keeps his
State vote; and the loss of his Federal
vote probably won’t trouble that kind of
man much); and is disqualified for entering the
Federal civil service (he probably couldn’t pass
the necessary examination in any case); and is
not eligible for an old-age pension (but that is
about 40 years ahead, and is too remote a terror
to amount to much). When a man can get off
so easily as this the whole merit of compulsory
service disappears. While service is voluntary,
the trouble is that the employer won’t engage the
voluntary service man, on the ground that his
demands for leave to attend camp are a nuisance
and a disparagement to the sock or ribbon depart-
ment, and instead he employs the man who
doesn’t go in for voluntary service. And when
service is so nearly voluntary that a man can
dodge it' oy sacrificing the Federal vote, his
qualification for a billet in the Federal Civil
Service, and his prospect of an old age pension,
the unpatriotic softgoodsman will only employ the
person who is willing to sacrifice his Federal vote,
his chance of a billet in the Federal Civil Service,
and his far-off prospect of an old age pension. By
reason of the lightness of these penalties, the
whole merit of the scheme goes to the dogs and
the devil. Assuming, however, that all the
men who are liable for training are called out,
and that they all come out—even then, as
already mentioned, the citizen army will grow
slowly. The first year it will probably muster
about 30,000 strong at most. The average age
will be about 18£ or 18f. There will hardly
be one person in the whole outfit who is
sufficiently mature to stand the hardships of
a campaign. Barring the small proportion who
have served in the cadets this little mob of boys
will be starting from scratch —military scratch.
Meanwhile, 250,000 male citizens, ranging from
18 to 26 years, will pursue their usual avocations,
having been needlessly written off as a bad debt.
If the enemy is thoughtful enough to keep away
for eight years, Australia may then have about
100,000 or 120,000 really serviceable defenders—
men who have gone through all or most of their
course of training, and have attained an age when
they can stand prolonged hardship—and a fair
reserve of partly-trained younger men behind them.
If he comes earlier Australia will have to put its
main dependence on a small force of half-trained
boys. If he comes very early there may be only one
boy to show for the new system, and he may not
be a trained boy at all. Possibly the arrangement
will work out all light, for there is no enemy in
sight on the absolutely immediate horizon, and,
moreover, there is a Providence that watches occa-
sionally over the drunk—either the personal or
national drunk. Yet the arrangement represents a
lamentable and needless risk, and thereissomethir.g
unpleasant about the idea of Passing the Whole
Responsibility on to the Kid. So many things,
including the entire public debt, are passed on to
the kid. But it is to be hoped that when the
naval defence scheme comes to light that won’t
also prove a device for passing things on to the
kid. A navy can’t be passed on. There has been
an abundance of cases in which a military genius
scrambled together a serviceable army in a year,
but no one ever constructed a serviceable modern
navy in five times that period. If there is to be a
ghost of a chance of Australia’s ships being ready
by the time they will very likely be wanted, this
generation must shoulder a fair share of the load.
A Bill providing that the boys who are now under
18 years of age are to start building and paying
for a navy when they are old enough, wiil only
make the country look ridiculous.
THE BURSTING-UP OF TOMMY BENT.
That miserable old man, T. Bknt, Premier of
Victoria, struck the basement and cellar of public
contempt last week, when he withdrew the Land
Valuation Bill in order to save his wretched politi-
cal skin. With the Land Valuation Bill, presum-
ably, go the threatened Land-Tax Bill and the
suggested measure for restricting the area of
estates —though a restriction which proposed to
limit the huge land-grabber to £150,000 worth of
land, and gave him ten years to sell the surplus,
and only provided that, if he didn’t sell the sur-
plus, the Government might (or might not) sell it
for him and give him the proceeds, was so little
of a restriction that even the unspeakably flabby
Bent might have had courage to stand by
it. The land system of Victoria is the
curse which is dragging the State down
to perdition. Victoria is the region of great
estates, of rack-renting landlords and abject,
penniless, beggared tenants, and of great fertile
areas which once were populated, but are now only
grass and wilderness and a few sheep. For years
and years the farmers’ sons have been fleeing from
Bent’s country as from a pestilence, because the
big land-grabber made'it impossible for them to
settle in their own State, except on such terms as
made a decent living impossible. Thanks to Pro-
tection, the artisan population grew steadily, and
Melbourne long kept its place as the great boss
city of Australia. But, as the result of land
monopoly, the country districts of Victoria didn’t
grow. Instead of settlers being attracted from
outside, the young men who were born in the
country were driven away to look for elbow-room
elsewhere. They were even driven away from
fertile counties where the population was one
person to two square miles—the land-grabber
actually made places like those overcrowded. In
six of the richest counties of Victoria there was
less population in 1901 than in 1871. In six
of the richest counties there was less popu-
lation in 19ul than in 1881. In eight coun-
ties, all situated in the best part of Victoria,
there was less population in 1901 than in 1891.
From 1861 to 1905 covers nine periods of five
years each, and in six of these periods Victoria
sent away more male citizens than it received.
And the exodus was wholly from the country dis-
tricts, for Melbourne, which lives on the work of
the artisan rather than on the pleasure of the big
landlord, kept growing splendidly all the while.
It was an utterly disgraceful result, such as no
other State can show. Victoria, thanks to its big
landlords, is becoming a State of old men, infants,
and women —largely unmarried women. Bent
had some thought of doing something in a small
way to remedy this evil, but being only a fat
and abject fraud, he scuttled for his hole at the
first sign of opposition. Apparently he thought he
might have to choose between his job and his
political honor, so he sacrificed his honor,


Probably, before the trouble ends, he will find
that he has also sacrificed his job.
» * * »
The position of the great country landlord in
Victoria is something unusual. He had his
beginnings in the days when there was only one
House of Parliament, and that House was himself.
By lying, stealing, forging, dummying, and all
manner of devices the big estates were put
together—granted by him to himself. Then,
being entrenched in his position, the big Victorian
landlord grew into a public enemy and a public
curse, also a public leprosy. He has a House of
Parliament all of his own, and thereby he has
been enabled to resist reform. He has so fixed
things that the loss on remote country or bush or
grass railways, built to improve the value of his
land, falls, not on those who profit by them, but
on the community at large, which is mostly the
town and city worker. His produce is carried by
rail at a mere fraction of the rate charged on the
goods made by the city worker. His employees
are carefully exempted from all the laws as to
hours and wages that apply to the city worker.
The big landlord comprises the bulk of the local
government bodies in the country, smd he values
his land for rating purposes at from one-eighth to
a half of its real value, so that his nominal rate of
(say) Is. in the £ is really a rate of from l|d. to
6d. in the £. And as this isn’t sufficient to
keep his reads in order, he applies to Bent
for subsidies, and gets them. These subsidies
come, to a great extent, out of the scantily-lined
pockets of city workers who have not only to pay
the whole cost (running in some cases to about 2s.
or 2s. 6d. in the £) of their own municipal govern-
ment, but to subscribe towards that of the outside
districts where the semi-millionaire landlords have
their habitat and their palaces. There isn’t a
hard-worked, over-taxed, underpaid corporation
laborer or bootmaker or drayman in Footscray or
Richmond or Oollingwood who isn’t, by reason of
the subsidy system, regularly giving his copper or
two in charity to the enormously rich Clarkes
and Manifolds and their kind. And there isn’t
a careworn, overworked hod-carrier’s wife in the
cheapest Melbourne suburb who hasn’t to live on
a more skimpy fare or to lie on a harder bed
because, by reason of the subsidy system, she has
to pay her copper or two that the loafing, greedy
women of the Clarke and Manifold clans may lie
soft, and have more money to burn and more motor-
cars to make a back-smell in the streets. And all
thesethings—exemption from theoperationof labor
laws, partial exemption from local rates, carriage
of goods at unpayable figures, and the like—only
serve to boost up the price of country lands. On
account of all these advantages, and by reason of
the artificial scarcity which is created by holding
land off the market and by shutting up land
against settlement, there has been created an
artificial famine. The price of the bit of soil that is
fairly worth £8 or toO an acre has been driven up
to £6O or more. In its land system Victoria has
gone back to something very like what France
was in the days of Philip Augustus, to what
England was in the reign of Hicnry VIII., or to
what Italy was in the latter times of the Roman
empi re.
m * » *
So that miserable old man, Premier Tommy
Bent, groping round for something to do—for
eveu a Victorian Premier of the worst Tory
species must pretend to do something—thought
he would make a concession to the growing demo-
cratic sentiment by introducing the Land 'Valua-
tion. Bill. In its original form it only purported
to value lands. It wasn’t implied that the great
landlords who boss the country local-government
bodies would be required to levy rates on the
valuations made under the Bill. They would
simply be shamed, if they were capable of shame,
by the fact being put on record that they valued
1 tnd for rating purposes at (say) £l6 an acre when
its selling price was (say) £64; that their alleged
rate of Is. in the £ was therefore really only 3d. ;
and that the hard-worked toilers of the cheap
Melbourne suburbs—the laborers and artisans—
were being taxed to pay subsidies, to the country
semi-millionaires to make up the shortage created
by this lie and swindle. For the first few weeks
after his Bill was announced Premier Tommy
Bent was a wild, proud man. He had feathers in
his hair. Opposition hadn’t yet begun to appear,
and he didn’t think it was coming, so he struck
attitudes. He was the lath painted to look like
iron ; the sodden sheet of blotting paper that pro-
fessed to be steel. He was the limit, and the last
possibility, and the jabberwock. He put frills on
his feeble Valuation Bill, and threatened to make
the country local-government bodies levy rates on
the official valuations instead of on their own bogus
valuations. He threatened to limit the amount of
country land one man could hold to £150,000
worth, and to give him 10 years to bring his
estate down to that figure. He almost threatened
a revised land-tax. And then the Country party
objected, and in an instant the great Tommy
bubble burst. Bent rushed down to the House
and withdrew the Land Valuation Bill in such
haste that he hadn’t even time to tell his colleagues
that he was going to do it. And, of course, the
threatened land-tax and the threatened restriction
on the area of estates perished at the same time.
There was just a hint of opposition, and the huge,
roaring, vulgar, ignorant, comic-song Premier
doubled up like a wet rag, and things in Victoria
are back where they were.
* * •* *
Tommy talks of re-introducing his Bill, but
plainly, the only present hope lies with the
Australian Parliament. In Victoria and Tas-
mania the owners of great estates are so securely
entrenched in their Houses of Property that it
will take nothing short of revolution to move
them if the States are left to their own de-
vices. It'is competent for the Australian Parlia-
ment to destroy the great land monopoly by
imposing a heavy progressive land-tax—one which,
will make the retention or accumulation of great
estates ruinous and impossible. Probably there
isn’t time to pass such an Act this session, but it
should be made the first item on next session’s
Srogramme. The ultra-conscientious Prime
linister Deakin says he is waiting fora mandate
from the people at the coming Federal election ;
but the individual who refuses to save a man
from a herd of thieves until he has dissolved
Parliament and asked the community to re-elect
him on an anti-thief programme is too particular
and 'too refined for the things of this world.
If the Australian Parliament enacts a solid, reso-
lute, progressive land-tax-early next session; it will
still take some little time to get the taxation
machinery in motion, and if the people cordially
disapprove of a Federal Land-Tax they will ha»e
abundant opportunity to signify their disapproval
by throwing the (government out. The reason
why the people get left so often is that their
friends are so anxious to be wholly just apd' not to
transgress law and tradition by a hair’s’breadth,
while their enemies don’t care what they trans-
gress. So a Tory, like Irvine, doesn’t wait for
any popular mandate when he starts out to sup-
press the local railway striker ; while a' Democrat
like Deakin wouldn’t think of rescuing the State
from> the utter ruin Which its great land sharks
are bringing upon it, without a popular mandate,
even if he had to wait 70 years for the mandate.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Eleven Proposed Capitals of
Australia.
Eleven sites have been nominated as possible
Federal capitals to be balloted for in the House
of Reps, to-day (Thursday), and when one looks
at the 10 that are set up in opposition to the
choice of the Australian Parliament they create a
feeling of wonderment. Very few of them even
pretend to square with the reasons assigned by
the anti-Dalgetyites for the faith that they allege
is in them. The principal of these alleged reasons
may be summarised as follows :
(1) That Dalg-ety is too far from Sydney; especially in
view of the fact that, 10 years ago, six State Premiers,
who had no special authority from the people to deal
with the matter, signed a secret letter among themselves
in which they spoke of the capital being “a reasonable
distance ” from that city. The anti-Dalgetyites say that
the privately-expressed opinion of those State Premiers
hinds Australia to fix the capital about 100 miles from
Sydney.
(2) That Dalgety is too high and consequently too cold.
(3) That the people of N.S.W. object to it, though of
this no evidence is given.
Wherefore, as already mentioned, ten new sites
have been put into the competition, and the
available particulars of the eleven are as follows
(distances are taken, wherever obtainable, from
the Yeab Book of Australia)
Evidence of
special accept-
ability to the
Miles Height N.S.W. people
from in in preference to
Sydney. feet. Dalgety.
Lake George (about) 175 2200 to 3000 Nil.
Yass 192 1657 None.
Lyndhurst .. .. 195 2204 Not a sign.
Orknge .. .. 196 2843 No evidence at all.
(Can’t even scrape
ing^F'lO 1 'men In
support.
DALGETY .. ..296 2650
Bombala .. .. 318 3000 Unknown.
Tumut . . .. 322 900 Not any.
Armidale .. .. 359 3333 No proof shown.
AlbUry .. .. 392 631 Can’t be found.
Tooma (about) .. 400 Blank.
These results make a curious total when added up.
The complaints against Dalgety include its re-
moteness from Sydney, but live of the sites set up
against it are more remote. The grievances also
include Dalgety’s elevation, but three of the sites
entered in opposition are still higher, and a fourth
is higher in part. There is also a great wail about
Dalgety’s nearness to Victoria, and promptly
three sites that are still closer to Victoria are
entered in competition. Also there is a loud
complaint that Dalgety is “unacceptable to the
people of N.5.W.,” and hot one of the competing
sites is supported by even the affidavit of a dog to
show that it is any more acceptable. In fact, the
visible reasons for the presence of most of them on
the list seem to be these:—
(1) In seven cases out of ten the proposed capital would
be wholly surrounded by N.S.W. territory, and would
only enjoy such road and railway communication as
might be allowed by the Government which stole the
wire-netting, and by the State Legislature which cancelled
the proposed Cooma-Bombala railway lest it should
advantage or convenience the Australian capital.
(2) In nine cases out of ten the proposed new capital
would have no Federal port and no trade except through
N.S.W.
(8) In eight cases out of ten the proposed new capital
would have no water power for cheap manufacturing
purposes, so that it wouldn’t be likely to grow to be a
place of importance that might overshadow any State
capital and be a credit to this continent—in fact, in six
cases out of ten even the supply of drinking water is none
too plentiful.
(4) In five cases out of ten all the trade of the proposed
new capital would go to Sydney, and thus help to further
concentrate population in the County of Cumberland,
which is already ninety times as thickly peopled as the
average of the State.
(5) In any case, if the blessed capital can be shifted
anywhere from the site selected by the Australian Parlia-
ment, it will make Wade feel better. He has declared
that it must be shifted because he (the almighty Wade)
“ won’t give the Dalgety site,” or words to that effect,
and whether it is shifted to Bourke or Sheol the great
Wade will be able to say “Alone I did it.”
And, apart from these reasons, it is really impos-
sible to guess why at least nine out of the ten new
competitors were entered at all.
—
Cheap Australian Iron and Dear Imported
Iron.
It has been figured out by expert accountants
that, with no Protection and no bonus, it costs
roughly £3 10s. to produce a ton of pig iron at
Lithgow iron works (N.S.W.), and the iron has
to be sold at £3 Is. Also it costs £lO 12s. to pro-
duce a ton of bar iron or steel, yet the goods have
to be sold at £lO 10s. Therefore the Freetrader
says it would be 9s. a ton cheaper to import pig
iron and 2s. per ton cheaper to import bar steel
than to make these goods here; and in saying
this he shows himself a narrow-visioned incapable
who is quite unable to see even the whole of the
mere cash aspect of the situation. The iron in-
dustry is practically all wages—wages of men who
dig ore and coal, wages of railway men who carry
ore and coal and finished metal, and of people
who make or repair the rolling stock and the rail-
ways whereby these things are carried,
wages of men who make the iron and
make and repair the buildings in which
the iron is made, wages of clerks, over-
seers, proprietors, etc. —in one form or another
it is wages every time. Now, roughly speaking,
the State and Federal revenue collected inN.S.W.
is equal to about one-fifth of the wages paid in the
State; between what the earner of the wages
pays himself and what the importer reluctantly
and disgustedly pays for him—in Customs, Excise-
stamps, probate and succession duties, income-
tax, land-tax, rates, land rents, railway fares and
sundries—the proportion keeps very steady. If
our iron and other goods are made in the United
States or Germany, this revenue goes to the
United States or the German Government. Con-
sequently in the case of imported goods Australia
pays the full nominal price, whereas in the case
of goods made locally it pays the nominal price,
less a huge discount or rebate, of which the per-
son with the importing craze takes no account.
Here are the figures as they affect Australia at
large:—
For 100 Tons of Pig Iron.
Made in Made in
i Australia. Germany.
Nominal Price £350 £305
Of which this country receives
back in taxes, etc. (about).. 70 Nil
Net Price ■ • (about). .£2BO £305
For 100 Tons of Bar Iron or Steel.
Made in Made in
Australia. Germany.
Nominal Price .. .. ..£lO6O £lO5O
Of which this country receives
■ bdck in taxes, etc. (about).. 212 Nil
Net Price (about).. £B4B £lO5O
That is part of the case for Protection put short
—the case that the blind and rule-of-thumb
Foreign-tradfer can’t see, or professes that he can’t
see. But it isn’t the whole case by a long way,
for when the worker i 3 here the farmer can sell
him goods without having to pay freight on them
to the other side of the world, whereas if the
worker is at the other side of the world the farmer
can only sell him goods after paying away, per-
haps, 20 per cent, of their value (lOd. per bushel
is about the cost of wheat export to England) to get
them to the place where the worker wants them.
To put the matter roughly, when reckoning the
cost of the locally-made article it is necessary to
get the price in pounds and then to reckon that
every pound is really only 165., whereas in the cost
of the imported article every pound is 20s. That
is how things stand when the workman is being
paid, but when the workman goes to spend his
wages the position is reversed. The £1 which
only cost the country 16s. is worth to the
country a full 20s. when spent here on
food, whereas the £1 which was given to the
English workman for imported goods cost the
whole 20s. when it was paid, and when it is spent
in England on Australian food it is only worth
about 15s. to us. That is to say, local manufacture
brings us two separate profits which don’t appear
on the surface of things : (1) The workman’s and
the boss’s contribution to the revenue goes into
our Treasury instead of to the British or U.S. or
German Treasury ; and (2) the wheat and butter
and cheese and potatoes and so on which we sell
to the workman who makes our pig iron here
bring their whole value, while if we have to send
them far away and sell them to a man who is
making our pig iron 12,000 miles distant they
bring their value less freight, insurance, com-
mission, etc. But even leaving this second aspect
of the case out of consideration, and also ignoring
the fact that it is better to have the iron-workers
here, where they will some day carry a rifle in
defence of Australia (and possibly the Empire)
rather than in Germany where they are learning
to carry a rifle in attack upon the British
Empire (and possibly Australia also) —leaving
these things out of the question and dealing
only with the figures in the table presented
above, the Lithgow problem resolves itself into
this simple question: “Is it better to buy our
pig iron from our own people at £2BO per 100 tons
or from Germans at £305 ; also, is it better to buy
our bar iron or steel from our own people at £B4B
per 100 tons or from foreigners at £lO5O ? If it is,
then it is up to the Australian Parliament to put
on a sky-towering duty at once and shut out the
dear foreign product. If it isn’t, then presum-
ably Parliament should leave things as they are,
and allow the Lithgow indtlstry to perish.
The Kailway—a Fool’s Kemedy for Big
Landlordism.
A despondent assemblage of inhabitants got
together a few days since at Roekley (N.S.W.) to
clamor for a railway from Bathurst to Burraga.
The inhabitants had a whole peck of troubles.
The land in their district is owned by big land-
lords. Sometimes the big landlords don’t allow
settlers to get on the soil at all, and when they do
allow them to get on, the rents are so high that
the settlers make no progress. They are a misery
to themselves and a sorrow to everybody else.
Therefore, according to the despondent accumu-
lation of inhabitants, things are so. bad in Roekley
that they have never been worse. In fact, they
couldn’t be worse. But these inhabitants, being
the usual conservative variety of soil-ticklers,
never thought of clamoring for a weighty
progressive land-tax to break up the big
estates and let small farmers get to work,
each on his own bit of soil. Instead they
called with great bitterness for a railway. Marvel-
lous is the country person’s belief in a railway
as a remedy for land monopoly and high rents.
Picton, about 55 miles from Sydney, got a line a
great many years ago, and if there'is any deader
place than that it would be hard to find it. Picton
had 384 people in 1861, and it took 40 years to
raise its population to 1053. And that was far
better than many records. Dubbo also has a
railway ; its population was 3199 in 1881, and 20
years later it hadn’t got beyond 3409. Moama
certainly has a railway, and in 1901 its population
was 300 less than it had been 20 years earlier.
Morpeth, in 1901, had 84 less people than in 1881
the population of Richmond diminished by 31 in
the same 20 years, and that of Singleton by 33;
Windsor only increased by 49 people in 20 years’
and Mudgee in the same space of time grew from
a place of 2492 population to one of 2789, which
wasn’t much of an increase. Bathurst itself
has a railvvay, and yet a more defunct
place of its size than Bathurst would be hard to
find. These are a few random examples, but in
N.S.W. alone the list could be easily multiplied
by four ; and in the Western District of Victoria a
record could be shown that would beat N.S.W.
hollow. If the monopoly of the great landlords is
allowed to continue, the chances are that Hockley
will be worse off after it gets its railway than it is-
now. Many towns are in that condition ; the-
gladdened landowner raised the rents as soon as
he saw the locomotive coming, and in his haste he
put on the rent for every 2d. profit that his
tenant made out of the new means of transit.
There are plenty of places subject to the big estate
curse where the people would joyfully see the rail-
way torn up and carted away, if thereby they
could get back to the rents of the old bullock-dray
period. In some of these places the aged and
pessimistic inhabitant calls it “the railway
curse,” but he is wrong—it is the big landlord
curse.
Repairing Sydney.
The Commission which is sitting to consider the
improvement of Sydney has heard a lot of valu-
able suggestions, and will doubtless hear a lot
more. It has had proposals laid before it for
widening old, narrow streets, and suggestions for
straightening old, crooked streets. It has received
plans and specifications for cutting down streets
that needlessly bob up and for tilling in streets that
needlessly bob down, and for thus transforming a
number of highways that at present aren’t worth
a straw for vehicular purposes into serviceable
carriers of traffic. And it has received valuable
propositions re perfectly new streets that are
much wanted, and about other matters. It is all
very interesting, but it is difficult to say where it
all leads to. Apparently there are three alterna-
tives in view. The first is to leave old Sydney very
much as it is, and that isn’t to be thought
of for a moment. The second is to create
still another governing body with power to make
improvements in the territory of the 40 odd dis-
ordered mayors and confused sets of aldermen.
That is highly objectionable, yet as one new road
may go through the territories of four mayors and
nearly 100 aldermen, and as life is too short to get
the consent of all those potentates, and as it would
be practically impossible to make them agree
about their respective shares of the cost, it may
come to that. Yet there are far too many govern-
ing bodies about Sydney already. The N.S.W.
metropolis is looked after (1) by its innumerable
herd of mayors and aldermen ; (2; by the Tramway
Department, which is necessary because 40
mayors can’t possibly agree about tramway
matters ; (3) by the Water and Sewerage Board,
which is essential because 40 mayors couldn’t
come to terms about either water or drains; (4)
by the private gas co., which exists because
municipal gas-works bossed by 40 mayors and
something like 1000 aldermen are impossible; (s)by
the private hydraulic power co. which came to pass
because about 40 mayors and 1000 aldermen can’t
agree about power either ; and (6) by some other
institutions. If an Improvement Trust is added
on top of all these governing bodies, Sydney will
be governed a heap too much. Of course there
is the third alternative—the compulsory lumping
together of all the municipalities into a Greater
Sydney, which, being a united authority, could
look after its own water, sewerage, gas, power,
electric lighting, tramways and improvements.
That seems the short way out of the difficulty. If it
isn’t adopted it would be a fair thing to appoint a
Commission to find out what is the use of the 40
mayors and the nearly 1000 aldermen. When, by
reason of their disunion, they can’t be trusted to.
look after water, sewerage, tramways, gas, elec-
tricity, hydraulic power, or the improvement of
the city, there hardly seems to be work enough
left to justify the existence of one mayor, let
alone 40.
♦
Poisoning the Watchdog.
Waddell, State Treasurer of N. S. Wales, put
his heaviest, clumsiest hoof on to the Auditor-
General’s character and reputation last week, and,
having called the officer a deliberate liar, didn’t
have either the grace to withdraw or the pluck to
take the step which he obviously ought to take if
the Auditor-General is what he alleged. In rela-
tion to the public accounts the Auditor-General
stands in very much the same position as a Judge
occupies in relation to the law. His duty, laid
upon him by statute, is to tell the truth as he sees
it, without fear or favor ; and so that he may
know neither fear nor favor he is put on much the
same plane as a Judge. That is to say, he cannot
be removed except by a vote of both Houses of Par-
liament. He is the financial watchdog of Parlia-
ment, and through Parliament of the people ; it is
his business not only to check the various Depart-
ments’ additions and subtractions, but also to tear
off the mask of make-believe when even a Treasurer
wears it. The proper sort of Treasurer would
rejoice to have the support of such an officer;
but Waddell and his Premier, Wade, clearly
don’t want any watchdog on the premises. Their
Government sneaked in on the plea of financial!
reform; and, as this paper has shown a score of
times, the financial reform is humbug, and the
surplus out of which the Ministry struggles to
make political halos for its Premier and its
Treasurer is largely bogus, and the halos are
wholly Brummagem. The Auditor-General did
not set these things out as fully and pointedly as
he might have done ; but he did set them out to
some extent, and his remarks suggested further
inquiry. Had he done less he would have
been unworthy of the trust which is com-
mitted to him ; yet because he did it he obviously
incurred the enmity of the humbugs and posturers
on the Treasury benches. Their one course
(short of admitting themselves humbugs and
posturers) was to discredit the officer—to persuade
Parliament and the public that the watchdog was
a fraud and merely a spiteful cur. If he was, he
clearly ought to be put out of the way ; to have
that sort of animal on the premises is worse than,
having no watchdog at all. Yet having attempted
to blast the watchdog’s character, having called!
the officer a deliberate liar and threatened to
“ shake him up,” Twaddell, supported by Wade,
do nothing; they just throw the poisoned bait
over the fence and fly for their lives. “The*
matter will be dropped,”- announced all their
time-serving newspaper claquers. The matter
must not be dropped. The Auditor-General has
said certain things about the public accounts and
the public finances, things which involve not only
the reputation of the Wade Govermrjpnt, but also
the whole financial policy of the State, and
they must be inquired into. The Government
is not the party to do that; for the Government
practically stands accused of being a charlatan and
a political three-card trickster. The surplus
which it flaunts the Auditor-General declares to
be more or less bogus. Twaddell and one or
two othpr Ministers have tried to get Parliament
and the public to forget all about those charges by
An Undeveloped Natural Resource.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’m inditing of a ballad
In a moralising vein,
Arid the burden of the story is a baby.
It is generally little,
And it often has a pain ;
But it is a mighty factor is a baby.
When the world was just beginning,
In the early age of stone,
The savage knew the value of the baby,
For it made the tribe a nation
When its baby form had grown,
So their hearts were in the work of getting baby.
But the world is nearer ended
Than it was some years ago
(A fact that’s unconnected with the baby).
But the baby kept it going,
And it hasn’t gone too slow—
A truth that throws much credit on the baby.
Now that we’ve invented culture
And literature and art,
It has somehow cooled our zeal for having baby,
And perhaps we are forgetting
That a nation makes a start
By the frequent repetition of its baby.
Though Australia’s plains are spacious
We are but a feeble band,
Which implies a very urgent need of baby.
’Tis the children make the people,
And the people hold the land
Which is the future heritage of baby.
Yes, our country’s very empty,
And our population’s base
Simply stands upon the cradle of the baby.
We cannot by adoption
Raise the numbers of our race,
’Tis the patriot we want —who was our baby.
We have timber, coal and iron.
We have copper, tin and soil.
Who will use them in the future—lacking baby ?
Let us then be patriotic,
Let us buckle to and toil
At a patriot’s true labor—raising baby.
VIC.
MARTIAL.


DEAFNESS
HEAD NOISES
RINCINCiNTMtEARS
COMPLETELY CURED
After all Other Treatments Failed.
The well-known Rev. Chas. D. Hopkins writes
“ It is the only treatment that will cure deafness
or any internal ear troubles. I am more than
delighted. When all other treatments have failed,
yours stands alone a great success.”
Thousands of other testimonials. Call or write
for full FREE particulars. Address:—
TheEAROSCOPE CO., 90 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
G
INEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are Headquarters for above, and represent
the Greatest Makers of the World. We have
an Extensive Stock to select from.
NEW FILM SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
Write or call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 George Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
m
W
r
Esteb.
1818
By Special Appointment to
Ji is -Maj e sty The King.
talking at great length about a comparatively
small matter with regard to some coal royalties.
That is more humbug ; these coal royalties area
mere red herring, or whatever smelly substance
it is that the pack goes yelping after. The real
questions are two :
(1) Is the revenue inflated by the inclusion of moneys
which should not he reckoned as revenue?
(2) Is the expenditure reduced by the non-inclusion of
items which ought to be included?
If the answer to either question or both is “Yes,”
then the “so*ealled surplus” (the Auditor-
General’s term) is bogus to a greater or less
extent. The public ought to know these things :
it ought to know really where it stands. The
•concern, public or otherwise, which doesn’t know
'that, can only escape wreck by a lot of good luck.
In that respect it is just the same as any other
•ship which doesn’t know where it is. This is a
job for experts, who will look into the State’s
financial affairs in exactly the same way as they
would look into the affairs of any other great
financial and trading concern. There are, perhaps,
■a dozen men quite competent for such a job in N. S.
VVales; and the job ought to be done without delay.
But, whether it is done or not, Parliament and
the public ought to plainly show its contempt for
Ministers who will attack a man in the position
of the Auditor-General, accuse him of deliberate
lying, and who will then crawl back into their
places while their claquers announce that “the
matter will be allowed to drop.”
Plain English and Honest Criticism.
Senator Walker writes as follows:
In public life a man must always be prepared to receive
hard knocks, and of such I do not complain ; but, even
from one’s most strenuous opponents, one scarcely ex-
pects to be lampooned as a “slanderer” on such flimsy
grounds as you attribute that title to poor me in your
columns of Ist October, to which my attention has been
particularly drawn by a fellow-Senator. By you, I am
supposed not merely to be a slanderer of New South
Wales (where I first landed in 1845), but one who can pub-
lish the so-called “slander,” referred to by you,
“ with pride and complacency.” You further consider
there is “no shadow of excuse” for the so-called
“slgnder.” Personally, I have nothing- to do with the
■why or wherefore of the local Parliament’s action
i(I do not defend it) in legislating that the
.Referendum for acceptance of the Federal Constitution
.required 80,000 votes in its favor. As Parliament repre-
sents the people, it makes the laws for the people, and
'.those laws have to be obeyed. Ido know, however, that,
with others, I toured through New South Wales, and did
my best, by addressing public meetings and otherwise, to
get the Convention Bill accepted. I know further that
we did not succeed in getting the requisite minimum
number of votes. It is a matter of history that, after the
Convention Bill in an amended form (including provision
for the Federal Capital to be located in New South Wales)
was submitted to another Referendum, it was accepted
by upwards of 100,000 votes. Under such circumstances,
where comes in my so-called “slander” when I truth-
fully stated that “New South Wales would not have
entered the Federation if the Federal capital had not
been located within her borders ” ?
You may believe me or not, I would not have noticed
what appears in your columns were it not that the out-
rageous, and, I maintain, uncalled-for remarks, have
pained those near and dear to me, for whose sake these
lines will show conclusively that, at all events, I did not
allow the statements to go uncontradicted or unchal-
lenged. In days gone by, to my great, and not disagree-
able, surprise, I found my name included in The Bulletin’s
selected ten candidates for the Convention of 1897, on
the ground that I was a true Federalist, and that in
spite of my fiscal faith ! I have never swerved from my
Federal faith, notwithstanding all kinds of rebuffs,
believing, as I still do, in the wisdom and necessity of
.having a United Australia. With many other Freetraders,
Union above Fiscalism, I joined in risking for
-.this State the loss of next-door to a purely Revenue Tariff,
which loss has, from my point of view, unfortunately
taken place for the present. The body politic,
dike the physical body, has infantile troubles
ito go through, but, in the long run, they
imay prove blessings, and will certainly be educa-
tive. Surely few can truthfully deny that, for the sake
.of Union, New South Wales has made the greatest sacri-
Kices of any State in the Commonwealth, notwithstanding
its promised possession of the capital, which, however,
will be in Federal territory. An agreement is an agree-
ment, and should be honorably observed. Permit me to
add that I object to be classified as a Tory. In the
Mother Country, of which I have the honor to be a
native, it is the Protectionists who compose the Tory
party, not the Freetraders. We Freetraders maintain
ours is a broader, fairer, more peaceful and happier fiscal
faith than is Protection, with which, alas, you still seem
to be enamored, not to say infatuated.
To which it is only necessary to say a very few
words by way of reply :
(1) Senator Walker said distinctly that N.S.W. wouldn’t
have joined the Federation—this despite the fact that it
had invited the other States to federate —unless it got
the Federal capital ; in other words, that it originated
the Federal movement and then insisted on being speci-
ally bribed to go on with it. This was a charge of gross
selfishness and treachery and corruption against the
majority of the N.S.W. people.
(2) Against this slander The Bulletin sets the fact that
the people of N.S.W. endorsed the Convention Bill—
which didn’t allot the capital to N.S.W., nor to any other
State —by 71,412 votes to 65,954. The majority was dis-
qualified by the degraded treachery of the N.S.W. Legis-
lature of the day, but that made the endorsement none
the less clear.
(3) If Senator Walker can prove ( a ) that this majority
for the Convention Bill would have changed its mind and
gone over to the anti-Federalists, or (b) that the State
Legislature could have held out permanently against the
expressed will of the people, and kept on disqualifying the
Federal majority with impunity, then his statement that
N.S.W. wouldn’t have joined the Commonwealth unless
specially bribed with the gift of the capital is true. If he
can’t show either of these things, then it is the wretched
slander upon the State that this paper described it.
(4) As a side issue, which he neglects, the N.S.W.
vote against Federation was stronger after the capital
was allotted to that State than before. The Convention
Bill, which left the capital site an open question, was
opposed by 65,954 votes. The new Bill, which fixed the
capital in N.S.W., was opposed by 82,741 votes.
(5) As regards Senator Walker’s statement that “ few
can truthfully deny that, for the sake of union, N.S.W.
has made the greatest sacrifices of any State in the Com-
monwealth,” it would be much more accurate to say
“no one can truthfully deny that N.S. W. has profited
more by Federation than any other State of the Common-
wealth.” Federation saved it from the curse of the
Freetrade and shoddy and importing superstition.
The steady loss by excess of emigration changed
to a great and steady gain by excess of immigration ;
the rate of increase in the number of employees in N.S.W.
factories more than doubled ; comparing 1900 with 1907,
N.S. W.’s imports increased by £12,000,000, and its exports
by £20,000,000, and the tonnage of shipping in its har-
bors almost doubled ; also savings bank and other
bank deposits increased enormously. The evidence
shows, also, that Federation brought these and
other advantages to N.S.W. in a greater degree than
to any other State. (The figures were published in two
Bulletin articles of 9th and 16th July last.) In view of
Statistician Knibbs’s figures this whining about “ sacri-
fices made for the sake of union ” is a miserable fraud.
(6) And as regards the question whether Mr. Walker
;is a Tory or not —in Australia the Foreign-trader is a Tory
of the worst kind, whatever ho may be in England, where
the curse of Freetrade is now bringing hunger-strikqs into
fashion, or in Ireland, which has lost half its population
since Freetrade commenced.
■» .
As a fitting celebration of his latest “climb
down,” Premier Bent has arranged to take 30
members of the Vic. Parliament for a trip to
Mount Buffalo, where there is a new road to be
opened. The picnic party will start to-day
(Thursday). Reaching the town of Bright at 6
p.m., they will presently be entertained at a
“smoke social” by the president of the Bright
shire, who will congratulate the company on the
withdrawal of the Land Valuation Bill. To-
morrow morning they will be driven to the place
where Bent is to open the new road, and in the
afternoon they will be further driven to the top
of Mount Buffalo, that they may “inspect the
famous gorge ” on behalf of the State that pays
for their outing. They will officially camp upon
the Mount in strong military tents, and on Saturday
they will inspect theMountsomemoreerereturning
to Melbourne by their own extra special train. The
above particulars are the advertised portion of the
programme. For the rest there will be much feast
of reason and flow of soul, and a three-days’ cessa-
tion of personal expenditure on the part of those
30 members. And as they traverse the country
they are paid to legislate for, they will see many
hundred miles of the land which cries aloud for
the taxation they have conspired to withhold from
it, and at each new view of its undeveloped pos-
sibilities the jaunting gentlemen will take another
drink. If Bent’s Parliamentarians had any con-
sciences to speak of they wouldn’t be able to look
an acre of land in the face.
♦
“Sudden” Solomon, of Adelaide, has joined
with Tom Harry, a journalist, in producing about
the “highest’’bit of stinking fish yet offered in
the Australian market-place. For instance, as to
the Australian youth :
He regards work of all kinds as simply a necessary
evil, incidental and antecedental to the acquisition of
means to enable him to play.
Yet only a week or so back there died an Australian
who, at 33, had climbed up to be acting general
manager of the biggest copper-gold mine in the
world ; and a few weeks before that there died
another Australian who, at little over 30, was
recognised as one of the world’s authorities on
silver-lead smelting; and Justice Barton was
B.A. at 19, M.A. at 21, and Speaker at 34; and
John Forrest at 22 was leader of an exploring
party sent out to search for Leichhardt. And
away out in the bush there are thousands of Aus-
tralians who at 16 have taken fencing contracts
and at 18 have gone on to selections of their own.
Yet said Solomon the Sudden-
In America all classes find their ideal in the “ maximum
of work,” the Australians realise it in the “ maximum of
play.”
The Australian is never so happy as when he is extort-
ing either from the State or a private employer. What
he calls the “ minimum wage ”is generally only,a delicate
euphemism for the maximum of pay for the minimum of
effort.
Referring to the death of Kingston, the shameful
Solomon and his fellow disgrace say “probably
not one man in 10,000 cared to the extent, for
instance, of having his appetite for breakfast
taken away when he read of his death.” And for
two other pearls :
Education tends to weaken parental influence and to
substitute for it the cold, pedantic and yet limited
authority of the schoolmaster, who has no power to
impart the religious and moral lessons which the parents
have largely ceased to inculcate and the children do not
desire to learn.
The working classes fall an easy prey to the arts of the
agitators, who would fain teach them that the most suc-
cessful form of government is that where the supreme
power is vested in the most ignorant.
A lot of people never could understand why
Solomon, after being allowed to slip accidentally
into the S. Australian Premiership, was fired out
very decisively five days afterwards—as soon, in
fact, as S. Australia quite realised the nature of
the accident that had happened.. But it’s easy
enough to understand S. Australia’s energy now.
It will be easier still to understand Si. Australia’s
energy if ever again Solomon shows his nose on
an election platform in that State.
When the Tramway Industrial Board met in
Sydney last week, to consider the issues between
the men and the N.S.W. Railway Commissioners,
Barrister Lamb (who appeared for the Commis-
sioners) rose with a “point” in his hand, and
heaved the spiky object deferentially at the
Board, Justice Street, as the legal member of
the tribunal, looked learnedly at the thing, and
diagnosed it as a contention to the effect that, as
the Railway Commissioners were a statutory body
created to control the railways, the Industrial
Board had no jurisdiction to interfere with the
Commissioners’ methods of control. It was a
neat little point, no doubt; but the fact
that it was raised so smartly throws a
suspicious side-light on the sincerity of some
people. During the late lamented tram strike
one of the demands of the men was for a special
Court to settle their grievances, and that demand
was met in all quarters in the same way. Premier
Wade said a special Court was unnecessary,
because the Industrial Disputes Act was intended
for just such a case as theirs; the daily papers
unanimously told the men not to be a lot of anar-
chists, but to submit their trouble to the lawfully-
constituted tribunal— i.e., an Industrial Board;
Commissioner Johnson himself was all on the
side of the law. The men hearkened unto all
that good advice, got an ordinary Board ap-
pointed under the ordinary Act, and were imme-
diately met with the plea from the hired repre-
sentative of Wade and Johnson that such a Court
had no jurisdiction. And the men naturally reckon
that it is very sharp practice, and that a syste-
matic attempt has been made to sell them a gold-
brick.
+
A blizzard of complaint has suddenly begun to
blow re the congestion of the railways leading
towards Sydney. According to David Fell,
M.L.A., the pressure has become “tremendous,”
and he says that Commissioner Johnson backs
him up in that statement. Still it is difficult to
see what else these people could expect. The
policy of the N.S.W. Legislature has always been
to. drag all commerce to Sydney; until quite
recently special rates were even granted to induce
the northern trade to pass Newcastle and go to
Sydney. Such promising harbors as Jervis Bay
and Twofold Bay are carefully shut off from rail-
way communication, so that traffic may pass them
and travel a needless 200 miles or so to Sydney.
And when all the traffic from about 250,000
square miles of country (the rest goes to New-
castle) at last swarms on to one bit of rail-
way close to the city, it is like a herd of
bullocks trying to get through the neck of
a bottle. And when all this traffic is rushed on to
the narrow peninsula whereon Sydney stands, it
is like the same herd of bullocks when it has got
jammed up against the immovable, and the unpre-
cedented. Yet, curiously enough, the same Legis-
lature to which Fell, M.L. A., complained about
the congestion demands that the Australian capital
shall be placed where all its trade will also rush
into that over-crowded bottle-neck that leads to
Sydney. In fact, Fell himself is understood to
be one of the congestion party.
♦
The fierce rage of the Tory for cheap labor causes
him to continually hurl lies and curses at Aus-
tralia, and his Six Hatters tale and his Petriana
perjury are not quite dead even unto this day.
Ihus the ultra-Tory Pastoralists’Review held
forth as follows in its August issue
What labor emigrants from this side (Britain) naturally
want is something certain to go to. An agreement at
good wages must be made for at least six months. . .
1 his, of course, means that the contract clause of the
Immigration Act must be repealed if workers are re-
quired.
Then Atlee Hunt, of the External Affairs
Department, wrote and told the Pastoralists’
Review —what it probably knew very well
already- that it was three years behind the times,
and that the Act of 1905
specially provides for the recognition of contracts
made between intending immigrants and persons resi-
dent in Australia.
Rut and this is why the Tory person rages so
furiously and lies with such ferocity—the same
Act provides that the person who is engaged in
Britain, or any other foreign country, to work in
Australia must be engaged at the Australian rate
of wages. The old device of getting hold of
ignorant toilers from the lowest-wage parts of
Britain, and bringing them out here on a several
years’ agreement to work for 15s. a week and find
themselves, and putting thorn in gaol because they
struck when they found what 15s. a week and find
yourself really means in Australia—that fine old
swindle is “off.” There is no objection to bring-
ing in contract labor, but it must not be swindled
labor ; and because the Tory wants to swindle his
employee all the time he is a very angry man and
a very great perverter of the truth.
♦
Some profound Foreign-trade rot from S. M
Herald’s financial column (28/9/’08)
Those who would crush imports and stimulate exports
forget that, were there none of the former, the latter
would either cease, or would have to be paid for in gold
a commodity of which Australia already produces a sur-
plus over her needs. If the whole of Australia’s exports
were paid for in gold, how many years would elapse
before she possessed all the stores of this precious metal
in the world? Her position would then much resemble
that of the castaway on the desert island, who had gold
in plenty, but not a loaf to eat.
Through long years of saying that “Australia
cant do this,” the Herald has evidently become
maudlin and imbecile. If Australia greatly re-
POPULAR PRESSURE.
In fact, many said if Mr. Peacock and Mr. Mackinnon
had a spark of independence in them they would resign.
—AGE.
It is rumored that Mr. Mackinnon is going to resign.
—AGE.
An attempt to show that it takes nearly as
much influence to make a Bent Minister resign
as it does to get him appointed.
duced its imports and kept up its exports it
wouldn’t take gold for the difference and heap it
up uselessly on the shore. It would first pay off
its foreign debts, public and private, which
amount to probably £400,000,000 (the Herald has
evidently never heard of this item), and that work
would keep the country busy for a while. Then it
would probably begin lending or investing money
abroad (Britain and other countries do that, but
the Herald evidently thinks Australia couldn’t).
And when it had paid off all its debts, and
invested abroad all the money it could invest—
which might happen in 1000 or 2000 years’
time —then if gold was still pouring in,
Australia would simply reconsider its position.
And, anyhow, it takes a low-down rag like the
Herald to depict Australia as so barren and
desolate and helpless and idiotic that it would
have “ not a loaf to eat,” while at the same time
describing it as a place of such stupendous pro-
duction that it would have sold goods to other
nations till it had scooped in all the gold on earth.
Freetrade seems to lead to brain softening.
♦
An interesting point about the Federal Defence
Bill is the clause which fixes penalties for the
person who refuses to do his allegedly “com-
pulsory ” military training between the ages of 18
and 26. These penalties are—
(l) He may not vote at Federal elections.
(2) He may not become a Federal public servant.
(3) He is disqualified for an old-age pension.
Now, of these three penalties, the rich man is
wholly unaffected by two. He doesn’t care two-
pence about being disqualified for a billet in the
Federal public service, for the last thing that he
has in his mind is the idea of shoving a pen at a
high desk in any public office. Also, he doesn’t
care even a single copper about being dis-
qualified for an old age pension ; he never expects
either to want it or to get it. That leaves the
loss of his Federal vote as the only punishment
which can possibly befall him under the
very gentle and harmless Act. But he will still
retain his State vote, so the whole penalty will
consist of the loss of half his voting power, and
he may be the sort of person who wouldn’t use his
Federal vote in any case. If this male person is
numerous, the certain result will be that a larger
percentage of the Federal voting power than
hitherto will become female. The State voting
power will remain as male as ever it was, but the
Federal balance will tip up on the female side.
And whether that will be a healthy state of things
or not time must reveal.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “ Sunday.”
Criterion “ The Belie of Mayfair.”
Palace “ Two Little Sailor Boys.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards' Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Town Hall Katherine Goodson (17th).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “ The Morals of Marcus.”
Her Majesty’s “Camille.”
Theatre Royal “Maritana.”
BiJOU “ Miss Lancashire Limited.”
King’s “ The Gayest of the Gay.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
Town Hall Royal Welsh Male Choir.
: ♦
Comparisons are odious, but they are in-
evitable. When The Bulletin hears Ada Crossley
again it is compelled to think of Clara Butt. This
paper never went into hysterics about the singing
of the owner of the Phenomenal Voice. Clara
was astonishing; nevertheless one always ended
the shout of praise with a “but.” Invariably
there was some reservation. It is not so with Ada
Crossley. It is quite impossible to believe that
the self-alleged financial record-breaker of local
concerts can be regarded seriously in the Hub
of Empire as the rival of Ada Crossley,
except upon the principle that a man with a trom-
bone can always shout down Ysaye or Kreissler.
Clara Butt sang very loudly ; Ada Crossley sings
very perfectly. Not that she lacks voice. Quite
the contrary. Anybody who wants to find out
how much voice she has had better go and sit over
the clock in Sydney Town Hall what time the
master hand of Sykes wanders over the ivory
keys. And there is never any of that “but,”
which sounds such a little thing though it interferes
so much with one’s enjoyment, like a speck of
something invisible in one’s eye. You just sit
and listen to Ada Crossley, and whether it is
declamation or religion or the sad case of the im-
prudent young woman who was cut off untimely
by the Banks of Allan Water, she makes things
materialise, and that is the supreme gift of an artist.
As for her versatility, she ranges all down the scale
from the Gluck Recitative and Aria to simple bal-
lads, and the difference of quality is always in the
songs, never in the singing. The majority of
stars are accompanied by a ring of satellites who
fill in the time and bore the public. If they
attract too much attention they are unhooked
from the solar system and flung into space. This
is not at all the case with the Ada
Crossley concert co., where other suc-
cesses seem to receive generous ap-
preciation from the leader. John
Harrison is quite an event. He
has a beautiful voice and plenty
of it, and he is very much in
earnest. Beauty born of mur-
muring sound passes into his
face as he sings. Hamilton Earle
has a fine voice, with (for a bari-
tone) some prize low notes in it,
and he uses it well. Percy
Grainger is an old “draw” in
Australia for so young a man.
While he has been away he has
increased his reputation and h s
technique, and his splendid crop of
hair, like that wherewith Absalom
hung himself upon a tree, bears a
close resemblance to Paderewski’s mane. Mr.
Sametini is a sort of Agag upon the violin —
he goes so very delicately, like an ancient king
wandering on eggs ; but he has the misfortune to
follow Kubelik and the insufficiently-appreciated
Premyslav. The first Crossley season, according
to present arrangements, closes on Saturday, and
the star will leave for Melbourne on the 17th.
** * *
Last week “Peter Pan” ended for the
present his ringing appeal to the Theatre Royal
(Sydney) to believe in fairies, and Wendy and the
others folded up their nighties for the last time on
Saturday morning. In the evening “Dorothy
Vernon” was staged as the first of a series of
quick revivals. Why the harum-scarum girl of
Haddon Hall was given this place of honor is not
too obvious, for “ Dorothy Vernon ” is rather weak
stuff, and Dorothy is one of Miss Tittell Brune’s
poorest parts—and it seems to suit her even less
after one has seen her in “Peter Pan.” Some
new interest was, however, given to the resurrec-
tion by the appearance of Mrs. Robert
Brough in Miss Susie Vaughan’s part of the
vain and imperious old Queen Bess; it was,
of course, a thoroughly artistic performance,
though one may doubt whether the part is much
to Mrs. Brough’s liking. Saturday of this week
will see Miss Brune once more in “ Sunday,” the
simple little backwoods piece in which she made
her Australian beginnings, and in which this
writer would still rather see her than in any other.
And since it was ‘ ‘ Sunday, ” as m uch as the French
eaglet with the cough, that first captivated the
collective Australian Girl, and bound her with
10,000 “pig-tails” to the Tittell’s feet, J.C.W.
will no doubt get in an enlarged cash-box for next
week. _
## * #
From the box-office point of view (SaicT
box-office being at Her Majesty’s), Miss Carrie
Moore might have done a lot better, for she made
her sensational marriage, and caused all the sub-
sequent advt., before there really was any need to
supply the business with a refresher. Still, though
it will run to good houses for a month or so, the
“Widow” isn’t going to have any great vogue
in Sydney. The music has been too long
in arriving—the organ-grinder for once beat
J. C. Williamson —and, apart from the music, the
widow isn’t nearly as merry as she might be. Yet


Fi,m ® for hire—new
*nd acce Bsori m^ Machines, parts,
Write
Sydney.*
us. Jerdan’s
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
»
The OLDEST MUTUAL
Lowest Hates Charged.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLKLY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
the fine performance of Florence Young is a
feature that will of itself make the season more
than a moderate success.
** * *
Frank Thornton, he of the quaint and
crinkled countenance, will cease to wear the
blameless skirt of a bogus Brazilian life at Sydney
palace after Friday night. On Saturday he will
fly from the scene with his corset in his hand, and
“Two Little Sailor Boys” will happen for the
first time in the City of the Heavenly Harbor. It
is by the author of the amazing “Midnight
Bedding” and “ She Shoved Against the World,”
and similar marvels, all in 28 acts and a herd of
dead bodies.
** * *
“The Belle of Mayfair ” is being beauti-
ful before big audiences at Sydney Criterion every
night despite the huge and gratuitous advt. that
has been scored by the rival show. Space-pressure
debarred this paper from saying, on first en-
countering “ The Belle,” all it would have liked
in regard to the dancing art of Essie Perrin and
her young friend, Flossie Dickenson. Both
maidens are credits to Mayfair, West Kensington,
Lambeth, Poplar, or whatever postal district of
the Might} 7 Smoke they elect to caper in.
Another star whose glim was unavoidably left in
a doused state a fortnight ago is Arthur Appleby.
This mime portrays a French count of a type the
Faubourg would be charmed to meet, on the prin-
ciple that the unexpected is always interesting.
The chorus in attendance on the Belle and her
family is drawing baldheads and music-lovers with
equal traction-force, which stamps it as a perfect
thing in its line.
* *■ *
West’s Pictures, on and after Saturday
next, will no longer do the homeless cat act.
They will find rest at the Glaciariutn, where,
according to the advt., they will be bigger,
brighter and better than ever.
* * *
Mr. Philip Newbury’s courage is as high
as the Che takes with such soaring effect, for he
sandwiched a concert on Friday night between
two of Orossley’s. His daring was justified by a
good audience drawn by the double charm of
excellent music and low prices. Mrs. Slapoffski,
Mr. Sydney Scott and Mr. Nield were valuable
acquisitions for the night, and lovers of song with
low prices will be gratified by the announcement
that Mr. Newbury begins a series of Monday
popular concerts on the 19th.
** * *
One night last week The Bulletin and
the office gamp went along to a vaudeville enter-
tainment at the Royal Standard Theatre, Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney. The show, which was in
aid of the dismissed tramway men, had a most
worthy object, even if it wasn’t much of a show in
places. In other places it was helped along by
several of the best-known artists now appearing in
Sydney. Owing probably to the fact that the
bottom fell utterly out of the weather about two
hours prior to the overture, there were a few
vacant patches in the auditorium, but there is
reason to hope that they represented tickets which
had been bought and paid for, and only escaped
being used on account of the rain.
** * *
Abdullah’s 12 surprising Arabs continue
to bear the heat and burthen of Sydney Tivoli
programme. As the poet would have remarked—
if he had had the money to pay for a seat:—
What problems of the liver I might solve
Could I, like them, unceasingly revolve !
Burt Shepard (entertainer). Tod Lowen (come-
dian), and the Barnard Family are the other
capital-letter turns of the bill. The smart Mey-
mott pair depart at the end of this week, and the
advertisement discloses not the name of any
successor. Rochefort and Hart, Fanny Powers,
Eileen Lyons, and Irvine Sayles deserve hon.
mention, and the ladies of the first part march 35
miles round the stage in a manner reminiscent of
the retreat of the Ten Thousand.
** * *
“The Morals of Marcus,” which had its
first Melbourne time at the Princess’s on Satur-
day, is so consistently odd in narrative details that
the familiar staginess of several characters almost
escapes notice. Marcus, a philosophical book-
worm, amuses himself by cherishing a platonic
affection for a married woman. Owing to the
platonic entanglement he remains impervious to
the of matchmaking mornrners and
daughters. These, seemingly, give him up as a
hopeless case. But a Syrian damsel of English
parentage wanders into his cottage garden like a
demented kitten and asks the matured
philosopher what she ought to do, whereupon
le commits the artless young person to the care
°l 11S housekeeper with the suggestion that
she needs washing in the first place. As a female
wan the new-comer differs from her theatrical
predecessors in that she has escaped from a harem
n the East and come to England at the expense
oi an unknown Harry who committed suicide at a
rnf tllT ! e . s he was sleeping under a hav-
Mil a • Philosopher falls in love with the
hp r lot^ a at firat Consequently
he adopts her for his ward, and talks about her to
lu " e j ed black cat, which has also strayed into
vnrl£ a ! • ’ and be grows hysterical when she in-
fpll , . 11S sanctum in her beautiful “nighty” to
conv-£.!.u e ' S a “ ouse her bed. The one
eccentiicity. thlng ab ° Ut the play 18 its claim to
* # * #
to S rcus . con hi n ues his platonic attachment
be vvarihf' ady ’ more from habit than because
She f ( ,r h marr y her when her husband dies,
from Svrrie naturally wishes the damsel
philosonbp the T y ’ See,ng thafc Rrey-baired
marriage to Phers •almost invariably propose
act. Another 61r adopted charmers in the last
Carlotta •['),,■ Pf^ aon also desires to remove
who hanirs , b °wt r f , me 18 an Italian lady-killer
Prey. Hri . nd t^ 10 h° nie °f Marcus looking for
Perienced nlavto B i’ S Basquale, and every ex-
stances arise y to f r .v n °g S h l l j by - heart * Circum-
for five nicmth« vor ns abduction scheme, and
Marcus, P.s* H ,e unu * u al Carlotta is lost to
and she nrH^i 6 P'tches her a fairy tale,
do,”She ? y , says “ Te " what to
Marcus left •tlonf* b T i l ' vav m a hansom cab,
nearly succeed bf W A‘- h h,s eat and his despair,
Platonic lady C!l , pt ", red , by the Patient
expires during n , J f er husband conveniently
arrives in a beeoS^ 8 , laps "’ a ” d when she
show no reason M ac c costume, Marcus can
her luck is dead out U 'in conso ]i. n S himself. But
half-an-hour later Prodigal ward returns
diminished cheek’ "it Sl & ns of suffering on her
to live aVn artless account of how
Basquale is rounded b< w rdl \ >g ' bouBe wit h Lothario
informational f W \ th th, i old sweet request
as to what she ought to do.
Therefore, Marcus takes Carlotta to his breast,
perceiving which significant action the platonic
widow retires from the scene unobserved, and the
black cat blinks its one eye on the sunlight of a
new happiness.
* * * +
“ Marcus ” contains only one character of
distinctive interest, and this is very prettily,
rather than naturally, presented by Miss Guildford
Quin. The young Australian actress has music in
her speech, and poetry in her manner, and a full
range of expression in her face. As a picture of
the returned prodigal she is admirable, and
although she dwells too much on the charm of her
speech and manner, and never succeeds in making
Carlotta’s simplicity look positively sane, she
monopolises the audience’s sympathies. Miss
Beatrice Day, as the sentimental married lady,
ready to be giddy if her cold-blooded idol gave
her any encouragement, plays her unattractive
fitful part in a restricted style, and without getting
any powerful assistance from A. S. Homewood,
whose Marcus is an insipid moralist, addicted to
tiresome epigrams. W. J. Montgomery is an
angularlv-theatrical Italian abductor, two ser-
vants are effectively put on by Miss Joan Blair
and J. F. Forde, whilst the minor characters
count for less than the tasteful staging of the
piece. Harry Whaite’s scene for the first act is
a bright introduction to a performance which is
afterwards weighted with three long intervals.
These weights between the acts are an unaccount-
able foolishness, like the broad gaps of silence be-
tween the items at a concert.
*• *• * *■
Great William, wise in most things, knew
That he who means to tame a shrew,
And make the naughty charmer good,
Must, first of all, “ knock off ” her food
And rob her of her rest at night,
Lest slumbers lull her appetite
Or dreams of dishes plain or sweet
Appease her soul’s demand for meat.
When she is empty, humbled, meek,
Too tired to sleep, too parched to speak ;
Too sad to weep, too weak to stand ;
She’ll lick her lord-and-master’s hand
Like long-starved canine. If to-day
The Bard were bringing out his play,
This title on it he’d bestow—
“ Little Mary and Petruchio.”
The immortality of Shakspeare is further
evidenced in the improvement in business at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) since Miss Anglin changed
“The Truth” for a fiction by the Old Master.
“The Taming of the Shrew” may not be one of
the Bard’s best efforts, but it seems quite as much
for all time as others of them.- Katharine is a
very human person, and her taming comes very
naturally to her, whilst all the people who
pretend to be somebody else and. whose
GREMIO, a suitor to
Bianca (Harry Over-
ton), “ Taming of
the Shrew,” at Her
Majesty’s, Melbourne.
MYLES CLIFTON
and WINFRED
HUNTER (“Taming
of the Shrew,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne).
behavior is more than 300 years old, appear
wonderfully real in comparison with the men of
modern farcical comedy. The genuineness of
Grumio is severely tested by Myles Clifton. He
speaks his lines, swings his arms, and otherwise
moves himself like George P. Huntley—neverthe-
less Grumio asserts himself. Miss Anglin was
introducing lamentable exaggerations into her
acting last time the writer saw her, but these
unsuccessful experiments in shrewishness didn’t
make Katharine any the less interesting. The
character merely waited, as it were, for the actress
to return to her impersonation, which was wholly
free from extravagance on the first night.
* * * *
For reasons not quite obvious, Miss
Anglin will abandon the Bard after Friday night.
On Saturday she is to introduce “Camille,” and
that popular French spinster will cough at an
admiring world for six nights only.
*# * *
Judging by Saturday night’s performance
at Melbourne Royal, “Maritana” is still a well-
preserved show. With orchestral effects in which
the whine of fiddles is palatial, with old
melodies as revered as the faded letters of a long-
dead love-story, there is really no reason why it
shouldn’t be revived half-a-ce,ntury hence to "set
staggery old gentlemen recollecting with as much
fury as they do in the present. On Saturday
night its reception was firm to vigorous,
and such items as “ Let Me Like a Soldier
Fall ” threatened to demolish the Royal
edifice. Regarding the show on the whole, it is
not imposing. With the rich accessories of 17th
century Spanish costume and environment, the
company has big opportunities to be distinguished
and “National” (as it calls itself), whereas in
everything but vocal quality it is rather suburban,
not to say back-blocky. With the bright excep-
tion of Alf Stevens (who, as the Marquis de
Montefiore, suggested a quaint, pink bon-bon ex-
ploding at the summit) the company is a tame
band of mimes. Jay Ryan, as an example,
is seen in the large part of Don Jos6 de Santarem.
When he uplifts his voice in song he is good, but
when he merely talks he declines into insipid,
broguey recitative. Compared to his Danny
Mann, in “ The Lily of Killarney,” his Saturday
night’s performance was as lemonade to bakblox
rum. Don Caesar de Bazan, described as an “im-
petuous spendthrift,’’ falls to Wilson Pembroke,
whose notions of impetuosity might have been
acquired in an undertakery. When he ap-
pears in the first act as a penniless grandee,
and a devil of a fellow, he looks like a
retired, well-fed publican in the 0 p.m. of life.
Vocally, however, he is commanding in his solo
efforts and in his duet with Maritana in the third
act. As Maritana, Miss Rosina Buckman acquits
herself better than this paper expected. Her
soprano, more natural than cultivated, and de-
cidedly bell-like, is promising enough.
She makes a rather dolly gitana,
with a habit of staring in
childish wonder, as' if
Don Caesar had been
prattling to her of
Jack and the Bean-
stalk. McNaughton
Duncan is a stilted
King of Spain. With
few chances, he
makes them fewer,
and isn’t even regal
in his protestations
of affection for Mari-
tana. Miss Tessa
Byrne makes a
comely, tuneful Laza-
rillo ; while the ab-
surd Marchioness de
Montefiore is respon-
sible for the two or
JAY RYAN as the
Hunchback Mann in
“ The Lily of Killarney.”
three minutes’ appearance of Miss Sara Verner.
As in previous productions, the chorus singing is
good, but the grouping reminds one of a semi-
circular Sunday-school class.
#* * *
Before a House that comprised Bent,
inelegantly lounging in a D.C. box, and some
other people. Miss Florence Baines revived “ Miss
Lancashire Ltd.” at the Bijou last Saturday. It
is the same old riot embedded with the mountain-
ous humor of dinosaurs, the excruciating gentility
of the Higginses, the butler with the acres of
aspirate, some pleasant songs, and Miss Florence
Baines. It isn’t, and never was, a refined show,
but it has a lot of uproarious episodes. The com-
pany, though changed considerably since its last
appearance, isn’t of any more voluptuous quality
than it was before. With the exception of
Miss Baines, who is really the entertainment,
and of Miss Kitty Henningham, who dances
and sings in a dainty way, the crowd is
a mere catalogue of names. In short, they are
mostly all passengers in a heavy public vehicle
that Miss Baines helps along with a Lancashire
accent and a bombardment of food. John Hes-
ford, as old Higgins, is portentous, aldermanic
and dreary; while Arthur Bawtree and Miss
Nelle Gromann suggest that his two children are
fearfully proper young persons brought up on a
weak solution of chalk and water. Summed up,
Mary E. Thompson seems to have slumped since
last time. On Saturday night a lot of people
were somewhere else.
** * *
At Melbourne Town Hall the thin black
line of Royal Welsh male choristers is getting less
patronage than its capital performance deserves.
Nothing so good in one-sex chorus singing has
been previously heard in Melbourne. The harpist
handles the national instrument of Wales with
remarkable skill, the solo vocalists of the choir
are up to ordinary concert pitch, and the cheerful-
ness of the elderly conductor makes one glad ; but
seemingly the local Liedertafels have long ago
spoilt the market for this class of entertainment.
* * * *-
“The Gayest of the Gay ” will spread its
scenery and flaunt its advt. for another week or
two at the King’s (Melbourne). The Andersonian
advt. informs local womankind that this is a play
which teaches a moral lesson, and all ladies who
have a burst of gaiety in contemplation are ex-
horted to come along and see the heroine “ offer
up a life’s atonement for her act of folly.”
** * *
West’s Pictures at Melb. Olympia this week
are more educational than usual. The picturesque-
ness of Holland is presented on the screen, also
the beauties of Madeira, the promenades of Paris,
the genesis of our common or household glue, and
other subjects of more interest to seekers after
truth than the numerous comic relief pictures
that help to crowd the spacious auditorium.
** * *
Wirth’s Pleasure Park, formerly known as
Princes Court, will re-open on the 17th with
Wirth’s Circus. The newly-erected theatre is to
be more or less enclosed within the tent, and all
the other things that used to be in the Court and
are now in the Park will stand where they did
and swell the array of attractions.
** * *
Ada Crossley and her important concert
party come due at Melbourne Town Hall next
Thursday (15th). Somebody in Gippsland has
implored the songstress by telegram to return
immediately to her native district, and gaze upon
the blooming wattles whilst they are golden, but
in the meantime there is a Melbourne season of five
concerts to be disposed of, and the wattles must
wait.
* # *• *
A matinee performance is to happen at
Melb. King’s Theatre on Tuesday, the 13th, for
the benefit of Mrs. Teepoo Hall. Among theatri-
cal people there is particular sympathy for the
beneficiaress. Teepoo Hall was longtime honorary
masseur to the Purfeshun in Melbourne, but,
partly as the result of his endeavors to establish a
guild of scientific “rubbers,” the poor fellow lost
his reason a while ago, and Ims now been pro-
nounced incurably insane. Anderson is giving
the theatre, and providing part of the show. Miss
Florence Baines is an active worker in the matter.
Titheradge has volunteered his services, and, all
things considered, Mrs. Teepoo Hall should reap
a substantial cheque from the forthcoming show.
*-
The new “turn” at Melbourne Opera
House last Saturday was a “farcical episode,”
furnished with three principal characters together
with three shes of the Rickards’ chorus, whose
histrionic duties were light and frivolous. Miss
Hodgson and Harry Lowther, fresh from Britain,
produced the “ episode ” in justification of their
long journey. Lowther offered more justification
than the lady, but the episode was a poor thing to
go travelling on, anyhow. The Stavordale
Quintette are received with thanks, and the
baboons grow wiser every week, and the general
character of the programme is somewhat glorified
by the exceptionally artistic songandanceries of
Mignonette Kokin.
* * **
Adelaide is living up to its reputation as a
musical city. There have been concerts by Miss
Meta Buring (back from London), by Robert
Nitschke (ditto), by little Miss Daisy Kennedy
(who hopes to get there), by massed State-school
children, and by the blind ; also three highly-
interesting concerts that called themselves lectures
on Sullivan, by Frederick Bevan, of the University,
who knew Sullivan well. And now the Cherni-
avskis are filling the Town Hall. Their manager,
Nigel Brock, was an Adelaide youth when Wilson
Barrett gave him his first chance seven years ago ;
since then he has found his early training in a
bank a more payable asset than his acting. The
new Pavilion has dropped its pictures, and proves
to be just the place for Fitzgerald’s Circus, with
which are the mid-air flyers, the Herberts. Har-
court Beatty and Madge Mclntosh played them-
selves out of the Royal with a series of revivals,
including the artificial but effective “Masks and
Faces.” “Fedora” is probably the best thing
they do. The lady acts much better than some
others to whom Nature has given more advan-
tages. The Geach co. has now come in with
“Lured to London,” a reckless melodrama whose
chief attraction is the sight of Miss Ethel Buckley
getting very wet in real water.
The situation as regards the N.S.W. iron industry
is not improving much. The Federal Labor party
wants to make the industry a Government mo-
nopoly, and there is a great deal to be said in
favor of that idea. But between the party which
wants to give the industry Protection, the party
which wants to give it a bonus, the party which
wants to do neither but rather to buy it up and
make it a Government undertaking, and the un-
speakable foolishness of Lithgow electorate in
returning Bowden, a dull Freetrader, to the
House of Reps, to talk about the beauties of free
competition, the iron business has, so far, got no
help at all. The N.S.W. State Legislature won’t
nationalise it, and apparently the Australian Par-
liament can’t—even if there was a majority for
nationalisation, which there isn’t—without an
amendment of the Constitution. Meanwhile
Lithgow is perishing rapidly. The Hoskins
people, who own the works there, seem to have a
fine solid unpopularity, which doesn’t help things
along. It is the Sydney papers which shout prin-
cipally for Freetrade, and it is mostly the mem-
bers from Sydney and its surroundings who do
the same, and amid all the confusion a most
important N.S.W. industry has got the thing that
the adjacent papers and members have always
declared to be the secret of true prosperity. Now,
these papers and members want Protection for
their own iron industry, but they still say in a
general way that Protection is a curse, and that
Protectionists are fools. They won’t have their
own alleged blessing at any price, yet they want to
inflict it upon everybody else. But until the
Herald and Telegraph are prepared to call Pro-
tection a blessing instead of a curse, and to help
other industries to get it as well as their own
industry, their advocacy isn’t likely to do Lithgow
much good.
The tariff keeps making work for the Aus-
tralian people. For instance, this circular letter
has been sent out by Brown and Poison, the
famous cornflour people, of Paisley (Scotland): —
Re manufacturing in Australia. Owing to the largely-
increased duty on cornflour under the new tariff, our Mr.
J. Francis Brown has just paid a visit to Australia, and
gone closely into all the local conditions, with a view to
our manufacturing there. This we have decided to do.
We have bought the factory and the business of John
Wade and Co., Ltd., Sydney. Although a small factory,
it is the best in the Commonwealth, and indeed the only
one of any merit.
At present the factory is taxed to the full to supply the
demands of John Wade and Co.’s business, but we are
making active preparations for enlargement, and for im-
provement of the manufacture, which will enable us to
supply our own brands much more quickly than if we had
to build a new factory from the beginning. After a care-
ful examination of the maize supplies and the manufac-
turing conditions in Australia, we are satisfied that we
can manufacture the same good quality there as we have
been supplying from Paisley.
We have formed a local company under the name of
“ Brown and Poison, Ltd., Sydney.” They will continue
to supply the brand of “ Wade’s Cornflour,” which en-
joys a high position in the New South Wales market, and
when extensions are completed the new company will be
able to turn out all the brands at present supplied by us
from Paisley.
As soon as they are able to do so—which may not be for
a few months yet—Brown and Poison, Ltd., Sydney, will
advise you of the fact. Until then we shall continue to
supply orders from here as in the past.
Mr. Westgarth, the well-known Sydney
solicitor who died last Monday, endured for years
a martyrdom that would have driven a weaker or
less courageous man to suicide. Long ago he was
the victim of a tram smash, and received injuries to
his spine. Even when he had recovered physi-
cally his nervous system was deranged in a weird
and dreadful fashion, so that whenever he went to
sleep it was to be awakened by the vision of the
car that had smashed him up once more rushing
on him out of the darkness. All the resources of
science could not move the dream ; he became a
haunted man, and died really because his sleep
was driven from him by that ghostly tramcar.
With the coming of every night he passed on to
the recurring track to be again crushed and
mangled by the spectral tram. It waS like a
chapter from Dante’s Inferno.
James Fenwick, a Sydney tug-owner, re-
turned recently from a six months’ visit to
England and Scotland, and described how he
found things there :
Shipbuilding is depressed right through the United
Kingdom. There are great lines—l may almost, say miles
—of ships for sale on the Tyne. I there saw hundreds of
great tramp steamers, many of 5000 and 6000 tons, lving
idle, waiting for purchasers who never co»ie. Things are
very bad for the shipping trade there.
Some say that the depression is due to over-building,
and there may be some truth in that, but it was evident
to me that the real reason was the keen foreign competi-
tion. Foreign shipping is simply bouncing along, while
the British trade is going backward. Foreign countries
are assisting their enterprises in a remarkable way to
secure the upper hand of Great Britain, and there is
nothing for it but legislation.
The Clyde people are clamoring for tariff reform. They
don’t like the present Government, and are looking
forward anxiously for an early change. The Scotchmen,
especially those connected with shipping, want a certain
amount of Protection. A great change has come over
the scene during the past few years. It is urged on all
hands that it is imperative that the shipping industry
should be assisted and protected by legislation, as it is on
the down grade. Merchants realise only too vividly that
something must be done to check the inroads of foreign-
ers, for trade seems to be going down in all directions.
When I left England, the great firm of W. Beardmore
andOo., Ltd., had not one vessel on hand. At those
yards alone £2,000,000 worth of plant was lying Idle.
That is not an isolated case—there are numbers of ship-
builders in the same condition—while not a single firm >a
the United Kingdom was really busy.


Superior Suitings
to Measure at 63/-
We now have a most comprehensive range of patterns of season-
able Suitings which those who contemplate suit purchasing
should make an effort to see.
If you are unable to call, send us your address, and we will post
you a book of patterns and a self-measurement form.
The illustration shows the present style of suit, with waist and
long roll collar, but, should you desire it, we can cut any
other style with equal success. We have made our name as
expert cutters, and we are ever striving to improve on previous
efforts.
We guarantee to fit you or refund your money, and we send suits,
POST FREE, throughout the Cammonwealth.
Let us make your next suit.
David Jones Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
’Tis a wise serpent thuh Wwulcl recognise
its own tail as it sometimes wangles in the Abo.
page. But the wisdom inspired by is not
that of the serpent. Assisted by that cheering
beverage the eye of Reason regards any snaky
tale —political or otherwise—with suspicion.
D.C.L., in right quantities, is the spirit of keen
and calm discrimination.*
Mr. W. Cox, Humffray Street, r ‘ fro ni
Vic., writes:— “ I have been a ' „ rea test r< j'
rheumatism, and having obtain |
lief by the use of Chamberlains Pai V j feel h«
not speak too highly of it. trive tbe e^e °\y
rheumatic pains coming on .o W avs arrests ,
parts a few applications and hftV e f
attack. I know several people wh° g k lfl
Chamberlain’s Fain Balm, and they
\.l t highest praises of it.
SOCIETY
A RUDE MAN.
THE SHOPWALKER : “ Have you all you require,
madam?"
MADAM: “ Don't be impertinent, young man!”
The “Royal” College of Heralds in
London, where officials put in their whole time
at enormous salaries (and perquisites) in describ-
ing the dragon rampant on a field of gules, has
found the appropriate wording for Australia’s
coat-of-arms. There is only one interesting touch
in the whole rigmarole. The dexter kangaroo and
the sinister emu, in their “compartments of
grass,” are “both proper.” So that’s all right,
dash it!
A witness at a recent Melbourne inquest
made a few picturesque remarks about a friend of
hers—“ She (deceased) might go out to do half-a-
day’s washing. The world seems to think that
half-a-day is anything from six to eight hours,
and that a fortnight’s washing is a week’s wash.”
So a weary woman ate a little strychnine, and
now she is where there are no half-days from six to
eight hours long, nor any steaming wash-tubs, nor
smoky coppers, nor any week’s wash comprising
14 shirts, 22 socks, 8 pillow-slips, 9 sheets, 3 pairs
of blankets, 4 curtains. 29 towels, and a ton and a
half of sundries, including the old man’s pyjamas
and the son’s rowing blazers left over from last
season.
The S. Australian Parliament doesn’t feel
a bit comfortable over the case of Mvles Flyrm,
who got 20 years in 1902. Two men at Tort Ade-
laide were robbed of £l2OO, and their horse was
shot dead. Flynn and Lawson were arrested.
Six people identified Flynn, though they had only
seen him masked if they had seen him at all, and
19 swore to an alibi. Among these last was a
policeman. As the robbers had made off on
horseback, Flynn and Lawson were examined for
marks caused by a long ride. Lav ,on had them,
and Flynn had not. Lawson made a statement in
court that Flynn was innocent, and named a • (Other
man as his accomplice. The verdict hur s. on the
evidence of Naylon, the policeman. Naylon’s
evidence remained unshaken through cross-
examination, and the jury was inclined to regard
Flynn as innocent until the Chief Justice summed
up. Among other things, he pointed out to the
jury that Naylon and Flynn were fellow-country-
men—which was probably true. But there was
no evidence of it, and, anyway, nobody ever said
that it makes any difference to Chief Justice Way
whether a man brought before him comes from
Cornwall or not. However, it didn’t take much
to sway the jury, and Flynn was sent up for 20
years for a crime which he probably didn’t com-
mit ; and the case simply won’t be buried—it
keeps on resurrecting, and S. Australian official-
dom is very uncomfortable every time.
* * * *
“ Ifcan ” : Tlxe reception given at Berry
(N.S.W.) recently to Moneybags Hay on his
return from London with a tail to his kite gets
the ribbon for grovel in Australia. It was a
humiliating spectacle to see a team of residents
hitched to the vehicle in which the inheritor of
old Alexander Berry’s wealth was dragged from
the railway station to the town. Not a real man
at the show but did not feel the degradation of it
all—as the local paper put it a day or two after
when it spoke about a “lively hope of expectora-
tions to eotne.” Coolangatta, in which Berry is
included, is a great stretch of countr3 7 in which
the curse of big-landlordism is as well demon-
strated as in any part of the continent.
Degeneracy is written on the faces of many
of the people who, year after year, attend the office
with their rent money. The brightest of the
human products of that fine district have been
clearing out in a constant stream during the past
20 years, and gradually the place is being given
over to the people who are instinctively serfs.
Yet the district is not wholly lost, for at the Hay
grovel there was an undercurrent of bitter resent-
ment at the condition of affairs which has water-
logged the place since Alexander Berry grabbed
it. There was no disguising the feeling. It was
equally pronounced amongst men who, a few years
ago, were induced to purchase on terms, thinking
that they could shake off the rent incubus, but
who, after paying a deposit, find their interest bill
as distressful as the rent account used to be.
What a reception a stiff, progressive land-tax
would get from these people !
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin” : I wish to make a
few quotations from “A Rational Geography,
Part 3, by Ernest Young.” The whole work is
an attempt to meet the English Board of Educa-
tion’s syllabus in geography for secondary schools:
(1) Sidney, the capital of N. S. Wales.
(2) Rockhampton exports gold and meal.
(3) Brisbane is the terminus of the Queensland Royal
Mail steamers, which run to Europe, via Torres Strait.
(4) The Brisbane flood of 1893 is noted for drowning
men and animals by the hundred.
(5) The labor for these hot sugar plantations is supplied
by Kanakas, natives of various Pacific islands. Without
them the sugar industry would die. for the climate on the
plains of Northern Queensland is so hot that it would be
quite impossible for white men to do the necessary field
work !
Alas! my poor country ! It seems to be quite
impossible for English educational rubbish-pub-
lishers to do it bare justice, even in works
dated 1908. If I had money, I’d get even by
publishing an English Geography to say that
Londone is on the Liffey; that England exports
foxes, sparrows, rabbits, and black sheep ; and that
it is quite impossible for white men to get
sufficient fresh air or sunshine in any part of
Fogland.
•* * * *
Probably the longest term of “ strained
relations ’’on record will be ended this month,
when a Persian Ambassador will present his cre-
dentials to King George of Greece. The diplo-
matic relations between the two countries were
interrupted away "back .when the world was young
—almost 2400 years ago. In those days Darius
1., the last great Persian king, was making him-
self unpleasant on the eastern shores of Southern
Europe ; but one day in September, 490b.C., at
Marathon, 9000 Athenians and 1000 Plateans,
under Miltiades. collided with the invaders,
under Datis the Mede and the younger
Artaphernes, and smashed them up. Darius
was much annoyed; but before he could
skirmish up another expedition to rebuke the
Greeks, a little difficulty in Egypt intervened,
and soon afterwards he died. His son Xerxes I.
set forth to wipe out the disgrace of Marathon, and
encountered Thermopylae, Salamis, Platea, and
other disasters, and thenceforth, as iEscliylus re-
marked, “ Persia lies buried at Salamis.” There
were other ructions in subsequent years, but
Persia was never the same again, and the Spartans,
Rhodians, Thebans, and other Greeks all made
things worse, till, in 331 8.C.. Alexander of
Macedon routed Darius 111. at Gaugamela, cap-
tured Babylon and Susa, and sacked Persepolis.
Eor centuries thereafter Persia wasn’t in a fit
state to hold relations, amicable or otherwise, with
Greece. But now there is another Persia. And,
for the matter of that, there is also another
Greece.
A WRONG IMPRESSION.
MOTHER: “ You should have said, ' May I leave the table, mamma?'"
WILLIE: “ You are a funny muvver. Did you jink I was going to take it wif me?”
A truly casual tale :
It was told to the Fitzroy (Vic.) Bench. According- to
the police allegations, Elizabeth Elsie Eveline Sandberg
or Smith or Fraser married James Smith in April, 1902,
in Melbourne. She dwelt with him at Albur.v for three
days, and then left him. He doesn’t seem to have grieved
over the matter ; neither did she. In 1905 she was
alleged to have married George Smith at Fitzroy ; but
after three weeks she is said to have departed casually.
In 1907 she once more faced the altar or the counter or
whatever it was, this time with Alex. Fraser, with whom
she seems to have settled down somewhat permanently.
Heaven knows how the case came into court, but she was
charged with bigamy in marrying the two Smiths. James
Smith happened along, but though he recollected being
married in Melbourne.in April, 1902, he couldn’t say
exactly who it was he married, or where he did it. Probably
a very little argument would have persuaded him that he
wasn’t Smith at all, but some other person of the same
name. As for George, the other Smith, he was last heard
of at Castlemaine a year ago, when he was alleged to have
married someone else. As to Fraser, he appears to be a
happy and satisfied husband, and is stopping at home
and chopping the wood. The case was, of course, dis-
missed, but the police promise to proceed some more
against Elizabeth.
* * * *
One of the most pathetic things in life is
the pale food-faddists’ furtive hope that by taking
three deep breaths for breakfast,
and eating only low-spirited vege-
table imitations of good, honest
food, he may cheat the tomb of a
few years and be a tottering vege-
tarian bore unto the fourth and
fifth generation. A reasonably
long, merry beef-steak life horrifies
him, but he contemplates with joy
the prospect of subsisting on a low
diet of turnips and beans for 98
years, and of going without the
ordinary table comforts all his life
in order that the weariness of ex-
treme senility may be drawn out
to the last possible breath. There
is something mean in this frantic
effort to stun Time with a cabbage
and keep off Azrael with a bunch
of parsnips. Some day a progres-
sive Government may take action,
and make it illegal for people to
avoid wholesome food with the
malicious intention of living to an age when they
will be of no use to themselves or to anybody else.
Adolphus Bent’s newest promise is to the
effect that, in future, milk dealers will be licensed
in Victoria, and a third conviction for adultera-
tion will mean cancellation of the license—
“ which means,” says sanguine Thomas, “ that the
persistent adulterator will have to retire from
business.” Well, not quite. But by the time he
and his wife and his adult children and his wife’s
relations and his maiden aunts have all held the
license, and all been thrice convicted, not only he,
but the whole blessed family, should be able to
retire —that is, if the water supply holds out.
Meanwhile, the licensed bottle-oh, who casually
gathers up valuable trifles from backyards, in-
stead of merely collecting dead marines, not only
loses his license on a first conviction, but goes to
gaol as well. Why this tender regard for the
milkman ?
STEALING THE BLACK MAN'S MEAT.
The following- resolution was passed at bh ® Uv
Union Conference of Seventh Day Advent , ■
held at Oooranbong, N.S. W. We believe that
measure, if it becomes law, will conflict various
scientious convictions of many people w nnr i re dsot
reasons object to carry arms. Furthermore roec iical
our young men are being trained for , of
missionary service at home and in the , ... an( j e n-
Pacific. Enforced attendance at military to their
campments at any time would be those whose
ministerial training, and a consequent loss . w j, o se
sufferings they are preparing to alleviate,
spiritual interests they are seeking
Sydney D.T. - ,
Seventh Day Adventist (to Recruit-Serge
Ewing): “ Wot, sir. defend the country ' wi \
that yore savage starvin’ m a foreign
No, sir. Never, sir!”
Blundell, M.P., gave the S. Aus. Assembly
the other day, a list of the dreadful bo u,s en
by waitresses in fashionable restauran s, a , 9
exclaimed : “People have no right to ie
human creatures be dragged down ite 1
makes my blood boil when I thin v. m g the
big man and not the little man w lOBO cr A ]ylr.
life out of the poor girls. It; w is ro s’e W
Speaker!” Then Solicitor tm , P although
object to the word “damnable > ’ c ]j c lnot
Premier Price, as a Methodist preach , caS e
like the curse word, he agreed that ag Wllge s
had been made out, and the House voted
Board for the waitresses.
BEER-MAID AND BALDHEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOBART, Thursday.
The St;ite Legislative Couneil has eliminated from the
Licensing Bill the clause prohibiting the employment of
barmaids.
And shall it be, and must it be, and has it really come to
this,
That in the bar where liquids are
The houri’s form we’ll miss ?
Must it be so, can it be true, shall we endure and make
no fuss?
Must we eat beer and other cheer
From hands of some male cuss?
Oh, save us, save ! It cannot he! (We’ll see the blighters
jiggered first.)
What hoof may dare kick out the fair
Beer-maid with boot accurst ?
And shall it be, and must it be, and are we really talking
rot?
Alas, alas ! The Bill will pass,
And we can go to pot.
To pot, and pots, and pewters grand, and every varied
height of glass,
But the sweet smile that could beguile
For evermore must pass.
What help in man? Our hope is vain. We lift our hands
in silent prayer
And as we bow a gentle row
Mangles the startled air.
The baldhead House, with sudden start, awakes from
dreams of making laws,
O great and memorable day 1
It will not pass the clause !
Shall Stella go, shall Ruby fail, shall maiden beer no
longer flow ?
The baldheads cry in fierce reply,
“ By Bella’s tresses, No ! ”
And shall it be, and is it so, and shall we never, never miss
The light divine of eyes that shine
In bars of baldhead bliss?
MAORILAND.
D.M.W.
WHAT WOULD A CLERGYMAN DO?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What are the clergy going to do about Bondi beach?—
The Rev. A. W. Shap'ire, of Sydney, on Sabbath desecra-
tion.
What would a clergyman do if he
Ventured on Bondi beach ?
Finding scattered about the sea
Souls that he fain would reach.
Fair, bare girls on the sands in scores,
Girls in the surf wet through ;
Just the things that the Church abhors—
What would a clergyman do ?
Would he close his eyes lest the gruesome sight
To his memory might soak in ?
Would he sprint for the tram with all his might
From that dread abode of sin ?
O’er the torso plump would he sadly mourn
Or the full, firm, swelling limb ?
The unregenerate laughs in scorn,
And says with a wink : “ Not him ! ”
The rude coarse person he’d lay the odds ;
He’d offer a sporting bet
That the parson left with the Pagan gods
In the surf would soon get wet;
He would make a break for a costume blue,
And the girls to swim he’d teach—
And that’s what the average one would do
Who ventured to Bondi beach.
N.S.W.
A.B.
L’REVENANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Between us, on our bridal bed.
There lies a man, and he is dead.
With folded hands and lowly mien,
The man I loved—he lies between.
QUEENSLAND.
SYDNEY S. SEVERN.


WATERY EYES
Are one of the signs of influenza. Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery affords immediate relief. Give it a trial.
Guaranteed in all cases of chest and bronchial com-
plaints. Obtainable everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
Unshrinkable
Men’s Underwear.
In Undershirts and Pants we are handling
something to be proud of—really un-
shrinkable underwear, with the guarantee
“shrunken garments replaced” stamped
on each piece.
The color is mottled light blue; weight,
light Summer textures; material, pure
wool—the whole shaped nicely to the
figure and very durable in wear.
Something very special in Under-garments.
Price: SHIRT or PANTS, Cl ft
By Post, 6d. extra. I
Chest and Waist Measurements required when ordering.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.
“ MEN'S OUTFITTERS ,”
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
E
w
By The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant: —
Another historic Sydney estate has found its way into
the market, cut up into allotments —Mundarrah, Little
Coogee. The castle-like structure, Mundarrah Towers,
was built by Dr. John Dickson, M.L.C., who, in 1850,
lived in Aspinall Cottage, Elizabeth-street. He con-
structed the Towers over half a century ago and spent a
large fortune upon it. The native name of the little bay
at the foot of the grounds is Yarana. Dr. Dickson’s
father, in the ’thirties, had a steam flour mill at the head
of Darling Harbor, Dixon-street (the municipal godfathers
misspelt the name) being a part of the property. At
Mundarrah the doctor’s hobby was levelling a hill to fill
up a hollow, and trying how much money he could
spend in terraces and embankments. The doctor had
a sporting daughter, Mary Wentworth Dickson, who
owned a string of racehorses which she trained personally
on the flat headland in the rear of the grounds. Amongst
other owners of Mundarrah Towers was Mr. Samuel
Bennett, of the Evening News, who died there. The spot
was historic in Governor Phillip’s time ; there the Gover-
nor and his staff had a parley with the natives over the
murder of some marines at Rushcutters Bay.
The colored brother with whom Bruce
Smith would fain flood Australia has been putting
up a little bit of a record of late. In the first
place, news from Suva (Fiji) announced that five
Indian coolies had been sentenced to death for
the murder of overseer Ben Hall at Esivo Planta-
tion, Lautoka. On August 28th, Hall (a young
Queenslander) was suavely informed by one of
Bruce Smith’s friends that “ he was wanted at the
stables ” ; and this is what he was wanted there
for :
The body was fouud on the following day, lying face
downward, some 30 paces from the murdered man’s
house, on the slope of the hill. A piece of the scalp was
found some yards from the body ; the skull was com-
pletely crushed in, the throat was cut from ear to ear, a
horrible gash was discovered in the nose, reaching from
cheekbone to cheekbone, the abdomen was ripped
open, and the whole of the upper part of the body was a
mass of stabs and cuts. Altogether, the doctors found
65 wounds on the body from the waist upwards.
Then came details of the wreck of the Aeon on
Christmas Island, and the story of how the
Chinese crew first went wild with terror
and stole all the lifebelts, and would do
nothing; and how, when the white men got
them ashore, they became truculent mutineers,
refused work, looted the ship, stole knives and
oistols, and did their best to keep up something
like a reign of terror among the castaways. Jack
Chow at sea and Ram Dog on land seem about
equally undesirable.
* * * *
Sydney tram figures amount to a tidy pile
these days. In a Wages Board case it was inen-
tioned, the other morning, that if every
conductor missed on an average only
one penny fare a day the total loss to
the Department would amount to over
£lOOO a year. Still, the conductors do
manage to waylay a fare or two now
and then—148,729,916 on the main city
and suburban lines in the last 12
months, to be exact. That doesn’t
include the North Shore services;
another 10,992,974 over there didn’t
manage to get through without pay-
ing. Counting Sundays in with the
rest, there is a daily average of
407,300 passengers on the city and
connected suburban lines, and every
day £2370 is paid in at the depots.
It cost £687,843 to keep the business
going last year ; that doesn’t count in
the interest on the money borrowed for
construction. Of every £1 which the
city and main suburban tram-rider
was honest or well-watched enough to
pay in the 12 months to the end of
June, 3s. 4d. or thereabouts (there
isn’t room for fractions) went towards
keeping the permanent way and build-
ings in repa r; 4s. 2d. went in repair-
ing and renewing the power plant,
motors, and cars; Is. 3d. went in de-
veloping the power (and the smallness
of that item will probably make some
people swear that these figures must
be wrong); 2s. 4|d. went to the con-
ductor, and 2s. 3d. to the driver. That
left 6s. 7Jd., available to pay in-
terest, and the inspector with the
German band uniform, and the
pimp who is dressed in plain
clothes and a robe of virtue, and fos
tickets, and compensation, and to help
make Waddell’s surplus that the
Auditor-General has been pushing pins
into.
If some really competent burglar would
write a text-book on his profession he would pro-
bably make a lot of money and be enabled to set
up as an importer. There must be a lot of people
who would be willing to take up the profession if
they could obtain a good book of reference to get
a few early hints from. A few weeks ago, a very
amateur cracksman was found in a state of col-
lapse inside his firm’s strong-room, and was carried
aw r ay by the Law on a shutter. Now comes the
news from Broken Hill that a gang of incom-
petents used so much dynamite on a safe that they
blew (not “blewed”) the cash all over the pre-
mises, tore the books to ribbons, hurled furniture
and partitions everywhere, woke up the whole
town, and frightened themselves badly. The
most pathetic thing in life is the burglar shocked
by his own explosion.
“ fioril ” summarises a truly awful case :
The grave miscarriage of justice in connection with the
now celebrated Westport murder case, which has occupied
the Maoriland criminal courts during the past five
months, calls loudly for a searching inquiry into the
asinine, if not criminal, blundering on the part of the law
authorities in charge of the prosecution. Summarised,
the fac ts in connection with this travesty of justice are as
follow : On the 16th May last the dead body of a man
named Bourke was discovered in a stable at Westport
(M.L.). The head and face were so terribly battered
about that the medical men ascribed the injuries
to deceased being kicked by a horse. The day following
the discover}' of Bourke’s body, two seamen —Anderson (a
Norwegian), and Hallinan (a Russian Finn) —and a youth
named Connelly, a “ brassev ” aboard the Talune, were
locked up on some petty charges. Connelly then made
a detailed statement to the police, implicating
Anderson, Hallinan and himself in the murder of
Bourke. This led to the two seamen being charged
with the murder, and Connelly being accepted as
King’s evidence. From this out, notwithstanding
that Connelly had a bad record, the police devoted all
their energies to sheeting the crime home to Anderson
and Hallinan. At the police-court inquiry a cloud of wit-
nesses deposed that, at the precise time that Connelly
alleged Bourke was being done to death, both Anderson
and Hallinan were at the theatre. One of the most
remarkable incidents in connection with the case took
place on the completion of the police court evidence. The
P.M. said he felt certain that the wrong men were in the
dock ; but though he assured the accused that he was
convinced of their innocence, he declined to take the
responsibility of discharging them, but sent them on for
trial. Naturally M‘Donald (solicitor for the defence) pro-
tested, and denounced the proceedings as being worthy
of comic opera. At the trial Anderson and Hallinan were
found guilty of manslaughter, and sentenced to seven
years’ gaol. Indignation meetings were held, and the
authorities were urged to take action against Connelly,
but in vain. As a last resource, solicitor M'Donaid
swore an information, against Connelly forperjury. In this
case additional evidence was produced. One woman swore
tha t she was an eye-witness to the murder being committed,
and identified Connelly as the sole perpetrator. Asked
why she didn’t come forward at the trial, she said she
thought the theatre evidence sufficient to get the men
off. Connelly’s trial concluded the other day, the
authorities engaging a strong Bar in his defence. He
was found guilty of perjury, and received a fine large
sentence. The day following his sentence, this precious
prot6gd of the authorities signed a confession to the
effect that his former statement was an entire fabrication.
He alone committed the murder, neither Anderson nor
Hallinan knowing anything about it. Even if the Law is
an ass, it needn’t let a boy fool it into being a blithering
idiot.
# * * *
Again the Broken Tail S haft :
The Pacific played like a blue Persian cat with the dis-
abled Whangape. First, on September 18, with a heavy
sea running, it broke the vessel’s tail shaft, and then—
using the currents as paws—it started to edge the ship in
towards the land. As is usual in such cases, the engine
room men grappled pluckily with the maddening problem
of how to carry out a big-size dock job in mid-ocean.
First they passed a hawser round the useless propeller to
prevent it dropping into the depths if the ship sat up on
its haunches to look at a big sea, and then they went
down into the interior darkness with hammers, and toiled
and clamored without ceasing. Upstairs in the sun and
wind, the navigating department, having nothing move-
able to navigate, did its best to retard the rolling
steamer’s drift with sea anchors. In between times
it calculated how far the vessel was off the
land, and, hour by hour, the space decreased until,
on September 22, there were only 25 miles of sea
between the Whangape and the breakers. A few
hours later the engineers dropped their hammers and
held their breath whilst steam was put very, very
cautiously on the engines. When it was realised that the
experiment had failed, the lifeboats were provisioned,
rockets sent up and flares burned. But, after all the
preparations for the last act had been made, the Whang-
ape didn’t roll on to the rocks. Instead, it started to
drift out, and the engine-room staff took a fresh grip of
its hammer and went below again. On the 28th the
engineers accomplished their noisy miracle, and the ship
walked on the deep at the rate of 1£ knots an hour. No
record seems to have been taken of the engine-room’s
remarks on Sept. 29, when the shaft slipped and the
engines sighed like sleepy elephants and were still. At
sunset on Oct. 1, when those dog-tired men had just
about finished firing off their sentiments, the Tofua hove
in sight and bore down to the rescue. Midnight saw the
completion of the job of passing the towing-hawser
aboard ; and then another paralysed ship sagged back to
port, its crew wondering how long it will be before twin-
screws are compulsory on ocean-going steamers.
ALL THE DIFFERENCE.
“Did he say he knew me when I was a girl?”
“ No; he said he knew you when he teas a boy.”
A lawyer writes :
That boss absentee, the Cooper Estate, beat the Sydney
tax-gatherer badly when its agents succe-sfully appealed
against an assessment of £35,000 on 206£ acres of land in
Waterloo. Originally, the Cooper Estate started in Vau-
cluse, and ambled through suburban Sydney to Botany.
Judge Scholes reduced the Waterloo assessment to
£16,500, and remarked that he personally knew the land,
well. Which recalls a famous English case. One party
sued another for painting his new opposition ’bus so like
the previous ’bus that the unwary public could not tell the
difference between the old one and the new. The old ’bus
was produced in court, or rather outside the window of
the court. The rival ’bus was not produced, and no
evidence was called to prove the color of it-. But the
Judge was a traveller on the line, and sta'ed of his own
knowledge that he couldn’t tell one ’bus from the other
unless he was very careful ; and so he found for the plain-
tiff. Then there was an appeal on the ground that the
case was decided on the evidence of a witness who wasn’t
sworn, and who, moreover, being on the Bench, could n’t be
a legal witness. The appeal succeeded, with much Costs.
‘ ‘ Two columns on the leading pages of our
great dailies was not too much for a Burns-Squires
fight, but a religious convention was almost
ignored.”— Baptist President’s address.
Well, holy men, what would you ask?
Burns takes up and completes his task.
Before the paying patron tires
He knocks out brother William Squires.
But your fight with the Devil, sirs,
Has lasted some two thousand years.
No wonder our regards diminish—
The press is waiting for the finish.
* * * *
“0.K.” writes:—
A Melbourne lady (Mrs. Oeorge Box), discoursing to the
local Institute of Domestic Economy on the subject of
“The House Beautiful,” is an interesting reminder of
how popular taste in furniture and fittings has improved
since the days when Oscar Wilde went around lecturing
on the same subject. Wilde, wearing knee breeches
and a transcendental expression, preached imprac-
ticable aestheticism to a stodgy bourgeoisie. After
dealing with the lower interior of the ideal drawing-room
and all the things it should contain, the apostle
of Culchaw would gaze heavenward, draw a deep breath,
and sq,y, “Now, now we come to the ceiling ! ” But the
audience would feel that nothing less than an income of
£lO,OOO a year was necessary to the development of Cul-
chaw on the lines laid down by Apostle Oscar. From
their domestic standpoint, he seemed to have reached the
ceiling as soon as he took the floor. As a propagandist,
Wilde was inspirational rather than educational, and it
was only by degrees that the effect of the “ aesthetic
craze ” descended from the wealthy classes, whose
vulgarities of taste he directly attacked, to the
public, who have to take whatever they can get
in houses and furnishings at,a low price. The Melbourne
lady.aforesaid voices a growing demand for economical
culchaw, and pleads for the abolition of the drawing-
room—the precious drawing-room. Rationalism in
household environment is a thing to be advocated far
and wide, but whilst the Melbourne matron is about it
she might as well drop a few remarks bn the subject
of human furnishings. There is so much to be
done in that way. The average art connoisseur,
who squirms at the sight of a hideous wall-paper,
is quite likely to be the most inartistic object
in his villa residence. What doth it profit a
visitor though the House be Beautiful if the lord and
master walks ungracefully in blue, baggy pants into the
harmonious green dining-room? Some of the worst-
dressed old men in the world are the greatest sticklers for
art in the clothing of their dwelling places, and these are
the people on whom nobody tries to impress the necessity
for cultivating a taste for the Beautiful. They remind
one of the temperance reformers whose appearance casts
a slur on teetotalism. But even as the world grows more
sober in spite of rabid teetotalers, so it grows artistic
notwithstanding the ugly exterior of its most cultivated
men.
The trial of the two drivers who drove
the Bendigo train on the night of the Sunshine
smash has got fairly started in Melbourne, and it
promises to be a stupendous business. The
stationmaster is to be tried afterwards, and that
will be another stupendous business. So far as is
known, the prospects of the accused are as fol-
lows :—lf they are convicted they will be im-
prisoned, sacked from the railway service, and
ruined in law expenses; if they are acquitted they
will only be ruined in expenses—unless, of course,
they are also sacked from the service. Probably
they are pretty well ruined already; when a
working man is suspended, and has to
hang about for months while awaiting his
trial, money goes very fast. If the drivers and
the stationmaster are acquitted, it can’t be on
the ground that there was no smash,
for everybody knows there was a smash;
the inference, if they are acquitted, will
naturally be that some person in higher authority
had so badly arranged things—by overworking
the men, or starving the repairs, or by general in-
capacity—that the smash wasn’t criminal, but
only natural. In that case, the public will doubt-
less sit down and wonder whether any attempt
will be made to chase the responsibility further —
even, perhaps, as far as a very great potentate,
with a very frequent cigar in his face. And any-
body who has a taste for gambling might venture
£1 on the question if it wasn’t for the fact that
everybody wants to bet the one way, and there
have to be two sides to a bet.
* * * +
At Christchurch (M.L.) sundry booksellers
were lately haled before the police court and
charged with selling an indecent work entitled'
“ Venus and Adonis,” by one William Shakspeare.
The Bench in its wisdom dismissed the charge.
These days snuffle and borrowing seem about
equally characteristic of Maoriland, and the
search for indecent literature is intense.
A MATTER OF CLOTHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The clothing was to be of the simplest character. At
the reception of the American Fleet and the Governor-
General it was amazing to see decent, respect, blr, in-
offensive gentlemen going- round in gorgeous clothes,
etc., etc. —Defence Minister Ewing.
You can fight any day for your King—so they saj
If you’ve got a good rifle and bullets ;
But you cannot do that ’less you’ve got a cocked hat
Stuck with feathers dragged out of three pullets.
It’s a costly affair, and it makes people stare
When you bounce on your charger so restive.
Which, of course, quite atones for the pain in your bones,
And the strain on your organs digestive,
As you painfully bump—
As you thud and you thump—
On a horse that’s inclined to be restive.
Tho’ the risks of warfare may a citizen scare
You may safely take up volunteering,
If your screw will permit the expense of the kit
You must have when in public appearing.
For the danger is not from the shell or the shot
To the gallant young soldier or sailor.
No ! the thing that will kill is the terrible bill
Of the perfectly peaceable tailor—
Of the tailor who sews
On the braid and the bows
That are hung on the soldier and sailor.
N.S.W.
FOE.
LOVE IS
MOSTLY
CHOCLATE
CREAMS
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ZOVE is mostly choc’late creams;
Well I know it —I have wooed!
Kisses where the moonlight gleams
In a mad midsummer mood;
But the girls I loved are wed,
Gone are all my rosy dreams;
Still I have it in my head —
Love is mostly choc late cf earns.
Love is concert tickets too,
Tram fares play a leading part —
Ah! when first I paid, for you,
With an (almost) bursting heart,
I had visions of the time —
Oh ! how long ago it seems !
(This is where I have to rhyme —
Love is mostly choc’late creams).
N.S.W.
I had —as I said above —
Visions of the time when we
Would, thro’ all the shoals of Love,
Win to domesticity.
We should wander city streets
(Lovers think of dainty schemes!)
I—your husband—buyiny sweets.
(Love is mostly choc'late creams!)
Love is mostly choc’late creams,
And the palate quickly cloys —
No more writing reams and reams,
There are other girls—and boys.
Heed the script upon the wall:
“Youths and Maidens, All, Beware!
Matrimony, After All,
Is a Baker’s Bread Affair 1”
KODAK.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT
Royal
Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
beat all comers at the
Represented
by
“NATIONAL” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Arthur Leplastrier (Si Co., Sydney
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK— Winding- Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester ; Kansomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CALT
COLUMN
The Australian Government still has under
consideration the question of appointing' a select com-
mittee or commission to inquire into every branch of the
insurance business in Australia, with a view to legisla-
tion. As so many Federal politicians in leading positions
are directors of insurance concerns—including, to men-
tion but a very few, Prime Minister Deakin, Treasurer
Lyne, G. Reid, Bruce Smith, J. T. Walker, Mahon (of the
Labor party), Simon Fraser, Agar Wynne—the inquiry,
especially as regards life insurance, ought not to be in the
hands of a Parliamentary body. A commission ought to
be appointed, with Government Statist Knibbs as one
member, and possibly an English actuary as another.
* * * *
Australians who, in spite of warnings, have been
lured into the European premium bond traffic, in con-
nection with which the Commonwealth has been littered
with baits, won’t get any comfort out of some Bankruptcy
proceedings in London. The affair in trouble was the
International Securities Corporation, Ltd., scores of
whose circulars and share prospectuses have been passed
on to this office. The corporation dealt almost ex-
clusively in premium bonds. The official receiver’s report
showed that “ a larger price was charged for the bonds
than the price for which they could be purchased else-
where. . . . The profit was stated to have amounted to
30 per cent., and even £8 was said to have been paid
for a£4 bond.” Then Justice Swinfen Eady decided that
the premium bond business was a lottery, and that
“ contracts founded upon an illegal consideration could
not be supported. ” Consequently “it might be found
that purchasers would be unable to obtain delivery of
bonds,” and if they didn’t get them, they couldn’t sue
for them. So the business appears to have petered out,
while the prodigious expenses kept on, and presently an
official receiver arrived on the scene. The position now
is that anybody who sends a remittance to any premium-
bond shark in England may get the bonds or he may not,
and if he doesn’t, he apparently has no remedy. And if
he does get the bond, he is liable to pay £8 'for a bond
worth £4. It is a very cheerful business altogether.
* * * *
Poet Jackson and Manly Steamship Co.,
Ltd. (Sydney), formerly the Port Jackson Co-op. Steam-
ship Co.
Writ-
ten To Be- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
June,’o3.. 6 p.c. = 750 5625 1,087
Dec., ’O3 .. 3,996 8 ~ ~ 1000 2800 196 1,283
June,’o4 .. 7,973 8,, ~1000 5268 1,705 2,988
Dec., ’O4 .. 6,407 8 ~ ~ 1000 1068 4,339 7,327
June,’os.. 11,038 10 ~ ~1250 8664 1,124 8,451
Dec., ’O5 ~ 7,966 10 ~ „ 1250 6,716 15,167
June,’o6 . 8,075 10 ~ ~ 1250 6,825 21,992
Dec., ’O6 .. 8,609 10 ~ ~ 1250 7,359 29,351
Premium on issue of new shares .. 4,335 33,686
June,’o7 .. 15,718 14 „,, 2055 13,663 47,349
}No accounts available.
Apparently added to Reserves 12,628 59,977
Transferred to Capital, £58,670 1,307
June, ’OB .. 10,721 8 p.c. = 3520 7,201 8,508
This co. lately underwent a reconstruction, and went
about it in a furtive and secretive way. The object was
evidently to prevent the public knowing the size of
the profits. Consequently The Bulletin is informed
that there was no balance-sheet as at December 31, 1907,
though from the accounts now issued it is clear that the
books were made up as usual on December 31. In the'
foregoing, therefore, a few things have to be assumed.
The capital formerly was in 23,468 shares of £2 19s. paid
to £1 ss. In exchange for each of those shares five shares
paid to 15s. were issued. That is to say, by capitalising
£58,670 of reserves, the paid capital was increased from
£29,335 to £88,005. How those reserves were made up, or
how they became available to be transferred to capital, is
not too clear. If they were real reserves (and they should
not have been capitalised otherwise), then for some years
previously the published accounts of this co. were a
sham. For instance, as at June, 1907, the profit and loss
account alleges—“ Net profit for half-year, after provid-
ing insurances, new steamer, etc., £2758.” It will be
observed that, in the table above, the profit for that term
was set down as £15,718, or over five times as much as the
published profit and loss figures. The same thing hap-
pened in previous terms. The fact, of course, was that
the co. was disguising its profits and stuffing them away,
and calling them something else; but that they were
profits is now indicated by the fact that they have been
transferred to Capital. Having as secretly as possible
effected the reconstruction, the co. pays a fairly
modest 8 per cent. The truth, of course, is that
on the capital of the old co. (and no new 7 capi-
tal has been subscribed) the dividend is 24 per
cent. Had the co. been frank about it it could have
made out a better-looking case than some others that
have done the same thing. For to some extent the co. was
only restoring capital; for while it added 50s. to the 255.
shares, it had some years ago written off 41s. The
question now is, How much of the £10,721 shown above
is true profit ? (It has been assumed that the whole of
the amount standing to the credit of plant renewal
account, £5500, has been added during the half-year.)
The co. itself sets the net profit at £4982 ; but we have
seen above what the co.’s published ideas of “net profit”
are worth. Tw'elve months ago the cash and deposits,
less liabilities, amounted to £4294. Apparently £9006
has since been paid on account of new steamer, yet the
deposits and cash now amount to £20,006 in excess of the
liabilities. That suggests that the dividends paid between
June 30, 1907, and June 30, 1908, have not absorbed any
very large proportion of the excess of receipts over work-
ing expenditure. Certainly all that excess is not profit ;
depreciation amounts to something substantial. But
allowing for that it is clear that the co.’s position is very
affluent.
* * * * .
The South Australian Gas Co.
Net Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. ReArves. serves.
1899.. £33,636 12 per cent. = £30,000 £3,636 £82,190
1900.. 33,498 12 ~ „ 30,000 3,498 85,688
1901.. 37,299 12 ~ ~ 30,000 7,299 92,987
1902.. 33,466 12 ~ ~ 30,000 3,466 96,453
1903.. 31,278 12 ~ „ 30,000 1,278 97 731
1904.. 30,922 12 ~ ~ 30,000 922 98,653
1905.. 32,431 12 „ „ 30,000 2,431 101,084
Premiums on bonds sold .. 84 101,168
1906.. 35,543 12 per cent. = £30,000 5,543 106,711
1907.. 42,774 12 „ „ 30,000 12,774 119,485
1908.. 43,970 12 ~ „ 30,000 13,970 133,455
The profits are shown above net; the following sets out,
among other things, what has been w'ritten off during the
last few years, so far as the accounts disclose the matter :
1901. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Sales .. ..£90,617 £99,032 £110,295 £122,059
luterest received 345
Interest paid .. 1,191 ] ,184 1 223
Coal, labor, etc... 38,992 44,050 45,403 55,740
Salaries, fees .. 5,283 6,395 6,610 6 893
Written off .. 7,315 7,859 9,991 8,511
Of the reserves £77,500 is a formal reserve fund, £15,000
a replacement fund, and £lO,OOO a meter renewal fund.
The last two are probably not true reserves ; yet two or
three things have to be noted-—(1) “Repairs to meters”
are charged to working account; (2) wear and tear
(£4930) has also been charged against revenue
in addition to “ depreciation of plant, £3581 ” (these
two items make the £B5ll written off). Apparently,
therefore, the replacement fund and meter reserve are a
provision for anything extra in the way of renewals. If,
then, there is any depreciation not covered by the
amounts actually written off (£B5ll in the past year), the
net profits stated above are not strictly net. —they should
be reduced by the amount of the depreciation which
these special reserves have to meet. For the same reason
the additions to real reserves may not be quite as large
as shown above. Gas cos. can disguise their position
more easily than almost any other sort of co. They can
inflate their profits for the moment by neglecting to write
off a fair amount to cover depreciation, or they can hide
profits for a time by paying for extensions out of revenue.
In this case the co., as far as can be judged, does neither
one nor the other. It has a record of uniform 12 per
cent. divs. since 1894, during which years the share capital
has not been increased. If, therefore, 12 per cent, was
earned 15 years ago, it ought to be more easily earned
now, with a larger Adelaide to cater for, and with larger
reserves invested in plant, etc. The authorised capital is
£250,000 in 50,000 shares ; all of these are issued and are
fully paid. That was probably why, when more rapid ex-
tensions were wanted, and, therefore, more capital, bonds
were issued a few years ago : they apparently carry 4 per
cent. Beyond that the co. owes only trade debts, and its
position altogether looks remarkably' good—even though
one may have to discount some of the recent profit on
account of the unusually good time S. Australia has been
having.
National Building and Investment Society
(Adelaide): —
Net
L’oss To
Loss on on Written Reduce Re-
April, Business. Sales. Off. Deficit. serves.
1898 .. ' £2,203
Deficit
1899 .. £459 £2l £11,160 9,437
1900 .. 546 19 10,002
Forfeited capital .. £854 • 9,148
Profit.
1901 .. 324 162 162 8,986
Profit.
1902 .. 327 54 381 8,605
1903 .. 399 147 —> 546 8,059
Forfeited capital .. 77 7,982
1904 .. 536 60 16 580 7,402
Forfeited capital .. 2734 4,668
Loss.
1905 .. 460 107 353 4,315
Forfeited capital .. 92 4,223
Profit.
1906 .. 100 99 199 4,024
1907 .. 344 20 364 3,660
Forfeited capital .. 1,776 1,884
1908 .. 565 315 880 1,004
This society, with which this column gets on scratching
terms for the first time, was incorporated in 1882, and
thus arrived just in time to get into the thick of the only
real land and building boom Adelaide has had in 30 years.
What it has been having lately' is the nearest approach to
the excitement of the late’eighties. The society set out
to buy land suitable for workmen’s cottages, and to build.
The concern appears to have been run by amateur finan-
ciers, who wanted to persuade themselves that they were
really doing it all for the good of their fellow-man. Con-
sequently', they scorned to call themselves shareholders ;
what put up they called “subscriptions,” and
when they issued a balance-sheet they called it a “ card.”
The above list opens at a time when the card alleged
that the assets exceeded the liabilities to public and
shareholders by £2203. About that time, however, after
things had got into a shocking mess, it was decided to
have a cleaning-up ; and various estates were written
down severely. The reserves of £2203, which of course
nobody believed in, were thus turned into a deficit of
£8957. Then followed a long 10 years of liquidation, and
the deficit has now been almost wiped out. But though
in the past eight years it has been reduced by £8998, no
less than £5533 of that has been contributed by the for-
feiture of capital. These eight years’ operations have
been as follows :
Net Profit on business £3055
~ ~ ~ Sales .. .. .. 426
Capital Forfeited 5533
Total £9014
-.ess written off .. ](j
Balance (to reduce deficit) .. £8998
During that period the shareholders’ interest or dividend
has been nil; and it had been the same for years pre-
viously. Consequently when in 1904 an offer was made
by the society to buy shares at 6s. Bd. in the £ there was
a clearing out of £4lOl of capital at a cost of £1367. In
1907 (after some more capital had been paid out meantime
on the same terms) it was decided to pay 10s. in the £ ;
and £3553 of capital was thus got rid of. "Nominally the’
assets are now worth 19s. in the £. But if they were
required to pay 4 per cent, net, the nrofit of
£565 last year would be turned into a * loss of
£372. In other words, the assets are only worth
19s. in the £ so long as they are not expected to pay
interest. Assuming that last year’s £565 is the fair profit,
then to show 4 per cent, the capital must be written
down from £22,379 to £14,125 ; and that would leave no
excess of profit for reserves. That reduction of capital
would bring the £1 down to 12s, 7d. If £565 is more
profit than can reasonably be expected in the future,
then on even a 4 per cent, basis the capital is worth less
than 12s. 7d. in the £. There may be a quantity of vacant
land which doesn’t produce any revenue ; but there is no
mention of it. If, however, there is that land, then the
4 per cent, basis may be too severe. Obviously, however,
if you only expect assets to produce 19s. in the £ at some
dim distant time, and meantime get no interest, the
present value of the asset is a lot less than 19s in the’£.
ft * He «
The People’s Prudential Assurance Co.
(Sydney)
Expenses Total
and Divi- Out-
Aug., Income. Claims. dends. goings. Deficit
1899 .. £11,782 £5935 £4674 £10,609 £627
Assurance
Fund.
1900.. 11,544 5164 4737 9,901 1 016
1901 .. 12,255 5517 5933 11 450 TB2l
1902 .. 12,566 5019 6537 11,556 21831
1903 .. 12,684 4484 6706 11,190 4 325
1904 .. 13,425 5273 6689 11,962 5 788
1905.. 13,956 5467 7081 12,548 7 196
1906 .. 14,738 5871 7060 12,931 9 003
1907 .. 15,919 6291 7401 13,692 11’230
1908'.. 17,796 7041 8094 15,135 13,891
This little co., with a paid capital of £4788, mostly ex-
plores the byways of insurance, and offers medical benefit
contracts, children’s insurance, accident insurance, and
various forms of endowment. In addition, it runs an
Ordinary branch, in which the sum insured at the last
valuation, as at July 31, 1907, was £75,784. But even in
this Ordinary branch “ with-profit ” policies are issued for
as little as £25. Expenses are, therefore, necessarily
high, though probably in consequence of the increase of
this Ordinary business the general rate is being gradually
reduced. There is no way of separating the Industrial
and Ordinary results ; but the general expense rate in pro-
portion to total income has moved in recent years as
follows :
1901 .. £4B 8 3 per cent. 1905 .. £5O 14 9 per cent.
1902 .. 52 0 5 „ 1906 .. 47 IS 0 „
1903 .. 52 17 5 „ 1907 .. 46 9 9
1904 .. 49 16 6 „ 1908 .. 45 9 8 ’’
It is no doubt very deplorable that, on the average,
these small insurers, mostly poor people, should get
so very little insurance for their fourpenee ; for obvi-
ously what goes in expenses can’t go in satisfying claims.
Yet, under present methods, there seems no likelihood of
much improvement; for when polities first have to be
battled for from door to door, and when the
microscopic premiums have then to be pur-
sued in the same manner week by week or
fortnight by fortnight, it is perfectly' clear that
the expenses will mop up anything from one-third
to two-thirds of the premiums. For some years this co.
had ag'oodwill item among its assets; apparently some
paid shares were issued for the goodwill of a “mutual
medical benefit society.” The last of this paper asset has
now been very properly wiped out; but unfortunately the
policy-holders are still expected to provide 5 per cent, in
the way of dividends on this paper capital. Out of
profits the paper has, however, now been replaced by
Government securities; the balance of the assets is
mainly out on mortgage.
* * * ■*
Commercial Permanent Land and Building'
Society (Bendigo, Vic.) :
Business Loss on To Be- Re-
Aug., Profit. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1902 £lO6l
1903 .. £1447 £B6 5 p.c. = £l3BO 1042
1904.. 1473 82 5 „ „ 1396 1037
1905 .. 1410 53 5 ~ „ 1373 1021
1906 .. 1496 73 5 „ „ 1426 1018
1907 .. 1601 80 5 ~ ~ 1510 £ll 1029
1908 .. 1568 40 5 ~ ~ 1525 3 1032
This society lives a very calm, placid existence. At one
time it had ambitions, and even in the early ’nineties, for
some years after the boom-smash, it paid 8 per cent.
But then it dropped back, and sometimes it has paid 4 or
4J per cent., but mostly 5 per cent. Five years ago it
had £25,950 out on building society terms, and £8402
otherwise ; now the figures are £27,877 and £8590. It
puts hardly anything to reserves; in other words, if
there were any unusual loss on sales, the dividend would
almost certainly have to be reduced. In some circum-
stances the creditors might be dissatisfied at so very
little being put by; but as deposits only amount to £4215,
the depositors are not much interested—the capital pro-
tects them amply. Bo far as shareholders are concerned,
it is a drowsy sort of investment, without much risk and
without much in the way of expectations.,
* • * *
Albury Brewing and Malting Co. (N.S.W.):
Written To lie- Ile-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1900 .. 5 p.'c. = £725 £274
1901 .. £849 5 ~ ~ 725 £l5O 248
1902 .. 1340 5 ~ „ 726 300 £315 563
1903 .. 446 5 ~ „ 725 150 134
1904 .. 773 5 ~ ~ 725 48 182
1905 .. 704 5 ~ ~ 725 161
1906 .. 698 5 „ „ 725 134
1907 .. 209 Nil 209 343
Loss.
1908 ..9 Nil 334
For years it was clear that this co. was paying excessive
dividends, and it was not at all certain either that
enough (if anything) was being written off to cover depre-
ciation. For the past year, too, it is not certain whether
anything has been charged to profit and loss to cover
wear and tear. What is certain is that a good deal of
money has been spent and charged up to capital account,
and probably these works are largely renewals, for
which provision ought to have been made out of past
revenue. Apart from the loan against freehold property
(presumably hotels), the overdraft is £4631; other lia-
bilities total £924. Against that there are book debts
£2577 and stock £3144, in addition to buildings, plant,
etc. The co. has got into low water ; but, owing to the
unusually high price of materials, especially in the north
of Victoria and around Albury, the year’s results are not
a fair thing to judge either the co. or its prospects by.
* * * ■*
The West Australian Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (Perth): —
Profit. Bonus. Dividend. Deficit.
Sept., 1905 £l6O
Jan., 1906 .. £32 £26 5 p.c. =£23 177
Loss.
July, 1906 .. 420 Nil Nil 597
Jan., 1907 .. 206 Nil Nil ' 803
July, 1907 .. 161 Nil Nil 964
Reserves
Capital written down, leaving .. 248
Profit.
Jan., 1908 .. 39 Nil Nil 287
Loss.
July, 1908 .. 71 Nil Nil 216
At the last half-yearly meeting the auditor moved that,
in order to save the remnant of capital, the society be
wound up ; but the directors pleaded for another chance.
Probably Perth hasn’t yet caught on to the co-operative
idea ; anyway, the society has made no progress worth
mentioning—except in the matter of book debts. Evi-
dently when things started to look gloomy a good many
shareholders bought enough groceries on credit to set off
the value of their shares —they werem’t taking any risks.
Now the society is trying to collect those debts, and
it finds the job tremendous. It is all a very sad business,
and this unfortunate experiment isn’t calculated to do
the co-operative movement much good in the West.
The reserves are a provision for bad debts, and probably
are not real reserves at all. The accounts don’t set out
the position too definitely ; but the foregoing gives a
near-enough view of the situation.
For the first time for many years past some big
shipments of German coke are coming to Australia, the
Wallaroo and Moonta Co. (S.A.) having bought 10,000
tons. This co.’s needs have hitherto been supplied from
Kernbla (N.S.W.), but apparently two, and probably
three, things have turned the scale in favor of the foreign
stuff —(1) the closing down of European smelting works
owing to the industrial depression, and the consequent
glut of coke at European ovens ; (2) the fact that large
quantities of wheat are loaded at Wallaroo, in consequence
of which vessels coming out there for cargo bring coke at
a nominal freight; and probably (3) the high rates
charged for inter-State coasial carriage. It is stated that,
rather than come out in ballast, some of these wheat
ships will bring coke for about 11s. per ton, which is about
the same as it costs to take it around from the N.S. W.
coke-ovens. The most important factor, however, is the
temporary glut of coke in Europe, and the coke-makers’
consequent willingness to dump it abroad at a very low
rate, and so get it off the market. This is not fair com-
petition, yet it is doubtful whether the anti-Trust law
against dumping applies. The only thing to do is to in-
crease the duty, which now stands at 4s. per ton.
* * * *
The Broken Hill South and Broken Hill North
cos. have at last completed arrangements for taking over
the Australian Smelting Corporation’s works at Port
Kembla (N.S.W.)ona 12 months’ option. This business
has had an extraordinary career. The first co. was John
Howell’s Smelting Co. of Australia, with works at Dapto ;
then- the Smelting and Kefining Co. of Australia was
formed to do something with it; then another Australian
Smelting Corporation was formed as an offshoot of
the Zinc Corporation. When the Zinc Corpora-
tion’s original absurd estimates were exploded, the
Australian Smelting Corporation subsided —in fact, it
was almost stillborn. It talked a bit, and shifted
some machinery to Kembla, and built a little more there,
and engaged A. E. Savage to give the business an air of
reality and respectability ; but the co. smelted ‘nothing
except its own coin. Now the South and the North, the
first of which had smiled on the corporation, are appar-
ently going to try to fix up a co-operative concern. The
co. is to be in 140,800 ordinary shares of 10s. each, 125,000
cumulative pref. 7 per cent, shares, and some debentures
(probably £100,000). Of the debentures £65,250 will be
issued, carrying 5 per cent., in full payment for existing
debentures having a face value of £87,000 ; and ordinary
shareholders in the old co. are to get a 10s. share for each
old £1 share. Of the preference shares 75,000 at least
must be issued and paid for if the option is exercised.
On the whole the old shareholders and creditors will
come out of the trouble fairly well if the option is
exercised. Altogether the enterprise has been a frightful
sink for money ; at least half-a-million must have been
consumed from first to last.
* » * •*
The Broken Hill cos., which had 10,030 men in
their mines and mills (apart from those at smelting works)
12 months ago, had only 6752 on the sheets at the end of
September. The B. H. Prop., South, Sulphide Corpora-
tion, and one or two others have not put off many men ;
but the British, Block 14, and Junction, which are
marking time, waiting for metals to improve in price,
have each only a handful of men at work at present. But
while these cos. wait the metal markets don’t seem in any
hurry to make the desired improvements. As a matter
of fact, after the lead boom in 1888-1890 lead got down to
£9 before it started to recover, and after the boom of
1889-1900 it got down to £lO 2s. 6d. before it turned
upwards again. This time it hasn’t so far been
lower than £l2 17s. 6d., and it isn’t at all certain
that that is the worst it can do. If it is, then
Broken Hill may consider itself in luck. Nothing but a
marked improvement in the commercial conditions of
Europe and America is likely to put the price up ; and
there is no sign of any improvement yet;. On the contrary,
the wool markets—which make one of the best of trade
barometers—have opened again in a very limp state, and
if the quality is at all “ off ” a further reduction in price
has to be conceded.
*** * 1
It is now announced that Bewick, Moreing and
Co. have been acting for the Lake View Consols in their
negotiations re the Pinnacles, a few miles outside Broken
Hill. The sampling of the mine has been finished, and
8., M. and Co. like the results well enough to take a
working option, which will involve an active campaign
of development. The L. V. Consols is heavily interested
in the South Blocks, the Broken Hill mine nearest to the
Pinnacles, and the necessary experimental ore-dressing
work —the point at which the Pinnacles has failed
hitherto—is being done at the South Blocks mill.
Lobb’s Hole copper mine, in the Kosciusko
country of N.S.W., is only a little one, but it is most
interesting. Lately, however, water has been flowing
into the shaft at much too rapid a rate to allow things to
be comfortable. When in a few hours the flow beat the
pump (which can lift 12,000 gallons an hour) they con-
cluded that the main ore vein must have changed its
underlay, and that they had cut it; but that was found
to be a mistake, for the vein wasn’t there when the water
was at last beaten. But a more extraordinary thing is
that, no doubt as the result of decomposition, there are
places in this metal mine which give off an inflammable
gas so freely that the men have to work with safety
lamps ; and that is actually happening now in the bottom
of the shaft. From which it is concluded once more that
the vein must be somewhere handy.
* * * *
The London management of the New Hillgrove
Prop. (N.S.W.) has got itself into a mess, and now it
wants a few weeks or months of peace and quiet so that
it can go away and think. While it is thinking it wants
the mine shut down. But though the management is in
London, about two-thirds of the shares are said to be now
held in Australia, and some of the Sydney, shareholders
want to know how the situation is going to be improved
by waiting in idleness for a few' months ; for this is a gold
mine if it’s any sort of a mine, and so it can’t be a
question of waiting for a market to improve. Just
for a start and to know where they are, they
want the two mines (the Hillgrove and the 'newly-pur-
chased Eleanora) examined thoroughly by an indepen-
dent man. What the mines are really capable of is much
disputed. The always erratic Eleanora was no doubt
relied upon too much to provide tonnage ; and on that
insecure foundation a big capital expenditure was in-
curred. In practice, things turned out badly ;to supply
the tonnage the machines had to tear out mullock as well
as reef. For a big mine that can be worked on a big
scale the methods of J. Bull sometimes answer ; the
trouble is that when he gets hold of a small mine, or a
group of small mines, he tries the same methods, and
falls in nearly every time. On present appearances, that
looks like what has happened here.
* * *
Something has gone wrong with the Sydney
Harbor Collieries, Ltd. —-the co. which has the right to
dig coal from under Sydney Harbor, and, after a tre-
mendous amount of work, lately began putting out a little
from its shaft at Balmain. Having got the two shafts down
and a few working faces ready, it was thought that the
co.’s troubles were about over ; but, a few days ago, the
London Board decided to give 14 days’notice to all hands.
The seam on the Balmain side certainly hasn’t proved as
big as that found by the Cremorne bore, on the north side
of the harbor, but still it is quite workable. The hauling
plant is not, however, capable of handling more than 500
tons a day, the underground passages are too small, and
coal-cleaning appliances are wanted at the surface ; and
probably that’s what’s the matter. A good many shares
are held in Australia, but the co. is mostly English. There
are about 320,000 shares at £1 each, besides mortgages
and 6 per cent, debentures (about £50,000); and no doubt
the present trouble is purely financial. Last year there
was a good deal of quiet buying-up of the shares ; but
latterly the necessity for a further debenture-issue has
been talked about.
» * * *
Lymington Collieries, Ltd., has issued its
first year’s accounts. The co. was formed to work the
Lymington, South Wallsend, and contiguous coal pro-
perties, at Newcastle, with an area of about 1100 acres.
Portion of these properties, taken over from the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia, carries a mortgage of £10,023 ;
and there are other liabilities totalling £5802. The co.
has, however, in addition to shaft and tunnel, plant (in-
cluding waggons) valued at £18,234; and, having
had little to do in the way of development, it is in
the unusual position of being able to show a working pro-
fit of £l3lB for the first year. Flotation expenses and
bad debts reserve absorb £456, leaving £862. Of this
£750 is carried to a depreciation reserve (presumably to
write down book value of property, etc.), and the balance
is carried forward. The co. is in 50,000 shares of £l, and
£47,734 has been paid up. The book value of the mine
property is £45,300 ; it remains for future operations to
support that valuation or otherwise. With an area of 1100
acres in that locality there certainly are large possi-
bilities.
* * * *
Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.) wants looking
into. The money recently' raised by the sale of unissued
shares is being spent in additions to the treatment works,
and with the enlarged plant shareholders are promised a
very' prosperous time. Meanwhile the property is being
THE CHURCH BELL AND THE LOAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Telegram from Bowen (Q.): —
There was great jubilation in Bowen and Proserpine
when it became known that the required loan of £85,000
had been 'granted to the Bowen-Proserpine Tramway
Board to build a railway from Proserpine to Bowen.
• The church bells at Proserpine were ringing in honor of
the loan.
As a result of the tramway loan two new hotels are to
be erected in Bowen.
Hail! To us a loan has come !
Sound the timbrel, beat the drum 1
Let the joyful church bells ring,
Call the choir and bid it sing;
In thanksgiving let us join
For this gift of Cohen’s coin.
We have got ourselves in debt,
We are in the pawnshop’s net.
Hail ! To us a loan has come !
Sound the timbrel, beat the drum !
Hail! And from the belfry tower
Let us mark the happy hour,
Though forgetful we may be
Of the birth near Galilee ;
Though no joyful bell may sound
When the Christmas morn comes round,
Never let us more forget
The glad day we got in debt.
Hail the pawnshop, hail the bond !
Let o’erflowing hearts respond !
We have got the coin to “ blew ” ;
Cohen holds our I O U.
So we, shirking now the bill,
Bind our children to the mill.
Not for us to toil and sweat—
We can load our babes with debt.
Hail! To us a loan has come !
Sound the timbrel , beat the drum !
N.S.W.
S.H.P.


“PERPETUAL”
It is only by the appointment of
Perpetual Trustee Company
(Limited)
that
Continuity of Trust Management
can be obtained
and
Constant Expense of Appointment
of New Trustees
avoided.
2, 4 and 6 SPRING STREET,
SYDNEY. A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Conveying Apparatus
for handling
COAL ORE, WHEAL
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Robins Conveying Belt Co*
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
[5
The Dutch concessions to the pearl-shellers at
the Aru Islands is about to expire, and Jas. Clark is said
to be leaving shortly to fix up a renewal. Some of the
cos. concerned, which are apparently in a large way of
business, are likely to be absorbed by a strong British co.
which will operate at Aru and Thursday Islands and in
W.A. An effort is being made to regulate sales with the
object of keeping prices, at present falling steadily, at a
profitable figure.
In the calculation of working costs m concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Leinpriere,' 506 Little Oollins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
ir * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * » *
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* # » *
Wild Cat readers should get the Barrier
Miner, and read the series of articles on “The Broken
Hill Mines—Their Costs and Profits,” beginning Sep-
tember 19.*
A Suction Producer Gas Plant has recently
been erected at Messrs. Dorman Long’s Works, South
Melbourne. The Engine is capable of supplying 80b.h.p.,
and operates on the “ Otto ” cycle ; 180r.p.m. ; fitted
with most recent improvements ; two fly wheels 7ft. dia.
x llin. face and c.i. pulley 4ft. dia. x 16in. face ; exhaust
silencer ; air silencer; “Magneto” ignition ; with variable
timing arrangement. The Producer with Evaporator is
fitted with firebrick and non-conducting outer lining, and
self-sealing doors for cleaning, feeding hopper fitted
with double closing arrangement, and hand-blower for
starting. The Scrubber is fitted with water spreader,
overflow pipes and seal pots, double doors for cleaning.
The Accumulator is of large size to reduce suction on
engine and to enable it to work on varying loads. The
Austral Otis Engineering Co., of South Melbourne, in-
stalled this plant, and are now manufacturing these plants
complete.* * * *
The Scottish Critic, London, in its September’,
1907, issue, comments upon the last annual report of
the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited as
follows“ The Society has a record of successful
business extending from 1873, and the position and
general prospect never were better than they are at the
present time.”* #
Users of steam power will be interested to
know that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a dep6t in N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having acquired the business of J. W. Glenfield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves and water gauges,
can now be obtained in this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
Suitable belting is a very important factor in
successful battery practice, and a belt that will grip and
is least effected by grit or damp, is absolutely the best for
all mining drives. Reddaway’s Genuine Camel Hair Belts
are easily first in these respects, and will outlast any other
belt on the market. Sole agents, Cameron and Suther-
land, Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, Bendigo, and
agencies.* # # *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Genuine Balata Belting.— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
MontdePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
* * * *
Visitors to the Mephan Ferguson Engineering
Works, Melbourne, will notice that large additions have
recently been made to the premises, and new' machinery
laid down in order to carry out some large contracts
w'hich have been undertaken for the supply of railway
girders, water supply and irrigation pipes, etc. The two
largest boilers ever manufactured in Victoria have just
been completed and tested for the Melbourne Harbor
Trust, and amongst other w'orks in course of construction
the most interesting are the patent spiral riveted pipes
and electric welding machinery.*
• * » *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
» * * *
Canbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
* * ■* *
As engineers realise more fully the necessity for
boiler house economy, “ Sarco ” specialities for the auto-
matic control of steam plants are springing rapidly into
favor. Among these the “ Sarco ” Feed Water Meter is
becoming particularly popular. It is a very compact
instrument which will measure water at the highest
temperatures, and it has reached a degree of accuracy
and durability unattained by any other meter. The
secret of its success is that the mechanism is constructed
of an alloy of nickel steel which is not affected by fluctua-
tions in temperature. Gibson, Battle and 00., Ltd., <
Bent Street, Sydney, are sole agents in N.S.W.*
Required, a good gold, tin or
COPPER PROPERTY,
SUFFICIENTLY DEVELOPED FOR FLOTATION.
Reply with particulars to Private Box No. 630, General
Post Office, Melbourne.
LOHMANN (SL COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE SCEHTB for fITTIIft AERIAL ROPEWAYS. rapp“'id t WMl^il, P B?o“m HiftioS
10, and many other Companies.
LUBECKER MACHINE COMPANY m Excavators and Dredging Machinery.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all Kinds. [3
boomed by London papers, and lodes of great size and
high value are glibly talked of. What one needs to re-
member is that the co. and the derelicts which it absorbed
have been going to do the same great things for the past
six years, and have miserably failed ; also the fact that a
crosscut put through the property at 200 ft. disclosed
nothing.
* * *■ *
Boiled down, the history of the Gwalia Consoli-
dated’s Lake Way (or Wiluna, as it is now called) is this:
In 1897 the Lake Way started with a working capital of
£20,000 ; and, after doing some development and crush-
ing with a small mill, it collapsed in 1903. In 1899 the
Lake Way Goldfield, Ltd., came on the scene with
£40,000 to burn ; and, despite the fact that 50ft. lodes
were reported and working costs estimated to average
only a few shillings, the whole of the cash was consumed
within a few months after the mill had started. The co.
then reconstructed with an assessment of £15,000 or
thereabouts, but it again failed. Then the Gwalia Con-
solidated, which had also a chequered career, stepped in
and bought its belongings. This newest co. has recovered
a lot of gold, but the expenses have been heavier than
the receipts, and it has had to raise more money from
time to time to keep going.
* * * *■
Gwalia South’s half-yearly report to July 31
states that the ready cash now amounts to £6020. Recent
developments at depth have convinced the manager that
his estimate of reserves will be exceeded, and that
the new make of ore west of the main workings will add
considerably to the value of the property. The output is
to be put up directly the slimes and concentrates plants
are started ; but as the expenditure on development will
then be increased, the profit will remain about the same.
Owing to the proposed expenditure of £5OOO on this and
other plant, the payment of the next dividend has been
deferred. The feature of the past half-year has been the
establishment of a bullion reserve for the equalisation of
returns ; this reserve now amounts to £1540.
Some bits of rich ore alleged to have come from
the mine were exhibited in a Boulder pub, and caused a
rush for Perseverance (W.A.)shares the other day. Local
brokers made big money for about 24 hours, and then the
local daily paper interfered with Private Enterprise by
printing the management’s assurance that there was
nothing to justify the rise. At that the market tumbled,
and those who bought shares received curt requests from
their brokers for more cover.
* * * *
8., M. and Co. have taken an option on the
Hannan’s Reward North for the Oroya-Brown Hill 00.
In the early days of Kalgoorlie this show was worked by
a hard-up Adelaide co. ; but as shareholders jibbed at
paying calls, it was abandoned. Latterly it has been
rooted with some success by a couple of working miners.
It is claimed that enough capital has never been spent to
allow the mine to disclose its real value, but Oroya-Brown
Hill has enough cash to soon settle that point.
South Kalgurli (W. A.) has improved a bit dur-
ing the past few months, and at the present rate of output
the mine must now be nearly two years ahead of the mill.
The old yarn about 8., M. and Go. having enemies at
court, and that they are certain to lose the management
at the next meeting, is again being spun at the street
corners ; but in the face of the brains that have been put
into the work, the Board is hardly likely to do anything
like that.
* * * *
“Boulder” Hamilton has reported on the
Hainault treatment plant, and suggested several im-
provements with an eye to economy. Meantime, share-
holders are impatient to hear what has become of the
ore reserves alleged to be in sight 12 months ago, and
why the plant which was designed to treat 8500 tons per
month is only able to manage a little more than two-
thirds of that tonnage. Is it scarcity of ore, or what?
* * * *
Golden Pole’s half-yearly report to July 31
isn’t calculated to make shareholders shout motor-cars
for their friends. The profit and loss account shows a
credit balance of £4013; £8063 has been written off for
development and depreciation, and there is now £5500
cash in hand. Tribute parties are now battling for gold,
but from all accounts the co. is not likely to benefit
much by their efforts. The report also alludes doubt-
fully to the option held on the Kohinoor South, and
makes what amounts to an admission that the lode has
gone wrong at 200 ft. So far, £4600 has been spent in
development, and this sum, together with a bit more
besides, may eventually have to be written off as a dead
loss. But, on the other hand, it is alleged that there is
£30,000 worth of ore developed above 200 ft., and, if that
is so, it ought to pay the co. to complete the deal and get
its money back out of the gold in sight.
Vivien (W.A.) has cut the lode at 530 ft. ; but
as the ore is only worth 7s. 6d. for a width of 17ft., the
development is about as cheerful as a boiled frog in a plate
of soup. The management says the absence of arsenical
pyrites (traces of which were found in the level above) is
a pleasing feature. No doubt ; but it isn’t the absence of
pyrites that investors need to keep an eye on ; it is the
confounded absence of gold.
* * * *
The Jacoletti (W.A.) came to light the other
day with a report from the date of the incorporation of
the co. in March, 1904, to the end of 1907. Although
the priority shares were not taken up very readily, the
Board finds some crumbs of comfort in the fact that
enough were lifted to permit of the “ resumption of
active development work.” Returns for the five expired
months of this year have been as follow's : Gold yield,
£2416 ; public crushing, £356 ; total, £2772. The working
expenses have absorbed £1999, leaving a gross profit of
£773. This has enabled the co. to pay its debts, and a
trifle has also gone back into the mine for development.
Work is now in hand with the object of “ increasing the
reserves of payable ore.” The co. has produced some
gold, but nearly always at a loss, and there is no reason
to expect that things will improve much. It belongs to
a class of ventures that are best left alone.
* * ■* *
Lord Bobs Syndicate, Coolgardie (W.A.), has
divided another £7O per share. Since it took over the
mine, a little over two years ago, its sixteen shareholders
have pocketed £15,440, or £965 each. And dividends are
still in sight.
* * * *
It is reported in the West that a co. with a
working capital of £30,000 has been formed in London to
work the Queen Margaret. Well, shareholders had better
say “ good-bye ” to the £30,000, because it is going on a
very dangerous journey.
* * * *
Mine workers and mine owners on the Mount
Margaret field (W.A.) are getting ready to cross swords
on the W'ages question. The former are fighting for
higher rates of pay, and as a counterblast the employers
are asking the Arbitration Court to put Mount Margaret
somewhere on a level with Kalgoorlie as regards wages
and conditions of labor.
* ft TT *
An official circular issued recently by the
Chaffers Board states that at the end of August the cash
in hand amounted to £32,000, and that the co. is not in-
volved in any other mines or options. _ Something
said about the terms and conditions under which
tributors are working, as lately described in Ihe
Bulletin ; the royalties range from 5 per cent, on lOdwt.
ore to 17£ per cent, on ore yielding over 40dwt. per ton.
Tributors have the right to mine to a depthof 150 ft., but
it is not expected that they will be able to get below bOft.
before their time is up.
*■ * * *
Carr Boyd blew into Laverton the other day
from his old find in the Oosmo Newbery ranges with 8£
tons of stone, which has since averaged 30dwt. over the
plates. About two years ago, when Boyd was booming
the locality and everybody was writing him down a liar,
somebody in the Geological Department went out, and
returned with the story that the reef consisted of white
glassy quartz, and was too poor to pay. Undismayed,
Boyd stuck to his original yarn, and finally got the loan
of some Government camels to bring in a test parcel.
Now to some extent he has had his revenge, though, of
course, from what he has brought in one can’t judge how
much of either quartz or gold he has left behind.
* * * »
Florence, at Menzies (W.A.), is to be auctioned
at an early date to satisfy the claims of the W. A. bank to
which it was pawned some time ago. This property went
to pot after producing something over £30,000 worth of
gold, and since then it has been numbered among the
busted British flotations.
* * * *
The success of the Tommy Burns tin-mine
flotation up north has encouraged some more to come on ;
and the promoters of the Cabbage Patch Tin Mines, No
Liability, want the public to put up £3500, of which only
£l5OO will stay with the co.—the promoters collar the
balance plus 200 paid shares. The vendors evidently
think that a quid in the hand is worth two in the North
Queensland bush ; so the public can have the shares if
the vendors get the money. As with the T. Burns, the
face hasn’t been punched to any extent worth mention-
ing. A few cwt. of rich stuff has been knocked out of
narrow veins (up to 18in. wide, but very uneven); and,
as the surface is much tumbled about, the veins may go
down or they may not. As the great majority of tin
veins do not, the prospector who would rather have
sovereigns than shares is wise. The show is handy to
rail and the capitalisation is small; so if it blows out not
much will be lost. But it is a gamble pure and simple.
* * * *
The recent improvement in No. 7, New Brilliant
Freehold, Charters Towers, did not last long, the reef
cutting out again before it reached 457 ft. from the
boundary; so speculators still have to live upon hope.
No. 8 has been driven on light mineral stone for nearly
170 ft., and if the rich shoot from No. 7 extends down-
wards it should soon show itself. Nos. 6 and 7 levels on the
branch hanging-wall reef have been driven a few
feet from the boundary on fair stone. A new lease
has been applied for by the N. B. Freehold Co., in
order to take in a small freehold block re-
cently acquired. Dr. Redmond, who owns freehold
ground within the boundary pegs, is objecting
because tribute parties were not given facilities by the co.
for working freehold blocks on behalf of the block-
owners. The N. B. Freehold was liberally assisted by
Mills’ United to prospect the Day Dawn deep levels ; but
those who hold small freehold mining rights are viewed
in quite a different light. What with sinking the shaft,
crosscutting for the Day Dawn, and the driving of four
levels simultaneously, N. B. Freehold will have many
months of dead work to do. Shareholders are hoping for
a continuation of the heavy mineral stone in No. 6 hang-
ing-wall level, and are anxiously watching developments
in the three footwall levels (six, seven, and eight). Pros-
pects at the moment are not exciting.
* * * *
Homeward Bound and Hibernian, at the Two
Mile, Gympie (Q.), was for many years mishandled,
but is at last receiving just treatment. It occu-
pies a position west of the Peter and Paul. There
are two reefs—the Hibernian, with over 2ft. of quartz,
and the Pringle, with about 9in. These reefs have
just been cut in the second bed of slate, which is
about 200 ft. under the Phoenix slates. The Pringle
reef has been broken down and proved to carry good
coarse gold. The same may be expected of the Hibernian
reef, which carried specimens on the outcrop, the latter
coinciding with the outcrop of the Phoenix slates. Thus,
at last, this second bed of slate, which has given such rich
results in other parts of the field, is to be proved at the
Two Mile.
* * * *
The Columbia Extended, at the north end of
Gympie proper, was worked for 11 years, during which
time it called up £39,600 and won £3908 worth of gold.
The expenditure was chiefly on the Phoenix slates. Now
they are operating reefs in the second bed, 200 ft. or so
deeper, and last month paid dividend No. 1 of £lOOO odd.
This suggests that the lower slates are richer than those
higher up in the series.
* * # #
The Great Northern, at the Two Mile end of
Gympie, is just completing its second year. . The co. has
not dawdled, and last month’s crushing makes a total of
1238 tons taken out for 12090 z. gold, worth £4104. This
has been obtained from a 9in. reef in the Phoenix slates.
The lease has 50 acres and other reef outcrops besides the
second bed of slate, which should be reached in 100 ft.
further sinking. If necessary, the Government, out of
the special prospecting vote, should see the shaft down to
this second bed, as it has given good results in other
sections of the field.
* * * *
The country behind Cooktown (N.Q.) is still
getting a little attention, but not as much as it deserves.
Many places are promising. Mount Windsor is one of
these. It is 90 miles southerly from Cooktown and about
the same distance from Maytown. Mount Windsor rears
itself up 4000 ft. Between this point and Maytown there
is a fall of 2000 ft. in about seven miles. Everlasting
springs water a rugged and enchanting field. The soil
in many places is of the best —mostly volcanic—and of
merchantable timber there are large quantities. So far
no Chows have invaded Windsor. The miners have de-
clared war against them. But at Granite Range, 25 miles
from Maytown, there is a cluster of them, using the most
primitive methods in rooting out tin, and carrying out no
development work.
* * * *
A half-yearly report has been issued by the
McGregor Cloncurry Copper Mines, Ltd., but no accounts
are included, and no reference is made to the financial
position. Nor is any estimate made of the ore reserves.
The co.’s option over the Greater Esmond will expire on
November 6 ; development so far has been encouraging,
and the option is likely to be exercised. The next few
months should give some important results at Cloncurry
in general. So far it cannot be said that, when smelting
has been begun and the real test has been made, the
results have come anywhere near up to expectations ; but
the Great Australian may not be a fair sample of what
the other mines can do. The question of smelting costs
is one of very great importance to these mines, and until
that has been settled much caution ought to be exercised.
■* » • *
Bendigo has the shivers, and all through its old
detective, now Superintendent Sainsbury. He first
tousled them with a yarn that gold-pilfering at the
mines was dead as Caesar’s clay, and presently,
maybe to establish his veracity, put his hand on
the shoulders of a small troop of dealers
and miners, said to be concerned in the trade.
Bendigo isn’t at all sure that it likes this way of doing
things. In fact, if a poll were taken outside even the
miners as to the law which compels a man to state where
he got the gold in his possession, the decision would be
that the law is an ass. Meantime, everything that goes
amiss is put down to the Act. Tradesmen say business is
dull—and they infer that it is due to the stoppage of the
trade in gold. Legal managers say people don’t pay
calls like they used to—the same inference again. The pubs
say there isn’t the billiard-playing or the spending of the
old times. Even if a miner has a bit put by, he won’t spend,
they say, for fear of being suspected. Suspicion reigns
everywhere ; “ informers ” are looked for in every quarter.
So the whole place is angry. Even the goody-goodies
who made the first row about gold stealing dislike the
prominence Bendigo has had thrust upon it as a gold-
stealing centre. Some policeman will soon walk over the
border line with a bit of officious prying, and then some-
one will bring in a Bill to smite the illicit-dealing clause
out of existence.
*** * .
The directors of Central Plateau, Ballarat, chew
up six months’ work thus :—“ Operations have been car-
ried on regularly. . . . Although the results have not been
as satisfactory as we anticipated at the date of your last
meeting, still the returns now being obtained and the
developments lately disclosed in the mine are such as to
give a hopeful view for further improvement in the early
future.” That’s nice. Very pretty also are the attached
figures showing the result of 22 years’ work :
Wages .. .. .. .. £89,113
Contract labor 26,017
Fuel.. .. 22,893
Carting and crushing .. .. 14,066
Plant 11,097
Ironmongery .. .. .. 11,004
Total expenditure .. .. 199,898
Gold won .. .. .. .. 125,813
Capital paid 84,892
Dividends paid 13,750
Actually £200,000 paid out in capital and gold, and
£13,750 returned as dividends ! These figures are given
because in the same report the manager says—“ Pros-
pecting work carried on during the past term at 980 ft.
has disclosed good bodies of fair quality stone, and, by
continuing this work, it will be the means of proving
whether the stone now being operated on is a continua-
tion of the payable stone worked in the level some years
ago.” As all the dividends paid from all the levels
amount to £13,750, the glories of the past are a poor
foundation on which to build hopes for the future.
* •* * *
Thornton’s Reward, out Berringa way (Yic.),
struggles as hard as a man with a new patent. Having
had a couple of trial crushings which went about 10dwt.,
a battery was put up, and other paraphernalia provided.
The wiser plan would have been to recognise that work
so far has proved the country to be badly faulted, that
sinking into more settled ground was necessary, and that
ore reserves required to be proved. This, however, is not
the way of Ballarat, which prefers to have the stamps
thumping at the heels of the contractor, with the shares
dancing to their thunder.
“Quidam”: Cathcart, Ararat (Vic.), the show
Bewick, Moreing and Co. quitted (not by any means un-
reasonably), has been steadily dropping back on the
market, prices having receded from Bs. to about 65.,
although the output remains pretty constant at about
22dwt. to the fathom. Reason is alleged to be the
difficulty of working the newly-opened ground, the same
difficulty which formerly sickened 8., M. and Co. Costs
of working this newly-opened ground are said to soar to
£3 a fathom, a pretty solid deduction from even
22dwt. dirt, and a slight falling off in quality
means no profits. Ground which has been opened for six
months or so is found to settle and solidify so much that
costs of working it are as much as £1 a fathom less. This
is being stressed so much that there is talk of consigning
the Cathcart to about six months’ repose from all but
pumping operations, to allow the ground to settle.
Another view of the Lord Nelson North (B.
l/10/’08): Lord Nelson North, St. Arnaud (Vic.), the
Lord Nelson’s enterprising and exploring neighbor, is in a
fair way to upset old Zeb Lane’s theory that the
Nelson reef would be no good in the North ground. The
drive, now out from the 2000 ft. shaft about 850 ft., is re-
ported to carry fair gold for the last 40ft., with payable
stone in the face ; and local opinion is that the long-
hinted-at amalgamation of the Lord and the North must
eventuate soon. The old Lord Nelson, despite a brilliant
career, is now weak at the knees, and another lift willabout
take the Nelson shoot to the North boundary. Of course
there is brave talk about returning to the upper levels,
and waxing fat for years thereby ; but if Zeb made a
mistake about the North deep ground, which he could
not see, he didn’t, as a rule, make much mistake about
what he left in the Nelson’s upper levels, value of which
he could estimate per medium of the eye, the mortar, and
the battery. Summed up, the Lord will have a fine plant,
only paid for by the skin of the co.’s teeth, and no stone,
while the North will have the Lord Nelson shoot and no
facilities for working. Each mine will have what the
other most wants, and such a situation is pretty certain
to lead to amalgamation.
* * * •
The Union, Diamond Creek (Yic.), has arrived
at its 36th call without showing any cause or reason for
its 37th. Calls are now coming round as regularly as the
moon, and if 30,000 shareholders are paying up, it means
that £375 a month is going down the sink. Expenses up
to date have absorbed nearly £20,000, including some
£5OOO of gold got from the mine—a result strictly in
accordance with the predictions of men who knew
the country.
* * * *
Capt. W. H. Matthews, Chief Inspector of
Mines in S. Aus., passed through Sydney a few days back
on the way to Maitland, where a bore is going down to
test the coal seam in Snedden’s property, near the
Hebburn, Abermain and Aberdare mines, on his Govern-
ment’s account. The bore, at latest report, was down
over 1000 ft., and as the seam is expected at 1300 ft. the
chief inspector is to be on hand when the core is brought
up. The boring is being done by the N. S. Wales Mines
Department, which has been assisting the S. Aus. Govern-
ment all through in the matter. The option at first was
for four months, but has been extended until such time
as the seam shall have been proved.
♦ * * •
“ Vigilans”: In a recent Bulletin mention is
made of Chinese tributors finding rich gold after the
Northern Territory Mines of Australia, Ltd., had aban-
doned its claims at Yam Creek and elsewhere. The par.
also mentioned that many of these tributors had been
formerly in the employ of the co., and, though they could
not find gold as employees, knew just where to go for it
as soon as the co. was out of the way. This is the rule,
not the exception, in the Territory. The Zapopan, at
Brock’s Creek, is owned in Port Darwin. It could not be
made to pay with Chinese laborers, and in 1906 was let
on tribute to them. In referring to my notes of that
period, I find during the second month the cunning Chow
unearthed 4060z.,and the next few months the returnsgave
from 300 to 400 oz. During 1906 I wrote much concerning
the N.T. Mines of Australia, and said severe things about
the working of the Ironblow and Mt. Ellison mines. The
Ironblow is, I believe, the best mine in the Territory.
The bulk of ore in sight averages £2 10s. per ton, and at
the 200-foot level measures 40ft. wide. This is among the
mines abandoned by the co., and the expensive machinery
is being removed from the North. Ellison,. the aban-
doned copper show, was taken up by “ patriotic ” whites
—and sublet to heathens ! For months they turned out
from 50 to 70 tons of ore averaging 35 per cent, copper,
and may be doing so now. At Horseshoe Creek tinfield a
claim of the Venture Syndicate’s, after failing to be re-
numerative with Chinese labor, was let to our yellow
brother John. The Mongolian cleared £9OO out of that
claim in six weeks, and fired £3O worth of dynamite into
the firmament to thank Joss for his good fortune. These
cases will suffice to show that the Pagan is working that
much-bungled and boodled land for all it is worth. The
Australian Government should hurry up and make things
straight there and encourage white miners, and put the
oily Celestial’s pot on.


A
rrti
<3i
*
Learn by Post
Tin your spare time, and without
with your regular vocation, subjects which will
enable you to attain speedy promotion in your
present position, or qualify you for a more con>
genial and better paid occupation.
STOTT 8i HOARE’S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
has the largest and most highly qualified staff of
expert instructors in Australasia, who give personal
attention to each postal student.
BOOKKEEPING and ACCOUNTANCY. SHORTHAND
and TYPEWRITING. CORRESPONDENCE and
ARITHMETIC. PENMANSHTP. Etc.
Electrical ft Mechanical ENGINEERING.
Architectural ft Mechanical DRAWING.
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Etc.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation,
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
_______ Tel. 321.
F* 0+ Robinson* Proprietor
ties
“MAKE BOTH ENDS MEET!”
By calling or sending for Patterns and
Self-Measurement Forms for a hand-
somely-tailored Suit—" to your order ! ”
70/- SAC SUIT for 50/-
Lincoln Stuart (Si Co. Pty. Ltd.
O FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
A TOFFY DRINK.
BOSS (eyeing froth): “Plenty collar , Jacky?”
JACKY (eyeing beer): “Yes' Berry little shirt,
boss!”
“Gip”: The spur-winged plover is a
much more aggressive bird when disturbed in
nesting time than the much-abused old mag.
And even when not nesting it will defend its kind
from an enemy. The other afternoon I saw
several preening themselves near a pool. From
out the scrub a fox emerged stealthily and stalked
the birds. It crept from cover to cover, and made
its final rush from a stump at short range. It
grabbed one bird and bolted back towards the
scrub, but in an instant the flock was on it
getting in good work with the ripping spurs.
Reynard dropped the prey and disappeared in one
yellow flash, and for an hour the plovers, screaming
angrily, searched the bush for their enemy, that
they might kick it again, while the injured bird
fluttered helplessly on the ground.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Have been drunk
for three weeks with the sight and smell of the
golden grandeur of the wattle back of Binda. It
is strange that so few bush teachers make any
attempt to cultivate this lovely native tree. The
cultivation is a simple matter, and is explained in
the last issue of the Publics Instruction Gazette
(familiarly called “The P.1.G.”). lam fre-
quently told that the wattle is not worth culti-
vating in bush school grounds, because it lasts
only about ten years. Well, I know splendid
wattles that are over 20 years old. Even if the
wattle died right out after nine or ten years, it
would still be worth growing. There could be a
succession of plantings. By the way, I have
often noticed that the scent of wattle blossom
varies with the dryness or dampness of the air
(also, by the way, how the Outback gidyea flowers
stink when wet!). The wattle perfume is
strongest between sunset and midnight. My
theory is that most of the wattle’s insect visitors
are nocturnal, and that the trees throw out their
exquisite perfume to attract the said visitors.
■*■**■»
“Milky White”: Foxes are particular
and especial anathema in West Gippsland just
now, and our local paper is a fox’s book of mar-
tyrs up to date. Every farmer in the district
seems to have suffered or to be suffering. In the
densely scrubbed hills and gullies all the way from
Ferny Hill to Gembrook, Reynard must be almost
as plentiful as rabbit. Hogs, singly, unless they
be exceptionally fierce and strong dogs, are no
protection against foxes; in fact, the prowling
horrors seem to take a special delight in
worrying small tykes into a blue funk. Until a
year or two ago, farmers say, the sound of the
human voice was sufficient to scare a fox ; now
the red beast will climb a 6ft. netted fence in open
daylight and get away with poultry under the
nose of the hen’s proprietor. On the Sassafras-
road recently a bush woman, going out in the
moonlight, saw a dog-fox trying to drag a turkey
through some barbed-wire fencing. She grabbed
the gobbler and pulled it away. The fox sprang
at her and tackled her fiercely ; but being the
right sort of mother of young Australians she
shook him off and promptly clubbed him. This
district helped to return Iceberg Irvine to the
Australian Parliament, and the fox-pest is per-
haps a judgment for its sin.
» * * *
“ Alpar” : During the visit of the Ameri-
can Fleet to Sydney, 37 sailors, and nary an officer
among them, visited Kiama. The blow-hole had
been working fitfully, but not too badly, before
the arrival of the train that carried the Yanks ;
and the Mayor and townspeople were in hopes of
showing them something comparatively new. The
jackies were duly marched up to the hole, but
nothing was visible save a great yawn in the rocks,
fringed with crabs, and never a rumble could be
heard from below. One venturesome tar dropped
“a pipe a Sydney girl gave him” into the gol-
darn’d thing, and he cursed all the blow-holes in
creation. Apropos, an old lady who visited the
place was disappointed to find that work was sus-
pended, and she got very angry, and saw' the
pilot about it. “When,” she asked, “will you
have the blow-hole going ?” He couldn’t say for
certain, but she persuaded him to promise that he
would have it in full sw'ing next week, when she
w’ould have her daughter and son-in-law down.
So far, the party hasn’t come along. Anyhow,
matters are getting serious for the old blow-hole,
as the Mayor and corporation have threatened to
have the blamed thing filled in with garbage if it
don’t buck up and do something for its living.
“D.M.W.” writes: “F.” (B. 10/9/’08) re-
fuses to believe in the translation of a Maori
name. Well, if he absolutely and positively and
resolutely refuses to believe, and is really deter-
minedly and ruggedly firm about it, there is an
end to the important controversy ; but when he
says that all Maori names mean either food or
obscenity, that is just a large, plain lie. F’rin-
stance, Pahiatua means “ House of spix-its” ; and
what sort of tucker is that to set before a man ?
Waitaki means “Wailing water,” which is too
thin and cold to eat. Kohurau means “Hundred
fogs,” and what sort of foggy intellect finds
obscenity in that ? Rangitoto means “ Sky of
blood,” and Maniototo means “ Land of blood. ” I
suggest the latter as a suitable inscription for
“ F.’s ” suburban garden gate in place of the name
which means “ bowels or something worse.” Let
me lay “F.” flat on his solemn oath and put a
half-ton of Holy Scripture on his chest, and set
this matter before him. The aboriginal person
requires words to signify “wind,” “tree,”
“river,” “sea” (if he lives by the shore), “hill,”
“water,” “sleep,” “death,” and a few simple
things like that. Words of that kind are more
necessary than words that mean “ bowels.” Even
the very primitive aboriginal requires these and a
few more expressions. Now, did “F.” at any
time either eat a tree or swear a tree ? Is a tree
either food or curse language? Very well! Then
that aborigine, when he wants to describe a hill
with one tree on it, naturally calls it Tree Hill.
That is much easier than calling it Bowels. He
sees the tree and he sees the hill, and he doesn’t
see the bowels, therefore he gets words to express
“ tree ” and “ hill ” long before he dreams of get-
ting a word for “bowels.” Will “ F.” kindly
reconsider his position ? Anyhow, who lives at
the alleged house called Bowels? Can it be
William Kelly, M.H.R. and Canberra-ite ?
“Gilrooney”: In the settled districts of
N.S.W. the coal which is jolted off the railway
locomotive tenders is usually gathered up by the
fettlers and platelayers for their stoves and fire-
buckets, and occasionally it is collected by those
adjoining farmers who do their own “bit o’
blacksmithing,” for, mixed with the common bush
charcoal, it makes a splendid forge fire. But far
out on the great western line (N.S.W.) the
lumps of blackness are never commandeered, and
the result is that they have become part of the
scenery along that dreary stretch of railway. I
estimate that there are 75,000 tons of coal scat-
tered along the line between Dubbo and Never-
. tire. Altogether it is a black outlook.
No wonder the real bushman has his laugh
at the fuss which the city papers make of the city
bush man’s exploits. For instance, a great sick-
ness fell again lately on opal-gouging at White
Cliffs, out in the west of N.S.W.; so three young
fellows, two brothers O’Neill and Blakeley,
strapped a water-bag and a few things on their
bicycles, and proceeded to make up into “ The
Corner” (the north-west of N.S.W.), thence
striking through to the overland telegraph line.
After they had reached that they reckoned the
rest “ dead easy,” and lately arrived at Port Dar-
win as casually as if they had just run across the
hundred miles! or so from the Cliffs to Broken
Hill. And they not only went, but they took
also their collie with them, and he turned up as
fit and well as they did.
COMPULSORY TRAINING.
“I see, Bill, we're liable to be called up in the
Reserve Force."
“ Well, in future my name’s Eikenstein, and I
ain’t a British subject.”
“ Quan ” : Talking about long walks, I
reckon S. Australian surveyor L. A. Wells ought
to be in it. He has just brought his muscle and
sun-brown back to Adelaide after 2J years in the
Northern Terr itory, making a trig, survey of the
country between Pine Creek and the Westralian
border, and locating several starting points
marked by Augustus Gregory when he explored
the northern part of Australia. Those 2| years
have been a pretty hard time for "Wells.
Owing to scarcity of suitable labor, he did
manual work by day and his own proper
work by night, and, except for the last
six months, he was short of horses,
and partly, on that account hoofed it for
no less than 3000 miles. Wells has been
battling with the Australian bush for 25 years.
Beginning in 18S3 he was for three years assistant
surveyor on the work of defining the boundary
between S.A. and Queensland. The following
five years he was mapping out pastoral leases in
the Ear North of S.A. Then he joined the Elder
exploring expedition, and subse-
quently, when David Lindsay gave
up the job, he was appointed
leader. On that trip he discovered
the Murchison River country
(W.A.). In 1896 he was ap-
pointed leader of the Calvert ex-
pedition. During that trip he
covered a dry stage of 170 miles
with thirsty camels, travelling
during the night as the camels
would not face the desert after
nine o’clock in the morning. Even-
tually after a desert journey of 500
miles, during which the camels had
but five buckets of water each—five
of the 17 didn’t get that much, as they
died in the desert —portion of the expe-
dition reached the Fitzroy River (W. A.).
C. E. Wells (L. A. Wells’ cousin) and Gr.
L. Jones, who had separated from the
main body at Johanna Springs, with in-
structions to travel north-west and then
north-north-east, and then return to the place
of separation, were never seen alive again. Wells
made five attempts to find them before recovering
their dead bodies, which were brought to Adelaide
for burial.
“ Gip ” : “ M.D.’s ” par (B. 10/9/’08) con-
cerning the “belled” rabbits, back in the
Haunted Mountains of Gippsland, reminds me.
A Monaro man was down there (or over there, or
across there, or about there. Here we always say
“down there” for Gippsland, same as if a man
goes to Bega, or Candelo, or Eden, we just say he
has gone “ down the mountain.” It is picturesque,
but a bit confusing to the new-comer—there are
so many mountains). But I was going to tell you
about the man who went to Gippsland. In the
densest bit of the very dense scrub he heard the
jingle-jangle of one of these (apparently) phan-
tom bells “ M.D.” tells of. It clanged quite close
to him, yet he saw nothing. His hair bristled
with the eeriness of it, but he gripped his courage
firmly, and proceeded to search, and at last
stumbled on a toddling boy, wandering aimlessly
around with a bullock bell attached to his neck.
The parent later explained that his children had
all been raised with a bullock bell attachment, as
a precaution against getting lost.
Dandalup :He long distance walks. I
once knew a man who used to walk from near
Woods Point (Vic.) to Walhalla, at the end of
every week, in order to play in the Saturday
cricket match. The distance is about 45 miles,
and the track is through some of the most moun-
tainous country in Victoria. It was his custom to
leave at noon on Friday, and arrive at his destina-
tion during the wee cold hours of the Saturday
morning. After a little rest and a large number
pf beers he would be ready for the game
in the afternoon. Sometimes he made a score;
more often he didn’t. After the ‘match he
would rejoice sopae more with his old pals down at
the pub; then, after another small rest, he d set
off again on his lonely 45 miles’ tramp through the
mountains. I don’t know what he did when he
got home, but probably he arrived just in time to
.milk the cows, or chop a few tons of wood, or
something. Every Friday saw the same pro-
cedure/of departure; every Sunday witnessed
the home-coming. He was a typical Aus-
tralian was this Outback sport ! Many
notable tramps were executed during the early
gold-mining days of Westralia. Bayley and Ford
(who later on discovered Coolgardie), after losing
their horses near Mount Ken-
neth, in the South Murchison,
walked over 200 miles to New-
castle through sand and dense
hush. When Coolgardie and
Kalgoorlie were discovered a
large number of foot-wan-
derers humped Matilda (who
was full of many necessaries
of life) from Perth (over 370
miles). One man dragged a
small beer-barrel full of water
along with him. Fourteen
days after he left Perth a
travel-stained and weary gold-
seeker happened into Coolgar-
die still dragging a beer-barrel
behind him. Others battled
along with wheelbarrows, and
did the journey in record times.
Gold is a marvellous magnet !
I was there with my mate Mick.
Mick was a big, strenuous Aus-
tralian Irishman. We were doing
badly on the Murchison when
Coolgardie broke out. As soon
as the news came through we
set out for Champion Bay. We
arrived there almost broke; couldn’t
get a passage to Perth, so walked
it. When we arrived there, every-
body was mad with gold-lust, and
clearing out for the fields. We both
had the gold-fever badly, so we borrowed a
few quid from a Victorian friend we met, and
hoofed it to Coolgardie. Two days after arrival
the real fever collared Mick, and he went under
to it, and I didn’t strike a fortune. To this day 1
reckon we had bad luck, and deserved better,
after padding it over 1000 miles.
* * * *
Machete ” : Has anyone heard anything
in the way of coincidences to beat the follow-
ing plain, true lie about the impossible that
really happened ? Jn 1901 a ketch was coming
through the passage at East Cape not far from
Samarai (Papua). She had on board three miners
from the Gira goldfield. They had a good quan-
tity of gold with them, and each man had his
parcel in the canvas slung-bag universally carried
by Papuan miners. These three bags were lying
on a small deck-house near the boat’s stern, the
owners sitting on the same house. The boat
REPROVED.
“So yer goin' ter biff Maggie on ther boko, are
yer ? Nice langwidge hindeed! Now, see ’ere.
If yer don’t cheese usin’ this ’ere bloomin'
slang I’ll dashed well lift yer one under the
lug, d’yer ’ear ?”
went about in beating through, and the boom
going over smartly, knocked the three bags into
the sea. The ketch was anchored as soon as pos-
sible, and all sorts of efforts made to recover the
bags. A diver came out from Samarai and
searched unavailingly. Several other boats came
out to assist in the search by dragging the pas-
sage. The depth of water was about 35ft., with a
hard sand bottom. At last hope was abandoned, and
all hands proceeded to heave up. On the fluke of
one of the anchors, hanging by its sling, was
one of the bags. Hastily re-anchoring, the diver
was sent down again, and at the first try he got
both the other bags. This apparently appalling
lie is absolute truth.
THE SICK DRAY-HORSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Melbourne horses have been suffering' greatly with
influenza.— News Item.
Horse poets have sung in this cantering metre the deeds
of the moke and the way they were done,
Of brave steeplechasing, mad charges and musters ; of
cups of great value and how they were won ;
The race-horse, the pack-horse, the colt and the filly, the
mare and the gelding—they’ve all had their say’.
Now here’s how the dray-horse contracted the “ flu ” by
absorbing the germs that were hid in the hay.
The life of a dray-horse is dreadfully sordid—he toils in
the shafts that the fav’rite may fling
The mud of defiance on following horses when flying for
home to the “ roar of the ring ”
(Which technical phrase is a trifle confusing unless you're
well up in the verses of those
Who’ve sung in this jiggity-joggity metre the)— What’s
that ? The dray-horse’s story ? Here goes !
His name doesn’t matter—his pedigree either. I’m
ignorant, too, of the date of his birth.
I really don’t know whereabouts he was bred, but no
doubt it was somewhere on top of the earth.
He hadn t a point you could hang one poor verse on ; not
once in his life had he been near a course ;
He worked for his living by drawing a milk-cart ; lie was,
in plain speech, “just an average horse.”
The life of the suburbs—that doleful existence—ne’er
quickened his stride nor affected his ears
(You’ve noticed, no doubt, in the horse poets’ verses how
his brute goes on when the multitude cheers);
“He pricked up his ears and shot out like an arrow bv
shouting released from the galloping crowd ;
I muttered, ‘ Good hoy ! ’ ” —and so on and so forth. (I’m
convinced that such verses should not be allowed.)
He had no adventures, this dray-horse I speak of; his
nerves they were steady—he lived on a farm,
He had no occasion to rush at high fences, nor gallop like
mad at a midnight alarm ;
He knew not bush-fires, nor troopers, nor bookies ; he’d no
habit of snorting when war trumpets blew ;
He hadn’t a vice and he hadn’t a virtue. His only per-
formance was catching the “ flu.”
I may be allowed to remark ere proceeding, a horse of
, this kind makes a terrible job,
You simply can’t stretch him much more than a column ;
his value in ink is about twenty bob ;
But having' adroitly made up five long' verses, I’ll put
down the fact that you all along knew.
In proper horse language : “ The gallant old fellow was
down in his stall. He’d contracted the ‘ flu.’”
“ We treated him well ” —you observe I continue to write
in the poet’s pathetieal strain—
“ But spite of bran mashes and ev’ry attention, he never
got up in the stable again ;
He died like the game 'un he was just at daybreak. I broke
down and sobbed as his last breath he drew.
God grant his old ghost in the Paddocks of Peter will
never again catch the merciless ‘flu.’ ”
N.S.W.
KODAK.


It is good to be happ.y and bright,
And to know that your health is all right;
Laxo-Tonic Pills swallow,
And good health will follow,
As surely as dav follows night.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10£d. and Is. 6d.*
4/- in the
off English Makers*
Prices on all Table Silver we are selling' at, as the result of a new
arrangement made with one of the largest and best factories of Sheffield.
The goods are the BEST only, and are the most heavily plated of all
made in England.
The range of designs is enormous, and Novelties for Wedding Presents
reach us each mail.
We unhesitatingly say our prices will be found to be 25 PER CENT.
LOWER than those of any house (wholesale or retail) in Australia.
PLAIN FICURES CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
3
m
“Cross Nibs” is done out of three-
pence :
A cadging calamity confronted me. The basement of
his visage was upholstered by a disorderly bunch of capil-
-1 iry growth, and the organ upon which purblind persons
balance optician’s glazed goods displayed a decorative
scheme only acquired by long residence in the vineyard.
He wore a faded cap, which was tilted well forward on his
cognition curve, and the extremities of his pursuing limbs
turned concavely from his continent in a pair of red-canvas
shoes. He solicited a small silver coin with the admirable
insouciance that the veteran mendicant possesses when
all else hath left him. Not complying with his request
with the promptitude that he expected, he suddenly un-
sheathed two hands from his pants-pockets, and thrust
them undesirably close to my vision.
“Look ut ’urn,” he s whined in a querulous voice.
“Ain’t they a pair uv grafter’s grips ? ”
“ Strong enough to prize up a pot of beer,” I hazarded
reflectively.
“ Scatter me sorrer, there it is again. A bloke sobs f’r
a scrum ’n’ they suspect ’im uv sippin’ syrup. Look ’ere,
th’ larst pot I pounded made me retch a record—ta tell
y’r th’ firm fact, I bloomin’ near bent me boiler. Let me
whisper thet tuppence ’ll take me t’ th’ place I call ’ome.
I ’ang out ut Balmoral, ’n’ it takes th’ coupled coppers t’
boat me over th’ briny.” He paused for respiration and
eyed me intently. Finding no symptoms of gratuitous
silver forthcoming he resumed his narrative. In a wheed-
ling voice he murmured:
“Gome on, ole son, spring th’shekels ! I’ve done a
world’s wander f’r toil t’-day, ’n’ if it wasn’t f’r th’ roo-
matics I’d over-arm it t’ MOsm’n’s like a bloomin’ mer-
maid.”
I delivered unto him the coveted coin. He glanced at
it with well-simulated emotion and muttered huskily ;
“ A tray ! Ah, you touch me where my tender thoughts
do tarry. Th’ third brown ’ll let me jump th’ jigger, an’
after that I leap th’ lugger thet’ll scatter th’ foam between
th’ Quay ’n’ me ’arbor ’ome.”
He then released a few remarks about “ boomeranging
brass” at some futul*C date, farewelled me fervently, and
passed off along the pavement.
A few hours later, having transacted what business I
had in hand, I felt it incumbent to irrigate my clay, and
dropped into a drinkery. Whilst coiling myself around
the liquid I heard a familiar voice on the other side of the
partition. I ventured to glance into the compartment,
and observed the occupant of the ventilated clothing and
another scattered ruin firmly grasping' maximum-sized
mugs flanked with froth. >- *
“ Snatched in sixpence since 7 o’clock,” growled Canvas-
Shoes. “ Th’ game’s iz dull iz a wet day.”
A cynical laugh blew out of the other coin-collector as
he rejoined: “Good enough f’r y’r, Bristles. Y’r tariff’s
too tough. I touches ’em f’r a stiver a time ’n’ gathers it
when th’ grafter’s za goin’ ’ome. I dragged in two
roberts this raid ’n’ th’ last uv four lunches. Y’ll want
t’ curry-comb y’r wisdom before y’ll turn out a taker uv
trifles.’’
I discreetly retired to the street and directed my steps
homeward, pondering deeply upon the perfidy of the im-
portunate pilgrim when chasing the wherewithal that
will enable him to purchase damp goods.
THE INTERRUPTED DINNER.
THE COMPANY (in dismay): “ Oh, Lord! There goes the second course.”
For many years Maoriland has been stag-
gering under a number of pests each of which was
introduced by some delightful lunatic with the
object of eradicating some other supposed pest.
In the early days sparrows were brought from the
Cold Country to gobble up grasshoppers ; but the
sparrow preferred wheat, and consequently
farmers with straw in their hair are pursuing
flocks of sparrows with shot guns, poison and
lumps of road metal. Now another escaped lunatic
suggests importing owls to deal with the sparrows;
but M.L. has learnt a thing or two, and conse-
quently the bad points of the owl are being carefully
inquired into. Years ago bunny was let loose an
the South Island, and in record time became the
worst pest in the Dominion. Weasels and stoats
were imported to deal with bunny, but refused to
take on the job. Instead they attacked the native
birds and the spring lamb. About 25 years ago
some madman liberated a couple of ’possums at
Wanganui, and if the sculling township could get
hold of that gentleman it would lynch him on the
spot. The gentle ’possum is playing havoc in the
orchards, and has made successful fruit-growing
almost impossible. Apparently the only thing to
be done now is to import everything, from the
driver ant to the grizzly bear, and let them fight
it out.
INDIFFERENCE.
“ Will you take beef-tea, ma’am?” "N-no, thanks."
“ Will your husband take some?" “ He-he’s not my husband—I don’t know who he is."
From “ J.G.”
People wonder why there is sometimes such
a rush on the part of cookies to set seats
on the Yic. shire councils, seeing that the job of
councillor is an unpaid one; but there is a method
in this apparent madness, judging from the busi-
ness transacted by a certain council. The presi-
dent has a pleasant habit of throwing some good
shire contracts to one of his brothers, to the
disgust of other would-be tenderers. Lately, it was
decided, at the instance of the president, that it would
be a good thing if the shire appointed a valuer, as the
shire properties had not been valued for a few years. So
applications for the job were invited, and a sheaf of them
came tumbling in. Some of the applicants sent along a
bundle of testimonials to show that they were sworn
valuers and thoroughly capable of filling the position
and. earning the salary of £6 per week. Then about half-
a-dozen councillors held a meeting, and started to throw
out all the applications except one. Everybody went out
except the president’s brother. He had no apparent
qualifications for the position, but, being the president’s
brother, that didn’t matter. Before the councillors
started to deal with the applications they threw the
Archimedean lever into outer darkness and locked the
doors. So no one seems to know exactly what happened,
except that the president’s brother got the job.
“ Flinderino ” on the matter of fish :
The Chinese are the principal followers of the fishing
industry along the North Queensland coast, and they
seldom use hand-line or net. They find that trapping the
fish is the easiest method ; it takes up less time and re-
quires less labor. Ah Ling and Sing Sole select a spot on
the beach, usually at the entrance to a creek, whereon to
pitch camp. Their whole outfit when embarking in the
business is a flatty and a quantity of second-hand wire-
netting. The Celestials stick up a bit of a humpy out of the
reach of the tide, using old tins and bags in the construc-
tion. Sometimes they make good use of the framework of
an abandoned gunyah should one be handy. (The black-
fellow has a habit of leaving used-up gunyahs and mia-mias
scattered promiscuously over the landscape.) All Ling
and his cobber then set to work on the traps, and gene-
rally take a week to complete the first one. Twice a day,
during high tide, construction work has to be suspended.
The Mongolian would work up to his neck in ocean if it
were not for the probability of sharks and alligators. Ti-
tree or w'hite mangrove saplings are driven into
the mud at the required distances, and the netting
made fast into place. The bottom of the netting
is fixed a few inches down in the mud ; the
top reaches above the surface at high water.
The trap itself is generally round, varying in circum-
ference from about 12ft. to 20ft. Wings are run out for
some 40yds. or 50yds., and are placed in such a w r ay as to
intercept the fish as they come down the stream. The
Celestials do not rely entirely on one fish claim ; more
traps are constructed at intervals for a mile or more up
the creek, or at the entrance to other streams. Twice a
day, at low water, Ah Ling boards the flatty and visits
the traps. He always finds the enclosures tenanted by a
miscellaneous assortment of salmon, cod, barramundi,
mullet, garfish, jewfish, bream, kingfish, shark, etc. The
fish are ponded, and taken into town at regular intervals.
“ Edyson ” : Open confession is good for
the soul. Here is the childlike avowal of William
Williams, who haunts the sands of a seaside
suburb, made under the humanising influence of a
bottle of beer and five ham sandwiches, four
square to the world : “I’ve ’ad one streak o’ luck
in my life, on’v one, ’n’ it didn’t ’old out, ’r else I
might iv bin a Pierpunt Morgan be this. I was
a bush worker them days, ’n’ was doin’ a three
weeks’ perish in the red-’ot ’eart iv a droughty
summer in the Western Distric’ when I struck
Cooper’s. I went through Cooper’s, beggin’ me beer
from door t’ door, ’n’ the on’y ’elp I got was punts
in the back from infuriated ratepayers anguished
by their own need iv drink. Cooper’s was the
most barren township I ever knew. Out on the
edge cornin’ through, I struck three reputable
citizens shadowin’ a lone drunk. They wasfollerin’
him round in a quiet, tireless way, same’s three
crows toilers a sick sheep. Well, having nothin’
else t’ do, I follered thim. See, the objec’ iv our
attention ’ad ’ad’ money enough t’ get drunk, so
’twas possible he ’ad more. By’m-bye the drunk
toppled over a log in the bush, ’n’ slept where he
fell. The deppytation iv reputable citizens iv
Cooper’s descended on him, ’n’ when they de-
parted I come out iv hiding, ’n’
looked him over. The representa-
tive gentlemen iv Cooper’s ’ad
left him nothin’much bar his boots,
’n’ as his boots was better’n mine,
n’ I ’ad t’ walk a long distance, ’n’ he
couldn’t walk at all, it didn’t seem a
rank injustice t’ change bluchers. I
did the deed. Two months later in
Hamilton, when poorer, ’ungrier, ’n’
thustier than ever I’d bin in my life
before, I took an insole from one iv them boots t’
make room fer me new Prince Alberts, ’n’ out
fluttered a paper. My son, it was a ten-pound
note ! I snatched out the other insole with fever-
ish himpatience. Son, another ten-pound note!
So ’elp me, two tenners !—-a little frayed an’ holey,
but good fer 20 iv the best. Happy ! Blirne, I
was fair dilly with rapture ’n’ excess iv riches, but
all the same one iv the first things I done was t’
write anonymous t’ Cooper’s, tellin’ the blighted
citizens what they’d missed. That, matey,
accounts fer the weil-known fact that fer years no
’elpless stranger has escaped from Cooper’s in his
boots.”
ABDUL’S LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Abdul Kander Mahommed, first of that chosen name,
Out to the City of Sunset inexplicably came.
Tool of the Brown Men’s serfdom, butt of the White
Men’s hate,
Cursed he the White Men’s customs; mourned he the
Brown Men’s fate.
Lily and Rose of the Sunset, lost to her absent swain,
Fell in love with Mahommed, home from the Pads again.
(If a Brown Man loves a White Girl what shall the White
Girl do
If the White Girl loves the Brown Man, and a White Man
hates the Two ?)
There was grief in the City of Sunset, there was joy in
the Brown Men’s camp
That night when the young moon silvered the plains
where the camels tramp ;
But the ghosts of the White Man’S vengeance with Abdul
came to abide:
His camel-teams in the darkness . strayed, and of some-
strange sickiiess died!
Yet out on the Great Lone Pathway, when the strange
red sun goes down,
Abdul dreams of his sweetheart—and her dreams are
Brown, so Brown 1
I write of the things that hurt me, of the sad true
things—and oh 1
For the sake of the White Man’s Sister the Lean Brown
Men must go.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.
RONDEL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Making tracks ! Each with the best endeavor,
Drover, miner, stockman, with their packs,
Morning, noon and night are, dull and clever,
Making tracks.
Rouseabouts from camps and stringy shacks,
Shearer men, where’er there’s wool to sever,
Wandering on bikes or sturdy hacks ;
And from the townships to the never-never
Battlers with their bundles on their backs —
Through and through the bushland they are ever
Making tracks.
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) ivillbe taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, lohether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will 'be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
John C. W.: This perpetual “ Southern Cross ”
business makes us tired. Try to remember that the
Southern Cross isn’t an exclusively Australian property.
It belongs equally to Chili, Argentina, Brazil, Peru,
Bolivia, Ecuador, Uruguay, Paraguay, Cape Colony,
Natal, the Transvaal, the Orange River State, the Congo
State, Maoriland, and a few sundries. We have just the
same lien on it as Germany has on the Pole Star.... The
Wasp : There is a quality of relentless truth about “ The
Yarra ” that appeals to its :
Frequently ill-fated victims are
Dragged out of the Yarra stream,
And borne to the morgue for an inquest,
Life’s span is only a dream.
If unclaimed by friends nor relations,
The mortal remains of the dead
Are hurried away in the morgue hearse
To a pauper’s burial bed.
Suicide or accidently is the verdict
On the victims in everlasting sleep.
Alas ! It hold many appalling secrets—
The dark and treacherous Yarra deep.
Argument: (1) Population of N.S.W. at last census was
I, ; Victoria,. 1,201,070; Sydney, 487,900; Mel-
bourne, 494,129. (2) From 1855 to 1895 Victoria was
ahead of N.S.W. in the matter of population....
G.J.C. : The lady who found herself “alone in London,”
and in consequence hied her to the River and there
“ ended it all,” has been rhymed about so often that the
pathos of her has departed. Yours is the same old lady,
and her metre is more than usually staggery O. Bred;
Quip re “ Eatin’” is as old as gastronomy, and the draw-
ing which goes with it of two beer-drinkers glaring at
each other across a spittoon renders it none the more
juvenile... .Derwent: The “Interrupted Romance”
doesn’t appeal to us. This scribe has also put the wrong
letter in the wrong envelope before now, and there is no
humor therein.. ..Lee Enfield: Metre erratic, and the
tale is told partly in the past tense and partly
in the present... .F.H.: “The Horse without a
Chance” —well, it hadn’t any sort of a chance....
Lenmas: “Fulfilled Bequest’’arouses curses. The old,
futile rhymes: “morn” and “dawn,” “hair” and
“atmosphere,” “bird” and “heard,” “thereon” and
“ horizon,” “ there ” and “appear”—they make us say
“ damn.”.... C.E.D. : Aheap of poetic touches, but you
lack the gift of clear expression and your metre-sense is
as dead as Freetrade... Richard W. T. : Neither suitable.
You turn some neat phrases, but the roundel isn’t poetry,
and “ A Star’s Soliloquy” misses Bessie G. : “ Resolu-
tion” and “Swagman’s Death” both missed fire.. .
P.O.H. : No. Tells how a gloriously beautiful girl says
“blanky” at a public table, and tells it badly The
Tike: Poison-plant literature is swelling to such vast
dimensions that the subject will have to be severely dis-
couraged W. Hammond: Send details of pars you
mention to Accountant, Bulletin Office Astor :
Came very near the mark. You are improving
Benita: “A Song of Sleep ” is an ordinary sort of song,
and “ Consolation ”is too slight and vague Labemp :
The statement was perfectly correct. The tailors’ case
will not be considered by a Wages Board for months to
come. The matter of assessors has not yet been dealt
with ; besides which there are a host of other details to
be arranged... H.E.J. : Cuttings received. They are
amusing in a small way Mulga George : Words fail to
express our horror at “ How the Ringer was Beaten.”....
Station-hand : Rough on station life ; rougher still in
the matter of metre Friday : Four pages about a man
who praised his dog and was then asked to have a beer.
The episode is too slight for the word-acreage E.J. :
The idea is old, and you don’t handle it particularly well.
Batcher : Considered, and found wanting K.P. :
Out of our line. A sample sentence by way of proof: —
“My father was the Rev. , who, after a short but
severe illness, passed away 7 to the undiscovered
country from whose bourn no traveller returns,
leaving my mother with a family of twelve to fight
their way in the weary world as best they could.”
Bonedust: Received quantity of faint pencil-scratches—
so faint that they fell into the basket N.E.J. : Get
your ear tuned ; then write some more W. Rock :
Cast out with some regret ...W.R.T.: Cast out with no
regret A. T. Don : Both verse and sketch hackneyed...
C.H.T.: There ought to be some good paragraphs in you,
but the “Leaf ” doesn’t suit. The public wants to know
something it doesn’t know about people it does know
Subscriber: “Is an Irishman a Briton?” Dunno. In
one breath Webster says a Briton is an Englishman, and
in the next says he’s a person who lives in the British
Isles. Fight it out with Web Gabo: A joke of doubt-
ful age J.D.G.: Only one good one in batch, and it
was old.. .G.B. : Verses about Bruce Smith just drivel...
C.J.R.: Didn’t quite hook 0n... Jack B.: Rather com-
monplace in both idea and treatment... .Dolores: A very
good “situation,” but you don’t handle it with vigor
enough Gambier: You don’t make enough of it
Allan M.: Workmanship inferior... .Ben. J. L.. Metre
too erratic Ta Lota: A few good points. More bad
ones. Result, the chuck Brownie: There appears to be
no text-book on the particular subject you mention. It is
dealt with, however, in Clouston on “Mental Diseases.”..
J. What “ Recompense ” means we know not. Th®
third verse is a very masterpiece of obscurity :
Lo 1 when the greys of eve close round
And music’s tones do vagrant grow,
All restless for the voice of him
Whose breath kept its pure flame aglow ;
Then does his soaring phrase afloat
Burn out the foil of ebon skies,
Live in the throbs of quickened hearts—
Pulsing, immortal obsequies.
....E.S.C. : Who said anything about not dressing the
army well? Not The Bulletin, anyway, though it does
ridicule “the gauds of militarism.” “Take away the
bands, pretty uniforms, and everything which goes to
make the army attractive in time of peace,” you write
cocksurely, as an “ old regular,” “ and when war comes
they will fight certainly, but with not near the vigor or
pluck ” that they would otherwise. And yet the Boers
did pretty well, and so did our own bushmen ; and neither
lot knew much about either bands or gold lace or trim-
mings. And one might quote Bolivar’s ragged horsemen’;
and the plainly-clad, not to say shabby Federals and Con-
federates ; also, the Turkish soldiers, with hardly a
decent suit among them, who put up that stupendous
scrap at Plevna ; and the tatterdemalions that Bonaparte
led into Italy ; and a few more instances.. ..A. Nudson :
There’s poetry in you ; but your nag often stumbles.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS,
Bloog : Utterly hopeless Kayarrow : Drawing
amateurish, joke unamusing... .W.H.C. : Drawing evil;
and “ original sling-off re influenza among horses ” is too
labored.... Bourke : Unless you can get some Art lessons,
the case seems rather hopeless. You have a certain
amount of talent, but whether it is sufficient to make the
pursuit of Art (who is a fast runner) worth while, we
can’t say.. ..Laurence F.: Both missed fire.


Bill Strongly ctepre cached
-ff/e oj -Hfe C&ftal
Site Gr i
were i« v»
hrjood
Report J
E-^CHANfcE^
inquest - A"t
'• If WAS <* clear ■#*+" tfe 'fVV
was CauqVT ,h e o< >f ,l " t A*‘ w^€
l£e oHiM WAJ te'*»g |or
e/s e"
poo r Bill:- dolt-
do it" I7OW | <
1 "tr ll youra.
CaOm ! "
"W-w-w-Wo+j ajl
Why- do*r /Know
j„ * ficw lot' of !
”l|t(Kry wf> I
A,
Cartoon iS"f
*
fc^it)
Vic S't&.tc
Jvj'C. Kc«vi on emfl?etyyng
of
Office & ifieu-
jjc^on aJ yearnings
fov ~tfte~ Corn^^We.
Cajr-i of
eiMv+We c )
(w.ft, “OH W felifc'/ed tic,
Kesponjibi T>u+" Id well liKe +0
see 'em do if"; "
Wf)*rwi# -tfis
f of
ifie i*?
3®*>ts new FoddfV l3' II
for Mnted -djAff
we wont" te
lift' Soon
|r>/ine !**»*»> & Defence
■fo Only One lev Wh-VS
\V i$ f>oss ; "1° tvja.in'^a'n
Wh’ibe /
fowl’s p.A ]
Tvja,+
ij - we will vio+"
-t'a.Ke
fvji/jKe-le, you
will Vino
"bUcks ?
- Co<rje OH
*VVH't'k '*' H
you ?
H l5 J)a y
7h e of- Sir Sewf
|r> ord«r op 'fooK'
Withdrew h>t> Lv>el o>iU
-/o %aye oppice
r •• v\ I *'
Ris £* : fySL UP & CUHB down!
VICTORIAN HAPPENINGS.




Do you realise
the immense importance of the unique superi-
ority of Odol'? While all other preparations
ior cleansing the mouth and teeth are effective
only during the few moments of application,
the antiseptic and refreshing power of Odol
continues gently hut persistently for hours
afterwards. Odol penetrates into the interstices
of the teeth and the mucous membrane of the
mouth, to a certain extent impregnating them
and thus securing a safeguard and preservative
for the teeth such as no other dentifrice can
provide, not even approximately.
/
/
z
"f
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITMS
Government whip Coneybeer, who is likely
to get one of the new portfolios in the Mouth
Australian Ministry, is a native of Bathurst
(N.S.W.). He has been 15 years in Parlia-
ment as member for the biggest district in
the State, and he has polled more votes than
any other member in the Assembly. He is
a born organiser, and is always the life and soul of
any Parliamentary outing in which he joins—and
no one is happy if he does not join.
A STATE IDEA OF A FAIR DIVISION
OF THE REVENUES.
There is a fine feast within the Constitution, but the
federal Parliament has gone into the byways to deal
with State subjects.— W. H. IRVINE.
ICEBERG IRVINE : "Hi! You've made a mistake!
THIS is tour place ’ERE.”
Evidently Victoria s Adolphus Bent in-
tends to have been everything before he dies. He
has now declared that he belonged to the medical
profession in that youth of his, which was chock-
.ll °r about 17 professions at the same time. It
is now up to him to say that he was once an
admiral, and so round off the narrative.
“Oby ” writes:—
The most unostentatious man to be met about Sydney
for many years past was ex-Judge Wilkinson, who died
the other day aged 78. His knowledge of Australian
affairs was very great, but his constant fear lest he might
seem presumptuous or overbearing caused him to allow
much bumptious ignorance to pass unreproved and un-
corrected. He was naturally a religious man—an excep-
tion among early-time lawyers. But, sad to say, he was
Ma'^isfrate 0 ” l of n a lavv .'’ er >. though his “Australian
Ma„istiate has been a Justices Bible for a generation
He drew an ex-Judge’s pension for 14 years, altogether
between £lO,OOO and £ll,OOO. The teaching of Church
later^times^ 0 Chl dren was his lllost cher ished hobby in
Mr. Hugh Pollock, of the N.S.W. Bar,
has been appointed Judge of a special Court at
Norfolk Island, and Mr. James Young—a Mait-
land native—of the same Bar, is appointed Crown
Prosecutor. The charge to be tried is said to
arise in some way out of a boiler, and it is such a
stupendously ancient boiler that it used to be on
board Bligh’s ship, the Bounty.
Paech, of the S. Australian Assembly, is
in hospital, suffering from a painful disease from
which recovery is rare. Years ago he was suffi-
ciently Radical to influence the big German vote
at Mount Barker in favor of ex-Premier Cockburn
when he stood for the district in 1887. But with
years he accumulated a Tory crust, though he
never shed his old goodness of heart, which makes
him one of the best-liked men in the House.
A ictoria’s new Fat Landlord in the place
of Is icholas Fitzgerald is G. T. Dickie, of Bacchus
Marsh. He will be a novelty in the House of
•Sleep, for he is only 35 years old, and looks 25.
He easily beat ex-softgoodsman Butler and
solicitor Maddock, scoring most heavily in the
country townships ; yet he doesn’t seem to have
any more definite policy than the other two.
Maybe that’s why he was elected.
Mr. J. W. Scullin, organiser of the
A. W.TJ., writes with emphasis "from Ballarat to
state that he never said “the dairyman with a
large family is a curse,” as alleged in a recent
Bulletin. It seems that the Melbourne Argus
only said that Mr. Scullin said it, and the reason
why Mr. Scullin didn’t repudiate the statement
in the columns of that paper was that his letter
of repudiation didn’t get into the Akgus columns.
It got bogged somewhere.
The six senior Executive Councillors of
Victoria are John Dennistoun Wood (1857), now
in political life in his native Tasmania ; ex-Judge
Casey (1868), Henry Wrixon (1870), John
Madden (1875), J. G. Duffy (1880), and Tom Bent
(1880). All excepting Tom Bent are lawyers, or
practise law. Wood and Bent are Australians, the
other four are Irishmen. In Victoria the Execu-
tive Councillors do not, as in ICS.Wi, resign
when they give up Ministerial office; they just
accumulate.
Arthur Cripps, the heavyweight slogger,
is a landowner these times in the Nanango (Q.)
district, and down Hope-lane he sees independ-
ence making a bee-line for him. He spared time
from his crops and herds to give Bill Squires some
sparring practice, because Cripps was the first
man in Australia who shook up the Maitlander ;
but all the time Farmer Cripps wa3 yearning to
get back to his cows and beans. It is now given
out that Squires intends some day to follow
Cripps’ agricultural example, and to speak kindly
to the heifer in the same district.
The house which, for so many years, shel-
tered the Mitchell Library is for sale, by order of
the trustees of the late David Scott Mitchell. In
this house Mr. Mitchell completed his great col-
lection of books, pictures, MSS. and curios. He
commenced to amass these things at his father’s
house in Cumberland-place, Sydney ; continued
at 39 Cumberland-street, on the Rocks, and re-
moved in 1876 to the house in Darlinghurst-road,
where for 30 odd years he kept adding to the
store. Mitchell wasn’t a movable man ; no true
collector is. The horror of seeing his treasured
goods scruffed around by coarse, riotous furniture-
shifters keeps the antiquarian anchored in one
place most of his days.
Bill Lyne does most of his travelling on
Sundays, seldom finds his way to church services,
and never mounts tiie pulpit. Yet lie
pulls well with what is professedly
the most religious Cabinet that ever
held power in Australia. Deakin
addresses Young Men’s Christian
Associations and other Sunday flocks.
Groom guides the Church of England
Synod. Mauger is a regular and
zealous lay preacher. Best teaches
a Sunday-school class. And .Keating
and Chapman are both religious men,
even if their piety doesn’t take a wildly
active form.
The Oldest Inhabitant writes apropos
1 - * * * -*- *• VVU KJVJ.S I
of nothing at all
The first Hebrew interment in N.S.VV. of which we
have any note was indicated upon a tombstone which
stood in the little old Jewish Cemetery on Belmoreßoad
Sydney, just behind the caretaker’s residence and the
Morgue. This God’s Acre was obliterated a few vears
ago in the interests of the big Owe’Sullivan railway
station. A stone at the head of the grave indicated that
S. Joel died in August, 1820, after a residence of 31 years.
This would indicate that Joel came in the First Fleet in
some capacity. The name does not appear in the list of
the “bond” by the First Fleet, though some Hebrew
names do show up among those early pioneers. Near Sol
Joel’s resting place was that of Walter Jacob Levi, who
died August 1, 1828. Another Hebrew tomb thereabouts
was that of Joseph Marcus, who died November 26, 182.8,
aged 70. Then there was a stone to commemorate
Eleazar Lazarus, who died August 27, 18—, the remaining
figures were obliterated. His age was given at. 54. And
there was a neat little stone to an infant Solomon, who
died in 1827, and Mrs. James Simmonds, wife of etc., who
died in April, 1841. These ancient memorials are now at
La Perouse.
A. A. Wilson, who was elected to the
Westralian Assembly the other day for Collie, is
an old friend of the obstinate Melbourne crowd
that caused the long, disastrous Gippsland coal-
mines lock-out. Wilson did most of the fighting
there pn the men’s side, but finally was starved
out with the others, and “went West.” He didn’t
have much to spare in the Collie fight; but this
time he won, anyhow—and won, too, in a district
that had for a while gone back on the Labor party.
Winifred James, whose book, “Bachelor
Betty,” is much heard of in these days, was until
lately head mistress of the Methodist Ladies’
College at Perth, in Westralia, where Newton
Moore hangs out. Her father was a Methodist
rev., formerly well-known in Melbourne, but lat-
terly living in Bonython, Cornwall, where editor
Bonython, of Adelaide Advertiser, came from.
Daughter Winifred was born in these latitudes.
JUST AS
RIDICULOUS .
“ It will be time enough,”
, , said Johnson, M.H.R., at
Peakhurst, “ when we have from 10,000,000 to 15,000,000
people here to talk about an Australian Navy, ~. How
can _ 4,000,000 people hope to stand the crushing
burden of debt and taxation that the building- and main-
tenance of a navy will entail? It has to be remem-
bered that a single battleship will swallow Up a million
of money, and in 10 years’ time will ‘be obsolete..
S. A. Register.
Gkanny : That s lohrtt I say, Mr. Johnson.
It's no good getting him a suit of clothes ,
because he'll only grow out of them.”
Like the captain of the lost Orion—the
ship that used to stack oats in the smoking-room
—Captain A. J. Lonnen, of the Loch Finlas,
wrecked the other day in the same Tas-
manian neighborhood; was' making “just one
more trip. After 50 years at sea, Lonnen
—an uncle of comedian “Teddy” Lonnen
—had intended to send' the Loch Finlas
to S. America in charge of the first mate,
and go home by steamer to Scotland and retire-
ment; but the sea called, at almost the last
moment, and he answered—“ just for a last
voyage’’—and'went.
Died, in London, W. L. Jack, general
manager of the Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance
Co., of which he was one of the founders, and in
which he was lately alleged to hold about
40,000 out of the total of 100,000 shares.
When Jack helped to hatch the society in 1878
it was a very Small chicken with a. very small
paid capital; but-it went into accident and other
remunerative side-shows, and gradually the whole
£1 per share was paid up,, mainly out of profits.
The boss of it all was an explosive person, but he
was really a much milder and a much less terrible
man than he sounded.
One of the oldest of Tasmaniah solicitors,
Charles Henry Elliston, died recently at Hobart.
He was born at Longford (Tas.) in 1834, his father
being a son of the famous actor, Robert William
Elliston, who belonged to Drury Lane in the time
of Georges 111. and IV. Mr. Charles Elliston was
admitted to practice in 1857, and crossed the
Straits to Melbourne for experience. In 1858 he
was managing clerk for the upper-crusty firm of
Bennett and Taylorhlohn Barter Bennett, - M.L.C.,
and Mathew William Taylor). In 1864 he started
to pursue the fleet 6s. Bd. on his own account in
Hobart, and he was close on the heels of his prey
when he died.
“ Oby ” writes :
The death of solicitor Robertson, the other day, recalls
memories of his line old father, one-time N.S.W. - Premier
Jack Robertson, and among these memories is included
the latter’s purpose to collect stories associated with his
Land Settlement Act. A collection of these-stories would
make a volume of , struggle, roguery ahd : humor not
easily surpassed. The stratagem of the i)o)ia jklb selector
and wife trying to capture a living area bv .taking up two
selections and placing their bed on the bouheiary line, if
typical iri one direction, is no more ingenious than the inala
fide selector’s stratagem when a squatter was to be “ done
in.” The Robertson scheme of land settlement, even
though it failed to settle the people on the land, neverthe-
lesssharpenedmos t amazingly the backbloclts intelligence
It only sharpened it in one direction, but in that direc-
tion it did its work well; and soon a tiriie came when
hairy men, with birds’ nests in their whiskers, could give
points to the swiftest city solicitor as to ways of getting
round and through the Robertson Land Act. And the
results were wonderful. In one fertile section of N.S.W.
you can walk through about 26 consecutive miles of
dummied land, all acquired by driving a coach and four
through the law made, by the father of the man-who'has
just died.
Robert Muter Stewart, reported dead in
London recently, was an old Queenslander with
something of a record. In 1874-5, at the time
the Macalister-Hemmant Government got office,
Stewart was elected as Brisbane’s representative.
Squattocracy was then doing just what it liked—
commencing that wild career which eventually
landed the country keel-up in the mud. As a
result of a short-lived revulsion of feeling,
George Thorn got office in 1876. Stewart was his
Colonial Secretary, and held the same portfolio in
the subsequent Douglas Government. Then, in
1879, Mcllwraith came along and hitched his team
of Boodlers to the car. Not long after this
Stewart went to London to continue his softgoods
business ; and he and Hemmant, who also went
to the Cold Country, were the London directors
of the Q. N. Bank for many years.
The S.A. Legislative Council is expected
this session to pass the Additional Ministers Bill,
in which case Premier Price will have a por-
tfolio and £lOOO a year to give away. Labor
member Denny, who has just been admitted
to the Bar, has latterly been trying to sug-
gest what a good (not to say boshtfer)
Attorney-General he would make. At pre-
sent Treasurer Peake, albeit a layman, does
all the Attorney-Generalling there is to do,
and, with the help of the Crown Law Office,
manages to do it very well.
W. K. D’Arcy, that mighty and chronic
absentee, who has given £lOOO towards establish-
ing an Institute for the Study of Tropical Diseases
at Townsville (Q.), was one of the lucky Mount
Morgan speculators 24 years ago. He was then a
young solicitor at Rockhampton, and a close
friend of T. S. Hall, th e manager of the A.J.S.
Bank. The two acquired a seventh share, and
hung on to it with great pertinacity. During the
stupendous boom in 1886 many of the others sold
out, but D’Arey and Hall still hung on. A few
years later D’Arcy went to London, and his good
luck stuck to him in many Stock Exchange
ventures.
“ Spring ” has a crowded hour :
A man never knows when he may chance to gaze upon
a great happening. The other day I was standing outside
ft Sydney office, not expecting anything unusual, when a
prominent Semitic-looking Federal politician and lawyer
came out. I actually beheld him come slowly down the
steps ; saw how prettily attired he was ; saw him sniff
superciliously at the common atmosphere of evening ;
saw him walk down the street right through the
common people with such dignity and grace and conde-
scension ; saw him stop in King-street and look up and
then down ; saw a patch of mud the size of a sparrow fly
Up from a passing cab, and cling to the rear of his grey
unmentionables ; saw him refuse to board a common
penny tram, perhaps because he saw his black brother,
Gholab Turban, from India, sitting meekly alongside the
only vacant seat; saw him stalk once more to the pave-
ment and capture another lump of mud almost in the
same place; saw him get in amongst a beautiful lot of
high-stepping ladies in the next tram ; saw him see that
the ladies saw that he was a real important personage ;
saw him pay his penny in a calm, princely way, like one
who confers a dukedom on a kneeling menial; saw him
sit there calmly for a real long time, and then, just before
the stop where he had to get off, offer his seat with an
Oriental bow to a little dressmaker, who had been stand-
ing a long time; saw the great statesman and fashion-
plate step off the car amid a tremendous sensation ; saw
the little dressmaker flop thankfully into the vacated
seat, and then bounce up again with a squeal and rue-
fully scan her dress and the remains of the slush which
the great man had been sitting on ; and finally saw the
noble apparition vanish on stately feet round the corner.
All these things I viewed with my own eyes.
S.A.'S ANCIENT RAILWAY COMMIS-
SIONER A. G. PENDLETON.
Pneumonia mowed down another political
victim last week—F. H. Bromley, Victorian
Laborite and ex-leader of the party/ He saw the
football final on Saturday, and on Sunday felt “a
bit shivery.” On Monday the doctors were hard
at work. On Tuesday, at noon, he struggled out
of bed, saying “ I must go over to the House.
There’s a division to be taken to-day, and I must
be there ” —and fell back dead. Bromley was a
good Labor hack —honest, courageous and trust-
worthy, but most deceptive in one way. He
possessed a resonant, deep bass voice, the sort of
voice one expected to expound the sentiments of
strong, virile democracy ; yet Bromley, though
democratic, was neither strong nor virile. But
above all things he was candid and straight.
THE DAMAGED GOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
0, gently drop the office blind
And close the outer door ;
And, if you really wouldn’t mind,
Spread bags upon the floor.
Hang Scripture texts upon the wall—
On hook, and nail, and rod,
But leave a tiny space withal
For Freetrader damaged god.
The god is injured—shattered—bust—
Dismantled past repair ;
Of him there’s nothing left, but just
A spasm of despair.
His fervent devotees have struck
The halo from his brow ;
And where of yore his eyeglass stuck,
The mud is sticking now.
The Freetrade stuffing of the god
Is floating out to sea.
His angry worshippers have trod
Upon his dignity.
And he who was the leading joss
On Freetrade’s gaudy shrine,
Is now, by those he used to boss,
Requested to resign.
Alas ! for gods who jest and spout—
For jolly gods and fat—
Some thinner god will fire them out
And use them as a mat.
For ever ’twas the idol’s fate
(When once his spell is broke)
To have the newer idols rate
The old one as a joke.
So gently drop the office blind
And close the outer door,
And, if you really wouldn’t mind,
Spread bags upon the floor.
Hang Scripture texts upon the wall—
On hook, and nail, and rod.
But leave a tiny space withal
For Freetrader damaged god.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASLEY.


John - are you nenef? CrO>r>»c to
GEX UP- T TS
CCT UP YET, fYY DEAR
— —tW TOO pRACTtCIfNC, For
the Vice. KECaI Qor^p^titionj"
The Youth - T'T
y' Know yoo've
ha.d isirset*y
To >,pRA«TICE
ouC M T TO ftE
HANOI CAPPED.
jorsgJi //
WOKk
UP HIS
average , but
ACES TO
POT IN UTTL.E
FR-esCTtCe j
During OFFICE
Hours
“Re V.ce O'"*-
Asiut*eD THS peace
op: THt Woi^ld.
Parenr—
-11 HIRE- - I
T F irs °
p(T>E_ Ahv
AND I WAT4T j
To 'Practice. {
foR THE VtC€_ \
Qor-xP.
rH|H*-Y /ur-notß
Th£ )
1 Cu6SS I BEAT
THE OUD
THIS TIM^L
THE VICE-REGAL SMOKING COMPETITION.
Messrs. W. D. & H. O. Wills, the proprietors of the popular Vice-Regal Smoking Mixture, are promoting novel smoking competitions, the
winners being those who can keep alight the longest a pipe containing one-eighth of an ounce of Vice=Regal Smoking Mixture. The first
competition was held in Sydney on the 6th October.


Walter Bradley & Co.
324- George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Bare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawing's.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Louis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Beliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
If you want to be healthy and gay,
There is only one possible way ;
My advice is laconic,
Use Pills Laxo-Tonic,
They’re worth a lot more than you pay.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss—'
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort,made ot
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
ALSO AT MELBCjURNE.
POLTICAL
POINTS
AUSTRALIA, AS THE FOREIGN-TRADER
WOULD HAVE IT.
The cost of living is a long way below that ruling in
Sydney, according to Mr. Hawken. He estimated that a
man earning £2OO in the Federated Malay States would
be as well placed financially as a man earning £330 in
Australia. This is due, in large measure, to the fact that
Freetrade exists in the Malay Federation.— Sydney Tele-
graph.
“Now, there's a lesson for you, young man. 'Ere
am I living in this Protectionist country uv
yours on £85,000 a year, an' ’ere's a gentle-
man from a Freetrade protectorate 'oo's
’ouse'old expenses comes to only 56 pounds uv
rice an 4s. a month ! Now, why don’t you
Australians he like 'im ? ”
The fruit-growers of the County of Cum-
berland (N.S.W.), who are to be depended upon to
plank their last apple down in the name of Anti-
oosh, had the usual Conference, last week, with
the usual set of resolutions :
(1) The State to register all nurseries.
(2) The State to legalise a standard fruit case.
(3) The State to found a fruit-case depot in the markets
and to fumigate all fruit cases. ’
/tl S fcate to license all agents who sell fruit,
dead State fco su P en ’ise the codlin moth and kill him
(6) The State to register all orchards.
(7) The State to subsidise the Fruit-Growers’ Union.
Then the conference brushed the fruit fly from its
hat, thanked its stars that its member in Parlia-
ment was an Anti-Socialist, and went home.
By way of the worst joke on record, Vic-
toria’s Bent Government is going to spend a lot
of money on the importation of immigrants. And
wi le ' P ar t °f 45 years Victoria hasn’t been
able to keep its own farmers’ sons in the country.
It has allowed the land monopoly curse to drive
them out till it looks as if a time were coming
when the address of the Victorian agriculturist
will be anywhere except in his own State—when
he will be leading a tent, or hotel, or public-house
life among the nations, like the Irishman and the
Israelite.
To discuss such a subject as defence intel-
ligently requires a keen mind, but the
stupid interjection is within the intellectual
range of anyone. During Defence Minister.
Ewing’s speech on the new Bill, one Kelly
interrupted to ask “what invading force
was to be repelled by the new forces ? ” Ewing
replied that, not being a prophet or the son of a
prophet, he was unable to say. Then he resumed
his speech, and Kelly, having made a foolish
remark for the daily papers to tack his name on
to, subsided. Kelly should get into the British
House of Commons and ask what enemy is going
to be repelled by the British fleet.
Bent, who was breathing heavily in Vic-
toria when this was written, is likely to raise
blisters on the cuticle of commerce if he persists
in his new Melbourne Harbor Trust reconstitu-
tion scheme. He has been already told by a
deputation of oversea shipping companies that his
suggestion of nominating members for the new
Board won’t be tolerated, or words to that effect.
And that should send Adolphus into a slow climb
down. He can put up an heroic fight against,
say, the unemployed; but when it comes to
resisting the demands of vested interests he is a
bit of fluff blowing down a mountain.
When the Maoriland Parliament was pass-
ing its Second Ballot Bill a most remarkable
clause crawled caterpillar-wise into the measure.
It provided that when no candidate got an abso-
lute majority, and Nos. I. and 11. had to go to
the poll again, no paper should be allowed (under
penalty of £2OO fine) to advocate the election of
either candidate or the rejection of either candi-
date during the 1 interval between the two polls,
nor was either candidate to. address any meeting
between the two polls. The clause was thrown
out again amid a shriek of vituperation from the
press, but how it ever came to get in remains a
mystery. The fly in the amber wasn’t a circum-
stance to it.
In N. S. Wales Private Enterprise had
the first dig at railway-running, and made a mess
of it; and now the discovery of an old cash-book
in the crypt of the Adelaide G.P.O. recalls that
Private Enterprise also had the first dig at run-
ning the telegraph in S. Australia, and made a
mess of that too. The privately-owned line was
stretched between Adelaide and the Port, and did
so badly that when the Government was induced
to take it over the price demanded for the whole
box and dice was only £BO. And even that was
probably too much, for the apparatus was practi-
cally unworkable ; so the first thing the State had
to. do was to pull the line down and put up another.
The British Admiralty has now a Mar-
coni apparatus on the roof of its new offices at
Whitehall (London), and by its aid can com-
municate with every British warship within
a radius of 1600 miles. This sort of thing
revolutionises warfare at sea, but the fossils
who talk about the impossibility of an Aus-
tralian-owned fleet being of any service in
war time because it will be overwhelmed by
the enemy in detail, talk as if things were
still as they used to be 100 years ago. The
swift,?up-to-date squadron which has a proper
scouting system, has no need to be sur-
prised when it can get news at sea of the
coming of a superior enemy four days before
he heaves in sight. An Australian fleet on
the east coast of this continent, with wireless
messages coming in from Maoriland, Tas-
mania, Fiji, possibly Papua, Java, New
Caledonia, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
from its own scouts and from passenger
steamers, would be very hard to surprise ex-
cept through gross mismanagement. The
talk about the futility of having a fleet of our
own is mostly based on the assumption that
Marconi isn’t born yet.
This is how things with regard to pro-
duction stood in Victoria last year
Wool £3,878,431
Wheat 2,443,906
Manufactures 11,212,871
And so far as the manufactures are concerned the
value recorded is only the value added to the raw
material, while the wheat-grower doesn’t have to
lop off the cost of his seed and his fertiliser, etc.
before the figures are made up—wherefore this
branch, anyway, of the “great natural indus-
tries” always shows up better in relation to
manufactures than it deserves to. Yet even on
the figures as they are published the wool-grower
and the wheat-raiser are obviously not the entire
backbone by several joints.
The Textile Mercury (England) tells
the same old tragic story :
Bradford appears to have lost its grip, for the time
being, upon a good portion of its American trade, exports
thence to the United States in July showing a falling off
of 50 per cent., a greater shrinkage than in any month
since the financial crisis in October..
... Owing to our present fiscal system, Bradford manu-
facturers have lost the power to talk to American im-
porters in a business-like way, and are therefore to-day
completely at the mercy of high protective tariffs, and
the lessened business with the United States means in-
creased competition in home markets.
Yes; on account of that “increased competition
in home markets ” some things are cheap enough
in Great Britain. Don’t the poor wretches who
have to sweat to produce the cheap things
know it!
Victorian Premier Bent’s capers on the
day when he withdrew his Land Valuation Bill
were nerve-wrecking to his country supporters.
Early in the afternoon, while Adolphus was strut-
ting in his Windsor uniform and filling his
capacious chest while the Governor-General pinned
thereon the brand of St. Drinkall and St. Gorge,
these country “Liberals” met and squirmed!
Their trouble was that if they voted for the
Valuation Bill, their most influential—that is to
say, their most propertied—constituents would do
their best to heave them out at next election;
while if they voted against the Bill they would’
bring the Labor Opposition into power, and that
might be worse still. So they plodded into the
House in a disgruntled frame of mind—and then
Thomas Bent knuckled down, and took back all
he had said, and shied his Ministers and his
honest supporters over his shoulder in an indecent
effort to save his billet at any cost. As M.L.A.
Lemmon said, “ Barnacles have to be scraped off.’*’
Veteran Radical Burgoyne, M.P., aged 83,
solemnly told the S. Aus. House of Assembly, the
other day, that Opposition-leader Butler was the
most inefficient Minister of Lands he had known
in his quarter of a century of Parliamentary life.
“ And the worst of it is,” he continued, after giving
Butler that character, “ he always seems to me to
think he’s the only man who knows anything at
all about it.”
LOOK OUT, WE’RE GOMING IN.
We are reaching out to the period when Federal outlay
is likely to outstrip the ways and means of the Federal
Treasury. —Melbourne AGE.
Bent’s Honorary Minister Mackinnon is
now reaping his reward. He drew up the Land
Valuation Bill, sponsored it in the House, and
was prepared to go out of office rather than lose it
altogether. Then the country representatives of
the land-owning class kicked, and threatened the
Bent Government’s downfall. A combination or
a compromise with the Labor party would have
saved the Bill, but Mackinnon had sold himself
to their opponents, and had put himself under
the thumb of Bent; so he had to sit while that
blustering bluffer threw him and his Bill over and
consumed dirt. Mackinnon’s face was a study
as he realised what sort of a leader he had sold
himself to, and before the dirt-eating was com-
plete he had left the House and let the division rip.
Hampden Shire (Vic.), one of the chief
homes of the Western Victorian land monopolist,
has just announced that its annual valuation of rate-
able property has increased, during the 12 months,
by £15,410. The valuer, in his report, explains
that this is largely due to the subdivisions of
estates. The land, while the squatter keeps it
locked up, is almost always undervalued; but as
soon as it goes into the hands of the farmer,: up
goes the valuation. So the squatter is actually
rewarded for keeping his land half idle and block-
ing settlement. It would be difficult to discover
a more \Vrong-headed and mischievous system ;
but when you read an account of a Hampden
Shire Council meeting, and see that those present
include squatters Manifold, Currie, Black and
Reid, the situation becomes a little clearer. The
business itself, however, is about as murky as the
interior of a black cow.
“Vulcan”: Under the Commerce Act,
this country begins to get an inkling of how it
was rooked in the bad old days of “unrestricted
private enterprise.” Taking jewellery alone, from
January to September, ’OB, the Customs authori-
ties inflicted fines, forfeitures, etc., for four cases
of false trade descriptions of jewellery and 18
cases of false markings of jewellery, while in
“several hundreds of other cases correct marking
of plate, jewellery, etc., was ordered by the
authorities before allowing delivery.” No wonder
the importer howled at the thought of it! The
idea that the “ 15-carat ” brooch was expected to
be more than three carat was “ unheard of ” ; the
insistence that the “ solid gold bangle ” shouldn’t
be largely lead was a “gross interference,” etc,,
while the revolutionary theory that the “real 18-
carat watch ” mustn’t be mostly white metal
sandwich was “just dashed insult, sir !”
“Jock” Garland, one of the tame lions
of the N.S.W. “Reform” party, who was lifted
into the Superfluous House when he couldn’t get a
seat in the Assembly, made about his first speech
to the Superfluities the other night, and fell in
badly over it. “ Jock ” had been counsel for the
promoters of a private shindykit railway, before
a Select Committee; and when the Bill was
before the Superfluities, he made an oration in
support. Thereupon one of the old hands of the
Chamber got up, and asked the hon. “Re-
former ” whether he didn’t know the rule which
said that hon. gentlemen who had been paid to
barrack for legislative proposals were barred from
barracking in that Chamber. Then a very
crushed “Jock” Garland said he was sorry, and
asked the House to put it down to his ignorance.
Whereupon the scandalised House forgave him;
and the shindykit’s Bill only got three votes
instead of the four that it would probably have
got if the matter hadn’t been drawn attention to.
There were some bright interludes in the
debate on the Seat of Government Site. Johnson,
of Sydney, was talking wildly, and reminded the
Attorney-General that “after the Constitution
had been rejected by N.S.W. in the first instance”
Then he was interrupted by Chanter, who
explained that it was never rejected. “Then
why was there a second referendum ?” inquired
Johnson triumphantly. When he was told that
the second referendum came about through the
N. S. Wales Parliament traitorously altering the
minimum vote from 50,000 to 80,000, he tried to
allege that the villainy of the N.S.W. Legislature
was a virtual act of rejection by the people of
N. S. Wales. George Reid spread much gloom
over the subject, being in a bad, clownish
mood that evening. He inquired passionately:
“Surely the Commonwealth property is safe
in any part of Australia ? ” “ No,” retorted Dr.
Carty Salmon, “ the Commonwealth property was.
not safe when the State seized the wire netting.”
Then Reid got mad, but his anger was nothing to
his damaged feeling. It never occurred to him
what a good Federalist Carruthers had uninten-
tionally been. Right through the debate the
Anti-Dalgety gang argued on the basis of the
agreement of the six Premiers, and never once
mentioned the interests of Australia, the necessity
of having the capital in a place where it would be-
come tfie actual centre of Australia in days of in-
vasion and national tribulation. They were fight-
ing not to obtain the best capital site, the
worst —in the interests of the importing State
Frights gang.
Victoria has just begun to insist upon the
soundness of stallions ; and Private Enterprise
has broken out in spots, and is saving unprintable
things about gross interference v ,th the liberty of
the subject. The Agricultural Department knows
16 cases in which, when animals have been re-
jected as unsound, the owners have taken them
under other names to other vets. In the 16 cases
the second vets, have also rejected the beasts ;
but probably the Department hasn’t heard of the
cases (if any) in which Private Enterprise has had
better luck. The number of beasts pronounced
unsound is, however, surprising even the Depart-
ment, so, with that much weeding out, there ought
to be a pretty considerable improvement in Vic-
toria’s horse stock before very many years.
“ Honorary Sentry Box ” writes :
Last week two cable messages came through in the
small hours when the undefended inilkcan was still lying
empty on the back doorstep, awaiting the arrival of the
Distributor of Oow Juice and Giver of Short Measure.
The messages were printed together in the morning paper,
and the house-father, full of breakfast and benevolence,
read them through with languid interest as the ferryboat
and tram bore him to the city. One was to the effect that
Bulow, German Imperial Something, had assured the In-
ternational Press Conference at Berlin that no one in Ger-
many dreamed of attacking Britain. The other conveyed
the intelligence that a leading German paper had estima-
ted that the Fatherland, within the next five years, will be
compelled to meet a deficit of ±100,000,000 to £112,500,000.
Bulow—diplomatist though he is—is probably sincere
when he says his country has no intention of attacking
Britain. But it looks as if Germany wants Britain to
attack her. Unless the reports have been grossly exag-
gerated, she has harried the North Sea fishing fleet
deliberately with torpedo boats, and the only possible
interpretation is that she wants trouble. But desperately
hard times and the bitter memory of the wretched South
African business have steadied the British public, and
there isn’t likely to be another burst of military
hysteria for years to come. Otherwise by now
a big European war might have been raging,
and the importer would have had to go naked for
lack of his usual imported calico. The Britisher, in the
Kipling period, was wont to take an offensive and un-
reasonable pride in the fact that the sun never set on his
blessed empire. Nowadays he sits by the Channel and
wishes that his possessions were all gathered together in
one spot so that the sun could set on them once every 24
hours and allow him to get a little sleep. He realises now
that an empire that sprawls all over the globe and
feeds itself with arms thousands of miles long—the
said arms being composed of strings of ships—is
liable to have its feeding limbs snapped in time of
war. And when the Canadian, Argentine and Australian
wheat and the Maoriland frozen lamb are lost to it, the
only things left for Britain will be to eat the golf balls on
the links that once were wheat fields. When Britain
thinks of these things it doesn’t want war. But Germany
wants millions badly, and when it looks over the North
Sea at Bull, and thinks how pleasant it would be to get a
few colonies and the record indemnity of history by
starving London for a week, its moustaches bristle like a
cat’s. Bull certainly wants to remain good friends with
Hans. But, unless Hans can be induced to be more of a
family man than he is. at present, his friendship won’t be
worth having. His moustache bristles too much
THIS GREAT LOAN LAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.S.W. Treasurer Waddell stated on Thurday last that
he expected to receive during- the year £13,760,000,
which, added to the accumulated surplus of £1,676,000,
made a total of £15,436,000.
The Loan Expenditure for the tear would be
£2,653,000.
There was a time, not long- ago, ere we had Federation,
When half this revenue would fill our Treasurer with
elation.
And that was when the State defrayed a number of
expenses,
Including post and telegraphs, inland and coast defences !
And now that State expense is less, because the Feder-
ation
Has taken over services affecting all the nation,
We hear the same old cry to-day, and doubtless will to-
morrow,
That though our income’s double we are still compelled
to borrow!
We borrowed when the revenue was seven millions '
Sonny,
And “ spent it like a toff ” and felt extremely blithe and
bonny 1
And now (although at twice the pace our Treasurer finds
the tin come)
We can’t contrive, with fewer calls, to live within our
income 1
Was old Polonius mad, d’ye think ? Was Shakspeare very
silly ?
He was the wisest child Britannia ever had, was Billy '
“’Tis borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry,” remarked
Polonius,
To keep his son from straying, in his youth, in paths
erroneous!
And so it does! Ic always does ! With either man or
nation !
Though sometimes justified ’tis never cause for jubilation !
Blest is the cove who (like Longfellow’s “Village Black-
smith ”) can
Look in the face of all the world and owe not any man !
It may be that a land like this, “a land of milk and
honey,”
Must in its early youth import most things, and borrow
money,
But shall there never come a time when it shall make
endeavor,
Or must it go on borrowing for ever and for ever?
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGE.
RHEUMATISM CAN BE BANISHED.
RHEUMATIC POISON NEEDS TO BE DRIVEN FROM
THE BLOOD.
Sydney Woman Helpless as a Baby—Aching,
Swollen Joints; So Bad Couldn’t Walk
a Step. Cubed by Db. Williams’ Pink
Pills.
People who have rheumatism are people who
have acid in their blood. It’s the acid that causes
the trouble. It gets into the joints and muscles
in cold damp weather and agony follows. Now if
the acid were cleared out of the system there
wouldn’t be rheumatism. That’s clear. What
rheumatic sufferers want to do is to clear the
poisdn right out. No half measures, but every
particle out of the system.
Every day there are accounts in the newspapers
of people who have cured their rheumatism with
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. These people have
been cured because Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
a blood-forming medicine. They give the users
rich, red blood which drives the rheumatic poison
from the system. Experience shows that rheu-
matism and a plentiful supply of rich blood
can’t exist together. The case of Mrs. Eliza
Smellie, 18 Kensington Street, Sydney, is a typi-
cal one, showing how Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
cure this complaint. Mrs. Smellie says :
“ I got a cruel attack of rheumatism some time
back which settled in my hands and feet. I
couldn’t walk for thirteen weeks and had to stop
in bed all that time. I had to sit up in bed, for
I couldn’t lie down, and I couldn’t move myself.
I had to remain as I was placed. I suffered hours
of dreadful agony. I couldn’t close my eyes.
They used to give me large quantities of brandy
to try and get me off to sleep. I was quite help-
less; unable to raise my hands to my mouth.
I had to be fed with a spoon, and washed and
looked after like a baby. My hands and feet
would swell up, more particularly my hands. My
finger joints were all knotted and twisted, and
the agony was unbearable. The joints seemed on
fire all the time. They rubbed my feet and hands
with all sorts of liniments, but I got no good from
them. At night time I suffered worse than in
the day. I couldn’t eat or sleep and I dreaded
anyone coming near me. I had my fingers
wrapped in flannel that had been soaked in tur-
pentine to try and get a little ease, but all to no
use. At last my daughter urged me to give Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills a trial, and she went and got
me a box. - Before I finished that one box I was
able to get out of my bed and get round the house
leaning on my umbrella. I could hardly credit
the change myself. After a while the swelling
went down and my fingers were not so knotted
and the pains got less. Presently I was able to
do little things for myself, and fasten my clothes
myself. I got better and better every day, and
now lam as supple as I could wish. I’ve never
had a relapse of the rheumatism since Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills cured me.”
If you are not quite sure whether your illness is
caused by bad blood, write to The Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.
From the same address you can also order the
genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills by mail, 2s. 9d.
a box; six boxes 15s. 3d., post free. Hints as to
diet, etc., sent free.


Business Suits
for Country e-Town. Wear.
Best Value
in
Australia
d
m
m W §
ww
%
Vs
Write for Patterns
and
Self Measurement
Forms.
Cut Style & Finish,o/ High Standard.
BUCKLEYS NUNN L™
BOURKE ST.MELBOURNE.
A. ®> F.
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SO APM AKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Stotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS' SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
: * i
rs.
1
•
7
.
.
im
B-W
m
R
.v
Fashion, Fit & Finish.
uwm
i
w!
mm
f\
m
m
w
mm
«fISS
mi
"-mm****
The Most Satisfactory Suits
in the Commonwealth —
F.j. PALMER
and SOWS
Guinea
Suits to
Measure.
Write for Patterns of oar New
Spring Materials, mailed Free
with Tape and Simple Self-
Measure Form on receipt of
this Coupon filled in with your
name and address.
“ B.” 8/10/’OB.
Please post Free Patterns , die., to
Name
Address
F. J. PALMER ®. SON,
The Criterion Tailors, opp. the Criterion Theatre,
Comer of Pitt (&L Park Streets, SYDNEY
l(And at George Street, HaymarKet), *


and
# 4 Oy
DRINK 10
Charles Heldsleck
EVERY TIME.
STILL A FIRM FAVORITE.
190 0.
l#fc®
r
m
rtv>
yM
/
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
Have you ever noticed
what a beautiful golden color
Robur tea turns when you
put milk in it?—that’s a sign
that i t’s go o d tea, you know !
Common teas, or teas that have
been faked in any way have
as a rule, a dark bluish tinge;
and of course you’ve noticed
how rich and soft and mellow
the flavor of Robur is—
j ust like velvet on your tongue
—that’s because it’s pure
tea—by the way, have you ever
tried our No. 1 Grade? My
word, it is nice tea!
“The Connoisseur’s Friend.”
“BLACK and WHITE.”
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Is the acme of perfection, arid the high«class standard
stimulant of the British Empire.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, October G, 1908.
My Dear Arint, —
“ How to be Happy though Bigwood.” I’ll
make Miss Carrie Moore’s husband a present of
the title if he likes to do the letterpress to go
with it. Report says he is an English sportsman.
He must be a real good sport to be able to spend
three hours nightly of his honeymoon time watch-
, "I 10 ” Higginson glue his lips to the lips
of his (Bigwood’s) bride. But possibly he em-
ploys the interludes in kicking Higginson. If so,
that young caperer dissembles his anguish and
conceals Ins bruises very effectively. Sydney was
not quite staggered at Carrie’s marriage, for she
has been threatening to do the deed for some
HT-d lh e unexpected aspect of the event was
tnat Bercy Bigwood should be the man. He has
been wandering for some time around Australia
and Maoriland, and many people, especially
Maonlanders, had a firm impression that he had
alreadj' reaped his crop of orange blossom.
A section of the community professes to be hurt
that yarrie didn’t take it into her confidence, so
that it could be present and throw its old footwear
around recklessly at the ceremony. In fact, the
wedding seems to have been about the quietest on
record, borne of the papers didn’t even give the
address of the church at which it haopened, and
the paper that did give it gave it wrongly.’ In
fact, it wasn’t a church in the ordinary way. It
was just a hall that does occasional duty for a
tabernacle.
The question of how to be happy though
Bigwood had new lights thrown upon it after-
wards. At least it was announced in a Monday
morning; paper that a Miss Silva had arrived
from Melbourne on Saturday, and that she
and her lawyer made such extraordinary haste
that, although it was only a half-day, they got out
a writ for £5OOO for alleged breach of promise of
marriage, and also another legal document whereby
they laid an embargo on the Bigwood motor-car.
and forbade it to carry the bride and bridegroom
to the races. Therefore it became necessary to
travel there in a slow cab amid a cloud of dust.
So the work of being cheerful though Bigwood
has proceeded so far under certain difficulties.
Anyhow, the bridegroom is young and handsome,
so he has compensations.
Governor-General Dudley added to the gaiety
of baturday’s A.J. C. Races by attending in a
frock-coated grey suit and a grey tall hat with a
black band. His stick —he carried it under his
arm while he consulted his horse programme—
would have drawn a crowd anywhere. Walking
quickly after one who held the shilling sweep
money, I brought up suddenly against the head
of that btick. It gave me the blind staggers.
An amber top (or was it topaz ?) with his
monogram and something else (possibly a coronet)
in pearls. Lord Richard Nevill—that man must
have some secret understanding with the physical
culturists and skinologists, for Time seems to have
forgotten him—was in attendance as Chief
Mourner At least that is what his long, lean,
black-garbed personality suggested.
To the second Crossley concert the Dudley
potentate, followed by the Chief Mourner, came
“ m H tes While the fore-quarter of
the .National Anthem was served, and amid
the fuss usual on the seating of a potentate,
a good section of Sydney inspected the
New Man at close quarters. And it liked him
at sight. He looks hard-boiled and as if he could
still flirt. And there is sufficient World, Flesh
and Old Scratch in even the best of us to make us
take to a man who looks as if he could flirt and
doesn’t seem soft-boiled. He is probably 6ft. in
his silk hose {or would it be lisle thread ?), but as
he entered with Nevill and Dr. Muecke this
reach-me-down-a-star pair overtopped him.
Ada’s consort is over 6ft. 2in. A bunch
of contralto-worshippers couldn’t listen to
Sametmi’s opening item, so bothered were they
about “ the extraordinary likeness of Lord Dudley
to someone they knew,” either personally or by
sight. There was much brow-knitting and hazard-
ing on the other elusive identity. At last they
caught it ! The wine-waiter at the Australia
Hotel. “That’s who he’s like!” Then they
rustled their programmes and lent their ears to
the good-humored skeleton fiddler.
Mrs. Mayoress Hughes, in an emerald-green
something, with gold grapes and leaves in her
hair, was bidden to come from the back and sit by
the Dudley side. In the interval, Mr. Bracy was
sent for by the Earl, and commanded, on pain of
being made into Irish stew at the stake, to take
Him in to renew his acquaintance with the con-
tralto. He was obeyed. Bracy wasn’t taking
any stake—at least not until after the tour.
The Spring meeting started in glorious weather.
But glorious weather is no new thing in this land.
There were no new things so far as I can recollect'
unless they were the Governor-General’s cherub
stick and Ada Crossley’s bright green shoes, worn
with a black frock and a green parasol.
Empire frocks were on every hand—l mean
on every body. Most of us were hoping
for the worst in the matter of mad hatters.
Weve been reading of huge hats—hats three
feet across—as worn by the Best in London
and Paris. But there wasn’t an exaggerated hat
as to size in the crowd. Plenty of ugly ones, but
no cart-wheels—no perambulator-wheels, for’that
matter. One girl with statesman-like features
positively risked the loss of her fiance's devotion
by wearing an early Yictorian bonnet. The prow
of a weather-beaten battleship is what her face
looked in its trying frame.
The hat with the necklace of colored beads
around the crown was there. Several of them.
And the hat with long streamers hanging from
under the brim at the back was in plenty.
A number of women must have been starving
down to Empire-gown limit. Mrs. Claude Mac-
donald, of Melbourne, looked thin and hungry
enough to assail a soup-kitchen. Mrs. P. Morton
could pass as an elegant spook in any dim ancestral
corridor. Mrs. E. P. Simpson successfully dis-
gmsed her undeniable figure in a costume that
would have made a variety artist writhe with
envy, it was correct Directoire as to coat, all the
same but correct Directoire anything looks a song-
and-dance get-up. Miss Dawson did the pale-
pink and black hat act, and with her was Miss
Bedford, the W.A. Excellency girl, in blue ninon
wrth a grey, brown and blue tulle hat. A team of
recent brides turned up in trousseau frocks,
ihey were the Hughes pair (she was a
Hranms Suttor girl), the Finlayson brace (of
which the feminine half was the Russell
hrench damsel), and the Russell Clarkes from
Melbourne (she is a Colonel Mackenzie girl who
with her bridegroom, a son of the Janet Clarke
lady, ought to go in for some physical culture),
it s not fair to stately, cornnianding-officer-like
women such as Mrs. Mackenzie and Baronetess
Oiarke to have weedy offspring.
Pretty little Miss Daisy Willis and her fiance,
and Mr. Man-’o-war Dudley North (who looks like
lommy Burns) were other units in a prosperous-
looking crowd.
Any woman who had old, family lace published
the fragile fact. This is the day, date, and
generation to do so. One lady had a shawl such
as you see in illustrations of 50 years ago, and it
was evidently antique and valuable, and the color
of old ivory. Miss Gwladys Bonsor wore a lot of
ancient cobwebby lace on a modern cream frock.
Greys and greens and greys and browns had a good
run for the wearers’ money. Mrs. Baxter Bruce
was a grey and green bird; Mrs. Taylor Young
a grey and brown one. Mrs. Hugh Denison
had one of the new silk nets of a curious blue
sh . a « e over grey silk. A lady in lemon yellow,
with black decorations like the trail of the serpent
all over her, jumped into the middle of the color
scheme and livened things up.
Only horses were entered for the principal
events—no cows. It made me feel sorry. I have
no luck in backing horses, and I have sometimes
thought that perhaps a swift cow might carry my
half-crown to victory if only the milky mother
were allowed to run all she knew, with a garland
on her horns.
An appalling thing happened last Friday. The
local consuls were not given the right of private
entry to the Governor-General’s levee, and they
struck. They boycotted the function severally
and in the mass. In a score of agitated suburbs
families were to be found mourning the fact that
Pa was not going to put on his rainbow clothes
and go to Government House. The gaudy
trappings were returned to their pestiferous
haunt among the moth-bricks, and all was gloom.
There is a more serious side to this occurrence
than the fact that it has robbed the com-
munity of the joyous spectacle of the fullv-
caparisoned Consul for Pergamos and his
friend, the representative from Bithynia, looking
foolish in public places. The papers talk omirn
ously of “severed relations.” There is a menacing
note in their utterances, as when trouble is brew-
ing in the European chancelleries, and whispers
of wholesale “recalls ” are rife. What the upshot
will be if the usual diplomatic course is taken, and
all the consuls are bidden to return to the coun-
tries they represent, one shudders to contemplate.
As a first and particularly horrible result, many
of our leading grocery emporiums will be denuded
of their assistants.
All the Best People of the male sex are limping
just now. Not to walk about looking as though
you had just stepped off a moving tram with your
face to the open front of the juggernaut immedi-
ately behind stamps you—if you are of the male
order—as an outsider, blister, or excrescence on
the face of society. Governor-General Dudley
limps ; State Governor Rawson limps ; liupert
Clarke limps; Mr. “Jimmy" Osborne, of the
beautiful clothes and wife and the new baby,
limps ; everybody of importance limps. A heavy
and ornate walking-stick is a necessary prop in
this act, so the futile cane that has been the
fashion in the past promises to retire to the limbo
where the dead fashions repose. All the above-
named citizens acquired their limps in the pursuit
of war or sport. But it is not necessary to risk
fooling about with cannons and horses and other
dangerous things to acquire a satisfactory limp for
everyday wear. With determination and an
atrophied sense of humor almost anyone may
rear a limp in quite a short time.
Lord Dudley braved a southerly gale and a
rainstorm last week and went round the golf links
at Bose Bay in 83 strokes. The achievement is
authenticated by the club professional, who was
badly defeated, and the affidavits of a crowd of
worshipping onlookers. For the benefit of the
submerged twoth that doesn’t happen to belong to
a golf club, I may remark that this involved doing
each hole in a fraction over four strokes. The
average golfer takes from 12 to 20 strokes over
each hole in dead calm weather and afterwards
provided he has had no audience to keep tally of
his frantic club-whirlings—blandly informs “his
partner that he has bashed the Haskell a mere
six or ten times, as the case may bq. (The fact
that he is not believed worries him but little ; golf
is the assassinator of self-respect.) Our'new
Governor’s feat stamps him as a golfer of high
degree. lam told that athletics of all sorts are
the strong suit of the Ward family. They are
expert horsemen, shots, fishermen, and the like.
It is many years since the Ma State enjoyed the
company of a really sporting Governor—and then
he didn’t sport personally.
Governor-General Dudley went to the Gla-
ciarium, to a private ice frisk or frozen
jump, on the evening of the day he arrived in
Sydney. Among those present,' Miss Rawson
looked her best in a pale blue cloth coat and
skirt with white and gold braid and white silk
blouse and a pretty floral toque. Miss Bedford
was pink in the matter of coat, skirt and blouse.
Kubelik and wife left Fremantle with some 50
parrots. As they -progressed through Australia
their bird mania became more and more acute. It
was as bad as that of the Paderewskis. Will
anyone who went to see Mrs. Pad off at Redfern
ever forget her chiefest winged thing? Mr. South-
well carried it, and it yelled invitations at him to
“Have a drink." It asked the porters and the
farewellers and an Anglican bishop to have drinks.
It was a dissipated bird. And all the time it
hadn’t a penny about it wherewith to pay for the
drinks.
Some Yankee impresario is said to have been
seeking advertisement by offering our one-time
fellow sojourner, Earl Shaftesbury, £lOOO a week
for the hire of his tenor voice. But what a joke
on the impresario if the Earl with the amazing
jaws had accepted ! Possibly Shaftesbury wants
money—’most anyone does- —otherwise report
would not have selected him as being the masked
evening dress person who sings outside London
clubs and cafes, and whose collection plate is
carried by a masked footman. Mr. Flautist
Lemtnone tells that Shaftesbury, “who has a
pleasing voice,” appeared in the early’nineties in
Melbourne with other amateurs in a comic opera,
“Lelamine,” written by Mr. Alfred Moulton’.
“Pleasing voices ’’ run in the family. His sister,
Lady Maud Warrender (she stayed with the
Brasseys in these parts), has one which she often
lifts in song for the benefit of the old King—and
for charity.
Talking of singers : Baritone Earle’s wife is a
favorite English soprano of considerable personal
charms. She is known as Louise Dale. What a
peach-pie pair they must look warbling a duet!
The fashion of Earle’s coming on to the platform
rather tickles Sydney. It has a suggestion of
“ Inow watch me. I’m going to deal out stoush
to this audience.” It is Germanic and military,
and he has a patent hinge in the middle of his
back, and when he claps his heels together and
bows, you expect to hear a clash of spurs.
Ada Crossley’s gowning at her concerts is
making Sydney women feel that their dressing is
down to the standard of Mrs. Wiggs and Miss
Hazy in the Cabbage Patch. She wears “Lucille”
or Power ’ frocks. “ Lucilles ” are very suggest-
ive of Whistler’s art, and the “ Powers” remind
of priestly vestments. Long lines of gold or silver
embroidery imposed on rich, straight-falling
materials of such as a Cardinal’s robe might be
wheti his Eminence is having a held day. The
“Powers” are calculated to inspire religious
sentiments, the “Lucilles” a desire to get rid of
your, soul and go astray in some crazy and artistic
fashion down through the painted" dusk of the
green sea s glass, to where the green-haired mer-
maid sits and curls the whiskers of the amorous
prawn.
The gown Miss Crosslev wore at her first con-
cert Was a “ Power.” It was of satin in a tender
quince shade of yellow—a quince that had ripened
in the Garden of the Lord (the religious influence
of the gown is on me). From the Empire bodice
depehded a long, wide panel of silver embroidery
set with hundreds of “ blister ” pearls, and finished
with silver fringe that took the hue of satin and
looked to be gold fringe. Just the gown in which
to sirig “Arm Ye of Noble Courage ” from Gluck’s
“Iphigenia” proposition. The vesture worn by
the contralto at Mrs. Burdekin’s dance was a
“Lucille.” It wasreverieinshotgreen and peacock
silk, the high-waisted Empire bodice an indescrib-
able thing of green chiffon gold-powdered over
peacock-blue, and with the funniest, cutest,
long,,flat bow in shades of blue, green and prune
in front, above the imaginary waist-line.
The “Lucille” wreath is a bit of chromatic
work you might make for yourself. Miss Crossley
often wears one when she’s just Mrs. Muecke at
home. It is a circlet the size of an afternoon tea
saucer, roses and leaves and forget-me-nots in
ribbon work. Fastened to the corsage of your
afternoon frock—not on to the b.ack of your hair—it
will give you just the tiniest flavor of a Paul
Bourget heroine.
One of the “ distinguished absentees ” from
Randwick was B. R. Wise, K.C., who is back in
Sydney after three years’ exile in London,
bright and fit. As a matter of fact, I
don’t suppqse any of us has ever seen
Bernhard Wise at the races; he doesn’t affect
the turf. “It is one of the few wickednesses I
am nqt accused of,” he remarked to me quizzically,
some years ago. Wise is much thinner than of
yore. That is the only trace his serious illness
has left. He keeps the same boyish, upright
figure, the same cheerful, ebullient manner,
and still favors a straw boater for head-
gear. | Mrs. Wise and son Tony did not
return with him. The boy, who is now a
young, man, is just starting on a professional
career 'in England, and the mother remains to
keep him provided with good counsel.
Mr. Wise arrived at Sydney on Friday, and
dropped into chambers at once, taking temporary
possession of Mr. Tom Rolin’s rooms. ~ That
popular barrister has just had a stroke of the
hardest of hard luck. He had a big case and a
sore throat. In endeavoring to do justice to the
one in spite of the other he seriously strained a
vocal chord, and the doctors now prescribe six
months’ complete rest. Tom Rolin and his charm-
ing wife are very general favorites, so everybody
will wish him a quick recovery.
To return to Mr. Wise—he comes back full of
aggressive Australianism, but resolved, he says,
against carrying aggressiveness into politics.
“ The sunlight, this glorious Australian sunlight,
the color in everything, the Harbor, Port Hacking
—those and work are going to fill my mind.”
The Bulletin and The Lone Hand staffs
entertained at a smoke concert on Saturday night
Mr. Norman Macleod, one of their confreres,
whose marriage with pretty Miss Eileen
O’Sullivan was fixed for Wednesday of this
week. It was a jolly and speechful affair
in which everybody joined happily in saying
that Mr. Norman Macleod was a jolly
good fellow, and that they reckoned he had made
a wise choice, and that they wished the young
couple all sorts of happiness. Mr. Tom McMahon,
secretary of the co., presided. The only guest
outside the office ranks was that veteran and
popular politician, Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan, the
bride-eject’s father.
Mr. Arthur Adams, who dominates the Red
Page of The Bulletin, was married on Wednes-
day, by the Rev. North Ash, to Miss Lilian
Baton, of Neutral Bay.
Miss Ella Caspers, a contralto of great promise,
has had the bad luck to fall foul of appendicitis.
She is in a hospital at Grafton, and the rest of her
concert tour is hung up. Graftonites are falling
oyer each other in their desire to be kind to the
girl, and a benefit concert is promised her.
“Mario ” writes from Brisbane :
Many things are perpetrated in the name of charity.
Last Tuesday evening I went to see the amateur per-,
formance of “ Patience ” by kindly-disposed Mrs. Spencer
Browne, assisted by her sisters, cousins, aunts—at least
I’m not sure about the aunts—but a lot of cheerful young
things, anyhow, aided by a lady of the proportions re-
quired for the filling of the part of Lady Jane. There is
a seriousness about amateur artists which is never
assumed by professionals, and they do things without the
winking'of an eyelid that would make the pro. fall down
partially dead. For instance, no one appeared to see
anything funny in the fact that the leading lady stepped
into the glassy mere in the centre of the stage, and suc-
cessfully walked upon the water to theother side, nordid
the black-velvet-clothed Jane, with her very massive
arms, excite undue remark when she “sawed wood”
upon the’cello without making-any attempt to strike a
note with her left. Then there w r as a fine display of
Chippendale among the understandings of the noble
Dragoons, but much of the remainder of their deficiencies
were covered by their helmets, which rested in
a jaunty way upon their shoulders. In fact, the
tuneful Ij)uke had to clear decks for vocal action by hoist-
ing his military hat at a rakish tilt down his back.
Another fine —I say it advisedly—leg show was thgt pro-
vided by the Colonel, the Duke and the Major in their
aesthetic costumes in the second act. Their attenuated
understandings suggested several discarded toasting
forks. Patience herself made faces, hut as she usually
fixed her comic-opera smile up stage it didn’t have the
serious effect anticipated ; and several of the love-sick
maidens wore the anxious and bilious aspect of a wasted
stage life.
The Bunthorne of Mr. H. V. Walter was very near pro-
fessional standard. Little Geo. Webster was a dandy
major and pretty Miss Morrisett a squeezable Sophia,
while Mrs. Dicky Taylor was equally convincing as
Angela. Also a he-mummer, who shall be nameless,
created a record for incapacity which towered up like a
blighted cathedral. The profits(£loo) will be devoted to
bringing the local maternity home up to date.
Our own little Figaro, which for so many y r ears was the
darling of Bobby Byrne’s heart, is to change hands again,
and I hear that the purchaser is J. N. McCallum,
musical director, art collector, etc.
Quite a flutter is caused among feminines of this city
by the rumor that a romance which was born 20 years
ago is at length going to culminate. The bride will not
admit to any contemplated rashness, but her devoted
admirer walks with a jaunty step that suggests rice and
old shoes.
Her lord and master having betaken himself to the
wilds, our frigid Governoress thawed into the “ Patience ”
show on Tuesday, and seemed to enjoy it. One Thursday
the lady was one of a carefully-selected audience which
listened while Mark Hambourg dragged Chopin by the
tail from the inside of a Ronisch Grand in the Exhibition
Hall. What a wonder he is, and how he has mellowed
these five years ! But his face, while the music is in pro-
gress, still suggests the expression of a small boy who has
just swallowed a pint of medicine, while his long shock
of hair is as oily' as ever. But one forgives even his hair
when he plays.
Next week we are to have a flying visit from the
Governor of Westralia, an Art Society’s show, an Emerald
Isle bazaar, and all manner of other diversions.
Once again the Pioneer ladies have dined their annual
dine at the Eschenhagen Oafb, with the usual expressions
of goodwill. There is a reckless, devil-may'-care aspect
about the local clubites that suggests dark doings and
fierce orgies when two of three are gathered together.
But the bubble of romance was pricked on Monday
evening when the advent of a mild variety of gold-tipped
cigarette was regarded with looks of horror—a horror
that paralysed the one bold smokeress until she was glad
to drop the barely-tasted wickedness into a flowerpot and
depart with stealthy steps. No, the Pioneers are not
f eally a wild variety of new women.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
Summer is coming on. Why Freckle ? It j s
not necessary. Feed your skin with Valaze, the
marvellous Russian Skin Beautifier, 3s. 6d., 6s. 6'd., a n d
6d. postage. Use the Novena Sunproof Creme as a p ro .
tection against the wind and sun, and you can’t freck
If you have freckles already they can be removed wi e -
Valaze Freckle Cure. This list, might easily be extended
but these will serve for an indication. If you want to
skilfully helped to help yourself, write at once for Mllee
Rubinstein’s new booklet, “ Beauty in the Making,” 3d.
by post. It contains just the latest ideas on the cultiva-
tion and preservation of the complexion. Novena Sun-
proof Creme, 2s. and 3s. 6d., and Freckle Cure, ss. 3d.
posted. All chemists, or direct from Helena Rubinstein
and Co., Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street,
Sydney, and 274 Collins Street, Melbourne.* [2
Compulsory military training is the best
safeguard against compulsory military service.—
London Times.


HE PLEASURES
of
• • •
KodaK Photography
Endure from YOUTH to AGE.
€8
V 0
-
; |ig
sjsets
f —w -
*
jfcA
SIMPLICITY is
its GREATEST
CHARM.
SUCCESS
ITS CERTAIN
REWARD.
as-
*a£st
.* k
From the Infant in the Nursery to the Millionaire in his Motor Car there is only one verdict—
“ KODAKS Always Make the Best Pictures/' and require NO DARK ROOM-
note that from the 15th September last the price of ALL KODAKS,
PREMOS, FILMS, FILM PACKS, and KODAK SUNDRIES has been reduced
to ENGLISH LIST PRICE.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
Sole Agents for AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
TAKE THE INSTANT
BY THE FOREWARD TOP
and send to-day (lest you forget when mail day comes) for the latest Clearance
Catalogue of
The Times Book Club,
376-384 Oxford Street, London, England.
We have on our registers the names of thousands of book readers all over the
World who have instructed us to post them copies of each issue the moment it
appears. The appearance of our Catalogues is an event in the Book World. Will
you not add your name: to our Catalogue List ?
Before you have read through half the bargains listed below, you will seize
your pen and fill in the coupon. Don’t forget to post it.
SOME. OF THE BARGAINS.
Cartoons from Punch (1841—1901).* 4 Yols. Pub-
lished, Cloth, 40/-; Sale Price, 12/- set. Published,
Half Leather, 55/- ; Sale Price, 18/- set. (Car-
riage forward.)
[The contemporary history of the sixty years 1841-
1901, viewed from a most fascinating standpoint; for
the 2000 drawings by Tenniel, Leech, Doyle, Linley
Sambourne, and Bernard Partridge not only chronicle
the facts, but show how each important event struck
the nation at the moment of its happening. It is
impossible to over-rate the interest of these volumes,
and they are a wonderful bargain at the prices at
which they are offered.]
The Complete Works of William Shakespeare.*
12 Vols. Published 60/- net ; Sale Price, 18/-.
(Postage, 5/10.)
[Probably the most attractive edition of Shakespeare
ever issued. The form of 7J x 5J- inches is charming
—the square shape gives the volumes the look of a
little quarto ; the type is large and handsome, the
margins generous. The paper used is an opaque
feather-weight antique wove, which gives the pages a
very artistic appearance. The text is that of the
Whitehall edition, and each play is followed by the
indispensable aids, a brief glossary and notes of
important variations in the text.]
The Complete Works of Charles Dickens. 21 Vols.
Published, Cloth, £2 2s. Sale Price, Half Russian
Morocco, 66/6 ; Half Calf Extra, 87/6. (Postage,
13/6.)
[Dickens is an author whom everyone ought to
possess complete, and one of the reasons which deter-
mined The Times to make a special purchase of the
present edition is that it contains the whole of
Dickens’s works, including many sketches and stories
not generally found. Except for the illustrations,
this edition was printed from the same plates as was
“ The Authentic Edition ” (published at £5 ss. the
set), and consists of 21 extra crown octavo volumes
(Sin. x sin.), well printed in good-sized legible type.
It is illustrated with 51 drawings by Fred Barnard.]
George, Duke of Cambridge. A Memoir of his
Private Life. By E. Sheppard. 2 Vols. Pub-
lished, 24/- net; Sale Price, 6/- (Postage,' 1/6).
[Col. Verner’s biography deals almost entirely with
the Duke’s military life. Mr. Sheppard here relates
the story of his private life—his childhood in Hanover
and England, his experiences at Court and on diplo-
matic missions to the Continent, and his married life
in London—with copious extracts from his diaries
and correspondence.]
Victor Hugo’s Letters to His Wife, and Others.*
Translated by N. 11. Dole. Published, 10/- ; Sale
Price, 1/7. (Postage, lOd.)
[A human document essential to the right under-
standing of Hugo’s character.]
* New Copies.
Life and Letters of Thomas Pelham Dale. 2 Vols.
Published, 20/- net; Sale Price, 1/11. (Postage, 2/1.)
[An interesting biography of an enthusiast. In
1880 Mr. Dale, when vicar of St. Vedast’s, Poster
Lane, was imprisoned in Holloway for ritualistic
practices. He subsequently became vicar of Saus-
thorpe, Lines., and died in 1892.]
Personal and Literary Letters of Robert, First
Earl of Lytton. Edited by Lady Betty Balfour.
2 Vols. Published, 21/- net; Sale Price, 4/3.
(Postage, 1/2.)
[Lytton’s acquaintances, male and female, were
numerous and intimate ; for he was the most fas-
cinating of companions, and his delightful letters,
never dull though often long - , enable those who never
knew him to understand the charm that he exercised
over his contemporaries.]
Pages from an Adventurous Life. By “ Dick
Donovan.” Published, 16/- net; Sale Price, 4/10.
(Postage, lOd.)
[“Dick Donovan ” wasin India during the mutiny ;
he tramped the Australian bush ; he was present (as
a guest) at a cannibal chief’s dinner in New Guinea ;
he went to the United States for the Civil War ; not
to mention other parts of the world ; he has been for
upwards of thirty years a member of the Savage
Club, of which and of its members he has many re-
miniscenses. A lively, varied book.]
The Making of Modern Egypt. By Sir A. Colvin.
Published, 18s. net; Sale Price, 4/6. (Postage, 10d.)
[The author has the double advantage of being a
brilliant writer and of knowing from the start (he
was appointed Financed Adviser to the Khedive in
1883) the inmost history of Egypt under the British
occupation. Portraits and maps.]
DON’T MISS THE MAIL I
“The Times” Book Club,
376-384 Oxford Street, London, W., England.
Please send by return mail a copy of your latest Sale
Catalogue and continue to send me copies of every
issue.
I enclose.
Please send me the books indicated on the attached
sheet.
Name
Address
The Bachelor’
s Friend.
Many a time and oft does the lonely bachelor—old
or young—feel inclined for some good music, just in the
privacy of his own quiet den.
And there are times, when his friends call in, that
he sees how necessary it is to have some ready form
of entertainment to keep things from going flat.
For such a man the Edison Phonograph is a friend
indeed—one that is always willing to make the time
pass pleasantly.
It plays the latest band marches, renders perfectly
the finest orchestral selections and instrumental solos,
tells the funniest stories in the funniest way, and gives
you the songs of present and bygone days.
And .if you care to have a little two step or waltz,
the Edison is ready to provide the music.
You can see what an ideal friend it must be to
the happy possessor. It never talks except when you
want it to, and stops as soon as you’ve had enough.
Wouldn’t you like one ?
The Fdison Phonograph
W rite for lists of machines and records, and the
name of your nearest dealer. He will let you hear
what the genuine Edison is really like.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 KENT STREET. SYDNEY.


r
<c
1
/or Speed and
u-Reliability.
SUCCESSES
LOOK AT OUR SCOOP
THIS SEASON.
100 MILES VICTORIAN CYCLE
TRADERS—Ist, 2nd, 3rd, and
Fastest Time.
CONTINENTAL-BATHURST-
SYDNEY RACE (133 J miles)—
Ist, 2nd, and Fastest Time.
HOBART - LAUNCESTON ROAD
RACE (116 miles)—lst, 2nd,
3rd and Fastest Time.
BEVERLEY-PERTH (116 miles)-
lst, 2nd, 3rd and Fastest Time.
In fact, out of 24 finishers,
every rider hut the 12th rode
“ DUNLOPS.”
DUNLOP TEST RACE, HOBART
to LAUNCESTON-Fastest
Time.
N.S.W. CONTINENTAL INTER-
CLUB ROAD PREMIERSHIP
—Won by Newcastle Team, all
of whom rode DUNLOP TYRES.
GOULBURN-SYDNEY DUNLOP
RACE—lst, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and
Fastest Time.
Fastest Time in AUSTRALASIAN
ROAD CHAMPIONSHIP, 1908
Won by M. Chappell on DUN-
LOP TYRES.
DUNLOP ROAD RACE-WARR-
NAMBOOL to MELBOURNE-
Won by J. T. Donohue, N.S.W.,
on DUNLOP TYRES.
DUNLOP
TYRES
GIVE SUCH SATISFAC-
TORY RESULTS THAT
Nearly EVERY CYCLIST
IN AUSTRALASIA USES
THEM.
Annual Sales,
360,000
None Genuine
without this £@“
Trade Mark
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth
Brisbane, Christchurch. N.z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 5, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie,—
There was a hustle through Melbourne of Wes-
tralians and Adelaideans joining the race crowd
intent on Sydney and Randwick—the Tas-
manians bob round by boat. The W.A. Bedford
Excellency spent the most of three days in the
streets, airing himself in a landau, with his hand-
some lady studiously erect beside him.
The just-wedded Russell-Clarkes sped through
from Rupertswood honeymooning. Colonel-Papa
and Mrs.-Mamma Mackenzie braved the sea direct
from Hobart. Our own Governor-General took
to the train with all the pomp and circum-
stance of an important ceremony. A motor
brougham and a suit-case should have filled
the bill, but the arrangement looked like
Daniel taking the lions to N.S.W. There
were postilions and Lancer outriders, with
streamers waving wildly from their staffs. There
were open carriages full of an army of aides, and
the new Black Maria cart mounting to the skies
with luggage, and with the top portmanteau bash-
ing against Saturn. Two long sleepers, a dining-car
and a lounge-room were added to the already
groaning train, and the platform was dense with
darkly-hurrying forms of servants. There was
this potentate’s gentleman and his gentleman’s
gentleman, and the other person’s man, and some-
one else’s fellow, and so on ad finiturn, each
flunkey with a smaller one to bite ’im. My eyes
bulged at such a multitude of magnificent servi-
tors.
We’ve asked America, and Lord Roberts, and
the King, and Hector Macdonald to come and
call on us, At latest, we want to importune
Kitchener for his sullen presence. In our frenzies
of hospitality we are never truly just. We’ve
known him ever since we’ve had a place fit to re-
ceive any outsider in ; and yet we’ve never invited
Cohen to pay us a visit. There are Cohen, and
Mrs. Cohen, and all the myriad little Cohens ;
and they’ve all got beautiful travelling-kits bought
out of the interest we pay them every year. I call
it real bad policy. Anyone who reads Elinor Glynn
knows that the Best People cultivate their creditors
with feverish cordiality, and continue to live
beyond their own incomes by existing within
Cohen’s, and asking him to smart “crushes” and
other uncomfortable entertainments. It’s up to us.
And after all it would be mo#e reasonable, even if
more embarrassing, to ask him but here to see
how we spend his money than to just cable him
accounts of the fuss ‘se made over Sperry, and
such unfinancial acquaintances.
At the social of the Taffies, in the Guild Hall
(I attended by proxy, seeing that it was a long
pipe and lager blow-out), the gentleman who
traditionally stole/a leg of beef had a good time
welcoming the Welsh Choir. The atmosphere
was as thick as soup with curly sounds and cork-
screw noises. When the Choir broke into “ Men
of Harlech ” in the vernacular, the congregation
rose as one Griffith Griffiths, and waved beer and
bacea, and yelled itself dry as circumstances
permitted. In response, the leader once more
trotted out his Choir and it sang the Welsh
National Anthem. It was a soft, sad hymn, sung
in a minor key, and it was perpetrated beautifully.
The Glassy Harein shut up last week to give
the Warm Time a chance. There’ll be no more icy
swirl until next Mayor thereabouts. Wednesday
night flashed a farewell carnival. The prize team
bedecked itself as Australian Gold. The Leslie
Madden black-and-white crowd got in on the
prize list for back edge skating. Ruby of
the Dimples waltzed round in ordinary
gear. Norman McGeorge wore his well-aired
Puritan toggery. Although there were two
Puritan maidens on the Frigidity, he deserted
them to give undivided attention to a fascinating
Stars and Stripes. Among the chattering Japan-
ese girls, Dutch boys, and flower-sellers was a
solitary Lord Nelson. He skated (or should it be
“skote”?) in loneliness all night with a weary
expression in his one eye and his telescope that
complained (like Miss Cabbage-Patch Hazy) that
he was “ sooled on ”to coining. The way skaters
waltz, polka, back-skate, and do eights-slithers,
as though they were to the iceberg born, proves
how the rink has prospered this winter after the
slump of the intermediate year, when the ice-
maids fainted from over-indulgence. One scarcely
ever sees a scrambling beginner now. They all
glide like so many swallows.
The Women’s Choir—or rather its skeleton, for
it grows attenuated since Exhibition days—gave a
concert last week to help along a charity. It sang
its Ode and its other done-to-death songs by
special request, and a fashionable audience sat
throughout with a pleased and satisfied sense of
benevolence. The choir still retains the spirit of
benediction which theNorthcote ladyand the Great
of the Land bestowed upon it amid the elevated
cat-squabbles of the Women’s Exhibition.
Sitting in the dais chairs, Lady Carmichael smiled
her best Sunday smile while her head ached with
reminiscences of influenza. Chief Justice and
Mrs. Madden were in proud evidence. Baby
daughter Bee was singing in solo and the dimpled
Ruby pktted the piano in accompaniment. Bea-
trice looks pretty as she sings, which is a charity
in itself. Her voice is sweet enough, though it is
muffled below and thin on high. The lately-
fledged 1 Madden chicken towers bulkily above
sister Ruby, and looks like an elder sister of the
Dimpled One.
The choir, thinned down from Exhibition mea-
sure, nevertheless overflowed the Town Hall’s
smaller platform and took extra ease in the
side balconies. It left little room for
the orchestra, which shrank shyly into the few
inches that remained to it. That women’s or-
chestra has shrunk. Where are all the brazen
blowers? “ The wind hath blown them all away”
—to quote the almost-forgotten Boiler Hastings,
of “If I Were King.” Men have crept into the
sacred shemale ranks of that Women’s Orchestra,
and the feminine few remaining seem only Con-
servatorium students, who fiddle or toot or blow
anyhow. The whole choir appears to have grown
suddenly old—white-haired women in the ma-
jority. ; .
An incoming Governor always has to be taught
by his staff, when he settles in Australia, the
necessity for being punctual. The London
“fashionable” habit of being anything from ten
minutes to a fortnight late for everything doesn’t
do for State ceremonies. The new tenant of
Stonington is being put through his get-there-on-
the-tick lessons with some rigor. (If the lessons
aren’t vigorous they ought to be.) The hyphened
one at Malvern is peculiarly troublesome. During
Fleet week he usually turned up tardily, and
then he proceeded to keep folk late for the next
feeding-time, by pausing after each word to
fumble! in his pocket for tne ensuing observation.
A notable lapse of his was when he kept a batch of
Importants waiting for 20 minutes while he
pursued a new inseck, which turned out to be a
humble domesticated cockroach, round and round
his study. In time, though, it must dawn upon
him that a State Governor’s jt>b is so precarious
these days that he can’t afford to play any tricks
when he is given the chance of opening a suburban
Sunday schoolroom or paying an afternoon call to
a Benevolent Society.
His Magnificence Dudley started his official
career in Australia by nearly missing the express
to Melbourne. True, he did manage to get on to
the station just a minute before the train is billed to
leave. But he was looking round leisurely,
acknowledging kow-tows, when the punctual con-
veyance puffed off without him. There was some
violent yelling, and whistling, and flag-flapping,
and the train was constrained to pause and take
aboard its vice-regal cargo. The noble lord
looked quite shocked, but he bustled nevertheless.
Our departed Northcote wasn’t faultless in regard
of punctuality to begin with, but he finished so
well that one could time one’s medicine by his
movements. We’re an educational community,
we are.
I have received an invitation to buy
tickets for an improving entertainment that
is going to happen in aid of a Young
Men’s Christian Endeavor combination. Marked
down to slaughter melody and sense are
several young people who purpose singing
“ Out on .the Deep” and reciting “Barbara
Eritchie” and “Our Folks,” and other such un-
necessary impositions. These were cited in
cold blood. But suddenly the programme
drawer must have lost his head. That was
when he reached the announcement of “a
startling and marvellous exhibition by Messrs.
Motherboy,” or some such name, “in which they
will show how it is possible to escape from every
variety of handcuffs and leg-irons used in H.M.
Prisons ! ” A religious training induces fore-
thoughtfulness. The Christian Youthful En-
deavorers borrow a turn which is not only calcu-
lated to make the once-jugged criminal buy
tickets in large numbers, but is also calculated to
edify the future Rechabite by showing him a
trick or two for use when the lodge funds exhibit
a deficiency and his brethren turn nasty.
Mrs. Fred Danby—she of the golden hair and
the heavenly warble—is leaving Melbourne. She
is being farewelled by fellow music-makers, and
they cogitate a presentation to be mysteriously
brought along at an afternoon concert at “The
Chicago ” on Monday, October 19.
Lovie Mueller, the Bendigo warbler, has wan-
dered back from the West, after a farewell song
with Kubelik and co. Manager Buckingham
intends to exploit the lady’s voice in Honolulu, of
all places. In the meantime,, she basks in local
congratulations on her engagement to Dewar, the
young millionaire whose pa makes a bottled variety
of Scotch refreshment. The two doves were fellow-
passengers on the America-to-Australia boat. An
acquaintance arising from a propinquity of deck
chairs ended in the promise to inhabit the same
house, and hang up their hats in the same hall,
and keep their umbrellas in the same stand, till
death shall tear them and their hats and their um-
brellas apart.
Jennie Brennan’s pupils “request the
pleasure ” of various grown-ups to dance in the
Masonic Hall on Thursday, October 15. The
event will be a welcome to Miss Brennan on her
return from Europe.
A fashionable wedding took place last week at
Holy Trinity Church, Kew, the contracting parties
being Miss Charlotte Mabel Wrixon, daughter of
the President of the House of Rich Landlords,
and Rev. Smith Mcßain, of Queenscliff, son of
the late Mr. Mcßain, of Liverpool, England.
The bride is granddaughter of the late “Money”
Miller.
The programme for Melbourne Savage Club
performance of Robertson’s old comedy, “Society,”
shows a strong array of amateur talent. D. M.
Beere, who has touches of professional force and
polish in his intelligent mummerism, is cast for
the hero, originally played by Coghlan, of the
Bancroft co. Claude Hall, the most practised
amateur in Melbourne, will take Bancroft’s part
of the Bohemian journalist, Tom Stylus, and Fred
Newman can be expected to present Lord
Ptarmigan as a gentlemanly old person, Frederick
being something of a specialist in elderly charac-
terisation. Horace Stevens, Weston Pett, and
H. S. Dickson have singing parts, Charlie Tait is
billed as “constable,” A. J. Pickett and J. Cham-
pion are given places of importance, and the
woman element (which, by the way, is said to be
a disturbing element in this Savage outbreak)
will be supplied by Mrs. J. E. Mackey, Miss
Dorothy Manning, and Miss Gwen Burroughs.
The club these days is racked with anxiety, and
members who are ordinarily of a festive turn
retire into quiet corners to brood over their lines.
Saturday afternoon saw still another amateur
charity matinee. It was perpetrated in the
Theatre Royal, with the indomitable Mrs. Free-
man Nott as stage lead. Three playlets of meek
and harmless reputation were sandwiched with
intervals for liquid reinforcements. “ The Ninth
Waltz,” “ Withered Leaves ” and “Leah the For-
saken ” were the tender playlets. Strangely enough
there was a preponderance of man strutters. Mrs.
Tom Hogan was one of the few amateur-mum-
meresses. She is an ultra-smart frocker in every-
day life, so you may plump for her as a prize
picture-lady with a whole real live stage to trail
new gowns upon. All the fashionables of the
Women’s Catmittee were in strong and rustling
evidence in the, circle (the matinee funds are to
push on the extension of nurses’ quarters in that
most charitable charity, the Women’s Hospital),
and two lots of Governors patronised. So did
the Wrixons and Weedons and a pen full of
suburban Worships. Bent, the versatile, was
billed to make a speech from the stage approxi-
mating the profit on the performance.' Saw him
in the dusk of the back d.c. getting his tie fixed by
his daughter in readiness for the oration. Wyatt,
the secretary of the Women’s Hospital, thought
that the profits would go close on £3OO. Gaud-
Mayor-Weedon himself was fussing round in
the same long frock-coat as usual. His visit to
London and “abrawd” should have put him out
of conceit with his coats built on the lines of a
bygone age; but, perhaps, when,one reaches the
sufficiency of being a Weedon even frock-coats
are not as others see them.
A man moans to me that the almost-forgotten
uniformed men of the Uncle Sam boat-loads have
left a trail behind them. The girls are so de-
moralised that they won’t dance with crow-like
men in ordinary evening clo’. The last military
ball—a gorgeous blaze of Scarlet and gold—for
which the Fifth Australian Infantry Regiment
was responsible, had mournful black-and-whites
doing a wallflower act—so unusual a proceeding
that they sulked and went home early. The
P’ran Town Hall, sacred to military hops, blazed
in violet-blue and gold (favoring Lord Dudley’s
trappings), and the girls dressed up to the uni-
forms in vivid colors. A new, brilliant metallic
blue hit a strident clang, scarlet shrieked at large,
and a purply-pink apoplectic-looking color sprang
into the arena. Commanding-officer Colonel
McLaren and his lady received the Everybody
on a flower-piled dais at*a fashionably late hour,
and set the ball rolling.
Mr. Softgoods Butler drew round him a general
committee of Importants—mostly feminine Im-
portants—to make fitting arrangement to wel-
come Ada the Divine. She is to arrive by the
Johnson-Tait express on Tuesday (13th), and is to
be met by a Function on Spencer-street station,
and chased by another Function in the Town
Hall the same afternoon.
“The Morals of Marcus,” expounded from the
Princess’s stage, had a good reception, but with
rather a thin first-night house. A wedge of the
regular first Saturday battlers are in Sydney
backing the Band wick gee-gees, and the great
Jewish fraternity was at home atoning. Tas-
manian Fysh, of the patriarchal .beard, sat in the
manager’s box, and a flock of shemales clustered
in the other pens. A notable little figure in the
dress circle was Beatrice Day’s small son, Robin,
sitting alone, all eyes for every move of mother.
Beatrice Day wore some wonderful frocks. The
two women, Beatrice Day and Miss Quin, are on
a plane above the men of thq caste, who are
scarcely equal to the subtle expression necessary to
give point to their lines.
Still they come—more young pianists ! The
Taits are to “ manage ” a concert for small Rita
Hope next month. She has just returned from
Germany, where she has been learning from
Hambourg’s Master how to chase her fat little
fingers over the keys. Her first impressions were
received from Miss Burkett at Marshall Hall’s
Conservatorium—she who taught the angelic
Percy Grainger when Pabst was too busy. Rita
the hopeful is of a clever family—nearly all
musical. One young Hope girl is a chemist, and
deals out nasty stuffs at the Queen Victoria
Hospital, the place with portals which never a
man may enter.
Mrs. Tom Cumming returns from London this
month after spending a gorgeous season with her
daughter of Rupertswood. For the shortly-to-be-
married Miss Muriel she brings back some ex-
quisite trousseau items.
Why on earth do those assisted immigrants who
come at the tail of vice-regality always wear a
hyphen? F’rinstance, the imposing Elore-Ruth-
ven ! He really doesn’t need a hen’s. perch
between his designations, and his particular case
is sure to earn, rude parodies. “ Hoary-Ruffian ”
is the earliest and most obvious of them. A hyphen
is really only necessary when one’s name is Smith,
or the equivalent, Brown or Jones —and then
only if one is a member of the beastly middle
classes. (I understand that the upper Smiths pay
a poll-tax when they’re so despitefully treated by
their ancestors, and evolve into Cholmondeleys.)
I suppose, though, in default of a personality, a
hyphen is a necessary distinction between me and
the char-lady.
The marriage market of the remaining Madden
maidens seems stationary. The Leslie Madden-
Hungarian banker combination has dissipated.
That wedding is “off.” The baby maiden has
apparently not yet hung out her heart for peck-
ing, and her sister of the dimples seems to forget
the devotions of a grey-haired colonel in accepting
the worship of an Adonis of tappety-hammer
fame. The eyes of first-nighters at the theatres
and the frivollers of the Glassy Harem watch the
little comedy keenly.
Margaret Anglin plays about a lot with a paint
box. She is particularly keen on color, and de-
signed all the dresses for “ The Taming of the
Shrew ’’—not a small order when the artist was
also acting stage-manager and rehearsing star,
and was "busy at the same time remodelling a play.
Mark Hambourg departs to Maoriland with
Mrs. Hambourg and baby Sonia. Baby is to
wallow in the warm springs of Rotorua while pa
Hambourg rests his hands and gets the grease out
of his hair before pounding the aggregate piano of
Maoriland cities.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
Meta Buring’s warble at the Town Hall last Wednesday
•eve had little in the way of preliminary puff. There was
no huge patronage list nor any of the other managerial
dodges to capture the unwilling shekel. The concert
simply happened, in a beautifully unassuming manner,
and therefore the large spontaneous house was the more
satisfactory. Miss Biiring is a maiden on whose plate
Nature served out a large helping of melody, along with
a very charming presence and manner. Her long pro-
gramme was only interrupted by some brilliant fiddle
items from Eugene Alderman. The audience contained
most of the available musical nobility, including the
Basshs, the Kyffin Thomases, the Muecke maidens, and
the Wanborough Fishers. Ada Crossley sent the
damsel a wire into which she crowded ail the good
wishes that Mauger, P.M.G., would carry for a shilling.
Adelaide got used to big, wide, uninterrupted streets ;
but now it begins to see things only through a dense
thicket of posts. They have just been chopping up the
landscape to sow electric currents (an industry that I am
incredibly informed has no connection with the vegetable
they raise in Greece). The posts that have sprung up,
added to the electric light and telegraph poles already
there, make traffic precarious. Soon only the slimmest
and most sylph-like persons will be able to venture
abroad with safety, and all vehicular traffic will have to
be suspended.
We have had .yet another motor fatality to make the
five hundred-odd local people who have the honking
craze shake in their shoon. The victim is Mr. Fred
Harris, one of a well-known and ancient Gavvler family.
He was driving across a creek at Kapunda when the
motor toppled over and pinned him under it. A son and
a driver were also in the car, but they escaped injury.
Mrs. d’Arenberg, who waves a lightsome quill as “ Ariel,”
of the Observer, invited her six fellow-presswomen (in
Aedlaide it’s a case of “ we are seven ”) to meet Miss Madge
Mclntosh at the Lyric Club, the other afternoon. The
club drawing-room had nasturtiums in its ear, and Miss
Mclntosh wore a gorgeous hat to match them ; also, of
bourse, a few other trifles—delectable' furs and chiffons
and such. And there was festive tea and conversation
that did not include either the weather or the crops.
Miss Mclntosh is a good horsewoman, but when she first
came to South Oss she found that nary a steed could she
beg, borrow or hire unless she rode the beast astride.
Being a persistent soul, she immediately did so, but (for
some non-observable reason) she reserves the fashion for
S. A. and drops it when she leaves. Adelaide’s notions on
the subject are too advanced, she fears, for the good,
tame, little other States. K
“ La Tarantelle” dance, on September 24, was a goodly
little fray, elaborately arranged by the gallant hosts.
The programmes had classic quotations scattered over
them, and there was a bugler to call the stragglers for
each dance. Supper concealed among a ton of daffodils,
a scrumptious band, good floor, and partners for the most
persistent of mural decorations—what more could any-
body want?
Mr. Fred Bevan has been giving three lectures at the
’Varsity on Arthur Sullivan and all his works, and the
Rich and the Great have left their gilded halls to sit
through them. Mr. Bevan knew Sullivan, and the lec-
tures were unusually bright and bearable, particularly as
they were interrupted by Sullivan gems, warbled bv a
dozen tuneful men and maids. Fragments of “ Trial by
Jury,” “ Princess Ida,” and “Patience” kept the audi-
ence weeping joyfully.
Mr. Branscombe had a big reception at the Lyric Club
last week for the Cherniavskuyoungsters. The ex-Ade-
laide boy, Nigel Brock (he’s a very large and imposing
boy now), was naturally pursued by hordes of folk who
knew him in his cradle. Our one Russian dame, Mrs.
Holtze, wife of Dr. Holtze of the Botanic Gardens, went
along to converse with the boys in their native Bear. The
club was very gallantly arrayed with flowers and tea-
tables and frocks and millinery ; an orchestra effectually
drowned conversation, and the three picturesque
youngsters dispensed some sweet and various noise.
Mrs. Branscombe wore a cream lacy raiment ; Mrs. BassC
was a picture in deep purple glacb, and Mrs. Brock in
grey had a green-clad daughter with her. The Dick
Nit'schkes were also there. ...
The complimentary concert to Daisy Kennedy (who is
one of the sundry people declared by Kubelik to be the
best fiddlers he has ever heard, even as the late Dan
Barry recognised in every town the one place where he
would fain be buried) happened with due flourish on
Friday. In spite of considerable boom, the house was
just comfortably moderate, because this township is beset
with concerts, and Adelaide is getting low in the bank
balance, and doesn’t want to take the flatiron to uncle’s.
Her Ex., Hiss Clowes, and an aide were in the audience ;
also the Conservatoire Ennises, and others who can tell a
semibreve from a schnapper at one swift glance.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
A Heathen writes :
The Eev. Woodfull is alleged to have been prowl-
ing about the haunts of illicit pleasure in Mel-
bourne in the disguise of a laborer. He stated to a
mission that he had only gone to these places in search of
information, and that “such visits were not pleasant.”
What the Philistine would like to know is, what did the
Eev. Woodfull say to Flossie Twoclothes when he found
her in her lair. Did he attempt to preach to her, or did
he transmogrify himself for the time being, and in the
search for information, into one of the “boys?” Did he
drink locally-made beer at half-a-crown a bottle, and
charm Flossie’s ear between drinks ? Or did he say “Sister,
this is terrible. Let me lead you to a Hell of Despair
Laundry, where you will wash clothes from 7 a.m.
till 8 p.m., and be purified in the process?” If Wood-
full wants to draw really crowded houses he should give
details of his goings on—the audience might be shocked,
but the sort of audience Woodfull draws would love to be
shocked. The good parson went on to demand that the
police should raid these houses of iniquity suddenly and
often, and drag the keepers to the police court. Still, it
would be a terrible thing if the police were to raid one
while a parson was within—called there bj' a sense of
duty—and drag him to court to give evidence as to the
character of the place.


BUCKLEY <&. NUNN, LTD.,
The Premier Drapery
Establishment of Australasia,
Victoria House, Melbourne
New Reason’s Goods
in RACE and FETE GOWNS, DUST COATS and FASHIONABLE MILLINERY
DIRECTOIRE, NECK FRILLS and RUFFLES, SMART and DAINTY FOOTWEAR,
and all that is Newest in the WORLD OF FASHION,
SPECIAL NOTE! READY-TO-WEAR GOWNS for the Spring' Festivities
from 4i Guineas, NO TWO ALIKE,
■
1
a
m
m
■
i
ill
* * it
s
B
■
vr
a
■'
m
r
r
#
s
i
1
1
/
lw
/
*
i V
wmm
I
i
■
■V
m
U
U
m
"W
/
ft
;
a
■
iJP
/
i
B
W f#»SB
V;
i
A
■lll
■id m i
■m
IArtTHUH
' 1 11! 1 , |ll|j
SPRING CATALOGUE READY> comprising 128 Pages of Up-to-Date Illustrations. The Finest Catalogue yet produced by us.
No Home complete without one. POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
BUCKLEY & NUNN LTD., Bourke Street, Melbourne


A PERFECT SHAVE WITHOUT IRRITATIOH.
This is what the METROPOLE RAZOR
will do. Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years free of charge. Single Razor in
Case’ 10/6; Pair in Leather Case, 21/-;
Metropole Strop, 7/6. All Post Free. If you
want to add to vour looks, pav a visit to the
HOTEL METROPOLE HAIRDRESSING SALOON,
65 Phillip Street. Sydney.
c?
tesljp:
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 1908.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year waS-won by-Mrs. Calandbr, Hordern Street,
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLINC.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November sth.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets maybe had from Ag-ents in all towns,
or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
OSTRICH PLUHES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPKI) WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10 6
POCT FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot he bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to .John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
MAKE money
Showing Pictures
’■5V
There’s whips of money to be made with an
animated picture plant in Australia.
The field isn’t nearly covered yet.
That is why every show is turning in big
profits to its owner.
Get in the swim and make an independent
living for yourself.
A small capital will start you.
Edison's Cinematograph
The Showman’s
Masterpiece.
£32 lOs.
WE HIRE OR SELL RIGHT OUT TO YOU FILMS lON ALL SUBJECTS.
NO PREVIOUS KNOWLEDGE NEEDED—YOU CAN START RIGHT AWAY.
250,000 Feet of Film Pictures in Stock.
BIGGEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA.
T XT "D ¥\ A (formerly Osborn &.
«J “ MY OPTICIANS,
Cinematograph Specialists,
Jerdanj,
9 9
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
ASK T.
J. WEST, THE PICTURE KINO, ABOUT US.
BOVRIL
Should be in every home as well as in every hospital.
When you are worried and cannot eat well nor sleep well, you will
find a great help in 130 VEIL.
BEWAEE OF CHEAP IMITATIONS.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
SHAVING SENSE.
Common-sense in shaving' matters will direct your choice to a PLUM when next
buying a Razor. The PLUM is the Razor with the keen edge that gently
glides over the skin, cutting—not scraping the hair. Blade made entirely of
best Silver-Steel, guaranteed and kept in order for two years free of cost.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving' Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
10/6
Post Free any where.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI,
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - Is. Packet of 12.
SPECIAL BATES TO AGENTS. lOd. , IQ
Pimples, eruptions, blotches, scales,
ulcers and eczema are all caused by bad blood.
Chamberlain’s Stomach and Liver tablets are
wonder workers in the cure of all disorders caused
by bad or impure blood. They eliminate all
poisonous matter by enriching the blood and
enabling it to make new and healthy tissues.
Pure blood means perfect health, and if you will
use Chamberlain’s Tablets they will give you
good health, and a pure, clean skin free from
pimples and blotches.*
Wade and his little gang of State Frights, in
opposing the taking over of the State debts by the
Commonwealth, stress the fact that New South
Wales stock stands higher in the London market
than that of Canada. The inference is that the
credit of a part is greater than the credit of a
whole, and that, if Labrador or the country sur-
rounding the Great Slave Lake were formed into
provinces, they would be able to command cheaper
money than the Dominion does to-day. The one
thing that Wade and Twaddel'l omit to
point out is that the security which Canada
offers is very different from that which New
South Wales offers. Canada has, in effect, no
Government assets to speak of ; for it has sold
itself body and soul to a great railway octopus—a
monopoly destined to develop into, probably, the
biggest curse any community has to suffer, with
its huge and still-extending land grants. Aus-
tralia has, anyway, its railways to show for the
money it has borrowed, while Canada has nothing
but a bundle of receipts for works which should,
under a system of sound finance, have been built
out of revenue. ■ So the fact that N. S. Wales
stocks stand higher than those of Canada has
no bearing at all on the question whether all-
Australia wouldn’t be able to borrow cheaper than
N.S.W. or any other fraction of Australia.
♦
This return, issued lately by the Vic. Government
Statist, throws further light on the iniquity and
folly of allowing land to be held in large areas :
Privatk Lands in Victoria.
No. Extent Extent Per-
of of Land under centage
Hold- Oecu- Oultiva- (approxi-
Size of Holdings. iugs. pied. tion. mate).
Acres. Acres. Acres.
Ito 5 .. 2852 8,860 3,222 36
6to 15 .. 3833 39,217 14,383 35
16 to 30 .. 4380 07,193 30,351 30
31 to 50 .. 3627 143,913 39,839 28
51 to 100 .. 0223 476,344 108,818 23
101 to 200 .. 8653 1,287,931 259,778 19
201 to 320 .. 8303 2,312,443 474,096 18
321 to 500 .. 5494 2,242,286 478,660 17
sil to 640 .. 3815 2,254,744 601,470 26
641 to 1090 .. 4002 3,258,380 700,931 22
1,001 to 2,500 .. 3728 5,479,007 1,014,799 19
2,501 to 5,000 .. 681 2,333,321 220,329 9
5,001 to 10,000 .. 231 1,589,186 52,580 3
10,001 to 20,000 .. 118 1,648,582 30,583 2
20,001 to 50,000 .. 61 1,746,728 9,896 0J
50,000 and upwards 4 241,010 2,027 Of
Observe that, where the holdings are from 500 to
G4O acres, 26 per cent, of the area is cultivated ;
and see the awful drop in the percentage of
area cultivated as the holdings swell up towards
the 50,000-acre class. The small holder works
practically about a third of the little scrap of soil
lie possesses ; the dairy farmer from a fourth to a
fifth; the wheat grower a trifle more ; the great
proprietor almost nothing. Even the smaller
sort of market-gardeners, with less than 15 acres
a piece, cultivate more country than the 65 Huge
Landlords who hold 2,000,000 acres among them !
♦
No one knows what sort of aroma BENT-ism
will have in the future ; but it will certainly be of
thrilling dimensions if it can surpass the perfume
of the present. More and more people are begin-
ning to suspect the unloveliness of it, and more and
more the Vic. Labor party is dragging it along the
drain. The other day, Labor member Beazley
drew the House’s attention to the Bent Govern-
ment’s shameless disregard for the principles of
Australian preference in its undertakings. Ac-
cording to a resolution passed by the House
in 1905, Government departments must
give substantial preference to Australian
goods; and, moreover, each must furnish an
annual return of the goods that were imported.
Only a few casual and haphazard returns have
been supplied, and they so strangely disagree
with the records of duty paid that they are a
dubious-looking lot. For example, in 1906 only
two departments—those of Law and Mines—
handed in returns; and they showed in their
slight, unobtrusive way that, between October
’O5 and June ’O6, only £559 worth of goods
had been imported, £9 worth for the former,
and the balance for the latter. Apparently,
therefore, these were all the goods imported by
the Government. Yet for the same period it is
officially revealed that the Government paid no
less than £BlO3 in duty on imported goods. In
the following year the discrepancy, though not so
large, was quite as glaringly obvious, the duty
being given as £9597, and the value of the imports
as £11,511. In fact, right through to the present
time, the returns have been only of use in suggest-
ing that the Government is a party to wilful de-
ception. Beazley has asked for a committee of
inquiry, and it has been granted. Wherefore
some interesting disclosures are shortly expected,
Re compulsory military training, which the
8. M. Herald and Telegraph and the Willy
Kelly push will persist in calling “conscription.”
Lord Newton makes some remarks on the Swiss
system in the Nineteenth Century (Newton-
was a member of the British Committee which
was appointed to examine into the little republic’s
military methods): —
The view that universal training- is wasteful, unduly
expensive, and morally pernicious has been so frequently
disputed with success that there is no occasion to under-
take its defence here. The British members of the Com-
mittee of Inquiry, after much diligent scrutiny, were
unable to discover that it was even unpopular in Switzer-
land, and public opinion with respect to it may be gauged
by the frequently-expressed assertion that the military
system is so beneficial in every sense that if it was to
disappear something would have to be invented to take
its place.
Newton also hurls this considerable brick at the
anti-defence crowd :
As regards the object lesson of the Boer war .. . those
who advocate universal training have some ground for
the belief that the want of it not only protracted but
actually helped to provoke the struggle. Lord Milner,
for instance, who cannot be absolutely ignored in this
connection, has never concealed his opinion that if we
had been in possession of the Swiss militia system the
Boers would never have ventured to make war upon us
at all.
The Swiss have had ft, long experience of their
system of universal military training, and though
they are a people with whom the love of liberty is
almost a disease and who long since revolted
against injustices that the Englishmen endures
patiently to this day, it has never struck them
that the system is tyranny or an engine
of oppression, or any other of the dread-
ful things that certain foolish anti-Aus-
tralians call it. In fact, last .year a referendum
was taken in Switzerland to decide whether the
period of training should be increased, and the
people decided by a large majority that it should.
The sturdy republicans who have tried the system
for more than half-a-century presumably know
something about it—more probably than do the
Herald and Telegraph and Motor-car Kelly.
Moreover, they are able to look at the question
with an unbiassed eye, not being maddened by
unreasoning hatred of Alfred Dear in and all Ins
works.
For a long time the impassioned demand of the
Australian Freetrade Tory papers was that this
country should “ look at Canada ” and take pat-
tern thereby. Now Canada has (1) fairly high
Protection ; (2) a law which puts eminent Tories
and other Stinking Fish persons in gaol when they
circulate lies, such as the Six Hatters fable and
the Petriana myth, to the discredit of their coun-
try ; (3) a law which heavily fines, and also gaols,
“ financiers ” who lend money at more than 12
per cent, interest; (4) a very severe statute for the
restriction of undesirable immigrants, under which
statute Canada refused admission to 486 immi-
grants and fired out 1031 who were already in the
country, all within the past six months; (5) an
Arbitration Act which prohibits both the strike
and the lock-out; (6) a habit of cutting up the
land into 160-acre farms, instead of big estates ;
(7) a banking system which compels all banks
to keep at least 40 per cent, of their cash
reserves in Federal paper money ; (8) a Federal
system which leaves no room at all for State
Frights but makes the union absolutely supreme.
And to every one of these ideas the Tory Free-
trade press of Australia objects bitterly. In fact,
though it tells us to “ look at Canada,” it seems
that it objects to almost every notable feature of
Canadian policy except privately-owned railways,
and as a rule it hasn’t the courage to openly advo-
cate them.
-♦
“ 0.K.” re the sale of indecent liquor :
The Swiss Government a while ago prohibited the
manufacture or sale of absinthe. A referendum vote of
the people confirmed the Act of Parliament. Australia
has not acquired the absinthe habit to any noticeable
extent, but the poison is on sale at many hotels where,
also, there is a good deal of bad imported whisky, and
sundry “tonic” mixtures which ought to be forbidden to
their foolish consumers, flow that an old-established
intoxicant like absinthe has been officially vetoed in one
country on the ground that it is deleterious to the public-
well-being, the eye of the practical reformer might very
well be directed towards other liquors that contain
nothing so legitimately medicinal as extract of wormwood,
and are none the less calculated to create a “ habit.” The
number of absinthians in Switzerland is probably less
than the number of whiskians in Australia —those whose
craving is not for good liquor but for snake juice—and
the Government allows them to gratify their craving on
premises actually licensed for that bad purpose. They
wreck their mental health —for the whiskian’s thirst is
mental rather than physical—with indecent stimulant.
The sale of lewd literature is legislated against as being-
poison to the mind of the consumer, whilst the sale of
indecent liquor is protected as well as permitted by the
Governments that derive revenue from it. The anomaly
exists because no one protests. Teetotal cranks block the
way to moderate reform by screaming for the prohibition
of all traffic in intoxicants, whereas, if they were to direct
their crankiness to sane ends, and wage war against in-
decent liquor only, they might rouse the local Boards of
health to a proper sense of duty.
Abodt an Australian rifle : —•
The Australian Government spent £30,000 in showing
the Yankee Fleet round. It was cheap at the price, even
if it did nothing but prove the inferiority of our much-
boomed imported Lee-Enfield rifle. That a naval rifle team
should beat the best teams' of N.S.W. and Victoria by a
fair margin spells one of two things—either the
superiority of the Yankee shots or the supe-
riority of Yankee rifles and ammunition. I don’t
believe it was the superiority of the shots. Naval
riflemen, as a rule, are rftit equal to the landsmen—
Jack doesn’t get enough practice ashore to make him a
top-notcher with small arms. The fact is Australia used
the new short rifle, Lee-Enfield, mark 111., and the old
round-nosed bullets. The Yanks had their State-manu-
factured Krag-Jorgensens, and used State-made ammuni-
tion, with finely-pointed bullets. This kind of bullet,
called in France the “ D ” bullet, and in Germany the
“ S,” was introduced to those countries about two years
ago. But Australia, which takes its time from Eng-
land, hasn’t yet seen them. It isn’t certain whether
even the British War Office has yet adopted
them. Probably it is considering the matter.
You mustn’t bustle the British War Office.
Anyway, the Australian Defence Force has just com-
pleted the distribution of the short rifles. It has been a
recognised thing for years past that Australia completes
its re-arming just as England begins to introduce a new
rifle. It is so in this case. Riflemen may remember the
Palma trophy match, shot for at Bisley only a few months
ago. This is the great international contest. The cable
about it concluded thus: “The English team used the
Beeling rifle.” Where, oh where, was Australia’s “new”
rifle ? Personally, I have just received my rifle, and have
only been able to try it over one range-—3ooyds. My
sighting to get the “bull” showed 450yds. up. Five
other rifles showed a variation of from 400yds. to 450yds.
sighting to get the 300yds. bull’s eye. I intend to follow
this matter up, and find out if this deficiency is universal.
And I want rifle-shots who read this to help me with their
experiences. One of two things is apparent. Either a
mistake has been made in arranging- the sighting, or else
the rifle cannot do the work for which it is intended. To
put it plainly, Australia is being rooked.
“Cane Knife” (Q.) : The tired, incom-
petent white laborer has been at it again in the
canefields hereabouts. One of him in this district
(Johnstone River) cut 16 tons scwt. 3qrs. in nine
working hours. This man has lived 10 years in
North Queensland. I think it is a record for
Australia.
The Bishop of Perth (W.A.) recently
outraged the London Universal Peace Con-
gress by enthusiastically supporting the Common-
wealth’s universal training proposals as conducive
to peace. He reckoned this country’s best guar-
antee of peace was a potential defence that would
make war very unprofitable for t’other fellow, and
concluded with the horse-sensible remark that
Some may imagine that because we want to have uni-
versal service, therefore we are warlike. The object is
entirely different. We believe that war very often results
from panic, and that the people most subject to panic
are the weak. War very often results from the irrespon-
sible writings and utterances of irresponsible people, and
if those people who want the British Fleet to protect their
particular interests in different parts of the world were
liable to he called upon to s.erve in time of war, they
would not make the utterances they sometimes do.
Universal training is not only something of a
guarantee of immunity from attack, but the
universal liability to shoulder a gun is a fairly
effective check on unreasoning Jingoism. There
are any number of people who believe in prize-
fighting who wouldn’t believe in it if they had to
get into the ring with Tommy Burns themselves.
There are plenty of people who don’t see anything
wrong with a 3501 b. wheat bag who would see it
if they had to carry the monstrosity themselves.
There are heaps of people who believe in flogging
and hanging, yet their views would change greatly
if they were to be flogged or hanged themselves.
And there are hundreds of thousands of people
who believe in war, but who wouldn’t believe in
it if it meant that they had to turn out and per-
sonally hump a rifle. That is where all-round
compulsory military training comes in


[ BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS !
H~ • ’ :::!?
> ■ .
NS
-■ •
■
N
1 . 3
• ■ !
:
i
| • -;j
SPSS
m
s. •
■
& - •
m
mm
&sr
saw
-
.
N%,j^
"
' ■ ■■• ■
' 'V..\ VMT» * *tt i
■ jAs*-■ ■ ■ . -
■ „"'- " ’ Z
t ■' V‘ ’■ <:
BEALE Australian Pianos are made in Australia under special systems and with valuable patents which greatly enhance
the musical qualities, as well as increase the durability of the instrument. The systems and practices of European and
American manufacturers are well known to us, and where they are perfectly satisfactory we use them, but in many
instances we have been able to improve on the methods of those makers, and have invented new processes in the manufacture,
and new apparatus in the pianos themselves.
Foreign makers have for many years sought a workable metal wrest-plank, but it remained for Beale & Co. to arrive at the
only really satisfactory solution of the difficulty. With the Beale-Vader patent steel tuning-system, pianos will remain per-
manently in tune after once the wires have fully stretched ; the wrest pins cannot possibly become loose, nor can the
wrest-plank split, and thus allow the instrument to get out of tune. Beale horizontal pianos do not require tuning before each
concert, as other grand pianos do, and the tone also of our instruments is superior, having no metallic ring. Our patented
system of building the cabinet-work completely obviates cracking and v/arping—even in the most extreme climates. Our
hexagonal bass-strings ensure pure tones in the bass, with no possibility of a “jingle.”
We have not enough space to enter into further details, but we shall be glad to send full particulars to anyone interested,
whether an intending buyer or not.
Catalogue, showing the natural colors of the wood used in the Beale Pianos, free.
BEALE CO.
Ltd.
•‘THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from the G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, WVA.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
and at Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, , is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in' a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., xos. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
BILIOUSNESS AND INDIGESTION.
Overcome by Dr. Morse’s Indian Boot Pills.
Mrs. V. E. Morrish, of 213 Riley Street, Surry
Hills, Sydney, having suffered for years from
biliousness, indigestion and other stomach dis-
orders, writes that a short course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills have had a most wonderful
effect, and in her opinion they are the greatest
remedv on the market.
Mrs. V. E. Morrisii.
(From a phooo.)
“Being a sufferer
from biliousness and
indigestion intermit-
tently for some years,
it affords me the
greatest pleasure to
testify freely and
without the slightest
solicitation to the
wonderful benefit I
have derived from a
short trial of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills. They are un-
doubtedly the great-
est remedy I have
ever tried, and I am
more than pleased
with their curative
effects. They are
exceedingly prompt in action, and I have felt
their good effect almost immediately. I suffered,
too, at times with neuralgia, but I find that a
couple of pills taken at night has left me entirely
free of ache in the morning; this alone should
ensure for the pills a wide and increasing sale.
I am indeed grateful that I gave the pills a trial,
and now always keep a bottle by me.”
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. HESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to ]Jis Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—‘Messrs. E. H. FOTHERGILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., EEDFEEN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Of the 11 acceptors for A. J.C. Derby at Sydney
oa Saturday, nine saw light first in N.S.W. Perkeo and
til* Victorian rep., Mother Goose, disputed favoritism at
3 to 1 against, though, for some time in most places,
better than twos on the former was unobtainable.
Others backed for considerable money were Parsee (lives),
Golden Slipper and Monobel (eights), and Lord .Nolan
(twelves), it was whispered that a slow-run race would
see Mother Goose the winner, but if her prospects might
have been enhanced under such conditions she proved
aptly named by going to the front early and cutting out
the pace. Thereby she played into the hands of some of
the enemy, particularly Parsee, who was, with The
Brewer, absolutely last at the back of a big bunch when
Mother Goose first showed the way. As Mr. W. E.
White’s 4500-guinea purchase, Golden Slipper, dropped
rearward, to be bracketed with The Brewer, Parsee
moved forward, and rounded for home, neck and neck
wjth Monobel, immediately behind Mother Goose. liun-
ning on, Parsee had the game pretty well to himself, while
Monobel, Mother Goose and Perkeo battled out a long
tussle with every oz. on, till Perkeo cracked and finished
fourth. Monobel was three lengths behind Parsee and a
head in front of Mother Goose. Parsee is by imported
Metal (a Viceroy’s Oup winner) from Pona, and was
bought a foal at foot by Messrs. W. and F. A. Moses (dam
and youngster going for 145g5.), and a year later present
owner—Tamworth’s brewer, Mr. O. J. Britten, who races
as “Mr. C. Jeffries”—secured Parsee for 175 gs. Golden
Slipper was a very much emphasised last.
As with the Derby, all Epsom Handicap
acceptors put in an appearance. Blue Book and the
Maorilander Soultline started first and second favorites
(three and five to one against), with Melodrama next
most sought after, at tens and twelves, and a lot of
others clustered round him. Gaping bags swallowed up
heaps of coin specked on nearly every nag in the race.
Even 100-to-one chance Maesmore had the con-
fidence of his owner, Gollan, and several friends.
For some reason not clear, Soultline failed to
bolt to the front as it was expected he would —
possibly the fact of the starting gear being carried
away is the explanation —and his effort catching and
leading lolaire into the straight cost so much that he
died away a little later. Another M.L. flier, Sea King,
made the’ pace torrid for 4J furlongs, and then collapsed.
Blue Book asserted himself, as Proportion and Lady Wilde
were taking a hand, and then Melodrama (J. Barden up)
appeared on the scene to seize, in a moment, what Pro-
portion had just missed—an opening on the rails.
Catching lolaire a few lengths from the post, he
just pipped Blue Book, who, at that instant,
seemed to have the race won. The finish was
splendid, for immediately in the rear of the
placed animals (almost together) were, perhaps, eight
others in a bunch. Melodrama won the Epsom Handicap
last year, and has been a good performer otherwise. He
is the property of Mr. Agar Wynne (Vic.), and trained by
Tom Pay ten, who bred him. The only other horse in
Epsom Handicap’s history to win in successive years was
Masquerade—lBB2 and 1883. Melodrama, by Grafton from
Drama, Trenton from Tragedy, by Hamlet from Azimuth,
is well named. There is much to ruminate over in the
fact that little more than two weeks ago Melodrama
and lolaire were last of eight starters in Kosehill Spring
Stakes.
Twenty-two o£ 27 in the book for Metrop.
(Monday) competed, and Blue Book and Mooltan were
favorites right to moment of starting. Mooltan was first
choice (3 to 1) for some time, but the money for Blue
Book was greater, and, at flag-fall, he topped the market
(3 to 1 against), with Mooltan fours, and Monobel (a
strong paddock tip) and Maranui sixes. An hour or two
earlier twelves were plentiful about Monobel. Kyead-
gerie (whose owner, ’twas said, had half the sweep to
nothing) and Peru (despite an anything but encouraging
display in Spring Stakes on Saturday) had more support
than any of the balance of starters. Eric streaked
to the front early and led a closely-packed troop
till Queenslander Plunder bumped another nag (said
to be Exsul) and, floundering on the ground,
brought Kyeadgerie down, and, later, Blue Book
pulled up badly lame—the result (rider Callinan ex-
plained) of being compelled to leap over the fallen of the
field. Erie still careered, all steam up. a couple of lengths
ahead of everything, and he and Proportion were first
into the straight, where Mooltan made his run, chased by
Peru and Maranui (almost together). The pair made a
brave bid, but Mooltan proved too good and won easily—
thus gathering his second successive Metropolitan,
and completing the same double as that which brought
joy to many punters and trouble to several Abrahams
12 months before. On form, Blue Book must have made
things sultry for the winner. Maranui, though racing
well, disappointed many good judges. Monobel was done
nearly half-a-mile from the end, and Virtu never gave a
very confident following a hope at any stage—possibly
the accident aforementioned affected the chances of
others beside Blue Book. Mooltan was recently
sold to an Indian sportsman—Mr. Gordondhas Kbatau
—for £2OOO and a fifth of first moneys accruing
up to and inclusive of V.R.C. Meeting. Already
this arrangement has brought previous owner—Mr. Jack
.Samuels—£7oo, and prospects for an additional haul in
remaining- A.J.C. and all V.R.C. w.f.a. events, and, possi-
bly, Melbourne Cup (even though Mooltan’s weight is
now 9st. 121 b.), are promising. Mr. Samuels, too, is said
to have backed the double to a very big tune. “To
them that have,” etc. 1 Metrop. time (2min. 34jsecs.)
equals that of last year, but is ljsec. slower than the
race’s record—accomplished by Maorilander Maniapoto
three years ago.
* * * *
A.J.C. first steeple (Monday) was contested by
12 of 18 carded, and Maorilander Pilot won all the way,
though Victorian lepper Confederate made a big effort in
the straight. The two named started equal favorites at
3to 1 against. Mishaps were plentiful. Hustler, Taraba,
Kingle, Grafnax and Tyrone fell—the latter breaking his
neck—and Meteor Light pulled off. M.L. nags have, to
time of writing, won both jumping events, and they look
very much like appropriating the remaining two. ltand-
wick hasn’t seen a better lepper than Pilot, who is further
advantaged by having considerable speed, though big and
lusty as a stallion in appearance.
* * * *
Features of Monday’s racing at Rand wick were
Soultline’s runaway win of Shorts Handicap (2 furlongs)
in Australian record time of Imin. 12jsec., which lowered
prior best; Lisnarte’s lmin. 12£sec. (assisted by a gale) ;
and the Orzil filly Zilka’s easy annexation of Breeders’
Plate in lmin. lsec.—Jsec. outside Walwa’s Australian
best. Zilka might have created new figures had she been
in the slightest degree pushed. The book shows that
Machine Gun ran 5 furlongs, with list. 51b. up, at Ric-
earton (M.L.) in 58sec.
The influenza scare has for the present para-
lysed Melbourne interest in the forthcoming Cup meeting
at Caulfield. Nobody seems to know for certain how
many horses have been affected thus far, or whether the
least serious cases are likely to pull quickly round ; but
in any case, where there has been a cough to swear by,
the temptation to back the gee for either of the Cups
is not so strong as the misgiving. As for the many that
have escaped infection, it doesn’t seem good enough to
back them whilst ’flu’ is in the air. A new element of un-
certainty has come into the game. Next Saturday, at
Caulfield, will reveal a few things worth knowing, but the
“ form ” that comes to light can only be doubtfully com-
pared with results at Randwick, and the question as to
which horses are going to risk a visit to Melbourne this
spring wall be finally decided by circumstances other than
owners’intentions. It may be that the epidemic of ’flu’
is only now beginning to spread.
* * * *
“ Hiphen ” (from Melbourne): Once upon a
time football used to be a strenuous, manly game without
any parade or frill or show. Now, however, in the way
of time-wasting, pomp and circumstance it is as bad as
cricket. Formerly the teams came out punctual to time,
changed over straight away at quarter-time, took a brief
interval of rest at the half, and at the three-quarter call
sucked a hasty orange and proceeded straightway to
further demolish their opponents. Now, how is it?
Rotten ! The match is timed to start at three. At ten
past the hour one team bounds into the field and starts
practising marks round the ground. Five minutes later
their opponents emerge. After they have had their
bit of practice the umpire blows his whistle and
the teams take up their appointed positions amid
an expectant hush. Then someone rushes up to the
captain of one of the teams and whispers excitedly in his
ear. The captain scratches his head thoughtfully for a
moment, then turns, and, by wildly waving his arms,
transfers a man from one end of the ground to the other.
Finally, after much shifting of places and manoeuvring,
the game actually commences. At the end of the first
quarter the teams gather in two separate groups in the
centre of the ground, while attentive attendants shift the
mud off them, and give them stimulants and advice. At
half-time the teams disappear into the dressing-rooms for
15 to 20 minutes. When they again emerge they are
posed for their photographs. Then, after some further
shifting of positions, the game re-eommenees. At three-
quarter time the army of masseurs, drink-dispensers,
towel-holders, and orange-distributors again invades
the playing ground and ministers to the wants
of the players. The last quarter is, perhaps,
somewhat willing. Maybe Bill (whose side is get-
ting beaten) grows peevish. He pushes one of the
gentlemen of the opposing side rudely. A howl of execra-
tion rises from the onlookers, whose tenderest, suscepti-
bilities have been outraged by Bill’s roughness. The
umpire blows his whistle excitedly, waves his arms to the
timekeepers to take off the precious lost moments, and,
approaching Bill, wags an angry forefinger in his muddy
face, and remonstrates with him on the immorality of
hastiness, and the advisability of turning the other cheek
and counting ten. Then the game goes on. Bah !
•*•*■*•*
Football has lingered late in Adelaide. Nor-
wood, which has had a big run of success since the club
team visited Sydney, met West Adelaide in the nominal
final, and looked a good thing- for it. Providence, how-
ever, was thought to “favor the bear ” in sending along
the wettest September on the local record, and in the
mud West’s powerful “ ruck ’’-—Tierney’s bald head
always conspicuous in it—swept through the Norwood
science like a mammoth going through a wire fence.
Norwood, as leading on the season’s programme, had a
right of challenge, and the real final had a hot, dry day.
Against the Wests six to four was still laid, for there had
been a week of uncalled-for winks and murmurs of “ gate-
money ” and “ arrangement.” Norwood led all through,
except at the one place that counts—the winning-post.
With 12 minutes left to go, it had 18 points in hand ; but
at the fast-scoring Australian game anything is possible,
and Wests got up and won the S.A. premiership by three
points—half a goal! As the club has never before this
year been a circumstance worth taking into account, its
success is highly popular.
* * * *
Saturday saw the absolute finish of the Victorian
football season, as far as play is concerned, though there
are still several “ other accounts ”to be squared. Satur-
day’s solitary match—at North Melbourne Gluepot—
occurred by reason of the Junior Ass. teams, ’Scray and
Yarraville, making a draw the previous week. The con-
cussion was expected to be violent, and drew a notable
crowd, but the authorities had laid on several mounted
and foot police, wherefore, beyond a casual scrap or two,
the aggregate Bill and Lizzie hept the still tongue that
ensures a sound optic. Also Yarraville impressed its
superiority on ’Scray from the start, and thereby
so depressed Elizabeth and William aforesaid that
after a few preliminary adjurations to “ Root ’em
up, Juniors!” “Slob into it, you blitherers!"
they relapsed into moody and depressing silence, heedless
even of the “ chucking off ” of the Yarraville barraekers.
Yarra gained the day and the junior premiership by
7 goals 11 behinds to 3 goals 6 behinds. This is the fourth
time since ’B5 that the Vie. Junior Ass. has run its games
well into the summer in an effort to reach finality. In
’B5 the Williamstown Jrs. and the Britannia—who after-
wards developed into the powerful Oollingwood team—
played a draw ; in ’9l the Britannia drew with the Maryle-
bone ; in ’93 Fitzroy Jrs. and Napier Imperials drew twice
before the Imps, managed to upset ’Roy’s apple-cart.
As to the “other matters,” the League decided
that, though the arraigned umpire who supervised the
semi-final match between Saints and Carlton was not
guilty of intentional bias, he had nevertheless “ umpired
the game in a most unsatisfactory manner.” Then the
Carlton delegates charged two St. Kilda players with
having been thoroughly and incapably unsober during
the game, and the League decided to hold a full inquiry
into the alleged superabundance of overproof tanglefoot,
or whatever it was, at a future date. Heaven knows why
the Carlton delegates should worry about this over-
mellowness of their opponents ; an unsober footballer
would be of little use in a strenuous game, and Carlton
won the match, anyhow. But the Carlton supporters
seem to labor under a notion that their men are 18
angels, while all opposing 'bailers are thorough and
complete devils. Which is scarcely the fact.
After the League has settled this little squabble
it will hear appeals from Bendigo, where the local Ass.
has disqualified a Long Gully player for life, and sus-
pended another sine die for stiff play, and has held as
proved a charge against Eaglehawk’s secretary of offer-
ing men bribes to “play stiff.” This little unpleasantness
arose over the Bendigo final between Eaglehawk and
Long Gully, and was practically common knowledge, or
common report, for days before the match. Evidently
these Bendigo ’bailers are simple, unsophisticated souls,
who don’t understand that the first essential of squaring,
stiffening, or crooked play is to keep dark.
• * * *
There died at Homebush (M.L.), on Sept. 30,
E. G. Deans, the famous “ All-Black ” player. He was the
youngest member of that much-lauded combination, and
was only 24 at time of death. He learnt his football at
Christchurch High School, an institution which has
turned out many high-class players. He played for Can-
terbury in 1903 at the age of 19, for the South Island in
1904, and for the Dominion in 1905. Deans will be remem-
bered as the scorer of the famous try which was not
allowed in the Wales-Maoriland game. Eepresented
Maoriland this year in the third test against the English-
men, being prevented from playing in other matches by
accident. Deans and Eoberts were without doubt the
best backs who wore the silver fern this season. Deans
was the Galahad of the game; a fair and most popular
player, and the gap he leaves will be hard to fill.
* * * *
Melbourne pennant cricket had a bright, warm
day to mark the commencement of the season last Satur-
day, and some promising starts were made. The veteran
Frank Laver signalised the occasion by knocking up 100
for his old team, East, which finished the day with eight
for 241 against University. Melbourne travelled over
to South Melbourne and gave the locals some
field exercise by compiling 256 for six wickets,
Eansford (61) and Hazlitt (63) being chief contributors.
The best score for the day, however, was provided
by Prahran, which, against Richmond, flogged the leather
to the tune of four for 215, Stephens assisting thereto
with a neatly acquired 73, while Healy and Bowden were
accountable for 49 and 41 respectively. The discussion
between Carlton and Essendon petered out into a
whisper. The former could only pat up 73, of which 39
were furnished by Tommy Warne. The latter team
breathed fiercely and managed to get 89, 74 of which had
to be credited to four men and a bloke named Sundries.
Those sad beginnings were evidently due to the bowling
of Saun'ders (Carlton), who took six for 22, and of Forsyth
(Essendon), who gathered in seven for 39. Collingwood,
against St. Kilda, also began inauspiciously with 102, to
which Saints responded with two for 80. Northcote v.
North Melbourne was an uninspiring spectacle. North-
cote gave a tame display for its 100, for which Prior (six
for 39) and Spencer (four for 20) were responsible ; while
North (strengthened with the services of Stuckey, late of
East) started hot over-recklessly with 39 for no wickets.
Next Saturday the Melbourne Sub. District Associa-
tion, which is at present preserving an attitude of cold
reserve towards the senior body, commences operations.
* * W *
Saturday’s Warrnambool (Vic.) road race fur-
nished more than the usual crop of accidents. Every year
some few riders whirl oyer dogs or come down on loose
stones, generally with little damage ; but, besidesmany of
these incidents, Saturday’s task ended with Simpson going
to Colac hospital with a .broken nose, Smith reaching the
Melbourne institution with a dislocated shoulder,
MacDonald following him with scalp wounds and general
gravel-rash, Hall sustaining a damaged knee, Gardiner
a ruptured ear-drum, and Myers abdominal in-
juries. Also a fool of a non-competing cyclist who
escorted Sergeant through Footscray, managed to give
him a fall that rendered him unconscious for a few
minutes. As he pluckily remounted and rode on in a
damaged state and reached the winning post only four
minutes behind the winner, after riding alongside him
nearly all the way, that fall possibly lost him the race.
The fool cyclist who tries to escort racing men, with an
idea that his presence and conversation cheer them on,
ought to be taken into the nearest waterhole and stood
on his head for at least five minutes.
* * * *
Cricketer Joe Darling is finally leaving Ade-
laide to settle on his station in Tasmania. It is nearly 23
years since he made 252 (a record at that time for S.A.)
in the big inter-collegiate match, but he lived up-country
for years after that. In 1893 he got to Adelaide and went
straight into inter-State cricket, and into test matches as
soon as a chance came. He has been to England with
every team since then, and captained three of them. He
has made over 10,000 runs in first-class cricket, with
an average of 34; 1400 in test matches, with an
average of 31 and a highest score of 178 —in Ade-
laide, January, 1898. He completed his century that
time with a sixer out of the ground off Briggs. In
test matches in Australia he had an average of 40, and, for
S.A. against England, 44. Against N.S.W. and Victoria
he was consistent, having made nearly 1000 against each,
with an average of about 30. (His one meeting with
Queensland gave him a sensational 210.) In England he
scored centuries at every visit, and in 1899 his aggregate
of 1941, with average of 41, was the best on record up to
that time. As a captain he was unrivalled—except in
tossing. He never bowled.
* * • *
Fred Ray’s second win of the Dunlop Indi-
vidual Road Championship was achieved by absolutely
the best ride he has put up in his racing life. C. M. Cut-
liffe was fully expected to wrest the honor from him, as
on several occasions he had beaten Ray’s time, The race
was over 40 miles Of the Homebush(N.S. W.)circuit, and the
strong men made the pace a burster from the start. The
bursting commenced rightaway, and what with punctures,
falls and exploded boilers the field was soon thinned
out considerably. At 10 miles, w'hich had been
covered in 24min. 42 2-ssec., McLean, of the
Western Suburbs, was leading the field and
going great guns. But before the 20 miles were covered
Mac had punctured, and his name was McSlush. At
30 miles, Ray was driving the pace-makers helter-skelter,
and Cutliffe was driving Ray. Over the last 10 miles Ray
and Cutliffe were away in front by themselves, and put
up a terrific struggle, out of which Ray eventually dashed
to the front and won by half a w’heel. The time was lhr.
42min. 52 2-ssec. Ray belongs to the Balmain Club, and
rode Continental tyres.
* * * *
Warrnambool to Melbourne road race was
another triumph for the tyres of the company which pro-
moted the affair, as the winners of the race, of the fastest
time, and of the blue ribbon all rode Dunlops. The riders
who won medallions for finishing under lOJhrs. numbered
253.
* * * *
The professional track-racing cyclist had a real
field day at the Sydney Eight-Hour sports, where £l2O
was passed over to him to carve up. The chief events
were £5O for two miles, £25 for five miles, and £2O for one
mile, which carried the championship of New South
Wales. Some brilliant sprinting was served up, and
George Horder, who seems to be easily the best wheel-
whirler in Australia at present, won both the Mile Cham-
pionship and the Five Miles with splendid rushes. The
Eight-Hour Wheel Race, the two miles, went, after six
heats and a final, to F. Andrews, of N.S.W., who had
260yds. handicap. Burnage and Hird, both also of the
Ma State, ran second and third from the 320yds. and
260yds. marks respectively. The Amateurs also had a
look in, and raced for “ open orders ” worth £3O. The
important fixture of that division was the One Mile
Amateur Championship of N. S. Wales, which fell to P.
Mutton, who romped home half a length to the good,
with an individual named Beet in pursuit. Beet and
Mutton go well together.
Surf bathing broke out in Sydney and New-
castle last Saturday, and on Sunday morning the first
fatality took place at the northern city. H. H. Cousins
was swept out by the undertow at Stockton Beach, and
although two of his companions gallantly went to his
rescue and succeeded in reaching him, he was actually
drowned in their arms. Then they found themselves in
difficulties, and when they managed to reach shallow water
were so exhausted that they could not drag themselves
out of it for some time.
* • * •
Said that Wanganui greeted Arnstf and his
trainer with something like straight-out hostility when
he arrived in the river township to train for the race with
Webb. Later on, however, the local rowing people re-
covered themselves somewhat, and extended every cour-
tesy to the invader, the local club placing its shed at his
disposal. Maorilanders are usually dour over what they
take seriously to heart; aud they seem to have taken
this sculling’ championship very seriously indeed.
At latest advices the general impression in
England was that Barry would wallop Towns for the
Sportsman Cup, and is capable of defeating the mighty
Webb himself for the championship of the world. The
market talks, and it favors Barry with a loud insistent
roar. Possible that Barry may, if he defeats Towns, come
for the world’s championship.
* * * *
Whejch will arrive in Sydney this coming Tues-
day and proceed straight to the Hunter River to train.
The articles for a race with Thoroughgood are signed,
the money up, and everything but the race completed.
And nobody takes much interest in a race on the Hunter.
* * * »
Apparently the takings at the recent Burns-
. Lang scrap in Melbourne didn’t pan out according to
expectations, for last Friday the 800 sheets of galvanised
iron and the 200,000 superficial feet, more or less, of pine
that formed the Yarra-side Stadium were sold by auction
“by order of the proprietor, G. W. Hudson.” Appar-
ently there is no intention of matching Johnson and
Squires or Lang in Bent’s city.
* * * *
Joe Grimm, the “iron man from Philadelphia,”
met George Stirling, the copper-covered individual from
Cobar, at Sydney Stadium on Monday night. Stirling is
a magnificent specimen of Australian manhood, beautiful
as a statue, strong as an elephant, and light on his feet
as a bouncing ball. But he can’t fight worth a centi He
is obviously too good-natured, too full of anxiety not to
hurt his enemy, and he never dreams of following up an
advantage. He would be an ugly individual roused, and
Joseph twice nearly succeeded in rousing him, and got
thrown half-way across the ring for his pains. The Iron
Man is a joke, a comedian of rare device, and as a draw
should be unrivalled. Writer would go to see him fight
every week, even if he had to pay to get in—he is so funny.
He is of the Italiano —volatile, wonderful. He bounded
into the ring, and whirling his toga from him disclosed
the fact that he was hog fat. He sparred at an imaginary
enemy, and dealt the atmosphere some crushing blows
in the atmosphere’s stomach. When the fight started,
he sprang at Stirling like a tiger, and dealt him one, two,
three, before the Cobar man knew what was the matter.
Right through he was aggressive, and always at his best
when attacking. In clinches he wriggled and twisted
like an embittered eel, and delivered a variety of amazing
upper-cuts. And always he burlesqued the business. A
humorous fighter is a bright, pleasing circumstance, and
as rare as he is pleasing. Therefore Joe Grimm should be
encouraged, as an artist who has the genius to turn a
battle into a farce.
Stirling was about a stone and a half heavier
than Grimm, and the difference between their condition
was even greater. But for the antics of Grimm the scrap
would have been a dreary business, and had Grimm not
made the fight Stirling would probably have sat down and
had a smoke. He had no idea of attacking, and the only
time he put vim into it was when Grimm landed him a
few. Then he came out in the rallies, and smote Grimm
sorely. Mr. Kelly, Tommy Burns’ manager, refereed the
fight, and although the writer hesitates to dissent
from so famous an exponent of the art of stoush, a strict
regard for the truth as he sees it compels him to remark
that, in his humble opinion, Stirling should have been
outed twice for a foul. On two occasions he took Grimm
by the neck and slung him across the ring; and con-
sidering that Grimm did all the leading, and, although
obviously out of condition, was at the finish quite as fresh
as Stirling, and had never been knocked down once in the
whole 20 rounds, he was, in waiter’s opinion, entitled to a
draw'. Had he known how to fight, Stirling would have
ended it in the third round. But he didn’t. And leaving
the two fouls out of the question, on general principles
this paper thinks that the decision in Stirling s favor was
unjust to Grimm.
Attention is drawn to a preliminary notice of
sale in our advertising columns of 3000 acres of Rosslynne
Estate, 40 miles from Melbourne, at Gisborne. The sub-
division will be into farms from 100 to 300 acres, Messrs.
W. S. Keast and Co., Dalgety and Co., and H. E. Dixon
and Sons having received instructions to that effect.*
N.S. W. Treasurers should by this time of day be
quite used to trouble with the Auditor-General.
“ I shall shake Mr, Vernon up,” exclaimed Trea-
surer Waddell wildly when coal-mining royalties
were under discussion last week. “His state-
ments are lies,” cried both Waddell and Wade.
That is practically the bearing of all Governments
towards the Auditor-General since the official was
emancipated from Ministerial control. Originally
the Auditor-General compiled the Budget and
read the speech in the House. That was so in
Litiigow’s time. Then, of course, there was no
disunion. But when Merewether succeeded, the
officer was cut adrift from Parliament, and the
Auditor-General began to be a check on the Trea-
surer. B. A. Rennie, while Auditor-General,
kept G. H. Reid in constant hot water, and made
hay of his surpluses. Reid contemplated driving
the old man out of office, but Parliament and
public, as far as they understood the criticisms,
inclined to the Auditor-General. So Rennie con-
tinued to aggravate George to the end.
The foundations for Governor Phillip’s
statue in the Sydney Gardens are among the
“ permanent and reproductive ” things that still
figure in the N.S. W. balance-sheet as security for
Cohen’s loans, the same having been paid for
with an lOU. Evidently it is reckoned that, if
the worst comes to the worst, Cohen can take up
the foundations and use them for a paper-weight.
THE BISHOP’S CHARIOT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bishop Barlow, of Goulburn, has arranged for a South
Coast tripin his motor car during the last three weeks in
October. . . The tour represents a total of over 900 miles,
and will occupy about three weeks’ motoring, instead of
six or seven weeks that it would take with the usual style
of travelling. —Sydney news item.
Lord, how the Gospel does fly these days
In clouds of dust with a petrol haze
(But it rather takes away your breath
When you think of the Man of Nazareth
The Bishop travels by fire and gas ;
The Prophet rode on a humble ass,
Or trudged along in the wayside dust.
Yes, he was slow, but he got there just
The same as the prelate, grimed and hot,
Who rides in his fiery chariot,
Frightens a cow with his ev’ry bound
And wakes the dead with the horn’s dread sound.
M.B.W.
FRANK.


KUGELMANN’S
©
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid."
rR.EE
SAMPLE
•ant on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2's. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUQELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
Amo AT ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The SPRING is approaching, and with it comes the SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Med low Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
) 29 Katoomba.
Full Details at CITY OFFICE,
38 Castlereag-h Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
You can be
like this.
DON’T STAY THIN.
THERE is no reason why every man or woman should not acquire or
regain a Perfect Figure. If you want to add flesh, be made
plump and rosy, gain weight, strength and beauty, send for Free
Booklet and a Free Trial Treatment of the “Miracula”
Nerve Food and Flesh Developer. This newly-discovered
Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing Agent and Fleshl Builder.
It will soon put your nerves right, tone up your digestive organs ; and the
alteration in you will astonish yourself and friends. Attenuation, be it in
man or woman, is due to a lack of flesh where flesh ought to be, and the
prominence of bone where no bone should be visible. Would you like to
have perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all scraggi-
ness ? You can easily obtain this blessing. There is no time to
lose. Every day you delay means possibly further decrease in
weight, so write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps, to pay
postage on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
If You are
lilie this.
London Specialities Agency, Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh St., Sydney
HORSE GAGS, 45/=
Complete with Bridle.
Correspondence Promptly
Attended to.
THE DONALD ROSS
Anti=Abortion Outfit, 20/=
Latest Veterinary Instruments in Stock.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS - PREPARATIONS
THE DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR, 63/-
Hundreds Sold.
Donald Ross & Co. Ltd.,
Angel Place, off 127 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
THE DONALD ROSS
MANGE TREATMENT,
8/6 PER COURSE.
Cure Absolutely Guaranteed.
About every second issue the Argus
announces that estates are being subdivided so
freely in Victoria that the demand for land is
fully satisfied in a natural way, without a
graduated land-tax or other form of compulsion.
And this is the result of an auction sale at Terang,
on September 26 :
10 acres land, no improvements whatever, seven miles
from a railway—£o6 10s. per acre.
60 acres of land, no improvements whatever, £63 10s.
per acre.
126 acres of land, plain house, weatherboard cottage,
and milking shed—£6o 10s. per acre.
146 acres of land, with house and outbuildings, £6B ss.
per acre.
The first three lots were bought, by the present
seller, 12 years ago, at £29 per acre. He has
spent about £5 per acre on improving the place,
and comes out of it with a clear profit of £3O per
acre, equal to £6OOO, and with 12 years’ rent in
addition. If this doesn’t mean that farms are
desperately scarce in the empty State of-Victoria,
the Argus is invited to explain just what it does
mean.
From a recent Sydney Telegraph leader, the
old wail: —
When the new Federal tariff was imposed itpon this
State it compelled the people to pay into the public
Treasury money largely in excess of that needed for the
ordinary purposes of government.
Yet, with all this alleged “large excess,” N.S.W.
is still borrowing heavily-—it is going to spend
£2,600,000 of loan money this year—and the
Government which does the evil and superfluous
thing is the Telegraph’s own pet Government.
The' alleged ‘ great surplus of a Ministry that is
always borrowing, and the pretended “over-
flowing Treasury” of a Government that is
always in the money ,market clawing for loans
like a starved cat rushing at a bit of fish—they
are both vain things, and not worth the maledic-
tion of the miscreant who mends the pot at the
back door.
Meeting.
THE PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. OF
NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
The TWENTY-FIRST ORDINARY
GENERAL MEETING of the Members will be
held in the Royal Exchange on MONDAY, 19th
OCTOBER, 1908, at noon.
BUSINESS.
To receive Reports and Balance-Sheet to 30th
September, 1908.
To elect one Director in place of Sydney H.
Cary, Esquire, who retires'(under Clause 77 of the
Articles of Association) and who offers himself for
re-election.
To elect two Auditors in place of Messrs.
W. Clarke and F. Phillips, who retire, but are
eligible for and seek re-election.
To consider any other business of which due
notice shall have been given in accordance with
the Articles of Association.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
6th October, 1908.
t •
Dr. Ida Carlson’s
Remedies.
Established 16 Years.
Health for Women.
Why Suffer? Send 2d.
Stamp for this Great
Specialist’s Book on Home
. Treatment.
BRITISH DRUG CO.
4th Floor E.S. & A. Bank,
Cor. George & King Sts.,
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING at 7.45 sharp.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
(Including' MISS CARRIE MOORE, MR. ANDREW
HIGGINSON, VICTOR GOURIET, REGINALD
ROBERTS, W. S. PERCY, CLAUDE BANTOCK,
D. B. O’CONNOR, IVY SCOTT, FLORENCE YOUNG
and others), in Lehar’s World Famous Work,
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Theatre royal, sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THE TITTELL BRUNE SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
DOROTHY VERNON.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE as DOROTHY VERNON,
SUPPORTED BY MR. THOMAS KINGSTON,
MRS. ROBERT BROUGH.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 10, for a Brief Revival Only,
SUNDAY.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell and Gunn’s Season.
THE BRILLIANTLY SUCCESSFUL
MUSICAL COMEDY,
THE BELLE OE MAYEAIR.
Music by LESLIE STUART, composer of “ Florodora.”
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices as Usual.
THE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s. 6d., Is. (id., Is., and (id. Plan at Paling’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell and Gunn’s Season.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 10,
Walter Howard’s Successful Drama,
TWO LITTLti SAILOR BOYS
Presented by a Powerful Company, including Lilian
Meyers, Conway Wingfield, and James Lindsay.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
jH E GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NIGHT.
SATURDAY NIGHT.
“ Back to the Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S "PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
2s, Is 6d, Is, &6d Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
•yOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction .. .. J. and N. TAIT.
SATURDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 17,
The Distinguished English Pianist,
KATHE RIN E GOODSON.
WITH FULL ORCHESTRA.
CONDUCTOR .. .. HERR SLAPOFFSKI.
PRICES—6s, 4s, 3s, and 2s.
Plan Opens at Paling'’s—TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13.
Tivoli theatre, sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
TOD LOWEN, Quaint Comedian.
BURT SHEPARD, Raconteur, Pianist and Entertainer.
THE BARNARD FAMILY, introducing a New and
Delightful Specialty, DOLLS ALIVE.
12 ABDULLAH’S MOORISH ARABS. 12
THE MEYMOTTS, Comedy Sketch Artists.
HARRY ROCIHFORT and HARRY HART.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., Is. 6d., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
HODGSON & LOWTHER, Comedy Sketch Artists.
MILES STAVORDALE QUINTET, Musical Entertainers.
MIGNONETTE KOKIN, Comedienne Dancer.
OSBORN AND BROOKS, Musical Comedy Artists.
GALETTI’S PERFORMING DOGS & BABOONS.
Plan at Allan's. it3F PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THE ROYAL WELSH MALE
CHOIR.
Direction of .. J. & N. TAIT.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
UNTIL MONDAY, OCTOBER 12.
GEELONG—TUESDAY, OCTOBER 13.
STAWELL—WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14.
ADELAIDE—THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, to FRIDAY,
OCTOBER 23, inclusive.
WALLAROO-SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24, MONDAY,
OCTOBER 26.
PORT PIRIE—TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27.
PETERSBURG—WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28.
BROKEN HILL—THURSDAY, OCTOBER 29, to
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 31, inclusive.
Touring Manager, A. W. Batiste.
-pH EAT R E :R OYAL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
THE NATIONAL OPERA CO. in
W. Vincent Wallace’s Sparkling and Delightful Work,
MARI T A N A.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, II- Plan at Cole’s Book Arcade.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, OCT. 8, FRIDAY, OCT. 9,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE TAMING OF THE SHREW.
SATURDAY NEXT, OCT. 10,
MISS MARGARET ANGUIN in her own version of
Dumas Fils’ Great Emotional Masterpiece,
CAMILLE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SUCCESS EXTRAORDINARY.
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
THE GAYEST OE THE GAY.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
A POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Od.
Amusements.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, at 8,
HERBERT FLEMMING’S NEW ENGLISH
COMPANY
in the Great London Success,
THE MORALS OR MARCUS.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY at 2 p.m. _
BIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Direction of Miss Florence Baines.
FOR A SHORT FAREWELL SEASON.
MISS FLORENCE BAINES,
The Girl who set London Laughing, in
MISS LANCASHIRE Limited
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
Plan at Allan’s. Day Sales, Stegman’s.
WIRTH’S OLYM PIA,
PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, anil MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
WEST’S PICTURES TUE^I LL .
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Missing' Friends.
RICHARDSON —Marmadulce Richardson,
killed Mine California Gully, Bendigo,
Victoria, about 1873. His widow or children, or
any person knowing their whereabouts, communi-
cate at once with
EDWARD C. RIGBY & FIELDING,
Solicitors,
60 Market Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
TAMES BESSENT, sometimes known as GEORGE
” WEST or MILLER, pork butcher, late of Gosport.
Information required as to whether he was alive or dead
in October, 1906. Reward—THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
& AGENCY CO., LTD., 412 Collins Street, Melbourne.
McTAVISH.
TNFORMATION desired of the whereabouts of DUNCAN
and DONALD McTAVISH, who left Scotland about
the year 1840 or later, last heard from at Melbourne ; the
younger Donald was employed in the Sheriff's office of
that place.
Any information about them or their descendants will
be thankfully received-by their half-brother.
GEO. McKENZIE,
Hudson’s Bay Coy.,
Winnipeg, Manitoba, Can.
"CiATHER wants Address of WILLIAM DARKE,
A- native of Totnes, Devonshire, England, arrived in
N. S. Wales 1891. Anyone knowing please forward
to
WM. DARKE,
34 King Street, Plymouth, England.
Auction Sale.
Preliminary Advertisement.
Subdivisional Sale
OF
PORTION OF
y
Rosslynne Estate,
40 Miles from Melbourne,
Containing
3000 ACRES,
At
GISBORNE,
In Farms from 100 to 300 Acres,
Suitable for
Dairying, Agriculture, or
Lamb-Raising.
Splendid Rainfall. Good Climate.
WS. XEAST & CO., DALGETY &
• CO., and H. E. DIXON & SONS
have received instructions from the executors of
the late Ross Watt to subdivide and SELL BY
PUBLIC AUCTION :
Portion of that magnificent property known
as “ ROSSLYNNE,” running nearly up
to the Gisborne R.S., and almost adjoining
the Racecourse paddock, within a very short
distance of the Gisborne township.
This has been looked upon by good judges as
one of the best properties in the Gisborne
district, and the executors have decided to sub-
divide and sell in farms from 100 to 300 acres.
LIBERAL TERMS will be given.
Flans in course of preparation.
For further particulars apply to
W. S. KEAST & CO., 608-10 Collins
Street;
DALGETY & CO., 471 Bourke Street,
Melbourne ; or
H. E. DIXON & SONS, Gisborne.
rTWE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
J. Series, IV.. V., YI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.


GIFTS THAT PLEASE THE MOST.
A. SAUNDERS.
Souvenir EMU EGG, Hand-earved, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Ebonised "Wood Base. Height
10i inches. 20/- ’
Other Styles. 10/6, 15/6. 30/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
A Handsome Piece of A. SAUNDERS’ TABLE SILVER is
Always Acceptable, and it is the most Permanently
Useful and Satisfactory Gift you can make.
The following give a hint of the values we
offer. Rich, tasteful, and substantial, they
ably represent our high quality at economy
prices.
Your selection will be carefully packed to
ensure safe delivery, and sent carriage free
to any address in Australasia. Write for
our 304-page Illustrated Catalogue.
FLOWER VASE, Pure
Silver-plated, detachable
Tube, Gilt Lined, Oin
high. 5/ 6 .
Other Styles, 4/6, 7/6,
10/6.
TOAST BACK, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Hand-
somely Embossed Base.
£2/-/-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
3-Bottle, Fine Cut
Crystal Glass Bottles,
Pure Silver-plated.
12/6
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6,
15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BOX, Self-acting Lid, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed and Fluted, Oval or Round.
Size, llin x 9in.
HO'l’-WATER KETTLE and
STAND, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Rustic Stand, Richly
Embossed. £2/-/-
Plain, 35/. Other Styles, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
. J
*4/4/-
PRESENTATION TEA and COFFFF i»v ’p, iv , 1 A ~ .
Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream, Richly Engraved Gi t lined w ’i? com P
us by Janies Dixon and Sons. 7 Gilt-lmed, with Covers. £4/4/. Made expressly for
Other Styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/ £l5, £2O, to £5O.
£4/4|-
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR, Fine Cut Crys-
tal Glass, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Frame,
257-
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6,
15/, 17/6.
BREAD or CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Ivory Handle, 9in long.
7^6
Other Styles. 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, S/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
nn
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Pure Sil-
ver-piated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality,
Gilt Lined, “Water Lily” Design.
nt . , £2/-/-
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
SALT-POURER, Pure
Silver-mounted, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass.
3/6
Other Styles. 5/6,
6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
SPECIMEN TUBE, Pure
Silver-plated, Gilt Lined,
Weighted Base. Height,
6in, 4/6 ; 6Ain, 5/6; Tin,
6/6; 7iin, 7/6.
FERN POT, Pure
plated, Richly Fluted
bossed. Size, 4in.
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6,
Silver-
and Em-
-12 /6, 15/.
HN
SE
as
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE, FRUIT, or CHEESE DISH, with SERVER,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver Base, Fine
Cut Crystal Glass Dish,
25/.
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BASIN and SIFTER. Pure Silver-
plated, Richly Fluted, Gilt Lined, i c/n
Other Styles, lu/6. 15/ on/. 13/0
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG STAND 2 Cups and Spoons, Pure
Fluted Pad NlCkel Silver ’ Gilt ’ Richly
25/.
Other Styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
PRESENTATION FRUIT and FLOWER KPERCY
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Richly Orna-
mented Base, Fine < ut Crystal Glass
Height, 21in.
£3/-/.
Other Styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5, to £l5.
PRESENTATION DINNER CRUET, 6-Bottle,
Fine Cut Crystal Glass Bottles, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality.
£3/-/-
Other Styles, 30/ 35/, 40/, 60', 60/, 70/, 80/.
„„„. A. SAUNDERS;
b READ KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Handle
Embossed, 1 1 nest Sheffield Steel Blade
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/.
t Richly
8/6
A. SAUNDERS.
JUVENILE MUG, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Gilt Lined.
15/6
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Dish*’ A 1 QUahty ’ Ruby or Li & ht Green Glass
20/-
Other Styles, 10/6, 13/6, 15/, 17/6.
IS
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Sil-
ver, Hand-engraved Lid and Base, Crystal Glass
Dish.
9/6
A 1 Quality, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
“GONDOLIER” PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver Frame, Milled Glass Dish
12/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
__ A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, Stag Design, Pure Silver-plated,
25/-
Handgomeh, Engraved, Fine Cut Crystal Glass
Bottle. Size, 9in x 6in.
Other Styles, 35/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
SALT - SHAKER,
Pure Silver Top,
Fine Cut Crystal
Glass Base.
3/6
Salt-pourer to Match,
3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Pure
Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Carlton China Base.
207-
Other Styles, 7/6, 0/6,
10/6, 12/6.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


The Lost Australian Oil Industry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Patriotism runs in many weird forms. Aus-
tralia, and such parts of the world as watch
Australian events, have been much amused at
the desperate patriotism of sundry N.S.W.
politicians. The intense love these men bear for
the interests of N.S.W. led them, when a
few short months ago the Australian Tariff
was before the House, to vote for “free
oil ” in the interests of the consumer with
such unanimity that the motion was carried on
the voices. Heaven knows where their patriotism
was that night, for by placing oil on the “* free list ”
they made it notone whit cheaper to the Australian
consumer, while they cut the throat of one of the
most magnificent industries N.S.W. ever pos-
sessed, the Australian Oil Industry.
Last year Australia imported no less than
20,000,000 gallons of kerosene, and some hundreds
of thousand pounds’ worth of the by-products of
the petroleum industry. Of this 20,000,000
gallons 1(3,000,000 came from the United States —
in oilier words, the Standard Oil Trust. The
by-products were—Colza, £1724; Solar and
Residual oils, £B4lB ; Lubricating oils, £129,669;
Benziue, Benzoline, and Gasolene oils, £33,704;
Oil Naphtha, £32,193; Paraffin Wax, £78,436.
Or a total of nearly £400,000 worth of
by-products. In N.S.W. the industry, after
a wild-cat fight over several decades, was
just beginning to feel its feet and become
of national importance, when these N.S.W.
“ patriots,” on the voices (apparently that their
votes should not be recorded) tried to kill it
by throwing the growing, struggling industry to
the mercy of the infamous Standard Oil Com-
pany, whose chief “Foreign Organiser, Mr.
Campbell,” was then in Australia.;
Had these representatives of N.S.W. shown one
scrap of the anxiety that they have displayed in
the Capital Site question to safeguard the real
interests of N.S.W., the motion to admit oil
free of duty would not have been passed on the
voices, and a stiff duty would have given the
industry (which was just beginning to feel its
feet) a fresh life, and made a difference of many
hundreds of thousands of pounds to the State of
N.S.W,
* * * *
Although an oil industry is possible in other
parts of Australia, N.S.W. was so far ahead
in the development of its oil shale deposits
that for many years to come it would have held a
practical monopoly of the local trade. For oil
shale, from which petroleum is obtained in Aus-
tralia, is one of the greatest of the vast natural
resources of N.S.W.
The deposits lie along the western margin of the
great coal-bearing area for a distance of about 200
miles, and east and west about 90 miles. In the
words of the Government Geologist: “ The wide
geographical distribution and comparative abun-
dance of kerosene shale in N.S.W. is in
striking contrast to its isolation and apparent
rarity elsewhere. The solitary patches of Scot-
land and France constitute, so far .as is known,
the only occurrences of typical kerosene shale
outside the State of N.S.W., and possibly
Maoriland ; unless Dr. Bertrand’s ‘ algal coal ’ be
included, which would bring America, Russia,
and-South Africa into the list of countries con-
taining it.”
THE SHALE
DEPOSITS OF
N.S. WALES.
Ihe underlined
names indicate de-
posits that are and
have been worked.
Not only has N.S.W. the largest known deposits
in the world of this mineral, but it has the
richest, inhale, which yields from 50 to 120 gallons
of crude oil to the ton, is common in the
N.S.W. deposits, while that of Scotland, the
second best on the list, excepting a small patch in
Kentucky, now practically worked out, yields at
the best about 20 to 30 gallons of oil to the ton.
And the richness does not stop short with the oil;
N.S.W. shale also contains a larger proportion of
paraffin wax, a most valuable product worth £35
per ton, than U.S. petroleum, and salts of
ammonia and other most valuable by-products, of
which the liquid petroleum of other countries,
excepting Scotland, is deficient or absolutely
destitute.
This insane vote could not have been the result
of ignorance, or if it was, the ignorance is as great
a crime as the vote. For years the N.S.W.
oil industry has been struggling for its life, and
between the years 1865 and 1901, inclusive,
N.S.W. raised oil shale worth, at the pit
mouth, £1,970,623. The Bulletin regrets to
have to write that the best of it has gone abroad,
mostly to Germany, in its crude state, for any-
thing between 20s. and 40s. per ton. Had it been
manufactured here under the fostering care of a
protective tariff, the yield would have been worth
probably £20,000,000. And for the hideous gap
between what it got and what it might have got—
without raising the price of kerosene to the con-
sumer—N.S.W. can thank the long array of
gentlemen who passed in successive Parliaments
the motion for free oil.
* ■* » *
In the United States of America the expression
“struck oil” has been synonymous for “realised
sudden wealth” for over 40 years. N.S.W.
struck oil away back in 1824, when the French
scientist, P. Lesson, recorded that in the Blue
Mountains he had discovered “ bituminous car-
bonised wood, with a blackish conchoidal fracture,
which burns readily.” But, up to date, thanks
to the insane prejudice of a long line of remark-
able politicians for the Cobden fetich, we have
not struck the wealth which in wiser countries
has been associated with the striking of oil.
Australia is the only country—outside the
United States of America—in which the oil in-
dustry is not protected. The Standard Oil Trust
is not allowed to enter France under any guise.
Germany smashes it by a duty of 10 marks per
100 kilos., and by encouraging the manufacture of
petroleiim from shale. The British* Government
keeps it in check by a number of local regulations
which have a more destructive effect than a
straight-out tariff. In India Lord Curzon not
only prohibited the Standard Oil Trust product,
but forbade anybody connected with the American
oil supplies to hold, acquire or prospect for oil.
Austria protects its own oil industry, and Russia
regulates the import so that the Yankee has only
the market that the local supply cannot fill left
open to him. Japan, when it found it had oil
resources of its own, smote the Standard with
a duty of 4'785 cents per gallon and some
administrative tactics that made the Trust
glad to sell out its .local holdings and abandon
the country. The wiseacres of Australia who
passed “free oil” on the voices are the only
statesmen that the Standard Oil Trust agents
seem to be able to convince that the Trust is a
sucking dove.
* * * *
An oil industry seems to be about the most
lucrative thing a nation can strike nowadays.
Consider what it meant to some of the coun-
tries which had the commonsense to foster
their petroleum industries. The United States
started raising oil on a large scale in L 859, and by
1803 240 millions of gallons of it had been raised,
worth at the surface of the wells £5,000,000.
Between 1864 and 1873 the value of the output, at
the top of the well, was £23,500,000. Between ’74
and ’BO it rushed up to £24,000.000, and between
’Bl and ’BB it soared up to £37,000,000. It had a
world-wide monopoly. Then Baku, British India,
Burmah and Borneo all came along in quick suc-
cession, and the enormous prices fell with a crash
in the wild struggle of the Standard Oil Trust to
beggar the new ventures. Still in 1906 the output
was so much larger that, for the single year, it
was worth, at the well heads, the enormous amount
of £19,259,319.
The Baku oil wells began to yield in 1863, and
by ’73 Russia had raised oil worth, at well head,
£2,500,000. Between ’74 and ’BO it rose to
£5,000,000, and between ’Bl and ’B9 it soared up
to £18,000,000. The figures for Canada, British
East Indies and Borneo are not available.,
These figures show what other countries have
done with oil resources that are no better than our
own. And under proper management of national
affairs there is no reason why N.S.W. should not
produce results almost as great.
So far the bulk of the money that N.S.W.
has got for its shale has been for the ex-
port of the shale in its crude state to enrich the
German gas supply. The German coal makes gas
which gives plenty of heat but little light. By
mixing a small percentage of Australian oil shale
with this heavy German gas, the latter imme-
diately becomes a splendid iliutninant. And the
wily German extracts the paraffin wax, the
ammonia, vaseline, and all the other valuable
products, and sends them back to us in dainty
bottles tied up with ribbons, at fancy
prices, in tins with gorgeous labels, and
jars with patent closing devices, as per-
fumes, chemicals, lubricants, candles of marble-
like purity, and a score of other things, and
makes much money by the deal.
* * * *
Now, it may be inquired why, if N.S.W. shale
is richer than foreign oils and shales, the local
manufacturer is not able to compete wi ( th the
product of the Standard Oil Trust. The
Bulletin has often endeavored to show how
this infamous organisation manages to down
competition. The treatment of oil shale
requires most expensive plant to begin
with, and hitherto Australia has not had the
capital available to undertake the laying down
of a plant and the making of tramways and
railways to the best oil deposits and the
waging of a cut-throat battle extending over
years for a fair share of the market. The methods
of the Standard Oil Trust are simple but effective.
It engages in a wild-cat fight, in which oil' is often
sold at a dead loss for months to cripple a local
industry, and when the fainting enterprise is
almost at the last gasp, some benevolent foreigner
comes along and offers to buy out the dying
concern at a price which, though bedrock, is
better than nothing at all.
The public rarely, if ever, gets the benefit of the
cut rate when the Standard Oil Trust is fighting
to crush a local enterprise. It is the retailer who
makes the money. The Standard Oil Trust gives
a secret rebate on condition that the retailer
handles only Trust lines, and to be caught hand-
ling apy of the local products is to have the whole
of the rebates stopped.
The vindictiveness of the Trust was incredible.
Men who put up a stern fight were hunted prac-
tically to dpath.
The Trust secured control of the railway lines
that served the oil fields, and they gave the Trust
a rebate of 10 cents on every barrel of oil that
passed over the lines, whether the oil was shipped
by the Trust or its rivals. That rebate was given
to the retailers on condition that they handled
Standard Oil only, and in the wild rush to get
rich quickly the retailers seem to have been only
too willing to assist the Trust in crushing the
opposition that kept them from being at the
mercy of the Trust.
The independent oil men struggled to get Con-
gress to prevent the granting of the rebate by the
railroad companies ; but the Trust had secured
control of the lines, and managed to defy Congress
and bribe the men who presided in the Courts. In
despair, the independent oil men gave up the
struggle to make tlie railroads honest, and turned
their attention to evolving some other method of
conveying oil from the fields to New York and
other centres of population.
Some man, who was assuredly a genius, sud-
denly bethought him that if water could be
pumped, so could oil. Immediately a com-
pany was formed to construct a pipe line from
Cleveland to New York, a distance of some
hundreds of miles over hills and mountains. The
capital was subscribed, and the line commenced.
Unfortunately, the promoters had taken no steps
to legally prevent' the Standard Trust members
buying' up' their shares, and the Trust secured
control of the line before it was completed.
Undeterred by this crushing defeat, the in-
domitable independents formed another company,
and so arranged things that they had control of
all transfers, and thus made it impossible for any
Trust thug to buy in. Then the Trust showed
itself in its true colors. Fancy prices were
paid for strips of land right across the track
of the pipe line, and local authorities were bribed
to offer objections to its passage through their dis-
tricts. _ But the independent men went on, and
their pipeline wound in and out, and round about,
like a river that had got delirium tremens, or a
I reetrade politician trying to be logical, but
always steadily approaching New York.
The Trust grew desperate. If that pipe
line reached New York the monopoly, that had
SHALE BEARING COUNTRY.
been triumphant for so many years, would be en-
dangered. The independent men could bring
their oil in as cheaply as the Trust, which hither-
to had always managed to get cheaper freight,
and give the retailer the benefit of it. Now, with
a rival pipe line, the independents would not have
to subscribe part of the rebate with which the
Trust cut their throats.
Gangs of armed ruffians attacked the workmen
and murdered them as they toiled. Cannon were
used to batter down the viaducts and bridges of the
independent pipe line, and the line itself was torn
up for miles. The independent men were just
on the point of entering New York, and they
were not to be baulked. They armed their men
and gave the Trust’s hired thugs bullet for bullet,
till, at the point of the revolver and guarded for
hundreds of miles by riflemen, the independent
pipe line entered New York city.
What happens to a loqal industry when the
Standard Oil Trust comes along is shown by the
sorrowful experience of Scotland. Some 35 years
ago there were in North Britain 200 crude oil
works and 60 refineries. To-day there are four
refineries, Pumpherston, Young'.s Co., Broxburn,
and Oak Bank ; all the rest have vanished, gone
down in a ferocious struggle with the Standard
Oil Co., which dumped oil in localities 150 miles
from the port, free of carriage, and sold it at
per gallon, and gave the consignees the casks,
which were worth 3s. 6d. each. This cut-throat
vVar was waged for years, and all the by-products
of the oil were sold equally cheap. Fortunately
for the four refineries that survived, their shale
was rich, unusually rich, in wax and ammonia
liquid, especially the' latter. With them the
ammonia was the chief stay, the oil a by-product,
and they held out so long that at last the
Standard Oil Trust was glad to come to a working
arrangement. But the refineries had dropped
from GO to four, and there has been no increase to
the present time.
Such is a brief illustration of how the
Standard Oil Triast fights opposition. And this
is the organisation to which the struggling
N.S.W. Oil Industry was handed over by the
N.S.W. “ patriots ” which, when the Tariff was
before the House of Repiesentatives, carried, on
the voices, the motion to put oil on the free list.
* * * *
Unless some special protection is given
against a great marauding concern like this,
which has for years had almost sole control
of the whole. American oil trade, trade worth,
in 1906 in its raw state, £19,000,000, no progress
can be made with the development of an Aus-
tralian Oil Industry. The fighting fund of
this colossal concern is as vast as its impu-
dence, and without State protection no concern
can fight it. Other Governments have recog-
nised this fact and smashed it with total
prohibition. To-day the secret rebate to
retailers who handle only Standard Oil is
throughout Australia, doing deadly work.
The Trust cannot use cannon and rifles on its
rivals in this, country, but the secret rebate and
the long term of credit will be just as fatal to our
Ahstraiian industry as shells and bullets. It is
said that the “Foreign Organiser” of another
Standard Oil Co. (there are about 19 Standard
Oil companies, but they are all one) is about
to pay Australia another visit, and the gentle-
man mentioned is not particularly interested
in scenery, so it is presumed that he is coming
with a view to “cleaning things up some,” and
advancing weighty reasons against any special
legislation for the encouragement and fostering of
this great industry.
This plundering concern can afford to flood the
continent with practically free oil for a year or
two for the purpose of crushing out the local
industry. And, judging by its past history,
it is quite to he expected that it will do
so, if the only way ,tQ success lies in that
direction. The history of N.S. VV, is already
heavily littered over with the wrecks of
enterprises that started out to develop the in-
dustry. Graham’s Pioneer Kerosene Works, the
Northern Shale Co., Mackenzie Bros.’ Bathgate
Shale Mine, Glen Alice Coal and Shale Co.,
Capertee Kerosene Shale and Oil Co., Australian
Kerosene Oil and Mineral Co. (forced to give up
retorting operations and rely on export of shale
only), Katoomba Coal and Shale Co., Australian
Shale Syndicate, Ltd., Mornington Proprietary
Oil Co., Ilford Range, Upper Wolgan Valley, ail
endeavored to carry on the unequal fight, and all
failed for lack of encouragement to make a success
of what should have been one of N.S. W.’s greatest
industries.
* * 9 9
The question is : Are the people of Australia
prepared to see this great industry, which would
create much wealth and give employment to
thousands of hands, sacrificed in the interests of
the Standard Oil ; these neo-pirates of the
world who inscribe their skull and cross-
bones on our Australian tariff, and rob us
by misrepresentation and by trading on the
ignorance of our legislators? It must not be
imagined for a moment that the making of kero-
sene is even the most important part of the in-
dustry that will rise from the manufacturing of
our amazing shale deposits. Shale is merely the
raw material of a score of industries. One ton of
it will yield 17,560 cubic feet of gas of the best
quality in the world known to science, and
equal in illuminating power to 2921 - 181 b. of the
best sperm candles. The shale is passed into
retorts, which, by destructive distillation,
convert it into crude oil. This oil is then
treated by fractional distillation and separ-
ated into its various constitutents—Gasolene, for
the production of gas ; Heavy Spirit, used in the
rubber industry for dissolving the gutta-percha ;
Naphtha and Benzine, for the making of paint,
Japan ware, motor fuel, and various clean-
ing and scouring compounds; Kerosene comes
away in the form of a water white oil,
which has a high illuminating power, and is
of an exceptional purity; Brick Oil, which is
used for lubricating all classes of heavy machinery ;
Gas Oil, a dark-colored fluid, which is most im-
portant in the production of Water Gas (Water
Gas has no illuminating properties, but when
combined with small percentages of Gas Oil
becomes a highly illuminating medium); Wood
Preserving Oil, which is invaluable in districts
where the termite, commonly known as the
white ant, plays old Henry with wooden struc-
tures (this oil is a positive eradicator, and the
hardest of our hardwoods sucks it up with
sponge-like avidity, thus making it immune
to the attacks of the termites); Kerosene
Tar, which is used as a preservative for piles,
making them impervious to the attacks of the
borer and the chemical action of the earth acids.
The Kerosene Tar, subjected to a further refining
yirocess, yields Kerosene Pitch, which is used as a
flux for the smelting of spelter and minerals, and
also when coated over iron or steel pipes renders
them impervious to water and prevents.their de-
struction by rusting. Other processes yield 29
different kinds of oils and seven kinds of lubrica-
ting greases for use in various kinds of machinery,
from the lightest-running sewing machine to great
compound marine engines and brick-making ma-
chinery. The best vaseline in the world is also
extracted from our shale, and the moisture given
off during the retorting is ammoniapal, and
when treated with sulphuric acid,, givesvus Sul-
phate of Ammonia, which is worth more chaj£ the
oil itself. After all these products there
remains the paraffin wax, which, when refined to
the uttermost, is white as Carrara marble and as
beautiful in its snowy purity. Of this candles
can be made, and to all the uses to which any form
of wax—the name is legion—can lie applied this
paraffin wax is applicable. It is much
prized,; for candles on account of its clear
burning qualities, the absence of grease, and
its durability in the heat of the Australian
summer. When all these things have been
extracted from the shale, men come along with
shovels and drag out a dark, metallic-looking
substance which gives one the idea of having been
black-leaded. That is the coke, the finest in the
world, which makes neither smoke nor ash and
gives out a tremendous heat.
* * » *
And when a duty which meant the carrying on
of all these industries was before the House of
Representatives, the remarkable members from
N.S.W., whose patriotism was so strongly in
evidence last week, were not interested. And
when the N.S.W. members are not interested
in a N.S.W. industry it is hardly to be ex-
pected that those of other States would be; so the
duty was thrown out —on the voices.
C. A. JEFFRIES.


JIT CITT MISSION
Young Woman Found in Awful Con-
dition with Scabies—Body a Mass
of Sores from Scratching—Tried
Many Remedies for Seven Weeks
—Result Was Discouraging, But
ITCHING TORTURES
YIELDED TO CUTICURA
“While I was doing missionary work
m the lower portion of several cities I
necessary to know a little of
the efficacy of a few medicines and
a P^ h i le 1 found that a little knowl-
edge of Cuticura was about all I needed.
One of the very bad cases I had to deal
with was that of a young woman who
had come to us not only broken in
r>wL b iV fc m^ a awful condition
S^!! 7 ' 9r Ur doctor examined her.
and t°ld us that she had scabies (tee
itch;, incipient paresis, rheumatism,
eui., brought on from exposure and the
eflects of her ragged-edged life. Her
poor body was a mass of sores from
scratching and she was not able to
retain solid food. We tried many things
a good tonic was prescribed and baths
with a rubbing of lard and sulphur. We
worked hard for seven weeks and you
can imagine how discouraged we were
when, after all that time, we could see
so little improvement. One day I hap-
pened to see a Cuticura advertisement
telling how a little baby had been
cured of a bad case of skin eruption,
and although I had but 97 cents (four
shillings) with me, I bought a cake of
Cuticura Soap and a bottle of Cuticura
Resolvent. When I reached home I
was like a child with a new toy, and we
bathed our patient well and gave her a
full dose of the Resolvent. She slept
that night better than she had since
she had been with us and the next day
I located the price of a box of Cuticura
Ointment. I am not exaggerating
when I say that in exactly five weeks
this young woman was able to look for
a position, being strong enough to work
and full of ambition. In another
month she left the home, strong and well.
Laura Jane Bates, 85 Fifth Ave., Hew
York, N. Y., U. S. A.. Mar. 11, '07.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura B ook on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults
consists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuti-
cura Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Re-
solvent or Cuticura Resolvent Pills (Chocolate
Coated) to Purify the Blood. A Single Set often
Cures.' Sold throughout the world. Depots: London.
27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix;
Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; Potter Drufi
& Chem. Corp.. Sole Props.
PIANO QUALITY
The secret of success in regard
to our enormous piano trade is
that we hold agencies only for
those instruments that have won
the praise and admiration of the
musical world. For those who
desire the best instruments that
can be obtained we have selected
THE STEINWAY
AND
THE FEURICH.
As instruments of a less ex-
pensive character, yet embodying
all the qualities necessary for a
first-class family pianoforte, we
have our own models which are
the best value and the most
popular pianofortes in Australia,
namely :
THE NANON
AND
THE MIGNON.
Easy Terms Arranged.
Old Instruments Taken in Part Ex-
change,
SOLE AGENTS
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
eA@)
We Value Our
Reputation
which has been built up by supplying- One
Quality only. Granville H. Sharp, F.C.S.L.,
an eminent British Scientist, says
"No. 4711 Eau de Cologne
is of the best quality and absolutely pure.” We
say the same about our Soaps, Perfumery and
Toilet Requisites. No. 4711 stands for Quality.
Bad food or bad drink means a bad Liver. LAXATINE
the great Liver corrected Obtainable everywhere.
Fig. 1336
Reliable Sprayers
For hard service, in design, material and workman-
shi P> nowhere can you find anything to surpass
the high mark of quality set up by Goulds
“Pomona,” “Admiral” and “Monarch” or
any of the complete line shown in our new book
How to Spray , When to Spray, and What Sprayer
to Use, which illustrates 24 styles of Sprayers and the
most complete line of nozzles and fittings. Every
fruit-grower should have a copy of this book. We
shall be pleased to forward same on application.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
A Pretty 4-Bar
DRESS SHOE
for Ladies, 23/0.
P The builders of this Dainty Dress Shoe arc |
Hilliard and Tabor, one of the most famous
American manufacturers of footwear.
Its graceful lines and solid workmanship
stand for the very best in modern shoe
* making. Fitted with extra high Wurtem-
burg heel, its price is 28/6.
-Postage to any other State is 1/-extra, and in
-Victoria this should be added when ordering.
I Have you yot a copy of our Booklet “ Shoe- I
I light ” i We’d like to send you a copy — Free. |
LECMING'S BOOT STORES,
109 Sw'anston St., Melbourne ; I & 3 Errol St.,
North Melbourne ; 303 Chapel St., Prahran.
WOMEN
SUFFER. MORE
THAN MEN.
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men. Ex-
cess fat takes away a
woman’s loveliness—gives
her an ugly, ungainly ap-
pearance, impedes her
gait, interferes with her maternal in-
stincts, injures her general health, and
makes life a burden.
FATCURE,
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable. It is non-poisonous and harm-
less. The fat when reduced does not return.
Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe
and harmless treatment for Obesity. Send
2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample and
full particulars, or call if convenient.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, CASTLEREACH ST., SYDNEY. [32
Al |\
ylfVCftNTjj}
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
CZERNY’S
CONJURING CARDS.
Complete set, with full directions.
Three splendid Tricks easily done by anyone.
Post Free ONE SHILLING (Postal Note).
CZERNY, P. 0., Hawthorn, Vic.
115,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Australia lamhedj ! ! No. S.
and keens lamb ßed Harry Is.
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that the
“ XJRICA.”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
ness and kindred ailments, i .
—" |i| —unamm.
a0 g||||llllllllllllllinilllllll|||||| l | |||||
inHiniwmiuiiiiiHiiiimiiiiiiiiiin,..;
ma
s
aSSanmniin^l^
m
Others are being cured while
you are thinking about it.
These Rings are scientifically made from
specially-prepared metals with four zinc
and three copper coils, forming a complete
battery, which have an affinity for drawing
tho uric acids to that part of the finger
that the ring is worn on, and causes it to
leave the body, and at the same time
freeing the system from Rheumatism and
other kindred ailments.
PRICES, POST FREE—Silver, 55.; Gold-
Filled, 55., 7s. 6d. and 10s. each.
When ordering cut hole in piece of cardboard for
size required , or send for measurement card.
DUNKLING,
The Jeweller,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemise or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not Obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HE ARNE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many, people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
iMade by F, C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,En,j{.
Business, Robbery, etc.
‘‘Agricola”: Not long ago a big Sydney firm
sent oiit circulars to its country customers statins’ that
the firm thought it advisable to pay all railway freights
from the Sydney end. The circular went on to point out
tile many inconv6ni(?nc6s to the customer in re-weig‘hin°'
and so on at the receiving end, and showed the advantagS
of being able to pay for the goods, packing and freight
with one cheque. The countrymen smelt a rat, but
couldn’t find the rodent anywhere, so many of them sent
instructions to have the freight prepaid, in accordance
with the advice of the circular. Someone has now noted
in the Railway Regulations that, for every certain sum
paid in freight, the firm paying the amount,'is entitled to
a free railway pass, and the observant one reckons he has
located the rat in the circular referred to. As the
only one smitten to any extent is poor old Ma State no
one is worrying about the matter.
* * * *
According to the Westralian official Statistical
Register, this is the revenue the Treasury has had from
the Gwalia State pub so far :
1903 .. .. £387 1906 .. .. £8 483
1904 .. .. 5605 1907 ... .. io’2ol
1905 .. .. 5665 ’
Last year the revenue derived from this one backblocks
drinkery was more than a quarter as much as was derived
from all the hotel and liquor licenses in the State.
* * ♦ *
Cairns (N.Q.) claims that it sends away a
greater variety of goods, the product of its immediate
neighborhood, than any other Australian port. Said
products consist of sugar, bananas, pineapples, oranges
paw-paws, lemons, granadillas, maize, cedar, pine maple’
bean tree, silky oak, tin, cotton, coffee, copper, wolfram
and gold, all of which may be seen being shipped on one
steamer. And even then Cairns hasn’t mentioned all its
exports. Present writer once travelled from there
with a man who had three wild cats, which he was going
to float down south. Also there were two little piebalds
on board—one half-European and half-Chinese, the other
Heaven only knows what.
* * » *
From a commercial man in the Far North •
The Chinese Imperial Maritime Customs returns for last
year, just issued, show a decrease in the total value of
shipping under the British flag in the China Seas (foreign
and coastal) of 25,000,000 Haikwan taels. The increase
under the Japanese flag was 16,000,000 taels. (Tael say
35.) All the Nippon boats were, of course, manned by
native officers and crews, meaning further disaster to the
British mercantile marine. Thus does our brown brother
repay the nation that petted it, and taught it how to
build ships, and even lent it the money for the job !
* * * *
“Nero”: I was spoiling for a daytime nap,
when I heard his foot coming into-heavy contact with
the door, and I cursed him three times for each kick or
a grand total of eighty-seven curses. As I drew the latch
he began to unwind thusly :
“Mornin’, sir, I'm selling sample bottles of this great
preparation, the National Sore Feet Salve. Guarantee it
abserlootlie to cure. Only one shilling to trv it and
you save middlemen’s profit, cos I make, pack and sell
abserlootlie alone. No quackerv about it. No higno
raneous rubbish. I was educated in London, and been
through three medicine schools in America. An abser-
loothe new invention, and a roaring demand for it,
too. Of course, the headquarters of our firm are
in Berlin, and we got twenty-seven branches
in London and stores in Paris, and canvassers all ove?
the glow-obe. Stood the test of time for half-a-centurv
now, and still selling for one paltry shilling. Abserlootlie
put new feet on you. Locally made, too. Abserlootlie
Australian. I was born here, lived here all me life. Wear
out Australian boots selling it, And won’t you just trv
one samp e, sin I haven’t had a decent meal for a week
It’s abserlootlie the National ”
And he paused for a mouthful of wind, I was
deep in thought. It was plainly my duty to hit this
National impostor with a National dead cat. But such
combined ease and strength was attractive, and I’ve got
a weakness for high art, even in lying. So I gave him a
SnKe to£0 " ,he **
CONCERNING KNIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A nobility of industry and commerce. —English paper.
In ancient times—the golden days
Our ancestors were always quoting—
Kre motor cars became a craze,
Or ladies ever dreamt of voting,
Tbe King in person led his knights
In field of war, or in the tourney,
And never thought of winning fights.
Or haply losing—by attorney.
Amid the turmoil and the din,
The shouting, swearing, all the racket,
He strove to kill the foe within
An ornamented iron jacket;
And sometimes did, but frequently
The monarch was himself in danger ;
Then came the squire of low degree,
And drove his falchion through the stranger.
The King alighted from his steed
And wiped his brow with what came handy,
And took a royal draught of mead,
Or maybe wine—they had no brandy.
The squire knelt down, the monarch whacked
Him once or twice upon the shoulders,
And 10, nobility was tacked
On him in sight of all beholders.
“ 0 tempora ! O mores ! ’’—says
Some bard whose name I don’t remember,
Which means that winter snows you praise,
When you are grilling in December.
No more our monarch takes the field,
Unless it be to view the races ;
His hand is fitted more to wield
The pen, than heavy swords and maces.
And now our knights may win their spurs
Quite peacefully, by making speeches,
And selling calico and furs,
Or brewing beer, or canning peaches.
They deal in oil and wool and grain,
They re not distinguished by their largesse.
But one tradition they retain,
They re often famous for their charges.
Although they never seek the Grail
(Such notions are not now prevailing),
Their enterprises often fail,
And oft they profit by the failing.
No more they live a class apart,
And fear to soil their hands by trading ;
Their fame is blazoned on the mart,
Their names on many Bills of Lading.
And few things beautiful or rare
Escape their avaricious clutches,
They raise their castles everywhere,
Their serfs still huddle in their hutches.
They may no longer maim or kill
The individuals audacious,
Who dare to look askance, but still
“ The sack ” is very efficacious.
The ancient world was full of crimes,
And pestilences, wars, disasters,
I do not yearn for bygone times
To be revived again, my masters.
Yet after all, one sometimes strives
To fathom which needs more forgiving,
The ancient knights who took our lives,'
The modern ones who take our living.
MAORILAND.
TAIWA.


A Woman’s Vote—Result
When our Australian women exercise the
franchise, it is a foregone conclusion that
the women’s vote will be on the side of
progress —quality and not quantity of mem-
bers. We see it in everyday life—there
are three women to-day using Sunlight
Soap for laundry and housework to one
using any other soap in the world. Why?
Because women quickly recognise quality,
and the progress effected by the Sunlight
way of washing described on the cardbox ot
every tablet. Try Sunlight Soap next wash
day and you will vote there is nothing better.
EXTREMELY POWERFUL
REMARKABLE VALUE
This Splendid
OPERA
GLASS
Only 7/6
FOR a limited time only we offer to send this
HANDSOME OPERA GLASS postage paid
to any address for only 7/6. As you could
not buy it anywhere else under 15/-, you can
see that this is a great bargain. It is a Glass of
the Highest Grade, Finest Lenses, and of un-
usually high magnifying power. The body is
of White Celluloid (not enamel!, which is a
great improvement, as not only does it reduce
the weight of the Glass by one-half, but it is
always nice and clean, and does not show the
finger marks. Can also be used as a Field Glass,
We guarantee every Glass, and if not in every
respect satisfactory after a week’s trial, you
may return it and have your money refunded
in full. If you want a tip-top Opera Glass at a
low price, how’s your chance. Only 7/6, post
free anywhere, complete in Plush Satchel. The
same Glass, in larger size, 10/-, post free.
Catalogues of Opera and Field Glasses, Tele-
scopes and other Optical Goods free.
A. J. SMITH & CO.
14 Hunter St.
SYDNEY<4<4
I WHAT IS CATARRH?
is inflammation ofthe lining membrane
I of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
' throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi*, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send T-n Shillings for dedi-
cator complete, with 4 months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st„ Melbourne.
Hotelkeepers I Storekeepers 1 Confectioners 1
MaKe Your Own AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine,
At a Cost of
4d. per Dozen.
Used in over 1000
Hotels throughout
Australasia.
Produces 300 dozen
Superior AERATED
WATERS per day.
&
Requires no Skilled
Labor, and no Special
Bottles.
PRICE:
£lB
and upwards.
CASH or
TERMS.
CATALOGUES and FULL PARTICULARS on application
to the SOLE PROPRIETORS-
ECKERSLEY ®. SONS,
628 BotirKe Street, MELBOURNE.
Queensland Agents: ELLIOTT & HANCORNE, 113 Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
West Australian Agents: WM. SANDOVER & CO., Hay Street, PERTH.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A Green Room Club is projected in Melbourne. Bert
Bailey and others are the instigators of the social meet-
ing piace and suitable premises in Bourke-street have
been bespoken. The first 150 members are offered the
inducement of admission without, entrance fee, on pay-
ment of the modest subscription of one guinea.
“Star": Katharine’s long speech in the last scene of
“The Taming of the Shrew’’—the speech which tells of
the loving duty and abject subservience woman owes to
her duly certified lord and master—sounds weirdly
barbaric to audiences of this generation. It is amusing to
watch the growing uneasiness and rising indignation of
the female section as Kate piles up the list of woman’s
duties, and insists on the utter nothingness of her sex
before the majesty of the prevailing man. I had an
exhilarating evidence of the effect of this oration the
other night. The couple in front of me were man and
wife, she 40, fat, and with that severity of expression you
often see in married women and constables. He was tall,
thin, ginger, and a trifle embittered. He enjoyed “The
Taming” ; she didn’t. She received Katharine’s last w'ill
arid testament with grim disgust. He was maliciously
exuberant.
“ And dart not scornful glances from those eyes
To wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor ! ”
said Katharine. “ Hear, hear ! ” cried the ginger husband.
“Thy husband is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper,
Thy head
And for thy maintenance commits his body
To painful labor! ”
cried Katharine. “Hooray!” said the ginger husband.
“I am ashamed that women are so simple
To offer war where they should kneel for peace."
The ginger man clapped his hands wildly.
“ Place your hands below your husband’s foot
In token of such duty.”
“ Hear, hear !” cried the ginger man, “ good ! good 1 ”
Then the worm turned. The stout matron’s hand gripped
him, her eyes flashed, her teeth bared, and the terrible
words hissed out: “ You you oh, wait till I get
you home! ”
“S.T.S.”: What an essentially thin thing the “Merry
Widow ” waltz-tune is, with its “Tumty tumty, tumty
tumt.v, turn turn turn” ! A piano can make very little of
it. Taken slowly, as in the theatre, with the throbbing
of the violins hammering it in, it makes its mark, of
course ; but so would—to take at random two things
which seem to me quite superior to it—“ My Little Girl ”
or “ Under the Deodar.”
Frank Bradley, of Adelaide, is said to have a good part
in the forthcoming “autumn” drama at Drury Lane
(London). Bradley did a lot of work as an amateur with
Harold Parks before they both went to London. Parks
is back in Australia, and prominent in musical comedy.
Bradley has been playing lead in “the provinces” in such
plays as “Sowing the Wind” and “ The Duchess of Dant-
zig” (he plays Napoleon in the “Duchess of Dantzig”).
He got the Drury Lane offer through Arthur Oollins, the
manager, happening to drop in at a seaside theatre where
Bradley was playing.
“Philoyid”: Australian Miss Lohr, daughter of Daddy
(why so called I never knew), is a hit in Beerbohm Tree’s
“Faust,” in London. I read somewhere that Rabbi
Cohen has just lectured the Sydney Jewish Literary
Society on “The Faust of the Talmud,” opening up
matter quite new to me. The basis of Marlowe, Goethe,
and Gounod is in the Talmud. Its Faust is Klisha ben
Abuyah, usually' known as Acher. He is said to have
been born in Jerusalem, before its fall, a.d. 70, but yarns
appear to have been wreathed round him, as with the
German Faust. Acher, litherally the Other One, was
pious, but was led away' in a maze of philosophy. He re-
minds one somewhat of Heine, and somewhat of Pro-
metheus. He invented something like the Trinity, and
this was offensive to Jewry, with its ideas of one God
°. n - v - Being contumeliously treated, Acher became dis-
sipated a mere worldling, and here Faust is more par-
ticularly called to mind. At last he repented, and was
taken up to Heaven, as with Faust, at the end of Goethe’s
second part.
S.S.” : How would a comedy written with the spirit
ana intention of “ The Taming of the Shrew,” the work
~ a dramatist of our day and generation, be received by
English-speaking peoples? In fancy I can hear the
nwt? r ° f critics w hose feelings have been ruthlessly
aaen on by' an attempt to excuse a series of vulgar
„ af 8 f beautiful woman on the assumption that
thJk ° u s: be the only shrew and the reigning bully of
Bn household. If Katharine is a shrew, so, too, is
."’.and Petruchio triumphs by being the larger,
nf r ’ a P. , nior . e powerful scold of the pair. The state
trhTTT beatitude that results is a consequence of the
thnt ,!> °‘ , shrew Petruchio, and a humble admission
the a 'h°?5 at; of the breakfast table and the bed has
m»a«io. re T ldc ! roar, the stronger will, and the bigger
certain i’ Should Katharine rebel later on, as she
won'lH x, w °uld if an opportunity offered, the battle
Prtrnr.h; 6 be fought all over again. In our time
rinp h* s heavy boots, and jumps on Katha-
ireta’nnrv.- el ] the exponent of the rights of man
tets nothing from a virtuous Bench.
woi I ,M b h!!, rr ' < l pe0 P le ai e remarking that James Atholwood
Shrew ” ■ )ee d an acquisition to “The Taming of the
theheavvf'aH eit Ti of . tw .° characters, viz., as Baptista,
the lowcnn * : ' ero f Catharine, or better still, as Grumio,
manner rh.T y se r vant to Petruchio. Atholwood has the
heimup? oes for much in Shakspearian play's. When
dramatic fl ,!f- tes 80nie body who was born into the world of
HeiearneH h = k as - 6S a ”°- he strikes 01le a 8 a solid fact,
and was in S b uslne ss in old-fashioned costume parts,
was an uncommonly apt and versatile student.
musit-alTcrT- eature . the Cherniavski display of
ness" ofVo th *r, BneS ?r! S tke audac i°us incidental “busi-
ornate youth l J h an ’ " lfted Pianist of the trio. This
advance of k;T h showmanship undoubtedly is in
instrumental tVenf 8 ’ ,' f " 0t actua,l >' greater than his
before he sraiwoTT S a,ices around with goo-goo eyes
he concludes , !' 0 P and afterwards. And sometimes
carried into rfr^ 8 finance with a pose, as of one
made. Sppin ( an !i anc * the charm of the music he has
accepted as eem.ina . his by-play is quite seriously
audience \rLr„, ln . e ent rancement by adult men in the
same, the , an n i u st be an artist indeed. All the
sceptical onlookers*. 0 e ® ects a PP* a r “a bit thick” to
its kind that hTH, and Bta tely giraffe is the only animal of
Some 30 vears umri 6 " landed ht and well in Australia.
' v 'th their show buHT' a " d Bailey travelled a giraffe
actually had Tim the animal wasn’t O.K. C. and B.
°nt on shipboard Its'S oto be ”i n , w >tb, but it pegged
cage with a mi-eh'o.TT 111 was buffed, and faked up in a
neck move while rhT ? ontn vance to make its head and
notice was’nlar-eH 1 " ave ari occasional switch. A
ll s distance as rho t ■ e warning the public to keep
°' v ing to its exeeT mma V' 11 Pfht expire at any moment
effective, and theT , t,n,,dit y- This scheme was very
r|, al live giraffe it' ev beards will tell you that they'saw a
I'eople over fiioon t„T i °l‘ . vvere born. It cost Wirr hs’
creature is said it i? iV" 1 1 r ' hei *' quaint lanky fellow. The
e absolutely dumb, and eats porridge.
Geo. Titheradge, who started play-acting when he was
18, will arrive at his 60th birthday on December 9. He is
the only actor now in Australia whose record was pub-
lished in Pascoe’s London Dramatic List (1879). Wybert
Reeve and Gus Glover were also considered worthy of a
place, but Wybert and Augustus the Tremendous are
both dead.
THE FEDERAL CAPITAL.
Sir, —Allow me to express the same opinion as “Fair-
play,” in to-day’s issue, regarding the capital sice ques-
tion. I think the matter would soon be decided, much
to the satisfaction of the people, if Australia would fol-
low in the same steps as Canada, and allow the King to
choose the capital. All true Australians would feel satis-
fied, and there would be no ill-feeling between the States.
—Letter in Sydney TELEGRAPH.
HIS MAJESTY: “I don’t know anything about
the old place, but if I hit the map in the
middle it should be about right.”
A writer in M.A.P., the w’eekly which was mainly in-
strumental in leading English gossip journalism to the
dizzy heights of hysteria, lately committed an “apprecia-
tion ” of Adeline Genbe, a popular dancer at the Empire.
Here are a few of the shrieks, hastily selected from an
immense assortment: —
“Art is the austerity of joy, Adeline Genbe is a joyous
austerity. ... As she flickers like a butterfly into the
limelight she flashes into enchanting life. She ceases to
be an ordinary woman, and becomes the embodiment of
idyllic joy. ... All the fresh freedom of the wind and the
leaves trembles in her gestures. All the careless fragrance
of a wild flow’er seems to flow from her wavering fingers. ..
The intricate notes of her dancing melt into a visible
music as the w’aves melt into the sea. .. . The charm of
Genbe is more than the charm of rhythmical movement.
It is the charm of life that is at one w’ith life, of happiness
that is happy, of contentment that is content. . . . Her
laughing face is a mask of joy, and when I see it I always
think of her as the living spirit of comedy, so airy is the
joy that laughs in her laughing blue eyes, and her laugh-
ing teeth, and her laughing lips ... you escape with her
from the cry of the flesh as well as from the cry of the
soul. You feel her calling you out of the slough of
despond, and with your lame wings you flutter clumsily
after her. for a while, fascinated by . . . her laughing
valiancy of candid grace. . . . When the music ceases you
feel that she too should fade slowly into an invisible
silence, dying with the music and living with it, as a
shadow dies and lives with the sun.”
There are miles more of similar rhapsodies, which fully
explain how another “ dancer”—who, by the way, doesn’t
“flicker like a butterfly,” or dance at all—came to be
gushed into Cockney notoriety. For whereas Genbe is a
performer who wears skirts and shoes, the other
girl—Maud Allan—is a barefooted meanderess in a state
of considerable nudity. And if the Clothed divinity has
“ the charm of contentment that is content,” and of
gaietythat is gay, and of legs that are legs only you can’t
see them, what should be said in the language of lunacy
concerning a Maudie who appears to have mislaid her
wardrobe ?
“ Mulwa ” : A Noumea, New Caledonia, paper of Sep-
tember 15 contains the following announcement: “In
the name of Messrs. Point-Valin, father and son, Mr.
Rousselot and the artists of the Eden Theatre have the
honor of informing the public that the obsequies
of their regretted comrade, Madame Veuve Cassagne,
nbe Point-Valin, will take place to-morrow at
8 o’clock in. the morning.” Cassagne and his
wife, French mummers, decided in an unhappy
moment to emigrate to New Caledonia as settlers.
If they ever had any capital, it was soon lost; and then,
to raise enough money to get back to France, they took
to acting again during 1904-6 at the Eden Theatre. I
look back on the series of tragedies and comedies then
produced with as much pleasure as I do upon the record
of the Brough-Boucicault co. in its best days. The Eden
Theatre, the only one in Noumea, was built years ago by
an enterprising pub-keeper. He ran if. up jerry-
fashipn in his backyard. It would hold about 300
people at a squeeze. It was unpainted and dirty, and the
scenery was as old and battered as the theatre. Cas-
sagne’s company, fished out of every nook and cranny of
Noumea, consisted mostly of convicts on ticket-of-leave
•—men who had been connected with the stage in France.
Yet, as actors, every one was superior to many of the im-
ported creatures we are periodically inflicted with in this
town. In the “ Supplice d’une Femme ” the scene where
Cassagne had to tell the child he supposed was his own
that she must no longer call him father, would have been
worthy of Margaret Anglin. The “ Maitredu Forge ’’(lron-
master) was practically faultless despite the poor setting,
and “Le Paradis,” a play which it would be well to produce
in Sydney in order that all the wowsers might die of
shock, is treasured in this writer’s memory as the funniest
piece he ever saw. A certain lady had a number of gen-
tlemen friends, who used to call on her at different times.
One day they all called together, and one of them, a
lion-tamer, produced his whip, and asked the others to
leave,' which they did, mostly by the window. The zest
that lion-tamer lent to his work was wonderful. He
was a gaunt, fierce-looking man with 10 years’ prison
record, and during the day sold carrots and turnips.
It was found necessary to supply him with a special rag
whip, and even then the other gentlemen had to pad
themselves. “ Les Deux Gosses ” (“ The Two Little
Vagabonds ”) was a unique performance. Every member
of the gang of criminals on the stage had served time for
eight years and upwards, whilst the hero, who levels a
virtuous pistol at them in the last act, was played by a
professional forger. The Oassagnes left for France last
year, but the husband died on the voyage, and the heart-
broken wife returned to end her days in New Caledonia.
“Theorbo”: Notes from the biography of Manuel
Garcia, the centenarian, by Mackinlay, son of Antoinette
Sterling : He must be styled junior, to distinguish him
from his yet cleverer father, also Manuel, eminent as
tenor, composer, teacher, and manager. The son, a bari-
tone, only excelled as teacher, with such pupils as his
two sisters, Malibran and Viardot, Jenny Lind, and
Marchesi, Melba’s tutor. The family was Spanish. Garcia,
senior, married a woman of lustrous beauty named
Joannina Sitches. She was a soprano. Their children
were the peerless Maria (afterwards Mrs. Malibran)
Manuel, and Pauline (afterwards Mrs. Viardot, still,
I believe, alive, aged 92). Garcia, senior, who com-
posed over 40 operas, was also the foremost tenor of
his day, the original Almaviva in Rossini’s “ Barber of
Seville.” After many years of triumph he took his family
to New York, where they introduced Italian opera. It
was easy to make up principals, with the father as tenor,
son as baritone, mother as soprano, and Maria as con-
tralto, or rather mezzo-soprano, excelling ultimately in
the greatest soprano rbles, from “ Norma” to “Sonnam-
bula.” The company went to Mexico, where the father
made £6OOO, but was robbed of the lot by brigands.
Nearly all the music was lost going from New
York to Mexico. The elder Garcia put together
such operas as “Don Giovanni,” “Barber of Seville”
and others, out of his memory, with all the
band parts. Nobody could perceive any difference
Such was the thoroughness of musical training in those
times. Young Manuel returned to Europe before his
father. He quickly became a great teacher. Maria
Garcia had a fancy in America for Halleck, a literary man,
but her father made her marry Malibran, a New Yorker,
three times her age, under the delusion that he was rich.
On returning to Paris she obtained a divorce and married
De Beriot, a celebrated violinist. Strange to say, there was
a difficulty in obtaining an appearance for her. Rossini, a
friend of the family, managed both the French Opera House
and the Italian Opera House in Paris, yet he would not
offer her an engagement. Save us from our illustrious
friends! At last she appeared as Semiramide, for the
benefit of a basso named Galli. She set the city afire,
and dethroned Pasta, the chief favorite. The case was
like that of Ristori dethroning Rachel in Paris, on the
legitimate stage. There was the more bitterness in this
because Ristori made her hit in Legouve’s tragedy of
“Medea,” which had been refused by Rachel.
Dudley Clinton died last week. Of late he was a mem-
ber of a Williamson dramatic co., but he came to
Australia some three or four years ago under engage-
ment to Musgrove, and his most notab]- performance
hereabouts was the character of the aged professor—
tutor to Prince Harcourt Beatty—in “Old Heidelberg.”
A very capable actor in that very good part was Dudley
Clinton.
From the “ Old Soldier” :
Sydney Telegraph (25/9/’08) set its “ military represent-
ative ” to review the three volumes of reports from the
British General Staff on the Manchurian War. The whole
compilation is probably worthless. “The work on the
Russian side,” the reviewer says, “ occupies about one-
fourth the bulk of the other, and was entrusted to only
two officers ; while with the Japanese forces the British
army was represented by quite a large staff of officers.”
That means that, practically, the operations of the war
are described from the Japanese point of view, since they
were seen through Japanese spectacles ; for we are told
the reports are accounts of what the writers were per-
mitted to see for themselves, or were afforded facilities
for finding out from Japanese officers. And then here’s
the Telegraph’s deduction : “ Anybody reading the three
volumes with a knowledge of Australian conditions as
they are, and as the Government proposes to make them,
will be given food for much thought and much bitter
anticipation if the Deakin scheme is to be the law of the
land.” What earthly connection there is between the
Deakin scheme and a desperate, but apparently indecisive,
struggle between two armies in a country foreign to' bot h
of them wants a whole lot of explanation ; for the Deakin
scheme is simply what it professes to be—a plan to
organise the population of Australia for resistance in case
of invasion. Another of the Telegraph’s reproaches is
that Australia, after nearly eight years under Federal
control, has not a plan of campaign for a single square
mile of the coastline. What is a plan of campaign, any-
how? It would be safe to bet that the Telegraph never
saw one.
THE TOP HAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The top hat threatens to die out.— News Item.
Since halos vanished in the haze
Of Biblical antiquity,
I’ve indicated by ray rays
What’s virtue —what iniquity.
I am the mark of Men of Worth
And Persons of Utility,
I am the Coping Stone of Girth
And vast Respectability.
I am the Garment of Respect,
The Varnish on the Spurious,
I am the Seal of the Select,
The Trade-Mark of the Curious.
I am the Label of the Wise,
The Signboard of Sublimity,
I dazzle common people’s eyes
And gleam with equanimity.
I flash within the Parliament,
The Council and Consistory—
The Hall-Mark of the Utter Gent
I glitter on thro’ history.
If I should die Mankind would find
Great puzzles e’er perplexing him,
Without top-hats the race is blind—
His top-hats keep indexing him.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
THE DANCING GIRLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
We are the dancing girls who, night bv night,
Dance for your pleasure in the garish light,
Red-lipped, with swift, white feet that know no pause,
With laughter over-loud and eyes too bright,
To win your listless, cynical applause.
We are the dancing girls to whom you call
For jest and merriment and carnival,
Buying our gladness at the market price,
Tossing the careless coin to one and all,
Scorning the purchase with a wit too nice.
We are the dancing girls who may not grieve,
Whom no man asks to pardon or believe,
Who have no tears, no sorrows, no regret—
A mimic Juliet you kiss and leave,
The rose of yesterday you soon forget.
We are the dancing girls who sometime turn
To watch .your window’s where the home-lights burn,
Feeling the woman’s shadow on the pane
Fall on our hearts that take too long to learn
Their lesson of light laughter, light disdain.
We are the dancing-girls, life’s bubbles blown
Hither and thither, crimson poppies sown
For beauty and forgetfulness—no more ;
Ours but to give, never to gain or own,
To know our poverty and laugh therefor.
We are the dancing-girls—my masters, see,
Dance we not well? Laugh we not merrily?
Beautiful, soulless, blooming but a day.
Ah, who would not the moment’s Pierrot be,
To laugh and kiss—and yawn and turn away !
N.S.W.
R. LUMSDAINE.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LJNL
For FATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £]6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l ]os
ROUND Till? WORT,D TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, <tee., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
A stents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mict.ho'irnk Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.
11l William-street.
Adkmidk & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking’, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutttal Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Omen :
41 9 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527—Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hot.. C. .1. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. .1. F. Burns.
The Hoti. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bunk of Dorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370’000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.),
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Baui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-—.
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
a*'
&
&
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT.S. W.
fflontdepietefl
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEKEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
ANO AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and Guarantee
{ Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Mkkks, M.L.C., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq.:
S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 331 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Coilins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
DESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. It Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : It. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman ; John Grice, l.sq. ;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREIiK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues ami Price List before building-
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street., Sydney.
J. J. Stkklk, Sole Agent.
Shipping.
2XT. 13- L.
(NORD-DKUTSCHF.R LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
vr,i Sf ?, ENG^ S . BOOKEI) to E «. v Pt. Naples, Genoa,
1 aiseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
To MANILA, YAP, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
mam., a NEW GUINEA.
MANILA .. 90fh OPT
PRINZ WALDEMAR . ' " mh NOV
PRINZ SICISMUND . _ isth DEO.
J,!T ,rpa Seacoine Qualities Maximum Speed,
safety and Tonnaa-e, Beßt Accommodation, Exoellent
Cn.B.ne CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Ajrents,
Tel. 698. LOTI MANN & CO.. 7 Bridsre-street.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
fhe goyai gank of Queensland
Capital Paid-up £485,003 1 0 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FuNDfln vested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
_ £723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H.'Matthews
London Opfice :
BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
J. Branches m Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the 'World.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH.
Price Cd, from The Bulletin Office.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth., and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Si earner. | | Commander. | Leave Svdnev.
•Twin Screw.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os Co £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s co £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail
October 26.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail
November 25.
about
about
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
PARES—Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 S 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New V’ork, &c. .. 25 6 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets , Timetables , and all other Information
on Annlication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dal yet t/ and Company. ]Jd„
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cook town,' arid thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makarnbo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (B.N.G-.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
THE BEST INVESTMENT FOR THE
WHEAT GROWER.
HAS NO EQUAL IN STRIPPING,
THRASHING or CLEANING.
Order Now.
TO CULTIVATE A
LARGE AREA AT
LOW COST use
THE “ SUNFLOWER ” CULTIVATOR
Wr ' te t ° an >' ot tl! <= undermentioned addresses for
New Illustrated Catalogue “M 10,” Farm Implements
(Posted Gratis).
Show 42 ENGINE STREET, SYDNEY.
Rooms 102l 02 SPRNCER ST., MELBOURNE.
56 NTH. TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
' AGENCIES & C - Per ‘h, W.A.
Mott & Barlow, Toowoomba, Q,
H. V. McKAY,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER
WORKS.
Head Office and Works : SUNSHINE.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all Hies and affords comfort to everv home—
In dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where flies
among wtiom are :
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything, one
lasts the emire
seas on.
aold by
Wholesale
bruggists,
Groce s and
H ar d w are
Dea laii,
Sydney— Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O'Connell St. ; Sayers Allnort
Iproprietary, O'Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
1“ eldheim, Gotthoif & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., D.S. A
REENEI^
jUNS
A3E
KNOWN TO LAST.
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
The Strongest Cun in the
World and the best Shooting
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne; or
simply address
**Greener, Birmingham.”
HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
• r?
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND*
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonjfiald Parade
ST. HILDA. *
rpHiS Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
y^oig4iUnder >
& Sohn,
A. G.
Optical Works: Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
Heliar-
Camera
i PLATE.
SUITABLE FOR TROPICAL CLIMATES.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 CE3RCE STREET, near C.P.0., SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrat.ed Booklet, “ talking: with Taylor
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), pose free. [3
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
ft XPR ESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PtRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
October 10.
For Caulfield Cup.
S.S. Riverina, Saturday,
October 24.
For Melbourne Cup.
BRISBANE,
MAO KAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oiirns.
.S.S. Marloo, Oct. 17.
S.S. Innamincka, Oct. 24.
Best an ft Cheapest ltnute to Cold fields.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
hrst Port of call with other inter-State Companies on alt
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IyjESSA GER/ES
HyjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS
LEAVE SYDNEY AS under :
SYDNEY ..
OCEANIEN
NERA
AUSTRALIEN
YARRA ..
VILLK DE DA
CIOTAT
Commander Henric ..
Commander Magnen..
Commander Schmitz
Commander Verron ..
Commander Sellier ..
Conpnander Barillon
Noon, Oct. 5
Noon, Nov. 55
Noon, Nov. 30
Noon, Dec. ‘2B
Noon, Jan. ‘25
Noon, Eeb. 22
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EACLRSTON TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with the other Mail Companies, issued at greatlv
reduced rates.
J. LOTH,
.„„ Acting General Manager in Australia,
lei. 375. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For.
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
October K>.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, October 17.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other YV.A. ports.)
KANOWNA, 12 noon, SATUR-
HAY, October 31.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNOABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBADA, 2 p.iri., SATURDAY,
October 10.
COOMA, 2 p.rn., SATURDAY,
October 17.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
fetate S.B. Companies. Full particulars on application,
gIESS® building, »so
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Train).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
the BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
t New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPAMY OF H.Z. LTO.
Manatring Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.
5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via. Suez Canal.
T.S.S. AYRSHIRE.
11,900 Tons. li. Coull, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - October 20th,
~ ,t ~ SYDNEY - October 31st,
~ ~ ~ MELBOURNE - November 7th,
~ ~ ~ ADELAIDE - November 12th.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
\ £49 10s> £ ' l3 13s - £LS 15s ■ £l7 17
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed every four weeks by other fast twin,
screw passenger steamers. For further information, illus-
trated pamphlets, etc., apply to —
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne,
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.


is a Father’s Proudest Day ?
PROBABLY the proudest day in a father’s life-time is the day his daughter.gets married to the man of her choice, and with his full approval. He is proud
of her and proud to see that he is not the only one who appreciates her good qualities just as much. You will probably wonder what that has got to do
with us—but just wait. The proud father will naturally want: to fittingly mark the occasion by means of a handsome and useful wedding gift. It is in
the supplying of just such an article that we come in. Nothing can equal the advantages of a
CUTLERY CANTEEN,
containing all the Knives. Forks, and Spoons that will be required by the.,young .couple in
their private life,, and while entertaining their many friends. .... ,% ...
Three Canteens that warrant instant approval are described here, and we can with
every confidence supply them.
CANTEEN AS ILLUSTRATED.
(No. H 7897.)
The Case is of heavy Golden Oak, with Three Drawers and One Tray, all fitted to take
the articles separately. The Case is brass-mounted and has Patent Hinges and Lock.
The contents are as follows : _
18 Dinner Knives I Knives are of the Finest Sheffield
18 Cheese Knives h Steel, through tang, and Handles
5-Piece Carving Set j are of the finest_African Ivory.
18 Table Forks (Old English) 1 Soup Ladle
18 Dessert Forks (Old English) 2 Gravy Ladles
12 Table Spoons (Old English) 2 Sauce Spoons
18 Dessert Spoons (Old English)
18 Tea Spoons (Old English)
6 Egg Spoons (Old English)
1 Mustard Spoon (Old English)
4 Salt Spoons (Old English)
Cent Packed and Carriage Paid, *47 lOs.
Every piece is A 1 Quality,
Dixon’s Sheffield Silver-
plate on white nickel-silver.
CANTEEN No. H 7898,
With One Drawer and One Tray, otherwise as H 7897. The qualities and description are
exactly the same, but quantities are less, as follows
8 each Table and Cheese Knives 8 Tea Spoons
8 each Table and Dessert Spoons 3-Piece Carving Set
8 each Table and Dessert Forks
A splendid set for six or eight people.
Price - £2l.
CANTEEN No. G 3174,
Contains 12 each Table and Cheese Knives, 5-Piece Set of Carvers, 12 each Table and
Dessert Spoons 12 each Table and Dessert Forks, 12 Tea and 6 Egg Spoons, 4 Salt and
IMu star poo'n a Sugar Tongs, Butter Knife, Soup Ladle, 2 Sauce Ladles, and 2 Gravy
Spoons. Quality and Case as No. H 7897.
Price • • • • £32 lOs.
ill
112-Page ART CATALOGUE
on Request.
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd.
STRANP CORNCf^GEQft”
ST,SYDNEY.
The Finest Collection of
Wedding Gifts in Sydney.
RESTORE YOUR LIVER TO
HEALTHY ACTION.
THE ORGANIC CLEANSER.
THE LADDER
OF DISEASE
REMOVED
BY KUTNOW
HEADACHE
LANGUOR
INDIGESTION
, BILIOUSNESS
CONSTIPATION
LIVER-
TORPOR
KIDNEY-
DISEASE
Do you sometimes suffer from
Headache and occasionally feel
depressed? Perhaps you sleep
badly, or on rising in the
morning still feel un ref reshed,
languid, and tired. Your
appetite may not be so good
as usual, and you may feel
the symptoms of Indigestion.
If so, you require a dose of
Kutnow’s Powder. This world-
renowned remedy removes
Biliousness and Headache,
makes you at once bright,
cheerful and energetic. It goes
down to the root of the trouble
and eradicates from the system
all the poisonous products which
accumulate therein. Kutnow’s
Powder is the perfect remedy
for permanently removing Con-
stipation and its attendant
evils. It cleanses the kidneys,
eliminates uric acid, and is a
preventive of Bright s Disease.
Kutnow’s Powder not only
restores the liver, but all the
great organs of the body to
healthy activity.
X. ’t t>
HI
m
WY^
nm
*1
KUT NOW’S
Improved Eftcrvesccnt CarISQAD
POWDER*
i
SJ 1
Hirschcnsprunff or Deer Leap
i
L?
LONDON
41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.__
A Well-known Actor writes:
“The Hat, Weymouth, May 23, 1908.
“ Sirs, —I have but recently returned from a tour
in the States, and feel that I must write and tell
you how your Kutnow’s Powder has been of service
to me. In the life of an actor, one is accustomed to
different food and strange climatical conditions.
All this tends to affect the liver, and it is a usual
occurrence to rise in the morning with a headache,
feeling more weary than the night before. A dose
of Kutnow’s relieved me of this trouble like light-
ning. There are so many spurious medicines on the
market that I think it is only fair that a thoroughly
genuine article should be given the notice it deserves.
“HUGH LESLIE DOBREE.”
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder co.n be had of all
conscientious Chemists throughout theO>V orld. See
that the fac-simile signature f ‘S. KlltnOW & Co.,
Ld., 5 ' and the registered trade mark, “ HirSChen-
sprung or Deer Leap/’ are on ie car^on
bottle. You then
Get Genuine Kutnow's Powder.
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C


The three delegates of the Scottish fisher-
men, who spent a week off the Victorian coasts
lately, say they have had a few shocks in these
parts. One of the worst they got was when a
Clarence River steward gave them for supper some
American tinned lobster, while there are crayfish
and lobsters here “ better than anything the Great
Republic can show.” Now they are sounding
Rent as to bringing out 200 Scottish families to
start caaining, curing, smoking, fertiliser and oil-
extraction works, besides the simple business of
dropping a baited bit of bent wire into the . sea
and nauling the inhabitants Out therewith. But
t^l ' s interviewing and sounding
of Premiers and such like about? These Scotch
gentlemen tell us there’s tons of fish waiting to be
caught; and then, instead of fleeing away for a
nook and a bit of bait, they turn aside and
sound any Stfite politician who happens to be
in. In fact, they sound so much that Australia
starts to get a bit tired.
Those fodder importers, whose S’African
cargoes had to be disinfected in Melbourne lately
lest they spread disease wholesale, have found a
susceptible subject in Swinburne, Bent’s Minister
of Agriculture. When the cargoes arrived, Swin-
burne firmly declared that he would have them
sent back rather than spread disease. Then some
of the firmness soaked out, and he allowed the
cargoes to lie disinfected. The other day the
importers wailed to him that the Commonwealth
Government had said the stuff would be admitted,
and so they had been more or less ruined by the
expense, and would Mr. Swinburne try and get
• 6m j com Pensated ? Whereupon Slimburne,
instead of telling them that the Commonwealth’s
information referred to the tariff, and that it had
nothing to do with the prevention of stock dis-
eases, actually took them to Adolphus and per-
suaded him to promise sympathetic consideration.
Such a kind man is Mr. Swinburne ! Besides,
you see, Mr. Swinburne doesn’t have to do the
paying.
“ the ideal way to
SEE EUROPE.”
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to sceneny
and places of interest to suit his clients. Also First-Class
Touring'Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
READ THIS.
READ THIS.
ROBAND
(REGD.)
AUTOMATIC
SELF-FILLING
Fountain Pen
A Pen that is always Ready and Costs but
a Fraction of the Price of other Makes.
The ROBAND ”is the most reliable and
cheapest Self-Filling- Pen ever produced. It
writes smoothly and clearly, .does not BLOT or
LEAK, requires no separate filler, and CAN BE
CARRIED IN ANY POSITION WITH PERFECT
SAFETY. The mechanism is simple, and being
so is practically as perfect as -it can be made by
human hands. EVERYTHING A PEN SHOULD
DO, THIS PEN DOES.
The nibs are gilt and so will not corrode, and
are made in Fine, Medium and Broad points to
suit all writers. Please state nib required when
ordering.
NOTE.—You regulate the flow yourself. It
is unnecessary to puli' the pen to
pieces to clean it. TURN THE SCREW
AND THE PEN IS READY.
WE guarantee satisfaction.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
For a short period, and as an advertisement
we have decided to GIVE, AWAY a Roband
Patent Pneumatic Clip with each Pen.
Of all high-class Newsagents, Booksellers, etc.
or wholesale of ■’
SARCOOD BROS., Melbourne, Victoria: Perth
W. Australia. ’
SARCOOD, SON & EWEN, Auckland, Wellington
Christchurch, Dunedin.
RO3T. A. THOMPSON & CO., 24- and 26 Holborn
London, E.C , England.
PATERNOSTER’S
■BB PILLS B
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
FOR
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can he obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Frea, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
A Moustache Wanted!
Is that the case with you ? There is nothing easier in the world to
procure. A little
CAPILLARINE
rubbed on the lip before retiring each night will soon give you a long,
thick moustache that will remain with you permanently.
Price 10/6
TO ANY PART
OP THE WORLD.
Capillarine has been used with complete success for the last 25 years.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney
-Established 25 Years.
Makes you look manly.
LYONS,
256 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.
%
YOUR NEED
i.' i : ,
met in these Splendid VIOLIN OUTFITS.
ALL the VIOLINS, even in the very
Cheapest Set, are HAND-MADE, and of
Superior Quality. Good Case, Bow,
Extra Set of Strings, Bridge and
Instruction Boole, FREE* with every
Set.
LYONS
HAS
REMOVED
to larger
premises at 256
Bourke St..where his
fine stock of Musical
Instrumnnts can be
shown to advantage.
A Welcome awaits old and
new' Customers.
PRICES:
Student’s Set 217-
Scholar’s Set 42/-
Conservatorium Set 63/
University Set £5 ss.
The Ideal Set £8 Bs.
Send your address
! for Best Musical
.Instrument Catalog
I in Melbourne.
.CL
0800006000
lllfzon
09
the mezon
ACCORDION.
The name is sufficient
guarantee that you are
getting the WORLD'S
BUST.
PRICES:
Organ Mezon 35/-
Wonder Mezon 42/-
Grand’Qrgan .
Mezon 63/- •
Chromatic Mezon, 90/-
Musical Instruments Carefully Packed and Forwarded to any address.
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A -trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less • Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Orfice
“PLASMON increases the
food value enormously.”
— Lancet.
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
i DELICIOUS, -
- DIGESTIBLE.
[ Of all Grocers , Stores , etc .
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
QHLORODYNE
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE)
Acts like a Charm in DIARRHCEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The Best Remedy Known for
\ COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
( ' :
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing: Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 2/9, & 4/6
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY
GOUT, RHEUMATISM, "
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They A!ways Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229, Strand.
London, England
&
Many men who at first glance look the picture of health and strength
are but little more than nervous wrecks. Nature gave them a strong
physique, but Nature has been imposed upon, and it is
only a question of time when they will have to acknow-
ledge their weakness to the world. Through ignorance ;
weakness and disease fasten themselves upon men like
a vampire, sapping their life and vitality. For all such
men there is a certain cure in Electricity properly applied.
DRUGS ARE USELESS
in such cases, for the best they can give is an unnatural stimulation such as
spirituous liquors give to the brain, and are more injurious if persisted with.
Electricity, properly applied—as it is with Dp. McLaughlin’s Im-
proved Electric Belt —is the one cure —the only cure—for vital
weakness and disease in men arid women. It has cured 500,000 men and
women in Australasia, and we have thousands of testimonials to prove
our assertions.
StomnPh'WiH 6 f ° r aII Weaknesses, Nervousness, Varicocele, Loss of Vitality
a , , h ’ ~K ,^ ey and LlVer Tpoubles - Rheumatism, Sciatica, and Lumbago
d wnen used with our newly-patented Electro-Plastic Truss, is a certain cure for Rupture
Jt is easy to use; no Sting*, burn or Shock; put it on when you go to bed, and vou get up in the
morning feeling like a two-year-old colt. They are guaranteed to give a strong current, instantly felt,
end have special attachments for men. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up!
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it free, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated With strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
THE McIAUGHUN CO.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNE'
■JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
lO


Rev. Nathaniel Dawes, who went to
England a few months ago, has resigned his billet
of Anglican Bishop of Rockhampton (Q.). It was
somewhat late in life that he took to the job
which eventually brought him a pair of gaiters.
Before that he was an engineer, and helped to
build, among other things, Blackfriars Bridge,
across the Thames, at London.
William Swain, a veteran Yorkshire
cricketer, who has been living in Brisbane for
many years, has had a “ benefit ” match there.
Swain thinks he was 81 years old on September 8,
though Wisden’s Cricketers’ Almanac records :
“Swaine, W. (Yorkshire), born Sept. 8, 1830.”
If this is Swaiil, Of Brisbane, he is three runs
shdrt ih his score of 81 not out.
Boating on Melbourne’s Yarra
-s If you are in Melbourne and want to go boating, the
only place where sufficient liquid is gathered together
for the purpose is in the old brown Yarra. If you have
plerity of time you take the tram out to Abbotsford,
trUdge balf-a-mile or so, and get your boat from one of
the sheds above Dight’s Falls. If, however, you have
only An hour or two to spare, you repair to Prince’s
bridge and hire your skiff there. Then you take off
your coat and row yourself slowly out of Melbourne.
The first landmark you pass on the north bank is a
cheerful-looking red brick building rather like a desirable
villa residence. It is the Morgue. Beyond it a flat strip
of plain containing fences, cows and stunted gums
stretches away in one great yawn round the curve of
the river. There is nothing else to watch on that bank,
unless it be a pair of tarts giggling on one of the
seats thoughtfully provided for the purpose. So you
turn yoUr perspiring countenance towards the south and
discover you are opposite a tree-clad hill, on which stands
a building with a thin, square tower and a flagstaff. This
is Government House. You fix your eyes on it and
watch it sliding slowly past the clouds while you toil at
the oars. You keep struggling on all the time, because,
if you don’t, the current will take you back, and no one
wants to do the Yarra four times in one day—twice up
and twice down. Another inducement to keep going is
the conversation of the tarts on the bank. About a mile
upstream is the first bridge, and, if you know yOur Yarra,
you have a glance over your shoulder to see how many
boys are waiting to drop stones And dtist on yoii from
mid-air. You'- are liable to be thrown at from either
bank At Any point, but the, bridges are never
left UnAttended. You save yourself for a dash as
you approach the river pirates, and if you are lucky you
get through with a boulder or two in the boat. There
are four or five bridges between Prince’s Bridge and Haw-
thorn, and they are manned day and night by tribes
of hostile small boys. If you are a numerous picnic party
you can put a landing party ashore td threaten the flanks
of the enemy, but if riot yoU haVe to submit td be pelted.
About Richmond the fiver ceAses being improved and
widened; ahd the banks are close together. This brings
the hostile tribes much closer, and their aim is, in con-
sequence, more Oorrect, In this part of the river you
hear at intervals a mysterious flopping and splashing that
suggests a shiall Waterfall. It is a drain. The river-side
youth always does his wooing on the banks of the
Yarra, and it is embarrassing to have to row' past at
a distance of about four yards. The lady casts
down her eyes and takes a deep interest in her
shoes, and the swain teclines On his elbow and scowls
heavily pjitil you are OUfc of sight fotirtd the bend. There
are always things floating ih the Yarra. A man I know
tells A grisly story of a boat picnic he attended in the
days of his youth. It was a beautiful moonlight night,
and.they were sitting ih (he skiff singing coon songs to a
bahjo accompaniment. In the middle of a particularly
cheerful item one of the girls chanced to look overside at
the water. At her terrified shriek one of the men jumped
Up; And, seizing an oar, pushed Something away from the
boat. Then the cold, silent stranger who had drifted
quietly in amongst them took his departure and resumed
his journey down stream with his face to the sky.
o
M
E
R
SKIN
FOOD
Of all
Stores or
Chemists
Keeps
the skin
soft and
smooth and, by
nourishing it, eradi-
cates lines or wrinkles.
Made by Mrs. Pomeroy
Ltd., 29, Old Bond Street,
London, England.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Bums. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
0
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough arid practical
training within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
URAWINC
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. W'e have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE, 428 "cOLUNS S STREET,
SMOKE
er
REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME .
Wholesale Agents—
TEA.SDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY & CO., Port Darwin.
LADIES* TAILOR CUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32 6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
// s
Sole Agents for:
VERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/6.
SHIRTS from 4/-
CPNSPOPULAH
k A TO H”
RAZOR
Guaranteed a High Grade Razor.
FULLY HOLLOW GROUND.
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED.
ALWAYS KEEPS
THE EDGE.
Finest Steel. Smooth Shaving.
In Black Vulcanite Handle.
In Real Ivory Handle . .
7 in Case, one for each day of the week.
TO BK OBTAINED OF
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney . n
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant;
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
GOUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where ** Coughs ’* have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally,
NOTICE— Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. iAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
Ey>e LEADING
HOUSE -<»
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
CAN’T
B
BEAT
ARMS COY. S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock
weight of 12-gauge, about 6f to 71b, ;of 16-gauge, 6£ to 6|lb. ... fif s
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
AULDJOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1008 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mf.rrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. Hojv to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book D.y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
.Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
m its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
, overed edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
faddkn’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. pr- Established % Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR.
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
»
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking. f
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Sta°-e, Is
; posted. New Tricks with Cards, is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d cost. Dr. Milford’s Mid;
; wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, lSi
, Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
i Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
: Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, ls posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), ls 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, ls 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 16s post paid (whv pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing" Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets of. Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), ls 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, ls 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
PIPES
AS SWEET AS MUSIC
TAKE NO OTHERS
Obtainable from allTobamnbts
THE BULLETIN POST GAUDS.-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
4>
3>
U
0<
2-ft. High.
~W/
m
H LIFE-SIZE DOLE,
OR ft BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Llfe=siZid Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French c eation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks, brown eye , and represented with flesh-col mre i body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will standalone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highlv
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of best material rapid in itsaction, and
ecui ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WST6H
GHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money b/-, ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU.
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents —a complete illustrated list sent vi' h the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt -st., Sydney, j
Boy’s Rifie.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
IXikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength; long-established,safe, reliable and
bandy to use.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there are
many worthless substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chem-
ists, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORRISON,
Proprietor, 89 Hunter-street, J’-ydney.
Sample bottles and full particulars , by poet
Is. 4d. (stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAE,-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
== Briflsb-Jittstralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting,London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORM (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detraotors
of our great Commonwealth.


Pimples OIF in Five Days.
THE NEW TREATMENT DOES WONDERS
TO EVERY KIND OF SKIN ERUPTION.
TRIAL PACKAGE SENT FREE
TO PROVE IT.
You don’t want to wait for ever and a day to
get rid of your pimples or other skin eruptions.
You want to get rid of them right now. Next
week you may want to go somewhere where you
wouldn’t like to have to take the pimples along.
You can get rid of them just in time by taking
Laxo-Tonic Pills.
These wonderful little workers have cured bad
boils in three days, and some of the worst cases
of skin diseases in a week.
They contain as their main ingredient the most
thorough, quick, and effective blood cleanser and
tonic known.
Remember this, too, that most pimple treat-
ments reek with poison, and they are miserably
slow besides.
Laxo-Tonic Pills have not a particle of poison
in them. They are free from mercury, biting
drugs, or venemous opiates. This is absolutely
guaranteed. They cannot do any harm, but they
always do good—good that you can see in the
mirror before your own eyes a few days after.
Don’t be any longer humiliated by having a
splotchy face. Don’t have strangers stare at you,
or allow your friends to be ashamed of you
because of your face.
Your blood makes you what you are. The men
and women who forge ahead are those with pure
blood and pure faces.
Laxo-Tonic Pills will make you happy because
your face will be a welcome sight not only to
yourself when you look in the glass, but to every-
body else who knows you and talks with you.
We want to prove to you that Laxo-Tonic Pill s
are beyond doubt the best and quickest blood and
skin purifier in the world—so we will send you a
free sample as soon as we get your name and
address. Send for it to-day, and when you have
tried the sample you will not rest contented until
you have bought a or 1/6 box.
Send us your name and address to-day, and we
will at once send you by mail a sample package
free. Address Laxo-Tonic Pill Company, 15
O'Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.*
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
DON’T LOOK OLD.
DARKEN
TOUR
WITH
-
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
11l Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
NEAT zwid
STRONG.
TO
MEND
BELTS'and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers ; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O,
1098. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington. Kng.
Price List on
application.
e
X
&
&
*
<o>
5v
<-
r
<5,
*\
®Q
&
&
<o
Sr
/
5S
N>
V jAßie
W is thb
Fmomarch
r ■ ■ o* •
Billiard
Tables.
Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
V-U'znt
ro riTie
O CAR Bo
37
SAN 22
i?
§
£RG^
•72
®
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP
6d. per Tablet.
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WAi^i.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :—A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity 6f hot or cold water.
CAUTION
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
- ANDREAS BAXLEHNKR, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
The Horses of the Hills.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN cohorts of September,
Are marching down amain,
We waken and remember
Our fathers’ fields again.
Old Winter’s icebonds slacken,
And Winter’s voioe is low,
And sunward peeps the bracken
From winding sheets of snow.
Dumb earth beneath us shivers,
As ’neath a monarch’s car,
And mortals call us rivers,
Who dream not what we are.
Ere mastodon or eurus
Might dare the steamy rift,
From Java to Honduras
Our hoofs had scarred the drift.
Honduras east to Java
Our hieroglyphs are beat
On prehistoric lava
Or old silurian sleet.
And seaward still our course is
When Spring’s glad fanfare thrills,
And wakes the wild white horses,
The horses of the hills.
Our dams came south and nor’ward,
Our dams came east and west,
Hard driven in from shoreward,
And laid them down to rest.
With whips of storm behind them
They wheeled and whirled and broke
And fled by roads assigned them,
And sank to earth like smoke.
In Winter’s cave we slumbered,
We lay there bound in chains,
For days that were unnumbered.
No life within our veins ;
But cohorts of September
Are marching down amain—
We waken and remember
Our fathers’ fields again.
Off cape and fretted foreland
Ten thousand hoofs a-drum,
Our sires who hold the shoreland,
The white sea stallions come.
O’er drift and weed and spinny,
Inshore their leaders stamp,
And wheel and snort and whinny
To call us to their camp.
’Neath dawn or noontide splendor
Inborne on winds of dream,
In vibrant tone and tender,
We hear the call supreme ;
High o’er the locked land forces
A clarion call it shrills —
“Come home ! come home, white horses !
White horses of the hills ! ”
O ! vain on back and shoulder
Its harness Winter bound,
And fenced with brake and boulder
His mountain stockyard round ;
Disdaining bond or shackle,
With plunge and swerve and shy,
We break from bar and tackle
And thunder in reply.
Down thro’ the gorge’s shadows
Our rolling squadrons burst,
Forth from the white snow meadows
Wherein our strength was nursed.
By hut and homestead swinging
Full speed and flanks afoam—
We hear the land wind singing,
“ Come home ! white steeds, come home !”
No riders sit astride us ;
No fences bid us stay ;
And none so bold as ride us
Cross country to the bay.
Who track our trampled courses
Bear witness to our wills—■■
We are the wild white horses,
The horses of the hills.
VIC.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
Fact’ry ’Ands.
A CONVERSAZIONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was lunch hour on the top flat at
Spats’ factory. The Beauties were allowed
half-an-hour for their meal, but disposing of
bundles of food and pint pannikins of tea was a
matter of minutes—possibly the busiest minutes
of the day. Then, these labors being ended, the
graceless pasters gave themselves to recuperation
and exchange of thought. Often the conversation
was confined to more or less melancholy reflections
on men and manners.
To-day man’s inhumanity to woman was the
theme of debate. It was conducted in a sad
spirit, with gleams of bitterness and some little
comic relief. The Beauties sat on reams and
bales, or lounged on mounds of hessian. The
packer, flattened in perfect repose on a bag of
waste in the lift corner, smoked in open defiance
of the printed regulations, and regardless of the
express restrictions of three powerful insurance
companies. Benno sat with his back to the wall,
covertly nibbling a cigarette. These two, drows-
ing apart, stood for Man in the abstract. They
were the Object of Scorn—the butt; and bricks
of conversation were hurled at them with malice
prepense.
“Why don’t I git married ? ” said Harrerbeller
Harte. “ Ask me ! Coz it’s one iv them little
things yeh can’t do on your ace, no matter how
willin’, ’n ther men ain’t takin’ any. This sea-
son’s goods ain’t in hot demand, ’n last season’s
is still on ther shelves mostly. Married ! Blime,
yeh can’t get er man with grit enough t’ dog er
cat up er post, let alone marry.”
“ Can’t yeh pinch er little one, Beller ? ” asked
a sympathetic folder.
“Oh. blokes is easy,” replied Harrerbeller con-
temptuously. “ They’re in bunches on every cor-
ner. I’ve had nine since Chrismis, but what’re
they good fer ? A starry ramble ’r er jaunt round
town Saturdee nights, ’r er walk out Sundees t’ let
er new suit get wind. Mention marriage even in
’er whisper, ’n there’s er bolt. Ten t’ one ’e jolts
his silly head agin er telegraft post in his hurrj 7
t’ get ’ome ’n’ take refuge under th’ ’ouse.”
Kitty Coudray had finished licking the raspberry
jam off her crib paper. “ ’N’ if he does cart yeh
out Sundee, bet yer boots he on’y goes er walkin’
distance,” she said in a shrill voice. “If yeh
jolly him inter buyin’ er penny tram ride, his ’ole
day’s spoilt.”
“Mean, tha’s what they are, ther big boilin’ iv
’em —dumb, dirty mean ! ” said Bell Oliver,
bitterly. “I’ve got er John now. I’ve’ad ’irn er
month on trial, ’n’ ther way he bucks off ther
track et th’ sight iv er lolly shop is er thing worth
watchin’, I’m tellin’ yeh. We’re sailin’ down the
asphalt, all very fine ’n’ large, ’im in his forty-bob
suit ’n’ er double-barrelled collar high enough fer
’er dook, smokin’ his threepen’orth iv ciggers, ’n’
flatterin’ himself he might be mistook fer some-
thin’ pertickler extry with er motor car in ther
family, when suddenly he begins t’ edge off, ’n’
get mighty interested in ther weather. If I don’t
’old him he maybe topples inter th’ gutter, ’r gets
hit out with a bike in his back. We’re passin’ er
confection’ry, ’r er. lolly ’n’ fruit bus’ness, ’r may-
be it’s er peanut stand, ’r a hice-cream barrer.
Instinc’ warns him whatever it is, ’n’ till we’re
right out ’iv reach ’iv danger, ’Enery’s deaf, blind
’n’insenseless. Yeh cud stiqk darnin’ needles in
’im, ’n’ he wouldn’t wake.”
“That’s them!” A dozen voices started to
point the moral and adorn the tale. “ Straight ! ”
cried Sarah Eddie. “Er lad iv mine fell over er
dog th’other night tryin’t’ duck er penny try-yer-
weight.” ,
“Yeh couldn’t get ’em t’ face er merry-go-
round without er bag over their’eads, they’re that
shy,” said the ex-professional fat girl.
“My bloke goes all iv er tremble, ’n’ sweats
pints iv yeh say ' Theatre ! ’ to ’im,” added Peggy
Milne, in a triumphant climax of squeal.
The packer raised himself on an elbow.
“ ’Ss-cats ! ” he hissed, and hurled an old boot
into the darkness behind the bales.
“Yes, they’re savin’,” said Harrerbeller Harte,
“’n’ when they’re not savin’ they have ther beer
habit.” The last few words were hurled at
Feathers, but he lay in apparent beatitude,
dreamily smoking. “In fact,” continued Harrer-
beller, “them what’s beer-greedy is ther most
miserably mean. They’re alwez thinkin’ iv
thrip’nies, ’n’ any one iv ’em ’ud walk er decent,
God-fearin’ girl three miles t’ save er pint.
Marry ! Blesh yer ’eart, th’ .on’y girls what has
er chance iv wedlock is them what’s willin’ t’ keep
Dickie’n’his chicks.”
Feathers removed his pipe. “Sad, ain’t it,
Benno,” he said, “t’ ’ear ther pore things fret-
tin’ ? ”
“ Frettin’!” yelled a storm of voices.
“ Frettin’! ”
“ Our troubles ! ”
“ Wouldn’t ’ave yeh at er gift.”
“ Garn, men’s off. We ain’t takin’ any ! ”
“As it ’appens,” said Harrerbeller, “we’re
keepin’ out iv ther grave without any ’elp from
them. We can earn er few rags, er bite iv bread,
’n’ our own bone, ’n’ we ain’t goin’ beggin’t’ men
fer nothin’ yet. Men —rats! We ain’t ’avin’ ’em
on our minds.”
“Yes, tha’s why,” said Feathers to the clerk,
speaking with gentle compassion. “When yeh
’ear pore woman raisin’ wild cries, ’n’ kickin’ up
fit t’ shift ther shingles, yeh can always know,
Benno, my son, it’s all erbout somethin’ what
don’t trouble her er bit, ’n’she isn’t frettin’, ’n’
she doesn’t really mind in ther least, no matter
what yeh say, so there.” Then in the same com-
passionate voice the packer spoke his parable of
the cats. George Mills was very partial to
parables.
“ Th’ other night,” he said, “ I come across ten
cats complainin’ on ther kitchen roof what slants
up t’ me little boodwar winder et th’ ’ome fer
friendless men where I’m bidin’ my time jest now.
They was all cats iv ther female persuasion,
’n’ they was pointin’ out t’ each other ther
despicable qualities iv cats of ther male sect.
Give yeh me word, Benno, Thomas was gettin’
nothin’—jest nothin’ et all. There wasn’t
anythin’ low ’n’ dirty ’n’ mean ’n’ bad that wasn’t
ther matter with Thomas. Thomas ’ad all ther
drawbacks. ’E was fouled out every time. Every
cat on th’ iron was of opinion that t’ sweeten ther
town ’twas necessary t’ bat poor Thomas over th’
’ead with er haxe, ’n’ bury him in quicklime—ther
quicker ther better—’n’ they got that excited ex-
pressin’ opinions ’n’ framin’ ’n’ carryin’ reserlu-
tions I thought they’d tear th’ roof away. Then
up steps Thomas. He’d bin orf his beat
foragin’, ’n’ he walked up ther spout jest
t’ see what ther new woman was makin’
iv ther problems iv ther day. He wasn’t
er superior kind iv cat, neither ’an’some nor
aristocratic. He wasn’t what you’d call er blood
cat. But his whiskers was in curl, ’n’ he wore his
’at ’n’ his eyeglass er bit jaunty, ’n’ he had dash.
He hexchanged civilities with er small tabby, ’n’
she seemed gratified at bein’ picked out fer
special attention. What ’appened, Benno ? In two
secs nine infuriated cats got their claws inter that
tabby. They fair tore the socks off her, ’n’
rushed ’er off ther roof, ’n’ her mangled remains
was shot through Cody’s winder, ’n’ lit among
Cody’s leading features. Then Thomas trans-
ferred his affections to er black ’n’ white Kitty.
Kitty had ther same ’ard end—eight other cats
went furious with jealousy, ’n’ kicked her frag-
ments about ther night. Then th’ eight began t’
mix it ermong themselves, competin’ fer Tommy’s
favor, ’n’ in five secs yeh cud ’ave sw r ep er barrer-
load iv dismantled cat off iv that roof. Now,
Benno, I don’t insist there’s anythin’ like er
general resemblance atween women ’n’ cats, but
they have points in common.”
“Garn, yiv got bunnies!” exclaimed Kitty
Coudray, upon whom the moral was lost. “You
’n’ yer twitter about cats ! What’s ther strength
iv it anyway?”
“Ther strength iv it is this,” said Feathers,
oracularly, “yous women hate man so much yer
ready t’ kill er sister t’ prevent her gettin’ him ;
then yeh take him on yerselves t’ show yer
courage. ’Owever, me sympathies is with yeh
t’ some extent, ’n’ I don’ mind givin’ yeh
ther real straight grif’ erbout bad men. It’s
turnin’ dog on me own, but I owe ’er
dooty t’ society. Ladies, yer wrong in kickin’
agin ther lad what’s cautious with his glitter.
That’s ther marryin’ sort. Likely ez not he’s
puttin’ pennies in ther little tin bank on ther pot
shelf fer his troo-so, ’r fer ther bits iv sticks t’
furnish th’ ’appy ’ome. When yer playin’ fer
keeps, ther boy t’ dodge is ther one with ther pore
ole mother. Yiv all met ther lad with the pore
ole mother. Sometimes she’s er bed-ridden sister,
’r maybe she’s two aunts what’s bin ez good ez
mothers to him. Whatever she is, girls, put him
down et ther next corner. He don’t mean serious
biz. That ole. mother,’r them aunts dependent
on his exertions, is jist er jolly t’ stave off ther
fatal day when ther registra sez, ‘ Sign ’ere. ’Arf-
er-crown, please, V Gord ’elp yeh ! ’ ”
(Continued on next 'page.)


KIDNEYS NEVER REST.
The kidneys never take a moment’s rest, they keep on with their great work of filtering out uric acid and kidney
poisons day after day, night after night, as long as we live. And so important is their work that, even though they get only
a little behind, no part of the system is free from danger ; the back aches, the limbs drag, the eyelids seem like lead ; there
are dropsical swellings, rheumatic pains, dizzy spells, urinary troubles. The sufferer is moody, despondent, and irritable.
This is how the fatal Bright’s disease begins. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are special kidney help, all their healing
power goes to the kidneys, and they have no action on the bowels. Doan’s Pills correct urinary disorders, gravel, bladder
troubles —cure backache, rheumatism, dropsy, and every kidney complaint —give tone to the whole system, and make you
feel brighter, healthier, and happier.
SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
WAVERLEY.
Mrs. F. May, 48 Newland-street, Waver-
ley, Sydney, says on 2nd Feb., 1907 :—“I
have read the testimony which I gave eight
years ago, stating my good opinion of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and I can truthfully
say that every word is correct, and I have
still the same good opinion of this remedy.
I had contracted a severe chill across the
loins, and for a couple of years suffered with
lumbago-like pains in the small of my back.
I also had a touch of rheumatism. But
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, and
I am still quite free of every symptom of
kidney complaint. I have recommended this
great kidney remedy to numbers of suffer-
ers, and they all endorse my good opinion
of it.”
DOWLING STREET.
Mrs. E. Chapman, 133 Dowling-street,
Sydney, says “My mother suffered with
severe pains across the back and in her legs.
For six months she was very bad, and some
days would not be able to get up at all. She
tried a lot of remedies, but they did her no
good. We saw Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills advertised, and thought we w T ould get
some and give them a trial. After taking
the first half box, we knew they were good,
for she felt a little better, and from that on
the improvement was marked, and eight
boxes completed her cure. She is now
splendid, and can get about easily. It is
twelve months since her cure, and during that
time she has not needed to take a single pill.
We feel sure that she is cured for good.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six boxes
15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan
Co., Pitt Street, Sydney.
6C Every
Picture
Tells cu
Story, 99
1
v«
L
L
(si
r\
\
fl
Nv
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
Miss Coleman uttered a squeal of wrath. “My
Arthur’s got a gran’mother and two ailing sisters
to support,” she cried, “and I get it about them
three nights a week. Oh, and ain’t I tired ! ”
“ There yeh are !” said Feathers triumphantly.
“Yer wastin’ time ’n’ affection on him, Sis. I
bet I know Artie intimate. He can’t marry while
Granny lives ’n’ the sisters is lookin’ to him fer
three meals ’n’ incidentals—can’t think iv it.
Bump him off. Sis, iv yer battlin’ fer a hutch iv yer
own, ’n’ hopin’ t’ enter ther blessed bonds.”
“That’s just how it is with him,” wailed Miss
Coleman.
“ There’s another sort jist ez frequent,” said the
packer. “He’s hafflicted with some quaint de-
rangement in his happendicitis, or er chronic com-
plaint in his dark ’n’ unexplored interior what
defies detection, ’n’ has got all ther medical faculty
beat to er finish. He’d like t’ marry—oh, he fair
longs t’ ’ave a ’ome iv his own, ’n’ er lovin’ little
wife, ’n’ er fireside, ’n’ er clutch iv babies chir-
rupin’ on ther hearth, on’y he daren’t think iv it
while this ’orrid fear is hangin’ over him.”
“That’s Mary Canty’s John,” said Harrer-
beller. “His is ploorisy ’n’ pull-monery symp-
tims.”
“ Pore dear !” said Feathers. “He’s usin’ up
Canty’s young haffections ’n’ wastin’ her bright
youth, while givin’ her to understand on er sort iv
side-issue that matrimony ain’t t’ be thought of.
Meanwhile, he eats like er Zoo camel, ’n’ looks ez
tough ez er bluestone memorial. Another lay
that’s popular with kids what don’t want their
girls t’ cherish mad idears is ther mag about mar-
riage bein’ barred by ther great hinstitution what
pays ’em thirty bob er week fer their hinvaluable
services. In banks it is understood that ther
young ’n’ suckin’ financiers what runs the errands
mustn’t connect by marriage till they’re in er
position t’ support er wife ’n’ ’er relations without
dabblin’ with ther firm’s stamps ’n’ loose change,
’n’ gay young financiers work the hexemption fer
all it’s worth among ther susceptible maiden
ladies iv this great city. Many blokes in other
walks iv life ’n’ spheres iv usefulness pitch ther
same mag, savin’ how they recognise married
blessedness ez th’ hideal state fer man, but ther
firm won’t ’ear iv it. Brush ’em off, girls ; they
ain’t no good t’ yeh. They’re deliberit take-
downs, wbo’ve planned ther way out afore enterin’
into ther flirtation.”
Ginger Christie gasped audibly, and all eyes
turned on her. She was disturbed, and seemed
on the point of making a revelation, but thought
1 letter of it.
“It goes t’ show what I sez,” said Harrerbeller
Harte, bitterly, “that men is cheats, ’n’sneaks,
n’ deceivers.”
The lank foreman fluttered among them, shed-
ding dust from his gossamer hair and his moth-
like whiskers. “Come, come !” he cried, “time’s
up these three minutes. To your boards, then ! ”
He danced after the girls, shaking his apron at
them, shooing them like hens.
The intentions of the packer were strictly
honorable, but the reward of virtue is not always
commensurate. On the following Friday at lunch
time a young lady came to the top flat, seeking
Feathers. She was an ingenuous little blue-eyed
creature from a coat and mantle maker’s up the
lane. The packer was absent, exchanging pints
with the lorry driver from the paper mill, and she
reposed confidence in the Beauties, and explained
that she was George’s one true love. “Me and
liim’s been in co. for two months now,” she said.
“Don’t he ever speak of me? I’m Annie. He’s
real gone on me, anyone can see that; and he’d
marry me too if it wasn’t for your measly old boss
here refusin’ to allow him to marry till he’s head
of the department.”
“ Wha-a-’s that ?” yapped Harrerbeller Harte.
“Why,” said Annie, “don’t you know this
firm won’t let its young men marry till they’re
gettin’ three-pound-ten a week, and have a four-
roomed villa ? And even then the girl’s got to be
a proved Wesleyan, and has to be passed by a
committee of the boss, the junior partner, and a
Methodist clergyman. Ain’t George ever told
you ?”
“Wow!” cried Harrabeller, throwing up her
apron and falling back in an imitation fit. The
other Beauties put up a yowl of joy. Feathers
heard it, coming up the stairs. It pealed out
afresh when he appeared on the landing. He
rushed Annie away before explanations could be
offered, but he never expects to hear the last of
the firm’s hypothetical regulations for the preven-
tion of rash marriages.
EDWARD DYSON.
The “Boy.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE drummer from Hartford, Conn.,
IT. Si A., lifted his legs on to the rests of
the Rangoon chair, and spake :
“It was ‘b’y’ this and ‘ b’y ’ that all over
India. Everybody had a ‘ b’y.’ To light your
cigarette you called ‘b’y’—in an English accent;
if you dropped a pen, you bawled ‘b’y,’and an
old man would hop along even from the other end
of the Empire to pick it up ; you wouldn’t wink
calling in your ‘ b’y ’ to do the workin’
part; if you wanted anything bad—say, money
from home —it would come along if you just sat
back and breathed hard, ‘ b’y.’
“ ‘You should get a “ b’y,” ’ advised my Anglo-
Indian friends; ‘he’ll do everything. If he doesn’t,
kick him. It’s the only way to keep these beggahs
in their places.’
“ I was brought up by mother to look after
myself; but east is east, and west is west, so
Rudyard Kipling says—and when every time you
wandered into the landscape you were assaulted
by hawkers, guides, goats, and beggars; and
every time you bought a parcel, three coolies
fought for it till it busted, and then insisted on
carrying one section apiece ; and every time you
bought an iced drink, you tipped the whole pala-
tial establishment, from the manager to the second
hall porter; and every time you breathed, you
were charged commission—l began to reckon the
proposition worthy of consideration.
“ ‘ A good b’y,’ I was told, ‘ will save you
money.’ As I seemed to be tipping a fair per-
centage of the teeming millions of this great In-
dian Empire, one more unit couldn’t amount to
much anyway.
“As I sat on the hotel verandah—this was in
the North—figuring how much it would cost to
gaze at the azure sky, a scraggy, ragged native, a
Sooty specimen, small framed, but with deep in-
telligent eyes, salaamed, and slipped a paper into
my hand. He was on two annas. That, I thought,
might fix him.
“ It was a testimonial. ‘This boy has been in
my service for five years, and I have always found
him honest, truthful, and willing. Signed, John
Smith.’
“ This ought to do as well as the next one, and
he seemed to need the money. I hired him.
“ Simon—l christened him Simon —asked me to
sign an agreement. He was to receive 30 rupees
a month, sufficient money to buy warm clothing,
and a ticket back to the starting point of our
journey.
“Efficient? He was a peach, a bute, a dandy.
He did the thinking for me. Don’t say I should
have hired a bunch. Simon ran the show. He was
guide, philosopher, and commission agent; he
was valet and body servant; he was my trainer,
guardian, private secretary, and shampooer ajl in
one.
“ He was an all-round man, believe me,
“ He tipped the porters, and kept off beggars ; he
set out my ‘sincerity’ clothes, and I dressed as he
decreed ; he took off my shoes, selected my cigars,
paid my bills; he kept all our accounts in a little
red book ; by day he followed me like a shadow,
and at night, like a faithful dachshund, he slept
across the threshold of my room,
“ I was his father and mother and all the Royal
Family.
“Every morning he brought me a glass of nice,
sparkling sodawater to clean my teeth. You
musn’t drink Indian water, and I took no chances.
One morning I was pushed for time. Along the
corridor—it was half-a-mile long—rushed Simon,
and just as I was pressing the button of the ele-
vator he caught me, and panted, ‘Sahib, you
forgot to wash your teeth.’ He was marked
‘ warranted.’
“He was worth the money. Waal, he was not
exactly cheap. He had more ways of getting
money out of an unwilling subject than a Boston
Judge. There was always somethin’ doin’—hair
oil, tooth-powder, buttons for my coat, laces for
my shoes, warm clothing for Simon ; as I didn’t
stipulate the precise amount, he wanted another
blanket or something every second days. But
as all the items were carefully inserted in his
little red account book I guessed the deal must be
quite right and proper.
“Simon, who came originally from Madras,
had had a judicial training. For seven years he
had been in the employment of a Calcutta Judge,
receiving a remuneration of just 20 rupees per
month. How did he quit? The Judge went to
England for a holiday, and on his return Simon
asked for a rise in salary to 25 rupees per month.
The just Judge reckoned such procedure contrary
to the first principles of British Common Law ;
and Simon was fired.
“I questioned him. Simon only smiled. It
was his bad luck, to be accepted philosophically—
fate, Kismet.
“ He never whimpered.
“‘ I didn’t think he’d sack me, sahib,’ he
added.
“ His honesty was nickel-plated. One night I
put a bunch of 10-rupee notes under my pillow.
In the morning one had been peeled off. I made
a search. The note was hidden under the lower
pillow. It must have slipped. I collected the
note, and put the soap in its place. Then I
bawled for that cake of soap. Simon couldn’t
make it out. I said nothing. Neither did Simon.
Before tiffin I went into my room. There was
the soap lying in the dish. I guess Simon had
his suspicions about that 10-rupee note.
“ I brought him down to Bombay with me ;
rather he brought me. He sgid it was a fine city,
and he liked to see the sights. He cost me money.
After collecting four annas to see the circus that had
come to town, I found I owed him seven rupees
eightannas and five pies for socks, his third blanket,
and extras. As he didn’t wear socks I couldn’t
quite place it, but he showed it written up in the
book. I paid him. I was told also he received
commission on every deal he handled. He was a
financier.
“Simon had plenty sand at the bottom.
“ He was the whole cheese, but I felt he was
too good to last. I dreamt it. Would he gamble,
or take to arrack, or just rob me? I had a pre-
sentiment something .. . was .. . going ... to
. . . happen.
“ Warm weather, sir? Guess it was enervat-
ing. I couldn’t work or eat or sleep, it was that
hot. The electric fans only blew around hot air ;
the shadiest spot in the hotel could fry an on
either side. Even the native ice-man sweated. I
was simply meltin’—meltin’ away like'a bWa'utiful
dreanj. I bought bunches of ice, had the bath
filled with them, and crawled in, waiting for
orders and trying in vain to cool. At about 4.15
I heard a gentle tap at the door. I was scared to
move out of the ice for fear of gettin’ scalded with
the hot air. It was stifling. Another tap.
‘Come right in,’l called ; ‘don’t knock, this is
my busy day.’ Simon’s fine head appeared.
‘Sahib,’ he whined. ‘What’s the trouble?’ I
bellowed, tying an iceberg round my brow;
‘ Breathe it through your lungs, quick 1 ’
“ ‘Sahib,’ he whispered—just a gentle whisper;
‘Sahib, I want me warm-clothes money.’
“Up and away to the swamps.
“ That was the limit.
“I rang for tire native police, and gave Simon
in charge.
“When I revived, the fire brigade was still
playing on me.”
LOUIS ESSON.
Ballade of Cavalry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EAGLES down-flung through the tempest of
War,
Falcon-hawks plunging with talons of
steel,
Glad where the shrapnel’s reverberant star
Flames in the smoke, and the red legions reel !
Face forward pallid, and fast driving heel,
Cuirasses winking like far-away suns,
Thund’rously, wond’rously, spiteful they wheel—
Cavalry flung to the dolorous guns.
Fire-eyed the stallion whose hoof thunders far,
Roaring to know what the Smoke may reveal,
Snowy plumes blowing like foam on the bar
When the winds waken and tempests unseal;
Hoofs, thudding hoofs, and the battle bells peal,
Down naked sabres the battle flame runs;
Hard riding, straight riding, lean men and leal—
Cavalry flung to the dolorous guns.
Onward and on where the sullen heaps are,
Ripping the red bills are making their meal;
So they go racing, and shrill from afar
Men are complaining, and hurt stallions squeal,
Centaurs long-leaping—what raptures they feel
Ere the fierce onset of soaring swords stuns !
What shall they find them, of woe or of weal,
Cavalry flung to the dolorous guns?
Envoi.
When at thy footstool for guerdon they kneel,
Once the hard-riders, the straight-riding ones,
Fate, of thy favors O lavishly deal—
Cavalry flung to the dolorous guns !
MAORILAND.
C. ALLAN MARRIS.


“I have worked on the Barrier off and on for several years, and
had to lose a good many shifts
through ill health. I could neither
eat nor sleep well. In fact, work of
any kind was out of the onestion
until I struck a good thing in Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I had only taken one
bottle when I felt a lot better. In
all, I have taken seven bottles and
now am quite well. I always tell any
one that feels off color to take Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and it will put them in
working order.”
J. W. Scott,
Broken Hill, N. S. W.
Imperfectly digested food breeds poisons and im-
purities which are quickly absorbed into the blood.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
will strengthen the stomach and make the digestive juices more active.
As a remedy for dyspepsia and indigestion we cannot recommend it
too strongly.
As now made, it contains no alcohol. Be sure that you get
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some other kind put up in imitation of it.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowed, Mass., U. S. A.
M
CARDEN SEEDS
NO
MONEY
WANTED
Tn order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
into' every home, we are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHE- and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES' MUFF
CHAINS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc , FREE
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All \on have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLARDIA, etc.: Sell the packets at 3d.
per packet, send ns our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our grand list.
WE TRUST YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find the task of selling
them ridiculously easy, far they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
\T.e~>
tiP
mi
S f
4m?.
w
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY C 0,52 BOND ST SYDNEY, NSW.
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
48
Each Capsule bears the name
wer-
m)
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
WEfIRNE & BREAKSPEAR,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Fire=Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1598.
Hie
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Imparts to Metal the’
brightness of the Sun,
hence its name.
Ask for SOLARINE,
and do not be put
off with any other
JUST AS GOOD—
there is NO OTHER
AS GOOD.
METAL POLISH
mm
m
S,Q
& i.
o
%
Manufactured by
N. OUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
COLO £IVr |S rosT
CEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have soid the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose from the list of jewellery whicji we forward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
post card* sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
♦every case positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
QO
f=| GOOO LUCK §E%
REGAL POST CARD C?, 126 O'CONNELL ST,S> ONE.Y.
You will look like yourself again
when you get rid of that muddy complexion, when the whites of your eyes
lose that yellowish tinge,* when a touch of Nature's carmine tints your cheeks,
when your step is firm and your general appearance suggests that you are not
troubled with “nerves,” when you are able to take a ten-mile walk or tackle an
extra turn of hard work without undue fatigue, when you enjoy your food and
suffer no uneasy sensations
after taking
your meals, when you sleep soundly and look life gladly in the face, ready to
encounter its inevitable difficulties, your mind free from gloomy forebodings.
And all this will happen directly you start taking Beecham’s Pills. To be
in health your liver must be doing its work thoroughly, your stomach free from
dyspeptic weakness, your blood flowing pure and life-giving through your veins.
These essential conditions to physical well-being are undoubtedly to be secured
by an intelligent use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
STCff.")
WGs
A S:lent Wind Instrument
has recently been invented which will
benefit every Farmer and Pastoralist.
“Steel Wings” Windmill
has no chattering back-gears
or other noisy complications.
Its Windwheel runs silently, evenly
and easily between its TWO bearings,
and gives great power.
Every User of our Mills is filled with
satisfaction at the results obtained at such
a moderate cost.
On applying to Dept. C,
Steel Wings Windmill Go., Ltd.,
BAY 'ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY,
you will be supplied with information about
other grand but simple features of the biggest
Windmills built.
Bulletin
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
POST
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OK TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists —B. E. Minus, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McCrae, and “ Splash.”
Forwarded Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - - lOd.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
21k George Street , Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of sanie, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. •• ..£5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price ... £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge. ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift.
-ter
men
AND
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&O.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pagres
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true gfuide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering 1 humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published
POC p To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
■ Im Ci Cia this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on Men s special Ailments
on receipt of this adversisement. £l?“ Note Address s
DR. MARTIN, M.D., House, ” 151 Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. M , HYDE PARK, SVDNEY.


It’s Time to Invest
in a Garden Hose.
.J* “ buy it now yon’ll have the advantage of it
fr?m fc Monm °* the seas °n, and if you buy
from PERDRIAU S you 11 be sure of a very good
grade at an economical price.
~T, e a . r ? offering the best Rubber Carden Hose,
in the i-inch size, 3-ply at 7Jd. per foot, 17/6 for
80ft., or 36/- for 60ft The f-inch 3-ply is 9d.
for ewt’ 21/3 for 30ffc " 28/4 for 40ft - and 42/6
,„£ nd „7 e have a fine rar >ge of Nozzles, Sprink-
lers, eto., too.
Ask for a copy of our Hose Catalogue. It will
u 6 interesting to you and is sent free.
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“The House for All Rubber Goods,"
George Street, Sydney,
SAVE, 20 H.P. IN EVERY IQQ H.P.
HYATT FLEXIBLE ROLLER BEARINGS.
Agents—W. & J. LEMPRIERE, Melbourne
ONLY TWO MEN
Know the secret ingredient in
Raa* tt ~~e T~ 7 POLISH, that prevents
af ot «r» P . P J! rS from hardening or cracking. It DOUBLES
t . he -,^ T AR of BOOTS. Sample tin post free 6d.
POLISH CO., 18 Bridge Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORICINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADb.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a truard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
DURBAR
SCHNAPPS
A PURE
SPIRIT.
The Beverage that Benefits.
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven For Mining Purposes .
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc
Por Prices apply-J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The PHILLIPS Pressed
Steel Split PULLET
Is the last word spoKen in goods of tbis class.
Very* ligbt, very strong, end of most excellent
design. Because of tbe preference shown by
some people for iron pulleys, tbe sole agency for
South Wales has been secured by * , .
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD. , 60 Clarence Street, Sydney
Write for Price List.
A Large Stock on Hand.
H. P. GREGORY (& CO.,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND FOR
THE BLAKE STEAM PUMP
For Every Possible Service.
Boiler
Single
Feed, Tank, Light Service, Mining, Horizontal & Vertical, Combined Boiler & Pump,
and Duplex and Triplex Power Pumps « all pumps thoroughly tested, and fully warranted.
CARD CONCENTRATOR ADJUSTABLE DECK.
1&3
-
. ■■-
' ' :
This new Patent Two-Plane Deck is the greatest improvement made In
Concentrators for very many years. The Deck is so constructed that
the lower corner can be raised by the adjusting
screw, and as this is where most mineral is
lost, the immense advantage of this invention is
obvious. Any desired result may be obtained.
Fuller information on application to
the Manufacturers,
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
