

Word to the Wise is sufficient
££
If
«
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
9
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW AND SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FOR MINING, MILLING ,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
. AND . .
128 William St., Melbourne, vie.
hobarx.
Ijadley’s grieot RotsS.
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTONS
Pint Apple Brand
HAMS
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
TlaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring: St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Asrents and Canvassers Wante.
Cili , & u ~6L
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
are
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE “ SILVERTOWN ”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch:
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
%
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit=Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
BENSDORPS
k
is the Queen of &II Cocoas
ro\
EASTWAY’S
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
66
PERRIER'S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in. less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
Sole Makers-
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Feundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating' and Ice-Making' Machinery.
helidon spa water.
HELBDON SPA is a Natural Mineral Water )
springing from unknown depths. /
‘"OO 7g Nmoo
■*» *. -*■ ||> «
The Bulletin
V01.29.— N0. 1473.]
[Thursday, May 7, 1938-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
Graham, Literary and Historical Essays, Gs, postage 6d.
Braid, Ladies’ Golf Bools, illustrated, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Sheerer) J., Injuries to the Nerves, Gs, postage Gd.
Kleinhans, E. 8., Boiler Construction, 15s, postage Sd.
Lord Cromer's Modern Egypt, 2 vols., 28s, postage Is 6d.
NOW READY.
HIS WIFE, by Warren Cheney, author of “The
Challenge."
Cloth 3s. 6d., postage 6d. extra.
Macrnatighton, Three Miss Graemes, 2s 6d & 3s 6d, p. Cd.
Anderson, J. Wemyss, Refrigeration, 9s,.postage Bd.'
Younghusband, G., Story of the Guides, 9s, postage Bd.
Goode hi Id, 1 recious Stones, 7s, postage 6d.
Bardswell, Diets on Tuberculosis, 7s, postage 6d
JUST ISSUED.
THE ROMANCE OF AN OLD-FASHIONED CENTLEMAN
by F. Hopkinson Smith,- illustrated by A. I. Keller!
(’loth 3s. 6d.. Dost no-e Crl i-vim
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, ' SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
bronchitis, influenza, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says : —“ Proved to be as effective
b'acterieidally as is creosote.”
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
Q. HUDSON, Manufacturing Chemist, 6& 7 Queen's Place, Sydney. Agencies in all the Australian
States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
D.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe-
THE RED PAGE
The Tin Wreath
A Plea for
Purtell.
What’s the matter with James Purtell ?
Nobody has mentioned him up to now ; yet
he has many, if not all, the
attributes put forward on be-
half of other claimants for the
tin chaplet. The only man
who runs him close is Grant—or should it
not be Grand ?—Hervey, with whom he has
many points of resemblance. ,Harrison
Owen demands the bauble for Hervey on
the grounds that he is a patriotic Australian,
a staunch democrat, and a number of other
estimable things. Jimmy Purtell is all
these and a few over. Moreover, he has
made his name solely by delivering the
poetic goods, unaided by any such adventi-
tious advertisements as magnificent tailoring
or injudicious and execrable shooting.
Purtell is a modest poet. Only once in his
long and illustrious career has he put off his
bays to appear before the public, and that
was when The Bulletin forced him by unjust
criticism to protest. On that occasion, James
did not enter into any long and elaborate
polemics to prove himself the real tiling.
He came straight to the point by telling The
Bulletin u Anyhow, I can get a living out of
poetry, which is more than any of your high-
toned poets who write about the birds and
the blossoms and the breezes can do.” The
rebuke was effective. The Bulletin, which is
willing to “ take on ” any political or social
giant, retired to its lair before the pregnant
logic of James Purtell. The poet was right.
He is the only one of his profession in
all Australia who lives by his verse. He is
truly the poet of the people. His moral
tone is high, his advocacy always cast on the
side of the weak. He reaches the great
heart of the public, just as Eugenie Duggan
does on the stage. You lay down your Pur-
tell feeling a better man. Moreover, his
poems are so phrased that he who runs may
read. Y r et his work is not without its deli-
cate imagery. Look at the dainty play upon
the metallic name of Mrs. Needle, the Mel-
bourne poisoner, when he wrote :
You horrible woman, oh ! how can you feel ?
Your brain is of iron and your heart is of steel.
But as a rule he gains his effects by broad,
impressionistic efforts, by the hyperbole
which has ever been the most valuable asset
of all the poets from Homer down. When
Martin Bourke, the cross-country jockey,
was killed in action, Purtell penned his
threnody :
The truest, bravest Irishman the world has ever
seen.
People*paid a penny for that poem and wept.
They knew well enough that the description
of the deceased jockey was not literally cor-
rect, but so direct was Purtell’s appeal to
the emotions that for the moment they over-
looked the exaggeration. They even forgot
that only a few months previously Purtell
had penned a similar requiem about Tommy
Corrigan—probably the greatest of all his
works in point of popularity. On the day
Corrigan’s funeral passed through the streets
of Melbourne, Purtell’s poem was sold by
runners on the fodtpaths, and for weeks the
demand at local newsagents caused the issue
of edition after edition. It is really question-
able whether any poem ever written in Aus-
tralia was so widely read, and when it is re-
membered that it was not purchased as part
of a mass of other literary wares in a news-
paper, but had to be got alone for good red
copper, the full greatness of the poet Purtell
becomes manifest. Purtell’s works are
healthy in tone and, unlike those of many
claimants for the Laureateship, may be in-
troduced into any household. Even when
he touches on a delicate subject he does so
without coarseness or suggestiveness. Take
his work on the Melbourne boot-trunk
tragedy, written on the arrest of Madame
Radalsky and young Tod. His was a
pathetic picture of the wreck of the dead
girl’s home, and the actions of the offenders ;
and four eloquent lines ran :
Just think of her parents, their awful position ;
Just think of that girl—in a certain condition—•
Just think of Radalsky and sweet little Toddy ;
Just think- of the way they disposed of the body.
Neither Maupassant nor the Greek trage-
dians turned out anything more simple or
direct in its pitiless insistence than
Just think of the way they disposed of the body.
Purtell’s sturdy democracy does not need
mention. All things considered, I claim
that I have made out a strong case for James
Purtell. The tin wreath should certainly go
to somebody with nice hair, and Purtell’s
curls a lot more prettily than even Hervey’s.
H. GLOBB.
The Dying
Gladiators.
Now that the Battle for the Bays is bang-
ing along, I put out my thumb over the edge
of my flower-hung box and
turn it down upon all of the
combatants. Upon all—ex-
cept Arthur Adams. Quinn
lies faint and calcareous, bleeding into the
sand, with one blue eye glued on the clouds
through a hole in his chaplet ; Bayldon
babbles of Bayldon on the point of his own
sword ; Jeflbott struggles and kicks, his
trident bent like a toasting-fork, and his
strong muscles swelling and squirming in a
net of inarticulation. Lawson is dead whde I
speak. Paterson runs hither and thither with
a pair of large blinkers hooked about his
temples ; he also has kneecaps on ; he foams
at the bit, but to no purpose ; he is the slave
of the redoubtable Skuthorpe. Brennan
booms like a buzz-hy with a pin through his
body, and Grant Hervey squats under a
hoarding blowing a brass trumpet while
Pegasus feeds on the straw in his flair.
Harry Sullivan, squashed by the camel of
mysticism, will soon be quietly rolled away
to a carpet emporium ; while O’Dowd,
patted on the back by Professor Tucker
and Murdoch, makes the air creak with the
noise of his choking. Brereton and Hebble-
thwaite die with their arms round
the neck of a mutual white lamb.
McCrae disappears down the throat
of a Lindsay illustration, and Brady
crawls on the top of a corned-beef cask, his
eyes thick with accumulations of salt as he
begs like a wooden-legged sailor for the
wreath that may never be his’ra.
Alone, alone, amid the red Aceldama,
exhilarated and pink, the Pale Page Poet
waves his rancid sword—where’er he sticks,
a victim falls. He heeds not their cry for
mercy, but, “at the centre, silent and full-
fed,” gathers their wreaths to be a bonfire
that he may warm his feet.
WILLIAM ANDERSON.
Legends of the Kelt
“In the old time,” writes Lady Gregory,
in her Book of Saints and Wonders (Murray),
‘ ‘ the people used to be looking at the moon
and at the sun and the rest of the stars,
travelling and ever-travelling through the
day, and at the flowing and ever-flowing of
the world’s wells and rivers, and at the sad-
ness of the earth, and the trance and the
sleep of it with the coming of the winter,
and the rising of the world again with the
coming of the summer. But it was all
like a head in a bag to them until
such time as Philip the Apostle told the
whole story of the making of Heaven and
earth at the great gathering in the east of
the world.” And in these tales “put down
according to the old writings and the memory
of the people of Ireland,” Lady Gregory
shows us the Celt still looking at the moon
and the sun and at the flowing and ever-
flowing of the world’s wells. The author is
doing great service to the Irish renaissance
in gathering up the material out of which
Synge and Yeats write their plays and their
poetry. The miracles herein recorded are
homely but useful, quaintly told. There is
much about Saint Brigit, the first “slavey ”
—whose glory has, unhappily, lately been
overshadowed by Saint Mary Ann. Of
Saint Brigit, Gregory tells :
“ W lien she was a poor girl she was mind-
ing her cow one time at the Curragh of
Life, and she had no place to feed it but the
side of the road. And a rich man that
owned the land came by and saw her, and he
said, ‘ How much land would it take to give
grass to the cow V ‘As much as my cloak
would cover,’ said she. ‘ I will give that,’
said the rich man. She laid down her cloak
then, and it was spreading out miles and
miles on every side. But there was a silly
old woman passing by, and she said, ‘lf that
cloak goes on spreading, all Ireland will be
free ’ ; and with that the cloak stopped and
spread no more. And Brigit held that land
through her lifetime, and it never had rent
on it since; but the English Govern-
ment have taken it now, and have put
barracks upon it.”
And here is another quaint tale :
“There was a beggar boy used to be in
Burren, that was very simple like and had
no health, and if he would walk as much as a
few perches it is likely he would fall on the
road. And he dreamed twice that he went
to Saint Brigit’s blessed well upon the cliffs
and that he found his health there. So he
set out to go to the well, and when he came
to it lie fell in and he was drowned. Very
simple he was and innocent and without sin.
It is likely it is in Heaven he is at this tim*.”
More in anger than in sorrow, T. P.
Deagan is requested to stop. The Rescue of
Victoria, the Beautiful Nihilist (Hearne .and
Co., Melbourne) —a compound of preposter-
ous language and equally preposterous adven-
ture—ends with the threat that the author
intends to follow in Australia the adventures
of his characters “in our next volume.”
He is hereby warned.
Wilde
QUITE the wrong sort of biography is
that of Oscar Wilde (Laurie),
written by Leonard Cresswell Ingle-
by. The biographer’s only claims
to his position are a personal friendship witli
Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Wills Wilde, and a
painstaking study of his works. Against
those useful assets must be placed his com-
plete lack of critical ability, his dulness, his
tedious detail. The work may stand as a
sort of over-bulky primer of Wilde for the
kindergarten. Ingleby’s methods are in-
stanced by his careful compilation of contem-
porary skits upon Wilde, and his biblio-
graphy of all the references to him in that
dreary paper, Punch. He even inflicts
upon us Mrs. Wilde’s views of house
furnishing. His attitude is in turn pat-
ronising and grovelling ; and his lack of the
critical instinct is throughout shown by his
ludicrous dismissal of Shaw as a person of no
importance. And the critic is often sub-
merged beneath the religion of the critic.
But the book has its uses. Ingleby gives
an interesting account of Wilde’s life ; and
he subjects his plays, poems and prose to an
analysis whose minuteness of scrutiny may
be of use to those for whom the less-known
works of Wilde ate inaccessible. In his
slovenly style Ingleby tells a story about
Salome :—-
“Sarah Bernhardt had taken the play
back to Paris, promising to produce it at the
very first opportunity, a promise that was
never fulfilled. Moreover, when, a couple of
years later, Wilde, then a prisoner awaiting
his trial, finding himself penniless, sent a
friend to her to explain how he was circum-
stanced, and offering to sell her the play out-
right for a comparatively small sum of money
in order that he might be able to pay for his
defence, this incomparable poseuse was pro-
fuse in her expressions of sympathy and
admiration for ce grand artiste, and promised
to assist him to the best of her ability. She
had the cruelty to delude with false hopes a
man suffering a mental martyrdom, and after
buoying him up from day to day with pro-
mises Of financial assistance, the Jewess, not
considering the investment a remunerative
one, shut the • door on his emissary, and
failed to keep her word. Now that the foreign
royalties on play and opera amount to a
considerable sum of money annually, her
Hebrew heart must be consumed with rage
at having missed such ‘ a good thing.’ ”
v»>
Of Wilde’s other plays, excluding the four
inimitable comedies, little need be said.
The Duchess of Padua, and Vera, or The
Nihilists (a melodrama) seem, from Ingleby’s
plot analyses, imitative and immature.
Indeed, in poem and prose, Wilde seems
always curiously swayed by the style of
other writers. But his prose remains a
thing of beauty, though, like all beautiful
things, it is “precious.” A passage such as
this is delightful in its careful choice of
words, its balance of phrase :
“We are always apt to think that the
voices which sang at the dawn of poetry
were simpler, fresher, and more natural
than ours, and that the world which the
early poets looked at, and through which
they walked, had a kind of poetical quality
of its own, and could pass, almost without
changing, into song. The snow lies thick
now upon (fiympus, and its scarped sides are
bleak and barren, hub once, we fancy, the
white feet of the Muses brushed the dew
from the anemones in the morning, and at
evening came Apollo to sing to the shepherds
in the vale. But r this we are merely lend-
ing to other ages wfiac we desire, or think we
desire, for our own. Our historical sense is
at fault. Every century that produces
poetry is, so far, an artificial century, and
the work that seems to us the most natural
and simple product of its time is probably
the result of the most deliberate and self-
conscious effort. For Nature is always
behind the age. It takes a great artist to
be thoroughly modern.”
For the student of a complex genius,
whose faifie has triumphantly and swiftly
grown from the moment of its apparent
absolute extinction, this book is worth the
perusal. However, it is meant chiefly for
the kindergarten class. 83.
♦ — —-
W. H. Koehel, the author of an excellent
account of Modern Argentina, promises well
in his Maoriland yarn, The Anchorage
(Bell, per Dymock’s Library, Sydney). The
story is of the redemption of one of the many
English “ bad eggs ” shipped off to Maori-
land. On an up-country station this failure
finds anchorage, and in that haven he gets
his chance to regain his lost manhood. The
story is of the conventional ty,pe, but written
with a first-hand knowledge of local condi-
tions, and commendably devoid of sen-
sationalism. F 3.
The Simple Life
Five o'clock. Father has just got up. jr„>
never later than five.
Comrade John (Macmillan, New York), by
Merwin-Webster, the joint authors of the
crisp American business-novels, Calumet
K. and The Short-Line War, is as brisk, and
modern, and original as those earlier suc-
cesses. The yarn is built about a new re-
ligion ; and of new religions America has an
output almost equal to that of millionaires.
Hall Caine in real life is a little man,
whose blazing eyes and blazing hair suggest
a spluttering firework. The present writer
once saw him very sea-sick, and even then
lie looked like a damp green cracker. A
bust of him in the comic-opera Manx
House of Keys strongly suggests Shake-
speare’s physiognomy—a very diminutive
and spluttering Shakespeare. It is told of
Caine that on an admirer remarking to him
that he was “really very like Shakespeare,
the little red-hot man replied: “I have
been told there is also a physical resem-
blance.” And the critics wonder why he is
a “ best-seller ! ”
Mixed
Farming
“Jim!” A grunt.
“ Jim ! Time to get up.” Muffle
sounds of displeasure. Jim i s bis
hard to shift. Father passes on nd
, ... , ~, on.
Aliek !
“ Yes, pa ! ”
“ Five o'clock ! ”
“ Right, pa ! ” Alick rolls Over and snores
“ Peter ! ”
“ Orlright, father ! ” and Peter leaps out Pnu.
is the eldest.
“Bill!” No answer.
“Bill 1”
“What?”
“ Get up ! ”
“Orlright ! ”
“Bill !”
“ What ? ”
“ Get up and bring in those jolly cows. Smart
now ! ” ’
"Orlright, orlright, orlright! ” And Bill, still
half asleep, bounds out and commences with furv
to tear himself into his clothes.
By the time we walk blinking into the kitchen
father has the tea made and chunks of home-made
cake cut. Bill dashes down his tea, seizes some
cake, and goes forth for the cows. Father and
Peter discuss Hogan’s bull, and drink tea till t'hev
hear, “Bail up there, Strawberry. Come here
dog. Gome here you ! ” Then they go out
and start milking.
About an hour after Jim flounders into the
kitchen, drinks a couple of cups of tea in sips, and
stumbles sleepily out with his milkcan. There
are 40 cows to milk, and we work doggedly
Father and Peter maintain a volley of comments'
and Bill listens open-mouthed and contradicts
whenever possible. Jim is somewhat deaf and is
not often addressed; for the cows take loud talk to
apply to them alone and become restless.
Breakfast at 8. Pig’s cheek bacon, mild cured
tea, and the usual sundries. Mother is worn
thin in the service of the nine of us, and her bovs
are a great joy to her, but the girls are handy only
as grumbling-butts._ The three of them walk in
just as we are finishing, and receive a stormy
welcome from mother.
Mother reads a portion of Scripture while the
rest of us gaze vacantly at the ceiling and walls.
There is silence for a minute after the reading',
and then father rises, and on his way to the door
remarks, “ I reckon Joshua and those Israelites
were fair brutes.”
We cart cocky-chaff all day—sun heat some-
where about 170°. We don’t talk much, for a
peck of dust in the throat is the reward of ver-
bosity. Layer after layer of black chaff-dust is
sweated into grime, and there is a goodly deposit
of chaff inside our shirts round our middles.
Dinner is brought out at one—two-gallon tin of
tea, mutton and bread.
At four father knocks off and goes home to
spruce himself up for the township. Peter
watches him out of sight, and then proposes a dip
in the forbidden dam at the bottom ot the scrub.
Carried unanimously.
There is about two feet of water in the dam.
You can't sink above your knees in the black
mud, for at that depth old kerosene tins and mis-
cellaneous scraps make a firm if uncomfortable
bottom. After half an hour of awkward move-
ment we get out and scraps the mud off us, and
dry in the air.
At seven we are back at thecowsand the separator
—the eternal cows and the eternal separator. It
only puts through 12gallonsan hour, and we take till
10 to get done. Two or three neighbors come up
with their milk for separating.
Alick and Bill (the kids) feed the calves by
lantern-light in a new galvanised-iron shed. The
quality of the air in that shed is beyond descrip-
tion ; but they ride the big bull calf round and
round till father comes in and spanks them.
Tea at 10 p.m. We all go to sleep round the
table when it is over, and some of us snore. Father
wakes up suddenly and shies a piece of cake at
Bill, who is sleeping with his mouth open. Bill
howls, and the family awake, and make off to bed.
All except father, who goes out to try and get
the butter to come. ’Tis a stifling night, and the;
butter doesn’t arrive till 2 a.m. Then with a
sigh, father goes into the oven-like house for
three hours’ sleep. There is a light burning in
our room. Father looks in and sees Jim sleeping
on his knees. “ You're very devotional to-night,”
says father, giving him a clout fit to send him
through the bed. Jim rises and creeps silently into
bed. Father blows out the Randle.
It seems only a moment after when “Five
o'clock, Jim !” sounds, not as tunable as lark to
shepherd’s ear.
W. S. AMBROSE.


Smart Styles for Autumn & W inter
No. 1051— Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse,
trimmed Valenciennes, Elbow Sleeves
only, 18/6.
Attractive
Examples of
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
No. 104— Glace Silk Picture Hat, Velvet Bound Edge,
trimmed Shirred Silk Rosettes, Fancy Coque Mount, 45/-
•k \ \ ?
LJS
No. 107— Folded Glace Silk Hat, large Silk
Roses and Foliage, 45/*
X
A
a
No. 1315—'Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse,
trimmed Guipure Lace Yoke, fastened
at back, 14/6.
Similar styles— l2/6, 16/6, 18/6, 21/-
No. 1006—Stylish Fine Plain Tailor-Made Cloth Coat
and Skirt, trimmed Black Silk Braid, Coat lined Silk,
Wine, Royal, Navy, Green, 94-/6.
No. 102 — Fancy Straw Hat, trimmed Shot Ribbon,
Wreath of Shaded Roses and Foliage, 21/
The latest modes
are illustrated in
Our Autumn and
Winter Fashion
Portfolio.
£
Send for a Copy,
posted FREE on
application.
No. 101— Green Velvet Hat, deep bind, lined
Shot Silk, shaded Velvet Ivy Leaves, Round
Crown, Ostrich Quill Mount, 45/-
No. 134— Black Soft Chiffon Clace Silk
Blouse, Long or Elbow Sleeves, fastened
at back —Sizes, S.W. and W., 28/6 ;
No. 1256— Japanese Silk Shirt Blouse,
fastened in front, Long- Sleeves, Ivory,
Black, Navy, 16/6 ; Black Glace or
Merv., 18/6 ; Sizes, S.W., W. and O.S.
No. 10759— Covert Coating Jackets, Green and Grey Shades, 27/6.
Shorter .length, No. 10758, 21/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


turn
and other
SKINS;
Als ° BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send t ,
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade « BOOKS-
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zoda's,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-To-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is;
postl/3. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/-; post 1/3. Manning’s
PLEASE MENTION THIS
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 Darts. 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwivbs’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins,ls. Scientific Wrestling,
Is.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko 1 a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Merrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
FREE.
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted*
This Picture Puzzle represents a Lion and his
Keeper—Find the Face of the Keeper, and return to
ns with your name and address, and we will give a
genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free ; only one answer is
allowed. We make this marvellous offer to advertise our
Mending Tissue. Mending Tissue is an article used for mat-
ing invisible patches and repairing clothing, gloves, furs, or any article of cotton, wool, silk,
linen &c. It will hem any cloth much quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A
boon to bachelors. To all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 12 sample packages of
Mending Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated, we
require you to collect, from each person, with whom you leave a sample, 6d. (half the selling
price of samel. You then return us the money, and for this service we give Free, and in
addition to the Fountain Pen, Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments,
Silver Ware, Purses, Bags, Dinner Sets, &c. This is at least worth investigating. It costs
nothing to try, and you take no risk. We simply ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us
your name and address. We then award you the
m
Fountain Pen and send you the 12 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according
to instructions and we will send you, Free, the prize you choose. Could anything be fairer ?
This great offer is only open for a limited time. . We will only accept answers from those who
did not answer our previous puzzle.
Write at once. THE GUTTA PEUCH A THAPING CO-
-120 Ash St., Sydney.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO 3DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES rhe Best B Z nds only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Free 1
9 -ft High
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR H BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life-sized 1)011 is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, be lutiful rosy
cheeks,brown eye-, and represented with flesh-col jure i body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of bestmaterial rapid in itsaction, and
cent ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WATCH
CHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the money to/-, ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium Fist includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice ar d Useful Pre-
sents —a complete illustrated list sent wiih the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and vve will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return
Windsor Wright &Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Eoy’s Rif e.
C-B-
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C'B
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The finest
shape
ever created.
InliO
different
styles.
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
All C.B. Corsets have
rust-proof supports.
'BO
&
4.
&
4fty
There are
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type
immeasurably superior to all othor straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style , write for a book of types to :
i v kiriunnn-r ortfcio « Flinders Lane. MELBOURNE.
J. Ea NEWPURTj oUNo OC lU.j 16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY; and BRISBANE
J. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson Street., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
'Winchester.
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .22 caliber repeater ever
offered. It’s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It’s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
THE FINAL TOUCH
OF PERFECTION.
Agents —
Harrison <k Attwood,
Sydney.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve - " lod
Packet of Ten


This elder brother
evidently knows
how to play
doctor, in real
earnest. He
knows about
Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. His
mother told
him. Her
mother told
her, and her
grandmoth-
er’s mother
told her
mother. It’s
the one stand-
ard cough medicine for children.
a
&
ylifer’s
'(jhemi 9eetoral
is entirely free from narcotics or
poison of any kind. It is the great
remedy the world over for colds,
coughs, croup, whooping-cough,
influenza, la grippe, and all bron-
chial complaints.
Accept no substitute or cheap
and worthless imitation. Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
1b allowed on every cycle bought, of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year?, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than loweßt manufacturers’ prices.
S £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim F rakes, variable gears
and all iates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery,
aOTIWC APCkTTO wanted in each district.
HU I IVt Mu til I O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our medal offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE COo, Dept. 280 Liverpool -
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It's the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
“Two months ago my four
children, aged six years, five
years, three years, and seven
months respectively, were all
very ill with
whooping
cough, and the baby was also
teething. I tried SCOTT’S
Emulsion, and the children
are not only quite cured of
the cough, but stronger and
better in every way, and my
baby is cutting her teeth
without any trouble. I had
no difficulty in getting them
to take SCOTT’S.”
(Mrs.) J. W. Tait
167 Chapel Street. Marrickville,
Sydney, N.S.W. 18/8/07.
Above Is the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why :
The above letter shows that Scott’s
Emulsion was successful in each case,
and speedily success-
ful. This was no mere
chance; there was a
definite reason for it
the intense healing
and nourishing force
of SCOTT’S. The
combination of ad-
vantages results from
the finest procurable
materials and the
original perfected
SCOTT process, by
which SCOTT’S alone is made and
which places SCOTT’S away ahead
of all competitive emulsions. There-
fore, when purchasing, don’t ask for
“ Emulsion ; ” ask for and get
Scotts
Emulsion
—the difference between them means
a cure for you !
SEE THAT “THE FISHMAN WITH THE
FISH ” IS ON THE PACKAGE.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in
Medicines.
IRISH
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
r.:-
IRISHMOSS
MOSS
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and Colds
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
r
m
u-
Tobacco
® Pi an u Facto red in
Richmond Virginia.
® byIARUs & Brother 0
Packed By RTowms * Co. A^enfs,Sydney.
A
-* _ . _2»W a, -A»
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers:
If you cannot get
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Agents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile 'reduced) of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT,
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-.
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St.
Or by post from
, Melbourne.
Q^eenei^
ARE SAFE
■ ' and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
‘‘Facile Princeps"
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Call! agues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
address ‘Greener,Birmingham. ’
Y. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
A. ®> F.
PEAKS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
'• | / - I ! \ i
,
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd.
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street, I
Melbourne, their Agents for the safe of i
PEARS' SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ut in Principic.
I wonder in what forgotten age, in the spring of
the daedal earth,
Ere man had come to his heritage, our souls first
found their birth.
Were the wild woods wet to our naked feet when
as boy and girl we strayed,
With the scent of the grasses rising sweet through
the steam of the tangled glade ?
Did I lie, stretched close, to secure the game
through the slow, hot afternoon,
Till the spear smote home like a shaft of flame, j
and the skin at your feet was strewn ?
Have you quite forgotten the day we passed in
the shade by the jungle pool,
And I turned on a sudden and held you fast, and
you gave me yourself in full ?
And you crouched at my side in my hut that night
with your sombre eyes afire,
And your limbs were flushed in the ember’s light,
and your mouth was a red desire.
And we fought when the hairy foemen broke in a
shouting, surging tide,
Till our strength was spent with the wounds and
smoke, and we kissed a last kiss, and died !
For the cycles change, and the world grows old,
and the white moons wax and wane ;
But the amarantli scatters her seeds of gold—and
love returns again.
If the whole wide world were melted down and
turned to a single gem,
And the burning sun to a golden crown, with the
stars for an anadem ;
If the fire of living were set in a cup like a draught
of dazzling wine,
And I knew I had only to drain it up to be one
with the gods divine ,
I would spurn the jewel, and scorn the wealth—
what use were it all to me ? —
And pour at thy feet the foaming spilth that I
could not drain with thee !
For Heaven is Heaven, and Hell is Hell, where the
swords of space divide,
But Heaven were torment unspeakable, with
memory at my side
Of thy oval face and thine eyes, dark brown,
where the love-lights gleam and grow.
Like fires of ocean that pass deep down on nights
when no winds blow ;
And thy soft small hands that clasp and meet, and
the kiss of thy curling hair —
I should leap at the last from my silken seat, it
were more than my soul could bear !
For Heaven is Heaven, and Hell is Hell, where
the pathless gulfs divide :
But I’d reckon my throne lost wisely and well, if
I gained in Hell thy side !
N.S.W.
F. S. BURNELL.
Ploughin’.
Cuttin’ furrows long an’ deep
(O an’ how the cool winds pass !)
While the skylarks skyward sweep
From the rustlin’ meadow-grass ;
Music notes without alloy—
Little gloom are birds allowin’ —
O, I tell you, it is joy
Ploughin’.
What care I for stuffy town,
Shiny pavements, roadways white !
Give me paddocks, hillocks brown ;
Give me fresh air—l’ll be right !
Perched upon me old machine
To no man on earth I’m bowin’;
Cares ? We dunno what they mean
Ploughin’.
It may rain—er course it may,
But we take it in good part;
If ther sun shone ev’ry day
Crops ’ud never get er start !
Seems to me some folk I know
With Dame Nature’s alius rowin’—
We don’t care if it should snow—
Ploughin’.
An’ when work fer day is done
There’s a lassie to be kissed—
As the stars shine, one by one,
They can see us at the tryst!
And when she becomes my wife
(Little laughin’ Bess McGowen) —
Why, I’ll simply sing thro’ life . . .
. . . Ploughin’.
MAOKILAND.
TE AROHA.
The Shadow and the Song.
I met a pleasant fellow
When the red was on the leaf,
And he sang in gallant measure
Of a world that knew no grief.
The road was lit and golden,
And the birds were in the trees,
And his voice—a silver bugle—
Sounded gaily down the breeze.
I watched him as he carolled,
And I said : “ His lines are drawn
To a golden-hearted sunset
From a crimson-hearted dawn.
“ He was born to many favors,
And his life-miles sure must wend
From a rich and rare beginning
To a rare and radiant end.”
But a sudden shadow gathered
'■*' As the noon to evening wore,
And he passed into the shadow,
And I heard his song no more.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


vJLiii
o
‘O
5
£
r 9
C
£//
H3ST
WUNDERLICH
METALS-:.
CEILINGS
Originated by expert Designers « « «
MODELLED BY FIRST-CLASS ARTISTS
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists •
Erected by competent Tradesmen « •
Decorated by skilled Colorists • • •
Modelled by first-class Artists
skilled in the interpretation of the
Designer's intentions, thus pro-
ducing the excellent modelling
for which our work is famous. .
Write for JUustrated (Catalogue.
736 e Wunderlieft Patent (Veiling $ Roofing (Soy., jbtd.,
SYDNEY: 56 PITT ST. MELBOURNE: 123 QUEEN ST-
c.
.22*
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this Avonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Krista
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
LS 1 .
\.x
sw
Conditions have
changed since the
time of our Grandfathers
A ND we do not do
things now as we did
50 years ago. Science has
become domesticated and
is working all the time to take'
better care of the everyday wants of man. those things
we use most have been improved to the greatest extent.
Take, for instance, paints. A few years ago the best
paint was mixed by hand, by rule of thumb, llie material,
a paddle and a bucket, were all that was necessary. If
the materials were pure, a fairly good paint was the result.
But to-day we have a much better paint, It covers more
surface to the gallon, it looks better and lasts much longer,
because it is prepared on an exact scientific formula, the
result of careful laboratory and practical tests, and is
ground and mixed by machinery specially made for this
purpose.
Bor over forty years The Sherwin-M illiams Co. has
been manufacturing SHERWIN-WILLIAMS PAINT,
PREPARED. All that time they have been steadily
improving its quality, and it is to-day as good as they know
how to make it —as perfect a house paint as it is possible
for human ingenuity to produce.
Ask your dealer for Color Cards which will tell you
all about Sherwin-Williams Paint, Prepared, for painting
buildings with.
Write for valuable little booklet, “ Who Makes the Best Paints and Varnishes.
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. Morrison, Sydney, New South Wales.
J. GRAHAM & SON, Wauerly, Sydney, New South Wales. JOHN MEAGHER & Co., Ltd., Temora, New South Wales.
A. PARSONS & Co., Wollongong, " “ “ BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., Melbourne, Victoria.
D. COPELAND & CO., Wagga Wagga, " “ “ CROOKS & BROOKER, Port Adelaide, South Australia.
FREDERICK ASH, LTD., Newcastle, “ “ “ COUCHE, CALDER & CO., Perth, West Australia.
CHARLES Regan, Tamworth, “ “ " ROONEY & CO., Townsuille, Queensland.
T. J. PHILLIPS, Dubbo, “ " “ R. S. EXTON & Co.. Brisbane, Queensland.
BRACEY’S Limited, Lithgow, “ “ Hockley & CO., Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. FRED C. DONNISON, Lock Box 811, Sydney , New South Wales. 31S
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living- in it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
- 5 Mutual Life Building's, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.-
«*v/#ra
■
>5
£
S 3
a
. - • • - -., ....
,“'-/'\..' iv * '
iSV'. ••,•■' -
'
0
/I
y
m
E.RJich a <S>.ir d > Sydr\ey,a’Brisbane
High above
all other
roofing's for
UTILITY,
ECONOMY
and
DURABILITY
A roofiing
you will
never reg'ret
using'.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29. No. 1473.
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1908.
Price 6d
THE STATE PREMIERS’ CONFERENCE.
THE LOOKER: “I’M ALMOST SURE I CAN SEE A NEW FEDERAL GRIEVANCE.”
THE LISTENER: “AND I’M POSITIVE I CAN HEAR ONE.”
THE PROSTRATE ONE: “AND I’M DEAD CERTAIN I CAN SMELL A FEDERAL OUTRAGE. THERE’S NO KNOWING WHAT
WE MAY NOT FIND IF WE ONLY STAY HERE LONG ENOUGH.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Offce Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Hoiv to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and. even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded ivithout stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Hlaclc. and II hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be fe-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after tin arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gofioh, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, UUI Hastings Street ; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
U.S.A. —Jones News Co., New Orleans, Lo.’
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Dong Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6|tn. x lkin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
T7ie
THURSDAY, MAY 7, 1908.
LABOR, AND THE AUSTRALIAN CAPI-
TAL, AND OTHER MATTERS.
concern. But it said nothing and threw no brick.
Passively it preferred to be a joint in the Wade -
Carruthers tail. And it has made considerable
sacrifices in order that it might be passively, if
not actively, provincial; that it might be a joint
in the Tory anti-Australian tail; that it might
avoid going against its bitter enemies, the Sydney
dailies; that it might avoid damaging the Tory
gang led by Carruthers and Wade, even if it
didn’t actively assist that gang; that it
might speak no word worth hearing or recording
in defence of Australian national sentiment aud
in support of the most democratic Parliament
the world at present possesses. It might have
got thousands of votes that never before came its
way if it had declared itself the pro-Federal party
in State politics. The result of the Australian
elections shows that there is a very strong anti-
provincial feeling in N.S.W., and though it has
hitherto had no chance to express itself in State
politics, because neither Wade nor McGowen
would bid for it, it is there all the time, and wait-
The attitude of the State Labor parties, especially
the Labor party of N.S.W., towards the Federal
capital question, and towards the State Frights
craze generally, is a bewildering feature of Aus-
tralian politics. The Labor party is the political
body in which, above all others, a strong Federal
feeling might bo looked for. It is continental as
no other party is, with its powerful representation
in the Australian Parliament, and its representa-
tives in all the State Legislatures, and its confer-
ences and leagues and other bonds of union, that
nominally keep the State and Federal Laborists
in line. Its policy is, on paper at least, essentially
the same all over the Commonwealth. There-
fore it was fondly imagined that Labor would
think in continents—that it would think
with a sort of unanimous think, and that its
thoughts would be large ones, and that it would be
an active force in the good cause of Nationalism, as
against Provincialism. The hope is still alive,
but it isn’t the hope it once was.
In N.S.W. especially, the attitude of the State
Labor party has been a meanly passive one. It
has professed to consider that such questions as
that of the Australian capital are purely Federal
matters, and are, therefore, none of its business
and wholly off its beat, just as if the Federation
was a foreign matter, in which N.S.W. had no
concern. The Tory party in the State Legisla-
ture has made every Federal question its business,
and has put an impudent and disreputable paw
into every Federal concern ; and it has harassed,
annoyed, and insulted the Australian Parlia-
ment and Government at every turn. The
State Labor party has made no serious
protest, and offered no assistance on the
other side. It might have taken up a
Federal attitude on the ground that the can-
tankerous, annoying and hostile manner of the
Carruthers-Wade crowd was a bitter insult
offered by State Toryism to the most democratic
Legislature in Australia ; or it might have thrown
at least one brick in the Federal and all-Australian
interest on the ground that the State Government
was interfering with things that were not of State
THE SNOWY RIVER ,
Below Dolgety, the Federal selection for the Capital of the Australian continent .
ing to be called for. The N. S. W. State Labor party
preferred to lose these votes rather than come de-
finitely out of the parochial rut, and break
with Wade and the Daily Telegraph, and
say a good word for Australia. And the
party might have come into power if McGowen
had moved a vote of censure on the Carruthers
Government over Joseph’s insane wire-netting
insurrection, but it, or its leaders, preferred to
keep out of office rather than be Federal and
honestly Australian.
* * * *
The general attitude in State politics is that it
is the business of the Tory party to denounce,
vilify, obstruct, and contemn the democratic
Federal Parliament; to harass it with silly little
insurrections and law proceedings and such-like ;
and to hire men at public expense to overhaul ali
proposed Federal laws in search of pegs upon
which local Toryism can hang bogus complaints
and groundless law proceedings. And somehow
it isn’t the business of the Labor party to
do anything at all on the other side
of the battle or combat or difficulty.
Federal legislation, and proposed legislation,
meets in a general way with the approval of the
N.S.W. State Labor members. They couldn’t do
other than approve of the White Australia policy ;
of the anti-Kanaka movement; of the New Pro-
tection, which seeks to secure for the worker
the tariff benefits which have hitherto been re-
served mostly for the employer; of the proposed
all-Australian old-age pensions; and of almost
every other act of the Australian Parliament,
down to the prohibition of the enormous grain-
bag which for so long has bowed the shoulders
or broken the backs of the State Labor party’s
own constituents. But while the State Labor
party approves of all these things individually, it
comes no nearer to being an enthusiastic general sup-
porter of the Australian Parliament, which does
these things—its supporter against the blatant
insolence and impudent encroachments of Tory
State politicians of the Wade stamp. Even when
Wade proposes to spend State money—some of
it the coppers of the wharf-lumper himself—in
trying to prevent the Australian Government
taking the murderous 3501 b. sack off that wharf-
lumper’s shoulders, the State Labor party seems
to get no nearer to being the Federal and anti-
Parochial party in the State Legislature. It still
remains the party that threw away almost the cer-
tainty of office—the office that it had been striving
after for 16 years —rather than vigorously denounce
the lawless ruffianism of a crowd of Tories, when
that lawless ruffianism had the merit of being an
insult thrown at United and Democratic Australia.
So it comes to pass that in the matter of the
Australian capital the State Labor party of
N.S.W. sits on a fence—the usual fence. The
capital question is the business or job or meddle-
someness of every State Tory politician and every
Tory paper, so the anti-Australian cause is well
represented in N.S.W. State politics. With
Carruthers and then Wade to consolidate all
the Tory influences in the State Legislature on
the old business of obstructing, denouncing and
humiliating the democratic Parliament of all Aus-
tralia, there is a fairly solid phalanx on one side
of the question. And the State Labor party,
which should be the other side of the question,
simply says that the matter is off its beat. Yet
if the party’s leaders were not blinded by the
narrowest kind of parish limitations it is difficult
to see how any question could be more dis-
tinctly on the Labor beat. The Australian
Parliament has shown a warm and generous
sympathy for the workers, such as most of the
State Legislatures were never even suspected of.
The Federal city and territory will be under in-
dustrial laws made by this Parliament, and it is
fairly certain that these will be the best industrial
laws in Australia. The Federal Territory will be
free from the curse of the ground landlord, for the
Commonwealth is going to be its own ground
landlord. It will almost certainly be run on in-
tensely sober lines, for the Australian Parliament
is almost a teetotal institution. Ardent Federal-
ists want to plant this Federal city where it will
become, by reason of its situation and its abun-
dance of cheap water-power, a great manufactur-
ing city, so that as many workers as possible
may live under the Federal Parliament’s
ideal industrial conditions, and so that
Australia may demonstrate, as clearly as
possible, that profitable industrialism doesn’t
necessarily mean slums, dirt, narrow streets, tene-
ment houses, bad smells, larrikinism and misery.
In other words, the true Federalists of Australia
want to justify the creed of Labor, and the
State Labor party in N.S.W. that
it doesn’t matter to the party whether the enance
to j ustify its creed is thrown away or not. Ardent
Federalists desire to have a Federal territory ot
fair size—sooo square miles would be a very
moderate area—so that there may be room to set
forth a noble and noteworthy example
elimination of the private ground landlord,
which is an essential feature of the Labor
creed. Out of N.S.W.’s 310,700 square miles
the excision of 5000 square miles wouldn't even
begin to be noticed ; it would only represent a
twelfth the area of England, and England could
be lost in a> corner of N.S.W. Yet when Toryism
howls against the suggested ‘‘sacrifice” of terri-
tory, the State Labor party, instead of taking up
the question with enthusiasm on the other side,
reckons that it doesn’t see how the question con-
cerns it. The State Tory party clamors for a little
dry capital which, by reason ot the scanty water
supply that would have to b® pumped over a
range of hills, and the total absence of water-
power, could never be an example of successful
industrialism run on good Labor principles; and
it howls for a small scrap of Federal territory,
where it really wouldn’t matter whether the
private landlord was eliminated or not, so trifling
would be the area affected. On this subject the
State Tory press fights in the thick of the battle.
But the State Labor party keeps out of the fray.
It prefers to sacrifice its principles rather than
sacrifice its parochialism. The affair isn’t on its
beat.
The various proposals that have been made for
a Federal city at Lyndhurst, Bathurst, Yass, Moss
Vale, or Canberra, or in the backyard of JOHNSON,
M.H.R., somewhere about Botany, were all
schemes for keeping the new capital under the
influence and control of the Wade crowd, of the
Sydney importers, of the Telegraph and Herald
—in fact, of all the influences that have always
been anti-Labor. Always it was to be a small
CANBERRA.
The site of N.S. W. State Premier Wade's proposed
Capital—the Capital of a whole continent.
capital, with no great influence or population or
distinctive life of its own, with no powerful press
of its own—a mere shadow of Wade and the
Daily Telegraph and the York-street com-
mercial gang. Against this was set the idea of a
city nearly half-way between Sydney and Mel-
bourne, far enough away from each to be
free from the evil influence of Wade and
the Telegraph on one side, and of Bent and the
Argus on the other—a place which would have a
chance to be great, which would be run under the
best industrial laws that Australia could devise,
and which would be the world’s first great modern
experiment in anti-landlordism. The State Tory
party and the State Tory press have turned over
every stone, and disturbed every insect under-
neath, to defeat this idea. The State Labor party
said the affair wasn’t its affair. A large section
of the State Labor party once awoke to vast
enthusiasm over the question of building a city
in Paraguay, in the land of Rue Australia ; but
it is very difficult to rouse it to any fervor over
the building of a city in its own country.
It is not suggested for a moment that the
somnolent McGowen and his flighty and fatally
eloquent evil genius, Holman, should be driven to
turn good Australians against their consciences.
If their parochialism is so vast and incurable that
they would conscientiously sacrifice the ideal—
because it is an all-Australian ideal—of a great
Federal oity, run on purely democratic principles
by the most democratic Parliament on earth, and
of aflourishing Federal territory from which private
landlordismhad been wholly eliminated, ratherthan
give their cordial support to a Parliament that
doesn’t belong wholly to N.S.W. and turn
definitely against the policy which has for its ex-
ponents the Telegraph and Bruce Smith, and
the nigger labor party, and Wade, the man who
is now spending the workers’ money in defence of
the 3501 b. corn bag—well, they must obey their
consciences. It is merely suggested that the
N.S.W. State Labor party should sack them re-
morselessly, and get new men with different con-
sciences. The Labor party has representatives in
every Legislature in the Commonwealth, and it
purports to have practically the same policy all
over the Commonwealth, and if its leaders in
N.S.W. can’t “ think Australian ’’ then they are
not fit to be in such a party. The N.S.W. Labor
men made one grievous mistake when they didn’t
fight to the last ditch against that gross act of
treachery by which the N.S.W. State Legis-
lature raised the minimum vote required
to carry Federation from 50,000 to 80,000,
and thus broke faith with the other
States, in which there were also Labor men with
whom it was worth while to keep faith. They
made another grievous mistake when they failed
to throw their whole weight into the scale against
George Reid, when he came back from the Pre-
miers’ Conference at Melbourne with the glad
news that he had swindled all the other Laborists
of Australia out of any chance of having the
Federal capital in their territory. They are
making their third gigantic mistake now, with the
theory that Federal matters are really of no con-
cern to the State Labor party of N.S.W., and
that, though N.S.W. is the greatest of the Aus-
tralian States, yet Australia is something apart
from N.S.W., and hardly worth its consideration.
The N.S.W. State Labor crowd has thrown Aus-
tralia overboard, and beyond that it is hardly
possible to go.
CORNSACKS, AND THE FOOLING AWAY
OF STATE MONEY, AND THE CAN
TANKEROUSNESS OF STATE PRE-
MIERS.
The Conference of State Premiers had scarcely
got together when it tackled the cornsack pro-
blem, and its members gave way to great excite-
ment (barring Premier Kidston, of Queensland,
who seems to have kept his head) over the matter.
This trouble is a complicated one. The gigantic
size and weight to which cornsacks had grown
was a public scandal. Lumpers died, or became
crippled for life, through struggling with horrors
that were more like pyramids than ordinary bags.
They appealed for assistance to the callous or
loafing State Governments, but for all the satis-
faction they got, they might as well have cried to
Baal and Ashtoreth. The State Governments
could have refused to carry the bloated monstrosi-
ties by train, and could have shut them off
their wharves, and prohibited their removal
in carts ; also they could have passed
an Act to fine any man £lO every
time he put more than 001 b. of wheat
in a bag. They had abundant power,
but they did nothing. Then the
humane and democratic Federal
authority took a hand. It has full
control over inter-State and foreign
commerce, and it did its little part by
prohibiting the import or export of
wheat bags calculated to hold more
than 2001 b. And in that it did a
kindly and noble action which should
stand to its credit on Judgment Day,
and which should make every decent
citizen rally to its support. But a
curious legal question has been raised
by certain cantankerous State Pre-
miers. They admit that the Austra-
lian Parliament can legally shut out
the bloated and murderous wheat
bag, by levying an impossible duty-
say 100,000 per cent.—on it, but they
profess to have doubts whether the
Federal authority can legally shut it
out by simply proclaiming it a pro-
hibited substance, though the statute
says distinctly that ‘"all goods, the
importation of which may be pro-
hibited by proclamation.” shall be
shut out. " But however clear the law
appears to be, there is always one
chance in 1000 that it may be ruled
out on a technicality or a side issue.
And on that one chance in 1000 the
State Premiers (or the majority ot
them) decided to spend good State
money in testing the legality of the
Commonwealth s action,
* *
It is necessary to consider the rela-
tion of the States to the wheat-bag
problem in order to appreciate the
meanness and cantankerousness an
childish insolence of this action, in
the first place, the State I rentiers
fully admit that the purpose which
the Federal authority had in vie\
was an honest, honorable an
humane purpose. Even the mos
callous of them can’t deny that 20010.
is a sufficiently heavy load forany 1
to carry, hour after hour, often on an upm
on a treacherous, springy board ; and tha
3001 b. or 3501 b. or 6101 b. cornsack (there
a 6101 b. cornsack) is just about plain mu •
The State Premiers can’t deny, either, that tn
Australian Government waited a fairly .
to see if they would act before it took a ha
the matter itself. Further, they don t pio
deny that the Australian Parliament P
sents the people just as much as ,
State Parliaments. Consequently, if the P,
tackle the bloated cornsack trouble in a
way, per medium of Deakin, Lyne and O - - ■
they are governing themselves just as m u , •
they tackled the same trouble in a State' j
per medium of Wade, Bent, Moore, E- - ~
co. And it is much easier to tackle '
Australian question in one act throug
authority, than to deal with it in six ms '
through six authorities. Also, as alrea y
tioned, these remarkable and multitudin
Premiers make no attempt to deny ,
Australian Parliament has power to
the monstrous wheat-bag by a P 1 im e
duty, though they allege, on what > ok
no evidence at aH, that it exceeded P
bv shutting out the same article y ,
ting it in the category of forbidden g


Yet, if it did exceed its powers by so doing,
it didn’t thereby annex any powers belong-
ing to the State authority, for even the maddest
State insect doesn’t profess that the States have
authority to shut out goods either by proclamation
or by tariff regulations. The case of the State in-
sects is based simply on the allegation that the
Australian Government, while attending strictly
to its own business, and doing so apparently with
the complete approval of the majority of the Aus-
tralian Parliament and people, did the thing one
way instead of doing it the other way ; and they
hold that it is the business of all good State in-
sects to watch for cases in which the Australian
Government can be annoyed or obstructed on
technical points, and to spend the public money
lavishly in proving that the Federal “i” wasn’t
properly dotted. If the Federal authority was
the same kind of soured and silly fool, and hired
an officer to watch for technical flaws in State
legislation, and scattered public money in testing
the legality of, say, the proposal to indemnify the
councillors of some Sydney suburban municipality
for borrowing money contrary to the Act, the
State insects would probably begin to see the size
of their own dirty little insolence. But the Aus-
tralian Government takes a man’s size in souls,
and doesn’t do things like that.
* * * •
The Premier or chief State insect of N.S.W. has
already spent a good deal of the people’s money in
getting legal opinions to prop up his theory that
the Federal Minister of Customs has done the
right thing the wrong way. Every adult in
N.3.W. has already paid a trifle towards the
cost of expensive legal opinions, obtained in
the hope that Wade might be able to gratify
his small animosity by proving that the Federal
authority has done the right thing the wrong way.
And it has been decided to spend more money,
and to wrest a copper or two from every adult in
Australia, in order to prove at law that the
Commonwealth, in attending to its own business,
which includes the regulation of foreign and
inter-State commerce, made a small technical
error. The chances are 1000 to 1 that the
attempt will fail, and if it succeeds, the
Federal authority will simply do the same
thing the other way, and shut out the
gigantic grainsaek by putting a prohibitive duty
on it instead of by putting it among prohibited
goods; or else it will pass an Act to make the
prohibition legal. The people, in their State
capacity, will pay Costs, thanks to Wade and co.,
to try and prove that in their Federal capacity
they exceeded their powers under the existing
Act. The people, in their Federal capacity, will
be compelled to pay Costs, thanks to Wade and
co., to prove that they didn’t exceed their
powers. At the most they will learn at great
expense, either (1) that they have more State
power and less Federal power than they thought
they had, or (2) that they have just as much State
and Federal power as they thought they had.
They gain no extra power either way. It
isn’t even professed that they will have the
3001 b. wheat bag restored, for Wade and his
friends promise that if, at great expense to the
people, they can abolish the Federal regulations
on the subject, and bring back that horror, they
will immediately take action to wipe it out them-
selves—the action they wouldn’t take before, when
Australia waited for them to do something, and
waited in vain. The only gain will be to the
microscopic vanity of Wade and co., who, if they
have quite unexpected luck, may bark rather more
loudly than usual at the Federal door. The people
will get less joy out of the business than they
would if the same money were spent in proving
that the dog regulations at Timbuctoo were ultra
vires. In that case Australia would only pay half
the Costs while the municipal authorities at Tim-
buctoo would have to meet the rest, while in
Wade’s case the Australian people have to pay
all the Costs—those of plaintiff and defendant
alike. And, in the case of the dog regulations at
Timbuctoo, the winning of the case would at least
give Australia the satisfaction of bowling out a
foreign nigger, and proving that he didn’t know
his own business. In the cornsack business
success will only mean that the Australian people
will have heaped mud at great expense on them-
selves by heaping it on the Parliament that they
elected and the Government that they created.
It is time that it was explained to these State
Premiers that the public funds of Australia were
not entrusted to them that they might use them
in the satisfaction of their wretched little grudges
against the representatives of Australia. If Wade
and co. think they have been slighted or dimin-
ished in any way, they should go to law about it
at their own expense.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Bent's Courtesy.
Vic. Premier Bent has suggested, by his atti-
tude of the past few weeks, that he is bidding for
the mantleof Carruthers as the boss mad Mullah of
the anti-Federal Jehad and the most virulent
political fly of the insect pest party. The blotting
of Carruthers out of political life has apparently
been a warning to N.S. W. Premier Wade, whose
anti-Australian shrieks are attuned to a very lo.w
key as compared with those of his predecessor,
nut Bent, with no such experience close at hand
to warn him, has proceeded to push the barrow
of the State Frights party with all the raucous
yells of the vendor of bad bananas and putrid
fk- S * atest performance is the announcement
°t his intention to embarrass the whole Australian
people, and insult the American fleet by making
its visit the occasion for an unseemly squabble
with the intent to prove that a part of Australia
ls greater than its whole, and to glorify the by-
products of the Commonwealth Legislative output
into an equality with the controlling body. The
American fleet comes to Australia at the invita-
tion of Prime Minister Deakin. Bent has not
f V6 ur' le s *; an ding in the matter that Wade has,
tor Wade invited the fleet to N.S. W. in ignor-
ance of Deakin’s prior message, while Bent did
nothing at all. In all probability, nobody of
any account in America has ever heard of Bent.
ret Thomas states that he does not in-
end to join the Commonwealth to welcome the
visitors. He is going to have a “Victorian wel-
come —evidently under the impression that Vic-
v{ na 1S not part of Australia—and when all
h'Hiu- ne * s way ing the glad flag to the U.S.
attleships, Bent and his Cabinet are going to sit
etired on the meter box of State Parliament
ouse and pretend that they don’t know what’s
going on. When the Commonwealth welcome is
ver. Bent is apparently going to erect a new set
triumphal arches, and get together a new lot of
en ® t,an niasts, and put them up again after
i n't- l and digging out again the holes
which Deakin had planted his poles and masts.
Fph 6 1 ma y ®°°i on the police to prevent any
eaeral decorations, and then the man who wants
U P Bent’s Venetian mast will hold free
nn one who wants to put
Hf.akin’s Venetian mast, and the
worl! eS W P° ur water over each other’s fire-
Ks > arid shoot peas at each other’s lanterns.
Bent may even be foolish enough to place a re-
liable State policeman at the foot of the Port
Melbourne pier (which is the property of the
State Government) to prevent Deakin or any
representative of Australia from putting foot on
its sacred and worm-eaten timbers ; he may re-
fuse the assistance of the police force to keep
order on the date of the Commonwealth welcome,
and cause all the processions to end at their
beginning in a mass of bluejackets and larrikins
and general Mafeking chaos. He may de-
cline to _ grant public holidays except for
the precious State reception. When Bent
tries to be a very fine gentleman he is
always rather unusual, and when he doesn’t try to
be a very fine gentleman he is often quite remark-
able. Very probably the other members of the
Ministry will have a word to say to Thomas before
the time arrives, and he will have to add another
to his many ignominious backdowns. But, should
he adhere to his present intention, he will be much
in the position of the disorderly small boy who
goes out of his way to bring discredit on the
family by making a scene at the dinner-table when
strangers are present, and has to be ejected, kick-
ing his father’s shins and using objectionable
language. If the old man has any sense he locks
offspring of this sort in the fowl-house before the
stranger arrives, and, for the sake of Australia’s
good name, it is to be regretted that Prime
Minister Deakin has not extensive powers in the
same direction. The news that Bent was in the
fowl-house and wouldn’t be out till the Americans
were gone would cheer many people.
o
Again the Post Office.
The “disorganisation” which Federation has
brought to the Post Office is of the same general
character as the “ruin” which it has brought on
Sydney. You can see the “ ruin ” of Sydney at
almost every street-corner—the tumbling bricks of
old houses which are being demolished to build
new palaces. You can see the decay of
the Post Office in almost every page of the
Postal Guide, in the shape of a reduction of
rates or increase of facilities. Since Sydney is
the headquarters of the outcry against Federal
postal administration, compare the N.S.W. Postal
Guide for 1900 (State control) with the N.S.W.
Postal Guide for 1907 (Federal control). Begin
with British and foreign mails. (The anti-
Federalist is always particularly concerned with
British and foreign mails: they tell him of the
part of the world which concerns him most.) In
1900, the postage-rate to Great Britain was 2Jd.
per |oz ; in 1907 it is 2d. In 1900, letters could be
posted for England up to 4.30 p.m. on mail days ;
late-fee letters up to 5.30 p.m. (at the G.P.0.),
extra fee, 2£d. ; special late-fee letters (at the
railway station) up to 6.45 p.m., extra fee, sd. In
1907, British letters can be posted up to 5.30 p.m.
without late fee ; up to 6.15 p.m. for a late fee of
2d.; up to 7.30 P.m. (at the railway station) for
the same 2d. So the anti-Federalist, with his
letter to England, bewailing the misery of living
in the colonies—allowing that his tears keep him
to the latest posting times—fares this way :
Before Since
Federation. Federation.
Cost of Joz. letter to London,
special late fee .. .. 7£d. 4d.
And Federation allows him an extra three-quarters
of an hour for tears. On the same page of the
Postal Guide as gives this information will be
found, in 1907, the code of signals displayed at the
G.P.O. to announce storms on the coast. That is
lacking in 1900 ; it is one of the new iniquities of
Federation. The late fee on inter-State and
inland letters in 1900 was 2d. In 1907, under the
Federation, it is Id. Then, consider these special
facilities which the Post Office allows in 1907
under Federation, and which it did not allow in
1900 under State control. Postmen must collect
letters for the post from householders if asked.
The Post Office has an express delivery service, by
which articles can be delivered express at very
low rates. Letters may be marked “Express,”
and, if an extra 4d. in stamps is affixed, will be
delivered by telegraph messenger on reaching the
town to which they are posted. The sender may
further endorse his letter “ Wait reply,” add 2d.
postage, and the express messenger will wait on
the addressee 10 minutes for a reply. Firms may
arrange to have all their mail delivered to them
express on payment of small fees. Mail trains
with travelling mail officers will carry ex-
press letters to any railway station at which
the train is timed to stop. Thus the Sydney anti-
Federalist, after he has sent his lamentation to
England on the evil of living in the colonies, may
hie him to the railway-station post office, fill
pages there with the bitter insults of Victoria
until 7-50 p.m., and send the letter express to
some Melbourne citizen, confident that he will
get it within a few minutes of the arrival of the
train at the southern capital. Not to weary the
argument with too much detail proof: In 1900,
under State control, the Post Office in N.S.W.
was an institution which did its obvious work
with reasonable efficiency ; in 1907, under Federal
management, it is an up-to-date institution, with
largely reduced rates, which is always worrying
around to give the public some new facilities.
—
Are We Dissatisfied?
Every now and again this country is afflicted with
a fresh heap of Deakin-Wade correspondence
about the Federal capital. There is a terrible
sameness about this correspondence, and any one
sample is very much the same as any other two
dozen samples. The latest batch finds Gregory
Wade holding forth as follows :
Reading your last letter in conjunction with the earlier
comm unication of the 3rd March, the position is clear
that you are unable in this important question to speak
on behalf of the Commonwealth Parliament. In view of
the specific and clear nature of the questions put by me
on the 6th March, I am forced to conclude, by applying
the usual canons of interpretation to the terms of your
reply, that a definite offer by the Parliament of this State
on behalf of New South Wales of the site they prefer will
not be acceptable to your Government, or helpful to them
in their deliberations.
I need hardly say this was unexpected. It is, more-
over, very disappointing to me, who had hoped for co-
operation on your part ; and it will not tend to remove
the aggrieved feeling that now exists, unfortunately, be-
tween this State and the Commonwealth on the subject
of the capital site.
That brilliant statement suggests at least one help-
ful idea. How would it be if the Deakin Ministry
offered Wade a reward of £lO,OOO for the produc-
tion of any reasonable evidence that would show
that, say, one-tenth of the people of N.S.W.
have an aggrieved feeling, or care one battered
penny-piece about Wade’s silly Federal capital
row. By all appearances, that Wade-Carruthers
shindy is the most ridiculous confidence trick ever
played on a guileless and innocent people. Cer-
tain daily papers lash their tails wildly over the
matter, and strive to howl themselves and their
readers into fury, but nobody really seems to care.
There are no meetings, no petitions, no proces-
sions, no rising, no excitement whatever. After
the daily papers have howled in 25 leading
articles about the Wrongs of N.S.W. in this
matter, they sometimes evoke, and sometimes
don’t evoke, a letter from one correspondent—the
same old faithful correspondent —who urges
N.S.W. to secesh, but that sad, lonesome,
desolate person hardly amounts to a large popular
movement, or a boiling fury, or a fried devil, or
anything of the kind. There used to be about
six correspondents, but five of them were
misled by the habit the daily papers had
of telling them that the Constitution con-
tained all manner of provisions that it didn’t con-
tain, and that it never dreamt of containing.
When they learned how they had been deceived
they dropped out. Now one man, who writes to
Sydney Telegraph at very long intervals, repre-
sents all the visible “aggrieved feeling” that
exists outside the offices of the Sydney dailies.
And what really exists inside these offices isn't
so very apparent. Presumbly, the tremendous
and dignified proprietors, who never condescend
to go down into the highways and by-ways and
inquire into popular sentiment, think that there
is some large feeling of woe and injury; but the
members of their staffs, who are, as a rule, cheer-
ful, manly fellows, greet the delusion with a howl
of merriment when it is mentioned to them out-
side. In a casual way they seem to regard their
proprietors as a herd of amusing lunatics.
♦
The Stinking Fish Party.
[For The Bulletin.]
Man, the Master, gifted rarely, from the most
unlikely things
Fashions forth the perfect image of his soul’s im-
aginings.
Out of cold implastic marble statues wonderful are
hewn ;
Simple notes of music mingled make the dear
dream-haunting tune ;
Fibred canvas, grey of surface, drab and unin-
spiring quite,
Which an Artist paints his soul on, may become
a world’s delight;
The rare Poet weaves an idyl, out of words of
every day,
That shall charm men’s souls for ages after his
has passed away ;
So the Engineer and Builder, so the Potter with
his bowl,
Body forth the secret yearnings that torment the
artist soul.
Mother Nature (who is Beauty) doth her alchemics
employ,
To transmute by wondrous process harshnesses to
things of joy.
Out of colorless beginnings—dawns unpromising
and cold —
She will fashion summer noontides, evening skies
of rose and gold ;
On the tortured storm clouds drifting, drifting so
dejectedly,
She limns forth her rainbow glories with supernal
artistry ;
Tiny seeds flung earthward harshly in sere
Autumn’s last sad hours
Blossom, when shy Spring returneth, into promise-
laden flowers.
On the modest rush-girt lakelet, crooning o’er its
tiny bars.
She imposes this fond mandate: “Mirror thou
the lonely stars ! ”
Mother Nature (who is Beauty) doth her alchemics
employ
To transmute by wondrous process harshnesses to
things of joy.
Man, the Master, gifted rarely out of most un-
likely things,
Fashions forth the perfect image of his soul’s
imaginings.
But, nor Man nor daedal Nature, though they
have the DIRT at hand,
Can make consciences for fellows who’d betray
their Native Land !
MAORILAND. SINC. S. CLARK.
♦
“ Gimme Back Me Member!”
There is material for a new row in Federal circles
—in fact, it is a wonder this particular row didn’t
come earlier. When the Commonwealth opened
for business in 1901, N.S.W. had 26 members and
Victoria 23. According to law, the distribution
of members alters as the balance of population
alters, but then a question arose—was the mem-
bership to be adjusted every ten years, when the
reliable census figures were available, or was it to
bob to and fro, and up and down, on the mere
annual estimates —possibly unreliable estimates —
made by the State Statisticians ? After a few
years these estimates showed that N.S.W.’s popu-
lation had increased so much faster than that of
Victoria that N.S.W. was entitled to one extra
member at Victoria’s expense. So the N.S.W.
members declared that there must be no
waiting for the definite figures of the census,
and that the guesses of the respective Statis-
ticians were good enough. Tbe thing be-
came a State grievance, and- N.S.W. carried
its point. That left Victoria with 22 mem-
bers, as compared with N.S.W.’s 27. But
later on a Federal Statistician was appointed
(Knibbs, of Sydney), and for the first time the
population estimates of all the States were made
up by one man instead of by six men. Now,
Knibbs is understood to be of opinion that the
old estimates were shaky, and to flint that Vic-
toria lost its member under a misapprehension,
or a premature rush, or something ; and there is a
fair chance that Victoria will demand its lost
member back again. And, if the number of
electors on the roll is any fair guide to the number
of inhabitants, Victoria has a very remarkable-
looking case. These are the figures for the 1906
election, according to the Year Book op Aus-
tralia for 1908 (published in Sydney):—
Electors Electors to
State. Members, on Roll, each Member.
N. S. Wales .. 27 736,267 27,269
S. Australia .. 7 192,826 27,547
Westralia .. 5 145,473 29,095
Queensland .. 9 271,109 30,123
Victoria .. 22 680,863 30,948
Tasmania is left out of the calculation, for the
number of its members isn’t based on population,
but on the law which says that no State
shall have less than five Representatives.
The above figures led to a good deal of
grumbling even before the new estimates of popu-
lation came along. The figures alleged that
N.S.W. had more members in proportion to the
number of electors than any other mainland
State, while Victoria had less members than any
other. Even if, at last election, Victoria had
had the original 23 members and N.S.W. the
original 26, there would still, on these figures, have
been more members to a given number of electors
in N.S.W. than in Victoria. In fact, it is claimed
that, if the number of electors on the roll is any
criterion, South Australia and N.S.W. have got a
most remarkable advantage over Queensland and
Victoria. The following list—also from the Year
Book op Australia—shows where the dispro-
portionately big and the disproportionately small
electorates were situated in 1906 :
Disproportionately Large Constituencies.
Fawkner (Victoria) .. 37,366 electors
Brisbane (Queensland) .. 34,839 ~
Oxley ( „ ) .. 34,589
Bourke (Victoria) .. 33,975 ~
Maribyrnong ( ~ ) .. 33,891 „
Kooyong ( ~ ) .. 33,695 ~
Bendigo ( ~ ) .. 32,257 ~
Perth (VVestralia) .. 32,093 ~
Balaclava (Victoria) .. 32,049 ~
That means that, according to the Yeab-Book’s
figures for 1906, there were nine mainland con-
stituencies which, in a most conspicuous fashion,
had been done out of their fair share of representa-
tion, and of these, six were in Victoria, two in
Queensland, and one in Westralia. Then, accord-
ing to the same authority, this is the other side of
the case :
Disproportionately Small Constituencies.
Eden-Monaro (N. S. Wales) .. 23,564 electors.
Grey (S. Australia) .. 24,127 ~
Maranoa (Queensland) .. 24,698 ~
Kennedy ( ~ ) .. 24,843 „
Macquarie (N. S. Wales) .. 24,852 ~
Newcastle ( ~ ) .. 24,910 ~
Hume ( ~ ) .. 25,068
Riverina ( ~ ) .. 25,079 ~
Barrier ( ~ ) .. 25,294 ~
Werriwa ( ~ ) .. 25,835 ~
Richmond ( ~ ) .. 25,861 ~
Gwydir ( „ ) .. 25,887 „
That signifies that there were 12 mainland
constituencies which had, in 1906, a ridicu-
lously large amount of member in propor-
tion to the visible number of voters, and of
these constituencies S.A. had one, Queensland
two, and N. S. Wales no less than nine. Such
discrepancies certainly suggest that in future
there should only be a re-adjustment of represen-
tation once every ten years, when there are the
reliable census figures to go upon. But mean-
while Victoria, which says it has nearly all the
under-membered constituencies, and that N.S.W.
has almost all the over-membered ones, is de-
manding an inquiry to decide whether it lost a
Representative to N.S.W. fairly three or four
years ago, or whether there was an amazing
muddle somewhere. In effect it says : “ Gimme
back me member ! ” Of course, even if it lost its
member unfairly a few years ago, the state of the
population to-day may have tardily justified the
act. But it is claimed that the act was needlessly
sudden when it happened.
♦
The Labor Conference Decides for a
Military Caste.
The above wasn’t exactly what the recent Sydney
Labor Conference said it did, and it almost cer-
tainly wasn’t what it thought it did, but, all the
same, it was precisely what it DID. The exact
reading of the matter appeared thus in one of the
Sydney dailies :
COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE.
Mr. E. Riley (Sydney Labor Council) moved :
“ That congress protest against the introduction of any
scheme of enforced military service.”
He contended that in every country where there was a
military caste, and where militarism predominated, the
workers had a very poor show of getting a fair deal.
And the proposition was carried by a fair ma-
jority-incredible as it may seem, for a more
upside-down motion was never put before
any assemblage. In the military business
there are just three alternatives: (1) A country
may do without any army at all—or at least
without any competent army. Then it gets
a military caste in the end, but it is a foreign one,
even as the Norman military caste came and sat
on the head of England, and the Muscovite one
on the skull of Poland, and the Ottoman one on
the Greek Empire, and the Jap one on Korea,
and just as every community that had an army
and felt like collecting “chout” came and stood
on the countenance of Bengal. Then (2) there is
the alternative of a voluntary army. It has to be
a long-service army, because, as a rule, only a small
portion of the able-bodied male population volun-
teers, and the country wants to keep its soldier
when it has got him. So the volunteer soldier
settles down to pass a fair portion of his
life in military quarters. He becomes a person
apart from the mass of the people. He loses
his knowdedge of them and his sympathy
with them. He grows to be a part, not of the
nation, but of the army. He gets to a point at
which, as a being permanently separated from the
rest of the community, he cheerfully shoots down
strikers or any other civilians when ordered to do
so. That is the military caste idea in all its
horror. And then there is (3) the alternative, as
practised in Switzerland, of training the whole
male population, but having no military caste,
either native or foreign. Or if the trained males
do form a military caste, it is a caste of the whole
male population; and a caste that includes
everybody is no caste at all, just as no
secret society can remain a secret society when
everybody is in it, and everybody knows all
about the passwords, and the symbols, and
the mystic billy-goat and the ritual of the
XXXIInd degree. That is the scheme'which
the Deakin Government proposes, and which
was denounced by a strangely-aberrated majority
in the Sydney Labor Conference. On the plea
that it didn’t want a military caste, it gave its
vote against the only scheme which can prevent
Australia having one. And the alternative,
which presumably the dunder-headed majority
favors, is the voluntary, long-service army which
is something severed from and foreign to the
nation —the sort of force that England has —
the one which cheerfully shot down the
workers at Peterloo, and many other places,
sometimes for merely complaining about
the high price of bread. The only modern
countries in which the Deakin Government’s
scheme has had a fair trial are Switzerland and
the Transvaal. Switzerland is commonly regarded
as a country where the interests of the workers
are looked after as they are in no other part of
Europe and nowhere in America. And in the
Transvaal, where every adult male Boer was a
trained soldier, with his gun and ammunition at
hand and his local field-cornet to lead him, and
where the only armed force was the worker
himself, it would have been a very suicidal tyrant
who tried to oppress that same worker. As a
method of providing military defence without
obnoxious military institutions, the Swiss and
Boer policy, which Prime Minister Deakin advo-
cates, appears unrivalled. Certainly it seems far
ahead of the British system by which is furnished
the armies which hold down Ireland and India,
and go annexing and marauding in four conti-
nents. Still, if the majority of the Labor Confer-
ence wants a military caste, it deserves to have
one. And it seems to want such a caste very
badly.
♦
Australia’s First Official Year-book.
About a new publication which might be better
than it is :• —
Commonwealth Statist Knibbs has produced his first
official Year-book. The arrangement is excellent, and
the range of subjects covered is very wide ; there are few
things about Australia which are not touched upon in
the 1000 pages, especially if they have a statistical


DEAFNESS, head-noises,
Ringing in the Ears, etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME with
pure Aural Kinetics. No matter of how long- standing
or whatever the case may be, Catarrh Deafness, Throat
Deafness, Perforated Drums, or any other Deafness and
Head-Noises. i
THE REV. O. P. FOSTER writes For the last 25
years I have been paying heavy doctors' bills until they
proclaimed my Deafness and Head-noises entirely incur-
able. I have now used your treatment for three weeks,
and atn simply delighted with it.”
DR. P. J. SMITH, 8.A., M.A.C., writes “ I cheerfully
endorse the * EAROSCOPE ’ as a specific treatment for
Deafness, Head-noises, Ringing in the Ears, and all other
Aural Complications.”
These are only a few of our grateful letters. Call or
write for full FREE particulars. Address: —
“EAROSCOPE” Co., 90 Pitt St. (0. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
The State Premiers blunder in the dark
over an immigration and land settlement policy.
If they followed the light of that brilliant mental
illuminant—D.C.L. Whisky—they would speedily
strike the sunny way leading to national pros-
perity. Eloquence inspired by the brand of
learning is very different from the gushing twaddle
poured out by anti-Fed. politicians.*
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best' Film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films every week, and our
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
basis. It is when the statistician leaves his columns of
figures and his mathematics, and turns himself into a
descriptive writer, that trouble is apt to call in ; and it
calls in rather frequently in this Year-book. It may he
fairer—this being the first year of issue—to judge it by
its plan than by its text; and of its plan nothing but
good can be said. As to the text, inaccuracies to the
extent of a page-full were detected as the issue was going
through the printing-machines; and the page might
easily run to half-a-dozen.
Take the mining section, for instance : “ The export of
zinc spelter and concentrates has increased from 97 tons,
valued at £9BB, in 1889, to 3666 tons, valued at £292,806,
in 1906.” That would make “zinc spelter and concen-
trates ” worth about £BO a ton, whereas metallic spelter
was then worth only about £25. Following up the same
metal, the Year-book in another place remarks that
“in the early years of the history of the Broken Hill
mines the whole of the zinc contents of the ores was lost
in smelting operations ” —a statement which will strike
anybody who knows anything at all about metallurgy as
absurd. Of course, the zinc has to be eliminated by wet
concentration before the silver-lead ore is even sent to
the smelter; and, anyhow, “in the early years of the
history ” of Broken Hill there wasn’t any zinc in the ore.
Occasionally, too, where one might; expect something
like a glad sound of triumph, we get a very poor
quavering note. No Australian industry has made finer
progress than that of coke-making. Down to 15 years ago
the Australian article was pushed aside contemptuously,
and in 1891 76,542 tons were imported, while as late as
1892 only 8852 tons were made in Australia. In 1903-6,
however, 520,027 tons were made in Australia, and only
16,000 tons were imported. Yet, in spite of this fine
Australian achievement and this complete turning of the
tables, the Year-book of Australia tells us this about
coke:—
“ Notwithstanding the large deposits of excellent coal
in Australia, there is at the present time a fairly consider-
able amount of coke imported from abroad, the oversea
imports during the three years ended 1906 amounting to
about 16,000 tons. Various reasons were adduced to
account for the rejection of the local article, such as ex-
cessive friability in transport, lack of strength, excessive
amount of ash, etc. It is believed, however, that in a
great many instances these disabilities have been over-
come, so that succeeding years should see a more extensive
local production.”
Much the same sort of thing occurs in connection with
the reference to the manufacture of chemical fertilisers,
another industry in which Australia has made extraordi-
nary progress during the past half-dozen years or so. A
table shows that, in 1906, 134,225 tons of fertilisers were
imported ; but as to Australian production :
“Statistics relating to the fertiliser manufactories of
the Commonwealth, which in 1906 only numbered 14, are
not available ; but the output is, as yet, very small in
comparison with that which is imported.”
Now, Victoria alone used 60,871 tons in 1906, and
Westralia 16,127 tons ; and it is very certain that S.
Australia, N. S. Wales and Queensland among them used
about three times that quantity, which would make the
Australian consumption over 300,000 tons. If, therefore,
only 134,225 tons were imported, it is certain that a great
deal more than that was made in Australia. Yet the
Australian Year-book tells us that “ the output is, as
yet, very small in comparison with that which is im-
ported.” If a Year-book must err, this really isn’t the
side on which one might reasonably expect it to tip over
—at least, with such frequency.
Three other illustrations of the urgent need for a
stricter revision of the Year-book in future issues must
suffice. First, as to private railways. The published table
purports to cover a period no later than 1905. The text
says “ there are at present three private lines in N. S.
Wales” —the Deniliquin, the Silverton Co.’s, and the
Warwick Farm. This omits the East Greta, Aberdare,
and Stanford-Merthyr lines, which stand second in im-
portance to the Silverton Co.’s line. As to banking, the
Ballarat Banking Co. is omitted from a list which pur-
ports to be complete. And, finally, as to life insurance,
we are told that the Victorian, the Australian Alliance,
and the Citizens’are the only cos. which are partly pro-
prietary ; though, of the offices included in the Year-
book’s general list, the Standard and the Australian
Metropolitan are just as much proprietary as the other
three are. The Year-book, moreover, repeats this inac-
curacy on a later page.
And yet, in spite of these stumbles, the Year-book
is a valuable arsenal, though until it is revised it will
have to be drawn upon cautiously. Very likely
the statistical tables will be found to be com-
paratively free from error. Still, on p. 798, the S. Aus-
tralian electors enrolled for the House of Representatives
and entitled to vote in 1906 are set down at 42,065 males
and 38,578 females, or a total of 80,643, whereas the total
enrolment was, according to an official statement made
at the time, 192,826. In general, however, it is not easy to
check such figures, but where it has been possible to run
an effective measuring-rule over them, they have mostly
proved to be a satisfactory 12 inches to the foot. Out of
these tables rise a fine myriad of arguments for the
better confounding of the Stinking Fish person and the
State Frighter. To the man who curses at his telephone
service, and tells you that Federal mismanagement sticks
out all over the business, you can at least whisper that,
anyhow, the telephone connections in N. S. Wales alone
have sprung from 9864 in 1901 to 15,453 in 1906, an increase
of 56 per cent, in five years. To the State Treasurer who
shrieks about his loan repayments you can point to a
table on page 690, showing that not one single State re-
duced its debt during the past two years—N. S. Wales,
indeed, increased its load by £3,285,844. And, finally,
here you can get a comparison of the climatic conditions
of, say, Canberra, and the alleged “blizzard-swept” Dal-
gety, and see that the mean winter temperature of the
latter is less than 3 degrees lower than Canberra’s, while
it is 5 degrees higher than Amsterdam’s, 10 degrees higher
than Berlin’s, 5 degrees higher than Brussels’, 16 degrees
higher than Chicago’s, 11 degrees higher than Copen-
hagen’s, 23 degrees higher than New York’s, and 28 de-
grees higher than Quebec’s. It is even 1 degree higher
than Shanghai’s.
»
A New Outbreak of the “ Truck ” Disease.
The massive and magnificent Commonwealth Oil
Corporation, the concern which consists for the
most part of lordly English millionaires, proposes
to introduce something of the “ squire ” system to
the Wolgan Valley (N.S.W.), where its main
works are. Consequently application was made
recently for a private township site of close upon
a square mile. Local people heard of it, where-
upon there were ructions, and the Labor Con-
gress, which happened to be sitting in Sydney,
asked the State Government to receive a
deputation. To the Congress’s amazement, Chief-
Secretary and Mines Minister Wood refused ; to
its greater amazement, he gave these extraordinary
reasons—(l) the Government was opposed to
granting such leases ; (2) this particular lease had
already been practically granted. It hadn’t been
actually granted, it was admitted ; it had not
passed the Governor-in-Council. Yet, though
there was ample time to stop the lease, the
Minister declined to hear reasons why the Govern-
ment should not do what it declares that it is
opposed to doing. If Chief Secretary Wood had
said that there wasn’t any reason for the deputa-
tion because the lease was not going to be granted,
as the Government was opposed to such leases, the
thing would have been intelligible ; but as matters
stand, it looks as though the Government knew
it was doing wrong, yet insisted upon doing it,
and therefore was not game to place itself in a
position in which it would be expected to justify
its misconduct. Even if the Government were
not doing something which it knows to be wrong,
this was a subject upon which a body representa-
tive of the wage-earners had a particularly strong
claim to be heard. The daily papers talk glibly,
of course, of the case of Sunlight, in England,
where “a great manufacturing proprietary houses
its workpeople”in “a model township—model in
design, in comfort, and in sanitation.” There
is, however, no need to go England for
illustrations. Newcastle has coal companies
which also house their employees; and the
same thing happens at the Wallaroo and Moonta
copper mines in S. Australia. In neither of these
places is the design, comfort, or sanitation any-
thing to boast of; on the contrary, when the em-
ployer is also the landlord, the employee mostly
finds he has to put up with any old shack—it is
the price which he pays, and which his children
pay, for being kept on the pay-sheet. Then, if
the employer and employee disagree about wages
or conditions, the employer can use a two-edged
sword. As employer, he knows that no wages
are being earned ; as landlord, he can then step
in and insist upon the payment of the rent which
he knows, in most cases, can’t be paid, and if it
isn’t paid, out the tenants must bundle —or accept
the labor conditions that he offers ! Long ago
the evils of the “truck” system were made
so clear to the Parliament of N. S. Wales, that a
stringent Act was passed making payment in
anything but money illegal; it was so stringent
that, until a slight amendment was made, em-
ployers could not even deduct a small weekly
amount for the up-keep of a hospital. Yet,
though Parliament has thus expressed its opinion
about the “truck” system, this foolish, blunder-
ing State Government of N. S. Wales has appar-
ently made up its mind to give an absentee co. a
chance to introduce one of the very worst forms
of “truck” —a chance for this absentee co. to
compel a man to be its tenant before it accepts
him as its workman.
4.
The Drift of W. Kidston.
“ Itan ” submits his view :
Is Kidston drifting Tory wards ? True, there are rumors
of a Government-Opposition coalition. But supposing
the union does take place, it will be a case of Kidston
absorbing Philp and Co., unless Willif. is tempted to
become Agent-General. If Kidston returns, as he says he
will, the coalition will mean the extinction of the Philp
crowd as an organisation—swallowed up by Democracy.
(What a stomach Demos must have !)
Kidston has been literally forced to do something, for
the Bowman followers, with Lesina and Hardacre yap-
ping in front, have made politics intolerable ever since
Morgan left for the Chamber of Fossils. It was plain
that the Government could not go on as it has been
going, and it is much better that Kidston should lead
than that the awful set of Philp blunderers should get
office, backed up by a section of the Kidstonites, who
would probably take that course rather than join forces
with Bowman. Democrats must not forget that even
during the last session Kidston got through an amazing
lot of very advanced Democratic business, and inci-
dentally dragged out of the Tories considerable support.
There may be reason for fault-finding at the syndicate
railways, but even as to that the State has not got a bad
bargain. The terms are such that the Railway Depart-
ment will have control of the lines and the working
arrangements, which will prevent any repetition of
the Chillagoe extortion scandal. The construction of rail-
ways in the Lilydale country, as well as back from Clon-
curry, is largely a case of gambling with the risks of the
mining industry. Under the existing conditions, the
Government is practically getting those lines built at the
expense of the syndicates, which take all risks up to a
certain time, whereupon the lines become the property
of the people at a price calculated on the last preceding
five years’ earnings.
It is deplorable, no doubt, that Kidston and the Labor
Party could not work together. But the latter has shown
such an aggressive disposition that no self-respecting
Government could tolerate it. In the end, Democracy will
lose by that. The Labor Party, probably through exces-
sive zeal, has put the clock back. Many sympathisers, in
fact, fear it has disorganised the instrument alto-
gether through over-winding, or has broken the main-
spring, or done something else equally foolish.
The Cheap Gun Horror.
The S. M. Herald, which has ever barracked
violently for the dirt-cheap foreign-made article,
printed without comment (2/5/’08) the following
from the pen of one H. J. M. Mallard :
One has only to spend a few minutes at our rail-
way station on the eve of a holiday (such as Easter), and
he will wonder at the sight of hundreds of young fellows —
boys from the age of 13 and upwards—shooting bound.
But to me it is a marvel that not more come back on the
stretcher. The majority are equipped with a single- or
double-barrel breechloader. On investigation you will
find that it is the cheap 30s. to 50s. gun that
dominates (made in Belgium). I had the misfortune
of witnessing a gun accident on Good Friday,
at Douglas Park, the third inside of 12 months.
The unfortunate shooter was in an unrecognisable state.
He was in a pitiable plight, and it was a toss-up whether
he would lose his left eye or not. When inquiries were
made about the type of gun he was using, it turned out
he was another cheap-gun victim. How is it that if
a pea-rifle accident happens a hundred miles from
nowhere it finds its way into our daily papers, while gun-
bursting you never hear of, as it is rarely, if ever,
reported, unless it proves fatal ? Now my firm opinion is
that a pea-rifle is far less dangerous than a cheap gun, etc.
On each of the occasions when an “ Arms ” item
has come before the Australian Parliament the
Herald has pleaded strenuously for “cheap
arms ; ” and members of its way of thinking drew
painful word-pictures in the Federal House of the
destitute cocky with his ranch a mass of raven-
ing rabbits owing to his inability to afford the
ruinously expensive gun that would eventuate if a
high enough duty were imposed to bring
about the Australian - made fowling - piece.
Furthermore, the Herald and its afore-
said crowd suggested drearily that in any
case an Australian couldn’t make a fowling-piece
that would slay a rabbit. The collective Free-
trade voice clamoring passionately for “the
greatest good of the greatest number” suc-
ceeded in enacting that the duty on the cheap
30s. to 50s. gun (made in Belgium) should be low
enough to permit of its broadcast entry into the
Commonwealth. The result, as the Herald's
correspondent, Mallard, points out, is seen most
days in the year. Failing a prohibitive duty on
these deadly imports, the Australian Government
has two courses now open to it. It may (1) forbid the
importation of the “untested” g:un altogether, as
“ more than ordinarily perilous in its components
or application ” ; or (2) it may impose a gun tax
that will hit hard at the lunatic who uses the dirt-
cheap foreign-made article. Either of these will
tend considerably to preserve our fast vanishing
indigenous bird-life, and still more to preserve the
life of the indigenous human being.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty.”
Criterion “Camille.”
Palace Maskelyne and Devant’s Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Town Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirth Bros.’Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Sherlock Holmes.”
Princess’s. .. “ Peter Pan. ”
Bijou “East Lynne.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
♦
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) “Humpty
Dumpty ” still has a great fall eight times a week;
and eight times a week he rises from the stage
to plaintively ask who his mother was. The
Bulletin doesn’t know for certain ; but, judging
by the crowded state of the house and the per-
sistent smile on the face of the box-office, it
reckons that she was an oof-bird.
* * *
At Sydney Palace the Maskelyne mysteries
still magnetise much wealth from the pockets of
people who love to have tricks played on their
eyesight. For although this paper is quite unable
to explain how the illusions are worked, it is still
prepared to take its solemn affidavit that the lady
does not materialise out of space, and that
the monkey is never really in the box.
The air of absolute reality with which
these mysteries are carried out merely proves
what a remarkable man John Nevil Maskelyne is.
Possibly it is all based upon manipulation of the
mirror. Maskelyne’s father was an astronomer,
and used mirrors to explore the depths of space,
and, naturally, John Nevil uses them to explore
the depths of the public pocket. He was a Chelten-
ham artist in jewellery when he invented his mar-
vellous cabinet in 1863, and, great artist as he was
in metals, he never gave a finer finish to
any of his goldware than he does to his
illusions, which have stood the test of 45 years,
and are still practically unsolved by the public.
His great masterpiece was the Cleopatra’s N eedle
illusion. A shell obelisk stood on a pedestal, with
a sheet of paper between it and its support, appa-
rently blocking the only means of ingress and
egress. Yet out of this small object he produced
about half the population of ancient Egypt,
and left his audiences dismayed and staggered
with the idea that there was something in magic
after all. Had he chosen, he could have posed as
the great boss magician of the ages ; but from the
very first he smilingly declared there was nothing
supernatural about the business, and that it was
nothing but masterly fake. And thereby he made
greater glory for himself, for had he possessed
supernatural powers it had been easy; it was a
better proof of greatness to do the apparently
impossible.
A SUBSTITUTE.
W. H. Irvine (who got his seat on the Protection ticket)
moved an amendment to defeat the proposed duty on
imported caps and hats. — Age.
MISS AUS. : “ Have you any political principle ?”
BAGMAN IRVINE: “No; but just try a lump of
this calm coolness .”
On Friday night next the Sydney Criterion
“Beggar” takes a pull at his steed (which has
been running a fine and willing race for the past
fortnight), dismounts, weighs in, collects all bets,
and makes way for the next event on the Meynell
and Gunn programme—to wit, “Camille.” The
fact that objections will be inevitably and in-
stantly lodged on all sides to the above perform-
ance will not irritate, stultify, confound or other-
wise discommode this popular horseman one iota.
Madge Mclntosh will carry the syndicate’s colors
on Camille the following night; and Hareourt
Beatty has been secured at a big retaining-fee to
steer Armand.
* * He
Kubelik’s sponsors are anxious to remind
the public that He Is Coming. He will be
tethered in Sydney from May 19 till a later date.
Besides being in the front rank of violinists,
Kubelik deserves the gratitude of the public for
not bringing his four girl babies along with his
thousand-pound Strad.
He * He He
The melancholy Dane is what Max Schliiter
appears in his portraits on the hoardings—a very
sad Dane, looking down at the fiddle nestled on
his breast as if grieving over a broken string.
But he isn’t really melancholy. Last Monday he
appeared at Sydney Centenary Hall for the first
time after an absence of six years. He was received
by a fairly-filled house in glad raiment, and again
proved himself the brilliant Dane that Sydney
already knew. His programme of classic,
dramatic, and sentimental pieces was a star
achievement, and the little catastrophe of a string
breaking whilst he was bowing out a coquettish
mazurka only whetted the audience’s appetite.
The artist retired to repair the damaged catgut, and
he had put in a fresh strand of pussy-fibre, and
was hastening back to the neighborhood of the
potted palm elevaticm, when the new string
snapped. And he hadn’t a third. The faithful
and resourceful Southwell pulled a string from
his evening clothes, but the mercurial Dane
sprinted from the premises, and fled like
a hare in a hansom to the Australia to get
his own particular brand of meow rope
The audience, with that mazurka still quivering
along its nerves, waited unclamorously. For the
rest, Miss Sussmilch, and Mr. Laurence God-
frey Smith and Maestro Sykes helped to make the
recital a fine thing in its line. Schluter will
play again on Thursday, and close his season on
Saturday.
** * *
At Prince Alfred Park (Sydney) Wirth’s
gigantic circus and menagerie still draws with the
energy of a 40-h.p. mustard plaster, and the
packed audience of last Saturday night looked
eagerly forward to the christening of the giraffe
who was making his first public appearance in
Australia. For general out-of-the-wayness the
giraffe beats the kangaroo hollow. His neck is
longer than his backbone, and his hind legs are
about half the length of his front ones, while the
top end of him towers up to an apparent height
of about 14ft. In spite of this tendency to
length without breadth, the animal is fairly nimble
and graceful on his feet. He is the first giraffe that
has succeeded in landing alive in Australia, all the
others having died in the attempt. It is interest-
ing to know that he is not a child of the desert
but hails from the. Hamburg Zoo, where he was
bred, and where Phil Wirth acquired him. He
was christened Commonwealth with a bottle
of champagne, and the clown made desperate
though ineffectual attempts to catch the loose fluid
before it struck the sawdust and to drink it in
the air.
** * *
“ The Lady Dandies” close their career
at Sydney Royal on Saturday, and after that the
theatre will have a brief well-earned rest. Any-
body who hasn’t seen the “Dandies” is hereby
urged to hasten like Lot leaping out of Sodom.
** * *
West’s Pictures are now firmly estab-
lished at Sydney Town Hall, and the receipts at
the ticket office indicate that the love of the fleet-
ing image does not diminish. At present the
programme leans to “ furrin parts.” Some fine
representations of snow sports in Switzerland,
with sleigh bells tinkling in the distance, and the
thud, thud, of the ski-jumpers who flash down the
long glittering slope of the snow track, are very
realistic. From the ice-bound winterof Switzerland
the audience is whisked away to the Soudan, and
finds itself growing thirsty in view of straggly
palms, dreary expanses of moss-dotted sand, and
low buildings of sun-dried bricks. Between the
African black and the Yellow Man there isa great
gulf fixed, but the cinematograph bridges it in a
few seconds and goes reeling through Korea, show-
ing the native of that distressful country in the
haunts out of which the Jap is now busily engaged
poking him with the thin end of the bayonet.
*# * *
The Kaufmanns continue to play amazing
tricks with their bicycles at Sydney Tivoli. Their
turn never stales ; when they have worn out 943
ways of not falling off though the laws of attraction
say they should, they just go and invent 711 other
ways, and so they keep the star place in the bill.
Sylvo has, however, arrived with a competing
turn of mixed clowning and juggling; and the
loud laugh that proclaims the full gallery rattles
throughout his performance.
** * *
At Adelaide Royal, Bland Holt, who has
a long season before him, has played “ The White
Heather ” for two full weeks, though half way
through the second there was very nearly a sudden
stop to the whole show. Bland has to ride
on in the Park scene on a bicycle and collide with
a chair. One evening he cannoned off it, and
went straight for the footlights. For one second
he felt desperately for a back-pedal brake, but tire
machine did not happen to be built that way, and
the next second it was down on top of the big
drum. Bland himself fell on his chest on
the rail between stalls and orchestra, and
bent it considerably. Blanche Arral has sung just
once more at the Town Hall, which is now
occupied by the “Scarlet Troubadours”; and
there are about half-a-dozen other shows of varying
excellence open for selection every evening.
Concerning these “ Scarlet Troubadours,” they are
“devised and controlled by Mr. Edward Brans-
combe,” and they show themselves (on starting
the serious business of their Australian tour at
Adelaide Town Hall) a tuneful and humorous team
of eight. At their best, the eight are really funny.
At their not-quite-best—or, indeed, in any case, if
their work is not accepted in the same spirit as
offered—they tend to be amiably futile. In two
words, they are Quite English, of the type which
runs a perpetual matinee in some hall off Regent-
street for the particular benefit of the schoolgirl and
the country clergyman. They play a settled pro-
gramme, printed in England before starting, and
changed every second evening. Its ostensible
price is “ annas 4,” showing that it has already
been offered to the discerning Hindu. The six
men and two ladies of the team make a feature of
costume, putting in the first half in cloaks ot
black and red, then getting into pierrot guise, and
finishing in scarlet evening-dress. Singers, pianist,
sketch-artist, and “jester’’are all skilled in their
way, and they play up to each other perseveringjy
with a dance or a mouthful of chorus. If a lad)
sings of a ghost or a golliwog, someone steas
away and comes back with a face whitened or
blackened to correspond. It is all very merry
and musical, and should be a success in the cities.
Up-country would be puzzled by it, but then up-
country is hardly likely to see it.
** * *
At Melbourne Her Majesty’s, “John
Glayde’s Honor ” provides the thoughtful section
of the multitude with shreds of sententiousness,
combined with much fine furniture, candela
and valets. Part of the time the author wrestles
manfully with his problem, but there are tun s
when he feels the need for a rest. Then he pau
and broods, and grinds out a phrase, less spar: 6
than incisive, or produces the tame epigram .
feeds out of the hand. Yet Sutro has written
play that is no mere string of conventional si
tions, and his characters are as much alive as
be expected, considering the extreme age 0
problem of the two men and the one wo
And when they are not so alive as they img ’
they are still not nearly so dead as they (?ou
if they tried. Further, it is an eminently P
play. If there is a Devil in it, his cloven feet step
lightly on the carpet, and he sends in m
most courteously, and his tail is not in ® ,l a J
and he doesn’t light his cigar at the nam „. g
come out of his own mouth. ‘ John G r'- > A onor
near an end, though. After I nday h
will cease from troubling ; and bis st f or 3L . oC k
replaced by the stormy history of d tect .
Holmes, the fearfully calm man who wen
ing clothed in a tall figure, and a cocain ’
and a pale, inscrutable countenance.


Money with the Cinematograph.
t , et us , s^ow you how —write for full particulars
r ree ' We have everything for the show-
L t j' 'l er dans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
>«v> Specialists and Electricians,
be orge Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
J2* INSURANCE SOCIETY,
W PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Within Melbourne Bijou at present the
fracas under “ The Southern Cross ” absorbs the
attention of Commissioners in Lunacy, and mental
specialists, and other folk who take an interest in
the shattered mental condition of the British lord-
ling. The nobles of “ The Cross ” closely follow
the traditions of the stage peerage. They suffer
from all the evils of riches and malnutrition, and
are as inept as may be. “East Lynne” is pro-
mised for next Saturday night. On that subject
comment is strictly withheld. It wants to save
itself up.
** * *
The Dutch-flavored idyll of Sally Hook
continues its cheerful course at Melbourne Royal
what time Sally’s “ popper ” pursues his invalu-
able recipe. So far the old gentleman has not
proved his title to any fervid oblation. He has a
certain muzzy philosophy and a turbid joke or two ;
but he doesn’t burn with Homeric fire, so to speak.
His humor is too pensive, too sad, inevitably
recalling peace and green fields and lambkins, and
the solemn kine from which a short-skirted
Phyllis extracts the cow-juice in the dusk. Old
Hook’s failing is that he is too flaccid to be
astounding, and too arid to be much esteemed.
Thus his audience considers itself bitterly deluded,
for it prefers uproar to ideas and farce to nebulous
japes, and getting neither, it turns its attention to
Sally and to those of her acquaintances who inter-
polate the yarn with song. Well, the songh—
especially “Bottles and Bottles,” by the male
chorus in Act ll.—do much to mitigate the
criticism that old Hook demands.
** * *
Tittell Brune and co. at Melbourne
Princess’s begin to be more satisfactory as
Peter Pan and his delightful corps. At
first, only Loring Fernie, as the sonorous
Hook and the doubled character of Mr.
Darling, kept right inside the filmy garments
Barrie has given his characters. Now everyone
is easier and more spontaneous; and the
show flies as gracefully as Peter does. The
boys—amongst the juvenile performers—are
really artistic in their acting, or their neglect
of it. And the Brown Tittle herself is less
affected than ever before. The last act, which
discovers the remorseful Mr. Darling as the occu-
pant of the pet dog’s kennel, has the neatest dia-
logue in the piece. The explanation that he is
now much sought after in Society is simple. All
the ladies ask him to dinner because he is “so
quaint,” and say “Oh! do please bring your
kennel. It’s so dreadfully interesting.” By
living like a dog, a lucky man may make a lion
out of himself in London, hints Barrie—so long as
his roars are not true.
** * *
Among West’s Pictures, at Melbourne
Olympia, is a striking film of Tangier. Before
the spectator whirls a succession of narrow, busy
streets, thronged with camels and picturesque
hooded Moors. One sees strange, wide-eyed
children peeping from the doorways, a mendicant
with a withered leg, a native musician, a sheikh,
an occasional European—but very little dirt. One
passes through the teeming life of the bazaars;
through the citadel with its rows of ancient
muzzle-loading cannon—all in a few minutes. In
addition, West turns on to his sheet the mad
delirium of carnival time at Nice. Around a pro-
cession of Gargantuan monsters, decorated with
ribbons, bells, and all manner of things, yells
(you only see the yell) a cosmopolitan whirlpool—
pierrots, harlequins, and all kinds of grotesquely-
dressed lunatics, leaping about as if on a grid in
Gehenna. Such films are more instructive than a
whole library of travellers’ tales.
*# * *
Henry Rickards fastened Frank Har-
wood to the bill, at Melbourne Opera House, last
Saturday night. Frankie gives a performance
composed of a song, a dramatic reading, and
some jokes with the tang of Paunch. It is a
placid and not unpleasant entertainment; but it
is really more suited to a curate’s smoke concert
or the anniversary of a Girls’ Guild. The depart-
ment of gymnastics is as heretofore ; but it will
presently lose considerable prestige by the de-
parture of the Artois Bros., the neatest bar
specialists this paper has noted for a very long
time. Meantime John Higgins, champion jumper,
fails to dumfound the populace; while the sketch
by the Deane Tribune Co. seems to this writer as
dragged-out as the search for a body in a river on
a cold afternoon.
“C.K.Y.”: Various scribes, probably out-of-collar
mummers, heave rocks at the flickergraph. Can’t see it.
Have looked in at all the Sydney shows, a dozen more or
less, where the screen gives a night’s entertainment for a
sprat, and count I had good value. When the films are
new the shivery effect is not perceptible. The introduc-
tion of the singer with the picture, the audience joining
in the chorus, is an item that catches on and gives a
friendly picnic feeling that, helped by peanut*, makes
everyone feel at home. Dad, Mum, and the nippers have
a real good time together at a nominal price. If the
snows eventually kill the bellowdrama and the inane
musical comedy there will be plenty of dry eyes at the
funeral.
Apparently the tragedy of Madge Graham,
whose body was found down a shaft at Ballarat
(Vic.), will now fade away into the dim region in
which the demoralised Victorian police force keeps
its unsolved mysteries—and the number of them
is something terrible. William lies has been
tned in a quiet sort of way, and acquitted
in a quiet sort of way, and that pre-
sumably ends the matter. The attitude of the
force in such a case as this is a quaint sort of busi-
ness. It fixes its eye on one man—the probable
jhan, or the improbable man, but, anyhow, the
handiest man. It looks for him. It finds him,
or else it doesn’t find him. If it finds him,
■rod he is tried and acquitted, then it sits
down heavily and drops the subject. Its
mental attitude is something like this: (1)
'ye are infallible; (2) we caught Smith; (3)
*n-i u,ust be the right man, because we are
infallible and we caught him; (4) he was
acquitted by a mentally deficient Court, and
e can’t be tried again, and as the man
who did the thing is thus put out of our reach,
hj l ? no booking for the man who
ion t do it; (5) and all these things arise
oecause we are infallible.” All the same, Mel-
ourne wants a new cemetery. To it should be
ernoved, after the case is given up, the body of
Jiotim of unexplained murder, the final burial
« ‘be headstone to be at the State’s expense.
1 n d men the long rows of the dead, gathered
° m all parts of the State and increasing year by
Ar, would keep Victoria in mind of the in-
ciency of its ill-paid, under-manned, neglected
pe 'ce establishment; and when Bent came and
oub-I r an ? uall y at t * i e gate of the graveyard — he
g *t to be made to roar there annually—reform
St it at last begin to loom on the horizon.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Melb. : So Lauri has no good-bye for our city. Well,
he wouldn’t sacrifice the big- sum which a Melbourne
benefit would yield him if he could help it. Gouriet is an
excellent comedian, but will not fill Lauri’s hiatus. That
is to say, if the new pieces have Lauri parts. But fashion
changes so. They may have Gouriet parts. Gouriet is
similar to Elton, or Courtneidge, a character actor.
Lauri is the comic lecturer, like Greville or Toole. He
comes on in an irreeognisable make-up, but directly he
opens his mouth the wig flies up into the flies, the clothes
vanish through invisible traps, the paint washes itself off,
except that inevitable streak of rouge under his lip. This
helps a faint suspicion that there is always a bit of the
pantomimic in Lauri, as with George Leopold and Edouin.
Yes, a smack of “ Here we are again,” and “ How are you
to-morrow?” I suppose Lauri’s screw monkeyed round
half a monkey a week. Yet even after he had so wonder-
fully replaced Elton in “The Old Guard” and the like,
there came along a class of operas like “ The Gay Parish
enne ” and “ The French Maid,” where he couldn’t shine.
He was away from Williamson for some time. He even
did variety turns at Melbourne Opera House with Addie
Conyers. Then came a swoop of pieces with Lauri parts
in excelsis. As Hazlitt writes of Jack Bannister, he puts
a character over himself like a surtout, warm and com-
fortable. He is an actor of temperament, even as Eleanor
Duse is such an actress.
Mrs. Dolores Drummond, a .well-known actress of half
a century ago, has just completed her 72nd year. At
the Princess’s Theatre, Melbourne, in the ’fifties, she was
Miss Dolly Green. Her husband, known sometimes as
Sprague and other times as Drummond, was a law
clerk in Chancery Lane. Her earliest appearances were
with Mary Provost and Joe Raynor, in “ Camille.” Some
years ago.she came to Sydney as Mrs. Dolores Drummond
with a monologue entertainment. Her last appearance
in London Was 20 years ago, when she appeared in
“ Peter’s Mother.”
“Micawber”: Philip Wirth(B. 24/4/’08) speaks of picture
shows driving circuses out of business on the Continent.
In America the condition of vaudeville is critical, hun-
dreds of houses going over to the ranks of the flicker-
graph. As representative here of a Yankee vaudeville
paper, I received the following letter last week —it explains
itself : —“ Kindly give particular attention to the moving
pictures in your town ; also send along any newspaper
clippings of all available matter relating to this particular
branch of the profession. This is important, as the Bio-
graph threatens to be the staple amusement producer,
and as such we must cater accordingly.” Further ex-
tracts state that in several towns vaudeville is now an
unknown quantity.
“ Bus ” : A hard toiling shoveodrama co. has been play
ing “The Power of the Cross” and “The Betrayed
Chopper,” and other horrors, in M.L. Went to see the
vampire thing here (Christchurch) the other night, and
had my supper beer spoiled. “ Lingford Carson, Esq.,”
and “Geo. de Gray, Esq.,” ought certainly to be censured.
Their works drawgood audiences in M.L. Yettheawfulness
of them ! They do not, as is the wont of normal melo-
dramatic perpetrations, aspire to thrill merely ; it is their
mission to chill the very marrow of patrons, and send
them home in an ecstasy of unhealthy horror. And so
the small boy here, emulous of the ’Uming Vampire,
wails dismally in the streets o’ nights, and the gentle
fact’ry ’and has done in most of his and her cash getting
horrified. For it has been written there is no money-
spinner in M.L. like a brand-new hair-lifter.
“ Star ” : The enthusiasm of the Melbourne daily paper’s
young man in reviewing “ Peter Pan ” beats me. You
would think J. M. Barrie had worked a miracle, whereas
he has given a sort of hotch-potch of the familiar make-
believe of little children, with the accustomed fairies, and
the regulation pirates, and the harmless necessary animals
and Indians, with occasional slabs of Barrie pathos, all
without form and void. If you are not thrilled, then
Barrie believers tell you you have no sympathy with little
children and their tender sentiments. My reply is that
there is more art and truer sentiment in the kiddies
whom I can watch playing their own little dramas in the
back yard. Barrie’s kids are not true kids, unless they
cultivate juvenile angels in Scottish nurseries ; and when
Barrie’s babes are represented by bounteous damsels of
18, 20, and 40, I contend that the young idea gets lost in
the shuffle or scuffle.
“ Snell ” : Thomas Bent has been asked by Melbourne
Shakspearian Society to assist in the establishment of a
Shakspearian theatre built on the simple lines of the
Elizabethan playhouse. Tommy can’t see his way clear,
but announces himself as sympathetic. “ I am pretty
good myself on Shakspeare,” he says. I have heard
Thomas attempt to recite scraps of “ Romeo and Juliet,”
and would like to hear worse if it is anywhere discover-
able. Oh, if only some person or persons would persuade
Tommy to play Falstaff, in “The Merry Wives”! It
could be done, and that is the only joy we can offer the
American squadron that could not possibly be available
to the Yanks anywhere else on God’s good footstool.
A pleasant little play is now being acted at the Guignol
Theatre, Paris, which makes a specialty of realistic hor-
rors. The scene is a sculptor’s studio with the reputation
of being haunted. The last occupant went mad. The
present occupant works uneasily, while the lamps, cur-
tains and furniture in general play fantastic tricks. The
model has a kind of hypnotic vision. She sees the former
sculptor kill his wife and encase her in plaster-of-Paris,
Deeming fashion. The model tells her story. The sculp-
tor remembers a block of plaster left behind by his pre-
decessor, rushes at it, smashes it, and out falls the skele-
ton of a woman. Curtain falls just here.
Melb.”: “John Glayde’s Honor,” or rather “Dis-
"°r'or» ’is somewhat uncomfortably sandwiched between
Miss Hook ” and “ Peter Pan,” given the view-point of
financial success. Even two booms is more than the
public can manage, and one of them is petering out a
little. I went to the theatre with an idea that Mrs.
Brough couldn’t act Mrs. Glayde. However, she can.
bhe looks wonderfully young, and acts even better than
she used to, being left more to her own resources. This
is the worst woman she ever played, Paola Tanqueray not
forgotten. Maud Hildyard ought to have a try at Mrs.
Llayde. There are more sparks from the flints between
r " r ? u §'h Kingston than there were between her
and Titheradge, who could not let go with emotion like
Kingston. How pleasing it is to find Mrs. B. still in the
lead, and fully vindicating her position 1 Atholwood is
surprisingly good as the American.
“ Euroa ”: Some biographical scraps re an Australian
family—the Gibson Girls, now appearing at Melbourne
Opera House. The three girls are sisters, and Australians,
they have fulfilled engagements with Stephenson (Mel-
bourne and Sydney), Puller (Maoriland), and Bain (Tassy).
Refused to sign on for a tour of Manila because a clause
in the agreement stipulated that no marriage or marriage
engagement must be entered upon during the con-
tract. Another sister, Miss Beanie Galletly, who
Pickards’ some years ago, was leader of
the ballet, and arranged most of the dances. There was
a ballet at Rickards’ at that time. She married Hamilton
Hill, and both went to England. In the Smother Land
she doubled up ” with an English girl, and, as the
Osborne Sisters,” appeared with some success. An
injury to her ankle compelled her to give up dancing for
a while. Later, it was her wish that an expected domes-
tic event should happen in Australia, but her husband
was unable to cancel certain engagements, and their
future baritone was born in Pogland, though he was
brought out here a few months later. Still another
sister, Miss May Galletly, was with J.C.W. until
she married a member of Her Majesty’s (Sydney)
orchestra, and lived happily ever after. Of the sons, one,
now deceased, was a well-known Carlton cricketer The
mother is Australian born, and the father arrived out
here at the time of the gold rushes.
THE WORSER PART.
All the speakers at the Premiers’ Conference empha-
sised the necessity of negotiations with the Common-
wealth Government being conducted in a conciliatory
spirit.— AGE.
DEAKIN: “I don’t see your olive branches!”
STATE FRIGHTS CROWD: “YOU'RE to do the
conciliating. We’ll do the slangwhanging!”
Brisbane Royal, which purveys leg show and coon songs
at small prices, has an unusual sort of item on board just
now. It is supplied by Maurice Evans, a young Queens-
lander, who is making his first theatrical appearance. He
mimics the cries of the pigeon, the jackass, the cuckoo,
the curlew, the magpie, and the rooster, the howl of the
dingo, the barking of a dog, and the infernal row made
by the midnight cat when engaged in an argument with
the canine from next door, and does them so well that
the animals themselves don’t know the difference.
“Acacia”: Olga Gray, whose song and dance imper-
sonation is a feature of “ Humpty Dumpty,” is in private
life Gladys Fanning, only daughter of the Charlie Fanning
who used to black his face and be merry and gay in other
respects at Sydney Tivoli a while back. Her mother is a
sister of Mrs. George Musgrove, and she is cousin to the
talented Rose. Olga made her stage dbbut some years
ago, playing with Mrs. Bland Holt as “Two song and
dance artists ” in one of Bland’s melodramas.
“Nil”: I have read all I could get hold of about the
Butt, and now at last I have heard Her. As to what I
have seen in print, why, one says She has a contralto
organ, and one that She has a soprano, and another that
She is a contralto with some wonderfully high notes, and
yet another that She is a soprano with some phenomenally
low notes. And now I have heard Her, and the mystery
is solved. The Butt has two divine voices, absolutely
distinct and each remarkable of its kind. Her soprano
voice is of rare quality. I have only heard one like it, and
that was not possessed by a star, by any means ; but, if it
had been, the result might have been even better than that
heard in the Butt’s soprano. We have not anything like
a decent vocabulary for expressing timbre. But the
voice I mean is one that gives me a subjective impression
of thin, thin gold. It is rather a clinging voice, and leaves
the soft palate with seeming reluctance ; essentially is it
a sensuous voice. Further I cannot describe it. But my
little girl recognised the almost unique timbre independ-
ently, so there must be some special distinction. As to
the con traltoprofundo of the Butt —well! when She
plants Herself firmly on Her Feet, and finishes up by
delivering to the chandelier a note from about six inches
below the stave which you can hear above the Town Hall
organ, there’s no poodle-faking about that! It’s contralto,
and darned fine music too.
“ Sr.” : Part singing strikes me as an innocent amuse-
ment for old men who are strict teetotalers. On occa-
sions I’ve seen 50 grown-up married baldies of all sizes
and shapes sing what are called “ part songs.” With the
zest of school kids they bob off their seats at a sign.
Then, as the whiskery conductor starts performing his
drum-major act, a party of the stout push set off in a
peculiar harmony, something about “ My rose is but a
simple lump, lump, lump ; oh, yes, it’s but a simple
lump, lump,” 17 times. Just when they go to draw a
deep breath, some other blokes shake their heads,
and shriek something about “Beef it out, oh Beef
out it, Beef, Beef, Beef it out oooout,” 34 times.
Then a dead slow crowd in the middle of the team remem-
bers that it’s supposed to be playing, and off it starts and
trills something about “ And then he did his block. Yes,
strike me ! Yes, strike me ! Yes, oh yes, oh yes!” 73
times. And when the whole show gets moving altogether,
and the whiskered conductor is rousing and threatening,
you’d think it was 1379 Johnsons addressing the Speaker
on a point of order, set to music. They all catch up to
one another in the last lap, and just when you least
expect it, they bump up against a short high note and
sit down, and then I say fervently, “ Amen.”
Notable the change that has taken place in things
theatrical during the last few years. Once scratch and
stock dramatic cos. used regularly to desert the cities and
“go on the road ” at Christmas time. To-day, partly
owing to the flickergraph, which has ousted the “ legiti-
mate ” in the country person’s affections, and partly
owing to the demand that has arisen for locally-manufac-
tured mummers, the back regions hardly ever see the
villain undone in correct fashion ; and the injured woman
with the che-hild, the black shawl, and the cheap straw
“ lid ” is a rarity in those spots where cow-experts abide,
and strong men argue interminably about the state of
each other’s drains.
In a Cold Country museum a section was recently
devoted to an exhibition of Chinese curiosities and
works of Art, probably looted from the semi-sack of
Pekin ; and the introductory notes to the catalogue con-
tained the uncomfortable information: “The visitor’s
eye will be struck on entering' the room with a porcelain
umbrella.”
“ Harrison O.”: I have in my time visited a good many
shickergraph shows, and have found that, like Cleopatra,
age, custom, and other sundries do not change them one
iota. They always start with a view of Niagara Palls, and
then work on to an alleged Australian corroboree, and
reach the summit of fatuity in depicting a popular
murder—the Thaw-White event, for instance. The
shickergraph man, it happens, was just having Is. worth
of theatre, and seeing a murderous look in Thaw’s eye, he
rushed home, and got his machine, and got back again
(after having an argument with the fellow at the door
about taking the machine into the theatre) just in time to
witness the horror and take a flickergraph picture of
same. The most popular are always the tiresome but
apparently inevitable “chase” pictures. A person de-
camps with a leg of mutton, and is pursued by the
butcher, who seems quite annoyed, judging by his gesticu-
lation. The sausage bloke is at various intervals joined
by 219 kids, 23 motor-cars, 49 women, 17 police-
men, and 1934 dogs. They follow The Man With The
Mutton down hills, up hills, over fences, under fences,
across rivers and ditches. The motors exceed the speed
limit, the dogs go mad, the women fall over every fence
they come to, until one gets quite tired and longs for
them to get over one without falling ; the kids play leap-
frog ; the law’n’order blokes (after the manner of their
kind) bungle everything with systematic regularity, and
each and every man, woman, child, animal and
machine fails to observe the rule of the road. The Man
With The Mutton is finally—amid roars of laughter—run
to earth in a beer-barrel, and in this is rolled down a hill
into a convenient river at the bottom thereof. Then a
picture of the National Anthem is thrown upon the
screen, and I heave a sigh of relief, for the show is over—
and there is an hour yet to Closing Time.
The latest fashion in plays in London is the play of
social reform. “ The Lord of Latimer-street ” deals with
the problem of the
rich and the poor ;
“ Diana of Dobson’s,”
with its dormitory
scene of shop giris
disrobing’ and going
to bed, treats the
subject of “living
in” ; “ The House ”
centres on the poor
law problem. Most
of the plays pro-
duced by the Stage
Society and similar
organisations are full
of social criticisu).
“ Votes for Women ”
was the title of a play
last year. These
social dramas are
supposed to educate
the public on the
questions of the
hour, and the ex-
ample might be use-
fully followedin Aus-
tralia. Someone
ought to write a
comedy on the Federal
capital “ injustice.” The
heartrending agony of a
Sydney free importer ruined
by the new tariff is a sug-
gestive theme. “Looking for Land in Victoria,” with
Bent as a villain, would make a good tragi-comedy;
and finally Deakin might be the protagonist of an Aus-
tralian “ Hamlet.”
Probably the oldest musical critic alive is Mr. Edward
Fetis, who is now 96. For 75 years he has contributed
criticisms to the Independance Belge. He still writes
for the paper, and is an almost nightly attendant at the
opera.
“ Wrock ”: Discovered a weird entertainment in a
Maori ivhare near Moeraki (M.L.), the other day. The
show runs for 12 hours out of the 24, and a handful
of cigarettes or tobacco will admit at any time of the day
or night to the stalls, circle, or pit (it is mostly pit).
Occupying the centre floor space of the one and only
room was an aged and decrepi* gramophone, evidently the
magnificent gift of some benevolent pakeha. On the bed
in the corner w'ere two or three dozen records. Otherwise
the auditorium was full of Maoris —men, women, and
small fry—and over all hung a dense cloud of smoke. As
I arrived the alleged musical instrument rent the night
with the opening bars of “ Waiting at the Church.”
The Old Man of the hut fed the screechophone,
running right through the list of records, and
commencing again with No. 1. The records were not as
young as they used to be, and some of them produced
little more than a wheeze, but when a break occurred in
a selection the audience filled in the gap with the chorus,
until the machine picked up again. Little discretion was
used in arranging the programme, such items as “ The
Holy City ” being wedged in between “ Bill Bailey ” and
“I was Shaving Myself at the Time.” Fortunately the
rats had been at the cylinder of the Holy song, and the
greater portion of it consisted of a mighty rush pf wind.
Still the house was getting its money’s worth. It was
past midnight when I left, and they had just started on
the third lap with “ More Work for the Undertaker ;
Another Job for the Tombstone-Maker.”
Probable that Australia will shortly have a spell of
novelist Hall Caine as lecturer, under manager Ernest
Collins, lately Musgrove’s lieutenant. Caine would
undoubtedly prove a big draw of a sort—the sort which
takes delight in being horribly shocked at the guilelessly-
suggested immorality of the “ Christian” and “Eternal
City.”
“ Billy T.”: One of the most obnoxious inheritances
from the late Boer war jamboree is the hideous Bushveldt
hat —the drab, mousy, or dirt-colored cady of soft felt
“ hitched ”up at one side. Do you notice that this has
become an Australian institution, and have you observed
the loathly ugliness of it in that capacity? When a blithe
daughter of this happy land dresses herself up to repre-
sent Australia at a fancy-dress hop, skip, or jump, or in a
fervent music-hall ditty about her native place ; or when
a benighted management puts a contingent into a panto,
bally to whoop it up for the Commonwealth, that banal
hat always tops off the costume. It is an ungainly re-
minder of a shameful mistake, and should be rooted out
on that account, and ostracised, and eradicated, and
burnt to the ground ; and I contend that, for its ugliness
alone, it ought to be howled off by a discriminating popu-
lace every time it puts in an appearance professing to be
an Australian institution.
MUSICAL COMEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some few years ago the demand for musical comedy
was such that writers of libretto and composers of light
music worked overtime to fulfil the supply. . . . The
scheme is usually extravagant, and serves only as a frame-
work on which to hang many ludicrous situations. There
is no definite plot . . . etc.—Daily Paper.
The Major slick, the lunatic, the affable Bagdad Ram,
The comic relief, who holds a brief for the prehistoric
Damn,”
The girl and the Earl, the low-born churl, the King and
the drunken sot,
All stalk in the flesh, a mad procesh, in search of a
vanished Plot.
With dance and song they prance along, each playing his
wild, mad part.
•A- gay soubrette does a pirouette—(lt’s pretty, but is it
There’s a two-verse lay of far Bombay, where the sun is
always hot,
But never a sign in word or line of a staid, hard-working
Plot. h
We thrill with bliss at a stolen kiss, and we scent a great
romance,
But with laugh and shout it fizzles out in a futile song-
an’-danee;
While Angeline makes a tuneful scene on the neck of her
Launcelot,
The nobly-“ bawn ” in the circle yawn, and rack their
brains for the Plot.
There’s a crew-el scheme, a maiden’s scream—we look for
a murder neat,
But the villain bold, with dagger cold, does an acrobatic
feat.
There are soulless clods, among the gods, who term it
“ bloomin’rot,”
And call for a flood of red ber-lud, and a sanguinary Plot.
The hero sings of wedding rings to a maid by a canvas
sea ;
There’s a plaintive baa from the orchestra, pitched in a
mournful key ;
Midst a blare of drums the parson comes, and he ties the
nuptial knot,
Then the curtain falls, and the drowsy stalls go forth for
something hot.
VIO.
W. ROCK.
“TO AMUSE THE CHILDREN."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The act in which Mr. Batty enters a railed-in arena with
a veritable menagerie of lions, leopards, wolves, and dogs
was particularly exciting, and one small incident occurred
which served to show how unsubdued was the real char-
acter of the beasts who did his bidding. While Mr. Batty’s
back was turned, a lion and lioness reared up, snarling
fiercel}', and it seemed as if the next minute they would
be at each other’s throats. There will be a children’s
matinee on Wednesday. — S. M. Herald (4/5/’08.).
Haste to the Circus, Willie, and be thrilled—
Step up. Don’t wait.
A dog or two may possibly be killed—
Which will be great.
When leopard seizes wolf, the gore that flows
Is something fine.
A wolf may howling die to-night—who knows?—
And freeze your spine.
Produce your bob, my little man, and see
Leo and wife
At holts. (The odds are 6to 4 that she
Will lose her life.)
With “ lions, leopards, wolves, and dogs ” about
Blood’s well-nigh sure :
Are you the child to cynically flout
So sweet a lure ?
“ But,” you may say, “ what I want’s human gore.”
The point is fair ;
And has, moreover, been provided for—
Batty is there.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


* V
:
iSssVSF""'
. V: IV: V <5 .. .... ,
mm
a::::::::
i':§
■ '
1
900
FANCY
VESTS
to choose from.
Much can be said of the new Fancy Vests
for the Winter Season. We have a stock
of over 900 in our Men’s Mercery Section
to choose from. Some of the newest
Vestings are those of Scotch wool, with a
shadow stripe on plain ground, in Plain,
Lovat, Lovat with Green stripe, Lovat (a
pale shade of Green) with Red, Brown and
Blue. These are made in Scotland.
Price - - 32/6
Others again are just soft, plain, woollen
material in mixed plain colors.
Then there are the Knitted Vests, like the
illustration, in wool, in the following
colors : Black with Red Spots, Black with
White, Reseda with White, Red with
White, Green with Red, and Myrtle with
Red Spots.
Price - -25 b
These Vests are sent carriage paid at the
advertised price anywhere throughout the
Commonwealth.
Write for our new Men’s Catalogue en-
titled “ Clothes Craft.”
David Jones Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Perhaps she’s on the railway !
Perhaps she’s on the sea !
Perhaps she’ll go
To Jericho,
Perhaps she will! Perhaps she won’t
But if she does or if she don’t,
I’m glad that I presented to her
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
“Che Clarion,”
Randolph Bedford’s Paper,
will appeal - Monthly from 15th MAY.
PRICE - - 6d.
A MONTHLY OF A NEW KIND.
Cautoons in Colors.
A NEWSPAPER in its Political, M in ' n &’
Financial, Social, Theatrical,
Literary and Fashion pages, and
Articles and Cartoons; and
A MAGAZINE in its Story Matter, verse
and General .Criticism.
“THE CLARION”
for 6s. posted to any Australasian addie’
for a year.
You’ll want it longer than that.
The Biggest Value for Money
Australia has ever seen.
U the CLARION” for a year 6s.
New ! Distinctive ! Individualistic
Address—
RANDOLPH
BEDFORD, ■■■ Clarion ’’Office,^
444 Chancery
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
Australians who think of letting their
daughters go as missionaries to China should read
a recent Conan Dovle story, “The Pot of Caviare,
in which a kind-hearted old scientific man, who
lias “been there” before, poisons a whole house-
ful of women rather than let them fall into the
hands of a Chinese mob. Just to be killed is
nothing; but “ I have seen the death of the hot
eggs, I have seen the death of the boiling kettle,”
he says—and then he leaves the reader thinking
hard.
« « * »
Some of the evidence of Thomas Miller,
tfcimber carrier, before N.S.W. Arbitration Court
•during the hearing of the sawmillers’ case, now
proceeding: —
He carried loads up to about 3001 b., and had climbed
tip stacks 25ft. to 30ft.' high carrying such weights. Found
that it affected his heart and lungs. He also suffered
from rheumatism at times through carrying wet timber
from submerged rafts. The loads he carried caused the
skin to be worn off his shoulders, which bled in the morning
on commencing work. He was an exceptionally strong
man physically. He had borne on his hack 6cwt. of
wool and from 2001 b. to 3001 b. of wheat. His wages for
the 15 months he had been timber-carrying had not
averaged more than 30s. a week. He had a family of
eight children, two of whom were earning 265. and
12s. 6d. a week respectively. To eke out his earnings he
sold Sunday papers, working on that day from 3 a.m. to
1 p.m.
That’s the dignity of labor ! A horse may not be
worked with raw shoulders, but this man, made in
the likeness of God, had to drag his bruised back to
work, sore or not sore, and to bear his rheumatism
and his heart pangs ; and then he can only live by
selling papers on the Day of Rest !
THE WORKHOUSE
GUARDIANS.
Men who would think nothing- of spending a sovereign
on a dinner were calculating in a nice and exact manner
as to whether an old woman over 70 ought to get half-a-
crown or 2s. a week out of the poor rates.—BART KENNEDY
in “Wander Pictures" (Cassel and Co., 1906).
The striking unusualness of woman was
again displayed in Melbourne Criminal Court last
week. As the story was alleged in evidence it
was this: On March 6, He, and his name was
Abraham, having secretly insured his wife for
£5OO, entered their unhappy home and tried to
murder Her, and her name was Alice, by choking
Her with a chloroform-soaked handkerchief. She
resisted, got outside, neighbors intervened, and
there was no death. A month after, She charged
Him with attempted murder. Justice Hood
couldn’t see light through the case. To him it
was inscrutable. The jury couldn’t see light
either, and said “Not guilty.”
“Hassan.” : Whoever is responsible for the
Eight-Hours procession in Melbourne (and in
Sydney, too, for that matter) misses the whole
meaning of the affair. Eight-Hour Day is the
day of Labor, and the procession should give
some indication of that fact. Does it do so? 1
don’t think it does. The march of a Trades Union
is heralded by a florid banner, upon which a
couple of females, very much out of drawing, pose
for the general eye, and in the corner of this
gorgeous towel one sees the usual foolish person
trying to break a bundle of firewood, when any-
body but an ass or a State Premier would know that
the easiest way is to untie the bundle. This tassel led
bedspread is held by two gentlemen who look like
the sons of importers, so nicely is their hair oiled,
and afterwards comes the ruck of the Union m its
best Sunday clothes. It might be a union of
pawnbrokers (except for the noses), or a union of
hosiery-counter assistants. It doesn’t look, at
any rate, as if it did the hard work of the Com-
monwealth with hammer or lathe or drill, it
ought to look as though it did. The ironworkers
should march grimy, as they toil in the hot gloom
beyond the molten red of the furnaces, sledge-
hammers in hand ; the sailors should pass
in gum boots and sou’-westers ; the cooks and
bakers in caps and aprons ; the bricklayers grimed
with mortar, and with hods at the slope; each
man dressed according to his trade. For a trade
is not a thing to be ashamed of on Labor Day.
Such a procession would be vastly more pictu-
resque than the nondescript thing which now holds
up the trams for half a day, and Labor would be
worthily represented. For the dignity of Labor
is often taken off with its overalls, and the workers
at a man’s trade should be proud to wear Labor s
livery on its ceremonial day.
“J.G.” : In Sydney Worker (23/4/’08)
Herbert Low tells a tale of the mace that was
stolen from the Victorian Assembly some 18 years
ago. It is practically the same tale which was
smothered with so much difficulty at the time.
According to the legend, an M.P., of high import-
ance in these days, had invited some friends to
supper, and the party annexed the bauble to
grace the festivity, and held a mock Parliament
with it. Then the crowd, full of food and fizz and
revelry, is said to have proceshed to a House of
Flossie in Lonsdale-street, where it had more
fizz, and chased the mirthful Tottie on flying feet,
and put on a bogus aspect of a desire to smite that
damsel with the stolen property, and held carnival
and devilment generally, and finally departed,
leaving the gaud behind. After that no one
seems to know what became of the article, though
goveral different yarns went about for some time.
But just after the gold-headed mace was stolen
the Ballarat Courier, a very democratic paper,
alleged that it was “ shook ” as described by Low.
The Courier’s article caused the Devil’s own row
in Parliament, and kindly-looking old Bob Clark,
the proprietor, and the military Captain or Major
(now Colonel) Williams, the editor, were called be-
fore the bar of the House, and to save themselves
from being sent to the leads, the Courier had to
publish an apology, and also pay £lOO. If Low’s
version is correct, then the Courier s account was
correct, and its apology should be withdrawn, and
the £lOO should be disgorged. Some people
said at the time that an offer of a big reward
would have brought to light a lot of facts that the
House didn’t want to hear about on any account.
* * * *
Bishop Neligan, of Auckland (M.L.), has
raised a storm in the Dominion, by stating in
England that, in consequence of the secular system
of education, the children in M.L. are growing up
“Pagans,” or “ heathens,” or something equally
appalling. Local clergy
have joined in the
shindy and mostly
agree with him, though
some say it is the fault
of the Churches. And,
of course, it is. It is
the Churches’ business
to keep the kids from
growing up into heath-
ens, and if they are
growing up into heath-
ens, then the Churches
are neglecting their
job. If the men who
get paid for providing
the youngsters with
trousers said the youngsters were going naked on
account of the disgraceful conduct of the boot-
makers, the public would drop to the meanness of
the trouser-makers. But somehow there are quite
a lot of people who still swallow the parson’s yarn
when he blames “ this Godless education,”
Proposed by Alderman Meagher to build
a tramway to Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair, Sydney
Domain ! Only in a city which is still municipally
in the hands of Goths and Vandals could such a
proposal be made. The Inner Domain, bounded
on one side by the harbor and on the other by
the Botanic Gardens, is the one really quiet
spot amid Sydney’s clang and roar. Hyde
Park is noisy, surrounded as it is on
all sides by tram lines. Wynyard Square
is just a dot of green in a wilderness of traffic ; but
the point which is known as “ Lady Macquarie’s
Chair ”is a haven of peacefulness. The man who
proposes to bring to it the clang and disturbance
of the electric car would put switchback railways
along the heights of Heaven.
WHERE THE TROUBLE GAME IN.
SHE: “I lost on every race. And I wore my opal bangle, too, and I was certain it would
bring me luck.”
HE (soothingly): “ Well, so it would, my dear, if you'd backed the right horse.”
It transpires now that between the time of
the arrival of news of the Sunshine smash at
Spencer-street (Melb.), and the departure of the
first ambulance train, the military ambulance corps
arrived at that station from the Easter encampment,
bringing with it tools, gear, doctors, first-aid men,
and all the rest of it. But not one railway official
in Tait’s muddled battalion had nous enough to
hitch the cars to an engine, and run them out to
Sunshine; and men who were eager to gain ex-
perience that happily doesn’t come their way every
day were allowed to go off home in complete
ignorance of what had happened. That prompt
first-aid might easily have saved at least half-a-
dozen lives, besides much suffering.
* * * *
“Engineer” submits his matured opinion :
Now that the main facts of the Sunshine disaster have
been told, the cause of the smash seems fairly clear. It
may he assumed that the heavy train came past the dis-
tant signal at 40 miles per hour or more, and, nearing the
home signal, the driver put on the brakes hard. The
night was a trifle foggy and the rails would be greasy, so
the wheels right along the train skidded. The evidence
in favor of this is the assertion of a passenger seated in
the Ballarat train, who looked out of the window and then
told her friend alongside that “ a train was coming up be-
hind and that its wheels were on fire.” The skidding
would produce more sparks than the brakes. Further
(and this is to me conclusive proof that the brakes were
applied), the Bendigo engines crashed into the Ballarat
guard’s van and the carriages in front of it at perhaps 40
miles per hour, yet was stopped dead in 40 yards. Had the
Bendigo carriages behind those engines been running
free, the foremost cars must inevitably have been tele-
scoped. Yet not a passenger was hurt. Only the
luggage was tumbled from the racks, as is frequently
the case when a train is stopped suddenly.
The skidding of the wheels would have partially
braked the comparatively light, many-wheeled cars, but
would have little effect on the 90-ton engines. (A care-
ful examination of the wheels on the whole of the Bendigo
train would probably reveal slight “flats” on the
running faces ; but the cars would have to be raised and
the wheels spun against a testing chalk.) The theory
that the isolation cock on the brake of the second engine
was open is untenable. Had that been the case, when
the brake was applied (and, as shown above, the carriages
must have been braked) the train would have experienced
a series of jerks that would have torn the couplings to
pieces and shaken the very lives out of the passengers.
So much for the direct cause of the smash. The indirect
causes were many, and, of course, cannot be touched on
at present. * * *
By the end of this year, train travellers
in the Eastern States will be able to eat some of
their fried sausage while the machine bumps them
along over Tait’s lines. For a start the new
dining cars will be kept in Victoria ; but the
S. Aus. Railway Commissioner wants to turn
his long-distance trains into tucker trains, too,
and is only waiting for Parliament to vote the
money; so within 12 months the Melbourne-
Adelaide traveller probably won’t have to leave
the train to do any wayside feeding. On the
Sydney line the feeding cage will only run as far
as Albury ; and for the Melbourne-Mild ura line
a cookshop is to be set up on one of the old
Adelaide “sleepers” which have been partly
thrown out of use by the new and gorgeous cars.
So far, the only regular dining-car in Australia
runs out from Perth to the Goldfields, and that
was introduced chiefly because of the tremendous
difficulty experienced in capturing anything much
except gohanna when the line gets past Northam,
on the way to the Goldfields. On lines where the
feeding car won’t run, Tait has an idea of instal-
ling a sort of hot spud barrow, which he is going
to have pushed up and down the platform while
the engine is busy at the water tanks. So The
Bulletin sees still another Tait-created superin-
tendent looming in the distance probably
Superintendent of Peas and Pies.
Thus “D.,” discursively:—
One suspicions a spice of grim humor in the congratu-
lations Justice G. B. Simpson recently heaped on a youth-
ful Crown Prosecutor at the conclusion of the criminal
businessof theCircuitCourtat Albury(N.S.W.). His Honor
said he “liked fairness, and Mr. So-and-So had mani-
fested that in his conduct of his duties as Crown Prose-
cutor,” etc. There is one person in every Circuit Court-
house who approves even more of the scrupulously, fair
young Crown official —to wit, the accused. But in his view,
none but the fledgling lawyer is ever “ fair” ; the oldster
is an overbearing, malevolent trickster always, with illi-
mitable powers at his ready beck, and a weird appreciation
of when to use them. Wherefore, the experienced hand
awaiting trial in his backblox dungeon demands agi-
tatedly, at the earliest date, who has been sent by the
“ Crown Lor ”to assail him. If it is the immature junior
who usually gets the handling of this sort of job, the
ranks of criminality can scarce forbear to cheer. If,
on the other hand, a known skilled “ persecutor ( ar
unfair bloke”) is listed, depression descends on thegao
dwellers with very awful suddenness. I was in court
during the sessions at Dubbo a few years back, io the
anguish of the law-fracturers of the district, A. o,
Ralston, a relentless expert at the , pr ? seCl £
game, had been sent up. A deep-dyed r
from Narromine was on trial for perjury. To supportim
fantastic tale by which he was striving to win to freedoir
he had roped in an unhappy neighbor, who, with dog-iiK
trust, ambled forward and swore what he was tola
Before the jury had returned with a verdict against m
perjurer, Ralston had applied and got permission to drav
an indictment against No. 2 ; hadempanelledarest
jurv ; placed his victim, dazed at the indecent haste o
the'business, into the dock ; allotted him a Crown de
fender, and secured his conviction. It was an '™P ~
tour deforce of prosecution, but somehow the o ■'!,
who was adjudicating, didn’t go out of his way
on the admirable fairness of it all ; and as to t
and his friends, they condemned it, without hesita
as the “ unfairest blanky bit o’ work they d seen done
years.” In a matter like this the point of view is every
thing. „ , *
“Nulla”: A weird medley of breeds if
the sea-going Bull-dog these days. Evidence a
the inquest on a seaman, fatally shot by a s ip
mate on the Ocean Monarch, in W estra mi
waters, t’other day, disclosed the fact * *
crew was composed of Englishmen, ~
Finns, Swedes, and Chows. A Russian
the gun ; the shootee was a Finn.
PALLIDA MORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ He won’t be home, just yet,
Your man,” he said ;
“ My God,
He’s dead !
“ Two years ago to-day
(The day that I saw red,
And now
He’s dead !)
“ It almost drove me mad,
The morning you were wed.
Your man
Is dead!
“ His blood ran on my hands,
I laughed because he bled.
And now
He’s dead ! ”
QUEENSLAND.
S. S. SEVERN.


THIS RING
CURES RHEUMATISM
slowly but surely ; it first relieves—then cures the
dreaded Rheumatism and all kindred troubles,
and we shall be glad to send you testimony to prove
R- , Imitations do no good—don’t accept them,
their only recommendation is cheapness.
Ask for the GENUINE RHEUMAGNETIC RING
(Patd.)
u
Made of Highly - Polished
Steel, nickel plated, 7/6.
Booklet Free on Application.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RINC
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. 2
The Carlton and United Breweries Proprietary
Co., Ltd., Carlton (Victoria), by advertisement in another
column, invite competitive designs for show cards and
posters. Prizes of seventy, twenty, and ten guineas,
respectively, are to be awarded. *
The (one Hand
MAY NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
It’s the birthday number of The Lone Hand, and
from the humorous cover by “Hop” to the last
page of “ The Judicious Thief,” it is full of humor
and interest and bright pictures.
Consider the artists represented—“ Hop,” Nor-
man Lindsay, B. E. Minns, Souter, Ered Leist,
Ida Rentoul. Lionel Lindsay, Douglas Fry, Ruby
Lindsay, and, of course, the photographer.
And the writers—Lieut.-Col. Antill, Beatrix
Tracy, Louis Esson, “Byrock,” Randolph Bed-
ford, Hugh McCrae, Ambrose Pratt, Blamire
Young, Roderic Quinn, C. A. Jeffries, Leon
Brodzky, and many others.
And the subjects—from the motor car and the
chorus girl to the administration of Papua and
the Irish National Theatre !
It’s the best budget of pictures, story, verse,
articles, Australia has ever seen for a shilling.
Buy it for yourself. Buy it to send abroad.
The [one Hand
214 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
Improved Blue Underwear.
We guarantee it absolutely unshrink-
able, which is what we have not
hitherto been able to do.
It is pure wool, and on this account is
warmer than garments containing a
mixture of both cotton and wool.
Accurate shaping makes these under-
garments perfect fitting, and gives them
comfort-giving qualities not often seen
in underwear.
Prices: 6/6 for Undershirts or Pants.
CUT THIS OUT.
Please send me an Undershirt (or Pants), for which I
enclose Size round Chest for Shirt,
Size round Waist for Pants
PEAPES & C 0„ LTD,,
“Alert's Outfitters
309“311 George Street, Sydney.
Beer consumption increased in Sydney
last year in spite of temperance legislation. You
may shorten the trough, but that won’t prevent
the horse from drinking.
* • * «
An Australian woman, of a persistent turn
of mind, acquired much experience but little
satisfaction the other day. Tripping into a
butcher’s shop she bought a pound of chops, but
on reaching home she found they were quite un-
fit for human food. It wasn’t the first time that
had happened, so she decided to “ teach the
butcher a lesson.” Rolling the chops up again
she visited an inspector of Foods for Export, who,
having smelt the chops distantly, recommended
her to take them back and change them. But she
wasn’t that kind of woman ; so she went to the
Public Health o'fice at the other end of the
city, where an official viewed the meats, and said
they were very bad, and suggested that she go to
the Town Hall. She went there, and encoun-
tered a gentleman typewriting. He inspected
the mutton, and opined that its funeral had
been somewhat delayed. He also said he would
go and hunt up an inspector. Presently an
inspector arrived. He viewed the remnants of
deceased sheep once more, and then faded away to
bring a medical officer. By the time that person
reached the scene the meat had to be nearly held
down by force ; but he and the lady ultimately
escorted it back to the butcher’s. That cute
tradesman knew a health officer at a glance, and,
of course, no bad meat was to be found in his
emporium ; so the officer assured the lady that
she must have got all the bad meat in the shop.
Then he said “Good afternoon,” and invited her
to call on him again should she buy any more bad
meat.
* • * *
Plaint by The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabi-
tant :
Although we have an Historical Society, which is doing
its best to educate Australians, the newspapers blunder
daily. Alluding to the demolition of the oldest building
in the neighborhood of the Sydney Exchange, a morning
journal says that the structure, hovel, or caboose in ques-
tion was erected bv one Thomas Reiby, who, in 1809, was
described as a “ pilot in Sydney Harbor,” and that many
years ago it was the site of the business of the Bank of
New South Wales. As a matter of fact, the building was
erected a century ago by Simeon Lord, a colonist from
the early 1790’5. We find him mentioned as a prosperous
man in 1798, as a merchant and Government contractor
in 1800, as a shipowner a little later on ; and as having a
quarrel with Bligh, and being imprisoned through the
action of that Governor. He was also one of those
who signed the memorial to Johnston for the
deposition of Governor Bligh. His name appears
fourth on the memorial, being sandwiched be-
tween those of Surgeon Mileham and Garnham Blaxcell.
In and before Bligh’s time he held a lease of the land, an
acre and a quarter, on which the recently-demolished
building stood. This Acting-Governor Foveaux converted
into a freehold, in consideration of the large sums of
money laid out in the erection of the dwelling-house and
stores. The grant was wiped out as illegal, but Mac-
quarie regranted the land. Lord had grants of thou-
sands of acres about Sydney, and was certainly an ener-
getic colonist. We find him the pioneer of the woollen
weaving industry, and of the hat industry, at his Botany
mills. A son became Treasurer in the Martin Ministry of
1870. Thomas Raby (original spelling) settled in Sydney
about 1792. In the ship came also a young girl known
as Mary Haydock. This girl Tom Raby married, and he
then set up in business as a merchant. While carrying
on business as a merchant he became a pilot in Sydney
Harbor ; but death removed him a couple of years after
his appointment. The name was changed to Reibey, and
as Mrs. Reibey the widow carried on business for many
years. She died in 1855. Thomas Raby’s house was at
the end of Macquarie Place, opposite to that of Simeon
Lord, and in Rabv’s house the Bank of New South Wales
commenced business in 1817. Thomas Reibey, now 90
years of age, an ex-Premier of Tasmania, is a grandson of
t his Tom Raby.
THE SOLUTION.
HE: “ There's something about you that Society
doesn’t seem to fancy. What can it be?”
W IPE: “ You.”
A greatly astonished hotelkeeper has been
lauled to the Adelaide Police Court on the
emeus charge that three visitors to his hotel
B'a 8 'a u l° pk -v. bagatelle on Good Friday. He
Baid he had no idea there was such a fool-of-an-
tk V-'c ® x ' s * :ence j but the Court remarked coldly
at if he looked at his license he would find that
mas tn’t play bagatelle on Christmas Day
o, ‘ And this piece of information cost him
*i 15s.
Victoria is taking the place of Queensland
Philn £s*2 that V ant L a coat of P aint - After
Rhilp had done with it Queensland was really too
has nP P r m bUy *? Int - Victoria’s trouble is that it
car In f h!% ier Wh ° ™ shes ak)n S swiftl y in a motor-
car to the Treasury to see that the surplus is safe
and conseciuentJy hasn’t got time to notice that
renaAs 06 t 0 P '? CeS for want of small
narts ; a paths in the Government
?lrl k ri * nd Melbourne have in many places
already got past repair, in fact; and a lot of other
Btate assets are rushing in the same direction.
CURED IN ONE ACT.
"Fred ; dear , I feel it in my bones that y ou are doing to take me to the theatre to-night.”
“ Which hone, darling?”
"I'm not sure, hut I think it’s in my wishbone.”
At a meeting of the Tenterfield Agricul-
tural Society (2/5/’08) a letter was read from the
P. and A. Union, Sydney, confirming the dis-
qualification for years passed by the Inverell
Society on a couple of Mullumbimby sports. Also
th® Sydney P. and A. Union excused the mare
Ada K., the property of the twain, from further
show service for a like period. The combination
had offended by jumping Ada K. as a “maiden
hunter” at Inverell, she having already won at
Tenterfield as Lady Stace, and at Glen Innes as
Melba. _ Which suggests things. There would
be a big void in the Show entry schedule
if all the horses which have competed
in the maiden classes, albeit prize-winners
elsewhere, were warned off; and if all the
owners who have knowingly rung in such
animals as maidens were dealt with, there
would be a hideously depleted list of entries.
-Lhe maiden 5 exhibit that is a maiden but in
name is getting to be outrageously frequent. At the
Sydney Show, a few years back, the first three in
a maiden event were all subsequently disqualified
on the excellent ground that they had won prizes
all over the State previously. In each case mere
flukes led to the discovery of the impostures.
“Stony”: It was an occasion for dolor
when Imabel reached the eve of Em-
pire Day without an invitation from her
steady William to spend the day where
the briny breezes dash themselves against
the shore-line. At that stage, William,
being in another suburb on “lodge busi-
ness,” Bess Jones arrived with a proposi-
tion that Imabel should join a “dragger”
down the coast—two bob a head. Imabel
agreed, and went off next day without
having seen her steady William in the
meantime. During Empire morning,
steady William browsed around to where
Imabel’s mother was hanging out a clo’ or
two in the back-yard, and demanded news
of his vanished love. Ma explained that
Imabel had gone off for a beanfeast toMor-
dialloc. Then steady William, full of
wrath and remorse, girt up his necktie
and tore for the next train. Arriving at
Mordialloc, he set forth upon a feverish
search for his one and only, and found
her all too soon. She came obliviously
down the road which wandered beside the
sea and shore, and in her hand she held a
man, while a masculine arm clasped her
slender waist. Other maidens were strung
out beyond with other men, to make a
gay, laughing line of Pagans, who sang as
they strode and laughed as they sang;
and they poked borak at steady William
as he wilted by, the voice of Imabel not
the smallest among those that slungper-
siflage—until Imabel saw her error. Then
it was too late, for steady William had
fled from the sound of revelry and taken
to cigarettes and beer, therein to drown
his sorrow and his love for ever.
“ The multi-millionaire, the least enviable
and least admirable of citizens, whose son is a
fool, and his daughter a foreign princess.”—
President Roosevelt.
* * * *
Tamworth, the Peel River (N.S.W.) town
with the fine land and the big landlord, is putting
up something like a record. A few months ago
its boss-parson resigned, because his flock wouldn’t
put on enough shepherds, wherefore he put on a
couple at his own cost, and then found that he
had about 17s. lid. a week left to starve on. Sub-
sequently, after no end of a commotion had been
made, the boss-parson was invited to withdraw
his resignation; whereupon he replied that,
though his flock professed to be amazed at his
disclosures, he noticed that it hadn’t done any-
thing to improve the finances, and so his resigna-
tion would have to stand. Now Tamworth
seems to be quite proud about the re-
cord of its hospital matron. Typhoid patients
poured into the hospital last summer, and the
place was under-staffed, and nurses, one after
another, wore themselves out; but the matron hung
on to her work, until she finally collapsed, and died
from no visible cause except sheer over-work.
Tamworth therefore talks vaguely about establish
ing “a permanent memorial to one who by her
actions fatally recognised that there was so much
to do and so little time to do it.” Another way of
putting it would be that the self-sacrificing woman
found so much to do and so few people paid to do
it.
The Light Horse regiments did not go
into Easter camp this year in N. 8. Wales. There
was lack of horse-trucks to carry their mounts,
owing to the demands made on the rolling stock
by the drought-stricken pastures of Riverina Of
course it would not be good policy to allow
starving sheep to wait whilst horse-soldiers were
brought into camp. But are not Light Horse
supposed to be mobile? Could they not have
moved on their own horses to district camps ? Of
all branches of the service the cavalry should be
least dependent on train transport.
White officers on Chinese-manned steamers
live on a precipice edge. This was again exempli-
hed in the case of the first mate of the German
S ' S ku^ and ’ recently made Melbourne with
a Chinkie missing. The Chinese seamen gave
solemn testimony that the mate had pushed the
missing John into the sea, and they swore with
such unanimity that had they been white men
the officer was as good as convicted. Australia
has, however, had numerous cases of the sort, and
judge and juries are often puzzled by a chain of
evidence, beautifully pieced together, and pur-
porting to disclose a wanton senseless crime by a
SOCIAL ITEM.
Eggs rose in price to 2s. 6d. per dozen wholesale in
Sydney this week, the highest figure for years past.
In poultry circles there is no holding the hens now.
white ship’s officer, who seems to generally choose
his time for the deed when a dozen or so of the
victim s mates are watching him. In this case the
mate’s guilt or innocence still remains in doubt,
for it was decided that a court of the British
Bmpire has no jurisdiction over a foreigner
accused of a crime alleged to have been done
beyond territorial limits.
* * ♦
Marshall Hall, having regarded with sur-
prise and scorn the proposal that he should be
conductor of the May Day musical programme for
the Yarra Bankers, has been further spoken to
briefly, more in sorrow than in anger. Thus the
May Day secretary in his best official manner :
The grotesqueness of the view that you could be in the
remotest degree interested in the common people has
dawned upon me since receiving your illuminat-
ing letter, and I now see the audacity of the out-
rage. ... I can therefore endure with exemplary
equanimity the inconsequential irrelevancies of your
communication. Your letter is an admirable example
of pure bunkum, as, although I carefully fur-
nished you with ample material for intelligent criticism
of the committee’s aims and methods, you deliberately
refrained from so doing, but devoted your space to com-
ments on the Marseillaise (the classic hymn of modern
democracy) which might have more appropriately
emanated from an antediluvian cave dweller. . . . The
translation you criticise was made by Richard Brinsley
Sheridan. But Sheridan is dead, and a live puppy can
bark at a dead lion with impunity. . . . The committee
begged you to help establish equitable conditions, and
your luminous (save the mark !) reply is—a futile, fatuous
screed, dealing with a non-essential detail. Robert
Burns, in his abounding charity, did not despair of the
Devil himself. Surely your redemption is not beyond
hope !
Also, surely Hell hath no fury like a May Day
scorned.
N.S.W. Public Instruction Department
is embarking on a promising novelty in the shape
of a travelling bush school. The idea is to fit up
a suitable vehicle as a small academy and send it
perambulating round the sparsely populated
districts on a fixed itinerary, after the manner of
gallivanting dentists, opticians and herbal cure-
alls, The idea must have some good results;
through it a certain crowd of children will at
least get a fleeting glimpse of a schoolmaster,
where now they never see or hear of him at all.
But if the scheme is to be a big success, the
circus school must be placed in charge of a gifted
enthusiast not a Departmental misfit, whose
qualification is that he is Z 3, and that the van
is also Z 3. An eminently adaptable man is
wanted, and a man may be Z 3, without being
adaptable.
* * * *
How tiresome is the youth who endeavors
to get drunk upon 9£d. and a few odd cigarettes.
When a couple of these chaps (they are not blokes)
get together they have a very mild soda and
whisky, exchange hats, light up their fags, and go
marching down the street singing a musical
hall ditty, and hiccoughing at judicious
intervals. They tilt their straw-
deckers back upon their heads,
and gaze admiringly at one
another, and consider
themselves devils of fel-
lows. They repeat this
weary performance about
once every five weeks,
and next morning they
tell their co-workers,
“ Had a night out las’
night. Painted the town
red. Rottenly big head,
haw.” And their fame'
spreads, and they get
cheap reputations as
rakes, and thus become heroes in the eyes of:
persons who wear skirts and admire devils.
THE MASTER GRIEVANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One of the apparently substantial grievances the Mother
State was supposed to possess against the Commonwealth
was that the right of communicating direct with the
secretary of State for the Colonies had been taken away.
It now, however, appears that no such change has been
made, nor is it intended to rob N.S.W. of her rights in
this respect.—S. M. Herald, SOlkl'oB, sadly.
Alack ! but this is very painful. Ma has missed
A cause
For grievance, whereby she effectively had hissed
Fed. laws.
A “ wrong,” “apparently substantial,” is not so
A scrap :
Yet by that very fact Ma suffers ill, also
Mishap.
Perpend. ’Twas bad enough to fix the Fed’ral site
Away
Up-State—and so on Sydney int’rests cast a blight
Alway.
Likewise, twas bitter hard to pass stern Customs laws,
And kill
The strivings of the hungry indent-fake, his paws
To fill.
Protection, stringent Immigration Acts, and such
Defile
The Mother State. Yet is this latest horror much
More vile.
For traitor fed’ralists (aye playing fast and loose
With rights
Of Ma) now fill the cup ! They steal her prime excuse
For fights.
N. S. W.
10-2-4.


National Gas Engines & Suction Plants
MODEL 1908 GAS ENGINES STOCKED.
N.B.—National Suction Plants at Royal Show, England, awarded Gold
Medal (highest award) against all competitors.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., 64 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers-
MELBOURNE: Queen’s
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street
BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any all
IN STOCK— Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, earn
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping, all sizes.
Sole Agents for Camel Brand and Camel Hair Beltings, made only_ by F. R e ddaway & ’ E^g ,
Manchester; Ransomes Sims’, and Jefferies Ltd ’s Portable Traction and Stationaryj-ng^^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The month’s returns show that the State re-
venues have, on the whole, got into the backwash.
Certainly, owing partly to some doubt as to what would
be done with regard to a few Customs duties, the Com-
monwealth receipts, and consequently the Commonwealth
refunds, were less than they were this time last year;
but apart from that there was considerable sagging.
Railways in Victoria, which has got another taste
of drought, returned £47,350 less; and, though the
revenue from that source kept up in N. S. Wales, land
revenue—which includes land-sale money—shrank to the
extent of £47,385. Queensland alone shows larger figures
for April, 1908, than for April, 1907, and that was wholly
due to the Commonwealth refunds, which for that State
show no shrinkage. Even in Queensland land revenue
fell off to the extent of £17,673. Here are the totals for
the month, so far as they can be ascertained :
State Revenues for April.
April, 1907. April, 1908.
N. S. Wales .. £1,318,790 £1,179,587 Dec. £139,203
Victoria .. 781,182 660,019 Dec. 121,163
Queensland .. 480,285 476,908 Dec. 3,377
Westralia .. 279,968 280,273 Inc. 305
Tasmania .. 103,602 72,231 Dec. 31,371
S. Australia, which has got used to horse trams and other
leisurely proceedings, can’t manage monthly returns. Its
figures to the end of March are, however, included in the
next summary :
State Revenues for Year so far.
1906-7. 1907-8.
£ £ £
N. S. Wales (10 mos.) ..11,034,190 11,839,991 Inc. 805,801
Victoria (10 mos.) .. 6,771,921 6,972,514 Inc. 200,593
Queensland (10 mos.) .. 3,469,292 3,759,920 Inc. 290,628
Westralia (10 mos.) .. 2,771,181 2,771,486 Inc. 305
Tasmania (10 mos.) .. 791,994 829,688 Inc. 37,694
S. Australia (9 mos.) .. 2,231,586 2,705,552 Inc. 473,966
That looks better; but the bulk of the increases comes
from the earlier part of the year, when the boom was still
in progress. It isn’t only that here and there drought
has looked in again ; the fall in prices is a serious matter
too. Statist Knibbs, in the new Commonwealth Year-
book, shows what the effect of the boom-prices of the past
two or three years amounted to. In 1906 the Common-
wealth’s exports, apart from gold, were valued at
£52,842,704 ; but if they were valued on the basis of 1901
prices (and they are swinging back that way now) the
total would have been only £42,295,310. Small things
like that were disregarded when Carruthers and Wade
between them recently cut off large slices of N. S. Wales’
future revenue.
As to expenditure, this is all that is available :
Expenditure for Year so far.
1906-7. 1907-8.
£ £ £
N. S. Wa1e5(10m05.)..10,435,935 10,478,451 Inc. 42,516
Queensland (10 mos.).. 2,719,060 2,951,497 Inc. 232,437
Westralia (10 mos.) .. 2,780,012 2,706,718 Dec. 73,294
On that basis N. S. Wales at present shows a surplus of
£1,361,540; but, as the months of large receipts are
past, the total will probably be reduced to about
£1,000,000 by the end of the financial year (June 30). This
is called surplus, though last year land-sales money
amounted to £1,029,439, and the total will most likely be
as great, if not greater, this year. Consequently, as this
money isn’t revenue, but the realisation of assets which
can’t be realised more than once, N. S. Wales will have an
actualdeficit even iftheGovernment’s promised “surplus”
of £1,000,000 comes to pass. As for the other States,
there is either no information or no change of any con-
sequence.
While N. S. Wales’ Ministers get on the top
branch and flap their wings as they crow about the
surplus that isn’t a surplus, they don’t do a single flap
over the enormous increase of their borrowings. For the
first 10 months of 1906-7 the loan expenditure was
£1,082,608; for the past 10 months it has been
“Reformed ” until it has reached £1,764,255, or at
the rate of over £2,000,000 a year. Heaven only
knows what dizzier heights it would reach if they
had a “surplus” of £2,000,000 a year! Mean-
time, however, this Government is kept in office
with the help of some members who alleged that
they were full up of the borrowing curse, and pro-
posed for the future to insist upon C.O.D. principles.
Possibly some of them have been deceived by the
absurd yarns told by Treasurers and others who have
talked about their large repayments; but, if they
scratched only an inch below the surface, they could
find out that there isn’t one single State that hasn’t
actually increased its debt in the past two years. As for
N. S. Wales, Carruthers and his “ Reform ” party, includ-
ing Wade and Ashton, threw Waddell out in 1904 on the
ground that he was a financial incompetent and a spend-
thrift ; yet the Commonwealth Statist shows that between
June, 1904, and June, 1907, the N. S. Wales public debt
sprang from £80,033,581 to £85,607,832 ; and the increase
since June, 1907, has been more rapid than at any time
previously during this period of “ Reform.”
* m * *
The Bank of Australasia
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Apr., 1902.. £144,468 11 p.c. = £88,000£16,000 £1,049,705
Oct., 1902.. 136,943 11 „ „ 88,000 14,000 1,084,648
Apr., 1903.. 157,705 12 „ „ 96,000 30,000 1,116,353
Oct., 1903.. 151,598 12 „ „ 96,000 25,000 1,146,951
Apr., 1904.. 150,934 12 „ „ 96,000 25,000 1,176,885
Oct., 1904.. 140,066 12 „ „ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
Apr., 1905.. 136,153 12 „ „ 96,000 10,000 1,237,104
Oct., 1905.. 137,451 12 „ „ 96,000 11,000 1,267,555
Apr., 1906.. 137,795 12 „ „ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Oot., 1906.. 153,512 14 „ ~112,000 12,000 1,326,862
Apr., 1907.. 227,463 14 „ ~112,000 15,000 1,427,325
Oct., 1907.. 188,750 14 „ „ 112,000 18,000 1,486,075
These are rather ancient figures ; before the returns can
get from Australia to England, where the head-office is
and most of the lords and other shareholders live, over
three months pass ; and nearly another three months go
by before the accounts get back to Australia, hall-marked
by this time with the familiar names of Blogg, accountant,
and Jeans, manager. Of the great profit shown during
the past two terms, some, it is admitted, has come from
the recovery of debts formerly written off as bad ; but
how much this amounts to nobody knows who doesn’t
know more than the published accounts tell. If there
are considerable recoveries now, there must have been
unduly large amounts written off profits a while ago ;
wherefore, though recent profits can’t be regarded as
normal, being too high, neither can those of a few terms
previously be regarded as normal, because they
were probably too low. The amounts actually
shown as written off have throughout gone to-
wards reducing the premises account, which now
stands at only £239,572 ; and the properties in Sydney
and Melbourne alone can’t be worth much short of that.
This would mean that, so far as the books and the
accounts go, the bank gets all its office-rent outside those
cities free, and any rents from office premises let off to
tenants comes in the shape of a bonus to the bank ;
further, the profits which have been used to write
premises down in this way—£2o2,ooo in the past six years
alone—are presumably available for ordinary banking busi-
ness. So a position which is strong on the surface is
stronger when it is examined a little underneath.
A further comparison :
Oct., 1906. Oct., 1907.
Notes .. .. £470,007 £505,428 Inc. £35,421
Bills, etc 2,654,123 2,861,588 Inc. 207,465
Deposits .. .. 16,001*835 15,879,335 Dec. 122,500
Liquid assets .. 6,734,778 6,433,200 Dec. 301,578
Advances.. .. 15,160,551 15,771,653 Inc. 611,102
Premises .. .. 269,497 239,572 Dec. 29,925
The total debt to the public is thus £19,246,351. The
shareholders’ funds (capital and disclosed reserves) are
£3,086,076. Thus for every £1 of its own the bank has
the use of £6 4s. belonging to the public—a pretty large
proportion, which partly accounts for the high earnings
shown. These later, based on capital and reserves, have
lately been as follows :
Apr., 1904 .. £lO 19 9 p.C. Apr., 1906.. £9 12 3 p.c.
Oct., 1904.. 10 1 9 „ Oct., 1906 .. 10 11 11 „
Apr., 1905.. 914 0 „ Apr., 1907.. 15 10 10 „
Oct., 1905 .. 913 9 „ Oct., 1907 .. 12 9 6 „
The past half-year’s profits have, by the way, been
charged with £17,000, which has since been distributed
among the staff as a bonus.
The Bank of Australasia, which works under a
charter, finds its deed of settlement antiquated, and in
some respects harassing, and it proposes to bring the
machine up to date by a round-about road, which, on
inspection, looks the most passable. A while ago, when,
rather than put up their dividend beyond 10 per cent.,
the Bank of N. S. Wales and the Commercial of Sydney
increased their capital, it was explained that the ’Asia
couldn’t conveniently do the same thing, because of some-
thing in its constitution. Probably the new up-to-date
machine is intended in part to remedy the defect.
National Bank of Australasia (Melbourne):
Dividends.
Net Ord. Pref. To Be- Re-
Profits. 3J p.c. 5 p.c. serves, serves.
Sept., 1902 .. £35,038 £20,868 £7644 £6,526 £85,600
Mar., 1903 .. 34,660 20,868 7644 6,148 91,748
Sept., 1903 .. 34,874 20,868 7644 6,362 98,110
Mar., 1904 .. 36,233 20,868 7644 7,721 105,831
Sept., 1904 .. 36,950 20,868 7644 8,438 114,269
Mar., 1905 .. 36,130 20,868 7644 7,618 121,887
4 p.c.
Sept., 1905 .. 36,104 23,849 7644 4,611 126,498
Mar., 1906 .. 41,144 23,849 7644 9,651 136,149
4£ p.c.
Sept., 1906 .. 44,982 26,830 7644 10,608 146,657
5 p.c.
Mar., 1907 .. 48,158 29,811 7644 10,703 157,360
Sept., 1907 .. 49,943 29,811 7644 12,488 169,848
Mar., 1908 .. 42,305 29,811 7644 4,850 174,698
These profits are stated net. Rarely, however, has any-
thing visible been written off bank premises or other assets;
but this last half-year £5OOO goes that way, and £lOOO is
also voted to the officers’ provident fund. That accounts
for some of the shrinkage in the stated profits. Still,
though advances have moved up, things don’t otherwise
look as well as they did under the specially favorable cir-
cumstances of six or 12 months ago. A comparison :
Mar., 1907. Mar., 1908.
Notes .. .. £293,627 £275,186 Dec. £18,441
Bills, etc 1,281,644 866,133 Dec. 415,511
Deposits at in-
terest .. .. 4,568,883 4,554,411 Dec. 14,472
Free deposits .. 3,332,778 3,187,122 Dec. 145,656
Liquid assets .. 4,015,515 3,014,410 Dec. 1,001,105
Advances, etc. .. 6,707,046 7,141,309 Inc. 434,263
Premises .. .. 447,407 443,508 Dec. 3,899
This, then, is the 12 months’ movement:—
Deposits and other liability reduced .. .. £594,080
Advances increased 434,263
Total £1,028,343
And that outgoing has been provided for in this way :
Liquid assets reduced £1,001,105
Premises written down or sold 3,899
Profits in excess of dividends .. .. .. 23,339
Total £1,028,343
The deposits and other debts to the public total £8,882,853;
the shareholders’ capital and reserves amount to
£1,672,918. So for every £1 of its own capital the bank
has £5 6s. 3d. of the public’s, which is a very fair, but not
large, proportion.
With that proportion, however, the earnings
ought to be more, calculated on the basis of capital and
reserves combined, than the following list shows they
have been :
Sept., 1904 .. £4 12 1 p.c. Sept., 1906 .. £5 9 10 p.c.
Mar., 1905 .. 4 9 7 „ Mar., 1907 .. 517 1 „
Sept., 1905 .. 4 9 1 „ Sept., 1907 .. 6 0 1 „
Mar., 1906 .. 5 1 3 „ Mar., 1908 .. 5 1 5 „
There are two or three possible explanations : (1) A good
deal of the assets may still not be very productive ; (2)
some undisclosed profits may be going towards writing
down the just-mentioned assets. This is all the more
likely—the former especially—because this bank did
nothing very heroic in the way of cleaning-up after the
’93 earthquake. It then had 250,000 ordinary shares paid
to £4 ; upon these it called up £3 and wrote off £2,
leaving them at their present £5. Then for many
years it had to pay mostly a too-high 4} per cent, on
its reconstructed deposits ; so, one way and another,
there has probably been a good deal of very doubtful
remnants to struggle with and gradually write down
during the past few years. As one consequence, the bank
hasn’t been able to materially reduce its premises account
until now—it was £449,826 five years ago, and in the
present balance-sheet it stands at £443,509. That there
has been a pretty extensive cleaning-up in these recent
years may be judged from the fact that the real estate
item, apart from bank premises, has been reduced in the
same five years from £337,837 to £63,201—an excellent
feature of the accounts. It was noted above that there
had been a severe shrinkage of liquid assets. Yet, in
spite of that, what may be called the cash position is
still strong ; 34 per cent, of the total liabilities is repre-
sented by cash, public securities, etc. As to the future,
one thing has to be remembered : in any future increase
of dividend, the preference people must share as well as
the ordinary, so it will take more to pay an extra 1 per
cent, than it has been doing hitherto. Pref. shares are
only pref. as to capital until they have had 10 half-yearly
divs. of 7 per cent, or more.
■*■***
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1902 £100,L99 10 p.c. =£99,776 £423 £421,494
Sept., 1902 100,352 10 „ „ 99,959 393 421,887
Mar., 1903 100,298 10 ~ „ 100,000 298 422,185
Sept., 1903 100,316 10 „ „ 100,000 316 422,501
Mar., 1904 100,412 10 ~ „ 100,000 412 422,913
Sept., 1904 105,111 10 „ „ 104,608 503 423,416
Mar., 1905 155,322 15 „ „ 164,705 414,033
Sept., 1905 112,343 10 „ ~109,965 2,378 416,411
Mar., 1906 112,042 10 ~ „ 110,000 2,042 418,453
Sept., 1906 111,679 10 „ ~110,000 1,679 420,132
Mar., 1907 110,827 10 „ ~110,000 827 420,959
Sept., 1907 118,057 10 „ „ 110,000 8,057 429,016
£75,000 of reserves capitalised .. 354,016
Mar., 1908 134,782 10 p.c. = 124,037 10,745 364,761
Down to about the middle of last year there were 110,000
shares fully paid to £2O in this co. Then it was decided
to issue another 15,000 shares, in the proportion of three
new to every 22 old shares. Of the £2O payable for such
new shares the co. contributed £5 out of reserves, and
the shareholders have either paid or are paying the other
£15 —there are only 320 shares on which the full £2O has
not been paid. For £l5, therefore, the old shareholders
got a £2O share which at once carries 10 p.c. ; and that
really makes the present dividend equal to £lO 6s. per
cent, all round. The authorised capital is £3,000,000 ; so
the way is clear for further pleasant little extensions of
capital as circumstances may warrant. Twenty years ago
the paid capital was £648,720 ; that was the year after
the co. absorbed the New Zealand Sugar Co. and in the
year that the Victorian Sugar Co. was swallowed.
Even thus early, though it was then only paying
7 per cent, divs., the co. had acquired the
art of throwing a small disguise over its profits
by the process (now repeated) of transferring
reserves to capital. Ten years later the paid capital had
been increased to £1,702,000. The dividend by that time
had got up to 8 per cent. ; it reached 10 per cent, in 1890,
and it has kept there ever since, except that a. few years
ago the co. scattered an extra £50,000 or so in cash to
celebrate its 50th anniversary. What the real profits are
from term to term it is impossible to say, because the
amounts deducted from gross profits to provide for de-
preciation, doubtful debts, etc., are never disclosed. It was
no doubt because it was found that these internal reserves
had grown unnecessarily bulky that the extra £50,000
was first thrown into profits and then divided in 1905.
The one speck on the future of this co. is the doubt whether,
when it gets a complete monopoly of the sugar-supply of
Australia, it will be allowed to keep it. Little by little it
is getting a monopoly : within the last few weeks, for
instance, it bought up the Ripple Creek mill, in the
Herbert district (Q.), and for the future all the cane
thereabouts will have to go to the C.S.R. mill. So for as
the investor is concerned, the risk is that some day the
Commonwealth will get alarmed and will decide that it is
time for Private Enterprise (without competition) to go
out and public ownership to come in.
• * * *
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd., ship-owners,
Island traders, merchants, etc. :
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. off. serves. serves.
1898.. £48,289 8 p.c. =£21,400 £5,000 £21,889 £132,738
1899.. 42,212 8 „ „ 21,400 8,550 12,262 145,000
1900.. 53,072 8,, „ 22,000 31,072 176,072
New Share premiums .. 598 176,670
1901.. 46,410 8 p.c. = 22,000 24,410 201,080
1902.. 55,219 8 „ „ 22,000 33,219 234,299
1903.. 52,629 8„ „ 22,000 30,629 264,928
1904 . 44,917 8„ ~ 24,000 12,372 8,545 273,473
1905.. 42,740 8„ „ 24,000 18,740 292,213
1906.. 43,452 8,, „ 24,000 19,452 311,665
1907.. 53,411 10 „,, 30,000 20,000 3,411 315,076
1908.. 63,930 10 „ „ 30,000 10,000 23,930 339,006
The year’s profits have been charged with £6OOO, which is
to be distributed among employees as a bonus : a similar
bonus was paid last year. In addition to the reserves
shown, there is another of a doubtful kind—“ Sundry
reserves at branches, £35,695.” This shows an increase
of £5857. Apparently these last are local reserves pro-
vided against special contingencies. The co., now 26
years old, continues its remarkably prosperous career;
indeed, though in the late ’Bo’s the dividends got up to 12
per cent., the year’s profits establish an easy record.
Large sums have, moreover, been written off to cover
depreciation, etc. ; profit and loss account shows these
charges : . ,
To Provide Special
Depre- To Provide for Appre-
ciation. for Losses. Bad Debts, priations.
1904 .. €14,634 £16,241 £11,954 £12,372
1905 .. 12,298 29,484 11,824
1906 .. 15,596 22,722 14,758
1907 .. 19,357 16,250 15,917 20,000
1908 .. 20,761 14,700 13,953 10,000
The depreciation shown is on “properties, buildings,
vessels, plant, and furniture.” These items, so far as they
can be traced, run to £277,335, so the amount written off
is over 7 per cent, of book value ; yet another £lO,OOO is
appropriated out of declared profits. There are, however,
other large items—merchandise stock, £175,147; and
shares in shipping and other cos., £70,634. Much or little
may be written off these items—it is impossible to tell.
One can only judge about what he can’t see from the
things he can see ; and on that basis it looks likely that a
safe policy is adopted with regard to these items, through
which, in other circumstances, a lot of trouble and
disappointment might creep in. Apart from ordinary
trade debts, which run to £148,504, the co. owes nothing;
on the other side it has book debts amounting to
£235,972 ; and, besides the merchandise stock shown
above, there was £79,779 represented by island produce
on hand and in transit and sundry advances. The paid
capital of the co. is £300,000, of which £250,000 is in paid
shares (£1), and £50,000 in shares paid to 10s., and liable
for another 10s. The other way of looking at this last
feature is that the 10s. is liable to be called up in order
to share in the 10 per cent, divs., and help to absorb
the bulky profits. #
The City and Suburban Permanent Build-
ing and Investment Society (Brisbane): —
Dividends Writ- Added
and Divi- ten to Re- Re-
Profits. denri ' r ax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1897 .. £4llO 3 p.c. -♦ -2797 £366 £947 £8875
Dec., 1898.. 4681 3£ ~ ~ 3125 102 1454 10,329
Feb. 1900 .. 5914 4 „ „ 4007 211 1696 12,025
Feb., 1901.. 4937 4 „ „ 3221 556 1160 13,185
Feb. 1902.. 4778 4 „ „ 3221 1417 140 13,325
Feb., 1903 .. 4502 4 „ „ 3219 1192 91 13,416
Feb., 1904.. 4547 4 ~ ~ 3159 1353 35 13,451
Feb., 1905.. 4381 4 „ „ 3185 10,380 4267
Feb., 1906 .. 4142 4 „ „ 3190 463 489 4756
Feb., 1907.. 4201 4 „ „ 3196 594 411 5167
Feb., 1908.. 4388 4 „ „ 3184 718 486 5653
This society, being registered under the Queensland
Building Societies Act, is consequently barred from
taking deposits at call, or total deposits exceeding three
times the amount of the paid capital. That limit
is far from being reached. The paid capital is £72,857
(in addition to £2275 credited to subscribing members),
and the deposits amount to only £61,336. From the
depositor’s point of view, the position is therefore very
strong. And it is still stronger because £13,157 is in cash
or bank balances. Deducting that amount from the
deposits (£61,336) and other liabilities (£2290), the society
owes £50,469, against which it has £124,168 of advances and
£7OOO of freeholds, or £2 12s. of assets for every £1 of
debt to the public. But while this means excellent
security for creditors, and -comparatively small risk for
shareholders, it also means comparatively poor profits.
The net earnings for the year show only £4 11s. 4d. per
cent, on capital and reserves. That, however, is after
writing off £7lB, of which £5OO was transferred from profits
to contingency account, where it disappeared. There
is no way of tracing the year’s property transactions ; but
the chairman told the shareholders’ meeting that “ of the
properties in possession about one-sixth of those held at
the beginning of the year have been sold.” In regard to
realising house properties, Brisbane concerns have had a
slight advantage over most others. Suburban Brisbane is
mostly timbet\ and as timber has moved up a great deal
in price, concerns with wood-and-iron buildings on their
hands have had visits from people who previously would
have gone to the building contractor.
* * * *
The East Greta Coal Mining Co. (N.S.W.):
Writ-
ten To Re- Re.
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept.,’o4.. 10 p.c. = £5703 £3OOO £12,952
Mar., ’O5. £8,053 10 „ „ 6250 3000 11,755
Sept ’O5 8,427 5„ „ 3185 2000 £3242 14,997
Mar., ’06.. 3,528 5„ „ 3554 1000 13,971
Sept.,’o6.. 2,368 5„ „ 3750 12,589
Mar., ’07.. 6,666 5„ „ 3750 2000 916 13,505
Sept.,’o7.. 14,916 10 „ „ 7500 7000 416 13,921
Mar., ’OB.. 19,782 10 „ „ 7500 6500 5782 19,703
Besides the amounts shown above as written off, the fol-
lowing have been charged direct to profit and loss for
plant depreciation during the past 18 months : —March,
’O7, £2035 ; September, ’O7, £2257; March, ’OB, £2851. Of
the amounts shown as written off in the past 12 months,
£6OOO further has gone to reduce the plant account.
Mining properties have been written down heavily for
years past, and now stand in the books at only £15,499.
This includes the East Greta freehold and the Stanford
Merthyr leasehold. Besides these two mines, the co.
owns and runs the East Greta railway ; land, railway and
sidings stand as an asset for £61,685, and plant (including
mine plant) for £101,124. In spite of the large surplus of
earnings in excess of dividends (in the past three years
£29,239 has been paid in dividends, and £26,369 has been
written off or put to reserves), the rapid growth of busi-
ness on the East Greta line has produced an overdraft of
£15,255 on “new rolling stock account.”, On current
account, however, there is a substantial credit balance ;
wherefore, at the end of the half-year, as against liabilities
of £35,741 (including the current dividend), there were
liquid assets totalling £31,926. Colliery investments
carry, of course, their own special risks—tire, explosion,
and labor troubles; and the East Greta has quite the
average of those risks. But it is unusually well off in
two respects—though the co. is only ten years old, it has
written its coal properties down until they represent only
about one-tenth of the paid capital; and it has a railway
line serving a coal district which has moved rapidly to
the front, and seems certain to have a great future.
* * * •
WICKUAM AND BULLOCK ISLAND COAL Co.
Mine
Development Written
Loss. Expenditure. Off. Deficit
Sept., 1903 ..£1163 £1,488
Mar., 1904 .. 1214 2,702
Profit.
Sept., 1904 ..353 2,349
Mar., 1905 .. 105 2,244
Sept., 1905 .. 289 £221 £1856 4,032
Mar., 1906 .. 577 751 4,200
Loss.
Sept., 1906 .. 2 2974 7,182
Profit.
Mar., 1907 .. 441 4274 1280 12,295
Loss.
Sept.. 1907 .. 17 101* 984 14,306
Profit.
Mar., 1908 .. 5377 2447 3021 14,397
This co., after a long and profitable life, found its old
mine worked out, and it had no money to buy or open
up a new one. On account of its improvidence it
deserved to go out of existence ; but it had plenty of
assurance, and, besides, it had a business connection and
a plant worth anythingfrom £20,000 to £30,000. Itspaid
capital had for some years stood at about £103,000 ; and,
though it has only got in another £5OOO, it has managed
to secure a new leasehold colliery—the Neath, at South
Maitland—and develop it so rapidly that for the past half-
year the output was no less than 54,000 tons. Circum-
stances have been all in its favor, of course ; no sooner
had it begun to open up the new mine than it found an
exceptionally good coal market waiting on the doorstep.
The result is that, though it got in so little fresh capital,
its liabilities are now only £16,541 in excess of cash and
book debts—a remarkably small price to pay for a new
lease of life. The co.’s capital is in three classes of shares
—old ordinary, paid to £1 ; new ordinary, paid to 18s.;
and 12£ per cent, pref., paid to £l. Of the last lot
there are, fortunately for the rest, only 20,000; but 12£
per cent, even on that little bundle means £2500 a year
before the others can have a bite.
* * * *
The Ocean Accident and Guarantee Cor-
poration, Ltd.
Reserves
(including
Reserve
Dividends paid Added for Un-
during year to Re- expired
Income. Profits, (less Tax). serves. Risks).
£ £ £ £ £
New share premiums .. 80,667 327,477
1898 736,947 213,547 15 p.c. =16,148 197,399 524,876
New share premiums .. 165 525,041
1899 748,733 139,472 15 o.c. = 19,429 120,043 645,084
1900 878,492 71,496 20 \, ~ 28,096 43,400 688,484
New share premiums .. 96,250 784,734
1901 1,120,359 20,367 20 p.c. =36,488 768,613
Loss.
1902 1,196,655 46,936 20 „ „ 32,424 689,253
Profit.
1903 1,130,516 48,747 20 „ „ 32,415 16,332 705,585
1904 1,090,527 27,124 15 „ „ 24,634 2,490 708,075
1905 1,113,675 40,490 15 „ „ 24,554 15,936 724,011
1906 1,178,384 141,772 20 ~ „ 32,739 109,033 833,044
1907 1,480,715 230,290 25 „ „ 40,923 189,367 1,022,411
Out of the profits it was proposed to pay 17£ per cent.
(£28,646) this month (April), and to transfer £44,000 to
the investment reserve and contingency fund ; but those
appropriations will not be shown till next year. In the
foregoing this contingency fund is not reckoned among
the reserves; wherefore the amount added to it won’t
appear—it will be simply written off profits. The con-
tingency fund already, before this appropriation, amounts
to £lOl,OOO. At the end of 1903 it amounted to only
£14,172 ; so if it is regarded as a reserve (and it can’t be
rejected very definitely), then the profits in the past four
years have been £86,828 greater than is shown in the list
above. Further, out of the profits of the past year
£5OOO has been taken for the officers’ provident fund.
Twelve months ago it was announced that, finding that
fire-insurance cos. were cutting into accident business, this
co. had decided to cut in at fire business ; but to what
extent that accounts for the big growth of income isn’t
nuHiifest from the published statements. The tremendous
figures of the Ocean are mainly due to the fact that it got
vOry early into a new business in England, where it
mostly lives, and then found out (at considerable cost)
what branches of the business were best left alone. But
there are so many branches of the other sort that last
year the gross revenue was about nine times greater than
the total capital; and so, though the claims amounted to
47-5 per cent, of total income, and the expense rate was
36'2 per cent., a profit remained equal to 135 per cent, of
the paid capital.
Another of the chickens of Parkes’s “born
financier,” William McMillan, is moulting. For years the
Farmers and Settlers’Co-operative Society and McMillans
principal business (McArthur and Co.) have heen so
mixed up that nobody knew where one started and the
other left off. Last week the Farmers and Settlers, etc.,
issued a circular to the effect that it had gone out of busi-
ness except as a grain and live-stock agent. Yet it was
the grain business that landed the society in the difficulties
from which it has never been able to thoroughly free
itself. Now, this week, there is a notice intimating that
liquidation is proposed. * #
There are times when Sydney seems to actually
encourage the daring, not to say reckless, trader. A
firm of accountants a while ago offered an assignedstocK,
book debts, etc., and notified that the man hadn t been
much more than two years in business. Yet, though ne
was such a beginner, and had no capital at all to star
with, and then only started as some sort of an agent, tne
accounts showed over £5500 deficiency, even assuming
that the assets realised book value, which wasn t likei).
The unsecured creditors were owed nearly £II,UOU.
large amount of this was for goods and accommodat
bills got from small tradesmen, while the secured credi
were in nearly every case money-lenders. In other wor ,
this trader transferred practically the whole of his a
to a few money-lenders, and left the dozens
merchants and shopkeepers, mostly small men,
whom he had got goods or collected money, with practi-
cally no protection; and two or three of them h
compound with their creditors. Yet, when th
arrived, the man who had rushed into the mess
away for the good of his health, and simply hana
affairs over to accountants. Thereupon a meeting
creditors was held ; but, instead of the whole thingneing
passed over to the Bankruptcy officials to wrest ,
as it is pretty obvious it ought to have j>e .
estate was merely assigned. The Bankruptcy .
would most likely have pressed the insolvent to >
and in some cases the Court has even been kno jj,
quite distressing things to traders who get. va , 0 f
and make bad use of it. But the commercia on
Sydney occasionally get very tired, and when p P
the look-out for an easy living notice that > . „
jump at the opening. And the business crowd . • onc e
has only itself to thank when it thereupon falls 1
more. *
This list shows what trafficking was
last year in N. S. Wales land-mostly country lan
registered unde.■ the p -Mortgage
(Zes) Mortgages. Discharge*
1898 .. £2,251,140 £4,807,182 £2,77*,™
1899 .. 3,099,279 4,282,651 3,087,54
1900 .. 3,444,209 4,965,746 2,952,445
1901 .. 3,986,229 5,036,375 3,927,-j"
1902 .. 4,350,050 5,668,098 3,823,6 W
1903 .. 4,025,286 • 6,273,535 2,940,401
1904 .. 4,138,994 6,292,235 2,914.03
1905 .. 4,668,022 6,437,963 fi’s9s’lo4
1906 .. 7,346,558 7,814,309 6,395,104
1907 .. 9,366,063 8,885,075 6,3 V.’ 7 nera i' B
These figures are compiled from the Registrar- T e orren9 ,
reports, and, as mentioned above, only relat dealings,
title property. There were besides, very
in leaseholds and lands held under other ,
only record as to these is with regard to conditio v


Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
Has
Uncalled Capital
Perpetual Deposit
with Govt.
Reserves .
- £975.000
- 20,000
- 33,000
£1,028,000
SECURITY for its
afieinent of Trust Estates
er "Wilis, Intestacies,
arriag'e Settlements,
£ rust Deeds of Every
Oescription.
4 6 Spring Street,
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE C M 6.57 tons
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill) 6.25 „
OROYA BLACK RANGE 7.14 „
OROYA BROWNHILL .. 8.07 „
SONS OF GWALIA S.g* „
Australian Office :
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Leinpriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. I bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
After conducting exhaustive tests in the con-
centration of the ores at the Broken Hill South mine, the
manager, Mr. Wainwright, has finally decided to instal
the Wilflev type of table, modified in the direction best
adapted to. his particular local requirements. The great
advantage with this type of table is that it admits of so
many slight variations which adapt it to meet all classes
of pulverised ores. Provided the pulp for treatment is
graded it can be used to treat all varieties of ore from
slimes up to coarse grades. When treating slimes and
lightly mineralised ores, care must be taken to have the
slope of the table accurate, and a fine, smooth dressing
surface beyond the feather edged diagonal termination of
the riffles. When treating coarsely ground ores or ores
heavily charged wjth mineral, as at the Broken Hill South,
the riffles or grooves can be carried further along the table
and in some instances right up to the concentrates dis-
charge end. Mr. Wainwright ordered six tables as an
experiment, with fewer riffles or grooves than customary,
and with some of them—the lower ones—carried to the
extreme end of the table. So successful has this type of
Wilfley table proved that he has ordered 50 more from
the Austral Otis Engineering Company. This same firm
has been placing several of the patent Callow Screens at
Broken Hill and elsewhere. This ingenious and simple
mechanism has solved the problem of grading prior to
concentration.* rs
The Journal op Commerce, Liverpool, August,
1907, writes in its review of the last annual report“ To
peruse the report and balance-sheet of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited for the year 1906-7 '
is to acquire proof of a typically successful, carefully
safeguarded, and economically managed modern insurance
office.”*
* * * •
Corliss Valve Engines for mining. In many
of our mining districts firewood is becoming so scarce
that economy of fuel is of the first importance, so that
the old-fashioned “steam chewers”have to stand aside
in favor of modern engines that will give the most horse-
power with the least expenditure of fuel. This is where
a Corliss Engine “ comes in.” Cameron and Sutherland
have several of these engines in stock, from 120 h.p. to
200 h.p. They are practically new, and the price is low.
Also a large assortment of high pressure boilers suitable
for all requirements. Address—Post Office Chambers,
Sydney; Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard
Street, Ballarat.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
**-«■*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * * »
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
just now. We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. ; also fluming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’.iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 520
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 48in. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne'
water supply, a contract for which has been signed.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* ■» * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
• • * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« * •» *
C.anbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
With the advent of high-speed steel into the
engineering world has come a demand for more powerful
machine tools. To meet this, J. and P. Hill, of Sheffield,
have introduced a high-speed screw cutting lathe, which
has been specially designed to avoid complicated motions,
which may cause trouble, and to enable it to successfully
combat the severest strains. Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, have just landed two of these
lathes, and those interested in machine tools should not
lose the opportunity of inspecting them.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
80LE AGENTS for |fßft||Rg LOCOMOTIVES
I
a 8 P urchased *»y the Govts, of N.S.W., Viotoria
»nd Tasmania, and ail principal mining- com
panies, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. & R. Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Eleotrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2
chases; while the transactions in that class ot holding
ran to only £1,250,536 in 1906 (and that was above the
average), last year they amounted to £2,735,579
* * * * •
The Moore Government is resolved on hitting
J. Bull Cohen in the eye at the Shepherd’s Bush Exhibf-
tion. Many rich specimens have been borrowed or
bought, and a “ month’s output ” is being borrowed to
set off the collection. The main object ot all this window-
dressing is to distract Cohen’s attention from dwindling
gold returns and failing mines—to distract it long enough
at least, to borrow a few more millions.
• * * „
Golden Horseshoe’s recent development at
2000 ft. is being made much of in the West. The point
where values were struck is just across the western
boundary in the newly acquired Ivanhoe South Extended
lease, and a westerly underlay is pushing it further into
that property. Whether the ore is a continuation of the
western branch of the Ivanhoe middle lode ora new make
has not yet been settled. The local papers are doinu- a
good deal of premature hifalutin about the find having
“an important bearing on the future of the field.” It
would be wiser to wait and see if it extends laterally.
Boulder Perseverance (W. A.) announces another
batch of “good developments” in depth. Unfortunately
however, the mine has had to play second fiddle to the
market for such a long time that no one takes any notice
of “ new finds ” nowadays. The property may still have
years of profitable work ahead of it, but, despite the
sophistry talked to shareholders, dividends will be much
leaner in the future.
• * * *
Brown Hill Extended (W. A.) still keeps a tight
hold on the cash in hand and an eye on developments in
adjoining mines. A bit of rich telluride ore—the remnant
of the Brown Hill shoot—still remains to be taken out but
theproperty hasn’t much apart from this asset, so the erec-
tion of a treatment plant would be uncalled for No
doubt the block will be absorbed later on by the Orova
Brown Hill, and that is possibly the best thing that could"
happen.
* * * *
Nothing satisfactory has yet resulted from the
arrangement made some months ago for the joint work-
ing of the Hannan’s Star and Boulder Deep Levels
(W.A.). The combined cos. have still about £40,000 in
hand, but neither seems anxious to lay out this sum
There is plenty of ore in sight, but a suitable treatment
plant would cost at least £30,000, and even then no one
could guaiantee success. As a result shares are unsale-
able, and local holders are clamoring for the Government
to step in and do something. Liquidation, in the case of
the Hannan’s Star, would mean a dividend of 4s per
share; but, as this paper previously remarked, 4s. is'onlv
worth 4s. when you can get it. J
* * * *
The Ivanhoe Junction, mine and plant, is to be
sold by tender. As traffickers in stolen gold can defy the
law in Westraha by holding a lease as a blind even this
property may find a buyer. After that the local papers
may gravely announce from time to time that good ore
has been struck, and that a rich parcel of dirt is bein«-
raised. As for the plant, that part of it which will stand
removal will probably find its way back to the second-
hand machinery depot.
« * * ,
Chairman Fimister spun a doleful yarn at the
Golden Pole meeting (W. A.). Sounding what is likely to
be the death knell of profitable mining, he announced
that the first two months of the current half-year had
shown a loss of about £7OO. Something was also said
about the profits being eaten up on account of four tons
having to be extracted for every ton milled. It was
admitted that neither the Board nor the manager was as
hopeful as they were six months ago. In September last
The Bulletin said that the directors ought to put
sophistry aside, and admit that the mine was in Queer-
street, with the end of profitable mining- round the first
corner. From the point of view of the prophet who likes
to see his prophecies come true now and then, this recent
confession is satisfactory enough ; but it ou-ht to have
come earlier.
» * * ,
In nine cases out of ten the local paper is pre-
pared to barrack for every mine and alleged mine in its
neighborhood, and the present management is practically
always the best possible management. So when the
Black Range paper (W.A.) hits out at the Sandstone
Development Co., it is worth looking that wav The
local Courier doesn’t damn the show, though it says it
has been much over-rated; but it simply blasts and
blisters the management. As, for instance : “ For more
than IS months the same purposeless policy has been
continued, and between 30 and 40 men are holding an
immense area of ground on which nothing is being done
.. . Under present conditions, the Sandstone Develop-
ment is a mine in name only, and until there is a radical
change in working methods shareholders are not likely to
receive that reward which they had reason to anticipate
a year or two ago.” A correspondent who forwards the
blistering yarn says ; “Scrip was sold here at 2s. last
sl 6 a 1,1 so ’ 'k can’t be only the local paper’s liver.
Jf e , ho < i ers ’ most of them Sydney professional men,
ought to find out what is at the bottom of it all.
While local opinion is divided about the Sand-
stone Development Co.’s mine, it is agreed by nearly all
that the co. s prospects are being strangled by weak
finance. The directors seem to be satisfied to concen-
wo,rk ln one corner of the property and pay stiff
charges for carting and treating an occasional crushing.
•TT'l at *F legitimate attempt is to he made to
the leases have niore than one-horse
»h?'w,J e \ niore ca P‘ tal "'HI have to be found. At the
hareholders meeting, held in Kalgoorlie the other day,
ne chairman stated that the Sandstone or Oroya-Black
& n *® ente J ed tbe property at 180 ft. in the Juno C
furthpr MA ft v’v, and i he , held that ]t lllust similarly enter
th icn« d alonff a length of 1300 f t-, at depths
rangmg fr° m 180 ft. to 350 ft. Yet the main shaft, known
workino-s A l f°tL No A 1 ’ almost in a line with the main
a few Oroya-Black Range to 330 ft., was stopped
ffii BB th^ aH ' < :-.u Why not »° down a little further in
m a l' d Met l ; eef? There would be n ° trouble
unasked Ca i )lta ’ would knock at the co.’s door
■** * *
the Z C nt eld . shareholders sw °pped condolences at
and then h r n CUO u ™ eetln g held in London last month,
assessment k a ‘ barney” as to whether a 2s. or a 3s.
Urmer uh,oh° U -n be made - Fi,, ally they decided on the
Itis™i„'hichwiH give the co. £30,000 more to play up.
andpavd vtrf d t i lat K this^ viU a £ aitl put the co. on its feet
thec P o y nwe dend8 ’ t Ut that ’ s doubtful. For one thing,
another rhin mor ?,u han , the amount to be raised ; and for
richer than th’t a fcboU . g t the Lancefie ld ore is shillings
and Drohah t , mined fr .?, n \ the Fitl k'all and Gwalia, it is,
always will be, much more expensive to
■** * *
glooni U pl.■j^- or P ails (W.A.) is again wrapped in
has bee! u,!T!i m ? nthB P asti ts stand-by, the Westralia,
Poor as t w . orke d at a profit; but the last return was so
t 0 leave th e impression that profitable mining
Shortened* -,nS w Anywa y> hands have since been
on f L and f what Save promise of developing into
danp-pr nil " es ln the State is °nce more in
danger of being passed out.
th are bein g quoted to prove that
does nof"nrpL° f i TranSVaal ° re at Southern Cross (W.A.)
order to hack ,^ t fK ny Beriol , ls or unusual difficulties. In
be“ siopcif, oF t v® °^ n^ rs asser tion that the stuff can
v. 3 handle d on a, commercial basis,” the
asked to^mnii^T 11 ° f tbe Mlnes Department has been
of & 'T ex P enm ents. No doubt some sort
t y re f\ fc Wlll be announced ; but, as nearly
If i/nn dy f K n ° WS .’ laboratory ore tests go for very little
8 get satisfactory results that Way and
like fhot ther th ', n ? t 0 successfully treat refractory ore
fenf fil p P ose .d ln the Transvaal mine in bulk. The
that , ln !u e I? 38 ,been sampled several times, and
aloof, C s p P eaksfor O HseFf nShSh Australia n, still holds
* * * *
is I shifrf ma , of its water supply Broken Hill
t fe ? kless Piace. When there is a drought, it
voir • ,»K ayS ffolr ! K ,, to P rovi de itself with another resor-
ts'’ ;s h f n 'T" falls and the one dam fills, the owners of
nlVmf 1 bu f i! around with words of comfort, and the
reallv fnniT, V Wt *? r res l ervoir is dropped. A while back it
the L a j S t 'h°ugh something were going to be done :
„n a " a ' ld ’uumcipality formed a Trust, and a site
’ and a S ouple of Acts were passed, and an
the le*H w S en^ ed - Then the bottom dropped out of
rhin Hip ° ( u U '\ i i ] u cos * at * lad keen paying more divs.
vpnilnH y h( ? ld have done found that thev couldn’t con-
wafer ».v UC Up , the Proposed capital for the new
supply and so the thing' was hung up. While
p was in that dubious condition, the Water Supply
ftWf v niost cunningly-worked concern, announced
tnat it would come to the rescue by building up
woulH an ° th JL r 3ft ‘ ; and this extra 3ft., it said,
\ he wafcer back 80 f ar that the dam
would hoidan other 1,300,000,000 gallons, or a third more
an it used to. The figures seemed large and impressive,
Rnf f h 6r fi 0f the H- cos - settled down to sleep again.
r f ' rUreS re l ally mean litfcle °r nothing. For it doesn’t
” la lf , B ° ImU,ch 1 mU , ch Illore water were thrown back that it
would take Jcol. to express it in gallons, the fact would
still remain that it is to be only 3ft. deep at its deepest ;
it isn t quantity but depth that counts in a place
where evaporation runs to about Bft. a year-sometimes
nore than Bft. Broken Hill mines all depend upon a
w ater-treatment of their ore in the first place, and all they
nave to rely on now is one partially-silted dam, fed by
' ery scarcejmd very capricious local rains.
S°m e thing had to give at Block 10. As at all
the other Broken Hill mines, the low price of lead was
pinching them, and if there was a ton of good ore showing
anywhere in the mine, it simply had to come out; and
that sort of mining so often leads to trouble. The pre-
sent movement really doesn’t amount to much, however ;
a ml* 6 stepping into a boghole on the march onward.
a little tune and money are wasted in getting out, and
when the co. gets out it knows that it will have to step
into a few more similar bogholes before it reaches the end
or its journey. A bad hanging-wall was the original
cause, and the movement will go on and'on till the shift-
ing mass finds rest at last somewhere deep down on the
Central mine’s (Sulphide Corporation’s) footwall. The
ground in the Central mine is continually moving, but
at quite a ladylike pace, and the mine oflicials are able to
effect alterations and repairs accordingly. Block 10 can’t
do that. There the ground comes down with a bump
every time, and the bump is getting nearer to the Central
boundary every time. The key of Block 10’s trouble
18 around Campbell’s shaft, where a wonderfully rich
shoot of friable ore beckoned to every manager that
Block 10 has had, and landed him in trouble when he
answered the call.
* * * *
Those who look at the mill results, and then
bMst a b°ut the profit B. H. Junction North is making
should remember that working costs are still about 20s. a
ton, and that last week’s output (265 tons concentrates)
wasnt worth more than about £3200 to the mine.
Deduct expenditure—£l74o for working costs, £1126
realisation charges, and £3OO for management and other
expenses—and only £34 remains. And this is allowing
for payment for the 85590 z. of silver contained in the con-
centrates at 2d. more than the market quotation, and for
lead at £l3 10s. The North mine is doing better than
that.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Junction intends to sink to
400 ft. in King shaft, put out a “feeler” northward on the ore
body, and if the body is promising in the matter of width
the co. will then sink towards the 600 ft. There is really
nothing else for the directors to do. If the lode is pitch-
ing north from King shaft, it is more than probable that
the ore followed south in the drive from Browne shaft,
and lost on the British boundary, is the eastern underlie
of the ore that will be found at the 400 ft. of King’s. A
feature of the eastern ore bodies is that they have an
eastern underlie, while the larger western bodies underlie
west. But so far as is known at present, the King shaft
ore body is going down nearly vertical.
* • • «
Tingha Consolidated (N.S.W.) has a name that
tells its own tale ; likewise, a balance-sheet. Half-a-
dozen little shows rolled into one, and put under the CBgis
of Coleman, Hermann, and other children of Israel. Five
dredges for six months won tin worth £11,568. The co.
ended up the half-year with £933 to credit of profit and
loss, whereas it began with £5457, and it owes £4374 to
sundry creditors—doubtless, on account of new dredge.
It seems that meantime £5OOO was paid in divs. at the rate
of 10 per cent, on the preference shares. If, with tin at
high-water mark, only the prefs. can receive divs., then
with tin at normal prices ordinaries cannot look for
even crumbs. To load up a tin-dredging show with
400,000 shares is cruelty. But the Lyell Blocks crowd,
which handles this mine in London, likes heaps of shares.
Innocent Melbourne shareholders want a local quotation,
but are put off with the story that to list the stock will
be to kill the English market. Which is quite likely.
* * * ■*
This in brief is the agreement between the
Queensland Government and the syndicate in connection
with the Mt, Eiliott-Hampden railway. Survey, con-
struction, and working are to be under Government
control. Of the line itself the Government is to own a
half-share from the start. The line is estimated to cost
£200,000 ; the syndicate provides £lOO,OOO. In 15 years
the Government may buy this half-share for 28 4-7th
times the average annual net revenue for the last five
years of the syndicate’s ownership. If the line returns
3£ per cent., it will be £3500 on the half-year share ; that
multiplied by 28 4-7th is £lOO,OOO, so on a 3£ per cent,
basis the syndicate will get its own money back. And
this is the minimum payment. If, on the other hand,
the line returns 6 per cent, on its cost, or £6OOO on the
syndicate’s share, this multiplied by 28 4-7tli will mean
£171,828, which will give the syndicate a fine profit.
Cheap railway lines now and then make very large profits
on their cost ; the Silverton line, for instance. Under
this agreement the State will either pay heavily to redeem
the line, or pay cost price for a depreciated railway with
possibly a worked-out mine at the back of it. The
syndicate seems to have the thick end of the deal whether
the line pays or fails.
* * * «
Stannary Hills (N.Q.) are being given another
share-jig, mostly in Adelaide. But, in spite of fair
returns at the moment, the outlook is poor. They are
getting pretty well half their ore, and pretty well all
their tin, from the underhand stope below No. 6 level of
the Ivanhoe mine. As the No. 6is the bottom level, this
means stoping below the shaft-level; and that seems to
point to the upper workings being “ done ” or, anyhow,
too poor. The co. gets the balance of the ore from the
Kitchener and Extended mines, and it would be interest-
yhafc this stufl tfoes b .y itself: it is very
Sii n*i^ er lt 1S , even Payable. The Black Rock and
entralHUl big tunnel is developing nothing, and looks
more than ever like a blind stab. Nothing of any conse-
quence was ever got above this tunnel-level, and the hope
or getting anything in the tunnel itself is fading fast.
* * * *
nvr ? e *’}’ er ne ws came down from Gilmore tin-mine
•lu lasfc wee ! t > but the southern markets are filled
wi a great mistrust of the Gilmore and other northern
crowds’ and it takes a lot of good information to shift
a northern stock nowadays. Nevertheless, both the
-lidas and the Dolly Grey workings are improved : the
Midas lode has been struck in the lowest level, and the
new make of brown ore in the Dolly Grey drive shows a
™ d i h * r< ? m t 0 the full width of the working-. The
stuff goes about 16 per cent. At the main Midas shaft a
new engine and boiler are going up ; this, with the recent
development, should mean an increased output and regu-
lar, if small, dividends.
r * * • *
The Klondyke field, out past Mungana (O.).
promised well in boom times, but is now as dead as a
stewed missionary. The Irvinebank Mining Co. has a
number of shows out there, and a lot of good smelting
ore was formerly sent to the Chillagoe smelter—high-
SrMewppcr sulphides and carbonates, with gold as high
as 30dwt. per ton. What is left of this ore will no doubt
be sent to the Molloy smelters in future. The Lamington,
one of Moffat s mines at Klondyke, has finally shut down,
and the winding plant has been transferred to one of his
tin shows at Koorboora. At Koorboora most of the
smaller properties are under exemption ; in fact, all of the
copper shows. Their only hope is a sufficient increase in
the price of the metal to enable them to get the ore as
far as Mount Molloy. About seven miles away from
Koorboora, Torpy’s Crooked Creek silver-lead mines are
doing good work, and ore is being stoped out at the 220 ft.
,*;*\ with the concentrates on hand, has been
sold to southern buyers. The lead furnace at Mount
Molloy is not likely to be ready for work for a couple of
months, but after that most of the lead ore in the district
will go that way.
*** ' *
The miners at the Anakie sapphire fields (Q.)
are wanting assistance. Last year this field produced
stones to the value of £50,000, and at one time there were
as many as 1200 men there. The difficulty has been their
inability to get fair values for the output; some half-
dozen buyers have them at their mercy. They are now
asking the Government to appoint a gem expert who will
grade the stones for them. If this were done, they do
not anticipate any difficulty in obtaining advances on the
value, pending sales in London, where they suggest the
establishment of an exchange, run on the lines of that for
wool sales.
* * * »
Chiltern Valley and Great Southern still
fight for supremacy in the Rutherglen-Ohiltern field
with John Cock leading a little at the Valley.
De has been helped by the good ground up the lead,
though not to the extent believed by many people.
Wash there will be worked out by the end
u j l3 y e . ar > leaving only the eastern ground
ahead. A big length exists to the boundary, but a lot of
the gutter is of doubtful value. Work at the Wallace
Consols’ shaft didn’t impress anyone. Yet Cock thinks he
can make the wash there pay if he has better appliances.
Maybe. His work last six months showed wash worth
£3 os. 3d. per fathom, or Bs. Bd. better than in the pre-
ceding six months. This “bit of all-right” put ss. in
divs. in the pockets of shareholders. Still, the nut John
Cock has to crack is the more distant part of the lead at
and beyond the Wallace Consols.
* * * *
Catherine Reef, Bendigo, which was so pelted by
the local Beehive crowd when all Australia was buying,
is having another jig, with the local people in the field.
They will have a hard task to allure the burnt child again
to the fire of speculation. Said burnt child knows by ex-
perience that the length of the shoot of gold isn’t sufficient
to warrant the present price of shares ; so the outsider’s
impulse will be to sell when the market moves. What
has happened is that the shoot has been picked up on its
pitch north at 2300 ft. Present crushings don’t show
much in the way of profits, 436 loads giving 97£oz.
• * * *
Biff! Biff! That is what happened at the
Cathcart (Vic.) fight. Ten rounds in 10 minutes. 8., M.
and, Co. took hits with a smile. Dodds, “the Ararat
pet,” was in “ the pink of condition,” while “the firm”
stripped somewhat light through having taken off weight
by discarding the contributing scrip. The “mill” was for
the managership of the co.,which Bewick, Moreing and Co.
got when they agreed to finance this special Victorian deep-
lead show. They struck gold at first, then lost it, then
lost their drive, and then threw up their big block of
contributing shares, thus leaving things as bare as the
middle of the Sahara. Ararat then took charge, got the
co. on to gold, and now asks 8., M. and Co. to forego
their agreed percentage of the profits. 8., M. and Co.
don’t see it. Their St. Nicholas smiled at the temptation,
but his resolution to hold on was inflexible ; so 8., M.
and Co. sit tight on their percentage, while Dodds yaps,
“ Come on, and I’ll hit you again."
* * * *
Birthday New Tunnel, Berringa (Vic.), being
in a crushed and deplorable state, even though it has the
aid of that man of patience and industry called Job, has
brought in geologist Moon to tell what is beyond the pick.
Moon has no diffidence about doing that. A slide has
crushed the reef, and the reef w'as solid and well
mineralised above the slide ; ergo below the slide it will
be found much the same. Exactly ; but as there wasn’t
much gold up there, is that same condition to prevail
down below ?
* * * *
Alfred Clarke still clings as loyally to the dead-
beat Colonel North, Zeehan (Tas.), as he does to the
White Leads at Broken Hill. Zeehan badly needs some-
thing to stir it. And it would have it if all the
portly black letters in the manager’s report meant
anything more than printer’s ink. These are a
few of the sentences so honored: “The next half-
year being a productive one”; “a fair amount
of stoping ground available”; “from 6 inches to
over 3ft.” ; “ 9 inches of clean ore ” ; “going into maiden
ground.” Then “main lode-channel and “a most im-
portant point.” But it is a bit of a come-down to light
on the following sentences in ordinary type—“ I propose
letting all work possible on contract,” and “ Every place
being in such a state of sludge, it has not been possible to
single out all the most productive spots ; but you can
rest assured that no stone will be left unturned in trying
to produce as much ore as possible.” What an anti-
climax !
* * * *
H. Y. L. Brown and chief-assistant Gee have
produced another and better edition of the “ Record of
the Mines of S. Australia.” Though it hasn’t had much
gold to help it, the State’s mineral output from 1840 to
1907 is set down at £27,308,351. Teetulpa, in 1887, is
practically the only good gold rush S. Aus. has had ;
but it was a mere patch in the north-eastern
mulga, and nearly all the £300,000 worth came from
a square mile. Copper, of course, easily leads with
£18,743,481. Old hands talk fondly of “the palmy days
of the Burra and Moonta”;yet, as a matter of record,
no previous year touched the output for 1906—£718,609.
The nearest approach was the £680,714 of 1872.
“ Geology ’’ Brown always dwells with a little pride on
the State’s iron deposits. At Iron Knob, 40 miles back
from Port Augusta, “ a vast quantity, estimated at
21,000,000 tons, of high-grade (66 per cent.) iron ore
and manganic iron, is in sight.” The Broken Hill
Prop, got hold of this deposit many years ago, built
a railway and a jetty, and now draws its iron flux supply
from there—and gives a thought now and again to the
possibilities of iron and steel smelting. Unfortunately
the nearest coal supply is far round on the N. S. Wales
coast.
* * * *
Glenmore : Insurance mentioned risky ; other
apparently sound A. McC. :It is months since they
were quoted. Last div. was in 1899, and they are not
likely to pay another J.A.B. ; Couldn’t express an
opinion without a balance sheet.
“ M.C.” : Three of our copper mines, Mt.
Lyell, Gt. Cobar, and Lloyd’s, smelt ore of about the
same value. But the results are very different. Values
herein are based on copper at £6O, fine silver at 2s. 4d.,
gold at £4. In March, Mt. Lyell, with the third largest
output of ore among Australasian mines, treated 32,232
tons for 667 tons copper, 17340 z. gold and 51,9580 z. silver.
This pans out 2.06 p.c. copper, ldwt. gold and 32dwt.
silver. Total value is about 325. Gt. Oobar returns
vary a good deal. In March the average extraction
from ore was slightly over ldwt. gold and 7dwt.
silver, with 2J p.c. copper. This would be worth
35 s. Lloyd’s may be considered a single-metal
mine, although there are small quantities of
silver and gold in the ore. The extraction is just on 3
per cent., worth 365. per ton. But in this case all the
value is eaten up by expenses. The first two are splendid
instances of cheap pyritic smelting ; while Lloyd’s has
silicious ore that consumes much flux and firewood, and,
to make mining expensive, the lode is frequently cut off
by faults. When Mount Morgan is on its best behavior
its copper-gold ore averages as high as Bdwt. gold and 3
per cent, copper: gross value, 68s. But Mount Morgan
returns vary a lot ; also costs are high because the ore is
very silicious, and the mine is young as a copper pro-


Learn by Post
STOTT
HOARE'S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
"is
e *s^'sV22S
The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridge_Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
£2 2s. per annum upwards—special policies for your
special needs.*
“The Store for Men!
>* '
r
SMART SAC SUITS —beautifully Tailored to your order —50/-, 55/-, 60/-, 70/-, 75/-,
85/“ to 105/-. Patterns and Self-Measurement Forms sent Post Free
immediately on application.
OVERCOATS —Finest English Tailored —handsome and exclusive in designs —21/- to
85/- each. Underclothing-, Shirts, Collars, Ties, Hats, Caps, Boots and Shoes.
Clerical, Academical, Military Uniforms, Fancy Dress, Costumes.
Lincoln Stuart &. Co • Pty., Ltd.
V FLINDERS STREET, MELBOURNE. A
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ Karl ” : Behold me reaching with en-
thusiasm for the scalp so recklessly dangled before
mine eyes by “Cict” (B. 23/4/’08). He relates
minutely the animals which were exuded by a
flooded wombat-burrow, and mentions nine varie-
ties besides the rightful owners. Included among
them is the gohanna, which, in my experience, has
never been found guilty of living in wombat country
at all, nor have I yet found a bushman who has
known gohannas and wombats to exist simultane-
ously in one district. Further, I have examined
scores of wombat burrows, and have seen numbers
flooded out, and never have I been privileged to
see one lodger in an occupied burrow. The
wombat is jealous of tenants, and is so uncouth in
his manners and ungentle in his treatment of visi-
tors that they take the hint, and stand not upon
the order of their sprinting, but just sprint.
Bush boys, hunting for a wombat to drown out,
carefully examine the mouth of the burrow. If
the hoof-prints of rabbits, cats, etc., are seen
entering the tunnel, they come to the conclusion
that the occupant is the late «T. Wombat, Esq.,
and proceed elsewhere. Wherefore, I proclaim
“Cict” an unwholesome and extravagant sea
serpent and a probable claimant of the Page
Millions.
AN AWKWARD SCHOOL FOR TRUANTS.
The Department of Public Instruction has from its
very inception shown a kindly, sympathetic regard for
the bush child. Away back the travelling hawker’s van
brings to the bush-buried settlers the luxuries, and often
the necessaries of life. Now the van brings educational
sustenance as well.— Sydney Paper.
Rounding up scholars at Blackfellow Creek.
An indignant Westralian by adoption :
In a recent issue you say half-a-dozen Victorian
farmers are off “to try their luck in Westralia,
of all places.” Now, why “of all places”?
Westralia is not a gigantic sand patch, but the
proud possessor of some of the best land in this
continent. Have been here three years, and seen
country as good as any in the Eastern States,
also plenty of it. Am N.S.W. born, and know
my native State from Riverina to New England,
but find Westralia more inviting, and have
selected here. For the future please drop the “of
all places.”
“ Janor ” : Sorry that “ Gip ” had such
beastly luck on her bee-hunt (B. 2/4/’08). I advise
“ Gip ” to be guided on her next honey-quest by a
smarter bloke than George. It was all his fault.
Chopping with a “thick” axe! Flouring bees
and tracking them through the bush ! Tush !
Infallible signs of balminess—or else pure guff !
It is quite impossible to track the flight of bees in
bush country, and no bushman would be ass
enough to try it; he knows he would miss the
busy little creatures even if they were “ floured ”
with beer. The locating of bee-trees is quite
simple, entails little exertion, and can be done
without falling once. George was a boshter at
falls. As a matter of fact, bee-trees are mostly
found by the bush kiddies. All that is necessary
is to watch bees leaving water until one is abso-
lutely sure of their line of flight; then follow in
the same direction.. When close to the tree the
scent of honey does the rest. That is, if the day
is sunny ; and no one but a “George” would go
hunting “ sugar-bags ” on a cloudy day. How-
ever, if the searcher is too thick in the nose to
work by scent, let him keep a sharp lookout at
likely trees for the exit and entrance of the honey-
spinners. They hive notin saplings nor in young,
solid trees.
* <■ * *
“ Nymsie ” : Of all the quaint denizens of
our inland rivers and lagoons the fresh water
mussel is the most interesting cuss. His enemies
are many, and his ways are consequently mys-
terious. The dusky tribes of old considered roast
mussel a prime delicacy, and to the fish, the
water-rat, the turtle, the crayfish and platypus
mussel is a staple diet. Which is rough on the
mussel. No other living creature of his order has
such keen sensibility of danger. Whether it is
acuteness of hearing, vision, or touch is not clear,
but watch the mussel with its armor open for a
breather, or feeding, or preparatory to moving to
fresh quarters. At the slightest noise the shells
are closed impregnably. Maybe a shadow
proves the warning or the sound-waves jar
some sensitive centre, but anyhow, the
mussel knows when anything approaches.
When moving, the bivalve rests on its open shell-
sides, and a movement of the body propels it in a
crawling fashion on the bed of the river or lagoon.
How the creature burrows into the mud when
seeking shelter or preparatory,to hibernating is
not apparent, but it is seemingly in the same way
as it does the trailing movement. Mussels survive
the severest droughts, buried feet below the sun-
baked surface of clay where a lagoon once stood
ere evaporation and soakage depleted the water
supply. Have kept mussels for fish bait. At first
they are very, very shy, closing their shells
at the approach of a human being. After
a while they are less sensitive, especially
if fed regularly, and they like and grow
fat upon a sparse sprinkling of oatmeal. In
their native element mussels live on insect larvae,
frog eggs and such like. They generally move at
dusk, and in the morning nature observers wonder
why freshly opened mussel shells are to be found
on logs and on river and lagoon banks without a
chip on them. The query, “What opens the
mussels?” has been put regularly, and mostly it
has gone unanswered. Yet the explanation is
an exceedingly simple one. Have watched the
wary, silent bittern stand for hours eyeing a closed
mussel in the water with the fatalistic patience of
a Mussulman. He stands like a feathered statue,
knowing that sooner or later, generally later, the
mussel will, when all is still, open his citadel to
feed, or to make a move. Till then the cunning
bird waits, and even his mate’s booming round
the bend passes unheeded. When the mussel
opens his armor, as he must to live, he opens it
but to die. One dart of the bittern’s bill and, as
Henry Parkes and George Reid both used to say
in their alleged poems, “all is o’er.” The mussel’s
carcase is wrenched from its shell, and a cycle of
creation is closed prematurely and permanently.
* * *
“Poddy”: The gentle Victorian cocky
again ! In the course of duty, had to visit a farm
to brand a cow condemned for disease in the
udder. Under certain favorable conditions cocky
is allowed to fatten and sell for' beef cows thus
condemned, but he must notify
the Department and have the
beast killed under supervision,
when, if otherwise healthy,
the carcase is passed for con-
sumption. But this cocky com-
plained bitterly that the polev
was a dead loss; the local
butcher resolutely refused to
buy it, on the ground that it
might injure his business to
have the animal seen about his
premises. In a burst of sym-
pathy, I suggested that, as
his own family was un-
usually large, he should
kill the beast for family
consumption. He drew
back, a look of horror en-
crusted his whiskers, and in a shocked roar he ex-
claimed, “ Good God, I wouldn’t eat the blanky
cow.” Then my sympathy evaporated, and,
branding the cow with particular care, I left.
* * * *
“Agricola”: lie “E.R.” and wild dogs
(B. 23/4/’08). The half-bred wild dog has long
been the bane of pastoralists in N.S.W., and Vic-
toria. In fact, it is almost safe to say that there
are no pure-bred dingoes east of the Darling, and
they are not found anywhere in any quantity ex-
cept in the remoter parts of Queensland, S.A.,
and Westralia. It is quite rare to find a wild dog
now with any yellow markings, let alone all
yellow. Even the yellow ones are crossed, the
majority wearing a fringe at the end where the
tail ought to grow, or at most, a stump less than
Gin. long. The pure dingo is a rather small
animal, slightly larger than a fox, but some of the
half-breeds attain a great size. In the Upper
Murray district, a good many years ago, stag-
hounds were imported to slay dingoes. They
killed some, but crossed with others, and their
progeny still work havoc among the sheep there.
One gaunt giant, caught in a trap some three years
back, stood almost a yard high, and measured
sft. 2in. from the muzzle to the tip of his stumpy
tail. But the commonest type found in N.S.W.
now is a cattle-dog cross, black in color, with tan
spots over the eyes, and carrying the usual diminu-
tive tail between his legs.
PRACTICAL.
BUSH SHEPHERD (haring a heart-to-heart talk with Mudgee Mat): “ Yes, dear friend, we must
help one another to carry the burdens which are laid upon us.”
MUDGEE MAT: “ Well, seein' ’as ’ow yer yoin’ my way, wot’s wrong about you ’umpin’ of me
drum to the township.”
“ Talking of animal freaks,” said the
gentlemanly old station hand, “we had one
down on the Upper Murray, years ago, in my
jackarooing days. It was a bull with eight legs,
and was frequently seen, but never yarded. As
it was understood Barnum was willing to give a
price equal to a Tatt.’s first prize, the whole
country side was on the look-out for an oppor-
tunity of running it in. The curious part was
that the front legs folded along to the hips, and
the hind ones overlapped them neatly and com-
fortably, resting against the shoulders. It was a
beautifully complete freak. It was nearly yarded
by Williams, the storekeeper, who went out on
the run to collect some horses, and saw the big,
black object among the cattle. He was an old
stock hand, and seized his chance. A flick of the
whip, a lurch to the right and a plunge to the left —
then the freak tore straight ahead, with Williams
in hot pursuit. He raced it through all sorts of
country, and headed it straight for the yard,
where, fortunately, all the rails were down. Into
the big yard it rushed with its tongue hanging
out, and Williams’ horse hardly able to raise a
trot. There was a newly-killed beast hanging on
the gallows in the second yard, and the smell of
the blood smote the freak on the nostrils as it
rushed at the gate. It stopped dead, and before
the overjoyed Williams realised what had hap-
pened, it turned a complete somersault on to its
extra legs, which were quite fresh and rested,
and, charging past Williams upside down, it
vanished like the Devil himself into the scrub.
• * * *
One lately returned Island missionary
asserts that the only trouble occasioned so far by
the repatriation of the Kanakas is that some of
them are posing as holy men, and filling the large
gullible ears of their untravelled brethren with
tales about having taken holy orders, and being
ordained, and, in fact, barring the color, of being
“ likit big mission’ry.” And consider the cunning
of Thomas Mallicolo in his choice of a new pro-
fession. He might have posed as a doctor,
architect, or anything, but there is only one
avocation wherein incompetencecannot be detected
till after the customer is dead, so behold the
Reverend Tanna ! Plainly, there are rocks ahead
for the white-man parson. What chance will he
have against the ber-ruther who will do marriages,
with no questions asked, for two cocoanuts or
a bunch of bananas, and who, disdaining the
niceties of the profession, will be prone to round
up every sheep, and collect the shy and retiring
collection with a strenuous shark-toothed club.
Why, there won’t be tea and buns in the game
directly.
tt * * *
A while back (or longer) an Englishman
sent his son out from the ancestral home and
the groated mange to learn all about sheep and
things in N. S. Wales. He didn’t know what the
baronial halls of N. S. Wales were like, exactly ;
but, anyhow, so that the “boy” might do
honor to the family name, he was allowed
£450 a year—which was about twice as much
as the manager of the station was getting.
Bull’s Jackeroo, of course, didn’t do any work,
but he behaved magnificently in the township,
and owned 11 pairs of riding boots. The
old manager presently got tired, and pulled
Jackeroo aside. “ Look here,” he said, “ you’re a
decent fellow and all that, but, hang it, you don’t
do a stroke of work !” The new-ehum stared,
surprised. “Aw,” he said, “I weally didn’t
know that there was any blawsted work that
wanted doin’; but if you think it’s up to me—
aw—why, I’ll put a man on at a pound a week to
do it, don’tchaknow ! ”
“ Flinderino ” : “Vigilans” (B. 31/3/’08)
states that the cypress pine is plentiful along the
Katherine River (Northern Territory), and he
recommends that its cultivation should be one of
the future industries of the North. And 1 quite
agree with him. The cypress is not only proof
against white ants, but it escapes the ravages of
that destructive sea-worm, the cobra. Very few
timbers are immune from the cobra, and wooden
boats and wharf piles, when once attacked by the
cobra, are rendered useless in a few months. Six
months ago the Cairns (Q.) Harbor Board built a
large punt, using hickory in the construction. An
examination the other day showed the bottom to
be honeycombed through and through, and as
brittle as a biscuit. A craft built of cypress pine
some years previous is just as solid now as when
it was put together. Red gum and ti-tree are not
affected by cobra to any great extent, but cypress
can always be relied on.
THE YARRA-BANKER JIM-JAM.
PLATFORM SPEAKER : “ Why is we out of employ-
ment, friends I Why is our jobs taken from
us, leavin’ us nothin’ to do ? It's all on
account of this ’ere drink reform movement,
friends. We're left to starve while them [?]
people wot used to support us is getting fat
by troddin’ on us.” (Cries of “Shame!")
A mob of 1200 cattle, travelling from
Hodgson Downs station, in the Gulf countiy o
the Northern Territory, to Charleville (Q-), 1 ,
pretty rapid bit of walking at one P art , 0
trip. In their eagerness to reach water they b
over a 45 miles dry stretch—the longest wa ®
stage of the journey—in 48 hours. The or
rate of travelling cattle is about eight nines a y-
THE ENGLISH SPRING-TIDE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, April 25. —A great snowstorm swept over
England on Saturday. Several inches of snow fell in the
southern counties. Great damage was done to the fruit
trees. Communication was stopped, and the telegraph
service dislocated. — Reuter, %6lltfoB.
What joy to be in England, now that April’s there !
The month when blooms come out like mad !
And young oak-leaves shine forth ! The sad
Old cypress, even, seemeth glad
In his new clothes, I trow. There had
Been naught in botany that was not gay and fair.
And then the gladsome fowl-life of the English spring !
I wot the pretty birdies trill
On each green bough ; and ev’ry bill
Of helpless fledgling haste to fill
With worms ta’en by some sun-warmed rill.
And blissfulness broods—simply broods —o’er ev’rything.
No whit less merry is the lot of lowing kine.
These browse about the verdant lea,
Chewing that grass, which all agree
More sweet and succulent to be
Than any foreign milkers see.
And the effect on them is as of new, strong wine.
But gayer in the English spring than all the rest
The sturdy British farm hand is :
He who (as poets know) does biz.
About this time in air like fizz,
And fields resembling the Elys-
lan ones, where dwell the lucky legions of the blest.
Yet, to speak sooth, one trifling drawback lies ’gainst
these
Stock British spring-tide joys. ’Tis this :
April’s a month when winter’s kiss
Strikes the Old Land like snakes which hiss,
Or fierce Malay’s death-dealing kris.
The flowerets mostly do not bloom ;
The chilled fowl wear an air of gloom ;
The kine quake ’mid the mountain broom ;
O’er farm-hands Arctic horrors loom.
In brief, in April all are blanky lucky not to freeze !
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Jf e .LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
GROvi’' efUUd m ° nfcy if 11 fails to cure - E - W>
E ® signature is on each box. Is. l^d.
Of all the silly proverbs, one
Whose vogue should be diminished,
Is : “ Woman’s work is never done !”
It should be : “ Never finished ! ”
She’s always working, understand,
To keep the home together,
And has Woods’ Peppermint Cure on hand
For colds in wintry weather.*
EARRINGS
are the latest and most popular
of jewel ornaments.
Our stock Is one of the largest In Australia.
We make them from London’s latest
approved designs.
We import the Diamonds.
We cut the other Gems.
We mount the Earrings. We set the Stones.
No leakages anywhere enables us to sell at
London Cash Prices.
PLAIN FICURES
CASH.
Fairfax & Roberts,
Two exquisite
Amethysts, set
in fine Gold,
Amethysts and
Pearls,
£4/10/- pair.
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
l/V
The latest novelty
in Earrings—double
drop. We make them
in many different
jewels—for pierced
or unpierced ears.
“ Hamer ” : One meets one’s old jokes in
all sorts of places. In “ The South-Bound Car,”
by Owen Llewellyn and L. Raven Hill, a train is
held up for an hour by a cow on a Spanish line ;
and after the animal has been driven off with
coal and blasphemy, the train travels for balf-an-
hour, when a cow again delays it. “There jjiggjg.
to be a lot of cows on this line,” remarks-a
traveller. “No,” replies the guard, “same
cow.” I happened to meet that same cow on the
unfenced Tamworth-Manilla (N.S.W.) line, and’
told The Bulletin about it, and an old and con-
sistent reader (one of the sort that remembers
more about the paper than the editor) accused me
of rooting the obnoxious beast out of The Bul-
letin’s past life. Of course cows may obstruct
trains in all parts of the world ; it is even possible
that iNoah was obstructed by drowning cows ;
but the S. M. Herald, in reviewing the book,
devoted nearly all its space to this anecdote, as if
it were the newest of new tales.
inherited scrupulousness.
"[?] takes his misfortunes with considerable
resignation, considerin' he's a man of birth.”
Yes. He confesses that his only trouble is that
he is unable to take a bath owing to the ex-
cessive price of eau de cologne, which he con-
siders absolutely essential to the toilet of a
gentleman.”
Billy T.” : Have come into contact on
Se^ occ asions recently with a Melbourne man
a bosh ter little bread-winner in a small
tK«r ha,red terr i er - The man hawks his dorg to
r warehouses, and inquires : “Like a bit o’
is 0000 to-day, mister?” If the management
nla f e « able ' Je liberates his terrier in a likely
d 0 j’ stands out in the lane and waits. The
towin ° eS tlle rest - Presently the terrier appears,
thp a ? out a rat - The man assumes possession of
busin aSSII T ated verln ’ n ’ and the dog gets back' to
anr>H, eSS ‘ a IT< inute or two he is back with
haul; 161 " rat ’ and s P en ds the rest of the day
n lorried rats up or down stairs, and de-
bts of rh , at bbe feet of his master. The pro-
tUp be tyke’s proprietor come in a bonus from
° Use ’ a tr ibute from the Board of Health
has a and a small income from skins. He
hard as tdat man > but his dog works
AFTER THE SPORTS.
JEBRY: “My word, boss, winnern two races yisterday.”
STOCKMAN: “ What races you win, Jerry?"
JERKY: “ One high jump, and one buckin’ coalt, boss. Gottem baccy!”
“Jimmie Pannikin,” with some violence:—
“ Kola ” (B. 23/4/’08) may now get up off his knees and
try to stand erect, as all Australians should. I am sorry
he wears a very deferential countenance, though per-
haps it suits him. It is better to be 2J years behind the
times than to be afraid, and deferential, and obsequious,
and grovelling, and painfully polite. As a matter of fact,
I contributed that par re the geese sleeping in the water
to avoid foxes over two years ago to The Bulletin —so
that, after all, lam not so belated. During my travels in
the Yass-Cooma-Barren Jack district of N.S.W., I have
never seen lake or pond nests that had been plundered by
foxes ; nor have I heard of any, even from the oldest and
most unreliable inhabitant. The local folk assert that the
geese beat the fox every time by sleeping on the water.
Of course, the Victorian foxes may be rendered so
desperate by scarcity of food that they will tackle
nocturnal swimming in order to grab the geese that are
“ Asleep on the Deep.” If “ Kola ” really made his dis-
coveries “just three years ago,” he, too, is a bit belated.
Evidently I roused “Kola” from his Rip Van Winkle
sleep in the Bush. Rise up, “ Kola,” and carry yourself
like a man. I hate the wriggling, reptilian attitude.
Stand up straight l .
* * * *
“ Brolga Bill”: Mention of the wicked
way in which the Shearers’ Accommodation Act
is misadministered on some of the big Western
N.S.W. runs, reminds me that it is up to some
loyal Labor member to introduce a supplement-
ary Bill for the purpose of securing decent and
healthy sleeping accommodation for all Out-
back employees. During my divagations
through the Sunset-country stations, I fre-
quently found that the shearers and co. were
decently housed, because of the S.A.A., while
the regular station hands had to be
content with small, badly-ventil-
ated sleeping-rooms-—some little
better than kennels. In my
rambles round Sydney and
suburbs, I have seen some
shockingly inadequate and
dangerously unsuitable ser-
vants’ rooms. The shearers
do get lots of fresh air in their
journeyings through the open
spaces ; but the poor devils of
domestic servants and regular em-
ployees Inback and Outback do not
fare so well —hence is wanted a God’s Glorious
Oxygen Supply Act for them as well as for
shearers.
* * ■* *
Dear B.—You are partly wrong in saying
(8.26/3/’08) that paspalum can be classed as a
failure. As a matter of fact, when the grass is
properly attended to, it makes a first-rate fodder ;
but, - when neglected, it becomes a pest, and a
nuisance, and a greater curse than a cantankerous
State Premier. To make a success of paspalum,
the principal thing is to feed it down from the
time it commences to grow. If allowed to reach
any height, it becomes rank and coarse. I once
knew a cocky named Montmorency, who planted
about three acres of paspalum as an experiment.
When it had reached the altitude of 18in., he
turned his sheep on to the paddock, and waited
with an exultant look for them to become as fat as
bper-casks. But no casks eventuated. Thejum-
bucks just sniffed at the paspalum, and then laid
themselves down .to await the end. The horses
were tried, with the same result ; they would have
nothing to do with the tall greenery. By the
time the cattle had refused to dine on it, the
exultant look that once lurked on cocky’s
frank, open countenance was replaced by a
look of murder and an expression of butchery,
and the word “ blanky ” occurred with
startling frequency. Finally, the paspalum
was dug up, and cocky heaved a vast
sigh of relief as it was carted off the pre-
mises. As for paspalum choking out buffalo
grass, it is even stronger than that. If planted
on the banks of a creek, it will eventually choke
out the rushes, no matter how thick they are. I
haven’t heard of it choking trees, but I believe it
will. Paspalum will choke the Devil if it gets a
fair go at him. In fact, I believe the only chance
to get rid of the Devil is to plant paspalum round
his haunts.—Yours, etc., Boronia.
“ J.G.” : Are there any cookies anywhere
in Australia with tougher hides than a lot of those
in the Rodney and Echuca shires (Vic.)? The
Waranga-Mallee irrigation channel is being made
through their land. When completed it will
increase the value of the soil manyfold. The
landowners who will benefit are not finding the
money for the irrigation works themselves —it is
being contributed by the whole of the people of
Victoria. Instead of being grateful for this public
assistance, the eockies and squatters have actually
tried to impose further on the public by claiming
outrageous amounts for the land that is required
for the main channel. These sharks were furious
when the Government valuers wouldn’t give them
the exorbitant price asked for their dirt. Now
they have gone a step further, and petitioned the
Minister of Water Supply, asking for compensa-
tion, on the ground that their land will have to be
divided by smaller water channels so that the
water given them by the State will be able to
irrigate their crops and make them richer and
more bloated. Truly, this infinite capacity for
begging, or brigandage, or whatever it is, compels
admiration.
* * m *
They have some pleasant-dispositioned
reptiles in Victoria. A snake was slain in Kil-
more, the other day—in a bar—that had been
making acquaintances for a week previously.
Apparently it had never been guilty of anything
except of being a snake. It had been seen play-
ing with a baby, and the baby suffered no harm
beyond grief at the loss of its plaything. A tiger-
snake, too.
* * * *
“ K. 0.5.” from the Sugar Land : Struck
one of the "‘old hands,” the other day, while
journeying into Sugaropolis. “Yes,” he said, in
answer to a question to draw him out, “I was
here long before there were any central mills, and
even before there were any steam mills. The first
one I worked in was a wooden mill—all wood,
building, rollers, and everything, and the bloom-
ing thing was worked by bullocks, just like a chaff-
cutter is worked by an old horse. Of course, it
was slow, and it took a terrible lot of cane to make
a ton of sugar, but sugar was a fancy price in those
days, and it paid well. Then I worked in some
of the later mills owned by the planters. The
planters couldn’t stand the farmers. Knew a chap
who went in for farming in those days, and got a
ringing good crop, but he couldn’t get his cane
crushed. He went to one of the mill-owners,
and asked him to buy the crop. ‘ Give you six
bob a ton for it,’ said the planter, ‘ and if you
don’t like that you can turn the pigs in.’ The
farmer had to take the price—there was nothing
else for it; and it was that kind of thing that
forced on the central mills, where the farmers can
get a fair deal. But if we don’t look out, strikes
me the central mills will soon be as bad as the
private ones, for the big shareholders keep buying
up the shares, and if it goes much farther, when
the mills are free of the Government, there will
be nothing to stop the few from owning the mills
again as in the old days. There ought to be a law
that no man can hold more than a certain number
of shares. Have lots of shareholders with few
shares, then things would be all right.” There is
heaps of sense in what the old chap said, yet if
you called him a Socialist he would be insulted.
“NO APPEARANCE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas somewhere North in Queensland, in old Queen
Victoria’s reign, »
Waxed rich a sugar planter by the cult of raising cane ;
And as he saw his sugar and circumference increase,
The Government gazetted him a Justice of the Peace.
Long ere his elevation to the Bench was brought about
Bob Wrumm was much addicted to the drowning of his
drought
In cycles, as the sordid cares of cultivating cane
Delivered from its drudgery his bluff bucolic brain.
In spacious seasons such as these he raged around the
town,
Unmindful of his duty magisterial to the Crown ;
Regardless of his status as a Solon of the State,
He bellowed on the highways when the starry hours were
late.
Yet Providence and people seemed to both be bn his side.
The boys in blue a berth to him gave willingly and wide.
Fast friends with him the faithful Force, his' weakness
winked they at;
Whene’er they caught him in his cups, good-naturedly
they gat.
Until unto the town, betimes, a nevv-chhni “ copper"
came, '
Regardless he of Wrumm’s respect, or VVrumm’s rebuke
or blame ;
So when he saw the beery one concerned in raising Cain,
To duty true, the constable did run him in amain.
The friends of Wrumm bewailed his fate—they got him
out on bail,
But into court next day he came, nor seemed a- scrap _ to
quail.
When not one magistrate made haste to try his brother
Wrumm,
All, all had business out of town or else in Kingdom Come.
Then Robert Wrumm, J.P., arose, and said : “ IPs up to'
me
By virtue of my oath and my official dignity,
To sit upon the judgment seat, and to adjudicate '
And so he mounted to the Bench and seated him in state.
“ The court is sitting, call the case,” his Worship coldly-
said
Unto that new-chum constable who wished that he were
dead;
“ The matter is important ’’—and his voice boomed like a
drum.
‘‘l see that it is entered as Regina versus Wrumm.”
Three times the crier called aloud the parties to the case,
And thrice but echo answered him from still surrounding
space,
Whereat his Worship said, as he the charge struck from
the list:
“ No appearance of Regina, so defendant is dismissed.”
N.S.W.
CHAS. V. HYNES.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
The Whistler : What, in the name of Heaven,
what does your poetry mean ? Some of your lines to
“ Death” herewith :
The soldier lame that cannot run
No use to him will be a gun
He’ll be—so—vexed
When you shall yell to him its time
He’ll try to offer prayer in rhyme
Pass on to next—
The nigger in his suit of tar
Will wonder who the deuce you are
With dreadful shakes
He’ll grab his boomerangs and spears
But you will settle all his fears
Of mulga snakes.
But —hark—here comes the man in blue
That was afraid of nought but you
He must away
To read the finger post of brass
For keeping others off the grass
On Patricks Day.
The shearer of the squatters fold
For shearing not the sheep as told
To you must go
And sing his little native song
He’y smoke Ho—Loppy come along
Our cake is dough.
.... Alf-alf: Gropingly you bump a great philosophic
truth, yet perversely contrive to side-step the same. The
world accords the wondering respect it does to ungaoled
eld mainly for the reason that anyone who has attained,
wholly unmasked, to silver whiskerings is a marvel and
worthy of awed notice.. ..Berri: No points about your
pars, and we are tired of paying fines because you Vic-
torians won’t take the trouble to remember that your
penny curse (or stamp) is only good inside your own
State... .C.P. : That Dyed Garments item has poured in
from many sources, and we can’t publish all the items.
Presumably when the horse begins to lose he will be called
Dead Garments.. ..Draywheel: Sorry you are feeling
tired, but you’ll have to put up with the matter for two or
three weeks longer. Take a dynamite cocktail and brace
yourself up... .Mawhera :It hobbles badly in places
Gee See : The verse is smooth and pleasing, but the senti-
ments are deadly trite Gambit: Some of it is weak, and
the metre is rocky in places.. .. Wilson : There may be
something in your view of the case, but you are a disas-
trous versifier Alick D. : A neat little thing, but it
scarcely calls for print. ...Edith W.R. : Not badly written,
but not crisp or compact enough.. . .John G. : Spoilt by
“ lay ” for “ lie,” and little things like that. ...Gad : Gad !
there’s nothing in it... .Joan : Various infelicities of ex-
pression. Instance, “ a boorish strain,” as applied to the
roaring of a tempest... .Quill: Neat little rhymes, with-
out a spark of quality.. ..Quiller Q. : The prose is weak,
and the verse is absolutely fatuous Gerald B. : Both
graceful, but ineffective Goulburn : A pretty good
character-study, but there’s not enough story in it
W.P.B. : “ A Man’s Thoughts ” has some little strength;
the others are very feeble.. .Fair Dinkum: Sound sense in
very indifferent verse H.F.W. : You have some versify-
ing power, but you are yet a long way below print-level...
Teirom : No space to say more than that they are quite
unoriginal and undistinguished in both matter and
manner Dick W. : You are right about the big-city
evil, but your verses don’t make your idea plain enough.
F.F.G. : Founded on an ancient and oft-refuted
fallacy. .. Hakea : Too jerky and incoherent... .Fritz G. :
You have some dramatic force ; but, aside from your im-
perfect English, the thing is too crude....W.T.W. :
Too much of the big drum about it.... Phil H. : Quite
impracticable Kiwi : A good text, but a very inferior
sermon.... Willbee: They don’t quite “fill the bill.”
Inexperience seems to be the trouble John O. (Q.):
The most magnificent piece of nonsense we’ve struck for
a long time. Some of your points are good, but the bulk
of the screed is impossible Alf N. : You don’t seem to
be able to mount the last few rungs of the ladder....
W.J.L. : Would have had a better chance in plain prose.
.... Grey Girl: You have spirit, but you lack technical
skill. Pay more attention to rhyme and metre B. :
“ Sandy’s Dilemma ” ends badly. Alexander should have
married the other girl. ..Gumleaf: “ White Witch ” rather
pretty, but what it’s about is a mystery like the lost
funeral of Moses—whose descendants call themselves Moss.
..L.J.McK. : Not quite crisp or terse enough for u 5....
Albert M. : One is a pretty conceit, but the other is too
far-fetched, and both have numerous weak spots
Elbaralda : The first is too awkward in form ; the second
confounds the Athenian Parthenon with the Roman Pan-
theon ; and the third rhymes “ glass ” and “pass ” with
“ farce.”... .Tom R. : Not nearly good enough... .P.J.R. :
Accurate in facts, but painfully stiff and wooden in style.
... G.McD. : The bad points in it outweigh the good ...
Nulla: Might have been much better done. You don’t
get any individuality into your characters... .G.E.0.0. :
Versification too rough and jerky No : Even the
undertaker ceases to be grotesque in the presence of a
horror like that... Blackboy: As a literary form
the Limerick is deader than a cuneiform writing....
Koax : As you note, the State Brighter starts with the pre-
mise that a number of wild, and till lately unheard-of
“ agreements ” were entered into by the “ spirit ” in which
the Australian people accepted Federation, and arguing on
that basis proves to himself that a burning desire rages
on all sides for secesh. But it is a brand of reasoning
that cuts little ice outside mad-houses. Thanks for your
good wishes... .J.F.D.: For the Lord’s sake let the
Johnson-alligator incident drop. Whatever mild quaint-
ness it had once evaporated many moons ago... .Roma :
Have no use for jokes about socks—that kind of joke
about that kind of sock. And you have appropri-
ated the pen-name of a young lady who doesn’t
write sock-jokes Bob Scott: Hideous jest anent
your friend’s feet passed into outer darkness
Ho-ki: You encountered an agricultural-looking person on
a tram, and “ suddenly out from his beard flew two mag-
pies, who had built their nest therein.” So you “got off
the tram, and wended your way to the nearest pub,
ruminating on the habits of the man on the land, or,
rather, the magpies on the man, and musing that verily,
the ways of him are strange, and his beard full of snares,”
etc., and you wish to know if your acquaintance could
have been J. Pannikin? Hardly E.L.H. : The Bul-
letin is unacquainted with “the four ladies who, in
Stephenson’s American Musical Comedy Co., assisted Mr.
McNaughton in the song ‘Four Very Pretty Little
Maidens.’ ”... .Front o’ Bourke : Scurvy fellow as may be
“ Will Outback,” he does not merit the mass of poly-
syllables you heap on him. Leave William—“ a warped,
splenetic creature,” as you note—to stew “ amongst his
congenial galahs and goats.” Jack North: “ Peggin’
Away ” rather dry. Pegs are dry except in India, where
they are wet and spirituous.
Queensland Minister for Lands Bell is
taking steps to protect any trees marked by ex-
plorer Leichhardt. It was reported a while ago
that there were quite a number about Jundah
and Chinchilla ; but when search was made for
them they could not be found. Bush imagination
had created some and bush fires had probably
destroyed the others.


THE IDEAL VICTORIAN RAILWAY
OFFICIAL.
Board of experts examining railway
official :
“ When is the thing that is not ? ”
Railway Official : *• When the driver
gets a clear-line signal that means
the line is clear only three parts
of the distance.”
Board of Experts : •< Go up one 1 ”
“ There will be no set. luncheon," but-
the president of the celebration com-
mittee will, at half-past two o'clock,
entertain a large number of -guests
with some light refreshments, including
members of Parliament, pioneers of the
eight-hours movement, and delegate#
from other States.” — Melbourne Herald.
>rP ent t ay * hiS “ golden-haired girl”
Closer Settlement, isn’t extinct. She
has grown up, says Bent, and has now
a large family.
But (alas I) there is a fear that she
has become a very untidy and useless
person with increasing years.
Premier Bent reckons that he will
presently bog in and really get to work
on the new channel from Melbourne to
the Bay.. Clods the size of mangles and
portmanteaux may be expected to fly
shortly
St. Kllda Council is considering
how to cope with the Motor Hog
trouble, which is causing people
/ to give up houses on the St.
Kilda-Elsterrt wick-road.
What’s the matter with dyna-
I mite ? The policeman touches the
button, and the explosion (and
the hog) do the rest.
A novel truancy prosecution was
heard yesterday at the Coburg Court.
Sydney Shackleton was charged with
not having sent his daughter, Annie, to
school. The said Annie proved to be a
married woman, with children of her
own. In answer to the police magis-
trate, the inspector declared that the
young woman’s name was still on the
roll, and he was instructed to withdraw
the charge.
So the above painful scene will not be
enacted in Coburg echool.
VICTORIAN RAILWAYS, MOTOR-CARS, &c.


LONDON, Friday —Statements sub-
mitted by the Budget Committee to the
Reichstag show that Germany must
borrow £50,000,000 within the next five
years, even without fresh appropria-
tions, in order to cover the annual
deficits.
Pictures can now be transmitted by
the Marconi system.— Cable.
Fact. Mere’s a “ wireless ” cartoon
just received at this ofSlce from Ger-
many on the fiscal situation there.
s
£, ** Ce S * t «r.
Hospital Saturday
Elbow.
AHERICA’S PROHIBITION
WAVE.
A very remarkable article in'
Collier's Weekly records the
swKt and widespread advances
of the prohibition movement in
the United States.
Listen ! -
I “ At the beginning of the year
>9OB, nearly one-half the area
of the United States is f 'dry;”
and more than one-third of our
people are living under prohibi-
tory laws. And it is highly
probable that within two years
one or both of the Carolinas
will vote for State-wide pro-
hibition.”
•AND SOME IN VELVET GOWNS.”
Last Saturday was Hospital Saturday.
(“ Hop ” begs to acknowledge his in-
debtedness to a current fashion peri-
odical for valuable ’assistance In
“dressing” his figures in the
What the Governor of North
Carolina will say to the Gover-
nor of South Carolina :
••111 **** Jl! ***** JIJJ"
Next day.— Rev. Caleb Killjoy :
'* I regret to see many of my
lady hearers laughing in the
most u..seemly manner. Let
me remind you, dearly be-
loved, that this is the Lord’s
house I ”
Poor man I he did not know that
the hospital Saturday smile be-
comes chronic in some cases.
SENT IT BACK,
Senator Pulsford has sent the Federal Treasury the sum of
£llB 16s. being a refund of the increased Federal allow-
ance which had been paid to his
credit. In his letter to the
Treasury he said: “ 1 return
the money simply because
I consider It to be desir-
able to secure the ap-
prova' of my con-
stituents before
accepting the
increase.”
AFTER THE RAILWAY ACCIDENT.
The doctor Is there on business. The solicitor has arrived In haste to draw
up the claim for damages. iTbe undertaker and monumental mason are after
the burial job. The parson has dropped in accidentally. It is the patient’s
busy day.
Tailor: “Dear me I Here are two remarkable protuberances in the
vicinity of your shoulder-blades. Has your attention ever been
attracted to them before, sir?”
Statesman of the Pulsford Type: “Oh, yes; I’ve noticed ’em. It’s my
wings a-sprouting.”
HOSPITAL SATURDAY AND SIDE ISSUES.


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming- Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321.
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
See “THE CRITIC.”
Obtainable all Newsagents
or CORDON & COTCH.
GIGANTIC COMPETITION. £12,000 in Cash Prizes.
lst Prize, £5000; 2nd, £2OOO ; 3rd, £lOOO, and others.
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Core Rheumatism, Kidney Ttouble,
and Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper
appreciate good advice, and we are glad, there-
fore, to be able to publish the following from a
prominent physician. v
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of
kidney trouble and other diseases, sitch as rheu-
matism, bladder and liver troubles, which are
almost invariably caused by weak kidneys. It is
said on good authority that fully one-third of the
people in Australia who have reached the age of
maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney
trouble in some. form. The most dangerous
feature of this disease is the fact that many people
have it without their knowledge, and consequently
neglect it until it has reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as
backache, must be given prompt attention, and a
good reliable treatment should be taken, until
every trace of the disease has been eliminated.
We are glad to be able to give our readers a
prescription which we have seldom known to
fail in any case. It contains no harmful in-
gredients, is pleasant to take, not expensive, and
can be supplied by any good chemist. It is as
follows.
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce ; Syrup
Rhubarb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound,
one ounce ; Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at
bedtime.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continuously for a few
weeks, it will be found to be an almost absolutely
certain cure for rheumatism, kidney and bladder
trouble, backache, and all allied complaints.
Note.—Other papers are privileged to copy the
above.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
G. W. Smailes, who used to be a member
of N.S.W. Assembly, is again a full-blown parson.
He preached for some years with the Primitive
Methodists ; now he has joined the Anglicans.
Premier Kidston scorns the suggestion
that he intends to remain in the Cold Country as
Queensland’s Agent-General. “I am coming
back all right,” he shouted at Warwick as the
train moved south.
Of 11 Australian explorers who got the
Royal Geographical Society’s gold medal, only
Bigjohn Forrest is still alive. Ernest Giles, who
died a few years ago in the West, was the last to
get the trinket—it was about all that he did get.
Opposition leader Butler (S.A.) has quite
left off grieving that he was turned out of office
three years or so ago, because in the good times
since then he has founded a big and prosperous
live-stock business. He allowed himself no time
to look after his private affairs when he wasS.A.’s
most weeping Treasurer.
The name of John Pascoe Fawkner,
founder of Melbourne, was mentioned to a Vic.
Supreme Court Judge lately, when the sole sur-
viving executor of the old pioneer’s will—
Cornelius Job Ham—applied for leave to pay an
eleventh share of the estate to each of four
claimants, the sons and a grandson of Elizabeth
Lucas, Fawkner’s sister. The other seven
legatees are undiseoverable, so the State will get
the last remnants of the old chap’s property—a
bit of land at Benalla.
Rev. Pearce Carey is that rarity, a Rome-
flaring cleric whose views on Industrial Reform
are beyond reproach. At his Sunday night meet-
ings for the workers he speaks gospel truths con-
cerning Fat, thereby depleting his pews of many
wealthy worshippers. P.C. is a member of the
Anti-Sweating League, and chairman of a Wages
Board in the Yarra-side city. A horror of Rome
is, after all, a pardonable sort of pusillanimity in
a parson who weekly shows himself to be utterly
unafraid in the presence of a depleted collection-
plate.
HUME COOK, M.H.R.
“Gallery Note ” writes :
None of the new members of Q,. Assembly made any
notable hit in their first Parliamentary session just closed.
Barton, of North Brisbane, and Cottell, of Toowong, moved
and seconded the Address-in-Heply; but neither rose
much above the ruck. So far, Appel (Independent Philp-
ite) and Redwood (Kidstonite) look the most promising'
new men. Yet Barton is a scholarly and level-headed
electrician, with a solid business and a beastly big bank
balance ; and these utensils, in addition to brains, should
help him along. Cottell is a conveyancer, who put up
one of the best fights on Q. record, and bumped out the
pretentious and inflated Macartney to the consternation
of Boodle and the delight of Democracy. Cottell has grit
and some pelf, and has a commendable contempt for
humbug. Among the old men, Philp is as weak and
watery as ever, if not even more so ; skim-Philp he is
nowadays. And Joe Lesina—Joseph the balloon—still
takes seven hours to say that he intends to vote against
the Bill.
A well-known Maoriland ex-journalist died
recently in London. Thirty years ago Charles
Rous-Marten got a foothold on the literary staff
of the Evening Post, and climbed up the tortuous
pole to the editorship before he let go in 1883.
Later, he edited the M. L. Times. About 20
years ago he went to London, where he acted as
correspondent to the Post and other papers.
“Caber”: Way back, 42 years ago, the
Bank of Queensland went smash, and its
notes were rushed here, there and every-
where by their unlucky owners, to be
sniffed at with scorn. Summed up
they appeared about as worthless
as George Reid’s political opinions.
But just when people were won-
dering whether the notes ought
not to be burned by the hangman,
a benevolent shopkeeper started
negotiating the paper of evil repu-
tation. He gave goods to the
extent of 6s. Bd. on every “ red-
back ” presented ; and while a note
remained in that township, he did
a great trade. The bank eventually
paid 20s. in the £, and the store-
keeper passed in his pile of paper,
and waxed fat, and helped all his
relations. Why am I writing thus?
Because had that bank not gone
bung, the par (B. 9/4/’08) re Kidston
and Baines would never have been
written. “Wullie” might have been
Premier of Queensland, but it is pretty
certain that “ Walter ” wouldn’t have
been where he is to ladle out childish insults.
Henry Alfred Lenehan, N.S.W. Govern-
ment Astronomer, who died on Saturday, was
born, August. 1843, in Castlereagh-street, Sydney,
where his father carried on business as a
cabinet-maker and undertaker. Later on his
father’s private residence was “ Ranelagh,” a fine
house standing on the Darling Point-road. Young
Lenehan was educated at Lyndhurst College,
Glebe, and entered the Observatory on August 9,
1870. He succeeded H. C. Russell some years
ago, but for a long time he was merely “acting.”
As a full-blown astronomer he only held office for
about four months.
Sydney’s venerable sky-pilot, Archdeacon
Gunther, had an anniversary on May I—on that
date he completed 40 years’ continuous service at
St. John’s, Parramatta. When the birthday ap-
proached a deputation of parishioners waited on
Mr. Gunther to ask him if he had a mouth on
him, and invited him to give it a name. The
ancient clergyman considered the various drinks,
and decided that the brand he preferred was tiles
—he wanted a new tiled floor for his old church.
So the money—about £loo—was promptly put
up, and the floor was duly handed over on
May 1.
Rome has a lavish relative in Thomas
Loughlin, a young Ballarat capitalist. He has
just spent £30,000 building a church in Kilkenny
(Ireland), which Archbishop Carr will consecrate
when he reaches the land of good grievances and
bad landlords. Quite a lot of Australian monev
has gone to cold climes, owing to Rome’s machina-
tions, by the way. Mrs. Dalgleish (she was a
de Lauret, of Gonlburn, N.S. W.), who afterwards
married one Bellas is, member of a well-known
R.C. family hi England, paid for the completion
of the Dome of the Oratory, London’s second
largest church. It cost the lady in the neighbor-
hood of £50,000. A lucky speculation in Broken
Hill supplied the money.
The sculler Laycock family goes as near to
the beginning of things in Australia as most
families. One of its members found the overland
track from Launceston to Hobart (Tasmania).
The first settler at South Head, Svdney, was
Thomas Laycock. An entry (12/2/1793) shows
that Lieutenant-Governor Grose, who ran the
show in 1792-1794, granted him 80 acres on the
south side of Sydney harbor at Parsley Bay. More
grants were made to him later on. This Thomas
Laycock was a useful person in a number of
capacities, lay and military, and had the knack
of handing to his superiors butter on a lordly
dish. Especially he handed much butter on an acre
of dish to Grose. He started a residential area at
Kurnell, and thus linked his memory with
Captain Cook’s landing place. It wasn’t Kurnell
when Cook was there, but a man named Connell
married a Laycock and resided there, and mis-
pronunciation did the rest.
Queensland Railway Commissioner Thallon
is leaving on a trip to Europe and America.
Thallon has risen from the ranks in the Australian
railway service, and is a living object lesson on
the superiority of local over foreign training.
Although the Queensland Commissioner leirnt
the lumping and lamp-lighting branches of his
profession in Scotland, he developed all his
administrative capacity and acquired all his
higher training in Australia. And the result is
that, where his imported and more highly-salaried
predecessors failed dismally, he has been a monu-
mental success. The Queensland railways now
pay interest on all borrowed capital; and all the
big railway smashes take place inStates where
oinamental importations are in charge. Banana-
land owes Thallon a holiday—he hasn’t had a
decent one for 22 years.
“ D.,” on the Abruzzi engagement :
The recently-announced engagement,—now confirmed
m Home, according to London Daily Chronicle (22/3/’08)
—of the Duke of Abruzzi and Miss Katherine Elkins has
points of interest. Though the lady owns a millionaire
father, she will not be required to come down with a set-
Llenient on her ducal hub. He is a millionaire in his own
right already, and, further, has expectations from his
rich Belgian grandmother. This alone singles Miss
Elkins . case out from that of every other Ameri-
can girl who has snared a duke. Again, there
is no such thing as a “morganatic marriage ”
in the dictionary of the House of Savoy. A male
member may marry his cook or anv other humble
person, and she forthwith automatically' takes rank with
him. Accordingly the maiden from Hamland will jump
from the status of plain miss to that of royal princess.
She will be the first U.S.A-born royal princess in history.
Her offspring, if they arrive, will be of royal rank, and
will be in line of succession to the throne of Italy. Given
a really comprehensive bit of bomb-hurling, or a railway
smash on the Tait scale, and the unique spectacle may be
world of a Yankee politician (Elkins, senr., is a
™r- e . with a European king as his grandson.
Miss Elkins is capturing one who looms big in the world
apart from his rank. Her Duke is a capable naval officer,
mJITSV Qmous mountain-climber (he scaled
Mount St. Elias) the holder for long of the Farthest
North record in Arctic penetration, a skilled linguist a
prolific writer, and an expert in half-a-dozen sports All
round, he is one of the most astounding dukes, royal or
otherwise, now extant. y
There is a sickening thud in the heir-find-
ing business. Morris, the ancient who was sent
’Ome from Sydney to get the “ Page millions,” is
being shipped back ; and now the London solici-
tors have cabled out, advising the co. to spend no
more money. And when Gent One wires to Gent
Two telling him to cut Costs off at their fount and
source, that selection must be desperately dry.
THE YELLOW PERIL.—A TALE OF THE
EASTER MANOEUVRES.
“ Baro ” sends a few details :
Commonwealth Meteorologist Henry Ambrose Hunt,
although the King Hilly of the show, is third youngest of
Australia’s meteorological team. Henry was ushered
into this cold world on February 7,186 b, whereas First
Assistant Robert Fletcher Griffiths was sent off the mark
on April 30, 1857 ; Second Assistant Henry Maurice Josce-
l.vne on November 28, 1859 ; Third Assistant Andrew
Noble on July 28, 1868 ; Fourth Assistant Edwin Thomas
Quayle on November 11, 1862 ; and Fifth Assistant Edgar
Lambert Fowles on March 4, 1872. Hunt is a quiet, taci-
turn man of great ability, with a keen inner "know-
ledge of the possibilities of the political whirl-
pool, and a gift for successful speculation. “ Griff,”
who will boss our weather while Henry is careering
around the globe on his world tour, gained his knowledge
of meteorology at the Adelaide Observatory under Charles
Todd, where Cooke, of Westralia, was also officially dragged
up. Joscelyne, familiarly known as “Joss,” is a smart
meteorologist, and a hustler. He formerly aided and
abetted Cooke at Perth, and one time, before being seized
with the forecasting habit, was master of a grammar
school near Sydney. Andy Noble, who since the end of
March has been in Sydney on sick leave, owing to
insomnia and nerve trouble, has (meteorologically)
always been connected with his present chief, being' his
confederate at the Sydney Observatory. Quayle is, in
appearance, the “dead ring” of Farmer Hayseed from
Wayback, but except for a love of farming, the resem-
blance goes no further. Quayle hails from Pete Bar-
acchi’s establishment in the Yarra Domain, and is
perhaps more of an astronomer than a meteorologist.
The baby of the team, Fowles, was a disciple of the
whirling and restless Clement Wragge. Fowles was
chief weather clerk in Brisbane until Hunt happened
along and gave him a well-deserved lift. The whole team
works well together, and threatens to make things
meteorological hum in Australia.
Andrew Henry Barlow, M.L.C., who is
Acting-Premier of Queensland in Kidstoii’s
absence, is an old man (his years now number 71)
who has developed. Like William Lyne, he grows
more democrat c as his white hairs accumulate.
He has been in six Ministries, and when one con-
siders the chiefs he has served, the development
of Barlow becomes evident. He was Minister for
Lands under Mcllwraith and Nelson in 1893. He
held the same portfolio under Nelson in 1893-’96.
The next Premier (Byrnes) was then the rising
hope of Australian democracy, and Barlow took
service under his banner. He repudiated Pliilp,
but when, after an interval of five years, Morgan
came to the front, Andrew Henry Barlow, grow-
ing distinctly old but with much life still in him,
was Morgan’s Minister for Education. And he
has been second in command in the two Kidston
Cabinets. A big, heavy old man is Barlow, with
an inscrutable countenance, like a dead wall when
he likes to make it so, and a habit of dropping
epigrams that you could shave yourself with.
An old pressman writes :
Harry Foran, Yarra Bank orator, who heard the Divi-
sion Bell ring at St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne, a few
days ago, was a remarkable specimen of his class. He
was a native of Ireland, and almost lifelong residence in
Australia failed to obliterate the magnificence of his
brogue, or the gorgeousness of his blarney. He was for a
while in the Victorian Education Department, but he
proved a man with grievances, and he aired them so
loudly and persistently that he became too eloquent for
the Public Service. So he retired, to take up his residence
in Sydney, where he blossomed out as a full-fledged spell-
binder of the Domain. Foran contested one or two bur-
lesque elections in N.S.W., one of them against George
Reid. Then, after some years, he returned to Victoria, and
continued to voice rebellion on the Yarra bank almost up
to the time of his death. The extravagance <*f Foran’s
public utterances and the flamboyance of his diction led
people to overlook his marvellous oratorical ability. He
was probably the most fluent public speaker in Australia
—not even excepting Deakin —and he was free from the
involved sentences that mar the Prime Minister’s plat-
form work. Foran was never at a loss for a phrase, let
alone a word. His matter was the most shocking fustian ;
but, as a claptrap orator, he stood supreme. Foran
followed no political party. Freetraders, Protectionists,
Tories and Laborites he denounced with impartial vigor,
attributing the most awful motives to the leaders of
every shade of political belief, and including in
his comprehensive charges of personal corruption
administrative and judicial heads in every department.
The writer once heard Foran create a tremendous im-
pression on a crowd of Yarra bankers by ostentatiously
pulling from his breast pocket a bundle of papers and
tapping them significantly as he remarked “ D’ye know
phwhat Oi have here? Oi have here the documenthary
ivvidince thot Chief Justice Blank an’ Premier Dash were
squared be the sum av £4 16s. 4d. to'shuppress th’facts
in th’ ca-ase av Blinks vershus th’ Society fur the Supres-
sion av Rivirince. An’”—his hand drew forth another
packet—“here are th’ shtatutory declarations,, saled,
shworu an’ delivered, to prove thot th’ Shecretary av
Poshtholes wuz bribed be Asterisk and O ). to permit
th’ paple av Victoria to be shwindled out av no less than
£480,000.” Foran spoke with such deliberation and
with such a convincing air that his assertions were swal-
lowed as gospel by a number of those who attended his
meetings. Though he always announced himself as an
advanced “ dimmycrat,” the Labor Party was the mark
of his most bitter attacks. Foran’s claim was that Reid,
Deakin, and Watson were really parties to a huge con-
spiracy to rob the people of Australia, and that, after
they had played out a clever comedy by attacking one
another on the floor of the House, they were in the habit
of meeting in the Ministerial room and cutting up the
loot. In fact, Foran led his hearers to understand that
he had been present on several such occasions, concealed
behind an arras, or something of the sort. In private
life, those who knew Foran asserted that he was a m'ost
genial and benevolent man.
“Peter O’C." writes:—
“ H. B.” (B. 26/3/’08) refers to the capture of the Hatful,)
bushrangers in 1879 as a wild fight in the lignumto. L d
Ihe “ wild fight ”is mostly wild imagination. The Hat
field outbreak was what the local swaggie would noli <7.
and sugar bushranging,” and in present days wouldn't
get as many months as it was then given years It C
an open question who shot Constable Powers-n,m
likely it was one of the excited force of armed sheen nit 3
who went to the arrest. However, Hobbs (whom “hr"
couldn’t trace) died at Tolarno station, on the W
Darling, in 87. As it was a busy time—what with shem-
ing, two-up, 100, and nap—there was little snare time
the funeral obsequies of the departed bushranger Th" -
local J.P. alleged he died of phthisis, or some' suoH
pulmonary contraption, and he was buried in the ine,i
sandhill with great haste and small ceremony. 1
“K. ”: Redmond Barry, the Solicitor-General
for Ireland, recalls Redmond Barry, of Victoria of
the olden tune. He was from Cork, and came to
Australia 70 years ago. He was admitted to the
Bar at Sydney, which then possessed the only
Supreme Court there was in Australia. Settling
at Melbourne, he became many things from Corn
missioner of the Small Debts Court to .Justice of
the Supreme Court and Acting Governor. In the
early ’forties Redmond Barrv and ex-Justice
Williams did all the legal practice in Melbourne
and weren’t unduly rushed even then.
The tale of a versatile man :
According to his own account, supplied to several iour-
nals, Joseph Tuekwell, who is now, at the ao-e of ss „
chorister at St. Paul’s Church, Canterbury (Melb ) has
crowded much variety into bis life. He was born at
Brighton (Eng.) in 1823. At the age of nine he became a
chorister at St. George’s Chapel, Windsor. Six years later
he was apprenticed to the sea for five years. Two years
of it, however, filled him up ; so he deserted, and got a
job as cashier in a draper’s shop at Windsor. Next year
he entered the Westminster Training College, and soon
after was appointed to the charge of a charitv school in
London. In 1843 he went on the stage at 13s. a week
and after getting engagements at a couple of
theatres, he went to Belgium and Holland with a
tableaux vivants show. After a short spell there he went
back to Bull’s country, and managed a tea establishment
for a while. In 1846 he tackled school-teaching a<'ain.
At his first school J. M. Pratt, now a member of the Vic-
torian House of Landlords, was one of his pupils. i t ,
1850 he came to Tasmania as religious instructor on board
a vessel which carried the wives and families of some con-
victs already in the Apple Island. His Australasian
career thenceforward was as follows 1851, Inspector of
Police (he doesn’t say where); 1852, miner at Fryer’s
Creek and warder at Collingwood Stockade ; 1853-7," de-
tective in Melbourne ; 1857, auctioneer at Richmond
(Melb.); ISSB-61, Melbourne detective again ■ 1861-4
chief detective officer, Otago (M.L.); 1864, gold searcher’
Dunedin (M.L.) Customs ; 1865, superintendent of prison
hulk at Port Chalmers (M.L.); 1866-8, gaol governor at
Auckland (M.L.) ; 1868, returned to Melbourne and
opened inquiry office, which he closed almost imme-
diately ; 1868-85, water-rate collector ; 1885-91, municipal
rate-collector at Williamstown (Melb.). Then he knocked
off looking after rogues and rates.
THE LATE H. A. LEX EH AN, Government
Astronomer of N.S.W.
Photo by Newman, Sydney.
The ingenious device for perpetuating the
memory of Burdett Smith, C.M.G., by depositing
a wreath bearing his name on the pedestal of the
Captain Cook statue in Hyde Bark, Sydney, was
repeated, on the explorer’s anniversary, on April
28. The sisterly affection which inspires the dis-
play is all right, but the incident is so characteris-
tic of chubby little Burdett himself that one would
almost fancy he came back to arrange the flowers
on the stone. He was a delectably happy mortal
in N.S.W. political life of over a score of years-
ago, with the manners of a courtier and the pose of
a beauty actor. He wasn’t strong on politics, but
he spoke prettily ; and his head of curled hair was-
the chief ornament of Macquarie-street.


.
X
\
\
0
C
/
\*
r* c
mm^
*
n
s?v'i *
•w
x \ ;
V M v r
; X u
x:
.
*
o
is
*
—«g»
. '
aL. a W
*
w\
7 r
'\ \
■ X
k\
$c
r%..
v
«~p
!
V\ /
<sv
■V.-X 1 •>( • x 1"
? m w w •••,
■^s*s
VvVCtTU'-Hv
.J L
y> ■
%
■**'*'■* <
'\
s
mss*
In,
' \ 'l,'
o#***
|VV
a
\
xX*
/ /I
A
t/
X
' /
\\
M\
////
r
3 en—Jorya
THERE CAN BE NO QUESTION ABOUT
HAVELOCK !
So the Pirates and the Shipwrecked Sailors simply smokec
it—just like you and I—and proclaimed Havelock Tobaccc
the greatest Peacemaker and Comforter known to mankind


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantoad.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.
824 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
m
£ pc*
G-O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr?d. Nagco, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Price Lists Cratis
“ What’s your verdict?” in a fury
Asked the counsel of the jury.
Though 'twas somewhat premature he
Could no more endure !
“ What’s our verdict! ” said the foreman,
“ We’ve all colds through that door, man 1
Give us what we asked before, man,
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
HANDSOME POST CARDS FREE.
Three artistic post cards, being high-class
reproductions, in colors, of famous paintings of
Australian life, will be sent free of cost to anyone
who has ever used Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Just send your name and address on a post
card, mentioning that you read this announce-
ment in The Bulletin, and the cards will be
sent by return post. No more artistic cards
have ever been produced in Australia. Send
your application to Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Australasia, Ltd., P.O. Box 594, Sydney.*
WEAK STOMACH ; INDIGESTION ;
MISERY.
Sydney Girl’s Indigestion Cured by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.
They make Strength and New Blood, and
Enable the Stomach to Digest Food
Without Causing Pain.
A weak stomach shows itself in indigestion.
Indigestion indicates a weak stomach. Every
healthy man. woman and child should be able to
digest a sufficient amount of nourishing food,
without pain or trouble. When they can’t there’s
something wrong with the stomach. There may
be pain or an uncomfortable fulness after eating;
heartburn ; belchings of wind ; headache ; tired-
ness; food doesn’t nourish, a general rundown
feeling. In extreme neglected cases ulcers form
on the coating of the stomach and the agony is
indescribable.
Make the stomach stronger. It’s reasonable to
suppose that if the stomach were stronger there
would not be these disagreeable symptoms. The
question is then, how to make the stomach
stronger —strong enough to do its work.
By their action in the blood and their tonic
properties Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cure stomach
troubles. They’re doing it every day. They’re
the right thing for indigestion because they tone
the whole system. A. case of stomach trouble
cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills: —
“ For twelve months I was ailing with indi-
gestion,” said Miss Lucy Wells, 13 Harwood
Lane, Pyrmont, Sydney. “It came on with a
heavy pain in my chest, which went right through
to my back. I thought I’d suffocate. For hours
my food seemed to lie on my chest. Sometimes
I’d be desperately hungry, yet the moment I sat
down to the table I felt as if I wanted to retch,
but I couldn’t. I lost my color and got very thin.
All my friends said how bad I looked. I had no
strength or energy. My tongue was thickly coat-
ed and I had a nasty taste in my mouth. I used
to get sick fainting turns —my head would go
dizzy, and I would have to sit down to avoid
swooning right off. At last I decided to go to the
hospital. I was there for six weeks and for half
that time I lived on crushed biscuits and milk,but.
I came out as bad as when I went in. It was
then that a friend advised me to give Dr. Williams'
Pink Pills a trial. The very first box did me a
world of good. Little by little the pains left me K
I was able to eat what I liked and 1 got back my
color and strength. I never enjoyed better health
than I do to-day.”
THEY’RE A TONIC.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a tonic. They’re
just the tonic you need for the end of summer..
Sold by chemists and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Australasia Ltd., Dailey Street, Sydney, afc
2s. 9d. a box, six boxes for 15s. 3d., post free.
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic
Truss—
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Mblbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
RIP VAN WINKLEISM.
The colonists had achieved a grand work in building up
this part of Greater Britain, but, like true sons of the
islands “set in the silver sea,” they were still in their
deepest impulses under the spell of the vast traditions of
the home they had left. —Argus on early Australians
and the A.N.A.
“ Not all of us, Granny ; only a few. Most of
us hare outgrown that unfortunate heritage."
The remarkable news that an attempt has
been made to blow up one of the big guns at
Thursday Island should make Australia sit up
and think. Thursday Island is mainly Japanese,
and its little garrison and its handful of guns are
scant and feeble emblems of the white man’s
sovereignty thereabouts. And this tendency to
blow up one of the few emblems there are is sug-
gestive and disquieting.
“ Billy T.” : The State Premiers are at it
again, hullaballooing over the action of the Aus-
tralian Government in providing for a decent
maximum in cornsacks. They insist that the
right to so legislate belongs to them, and they
are going to fight the matter. The right was
theirs for a great many years, during which time
scores of men cultivated the spinal curvature of
the dromedary, without it troubling the states-
men worth a tinker’s profanity. These fellow's
remind me of Considine at Tw'o-Up. When Grey
dug out the big rock from under their dividing-
fence to use as a base for his swing-gate, Considine,
who had never noticed the boulder before, waxed
furious, and put in claims to a controlling in-
fluence on the stone that ended in a law-suit
costing £270. It’s a case of: “If nobody wants
the thing, anybody can have it; but if anybody
wants it I’ll see him d d first! ”
Sydney moves along in regard to municipal
lighting. For years three or four little concerns
sold light and power—sold it to consumers in
front of whose places the municipality’s big
electric-lighting mains trailed. By degrees, how-
ever, this wasteful overlapping is being blotted
out. A few months ago the Empire Co.’s concern
was bought; now the Strand Co., in which Hugh
Dixson has a finger—if it doesn’t amount to a
whole hand —is being taken over for £45,000.
N.S.W. State Premier Wade, who shows
a tendency to break out in unexpected places,
received what to another man would be a humili-
ating snub at the Premiers’ Conference. He pro-
posed that the States should take part in the Tokio
Exhibition of 1912. “Victoria won’t,” said
Swinburne. “Westralia declines to look so far
ahead,” said Wilson. “S.A. has sent word that
it won’t,” said Kirkpatrick. “Queensland
won’t,” said Kidston. So Wade’s bizarre propo-
sition, that Australia and Monkeyland should go
and weep together like brothers four years hence,
went underfoot.
One of the matters specially handed over
to the Commonwealth under Section XXVII. of
Clause 51 of the Constitution is “immigrationand
emigration.” Nevertheless, State Premier Wade,
of N.S.W., heaved himself up at the State Premiers’
conference, to propose that “ each State should be
left to control the development of its own immi-
gration policy.” This proposition was made to
the other State Premiers, who had no more right
or power to vote to themselves the Common-
wealth’s authority than a meeting of the Boggabri
football club has to decide to divide among its
members Mr. Wade’s clothes and boots. But the
monumental “front ” of Wade takes no notice of
small things like that.
John L. Taifc writes : Re the grain bag
trouble. It has been recognised by the owners of
pack-horse teams that 2001 b. is an average load
for an ordinary horse. And experienced packers
seldom exceed that weight, to any great extent,
knowing that if they overload it means the price
of a new horse in the near future. Of course it
must not be supposed that the man is of as much
importance as the horse. Still there are many
who think that he is worthy of a little considera-
tion, seeing that his strength is only calculated to be
one-twelfth that of the more important animal. In
any case it is safe to say that if those who advocate
the 3001 b. or 3401 b. bag had only to carry a 1001 b.
bag for eight hours at a stretch, they would be
pretty “full up” before their shift was over.
“ Poleaxe ” : Conscription pure and simple
existed at your front door for 30 years, and it is
only lately that “other arrangements” have
been made. Fiji has been a British Crown
colony since ’74, and in that period many
natives have been gaoled for not serving in
the armed native constabulary. This was
purely a military force, armed with rifles and
bayonets; it did no police duty whatever,
and the men served for three years at the
princely salary of 7s. a month. This conscrip-
tion was British, for the native had no voice
or choice in the matter. The pay was British
also. Usually most of the pay was forfeited
in fines and the like for petty offences, and
the ex-cannibals were court-martialled and
gaoled on a liberal scale. I have seen Fijians
sentenced to 12 months’ imprisonment with
hard labor for failing to appear for enrolment.
After a man had been obtained by conscrip-
tion, he was often converted into a gaol
warder ; but I don’t suppose you are going to
be as British as this with your Australians.
The Ma State publishes a monthly offi-
cial booklet of dry facts and figures, and the
March number casts the now familiar stone at
the ass who gibes at the unimportance of the
State’s manufactures. Mining, for instance,
boomed tremendously last year, and everybody
who owned a bit of mineral dug it out and
threw it on to the top of the market; yet,
notwithstanding all that rush and scatter, N.S.
Wales’ manufactures were worth 20 per cent,
more than N. S. Wales’ mining. And they
were worth nearly twice as much as N. S.
Wales’ agriculture; while as for the tremen
dous Cow industry, it was worth barely £1
for every £4 that the State owed to its
manufactures.
The Vic. Education Department, which
Minister Sachse says is now living the strenuous
life, and building new schools and teachers’houses,
and generally straightening things Up, is in such a
fearsome muddle that the other day it actually
summoned the father of a young married woman
of 24 for the said child’s alleged truancy. Appa-
rently the strenuous Department doesn’t bother
to inquire into particulars, but just grabs a roll—
any old roll—and summons every tenth parent or
so on the off chance.
Thus “Red Tape, Junior ” :
The Declaratory Act is now law, the Governor having
assented, and the way is clear tor N.S.W. to deal with
the Is. an acre improvement leases cancelled by the Im-
provement Lease Board. Among the cancelled are those
known as the Wingadee and Rater leases, which were not
among those granted on the bob basis, but were dealt with
by the Court simply because they happened to be gazetted
in bad company. The Wingadee leases are to be submitted
specially for Parliament’s instructions. These were
cancelled outright. The Rater leases, which now expire
in 1918 instead of 1931, will be readjusted in 1918 ; but as
the Rater people haven’t any guarantee of what the
public needs will be in 10 years’ time, they are angry and
excited. All the other leases proclaimed in this Gazette,
which was “faked” as to time, and signed by Harry
Rawson in his pyjamas, are now’ forfeited outright, and
will sooner or later be available for closer settlement.
Mariner Evans, of Tassy, at the State
Premiers’ Conference, threw the light of his great
inexperience on to the cornsack question. He
didn’t know much about wheat, he said —his State
was more interested in oats. “Say, for instance,
that a farmer has 1000 bushels, this will mean
that, instead of requiring 250 sacks at 6s. per
dozen, he will need 300 at, say, 6s. 3d.” So old
horse-marine Evans proved quite conclusively that
the farmer would lose £llls. 9d. In the same way,
supposing Mariner Evanshad 1,000,000 tonsof cargo
to shift, and supposing he decided first that he
would have to buy two 3000-ton steamers. If
afterwards he decided to buy three 2000-ton boats,
it is quite plain that he would be enormously out
of pocket, because ' if a 3000-ton boat cost
£lOO,OOO, a 2000-ton boat, being much smaller,
would naturally cost £150,000 or so. The mariner
applies the same brilliant ( reasoning to cornsacks,
and carts the argument to the State Premiers’
Conference.
For a member of the corpulent party
which advocates non-payment of members, J.
Darliri;, wheat-buyer, and formerly dictator to
a S. Aus. Government, is foolishly indiscreet.
Before the committee which has been taking
evidence on wheat combines and their methods,
he first claimed to be an expert, and then said
that on certain lines improvement was possible.
Asked if he would indicate them, he said “ he was
too busily engaged in mercenary pursuits to go into
that.” Asked further if he had no policy as a
citizen, he made this characteristic reply : “ No,
lam a merchant. In 10 years’ time I might talk
about getting patriotic.” Yet when John was
beaten by the beastly Labor party for his seat,
the whole Fat community bewailed the event as a
national calamity.
Broken Hill has a few unemployed on
hand, and it wants the State to do something for
them; whereupon “ Anti-Caucus ” writes to the
papers:—
In spite, however, of the patent fact that the tariff is
responsible in the main for the distress at Broken Hill in
the ranks of the workers, we find Messrs. Cann and
Griffith, Labor M’s.L.A., loudly denouncing: the State
Government for its “callousness ” in not finding: employ-
ment for an army of men whose troubles have been
forced upon them by another brigade of the Labor party,
without whose support Mr. Deakin’s Government would
never have been able to bludgeon the tariff through.
Yet one small fact does seem worth mentioning—
that Broken Hill lives on lead and silver mining,
and that last year lead sold in Europe at £2l per
ton and silver at 2s. 9d. per oz., whereas lead is
only worth £l3 now and silver 2s. Perhaps a
little fall from £2l to £l3 in the world’s price of a
district’s staple product is of no consequence;
but, anyhow, “Anti-Caucus” might just as well
have alluded to it.
Agar Wynne (Vic.), of the Opposition
corner, who voted against the Government in the
recent crisis, was for a few brief moments lately
quite the chief figure in the Reps. The House
was dealing with the Senate amendment to reduce
,the duty on rotary and percussive rock-drills from
20 per cent, to 5 per cent, and free. Tariff Bill
Lvne moved that the amendment be not made,
and Wynne, remembering his pledge to his
electors, spoke in favor of the higher duty.
Later on, when the House divided, Wynne was
seated complacently amongst the Noes. Hume
Cook crossed the floor and apparently pointed
out to him his glaring inconsistency ; but Wynne
did not move. It was only when Oom Bill him-
self crossed over and said a few words that Wynne
tore himself from his place and, amid the howls
of the Opposition, recorded his vote on the side
that he had spoken on. However, owing to the
defection of Iceberg Irvine and of the incredible
Palmer, the motion was lost.
There are no State Frights, anyhow, about
Vic. Labor-leader Prendergast. At the Melbourne
Eight Hours Demonstration the other day :
In his opinion (and he believed the views were widely
shared by members of his party) an extension of powers
should be given to the Federal Parliament. ... He
would amend section 51 of the Constitution so that it
would provide that the Federal Parliament “shall have
power to make' laws for the peace, order and good
government of the Commonwealth.” That would make
the Commonwealth Parliament supreme, without anv
limitation of subjects of legislation.
To which State Insect Bent replied with his usual
polish :
I am inclined to think that if there was a vote it would
be in favor of rubbing the Commonwealth out.
Well, there was a vote of all Australia less than
two years ago, and Australia elected certain repre-
sentatives, who have established a sort of com-
mittee, called a Ministry, to carry out their
wishes. Yet, instead of wanting to “rub the
Commonwealth out,” these representatives of the
people want the Commonwealth to exercise more
of the power it has ; and every time it moves that
way, Bent and others squeal. Bent professes a
lot of respect for “ a vote of the people ” ; but he
shows mighty little for the vote of the people
after it has been taken.
FROM PERTH TO MELBOURNE.
A Paris scientist reports an invention making it pos-
sible to see immense distances by the employment of
electricity, possibly even from Paris to New York.—D.T
April SO.
SENATOR'S WIFE: “ O you wretch, if on’y I could
reach yer wiv me rumberella! ”
John sing, M.H.R., the other day asked
the Minister of Customs if he had not noticed
the reports of unemployed difficulties in U.S.A.,
and if he did not consider that those difficulties
were the result of a high Protective tariff, and
was he not aware that the Australian high tariff
made similar consequences possible. Protection
does make such conditions possible in Australia
by giving men employment which they can be
thrown out of if certain contingencies arise.
Certainly men can’t be thrown out of work if they
haven t any, and that is where Freetrade comes in.
• The Price Government has made a So,hi
Australian record-it has retained office with, !
changing its members longer than any d "
vious Government. Onlv three Cabinets i P e '
lasted longer: Morgan's, \ y,“. ; Bri,? *«•
years, and Kingston’s, 6£ years. In all those Cl
however, changes of personnel took place.' ’
IRONY.
THE SHADE (five years departed): "Used ter
called me a cocky. Now, I see they calls ’im
a Primary Prodoocer .”
The extra-foolish (in some things) Bent
doesn’t reckon that there is any urgency in the
Defence problem. “There was no need ter be
afraid of the Asiatic races, as one Englishman
could lick 50 Eurasians.” It’s a comfortable sort of
theory, but, alas, not borne out by the facts of the
recent Manchurian campaign if—as is likely—
Bent means Asians by “Eurasians.”
THE OMINOUS BENCHES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Renovation is sadly needed in the British House of
Lords. Anyone looking’ at the Peers when the House is
full would gain the impression that they sat in a curiously
huddled fashion. The explanation is that the scarlet-
covered benches are so worn, and the springs in the
cushions so broken, that in many cases a Peer does not
sit. He is instead surrounded by his seat. . . . The real
explanation of why the Peers do not assemble till late is
that they wish to disguise under artificial light the in-
tolerable dilapidations of their Chamber.— London Daily
Mail, 20/3(08.
Old, old as sin are they, and worn, and broken,
And feeble in the joints ;
A gruesome standing portent, sign or token
To those whom Rank anoints.
Gone are the days when British Peers were bowed to
By poor folk in the streets ;
Now, in their own House they’re not e’en allowed to
Have comfortable seats.
Huddled the titled ones crouch low in clusters,
And try to legislate
Upon the floor. (Whereat the rude Lords-busters
Stand smilingly elate.)
Home Rule, and Education Acts, and Land Bills,
And such-like garniture, *
These splendid paupers slay, ’mid shifting sand-hill?
Of ruined furniture.
Weirdly antique conventions, long dead phrases,
And mildewed views are theirs.
Yet one thing more than all of these amazes :
The deadness of their chairs.
Old, old as sin are they, and worn, and broken,
And feeble in the joints ;
A gruesome standing portent, sign or token
To those whom Rank anoints.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


WEAR
BUCKLEY <a NUNN’S
Made in
Australia.
In Four
New Shapes.
No. I, Balmoral (as
illustrated).
No. 2. Balmoral, pointed
toe.
No. 3, Balmoral, round
toe.
No. 4, Balmoral, round
toe peak cap.
All Sires
and Fittings.
Shall we
send you a
Pair ?
Posted
15/3
STAG’S
MEAD .
BRAND
of . .
BOOTS
JZ7
1416
(As illustrated.)
Buckley & Nunn
LIMITED,
300-310 BourKe Street, Melbourne.
AS SHARP AS EVER.
We had an old customer in who bought his Plum Razor some years ago
Said he, “ I’ve used the Razor for over three years now, on an average of
four times a week, and it strops up as sharp as ever.” That is all on ac-
count of the PLUM RAZOR having a keen shaving edge of best-temper
silver steel, guaranteed by us for two years. H
PRICK lOs. 6d. Post Free anywhere.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning- Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY,
Established 25 Years.
NTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
euraatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
tK nose passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
*"ever, Headache, Neuralgia, Bronchitis. Write
tor full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
-BTAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st,, Melbourne.
■Malthoid Flat Roofs.
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not." —Marcus Aurelius.
The hygienic value of a flat roof can hardly be over-estimated. It
combines all the benefits of a trip to the country in search of fresh air, as,
whether it is used for sleeping, mealing, or lounging upon, the result is
bound to be a vast improvement in health. Let us give you some practical
suggestions.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 18S4.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO. G. A. GARDINER. JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
JAMES SANDY & CO. SORBY & CO., Newcastle. F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
AiXIME
/Buy -•
rSlieep Ear - _
Direct: Save 25%N
We are the Only Firm in Sydney that makes pliers and sells them
direct to stock owners.
All other firms, selling pliers under their own brand buy them
from any plier maker, add their big profit, and you "pay the piper.’*
We are tired of selling our pliers under another man’s name,
and now olfer; you" our "Acme" High Grade Pliers direct from
our works at a reasonable price.
"Acme" pliers take a clean sharp cut from the ear without
tearing. They cut better, last longer, and are better finished
than any other ’brand of pliers.
They, reach you in little box We
pay postage. YOU save 25 per cent.
Write to-day for Illustrated Catalogue to
W. J. Johnston & Son,
16 WILMOT STREET.
SYDNEY.
If
liers don't
ter, and are not l
dr finished than!
Plu
better
better
the pliers you now use.
return them and we
will promptly refund
your money. Isn't,
that fair ?
LONE HAND.”
NOW ON SALE.
MAY
NUMBER
&
II
V
%
m
A
32
K
l
w
A
V**
N
i'tk
N.V*
ft »>
W u
Milk Chocolate.
A concentrated sweetmeat-food of the highest order.
More nourishing and sustaining than any other.
Doctors and Analysts are unanimous in their praises
of its purity and food value. Refuse to accept sub-
stitutes. CADBURY’S is the VERY BEST IT
IS POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN. Prepared in a
scrupulously clean factory situated in the open green
fields of the “ Old Country,” by the Manufacturers of
Cadbury’s Cocoa
of which “ The Lancet ” says
it is “ The Standard of high-
est purity,” while “ Health”
calls it “A Perfect Food.”


THE
VINTAGE
1900
Charles
Heidsieck
CHAMPAGNE
Perfect Condition
TRY
IT
: THE ORIGINAL
AND MOST EXQUISITE
: APRICOT BRANDY LIQUEUR.
“Pricota”
: i
! 'Manufactured for over a century by i
; HUMPHREY TAYLOR & CO., LONDON, :
; ENGLAND.
Wholesale for Australia—
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld., i
Sydney and Melbourne. j
The Woman Who Studies Beauty is always
the most sought after, and has the happiest of lives. You
cannot be beautiful if you haven’t got a clear fresh skin.
A little attention and that wonderful skin food Valaze
Will attain for you the beautiful complexion that is
delicate, natural, and attractive. Valaze nourishes the
skin and removes every wrinkle and facial defect. It
sinks into the pores, evicts all the impurities, leaving a
clear glow of health and beauty. Valaze stands alone am)
supreme as a skin food and complexion beautifler. 3s. Oil.
and 6«. 6d., postage 6d. Associated with the Valaze in
its ministry of beauty is the Valaze Skin Tonic ; it tightens
the skin, acts as a preservative, and is especially bene-
ficial in curing a greasy skin. 3s. 6d., postage 6d.' From
all chemists, or direct from Mile. Helena Rubinstein and
Go., Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ;
274 Collins Street, Melbourne; 9 Brandon Street,
Wellington, N.Z.*
Kti
u
3
4*
•an iii
I’m the Robur Tea Girl,
and wish to explain that
fine quality teas, being made
from the tenderest leaves,
break easily and come through
the teapot’s spout much more
than common teas do.
We have a number of
Sterling Silver-plated Tea
Strainers, with Robur Tea
stamped upon them —they are
worth perhaps 4/- or 5/- each,
but, for the sake of the
advertisement, we are prepared
to post one to anybody who
sends us 2/- in stamps and 4
Robur Guarantee Tickets.
We refer to the ticket which we
put in each package of Robur,
which guarantees full weight
and purity. The following
address will find us:
The ROBUR TEA CO.,
Melbourne.
p.S.—The No. 1 Grade Robur
is splendid tea —nice flavor
—very strong — very hill
of fine quality.
((
By Royal warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE.
ff
seiviperjdbm
FACILE PRINCEPS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, May 5, 1908.
My Dear Arint,—
A flavor of reminiscence and a suggestion of no-
matterness hung round the Northcote’s last
Society function in Sydney—the garden party.
Before the next G. P. (not general paralysis,
please) seasons blooms their Exes will have
gone elsewhere. Lady Northcote wore the
gown with Australian-made lace which enclosed
her when she opened the Women’s Exhibition in
Melbourne. And she clasped a thousand hands,
one at a time of course, with her feet on the
presentation rug that went with the gown on that
historic occasion. “ According to present-day
standards.” as the Last Scream op Fashion would
phrase it, her Ex.’s gown was out of date. Its
three skirts of glace, white chiffon, and black
chiffon rolled and billowed like a Manly breaker.
The short-sighted party who exclaimed after a
glance at the tram lying, a long soft pile,
along the carpet, “ O, someone’s lying
down at Lady Northcote’s feet,” was under-
standable. The no-matterness had to do with the
cards of invitation. One was not requested to
present her allotment of cardboard at the gate.
The usual stream of humans —soldiers, sailors,
politicians, professionals and their consorts —began
at 3.30, and was not dammed till an hour , later.
The only stranger of interest was Max
Schliiter. Max was here six years ago with his
fiddle and his Joachim, duck-tail hair. A
handsome youth he was then, and he
hasn’t gone off. Professional musicians whose
melody echoes round the globe have, with
rare exceptions, faces that would make a veteran
war-horse jump the nearest gate. Max is one of
the exceptions, and his modesty is also an excep-
tion. The Face-at-the-Window musician, like the
star male mummer, ought, with rare exceptions,
to be kept on ice under a steam-roller until he’s
wanted on the platform or stage. Count Morner,
Consul-General for Sweden, toted his musicianly
countryman to the party. But there had been
almost an interruption of diplomatic relations be-
tween the distinguished pair owing to the Consul’s
determination that Max should wear the conven-
tional section of black railway tunnel on his head,
instead of the soft, artistic thing with a viaduct
along the top and a saucy brim. Max said he’d
die first, and vowed he looked like a “ mon-key
in that kind of hat. The Count won, and after
all Max didn't look like the animal Cain is said
to have married.
As a crowd-collector a vice-regal carriage
standing in the street runs a tram accident close.
A fallen horse drags a crowd of a sort—mostly
men. A dog-fight (if they are earnest dogs) and
the arrest of a drunk haye their followers. But
the Northcote equipage, stopped in a city street
with a lancer in khaki at the tail of the carriage,
makes for a side show at which a real lady need
not feel ashamed to be present. When Lady
Northcote went into Vickery’s Chambers, on
Wednesday, to open the Arts and Crafts Ex. with
a bow and a smile and a. few words, the
“gallery” gathered to look at what she had
temporarily left. A small boy, carrying an
urgent telegram, paused to scan the horses. Then
he leant against some brick background, and kept
his gaze glued to the lancer. Within a few
minutes a crowd of some 150 persons had col-
lected. The men looked at the horses, the girls
and small boys at the lancer, and the women
stared at the rugs and wraps in the carriage. A
few persons, learning why her Ex.’s chariot
stopped the way, went into the Show and helped
local talent by buying a hand-painted- cup and
saucer, or a calendar worked with a blue silk
oat turning a somersault, or a dado design in
kangaroos and waratahs.
It was a show to make Australians proud.
Miss Mildred Creed and Miss Edwell were work-
ing at hand-made jewellery—necklets, hatpins
and the like. Lady Northcote secured some of the
hatpins—enamel and oxidised silver. Misses Ethel
Stevens, Dorothy Wilson and S, Yeomans showed
exquisite specimens of their own book-binding.
Miss Gether’s hand looms and MissEirene Mort’s
haqd-made toys and original designs for curtains,
cushions and friezes were amongst the magnets of
the Show. Her Ex. acquired a cup and saucer
painted with wattle and the purple sarsaparilla, a
stamped-leather bag, and other enviable atoms of
art. , - _
A bunch of most frou-frauish fixtures divided
Sydney’s interest on Saturday. The new
Lady-o’-War Poore gave her first party (it
was an under-tfle-welkin one); the Uni
Commem. occurred; but the function with
most rustle was the Automobile Club’s
first racing carnival at Victoria Park. A man
with the instinct of a State Treasurer told
me there was automobile to the value of £l5O 000
on the ground. A Sydney architect, named
Manson, is reckoned to have the most diamond-
dusted car. A merchant in the Asiatic trade E
C. Waters, likewise scores with a beauty. Also
this fortunate man has annexed as wife the most
beautiful girl in Sydney, who, in her turn knows
how tp, wear the superlative frocks that Providence
has layuihed upon her. And a little while ago he
had the most swan-like sea-craft on our beautiful
harbor. Yet the parsons say that Heaven doesn’t
80,0; w favoritism,. Ugh !
Hospital Saturday, another big fixture, brought
a record collection of over £6OOO. The “zeal”
displayed, by som,e of the girls engaged in the
bail-up charity work bordered on impudent vul-
garity, and it’s time the Government saw its way
to have a taxed tote, or some such circus, to take
the place of the circus girl as hospital collector.
A.s for the third rustle, the commemorating
Lm. students wore the usual quite superfluous
asses ears. ,
Carrie Moore, very much thinner than when
she left here five years ago, was at “The L-idv
Dandies” op Saturday night in a soft white silk
and a blaze of diamonds. Three huge ones struno-
- a stiff bit of necklet gold rather extinguished
Carrie s eyes, a,nd they do, not lack brilliancy.
The returned vital spark confesses that “ no one
could teach her singing.” She would not open
her mouth as the experts commanded, and could
not conform to artificial laws of voice-produc-
tion. She sings as the birds sing. When
she went to London she put in a certain
time of melody-learning from Ivan Caryll’s
wife (I forget her name), but personally she
does not think she acquired more technique than
when with the teachers Mr. J.C.W. sooled on to
her early in her. stage career. She narrowly
escaped a Parisian engagement. Before closing
with the offer, she floated to Paris to look at the
class of performance given at the Olympia. She
summed it up as mostly tripe, and drifted
back to London, where her post-card photo-
graphs have such a huge sale that the
firm that holds the monopoly must be
getting deliberately and sinfully rich. She
signs hundreds of these at so much a card, and
gives the money to a theatrical charity. Vital
sparkishness runs in the Moore family as fully as
voice does in the Castles brigade. Five sisters of
Carrie are on the stage, cr going there. The
youngest has been with the Pollards in America,
and is said to be a genius.
The engagement is announced of Miss “Pattie”
Mort and Baron Zezza di Zapponata. The baron
has been in Sydney for the last couple of years on
a business mission. He pursued the same with
unflagging and praiseworthy zest, despite the fact
that his ornate clothes daily and nightly gave the
lie to any suggestion of commercialism in his
regard. His future bride is a dainty Dresden
China type of maiden, who looks passing sweet On
a horse. She is a Laidley Mort, and hence the
“ good Roman ” that is essential when the Italian
nobleman decides to “range himself” and marry.
Most deadly is the trouble that upheaves when
the Fascinating Young Thing happens along, and
—wittingly or otherwise —burgles the regard of
her friend’s “ steady company.” That world-old
process is in train at present in local theatrical
circles. Abelard, the youthful, who self-sacrific-
ingly deserted a wife and several encumbrances
some years ago for love of his not-so-youthful
(though almost equally encumbered) Heloise, has
fallen to the boards the helpless, hopeless, blither-
ing victim of a dainty colleague. The sweet little
lady who is—wittingly or otherwise —responsible,
views the occurrence with equanimity, tinged ever
so faintly with pardonable pride. But Heloise—
well, mere Anglo-Saxon doesn’t begin to do jus-
tice to the agitated condition of Heloise, nor can
Shakspeare’s tongue cope with the powerful lan-
guage-strain she puts on it daily and demi-nightly
these times. If things go much further, she pro-
poses to expose the whole affair to erring Abe’s
wife—on a point of principle. While losing a
lover, she will thus surely achieve a firm female
friend. Nothing on this paradoxical old earth
draws two women together so closely as does the
silken bond of desertion by the same man.
Abelard’s temper is said to be something worse
than walking barefoot on prickly pear. On an even-
ing last week he came off the stage in a fury about
some mistake a new mummer had made. Appealing
for sympathy to Eloise, the lady said, “Serve you
right! ” It was then he fell upon and dealt her
several blows. “Such a thing never happened
before,” assert the veterans, and they are glad the
“ gentleman ” is not an Australian.
Mrs. Fanny Waddell, wife of Colonel G. W.
Waddell, died at “ Nevada,” Macleay-street, last
week. The bereaved, who commands the local
Field Force, is N.S.W.’s chief citizen soldier.
Mrs, Popplewell (her warble-name is Rosa Bird)
said good-bye—expressed in music and refresh-
ments —at the Australia on Thursday. The lady
has sung for some charities, collected a Saratoga
full of information about woman’s place in this
sorry scheme of things, worn some beautiful gowns
and, finally, has boarded the Oruba en route for
foreign parts. A small girl pianiste, Winifred
Purnell, goes with the departer, in pursuit of
the study that gives the student round shoulders.
Enthusiasm over Captain Cook raged like a
murrain during two days of last week. Only the
public didn’t know it till the morning papers
revealed and expounded the fact. As the foolish
month of April wanes, someone washes Captain
Cook’s statue in Hyde Park till it shines like
glazed calico, and sticks a flower in the great
navigator’s ear. The anniversary bath is followed
by the pilgrimage to Kurnell. This year the
Governor-General “broke” the flag—in plain Kur-
. nellese, he hoisted it.. Sir Harry gave him his moral
support; so did the Poore Admiral, the Trustees,
the Works Minister Lee, Miss Lee, Mrs. J. J.
Cohen, Mrs, E.. W. O’Sullivan and one of her
ewe lambs. Miss Lee is the? fiancee of Captain
Carstairs, late of Geelong, now of South Africa.
He is a cousin of Lord Methuen. As for
Captain Charles, M.L-C., if he were not.
present at the ceremony, the other “mourners”
would feel defrauded. Captain Charles is the
grand old man who, when he was a young man,
talked with an old heathen, who, when he was a
young heathen, saw the elder heathen slay Cook
in the Sandwich Islands,
On Friday there was more Cookey, when the
Yorkshire Society girded up its dialect and hied'
it to the w T ashed statue in Hyde Park and' affixed
a bronze tablet to the plinth, congratulating the
great navigator on having been a Yorkshirernan.
Mr. Kilburn Scott, president of the York Society,
stroked the intellectual fur of those present by
dredging up a whole bunch of distinguished
names the owners of which were Yorkshiremen.
Dr. Camidge, also a Yorkshire terrier, claimed
Sir Harry Rawsonr as one. The most fetching
Yorkshirernan I’ve met was in a book—John
Browdie, the corn factor, who ate with such
enthusiasm in “ Nicholas Nicklebv.’’
An Event locally was the marriage (30/4/’08)
of Mr. C. S. Parbury, second son of merchant
Charles Parbury, now permanently domiciled in
London, and Miss Doris Bloinfield. The Dangar,
Knox and Allen clans hastened to the 1 festival in
great numbers (they are all more or less related to
either bride or bridegroom), and afterwards the
wedded pair sped hurriedly off in a motor of
multiple horse-power to the Arthur Allen’s Port
Hacking cottage. Honeycomb House. ‘ In that
fair spot they • will angle unrecriminatingrly for
the whiting that biteth not, and the bream
which contemns the dilettante’s ill-adjusted
prawn-bait. For has it not been written that love
covers a multitude of empty fish-baskets ?
The Parbury-Blomfield wedding was like a
conference of peacocks for style. There was plenty
of tail and “side.” One wonders if Mr. Allen him-
self is ever a tenant of Honeycomb House. No
sooner has one smart bridal pair gone out of it to
start housekeeping on their own than two more
people are motor-careering down for their moon-
struck time. And the motor-car is also the fairy
god-father's property.
Another wedding of last week was a naval one.
Lieutenant Pritchard, a man-o’warof the Prome-
theus, was married to Miss Mollie Simmons,
youngest daughter of the late Mr. M. Simmons.
A frilly reception was held by the bride’s mother
at the Australia.
Talking of Big Sea Craft weddings—the India
was dolled up with a wreath on a day last week.
One of the officers, Worthington by name, had
not taken Punch’s advice to those about to marry.
But it’s not usual for the mercantile marine to
-frivol wreathfully on these occasions.
Vladimir V. de Sviatlowsky, Councillor M.A.,
D.E. Political Economy, Imperial University,
St. Petersburg, Russia, is a distinguished stranger
within our gates. He is asking questions on Labor
matters, like a catechism or a census paper.
Miss Eva Champion’s farewell concert will be
given in the'Centenary Hall, on May 12. Lady
Northcote has taken twelve tickets—the same
number as the tribes of Israel—and Miss Rawson
will be present with a party. The Girls’ Realm
Guild is managing the concert.
Miss Mignon Scantleburv, daughter of a well-
known mining man, has joined “the Lady Dandies”
Co., much to the co.’s benefit in the matter of
looks. While in her leggy, wingy phase of girl-
hood the damsel’s portrait was painted by
Longstaff. Now she is very tall, and dark, with
brilliant black eyes and a silky wave of hair.
The most “viewy” and fashionable meeting
that occurs in connection with a charity is the
annual one at the Ashfield Infants’ Home. It is
a hardy annual also, and is taken most seriously
by such persons as Mr. J. A. Hogue, Mr. Justice
Cohen, Dr. A. E. Mills, and Principal Harper.
Miss Rawson goes out year-ily to preside, ana on
the last occasion (last week) Mrs. Barbara Bavn-
ton, the novelist, who used to be on the com-
mittee, made a reappearance. The report dis-
closed that during the year 132 children had been
cared for, of whom 15 were the children of widows
and deserted wives, 31 were the children of
widowers, or had mothers ill or insane, six had
fathers out of work, 78 were illegitimate, one
was both motherless and fatherless, and one a
foundling.
Mrs- Geddes Crawford’s lecture last week was a
cleverly-strung-together series of anecdotes,
stories,' and impressions of travel. Walking on a
country road in Ireland one evening, the lecturer
Overheard a “ bhoy ” entreating his Norah to go
home by a still quieter and more leafy route. “ I’ll
not walk wid ye by that lane,” objected Norah,
“for if I did, ye’d be afcher kissin’ me.” “i
wouldn’t,” asserted the bhoy ; “ I’m too dacint.”
Later in the night the observer again saw the
pair, this time saying good-bye. * The bhoy
with fervent respect was saying it at arm’s-
length. “ Good-night,” said Norah, in a disgusted
tone; “ good-night, Patsy, and bad luck to yer
dacincy !” Mr. Scott Fellchairmanned the lecture,
and made an informative and humorous introduc
tory address. A reference contained in it brought
a sigh from the women present —a sigh that
sounded like “ So would 1.” Mrs. Crawford,
said the chairman, “has been a traveller, a
farmer, a journalist, and a housemaid. In the
last capacity, I would willingly guarantee her a
year’s engagement.” It was at that point the
concerted sigh occurred.
Contralto Ella Caspers has won a “Golonial
Exhibition” from the Associated London College
of Music. This means free tuition at that insti-
tution. Miss Caspers will give a concert at Goul-
burn presently, and then proceed to England and
the higher voice culture.
A ball that deserves all the support it
can get is that which will roll at the Mosman
Town Hall on Tuesday, May 19, in aid of the
North Shore Women’s and Children’s Hospital.
A grand procession of fancy sets will be one of
the attractions. Mayoress Leahy,- of Mosman, is
president. The hon. treasurers are Mrs. E. W.
O’Sullivan and Mrs. J. H. Phipps, and hon: secre-
taries are Mrs. F. Fraser and Mrs. M. Casper.
The Stork called in on May Day at the Bickem
hall Mansions (London) flat which is inhabited
by the young Rawson couple. The bird’s beak-
luggage proved to contain a girl encumbrance of
great beauty and lung power. Grandfather Raw-
son was straightway informed, by cable, of the
fowl’s gift and (for very joy) he has not been the
same mariner since. He hasn’t exactly led a
different life, but there has been a notable change,
and a tendency to leap several feet in the air.
Miss Maggie Knight (Mrs. H. Henderson) has
joined the Beatty-Mclntosh Co., and will appear
next Saturday as Madame Prudence in the weep-
ful “Camille.”
Miss Maggie Moore (Mrs. Roberts) and her
husband are staying at the Hotel Mansions. The
lady, though too opulent of figure, is wonderfully
youthful-looking, with quite ungreyed hair and
no make-up. t [
There was something apparently new under
the Easter sun—or, to be accurate, timer
the electrics at the Town Hall the other
night. Salvationists held a memorial service
for the dead relatives of those present. The
platform was crowded with girls wearing Red
Riding Hood garb. Out of the red hoods the young
faces “gleamed gashly,” as an onlooker phrased it.
Portraits of the dead—memoriamed one at a time
—were thrown on a screen, together with ,their
last words. So few “last words ” are worth publi-
cation on a lantern slide or otherwise. The
“ Roll wp the map 1 of Europe” and “Light, more
light ” phrases are rare—and generally faked by
the living. Therefore I am starting a bureau for
the supply of last words to the eminent dead
before they die. A catalogue of sonorous Sayings
will be sent around to elderly gentlemen who
don’t look well, and the price of the noble phrases
will range from £5 upwards. The purchaser will
select and pay for his final observation, and as
soon as his death is reported (accurately or other-
wise) the bureau will send his final utterance to
the press. If he disappears at sea, his hist noble
remark will be washed ashore in a bottle, and the
bureau will find the bottle on the beach. I expect
to make my fortune out of this idea.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane :—
The fierce light that pounds upon the vice-regal thron
was loaned out to the opening concert of the lirisbvn
Musical Union on Tuesday. The Governor anti h'
missus, with Beaudesert parson Hone and his new golden 8
haired other half, flanked by the usual A.DC and
private secretary and the meek little governess filled
the vice-regal enclosure. A huge audience of mere
common public wedged itself into the hall to hea
Miss Florence Quinn, a Madame Slap, student from
Sydney, assist the Union through “The Requiem"
a “Tannhauser” item, and various other things She
did it all very prettily. Miss F. Q. may not have a veri-
wonderful voice as yet, but she has a daisy of a chest that
shows large possibilities of development. Also she has a
pretty face and a graceful, willowy figure, and a pile of
pretty hair, and confidence. She is, in fact, one of the
best developed promises, in a throaty way, that has been
seen hereabouts since a period so remote that the memory
of man scrambleth not back to the contrary, but rather
loses itself in a wilderness of research and returns again
with empty hands and dog-tired as to the feet. *V;
Thursday evening saw the first ball of the season burst
its shell and hatch itself into a successful frivol, ft took
place on the sloping floor of the Exhibition Concert Hall
(this up-to-date city has no dance-hall of respectable size
except a barn of a place that smells like a fowlhouse) and
great was the curiosity it raised. No less than 600 folk
paid two threepenny tram fares and a shilling entrance
just to look on. The committee stood round anxiously
first mostly on one leg, and then mostly on the other’
to receive the Chelmsfords, Lord arid Dame, along
with whom came Mrs. Hone and Captain’s Ver-
ney and Newton. The ladies, together with our
plump little Mayoress and her mother-in-law, were all
laden with floral offerings. The equally plump Mayor
w'as there too, but no one so much as hurled an epithet
at him. When the vice-regal set was formed the on-
lookers nearly fell over the gallery with shock, for the
Mayor and Mayoress were left out of it! Everyone was
asking each other what they had done to be thus
slighted, but the fact is that they were once forced into
a vice-regal Lancers, and as on that occasion they nar-
rowly escaped with their lives, they are taking no further
chances. The dangerous honor went instead to bis
Wash up and wife of South Brisbane, who came through
intact but breathless.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI


mm.
. X' v: V-;,
■
. “’ ■■'L
'■ * -»-
ft :
&
m
mm
■
'
;
'• S<,/> > V v
.
.
;■* . < * .
i ;;ss
'mmi
ms
: • '. ; * -
a
in
> k • y
i i #
m, :
V v ' ; < ;
*v i mi*
WSM
’mm
:
.
m
m
mm
• • *" * •
, * «.:* ~
■
H
■lll
%"** v ,v.
feilks!
msmmm
* 1 p
; M
*
Is ■
a*
itpaiii
' K;i
mm
* :
. :*
mm
-
■
K * '*v
■i ! y. ,
P ■
:
mm
. II,; 1;
mm
<?. •■ *
mmm
- ,:
..v' 4 '"- t'V? *
m
, mm
■ifl
„ , ,** I * - '
.
' IS
m
P&V2? ■ /'V;.
mm
i*s-i
.
« ■* :■
M
: ;
'
. • •• ■
.
I
. ’; }>®
■ ' * *•;
, ,> , •- 7 ..
'ls-i
■
'Si ■ ' ■■ '
I
1
■t
■m.
■ ;•••'
5 *•-:
,
■■ . .
- .
M
»
MOST EXCELLENT


The
Right
Corset
at
rasa?
pbrafed
CjSwcj
BDl(oßs^
Makes all
the differ-
ence. The
stout
w Oman
sighs as
she beholds
the lissom
long-waisted
woman, vet
the “ P.D."
Corset
will add
length t o
her own
w a i s t—at
the same
time make
it more
s 1 e n d er—
giving her
the long
sloping hip.
line. The
"P.D." will
produce all the
desired lines of trimness—slender waistedness
—the long hip and rounded bust. Thus the
over-stout woman (and the over-thin woman
too) will find satisfaction and pleasure in
every pair of “ P.D.” CORSETS.
INSIST
ON A
“P.D.” CORSET
All Drapers and Storekeepers.
The nugget booklet,®
of dainty reprints from the World’s Literature.
1 rinted in two colors throughout, and bound inS
art paper covers, 9d. each ; or in Australian green ooze
leather, 2s. 6d., postage Id.
NAKED TRUTHS AND VEILED ALLUSIONS.-Touehing
the passions, tastes, humors, and weaknesses of men and
women. On Australian-made paper.
NEW THOUCHTS AND OLD NOTIONS.-A pocket-book
of cheerful wisdom.
T, C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
JftC.
DUNLOP
RUBBER If EELS
are made of the best Rubber.
consequently wear better and
give more elasticity than the
cheaper grades of Rubber (?)
heels often offered to the public
as a substitute for “ DUNLOPS.”
Our Heels are acknowledged
to be unapproachable for their
quality—a fact as proved by our
sales—6o,ooo a week.
Accept Only “DUNLOP” Brand.
Obtainable Various Styles : Shaped,
Round,Wurtemb*rg, all leading Stores
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
MelUnree, Sydney, Adelaide, f ertli, Brisbane,
Dunlop
Football
Biaddere
are
the
Beat.
JKC.
DUNLOP
SPORTING
GOODS
Our Football Bladders
are now used by nearly all the
leading olubs of Australasia,
owing to their freshness ana
high quality of rubber. They are
free from perish and beautifully
made. Btocked In all slses by
leading Sports Depots. Spsoiry
“DUNLOP" Brand when ordering.
Our Golf, Until, and Oat Orlpo ar» unMtualjMj
for quality and Prlea. Rubbor Solooa
THE DUNLOP RUBBER 00., ,
kMcIWorM, Syfity, AftUMf, ftrlb. Irliuu.CbrmcKnt.y.^
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Mat 4, 1908.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Carrie Moore rushed through Melbourne like a
jolly little meteor on Wednesday, and blew kisses
round the city in the three hours' interval between
Expresses. A gleam from her eyes was about all
that was visible of the wanderer through the thick
cloud of worshippers.
The approaching marriage is announced of
Gordon Robert, elder son of widow Todd, of Kew,
and favorite grandson of the late Robert Laidlaw,
of Springbank, Heidelberg, to Ailsa, daughter of
Adam Smith, of Gippsland. Miss A.ilsa Smith is
just out of her teens —a small girl with a striking
personality and some brains.
The Laidlaws are sticklers for old customs,
old friends, old furniture, and other aged
props. The oak chest that the squire brought
with him from Scotland in the early ’forties still
holds a place of honor at Springbank. Adam
Smith was a shipmate of Robert Laidlaw. So the
friendship has come down to the third generation,
to be cemented in marriage.
A farewell benefit was given to Mr. Arthur
Greenaway on Wednesday night. The Melbourne
Savages brought their lubras and other belong-
ings, and made a solid block in the audience.
The Chief Justice beamed from the front rows.
Son Guy the Eat had a snug corner between the
two Atherton beauties. Most of the habitual
amateur Sassiety play-actors collected in force to
criticise the opposition amateur shows. In
an act from “School for Scandal,” a quite
freshly-blossomed amateur, Miss Gwen Burroughs,
made a hit as Lady Teazle. Her performance
was far beyond the ordinary amateur quality, and
she is a remarkably handsome girl to whom much
would have been forgiven, if there had been any-
thing to forgive, which there wasn’t.
The auburn-haired Evans sisters twirled on their
hard-worked Big Toes. The Zingari orchestra
tinkled some, and there was some warbling. Alf
Vincent, who was to have lightning-sketched, was
a poor sick man, home in bed. An act from “ The
Merchant of Venice” brought amateur John
Reid into prominence. His Antonio was an
artistic success, which belied the John Bullish
stolidity of his everyday name.
The Tait Brothers have added motors to their
everyday rush. Seven Taits and seven motors
make the life of Gollins-street amblers an unhappy
whirl.
The Taits gave Big Clara a diamond souvenir
of her Australian tour. It was a brooch, about
by 4in., patterned into “Cooee; ” Clara was
delighted especially by its size. She had
scarcely a single trinket smaller than a serviette-
ring or a cruet. The Butt consort got a set of black
opal waistcoat buttons from an anonymous lady
(who probably had been reducing the quality of the
kids’ school-boots to help pay for them). The pair
took away almost as many valuables from this
State as the ducal Yorks did, and left just as little.
Since the personal feeling these visitors arouse is
so slight, it must be an - epidemic of snobbishness
which loads the touring voices, and dukes, and
things with expensive luxuries.
In the “Hook” Co. local youths have found a
charming object for their enthusiasm in Miss
Gwen Boyce; she’s distinguished by not wearing
even powder, and is the beauty of the imported
company.
That admirable and un-actor-like mummer,
Arthur Greenaway, stays round the land of his
birth for a while longer. He joins his old friend,
H. R. Roberts, in the “Prince Chap,” to play
the same parts they played in the London pro-
duction of it. Incidentally there’s a whole mob
of glad men and women here looking forward
anxiously to the advent of Maggie Moore.
J.C.W.’s imported conductor, Mr. Carr, is to
blossom forth this winter as an orchestral com-
poser. If time and the exigencies of his orchestral
arrangements permit, the gifted Beard will con-
duct a Carr Symphony at one of his concerts. It’s
a good precedent. Until now such opportunities
have been limited to a coterie. Henceforth, with
the aid of enterprising Eredk. 8., we have a bare
chance of discovering a masterpiece.
A new scandal has slipped from the lips of
Rumor, like a toad from the mouth of the demon-
stricken little girl in Grimm’s story. A dainty
little lady with a quick temper is the victim.
Because she got into a fearful rage over a minor
folly of her bell-toppered half, and went to stay
with a relative for a couple of days, the malignant-
Dame says there’s going to be a divorce, and a
tragedy, and what not. Meanwhile, the lady has
cried on hubby’s shoulder, and forgiven him, and
said—as we always do in forgiving our dears—that
it was mostly her fault, and the two are again
untroubled by anything worse than the hussy
Gossip’s interjections and her disconcerting
questions. Real scandals have made us most
hungry cannibals. When human reputations are
not offered us to devour, we try to drive the
innocent into the killing pen.
The Ice Rink opened on Saturday for its
winter season, and things point to a fresh boom in
the cold swirl. Last season suffered a slight slump
to pay for the overdone fad of the first winter,
but Sassiety is getting its second wind in skating
matters,' and all the quite Upper Fluff cut up the
ice to the opening waltzes. The field was rather
thin and watery in its chilly middle, but that only
gave a realistic touch with its "Danger” and
"Thin Ice” signals.
President Henry Wrixon and his wife filled
three or four rows of the Princess’s circle on
Wednesday evening with a Parliamentary party.
Bent —bald-headed and curved —was put in the
very centre of the very front row—just to show
Peter Pan what he had missed by refusing to
grow up and become a Premier.
A pal writes from London of Australians in the
Fog:—
Amy Castles is blooming, and roly-poly fat. She re-
turned to-day from Holland, where she sang for a couple*
of nights at The Hague. The Queen’s mother went speci-
ally to hear her. Amy is also singing at Queen’s Hall on
Saturday, and on Sunday at the Albert Hall. Mischa
Elman, the wonderful boy violinist, is performing with
her. She goes in a few days to sing in Dublin, after
which to Ostend, and to Schweningen later.' She was to
have appeared in opera at Monte Carlo. I saw her con-
tract —a very fine salary and everything most favorable.
But at the last moment her managers in London and
Berlin strongly advised her not to go. She was bitterly
disappointed, but had to abide by their decision. She
has decided to return to Australia in January or February
of next year.
Dolly Castles is at present on tour with George
Edwardes’ principal company. She goes to Dublin next.
Pretty little Eileen Castles is the next, to be launched.
Mr. D’Oyley Carte heard her sing last week, and promises
great things for her future.
Rose Musgrove is looking well. She has received an
offer to appear in London, and is considering it.
Mrs. War-boat-Doctor-Lavertine (Ethel Gunn, of Mel-
bourne) is in London with her husband and baby, on their
way to Ireland. His boat is stationed at Plymouth, and
Ethel has a flat near by.
Baritone Haigh Jackson is with George Edwardes on
tour—he is to appear in London shortly. Mrs. Haigh,
the magnificent, teaches singing here.
Ada Crossley is simply booming. She looks forward
very much to August and her Australian home trip.
Shirley Nicholson, the Adelaide beauty girl, now Mrs.
King, has a flat with her sister. The husband has
dropped out of sight since she took to stage work.
Willie Murdoch, the Bendigo boy, who won the Clarke
Scholarship for Piano in Victoria, is working hard. He
has just won the medal at the Royal College from all
comers, though he has only been there two years.
From “Tryphena,” in London: —
The marvel of John Bull’s “ upper succles ” at present
is the activity of the temperance microbe. So briskly
does it circulate that two French firms of champagne
manufacturers have cried out in distress. The Liberal
party is mostly credited with the cold water creed. But I
sat at dinner in the House of Commons crammed caf6 one
night, and observed that only at one Unionist table was
any golden wine a-bubbling, and then only in the case of
three big, busy, hot-throated members, while two other
males sipped “ Polly,” and the four feminine flutterers
sparkled on mineral draughts of assorted German labels.
At adjoining tables the universal beverage was water—
plain or fancy. At the Ritz, the day previously, I had
also noticed the activity of the blue ribbon microbe. Yes,
even at the brilliantly frivolous Ritz, parties sipped
and sparkled on iced draughts of that which eometh up
out of the earth. In the middle-classes of all-rural
England, the microbe has been long active, and the
calm-eyed, clear-complexioned, steady-nerved woman-
kind one meets at private feast or public banquet in
county centres, strikes one as being the admirable
result of the cold-water policy of life.
Of course, further down the social scale, the übiquitous
bedraggled female is the eyesore and disgrace and
horror of every village and town of Merrie (?) England.
She haunts the street-corners, and tumbles in and out of
bar entrances all day long. Likewise, there’s another
type of female thumbing the wine-lists in some of the big
popular cafes, and looking long upon the bubbly-water
and the glad red vintages. This type is frilly; her
clothes are Paquin-labelled; her complexion, her hair,
her teeth, her smiles, all bear the tone of the most ex-
pensive Art Upholsterers and Personal Decorators of
Regent-street. So she, giddily at the top of the Siren
class of this Old Smoke, and the vagrant or waster at the
other end, keep (on the feminine side) the wine trade
going. But aristocratic Clarissa Mayfair has taken to
“Polly,” and placid Elizabeth Bull, of Lancashire, has
quaffed scarcely anything but plain water since she
rocked in her cot. Also, no Englishwoman of any import-
ance takes sugar these days in her tea.
The next thing to call for virtuous reform is the passion
of clothes that rages in the heart of the feminine Lon-
doner. Shopland here is vast—Shopland is alluring—
Shopland is viciously fascinating to a class which does
not know what it is to desire and not to have. All day
long the colossal establishments of frocks and frills
in Bond and Regent and Oxford streets are
crammed with bewitched women, who are either
buying, or gnashing their teeth that they cannot buy. I
have seen the wild look of clothes-lust in the eye of
the she-purchaser, and I have watched a whole Purgatory
play in the eyes of a female who could not purchase.
Day after day the tragedy of this clothes-passion goes on.
Those who can pay are rushing from department to de-
partment, with an intoxicating gleam of triumph in the
eye, with a fierce, mad joy burning their fair faces.
Those who can’t pay and who can’t get the credit are
prowling round, eyeing the fascinating apparel with the
glare of hungry coyotes. Outside at the windows the
gorgeous Jezebels look laughingly at the show of new
alluring fripperies, and then scout for masculine advice
or aid in the matter. Others again, getting desperate in
their greed, march in with the air of duchesses and pur-
loin what they can, or try to exchange the bogus cheque
for the petticoats and the jabots and the laces and the
ruffles. Half of London’s Society spends all its wits seek-
ing to secure swagger apparel. It gets its saucv silk
stockings and its sable muff by fair means or foul. It
must get them.
The result is that a poor, innocent sight-seer, on look-
ing quietly into a clothes window in Regent-street, finds
herself wolfishly regarded by a dressy Hoggenheimer, or
slyly by the Honorable Augustus Hatigabout, and has’ to
move on sharply, if she does not desire any tender atten-
tions—for every philanderer in the Big Smoke con-
cludes that the way to Woman’s soul is via a shop
and that every female who stands to gaze upon a dream
of a hat is under a spell till she secures the hat. What-
ever they think, they render it impossible for any guile-
less member of the petticoat sex to stand examining
fashions in a shop front.
Another letter from London :
Winnie Yuill, of Sydney, now the Countess of Port-
arlington, is immensely pleased with her baby boy. She
was presented in Ireland recently. Motherhood is im-
mensely fashionable in the Big Smoke just now, and if
you have no baby you must borrow one. Abduction of
babies is also fashionable, no doubt on account of the
extreme prevalence of divorce. Smart Set fathers or
mothers are always bolting with the babes and spending
much money on the affair.
At Princes’ you see almost everybody of interest.
Noticed them the other day. Admiral Sir Percy Scott—
a round little man with rather a rough sailor manner.
He skates well, and affects the youngest and prettiest
girls as partners. His brother is almost as bio - a
man on the music halls as Admiral Percy is* at
sea. He is one of the cleverest of women personators.
Also noted a very tall, square-shouldered man in a
Guards tie, who attracted by his look of radiant youth
He is the son of the cricketer peer and his Australian wife.
Lord and Lady Darnley. The übiquitous Australian is
thick, of course. Mrs. Samuel, wife of baronet “ Ted,”
of Sydney, and daughter-in-law of the late Saul Samuel,
is one of the most assiduous devotees. Her girl Vera is
going to be a beauty when she comes out of schoolgirl
frocks. The Misses McQuade seldom miss a practice, and
at one time or another most of the Australians visiting
or living in London are to be seen there.
The marriage of Miss Vi Levy and Mr. Louis
Henry Stephens was a quiet evening ceremony in
the Australian Church, with an informal party at
the Winter Gardens afterwards. The bride,
who is very young, wore a pleasingly simple girly
frock, in place of the frill-frill of satin and court-
train, and a veil of wonderful embroidery.
After she had dispensed the wedding cake, she
got into toggery evidently tailored out of prunes.
The bride’s mother swathed herself in layer
after layer of chiffon, until it reached sufficient
density for necessary decorum ; the top layer was
a cobweb imitation of a Paisley shawl and some
mitred-point lace. Mr. Bradford supported the
nerves of the bridegroom; and a blue-clad cousin,
hidden behind a mountain of violets, played maid
to the bride. The guests included an intense
group of schoolgirl chums—notably pretty Daisy
Price, with silver water-lilies in her hair, and
Nellie Mackenzie, a poster-picturesque girl in a
pink dress like a Shirley poppy, clasped with a
silver girdle. The newly-weds wandered off to
Medlow and the damp, cold caves of Jenolan.
Birdlings have given all sorts of reasons for
flying from the family nest; but a young woman
supplied what looks like a brand-new one in a
Melbourne court the other day. Her father was a
dentist, she said, and happening into his surgery
she found him boiling down a man’s head, “ fresh
from the undertaker’s.” She didn’t say whether
he was doing it in the family kettle ; but she left,
anyway.
The christening of the Willie A’Becketts’ baby
was a ceremony of much moment. It took place
in St. Andrew’s, Brighton (papa and mamma
A’Beckett had both been christened at that same
font and under that same fane, and were married
at the adjacent altar; so the church is in the
family, so to speak). Baby Joyce submitted to
the water drops with equanimity—not to say
pride, since she was wearing the embroidered
robe that took the prize at the Women’s Exhibi-
tion, and was so lovely that every other baby up
for baptism that day turned pale-green with envy
and said things about her. The A’Becketts have
given up the Toorak-road house for a few months,
and are staying at “ The George,” St. Kilda, so
that Baby may have sea air for lunch, and may
catch a whale in the afternoons.
Kubelik, after holding up the U.S.A. at the
point of the bow for 112 concerts, arrives in Syd-
ney via Vancouver on May 18. He does a season
in the Harbor city, then descends on Melbourne
for concerts on May 29, June 1, and June 10. The
rampage round Australasia will be short, as he
must be in London for a tour beginning October
6. Kubelik is an intensely engaged man. His
home, Bychory Castle, near Kolin, is a fairy-tale
palace, and the poor man never gets home for
more than two months in the year. Mrs.
Kubelik comes with her husband. She used to be
the Countess Cznaky-Cnell, but she got so tired
of spelling her name that she got married for a
rest. Someone who has met the Countess
describes her as a magnificent, auburn-haired
beauty—quite a Hungarian Rhapsody, in fact.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
There was a whirl of excitement as the Melbourne
express drew out with the Butt-Rumford party. Just
before it was due to start, fiddler Barr 6 wandered on to
the platform, and in reply to the frenzied official who
pursued him, said his ticket was in the train. The official
said he had no right on the platform without a ticket,
and tried to eject him. Various members of the co.
leaned out of the train and mixed their voices with the
fray, and the inoffensive-looking fiddler was urged to
deeds of blood and daring. Finally he was hauled
on board what time secretary Ibbs delivered an
address to the limb of the railway, to which the limb
replied by taking Ibbs’ name and habitation, and threaten-
ing an action for bigamy on the high seas, or something
exciting. •
That enterprising Adelaide scribe, “ Sydney Partridge”
(Mrs. Hal Stone), who, with her husband and small son,
has once more returned to this abode of torpid trams, has
just brought out a book of short stories, written, printed,
and published by herself. The volume is calculated to
put the efforts of any mere man-printer in the dark, deep
shade. It is done in tw T o colors, on beauteous thick paper,
with wide margin?, and yet costs no more than a shilling.
Call for “Life’s Wallaby” when you want it, and note
that it is dedicated “ To those Fellow Travellers on Life’s
Wallaby who write in Australia, of Australia, for
Australia.”
The Lyric Club opened its season on April 27 with a
welcome to Edward Branscombe and his musical trouba-
dours. Only members were admitted ; but as the crowd
was less vast than usual, the restriction was unnecessary.
Miss Alston had converted the cosy drawing-room into
a gorgeous rose-bower, and here the guests drank coffee
and ate cakes when the other part of the fray was over.
Said other part of the fray consisted of some’ strenuous
instrumental items by members, the hilarity of a flash-
light photo, and finally some mirth and melody provided
by the visitors. They own a quartette of fine voices,
which they didn’t seem to mind using, even though their
ticket-taker wasn’t at the door. President and Mrs.
Basse received the visitors and did the entertaining.
The ex-Mayer Cohens, famed in South Oss for their
gorgeous sprees and lavish hospitality, have gone to
dwell in Melbourne for a year at least. They gave up
their jolly house 12 months or so ago when the daughters
married, and they won’t start housekeeping again—for a
time. In Melbourne they will live at the Grand.
Neil Hepper, known in Adelaide as a skilful amateur
mummer, who has performed for most charities under the
local sun, goes to Sydney shortly, some say to pursue the
mumming art professionally. Dramatic clubs and musi-
cal folk are joining forces to give him a complimentary
benefit-spree, and the Walkerville Hall, in consequence,
threatens to be packed to the doors before this reaches
the indignity of print.
Two recent weddings of interest hereabouts—first, that
of Dr. John Cleland and a clever Paton damsel; and then
that of Solicitor Emmett, of Sydney, and Miss Annie
Rowe, whose father manages the National Bank at Hind-
marsh.
The pumpkin mentioned in Scripture was a stationary
vegetable compared with the average fortune which
somebody on the other side leaves to an Australian.
Adelaide the other day smacked its lips over the report
that “ a well-known citizen of somewhat humble means ”
had dropped in for “ something like a million and a half.”
Gradually, however, the pile dwindled until one of the
police officers who had helped to search the heir out said
that the real sum mentioned was 1100 dollars ; and when
the man himself was tracked down, he was still following
his “humble occupation,” and reckoned that it would be
time to knock off when he actually got something—he
hadn’t got a cent so far.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
A garish sidelight was shed on the way
the bull-dog lad (’Ome bred) regards his Australian-
born kennel companion, when James Sharp,
seaman of H.M.S. Pyramus, appeared at the
Central Police Court (4/5/’08) to cope with a charge
of “behaving riotously in Market-street” the
previous Saturday night. The train of events
Payten, S.M., elected to believe (as a result of
which he discharged the accused) was that (1)
Sharp “had been followed by certain bluejackets
who kept calling out ‘ You wallaby ” That
(2) Sharp remonstrated ; whereupon one of his
insulters made at him with a beer-bottle, while
another hit him in the face. And that
(3) the smitten seafarer had retaliated in
kind which constituted the “behavior” com-
plained of Sharp mentioned incidentally *W
. he was a Sydney native, and that the Brit™
in the navy had a grudge against the colon"als»
It dovetails neatly with the story told at ,
martial in India, last month, of ai i , ? 1 '
cavalry officer named Dangar, who was denounced
by a member of his own mess as “a Coloffi i» d
and both happenings go to indicate that h]
alleged silken boncls of loving kinship ” Kpt« de
the Ma-land and her dominions over sS "
getting a bit frayed these days. Also thev c, are
gest that the uniformed Briton, if not a slav« Uf >’
nevertheless something of a hog at times. ’ 18
The Man at the Keyhole ” writes •
The Wade Cabinet of N.S.W. is an orderlv end „
behaved body. It assembles to time, and proceeds wi h'
business methodically and precisely. Its rnanr,r,! th
gest Sunday-school, and its general bearing i s tw LIT
head clerks of an establishment consulting'about thJ the
season’s imports. New South Wales has It , ext
enjoyed such stodgy Cabinets. Those of Dihh, av !
Robertson were often joyous merry-makings and d
member occasionally varied the proceedings with » „ a
A Parkes Cabinet meeting that lasted two hours
the retailing of jocose stories for an hour and a halt]
then a succinct statement bv the “old man”
political course to be taken-which course was promnti
and unanimously agreed to. Reid and Carruthers S
closer to business, but allowed their colleagues nlem,,
rope for by-play. It is no hardship for the Wade 0f
to be held tightly to the agenda paper. Its membersT 1
built that way They have the clerklv mind and th
gravity of gravediggers. There is not one brilliant
among them or a man with higher than mediocre power,
—which, probably, explains a great deal. P wers


Amusements.
GILHOOLEY’S AUSTRALIA
ORCHESTRA plays for every leading
Society function in Sydney, and is always up-to-date ;
latest music. W. R. CILHOOLEY, Tel. 3931,
84 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings at 8.
LAST THREE NIGHTS and FAREWELL
PERFORMANCES of
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In the Charming Comic Opera,
THE LADY DANDIES.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings at 7.45.
Wednesday and Saturday Afternoons at 1.45.
THE GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Prices as usual.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: MR. FRAME MGSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE, JOHN Wn. M.HYNELL and
GUNN’S COM PAN Y
LAST NIGHTS of those pre-eminently 'v.n’ilar favorites,
HARCOURT BEATTY, MADGE MclNi'oSH, and
MEYNELL & GUNN’S LEADING DRAMATIC CO.
in the Exciting, Historical Costume Drama,
A BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK,
SATURDAY, MAY 9, CAMILLE.
Prices 4/-, 2/6, and 1/- Plan at Elvy’s.
Amusements.
MATINEES , t 2SO
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is, 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
W IRTH BROS. WIRTH BROS.
greatest show on earth.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES :
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY AFTERNOON at 3.
PI non F^rJi : l n'^ er in Australia of a R eal Live
tiooo GIRAFFE. £lOOO GIRAFF’E.
Direct from Hamburg, Germany, per S.S. Gosler
1 urchased by Mr. Phil VVirtli on his recent Tour of the
£lOOO ONE THOUSAND PuUNDS £i o oo
Australia "The 8 1,1 Germany, besides its fare to
Australia. Then consider the risk of bringing this ev.
mfles 6 y Then Cate ’ fraßi ' e creatui ' e so many thousand
F't Then you can imag-ine the anxiety of the Wirth
Bros., and the value of the animal
FOR IT IS NOT INSURED.
No Company will Insure it, as the possibility of keeping
iL « f1 S 80 s . n,alb S 0 SEE IT AT ONCE 7 Be one of
vears r th a t t°vn e,t ’ S ° y ° U ma - v ü be able t 0 boast in after
J ears that you were among the first to see the FIRST
Ahso„^\?\ EVER LANI,ED IN AUSTRALIA.
« fc y - h A Lal Y? sfc and Best Circus and Menagerie
Wide S Wid In vv U m ra ar ' d , Uanks Second to None in the
Wide, Wide World. Owned solely by Australians, whose
Home is Australia.
PRICEIS; 4/- (Plan at Palings), 3/-, 2/-, and 1/-.
Children under 10 Half-price except to Gallery.
PAL A CE THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction .. .. HENRY HAYWARD
„ JAmiXT EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATTNEBS WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 230
MASKELYNE AND DEVANT’S
MYSTERIES ( Late maskelyne
Which for 34 years has been the leading entertainment
. , . . in London.
Admission 45., 35., 25., and Is. Children Half-price.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
OWN
HALL,
SYDNEY.
, NIGHTLY at 8.
MATlNEES—Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES “ The A ße ,? fcof
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million-6d. to 1/6. Plan at Nicholson’s.
KUBELIK!!!
J£UBELIK, accompanied by his wife and party, left
Vancouver for Sydney by the new Canadian.
Australian liner Marama on Saturday last, and is expected
to arrive on May 18. The FIRST of his THREE
CONCERTS ONLY IN SYDNEL will be given in the
TOWN HALL on TUESDAY, MAY 10.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY-
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
KAUF’MANN TROUPE, World’s Greatest Bicyclists.
Mr. CHARLES MILDARE, England’s Greatest Whistler.
J. P. LING, London’s Celebrated Mimetic Monologuist
and Versatile Entertainer.
SYLVO, World’s Greatest Comedy Juggler.
MISS MARGARET PARKER and ENGLISH CO. in the
Original Stirring Interlude, LUCKY JIM.
GLADYS CONWAY, Song and Dance Artiste.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Q PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
v Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
FRANK HARWOOD, Descriptive Vocalist.
MURIEL ANDREWS, Child Violinist.
TWO AHLBERGS, Comedy Acrobats.
JOHN HIGGINS, Champion Jumper.
IKE and WILL SCOTT, Comedians.
ARTOIS BROTHERS, Comedy Horizontal Bar Act.
DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. XS" PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
CONTINUED ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE & CO.
.... IN ....
PETER PAN,
By J. M. BARRIE.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE THEATRICAL EVENT.
MEYNELL and GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
IN
MISS HOOK OE HOLLAND,
By PAUL RUBENS.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
pIJ O U THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■“* Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson
THURSDAY, MAY 7, FRIDAY, MAY 8
Last Two Performances of THE SOUTHERN CROSS. ’
SATURDAY, MAY 9,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NEW AUSTRALIAN DRA-
MATIC COMBINATION in Henry Wood’s Emotional Play
EAST LYNNE.
Popular Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Early Doors 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Allah’s.
LJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
THURSDAY, MAY 7, FRIDAY, MAY 8,
Last Two Nights of JOHN GLAYDE’S HONOR.
SATURDAY, MAY 9,
CONAN DOYLE’S DETECTIVE ROMANCE,
SHERLOCK HOLMES
FOR FIVE NIGHTS ONLY.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
\A/ 1 RTH’S OLYMPIA
” EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE h o fl Uj
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
a Change of Programme Each Week.
An ’ V t,iL^,'-r!',.o' orth ' T of note to be see n at WEST’S
VVeSt ’ 8 Grand Mllitar -V Band.
POPLijAR I RICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
E A L
1 C E
SKATING
THE MELBOURNE
GLACIARIUM
MORNINGS and AFTERNOONS, 2s. CHILDREN, Is.
Popular Prices Every Evening, Is.
SKATES fid. EXTRA.
Business Announcements.
Manufacturers of high=class flame
ARC LAMPS, CABLE and ELECTRIC
LIGHT ACCESSORIES are prepared to place
the SOLE SALE in the hands of RESPONSIBLE
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING FIRMS. State full
particulars, also area controlled, to BOX 30308
T. B. BROWNE’S Advertising Offices,
163 Queen Victoria Street, London, Eng.
- •
A zestful relis
sciouo tomatoes—
• picked fruits fresh from the garden fairly
Bursting with ruhy ripeness—only these
ire good enough for DyVson to use m the
paking of his Tomato Sauce. All' the
> delicacy and daintiness ofYa Home Made
£ Preserve—and yet more choicely flavoured,
jjv. bwing to a score of years'Experience in.;
JSfk condiment making.
s*r’;
i nere are ncA preservatives
of any kind whatever in
DYASQNS
tomato Sauce.
Tomato Chutney.
Tomato Caijsup.
Sold by Grocer* everywhere.
PURUcSi
mm
■
J *
•'rr/'T
A CHEAP AND CONVENIENT
COOKER & WARMER
LESS THAN A QUARTER THE PRICE
OF ANY OTHER STOVE.
w
Only 2/9
AND WE PAY
CARRIAGE.
Cheaper
to Use.
MUCH MORE
CONVENIENT
No
Kerosene.
NO TROUBLE
No
Danger.
NO ROARING
NOISE
NO PUNIPINO
BOILING WATER IN THREE MINUTES
Speedily Warms a Chilly Bedroom.
'pHE Handy Stove is the simplest, cheapest and most con-
venientof ail cookers and warmers. Just the thing for
preparing an early breakfast or a lute supper. There is none
of th® trouble and delay ofJiu.hting a fire or of pumping up
and warming an ordinary vapor stove, and it does not make
any oi jeotionable roaring noise. When the container is sup-
plied with methylated spirit, yon have merely to put a match
to the and it will at on<e produce a greater degree of
heat than any other stove of Us size. Less than two pence
worth of spirit will cook a breakfast for a family. Many
troublesome and dangerous colds are caused by ihe chill of
undressing for bed in an unwarmed room. The Handy Stove
placed on the floor, either with or without a vessel of water
upon it, as preferred, will in a few minutes raise the tempera-
ture 12 or 15 degrees, „nd make the room warm and comfort-
able, and the cosy feeling will speedily induce sound and
refnshing sleen, that is impossible in a chilly apartment.
The Handy Stove may be instantly extinguished by placing
over the burner the cover shown in the illustration The
price is only 2s. 9d.. and we pay carriage to any address.' Send
Postal Note of any state to
The Union Mfg. & Agency Co.,
293 Eaziibcth Street, Melbourne.
The Federal Capital Site.
Mr. Herbert E. Easton writes
Column one, page seven, of The Bulletin a6/4/’08') was
to me of most absorbing interest. '
“Six Men Who Met In A Small Room And Made A
Secret Agreement,” clearly sets forth the fact that but a
very small portion of this island continent was for a
moment, considered as being worthy the honor of con-
taining the Federal capital. And immediately beneath,
this article was “Indaba’s” very pertinent letter, and
his query:
“ Why, I ask in all seriousness, not select a site for the
Federal capital in the Northern Territory ? I have never
been able to discover wherein Australia, as a whole, would
benefit by yet another capital within the coastal belt
upon a (comparatively speaking) well settled section of
this continent. ”
These two pars, furnish food for much thought, and
suggest that very superficial and passing Consideration
has been given to the most important problem before-
Australia at the present moment.
There can be no doubt that the necessary millions will
be forthcoming when required to build our new capital
city, and surely it behoves every thinking individual in
the community to pause and consider how the money can
best be invested for the greatest benefit to ourselves and
the generations to follow us.
There is now a good opportunity of creating an en-
tirely new centre (such an opportunity as will almost
certainly never arise again), and it should not be passed
over lightly. It is not flattering to us, in our rdle of suc-
cessful colonisers, to reflect that during something over a
century of occupation we have only succeeded in partially
populating a narrow strip along the east and south coasts
of the country. Therefore, in my opinion, any favorable
soot, outside that sphere, for our Federal capital should
have due consideration.
The urgency of peopling the back country, and particu-
larly the Far North, is so generally admitted that
need be said upon that point. The greatest difficulties
to be overcome, before even getting the Northern Terri-
tory considered, are not likely to be those presented by
Nature, but rather those certain to be created by institu-
tions and individuals who regard everything from a per-
sonal standpoint—the standpoint of immediate gain *
The Federal capital in the Northern Territory ’is an
original conception—idealistic and, perhaps, extravagant -
nevertheless it is not too much to say that the scheme
■would have certainly attracted the attention of the great
Rhodes, for that astute statesman, having once decided
that a white population was urgently needed in the
North, would have found a means of getting it there
Rhodes “thought in continents,” while we, including-
our politicians, have not yet got beyond “thinking in
States.” Some day, perhaps, we shall find time to forget
about the States and consider our country as a whole
Further information about the Northern Territory
would be interesting reading, and indeed a general dis-
cussion upon the many phases of our future Federal
capital would prove highly educational matter.
Our great (in size) daily papers are busily engaged in
fostering inter-State jealousy and ill-will, and therefore I
turn to your paper with the feeling that you will
continue your efforts in the direction of creating some-
thing approaching a national feeling throughout the
Commonwealth.
»
Sydney Telegraph resurrected last week a par-
tially disused insult, and threw it violently at the
face of N.S.W. It was the old gibe about
the high duties which the Government has merci-
lessly levied against primary industries for the sake of a
few manufactures around Melbourne.
This petty, ignorant scoff used to turn up almost
daily in the ’Graph, and people who read it came,
at last, to the conclusion that N.S.W. had no
manufacturing industries at all. Yet that State
has nearly 80,000 people employed in its factories.
Its manufacturing industries are of nearly twice
the value of its agriculture; they are nearly four
times the value of its Cow business; they are
worth £2,000,000 a year more than its agricul-
ture and dairying put together; they are worth
more than its mines, forests, and fisheries com-
bined. And withal, the Telegraph, in its hatred
of Australian manufactures, won’t even mention
that N.S.W. has any factories. All the soured
importing rag knows of is “a few manufactures
around Melbourne.”
♦
Sydney Telegraph can be sublime in its impu-
dence. After it and the other dailies had bespat-
tered the N.S.W. Arbitration Court till nobody
had much respect for it, the Newcastle strike hap-
pened, and there was a sudden yell for arbitration,
but, to save its face, Sydney Telegraph said that
of course the xVrhitration Court wouldn’t do—it
must be a special Court. Then Premier Wade
appointed the special Court which the Telegraph
wanted ; and that Court broke down because it de-
parted from the principles of the Arbitration Act
(tor instance, either side could withdraw from it at
any moment). Yet now, though it is its own
tribunal that has broken down, the Telegraph
says
n J! l ! ) Arbit , rati ? n Act therefore goes out of operation not
my discredited, but with this final proof of its unwork-
ableness trailing after it—
and the Telegraph has, moreover, the cast-iron
nerve to refer to the special tribunal as if it were
e Labor party’s hopeless contrivance instead of
sown. What the break-down of the special
tribunal proves is, in fact, not that the Arbitra-
lonActwas a failure, but thattheTELEGßAPH-
cura- wade s ignorant and foolish attempt to put
h lv g . el3e , in ; its P lace turned out the dismal
cure that it looked certain to be from the outset.
b, Y p\w g w e o£ God and Wade’s Gambling Act,
. ’''• citizen who bets outside a racecourse
whilf k 6 a , dun & eon cell yawning in his track ;
SHf hew ho openly abets a lottery has his head
mi P on cy a vindictive and outraged Law.
nranlT P ° n lk interesting to note some recent
Proceedings up Tweed River way. The N.S.W
sX erni ?^ advertised one allotment of land for
aie and ~ 5 persons appeared as buyers. Under
Ar-f t not - Gaining Act, but some other old
of tui W j Sln hP er ative to run a lottery to get rid
f OW -m estl 775 were not all genuine
tickets ° Tk nd ' • d ley w . ere . bu yers of lottery
N u -ur There is an artificial land famine in
se jl' ■’ a nd whoever won the ballot could
able iwu® rrf, ame afternoon at consider-
knew t- Land Board, of course,
disQuabf,' 8 W ? 1 enough, but it was able to
was hel/ on Jy 28 gamblers. So the sweep
Drize iio and tals was l be prospectus: “ First
starters 98 a °p' S - of ] and , ; barters, 747; non-
chairman * ? r . lce °f ticket, £9. Decision of
the Errmi not to ® n al. All the law courts in
to the <w re °P en t 0 subscribers.” The crowd went
drew tb u eep ° r . cons ultation, and a lucky punter
thine is m Wl , n !j ln g marble. While this sort of
a Bubiee/?,f • ? Laming Act will continue to be
reject of rmrth in N.S.W.
If th WRITES rom i'be scene of trouble :
on Easter a £i 0f the railwa y disaster at Sun*!, ae (Vic.)
theslin-hieat s a w ar , e Probed to the bottom, -icre is not
%abramanr.nfi Übt tbat ' t W 'H be found that the .yelling
bog in whnso . K an - of a few years ago is the deafening
Ostein has y, rou b r b should rest the blame. The railway
Reformers P 1 , a state of decay ever since the
timKLs at, tLv, lovely trinity, Irvine, Bent, and
men were swo.iji. o ! Victorian affairs. First the engine
was over th ß ated .fore the strike, and after the strike
firemen £rn „_j Bweat,ln g was worse than ever. Drivers,
r ailway’servanf S ’ clerks, and all other
w °rk as Drevini, 8 ! ' a do about three times as much
i Then the rolling stock was sweated,
flowed to an °cked off, and the engines were
brown then * ean .. th emselveB. They were painted
them. The dirt would not show on
to look C fv Were Bwea bed, and the repair gangs
station staff atter two lengths instead of one.
an d the Defni-r, 8 Were . re duced, and also the signalmen,
tunaged erß Bal< * •'bat the railways were now
p periy under Bent and Tait. Then Bent
wa r y8 U wereDavW and "touted that the rail-
But in a year or two surplus ev ery year,
it, -lj two the tired-out lines (rave cvidpnop nf
carriages inn !! broke ln two ! engines broke down ; and
“cSoSapS f e T e da y a "
sinister 1 , somewh ere or other, but these
they came P undpr g «nhr e kep - t as dark as Possible, and if
great show o?hoHi P n bI,C not,ce Bknt a "d Tait made a
driver guard or olhl q M iries ’ and some poor devil of a
because g thp ra > lwa y man, got the sack simply
out And rhp p, 6 railwa X system was gradually wearing
. ? n the best IrnpHPP ar ? V , ed with the smash that cam!
howpvpr , A .™ encan ttyle at Sunshine. It is a pity
Bendigo train" r« was . n 0? a load of Deformers that the
were manS fh u’ l nstead of the unfortunate that
ere mangled through the fault of the Deformers.
sJrwl meeting of the C.S.R. Co., in
Ihe £1; mi [ nian K / t , kr guilelessly referred to
the last reach-out of the great octopus. The
aSfSS*.-* Queensland, had annoonted
hf pri™ ,r n 0 S°R’ P “? '* w “ ““ bl « *> P“y
district » ofu t 1 g' ves fo r cane in that
at its hrciD • fc^e^ bad “purchased the plant
at its breaking. up value,” and the C.S.R. has the
haDnen°tr> th ° lteelf in that P art - What will
be seen T l 6 ca ue-growers after this remains to
locsfr?;, , Ahe , o f°Pus that can outbid its small
wcrL / ’ and thussllut him up, and then buvhis
no nlt/ 9r a S °p ng ’ In; ! y be a Philanthropist with
'inoc Thc m h tlVeS ; but ’f hasn,t g ot th at appear-
_ nee. Ihe chances are that presently there will
be a cry from the Herbert that the cane-growers
S’ »«»d Pay white lahorTeS
wages, -then we may remember the C.S.R. Co’s
steadily increasing profits, which have now
leas^ £ 1 75,000a year and which express part at
•white Why the BrOWer ” can’t pay
‘‘ITAN”; The saturnalia of cadge on Hospital
balances up badly. What does the
£6OOO raised cost ? There is the £5OOO worth of
hypocritical grin from the beggars with the jing-
ling boxes; the £5OOO worth of unvarnished lies
told in self-defence by bored and cleaned-out
males; the £3OOO worth of special frills and
leathers to ensure attractiveness; the 3500
days spent in the campaign (3500 women at
one day each) besides the red gold spent
in feeding the unblushing philanthropists,
Tagging up stands, and carrying out pre-
liminary work. The only assets besides the
cash appear to be the quantity of liberty taken
with the city generally in the wild dash through
sacred precincts, the development of precocity
amongst the younger damsels, and the chances
which Leap year afforded for special
license. When chanty mites have to be
wrung from people by the methods of
Hospital baturday, the whole business is
at least humiliating. The institutions for the sick
poor should be nationalised. Why waste the energy
of 3500 able-bodied women in such a campaign”’
1 here is no suggestion that the money gathered
is not all accounted' for, but there have been oc-
casions when it has been unsatisfactorily
accounted for. Consider the case which occurred
at Brisbane a few years ago. A fete, figure-headed
by Important People, was organised, and the
public packed the building the whole
season. It spent freely, too, and the hard-up
hospitals of the city seemed to have a bright
prospect ahead. Then the bills trickled in, and
at length swamped the whole of the proceeds.
On audit, it was found that the bulk of the profit
was needed to pay for the entertainment of the
ladies of the committee, who seemed to have eaten
an ox apiece or thereabouts.
♦
The N.S.W. Liberal and Deform League has
selected, in the latter-day fashion, its candidate
for St. George, the seat vacated by Carruthers.
Every elector who cared to squander a shilling
could be enrolled a member of any branch of the
League, and every branch could nominate a can-
didate. Arncliffe and Rockdale, the two popu-
lous centres, each selected a person of local im-
portance, and the contest degenerated into a
purely parochial cockfight as to whether Arncliffe
or Rockdale could pull off the ballot. The Arn-
cliffe man got a majority of 362 on his own dung-
hill, and Rockdale gave a surplus of 342 to
its especial rooster. Finally, Sans Souci, a
Rockdale suburb, was induced to throw in
its lot with Rockdale, and the Rockdale
person scrambled home. So, all true “Liberals”
are expected to vote for the man whose merit is
ttiat he lived at Rockdale, and so could get the
pull at a bigger machine than the man who only
lived at Arncliffe.
A shipment of 3000 tons of American
hops was among the tough things Winston
Churchill had to chew at the Manchester
election. The lot was to be dumped in Eng-
land about three weeks ago—one single ship-
ment equal to one-third of what has hitherto
been the total average annual import. The
Yankee shippers made no secret about it; there
has been a steady surplus of American hops
lately, so in order to get a new market they were
going to sell at a big loss, quite satisfied that one
or two such “ dumps ” would drive hundreds more
English hop-growers out of the already sickly,
because unprotected, business, and end by giving
them control of the British market and the power
to supply it at their own price.


A Life-time Necessity
A reliable food for the baby, a source of strength to the
growing boy, a stamina giver for athletes, a stimulating
blood-making food for ansemic girls, a valuable tonic fo
shaken nerves, and a digestible and enjoyabie food for oM
age—all of these things you find in Horlick s Malted Milk.
Made in a moment —only water needed.
Sold by all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, &a.
HORLICKS"* Ited MILK
Samples: 82 Pitt Street. Sydney. _ N. S. Wales. Horliek’s Food Co. Slough. Bucks. England-
THE THIRTIETH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of Australasia Ltd.
1. The Balance Sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for
half-year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
2. The profit, after deducting expenses of management, and the other items
specified in the profit and loss account, amounted to ... "
Deduct note and income taxes in Australia and Great iSritam
Net profit
Add balance from previous half-year, £9,847 14s. 7d. . ,
Less bonus voted to officers at last half-yearly meeting of
Shareholders ... £5,040 16
Leaving available
Which it is proposed to appropriate as follows
Grant to officers’provident fund ... •••
Transfer to reserve fund account (making it £l/O,UUU)
Reduction of bank premises
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on preference shares
Dividend at the rate of 5 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares ...
Carry forward ... ••• f "
3. During the half-year a branch was opened at Cressy, and a Receiving Office ac Lismore, in
Vi ft-nr in The Branch at Allendale was converted into a Receiving Office.
4. The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held at the Head Office of the Company,
Collins-street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 6th May, at noon. , T t,
5 The Shareholders will be called on to elect Two Directors on that occasion, in lieu of John
Grice’ Esq., and Edward Trenehard, Esq., who retire by rotation. There are no other candidates.
They will also be required to appoint Two Auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors,
The National Bank of Australasia Limited, A. W. CUNNINGHAM,
Head Office, Melbourne, 23rd April, 1908. Acting Chief Manager.^
T)r.
BALANCE SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDING 31st MARCH, 1908.
(Including London Office to 29th February, 1908, and Western Australian Branches to 9th March, 1908).
Or.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-30,578 preference shares
paid in money to £lO
per share, £305,780 ;
238,488 ordi nary shares
paid up to £5 per
share, £1,192,440 ..£1,498,220
Reserve fund account
Profit and loss account
0
160,000 0
58,153 15
Notes in circulation ..
Bills in circulation
Government Deposits—
Not bearing interest,
£51,786 7s. ; bearing
interest, £445,825
12s. 7d
Other Deposits—Not
bearing interest,
£3,135,386 17s. 9d. ;
bearing interest,
£4,108,585 3s. Id. ..
Interest accrued and
rebate on current bills
Balances due to other
banks
£275,185 12
725,381 16 11
497,561 19 7
£1,716,373 15 7
7,243,972
75,714
0 10
2 7
65,037 12 8
£8,882,853 5 1
£10,599,227 0 8
Contingent liability, as
per contra .. .. £329,812 19 0
ASSETS.
By coin, bullion and cash
at bankers .. .. i
Coined gold in transitu
Government, munici-
pal and other public
stocks, debentures
and funds
Bills and remittances
in transitu
Notes and bills of other
banks ..
Balances due from
other banks
Duty stamps
-£3,014,409 18
Real estate, consisting of bank pre-
mises at cost to the bank .. .. 443,508 13
Other real estate, at valuation .. .. 63,201 16
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts .. .. .. •• 7,078,106 12
7
4
3
6
£10,599,227 0 8
Liability of the old bank, in the form of
a guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria) sold
in London, and which are being duly
proyided for by sinking funds, in
terms of the Act authorising their
issue, £91,600 ; and liabilities of cus-
tomers and others on letters of credit
and drafts, £233,212 195., as per contra,
£329,812 19s.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Expenses at bead office, 134 branches
and 25 agencies £68,069 10 8
Note and income taxes 4,921 6 8
Balance.. .. .. •• •• •• 58,153 15 7
£131,144 12 11
By Balance brought forward. .£9,847 14 7
Less bonus voted to officers
at last half-yearly meeting
of shareholders .. .. 5,040 16 0
£4,806 18 7
Gross profits, including recoveries, less
rebate on bills current, interest paid and
accrued on deposits, repairs to premises,
and rent 126,337 14 4
£131,144 12 11
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
£160,000 0 0
£160,000 0 0
By Balance last half-year .. .. ..£150,000 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss .. .. 10,000 0 0
£160,000 0 0
A. W. CUNNINGHAM, Acting Chief Manager.
NOTE. —The customary Auditors’ Report and the Directors Statement to comply with the
Companies Acts appear on the official Report.
&
INFLUENZA
Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Quinsy, &c.,
instantly Relieved and Speedily Cured by
MENTHOLINE.
Posted all over Australia
for Is. per bottle, or four
bottles for 3s. 6d., direct
from the sole manufac-
turers—
CATCH
ECKERSLEY’S
NIENTHOLINE
and you won’t catch COLD.
All Chemists and Groce*-* 1 • bottle
Invaluable
for
Chilblains
and
Frost-bite.
Free sample
bottle on re-
ceipt of 2d.
postage stamp.
ECKERSLEY & SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne
r
Your Winter Dances
Of course, you know what a jolly time you can have with a few
friends round for a good dance. Unfortunately you cannot always
secure a good pianist and sometimes the piano itself is not available.
With an Edison Phonograph you can get the best Dance Music,
played by the leading bands, just as it should be. “On with the
dance, let joy be unconfined,” will be your wish when you hear the
Edison playing.
And in between the dances the Edison will furnish the most
delightful entertainment—almost anything you please from a music-
hall comic to a Grand Opera selection.
The Edison Phonograph
wi ‘ h Gold-Moulded Records
Think what it will mean to have the house always merry during
the long winter nights ! No need for the young people to go out
seeking entertainment. The Edison provides that at home.
It reproduces so clearly that it is hard to believe the actual per-
formers are not in the room. Parents owe it to their children to
investigate the merits of the Edison Phonograph. Do not confound it
with any other kind of talking machine you may have heard.
Edison Phonographs and Records have been greatly reduced in
price and are within the reach of almost anyone. Remember
the Edison
Will furnish the Music
no matter what kind you want.
Write for lists, and the name of your nearest dealer. He will be
glad to let you hear the Edison —free of charge.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. 8., :140 Kent Street, Sydney.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Jean Sibi ” : Melbourne Age has been girding
at the hawkers who adorn the business end of Prince’s
Bridge. Good ! For if anything is an eyesore, it is the
few yards of the city’s chief approach whereon Smellop-
oulous and Macaroni have planted their barrows. Both
races have an instinctive antipathy to cleanliness and
orderliness ; and thus the neighborhood is littered with
decaved fruit, scraps of paper, pieces of wood, and
sundries. Besides, the dark brown gentlemen are
not over clean in themselves. In many cases, the
hands that paw the fruit won’t bear inspection, and the
face that opens to emit the broken English is often
unshaven and forbidding. But those are small matters.
The fellows occupy a fine stand on the mere payment of
a small license fee to the City Council, which seems to
regard them with paternal affection. Their wares, ex-
posed to all the dry grime that blows along the thorough-
fare, are permitted to be sold for human consumption.
Any white shopkeeper observing the same habits would
be held up to scorn and contumely. But no one seems to
trouble about the dirty Dago hawker. His dirt is incur-
able. Nor does anyone appear to inspect his weights and
goods. Of course, he has been allowed to monopolise the
stand on the score of his material wretchedness and
poverty ; but even that is a fallacy, for the Dago hawker
is in most cases also the proprietor of a shop in the
suburbs.
* * * *
Wonderful the amount of enmity that is created
over old worked-out shows—principally reefs. Have
known men hang on for years to a cherished claim, sup-
posed to hold fabulous wealth, keeping the rent paid up
by strenuous toil on heaps of blue-metal, when, according
to their own fixed conviction, they could more easily be
breaking almost pure gold out of the claim. The labor
conditions are side-stepped by subterfuges well known to
all old prospectors ; and while the claim is locked up it
forms the topic of thrilling pub-verandah yarns. But,
perhaps tired of battling with hard blue-metal, harder
damper, and poor mutton, the old battler dies, then
there are 444 peg's bristling round that coveted claim.
But go round in 12 months’ time and you’ll find the pub-
verandah multitude talking about the fabulous wealth
locked up in some other claim, the reef in the last idol
not having turned out enough gold to buy a tin of jam.
* * *..m
In the little town of Millicent (S. Aus.) there
dwells a poet whose fiery soul is steeped in the blood of
the lower animals. Hear how this lamb-destroyer per-
suades the people to buy his wares
“ As It Was And Is Now.
AND it came about that in the shambles of the land
there was a dearth of Meat—sweet, prime, eatable
flesh of sheep and kine ; and the shekels of the people
were laid small, and of promptness and attention there 1
was none. But up rose
W. SCHULLER,
The People’s Butcher.
And when the people cried out unto him: ‘Givens
Meat,’Schuller hearkened unto the cry, and gave them'
Beef, Mutton and the goods that are made thereof. And
the famine that was in the land hereof gave way, and
prices fell, but Schuller lives. Help to keep him living
by giving a trial to
W. Schuller, The People’s Butcher, Millicent.
Families waited on daily for orders.”
The last line (alas !) is bathos. No poet should wind up
like that. Fancy David stating at the end of the Psalms
that families w'ere waited on daily for orders.
* » * *
“Sr.” bitterly assails two ancient professions:
It were a dreadful' thing surely to be (1) a draper or (2) an
undertaker. Both must needs be supernaturally obse-
quious. The successful undertaker continually wears
a face of grief. He is a bogus altruist; the shedder of
vicarious tears. I can conceive nothing more wearing
than to be forced to weep over the corpse of a total
stranger. The draper, contrariwise, sports a countenance
of perennial delight. The compliant cordiality with
which he offers a high cane chair of minute seating
capacity to the weighty female who desires to purchase a
reel of cotton or a packet of pins; the blushless be-
nignity with which he shows her, later, to the underwear
department; his massive disapproval in the face of giggles
or other attempts at flippancy on the part of underlings,
command my admiration without arousing in me a spirit
of emulation. His “This way, Madam,” “The very
latest from ’ome,” and so forth, has a family resemblance
to the planting expert’s trade talk, viz. “ Will you
have an oak or a weatherboard?” “ Brass or nickel
handles?” “ To-morrow, then, at 3 o'clock,” and the like.
Such parley strikes me as banal. The draper develops
large, flat, plantigrade feet inevitably ; so does the under-
taker. This arises from the Agag-like habit of progres-
sion. Agag was the Amalekite who ambled on eggs.
Behind the draper’s air of unnatural gaiety and good-
fellowship lurks that furtive something which speaks the
secret spiff purveyor. The buryer is also slinking and
unlike the generality of mankind, as becomes one who
faces horrors daily and would not shrink from eating his
lunch off a coffin in the way of business. I know that the
vending of body-coverings (be the same of wood or of
rag) is a lucrative game ; yet nothing more reconciles me
to my own stone-broke condition than consideration
of the mental, moral and physical effect frame-concealing
has on him who goes in for it.
The man whose conscience begins to haunt him
20 years after the crime crops up every now and then in
a pathetic letter to the Treasurer or the Railway Com-
missioner. The letter is handed to the daily press, and
is generally something like this : A
“ Dear Sir.—When I was a voung and thoughtless child
I owned a small dog, of which I was very fond. One
year, when the dog-man called, I had not the money to
pay for it, and, acting on a sudden impulse, I concealed
the animal in the hot-water boiler, and told the official I
had no dog. I thus evaded paying the tax, but the
memory of my dishonest action has haunted me through
the years, and embittered my life. I now enclose to you-
the sum of 55., and trust, now that 1 have made full
restitution, that my peace of mind will return to me.
Yours humbly, J. Smith.”
The restitution seldom amounts to more than five orten.
shillings. The gentleman who smuggles opium in a large
wav, or the importer who “ does in ” the Customs for
some thousands, never seems to repent. He has to be
caught by the coat-tails and dragged into court by the
hair at the back of his head.
MELBOURNE MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The unsightly and insanitary barrows on Prince s>
Bridge . . . are an eyesore to all who pass that way.
Considering it is the principal approach from the
city to Government House, ways and means should he
taken by the city authorities to have the nuisance
removed at once. —Melbourne Herald, 20/4/08.
Grey fish, long dead, and mossy fruit,
Grim, awful oysters of the past
Play purple tunes on perfume’s lute
And send the cit. side-stepping fast
To where the atmosphere is mute.
Red crayfish, age-old, and the ripe,
Rich flathead send their scents along
To join the incense of the pipe
Of Barrer Bill, who, right or wrong,
Shines pippins with a crimson wipe.
Blue cod, a long way off the ice,
A story of snide profits tell —
A tale of details not too nice !
Our Guv’nors notice it! This smell
Must be suppressed at any price !
Green are the far, fair English fields
To which (too soon !) our Guv’nors go,
And we should see that prudence shields
From them the smells they must not know
Those smells the Bridge of Barrers yields.
Look to it, lest these men of parts
Recall mere odors devilish
When some chance tale of Melbourne starts
Their thoughts on us—of strident fish,
Of half-forgotten oyster-carts!
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.


Two Hundred and
Reasons.
There are two hundred and sixteen reasons why you, if you are about
to purchase a piano, should obtain a Beale Piano.
Look at the four illustrations herewith. Start with No. 1.
You note those rows of holes in the wooden wrest-plank of the imported
Piano. When the piano is “ strung ” each one of those holes is filled
by a “ wrest-pin ” —a piece of steel shaped not unlike a blunt nail
without a head.
Each pin is a quarter of an inch in diameter. Each is driven into its
hole with a hammer—it must fit tightly, so as to resist the pulling-
round of the wire which is wound round it.
Each pin is therefore like a wedge in the wrest-plank, and when the wire
(or “ string ”) is tightened up by turning the pin round, and thus
coiling the wire upon it, each pin becomes in addition a lever , because
of the pull of the wire.
There are two hundred and sixteen of these pins. The total strain
exercised upon them by all the wires when at concert pitch
amounts to nearly thirty tons.
Remember that they are only held in a wooden plank.
No one can suppose that a single wooden plank, driven full of wedges,
which are also levers, can for long withstand such a strain.
Especially in a climate like the Australian.
Whence—see Figure 2. Now compare Figure 2 with Figures 3 and 4.
There is the whole story.
In the Beale Pianos those two hundred and sixteen pins are contained
entirely in solid iron.
+
They will v/ithstand indefinitely any strain that may be put upon them.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
3.-The Beale-Vadei
Patent Piano-frame, re-
moved from the piano,
and the end of the wrest-
plank cut off to show the
wrest-pins in the solid
iron frame.
There are other advantages obtained by the use of our
patent iron wrest-plate, notably, a much improved
tonal quality, free from all metallic element.
We shall be glad to send you further particulars if
you will write, or call on us.
Ten Thousand Two Hundred and
Eleven Beale Pianos Have already
been manufactured in Australia.
BEALE Australian
Pianos are guaranteed
for 25 Years.
V
»> *«• **,■*,»,
V
a
Fig. 1 Interior view of an imported piano, showing the relation of the
frame to the wrest-plank. The wrest-pins and strings have been re-
moved so as to show the parts more clearly.
isr
*
@ A
> 9 • a « ® ® # *
•% • •** *»N
«?Ti
»V-#
■ .fi*l*iimt.
Fig. 2 —A nearer view of the wooden wrest-plank of the piano shown in
Fig. 1. The first layer of the wrest-plank has been removed. Note how
the timber has split under the strain of the wires. This is an average
wooden wrest-plank, neither better nor worse than is usually found in
imported pianos. All pianos with wooden wrest-planks are, of course,
subject to the above fault-, which cannot be remedied except at great
expense.
• ■ • »•*». ■ iMt 1
U«**r+,*w*i 4n* iJ.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 4.—A nearer view
of the Beale-Vader frame
shown in Fig. 3. Note
the wrest-pins and ten-
sion-screws contained
entirely in solid iron.
It is important for
piano-buyers to note
that these pins can be
adjusted to ANY ten-
sion, tight, medium,
or loose, by means of
the tension screws at
the back. We always
adjust them to resist
the pull-round of the
strings, but at the same
time they are easily
turned by the tuner
WITHOUT TOUCH-
ING THE TENSION
SCREWS. Our Pianos
are tuned in the ordinary
way, by one man only,
from the front only.
Be sure to note this, and
when you go to compare
our pianos with the im-
ported you will know
what to think if you are
told otherwise by un-
scrupulous competitors.
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne ; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only
address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
EAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itohing, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in Gto 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Australian Agents—Messre. E. H. FOTHERQILL & 00., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY-
SPORTING
NOTIONS
TheN.S.W. Rugby League scored a great ad-
vertisement on Saturday last in the match against the
so-called All Blacks. A fast, open game, full of reckless
dash, with bursts of splendid play, made a spectacle that
drove over 11,000 people wild with excitement. And the
fact that the local team was the winning one did the new
form of Rugby no harm. This was evidently a game that
the Walers took to as Scotchmen take to whisky. There-
fore it appealed to the popular fancy. All the same, the
Maorilanders were obviously out of condition, and some
of their best men had remained behind in Britain, added
to which they had the mighty Messenger against
them. And what a player the said Messenger is!
Occasionally some football scribe, fearful of being thought
a hero worshipper, timidly mentions that Messenger
*• was out of his place.” As a matter of fact the deadli-
ness of Messenger’s play is that he is for ever in his place,
the particular point where danger threatens, or where
the charging forward will, a hundred to one, sling the ball
when rushed. Wherever the opposition has left an
opening, or where it is most easily broken through, there
will Messenger be found. And when the tide of battle
turns, and the enemy are piling weight, to burst through
by sheer brute strength, Messenger will appear suddenly,
like the ghost at the banquet or the sins of youth, to
snatch the leather, and play some desperate trick with
which to turn what seemed to be certain defeat into an
attack on the enemy’s line.
H. R. Wright led the Maorilanders, and S. A.
Henessy, of South Sydney, commanded the Blues. Mes-
senger played, as usual, in the three-quarter line. The
N.S.W. captain kicked off, and some fine long range
shooting followed, till Messenger, intercepting, charged
into Maoriland territory, right through the Black for-
wards. A slip on the greasy ground brought the charge
to an inglorious finish, and the Maordanders came down
on the Cornstalk line with a splendid rush. Only
smart forcing prevented a score. Coming , agaitj,-
there was a wild scramble on the Blue ,lin'£,;
out of which the Blacks managed to feed their,
three-quarter, Barber, . who sent it over the bah.
First blood to Maoriland. Messenger led a. charge;
to the Maoriland line, but the Blacks raced it back to
half-way, where a penalty kick gave Messenger his first
chance. It*was an impossible kick, 10yds. beyond half-
way, and the ball was intercepted. But it was merely a
check, for within five minutes Messenger had equalised
the points, which stood two all. Another Blue charge
ended in Stuntz scoring under the posts, and Messenger
made the score seven-to-two. The audience began to
show signs of insanity just here. Both teams were play-
ing a sparkling game, the interchanges being clean and
remarkably swift, and Maoriland added another two
points. The performance was followed almost imme-
diately by another Blue charge which added five points,
making the game 12 to four. Maorilanders could not
play fair ; and they struck trouble with a referee who
knew his business thoroughly and did his duty grimly.
The Maorilander is a bad loser, judging by the footballers
he sends over to Australia ; and it was now apparent that
unless the home team collapsed, the All Blacks were in
for a bad defeat. At half-time tbe Blues w’ere leading by
14 to seven.
The second half found the Maorilanders fighting
a losing battle. Messenger kept up an incessant bom-
bardment of the goal from positions that would have been
regarded as impossible by anyone else, and the score
climbed steadily. The All Blacks had lost the game be-
yond all hope of recovery, and now they lost their man-
ners and their tempers, till in the agony of defeat they
kicked opponents on the ground and swung rights and
lefts at the Blues who tackled them when charging. Two
of their number were sent off the ground, and the dis-
reputable blackguardism did not improve their position.
Messenger’s bombardment continued, kicks from half-
way and from all sorts of impossible angles missing
the bar by inches, while the Blue forwards
went charging through right to the goal-line,
threatening every moment to increase the already
overwhelming score. Time was running out, and the
majority of the crushed Maorilanders were praying for
the whistle, but some indomitable spirit shouted for
one more charge, and they pulled themselves together,
even as Totila and his Goths pulled themselves together
at Taginae, for the last rush. It came so suddenly and un-
expectedly, and was so fiercely maintained, that the Blue
forwards were overwhelmed, the backs were scattered,
aifd then the whole mass went roaring down the field
together, over the N.S.W. line, where the Maorilanders
scored in the corner, but failed to add the points. It was
a great effort, but quite useless, and the Maorilanders left
the field beaten by 18 points to 10.
After the League's fast and hilarious display at
Sydney Agricultural Ground, the Union’s competition fell
rather flat. Glebe, after its two successive drubbings,
found a welcome respite in the bye ; University stamped
Manly flat ; while Eastern Suburbs continued its trium-
phal progress by wiping out North Sydney to the tune of
11 to three. South Sydney downed Sydney District by 14
to three in a wild rough and tumble at Sydney Cricket
Ground ; and Newtown beat St. George by the same figures.
Western Suburbs and Balmain scored a savage draw, with
three points each. The result was that University,
Eastern Suburbs and South Sydney are neck-and-neck in
the first line, with six competition points each, all
three having a so-far unbeaten record. -Sydney and New-
town are the second line, with four points each. Bal-
main is a line all by itself, with three. Glebe, >North Sydney
and St. George are together, with two each ;and Western
Suburbs is alone, with one. Manly, at the bottom of the
list, has scored nothing yet; but still it has had the benefit
of the fresh air and exercise.
The kicking of Mandible, the Sydney half-
back, by a South Sydney forward is a matter that should
be inquired into. Many spectators declare that it was
deliberate, and, if so, the offender should be flung out of
the game for life. If it were accident, the kicker’s char-
acter should be cleared by an impartial investigation.
» * * *
The Sydney division of the Australian Leaguers
got Its competition started on Saturday last, notwith-
standing dearth of grounds, with four first-grade matches.
In spite of lack of condition, play was interesting, and the
opening of the season was marked, as in the case of the
Union, by the downfall of the premier club (Sydney), which
was soundly walloped by Redfern (46 to 32), after a game in
which the Syrian suburb literally ran over the champions.
East Sydney crushed North Shore with 62 points to seven,
which, bad as it was, was a mild affair to the awful doing
Newtown gave Paddington, in which the figures were 194
to seven. The best match of the day was that between
Y.M.C.A. and Balmain, in which muscular Christianity
downed waterside Paganism by Si to 31.
• * * »
Altogether, Saturday was a great football day
in Sydney ; for, besides All Blacks, and Union, and
League play, the British Association also opened its com-
petition with four matches. In this case, the premier
club, Pyrmont, drew the bye, and the Naval crowd,
officially known as Garden Island, astonished the natives
—and "itself most of all—by romping over Northern
Suburbs with nine goals to nil. It is said that Garden
Island has been dumb with amazement ever since. Bal-
main beat Rozelle by three to nil, but the score gives no
indication of how very superior the Balmain crowd was.
It ought to have won by double the figures. Sydney
downed Ultimo by four to nil, but the game did not ap-
pear to be the gallop-over that Balmain put up. Glebe
and Western Suburbs were an example of the meeting of
the dead equal, and the two teams embraced one another
and reeled helplessly about the middle of the field, both
crowds having the luck to boot one into the net.
The irruption of the Rugby League has resulted
in the sudden discovery by the Union that the Australian
and Soccer crowds are its long-lost brothers, and the
Union, which has a heavy paw on most of the best football
grounds in and around Sydney, is going to help its little
brothers with playing accommodation. This sudden
blossoming of brotherly love is quite touching.
* * * *
In nice, cool weather, but on grounds that the
months of drought had left terribly hard, the Vic. League
clubs opened business for the season. A pretty crowd,
that must have gladdened the hearts of the treasurers
even as a fat oyster rejoices an epicure, crushed into the
Carlton ground to see if "Saints” could repeat last
season’s feat of demolishing the Premiers in one sudden
act. They made a strenuous effort, and at half-time they
were but a couple of points to the bad —2.5 to 2.3
but in the third quarter the Northerners used the
wind to the full, and piled up 31 more points
while Saints were standing still, flabbergasted at
the rout. The Holy Ones had the wind for the
fourth term, but want of condition told its tale, and
though Carlton was hard pressed it managed to stop its
opponents from adding more than seven points—winning
by 48 to 22. Carlton played three new men and Saints
four, but among these latter was Mick Grace, now their
trainer, and heretofore a shining light among Carlton’s
stars. This circumstance, among others, added con-
siderable vim to the encounter. The clashing of South
and Fitzroy also drew a huge crowd. These ancient
foes generally promise a willing game. For once
they gave each other the soft answer that turneth away
stoush, but the game was exciting enough nevertheless.
The languishing ’Roys played with such combination
that they were never more than three points behind
“ Skinner’s hirelings ” till the middle of the last quarter,
when the hirelings notched a lucky goal, and thereafter
took the best of care that ’Roy shouldn’t score. Latter
played six new men, mostly juniors. South had four
only, but as South is understood to have scoured the
Commonwealth for talent, and to have retained players
from Broken Hill, Sydney, Rutherglen, and Laun-
ceston, besides a dozen juniors, it is probably
keeping back its best forces in order to ad-
minister shocks later on. Oollingwood has also been
searching the country for desirable acquisitions. It took
Six of them down to Geelong to teach Slumbering Hollow
the rudiments of football, but was itself handed a lesson
Iti won’t forget in a hurry. It returned home in the
dumps, with a score of 12 goals 13 behinds against five
goals eight behinds to its discredit. Geelong, which has
recruited its ranks, as usual, from the local Grammar
School and College, is understood to have indulged
heavily in gingerbeer over its victory. If it can
manage to keep its head to the normal size and
retain the fine players it seems to possess, it may
yet regain the glories of a generation ago, when
it won the premiership seven times in nine
years. Of the two new League clubs, one made a credit-
able first appearance and the other made a blot. Rich-
mond beat Melbourne by 8.14 to 7.9—a result chiefly due
to the svstem inculcated by its ex-Collingwood captain
and ditto coach ; and ’Varsity went under to Essendon by
14.11 to 3.11. Seeing that Essendon was at the bottom of
the League list last year, this awful score looks anything
but promising; but ’Varsity nevertheless has the two
requisites of a hefty team—good ’bailers and unselfish
players. What it chiefly needs is practice, and plenty
of it.
•*■**-*
The Vic. Football Association continued its
more or less chequered career. Williamstown passed a
mild “ doing ” to Preston by 60 to 45 ; Footscrav stressed
its superiority over North by 54 to 20 ; and Brighton im-
pressed on Northcote that though both teams were first-
year associates, in a manner of speaking, they, the sea-
sides, were twice as lusty and scientific as the Northern-
ers, as proved by the scores—l2’B to 5'9. The lament-
able “Ports” journeyed to Essendon, whither
a large crowd followed them, expecting gore—
it was Essendon’s complaint that caused the dis-
qualification of Ports’ ground last season—but the
overwhelming attendance of Essendonians and the im-
mense superiority of that team’s play speedily drove Ports’
and Port barrackers’ hearts into their boots, and they
retired as depressed as a Foreign-trader when he views a
new factory, pondering over a score of 142 points to 46.
The prettiest game bf the day was wasted on Toorak,
where Prahran and Brunswick discussed matters. There is
a trifle of brotherly love between these teams, and as both
boast ex-League piayers and follow their methods, their
games are generally worth watching. Prahran went off
with a strong lead and held it to the third quarter. Then
Brunswick bogged in and piled up single points whole-
sale, finally coming out on top by 5.23 to 5.13. It cer-
tainly deserved to lose for its vile kicking, but Prahran
was almost as bad. One or two minor casualties moved
the sympathies of spectators during the afternoon, and
a couple of neat little mills enlivened the Essendon-
’Varsit.v and Richmond-Melbourne arguments ; but other-
wise all was sweet peace and holy calm.
Mr. Samuel Hordern’s magnificent new motor
yacht, Bronzewing, said to be the largest boat of its kind
in the world, was launched at Balmain (Sydney) on Satur-
day morning, Mr. S. Hordern, jun., representing his
father, who is in England. As mentioned in this column
some months ago, the new boat is the Australian
masterpiece up to date. Length over all is 110 ft.,
with a beam of I7£ft., and a depth of Bft. lOin.
But the size is nothing; the triumph lies in
the exquisite craftsmanship that has been lavished
on the glorious thing inside and out. Australasian woods
and Australian copper and other metals have been
moulded and graved most artistically. Built by Messrs.
Morrison and Sinclair from the design of well-known
naval architect Mr. Walter Reeks, whose orders were to
produce “ the best,” the Bronzewing ought to be
acquired by the Government and stored in a glass
case as a credit to its native land. It represents
about the first real opportunity the Australian craftsman
has had, and he has risen to the occasion in a marvellous
manner. Even the heavy guii-metal propeller and rudder
and the silky-oak case of the piano were made in Mr.
Hordern’s own factory. The only foreign products in the
yacht are to be found in the engine room, yet but for
foreign patent rights and a most inefficient Australian
patent law, it is safe to say that the work there would
also have been done in Australia. There are three in-
dependent engines, of Thorneycroft make, each develop-
ing 108 h.p., and capable of driving the Bronzewing at a
speed of about 15 knots. The masts are hinged, so that
the yacht can explore rivers regardless of bridged, and the
craft is so constructed that to sink it is almost impossible.
The Motor Boat Club of the U.S. has accepted
the challenge of the English Wolseley-Siddeley boat to
race for the British International Cup, which was won
by the Dixie last year. The challenger is already afloat,
and making remarkable speed runs. Considering that its
engines are a pair of 200h.p. affairs, the challenger cer-
tainly ought to walk some, as the ’Murkans say. The
Yanks are building a special boat to defend the Cup, hut
it will be driven by engines of only half the power of the
challenger. In the meantime the English boat goes to
Monaco to try conclusions with a 500h.p. Italian, and with
390h.p. and 480h.p. flyers from France. British papers
are confident that the Wolseley-Siddeley will down them
all easily enough.
» * * *
The Round-the-World motorists are now, pre-
sumably, nearing Vladivostock; The journey across the
United States proved that any idea of running up the
glacier coast of British Columbia and through Alaska was
sheer madness. One competitor got so disgusted that he .
shoved his car on board a train, and arrived to find him-
self disqualified. The Yankee car, the Thomas, arrived,
first in ’Frisco, but, having to vvait for a steamer, was ex-
pected to be overhauled by the Zust, De Dion and
Protos cars. The 900 miles gained by the Yankee
car was said to have been made up through
the unfair assistance given by the farmers, who cut their
fences to let it take short cuts, and set their hands to
shovel heaps of snow in the track taken by the foreign
cars. The Zust car men had a rough time, travelling for
five days between Wyoming and Utah on only four meals,
presumably because they were refused food for love or
money. It was only a 200-mile stretch too, but the
Yankee farmers appear to have managed their delay work
very well. A mighty poor idea of sport have some of the
people in the Uncle Sam country.
* * * *
Inter-State rowing and sculling championships
occur on the Yarra next Saturday afternoon. All the
States will be represented, including Tassy, which is dead
nuts on paddling two crews. This minute piece of earth
at the southern end of the continent should be forcibly
sat upon, and eight of its reps, sent home, or somewhere.
The benefit of any doubt that may •exist on the result
should be given the Vies.; they are lifting their own
water, and doing it well with a stroke who stands out head
and shoulders —Jim Donald. The Cabbage Staters are
principally “ Parks ” —four of them having seats.
* * * *
At time of writing there are two Tasmanian
crews in Melbourne to take part in the inter-State Eight-
Oar contest on Saturday. The general feeling among the
crews and delegates is that the two Tasmanian teams
should settle the matter by rowing off a day or so before
the race, the honor of representing Appleland to goto the
winning crew. And as this idea is the only solution of a
very knotty question, it will probably have been acted
upon by the time this appears.
* * * * •
No less than 16 hockey teams were in the field
in and around Sydney on Saturday last, and the press of
applicants is so great that even at this late hour it is
possible that more teams will be formed. The Corinthians
were represented by the First, A and B teams. The First
downed the Navy by five goals to four ; the A team went
down to the Rovers by seven to six ; and the B team was
beaten by the Bandits by six to one. Tfie Bandits second
team was downed by University 11. by three to one.
University I. put in a pleasant afternoon by beating
the Sydtiean I. by five to one. The game of the
afternoon, however, was that between Barbarians and
Pilgrim first teams. Excellent play and splendid com-
bination were shown by both teams, but the Barbarians,
presumably through living on raw meat and drinking
only water in their wild state, were in better condition
than the Pilgrims, whose walking exercise has not yet
got them quite hardened. The Barbarians won by four
goals to one. As an example of sound defensive work the
Pilgrims’ game was excellent. On the other hand, the
passing of the Barbarians during their attacks was very
pretty indeed, and completely eclipsed the form shown
by the Corinthians the previous Saturday, which was also
very high class.
* * * * %
As anticipated, Tom Burrows has again broken
out into a new record, and has swung two hunks of
limber in Wellington (M.L.) for 62hr. 2min. Another
unwise person accompanied him most of the time on
the piano, and broke his own record by playing con-
tinuously for 38hr. 2min., and beating his former time
by 2hr. 2min. Jack Griffiths, of Cobar (N.S.W.), who
recently twirled them for 62 hours neat, will now pro-
bably have'another shot, and twirl them some more, and
bring about yet another dreary display by holding out
for 62hr. 2m. lOsec. Why not get properly going and
swing for 78 hours, and then unless all is blue, keep
going steadily for a few hours longer, just to scare
Burrows and other dreary circumstances right off?
Fortunately there doesn’t seem to be a second record
piano fiend at large, and that infliction is likely to rest on
its laurels.
* * * *
S. A. Amateur Athletic Association has held its
second championship meeting. The lack of public
support was cruel. Adelaide, so prominent in all games,
has never taken up the idea of running—except short
“ Sheffields,” for cash—and the amateur body is only
kept alive by a small band of enthusiasts, at their own
expense. (And on them the parent Australasian body
has descended with the demand of a£s fine for not being
represented at the championships in Hobart!) The S.A.
winners were, as usual, mostly from the ’Varsity. Moyes
did 21ft. and sft. Bin. (long and high jumps respectively),
and Angwin covered the hundred in lOsec. (all three
watches agreed ; strong wind behind the runners). The
veteran president—“ veteran ” from the sporting juvenile
outlook—A. J. Roberts, of the Stock Exchange, ran third
in a mile handicap, won by his own son. Thus does Dad
get left when the younger generation arrives.
* * • *
Maoriland horse-owner, Mr. G. G. Stead, who
died last week, was a turfman of credit and renown for
over 30 years. In him excellent judgment and splendid
luck combined to make the perfect racing career. As a
breeder, he stands on a plane of his own, and almost
every important race in Maoriland, and many in Sydney,
at one time or other, fell to horses bred by him. He did
not race in Victoria; something he considered an
injustice in his early days caused him to register a
vow that his colors should never again be seen on a
course controlled by the V.R.C. And that vow’ he
kept,' with the result that the Victorians lost
the pleasure of seeing some of the finest gallopers bred in
the southern hemisphere. However, they are still alive
and apparently doing fairly well. One of the remarkable
epochs in racing history was the Stead scoop at Rand-
wick, at the 1905 Spring meeting, when he won eight
races in nine starts, his appropriations being the A.J.C.
Derby, Spring Maiden Stakes, Wycombe Stakes, Mem-
bers’ Handicap, New Stakes, Grantham Stakes, Squatters’
Handicap, and Randwick Plate. They represented £3570
in prize-money, and great was the mana of G. G. Stead.
* * * *
City Tatt.’s day at Randwick, on Saturday last,
completed the cleaning out of the few punters whom the
A.J.C. Autumn meeting had left over. Only in one
instance did a favorite score, when the imported Sir
Aymer got home in the Club Welter. And even then it
is'doubtful if Christian Israel got left, as a despairing
public had piled much money on Camera, the second horse,
and on Abandoned, who was unplaced. The notable
happening was the coming of Comely in the City Tatt.’s
Handicap. This mare had been backed considerably, but
without success, during the last 12months, and on Saturday
was generally written off as a hopeless failure. Then she
won easily, after being backed by those in the know from
15 down, to eights. Shimose, in the Novice Handicap,
was another that spread slaughter among the punters.
Altogether it is time the public awoke to the fact that
gentlemen sometimes run horses, and wise men lay the
odds on them, and fools back theni, and the one animal
that is always unplaced is The Public. He has been run
ning last since the days of the Roman chariot races.
W. Brown, up on Waitapu at Fielding (M.L.),
last week, has been riding racehorses for over a quarter of a
century. His mount (Louie) appropriated the Hawkes
Bay Cup in 1882, and eight years ago Brown rode the
winner (Malatua) of the Great Easter Handicap. He also
won Canterbury Derby and Cup on Seahorse.
* * * *
The.hero of the A.J.C. autumn meeting was
undoubtedly Tartan, but his rattling performances did
not benefit his owner, Mr. J. Macken, who was in a re-
cent number of this paper inadvertently referred to as a
trainer. Mr. Macken is still on the diamond ridge occu.
pied by owners. So hopeless did Mr. Macken believe
Tartan’s chances were, on the word of his vets.,
that he did not back him for the Autumn Stakes. Then
after he had, with 9st. 31b., beaten the great Poseidon
with 9st. up, and cutdo'wn Dyed Garment* and Peru(9st.
and Bst. 4lb. respectively) in a few lengths, and won by
nearly three lengths in one of the most phenomenal
bursts of speed ever seen on a wet course at
Randwick, his owner hied him to the city and
backed him enthusiastically for the Sydney Cup. Andthe
grand old horse made a great effort. With 9st, 91b. up,
he chased Dyed Garments with only 7st. 41b. on board
in an amazing manner. While Dyed Garments flew from
third to first, Tartan flew from seventh to second. In
the A.J.C. Plate, the following Saturday, he ran second—
and shot his bolt. Although/the bandage may'have
appeared unnecessary, on the hbrse’s performance, it was
there by order of the vets.
**. . * •
Purchase in Sydney, last week, by Mr. Currie of
a yearling from Chutney suggests the serving up, in time,
of something particularly hot.
* * 1* •
Reported that rider (G. Ross) of Dyed Gar-
ments in Sydney Cup was paid £5OO for his effort, which
lasted 3min. 34sec.
* * * *
Peter Bannan, the British person who gave
Clarence Weber a warm time in their recent grappling, is
fixed to ’rastle middleweight Dick Porter at the Saucer
cycling track (Melb.) on the 9th. On records the result
is a foregone conclusion. i
.7* . :•
Will Tommy Burns take on Jack Johnson, who
arrived in England in quest of the gore-grail last week ?
The odds seem against it. To begin with, Burns draws
the color-line, and in so doing has an immense section of
sporting America in sympathy with him. Johnson, more-
over, is the only fighter on earth whom the' experienced
fight fans of the U.S.A. tip as the present champion’s
master. And Burns is a business man. The heavy,
weight championship is a big financial asset, and he
isn’t the sort to monkey with it unless the odds
appear to be his way. And even if he does
decide to shelve his prejudice against Johnson’s
hue, and at the same time to risk his present
status, there is a likelihood of negotiations falling through.
Burns “ manages ” for himself and does his own business
well and hard. His stake and gate terms are the hottest
hitherto set up by any member of the fighting world.
Mr. Johnson, if he wants his match, will have to be satis-
fled with about a 10 per cent, dividend ; 80 per cent, will
go to Burns for a certainty, win or lose. He is a pug
whose matches are the only known ones in the history of
sport wherein it is possible to pick unerringly any num-
ber of days beforehand the financial winner (viz., Burns)
and the “ also rans ” (to wit, his opponent, his would-be
exploiters, the cinematographers, etc.).
* # * *
George Dawson, old-time Australian pugilist of
the second class, and at present boxing instructor to the
Chicago Athletic Association, has been handing the N.Y.
World (25/3/’08) his views on what he calls “ the deca-
dence of Australian boxing.” George ascribes the
“luxuriance of the lemon crop in the Antipodes” en-
tirely to the “emigration of proper boxing-instructors.”
In George’s' view', the fact that all the fighters of
his (George’s) calibre have gone to the U.S.A.
has ruined stoush in the Commonwealth utterly.
There is positively no one left to teach the younger
generation how to bash its fellow-man. It is a quaint
bit of egotism. “Larry” Foley, who is still teach-
ing in these parts, was, in his fighting days, classes
ahead of the egregious Dawson ; while, as an instructor,
it is doubtful if there is anyone either in England or the
States to touch him. The London National Sporting
Club, which pays its officials about three times better
wages than does any similar concern outside N’York,
angled eagerly for Laurence t’other day. Of Mister Daw-
son it had presumably never heard. The fact is the great
stoush-dispenser is about as rare as the great tenor or
soprano. Australia has had more than its share of front-
rank fighting men in the last 25 years. In the nature of
things, and by all the laws of averages, it can’t expect a
fresh crop of pugilistic marvels yet awhile, no matter how
many instructors it supports. Meanwhile it is doing a
little at raising a crop of singers and inventors.
DIABOLO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How do you perch the bobbin on tbe string
Before you send it skyward with a jerk?
How the diabolo do'you get the thing
To work ?
Hast night I practised for an hour or so,
Until a difference of opinion led
To the diabolo skulking in below
The bed.
I caught it twice—once off my looking-glass,
And once it got entangled with my ear ;
We’re needing three new mantles on our gas-
Alier.
I could admire the creature’s graceful waltz,
Did it reverse with less untidy glee ;
I can’t forgive its cowardly assaults
On me.
Are not its fascinations mostly sham V
Do its exponents really find the fun
Worth, all the Joss of temper and the datn-
Age done ?
Next year its name will be anathema ;
The present cry will in a month or so
Be changed to “ To the Devil with dia-
8010 ! ”
vic.
C.L.E.
GREEN OLD AGE.
Assured by the Occasional use of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
To reach a green old age and enjoy good health
can only be attained by the care of the system.
It is from the little irregularities of the system
that the common ailments arise, and Ivature
gives many indications of the approach of these
complaints, which, if treated at once- raa^ vi ,
warded off. That Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
are a safe, sure,
and reliable re-
medy is vouched
for by Mr.
Mitchell and his
wife, who reside
at 513 Main
Road, Kangaroo
Mr. and Mrs.
MITCHELL.
(From a photo.)
Point, Brisbane
He says: “For
some years your Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
have been my only medicine. lam over 70 } e ' “
of age, and find a couple of pills oecasionaHy
a most rejuvenating effect, regulating the 1 <
cleansing the bowels, toning up the system,
thus keeping me in good health. My wife,
is 68 years of age, also takes a pill regular y> ■
having overcome attacks of indigestion
which she used to suffer, finds your pins a
laxative and a splendid medicine for keeping
system in proper working order. I , alwa 2 jn g
commend your pills to anyone who is ® u , ,
from indigestion, or who is not in 8°?“,. ; n
My family are grown up, and they all be ;i
the efficacy of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root rn


KUGELMANN’S
7*
©
<&
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp,
Kugelmann's Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
rt. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Carlton and United Breweries
Proprietary, Limited,
16 BOUVERIE STREET, CARLTON, VICTORIA,
invites DESIGNS suitable for SHOW CARDS and POSTERS
to advertise its products. Premiums are offered as follows :
FIRST PRIZE --- SEVENTY
SECOND PRIZE - - TWENTY
THIRD PRIZE TEN
GUINEAS
GUINEAS
GUINEAS
CONDITIONS :
1- The Directors of the Company shall be the sole judges.
2. Suitability for the purpose required will be the principal recommendation.
3. Each Design submitted shall include a “ Catch Phrase.”
4. The Designs selected for the prizes shall become the property of the Company, which may secure
the Copyright.
5. The Company may retain the property and Copyright in any other of the Designs inclusive of
“ Catch Phrase” submitted, which it may select on payment of £5 ss.
6. Any “Catch Phrase” on any Design, not otherwise selected, may become the property and Copy-
right of the Company on payment of £2 2s.
7. All Designs submitted must bear a Motto, a copy of which, with the full name and address of the
sender must be sent in a sealed envelope marked : —“Design Competition.”
3. All Designs intended to be submitted for the Competition must reach the above address on or
before Noon on 30th .Tune, 1908.
RQ3T. H. LEMON, Secretary,
The “TRUMP
GRAPH-o-
“ LYRIC ” REPRODUCER,
POLISHED CABINET,
FLOWER HORN.
EXTRAORDINARY value.
Winds silently.
Can be wound while playing.
Motor Reliable and Easily Accessible.
Careful Attention to the Smallest Detail.
Columbia Gold* j/ 'j
Moulded Records, 1 /%J each.
WRITE FOR NEW LISTS.
Th
EXACTLY AS
ILLUSTRATED.
PRICE
£2 ss.
Columbia Phonograph Co. 0011*1,
ZiS Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
lncorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND*
(*£500,000 being: invested in 2J per cent. Consols at 80. The
remainder being used in the business of the Bank.)
RESERVE LIABILITY OF PROPRIETORS UNDER THE CHARTER..
£1,600,000
1,470,000
1,600,000
£4,670,000
SEVENTY-FOURTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, with the
AOOOUNTS for the Half-year to 14th October, 1907. Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General
Meeting, held on Thursday, 26th March, 1908.
REPORT.
THE Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 14th October last, with the Profit Account for the
a^r ar i?°u t r t ate ‘ After providing- for rebate on bills current, for British and Colonial rates and taxes,
a.na for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year, including some recoveries from old accounts,
amounted to £205,749 15s. 4d.
S o.? mus t ; be added £17,324 19s. lid. brought forward from the previous half-year, making a total of
o,ut4 15s. 3d., out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 12 per cent, per
ann th!’ ° l - • ° s ‘ P er ®b are > and a Bonus of Bs. per share, free of income tax.
l bonus will absorb£ll2,ooo, and the Directors have further appropriated £60,000 to the Reserve
unu, £183)00 in reduction of the cost of bank premises, and £17,000 as a Bonus to the staff of 10 per cent, on their
a * a rv^j re remain £16,074 15s. 3d. to be carried forward to the next account.
Ihe Dividend and Bonus will be payable in London and in the Colonies on 27th insi.
tv, t tv. 6 Erectors propose to recommend at an Extraordinary General Meeting, to be summoned as soon as possible,
inat tne present Deed of Settlement, which, in many of its provisions, is quite out of date, should be in effect repealed
anu a new Deed of Settlement, more in accordance with modern practice, adopted. In order to carry this out in a
mple manner, it is advisable that Clause 29 of the present Deed should first be amended, as proposed in the
a vertisement accompanying this Report, otherwise it will be necessary to advertise at full length in at least four
, u, l, the whole of the Clauses of the new Deed, and possibly all the Clauses of the old Deed of Settlement,
wnich, in the opinion of the Directors, would be a needless expense.
A seat on the Board has become vacant, owing to the resignation of Mr. W. A. M'Arthur, for which the Right
on. Alfred Lyttelton, M.P., and Mr. William Howard Smith are candidates. The Directors have much pleasure in
recommending the election of Mr. Lyttelton. C. G. HAMILTON, Chairman.
4 Ihreadneedle-street, London, 16th March, 1908.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from APRIL 15, 1907, to OCTOBER 14, 1907.
Undivided Profit, April 15, 1907 .. ~ “ ~ “ “ ~ ~ “ “ “ ..£129 324 19 11
Less : Dividend and Bonus, 4th October, 1907 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 112,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to October 14, 1907, after deducting rebate on bills current at £17,324 19 11
balance date (£10,619 6s. 6d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts.. £366,099 19 5
Less:
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial—
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the superin-
tendent’s department, and 172 branches and agencies .. ..£100,611 6 7
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travelling, etc. 23,167 11 0
London—
Salaries 9,358 8 1
General expenses 4,742 18 0
IT t, . * £137,880 3 8
11. Rai.es and Taxes—Colonial, £12,777 14s. 6d. ; London, £9692 ss. lid... 22,470 0 5
160,350 4 1
Total amount of unappropriated profit
From which deduct-
-205,749 15 4
.£223,074 15 3
For transfer to reserve fund .. .. £60,000 0 0
For reduction in cost of bank premises 18,000 0 0
For bonus to staff.. .. .. .. ' 17,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
95,000 0 0
.£128,074 15 3
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER 14, 1907.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation £505,428 0 0
Deposits ..15,879,835 1 6
Bills payable and other liabilities .. .. 2,861,587 11 7
£19,246,350 13 1
Capital .. .. ..£1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund, of which
£500,000 is invested in
2£ per cent. Consols at
80, the remainder
being used in the busi-
ness of the bank .. 1,470,000 0 0
Profit account; undi-
vided balance .. .. 128,074 15 3
3,198,074 15 3
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
£22,444,425 8 4
ASSETS.
Specie, bullion, and cash balances ..£3,758,936 3 3
Loans at call and at short notice .. .. 967,894 17 0
British Government securities .. .. 927,585 1 1
India and Colonial Government securities
and other ii:. estments 778,784 3 11
£6,433,200 5 3
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets 15,771,653 3 2
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand,
and London 239,571 19 11
£22,444,425 8 4
R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We h ave examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the transfers
from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg- to report that, in our opinion, the
foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the
bank s affairs as shown by the books.
London, 12th March, 1908.
WELTON, JONES and Co., Auditors.
HEALTH AND BEAUTY by using
THE CRESCENT VIBRATOR ! !
©
Write for our Free Booklet
“THE CRESCENT VIBRATOR.”
It explains details clearly.
It compels circulation—clears
the skin—and brings to the
cheeks the rosy glow of
health.
It is easily operated—having
few working parts—and the
motive power is obtained from
an ordinary house electric light
switch or battery supplied.
Complete, compact, convenient
and simple—weighs only 23
ounces, and is capable of regu=
lating down to suit a child.
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
YOUR MONEY BACK IF IT FAILS!
Makes vou look manly
Before
flfler
All over the country men are raising vigorous and handsome
Moustaches by using
CAPILLARINE.
It is a genuine moustache producer, with a meritorious record
of 25 years’ success to back up its claim, and if in YOUR
case it fails, we promise to hand your money back.
Posted to any part of
the World for
10/0
In plain, sealed
Wrapper.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
About the most ghastly thing in criminal
neglect of the public good to date is the manufac-
ture of cheap “ glass ” eyes from celluloid, which is
so inflammable as to be almost explosive. The
man with a celluloid artificial eye would only have
to encounter a live spark to suffer an agonising
death. Minister for Customs Chapman won’t let
the fiendish things come into Australia, but pro-
bably the cantankerous State Premiers will take
legal proceedings, on the plea that Chapman is
doing a State Wrong, the same as in the corn-sack
ease.
Maoriland has a special reformatory for
young women who show an early tendency to
follow in the footsteps of Lais and Lady
Hamilton. Recently a commissioner was ap-
pointed to inquire into the methods of the place,
and, judging by his report, it is a strenuous em-
porium. In addition to labor there is a wise and
careful discipline. The unruly female, whatever
her age, is laid face downward on a bed, clad
only in a nightgown, and has instruction poured
upon her with a strap. Inmates who drop over
the garden wall are recaptured by the aid of the
police, and when brought back have their hair
shorn as a sign and a punishment. So when any-
one in M'aoriland is accosted by a female with her
hair about the same length as that of Bill Sikes,
he knows tfyat she is an escapee from Te Oranga
Home. The bnly drawback about the system is
that hair grbws again, but if the ladies were
branded they could be identified for the rest of
their lives. The commissioner reports that he
finds the treatment has a most humanising effect
on the girls.


APPROPRIATENESS in Wedding Gift;
FINDS tHe truest expression of
Usefulness and Beauty in ... •
A. SAUNDERS’ TABLE SILVER.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER and TOAST COMBINATION,
Pure Silver-Plated Nickel Silver,
White Crystal Glass Dish.
15/6.
Other Styles, 1076, 12/6, 15/.
SHOPPING
BY MAIL.
You can confidently
rely on our Up-to-
Date Mail Order De-
partment to serve
you promptly and
satisfactorily.
No matter where
you live, we send all
goods CARRIAGE
FREE, which means
a big saving to you.
a is
4 t
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SERVICE,
Pure Silver-Plated, Hand Engraved,
Fern Design, Gilt Lined, with Covers.
£2/15/.
Other Styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5.
BELOW we present a few designs
of A 1 quality —a quality that as-
sures Life-long SATISFACTION.
OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
illustrates over 3000
designs in Watches,
Clocks, Jewellery,
Silver Plate, Leather,
and Optical Goods.
Write for a copy
to-day. You’ll receive
it by return mail,
free, and postage paid.
If
m
'tP
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND
and SIFTER, Pure Silver-Plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Gilt Line
£2.
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, £2, £2/10/
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver-Plated,
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, Richly Engraved.
2/6.
Other Styles, 2/, 2/6, 3/, 3/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRIBBAGE BOARD and
CARD DRAWER,
English Oak,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts.
15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/.
ENGLISH OAK BISCUIT BARREL,
China Lining,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts.
12/6.
A 1 Quality, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-Plated,
Richly Engraved and Embossed,
Size, 9Jin. x 9Jin.
35/.
Cther Styles, 20/, 25/, 30/,
40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
A. SAUNDERS.
TABLE CENTRE, Four Branch,
Pure Silver-Plated. Richly Embossed,
Ruby-tinted Glass Tubes.
30/.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM SPOON, Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Richly Embossed.
3/6.
Other Styles, 2/, 2/6, 3/, 3/6, 4/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-Plated.
Nickel Silver, Al Quality,
Green or Ruby Tinted Glass.
20/.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
SALT SHAKER,
Pure Silver Top,
Fine Cut Crystal Glass.
3/6.
SALT POURER
to Match, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
£4/4/
TEA and COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-Plated on White Aletal, comprising Tea, Coffee Sugar and
Cream, Richly Engraved, Gilt-lined, with Covers.
Other Styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5.
£4/4/
U-
oid
531
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Three Bottle, Pure Silver-Plated,
Cut Crystal Glass Bottles.
15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed
and Pierced, Fine Cut Crystal Glass Dish.
20/.
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 25/, SO/.
-|| - 7 i |f, —| '1
A. SAUNDERS.
English Oak SALVER, Pure Silver-Plated, Mounts
and Fittings, A 1 Quality, Ball Feet, Size 20m.
£2.
Other Styles—
-12/6, 10/, 20/, 25/, 30/, 36/, 40/, to £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE DISHES, with
SERVERS, Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality, Satin Glass Lining.
£2/10/.
Other Styles, 30/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
2TE
yn
d>>
D>;
SR
51
A. SAUNDERS.
.SPIRIT FRAME, Carved English Oak,
Pure Silver-Plated Mounts,
Fine Hobnail Cut Glass Bottles.
£3.
Other Styles, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CANDLESTICK, Thistle Design,
Pure Silver-Plated, Pierced Base.
6/6.
Other Styles, 7/6; 9/6, 12/6.
BUTTER DISH, Shell Design,
Pure Silver-Plated, Al Quality,
Satin Glass Lining.
15/6.
Other Styles—
-10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOTWATER KETTLE and STAND,
Pure Silver-Plated,
A 1 Quality.
Rustic Stand.
Plain, 35/-.
Richly Chased, £2.
Other Styles—
£2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
SALT and PliirpLU STAND,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Crystal Glass Cellar.
10/6.
SUGAK BASIN and TONGS,
Pure Silver-Plated,
Satin Finished, Gilt Lined.
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION DINNER CRUET,
Pure Silver-Plated, Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality,
Fine Cut Crystal Glass Bottles.
£3.
Other Styles-
-30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S.


IS
The KODAK Daylig'ht Method
Developing contrasted with the old Darkroom Method.
Absolute Independence of the darkroom from start to finish, such as is
given by the Kodak system alone, is a point which will appeal with special
force to the tourist or holiday-maker looking for a Photographic Outfit.
Keynote o/ Kodak Photography is Simplicity.
Prices from
ss. 6d. to £9.
No previous experience is wanted.
The little manual supplied with
every Kodak makes everything clear.
You put the Film in the Kodak in Broad Daylight.
You develop the pictures in daylight.
Complete
Outfits from 18s.
FULL PARTICULARS POST FREE from
Proprietary Limited
Sole Agents in Australia
for KODAK LIMITED.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
HOW BRIGHT’S DISEASE GAN BE AVOIDED
And the SYSTEM CLEANSED.
Flush Your Kidneys
Gravel deposits indicate the urgent
necessity of cleansing the kidneys, which
is perfectly performed by the aid of
Kutnow’s Powder.
Kutnow’s Powder dissolves uric acid
and quickly eliminates it from the
system ; it also cleanses the bladder and
relieves all pain.
Kutnow’s Powder, being free from
sugar, is particularly suitable in cases of
Bright’s disease and diabetes.
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be
had of all conscientious Chemists through-
out the World. See that the fac-simile
signature, “S, Kutnow & Co., Ld.,”
and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap,” are
on the carton and bottle. You then get
GENUINE KUTNOW’S POWDER
Remarkable Evidence*
“ 54 Brecknock Road,
“ Camden Road, N.W.,
“June 7 , 1907.
“ Dear Sirs, —I have much pleasure
in recommending Kutnow's Powder
I
to anyone suffering from kidney com-
plaint. My wife has suffered from
chronic Bright's Disease for over ten
' I
years, and I can truthfully say that
she is quite a different woman after
taking two bottles. You are at liberty
to send anyone to her to testify as to
the truth of this statement. I always
intend to keep a bottle by me, as it
does its work gently and effectively.
“ W. BEDFORD.
AN ARMY OFFICER
WRITES :
“ 5 Victoria Street, Newport,
“ Barnstaple, 30th March.
“ Gentlemen, —Having lately returned
from South Africa, where I contracted
Kidney and Liver troubles (among other
ills), I have been more than ever con-
vinced of the merits of Kutnow’s Powder
in restoring those organs to their proper
functions. Indeed, I feel impelled to
write and express my gratitude for the
benefits I have derived from its use. I
may add that I always have a bottle by
me.—Yours faithfully,
“ R. BADDOCK
“(Retired W.0.A.5.C.).”
NURSE CROSS
WRITES :
“2 Percy Road, Wrexham.
“ Sirs, —Some five years ago I had an
acute attack of nephritis (inflammation
of the kidneys), and my doctor advised
Harrogate waters. After trying them
for some time with very little result, the
doctor suggested giving Kutnow’s Powder
a trial, with such excellent result that in
a short time I felt very much better. I
continued taking it regularly every other
day for two years, and consider it worked
an entire cure.
“MARGARET CROSS (Nurse).”
KUTNOW’S POWDER ENSURES GOOD


Hand Became Swollen and Very Red
and Painful—Arm Gradually Af-
fected Up to Elbow —Impossible
to Give Idea of Agony Undergone
for Three Years—Doctor and Very
Many Remedies Fail.
CURED BY TWO SETS
OF CUTICURA REMEDIES
“My trouble started with swelling in
my right hand, which became red and
very painful and irritating. This swell-
ing spread gradually up.the arm until it
reached the elbow. It is impossible for
me to give any idea of the agony I went
through during the three years that
this eczema continued. I tried first
one remedy and then another, only too
glad to test anything that my friends
suggested. Nothing seemed to be of
the least good. I went to a doctor for
four weeks in the provinces, where I was
living at the time, and the treatment
he put me under was as ineffectual as
the rest. I was almost in despair. One
day I happened to catch sight of an
advertisement of Cuticura Remedies,
and there I read of a case of eczema
having been cured by the use of Cuti-
cura Soap, Cuticura Ointment, and
Cuticura Resolvent Pills. The case
was so similar to my own that I thought
I would at least make one more try to
get my arm right. I bought the whole
treatment of the chemist, and I perse-
vered with it for a week. By that
time the improvement was apparent to
any one, and the relief I felt myself was
great. I should not have believed it
possible for any remedy to afford such
comfort in so short a time. My ex-
perience with the other remedies for
eczema —and I should think I tried
them all enables me to appreciate
Cuticura to the full. By the doctor’s
orders I was keeping my arm in a sling
for many months, but the sling was soon
dispensed with when I started with
Cuticura. I persevered with Cuticura
Soap, Ointment, and Pills for about a
couple of months, using in all two
complete treatments, and I can tell
you candidly and heartily that I was
cured. I have occasion to have great
faith in Cuticura in skin ailments, not
only because of the great good it has
done me, but because of the benefit I
know has accrued from its use in other
cases. Mr. T. S. Gillard, 3, Hetley Road,
Shepherd’s Bush, London, Nov. 19, ’OG.”
sold throughout the world,
rterhouse Sq.; R. Towns &
pe Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
: Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
Booh on Skin Diseases.
Cuticura Remedies are
Depots; London, 27, Cha
Co., Sydney; Lennon, Cai
Calcutta; Potter Drug &
■s-Post-lree, Cuticura
Everyone’s
Opinion !
It is the consensus of opinion as
expressed in hundreds of letters
from music-loving people that
THE FEURICH PIANO
is the best of all instruments ——.
There is no qualification of this
opinion .
It is backed by actual ownership
and practical recommendations.
The ripest thought and experi-
ence is embodied in its construc-
tion—
It’s the Piano that lasts .
Easy terms if desired— —.
Catalogues free .
34-2 CEORCE STREET SYDNEY.
ii
MILLERS
TO
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
C/_ Length, 12 Inches.
~ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt Bt., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swan3ton Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [4
V ! , u ' •
115,000
The Wayback iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry ts.
DAINTY BEADED
Evening Shoe
FOR LADIES,
18/6
o ■
m
•v
A more dainty Evening Shoe
would be hard to find. It is
most tastefully beaded, is very
light in make, beautifully
finished with padded insole,
and has a luxurious beauty
that cannot fail to please. 18/6.
If ordering in Victoria, add
9d. for postage; if in other
States, add 1/-
Drop us a Post Card for our Booklet “ Shoe-
light,” beautifully illustrated with our
finest footwear. We send it FREB.
LBEMING’S BOOTS TORES, 109 Swanston
Street, Melbourne ; 303 Ohapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
I?\
WHY
STAY
FAT
?
A Sydney physician, who
knows, says that until re-
cently a fat person had no
real hope of relief, but now, thanks
to the discoverer of “Fatcure,” Obesity
and Corpulency can be easily, speedily and
permanently cured.
“FATCURE”
reduces by as much as four pounds a week,
and cures permanently. It is harmless
to take, and is non-poisonous and does not
affect the heart. Full particulars and free
trial sample for 2d. stamp. Write or call
at once. Hours: 9a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance Castlereagh or Market Streets. [33
CRUTCH
YOUR
SHEEP.
h Q.O-C0
-jin
V VKJM
Q.O- CO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARING
MACHINE Propy. Ltd.,
16 YOUNC STREET, CIRCULAR QUAY, SYDNEY.
Inventors of the Double Rocker Fork
Wide Cut Machine.
mi
W
POST
£§g
3IC
T‘
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
B*J THCS.TI& y
Qiip splendid
pOMMERCIAL.
BOOKKEEPING.
[ ACCOUNTANCY.
SHORTHAND.
•PENMANSHIP.
ENGLISH.
LANGUAGES. &.C.
A GRICULTURAL.
SOIL MANAGEMENT
Drainage and
IRRIGATION.
BREEDING AND
MANAGEMENT OF
LIVE STOCK. AC.
QOMMERCIAL ART
DRAWING.
L.LU STRATI NG.
ADVERTISEMENT
WRITING,*
DESIGNING. AC.
ls&jrnMorie Money.
HIGHER SALARIES and
splendid prospects await
those who take advantage
of our system of POSTAL
INSTRUCTION. We teach
wherever the mail reaches,
and our methods ensure the
acquirement of MONEY-
MAKING KNOWLEDGE.
Our infraction is thorough,
practical and complete, and
our instructors are men of
unquestionable ability and
experience, Every student
receives careful individual
attention, and the instruction
is private. We prepare
candidates for all PUBLIC
EXAMINATIONS.
It costs nothing to Inquire.
Write TO-DAY for FREE
copy oi PROSPECTUS E
and state subject in which
you are interested.
CTATT’Q correspondence
ollfllo COLLEGE
56 HUNTER ST SYDNEY
«*2B COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
The bulletin post cards-n^v
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
... The ...
CITY MUTUAL
Pinp INSURANCE COMPANY
I lIS EL LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney,
NEAT and
STRONG.
TO
MEND
BELTS and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
t No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
X keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison. Letter Boa G.P.O
1098. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.
Warrington. Eng. ’
Price List on
application.
GOOD RESULTS.
Clements Tome
Cures and Strengthens.
THE PROOF.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
With a view to bringing before the public a
matter of considerable importance, a reporter
rapped at 114 Glebe Road, Glebe, where Mrs.
Hannah Wells resides. The lady appeared in
response, and upon the pressman’s mission being
explained, she said :
“ Certainly. Nothing would give me more plea-
sure than to relate the story of my great achieve-
ment of four years ago, especially as it will be so
serviceable to many in want of guidance. You
see it was after fruitlessly trying several home
remedies that I saw about Clements Tonic in the
papers, and made up my mind to find out what it
was like for myself, as I was very ill, and was
willing to take anything so long as I got better.
I was as
WEAK AND MISERABLE AS ANY
WOMAN COULD BE,
and had such a sallow complexion, too, that to
look at me you would have thought I had the
jaundice. My chest used to cause me no end of
bother, for often I felt that something was there,
blocking my breath, besides having heavy, op-
pressive pains as well. I hadn’t any inclination
to eat.
NO APPETITE AT ALL,
so what could I expect but to get thin and deli
cate looking, which I assuredly did. From the
time I arose from bed of a morning till I returned
again in the evening I was as languid and indo
lent as could be. When I tried to sleep at night
I could not, and oh ! it was so wretched being
there hour after hour waiting for the daylight,
and when it came, what did it bring? Cny
another day of sorrow. My sight got bad, an
my eyes felt as heavy as lead ; the taste in my
mouth was awfully bitter, and the worst of it was
that my head was always aching.
“Indeed, I don’t know what I hadn’t got to
make life a burden, and if I hadn't taken Clements
Tonic when I did I am afraid to think what won
have happened, for I was going down hill fast.
“ Had your nerves given way at all ?
“Oh ! I was fearfully nervous, scarcely able to
ove without getting a shock at some trivial t mg
■ other, and even when I managed to snatcii
:tle sleep my mind was unsettled with v^ 10l j
rly dreams. Now, that is where Clements lon
,me in with good results very speedily,
lieted my nerves, and gave me sue co
and over myself that nothing surprised
icited me, and as for having nasty re
■ getting frightened at anything—w y.
as quite exempt in both respects. use
eet trouble halfway too, but I got quite o
lat habit since using Clements Tonic, w nc
ade me eat as hungrily as if I had taken a
ia trip before each meal. What surprise
ore, though, and my friends too, was the m
i which my pains subsided, for when 1 to
lat I was perfectly at ease, and that my
jhes were gone, they could scarcely ie ie '! .
ut it is nevertheless a fact that Clemen s
ired me and strengthened me thorough
i the interests of similar sufferers you may P
sh these remarks as it suits you.’
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this
>urth day of August, one thousand
nd three, before me, W. A. I* >
The Poison Cart and Bird Life.
It is about time N.S.W. settled down to seriously
consider the advisability of abolishing the rab-
biter’s poison cart. Driving through the country
between Cotter Creek and Queanbeyan recently a
Bulletin man was struck by the total absence of
birds. The poison cart had wiped them out.
Magpie, starling, crow and cockatoo had all dis-
appeared. The abolition of the crow is not an
unmixed evil, but the other birds, especially the
worm and insect eaters, are a serious loss. The
poison cart was not intended to abolish the birds,
of course, but the rabbits. But, judging by
appearances, Bunny never eats the stuff, as
writer saw millions of rabbits. Part of the
timbered country was subdivided by log
fences, and every log fence was a warren
towards which the rabbits made in scores when
the noise of the sulky was first heard. They are
not timid, and they rarely sought shelter, but
sat up within easy reach of home and waited
to see what would happen. Of course, it
is just possible that the poison does kill off
some of them, but they are so few compared to
what are left that they do not count in the balance.
In fact, it seemed an empty land. Human beings
were met but rarely, and the only signs of life
were the rabbits and the grasshoppers, which
swept away in clouds when disturbed. And,
while they last, grasshoppers are said to eat as
much grass as rabbits. Sometimes, when they are
numerous, they eat more and make a clean sweep.
Several observant country residents informed the
writer that, in districts where the poison cart is
rife, heavy rainfalls are usually followed by a
number of mysterious deaths, which are commonly
described as “stomach trouble.” If a downpour
of rain occurs shortly after the laying of the
poison the moisture preserves the poison and also
washes it into the human drinking supplies.
Then nice, respectable, old identities, who
never previously had a day’s illness in their
lives, quietly turn up their toes and depart
to that bourne which is six feet by three. That
the poison cart is not a successful method of fight-
ing the rabbit is proved conclusively by the
myriads of him that are still going strong. But
that it is a great eradicator of bird life is evidenced
by the birdless state of the districts in which it
has been in vogue any length of time. And that it
is a successful remover of the late well-known and
widely-respected townsman and settler is more
than reasonably suspected. It is up to N.S.W.
to consider the advisability of abolishing the
poison cart by Act of Parliament.
+
The other day a trades union represented by Drs.
MacLaurin, M.L.C., Sydney Jones, Mackkllar,
M.L.C., and others of great tonnage waited on
the N.S.W. Chief Secretary, and asked for a few
changes in the law. First, these persons wanted to
shut out from their union any doctor who belongs to
any country that won’t reciprocate ; after that
they requested that no such shut-out non-unionist
“ shall be entitled to recover in any court of law
for any medical or surgical advice or attendance.”
Thereupon the Chief Secretary was very sym-
pathetic and said he would consult the Cabinet
about it; and the Cabinet which he will consult
sympathetically will be the same crowd which, the
other day, when the Arbitration Act was under
consideration, almost refused to recognise unions
at all—that is, unions of miners, and coal trimmers,
and other common persons. It is interesting to
picture the sort of earthquake that would
have happened in the office of that Chief Secre-
tary, and that Cabinet, if those unions of com-
mon persons had dared to suggest the non-pay-
ment of wages to non-unionists and the slamming
of the door of the courts in their face. It looks as
if the coal-lumpers need a knight or two. If they
only had a Sir Bill Brown and a Sir “Baldy”
Smithkins to lead their deputations, the chances
are that Wood and Wade would give them quite
a different sort of reception.
♦
That Superior Person who is fond of declaring
that Australian industries make him feel tired,
and that he wouldn’t give a fig for the local
article, has received a shock from Bakjsr, curator
of the Sydney Tech. Museum. This Baker re-
cited to the Carriage Builders’ Convention, sitting
at Sydney at Easter-tide, the story of how he
laughs a horrid laugh when he sees in the big
furniture establishments the familiar placards,
“ Solid oak,” “ Real old English oak,” “Finest old
oak,” “Best imported oak,” and all sorts of
ancient silly oak, designedly displayed to lure the
Superior Person aforesaid into the belief that his
dining-room suite once graced in arboreal gran-
deur the demesne of some haughty but impe-
cunious British peer. Baker stated that what
this “ oak ” furniture is made out of is really the
blue fig tree of the N.S.W. North Coast. This fig
is a valuable timber, and can be so polished that
it looks exactly like oak, and it is called oak to
amuse the unwise bounders who insist on imported
goods. It is a dishonest proceeding, but when one
considers the childish ignorance and foolishness of
the people who buy “English oak furniture,” it
seems hardly worth while being honest with them.
The United Kingdom now spends about
£30,000,000 a year on imported timber, and a lot
of it is oak, because the country has hardly enough
oak of its own left to make a table with. So one
might almost as well buy a saddle made of the
alleged skin of the British wild elephant as a suite
of alleged British oak furniture.
The British meat producer has lately been look-
ing upon some realistic,illustrations of the beauties
of Private Enterprise. For instance :
At Glasgow, the centre of the American cattle trade in
the north, the carcases are despatched mostly to London,
a distance of 444 miles, the freight upon which is 455. per
ton, whereas Scotch feeders and killers, shipping from
Aberdeen, the great market for Scotch beef, have to pay
725. per ton in freight to London, though London is only
79 miles further from Aberdeen than is Glasgow. That
is to say, the American is charged less than ljd. per ton
per mile on British railways, while the British person is
charged just about lfd. per ton on British railways. The
railway companies have not only given this enormous
preference to the Americans, but they allow them to use
their sidings all over the country, where the Beef Trust
may, and does, send refrigerator cars containing American
beef for distribution to the retailers in small towns;
and these cars are allowed to remain in the sidings
free of rent, rates, and taxes until their local agent has
disposed of the beef, even should it take him a week or a
fortnight to do sp. The great hardship entailed upon
local killers must be evident to all.
In other words Private Enterprise, in the shape
of the British railway companies, is helping tbe
American Beef octopus to strangle the British
meat industry. There should be a fine large
moral in this for those fatuous Australian
“producers” who sometimes assert that “this
country would advance more rapidly if the rail-
ways were privately-owned.”


AND CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY.
WHAT IS INFLUENZA ?
ITS EFFECT.
MEDICAL MEN INTERVIEWED.
These questions are best answered by several
eminent medical men in published interviews.
The most important points emphasised by the
doctors are these :
Influenza is highly infectious.
Influenza stimulates other diseases.
Influenza has an extraordinary effect on the
mental function.
Influenza picks out the weak points in a person’s
constitution.
The victims of influenza are adults who perish
from pneumonia or bronchitis and the aged who
sink from heart exhaustion.
Children, while prone to the disease, enjoy com-
parative immunity from its complications and
dangers.
Influenza shows a decided tendency to relapses,
a feature to which the indirect fatality of the
disease is in a great measure due.
Alcoholic stimulants are not only unnecessary
but positively harmful.
An attack of influenza seems to render the indi-
vidual more liable to contract the disease from
future exposure.
The attack comes on with lightning-like speed.
A person in apparently perfect health is suddenly
overcome by a feeling of discomfort. He feels
chilly, or shakes with the rigor worthy of an ague.
His head aches. There are pains in his eyeballs,
and other symptoms characteristic of the disease
soon follow.
Quite Different.
The ordinary cough medicine may soothe the
throat, but it has no power to heal; recovery is
not complete, and a second attack is more liable
to follow. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is quite
different, because it not only soothes but also
heals, so that the affected parts are restored to a
healthy condition, and the danger of a future
attack is removed.
What We Do.
Buy a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
from your Chemist or Storekeeper, or if they can-
not supply you send direct to us. Enclose 1/6 in
stamps—any State. If you derive no benefit after
giving it a fair and thorough trial, write us about
it, and we will immediately refund the price.
Every bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
is sold on a positive guarantee.
Chamberlain Medicine Co.,
608 Harris Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THREATS
OF INFLUENZA.
ITS DANGERS.
ENGLISH AND CONTINENTAL ADVICE.
The increased mortality last season from Lung
Affections following attacks of Influenza em-
phasises more than ever the necessity for nursing
an initiatory cold.
Especially since the advices from England, The
Continent, and America indicate that there has
been raging in all those countries an epidemic of
Influenza of the most virulent type. It is only
natural that Australia will in turn have the same.
We are always anxious concerning the public
health, have repeatedly called attention to the
dangers of undue exposure during inclement
weather, and now reiterate the injunction with
still more earnestness in view of present con-
ditions.
Most of the fatal cases of pneumonia at this
time of the year are due to the lack of timely
treatment of what appears to be a simple attack
of bronchial catarrh. The taking of the stitch in
time is at the bottom of all questions of preven-
tion of other more serious ones lying in wait for
solution.
It is well to take into account in such connection
that our winter months are generally considered
the most fatal for pneumonia, especially when
influenza is prevailing even in mild epidemic form.
Thus far we have escaped a visitation of a viru-
lent form of the latter malady, but there is
abundance of time and opportunity for the
development of a severe epidemic, with the usual
aftermath of alarming mortality.
The effective treatment of an ordinary “cold”
is a matter of a day or two against a possible
subsequent sickness for weeks.
The indications of a severe attack of influenza
are headache, chilliness, general muscular pains,
fever, sore throat, cough and systemic lassitude.
When these show themselves no time is to be
lost, and the patient should give up work at once
and promptly place himself under proper medical
care.
There is no danger whatever of any serious con-
sequences from an attack of influenza when Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy is used, as it counter-
acts any tendency towards pneumonia: This
fact has been abundantly proven in many thou-
sands of cases during the epidemics of the past
few years.
Can be Cured.
Commence at first symptoms to use Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy. Thousands have used this
Remedy during the last few years, and we have
yet to learn of a single case where they were not
pleased.
HOW TO CURE
INFLUENZA.
READ. REFLECT.
REMEMBER.
Rest, warmth and quiet are the three sovereign
remedies for this disease, and the best preventives
of its secondary complications. Go to bed and
remain in bed until well on the way toward re-
covery. Two or three days in bed when you first
contract the disease is better than two or three
weeks later on. Also take a double dose of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to begin with, and
then the regular dose every hour. If it should
nauseate, discontinue it until the nausea subsides,
and then take it in smaller doses or less frequently.
Before going to bed take two of Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets, and bathe the feet in
water as warm as can be comfortably borne. If
the attack is a severe one, take sulphate of quinine
in doses of two grains each, every four hours, for
a few days. It will keep up the vitality and
enable the system to withstand the attack.
What Follows,
Often it is the persistent cough, which is not
only dangerous but annoying. Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy has been used most extensively,
and always with success, for the relief and cure of
this cough.
No Opium.
There is no opium or narcotics of any descrip-
tion in Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and this
makes it a favorite with all. It can be given to a
baby as confidently as to an adult. As a cure for
bad colds, croup or whooping cough, it is un-
equalled, and may be depended upon with the
utmost confidence. It is pleasant to take, which
is of much importance. It always cures, and
cures quickly.
Every Bottle Guaranteed.
If you fail to get beneficial results after using
two-thirds of a bottle of
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
according to directions, return it to your dealer
and get your money back. It is well known for
its prompt cures of coughs, colds, and croup.
PHYSICAL & MENTAL
AGONY,
LACK OF SYMPATHY.
Before we can sympathise with others we must
have suffered ourselves. No one can realise the
suffering attendant on an attack of Influenza
unless he has had the actual experience. There is
probably no disease that causes so much physical
and mental agony, or which so successfully defies
medical aid. All danger from Influenza, however,
may be avoided by the prompt use of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy. The pain in the chest dis-
appears, the fever subsides, and the whole body
becomes more comfortable. Many persons find
themselves affected with a persistent cough after
an attack of Influenza. As this cough can be
promptly cured by the use of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, it should not be allowed to run on until
it becomes troublesome. Among the tens of
thousands who have used this remedy, not one
case has ever been reported that has resulted in
pneumonia, or that has not recovered.
Its Dangers.
An attack of influenza seldom results fatally,
but it is the indirect cause of many deaths. If it
does not result in pneumonia, which is frequently
the case, it leaves its victim with a cough which
lingers on long after every other symptom of the
disease has vanished. The system is thus left in
a weakened condition and is susceptible to almost
every other disease. The influenza can be greatly
lessened in its severity if Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is used, and any tendency towards pneu-
monia is promptly checked. There is no medicine
which has met with greater success in the treat-
ment of this disease. It cures the cough and
leaves the systqm in a natural and healthy Con-
dition.
Always in the House.
You should always have a bottle of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy in the house. You cannot
tell just the hour you will need it, for you do not
know when you will take cold. You could not
bring home a better present than Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. It may not be needed to-day,
but what about to-morrow Colds come into
every home. Be prepared for them. Be sure and
have a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
always on hand.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUQH REMEDY
Sold Everywhere Ij6.
The Motor Hog.
In Yankee-land the motorist who rushes his car
through populated districts without any regard for
the safety or convenience of other people is called
a Motor-Hog, or a Road-Hog. It is a fine, appro-
priate term, and tills the bill to a nicety. Unfor-
tunately this human reptile is not confined to
Amur’ka, but is becoming alarmingly frequent in
this country. Victoria, especially, has been
suffering from quite an epidemic of him, and
elderly people are beginning to get “ the jumps”
on account of him. No one objects to the motorist
going as fast as he likes on some of the long,
deserted country roads. In fact, if he is that
kind of motorist, the faster lie goes the
better, as it increases his chance of breaking his
neck over a stray obstruction. But wherever
there is much foot-traffic, or wherever, especially,
there are children about, it is imperative that the
gentlemen with the evil-smelling, buzzing machine
should go slow. It is not sufficient that he should
give a blast of what sounds very like an old,
lonely dog at midnight, and still keep up his
speed. Here is a typical complaint from a well-
known man—Mr. T. G. Watson, clerk of the Vic.
beg. Assembly:—
The lives of heads of families have become a burden to
inem, owing to the risks run by their children from
'otors. On the day previous to this, there were two
ccidents [in his street], one of the injured being my
aughter, and, of course, the callous motorist cleared
ut....1 am quitting my house in consequence of the
P rii... accidents here are of weekly occurrence.
hat is badly needed is a system of numbering and
registration, so that offending drivers can be got
?■’ this manner the road-hog can be traced to
ri sty. England has long since adopted this
oinmon-sense practice, and it is wanted here
if not sooner. Then speed-limits
ould be fixed, and also enforced. Finally, the
Penalties for infractions of the law should include
i.-ieral sprinkling of gaol. Most road-hogs, or
1 eir employers, are well-off, and a fine is simply
ughed at. But 14 days in a cell, on hominy,
la -- t XClted m > rt h on the part of any well-regu-
♦
A BTunicipal valuer has been giving the
t °^. awa y- The new Act in N.S.W. authorises
, tlon ,°)V unimproved land values, and the
w | - ne J dailies, always true to the Fat Loafer,
hirii *1 counc ils were clapping on “as
extt f » as possible, to the. extent of
tion«fi° n ’ thereupon the valuer before men-
wrote to say that the tendency was towards
low, and not high values. The councils, he re-
marked, let out the valuating job by contract, and
it was all to the valuer’s interest to get it over,
quickly. Hence the valuers put down as low an
estimate as possible, for low values mean few
appeals. The valuer’s job doesn’t end until the
appeals are all disposed of, so high valuations
are things to be shunned. This aspect of the
matter probably hadn’t occurred to the councils
when they put the valuing job up to tender, but it
is worth pasting on the bedpost as a reminder
later on.
If Sydney Telegraph is to be relied upon,
the local police have not yet heard of the “Spanish
Prisoner ” swindle, which is a grey and toothless
fraud these days, and has been exposed about a
thousand times. The Telegkaph devotes half-a-
column to an elaborate description of a revival of
the fraud, and concludes—-
What action the police intend to take cannot be ascer-
tained, but most likely they will communicate with the
bank referred to, to test the bona-fides of the statement.
Either the Telegraph or the Police Department
is shockingly ignorant. The Spanish prisoner
fraud has passed the stage of inquiry these many
years. And, anyhow, the financial editor, if he had
been consulted, would have explained with great
enthusiasm that the police search for “the
English Australian Bank in Victoria” —the in-
stitution wherein the prisoner, now allegedly
languishing in a Spanish dungeon, says he left his
money—will certainly be a very long search.
Just about the time that Victoria’s
muddled railways were slaughtering people
wholesale, State Premier Bent was in the midst
of a State’s Frights frenzy, and was pouring forth
a wordy cataract about the alleged mismanage-
ment of the Commonwealth’s Postal Department.
Postmaster-General Mauger resolved the vitu-
peratory waterspout into its essential elements
by heaving at it a hard clod of history. Some
time before Fedev ition, electrical engineer
Howard reported to the Victorian P.O. bosses
that the State’s telephones were just anyhow,
and that it would take £250,000 to make
them eVen fairly shipshape. State Postmaster-
General Watt recommended that the work should
be done, but the slothful State Government just
let things slide ; and if the Commonwealth hadn’t
been forthcoming to undertake the woeful and
expensive job of making them efficient, the Vic-
torian telephones would probably have slid into
the nether scrap heap before this.
From a Fat Man’s diary :
I have always endeavored to instil into my employees
a proper sense of economy to be observed, even in the
smallest matters about the household, as well as in the
warehouse. Consequently, when Birdie —my wife —drew
my attention to the fact that the consumption of soap in
the servants’ bathroom had recently increased from one
bar at s£d., to one bar and three-eights per week, I, with
natural business instincts, determined to investigate the
cause. After making a few resultless inquiries amongst
the servants—by the way, these persons have peculiar
ideas of honor, and of what is due to their masters —I
made up my mind to catch the culprit red-handed. I might
say that my suspicion naturally rested on a youth who
had recently taken the place of another house-boy at a
reduced rate, as his mother was an invalid. This youth
I had actually observed to pluck a flower from
my garden for his buttonhole, and on another
occasion I distinctly saw him light a cigarette
with a match from a box intended for use in
the kitchen—acts which, of course, received the
reprimand they merited. However, I determined to
make sure, and with that object concealed myself in a
cupboard in the corner of the bathroom. I did this with
some little inconvenience, as I have put on considerable
flesh in recent years, especially in the region of the lower
waistcoat. I had not to wait long before a footstep
sounded at the door. I peeped out, expecting to see the
suspect enter. Judge of my surprise, however, when,
instead, our youngest housemaid, a girl of comely
features, made her appearance. Before f could
realise what was about to occur, the girl
had disrobed and proceeded to bathe. Wedged
in an uncomfortable position, my breath was completely
taken away by this unexpected development, and I
became conscious of the extreme awkwardness of the
situation. My desire was to remain quiet and undis-
covered. I will mention that I could not help making a
mental note to the effect that the girl’s figure compared
more than favorably with Birdie’s, though, of course, I
took but little notice. The whole incident would cer-
tainly have been trivial enough, and no one would have
been the wiser, but for the consistent pressure of the cup-
board on my person. Beads of perspiration stood out
on my brow, but I suffered in silence till nature
could hold out no longer. Then a sudden gasp escaped
me. Simultaneously the girl sprang from the bath with
a piercing scream and fell in a fainting-fit on the floor.
Birdie, who was in the vicinity, rushed into the room as
I extricated myself with no little exertion from my con-
finement. She, too, screamed as women do, and of
course misunderstood the whole situation. Explanation
was of no avail. Soon the whole household was at the
door, and James, the coachman (I afterwards discovered
he was an admirer of the girl), so far forgot his position
as to threaten to strike me actually to lay his
hands on my person! A common working man to
address me—a Captain of Industry—with so little respect!
I shall discharge him at the first opportunity I have of
securing a cheaper substitute. The £2 I intended giving
as an advertisement to the hospital had to be diverted to
appeasing the housemaid, and a judicious distribution of
presents, which might have been used to better advan-
tage, was necessary in order to convince the servants
that there was really nothing’ in the incident. Birdie
will not even yet listen to reason. And my intentions
were of the best.
The other day, Greid had put in one of his
very rare appearances at the House —he does
sometimes attend now—and, as usual, announced
his presence by purposeless interruptions. Jabez
Coon was talkin*g about the cap industry in Eng-
land, and produced a cap that was made in Man-
chester for 3s. per dozen. “ That shows the con-
ditions of workers in Great Britain,” said Jabez.
“ Persons engaged in making these caps don’t get
sufficient to live on, and have to be relieved by the
parish rate.” Thereupon :
. Greid : That is one of your wild Collingwood state
ments.
Coon : No, it is not. It is the sworn evidence before an
English royal commission.
Dead silence from Reid. Then :
Johnson : Perhaps the hon. member would be surprised
to learn that the caps were not manufactured in England
at all.
Coon : I have the invoices here, and will show them to
the hon. member if he wishes to see them.
Deader silence from Johnson, who probably felt
like he felt once before when he was fool enough
to sit down on a fallen tree and found that the
fallen tree was an alligator.
The early-rising habit has got the women
of southern Melbourne in an aggravated form just
at present. The vast cow-pasture known as
Albert Park was recently reported to have pro-
duced a mushroom. The news quickly spread, and
now weary pressmen, wandering home in the
small hours, bump up against thin girls, stout
girls, pretty girls, and ugly girls, all
bent on snaring the unsuspecting fungus.
Edith, Florence, and Lily arrange the expedition
days beforehand. They talk nothing else. They
stay awake sat night thinking about it. They
sleep together (Florence in the middle) so that
they can make an early start. The alarm is set
for 4 o’clock. They talk all night, so as to be sure
of getting up. At breakfast time three weary
girls with wet feet, sleepy eyes, straggling hair,
and bad tempers put in an appearance. They
must have struck a bad morning. Nobody seemed
to get any. They’d had a nice walk. Anyway,
they are not much gone on mushrooms after all.
Queensland Lands Department is making
an effort to keep Gent One out of such Land
Court cases as the assessment of rents. It has
suggested to the lessees in some pending cases that
they should conduct their own eases, and if they
consent the department will also do without Shark-
One.


snipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
A|id Regularly every Four Week 9 thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street,, Sydney.
M klrourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
™Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1860.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.29 G 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64,000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 5 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All Ne.w Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.-— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial (Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
T£?Bank of ll or fh Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CAN^IY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all Banking Business.
Bank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all -
Security.
Classes - of
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
<s>
$
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3XT-S. W.
[Hontdepietei).»|iLCo.,[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. AILeN,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested™ Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 0
Directors: F. K Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
ITIACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dvson.
i “Bust book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
IST. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen,
via Ports.
*T\vin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. 2nd JUNE.
PRINZ SICISMUND 30th JUNE.
MANILA 28th JULY.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
LIMITED.
Capital Paid-up .. .. £475,041 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174.350 0 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stock) 70,000 0 0
£719,391 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aoct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetoivn, Plymouth, and
London,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. t New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
CUFIC, 8000 tons (Cargo only), to sail
about Bth May.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about 13th
May.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 10th
June.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
The Commercial Banking Co
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,220,000 0 0
Reserve Liability ... 1,250,000 0 0
£3,720,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
O. J. Cohen, Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Katbr, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C.
Auditors :
E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gaden,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey,- Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. W. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. H. S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New Soutn Wales
and in Queensland.,
Agencies throughout the world.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
Rates Very Low.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
Business Announcements.
■4
mmmp.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHti Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
a •
G
EORGE HOTEL,
iSt. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND,
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
The Very Latest
The “OPENIT” PUZZLE
MATCH BOX - .
A REGULAR
TEASER
VERY USEFUL
Only 1/2 each
POST FREE
If you do not know the »ecret, you may try for
ever to open this mysterious MATCH BOX.
It is most ingeniously made, and on a different
principle altogether to other “Puzzle” Boxes
which everybody knows. The “ OPEN IT ”
PUZZLE MATCH BOX will baffle all your
friends. It is of splendid appearance being made
of Nickel Silver, aud altogether quite the most
useful and ingenious Novelty you c_«uld have.
The price is only 1/2, post free to any address.
If you order two, we give you FREE a Patent
Automatic Collar Stud worth 1 /-, or the Match
Box and Stud for only 1/6, post free.
A. J. SMITH & GO.,
14 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEV
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongala, May 8.
S.S. Grantala, May 23.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports Norfh to Oairns.
S.S. Marloo, May 9.
S.S. Buninyong, May 16.
Best anti Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable alter the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSAGERIES jyjA RITI IVIES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia
Tel. 378. 1 '57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
BOMBALA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
May 9.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
May 16.
ADELAIDE '>
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers (
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other VV.A. ports.) .
GRANTALA, SATURDAY,
June 20.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR.
DAY, May 9.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
May 12.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
May 16.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Train).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
♦
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F. — H.—
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
FOR
Durban, Capetown, London,
and Liverpool.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.”
11,300 Tons. G. T, Dkith.
Will be despatched from Brisbane on the 9th May, 1908
„ „ „ Sydney „ 18th May, 908
~ ~ Melbourne ~ 18th May, 1908
„ Adelaide „ 23rd May, 908
” ” „ Albany „ 27th May, 1908
To be followed by other fast twin-screw steamers.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and tnira-
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists or
two-berth cabins on the upper deck, situated
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises ,
and 6-berth cabins, all of which are situated on th
deck. Electric light throughout. Surgeon and Stewarae
carried. Return Tickets issued. Prepaid passagesarrange
FAKES— Saloon. Third Class.
DURBAN .. £22 ! £ll lls £13135. £15155.
CAPETOWN .. £24 15s. j
i £49105. £l3 13s. £15155. £1717*
LIVERPOOL .. /
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
For further information, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney.
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Ltd., Melbo
and Albany.
ELDER SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.


THE OEM OF MOMARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil is equally
rich-growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptionally EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
' Pitt Street,
Mount Cooper
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*O*UTS Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I neyer saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and.
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
I
UIS
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
y
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS 1
MAGNESIA
I
The Physician’*
‘Core for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
EEEHSH
BOVRIL
Should be in every home as well as in every hospital.
When you are worried and cannot eat well nor sleep well, you will
find a great help in BO VEIL.
BEWARE OF CHEAP IMITATIONS.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
On which Side of the Line
Do You Buy
r
iBM
Credit is a Commodity—just the same
as goods, and a very expensive Com-
modity. A Merchant who buys credit
as well as goods, sells you his expen=
sive Commodity of credit, goods,
and profit combined.
You too may buy credit, or you may
be paying Cash at a credit-buying or
credit-giving establishment, but in
either case you are paying the credit
high price. The point is, if you can
pay Cash do you prefer to pay for these
credits, and for those losses of non-
payers, for that is what it means, or j ust
to buy the goods without these extra
charges attached. If you do, come over
the line!
Stewart Dawson & Co. manufacture or
buy from the actual Makers, Jewellery,
Precious Stones, Silverware, and fine
Leather Goods for Cash and sell them
to you for Cash . If you buy at Stewart
Dawson’s you will not have to pay
inflated credit prices, nor will you have
to pay the bad debts of others, but you
will purchase at prices 10 per cent, to
20 per cent, lower than at an average
shop—whose business and selling prices
are built up, not on a foundation of
value, but on credits and losses thereon.
Call at the Stewart Dawson Showrooms,
or write us, and realise the revelation
in price-saving.
Ji*L
A prominent wholesaler called on us the other day with nine samples of Ladies’ Gold
altham Watches. Some of them were open face, and others full hunting and half or cut
iinting, hut in each case the samples were Engine Turned, as shown in our illustration. His
rouble was—his trade was not high-class enough to appreciate the smart appearance of Engine
urued Oases, and he made us an offer that if we would clear his stock of these watches he
ould charge us the Actual Cost in America. When we tell you that the duty on these watches
*os. m the £, and the charges for importing another 2s. in the £, you will understand the won-
er ‘ u ‘ na ture of the bargain we were offered. Needless to say we gave him the cheque.
Now You can have the full benefit of this extraordinary piece of good luck if you act
promptly. You have only to read the list of prices below to grasp the fact that our offer is
nprecedented in the annals of watch selling. Don’t put the matter off, the quantity is limited.
We post them free on receipt of remittance. Money back if you feel at all disappointed
en you examine your purchase.
No. i
» 2
» 3
» 4
»' 5
—Hct. Gold, 0.F., £5
—ioct. „ 0.F., £.5/5/-
—l4ct. „ 0.F., £G
-iBct. „H.T.G.,£B
-Met. „ JH.T.G., *7/7/
No. 6i 4 ct. Gold, H.T.G.,£5/5/
„ 7— ioct. „ 0.F.,£5/10/-
„ B—iBct.8 —i8ct. „ 0.F., £7
» 9 — loct - » 0.F., £5
For 0.F., read Open Face; JH.T.G., read
Half Hunting- : H.T.G., read Hunting-.
a
HOW LIGHT!—
that will be your first exclamation when you test the weight of a bicycle built of
B.S.A. FITTINGS.
“ How good ! ” will be your verdict after the severest test. Every part of such a
bicycle is designed by men of unrivalled experience, and manufactured in the finest
factory devoted to cycle component construction.
Don’t be put off with“B.S.H. pattern’’—components so described are not of our
manufacture—they are not, as probablyyou will betold," just as good”—they cannot
bear the mark of the Piled Rifles, which alone is a guarantee of genuineness.
Look for this mark on every part, see it is there—and be sure of satisfaction.
D. Y. RENNIE, representing Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd.,
4 Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
/ all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
J* B. BROOKS & Co. Ld.j The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
,
u
&
fffflr,
17/
Hi
H; ‘2
v/'y':: .• '< • rM I 1■ ~
,-J*
/ iTfWi
i *0 i m
4
W:
' wS
s.
•s&‘
. ■ <
%■


POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes.
Of all Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
DR. J. COLUS BROWNES
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Chocks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medioal Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England —///J, 2/9, 4/6.
FROOTOIDS
For Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
OOO
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
They are elegant in appearance, pleasant
to take, and, what is of the. utmost
importance, are thoroughly reliable in
affording quick relief.
Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so far
that they not only act as an aperient,
but do remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident at once by the disappearance of
headache, the head becoming clear, and
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when Con-
gestion of the Brain or Apoplexy is pre-
sent or threatening. They have been
tested, and have been proved to afford
quick relief in such cases when other
aperients have not done any good at all.
It is of the utmost importance that this
should be borne in mind, for in such
cases to take an ordinary aperient is to
waste time and permit of a serious ill-
ness becoming fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
“antibilious pills” make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill by
“antibilious pills” who could have been
cured at once by Frootoids. People
should not allow themselves to be duped
into contracting a medicine-taking habit
by being persuaded to take daily doses
with each meal of so-called indigestion
cures that do NOT cure. Frootoids
have been subjected to extensive tests,
and have in every case proved success-
ful in completely curing the complaints
named.
The ordinary adult dose of Frootoids,
of which there are 72 in a bottle, is 2 to
4 —more or less as required—taken, pre-
ferably at bedtime, when constipated,
or at the commencement of any other
disease requiring an aperient, as an
auxilliary with the special medicine
necessary for the case. A constipated
habit of body will be completely cured
if the patient will on each occasion,
when suffering, take a dose of Frootoids,
instead of an ordinary aperient; making
the interval between the taking of each
dose longer and the dose smaller. The
patient thus gradually becomes indepen-
dent of Aperient Medicines.
oOo
For sale by leading Chemists and
Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not
obtainable locally, send direct to the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE, —The materials in FROOT-
OIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY
and consist, amongst other ingredients,
of the active principle of each of
FrVE different MEDICAL FRUITS and
ROOTS, so combined and proportioned
in a particular way that a far BETTER
result is obtained than from an ordinary
aperient.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established j-849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
tt *c* TUrmVrPV >pn T ° n Security or Freehold or Leasehold
XlilM ITIUIII £i 1 A U JU-CaXUJLP city or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or Now Zealand gW r* AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condrtion allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during an;v year, without notice or payment of any ; fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. ; James Burns, Esq. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. P. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. O. Fairfax, Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
XJnder Vice-Regal
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkeii),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereajrh Streets.
$0- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
CONJURING TRICKS,
PUZZLES, SURPRISE
& JOKE NOVELTIES.
The Look and Laugh Glass.
See the Passing
Show. Y our friends
grotesquely Photo-
graphed—stout
people look thin—
thin people look
stout. The Laugh-
ing Camera fur-
nishes all this, and
more. By getting
a focus on passing
pedfestrians, horses,
waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures .The Laughing Camera.
are witnessed. All grow. fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly made, and cannot get
out of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Quite Shocking:, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CENEMATOCRAPH.—A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a
microscopic lens fitted into one end. While
the victim is absorbed in admiration of the
pretty picture, and turns the button in the
confident expectation of seeing something
interesting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, and can be carried
in the vest pocket. Full directions with
each one.
Price post free anywhere for 1/6,
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue-
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
iWiiiiiillllliiiilllln.
PUZZLE. PURSES.
The Leitest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market. Even
our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled. Three
entirely different moves before the purse can be opened.
It is made of superior leather, with inside pocket, and
strong- 1 polished nickel frame. Illustrated directions en-
closed. Post free,' anywhere, 2/-. Do not miss this
chance of obtaining one of the best and most
useful puzzles ever produced.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
THIS
RACING WATCH
(CHRONOGRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS,
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
60/-
THIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and I
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable’ every
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dial
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. The
Chronograph is only in use when wanted —the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train
compensation balance, polished steel regulator and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the case, and the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GUN.
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white'dial
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed in
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not give
complete satisfaction, I will return your purchase
money in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any ten
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I have
the same works in sterling silver cases and solid
Gold Cases.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET. MELBOURNE
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
=c
•J
'4
MEN! DON’T
TAKE DREGS!
WHY don’t you stop it ? You are still doctoring, but changing doctors does not cure
’ you. You are trying one medicine after the other with the same disgusting disappoint-
ment. You are a “ medicine doser,” and the only change in your condition is for the worse.
Why don’t you stop this medicine habit ? Why don’t you avail yourself of
the modern remedy ? Proceed on Nature’s own lines. Use the life-giving, healing,
strengthening forces of Electricity! This is the electric age. You can see on every
hand> the wonders of Electricity. You don’t need doctors ; you don’t need medicine,
for medicine gives no nourishment. You DO need Electric Life Force. Use it as we
apply it and you will be well, strong and happy.
Nearly every ailment which afflicts humanity, outside of contagious diseases, is due to the breaking-
down of some vital organ. When a certain part fails to do its allotted task the entire human
machinery goes to smash. The only way to regain health —even life—is to rebuild the weak part
which has caused all the trouble by obtaining a new supply of vital electric energy. This can
only be properly done with the new improved
DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT.
There is no disputing the virtue in Electricity as a cure for weakness and pains. The brainiest doctors living now admit it, but there has
been a doubt that anyone had mastered the best way of applying it. The doctor’s battery is crude—shocks too much, and at best can only be
applied for half-an-hour at a time, which is not enough to do any good. Those other machines in a doctor’s office never reach the trouble. . .
Electricity, as applied by DR. McLAUGHLIN’S ELECTRIC BELT, is the modern, up-to-date method. No stock, no burning or
blistering, and you wear it for hours at a time while sleeping or during the day.
£5OO REWARD.
We guarantee every Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt sold by us to give a powerful current of
genuine electricity which can be instantly felt, and we will forfeit J£soo to anyone proving
the contrax*y.
It is a quick and lasting cure for Debility, Weakness of all kinds, Varicocele, Rheumatism, Weak Back, Sciatica,
Lumbago, Indigestion, Weak Kidneys, Failing Memory, and all evidence of Break-Down.
CALL TO-DAY
if possible, and we will give you
a free consultation and test, or
SEND THIS COUPON
FREE BOOK
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
OFFI3E HOURS: 9 am. to 5.30 pm.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book.
Name....
Address,
.2


A Vic. country storekeeper recently re-
ceived this letter from a man who was late :
Wuk Wuk,
?/4/’OB.
Dear S'r,—T made a start for Bullumwall last week,
and got as far as Bairnsdale, but as I was just recoverin'/
from an attack of influenza, I tried to cure it witii
whisky, the result being that I left Bairnsdale in a state
bordering on the horrors, minus the cash I went in
with. Such being the case, it was impossible to go am
further, and as 1 can get credit in “ Wuk Wuk,” thither
I returned to recover, accompanied by a legion of blue
devil. Since' then I have disposed of all the “Blue
Devils "and other fiery and inartistic forms and phan-
toms which forced their rather too sociable but gruesome
company upon me. lam now painting a cart, and have
the iron here tq make a tank afterwards, but will await,
the receipt of your answer before going any further, as
to whether you would sooner I came up, or, if you have
anyone else handy who would suit you better than my-
self for the job. As I make it my rule in life to keep my
word sooner or later, under any circumstances, from a
moral point of view, apart from the legal aspects of the
case.
I have enough work of various kinds on hand to last,
me for six months, but if you decide on my “ coming up,"
I will cut across the bush so as to avoid the rocks and
shoals on the route via Bairnsdale.
Apologising for any inconvenience T may have caused,
I can only say in conclusion, the spirit was willing but
the flesh was weak.
I remain,
■Yours respectfully,
Johnson Tank.
The storekeeper replied to Mr. Tank, bidding
hint tie up his blue devils in the public-house
yard at Wuk Wuk and come along.
R EAD > MARK, LEA RN
, HOW
TO
LOOK
YOUNG.
~'*v
-4
HOW
NOT TO
GROW
OLD.
TWAIN’S
GREY HAIRS are quite in keeping with the role plsved bv the
CRF.AT HUMORIST. But ordinaly men desire to retain Their
youth, keep their situations, not look too old at forty Women
desire 10 retain their youth and beauty. Darken grey hairs with
LOCKYER S
HAIR
RESTORER
In bottles 1/6, of all chemists and stores.
BEST
F-LAT
SHAPE
EBH
m
r^ y
C£T~ 1
The (£bd) i 5 the Pipe
That does rvot crack or burn
ALL TOBACCONISTS
KEEP IT
Wholesdle Depot
for Australasia,
231 Clarence S': Sydney,
111 ,|l
rf. ■ .ij>f . ''a*.
9
§
QE
gSSjjnS&it/
£
MAR^'
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
THROAT TROUBLES* Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
was I betflr K k S no^ H n Er ' TON ' l8 ’, Crow " Stre f‘' Oxford, writes If t h e vak.e of ‘POWELL’S BALSAM OF ANISEED’
upwards Of .ovearT-T 7^ 0 fl U T er C °?s hs ’ french, Us and other Lung Troubles would do as I have done for
“nvlfuable 1 that whe " ’?°‘ h 1 ln& els e will give relief. One or two bottles invariably sets me up. It is
attacks of B onZ J? T gl , Ve ? 3 A Me l ° "wT"? f ? e ? ds ’ and h has had the desired effect 1 had three
what k ;se of of ß t r his nC y h ou like 3 effeCt whe " aU else failt:d - You ma >’
32 ’ IS ? an , ville Road ' Ba ' ham ' London, S.W., writesl may add that I recommend your
Wilts for-ifvears If™ *? y father ' wl ] o ' vas a chemist at Lordship Lane. S.E., and Warminster,
> 35 y i was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers.”— January, iqoB.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
■_j, TTT __ ____ Sole Wholesale Agents for Neu< South Wales and Queensland-.
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., 0 Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR COUGHS.
# cV ,<s>
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as *‘run-down ” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
\\ounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and LuDg
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords ma=* welcome relief
in a very short time.
#V V
&
I
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS. ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing cower is marvpllnn, c m , ...
Breathing, Hoarseness. Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediat/rE ? id to Those whoaS ft’ C ° URh ; D S C " hy ° f
effects a Complete Cure: It is most comforting in a,laying irritation in the throat and giving strength to vot^nd
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “ Couehs” have heen nmnori,, ma l ° D ® come
should be without it. as. taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure certain. ? P * d WUh thlS medlcine - No h °^e
Beware of Imitations . The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
% Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. A Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTlCE.—Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person. *
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.vS.W.
K6e LEADING
HOUSE for
.Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more,
Special Snap
COLLECTOR GUN.
CANT
B
BEAT
No. 1
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Gun
410 bore, finest Siemen’s steel barrel, side lever action, walnut stock, case hardened locks,
24in barrel, length over all 38£in., weight about 41b. A splendid gun for use in Orchards
40s.
(We can also supply above Guns with Skeleton Stock, same price).
Postage on one Gun —Is 9d, N.S.W. ;3s 2d. Interstate.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book, oy b)e Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-.
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s Cd posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Niggf.ii Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bullet in series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is Od. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s fld. Aust. Miners’ G uidk (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiie Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Myst’eries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
m
m
m
■
i
i
■V
,-:r
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting- subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Son as and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-workinq for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How TO Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post How to Vami- on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s oa.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &■
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
AM these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only^
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere tor the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, la
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d cost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 19 iiA Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all l*egrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf-’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. \V.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Curb, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
‘PLASMON
INCREASES THE FOOD
VALUE ENORMOUSLY 77
lancet. _ «
a**
?VN
COCOA
fC r/AffS MOKE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA
DELICIOUS
DIGESTIBLE
CDe Societp of
motor manufacturers
and traders, £td.
For the protection, encouragtmtut ana
development oj the A utotnobile Industry,
The Society has organised a
TRADE INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT
which will be pleased, without
fee, to direct enquirers to the
Traders who can best supply
their needs, whether for Motor
Cars (commercial or pleasure),
Motor Agricultural Machines,
Motor Boats, Fire Engines,
Stationary Motors,Component
Parts, Tyres, or Accessories.
Address :
Maxwell House, Arundel St,
London, England.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
m
YSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s. 6d.
lightful and wickedly true/’*
‘De
1
LLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE
OLIVER OIL
(Sold in Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Remedy for Coughs. Colds, Consumption and
all Lung: complaints.
As a food and builder-up for both children
and adults , MQLLER’S OIL is unequalled , ,
BECAUSE: It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell.
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, emulsions, &c.
MOLLER’S HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
A GUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS S/17S ABOUT MOLLER’S
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
Medieal Review.—“We have no hesitation in saving it i= quite unexcelled. It is
of a pale golden colour ; it is free from any trace of free acid : it is easi y assimilated,
and, what is most important, it does not cause eructations or nad,:ea.
Medical Press.-" Messrs. Peter Moller, Ltd., by the introduction of then
Hydroxyl-Free Cod-Liver Oil. have placed in the hands of medical men a most excel-
lent and valuable preparation which i almost free from taste, limpid in character,
and, what is a still greater charm, does not cause the objectionable repeatmgs we
are so familiar with in certain brands.”
MOLLER’S COD-LIVER OIL has been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and the only Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. To be obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
L PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE. .
M Britisb=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
V>r\r(± POST FREE - £1 p f ye iJ’
r IICC OCI ♦ in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care o
the British-Australasian during the hrs
two months of a visit to Great Britain, n
formation on all topics of importance
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
and co.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES,
/Of
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials receive
our head cutter i
Copy of Testimonial. g q V erNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY. . (
Lady Mary Lygon *J tum ,
she is thoroughly satisfied with the
you have made for her, which fit very ‘
(Signed) C. JABDW**


THESE
PRIZES
FREE
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us to sell more we otter FREE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id. each, or tid. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
( we will forward you 6 Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Filled Mull
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
Books, Dressing Cases and many others. The more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don't send any money—just your name and address.
N.S.W, BOOKSTALL CO.
/ Post Card \
\ Department / 9
476 Georgs-street, SYDNEY.
GET RID OF THAT COUGH
Don’t delay. Get rid of the Winter “Cold,” the hacking Cough, or you may live just long-
enough to regret the delay. Coughs, Bronchitis, Asthma, incipient Lung and Throat
troubles yield rapidly to the healthy influences of Mrs. Maclurcan’s Great “ Cold ”
Remedy. It allays Inflammation, prevents Catarrh, and by curing the Cold checks Consumptive
risks. Mind, ask for
“MRS. MACLURCAN’S COUGH CURE CURES.
(All Chemists and Storekeepers, 1/6 per bottle.)
run BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATtK.
Janos
I
Professor Immermann, Basle, Professor of Internal Medicine at the University—
“ Hunyadi Janos has invariably shown itself an effectual and reliable Aperient,
which I recommend to the exclusion of all others. Never gives rise to un-
desirable symptoms even if used continuously for years.”
Average Dose.— A wincglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
■ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
«
35
oa
Ogu\/o
oj
Q2>
U 2
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP.
6d. per Tablet.
PRIZE
•V-' :
That is your Cue
When ordering Bileiard
„ REQUISITES OR
iVriIEETIC GOODS
OF ANY DESCRIPTION
Fop over fifty yoars the name “Alcock"
has been closely associated with Sporting-
Requisites in every part of Australasia,
until to-day its appearance on Athletic
Goods has precisely the same meaning
as the hall mark on silver. Our Stocks
represent the very highest standard of
excellence, and our facilities for manufac-
turing High-grade Goods at reasonable
prices are unequalled.
melbourne.Sydney.Perth.
Wellington,n.Z.&Lpndoh.
The Man Who Slammed the
Door
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
We have slammed, and boltr d, and barred the door in
the face of the Colonies !—W. Churchill.
rriHERE’S a sound of jubilation on a budly-
' I sweated shore—
_L From all the mills of Manchester ascends
a joyous roar,
For the “ Freetrade ” superstition
Is just slipping to Perdition—
It is rolling in the gutter with The Man Who
Slammed The Door !
His name was Winston Churchill— now it’s
ordinary Mud,
In spite of his “ connections,” and his cer-u-le-an
blood !
He's The Man Who Shimmed the Door—
He won’t do it any more,
For Manchester has dropped him with a heavy,
sickening thud !
Yes; the mighty politician who thought Chamber-
lain a bore,
And on the beastly colonies set very little store,
Is standing in the street
With unpleasantly cold feet—
Feeling like a shipwrecked mariner upon a barren
shore.
But the Sydney Morning Herald and the Tele-
graph both swore
That “the Freetrade cause 7 aust triumph—it is
solid to the core ! ”
Now they rise up to declare
That the “ cause” was never there
When the sweated cotton-spinners “chucked”
The Man Who Slammed the Door !
One great, SOLID FACT emerges from this
subdititious lore ;
Like a ton of granite rock it stands upon the fiscal
floor ;
It’s a stone that marks the death
Of their drear old Shibboleth—
The remarkable admission of The Man Who
Slammed The Door !
All the signs are plainly written —you can read
them bv the score—
Hip and thigh is Freetrade smitten from the
Stietlands to the Nore ;
England’s hacking down her Joss—
And it won’t be any loss !
And with mighty slams is slamming all The Men
Who Slammed The Door !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
A Son of Ishmael.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
THE little crowd which had gathered
about the window of the chemist’s shop,
flattening noses against the grimy glass,
gave way grudgingly before the Hibernian per-
suasiveness of a top-heavy police constable, and
reluctantly dispersed.
The Brobdingnagian and inflammatory bowls
generally associated with the rites of the humbler
disciples of Galen threw broad splashes of
amber, green, and crimson on the glistening pave-
ments. The rain pattered persistently, with the
disagreeable fluency of a street orator. Five
minutes more dragged slowly by, and Mr. Samuel
Sharp, his coat collar turned up about his throat,
his whole attire soddenly suggestive of a recently-
resuscitated suicide, sidled to the door of the
chemist’s shop and darted an impatient and
inquisitive glance at the dilapidated figure of
Mr. Jeremiah Maunder, who was directing a
steady, vituperative stream of eloquence into the
ears of an unsympathetic dispenser of healing
drugs.
Presently, Mr. Maunder, wearying of his un-
appreciative audience, turned slowly op a worn-
out heel, and passed into the cheerless night.
“Blirne, Jerry, wotever ’ave you bin a-doin’
of? inquired the exasperated Mr. Sharp. “Blowed
if I weren’t beginnin’ to think as ’ow you really
wos the missin’ link, as I’ve so orfen told you
afore, an’ they’d took an’ put you inter meth’lated
spernts fer a curiosity. ’Ave they bin di-sectin’
of you, Jerry ? ”
Mr. Maunder shuddered.
That ’ere’s the larst fit I’m goin’ ter ’ave, even
of you wos ter go down on yer bended knees an’
oogan pray of me, Sam Sharp,” he said, with
ocision. “The soap’s bad enuff —I don’t get rid
o the taste fur days an’ days —an’ when it comes
or the pizen them murderers give a pore sick
(oan, Lor’ lumine ! ” He paused for a moment,
nen wandered off into the flowery fields of
metaphor, culling with a loving care the choicest
)ectives that bloom as he went upon his way.
• U IS . yus; I know orl about that,” said Sam,
mpatiently. “But wot did the old lady an’
Vf' k lan Ve ou * UI y er suff’rin’s ?”
f ™ a resolute effort Mr. Maunder returned
om his lurid ramblings, and laughed the hard,
i ter laugh of the disillusioned and misanthropic
Superior Person.
it gen’leman give me sorse—said as ’ow
" os ™e effect o’ spiritual lickers actin’ on a
em “•unpaired by disgustin’ an’ ’abitual suc-
wot ain’t had a drink orl day, mind
■ ■ An the old fowl give me this ’ere.”
u * a piece of paper on the scandalised:
contents i }eneat h a lamp, assimilated its.
aU,a^° u Were Drunk Larst Night,’ ” he read:
it’s aeeents of concentrated disgust. “Why,
a raca ‘ Jerry, but a true bill orl the same;;
virl f U • WOS 7~ orr ici drunk. Wonder ’ow the old
it B re > this earn’t go on, you know ;
•t wont even pay f U r the soap.”
intent 11 u-k ere >” continued Mr. Maunder, still
arstin’°u 1S own . grievances, “the chimist kep’
• j J* d* 1 ? Wos goin’ ter pay ’im fur ’is chimistries.
sinlt t i? s J ; ji B w ell pour good stuff down that
> e . , oti , a ’“ l o'ot nuffin the matter with it,’ sez
diem l'tti ** eeeerna n, ’e sez, ‘Ef you don’t ’ave
1 shell '> a *' tae^s °’ yers less frequent, my man,
that w a u. e ter y° u i ns ide fur a bit an’ see ef
’ard-’eu j l l re you.’ I never come acrost sech a
ter met °* More in orl my life ! It’s enuff
Sam i 6 f, man tur n Jew, s’welp me if it ain’t! ”
a warning hand.
with th t ’ Jerr y— st0 P there !” he ejaculated,,
con vino a ,i r arnestne ss of purpose which always
ea Jerry that some scheme of iniquity was
evolving itself in the shadowy recesses of his
comrade’s brain.
I here was a moment’s poignant silence. Then
Mr. Sharp resumed. ‘ I’ve got it—a fust-class
lay ! Jerry, you know old Mr. Ebenezer Manuel,
the rich Jew wot lives in Collins-street ? ”
Mr. Maunder nodded.
“I’ve ’eard of ’im,” he responded, with a strong
suspicion of anti-Semiticism in his tones. “It
ain tno use, Sam ; ’e won’t do nothink fur pore,
ard-workin’ Christians. If me an’ you wos Yids
it would be different.”
“ Necessity’s the mother o’ inventions, Jerry,”
said Sam, reprovingly. “ Orl ’er kids might be
still-born fur the good they does you. Listen : I
want you to be a Jew. Your conk’s jest O.K.
It’s a pity you ain’t got more sense, but that don’t
matter, as it ’appens, ’cos you’ve lost yer mem’ry
—dunno who you are, or why you’re alive an’
walkin’about like a warmed-up corpse so as ter
save diggin’ expenses. Orl you want is to git
back to Jerusalem, where the artichokes come
from —twig ? ”
Mr. Maunder came to a dead stop, breathing
vengefully.
“Ho, yus; you’re mighty clever, Sam Sharp,”
he began, with biting emphasis.
‘I know I am—don’t you wish you wos me?”
interrupted Sam. “Don’t try the idea
in too sudden-like, Jerry, or p’raps it might bring
on another o’ them attacks you’re so subject to.
Come along an’ ’ave a drop o’ beer. I’ll explain
things to you as we go. Worked properly, this
oughter mean a fi’pund-note between the pair o’
us.”
Jerry’s strained dignity relaxed at the mention
of refreshment. He suffered Sam to take him by
the arm and lead him gently in the direction of an
adjacent hostelry.
About ten o’clock in the forenoon of the follow-
ing day, Mr. Ebenezer Manuel, a fresh-colored,
portly old gentleman of benevolent aspect, quitted
his house and walked leisurely down Collins-
street in the direction of the Treasury Gardens.
He had not gone far before he was accosted by the
shorter of two men who, for the past hour, had
been lingering in the roadway directly opposite
his residence.
“ Beggin' your pardon, sir,” said this individual,
whose foxy face looked out from beneath the brim
of a battered hat, “but might I make so bold
as ter arst if your name ain’t Mr. Ebenezer
Manuel?”
The old gentleman fixed a pair of gold-rimmed
glasses precariously on the bridge of his nose, and
beamed upon his interlocutor.
“ Why, yes,” he replied, “I am he. Is there
anything I can do for you ?”
Mr. Sharp indicated the drooping, disreputable
form of his grey-bearded companion with a back-
ward jerk of the thumb.
“ It’s ’im I’ve come to tork to you about, sir,”
he said, in a hoarse whisper.
“ I’m a lumper wot lives at Port Melbourne
(Emerald-street), an’ crool ’ard work it is. Three
times I’ve broke me leg, an’ the larst time the
doctor sez as ’ow ’e wondered it weren’t me ’eart.
Well, sir, two days ago I ’ad jist knocked off
slavin’ aboard the steamer London, an’ wos goin’
’ome, when I see this pore old man standin’ there
on the quay, sobbin’somethin’bitterly. ‘ Wot’s
wrong, matey?’ -I sez, fur I couldn’t bear ter see
’im, ’e looked that sorrerful. Fur a minute ’e
couldn’t answer me back, but at larst ’e sez
through ’is tears, ‘ Jerusalem’, an’points at the
steamer as I’ad jist come off of. ‘No, mate,’ sez
I, not understandin’ ’im— ‘ that ’ere’s the London,
mixed cargo, from Durban.’ ’E shakes ’is pore
’ead at me. ‘Jerusalem,’ ’e sez, impatient-like ;
then again, ‘Jerusalem ! my ’appy ’ome ! ’ 1
“Well, sir, I stood there not knowin’ wot ter
do, when up walks Cholly White, a friend o’
mine wot works in the Customs. ‘ Hullo ! ’ ’e
sez, ‘ so you’ve struck the Wandering Jew, Sam ?
Rum old boy, ain’t ’e. Every day fur the larst
week ’e’s bin down ’ere arstin’ everybody the way
ter Jerusalem.’ ‘ Who is he, Cholly ?’I sez. ‘I
dunno,’ sez ’e; ‘wot’s more, ’e dunno ’isself.
Told me ’e’d bin livin’ in a grotto, an’ wanted ter
end ’is un’appy days in the ’appy land, or some
sech a place. Said as ’ow ’e ’oped ter git there
fur the farst o’ kippers.’ ”
“Yom Kippur,” corrected Mr. Manuel, who
had been listening open-mouthed to Sam’s veracious
narrative. “ Dear me, this is really a most extra-
ordinary case. From what you tell me I should
gather that he is like so many of us whose fondest
wish is to repossess the country from which we
have been outcast and exiled for so many cen-
turies. He has the true Semitic features ; but I
wonder if, peradventure. he is mentally afflicted
—he has a strange, wild look. Let me speak a
few words to him.”
He addressed the uneasy Mr. Maunder in a
language which that terrified person presumed to
be Hebrew.
“It ain’t no good, sir,” said Sam, sadly. “The
pore old man’s deaf. Unless you ’oilers at ’im
with two-’undered ’orse power, ’e won’t ’ear you.
I’ve got clergyman’s sore throat meself with bel-
lerin at ’im like a Bull o’ Basin.”
Mr. Manuel shook his head. It was quite clear
he couldn’t hold an animated conversation with
Mr. Maunder in broad daylight and in a public
thoroughfare.
“You see, sir,” resumed Sam, “not likin’to
leave ’im where them imps o’ boys might make a
mock of ’is grey ’airs, I took ’im ’ome with me. A
kind action, I sez ter meself, is its own reward,
Sam Sharp, so ’ang the expense. I ’ad a knuckle
o’ cold pork fur tea that night, an’, silly-like, furst
thing I done wos ter arst ’im if ’e wouldn’t ’ave
none, an’ the langwidge ’e see fit ter make use of
would ’ave done credit to a born Christian—the
on’y time I’ve ’eard ’im tork really free an’
familiar, so to speak.”
“You interest me more than I can tell you,”
said old Mr. Manuel, polishing his glasses with a
silk handkerchief. “It is a most remarkable
story. I should like to speak to the Rabbi about
him.”
“Beggin’ your pardon, sir,” interjected Sam,
with commendable promptness, “but the furst
person I went to wos the Rabbit, an’ ’e says, ‘ My
’eart bleeds fur ’im, but I’m a pore man meself,
an’ wot kin I do ? Take ’im to Mr. Ebenezer
Manuel, a true-’earted, noble-sperrited gen’leman
wot won’t see a feller-creetur suffer without re-
lievin’ of ’im.’ Them wos ’is very words.”
Mr. ManSel looked gratified.
“That was an extremely kind thing to say. Of
course I shall be only too glad to help the poor
fellow. Now, unfortunately, I have an important
engagement I must keep. Both of you come to my
house to-morrow morning at eleven o’clock, and in
the meantime I will consult with an excellent
friend of mine, a poor man as far as this world’s
goods go, but one who does an exemplary work
among the necessitous in the slum quarters of this
great city. What is your name again, my friend ? ”
“Sam Sharp, sir, Emerald-street, Fort Mel-
bourne,” replied that altruistic lumper.
“ Well,” continued the old gentleman, pulling
■out a knitted purse; “here is a sovereign ; see
that your charge lacks for nothing. I shall hope
to more than indemnify you at no distant date
(Continued on next page.)


THE DANGER
of BACKACHE.
All tired out —scarcely enough
energy to get home in the
evening—no rest when you do
get home —as tired in the
morning as at night. The
back is so weak you can
scarcely bend it —aches and
throbs even when you lie still.
The kidneys are to blame.
They are not taking the
poisons out of the blood. They
need help, and need it at once.
Do not disregard the warning
message of the back that
aches, for the ache comes from
the kidneys (which lie just
beneath the small of the
back), and distinctly tells that
uric acid poisons and waste
matter are accumulating in
your body. These are the
poisons that cause dropsy,
Bright’s disease, rheumatism,
bladder troubles, urinary dis-
orders, diabetes.
’XDoau’s
Black ache
Kildney
JPills.
9
' SSCSSSKEBES
Backache
Kidney
Pills
Cure Backache, Weak Back, Rheuma-
tism, Diabetes, Congestion of the
Kidneys, Inflammation of the Bladder,
Gravel, Dropsy, Bright’s Disease,
and ail Urinary Disorders.
SYDNEY PROOF.
BACKACHE and URINARY DISORDER CURED.
Mr. J. Livingstone. Ingleburn, near Liverpool, says:—“For years I suffered
from gravel. I had medical advice, and underwent three operations in two years
for stone in the bladder, but I only got relief for a couple of months after each
operation, and would soon be as bad as ever slgain. I got little rest, and did not
know what it was to get two hours’ sleep at a time. I was so bad with backache
that I would cry out with pain, and to bend was agony. I simply could not do my
work. To add to my sufferings, my secretions were very frequent and high-
colored. After the best doctors failed to cure me, I. did not think that Doans
Backache Kidney Pills would be able to cure me ; but my wife kept on urging rue
to.try them. At last I did get them, and after taking one box I felt a little better ;
after using the third box I knew that I was on the road to recovery, and had great
hopes of a perfect cure. I was not disappointed, for after eight boxes I was sound
and well. The gravel and backache were cured, my secretions were natural, and I
slept like a baby. lam quite cured, and consider my cure a miracle. I spent a
lot of money and was tortured with operations, yet could not get well, and a few
boxes of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, at the paltry cost of £l, cured me.”
Eight years later, Mr. Livingstone says:—“The above is quite true— every
word —and I can now tell you that I’m still well. My cure proves that theres
nothing as good as Doan’s Backache Kidney'Pills for the kidneys.”
COLD IN THE KIDNEYS CURED.
Mr. .Tames Hudson, 14 Lennox Street, Newtown, Sydney, says:— “l work in
the Bondi sewer. There is a constant drip there, and when working it mostly
happens that one is wet through. Some parts are better than others, but while
working in the shafts one is constantly damp, and this affected my health. My
trouble came with a bad cold in the kidneys, which caused terrible pains m my
back. I did my work, but it was most fearful torture for me to have to do it. 1
was very bad the first day that I saw Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills advertised,
and it struck me that by the name of the remedy they should be good for my com-
plaint. I procured them, and they cured me in a fairly quick time. lam never
without them in the house now.”
Mrs. Hudson confirms th? above: —“It'is now six years since my husband
gave the above testimonial for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and he is as well to-
day as he was then. That’s the best of Doan’s Pills, they cure for good.”
DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes 15s. 3d.), or will be posted on receipt of price
by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney-
against anything you may lose financially by your
kindness and sympathy.”
Sam’s eyes glittered greedily.
“ Never mind me, sir,” he said, with self-
denial. “ Live on others an’ you’ll live well an’
be ’appy, as my pore old father used to say.
There ain’t nothin’ I wouldn’t do furaYid—Jew,
I meantersay. Why, even when I wos a nipper,
so ’igh, I wos never so ’appy as when I wos
a-playin’ on the Jew-’arp’ ——
Mr. Manuel cut the reminiscences short:
“ I can’t stop any longer. Mind, eleven o’clock
to-morrow morning sharp.”
“Yus, sharp’s the word,” muttered Sam,
exultantly, as he watched the old gentleman’s
retreating form. He fell into an ecstatic reverie,
from which he was rudely aroused by the voice of
his afflicted comrade.
“’Ere, ’and over that thick-un wot’smine, Sam,
d’ye ’ear me?”
“ ’Opes to identify me by me kind-’earted sym-
pathy. ’As a strange, wild look. True emetic
features,” murmured the dreamy Mr. Sharp,
speaking in sections, his eyes fixed in far-away
fashion on a little drift of fleecy cloud. “ Blime,
Jerry, ’aven’t I orfen told you as ’ow it alius did
make me feel ill on’y to look at that phiz o’ yers?”
“ Are you a-goin’ ter fork out that ’ere suv’rin
wot wos give me, or are you not ? ” persisted Mr.
Maunder, with ominous emphasis.
“I wonder at you, Jerry,” said Sam, reproach-
fully. “’Ow should I ever be able to look that
good old man in the face agin, arter ’im trustin’
of me, too? Didn’t you ’ear ’im say as you wos
meant ter be inflicted ? No, no ; a bit o’ Kosher
beef or a short-bread I don’t mind buyin’ you,
but ”
Here Mr. Maunder interrupted the speaker
with many and profanely-worded doubts as to the
legitimacy of the Sharp pedigree from time im-
memorial.
“Now then, not so much o’ that kind o’ tork.
Move yerselves along,” said a leisurely policeman.
They moved themselves along—and instinctively
they did it towards a pub.
• • * *
The chiefest of Jerry’s afflictions was a
perennial and feverish thirst, and to this Sam
ministered at intervals all the afternoon. Un-
fortunately he caught the complaint himself.
Towards’nightfall the conspirators-lurched with
devious tread into a cheap eating-house in
Lonsdale-street. They took their seats oppo-
site an elderly man with venerable grey beard
and nose modelled on the familiar Ghetto lines.
Him Mr. Maunder fixed with a glassy and male-
volent eye.
“ Sooner than be a Yid,” he began, irrelevantly
addressing the circumambient air, “ I’d be a Sal-
vation Sal, or a —or a ’eathen ’lndu.”
He smote the table with a broken-hafted knife.
Sam Sharp remonstrated.
“Shut yer fat’ead, Jerry,” he said thickly. “If
y’ are tight y’ needn’t let everybody know it.”
Mr. Maunder disdainfully ignored this asper-
sion on his spotted character.
“Sooner than be a Jew, I’d be a—a anythink,”
he announced oratorically to all and sundry ; then,
with.a sudden lapse into rudimentary verse, “Git
a lump o’ pork, stick it on a fork, an’ give ”
“Gif orders, blease, shentlemans,”said the per-
suasive voice of the Dago waiter, who was buzzing
from customer to customer like an enormous and
bloated blue-bottle.
Mr. Maunder regarded him sternly ; then his
lustreless eye wandered across to the patient old
man, busy with his humble meal of bread and
butter and fried fish.
“Sausages an’ mashed,” he demanded, with
needless ferocity ; “ an’ porky uns, mind.”
The old man gave him a quick, keen glance,
half-pitying, half-contemptuous, then he rose,
and, cup in one hand, plate in the other, sought a
vacant table at the remote end of the room.
Mr. Maunder laughed a sneering, raucous
laugh.
****
Precisely at eleven o’clock the next morning,
Sam and Jerry presented themselves at the trades-
men’s entrance of Mr. Manuel’s house.
“Boss in, miss?” inquired the former ingratia-
tingly of the buxom, dark-eyed damsel who
attended the bell.
“This way, please,” she rejoined, and led the
amateur philanthropist and the object of his
solicitude up a flight of stairs, down a short
passage, and into a room where Mr. Manuel was
seated at an escritoire immersed in correspondence.
“ Ah,” he said, looking up and flicking the
glasses from his nose, “It’s you, is it? Good;
sit down, please. Salome, ask Mr. Moss to be so
kind as to spare me a few minutes, will you ? ”
The girl left the room, and the old gentleman
again became engrossed in his letters. No sound
broke the silence save Mr. Maunder’s troublesome
breathing. Presently the door opened, and——
Sam did not stand on the order of his going.
He just went. He made swift time through the
passage, and took most of the stairs at a leap.
For a brief moment Mr. Maunder’s petrified gaze
rested on the placid, venerable face of the new-
comer, and through a haze he remembered that he
had seen that face before—the evening before, in
fact. He remembered, too, that Sam carried the
remnants of the trust money. Breathing heavily
he upheaved himself, and with all the grace of an
elephant he also fled in broken boots through the
portal.
That night he made fid. by having a fit in
Collingwood.
LAWRENCE B. JUPP.
“ Nym ” : The despised Nanny and Wil-
liam goat are coming into fashion again. Those
who have partaken of goats’ flesh speak highly in
its favor, while Nanny’s milk, for richness and
flavor (not to say purity), shames Poley’s contribu-
tion to the milk-pail every time. Also, the
quantity Nanny is capable of giving would sur-
prise those who scorn the object of many a comic
sketch. Round Bendigo (Vic.) and other large
centres, the goat population is now affectionately
preserved, thanks to the lesson taught last drought
time, when the cows failed to come home, and
only tinned milk was available. Then tea-drinkers
bethought them of Nanny, grazing on jam-tins
and old paper wrappers op the rubbish shrines
around, and went forth to collect the lost animal.
Peaceable church folks who had suffered
adult immersion fought over the ownership of the
whiskered rovers hitherto looked upon as mere van-
dals. Now Nanny and thekids hold prideof place in
many a householder’s heart. It is a noticeable
fact that tuberculosis is rarely seen in children
brought up on goats’ milk, while those reared on
Strawberry’s doubtful dole show the disease fre-
quently. Although it is suspected that goats’
flesh is used in Bendigo, and other places, in
making up sausages, and occasionally as joints,
few folks would deign to dine on Nanny’s limbs,
however tastefully cooked, if they knew what
they were eating. But that is mere prejudice.
During the. drought, when butchers’ meat was
scant and dear, certain pastrycooks used rabbits’
flesh, run through a mincing machine, instead of
the unprocurable, and often doubtful, cow
sausage-meat. The ructions certain saucy Satur-
day-night patrons created when they learnt of the
change are remembersome. There were even
fights, and nose-blood was shed. Despite all
critics, I say that Nanny and Bunny are deserv-
ing of most kindly cultivation for culinary
purposes.
GOOD COOKERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
r is the rhy7ne
of Joseph
Boz,
Admiral , Cook, and
K.C.8.,
Who sarved his tune
on the good ship
Goz,
Year One Hundred
and Fiddle - De-
Dee.
King Polyglot
Looked in the pot;
** This meat smells siveet, " said he.
"No cook," swore Boz, etc.
The cook (Joe Boz)
Growled, 44 Sir, this woz
Your bitter henem-ee ! "
Quoth Polyglot:
“ Well, that is wot
I call good cooker-ee."
44 No cook," swore Boz,
44 As hever woz,
Could cook one ’arf like me."
44 On that," said ’Glot,
44 I'll lay my bot-
Tom dollar cheerfull-ee I"
44 Hi sez," cried Boz,
44 And always soz,
You was 'is henem-ee."
44 Then, tell 'ee wot. ♦,,
Just turn/' said 'Glot,
His other cheek to me! "
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.


“ Having held a position as field umpire to the South
Australian Football Association, and having to go under
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
I
W.vi
mii
'
V.v
itemw.
w
AYER’S 1 arsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Aver’s Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., IT. S. A.
a
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving away prices such as MUSICAL
INSI RUMENTS. LADIES’ and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BkOOCHPIS. HANDSOME PIPEIS mounted in SOLID SILVPIR
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward vou 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Coruflovver, Stock, Mignonette,
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will send you by return
mail any present vou mav select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK ,S OURS You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculouslv easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE; before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARP! SPLENDID VALUE, and in every ca*e
positively as represented in our illustrations.
a
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
Superior to {
INJECTIONS <
CUBEBS and <
COPAIBA. 1
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours,
Each Capsule bears the name
ipr-
m]
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight,Falling Eyelashes, Weik Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, aO, Lain bet(i Road, Loudon, Eng.
milK BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
1 Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
jf Ifou ii (crve
something good to tell, there is no need to delude the unwary into
reading an apparently interesting story which proves to be a prelude
to an advertisement. The startling story and the thrilling testimonial
do not add to the merit of the article advertised. If you are troubled with
£crd 7)igesiion, impure T}lood, languor,
Jnactive Xiver, Sick tfeadacfje,
or other such ailments which arise from a Disordered Stomach imperfectly
doing its work, you need not experiment with the many medicines so
plausibly set before you; take
Beechams Pills
and you have a reliable remedy, proved by thousands of sufferers to be
unequalled for dispelling Disorders of the Stomach and Liver. It is not
necessary to bring BEECH AM'S PILLS before your notice surreptitiously,
as they are openly recommended by those who have found that
BEECHAM'S PILLS will do all that is claimed for them —hence
they have the Largest Sale of any patent Medicine.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///£ (56 pills) & 219 (168 pills).
hea Mosquitoes
annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antisepticallv cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
>Madeby F,C.Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng. >
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
&
x
YH
M
X
*
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat~S' improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELEGTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all tases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
nev, Live , and St imach Complaints. Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free “rUiS
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upo-n the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip. Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 lbs. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price * .. £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £6. Sale price .. .. .. £2 16 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. . .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEAPON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to every home—
iu dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where tii< s
are trou
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
noj, ‘■oil or injure
anything. One
lasts the emire
seas'm.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Groce's and
Hardware
Dealers,
among whom are :
Sydney —Anthony Hordern & Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allporfc
Proprietary, O'Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldhoim, Gottholf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, vou'll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
STEEL WINGS
Tremendously Powerful,
Long Stroke, Automatic.
Australian Invention .
Write for Catalogue “C.”
STEEL WINGS
WINDMILLS can be in -
spected working at Bay
Road Railway Station,
North Sydney.
PATERNOSTER’S
M PILLS
the old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Xonelties
Madame Panza,
Sox 913. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT <fc Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
j 1 T’S S'n d hi/ aU'Chwixts.
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&o.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’’
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Lid., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting;, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-ealled medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. JS T o similar book has ever been published.
FREE
To persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement, cut out.
Tb all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARCE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments ”
on receipt of this adversisement. Note Address :
DR. MARTIN, M.D., “E"»K>y House, ” 151 Effzabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


PERDRIAU’S OILSKINS
You should write for our Catalogue Ko. 17, and
samples of Oilskin materials, VV T e have a splendid
■ 3
siock of the goa& kind.
Here are prices of a few:—
Fcr Bostiag or Fishing.
The “JJifoiad" Long Regula-
tion, 10/6
The “Titan” Long Regula-
tion, 12/6
The “ Ougong ” Long Regula-
tion, 17/6
“ Titan ” Suits (Jacket and
Pants), 12/6
For Driving or Riding (as illustrated).
Tho “Bugong-*’ Watershed .. 27/6
The “Rainbow” Watershed .. 22/6
The special advantage of the “ Watershed ” patent is
that this form of coat absolutely protects you from all
wet-weather-walking, riding or driving.
We post these free at the price, in yellow or black, and
can fit. any size man. When ordering quote height and
easy chest measurement over clothes.
Perdriau Rubber Ca Ltd.,
270 George Street, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
m
MS'
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Roc* Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about lSlbs. Operated by compressed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART—Striotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
I SOLE AGENTS:
Wo & J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64- PITT ST., SYDNEY.
JOHN W. JAFFRAY,
ENGINEER & MACHINERY MERCHANT,
Chambers, 82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BUY SiS«iviACHI NERY
ENGINES, BOILERS, PUMPS.
Mining, Woodworking, Brickmaking, Refriger-
ating, Wool Scouring and Drying Machinery,
Engineers’ Tools, Contractors’ Plant, &c.
Low Prices and Satisfaction Ensured.
“JAFFRAY’S MACHINERY REGISTER.”
JOHN HURST & CO. HAVE REMOVED FROM
WatchmaKers and Jewellers, 321 George St. to 4 Hunter St., Sydney
LOOK
FOR THE
NAME.
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. — : —For Mining Purposes .
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
m+**-*a"
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock,
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and'Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/'
100. Of IOOOs Of £ s
could be saved in Australasia by using the recognised British
Wood Preserving Liquid—
“ JODE.LITE ”
FOR
Wood Blocks,
Wharf Decking,
Manila Ropes,
Cable Troughing,
Railway Sleepers,
Foundation Timbers,
IVline Timbers,
Wooden Trucks,
Verandah Posts,
Petes and Girders,
Joists and Flooring,
Garden Stakes,
Bridge Timbers,
Fowl Houses, etc .
Fence and Gate Posts,
Telegraph Poles,
Wooden Cranes,
Skirting Boards,
Rats
would entirely disappear from buildings and wharves if JODELITE was used, and while the “plague” scare is on it would be far cheaper o
JODEbtIE existing floors than to be compelled to replace them with concrete.
JODEUTE
#s non-inflammable and non-volatile and covers 30 to 50 sq. yds. per qal.
It absolutely prevents White Ants, Wood Lice, Rats, Toredo, Vermin, Wet and Dry Rot, Warping and Splitting, etc.
-All Storekeepers,
or direct from
R. A. HE.RVEY,
Cor. Clarence and King Streets, Sydney.
Established 1884* Telephone 618.
Explosives,
Machinery and Supplies for Mining, Quarrying, Dredging, Sluicing, Irrigation,
Sole Agent for Patented Articles and Goods of special manufacture.
etc. ; Contractors’, Engineers’ and Builders’
Hard Work Saving Devices a Specialty.
Sundries.
CARD
Has won so many laurels that it
is scarcely necessary to call your
attention to it, but we want you
to know about
Model C
which embraces important
improvements.
•m. ■
V.
'
ma
i /
A-’
S.wv,
. s ••.
5 A:*
.• v
THE BED FRAME is of SUB-
STANTIAL CHANNEL IRON ; the
DECK VIBRATES upon BROAD
FLAT SPRINGS INSTEAD OF
BEARINGS; and THE HEAD
MOTION IS OF NEW DESIGN.
THERE ARE NO TENSION
SPRINGS TO BREAK.
N. GUTHRIBGE, LTD.,
Sydney & Melbourne
Sole Licensees and
Manufacturers,
