

The Bulletin
Vol. 29— No. 1469.]
[Thursday, Apri'h-h, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Word to the Wise is sufficient —“ DEWA,]Ei ; IS
R. Gr. WA.TIS.IZVS & CO.,
107 K ent St-x-eet, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
a&ixaw, &• t? JSA-
See their fine Exhibit of
Machinery at the
Royai AgricuituraS Show .
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .. .
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
HOBART.
—.
Ijadley’s Orient fjote!.
mmsm
"Take it back,
■
I must have -
HUTTON’S
Fine Apple Brand JJggg}*®.
a
PIONEER
LEATHER
“E LTI N G
ITfjiti!
evf:rv belt guaranteed.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
CHUBB’S NEW BOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
Tiafimaly
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANGEJIO. OF N.Z.
nlly Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch
14 Spring: St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
IP. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wante. Hs3i
oM, u) x aMvui u &
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of th 3 present day
are . « . .
6C
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE “ SILVERTOWN ”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch:
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
39 FITI’ STREET, SYD3XTBY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit=Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
*
im;
9
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FOR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
' Mi
11 mr
SPJ 'll l
r-rtHHII*!!
46
FERR.IER/S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers- SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
HELIDON SPA WATER.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA possesses bright and sparkling
properties, with persistent effervescence.
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.


The RED PAGE
The Simple Life.
modest request, accompanied by
some insinuations about a couple of
guineas, for an account of a day at
home in the country has brought forth
an astonishing variety of days. There are
days on the “track,” on cattle-stations, on
a light-ship, in mines, in country hospitals
and country chemists’ shops, in bush saw-
mills, in surveyors’ camps, onaN.Q. (white)
sugar plantation, on board a coaster, in
wood-cutters’ camps, on an irrigation chan-
nel, and innumerable days on selections, and
dairy-farms and in tents. The writers are
miners, prospectors, hawkers, “cockies,”
teamsters, fishermen, country school-masters
and school-mistresses, bush-whackers in all
the States and the Dominion, survey-hands,
post-mistresses, threshers, nurses, country
doctors, grape-pickers, musterers, harvesters,
rabbit poisoners, station-overseers, cattle-
truckers. And quite half of these human
documents are written by the women
who stay at home the long, lonely days,
and do the housework, and sigh for some
variation of the monotony. An analysis
of the essays shows that Australia of the
back-blocks is, on the whole, optimistic.
These dwellers in the unknown face life
with a kind of desperate cheerfulness.
Yet they suffer from three great wants
They cry out for less monotony, more mails,
and more sleep. “Nine o’clock! Thank
God! One day gone,” writes “Dumble.”
“ That’s my day—unfortunately it takes 360
of them to make a year.” A. T. Gensmann,
who gives a curiously detailed account of his
work at putting in posts at a yard-builder’s
camp, ends thus hopefully: “Every day
is just about the same. Just a
dull, every-day life, but we seem to like it
all the same.” And the women who stay at
home hope against the loneliness. “ Didn’t
have any visitors to-day, after all. Perhaps
I will to-morrow.” And mail-day is, barring
Sunday, the red-letter day of the week. It
is curious to find, too, how many of the
writers chose Sunday for their day at home ;
for, for many of the men, Sunday is the
only day that they have a home. As J.
Hope remarks : “My day at home is Sun-
day ; other days are unimportant, as I have
to graft.”
But the greatest want is the lack of sleep.
Most of the accounts begin before 4 a.m.,
and nearly all begin with the equivalent of
damn, and the stubborn refusal to wake
up. The one clamant woe of Out
Back is early rising ; and one neces-
sary Act of Parliament is a Bill for the
Beauty Sleep of the Bush-girl and the Bush-
boy. In the interests of the cocky’s family it
should be made penal for anybody to rise
before 7 a.m., and it should be an in-
dictable offence not to have your breakfast
in bed. But there are no damns in the
essays that tell of Sunday, for Sunday is the
Day of Sleep. But there are compensations,
and few of the writers omit them. For the
men there is always, when the work is done,
the smoke of the day.
Quite a dozen of the essays jostle each
other for the prize ; but Annie F. Wigfull,
General Post Office, Goulburn, wins it.
Other human documents are printed here,
and others will appear from time to time,
for which, of course, payment will be made.
The way alleged “literary news” finds
entrance into newspaper columns is by
means of ready-printed paragraphs, thought-
fully provided by publishers. There is one
publisher in America who kindly furnishes
two separate accounts of a forthcoming book,
<me written for a Democratic and the other
for a Republican journal. This office, in
common with all other newspaper offices in
Australia, gets its share of advertising para-
graphs. We print one as an awful example.
It is guilelessly introduced by the remark:
“ We believe that the following literature
will be of interest to your readers ” :
How strong the “call of the wild” hasalwaysbeen
for is perhaps best illustrated by the fol-
lowing story :—“ln the Spring of 1900, Mr.
went abroad for change of scene, and, incidentally,
to secure literary material. After a strenuous
London season, during which he had been ‘ wined
and dined,’ Mr. felt well equipped to under-
take a romance of English Society, and decided,
in order to lose none of the atmosphere, tore-
main in London and write the hook there.
When he began to write, however, he found that
the fascination of the Canadian forest was still
so strong that his mind refused to draw inspira-
tion from its latest impressions, and the story
which, in spite of him, it finally evolved was not
the society novel which he had planned, but his
beautiful nature romance, ‘ which was
at once hailed by the critics on both sides of the
Atlantic as a ‘ nature classic, ’ and assured Mr.
’s place in the front rank of nature writers.
Mr. ’s romance of English society still
remains to be written ; but each succeeding season
lias brought forth the announcement by his pub-
lishers of a new volume of nature and animal
stories, including ‘ ,’ also ‘ ’ moreover
‘ and, finally, ‘ to be published
in March next.”
A Day at Home
Daylight shining through ill-fitting slabs,
showing up torn wall-paper and a gay deco-
ration of Xmas supplements. I dress
quickly —on the kitchen table stand waiting
tins of milk. “Dick,” I call; “do cover
the milk ! ” No reply, but much splashing of
water from his bedroom. It amounts to a
peculiarity, his power of overlooking all un-
pleasant truths. I carry the tins slowly,
steadily along the track. They meet one’s
legs and bump uncomfortably. The dairy,
slab-built and bark-roofed, stands on the
rise. Across the creek the hills are steep
and rocky ; along the top the track winds,
white and snake-like, twenty miles out.
Across the border lies the township. Once
a week the mailman comes that way ; once a
year we watch for Jim, whose life is spent in
northern trips behind mobs of Queensland
cattle. Any time now he may come ; and as
I gather up an armful of wood, cast anxious
eyes that way.
The fire lit by Dick before starting to
look for cows, which nightly stray across to
Daley’s, has burnt itself out. lam proud of
my knowledge of fire-lighting, gained from
long experience, and soon it is burning well.
Then breakfast off the rickety kitchen table
—it saves labor to have it here, and we all
know its peculiarities. There is corned beef,
home-made bread, melon jam, and, for the
little mother, toast. She comes in bright
and happy ; in fact, the three of us show
unusual signs of cheerfulness, from the feel-
ing of expectation and of preparation to be
done. There is a loud crack, and one of the
legs of Dick’s chair disappears down an ant-
made hole—the floor is treacherous. He
appears calmly unconscious and moves to
safer ground. Mother rises, picks up a
hammer and tacks, and goes into the little
box-room for the purpose of beautifying it.
"Dick, bridle on arm, is off up the paddock—
there is still one more cow in Daley’s. I
gather up dishes, feed fowls as a means of
ridding myself of their society, and tidy up
generally. Preparations fordinnerare simple.
We regard corned u*pat as an established
fact ; it is with us always, and eaten without
question, and generally there are potatoes.
Down in the creek maiden-hair fern grows,
long, delicate strands of it; and up on the
rocks banks of feathery clematis hang. It
beautifies all our meals. I hurry, shut up
the kitchen to keep out persistent hens, and
pick up a much-worn hat. Inside, the work
of decoration is finished. I give a word of
approval, and run down to the creek’s bed.
We all look for these yearly visits, but the
little mother grows years younger at these
times. It is the strongest thing in her life,
her love for Jim. Dick and I both recognise
and respect it as something sacred. I gather
fern and creeper, and think of the old
station life in Queensland, the drought, with
increasing loss, and then dad’s death. And
now this home, the little slab house up on
the banks of the creek, the bare, hilly selec-
tion, and Dick working always, the brave
little mother, and days that repeat them-
selves. A disgust for self-pity, a mental
shake, and I climb the hill again. She is
in the garden pretending to work, but watch-
ing the track the while. “Listen,” she
says. The sound of horses’ hoofs on the
stones comes to us. “ Dear God !” I hear
her say, softly ; it is like a glad prayer.
Lately, someone else has come along the
winding track. Unconsciously and with
shame at the thought, I wonder whom it will
be. Then the horse comes up from the
creek. After all, it is the mailman, a possi-
bility we have both forgotten. The little
mother still smiles bravely. “There will
be a letter,” she says. There is, bearing a
Brisbane post-mark. “Am going north
again,” it says, “by to-morrow’s boat. The
trip is a good one. Will be with you in the
winter with a bigger cheque.” The mailman
disappears ; Dick comes in sight, poley
heading for the paddock where her calf is
calling her.
The little mother carries the letter into
the house with her, the joy gone from her
face. In the kitchen Dick opens week-old
papers and gives items of news. Something
makes it hard to swallow as I go into where
the little mother lies with closed eyes; I pull
down a blind and give another pillow, then
go outside to wonder. Dick’s voice calls to
me as I go, “That chap, Buchanan, will be
here for tea ; he is getting horses out of
Davidson’s.”
Up on the rocks all is still, and the hills
everywhere show blue and lovely. Will it
always he this, a life shut in by hills and
each day a repetition ? Something vague
and half understood cries out within me ; it
is almost a pain. The afternoon slips by, a
breeze springs up, and a flame of red tops
the range, and a great quiet comes with it ;
even the little slab-house catches some of the
beauty. A whip cracks in the distance. I
wait, listening ; thoughts of Dick, and “that
chap Buchanan,” come, and I could almost
laugh now. Down below, Dick is yarding
calves. Mother joins him ; their voices come
up ; he is telling her of coming sales that
promise good things. Then someone touches
my shoulder; I make room on the rock
beside me, and together we watch the red
gold sky grow pale.
A. F. WIGFULL.
A Frowsy Day
Six distinct thuds in the next room
announce that another day’s broils are
ushered in. The bedroom door opens,
and a big, easy-going man emerges, accom-
panied by an atmosphere as thick as a mud
puddle. The five who remain behind scold
and spank each other.
The fire is already alight, so Tom puts the
porridge on and makes the tea. Polly next
bursts forth, holding body and skirt together
while she looks for pins. Tom fixes her up
with a bit of wire, kisses her and says,
“Hurry up, old girl.” Polly smiles, tosses
her red shock hair out of her eyes, and, with
a truly artistic twist of the wrists, punches
the dough and puts it prematurely into the
oven, meanwhile lecturing Tom on the points
in bread-making.
The children’s broil overflows into the
kitchen. Tom takes his strap off and slashes
out indiscriminately, mostly hitting his own
legs, and the whole family sinks into seats at
the breakfast table. At the conclusion of
the meal Tom fills his cup with hot water,
and, balancing a cracked looking-glass o
the sugar tin, proceeds to shave,
kids help by picking grains of oatmeal o
his face. Tom wipes his razor on the tat) e-
cloth. Polly, with elbows on the table,
beams at every one while she lectures on
cookery and cricket. 1 „ ~
Tom departs, and the children and t oiiy
have a difference of opinion as to who is o
wash up. Slash ! Whack 1 goes the strap.
Yells, shrieks, and roars fill the air, dogs
bark, affrighted cats scud, and for a s P^ ce
the “ Qwawk ”of the crow is silenced. Ihe
sobbing, heartbroken small fry are banished
from the house —and in five minutes are
catching caterpillars with as much zest as it
there were never a strap in life.
The dishes remain unwashed, and the
smell of leaden bread comes from the oven,
and mingles with the inodor of dirty
clothing which litters the kitchen floor. Now
and then Polly picks out the least filthy
things and spreads them on top. “ Tisn t
decent,” she says, “in case anyone comes
in.”
The kettle, jealous of the unwonted quiet,
upsets, and washes the kitchen fire out
on the kitchen floor. I run to the rescue,
and pick my way through the adhesive mire
of the family washing with more trepidation
than I would use on a muddy road. Polly
meets me at the goal. “ Dear, dear ! that
bread ! ” she says, and kicks a bundle of the
next washing into the wet ashes and water
to soak them up. Things settle down, and
Polly sits herself astride of a chair, and
winds up an old watch with a broken spring,
then lets it go with a whizz. Between
whiles, she orates on : How to wean babies
without any trouble ; how to make pan-
cakes ; what causes cancer ; reads me a
chapter from Corinthians, and gives her own
unprintable views on same ; assures me she
is going to have a tub bath before
the heat goes by, says I wash my feet
too often, ’tisn’t healthy. Then she opens a
blue-mouldy box of heirlooms, and fills the
already unsavory air with a breath that is
not of Araby, while she relates the history of
every article : “ Mother pillowed nine heads
on that, that’s why I don’t want it to get
worn out, so I make the children do without
a pillow ; ” and she shakes the dust of long
ages out of a greasy, threadbare bit of ancient
ticking.
Out from the drowsy perfume of the sugar
gums comes a children’s whine like a wintry
drizzle, and four hungry, watery-eyed
urchins, in single file, biggest first, de-
manding tucker, burst in.
Polly exclaims on the woes of a mother :
“ Not a minute’s peace ; no time to get the
work done —sewing all behind —washing not
begun.”
The oven gives forth two 41b. loaves
weighing a ton ; and, after a strapping all
round to make them say grace, four little
squawkers are silenced and once more
ejected.
My poetic temperament calls for a little
aesthetic sustenance, so I prepare a meal ;
and Polly, smelling like a dust-heap, sits on
the table and comments : “ Corn beef’s not
digestible. Coffee upsets the liver. Pickles
are bad for the teeth. That condensed milk
don’t smell too sweet. Baker’s bread’s
nothing like home-made.” (Thank Heaven !)
When I politely ask her to join me, she
rises to the occasion with commendable self-
sacrifice and risks her digestion, liver and
teeth, and, stifling her olfactory nerves,
falls to.
Like a roar of many waters in a whole sea
of Human Misery, the small fry once more
clamor to be filled, and Polly stands a sauce-
pan of broth in the middle of the kitchen
floor, piles the washing in a ring for seats,
arms each barefooted mite with a spoon,
and the evening meal progresses.
“ Less washin’ up that way,” she says.
The preparation of that broth has knocked
Polly up. It consists of the remains of the
breakfast porridge,, some stale bread, an
onion, and my corn-beef water.
There is a run on the pump, another on
the strap.
The sun sinks westwards, and, from the
east, stalking his steps, steals Darkness, the
friend of the weary. The day is done ; the
children have sobbed themselves to sleep ;
the mother has exhausted her falsetto scold ;
and all is peace.
C. NICHOLSON.
A Sunday at Home
Six a.m.—Just awake, and remember it is
Sunday ; rolled over and tried to sleep again,
but the sandflies and mosquitoes soon put an
end to that, so I turned out of bunk at
6.30 a.m. Had a look outside the tent, de-
cided to get through cooking and washing
as soon as possible on account of the appear”
ance of the sky.
Saw a gohanna making up a hollow
sapling at my “galley,” cut his narrative off
with an axe ; the front end of “go.” con-
tinued up the hollow, and I threw the back
end to my pup ; and he has been killing that
and time all the morning.
Made a fire; put Billy on, and made
some tea, and had breakfast—salt beef
damper, topped off with a bit of “ brownie ”
and the “ well acquainted,” alias “ bullocky’’s
joy,” known to storekeepers as “golden
syrup.” After -breakfast washed clothes
had a shave, and promised myself a safety
razor_ (some day) ; got Bulletin (27/2/’08)
read it through from cover to cover and
read “C.A.J.” on “ Dalgety ” and ‘‘Can-
berra twice over, and came to the con-
clusion that “ Wade wants his head
read.” At 11.30 a.m. put Billy to
the fire again, made some more tea, ate some
more beef, damper, and “brownie,” then
packed on wood to get a supply of ashes for
baking, stretched myself on bunk in mean-
time with Bulletin again, and re-read all
the advts., and tried to decide which would
be the better game to tackle—catchinv
bunny at Canberra or fencing up here in
N. Queensland. Have decided on the first
1.15 p.m.—Knocked up a damper, just put
in oven, and the rain come, so I had to keep
putting on ashes about every five minutes to
keep the heat in. Expected a “sod,” hut
’twas a “ bonsor.” Took it off, and then
thought of my clothes drying ; snatched
them (dungaree pants and flannel) off sap-
lings and hung them in the tent. Rain kept
on lightly, so decided to have a sleep.
Woke at 3.30 p.m., to find the p up
having a scrap with the head part of
the “g 0.,” which had come out of the
hollow, and got finished off in great style.
Had afternoon tea (cold, and no visitors)
and brownie ; then went through my
library to find something to read (library
consists of Thelma —read twice— five old Bul-
letins, and four N. Q. Registers), hut had
to content myself with looking over the
sketches ascain, and, no “kid,” I must have
laughed for half an hour at “ George’s”
show. Then I fell into a reverie, I think it
is called, and the thought of “ What might
have been,” etc., etc., gave me the “pip,”
so I got out and put; Billy to the test
again, made some more tea, ate some more
beef and damper, and for a change, topped
off with some stewed apples from Hobart,
and still it is raining. 5 p.m. a thunder
storm came on ; so I tied the tent firmly and
made snug for the night, and at 6 p.m.—l’ve
seen rain, but this beats all, it fell in sheets—
so I decided to turn in, did so, started to
think, just struck me you wanted a “Bay
at Home,” got out of bunk, lit my lamp, and
this is the result. Raining still, 8 p.m.
Good night. 4
EDWARD JAY .
THIS WEEK’S
NEW BOOKS
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEReACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Karl Marx, Theory of Value, new edition, Is 3d posted.
Serviss, The Moon, 7s, postage 9d.
McCutcheon. Brewster’s Millions, new edt., Is 8d posted.
Live Stock Journal Almanac, 1908, Is 8d posted.
Meredith Nicholson, Rosalind at Red Gate, 3s 6d, post 6d.
Paul Warregn, Diary of a New Chum, Is 2d posted.
NOW READY. A CHEAP EDITION.
SAINTS AND SAVAGES: The Story of Five Years in
the New Hebrides, by Robert Lamb, M.A., M. 8.,
Ch.M., cloth 3s (id, postage 6d.
Barker British S°ci a lism of To-Day, 12s 6d, post Bd.
Mitchell, Significant Etymology, 9s, post 8d
Goodrich, First Book of Farming, 5s 6d, post 6d
1 ear Book of Australia, 1908; the Most Comprehensive
Handbook, 10s (id, postage Is. mprenensive
Whittaker’s Almanac, 1908, cloth 3s, postage 6d.
THE ATTAINMENT OF HEALTH AND THE TREATMENT
OF THE DIFFERENT DISEASES BY MEANS OF O^T
by Philip E. Muskett, M.D., cloth 7s M pofta/e ?s"’
The Useful Birds of South
Australia,
B.v ROBERT HALL ; 300 pages, with full description and
100 illustrations of the birds that are to be found about,
their species, color, and measurement of eggs, where
nests are to be found, and many other interesting ana
valuable features. 3/6, 3/11 post free.
THOMAS C. LOTHIAN, 226 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon Red
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
m
S3*
G. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Tjobe of one
of the Lunpra.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt
of stamps from C. HUDSON, Manufacturing
Chemist, 5 & 7 Queen's Flace, Sydney.


JL
a
Smart Styles for Autumn &t Winter
SHOWN IN THE
GREEN ROOM AT
The New Palace Emporium.
Millinery
Modes ...
at
Anthony Horderns*
Famous Low Prices.
No. 115 —VELVET HAT, lined Glace Silk,
trimmed Shaded Roses and PAincy
Feathers, 425.
No. 110-BLACK VELVET DUCHESS
HAT, trimmed three Ostrich Tips, 50s.
No. 117 —GLACE SILK HAT, trimmed
Shot Ribbon, Wreath of Violets and
Shaded Roses, 455.
No. 118—VELVET HAT, Crown of Floral
Silk, Palma Violets and Roses, 30s.
No. 119—FELT HAT, trimmed Velvet, Rib-
bon and Roses, 21s.
No. 120-WHITE GLACE SILK HAT,
trimmed Velvet, Tulle, and Fancy
Feather Mount, 325. fid.
No. 121 —VELVET HAT, trimmed Shot
Silk, Velvet, and two Ostrich Tips, 50s.
The MILLINERY shown in
this announcement is taken from
our AUTUMN FASHION
PORTFOLIO, which illustrates
the season's London and Paris
Millinery Modes and Fashion-
able Costumes.
Send for a copy, POSTED
FREE on application.
*>-
m
ml
{,
L\
2*
00 BB*P®P
<*.
Sy!
.1
>'v
i
'cl
r
c
is-
* 9P
Velvet
fairegf Javbr§
fIoRTO
t- affl oifeß w rnce s
IJ°IIB
VeiyetA at
N? 120
WRITE GLACE
SILK RAT
N 9 I I 6.
Black velvet Duchess
* HAT, .
n o\\9
e.t W
*
H? 121
VaveT
Mat
m
.1
ill
SP
■‘r <t-
»vES"
. v
‘V Sfc
Oiil
■m t-
y£/
A
7*9' .
<JVo?)elties in
C/ii lcfre/is efts
754 1
Whe
757
3640
755
Anthony Horder^’
F ashionable
Frocks For Fair
Australians.
No. 7-52—CASHMERE DRESSES, Cream,
light and dark colors—2oin., 9s. (Id. ;22in.,
10s. Gd.; 24in., 11s. 6d. ; 26in., 12s. Gda
No. 749 —CASHMERE DRESSES, trimmed
Silk Embroidery, Cream—2oin., 12s. Gd. ;
22in., 13s. Gd. ; 24in., 14s. Gd. ; 2Gin.,
15s. Gd.
No. 753—CASHMERE DRESSES, with Silk
Collar, Embroidered Silk, Cream, light
and dark colors—2oin., 11s. Gd.; 22in.,
12s. Gd. ; 24in., 13s. Gd.; 2Gin., 14s. Gd.
No. 754-CASHMERE DRESSES, tucked
and hemstitched, Cream, light and dark
colors—27in., 12s. Gd. ; 30in., 13s. Gd. ;
33in., 14s. Gd. ; 3Gin., 15s. Gd. ; 39in., IG/G.
No. 3G3G—IVORY JAPANESE SILK
COSTUMES, trimmed Embroidered Net
Lace and Insertion —27in., 325. Gd.; 30in.,
355.; 33in., 375. Gd. ; 36in., 395. Gd.
No. 757 —SERGE DRESSES, Navy and
Cardinal, trimmed Braid; 27in., 12s. 9d.;
30in., 14s. ; 33in., 15s. 3d. ; 36in., lGs. Gd.;
39in., 17s. 9d. ; 42in., 19s. Similar Style
in Navy, Wine, or Brown Cloth, No. 886
—24 in., Gs. Gd. ; 27in., 7s. ; 30in., 7s. Gd. ;
33in., Bs. ; 36in., Bs. Gd. ; 39in., 9s. ;
42in., 9s. Gd.
No. 3640 -CHILDREN’S IVORY JAPAN-
ESE SILK FROCKS, trimmed Lace and
Insertion —20in., 19s. ; 22in., 21s. Gd. ;
24in., 235. ; 26in., 245. Gd. Similar style,
trimmed Silk Embroidery, No. 3616 —
225. Gd., 235. 9d., 255., 275. Gd.
No. 750-CASHMERE DRESSES. Cream,
light and dark colors—2oin., 7s. Gd.; 22in.,
Bs. 3d. ; 24in., 9s. ; 26in., 9s. 9d.
No. 755—CREAM CASHMERE COS-
TUMES —27in., lGs. Gd. ; 30in., 18s. 3d. ;
33in., 20s. ; 36in., 21s. 9d. ; 39in., 235. Gd.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brick-field Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


UfflT
and other
SKINS;
Also BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send t.
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDKTE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprade «• BOOKS.
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How TO
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
East, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3.; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canaßy-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, is;
postl/3. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/- ; post 1/3. Manning’s
PLEASE MENTION THIS
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions, Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, Is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwivks’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring- Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hv Dr. Warren., Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Merrif. England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
VWAND any book you want.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
Vi
FREE.
FREE PRIZE —No Money Wanted*
This Picture Puzzle represents a Lion and his
Keeper—Find the Face of the Keeper, and return to
us with your name and address, and we will gire a
genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free; only one answer is
allowed. We make this marvellous offer to advertise our
Mending Tissue. Mending Tissue is an article used for niak-
ins? invisible patches and repairing clothing, gloves, furs, or any article of cotton, wool, silk,
linen, &c. It will hem any cloth much quicker and better than with the needle or machine. A
boon to bachelors. To all who are awarded a Fountain Pen, we send 12 sample packages of
Mending Tissue to distribute among friends. In order that our goods may be appreciated, we
require you to collect, from each person, with whom you leave a sample, 6d. (half the selling
price of same). You then return us the money, and for this service we give Free, and in
addition to the Fountain Pen, Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments,
Silver Ware, Purses, Bags, Dinner Sets, &c. This is at least worth investigating. It costs
nothing to try, and you take no risk. We simply ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us
your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send you the 12 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according
to instructions and we will send you, Free, the prize you choose. Could anything be fairer ?
This great offer is only open for a limited time. We will only accept answers from those who
did not answer our previous puzzle.
Write at once. THE GU'J’TA PEKCHA TRADING CO.. 120 Ash St., Sydney.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £.900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DSFY COM PETITION.
J~p~j| The Best Brands Only of SFIRiITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Free
3**s
U
2-ft High
A LIFE--SIZE DOLL,
OR A BOY'S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life=siZ2d Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks, brown eyes, and represented with flesh-coloure 1 body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., nignly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of bestmaterial rapid in itsaction, and
a te in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WHT6H
enaiN and PEIVDHNT sent FREE with the Doll or Kin.- For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the uionev b/», ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
v ill help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seed- in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown Irom our Seeds.
Send vournameaud address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 91() Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Boy's Rif e.
C'B a
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C-B
Bear the Seal
of Public
Approval.
The finest
shape
ever created.
In*so
different
styles.
-♦s
A Positive
Stimulant
to Grace and
Elegance.
All C.B. Corsets have
rust-proof supports.
C.B.
”>s
%
4/)y
There aro
types to fit
every figure
perfectly.
Worn by
over
half a million
smart
Women in
Europe.
Light as air,
yet
guaranteed to
outlast two
ordinary corsets.
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas.
A single test has convinced thousands of women that here is a type
immeasurably superior to all other straight-fronted corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct style, write for a book of types to .
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY; and BRIS3ANE
J. BUNTING,
Central House, Hobson Street, AUCKLAND, N.Z.
TRADE ¥ MARK
T That Mark Means Merit,
and will be found on every component part of
YOUR BICYCLE
if it is built of genuine
B.S.A. Fittings
It is a guarantee of quality—it means that every
part which bears it has been designed by men of
long and wide experience in cycle component
construction—that the material used has been selected with the
utmost care —and that none but the finest workmanship has been
employed in its manufacture. It can only be found on genuine
B.S.A. productions, and its value is emphasized by the fact that
imitations are constantly being sold and described as “B.S.A.
PATTERN.” That means nothing, and every
cyclist should beware of being misled by such a
description. Look for the mark —insist on its being
there —otherwise disappointment and dissatisfaction
are bound to follow. Send for B.S.A. Handbook—it
is free and will interest you.
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
BIRMINGHAM SMALL ARMS CO. LTD*
4 Stock Exchange Buildings,
Melbourne.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
arid Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA
ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21s.
A Unique and Luxurious Gift.


4,
There’s nothing so
_ bad for a cough
as coughing.
r There’s noth-
ing so good
for a cough
as Ayer’s
Cherry Pec-
toral.
When you
have a genu-
ine cold or a
hard cough,
orwhen there
is in flam ma-
mation in the throat or lungs, theD
you need
Mger’s
'Chernf Pectoral
It is a carefully prepared, accurately
compounded medicine for all diseases
of the throat and lungs. It contains
strong and active ingredients, such as
are extensively prescribed by the medi-
cal profession. It is the oldest, strong-
est, and best medicine for coughs and
colds you can possibly buy.
Accept no cheap and worthless sub-
stitute. Be sure you get Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. It contains no narcotic or
poison of any kind.
frepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
instant
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourhe St., Melbourne.
£IA DAY EASILY
Made by live Canvassers, (ladies and gents.) whole or
Bparetlme, selling Household Labor-saving Special-
ities, Novelty Farm Tools, Ladies Hat Fasteners,
Cheap and Novelty Watches, Scissors Sharps. Games,
Magic Polish Cloths, Novel Thimbles. Im’n Jewellery
Sets, Music, Medical, Joke Books. Sole Agency
given Success certain. Particulars. Catalog 90 ex-
clusive, fast-selling New Lines. Home Rep. Co.
Hunter’s Chambers, George St. Sydney, N.S.W.
* Rowland, aged 6, was very
ill with wasting disease, the
bones being nearly through the
skin, and we had very little
hope of his recoverv. However,
thanks to SCOTT’S Emuls'on,
he is to-day a fine healthy boy.
Norman was born with
spinal
trouble
and had never been able to sit up
unsupported. At 2 years I started
SCOTT’S and after the first
bottle he could sit up alone and
move a little. Now he is 7£ years
old, and able to walk.
My fifth baby, Charles, was
very weak and ill with whooping
cough, bronchitis and teething,
but the first few doses of
SCOTT’S relieved him greatly
and he has now lost the cough,
and is gaining strength and
putting on flesh rapidly."
(Mrs.) E. A. Sylvester,
High Street, Little Coogee, N.S.W.
20/8/07.
Above Is the Proof In the Facts.
Here is Proof In the Reason Why:
This power of SCOTT’S Emulsion
to cure speedily and radically
makes it the most economical of all
emulsions, for the
sooner the cure
comes the sooner
the expense stops.
It is the fine, vigo-
rous quality of all
the materials used
in SCOTT’S, and
the perfect digesti-
bility which the
SCOTT process
achieves, that give
to SCOTT’S a rapidity and cer-
tainty of action that none of its
competitors can equal. Therefore,
when purchasing, don’t ask for
“ Emulsion; ” ask for and get
SXLOjS
| Emulsion |
. —the difference between them means
' a cure for you ! See that “ the Fishman 1
| with the Fish ”is on the package. Of |
all Chemi ts and Dealers in Medicines.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Once on a Time !
Dear little witch with the sun in your hair,
Dear little feet that are rosy and bare,
Hashing and dashing from under your gown
Just as you trip to the Nid-a-Nod town ;
Hither a moment and mount on my knee,
List a wee while, mother’s darling, to me ;
Cling to me, little one, clasp me and climb
Down in the Valleys of Once-on-a-Time !
Hark—to the roll of the dwarf on the drum !
See how the fairy-folk answer his “ Come” !
See how the doves in a snowy-white train
Flutter and circle and flutter again !
Yonder the Knight, on his charger so bold,
Rides on the Quest in his trappings of gold ;
I here is the Castle they built in their prime—
Lords of the Valley of Once-on-a-Tmie.
Down by the Lake with its sparkle and sheen
Swims a gay boat that was built for a Queen ;
Swans of the whitest they sweep it along,
Wonderful birds soar above it in song ;
Oh ! but the Queen is a marvellous rose—
See how the lips of her kiss as they close !
Hark ! how her Hugh ripples, sweet as a rhyme,
Over the Valleys of Once-on-a-Tirne !
Hold me, dear heart, with the soft little hand
Now we draw near to the Lullaby Land.
Misty and mazy the distances seem,
Melodies fade like the songs of a dream ;
Fainter the voices we catch in their swell,
Now they die down in the deep of the dell;
Over the hilltops a slumberful chime
Falls on the Valleys of Once-on-a-Time !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
Irish Song.
Three proud devils are eating my heart—
To each his portion, and grief for me !
Wasting Sickness, and burning Love,
And pitiless Poverty.
Poverty stript me, left me bare,
Not so much as a shirt to wear ;
Sickness wasted me, from me took
Manly vigor and comely look ;
Hot Love scorched me, flung me aside,
A sod half-burnt when the fire has died.
Cough and fever, hunger and thirst,
These be bitter—but far above
The bitterest curse that ever was curst
Is the devil whose name is Love.
QUEENSLAND.
A.W.
At the End of Summer.
The tall trees sway to the rough wind’s shaking,
The bent flowers writhe in his rude embrace ;
Wave after wave into white foam breaking.
Leaf after leaf in a headlong chase.
All joys that were born of the summer and light
Spread wing with the swallow and take their
flight.
Yet who would grieve at the wind’s destroying?
Or who would sigh when a rose must fall ?
Things sweet at first in the end grow cloying,
And joys that stay with us long may pall. -
So we who have trifled a summer away
Will part without sorrow at close of day.
The way of a kiss is the way of the summer,
And love is brief as the life of a rose.
Now lips grow colder and hands grow number,
And soft thoughts go where the dead leaf goes.
As a bee flies free from a flower’s warm heart
When daytime is over, we kiss and depart.
And this is better than love that’s stronger,
For love that’s stronger is hard to die.
And it were good that it lasts no longer,
For love that’s lasting may leave a sigh.
While we who have trifled a summer away
Will part without sorrow at close of day.
vic.
NEVILLE GOYDER.
South Wind.
Swinging round the Tasman shores,
Sweeping up the roll,
Past Cape Schenk it loudly roars
Nor ward from the Pole.
Booming down Port Phillip’s Bay,
Over land and sea,
Brings the strong South Wind to-day
Memories to me.
There’s a grey mound in the South ;
Low my Love lies there ;
Dust is on her peerless mouth,
Grave dust in her hair.
Once I held her, all mine own,
Kissed her mouth of rose,
Now, above her rest place lone,
Cold the south wind blows.
Do the high gods, where they dwell,
Pity shed, divine ?
Do the demons down in Hell
Joy for grief like mine?
Let them say who gave us woe,
Let the high gods say ;
Death is sure, and this we know—
Life lives but a day.
Only this is left to me
Of you now, White Rose-r-
Bitter husks of Memory
When the south wind blows.
n.s.vv.
E. J. BRADY.
The best remedy
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS,
BRONCHITIS.
__ ASTHMA.
Ask for Borin 1 ng ton’s
and seethatyou get it.
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Brad Btewlf wi.h in d *2f wi ?- ul country f ce " es ; lc describes every detail of the anufacture of a hißh-
Indchea D ' h ' 14 shows you the di£Eerence between high-class work
anu cneap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
WITH THE FREE ART BOOK
yon will receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
how we are alua t„ „„ , - « v « r mad e by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
Backed and 7 0le ’ dlrect I rom °“ r Coventry factory, guaranteed ten yearr,
tlm hiaheS afarff 7 yo ?. r nca "- Bt P° rt - for >’°ur inspection and approval; how we fan sell
are ahle fotet ifrte iv? de 7 C ir 8 d 7 ect lr0 ? t - he factor J at less than manuiacturers’ prices; how wo
eh s f ll™ hi?, 1 ,n he CyCIC Ten “ ays and K |ve it every tr.al and test you wish before your pur-
' Wh7h iiii h2 g ' h ° wyou . ca n make large profits easily-all are fully explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO,, DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
WINCHESTER
B 1 ack Powder Shotgun Cartridges I
The important points in a shotgun cartridge are relia-
bility, uniformity of loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities and strength to withstand reloading.
All these virtues are found in Winchester “New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
©
A. ®)
Limited.
By R.oyal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Eotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.


ART METAL
<SeridJoriourinoo/dof “TZeautifuJ Homes
post-free on application.
SYDNEY,
56 f
Pitt St..
v/W:
MELBOURNE
123
Queen St.
The New Frag'rant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
Ik
Tobacco
Manufactured in
Richmond Virginia.
by Lakus & Brother C
Racked by RTowns* Co. Agente.Sydney.
w
Facsimile ''reduced) of Soz. tin.
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bi li.ki .N readers :
If you cannot fret
GOLD BOND locally,
seiid 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Asrents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
9
Coed
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures
robust health.
%oRe *Joy
of 1 Living
-K
21
TE W YEARS PUBLIC USE HAS PROVED THAT
0* **i’V
<uwtu » n« • .
A.nT
LV - MUTUAL Lift BUILDINO.MARTINPIftCE.SvDNEY.
exterminator
/NEVER FAILS
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World 1
Of all Dealers.
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
/ all cyclists the world over
Sole makers :
J. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Batter Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. Director.
NEW Chib Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A.
'U.JM. C.
NEW CLUB
RTRIDGES
V
:>
>
>//< >"<
//( >/y<
Sydney f> Brisbane
V./'V./"W \ /"N /--v /-\ n 7*K >-< >M, JH, jn. ... __
s
:5
a


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1469.
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1908.
Price 6d
AN IMMIGRATION PROBLEM.
A FRIENDLY PRIME MINISTER : “ Say, that infant doesn’t seem to be doing too well. Can’t I send you over some nourishing food for it ?"
WADE AND BENT (in chorus): “We hates folk as don’t mind their own business.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have The Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a. year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Hon' to A (hirexx Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin tvonld oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for ‘‘copy." Delay, and. even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojUcials. The person may not be there; the official
alivays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby exjrressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor ivill carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing until Australian subjects, and not exceeding
hoc columns in length, or, say, $OOO ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A ina.teti.rs in nttide tend. White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and.
Cotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The. Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. 11. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottaiva.
U.S.A. —Jones News Go., New Orleans, Lo.’
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Dong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6sin. x If,in.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
77i£T$xxlIelztfi,
THURSDAY, APRIL 9, 1908.
NOTICE TO AGENTS
Agents are notified that, on account ©f
the Easter holidays, The Bulletin next
week will be published on Wednesday,
15th inst., instead of Thursday, 16th inst.
SENATOR SAYERS OF QUEENSLAND
AND THE AUSTRALIAN CAPITAL.
I don’t think the capital will ever be at Tooma. If ever
it is attempted the next election would shift it again.
New South Wales would not stand it. I personally favor
Canberra, and I have no axe to grind. I will say this in
the House very plainly. Of course, the scenery about
Tooma is very fine, but you want a lot of other things
which Tooma has not got to make a suitable Federal capi-
tal site. It would take a great deal of money to connect
Tooma with the railway system, and the lines would have
to go through difficult country. Prom a water point of
view, Dalgety could not be improved upon, but the
climate is awfully cold in winter. A blizzard was on
when we went there, and the soil is shallow, and there
are granite rocks all over it. The Federal city, wherever
it is fixed, will be like Toronto and Washington. It will
never be a great commercial centre. Melbourne and Syd-
ney will still continue to be the commercial capitals of
Victoria and New South Wales, with Brisbane in Queens-
land. A man’s own sense would tell him that if indus-
tries were established in places like Tooma or Dalgety the
expense of getting manufactured articles to the seaboard
would be prohibitive.— Senator Sayers, of Queensland.
Tn tlie scrimmage between Canberra and Dalgety,
as possible sites for the capital of Australia—the
only capital in all the world that will be
the political centre of a whole continent—
Canberra stands for the so-called State Rights,
and Dalgety for the rights of Australia. Canberra
was selected by a mere State Government, and if
it is forced on Australia the meaning of that act
will be that the State Governments are greater
than the Government of Australia. The result
will not apply to N.S.W. alone. The Westralian
provincialists who want to dictate to the Aus-
tralian Parliament about the route of the Western
transcontinental railway; the Queensland pro-
vincialists who want to abandon the nearly-half-
finished northern transcontinental line and make
a new and devious railway through Queensland to
Port Darwin; the Victorian parochialists who
want to annex the Murray waters in a large, off-
hand fashion —in fact, every State parochialist
who wants to see six States doing a disorderly
gcramble, each for its own hand, instead of having a
well-ordered central Government, will regard the
selection of Canberra as a triumph. It has become
a sort of test question a question whether
State anarchy or Federal order will prevail. And
in another strictly parochial sense it has become
a test question. A capital at Canberra, with no
port, with an utterly miserable water supply,
with its territory entirely surrounded by the lands
of one State —a capital wholly dependent on
the goodwill of a single State for water,
for railway and road communication, and for
THE TERRIBLE LOSS OF N.S.W.
What the Ma State will lose if 900 square miles
are taken for a Federal territory.
all the essentials of existence—must always
be a mean and wholly subordinate city.
It must always be overshadowed by Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Hobart and Perth.
Its meanness would be a sign that State influences
had triumphed over Australian influences.
Senator Sayers, who, with Ghataway and St.
Ledger, was elected on his promise to get the
Adelaide-Port Darwin transcontinental railway
changed into a Western Queensland railway, and
who stands for the local interests of Queensland
as against the interests of Australia in general,
naturally hollers for Canberra. It represents the
parochial view, and he lives politically on the
parochial view.
» * TV *
Of course it is impossible to declare openly that
the objection to Dalgety is that it occupies a site
on which a great city may grow—a city that will
eclipse every existing State capital, and be worthy
of the distinction of being the only capital in all
the world that is the political centre of an entire
continent. Therefore, a great deal is made of the
alleged coldness, the alleged bleak elevation, and the
alleged generaluninhabitablenessof the town by the
Snowy River. But in a case like this it is always
best to leave off wild generalities and get down to
details. And fortunately the details are at hand.
The hideous yap that a 5000 square mile Federal
territory will make in the poor Ma State.
Mr. H. A. Hunt, the brilliant N.S.W. scientist,
who was lately appointed to be Federal Meteoro-
logist, has just issued a little book which sets forth
particulars of many of the capitals and great cities
of the world, and also of certain proposed capitals
and cities as yet unbuilt. Some of these details
are as follows :
Height Average
in temperature of
feet. coldest Month.
New York (U.S. A.) .. .. 175 16’0
Christiania (Norway).. .. 82 23’5
Chicago (U.S.A.) .. .. 595 24'0
Stockholm (Sweden) .. .. 144 24 5
Berne (Switzerland) .. .. 1880 27'0
Vienna (Austria) .. .. 666 28’6
Berlin (Prussia) .. .. 161 30’6
Budapest (Hungary) .. .. 502 31’0
Copenhagen (Denmark) .. 46 31’4
Dublin (Ireland) .. .. 155 32'8
Washington (U.S. A.).. .. 73 33'0
Amsterdam (Holland) ..Sealevel 35'0
Brussels (Belgium) .. .. 177 35'6
Paris (Prance) 104 36’3
Tokio (Japan) 69 36'6
Edinburgh (Scotland) .. 441 37-0
Shanghai (China) .. .. 37-7
London (England) .. .. 154 38 - 6
Madrid (Spain).. .. . 2149 39‘7
DALGETY 2650 40'0
Constantinople (Turkey) .. 42‘0
CANBERRA .. ..2000 to 2900 42"0
Hobart 160 457
Rome (Italy) 164 457
Melbourne .. .. .. 91 477
Naples (Italy) 187 43’2
These figures are instructive in a way. It wasn’t
worth while reprinting all the list of European
and American and Asiatic cities, or includin„
such bleak and desolate places as Ottawa
or Quebec or Moscow or St. Petersburg,
but the complete table furnishes the sur-
prising intelligence that Dalgety is warmer,
in its coldest month, than all the European
capitals save Rome and Constantinople. Also, }
shows that it is warmer by far than lokio, Rekin
and Shanghai, whence come the Chows and Japs
whom our Tories of the Bruce Smith brand
declare to be specially fitted to toil in a hot
climate where the white man can’t work. And
while Dalgety is only seven degrees colder than
Melbourne and five colder than Hobart, and a
trifle warmer than London, it is 2450 ft. (or nearly
half-a-mile) higher than any of them, therefore its
winter cold is the cold of a pure, rare atmosphere,
lifted above fogs and germs and mean, creeping
diseases, and the small things of this world
generally. If Dalgety is uninhabitable in winter,
then Europe is uninhabitable, except a fringe
along the western Mediterranean.
* * •* «
As regards those who whoop for Canberra on
the ground that it is an ideal spot as compared to
the bleak pinnacles of Dalgety, it is worth
noticing that Canberra is only two degrees warmer
than Dalgety after all. And as regards the
allegedly blizzard-haunted character of the town
beside the Snowy River, part of the Canberra site
is 250 ft. higher than Dalgety, and naturally 250 ft.
more blizzard-haunted. The published N.S.W.
records re the force of the wind are rather in-
complete, and the latest that this writer can find
include neither Canberra nor Dalgety. But they
show the curious fact that the average wind-
pressure at Queanbeyan near Canberra (1900 ft.
high) is much greater than that at Bornbala
(3000 ft. high), and Bombala is near Dalgety and
350 ft. more elevated. So there seems to be hope for
the allegedly windy town beside the Snowy. More-
over, while Government Meteorologist Hunt sets
down the average rainfall at Canberra at 23in.
annuallv he records that of Dalgety as over 27in.
Between 27in. of local rain, plus a huge, ever-
flowing river that comes down from the eternal
snows of Kosciusko and from the drenched Kiandra
table-land with the-biggest rainfall in all N.S.W.
and 23m. plus only a creek which is mostly dead
timber, there is a monumental-discrepancy. And
for the bitter wail about the alleged barrenness of
the Dalgety table-land it is only necessary to
once put on record the infuriated shout of
N.S.W. State Premier Carruthers when that
locality was first selected :
It will include many considerable towns and a rich
district. . . . About 40,000 of our residents will be in-
cluded in the area. ... We must lose our land-tax
revenues from the districts annexed, which will be a o-ood
round sum. True, we shall be relieved of the cost of
government of the area in question, BUT AS THEY ARE
OUR RICHEST DISTRICTS, and are now self-sustaining
practically, we have no desire to lose them. . . . All the
roads, bridges, public schools, court houses, lands offices
wharves, and public buildings of any and every kind will
be taken over with the area, etc.
The opponents of the site selected by the Aus-
tralian Parliament should really try to decide
whether they are against it because the country is
so poor that N.S.W. couldn’t think of offering it
or because it is so amazingly rich that N S w'
couldn’t think of parting with” it.
And Sayers —the remarkable, incredible Sayers
—holds that there is no hope of Dalgety becoming
a manufacturing city, despite the fact that Nature”
when it constructed the Snowy River, supplied it
with enough power, free of cost, to run
.nil the industries of Melbourne and Sydney
combined. “A man’s own sense,” according to
Sayers of Queensland, “would tell him that
if industries were established in places like Tooma
or Dalgety, the expense of getting manufactured
articles to the seaboard would be prohibitive.”
Wonderful are the things that a man’s own
sense tells him when he hasn’t it with him. l n
these astonishingly foolish remarks Mr. Sayers
shows all the earmarks of the person whose creed
is that the Australian is a poor, inferior sort of
animal, quite unable to do things that the rest of
the human race does without turning a hair. Dal.
gety is, roughly, 75 miles from a first-class port,
it is nearer to the sea than scores of great manul
facturing cities in Germany, France, Switzerland,
Austria, Russia, or the United States. It is
closer to deep water than Birmingham or Notting.
ham, and almost as close to the ocean as Sheffield.
The only possible reason why Sayers, or any such
person, can assume that manufacturing at
Dalgety, with its magnificent water power,
is impossible, is that Sayers takes it for
granted that Australia has no future, no
hope and no courage, and that its people are
inferior to all the nations of Europe and America,
and a degree below the Hindu and the Burman!
He must even assume that the men of N.S.W.
are below the grade of the Victorians, for the
Victorian manufactures for export at Ballarat, and
Ballarat is further from its usual port than Dalgety.
And he can only assume that in ignorance, for
Lithgow, a N.S.W. manufacturing town, is also
farther from a port than Dalgety. Further, his
theory goes to show that wool-raising is impossible
in N.S.W. west of the mountains, for a ton of
wool weighs just as much as a ton of boots or
hardware, and if one can’t be sent 75 miles to the
sea the other can’t. Further, Mr. Sayers seems
to assume that no imported manufactured goods,
and no manufactured goods made in the coastal
cities, go more than 75 miles inland ; if the goods
can’t stand freight one way they can’t stand it the
other, so presumably Mr. Sayers thinks the
people of the interior go naked. Dalgety won’t
want to export its manufactured goods for a while,
but if it sends them even as far as Bairnsdale and
Albury to begin with, it will save these places—
now supplied from Melbourne and Sydney—quite
a heap of money. “A man’s own sense” ought
to show him these things.
• * # *
Therefore it is impossible to avoid the convic-
tion that the opposition to Dalgety as the capital
of Australia arises out of the facts : (1) that it is
the selection of the Australian Parliament, conse-
quently it must be opposed to the bitter end by
the State Frights crowd in order to assert the
supremacy of the States over the Commonwealth;
and (2) that the site contains such possibilities
that there is a fear lest there should grow up beside
the Snowy a magnificent city which will over-
shadow theStatecapitals, whereas the State Frights
policy calls for a poor, mean, wretched, hopeless
Federal capital to which parochial politicians can
point with scorn as an evidence of the meanness
and wretchedness of the Federal authority. All
the alleged reasons against the Federal site prove,
when viewed in the light of evidence, to be either
lies or delusions. The so-called dreadful climate
is better than that of all the capitals of Europe
save two, and it runs these two very closely. The
so-called blizzards are never reported in the papers,
and can’t be found in the meteorological reports.
The so-called barrenness is contradicted on the
solemn oath and swear and covenant of N.S.W.
ex-Premier Carruthers, who declared the dis-
trict to be the richest part of N.S.W. The
allegation that manufactures are impossible there
on account of the distance from a port is bowled
out by the fact that most of the important manu-
facturing towns of the world are as far from a
port, or further. Nothing remains as evidence
against the site selected by the Australian Par-
liament save parochial malice and cussedness.
And these things are hardly evidence, nor are
they matters worthy of serious consideration.
5000 SQUARE MILES.
When the theory was first propounded in this
paper that 5000 square miles was the smallest
area that could possibly fill the bill as a Federal
capital territory, there were people in N.S.W.
who choked through inability to express their
views on the proposed “ act of spoliation.” When
the Australian Parliament demanded 900 square
miles—an area so pathetically insufficient that it
wouldn’t give the Federal authority control of its
own water supply—the N.S.W. State Government
of J. Carruthers, and the State Parliament
(instigated by ,J. Carruthers), and the anti-
Australian press, all spoke w drily of the idea as
an attempt at a vast, incredible, boundless, hor-
rible act —something 1 like the Face at the Win-
dow m the respect that it defied description and
made bankrupt the resources of the British
language. Most people had just a hazy impres-
sion—accentuated by all this artificial lash-
ing of the tail of State politics—that the
figures were large. They didn't quite
imagine that 5000 square miles meant an area
5000 miles long and 5000 broad, or that 900 square
miles meant a bit of land 900 miles across in this
direction and 900 miles across in that direction, but
they felt that it was something like that —some-
thing vaguely enormous. So, by way of putting
the matter into plain detail, The Bulletin pub-
lishes herewith two maps of N.S.W. The irregular
little blot of ink lurking like an ant at the
foot of one map shows exactly what the 5000
square miles that this paper proposed as a Federal
Territory would amount to. The little square
blot like a germ lurking on the other map shows
the size—though not the exact shape—of the 900
square miles which the Australian Parliament, in
its foolish moderation, has asked for. They are
both calculated to astonish people who vaguely
understood, from th& shapeless clamor of the anti-
Federal party, that 5000 square miles—or even 900
square miles—meant a heroic steal, which was cal-
culated to absorb most of N.S.W. outside the 100-
miles limit from Sydney, and possibly slop over
into adjacent States as well. Upon the immensity
of N.S.W.’s 310,700 square miles The Thing lhat
The Tremendous Row Was About is hardly per-
ceptible to the naked eye. As for the 200 square
miles which the N.S.W. State Government has
suggested as a fair thing, the attempt to show it
on a map was abandoned. It would have been
necessary to give away a microscope with each
copy of this paper, and the expense would have
been too great.
* * * *
New South Wales has already dropped
various bits of land. Maoriland, Tasmania, Vic-
toria, Queensland, the Northern Territory and
even South Australia have been included, at
different times, in official maps of the gigantic
principality thatwas nominally ruledfrom ne ?’
They have all gone, and the “ robbery” or “confi-
scation,” or whatever it was called, hasn’t ruined
Sydney in any sense of the term. The exaggeia-


ated raving about the prospective loss of another
little bit of territory—a loss that N.S.W. State
politicians so much insisted upon that they had
the amputation included in the Constitution—
therefore seems absurd, especially as the bit won’t
be really lost in the same sense that the other bits
were. The 1,790,000 square miles that N.S.W.
has already dropped went under the control of
other State Governments, and passed away
utterly. The 900 square miles (or 5000 square
miles) now in question will go to a power which is
one-third N.S. W. itself, and it isn’t proposed that
the land should be parted with in the sense that
the other 1,790,000 square miles were parted with.
So it is really impossible to imagine that the wild
alleged surprise and professed anger and shock of
some State politicians and some newspapers, at
the demand for 900 square miles, are anything but
a mere chewing of soap to make a froth. It is
impossible to imagine that there would have been
anything more than a soap-chewing act, even if the
Commonwealth had done the sensible thing and
asked for 5000 square miles.
* * * *
The present situation is curious. The N.S.W.
State Government secured, by a devious device,
an alteration of the Federal Constitution to pro-
vide that the capital must be in N.S.W., yet it
has declared that, it won’t let the capital be in
N.S.W. except under ridiculous and insane re-
strictions, and it threatens to revolushe, or revolve
on its axis, or something, if the capital is any-
where else. Yet if it is only grief at parting with
the necessary area of land (combined with a firm
but tearful resolve not to let any other State part
with it) that makes the trouble, it should surely be
possible to arrive at some kind of an arrangement.
Queensland and South Australia are both huge
properties. Might it not be possible for the
Commonwealth to arrange to buy a bit of land
from one of them, and present it to N.S.W. as
solatium for the loss of the necessary 5000 square
miles on Monaro ? That area, according to State
Premier Wade, is so barren that it should be easy
to make good the loss of it to N.S.W. by the
prresent of a nice square bit of soil bought in
either south-west Queensland or the east of
South Australia. Of course the payment of any
compensation to N.S.W. would be a radical de-
parture from the terms of the compact, but it
might be better to depart from the strict letter of
the bargain—where it can be done without
sacrificing the interests of Australia —than have
nose-blood shed over the business.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Northern Territory.
There is an awkward reminder that the Common-
wealth lacks a High Commissioner to represent its
cause in London in the statement by the Prime
Minister in regard to the matter of the Northern
Territory :
The Bill passed by the South Australian Parliament
surrendering the Northern Territory to the Common-
wealth was now awaiting the Royal assent.
So far, certainly, there is no hint that there is any
intention of withholding that assent, but Aus-
tralians cannot avoid a tremor of fear at the
thought that there still hangs in the balance a
measure which is vitally necessary to the mainten-
ance of a White Australia. If Great Britain re-
fuses assent to the transfer, and elects to resume
the Territory, and hold it as a Crown colony,
there will be an end to White Australia—at any
rate until we are strong enough to fight any nation
on earth to establish it. There is every reason to
believe that the bearing this transfer of the
Northern Territory has on Australia’s destinies is
fully understood in Europe, and perhaps in Asia :
and probably there will not be lacking representa-
tions to the British Government as to the in-
advisability of taking a step which will shut out any
chance of a peaceful negation of the White Aus-
tralia policy. And the Commonwealth, in
case discussion arises, has no representative in
London to urge how vital this matter is to
Australia, how united Australians are in the ideal
of keeping their continent white, and how easily
all the bonds of kinship might snap if there were
shown any disposition on the part of Great Britain
to interfere with that ideal.
♦
Mr. Wade’s Proposed Canberra Capital and
the Cotter Water Supply.
When N.S.W. Premier Wade’s budget of infor-
mation came to hand regarding the Cotter Creek
as a water supply for a proposed Australian
capital at Canberra, the utter foolishness of his
scheme was made manifest. The Australian
Government based its inquiries on a city of 50,000
Eeople with a supply of 100 gallons per day per
ead, or 5,000,000 gallons per day. The report of
Wade’s officer was not based on gaugings of the
Cotter itself, or on the rainfall of the land that
would form the catchment area. The actual
gaugings taken were those of the Murray and
Tumut Rivers, which were then “correlated ” to
those of the Cotter. The result of this “ correla-
ting” is to fix the outflow of the Cotter between a
minimum of 11,812 million gallons and a
maximum of 45,624 million gallons per day. And
yet, on January 24th, at the junction of the Cotter
and Murrumbidgee, the Cotter was only Byds.
wide and about 6in. deep. Had there been the
outflow mentioned, one would naturally expect
that the water would rush along with great force.
But it didn’t,, and a camera tripod, with
the instrument surmounting it, stood up in
the middle of the raging torrent, and
never even shook. The Bulletin suspects,
in the face of this, that “correlating” is an
unreliable method of calculating the outflow of
any river. Premier Wade is reported by the
8. M. Herald and Sydney Telegraph to have
said that, from gaugings taken at the end of
January, the daily outflow of the Cotter was
proved to be equal to the water supply of the
whole of Sydney. In the information supplied to
the Australian Parliament there is not a word
about those gaugings, and instead of basing the
calculations on direct gaugings taken in the Cotter
itself, the report is based on figures ascertained
by “correlating” the outflow of the Murray
and the Tumut Rivers. Why? However, having
fixed the outflow of the Cotter, the engineer
proceeded to tell how the proposed city would be
served, To obtain water by gravitation the
Cotter would have to be dammed 11 miles above
the junction with the Murrumbidgee, and the
water conveyed to the capital reservoir, through a
steel main 27in. in diameter, and approximately
45 miles (forti/-fire miles) long. As the engineer
admitted in his report, the weak spot in the
scheme (provided there was any water in the
dam) was that long steel main, which would have
to be taken, through most difficult country, and
renewed every 25 years. And having elaborated
this scheme so carefully the engineer promptly
rejected it in favor of one that involved the
pumping of 5,000,000 gallons per day, from a dam
placed close to the junction of the Cotter and
Murrumbidgee, The catchment area would thus
he extended from 110 sq. miles to 160 sq. miles, or
about one-third the catchment area of Sydney,
and the water forced up 416 ft. by duplicate pumps,
one set driven by water and the other by steam
power when the water was insufficient to drive the
pumps. The engineer’s report admits that in the
months of February, April, and May the water is
liable to be insufficient to supply 50,000 people, let
alone drive the pumps. So to guard against dry
months, he proposes a storage reservoir of
653,000,000 gallons capacity. Both schemes are
utterly inadequate and quite ridiculous compared
to the unfailing and dirt-cheap water supply from
the Snowy. And they are both based on the
theory that the only capital in the world which is
the political centre of a whole continent will never
be a place of more than 50,000 population—that it
will be smaller and meaner than the capitals of
England, Scotland, Ireland, Norway, Sweden,
Denmark, Holland, Belgium, Prussia, Saxony,
almost all the small German States, Austria,
Hungary, France, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal,
Italy, Turkey, Greece, Russia, Queensland,
N.S.W., Victoria, South Australia, Canada, the
United States, Egypt, Afghanistan, Servia, Bul-
garia, and all the South American and some of the
Central American republics ; also smaller than all
the capitals of Asia and such African cities as
Timbuctoo, Coomassie, and the like. In fact, the
Canberra scheme is based on the theory that Aus-
tralia is a poor, miserable place, and can never
grow any capital worth mentioning. Yet there is
no visible reason why the capital of a continent
should remain a city of 50,000 people.
+.
A Matter of Interest.
[For The Bulletin.]
According to the Rainbow correspondent of Melbourne
Age “ considerable interest ” was manifested in a load of
wheat delivered at the local railway station on March 23.
Among the bags weighed and taken delivery of was one
which measured 4ft. 6in. in length, and turned the scales
at 4751 b.—the largest ever delivered in Rainbow —exactly
51b. short of eight bushels. This bag attracted “much
attention.” Another of the bags of wheat weighed 4621 b.,
while the third heaviest weighed 4101 b. Other bags
weighed 3231 b., 3111 b., 3101 b., down to the usual weight.
God rest you, honest husbandman ! When your
day’s work is done
The harvest of your industry goes five bags to the
ton ;
Your kindred are the land’s backbone —Victoria’s
vertebrae:
The lumper’s backbone does not count who ships
your wheat away.
The lumper on Port Melbourne wharf is there to
do his share,
And he may hump the hobs of hell for all the
farmers care.
Four hundred pounds and more a bag the truthful
tallies go
In burdens laid on flesh and blood—Port Mel-
bourne doctors know !
Why Chapman’s foolish vaporings ? Why do the
heathen rage ?
The country correspondent has an item for the
Age—
Behold the sturdy husbandman whose wheat-bag’s
fame resounds,
“ Attracting much attention,” too —eight bushels
less five pounds!
“ Attracting much attention ” —more, indeed,
than plain Bill J ones ;
The papers do not waste much space on William’s
weary bones,
For Bill is born to pile the wheat—his labor
must not flag ;
He is the sport of Juggernaut, the man beneath
the bag.
The gang plank rattles all day long ’neath
William Jones’s feet,
For William Jones’s hands must raise the tiers
of bags of wheat;
High in the stifling hold they stand, eight-
bushel sack on sack,
Assisted to the topmost row on William Jones’s
back.
The Atlas of the waterside, he staggers at his toil,
Until his mighty arms relax, his knotted thews
recoil;
And if a bag should chance to fall, and William
doesn’t dodge,
And keep his footing on the tier, well—William’s
“ on the lodge.”
And what that means to William Jones the grim
lodge-doctor knows,
And William’s wife who has to face the day
when William goes
Feet foremost in a pauper’s shell to William
Jones’s grave :
God rest you, honest husbandman —and heaven
rest you, slave!
vie. Kettledrum.
About a Maligned Climate.
“R.N.” breaks forth :
I have been reading Sydney press fulminations against
Dalgety of late, and they cause me to rub my eyes, and
be helplessly amazed—more especially when the district’s
winter character is assailed. For I have been to Monaro
in the summer ; and I know its winter moods as well.
It is nearly four years ago now that, being in a run-down
state, I accepted a friend’s invitation to take a walking
tour through this section of Australia. The month was
July. My harbor-side acquaintances shuddered when I
told them of my purpose. They drew horrid pictures
of the perils ahead of me. Monaro loomed up in their
minds as a sort of Siberia. They had not been
there, save in the spirit of the city press, but they con-
ceived the place to be a region, if not of perpetual ice and
snow, at least of generally dreadful chilliness interspersed
with a brief period when the Arctic temperature let up
slightly, and suffered the inhabitants to scratch a bare
living out of the earth. They spoke of roaring gales, forest
monarchs tossing amid icy gusts of sleet, avalanches,
snowdrifts and the other stock horrors of the skilled
writer on Yule-tide topics. Someone dragged me
to Anthony Hordern’s, and I left the shop
an hour later in a cab, accompanied by an
outfit of woollens sufficient to carry a man through
an Antarctic expedition. It was a happy circumstance
that my companion, who had suggested the trip and who
got his first glimpse at these articles at Cooma, insisted,
with ribald jeers, on my leaving most of them behind.
We topped the big hill which shoots up from Cooma town
about noon of the day I arrived from Sydney. Something
had gone wrong with the blizzard which is understood, in
the Sydney newspaper offices, to rage perennially on the
Monaro highlands. The weather, for hill-climbing pur-
poses, was, to put it mildly, warm. I shed my coat, ob-
jurgated a suit of woollen underwear I had donned, and
sat me down to cool. After a while, feeling better, we
pressed forward. On either side lay green fields, and
away in front rose and fell the red ribbon of the road. It
was not exciting from a scenic point of view, but the
whole country-side spoke of prosperity and peace, climatic
and otherwise. And so we came to the mile peg, where a
trap containing our tent and camp fixings awaited us.
A nip was now to be felt in the air. Unquestionably in
these parts it grows cold with suddenness towards even-
ino' wherein it resembles the French Riviera at Easter
time, and St. Moritz, when that thriving township’s
hotels are crammed for the tobogganing season.
Spurning our tent as stuffy, we slept out that night
on stretchers beneath a million stars and in an air like
cold still wine.
As we came-down the hill into Dalgety, 20 hours later,
the blizzard was still in abeyance. It was one of those
calm shining evenings of clear skies and delicate opal
lights. Faintly brown against the paling sky shone the
mighty granite boulders Jotted about the plains.
Away below surged the Snowy River, showing
spumy white between its green banks. Even the
garish tin roofs of the town took on something of
the magic of the hour, and seemed less hideous
than is their wont. For ourselves, we weren’t sampling
towns that trip, so, swinging to the right at the bottom
of the hill, we made up.stream for a couple of miles, and
camped. Here Australia’s finest river flows swiftly and
deep between high banks, and is as cold and pure as
a Swiss mountain brook. Again we slept in the open,
lulled by the swirling sound of the waters.
The following night our tent was pitched a dozen miles
further up-stream ; a dozen miles nearer the eternal
snows. It began to rain. And in truth it rained hard.
Slowly and unobtrusively at first ; then more and more
till our sorely-tried canvas quivered in
protest. Also, the wind blew considerably. But this,
regarded as a blizzard, appeared to me a weak and un-
impressive thing. It had gone elsewhere by morning,
which broke in a riot of shimmering green glory and
boisterous waters. Our progress wasn’t thrilling during
the days that followed, along the banks of the glorious
stream that intersects that gorgeous district. We saw
few people. The infrequent settler lives well back from
the river, and we stuck near to it for the most part. We
didn’t want to fish or shoot even had the season been
“ open ” for those sports. We had set out to loaf to the
foot of Kosciusko and back, and we did it conscientiously.
Not till near to Jindnbyne and under the very shadow of
the great mountain did we get our first fall of snow, and
our first experience of cold weather.
My view, after two winter trips to the neighborhood of
Dalgety, and one to the Badja River country which lies
on the other side of Cooma, is that the Monaro June-
September climate (I, of course, except the slopes of Kos-
ciusko itself) is one of the finest winter-climates in the
world ; and my standard of comparison, which comprises
Switzerland, Italy, most of France, also Monaco and
Egypt, is a fair one.
Dalgety and environs are oppressively warm compared
to (say) London in early March, and the district hasn’t a
blizzard in its entire armory to touch the class of thing
N’York hands out weekly during January and February—
and both London and N’York are places where weaklings
survive Nature’s assaults without difficulty. The Monaro
cold, when it does come, is a dry cold—the which is as
different from the British brand of cold as the humid Red
Sea heat is different from the healthful heat of the Darling
Downs. Of all the States Frights’ objections to this spot
that which is levelled against its winter climate appears
to me the least convincing.
♦
The Unification Movement: All Good
Australians Invited.
On April 13 a meeting will be held at Sydney Pro-
testant Hall, with a view to forming a Unification
League in the N.S.W. capital. As Unification is
a very much misunderstood term, it may be here
explained that it doesn’t mean the permanent
combination of all Australia and Tasmania under
one single Government, which will collect the dog-
tax at Thursday Island, and look after the culvert
at Roebourne, and fix the rations of the lighthouse-
keeper at Cape Leeuwin, and try to be the all-
useful elephant which picks up pins and launches
ships with equal facility. The object of the Uni-
fication League is to cut the knot of a heap
of troubles by making a new Federation in
place of the one now existing. It proposes,
in brief, that the question should be sub-
mitted to the people: “Will you transfer
to the Australian Parliament all the powers at
present held by the State authorities?” If the
reply is “Yes,” there will, for a brief period, be
unification, as an unavoidable evil, with the Aus-
tralian Parliament running the whole show. But
the Australian Parliament will, with all possible
speed, divide Australia into a number of small,
handy States, even as the United States is divided,
and supply each with a most liberal constitution,
and a Legislature of one House, and full power
to look after local affairs. Therefore the
Federation will start afresh, but it will start
with a difference. In the few moments or
hours or weeks or the fortnight or half-year between
the end of the old order of things and the beginning
of the new there will disappear : (1) The old State
boundaries, names and traditions, with the
jealousies and quarrels attached, for the country
will be subdivided on a new plan according to
geographical conditions and circumstances ; (2)
the debt problem, for at the moment of Unifica-
tion all the State debts will fall to the Australian
Government in a heap, regardless of whether one
State owes £52 7s. lOd . per head, and another
£52 10s. 7d., and the Australian Government will
keep those debts and make the best of them ; (3)
the borrowing problem, for among the powers
handed to the new States the power to float new
loans will not be included ; (4) the railway pro-
blem. The railways will remain with the Central
authority, and consequently it must set to
work to establish a uniform railway gauge ; (5)
the Nominee or Property-Elected Upper House
curse, for the whole useless, cumbersome State
Upper House system will be among the things left
in the ash-barrel of the past, and the new order
will start under new and sane conditions.
In short, the proposed Unification is simply
Federation-with-a-Cleaning-Up. It might be
otherwise defined as Federation-with-a-Wash.
The States have on them the grime of a century
of tradition, prejudice and discrepancy. Their
boundaries are all wrong, and people have to pay
for many scores of miles of needless railroad
haulage because they have been artificially at-
tached, in a political sense, to the capital 500
miles away instead of to the city 250 miles away ;
and it seems that centuries of argument won’t put
this matter right in the ordinary course of events.
The railroads are of three different gauges, and
a dreadful amount of Australia’s substance
goes in payment for the unloading and
re-loading of goods, yet all the State
argument on earth seems to bring a uni-
form gauge no nearer. The question of turning the
State debts into a uniform Australian debt, with
the credit of the whole Commonwealth behind it,
has already made four Federal Treasurers pre-
maturely old, and it seems no nearer a settlement.
The dreadful State Upper Houses, especially the
property-elected ones of Victoria and Tasmania,
have been an immovable and stagnant curse since
Responsible Government began, and to all seem-
ing it may take 500 years of mild ordinary agita-
tion to shift them. The proposal of the Unifica-
tionists is that there shall be a general and com-
plete clearingaway of these public arrears, and that
Australia shall make a fresh start with one debt,
one railway system, and a series of State Legisla-
tures in which the people shall be supreme all the
time. The idea has at least divine authority
behind it. The slow-going and conservative
section of the community desires to keep repair-
ing. patching, altering and developing the old
things of this world —to continue “broadening down
from precedent to precedent,” as Tennyson put
it. Providence, on the other hand, believes in
the periodical cleaning-up. When old Smith is
85 or so, it decides briefly that old Smith isn’t
worth repairing, and it throws him away, and lets
his son, middle-aged Smith, or his grandson,
young Smith, fill his place in the scheme of things.
It doesn’t believe in the eternal repairing and
patching of an utterly venerable Smith, who isn’t
worth the price of the new material. The Aus-
tralian Unification party goes on the same prin-
ciple as Providence in this matter. It believes
in cleaning-up. And anyone who is inclined to
join the eleaning-up movement is requested to
send his name and his enthusiastic appreciation to
Mr. John B. Steel, President of the National
Federation, at 192 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
3
The Futile State Premiers, Who Want to
be Left Alone.
Two months ago Prime Minister Deakin politely
—too politely—-asked the State authorities what,
if anything, they were doing in the way of adver-
tising themselves and trying to attract immi-
grants ; also what steps they were taking to
find land for such newcomers as might
want it? The query was addressed chiefly
to Bent and Wade. Wade didn’t conde-
scend to other reply than a growl about mind-
ing your own business ; Bent’s reply was a wail.
After mentioning the precious pamphlets he has
had placed in sundry mechanics’ institutes in the
Cold Country, where they are merely regarded as
pleasing pictorial relaxations, he narrates how he
appointed three strenuous commissioners to the
Shepherd’s Bush Exhibition, and then suggests
the establishment of an office for the collection and
compilation of information, etc., the publication
of newspaper articles, the preparation of a stan-
dard work, and the sending of long and
expensive cables to the London dailies.
Also, he would spread around pamphlets
descriptive of the State’s beauty spots. He
anticipates that the new tariff will increase
industrial employment, and attract the artisan
class of immigrant. And then he devotes half-a-
dozen lines to the one question that Australia and
Deakin are really concerned about —the provi-
sion of the much-needed land. “ The demand for
land for some time to come, both for its own
people and for those who desire to settle amongst
us, will be met by the Victorian Government in
providing {sic) large sums of money for the
resumption of private estates, the improve-
ment of Crown lands, and the construc-
tion of roads,” etc. That is all. Bent’s policy
of resuming private estates at impossible prices
has come to a standstill and he is well aware of
the fact. The only extensive areas of Crown lands
available are either at the back of the Mallee or
in the wilds of Gippsland—useless without roads
and railways, and heartbreaking and almost hope-
less even with them. A day or two after the
despatch of this feeble epistle to Deakin, Bent
started on his usual roar about the magnificent
things he was going to do —“ he had ‘ discovered ’
a million acres in some unsuspected locality and
was going to throw them open quicker than
immediately.” Then some practical person wanted
to know where those million acres were —and
Thomas’ heart got down into his boots, and he
made some hurried remarks about “Federal inter-
ference,” and wailed piteously, “Why can’t they
leave me alone ? Why don’t they let me go on in
my own way ? ” Poor Bent ! Why will these
persistent people always point to the millions of
western acres ready for the plough and the crop,
yearning for the thousand homesteads of thriving
farmers, and waiting to yield support to dozens
of prosperous townships? Why will pestiferous
interjectors tell him of these idle lands locked up,
while thousands, and hundreds of thousands,
of people are eager to go on them
could they but get the chance? Why will
pressmen write of the beneficent effects of Maori-
land’s land-tax and compulsory-resumption policy?
Why won’t they let him go on in his own unpro-
gressive, conservative, disastrous fashion ? Bent
is evidently tiring, and wants a long rest in a
quiet, secluded spot. His utter failure; and the
worse failure of Tasmania’s Jacky Evans, to
grasp the requirements of the position, will abso-
lutely force the Commonwealth to open the
locked-up lands by an effective graduated land-
tax. Deakin has waited on the futile State Pre-
miers till even his patience has given out.
To Make the Desert Blossom.
N.S. W. has 53,120,000 acres of surface in its
artesian basin, and most of it varies from arid to
impossible. When the presence of artesian water
was discovered, it was prophesied that once the
subterranean rivers and lakes were tapped this
desert would blossom and make its owners fat.
At great expense bores were put down, and rivers
of water gushed out. But the desert did not
bloom, for when the water came to the surface it
was found to be highly alkaline, and the majority
of bores in N.S.W. yielded water heavily charged
with carbonate and chloride of soda. The effect
of the carbonate of soda on soil is to bind and
cement it together till in course of time it becomes
as hard as rock. So it was a bitter disappointment
when it was found that three years’ irrigation
with artesian water made worse the land that had
previously been bad. In practice the only benefit
derived from the bulk of the artesian water was
that it saved transporting or driving stock long
distances to drink. Often in drought time there
was a sufficiency of fodder, but sheep and cattle
died of thirst, or were exhausted through having
to be driven long distances to the water, and, if
there were large numbers of them, this meant the
trampling down of a considerable quantity of
food. The presence of an artesian bore in the
neighborhood removed those disadvantages,
and there the practical use of artesian
water ended. Australia had almost given
up all hope of utilising artesian waters
for agricultural purposes, when, in 1906, a
Sydney chemist and * metallurgist, Mr. R. S.
Symmonds, turned his attention to the matter.
Of course every chemist knew that it was possible
to neutralise the destructive action of the alkalies
in the water by neutralising them with nitric acid.
But the output of the artesian bores runs to mil-
lions of gallons daily, and the cost of neutralising
such a huge volume of water with nitric acid was
calculated to drive to insanity any Treasurer
who . contemplated the idea. Yet this
remarkable man Symmonds has provided
the means of doing it practically free of cost.
And, most amazing of all, having discovered how
to make 53,120,000 acres of otherwise mostly arid
land—suitable only for pasturing sheep in small
numbers to a large area —capable of being turned
to more valuable agricultural use, he hands the
whole scheme, free of cost, over to his State
Government. Had he taken his idea to the
U.S. A. he could easily have floated it into a syn-
dicate, acquired much of that arid land at ar.d
prices, and got some of the benefits of the blos-
soming he has made possible. But he didn’t, and
in consequence of his action N.S.W. stands to
make a tremendous rise. If his discovery merely
improves the sheep-carrving capacity of these
53,120,000 acres of land it means an enor-
mous gain to the State and the landowners,
but unless his experiments have been unusually
misleading, his discovery means that the land will
be at least quadrupled in value, and in many cases
the increases will run to enormous figures. And
on 53,120,000 acres that means something gigantic.
Arid land is, as a rule, exceedingly fertile if
water can be brought to it, because, having no
rainfall to wash its surface, the soil retains the
full benefit of the surface decomposition that
is in ceaseless progress. Symmonds’ discovery,


like most other great things, is simplicity
itself. Some years ago the great German chemist
and electrician, Siemens, recognising that the sup-
ply of nitrate in the world was limited, turned
iiis attention to the atmosphere as a possible
source of supply. The search for the means of
producing atmospheric nitric acid became popular
among wealthy chemists and others who had
money to burn. The result is that, at the present
moment, nitric acid is being produced from the
atmosphere in a hundred places in Europe, at an
average cost of £8 3s. 6d. per ton, by forcing
atmospheric air through electro-thermic furnaces.
In every case, the principal item in the cost is
that of the water-power required to drive the
electric plant. And this was where Symmonds
came in. Atmospheric air, at present, costs
nothing, and the high pressure bores themselves
will supply the water-power necessary to drive the
electro-thermic furnaces. A very small propor-
tion (about 'OO2 per cent.) of nitric acid is required
to neutralise the effect of the carbonate of soda in
the soil. Had Symmonds’ discovery shown only
how to neutralise the effect of the carbonate of
soda it would have proved of great value, by
allowing the whole artesian basin to be made
available for close settlement; but it does more.
When the carbonate of soda comes in contact with
the nitric acid it is changed from a destructive
agent to a fertilising one, and the soil
that it runs over is enriched by it and turned into
good grain-growing land. Tiie N.S.W. Govern-
ment has taken up the idea with enthusiasm, and
is about to start experiments on a large scale to
test the theory revealed by Symmonds’investiga-
tions. .Not being a moneyed man he had to
experiment with wheat grown in pots, and the net
result of many months of investigation with soil
from the artesian belt was that an addition of a
very low percentage of nitric acid increased the
productive powers from eight to ten fold. If on
a large scale it averages five fold, on an area of
53,120,000 acres this means an increase of wealth
equal to roughly the national debt of all
Australia. And N.S.W. will not be the only
gainer. Large as is the artesian basin of N.S.W.,
it is a baby compared to that of Queensland,
which extends from the N.S.W. border right away
to Cape York, and South Australia has also a
share of the subterranean water supply.
«.
The Omniscient Englishman.
Thus military expert Foster (from England) on
the Deakin Goverment’s defence proposals :
I’m friendly—but unconvinced. I look upon the
Imperial Defence Committee (Salute !) as the best
judges (Bow down, you colonial persons !) with refer-
ence to any attacks on Australia. . . . and that nobody’s
opinion can be of greater value (Not a word, Field-Marshal
Neild !).
All of which arrogance is perhaps as much due to
the endless self-depreciatory Stinking Fish abase-
ment of our local press as it is to the English habit
of mental* pride. Let’s see: Although actually
settled in the same country for centuries, and right
on the spot, this “ Imperial Defence Committee”
knew so little about the strength, dispositions,
equipment, arms and intentions of the Boers that
it made the saddest muddle of history in sub-
duing them—a muddle of which we got a good
sample in Australia with the contingents’
notice, “mounted men not wanted.” When
the Imperial Defence Committee’s “Australian
Defence Scheme ” first arrived, it was found
so inapplicable to Australian conditions and
requirements that the local men were set on to it
at once to hammer the obvious unsuitability out of
it—“but we are the best judges,” etc. An
“Imperial Defence Committee,” which can only
“ draw,” after a three years’fight, plus a loss of
25,000 men, plus an expenditure of £250,000,000
with a lot of farmers and bushies, whose whole
population, including the baby, wouldn’t make a
second-rate English city, is hardly the best ad-
visory board to frame a defence scheme for a
country about which it knows practically nothing.
England, with all its staff colleges and schools of
engineering and gunnery, and what not, put up such
a record of incompetence, muddle and fraud
against men who fixed up their own schemes of
defence in their own practical fashion, that ’tis
marvellous how we find people possessing gall
enough to tell us that “no opinion is of greater
value ” than theirs. And, finally, if Australian
men can’t scheme out the defence of their own
country, have they any real right to hold it ?
More Capital Site.
Mr. John McLachlan replies to The Bulletin
(2/4/’08); —
(1) When a newspaper is published in a State, and is
purchased by the people of that State, it is a fair assump-
tion that its policy should be in harmony with the well-
being of that State, and it is an equally fair assumption
that when that paper is found in the company of the
enemies of that State some consideration, monetary or
otherwise, is obvious.
(2) The Bulletin offers £lOO to a hospital if I show
that the Federal Constitution demands that the capital
be in tiie sphere of N.S.W. influence, etc. Does The
Bulletin bind me down in the reading of the Federal
text to the dotting of an “ i ” or the crossing of a “ t ” ?
The spirit of the Constitution is in perfect accord with
my interpretation of it, and every elector who voted
Federation honestly believed it ; but it remains for The
Bulletin and a few traitorous N.S.W. politicians to
think otherwise.
(3) Dalgety is nearer to Melbourne than to Sydney,
and will (if selected) have direct communication with the
former city, a fact which The Bulletin’s bland profession
of ignorance cannot hide. It certainly is close to a
N.S.W. port (Eden), but are ports (as ports for other than
sea communication for travellers) absolutely 7 essential to
capitals? Has Washington a port in its immediate
vicinity, or Paris, Berlin, Vienna, Brussels or Madrid?
(4) If the capital gives no benefit to the country which
holds it, why are the Victorians so unscrupulously anxious
to have Dalgety selected?
(5) The fact that the Dalgety photographs were taken
at practically the same time as the Canberra ones is no
answer to my charge. It is not the selection of the day
for the taking of the photographs, but the manner of
selection of the subjects to which I objected.
(6) As to the value of the Duntroon (otherwise Can-
berra) wool and stock, if The Bulletin's offer of £lOO to
hospitals is open for proof on this matter, then I can
obtain the proof.
(7) In conclusion I might add that I do remember that
there is such a place as Australia in fact, and generally
write it Australia, but I also remember that it is made
up of several States, of which New South Wales is not the
least, and whilst the spirit of parochialism and of pro-
vincialism is properly allowed to play its part in the
moulding of one’s public opinions I shall always be ready
to say a word in defence of my local village or my country
when either is unfairly attacked.
Yours truly,
John McLachlan.
And in a rather tired sort of way this paper
replies:—
(1) The Bulletin is purchased by the people of all the
States. It makes more than half its money outside
N.S. W. It spends most of its money inside N.S.W. Its
ambition is to promote the interests of Australia. When
a paper is published in a Commonwealth, and is
purchased by the people of that Commonwealth, its
policy should be in harmony with the well-being of that
Commonwealth —to paraphrase Mr. McLachlan. The
Bulletin’s policy is also in harmony with the well-being of
N.S. W.—the trouble is that Mr. McLachlan doesn’t know
what is the well-being of N.S.W. The Bulletin isn’t
found in the company of the enemies of N.S. W. It has
never been seen in Mr. McLachlan’s company yet. The
Bulletin believes that fairness, honesty, justice and truth
will be the best in the end for N.S.W., as apart from a
policy of insensate grab and reckless double-dealing. And
it believes that the vast majority of the people of N.S.W.
are with it.
(2) When an attempt is made to get something that was
never in the bargain there are two stereotyped phrases
that come in handy. One is to the effect that “ the spirit
of the agreement ” provided it, though the agreement
itself didn’t. The other is that if you “ read between the
lines ” you will find there something that is absolutely
contrary to the statement of the lines themselves. Both
these gags are worn out. As for Mr. McLachlan’s state-
ment that “every elector who voted for Federation
honestly believed ” as he does—if Mr. McLachlan can give
his assurance that he has interviewed every one of the
377,988 voters who supported Federation, and that they
have all assured him that their views about the Australian
capital were his views, then this paper will take his word
for it. It won’t even comment on the outrageous im-
probability of his tale. But if he can’t give that assur-
ance, it only asks him what he really thinks of himself
when he comes to look at his own assertion ?
(3) The statement that Dalgety is nearer to Melbourne
than to Sydney is flat invention and absurdly contrary to
facts. The shortest possible railway route (report of
Surveyor Scrivener, 21/6/’O4) is: Dalgety to Melbourne,
387 miles; Dalgety to Sydney, 296 miles. To connect
Dalgety with Sydney, there are 31 miles of line to be
built; with Melbourne, 169 miles. In a bee-line Dalgety
is 228 miles from Sydney ; 240 from Melbourne. (Report
of J. Kirkpatrick, A. W. Hewitt, Henry O. Stanley and
Graham Stewart, 4/8/’03.) As regards Mr. McLachlan’s
infuriated statement—advanced as a reason against
Dalgety—that a capital there “ will have direct com-
munication” with Melbourne —of course it will. This
paper never said it wouldn’t. The line (about 387
miles) is already marked out. Is Mr. McLachlan so in-
credibly bigoted that he regards it as an essential
feature that the Federal Capital mustn’t have any com-
munication with Melbourne, or Adelaide, or any city save
Sydney? As for the question, “Are ports absolutely
essential to capitals?”—they aren’t, but a port, like a
bath, is a g ood thing to have if you can get it.
(4) Mr. McLachlan asks : “ Why are the Victorians so
unscrupulously anxious to have Dalgety selected.” The
Bulletin never noticed that they were. It has just read
in the Sydney dailies that they are crying out for Tooma.
Also both Sydney morning dailies have just declared that
nobody wants Dalgety, and that the only object of its
advocates is to hang the question up. Meanwhile, why is
Mr. McLachlan “so unscrupulously anxious” to have
Canberra selected ?
(5) The Bulletin’s representative took photos of the
exact site of the proposed Dalgety capital and the pro-
posed Canberra ditto, and even then Mr. McLachlan isn’t
satisfied.
(6) The question as to the price which alleged Duntroon
wool fetched 30 years ago has nothing to do with the case.
(7) The Bulletin is glad to hear that Mr. McLachlan
at last remembers that there is such a place as Australia,
though it is a pity he had to be reminded of it before he
started remembering. Even now he doesn’t once men-
tion the interests of Australia in the matter of the
capital. This continent is a sort of postscript to his letter.
Premier Kidston, of Queensland, commences his
scheme of constitutional reform with a Referen-
dum Bill, according to which a measure that has
been twice passed by the Assembly and twice re-
jected by the Council may be submitted to a
popular vote, and, if accepted by the people,
shall become law. The idea is an improvement
on existing methods, yet it only shows, after all,
that Upper Houses should be abolished. As a
rule, if the Popular Chamber passes a Bill once
it will pass it twice, and if the Nominee Chamber
rejects a Bill once it will reject it twice. There-
fore, Kidston’s device might just as well provide
that whenever the Assembly passes a Bill once
and the Council rejects it once, the matter shall
be referred to the people, who are the Assembly’s
constituents and give their vote with the As-
sembly every time. That would simply mean
that every time the Council fails to say
ditto to the Assembly it shall be sup-
pressed. And as the Assembly can say ditto
to itself if it wants any ditto, the Council,
regarded as a mere ditto, is obviously useless, and
might just as well pass out altogether. All the
elaborate schemes for ending deadlocks between
two Houses are based on the theory that the
Popular Chamber must prevail—there is nothing
else that they can be based on. Therefore, if the
Popular Chamber is to prevail, what is the use of
preserving the Unpopular Chamber?
♦
When a deputation waited upon N.S.W. Premier
Wade, the other day, and complained that the
Public Service Board, by its regulation 149, was
compelling the civil servant to take 20s. for the
work which the Board itself had valued at 255.,
Wade, with portentous gravity, informed the
deputationists that they “ were pursuing a course
that might prove the death knell of the service.”
and that it was not his business to interfere.
Likewise, he laid down a great solid state-
ment to the effect that “ the Board was placed in
control of the Public Service, and was entirely
independent of Ministerial influence, and it would
be dangerous, suicidal, and revolutionary for
Ministers to step in either directly or indirectly.”
But Wade didn’t mention that the objectionable
clause by which many members of the service are
robbed of part of the salary nominally attached to
their positions was dictated to the Board by
Wade’s own predecessor and colleague, Car-
ruthers. So political influence that tends to
compel a sweating policy is justified, though poli-
tical influence that goes to protest against that
sweating is abhorrent. Also, Wade has just
interfered to a considerable extent with the Water
and Sewerage Board, and the Harbor Trust, both
of which bodies were specifically placed outside
Parliamentary control by the original Acts which
instituted them. It’s a poor scale that doesn’t
weigh fair always.
♦ ——
Urged by the incredible Norman Bayles,
Premier Bent, of Victoria, has acquired half an
idea that it would be a good thing to hire John
Foster Fraser, author of “Canada As It Is,”
to come to Australia and write a similar work,
dealing with the Commonwealth. Yet if Bent has
a grain of sense he will surely drop the notion.
For if Fraser gets seized of the loud local demand
for land, and realises that, by reason of insane ana
iniquitous monopoly, there is actually a an
famine in this country, with a population o a
little over one person to the square mue,
things will drop with such a loud thud tnat
Thomas won’t be able to hear himself roar by
reason of the dust. If the stranger is invited here
by Bent he will probably get his best and chie
view of Victoria, and he will very likely go away
with the idea that all Australia is equally iad.
Much of it is almost as bad, yet for the Victorian
land-grab and land-famine horror to be taken
as an absolutely fair sample of Australia
would be a huge disaster. That State ana
Tasmania want to have a high fence built round
them, the same as if nude female bathing were
going on inside, to keep people like Poster
Fraser from seeing them until the graduated
land-tax gets to work and puts things on a basis
that can stand inspection. As things are, I RASKR
would probably write a chapter about Australia s
land policy that this country wouldn t live down
in 20 years.
DEAFNESS,
HEAD-NOISES,
RINGING IN TH EARS, Etc.
COMPLETELY CURED AT YOUR OWN HOME.
No Medicine, No Electricity, and No Ear-Drums, but pure
Natural Aural Kinetics, applied to yourself at your own
home without anv detention from your daily routine
work. Endorsed ‘by the highest Medical Authorities.
Do not be disheartened because your doctor pronounced
you incurable. The successful cures accomplished in
some of the most obstinate cases, of 30 and 40 years’
standing, are sufficient evidence of the efficacy of this
treatment even in cases which have resisted all other
treatments and been considered incurable. Call or write
for full FREE particulars. Address—
M EAROSCOPE” Co., 90 Pitt St. (D. 26), Sydney, N.S.W.
STUDY YOUR HEALTH.
DRINK ONLY.
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
Make Money with the Cinematograph.
• —Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. .Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jordan,
Specialists and Electricians,
393 George Street, Sydney.*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Power of the Cross.
The Royal “ The Lady Dandies.”
Palace Maskelyne and Devant’s Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
The Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Prince Alfred Pahk.. Wirth Bros. Circus & Menagerie.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Brewster’s Millions.”
Theatre Royal “ The Little Bread-Winner.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Town Hall Butt-Rumford Concerts.
Wirth’s Olympia West’s Pictures.
*
A contributor sends this, and it is pub-
lished in all its glory :
Dan O’Connor, of Australia in particular, but recently
of the world in general, is due to turn on the whispering
breeze of his dove-like tones, and the tumultuous tornado
of his volcanic voice, op. Monday night next, at Padding-
ton (Sydney) Town Hall. The permanent provocation of
his mellowness and thunderousness is, of course, the fact
that Dan is Dan O’Connor, and not a portrait in oils or a
memorial in marble. And when Dan is not vocal, the sun
is not shining on any portion of the earth’s or Edward’s
domain. The present provocation is the convincing
testimony of Daniel that he has more to say about
more eminent personages and world-celebrities than any
other man in the Commonwealth. He has grasped the
hand of greatness in the United States, England, Ireland,
France, Italy, and sundry other territories. He has
come in touch with the intellectual giants who strewed
his pathway round the world. Moreover, he has adver-
tised the vigor, versatility, and importance of Australia
without a flimsy from his Government. If Australia is
not being rushed by the would-be immigrants, as a result
of his eloquent assertions and magnificent phrases, there
is this to credit to the patriotic importunities of Dan : He
is bringing along, in his wake, the American fleet. Had
Dan not confabulated with Teddy Roosevelt, at White
House, Deakin would have invited Yankee Doodle’s bits
of steel in vain. There are these, and countless more,
incitements to the public to move in a compressed body
towards the Paddington Town Hall, and listen to Dan’s
unexampled effort. It will be the opening of his campaign
of orations, and it will be two hours of Dan at his high-
level best. A strong committee is conniving at the four
corners and centripetal success of the evening.
** * *
Woulfe Curzola the dreadful, the
Satanic, the lime-lit —continues his dastardly
pranks at Sydney Criterion. That one of his
moral calibre should own an Abbey (howsoever
battered) and be able to dress perennially in
respectable frock-suitings and tall plug hats, strikes
the onlooker with increasing force each night as
a satire on our boasted civilisation. However,
Woulfe meets his shameful end hatless, and in a
sort of glimmering shawl such as upright Euro-
pean males are not wont to affect—which is but
seemly. This miscreant will continue to swathe
himself and expire nightly till the 15th prox.
** * *
“ A Beggar on Horseback,” which Mey-
nell and Gunn are to produce at Sydney Criterion
on April 18, looks promising so far as the bill
goes. It includes one king, one claimant to a
throne, two dukes, two lords, three baronets, two
ladies of title, a colonel, a captain, a person named
Hobson, and some sundries. Harcourt Beatty,
the royal dog-carrier of “ Sweet Nell of Old
Drury,” is to be the chief duke, while Gaston
Mervale will be one of the lords. If the school-
girl of the period can only get a front seat, and
find the money for a packet of confectionery, her
happiness, with all these dukes and military
plungers, should be complete.
** * *
This paper returns to the subject of “The
Lady Dandies,” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), with
a smothered yawn and a pen blunted by two pre-
vious criticisms. Seen for a third time, “The
Dandies” still strikes The Bulletin as being
the play where the trail of the musical
comedy leaves off. Its most noticeable fea-
ture is that it hangs on to its plot more or
less right through the evening, and, at the
final curtain, still has that visible means
of support well in evidence. Roberts, as
Dorlis, the refugee aristocrat who arrives in a
travel-stained condition in search of his lost bride
and describes melodiously in the fine “ Redoubt”
song how the general sent him home to the wife
he can’t find, gives tone to the production by his
forceful, earnest acting. Edmund Sherras
(Lagorille), the most curled dandy of the play,
has one or two good duets with Florence Young.
“I’m the Man of the Moment,” with a
chorus of girls, is possibly his best number.
Bantock bears the responsibility of chief come-
dian, with some valuable assistance from
Percy and Leslie as Malicorne and Tournesol,
the comic policemen of the period. Florence
Young as Ladoiska, chief of the Lady Dan-
dies, brings her top note back from its holi-
day and allows it to soar high above the storm of
melody made by the orchestra and chorus. Her
three costumes are too delicate and beautiful for
description in mere prose, and the office poet is
out. lan Dango, as Illyrine, the troubled young
person who is always either getting married or
divorced, is charming and dainty, and slaps her
second husband’s face with a small hand that looks
as heavy as a rose-petal. Finally, the courtiers
dandies, citizens, soldiers, police, etc., do their
parts energetically and well, the mob shouts in
the right place, and the orchestra under Howard
Carr is more than good. “ The Lady Dandies ”
moves on to Sydney Royal on Saturday.
Spencer’s Theatrescope is now located at
Sydney Lyceum, the place that has just been
renovated and “improved” by the executors of
the late Eb. Vickery. The Theatrescope is, as
usual, good ; but alas for the dear old Lyceum '
All its Pagan beauty has fled. Although the seats
are comfortable, and the accommodation is in-
creased in size, thereissomethingsoul-chillingabout
thenew Lyceum. It has theatmosphere of a charity
hall, and the trail of the Seven Deadly Virtues is
over everything. Spencer’s pictures grow more
varied every week, and his latest masterpiece is a
fearsome representation of the baby and the eagle.
The complete absence of flickers on this film is
very noticeable, and the baby is very natural.
The swoop of the eagle when it lifts the baby is
perhaps a little tame, but his other swoop when
he tackles the father who has descended the awful
precipice to rescue the babe is full of lifeand venom.
The pictures of the wild-cat struggle between
the man and the great bird on the narrow ledge of
rock, with 10,000,000 ft. of air above and below, are
thrillsome. Another picture shows a barndoor owl
engaged in rat-catching, and is a masterpiece;
and so also is the story of the egg. The egg is
magnified, and the gigantic struggles of the
chicken to get out of the shell become Homeric.
For the rest there are pictures of Australian
buekjumpers, life, fun and funerals in the Tyrol,
illustrated Arabian legends, and the usual con-
densed melodramas, like those which Bret Harte
used to write.
** * #
Maskelyne is an ideal name for a conjuror
and maker of mysteries, and the announcement
that the great English magician’s creations were
on view at Sydney Palace filled that charming
little theatre to the brim. Although there is little
that is new about the show, ,it has a polished
atmosphere that counts for righteousness. Pro-
fessor Anderson, the one-time “ Wizard of the
North,” crowded much more into his programme,
but he did not understand the art of present-
ing things in the manner of the Maskelyne co.
Although at present there are no ghosts on
view, and the famous illusion of materialising a
lady from the side of a sleeping gentleman has
not yet arrived, the famous Box has duly turned
up. This box has the proud distinction of being
the only conjuring box that was ever officially
investigated by the House of Lords. The House
of Lords, having itself been engaged in fooling the
public for some centuries, should havp been
eminently fitted to tell how it was- done;
but failed utterly. It is an amazing
sion, and this writer gives it up. The box r |§
only large enough for a man to curl himself
up in, and the man is seen to be placed in it,
and he projects his finger through a breathing
hole as a guarantee of good faith. The box is
covered with canvas, and the canvas is laced up
and tied by a member of the audience, who has pre-
viously locked the receptacle, and has the key in
his pocket. The trunk is then placed in a larger
cabinet (from which men have been escaping all
through the performance without showing them-
selves, although it stands in the middle of the
stage, and is closely watched by members of the
audience). When the cabinet is opened the box
is found to be intact, secured by the knot the
watcher from the audience tied, and still
locked —but it is empty. And there is no
apparent explanation of how it is done.
Owen Clark makes handkerchiefs, disappear,
causes a cannon ball and a banjo to change places
without attracting any attention, and finally pro-
duces from a barrel that was sealed up empty an
old man disguised as Diogenes. As an illustration
of the ancient statement, said to have been made
upon oath before a J.P., that things are not what
they seem and that visions are about, Maskelyne
and Devant’s mysteries hold a high place.
*# * *
“The Buekjumpers,” now showing afc
Prince Alfred Park, Sydney, offer primarily a
study in up-country rough-riding, Also, there is
whip-cracking by “Billy” Waite (probably the
most expert manipulator of heavy thongs in the
world); horse-handling (as distinguished from
riding) by the elder Dempsey, and some very
lamentable comic business. The horsemanship,
when either Waite or Arthur Dempsey is in the
saddle, is worth journeying far to view. The
management stars Waite as its finest rider.
Both he and Dempsey are amazingly “ strong ”
horsemen. Neither uses knee-pads nor cares
whether the horse wears a bridle, or a bit of rope
or string round its neck, or nothing at all. There
is no normal outlaw each will not engage to tame
with the most elementary gear. Only when the
abnormal savage or the trick horse is brought
forward is it possible to draw a distinc-
tion between the methods of the two men.
It then appears that Dempsey is a pret-
tier rider than Waite. Mostly he scorns stirrups,
yet sits gracefully immovable during the most
terrific gyrations of his mount. Waite, without
stirrups, finds himself handicapped. Waite sur-
passes Dempsey in the subtle art of falling clear
of a vicious steed. But, agile as he is in dis-
mounting, he seems rather less deft at getting on
to a loose horse than is Dempsey. The nerve of
both is surprising. Observe Waite as Coo-ee is
held down for him to mount. Standing in one of
the few places where it is impossible for that un-
pleasant animal to kick or otherwise maltreat him,
he gathers up the reins, swings into the saddle, and
slowly settles his mighty bulk into position. Ear-
holding attendants fall wildly back, and the great
little bucker shoots into space. The rider may not
sit all the time on the same section of the saddle;
but somewhere on the saddle—so long as he wants
to—he stays all the same. And when he decides
to quit, it is a liberal education to note how he
does it. Dempsey mounts with a debonnair in-
difference. He shifts in the saddle only when he
is thrown, or the horse falls. His long legs wind
around the protesting steed, his slight form, sways
to its every movement; while he lasts he is great.
* * ♦ *
The “Fun in the Stockyard” item,
wherein a multitude of kicking ponies are let
loose to be bestridden by any young Australian
who cares to volunteer for the job, makes a sure
appeal to the humorist who takes his exercise
by deputy. The turn is remarkable niainlv
for the infinite endurance and pluck of
the indigenous lad, and his heroic indiffer-
ence to the damage that is nightly done
to the clothes his fond mother made for him.
Waite’s whip-cracking; the pluck of his young
friend Albert; the control Jack Dempsey exer-
cises over Rise-up and such like brutes, are all ad-
mirable. The clowns in this entertainment
deserve to be torn asunder by wild mules, or sent
to live at Canberra. Summed up, the show is a
healthy one, and racy of the Australian soil; its
stars are genuine stars in their lines, apd withal
refreshingly devoid of frill. As an export it
should be a big advertisement for this country.


Wirths Circus, now grown to truly
gigantic proportions, and requiring special
steamers and trains of its own, opens in Sydney
on the evening of Saturday, April 11. One of the
new features is a real live giraffe, an animal that
Tn h ? <:on \'i n g almost as rare as the Maoriland moa.
Philip \Virth has been touring Europe and
America, and returns loaded up with new stars
fresh turns, and startling innovations. There are
strong men who have reduced hand-balancing to a
fine art; acrobats who have discarded the tight
rope for the bike and motor bike, and play
fantastic tricks that make gravitation weep;
and wild animals galore. Six roaring lions have
an act all to themselves in which the safety of the
trainer is presumably assured by disagreement
among the lions. He is like an unsettled Federal
capital. There are also performing boar-hounds,
leopards, bears and foxes. The vaudeville depart-
ments have been swollen to bloated proportions,
and it is only the impossibility of squeezing more
than 180 minutes into three hours that has kept it
from swelling still further.
** * *
The management of the Newbury-Spada
concerts is adding some of that acceptable in-
gredient—the tincture of early youth— to its pro-
gramme. Miss Doris Ranclaud, violinist, and
Miss Louie Foulis, pianiste, will add their music
to that of the picturesque Philip and his melo-
dious bunch. The first Newbury concert at Syd-
ney Town Hall was good in point of audience and
capital in artistry. The tenor’s voice has not
gone off like the birds of yester-year ; it has taken
on a second youth, and surprised those who care
and those who thought they didn’t care. The
programme was mainly of the “old favorite”
order. Scott, the organist, hadn’t been two
minutes at the organ before he blew himself
straight into the musical heart of the audience.
** # *
Pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith is going
to re-open the renovated Sydney Y.M.C.A. pre-
sently, with Mrs. Slapoffski’s soaring soprano to
support him.
* * *
The Good Friday concert in Sydney Town
Hall this year will be a big burst of music. Two
star singers of secular melody will get on the
sacred song job. As the promoters of the concert
will have to pay £75 for rent and etceteras, they’ll
need a good congregation.
* * * *•
“The Parvenu,” put on at Sydney Palace
by the Bank of N.S.W. Musical and Dramatic
Society on Friday was not interpreted up to the
young bankers’ usual yearly acting level. In a
manner of speaking, they didn’t do justice to the
overdraft, and the bill wasn’t discounted with
quite the accustomed finish. But the orchestra
was more than an atonement. Its rendering of
three of Moszkowski’s Spanish dances was mas-
terly enough to charm the lock off the strong-room
door.
** * *
At Miss Ruby Guest’s Child Study concert
on the 15th, the young conductor will be assisted
by Mrs. Rosa Bird, Misses Ada Baker, Winifred
Purnell, and Messrs. Cyril Monk, Edgar Fulton,
W. A. Robyns, and the Premier Banjo Co.
** * *
The Julius Knight season at Sydney
Royal ends with this week. Last Saturday 44 The
Scarlet Pimpernel ” was revived, and a crowded
house cheered a warm, emotional rendering of the
play by Miss Ola Humphrey, Julius Knight, and
the other principals. On Wednesday (too late
for notice in this issue) “The Lady of Lyons”
was announced for three nights. That classic of
romantic rhodomontade should suit this co.
admirably, and it’s rather a pity that it was not
produced earlier in the season. Lytton’s heroics
are fustian, but fine, glowing fustian. On Satur-
day “ The Lady Dandies” will come to this
theatre from Her Majesty’s.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli programme these days
devotes most of its large stock of headlines to Miss
Margaret Parker’s “ Sunshine,” a playlet of washy
sentiment, done by four people and pervaded
by the doleful strains of “Daddy”—a song that
drives strong men headlong to the bar. The rest
of the performance is mostly Charles Mildare,
J. P. Ling, Ike and Will Scott, Frank Harwood,
and La Danse de Rubans. The Tivoli Ballerinas
have now got into the habit of performing La
Danse de Rubans, and the solemn rite is beginning
to be less of a novelty than it was when it was
first invented.
** * *
In “ Brewster's Millions ” at Melbourne
Her Majesty’s, there is matter for sardonic
amusement in the discursiveness of the intensely
cultured literary female. The lady holds forth on
the boundless, the murky, the remote, the in-
comprehensible, the undefinable, and the true in-
wardness of the Platonic. She dresses like the
day before yesterday, and talks like the century
after next; and in all respects suggests the woman
with a craving for marriage, struggling to satisfy
her soul with dictionary. This sort of woman, if
she doesn’t harpoon a man, is liable to buy her-
self a green dress without any waist, a pair of flat
shoes, and a shocking green coal-scuttle bonnet,
and lecture on Theosophy in her old age.
But in this case the worst is averted. She casts
her theories to the winds upon the deck of
Monty’s yacht, captures the long-postponed
man, and throws Plato overboard. And when she
has got her man she pours the butter of adoration
over him like any little “ skirt” who has arrested
a bloke.
** * *
An attractive element, of West’s Pictures
at Melbourne Olympia is its extra large stock of
assorted potentates. These range, according to
capacity or usefulness, from emperors down to
stone-broke princelings and mere dukes. The
more imposing of these persons are gloriously
attired and remarkably clean. Much of their
leisure is employed launching battleships, open-
ing bazaars, breweries, or bottles, or else discuss-
ing “starting prices” with the Lord of the Royal
Bedchamber. {Still they make excellent picture-
food for the most ardent worshipper of monarch-
ism ; while the buzzing suburban mayor sees, in
the royal condescension to menials, a striking evi-
dence of the correctness of his own attitude
towards the dog-tax collector.
** * *
“ The Little Bread-Winner ” still persists
in its unutterable delusions at Melbourne Royal.
It bounds along with the help of the che-ild
that warbles “Daddy”—and in this respect
it may he regarded as moral and commend-
able, and tending to preserve the sanctity of
the attic, and the purity of the domestic but
tireless hearth. James Lindsay, boss villain,
gnashes his teeth the same as he did last
week. Une of the chief reasons why dentists
prosper these times is the habit that villains
have got into of gnashing their teeth. After a
villain has gnashed his teeth for 25 years or so he
generally wants a new set. Wherefore the teeth
of the righteous who don’t gnash last much longer
than those of the wicked.
** * *
. new soprano star shows a faint glimmer
in this southern sky. Miss Revello, an adorable
Spaniard with a voice like velvet, has been having
select “hearings.” She is the wife of a Manila
cork merchant who trades with Australia,
and is often in Melbourne. The lady
belongs to Palma (Majorca), and was trained
(as an amateur) by Patti’s teacher, old Calzolari.
bhe went visiting to Barcelona, where a brother
grew nutcrackers. Brother Billoso thought her
voice worth a try, and she sang with great success
in whatever is Barcelonian for the Town Hall.
Then she attempted La Scala (Milan) with like
hurrah. Her mamma and papa objected to this
publicity, and indignantly dragged their song-
bird back to the parental nest. Next time
she escaped to Manila, to another brother.
Her next 44 turn ” was to marry the brother’s
cork merchant chum, and he is apparently wil-
ling to let his beautiful bird try her wings. She
is a lovely young woman and her voice shows well
—even in the echoing vastness of an empty Town
Hall with an inadequate piano accompaniment.
*# * *
The first Beard orchestral concert, an-
nounced for Saturday afternoon next, arouses as
much flutter and fuss as a first bairn. Most
amazingly “distinguished patronage” is to prop
up the House. Manager Hjalmar Josephi re-
marks, “Why pay a guinea for a furrin ballad
singer when you can have four feasts of sound for
16s. ?” And The Bulletin echoes 44 Why ?”
** * *
The Rumfords butted into a week’s
wedge of concerts—beginning last Thursday. On
Saturday night, at Melbourne Town Hall,
all the clamor of adoration for the Huge
One rose to its boiling-over point. The
“Song of Thanksgiving” (with organ-backing)
knocked everything over that was standing in
the Hall, and the great voice gambolled
through lullaby and baby songs in treble encore.
Clara also sang “Che Faro” (Orfeo), that meaty
joint of all contraltos, and finished her round with
an affectionate duet with husband Rumford.
They encored with the inevitable “Keys of
Heaven.” Kennerley did himself proud with
his songs—the soft air of Maoriland has
enriched his artistic tones. Three little songs of
Lohr’s suited the delicacy of his voice, and
adoring maidens wept in an agony of sentimental
ecstacy through the trio. That prolific composer,
Maorilander Alfred Hill, shut himself in a corner
and manufactured Maori songs for Rumford, and
Rumford rubbed noses with a Maori or so and
caught the accent, with resultant fine effect on
Saturday night, when lie sang“Waiata Poi”
and a Maori canoe song.
* * *- *
The Melbourne Rickardian show has
become almost lugubrious. The Kaufmanns are
now departed, and the Cunards have come in
their stead. The substitution suggests the ex-
change of a merry devil for a rice pudding or a
curate. The Artois boys are humorous enough
in mid-air, and Alma Gray and Fanny Powers
are captivating Australian maids. In her
new scena, 44 My Waratah,” Alma dances
and plays the piano simultaneously. Of course
both efforts are spoiled by their combination.
Tisdale, Tom Dawson, and Sylvo do their re-
spective stunts with respectable cheerfulness, but
there is a supreme need which they don’t supply.
We wait with anguished expectation to be
astounded. And for a long while this frame of
the public mind has been ignored.
* * *
“ Madame ” Ewart has concerted once, and
“Marie” Narelle—good old Irish name, Marie—
has also warbled at Adelaide Town Hall, and that
mysterious, nobly-born person, Mrs. Blanche
Arral, now holds the platform. The Jubilee
Exhibition broke out with another skating rink on
April 1, and the one already in existence wel-
comed it with a heavy sports and fancy-dress pro-
gramme for the same evening. However, both
were crowded. Tom Burrows has been club-swing-
ing day and night at the Tivoli, to the satisfac-
tion of the idly curious. And at the Royal
the pantomime continues to pour cataracts of
Girl on the stage per Wheel, eight times a week.
The ladies of the cast are now Mabelle Morgan,
Maude Thorne, Prissy Preston, Irene Dillon,
Olga Grey, and Lena Ericson. The men are
much as they were when the show was in Mel-
bourne
“ H’m ” writes :
It appears that N.S.W. Premier Wade can be ignorant in
at least two different ways. There are 279 other ways in
which he is ignorant. Usually he is just ignorant, but occa-
sionally he makes a buzzing noise and becomes officially
ignorant. And, officinlly, he doesn’t know that the Ameri-
can battle squadron is coming to Australia. He wants
Deakin to explain “ why it is that this State has received
no official communication of the intended visit of the
American fleet. It is placing the State in a very humble
position if it has to rely on the ordinary newspaper cable-
grams ” for this information. The reason is that America is
officially and unofficially ignorant of the existence of New
South Wales. America has a vague idea that it once
heard that Australia had become a federation ; the
plaintive buzzing of a mere State person hasn’t so far re-
verberated across the Pacific. And as a reverberator Wade
can’t reverb louder than a beetle ; he mistakes his buzz-
ing for a thunderstorm or a Marconigram. It is really
the buzzing in his own ears. It is to be hoped that
Deakin does not officially inform Wade of the coming of
the American fleet. Then Wade will not know that the
fleet is here, and the fleet won’t have an inkling
of the existence of Wade. It will imagine, when
it reaches Sydney, that it has arrived in Aus-
tralia ; it will be welcomed by Australia, and it will go
away without having heard of Wade. That is the
kindest courtesy Australia can show the American fleet.
In fact, the one great mistake of Deakin’s was in officially
informing Wade that he was Prime Minister of Australia.
Had he onlv kept quiet, Wade would never have known,
and the Federal Parliament would have built the capital
•at Dalgety while Wade was ineffectively buzzing at
Canberra. And if the next Prime Minister only refuses
to inform Wade—or the next State Mosquito—of Ins
existence, then the Government of the Commonwealth
will go on undisturbed by buzzings.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best Film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films evi-ry week, and our
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 GEORGE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Queen Street, Brisbane
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
♦
The OLDEST MUTUAL and
Lowest Bates Charged.
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING iSTREETS, SYDNEY.
ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining- its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The following kindly offer appeared in the West Aus-
tralian (Perth) of 6/3/’OB :
| F ANYONE WISHES to KNOW HOW the
x WORLD or LIFE BEGAN,
And How all the Animals Came Into World,
Also, How and Where from the First Men and Women
Came to World.
They should CALL ME to PUBLIC MEETING,
Any Place in Perth Any Day, at 3 or 4 p.m.
C. G. MATHEW, World Master.
Before these endurance contests—club-swinging and
piano-playing and the like—die out, someone ought to
persuade the competitors to indulge in a really useful ex-
hibition of some sort. Sixty-one hours of wood-chopping,
or 51 hours of pedalling the sewing-machine through
slop-made pants would possibly evolve a champion worth
the name. The man who breaks the piano-playing re-
cord, even though he wallops the machine for 51 years,
only produces a lot of noise ; while the man who whirls
a pair of clubs for 61 hours hasn’t even a bruise on the
atmosphere to show for his exertions.
“ Wyoming ” : Noticed a bit of cool work at Gloucester
(N.S.W.) on show night. A clever Dungog amateur girl
was in the midst of a turn that included a considerable
amount of dancing, when she discovered her skirts on
fire. The flames were rapidly enveloping her, and some
of the other players rushed to her assistance. The
orchestra stopped, and for a moment the atmosphere of a
more-than-paeked house was electric. Then, with delib-
erate humor, came the order : “Go on ; fire away ! ”
And in less than a minute from the stop, and also in con-
siderably less clothes, she renewed her turn.
A curious old piece is “ The Lady of Lyons,” with
which J. Knight and Ola Humphrey wind up thei r
Sydney season. When Lytton first wrote it he is
alleged to have had Macready and Helen Faucit in
his mind’s eye as principals ; and, indeed, those two
stars led on the first night as things turned out. Its
blank verse, pompous phraseology, and frequent slabs of
early Victorian sentiment make “The Lady" a
peculiarity these modern days; and yet, for some
obscure reason, it is an infallible draw wherever it is
staged. There is a fine acting part for Julius, and Pauline
should suit the gentle, shrinking methods of Ola Jane
exceedingly well.
Mrs. Bland Holt is seen about Melbourne again, looking
merry and well. She and Bland are preparing to resume
business. Tlfey start an Australasian grand tour at
Adelaide. It is so many years since Bland got into
holts with Adelaide and Broken Hill and the West
that he is only a tradition thereabouts. The new com-
pany will contain much of the old material and some
material that is fairly new.
“Hiphen”: The man who wrote, or rather the fiend
who perpetrated, “Trie Little Bread-Winner” seems to
have tried to see how far he could insult the public’s
intelligence without getting himself lynched. I’m a mild-
mannered youth myself and well brought up, though I
say it as shouldn’t. But when I saw all the decrepit,
.time-worn situations resurrected from their well-earned
graves and dragged into the glare of publicity, I felt like
being rude. I did not so much mind the same old hero
and heroine who drop with a chill slump from affluence to
grinding poverty. (In fact, I took such a dislike to them
in the Ist act that I was rather glad.) I bore patiently
with the noble-hearted comic relief man. I even swal-
lowed the grimy slum boy who quoted Shakspeare.
I bore up pluckily when the Little Crumb Collector
sang plaintive and tear-loosening songs to her daddy.
I never even registered a kick when the same precocious
kid defied the villain to collect the rent. But even my
iron nerve broke down with a dull, metallic clang when
this she-kid, aged (presumably) ten, held up the demon
and demoness with a brace of large-sized guns, what time
her daddy and the humorist were legging it out the
window. This was the limit. I left my sobbing girl-
companion and rushed forth to vent my feelings on some-
thing-. But the author must have seen me coming and
fled on foot to Gosford, for the most earnest search failed
to locate him.
“ Theorbo ”: Had a chat with a Valkyrie. But give
her her head and let her soliloquise. Fine voice, fine
physique. “ Well, here I am back in my choir. At the
little Mission Hall to-night, when I warbled, I wondered
if they knew I was a Valkyrie. You used to notice me in
c.lurch, like a melancholy, flabby, damp flathead, taken
out of Hobson’s Bay the day before yesterday. Lack-
lustre, wasn’t I ? Yes, life was a sort of bore. Smoothbore
enough, but I wanted something craggy. There came that
advertisement for opera choristers. I went. Met the genial
Slap and the mighty Mussy. After a few bars, the word was
4 Tnat’ll do ! ’ I thought they had had the impudence
to reject me. However, it meant‘Pass her in.’ Then came
the glorious rehearsals. Happy days. Lots of crags to
surmount. I’ll never forget the first night with
4 Lohengrin,’ the theatre flooded with Wagner, the excite-
ment. Well, life’s worth living, isn’t it? Then 4Tann-
hauser,’ and above all, 4 the Valkyries.’ Next came the
travel —Sydney, Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch,
Dunedin. All new to me. Everything so strange.
Theatre every night, and by day everybody staring at
you in a place not quite so big as Sydney or Melbourne.
What a rustle when you go to buy any thing in a drapery
shop. It is like Pickwick going to Dodson and Fogg’s.
Drapers’ men blush and look as if they’d sink through
the floor. Modistes giggle and stammer. It is a pleasure-
able sensation to be one of the show people when you’re
fresh. Some of us had chances to show ourselves in a
small way as Sarah Andersons and Johanna Heinzes We
were not so very, very far off, were we ? So I’ve had my
glorious dream. I’ve rubbed my shoulders against the
side scene, and the little mission church, now that I’m
back in it, seems to want a fresh coat of paint worse than
ever.”
“Hamer”: There are, of course, many dummies on
long-cast play-bills, especially with travelling and limited
companies ; and many managers have a careless habit of
appropriating these spare names from the bills of other
companies. So it may happen that a fictitious or long-dead
or long-departed David Garrick Irving is travelling atone
time with entirely different shows in different quarters of
this ball of mud" and muddle. This sometimes leads to
inconvenience. A man once determinedly inquired
of me about a purely borrowed John Jackson
Higgs whom we didn’t have with us, except on the
bills, and said he was an old friend of his, or
owed him some money, or something. I told him
that Mr. Higgs had accepted an engagement to play for
James Cassius Brough Anderson only a week before, and
we had not yet removed his name from the cast. He,
however, seemed to think I was hiding Higgs, and he
said he was going to see the performance and pick out
the character Higgs was playing. As that splendid actor
was billed as “ Bill Burly, a ruffian,” and nobody in the
company knew which ruffian was Bill Burly, it was a hard
job, and he didn’t succeed. Still he followed us for a
while making spasmodic inquiries for the missing actor.
Then he met another show with the name of John Jack-
son Higgs on its bills, and disappeared from our lives. I
believe there had been a real Higgs here once with an
American co., and he had become an institution through
some manager buying some of the misfit printing.
“Gebo”: The man of many collars at the Melbourne
Opera House is a wonder. Sylvo’s his name. He makes
his audience smile by saying that he can’t work without
a smoke. He makes them laugh when he strikes the
match on his face or takes it alight out of his pocket, and
he makes them choke when he finds the cigar’s a piece of
iron, and then takes an already lighted one from his
breast pocket. His jugglery items are not very extra-
ordinary, but when he throws off 30 or 40 collars one
gasps and remarks in the words of the immortal slang-
maker, “ Truly, he has got a neck !”
“J.G.”: Is there another town of its size in the
Commonwealth that can produce as many brass bands
as Bendigo (Vic.)? The district bands are Northcote’s,
Flight’s, Sandhurst, Hopetoun, Hibernian, Orange, Eagle-
hawk, Eaglehawk Junior, and Eaglehawk M.U.1.0.0.F.
Then, in addition, there is the Huntly band, a couple of
Salv’army bands, the Bth Regiment band, and the East
Bendigo Drum and Fife blaring organisation. When the
last trumpet sounds it won’t be heard in Bendigo for the
blare, and the angel who is sent along to tell the inhabi-
tants that eternity is at hand will have to make signs
with his wings.
“Sr”: The scene-shifter is threatened with displace-
ment by machinery. At the Coronet and Wyndham’s
theatres, in London, the shifting is now being done by
mechanical means. Palaces are uprooted, and gardens,
pillars and throne-rooms well and truly laid in about
7sec., whereas Bill and Jim were accustomed (sober) to
take 15min. Poor Bill, poor Jim 1
“E. O’F.”: I went behind to see my friend Stormer
one night. His company was doing good business
with a French revolutionary play which had been
written by Stormer personally, with one eye on
“The Dead Heart” and the other on “The Only
Way.” This work’s chief feature seemed to be
an Angry Mob. Stormer had an exaggerated idea
of the value of infuriated external shouts in this
class of play. In Stormer’s opinion, the revoluting
Gaul was something that yelled so long as
he lived unless he was hooting or groaning.
When 1 arrived at the wings I found the author standing
before eight wear.v-looking men, and waving his arms.
“ 800 ! ” he was observing, with an anguished look on his
face: “Boo! Yah! G-r-r ! ” The eight men repeated
the remark with him, mixing up the boos and the yahs
as much as possible so as to make them sound numerous.
Then Stormer put up his hand for silence, and the voice
of the condemned aristocrat could be heard defying the
tribunal. “Who am I! I am the Markee der”—
Stormer moaned, and flicked his fingers at the eight
solemn men, whereat they all moaned and growled
hoarsely until they got the signal to stop. The leading
lady’s voice rang out shrilly: “Spare him! Spare him,
I beseech you, spare him ! Oh ! Oh ! Oh-h-h !”
(Thud.) Stormer (frantically): “Down with them!
Down with the aristocrats ! Booh ! Yah ! ” The Languid
Mob: “Yah! G-r-r! Boo! 800-00-00-oo! ! ” Stormer
(to one man who always kept on howling too long):
“ Why the h—l can’t you stop when the others stop?”
(“ 800-00-oo !”) The Man (sulkily) : “ Yah-h ! (orright!)
800-oo ! G-r-r ! ” The Hero (yelling in front): “ Lead me
aw'ay to whatever dark and noisome dungeon awaits me !
Farewell! From my grave may spring the plant of
Freedom. Enough ! lead on !! ” (Screams from the
heroine.) Stormer (driving the mob before him up stage):
“ Down with them ! Yah-h! 800-00-oo!” The mob (in
various keys—retreating sullenly): “G-r-r-r! Yah-h-h !
800-00-00-oo !! ” About this time, realising that quiet
speech with my friend was hopeless, I withdrew, a men-
agerie of howls pursuing me into the street. Stormer
arouses my admiration ; he can do more with a mob of
eight, at is. per man per night, than any other impresario
I know.
According to London Era, David Belasco has abolished
the orchestra at both his New York theatres. The rising
of the curtain is heralded by the striking of a gong and
the chiming of a set of bells.
Agriculture Minister Swinburne, of Vic-
toria, is now making socialistic arrangements with
the Railway Department and the shipping com-
panies for the through consignment of fruit from
up-country stations to London, so that a grower
may deliver 100 cases at, say, Somerville, consign
it to his Cockney agent, and avoid any further
trouble and expense in the matter. The idea is
undoubtedly good, though certain Melbourne
agents fail to see any beauty in it, and if Australia
only owned its own line of steamers as well as its
railways it would be still better.
Victorian Premier Bent is in dead earnest
about land settlement. The other day he bellowed
about “people having been allowed to take up
huge blocks of land, far more than they could use ;
they should be compelled to use it. . . . He
wanted such land for settlement,” and so forth.
Then he went on to tell how the holder of an area
of 149,000 acres—2B3 square miles !—in the Eureka
district had applied for a five years’ renewal of
his lease, but had been restricted to two years.
So the land was apparently fit for settlement—
else why the refusal of a five-years’ lease? But if
it was fit for settlement, why did Bent put it out
of use for another two years ? And Bent wants to
know why the Australian Government doesn't
make haste to induce immigration while he shuts
the laud against immigrants.
FIRE RISKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
, * n ® vi< fence before a select committee, Superinten-
dent Webb, of the Sydney Fire Brigade, stated that the
skirts of ladies attending theatres were too long, and were
consequently a source of danger to the audience.
Whene’er we go
To see a show,
The terrifying sight
Of dresses wide
Has satisfied
Us Mr. Webb is right.
The skirts of lace
About the place
Do softly flow and ebb ;
We know they are
Too long by far—
But how far, Mr. Webb ?
N.S.W.
A.B.
NOTICE TO AGENTS
Agents are notified that, on account of
the Easter holidays, The Bulletin next
week will be published on Wednesday,
15th inst., instead of Thursday, 16th inst.
ANOTHER INJUSTICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Newtown (Sydney) Brass Band offered, if the Com-
monwealth would pay expenses, to go all the way to
Europe to show the people there how brass instruments
really should be played ; but when Catts, M.H.R., put
the matter before A. Deakin, the latter looked astonished,
and refused:—
If it had been a Melbourne band
Of course—but never mind 1
A. Deakin might, you understand,
Have been a bit more kind !
It seems—but there, there, why complain ?
Let’s hope it’s for the best!
Regrets and tears are all in vain—
And Newtown yearned for rest!
And poor King Edward ! Only think
How disappointed he
And all his family (don’t wink !)
Are very sure to be !
It would have been a comfort to
The monarch on his throne
To hear the Newtown person who
Doth play the slide trombone ! *
I fancy I can hear King Ned
Say : “ By my halidom !
And by the crown upon my head,
This is a gay Pom-pom !
Came ye from Newtown ? As I live
Ye are of high renown 1
Not half my kingdom can I give,
But here is half-a-crown !”
O gentle reader, do not scoff
At all this glory lost
Through base consideration of
The sordid thought of cost !
This deed bears out the persons who
Tell us such mournful tales
Of Federal injustice to
The State of New South Wales !
N.S.W.
W. T. GOODGR.


SOCIETY
A SPORTING OFFER !
[For The Bulletin.]
On the subject of our declining birth-rate General
Booth- suggests the taxation of bachelors by way of cure.
He writes:—
A'll bachelors should, in my judgment, be taxed, if not
absolutely compelled to marry. Men who are unable to
select a wife for themselves should apply to the Salvation
Army,
Long have I pined' in single wretchedness ;
Long viewed with eye of envy the fond state
0? those wbo’ve found from earthly care and stress
A refuge ire the bosom- of a Mate !
A' Slate ! A Wife ! One of my own to kiss E
Merely the notion gladdens me like wine E
So; Booth, if you’ve a maid in stock like this
Ohe I’ll describe, just trot her out! She’s mine t
A satin skin, a pearly tooth, an ear
Shell-like for preference, and a coraJlip;
An- eye divinely formed for mirth or tear ;
A nose devoid of color at its tip !
An eyebrow such as would inspire a song;
A cheek like Helen’s in its curve divine :
A voice as thrilling as the silver gong
Whose daily summons calls me in to dine 1
A clbud of hair of any hue save pink ;
A dimpling sireilte I must insist upon ;
Aw eyelash long ami sweeping, and I think,
She should possess* neck like any swan !
She must be tall—majestically so—
With l poise and carriage of the queenly kind ;
And curves ; dear Booth; are things I can’t forego ;
She simply must have curves, youdi bear ire mind.
Nor can we come to' terms if that she be
Merely a charmer of seductive look.
Submit no sample Venuses to me,
Who, having every beauty, cannot cook t
If you have such a maid in stock, she’ll do E
If she no one of my requirements lacks,
Then will I wed her, Booth If not, go to !
Keep thou thy virgins and bump on thy tax !
MAORILAND. . SINC. S. CLARK.
* * * -*
Already the N.S.W. Clerks’ Union booms
somewhat. At its second meeting the membership
was reported doubled ; at the third the name of
the first lady member was applauded amongst a
batch of fresh applicants ; also affiliation with the
Trades and Labor Council was reported to liAve
been obtained, and the appointment of an
organiser was mooted. Democratic clerkdom is
in the movement with all its energy, and all its
collar, and both feet.
THE HATED RIVAL.
The suffragettes in London are holding a week of self-
denial to raise funds by collecting, street singing, organ-
grinding, and pavement sketching.
THE OUSTED ARTIST: “ I never wuz agen no
woman in me life; but when it comes to
oruellin’ a bloke’s pitch, I say, To h—l with
’em! ’”
Victoria gets rid of a few of its ill-regu-
lated and undesirable constables occasionally, but
there are still many “Johns” whose manners and
education Jmve been sadly neglected. T’other
day one, while giving evidence, airily referred to
a previous witness as “his nibs,” while another
spoke of a number of obstreperous youths as
“them bucks.” Victoria’s police force has never
been the same since the returned farm-blazers
were rushed into the ranks.
“Vic.” : Bits from Senator M ‘Coil’s paper
on old Bendigo (Argus, March 28). Although
many may not believe it, 58 years ago Bendigo
was one of the beauty spots of Australia, with
wooded slopes, grass-covered flats and valleys,
and purling, limpid streams. From the ridge
running from Sutton Grange to Big Hill, and
thence to Eaglehawk, springs innumerable bubbled
out, feeding the Emu, Ash and Sheepvvash Creeks.
Then there were the larger valleys of the Bendigo
Creek and Ironbark, Long Gully, California
Gully, and the flat running down from Eagle-
hawk, affluents of the Campaspe and later of the
Murray. Margining the streams was vegetation
of luxuriant growth, and in pools blackfish and
other swimmers were plentiful. This was part of
the Ravenswood river. One day an aboriginal
saw his familiar clear stream flow yel-
low. He exclaimed “Goornong!” (dirt).
He investigated, and found the white men
in battalions, with their gleaming tents.
In October, 1851, gold was found about 100yds.
above the Golden Square bridge. In two months
over 10,000 men were on the field. In 1853 the
Bendigo population ran up from 17,000 to 30,000.
Remained at that for six months. Fell to 19,000
in December of same year. Articles like McOoll’s
remind one of biographies, always most interesting
in the early part. He gluts us with gold. The
writer once heard just one man say, “I’m sick of
making money.” That was in the actuality.
Brewster’s Millions, and Lansell’s, fill us up when
they are not our own. So we sigh for Bendigo of
the purling streams. In getting away from
Heaven, the deepest Gehenna-ward shafts are the
New Chum Railway (4318 ft.) and the Victoria
Quartz (4300 ft.).
The case of G. Nash is gradually assuming
the dimensions of an international argument.
Both the Rev. Nash and Archbishop Clarke, who
vetoed Nash’s reappointment to the incumbency
of Geelong (Vie.), after he had once resigned, are
at present in England. One is sending: excited
cables stating that Nash is a bad lot. and a
friend on Nash’s behalf cables that Nash is an
angel persecuted by an Archbishop. And
still no one knows what Nash Did or Didn’t.
The parson and the worldling have notoriously dif-
fering conceptions of “friskiness.” So “serious
misconduct” is a term of decidedly different
import in the mouth of an Archbishop, and, say,
in the mouth of an indent agent. It is
“up to” Nash’s accusers, or his friends,
to give publicity to the exact charges, so
that the public—the best judge of moral
heinousness or otherwise —will have the oppor-
tunity of deciding for itself. To drag the name of
Nash in the mud by innuendo and secret accusa-
tions, which may not prove so very dreadful after
all, isn’t particularly Ohristian-like. So far, the
reverend gentleman may have been accused of
anarchy, procrastination, or almost anything, for
all the community knows. It is a stroke of
genius to try a man at such length without once
mentioning what he is being tried for. Even the
marvellous Victorian J.P. never produced quite
such a complicated result.
* * * *
The premises at 123 Macquarie-street
North (Sydney), known as the Commonwealth
Offices, have been leased by the Australian
Government for a further term of one year, the
rent being £6OO. Over half-a-century ago the
place was built by Daniel Cooper, first Baronet,
then a simple knight, as a town residence. Sub-
sequently it became the home of the Reform
Club, of which John Robertson was a leading
light. The property is understood to be still in
the Cooper family.
The microbe of truth urges its host to un-
expected declarations at times. Eor example:
At a Sydney court, the other day, a woman de-
fendant was asked by the cross-examining
sergeant, “Weren’t your fined £3O for sly-grog
selling?” “No” (indignantly). “Was it £6O
then?” “Certainly not.” “Well, were you
fined at all ? ” Then proudly came the response,
“ I was—l was fined a hundred pounds ! ” Yet
that woman had probably never heard of the
ancient yarn about the late Henry Parkes who,
when twitted at an immigration meeting in
England with being paid £lOOO per year to entice
people to Australia, roared indignantly that the
charge m is a lie, “For Hi ham getting fifteen
’UNDRED 1 '
Judging by prices recently paid for equally
good work by the same artists, it looks as if the
Exhibition of British Pictures in Melbourne were
taking a good strong pull at Australian art patrons
in general, and the Felton Bequest trustees in
particular. Leighton’s “ Andromeda” is cata-
logued at £l2OO, yet during ’O6 five first-class
examples of his work brought in London an aver-
age of £648 —“ Helen of Troy ” realised only
£315. For Alfred East’s “Pastoral in Savoy”
£lO5O is asked; two years ago his “October
Glow ” realised only £94 10s. B. W. Leader has
an “Evening after Rain,” at £63o—in ’O5 and ’O6
London bought ten pictures by Leader at an
average of £147 each. Yeend King has “la
the Shade of an English Oak,” at £525, yet within
a year or two his “*)ld Mill at Offey ” brought but
£2B, a landscape £27, “ Peasants Returning from
Church” £22, and “In an Old Garden” £2B.
Ernest Waterlow’s “ Thames from Richmond
Hill ” figures at £B4O ; yet only recently his huge
canvas “ Sand Digging ” went for £94 10s. And
similarly with many others. Of course canvases
differ in value, and those by dead artists may in-
crease in value solely by reason of that deadness ;
they may also decrease so much as to be presently
worth only the frames.
A HEAT WAVE.
DE PERCY : “ Laura ! Laura! Do not flout me !
My love for you is a devouring sheet of flame
that will turn and consume itself, and parch
up my life, if baulked in this ! ”
LAURA (summoning flunkey): “James, ring up
the fire brigade. Tell them to send the
chemical extinguisher, and say that the fire
has got a good hold.”
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley and a jury
lately spent a fortnight on an appeal case under the
Public Works Act. The State had resumed 64 acres
of land at the back of Middle Harbor, Sydney,
away in the bush. It proposed to store explosives
there. This land is chiefly uninhabited mountains,
covered with scrubby undergrowth with an
occasional tree of the Pinus Whatisit variety.
The site was chosen on account of its absolute re-
moteness from anywhere else, and as being
a place where a blow-up would harm nobody,
save the passing crow. Yet the trustees
claimed £12,920, or about 200 guineas per
acre. The Government offered £2813. Each side
presented a bewildering array of experts, and
a dazed jury awarded £4lBO, valuing the land
at £55 an acre and “damages” at £lO an acre.
Without casting any reflection on the capacity of
the jury, The Bulletin, if it possessed “the
mountain fastnesses on the far side of Middle
Harbor, wouldn’t give much for its chance of
selling out to that jury at £65 an acre. It would
be interesting to know what land-tax the property
jjaid.
* • • *
“Stony”: Melbourne’s near-suburban
travellers are ill enough served by the cable
trams, but greater inconvenience
by far, and horror and discomfort
unknown to the tram-percher, are
suffered by that public which travels
on the two ’bus lines still in de-
caying existence. Both these lines
crawl to Malvern, one through
High-street and the other along
Dandenong-road. The passengers
are of all classes, and have much
luggage. Once a woman started to
hoist a table into the ’bus, and
was dissuaded by the loud language
of the driver, but gave a little lan-
guage of her own in return, with
the result that a feminine pas-
senger fainted, and the traffic was
disorganised for half a day. These
palatial vehicles are patronised by
all the wealth, rank, intellect,
beauty, talent and clergy of the
district, and all the dogs of the
locality run after them. When
there is a garden party at the
State Guv’inent House, the ’buses
are packed with fancy soldiers and
sailors, women, Germans, a few
pure whites, one or two English-
men, and now and then a Chow. These are not
omnibuses—they are omniboshters of the deepest
dye.
The Victorian Railways big annual ex-
cursion from Melbourne to Ballarat (return fare
45.) is an exainple of the stern, unrelenting fashion
in which the Bentite goes about his pleasuring
The function commences at 12 o’clock the night
before (which sounds like “ Alice In Wonder-
land, but isn t). Ballarat is something like five
hours slow journey from Melbourne, and when
you deduct ten hours from the sunlit part
of a day. It doesn t leave much loose period
'i£ re, Vl J f V ertT V° Und the countryside. £
order that the determined excursionist may
get a nice early start, the first train is sent away
from Spencer-street at the unearthly hour of 3
a ‘ n Jb^ hen n !Sht sits heavy on the public chest
and the station lights blink sleepily at each other.
o catch the special and the other early trains
that follow it—many picnickers arrive at Spencer-
street before the station shuts the day before and
while Night sleeps the sleep of the aged
cold feet planted horribly against the warm young
spine of Mornmg, they dance in the main hill of
the fetation to the dismal OTasT-iino"
Whe„ the train bank,,» LVRiot' Z° £Zt
hoofs 18 Tl T and a sound °f tramphng
hoofs. The crowd scurries down the lamplit
platform and, when it has fallen into the carriages
it puts its aggregate skull out of the window S
SXrff Tb y d r nthe line,n the direction Of
B vllarat. Ihe intoxication of upsetting the clock
throwing time to the dogs, traveling an utter v
unreasonable distance and onlv t ll ” tfc!r v
sends some folk crasywuh delighU S S " * too “
The Victorian “authori-
ties ” are understood to be
struck with surprise be-
cause only 29 out of 3§6
recent applicants for bil-
lets in the police force
were found suitable. Phy.
sically, the men were
fairly right; it was in the
mental and moral tests
they failed. And no won-
der. The pay of the Vic-
torian “John Hop” be-
gins at 6s. 6d. a day, and
rises about as fast as the
price of Mount Cannin-
dah shares; also, the
chances of promotion are
remote, like the South
Pole, and a little more
numerous than giraffes in
Ireland. Moreover, there
have been no pensions
since 1902. The men pay
5 per cent, of their wages
for an insurance policy
of £2OO, payable at 65 or
death. This in itself is
little enough, ahd a con-
stable can save practically
nothing out of his wages';
yet, if he be discharged
through misconduct or in-
jury, or through becoming
medically unfit, he gets
nothing, and he must con-
tinue the payment on his
policy or lose the pre-
miums he has already
paid. Those are the
reasons why the Depart-
ment can command the
services of so few fifst-
class mefi ; and even the
few such men who do offer
soon find they have made
a mistake* and that'better
things are Waitihg for
them in other walks of
life, where the pavement
isn’t so hard and the
nights aren’t so cold and cheerless.
• * * »
Almost at their very doors Brisbane people
have a health resort of which the greater number
of them never heard till the other night, when
a paper dealing with it was read by Dr. Thomson
at a meeting of the Geographical Society. This
the Lamington Plateau, on the Upper Logan
River. Its scenery and climate are magnificent.
It is 2500 ft. above seadevel, 1000 ft. higher than
Warwick, 000 ft. higher than Toowoomba, and the
same height as Stanthorpe, three places which are
reckoned South Queensland’s leading summer
resorts. The worst thing about it is its name. It
is so called because in 1897 Governor Lamington
went there for a trip. Surely it has an aboriginal
name which ought to be preserved.
• * • *
Amongst the Sydney public-houses doomed
to die according to the edict of the Local Option
Court, is “The Lady of the Lake,” a somewhat
historic house in Bay-street, Glebe. It was built
in the late forties and opened by Daniel Stewart,
who had previously kept the Wellington Inn in
Parramatta-street (now George-street west) in
the neighborhood of Athlone Place. At that time
“ The Lady of the Lake ” had gardens, known as
“ The Shaftesbury,” attached. The gardens were
the holiday resort of Sydney people, and each
evening a band played there. In later years the
bouse became the property of the notorious Bobby
Hancock, of Hancock’s Towers, opposite the rail-
way station. Hancock kept it going as a public-
house, though he was very wealthy. In that house
he died. His will wasfound there (he left hiswealth
to a couple of female friends), but a second will
was produced which left the property to various
charities and people. This will was contested
and found to be a forgery, and several persons
connected with it “ went up.” ijM
JOHN BULL’S BOGIES.
“ When it ain’t one it’s t’other or both!’"
About an adventure
One Christiansen, known from Sydney to Cooktown as
“ Dutch Harry,” dropped into Port Jackson one day
lately, after an adventurous voyage. Some years ago a
sailor remarked to Harry at Townsville that beche-oe-mer
was plentiful on Middleton Reef. Christianseni didn t
worry much, because all hands were agreed that the slug
never came as far south as Middleton Reef, and becau
it was no good to him if it was there. The reef is a lonei}
speck half-way across the Pacific towards New ca •
donia, and, ordinarily speaking, it would ta
more than the sea-slug w'as worth to if j er hin
thereabouts. But last year the four-masted snip
Annasona piled itself high up on the reef, a
Christiansen remembered his sailor friend. Beche-de-n
is up and hard to get nowadays. So Harry specula.
£2O in buying the wreck, bought a 24ft. sailing boat,
with two youthful adventurers as crew, sailed last J® '
ary across the Pacific Ocean. They found the reel,
wreck, and the beche-de-mer. The huge shtgs on
rocks were boiled with the fittings and decks of the
Annasona—and this is where the wreck came in.
out a plentiful supply of fuel beche-de-nienng >»
possible. Middleton Reef is always awash at high w ’
so the only possible wav of making a fire is to tax
fuel there. “ Dutch Harry ” boiled his billy with
wreck, and soon filled his little boat. After a pen
trip across—the little cockleshell ran for three day
fore a screaming gale—the three adventurers sighte
Australian coast near Cape Hawke (N.S.W.)i ana
turned safely to home and mother.
wr /.gIRIIH •■■■■».
•••■■••l*
m V,
/;7iy::::: :s:;ss\
,ai 'i!2! lßU **■■•Bl
.• ••■in —..
lijijlini! HStijJ
mm
*««»»••
;{»&!
OVERCOAT TIME.
NOW is the time fc ° buy an overcoat - You may not need it
to-day, but you will to-morrow. Overcoat styles this
J ear show a decided change ; there is a tendency for the full
skirted Coat, in broad overcheck and stripe designs that will
at once appeal to the well-dressed man.
We have a fine selection of Overcoats in Sage Green Tweed,
overchecked with darker shade of Green. Full cut Skirt with long
vent, patch pockets and gauntlet Cuffs. The Coat is like the illustra-
tion, is smart and dressy in quite the latest style. If this man in the
illustration would only turn round you would see that the front view
is every bit as attractive as the back.
The Price is 63/-
And we send it carriage paid throughout the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
SYDNEY.
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm is the be
liniment for cuts, sprains, and bruises. I® 'fl
heal the parts in one-third the time any o
treatment would require.*


“ Sr ” : The waitresses in the cheap hash
foundries, are .marvels to rile, In the sixpenny
wonderland where I dine I. have seen a young
Australienne vvartmg on twenty customers simul-
taneously. How she remembers all the mulla-
fatawnies, the steak and kidney pies,
And the roast beefs well done beats me!
And when she rushes back covered all over with
plates like a garment, and mysteriously delivers the
macaronis, the pork and beans Abd jam rolls, to
the twenty cannibals. Without mistake or hesita-
tion, I feel like■jn¥n f pihg on the table and calling
for thvep VSh'eers tor the marvel. Shrewd, witty,
fA'd u'vely, she must be reckoned as an Australian
Industry, and I am much afraid an underpaid
one at that.
THE STAR TURN.
“ Oh, Mary! I saw George kiss you.”
" Pooh![?] was only a one-man show! Did
[?] me kissing him ? ”
They do not place much value on heroism
in Fogton. London papers contain mournful
tales of a ship’s fireman who recently plunged into
the muddy Thames and rescued a man from
drowning. The Royal Humane Society awakened
'Vith a start and overwhelmed him with its bronze
hiedal, for this was his eleventh act of heroism.
11 is only other reward was an attack of pneu-
monia, and, after three weeks in a hospital, he came
out to find that he had lost his job. The latest
reports picture the heroic fireman walking the
streets in want of a bed and on the verge of starv-
ation. The bronze medal, by the way, was
snatched from his breast by a thief. Heroism
doesn’t seem to be a profitable business in the
Cold Country.
The murder of Constable Ring, at Glenelg,
Adelaide’s favorite seaside town, had all over it—
apart from the actual ele-
ments that no fictionist Would dare it) Use. Job
Coleman was a local fiafifeHhati; a u character;’’
quarrelsome ohiv wp'en ih ift&k t(ie local fiblibe
>,r\ I j£v kmi ,i ijtzgeral’d, locked him up d,n
• - to r L Wormoup and excessive beer, but,
■cm" l mi Wanted to start oh a fishing-
c'ruiSe on S.unqay, they good-naturedly bustled
round to find a J.P. to fine him five ‘‘bpb” and
let hnn go. Coleman, released, at, pine b.tn, ih a
partially-sobered sUte; .vowed, , yfehgeAhjbfe got
himself puarVplSpfiib loaded
>H? 8 i; , U S|hpt;gup, ( hjiSj ; vyife . she , would
shortly, be a. widow, and Wept to, peek..the foe. At
midnight jjist t as the, .last trajq, Adelai.de
came in, he met Ring at, the railway-station, arid
while the .latter lyas saying, M “ Get alqhg home,
Joe,” shotjiim dead before a,smajl crowd ,of wit-
nesses, Then fie wept tq the police-station to
slaughter policeman Fitsgerald. Fi.tkgerald had
received ftuicft newsof .the killing, but had no idea
Whq d|d it, and |Waij>_at ,the hotel telephoning t<?
Adelaide,about it.,, Coleman came hammering at
,tne hotel dqor for t,hajt last drink which is so pear
to the hearty of tfie, Rlßdtohk, . Hb made hiltl-
,self a. nuisance, ahd, WpS tdi’d by the landlord
to ~|“' s GO tor y you’ll be locked up
pgaitt, , Fjnally, Fitzgerald was appealed to,
but,, bp couldn’t, qe bothered with a mere
drunk when he, had .p much more important matter
on hand. So policema,n Fitzgerald lost his chance,
and Coleman wandered away ,up the jetty and
looked into ,the sea .for possible fish. Then full
news of the, tragedy .baree albhg \ IhH plUfiky t>f.
p Beary. Wept btf with a revolver to bail up the
mura'eter. But he didn’t ,knpw Colpman by sight,
And in his baste obtiuqecl a wrong, description, On
(the jetty lip met, pomppne w.ho was undoubtedly
(Coleman, .examined him by matchlight, and told
,him to pass on,! So Coleman melted qway
jUtterly, and, at,time of writing ditej; as
,to whether,he, had, e.spappcbih a boat or is some-
where at the bottom of the sea,
<■ The tragic-comedy. of, doe, Coleman had a
sepohd apt, With fresh players, four days after the
first. At pld ” Fort Adelaide (now , mostly
.sandhills) l 0 miles fr,om (Glenelg, a scared resident
came at dusk to tell the local constable that some-
one—probably Coleman—was camping out. The
zealous cop, girded on a revolver, went out and
stuck up the .camper;. fij'As jdrbnijptly rialnfea oh
the head With an iron bat, ahd shot his man in
the ribs. Then both went into hospital, and the
stranger was diagnosed as being really a stranger,
who had taken the policeman for Coleman, or
Ned Kelly or thereabouts, and had merely struck
out in defence of his hearth and gunyah, and for the
sanctity of the camp or tent or lean-to.
* * * *
The Divorce Court is the Ash Barrel of
Romance, It is also the Biograph of People Who
Throw Things. The ordinary man
puts on bis daily boots and uses iliem
merely to walk in. When he has
finished walking he takes them off
and thuds them heavily on the floor,
it never Obblirs to him to throw them
at his Wife; if he lldbt’HiS to disagree
With hi§ fiiubh bettfet hair at the break-
fast tabie ; the teapot doesn’t appeal to
his piaeid eye as it would to the roiling
optic bf .the bliddirig DiVbfbb Gdut-fc
client, PlftteS tp a (jhifet ihah flrb merely
fiat, gUssed earthenware utensils which
are sbmetinies hot as Warm as they
might be. He bats his foOd On
them three Or mote times a day; and
would be aStburided albiost td dbath if
he saW (hie nyihg thrdhgrl the ait
td war'd! A woman, if lie Were lUddeniy
attacked at dinnblr a fhahiab, hi!
unseeing eye woiild pass over the
beautiful assortment of missiles lying
ready to his hand, and foam Vainly
round in search bf a revolver ot iiH axbr
or one of the rhahj' thing! that alb not
kept i,h the ditiihg-loorh. A tnaii With
some training in domestic riots would
upset the madman with a well-aimed
torrent of bread, cruets and cutlery ;
and before he could get up would slay
him dead with the roast leg of mutton,
the sauce-boat, the dish-cover, the
potato receptacle, the salt-cellar; and
the beer bottle; There is Sbrnb bfigih-
ality ftt ail tills throwing, and an un-
protected ‘cbuntry like Australia ban’t
afford to disregard it. A regiment of
Domestic Throwers, armed with tea-
pots and cups and plates, would pro-
bably do a lot of damage to a foreign
enemy, who might easily get the hot
steak in his eye before he realised that
serious hostilities had opened.
u Hiphen ” is partially ruined and wholly
taken in by a barmaid :
This is a hard, matter-of-fact world. The only reason
why I don’t leave it is because I couldn’t take my capital
out of the country. In a certain Sydney pub is a dear
little fluffy-haired American bar-lady. She is as
pretty as a picture and quite as well painted as most.
Her eyes are like next year—full of hope ; and her mouth
is like an oyster—full of pearls. She speaks as pretty as
a musical-box. Calls you “sonny’’and “stranger” in
soft, sibilant tones. She refers constantly to her old
Kentucky home. She is charming. Another chap and
myself were deeply and bitterly shook on her, and were
wont to go in and drink the strange, unnecessary and
undesirable hinder end of the rooster.
One night, as we were absorbing numerous quantities
of small but vigorous dope, an Italian string quartette
started dispensing alleged music from the kerb-stone.
“Say, sonnies, git the lobsters to play the ‘Star
Spangled Banner.’ Do just,” exclaimed the lady.
We rushed out, bought the whole caboose, and dragged
them in.
They played the noble and tremendous American
“toon,” followed by “Yankee Doodle.” Finally they
played “ The Marseillaise ” (I’ve never yet met a band
that didn’t.)
“ Stop ’em ! Stop ’em ! ” cried the lady, bursting into
tears. “My poor pa was burnt alive, in the Chicago fire,
while the band was playing that toon.”
She wept bitterly into something the size of a postage-
stamp. Terribly moved by her grief, we hurled the
astonished Dagos out on to the cold, hard pavement,
and told them we would kill them if they came that
way again. Then, with respectful expressions of deepest
sympathy and regret, we left her to nurse her reopened
wounds. Outside we wept till the premises of Mark
Hordern were flooded.
A w'eek later I dropped in on her with a Melbourne
friend, whom I wished to introduce. That friend knew
her—knew all about her, in fact. She was born at Foot-
scray, and was brought up at Essendon, and her father—
her poor charred pa—runs a small, honest shop down that
way, and doesn’t know the address of Chicago.
Alas ! the age of Romance is dead, and this is the age
of Rheumatics.
SO INCONSIDERATE!
MELBOURNE BUSINESS MAN : “ Hey, what’s all that noise about ! ”
ANGEL GABE : “ Last Day."
M.B.M. : “ But this is Thursday, man. Surely you know by this time that public holidays
are kept up on Monday! ”
A laborer on a Sydney wharf was severely
injured, the other day, on a tramp steamer owned
by a New York firm called the United States and
Australasia s.s. Co. On application to the Courts
for compensation under the Workmon’s Com-
pensation Act, the laborer has been informed
that, as the co. is not domiciled in Australia, he
can have no possible means of redress. Seeing
that this decision must apply to practically the
whole of the deep-sea shipping of the Common-
wealth, it wipes out all possibility of redress in so
many cases that, if it is to hold good, redress
might almost as well be abolished altogether,
just to make things tidy and uniform. Yet the
foreign or extraneous skipper, while he hangs out
here, is amenable to the ordinary criminal law of
tne country, and to most of the civil law as well,
So the theory that he should be exempt from this
particular statute seems absurd, not to say any-
thing worse about it.
It is stated by cable that a Scotch person
named Simpson, or Mac Simpson, has invented a
gun which will carry a 20001 b. shell over 200
miles, and enable artillerymen at London to
effectively bombard Paris. If this is true, then
Mac Simpson has probably done his country the
worst kind of a bad turn. The secret of the
Mac Simpson gun will almost certainly leak out.
Then when war breaks forth between Britain and
Prance, the Mac Simpson gun will clear the inter-
vening sea of warships, but as there are three
British ships to be fired at for one French one,
Britain is liable to make the bigger loss. More-
over it has the command of the sea to lose, and
the French haven’t. Also, the French batteries
of Mac Simpson guns, somewhere about Calais, will
pound away at London, situated about 90 miles
away, while at Dover the British batteries of Mac-
Simpson guns will pound away at Paris about 175
miles away. And the French gunners, having by
far the shorter range and the bigger target to aim
at. will probably get the best of the disturbance
—at least they will be a very poor crowd of
gunners if they don’t. Then quite a number of
people will propound the idea that Mac Simpson
was a meddlesome person who hadn’t sense
enough to leave well alone.
THe SEXTONS LAMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f Tuesday.—The trustees of the Shepparton
Cemetery na\e had to resort to the expedient of reducing*
the wages of the sexton, owing to the low state of the
finances. There seems to be no probability of any
increase from the ordinary sources of revenue, owing to
the improved sanitary condition of the town, and there-
fore the reduction of expenses “ to meet the times *’
determined on. The number of deaths last yea* WAs oniV
28, as against the previous average of iff. Members of
the Trust were reluctant to make AhV Vecjiforion/And as k
consolation to the SektoVi ik Was. 'decided tib Als'e his
wages “ whet) tithes IfoptoVed.” The bextoii Was called
ahd ih forth to by the chairman of the
TVhSt’s deciSiob.
BbW lohg Wriß toe hhiv 'cohditfob last ? ” queried the
VtJtbbiifri cofi'im'ehce to die, ’’ replied the trustee.-^
‘Shrdtid And sephlch re—mattock spaefo,
'Graves lie empty hebeath toe sky;
beath iS the hope o*f my grisly trade ;
tife hofdtL6lhing fo'r siichas I.
When feVer arose frorii the open drains
The sekton, he was a merry knave ;
He dug and delved ancl counted his gains!,
Ahd eve'r he 'trolled a gladsome Stkvg.
(Then'sturdy farhSeVh Vheir fields forsook,
Xnd laidtoefo down'in the earthen cell;
YM Person read from the printed book,
what time I buried them deep and well.
/ Shadow walked through the sunlit
Calling them from each darkened room,
And straight 'they 'fo^bwed with folded hands,
'Chosen prey of the hungry tomb.
feb't times are altered—they live too long,
Red is the rust upon the steel ;
The sexton singeth no joyous song ;
Death is threadbare and down At feel.
Shroud and sepulchre-mattock and spade,
Graves ary bfhpty under the sky ;
YfeVoß rio hope’for me, I’m afraid,
Until the people commence to die.
N.S.W.
KODAK.
THE LABOR OF LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Speslket ftt the Sydney Women’s Patriotic League last
Wtek suggested that, as men were addicted to striking,
they might be brought to their senses by all the women
lb the Community doing the same as a matter of retalia-
tion.
The ferry decks are all deserted ;
Ibete is but sahd oh Matdy beach ;
Thfe parks Where cbdples larked and flirted
blank ih the frozen moonlight bleach ;
Triumphant ribgs the laughter raucous
Of Auditing, Ardill and the ilke ;
(the WomeH’s tinfoll'S met in eaUcuS,
Add aii the girj§ ate dut dn Strike,
5i all the iabot waifs tiiat vex ds.
None Carrie out way like this before S
The bloW has caUght oUr solar plexus
And left us gasping On the floor ;
Our mind is blank, our heart in fetters ;
Each night we know hot where to go ;
For no one goes to get the letters
Wfe forward to the G.P.d.
ifhe girls we foved With fteh2ied fiassiofl
We rUsh in ecstasy to meet.
And find they cut Us dead and dash on
With glassy eyes alohg the street.
Those Curves that oft from our embraces
Resumed resilient their form,
Are now taboo, while creamy faces
Know blushes not from kisses warm.
Of all the woes that worry, this is
The worst, the most appalling bump ;
The output of Australia’s kisses
Has undergone an awful slump.
Before the union’s interdiction
No fair free labor dares to flirt;
No blackleg cheers our deep affliction
And waves at us a lacy skirt.
Call off the strike ! Whate’er concession,
Whate’er extravagant demand
You make in arrogant aggression,
We’ll grant you, cheerful, out of hand.
Unlock your lips and let your glances
In goo-goo sweetness ease our pain ;
Turn on the switch that works romances,
And, girls, come back to us again !
N.S.W.
H. GLUBR
THIS RING
CURES RHEUMATISM
slowly but surely : it first relieves —then cures the
dreaded Rheumatism and all kindred troubles,
and we shall be glad to send you testimony to prove
it. Imitations do no good—don’t accept them.
Their only recommendation is cheapness.
Ask for the GENUINE RHEUMAGNETIC RING
u
(Patd.)
.Made of Highly- Polished
' Steel, nickel plated, 7/6.
Booklet Free on
Application.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. 2
The man who finds a corkscrew on the
road (B. 2/4/’08) and knows he is following the
footsteps of the wise, naturally associates it—the
screw —with D.C.L. Whisky. They who spur
their intellects with D.C.L. are always well ahead
on the road of progress. While for him who lags
behind, unsped by D.C.L., the corkscrew is his
portion.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
A KNITTED VEST.
A Fancy Vest goes a long way towards im-
proving one’s appearance.
These are the latest for the Season.
This is our first shipment of Vests, and we
don’t anticipate the stock will last long.
Beautifully knitted and finished—with bound
edges—four pockets—warm—stylish looking,
and most comfortable.
Thev come in different designs with Black
Ground and White Spots or Figures, and
Black Ground with Red Spots—also Brown
with Green Design.
State Measure round Chest when ordering.
PRICE I Os. 6d. Each—Postage 6d. extra.
Better Qualities 14s. 6d. and 16s. 6d.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
•• Men's Outfitters ”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The South Australian Brewing Co. (Ade-
laide)
Writ- Added Norm-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1898.. -£20,244 7 p.c. =£17,500 £l7BB £956 £8,241
1899.. 15,953 5 „ „ 12,500 3229 224 8,465
1900.. 21,233 5 „ ~ 12,500 2083 6650 15,115
1901.. 23,468 5 ~ ~ 12,500 3468 7500 22,615
1902.. 22,506 5 „ ~ 12,500 1250 8756 31,371
1903.. 13,752 5 ~ „ 12,500 750 602 31,873
1904.. 12,935 5 „ ~ 12,500 750 31,558
1905.. 12,913 2j ~ „ 6,250 2750 3913 35,471
1906.. 17,370 5 ~ ~ 12,500 2750 2120 37,591
1907.. 18,172 5 „ „ 12,500 2750 2922 40,513
1908.. 24,135 5 ~ ~ 12,500 6103 5532 46,045
The writing-off looks heavy, but it isn’t really all that it
seems. Ordinary writing-off amounts to £2750 (£750 off
leaseholds, £lOOO off plant, and £lOOO off rolling stock).
The other £3353 represents the bill for the reconstruction
of the recently-acquired Broken Hill brewery and ad-
ditions to plant, this being necessitated by the increasing
trade and the growing public thirst. Some further par-
ticulars of this solid old beer company are as follows :
1898. 1906. 1907. 1908.
Debentures .. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Other Debts .. 42,309 33,009 53,300 49,266
Freeholds, Plant,
Goodwill, etc.. 438,983 477,161 498,639 492,956
Stock .. .. 31,358 9,905 12,015 13,587
Advances, Cash,
etc 40,746 42,534 42,159 51,058
Gross Profit on
Sales .. .. 29,141 30,393 30,706 35,674
Rents .. .. 12,057 12,633 11,717 12,226
Expenses.. .. 6,526 8,070 8,240 8,939
It is a record that shows all-round improvement. Debts
owing to the co. are less ; freeholds, plant, &c., have been
so strictly written down that they also show a decrease ;
stock, liquid assets, gross and net profits and addition to
reserves have all increased. The net profits, after pro-
viding for writings-off, represent £7 4s. 3d. per cent, per
annum on capital, so the 5 per cent, dividend leaves a
fair margin to go to reserves. The one weak point in the
concern lies in the fact that the co. owes £200,000 on
debentures. This liability carries 5 per cent, interest,
which is fairly high ; also £200,000 of borrowed money, as
against £296,045 of the co.’s own capital in the concern,
represents a fairly stiff proportion. It might be a good
thing to establish a definite sinking fund, invested in
strictly liquid securities, to pay off this liability when it
falls due.
*■»*•*
By way of encouraging the main woman, or child
with a few shillings to put them into the N.S.W. Savings
Bank, that institution now charges the sum of Is. for the
pass-book—a bit of stationery that would be dear at 3d. If
you are a very small depositor indeed, and put ss. in the
bank, when you go to draw it you are handed four
shillings and a second-hand pass-book worth nothing.
When you recollect the fact that the Government has
just taken the penny stamp duty off Fat’s cheque, you
realise more than ever the anxiety of Authority to relieve
the poor of their burthens —their small cash burthens.
■* * * *
The Civil Service Co-operative Society of
Victoria, Ltd. (Melbourne), which began with a deficit
representing flotation expenses, etc. :
Dividend
(6 p.c.) Written To Re- De-
Profit. and Bonus. Off. serves, ficit.
May, 1903 .. £lO7l
Jan., 1904 ..£1450 £456 £994 77
July, 1904 .. 258 638 457
Jan., 1905 .. 1896 £1331 265 300 157
July, 1905 .. 1637 1441 215 176
Reserves
Jan., 1906 .. 2661 1786 440 435 259
July, 1906 ... 1884 1864 267 12
Jan., 1907 .. 3450 2607 471 372 384
July, 1907 .. 3483 3000 757 110
Dividend only
(no Bonus.)
Jan., 1908 .. 2493 1200 998 295 405
The figures for July, 1907, are not the same as those
which appeared when this paper last reviewed the society
on 26th September, 1907. The society’s calculations
proved erroneous. Owing to an improved method of
keeping the accounts, the customers collected their bonus
with more than the usual energy and success, and the
£2OOO which was allowed proved insufficient. Hence the
revision of the figures. The capital has increased during
the half-year from £41,176 to £59,377, so it now takes a
considerably larger amount to pay the 5 per cent, divi-
dend than it did. The reduction in profit is due to the
fact that four new branches and a bakery have been
opened, and the preliminary expenses have wisely been
paid off in one act. Also wages have been increased all
round. Sales have grown from £60,382 in the previous
half-year to £82,676 this half; the mortgage has been
reduced from £10,500 to £B5OO ; stock has increased in
value by about £10,500 ; depreciation has been liberally
provided for ; and the society has still £3BBl in cash. So
things may be described as looking very well indeed.
* * * *
Winchcombe, Carson and Co.’s Nineteenth
Annual Wool Review, just to hand, gives an interesting
survey of the 1907-8 season, and quotes some sig-
nificant figures. In connection with the wool sold
in Sydney—which was 75 per cent, of the Australian
clip—The Bulletin regrets to note that while France —
our largest customer—took 195,000 bales, Germany
185,000, Belgium 92,000 and the United Kingdom 73,500,
the quantity credited to scourers and local manufac-
turers was a mere 30,000 bales. That item will move up
considerably later on when the Australian realises the
futility of rushing the product of the sheep across the
ocean and sitting down idle in his own country until the
cloth comes back and a tailor can spare the time to over-
charge him for making it up.
*■***•
The Adelaide Co-operative Society
Divi- Writ-
dend Bonus on ten Re-
Profits. (4 p.c.). Purchases. off. serves.
Aug., 1902 .. £2511 £709 3f p.c. = £1642 £3OB £1452
Feb., 1903 .. 2427 715 3£ „ „ 1466 329 1369
Aug., 1903 .. 2286 720 3ft ~ „ 1459 242 1234
Feb., 1904 .. 2433 704 3| 1448 254 1261
Aug., 1904 2529 719 3ft ~ ~ 1385 364 1322
Feb., 1905 .. 2680 754 3f ~ „ 1454 299 1495
Aug., 1905 .. 2399 780 3ft ~ ~ 1531 251 1332
Feb., 1906 .. 3128 789 3jj ~ „ 1560 523 1588
Aug., 1906 .. 3150 808 3$ „ „ 1597 423 lblO
Feb., 1907 .. 2898 845 3| „ „ 1590 282 2091
Aug., 1907 .. 3989 877 4£ „ „ 1955 573 2675
Feb., 1908 .. I 4251 gg 0 5 2250 610 3186
Approx. j
This co. is not constituted in the ordinary way. Any
shareholder may withdraw his capital on very short
notice. The shareholders get 4 per cent, per annum
interest or div. on their capital ; the rest of the
dividend is made up of bonus on purchases. This bonus
is now at the rate of Is. in the £. The society seems to
delight in doing things the other way, and confusion
arises from this curious little habit. The bonus is always
called the dividend, for instance; and directors’
fees and similar expenses for one half-year are never
charged up till the next half-year, a-nd then
they only appear among the appropriations. In
the foregoing table an attempt has been made
for the first time to show the “ interest ” separate
from the bonus or “dividend.” As just men-
tioned, the bonus is now Is. in the £ on purchases ;
hitherto for years past it has been 9d. or lOd. The in-
crease in the profits seems to fully justify the increase in
the bonus. The society, after a long record of good ser-
vice, probably needed energising ; and it appears lately
to have got what it needed. No doubt the remarkable
prosperity of S. Australia has helped in the growth of the
business, which covers an unusually wide range—includ-
ing milk-supply. The society, now 40 years old, has
throughout worked on C.O.D. principles, and owes
nothing except to its own members ; and it has, more-
over, been a good influence in Adelaide in raising the pay
and status of shop assistants.
* * * *
K. M. Gibson, a Brisbane chemist, has discovered
a new principle in gas production. He found that by pass-
ing air through a mixture of oil and water, and making a
further admixture of air, he obtained a gas of greater
heating power than any yet adapted to commercial
purposes. Of course, the oil and water are not actually
in a state of admixtion, the union between them being
only a temporary one produced by violent agitation of
the two liquids in combination. Any sort of oil may be
used—even castor oil. Tallow may be used instead of
oil, provided it is kept in a liquid condition by heating
the water in the generator. The gas is of a dry
quality, and can be stored for any length of time
and carried any distance by means of pipes. It is inex-
pensive, too. When gasoline is used, the gas formed con-
sists of only 7 percent, of gasoline, the oxygen, hydrogen
and nitrogen supplying the remaining 93 per cent. The
apparatus required for manufacturing it is extremely
simple, consisting of a generator, a vessel for holding the
water and oil, an air-pump, and a gas-reservoir. When
the gas is required for power, the air-pump is dispensed
with. The cost of production is estimated at Is. Bd. per
1000 ft. It is alleged that with one large burner a twenty-
gallon vessel can be boiled, and kept boiling, for twenty
minutes; at a cost of Id. It is also stated that the gas is
odorless when burning, and explosions are practically
impossible where it is concerned.
Ballina Co-operative Pkoduce Co. (N.S.W.):
Sup-
pliers’ Written Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Bonus, off. serves.
1903 .. £1503 5 p.C. = £l3l £428 £437 £1156
1904 .. 827 5 „ „ 148 229 465 1141
1905 .. 1549 7£ „ „ 242 . 425 547 1476
1906.. 1269 5 „ „ 163 258 531 1793
1907 .. 913 5 ~ ~ 170 810 1726
Expenses have moved up a trifle nearly all round ; and
that and a heavy drain on the profits to provide for
depreciation have, between them, left the co. with a net
profit of only £lO3 for the year. Suppliers get no bonus ;
on the other hand, they have in the last six months
received about Jd. per lb. more for their butter than in
the corresponding half of 1906.
* * * *
The Warwick Butter and Dairying Co.
(Queensland): —
Bonus to Written De-
Loss. Dividend. Clients. off. ficit.
Preliminary Expenses .. .. £329
June, 1903.. £lOl Nil 430
Dec., 1903.. 161 Nil 591
June, 1904.. 112 Nil 703
Profit.
Dec., 1904.. 506 Nil 197
Loss.
June, 1905.. 433 Nil 630
Profit. Reserves.
Dec., 1905.. 1610 8 p.c. = £99 £332 549
June, 1906.. 789 8 ~ „ 134 £546 491 167
Dec., 1906.. 1058 8 „ ~ 166 568 491
June, 1907... 772 8 „ „ 210 330 723
Dec., 1907.. 298 Nil 1021
As pointed out previously, in view of the co.’s position
the dividend ought not to have been made as much
as 8 per cent. This half-year, not only is none at
all paid, but nothing is written off to cover depreci-
ation ; and with such wasting assets as a butter
factory, profits are not “net profits” if nothing is
provided against wear and tear. The overdraft is £3148,
and as other debts are fairly heavy considering the small-
ness of the capital (£5322 paid), it is to be hoped that divi-
dends, when resumed, will be more moderate until the
debt is wiped out.
* * * *
Barrier Co-operative Society, Ltd. (Broken
Hill, N.S.VV.): —
Divs.
5 p.c. Written Re-
Profits and Bonus. Off. serves.
Dec., 1904 .. £596 £371 £lO2 £169
June, 1905 .. 1129 591 232 475
Dec., 1905 .. 1236 766 183 762
July, 1906 .-. 1363 950 126 1049
Jan., 1907 .. 1560 959 113 1537
July, 1907 .. 1580 1124 91 1902
Jan., 1908 .. 1708 1300 96 2214
This society pays (or offers) a small bonus (2£ per cent.) to
non-shareholding purchasers ; but little of it is ever called
for. For the past half-year it is assumed that the outgo
on this account will be £l5. The shareholders’ bonus is
and has throughout been 5 per cent. ; and the growth of
the payments shows the rapid growth of the business. The
bad debts (£152) for the past six months are heavier than
they ought to be in a co-operative concern. The book-
debts stand at £32s9—they are also more than they ought
to be, though probably local circumstances may explain
the size of the figures. The total liabilities to the public
are £4330 ; but there are cash balances totalling £2012.
It appears necessary to maintain a comparatively large
amount of liquid resources on account of the provision
for the speedy withdrawal of the shareholders’ capital.
Some cheerful remarks fell from the lips of the
chairman at the recent meeting of the London-managed
Red Hill Co. (W.A.). One was that seven reefs had been
located ; another that £13,000 had been won during the
past year; while a third was that the mine was in
measureable distance of getting on to a solid profit-earning
basis. Nothing, however, was said about the facts that
the cost of production exceeded the revenue by about
£2500, or that the ore reserves, which now total 3000
tons, have dwindled to about one-half of what they were
reported to be some time ago. Facts such as these are
usually left for shareholders to find out for themselves by
wading through the report and balance-sheet, and in this
case the exception did not prove the rule. When the
accounts were made up in October, the co. had a little
over £4OOO in hand, but as it then owed £3750, balance of
purchase money for the Sons of Erin leases, and £6OO for
stores, and as it has not fared vt ry well since, it looks as
if it will be a long time before its liabilities are wiped off,
and a still longer time before shareholders get any return
for money invested.
Principal Westralian results for March ;—•
Value
Ton- Re- per
nage. venue. Profit, ton.
£ j£
Great Boulder Proprietary. .14,248 47,556 26,931 66/9
Golden Horseshoe .. ..22,763 50,526 24,890 44/5
Ivanhoe .. .. ..18,375 42,119 21,039 45/10
Great Fingall .. .. ..20,071 35,186 14,700 35/-
Boulder Perseverance ..17,612 23,764 5,361 27/
Oroya Brownhill .. ..11,225 16,010 4,862 28/6
Lake View Consols .. ..10,566 12,564 1,503 23/9
South Kalgurli .. .. 9,020 12,504 1,356 27/8
Sons of Gwalia.. .. ..12,320 20,996 7,472 54/1
Associated 9,901 19,821 6,953 40/-
Northern Mines .. .. 8,568 5,858 15 13/8
Oroya Black Range .. .. 4,010 10,130 8,133 41/
Associated Northern.. .. 3,556 10,534 3,990 59/3
Hainault 6,150 7,618 437 24/9
Golden Ridge 1,841 4,419 2,371 48/
Gwalia South 1,853 5,269 2,881 56/9
Ingliston Extended .. .. 1,030 2,050 4 39/9
Hills Proprietary .. .. 740 1,920 914 51/10
Kalgoorlie is elated over the recent develop-
ment in the notorious Boulder Deep Levels, and a good
deal of foolish talk about its importance is being induced
in. So far, only some 20ft. or 30ft. of or K thg
done in payable ore, and as the locality . the j) e ep
shortness and unreliability of its shoots, an t B
Levels and its neighbor, the Hannans unsuccess-
spent a lot of money between them in tryni| «
fully to carry oil profitable mining, the new find n >
safely regarded as nothing to make a fuss about.
Announced that Captain Treloar
the management of the Princess f ' ha V treloar
boneless struffirle. It is only the other day that Ireioar
was booming this mine when The Bulletin M^it
is satisfactory to note that he has no v renorts issued
opinion. This paper sniffed at the
about the property, and subsequent events ha p
that it had ample justification fordoing so.
Queensland Menzies (W.A.) sale reaHsed £1750
but bv the time the mortgagee bank s c la ’ n ‘ Hit ors and
there will be little left for unsecured creditors, . ana
nothing for shareholders. „
The Golden Treasure at Yunderatninda (W. A.)
has gone under just as this paper thought it would. “?
months ago a number of Melbourne speculators followed
the lead of Hans Irvine, and found capital to ' work the
property. A manager was appointed, s P e( ;T l and a
shown, a profit of £20,000 in sight was talked of, and a
mill was purchased. Now the mine is shut down tor it is
said—want of crushing dirt.
* * * ,
Strenuous efforts are being rnade
the decreasing reserves in the Great i ingall(W. .) -
cently a crosscut was put out from the No. 9
search for the downward continuation of tire west lode,
but nothing worth mentioning was discovered. A lot or
good ore was obtained from this body down to a depth
of about 300 ft. Then it became poor, and, lodging from
the work just done at the No. 9 level, it looks as if it
remains so in depth. #
Asbestos mining has had a good spurt of' te ’
and prices are being' well maintained. Pilbarra ( . ■ )
contains a very fine deposit of fibre, which was ear y
secured by A. E. Morgans for his derelict British Explor-
ation of Australasia, Ltd. The British co. in turn
organised a “pup" to take over the show, which was
declared in the London prospectus to be a 3000-acre
concession” from the W.A. Government. The new co.
was named the Pilbarra Asbestos Co., and it will have to
battle hard to live up to some of the extraordinary state-
ments made in the prospectus.
The directors of the South Kalgurli (W.A.)
seem to be an amusing lot. Some time ago they
authorised the enlargement of the mill, but now that the
additions have been made, and costs increased by extra
power and upkeep charges, they refuse to sanction an in-
creased tonnage. A director and an independent expert
lately visited the mine, and as both have gone to England
with an exaggerated estimate of its value, it is quite on
the cards that the Board will shortly want to go to the
other extreme by insisting on a maximum tonnage and a
better grade. A profit of £2500 per month from the
treatment of 10,000 or perhaps 11,000 tons is, however,
the limit of this property’s endurance at present, and if
it is asked to do better than this it will soon cave in.
* * * *
The way of the Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.) is
still hard. Receipts for last year totalled £35,608, but as
all this and more was swallowed up in working expenses,
directors’ fees, etc., the year closed with a bank overdraft
of nearly £l5OO and an indebtedness of £2805 for stores.
A special report on the property by “ Abraham and
Marks” is attached to the balance-sheet,'but as this
refers to the property as a series of shallow holes in the
ground and shafts partly full of water, and winds up by
describing it as a practically undeveloped “show,” it
would be interesting to know why all the available capital
—£23,ooo —has lately been spent on a new mill.
* * * *
The second and final preferential dividend of ss.
per share on each of the 16,000 preferential shares in the
Gwalia South Co. (W.A.) has been declared. After this
distribution all shares in the co. will rank alike as regards
dividends, but as the co. has allowed itself to run short
of surplus cash in order to let the preferential scrip-
holders have their whack it may be some time before an-
other dividend is declared.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) co.’s surplus is still
mounting up. After payment of March dividend of 35.,
there remains a credit balance in cash and bullion of
about £13,000, or 40 per cent, of the subscribed capital of
the co. The next distribution, which will be either 3s. or
4s. per share, is due in June, and on top of this each share
will probably be split into four.
* ■* * m
Kalgoorlie is trying bard to form a £20,000
Development Co. to go deeper in the Devon Consols mine
at the north end of the field. The prospectus just issued
appeals to the public to take shares for the reason that,
if a payable mine is opened up in that part of the district,
“ a great increase in land and business values ” should
result. Nothing, however, is said about the prospect of
gold being struck. This is somewhat remarkable.
* * * *
Lancefield Co. (W.A.) is raising £30,000 by an
assessment of 2s. per share. It is proposed to utilise this
sum to wipe off present indebtedness and increase the
capacity of the treatment plant to 10,000 tons per month.
It was remarked on this page some time ago that the co.
would have to do something like this.
• * * *
Golden Link (W.A.) may yet become a mine.
Payable ore has now been opened up from above the
fourth to below the fifth level, and at the latter point the
shoot has a length of 700 ft. and is of good width.
* * * *
Mt. Cattlin shareholders (W.A.) haven’t much
hope of getting dividends until the price of copper goes
up. The annual report to Sept. 30 last shows that the
co. earned a revenue of £47,821 for that period, but after
allowing for mining, London, and formation expenses and
providing for depreciation, the profit and loss account
shows a debit balance of £B6BO. Reserves are estimated
at 25,719 tons containing 4'86 per cent, copper and 1397
tons of dump ore averaging 4'23 per cent. A further
estimate of 7857 tons of “ low'-grade ore” is also given,
and shareholders are, in so many words, asked to comfort
themselves with the reflection that, in addition to these
reserves, the co. has, or rather had when the accounts
were made up, £72,630 cash at call or in hand.
* * * *
The New Santa Claus mine is still the hope—
though no longer the pride—of the Randell’s mining
centre near Mt. Monger (W.A.). The company is a Perth
one, and it has spent £6OOO of its own subscribed capital
and £ll,OOO proceeds of gold won from the mine. Result
to date is about 800 ft. of development work done, and
5000 tons of ore mined and treated. Company is now in
financial straits, and the newly-appointed manager,
James Craze, of whom much is expected, has a hard row
to hoe. There is still a calling power of £4OOO on the
authorised capital issue, but there are less than 40 share-
holders to carry the burden. Mine is but 200 ft. deep,
and the ore is arsenical pyrites at a uniform depth of
35ft. below surface. Rock is a dense acid-porphyry, and
the light Government battery stamps, and the absence
of rock drills for work below make the position of the
company a depressing one, though the lode is proved
nearly 20ft. thick, and over half a mile long at surface.
” * * *
The Homeward mine, at Davyhurst (W.A.),
which was floated in India among civil servants and
nabobs, has apparently turned out another frost The
company has got through £13,000 working capital, and
has just had a 500-ton parcel crushed at the VVestralian
Waihi battery. Result, though long overdue, is still un-
stated, and the mine is shut down ; from which facts
unfavorable auguries are deduced.
* * * •
Mount Margaret Lake View mine, near Lake
Carey, where the Westralian Government has erected and
lent to the local company free of charge a double unit
stamp battery, has closed down, temporarily, for want of
funds. Lode is a wide one, said to be 9dwt. grade, and
easily mined. Exhaustion of funds would seem there-
fore to prove that these small plants—however mnrt
they may suit the prospector for testing purposes-areM
little use when required to thump through ore in sufficient
quantities to obtain revenue.
The report of the Sandstone Development Gold
Mining Co., of Sandstone (Westralia), is a documentthit
doesn’t throw much light on the future of the concern
On one side there are capital and other liabilities amount
ing to £56,115. On the other side, plant, machinery build
ings, horses, vehicles, stores, debts due and cash represent
£7306. The rest is the mine, set down at £42,995 and
shortage £5814. Between 17th November, 1906, and 3ilt
January, 1908, the co. spent £9440, and its receipts from
gold and tributes were £3612. The report isn’t a luridlv
sanguine document, and rather suggests that the case is
one in which the investor should sit down and take wait!
ing exercise.
Chiltern Golden Bar Extended (Vic.) isn’t going
to have anything to do with the Chiltern Bar. Not that
either claim has the right to call the other harsh terms
The Extended’s record is that it turned out £3607 worth
of gold in six months and has £lB5O in liabilities. Yet
the directors look happy and don’t want more ground.
Lucky souls.
• • • *
Mount Tarrangower (Vic.) is one of the Maldon
niysteries. Two years ago it had a bit of luck after °2
years of deserved idleness. Now shareholders learn that
the mine was never looking better than at present
Judging bv its record as a dividend payer this isn’t much
to boast of. Still it is better than nothing, especially
if the statement ensures the payment of calls and
salaries. The basis of the assertion is that the mine has
a shoot of stone 4ft. wide, 35ft. long, and worth anoz
The Maldon oz. has an awkward knack of crushing
down to small weights in the battery, so that adraft
has generally to be drawn on the sands to hold
up figures. It would not be thought that with a
mine having the market record of the Tarrangower, and
with a co. having such a non-record as a dividend-payer
there would be a rush for the directorate. But the old
Board has been biffed out, and replaced by a Bendigo-
Maldon-Melbourne crowd.
Poseidon, (Blackwood, Vic.), has had its crush-
ing. This gave 360 z. from 190 tons—or under 4dwt. Of
course shares were slammed back to the point they ought
never to have quitted. Gold in the sand and the gold in
the pyrites are tacked on, and so a 6dwt. yield appears.
A wail is heard from Ballarat to the effect that
Ballarat won’t back its own mines. North Victoria United
is the particular show complained about. Melbourne is
said to hold the thick end of that particular mining stick,
and to hold it well. Why, then, should there be any need
for Ballarat to complain at Ballarat’s apathy. Anyone
acquainted with Ballarat knows that half the mining
there is on the Stock Exchange, and, with that institu-
tion as dead as Caesar, Ballarat finds the incentive to pay
calls gone. Another reason : Ballarat knows a good deal
about its own mines. Hence, even if it doesn’t always
understand when to buy, it knows pretty well when not
to buy—and that is often. That it is standing off North
Victoria United should be a tip to other people to keep
off the same grass.
* • • *
The Bulletin receives this letter from Turon-
dale (N.S.W.): —
“ Sir, —Re “ Wild Cat ” paragraph (B. 26/3/’08), the said
“battler,” Knoblanche mentioned therein is absolutely
unknown to the directors and legal manager who control
the Mount Wells Company, now working the sub-basalt
drifts near Turondale, and has had nothing to do with
the inception or carrying out of the scheme.—Yours,
etc., R. N. Wf.lls.”
. Looking back on the paragraph complained of Tub
Bulletin fails to see what the trouble is about. This paper
said that the alleged deep leads of the Turon (N.S.W.)
were one of the dreams of the grand old mining warrior
Knoblanche, and so they were. It said he stuck to his
dream, and so he did. It said that Mr. Wells was
incited to examine the prospects, and it still pre-
sumes that he was, otherwise it is hard to see
why he and his friends should be there. But it didn't say
that Knoblanche personally incited Wells and Co. (though
he may have done so), or that he ever spoke to
them, or met them, or that they had ever heard of him,
or that they had even seen his photo, or that he is
connected in any way with their company. It
merely recorded the fact that Knoblanche origi-
nated, or helped to originate, and kept alive, or
helped to keep alive, the idea that there were
deep leads about the Turon, and that he is now seeing
his dream realised. This paper didn’t even say whether
he was seeing it from half-a-mile distance, or in a general
sort of way, with the telescopic eye of faith, from 1000
miles away'. So this paper can’t see what the Mount
Wells Co. and its directors and manager have to com-
plain of. If they don’t know Knoblanche, it is possible
that they are the poorer for lack of his acquaintance.
Many people, if they knew people, would be better font
—more uplifted in soul, and with a tendency to take a
larger and wider view of things, and not so much inclined
to write to the papers and disclaim all knowledge ot
other people.
* * *
This shows how the zinc-treatment business
has moved ahead, so far as the Broken Hill Proprietary
is concerned ,
Tailings treated. Zinc concentrates.
May, 1904.. 868 tons 287 tons
Nov., 1904 ... 27,914 ~ 8,105 „
May, 1905 .. 41,292 „ 12,851 „
Nov., 1905 .. 94,767 „ 27,768 „
May, 1906 .. 113,376 „ 28,276 „
Nov., 1906 .. 121,895 „ 82,181 „
May, 1907 .. 116,240 ~ 25,353 „
Nov., 1907 .. 175,021 „ 41,203 „
These concentrates, as now produced, are 42 P* r ® e l!".
zinc ; so the 41,203 tons of concentrates contained it,
tons of spelter. What losses there are in smelting i
impossible to trace, because the concentrates are sot
export, and Belgium and Germany get the w ° rK
Australia ought to have. Losses are, however, kno .
be very heavy. The practical question is : What en
the new production likely to have on the price.
Sulphide Corporation and others are producing z ' n ’
and the Zinc Corporation is just going to start. » ,, Pr.
they together turn out 30,000 tons more metallic
than they did last year, which would, mean at
150,000 tons more concentrates. That 30,000 ton
add only about per cent: ho"the loofiSuc-
estimated by Merton and Co., who put the 1906 p
tion at 702,000 metric tons (2204i1b.). No doubt
per cent, extra thrown on the market must affect P
but it doesn’t look large enough to smash the ma
The electrolytic refinery and copper
works at Port Kembla (N.S.W.) are being hurne
The co. was fooled about for close upon a J’ ea M ge
N.S. Wales Government; but the moment the pun- ,
of the land for the site was definitely set > 0 j
other important incidentals arranged, the„, hlis jastB
construction began in dead earnest. “
calculate that the works will be re ‘’ nl "^, labor
before the end of this year. Barring out
troubles, the smelters should certainly be in nDer to
November, and the shipment of Mount Morgan
the United States (to be refined there) will in al P
cease in December. There is something attra t
this refining co. It looks as if it were bent UD v ; e lded
pure and simple. Every' £5 share subscribed
£5 working capital; no brokers got a cu j, n^e . o S."
moters seized a hunk, and no tout secured a con .
The promoters just put up their own moie)- , [ or
cern deserves well, for it will surely do som g
Australia. .
Broken Hill Junction North has an
over some other mines along the line of lo ’ ence of
possesses a good grade milling ore, tnei p ur es,
rhodonite notwithstanding. Yet, taking r ton 9 0 |
the mill requires 70 tons of crude ore to mase nta j n ed
concentrates. This means that 319 tons of lead
in the crudes put through the mill loses H tons?*
in the process. The South Blocks null req taking!' l
crudes to make 10 tons of concentrates. mj n the
another way, 299 tons of lead put through trJ tes,
crude ore, returns 210 tons of lead in theconcw
ATTRACTION OF ALL ATTRACTIONS.
ROBEY’S
Improved Compound Traction Engines,
also Portable Engines, OH Engines.
Address during SHOW WEEK—MAIN MACHINERY AVENUE. City Office- 64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Agents ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER (Sb CO.
CORLISS VALVE ENGINES
for Mining-. In many of our in' & conon i»
f„oi ; u « *. • firewood is becoming so scarce t of 0 j
H f e fiist importance, so that the old-fashioned “steam chewers” have to stand asid
modern engines that will give the most horse-power with the last expenditure of fuel. rc lf j n
this is WHERE a CORLISS ENGINE “ COMES in.
Cameron
& Sutherland
have several of these engines in stock price
to 200 h.p. They are practically new,_an ure
is low. Also a iarge assortment ot b
AHrimoo n«- nu . Boilers suitable for all requirements. b ai IABAT
Office Chambers, SYDNEY ; Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE; Lydiard gtreet^^^^


thus losing 89 tons in the operation. Block 10 makes 10
tons of concentrates from about 62 tons of crudes, or in
other words, saves 321 J tons of lead out of the original
458 tons. The North mill has a ratio of about six to one,
and in putting through crudes containing 409 J tons of
lead loses 89£ tons in the process. It is certainly time
that the Junction North mill gave a better account of
itself.
* * * *
Crosscutting to the lode at the 1465 ft. level of
B.H. Block 10 is in progress, and ore should be cut there
very shortly. When that occurs, Block 10 will have the
deepest ore proved on the Barrier. The crosscut is being
pat out east from the plat, and it was estimated that it
had about 280 ft. to go before reaching the ore body. A
feature about the Block 10 ore body at depth is
its good quality, with a fine grain ; however,
it has a tendency to slime a lot. The mill
at this mine has lately been doing unusually good work.
It has a fine instalment of concentrating tables, which are
divided into sections, and the amount of profit made by
each section is known. Thus a section can be cut out at
any time so as to suit the requirements of the moment.
It has cost a deal of money to fit up the mill with its
present gear, but at length the company appears to be
reaping the benefit. The sinking of the new shaft is still
in abeyance, which seems a short-sighted policy in view
of the danger of something sudden happening to Harvey
shaft on the 600 ft. level.
For some months past Broken Hill Junction
North has been a notoriously difficult mine for contrac-
tors to make a living in, which accounts for the
frequency with which new parties are sent below there.
Before the slump miners were hard to please in the matter
of contract conditions. Many a week the J unction North
went with a short tonnage owing to dissatisfied miners
and truckers “ pulling out.” In some instances the men
had good reason to be dissatisfied, but more often the
pick was in the other hand. Now the managers all along
the line are putting on the screw in order to increase the
profit-earning capacity of their respective mines, and in
most cases the men have to grin and bear it. The other
day a party of 12 miners took a contract in the Junction
North, and after working 13 shifts according to the office
docket, but considerably more according to the men’s
story, some of the party threw it up. The management
filled the places of these men with outsiders at 10s. a
shift, and then the remainder of the contract party
“ pulled out.” On going for their pay, they were pre-
sented with a docket showing they had earned £7 odd,
but the whole of the amount had been used by the
management in paying the wages of men who took the
places of the members of the party who first cleared out.
As this beautiful arrangement is quite within the provi-
sions of the contract agreement, it will be seen that some-
times the men get the worst of the deal.
* * * *
It is absolutely certain that at the present price
of metals the British Broken Hill could make a fair
profit, and yet the mine is allowed to lie idle. There was
a difficulty in disposing of the concentrates, certainly, but
it was not an insurmountable one. Quite a different com-
plexion might have been put on the whole affairs of the
Broken Hill products had it not been for the little game
of “ I don’t want to play in your yard ” going on between
the grand panjandrums of the British and the Broken
Hill Proprietary. With such a fine body of ore awaiting
development in the British it seems a pity that the
directors have not broader ideas.
* » * *
Broken Hill Block 14 has been driving on its
mineralised vein at the 750 ft. level, without finding any-
thing to equal the splendors of Aladdin’s cave. In all
probability the vein will lead to something small and un-
important, but on the south side of the shaft the manage-
ment may have better luck. A proportion of the 50ft. of
lode passed through in the east crosscut on the 400 ft.
level was good milling sulphides, and the co. has started
to drive south on the body. This addition to the ore re-
serves, small as it is, was sadly needed.
* * * *
The B.H. Proprietary has, so far, found small
cause for jubilation in the development of its ore body on
the 1400 ft. level. About 50ft. has been driven north and
south in the ore, which is as hard as Pharaoh’s heart, and
of ordinary grade. A little more of this kind of ore, and
the Proprietary will have to spend a lot of money on a
new mill.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek (N.S.W.) is one of those
Stock Exchange horses that are very hard to pro-
phesy about. The three last crushings have been 384
tons for 9150 z., 252 tons for 7300 z., and 309 tons for
10550 z. ; total, 909 tons for 27000 z., worth, at £3 15s. per
oz., £10,125. A mine crushing something like £lO a ton
should be able to pay dividends, so people are puzzled at
the set-back the shares have had. Certainly the mine
reports do not read so well as they did a while back.
Nothing is said, for instance, about No. 16 level, and
stoping has been discontinued there. No. 17 has
been driven south to the boundary', and the
recent crushing shows that the level has yielded
rich stone, but the rapid depletion that is inevitable on a
narrow vein, and the failure as yet to strike rich stone in
No. 18, have rather discouraged the market. Develop-
ment work is costly, and will have to be kept going, so
shareholders cannot expect all the spare cash to be paid
out in dividends. If No. 18 improves, and the drive—which
has nearly 300 ft. to go to the boundary—strikes the real
stuff there will be more inducement to continue develop-
ing deeper levels.
* * * . *
The-official report on Queensland gold mines
for 1907 shows a net decrease of 78,1600 z. fine, equal to
£332,003. The only fields where substantial increases
appear are at Mt. Morgan, Gladstone, and Mt. Shamrock.
One of the most disappointing returns is from the Croy-
don field, where the output was 13,4110 z. fine, the
smallest yield since the field was opened. The decrease
from the previous year’s output was 10,5220 z., valued at
£44,822. The Golden Gate group is still the largest pro-
ducer. The most unsatisfactory feature is the failure to
test the value of the deep ground, and very little effort
has been made in this direction, so that at present the
outlook is not too promising. The total yield of the
State was worth £1,981,461, to which Charters Towers
contributed £748,220, Mt. Morgan £619,208, and other
shows £614,033.
■*■**'*
Recent rains all over Queensland cheered the
gold rushers on the Oaks at Einasleigh. Rain was
certainly much wanted, and now that it has come the
usual crop of fever cases may be expected. Meanwhile
the Oaks gold tally has been put up to 3000 oz. The gold
is good quality if you get it. The Etheridge line from
Almaden received its wet season baptism, and wash-outs
became common, but hardly so common as they' were at
Cloncurry. If at any time and by' any chance a mail train
got into a place punctually' it couldn’t get out again.
From Great Fitzro.v in the Central to O.K. in the North
the name of everything—railway' or no railway was
mud; but w'here there was a railway the mud was not
quite so thick. The end of March may not see the mines
happy in their transport again, for it looks as if the wet
season is running both late and big.
Mount Morgan shares jumped from 675. to
70s. last week. Then Captain Richard, the general mana-
ger, happened along in Sydney, and said that the ore
reserves could be put down at 9,000,000 tons, equal to 27
.years work, and the profits would ere long be increased
by £lOO,OOO by the treatment of Many Peaks ore, and the
shares crept up to 78s. When the directors announced a
quarterly dividend of Is. per share, however (a reduction
t^ose who purchased at the high rate wished
they had waited a day, for shares immediately
dropped back to 70s. Perhaps Captain Richard’s
little “boost” was only intended to soften the
threepenny blow which was to follow. Generally
speaking it must have had a contrary effect. When large
figures and large profits are quoted, man usually reckons,
despite low metal prices, on anything but reduced
dividends. Yet the Morgan directors, in announcing the
reduction of the dividend from Is. 3d. to Is. for April
quarter, give sound and sensible reasons for the step.
The big mine has, despite and because of its
huge ore reserves, an important construction policy
in front of it. Money has to be provided for its
share of the electrolytic refinery now building at
Port Kembla (N.S. W.); the Many Peaks mine, which is to
give Mount Morgan large tonnages of basic ore, has to be
opened up and equipped. Neither of these undertakings
is small. A reasonably big coal strike, or maritime
trouble, would soon find Mount Morgan in difficulty for
w'ant of both fuel and fluxes. When those supplies fail,
the money supply will fail too, unless Morgan builds up a
reserve. Morgan is intent on that reserve. It is wise,
for then the interval, brought about by a big labor
trouble, can be comfortably utilised in construction
works. Otherwise, that interval would be a blank all
round. Mount Morgan’s perennial desire for a solid cash
reserve is rendered an essential by the practice of the
company to write off odt of profits the total cost of plant
directly it is installed. Plant and machinery certainly
don’t amount to much as a capital account, and buildings,
when the acid has eaten them up, cannot come home to
roost, so to speak.
* * * *
Presuming Mount Morgan pays 4s. 3d. in divi-
dends this year, shareholders will receive a shade over
6 per cent, on the present price of 70s. Low enough, in
all conscience ; but the way things are run at the Mount
savors more of permanent industry than of mining specu-
lation. This fact may console buyers at 785., who will
probably earn 5£ per cent, on their money without much
risk.
* * * *
Those interested in the Mitchell River gold and
antimony mine will be surprised that no gold assays are
included in the report. The excuse given is the non-
arrival of chemicals. In other respects the official report is
outspoken enough. The quartz reef near the surface isabout
sft. wide, and has been prospected by open-cut working.
The quartz contains, on an average, about 12 p.c. of
antimony, which seems dismally poor. There is a long
outcrop with a little antimony sprinkled through it.
Leaching out the antimony from the finely-ground ore with
caustic soda will prove expensive, but a payable extraction
of gold from the silicious residues is expected, so
gold assays are important. Situated as it is betw'een the
O.K. and the Limestone, with high labor and freight
charges, the far-away North Queensland show will have
to extract something more valuable than 10 or 12 per
cent, of antimony to pay dividends. The statement that
there is so much gold in every ton of metallic antimony
is attractive, but w'hat the shareholders will be anxious
to find out is the bulk value of gold and antimony con-
tained in the quartz. They can then form their own
ideas about the cost of mining, crushing, leaching with
soda, cyaniding and transport.
* * * *
The Queensland Exploration Co., Cloncurry
(Q.) has been among the first to ship black copper (98
per cent.) to London. Wood fuel is both scarce and dear,
and last February it required 518 cords of dry wood to
smelt 486 tons of what was undoubtedly rich ore,
averaging 15f per cent, copper. The reverberatory fur-
nace slag contained per cent, of copper, so smelting
was not only expensive, but wasteful. A blast fur-
nace is being built to treat sulphides, but the
mine is not yet in a position to feed many
furnaces. The latest information is that the
stopes above the 200 ft. level are poor. Diamond drill
records are not a very safe guide in mining. It is thought,
however, that a solid body of sulphide ore will be found
at the 300 ft. level. A month’s production of 67 tons of
copper is certainly an earnest of better things. It does
not follow, of course, that all the copper came out of the
mine. Some of it may have been the product of cus-
toms ore.
* * * *
Some rather wild talk about Mount Morgan :
Ore resefves reckoned at 9,000,000 tons, with the deepest
levi lat 950 ft. Imagine a gigantic cube 300 ft. each way
and you get an idea of 1,000,000 cubic yards ; and taking
nine cubic feet to a ton of ore —the ore would have to be
very dense to go that —this enormous cube would contain
3,000,000 tons. Extracted at the rate of 20,000 tons a
month, there is enough ore to last for many years, but
the quality is very uncertain. It is, of course, pre-
posterous to talk about pyritic smelting as it is understood
and practised at Mount Lyell and Oobar unless
Mount Morgan can obtain enormous quantities of
pyritic fluxes. The proportion at Mount Lyell
is about two tons of pyritic to one of silicious
ore. The Many Peaks is not yet connected with
Mount Morgan by rail, and this connection will involve
heavy expense. About 500,000 tons of pyritic ore has been
developed, but what is that compared to Mount Morgan ?
With an improved supply of water, the concentration of
some of the silicious ore has much to be said for it on the
score of economy, particularly as mining costs are low
and smelting is expensive. In spite of the enormous
waste of metals, concentration ‘is the most effective
system at Broken Hill, Wallaroo and Moonta, and in some
of the largest American mines.
Glassford Creek, Mount Hector, and Mount
Cannindah (and the saddest-looking of these is Mount
Cannindah) are struggling to look important, now that
the Boyne Valley railway is assured. These three Cen-
tral Queensland copper concerns can thank their lucky
stars that they happened to be within a score of miles of
Mount Morgan’s Many Peaks, a property that has been
opened up systematically and honestly, with no thought
of market rigs. Otherwise, there would have been no
Boyne River railwav, and no chance for the trio to get
any more of the public’s money.
* * * *
There seems to be a possibility of the Oaks rush
up Georgetow'n (Queensland) way attaining to the dignity
of a field. In addition to a new find of alluvial about 15
miles further out, a lode formation has made its appear-
ance in the original claims at about 12ft., and been proved
for a distance of 200 ft. Other parties have since unearthed
lodes. The men ’do not appear to be getting any
phenomenal returns, but in many instances they have
better than tucker shows. It is strange to hear of a
N.Q. camp without a grog shop, yet the men at the rush
decided in favor of temperance by a large majority. A
progress association on the camp has managed to get a
policeman stationed there, and altogether the Oaks
appears to be a model community.
» • * *
A direct result of the new tariff on mining
machinery is that an order for 40 head of stamps for the
Tasmania Gold Mining Co. has been placed in Victoria.
The chairman explained to the London shareholders that
if the order were placed in England the cost would be con-
siderably higher. The new 40 head are to be heavier, and
are calculated to crush as much stone as the displaced
65 head. One of the London directors could not under-
stand how a stamper battery could wear out in less
than 50 years if the worn stamp heads and dies were
replaced. - That is so—a battery, if repaired and
renewed, won’t w'ear out for 50 years. In the same way,
a coat won’t wear out for 50 years if this month you put in
new sleeves, and next month a new front, and the month
after a new back. But, after the garment has been
patched about 70 times, the owner may come to the con-
clusion that it would probably be a good deal more satis-
factory to order a new coat altogether, especially if he
has to knock off work each time the mender has the thing
in hand.
* * * *
The half-yearly balance-sheet (to 29th Feb.,
1908) of the Ringarooma Bucket Dredging 1 Co. (Tasmania)
boils down to these two plain facts : Tin and gold won
were worth £lBl3, and the cost of winning them
was £2451. Therefore the old debit balance of £4072
becomes the new debit balance of £4710. The
report makes a fair number of remarks about the
removal of the dredge from one spot to another, and
about other details, but its reserve makes it a rather
depressing document. Liquid assets seem to be £l7
behind liabilities, and unless the dredge proves a faster
horse than it has been doing the prospects look gloomy.
* * * *
The Pt. Lincoln Copper Co. is having a shot at
the old Reedy Creek mine (S.A.). It has plenty to shoot
with something like £60,000, it is alleged ; and there is
a stack behind that. The Pt. Lincoln Co. was supposed
to be a sort of twin-brother of the North Cobar, which
was a sort of little brother of the big Commonwealth Oil
Corporation, in which London newspaper-man Newnes
and others of that strength are interested. The original
show was at Tumby Bay, on the S. Aus. West Coast. It
had been worked as far back as 1854, but was shut down
at that time because all the miners cleared out for the gold-
fields. Then it was locked up for years, on account of a
provision in the will of a Hancock family in England. This
crowd owned the freehold, and couldn’t do anything with
it till the youngest child came of age. However, the
elders of the family went to the English Courts, and said
that Socialism was coming in Australia, and they ought
to be allowed to get the copper before the Monster
scented and devoured it. The Court agreed, the family
spent £lO,OOO or so, and were sorry that they hadn’t left
it for the Monster after all; and then the Port Lincoln Co.
took it up. There are some beautiful sulphides in one of
the three “lodes”; but the body is in limestone, and
what so often happens to lodes in limestone happened in
case. Captain Warren was finally called in, and
advised that no more should be done except by
boring, and he wasn’t too keen on even that. Before
the co. got hold of it, by the way, the late John Crozier
spent most of what was left of his fortune in pursuing
this will-o’-the-wisp. He didn’t do as well out of it as
some of those who knew he had money to spend.
The Pt. Lincoln Co.’s new show, the Reedy
Creek, has been rechristened the Kitticoola. It is less
than 50 miles from Adelaide, and is one of the oldest
shows in S. Australia. It has been played with on and
off, but had been pretty well given up as a bad job till
Lawrence Pitbaldo, of London, arrived to overhaul it on
behalf of the big co., and he was struck with it as likely
to be a permanent body, carrying some very big bunches
of ore. The new co. is putting in a very elaborate plant.
* * * *
The lightning calculator could not
have tackled a more complex arithmetical problem than
Chairman Harvey at the Wallaroo and Moonta meeting of
shareholders. He had, first of all, to explain that the
difference between cost of production and the average price
realised —some £l7 17s. 4d. odd—was a purely imaginary
profit. On that basis the year's profit would have been
very good (about £120,000), but, as it is imaginary, it
doesn’t much matter. The chairman explains that, by
valuing stocks of copper (2000 tons) in January, 1907, at
£lO5 per ton, the directors anticipated a profit of £3l per
ton, w'hich, of course, they never got. This accounts for
£62,000. But the trouble didn’t end there, for in December
the stocks of copper were re-valued at £6O, and if cost of
production is taken at £74, there is another loss of £l4 a
ton on all copper held at the end of the year. The Wal-
laroo and Moonta has always large stacks of metal on
hand, so if it takes credit when prices are booming, a
slump hits it bard. It is many a year since there has
been such a revolution in prices—from £lO5 to £6o—in
the Wallaroo and Moonta account, yet it was hardly to
be expected that the most conservative Board would lay
aside from £BO,OOO to £90,000 to cover the risk of a falling
market. The danger of valuing stocks at high prices was
never more clearly shown.
* * * *
Mount Wells, the tin show north of Pine Creek
(N. Territory), on which the ey'e of J. C. Watson rested
last year when he was having a look at the empty pro-
vince, continues to progress. A recent w'ire brought the
news that 32J tons of concentrates —representing the
three months between Christmas, ’O7, and April 1, ’oB—
been sent aw'ay, and that there was still three tons
on hand. The property has now' a 20-head battery. Also
it has 80 Chinamen working on tribute. The Bulletin is
glad to hear about the battery, but the 80 Chows fill it
with gloom.
* * * *
This is a copy (abridged) of the first balance-
sheet of the Bank of N. S. Wales, as at Dec. 33, 1817:
Dr.
Notes in circulation £5,635
Personal balances .. 1,859
Capital .. .. 3,625
Discount .. .. 251
Premiums .. .. 31
£11,401
Cr.
Specie, etc £3,613
Bills discounted .. 5,693
Mortgages .. .. T ,38 L
Furniture, etc. .. 341
Expenditure .. 373
£11,401
And ninety years after (Sept. 30, 1907) :
Dr.
Notes in circu-
lation .. .. £982,704
Deposits .. .. 26,056,302
Capital .. .. 2,425,400
Bills payable, etc. 3,254,518
Reserves.. .. 1,681,125
£34,400,049
Cr.
Specie, etc. .. £13,398,412
Bills d i s-1
counted V 20,311,637
Mortgages )
Premises, etc... 690,000
£34,400,049
But it wasn’t all smooth sailing. The officialdom of
“the System” scorned the new “colonial” concern ; in
fact, the Bank of N. S. Wales was among the first
sufferers from the Stinking Fish party. The directors
lived in constant dread that the Commissariat Depart-
ment “ would hoard the Bank’s notes and in an evil hour
present them for payment.” Later on, when the Bank
wanted temporary help, the Government consented to
give it—at 10 per cent., plus some outrageous terms.
Governor Darling very nearly had the joy of seeing the
Bank shut up, but John H. Black, “cashier,” hunted
up money from somewhere, and really saved the concern.
Mr. Black, father of R. J. Black, M.L.C., remained
general manager until 1854; it w'as he who carried
through the change from the old bank to the new (the
old was a co-partnery) in 1850.
* * * *
“Smitliers”: One of the most sensible resolu-
tions passed by the recent A.N.A. Conference at Mary-
borough (Vic.) was that which condemned the present sys-
tem of river dredging and hydraulic sluicing. Member
after member rose to give instances in which river fl»ts
had been ruined by the silt sent down by the dredges,
and of waterways ruined—apparently for all time—by
the same iniquitous machines. The Murray, the Goul-
burn, the Loddon, the Avoca, and the Ovens, all fine
streams, which flow through country that needs every
gallon of their water, are polluted by sluicing and
dredging, but still the murderous game goes on. The
whole position is summed up by the statement that the
dredger and sluicer act as if the world ended with their
death. As a rule, the dredge only gets a paltry sum per
acre from the ground dredged ; but, under present con-
ditions, it is more than the owner can make out of
it any other way. So the dredge, or the hydraulic
sluice, is allowed on the land or in the neighboring
waterway, and the land is blasted for all time. When a
paddock has been sluiced, it is probably the most woeful
and barren bit of earth imaginable. It is absolutely
unproductive, and, as far as our present knowledge goes,
it cannot be made any better. Then, tons of clay and
sludge are sent down the rivers and creeks, silting up
their beds,’ and depositing an iniquitous coating upon
good land for miles and miles. The water is spoiled ;
the land on either side ot the creek or river is spoiled ;
and, finally, if the dredger is not shot or does not die, the
blessed river itself is filled up. It is difficult to write
temperately of the wholesale and wanton damage that is
being done to the rivers of all the gold-bearing districts
of Victoria ; and it is impossible to understand the atti-
tude of the Victorian Government on the matter. Cer-
tainly a Bill was passed a few months ago dealing with
the sludge evil; but what is wanted is one simple Act
totally prohibiting sluicing or dredging where the sludge
interferes With a creek or river. The dredge or sluicer is
only a thing of a few years, whereas the polluted and ruined
river or creek is spoiled for ever, to the eternal loss of the
country. Around Talbot land is being dredged and
sluiced to a scandalous degree, and the countryside is
being made to resemble Jerusalem after the Roman siege.
Certainly the Talbot country was not the best of land at any
time, but it was a veritable Valley of the Nile compared to
what it is now. There are hundreds of acres of land around
Talbot and other mining centres which have been torn up
and pulverised, and turned into an eternal nightmare for
a few paltry ounces of gold, most of which has been
already spent. As an example of thriftless and wasteful
improvidence, the prodigal son isn’t in it with the sluicer
and dredger.
For Security
Stability
Economy
Perpetual Trustee
Company (L-imited),
stands alone.
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents.
2, 4, C& 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser g C^lmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British arid Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aerialways as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale. The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
A copper smelting furnace, designed to embody
the recommendations of the best Australian and American
experts, has just been constructed for the Great Fitzroy
Gold and Copper Mines Ltd., Queensland. The furnace is
of large capacity, being capable of turning out 100 tons of
matte per day. It is rectangular in shape, and is higher
in column in proportion to its hearth area than is
customary. By this means both the roasting and
oxidising operations will be conducted in the same furnace,
the oxidising- being done in the upper portion and the
smelting in the lower. The furnace has two tiers of mild
steel water jackets. The lower tier rests on a c.i. plate,
supported on c.i. standards, or, should hearth plate be
removed, the tier will be swung on girders ; the upper
tier of jackets is always swung from girders supported on
columns. The columns are held together by a strong c.i.
frame. The air blast passes from a pipe encompassing
the furnace through Hustle pipes to the tuyeres. The
Austral Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne,
have designed and built this furnace.* [1
* * * *
The Financial Times, London, in com-
menting upon the Society’s report for the year 1906,
writes:—“Looking at the successive reports of the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, its intense
activity forces itself on the attention. We seem to hear
the very throbs of the engine which in six years has raised
the annual amount of new business from £610,000 to
£1,156,000, and which increased the funds from £1,196,000
to £2,990,000 between 1890 and 1905.”*
J. R. Godfrey, Mining Engineer, Broken Hill
Chambers, 31 Queen Street, Melbourne, No. 21, Fourth
Floor. Mines inspected, reported on, and managed.
Late Government Inspector of Mines for N.S.W.*
There are no better engines than Ransomes,
Sims, and Jefferies. Portable, semi-portable, traction,
and stationary, suitable for all classes of mining.
Cameron and Sutherland, sole agents for N.S.W. and
Victoria.* [3
* * * *
P. W. Tewksbury is prepared to look into
legitimate Gold or Tin Dredging propositions in any part
of the Australian States. Properties reported upon, and
estimates furnished for Dredging plants. Arrangements
made for Legal Management of Companies on up-to-date
lines. P. W. Tewksbury, Equitable Building, Collins
Street, Melbourne.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberbero and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles ;
chemicals ; etc.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
« * • *
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
just now. We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc. ; also fluming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’ iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 620
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 48in. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water supply, a contract for which has been signed.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
• « * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colltson &Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
« * * #
Canbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
The “ Sarco” CO-5 Recorder has come to stay.
Engineers have realised that by analysis of the flue gasses
in their boiler plant an almost incredible saving in fuel
can be made. The Recorder analyses the flue gasses for
C0 4 and records the result of combustion on charts. This
automatic check on the boilers and stokers will effect a
saving of as much as 20 per cent., which means a
tremendous difference in the annual coal bill. Gibson,
Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney, are sole
agents for this machine in N.S.W.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins .Street, MELBOURNE.
80LE ACENTB for KRAUSS LOCOMOTIVES,
as purchased by the Govts, of N.S.W., Victoria
and Tasmania, and all principal mining com
panies, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. &R. Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrioal Maohinery and Materials of all kinds. [2 '


ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Melb.” writes discursively, with many
capital letters :
Worth looking up is an article in Kozminsky’s Anti-
quarian Gazette, Sydney, this March, on Early Memories
of Mornington, Hobson’s Bay. Cape Schank Station
belonged to J. Barker, First Clerk of the Victorian Par-
liament. He owned it as far back as 1846. Native name,
Boneo. Passing on to Arthur’s Seat, the reminiscent
touches on such people as M‘Crae, Burrell, and Bal-
combe. M‘Crae settled in 1841. Balcombe’s “The
Briars ” was named after his father’s house at St. Helena,
in which house Napoleon lodged while “ Longwood ” was
being built. Captain Reid, of Tasmania, first took up
The Briars station. In 1843 it comprised all Mount Martha
and Mornington. Balcombe’s Creek had the aboriginal
name of Gorouk, or frogs. How expressive of the croak !
Latest owner, H. H. Balcombe, of Coradgery, N.S. W.
Captain and Mrs. Baxter had Baxter’s Flats. Among the
oldest Melbourne pioneers, and friends of the Batmans.
Mrs. Baxter was Melbourne’s first postmistress. R. Grice
built his fine residence, Manyong, overlooking the Bay,
40 years ago. In former time it took two or three days to
travel to Melbourne. Fearful roads, no bridges over
creeks. Now it is a three-hours’ journey by- rail. Morning-
ton was called Tanti by the aboriginals. Supposed to
mean dingo. The blacks were all there for food, with any
quantity of kangaroos, opossums, and fish. The men ate
first, and left the remains to the lubras, after whom came
the dogs. This was the Western Port tribe, with which
Buckley lived.
A SECOND COUSIN MULTIPLIED BY
100 DOZEN.
FIRST COUSIN JACK: “Say, Billy, dost thee knaw
J[?] Trcthowan wot used [?] be ’ere
tr[?] ? ”
SECOND COUSIN JACK: “Knaw Jimmy! Sh’
think I did. ’E be’ lation to me. Ez faither’s
uncle married a fust cousin to my wife's aunt.”
“D.H.R.” ; The cotton tree flourishes in
Queensland without much pampering. On Win-
dermere sugar estate, nine miles from Bundaberg,
there are several uncared-for plants growing
about the landscape ; and at present they are
covered with opened pods, from which protrude
masses of cotton, with very healthy-looking seeds
in the middle. No attention has been given to
these plants for years, and yet they appear to
have in no way deteriorated.
“Jimmie Pannikin ” : Permit me to take
my stand by the side of brother “ Prooshan ” as a
barracker for the very much maligned goat. To
the grilled and gritty battlers out-back the goat is
both cow and sheep. Rightly is it called “the
poor man’s cow.” The nomads of history’s dawn
knew their business when they kept large flocks
of goats, spotted and riug-straked, etc. Goats
will live and multiply where sheep will starve.
Only colossal ignorance and unreasoning prejudice
have prevented Australians from making the most
of the valuable goat. Few folk can tell the differ-
ence in taste between goat-flesh and mutton.
Even the experienced out-backers, as a rule, can-
not distinguish between the two meats. Generally
a couple of tell-tale hairs on the haunch give
the show away. The flesh of a young, well-
nourished goat is, when properly cooked, meat fit
for any man. Goats never suffer from cancer, nor
from tuberculosis. An eminent French medical
expert examined thousands of goats in Paris,
without finding even one afflicted by the said
diseases. I should like to take a party of finnick-
ing city-dwellers Out Back for a few months to
live amongst “The best men, The West men,
The men of the Sunset Side.” It would be most
gratifying to see them full of goat and galah and
gratitude.
♦ * * *
“ The Boy ” writes about things :
Has any other person ever caught a jim-jam ? I didn’t
really catch one, but I was under the impression that I
had for about five hours, during which time my feelings
were just as bad as if it bad been the real article.
We had been holding up Carnival week in Longreach
(Queensland). There were shows, races, and other things.
Most of us had been engaged in the old Barcoo recrea-
tion of “ stopping a few." At the end of the week this
cocktail of races, balls, drinks, etc., was beginning to tell
on the most hardened. Just before going down to break-
fast on the sixth morning I remembered a letter I wished
to post. I extracted a stamp from my pocketbook, and,
standing in the middle of the room, I endeavored to stick
it on the letter. (I had only had two rums with milk that
morning.)
Something slipped, and the stamp fell on the bare floor,
licked side down. Steadying myself on my heels, I bent
in a graceful curve to recover the “ tuppenny blue.”
To my horror it started to meander across the room.
As it progressed one way I retreated the other. I just
reached m.v door, at the top of the stairs, as it started to
climb the opposite wall. In the words of a popular ditty
“ That was enough for Bill.” When I picked myself off
the “ Welcome ” mat, at the foot of the stairs, I was a
palsied wreck. I rushed down the street to the doctor.
He gave me a pink powder. This confirmed my worst
suspicions. In return I gave him, or rather he took, half
a sovereign. He also told me to keep cool. It was then
about 105 in the shade. The rest of the forenoon was
spent in horrible anticipation. I expected to see jim-jam
creatures pop out from all corners. Spent most of the
time with my eyes shut. Was also much pestered with
jovial souls to ’‘have one with them.” I held off. I
thought to myself my only chance was in keeping
straight.
I got another awful shock when, after much thought,
I explained my case to Mulga Bill. He laughed and
said : “Doas I do. When you see a dam jim-jam pick
him up and put him in your pocket. I’ve a pocket full
that I’ve been collecting for the last four days. Do you
want to see some ? ”
No ! I didn’t. I fled. I felt about 110 years older as
I dragged round to lunch. I was met at, the door by one
of the girls who said : “ Oh ! Mr. Jones, when Mary was
cleaning up your room this morning, such a funny thing !
Away up in one of the corners of the ceiling was a poor
beetle with a postage stamp stuck on its back.”
I killed a small bottle before I went in and had lunch.
Yes, I still drink. I also put my foot on every beetle I
see wandering round.
“David H. Richards” : Re that knife-
blade long, found in the stomach of a bullock
recently slaughtered at Stawell (Vic.). Once
I saw a cricket ball extracted from the
stomach of a bovine slain on a station out
where the defunct men recumb. The ball
was intact, but the polish afid paint had com-
pletely vanished from the outside. I don’t
know how many runs the cow had made. The
bat and wicket had been completely digested ;
there wasn’t a sign of them. Another time
on Boolcarrol station, near Wee Waa
(N.S.W.), saw an old felt hat and sundry
pieces of leather, like scraps of ancient foot-
wear, aggregating some four or five pounds
weight, taken from a bullock that was mas-
sacred for beef. Also, on Yallaroy station, I
witnessed the sorting out from the stomach
of a beast of various pieces of old cloth,
mostly dungaree, as if the animal had been
grazing off disused trousers, and sundry
pieces of what had evidently at one time been
a cabbage-tree hat. Have heard, on the
most horrible authority, of several such in-
stances of drapery and footgear being re-
covered from the extinct beeves. The con-
sumption of straw hats is quite a common
occurrence—many old working bullocks are
addicted to it, and make a regular habit
of searching deserted camps for dead hats.
That is why the kind-hearted squatter always
sets up his best working bullock as a hatter
in its old age; most of the big hat-shops in
Sydney and Melbourne are really owned by
bullocks, and the men you see in them are
mere deputies. I once knew a small bullock
that used to eat the Watchman, and it had
dreadful fights with a large bullock that ate
the Freeman’s Journal.
“ G.S.K.” : Re aboriginal names and their
meanings. “Parramatta” has been the subject
of much conjecture. Formerly it was accepted
that the word meant “the meeting place of eels”;
but it is much more likely to be “the meeting
place of the waters ” —the waters being Duck
River and the Parramatta. “ Woolloomooloo ”is
an old problem. One theory is that it was Black
Brother’s struggle to say “windmill ”; but another
theory is that it is a corruption of “ Wulla Mulla
Bulla,” meaning “the home of the white male
kangaroo.” By the way, what does “kangaroo”
spring from ? (Please don’t write and tell me “from
his tail.”) In the whole of the 28 aboriginal
languages no trace of the word appears as applied
to any of the 10 species of the ’roo.
* * m *
“D.H.R.” : I know that cockies (and
wheat-growers in N.S. Wales of such a size that
they would scorn to be called cockies) treat the
bags in the manner described by “ G. Hard ”
wetting and weathering them (B. 13/2/’08). I
know, for I have had to help do it. “G. Hard ”
is also nearly right when he alleges that cocky
often goes over his bags again some time after
filling, to cram in more. He should, to be correct,
have written “almost invariably.” I knew one
cocky near Barraba (N.S.W.), who, at the end of
the season, varied the old corn-husking as an
evening pastime by cutting open and ramming
and filling the wheat bags which had shrunk with
the lapse of time and effects of weather ; and
when they were despatched market-wards, to be
humped by those unimportant animals called
wharf-lumpers, they all contained considerably
over 3001bs. But, in this enlightened age, what is
the collapse of a few wharf-lumpers, and the
manufacture of a few widows and orphans, com-
pared with the saving of an occasional sixpenny
sack ?
“ H.J.” : A man named George Reid has
just abandoned a claim at Peak Hill (Murchison,
W.A.) after 12 years’ solid graft and the expendi
ture of over four figures, without seeing a color of
gold. Sometimes he worked on his own ; some
times with a mate, His reason for sticking so
long was that the claim adjoins the once-famous
“ Reefers.” George, who was nothing of the Yes-
No about him, says his absence from the claim is
only temporary ; he intends to return and give it
another trial as soon as he earns a few pounds.
Australia has secured another record, a
coop of six South Australian hens having wiped
out all competitors, by laying 1531 eggs in the
year. This is another demonstration of our enor-
mous resources. It leaves Australia with no pos-
sible excuse for neglecting to drive several con-
spicuous gentlemen out of politics.
“ Coalopolis ” : “ W.H.B.’s” yarn (B.
13/2/’08) of Lake Buloke, near Donald (Vic- ~
toria), and its disappearance trick,
reminds me of an amusing affair
which happened down by the
flats (all drained and built
upon now) near Brisbane,
some years back. These
flats used to be lovely green
fields in the dry season, and
swamps .in the wet. An
enterprising young man
bought a good-sized lump
of this country at the Go-
vernment auction sales for
almost nothing. As the
drv season set in he Jii
divided the land into
small allotments
for building pur- I
poses, and offered
them for sale. In
a little while all
the country round
Brisbane, except-
ing those swamps,
was as dry as a
brickfield. A
shipload of
thirsting new-
churns arrived
during the
height of the
drought, and
greedily pitch-
ed upon the
green allot-
ments as the
onlv thing
which reminded
them of home and
ma. The young man
sold all the land in a few
days, making about 1500
per cent, on his original ex-
penditure. But he unwisely stayed
on in Brisbane ; the rains came early ; the de-
putation of immigrants emerged from their bogs
and caught him unawares when there were no
police handy, and with the option of sudden death
or the return of the money, he returned the
money. Thus did a great commercial enterprise
fall through.
• » * *•
A commendable feature about many of
the Queensland sugar plantations is the library,
mostly styled the “Working Man’s Institute.”
Often it attains quite a respectable catalogue of
books of all varieties, and the list of news-
papers would shame similar institutions in many
country towns. The “ institute ” is generally
inaugurated by a voluntary subscription of
employer and employees, and supported by a
charge of Is. a month per member. The offices
of librarian, treasurer, etc., are honorary.
On Invicta Plantation (near Bundaberg) the
book-list comprises over 500 volumes, and
on Bingera (also near Bundaberg) the library can
boast about the same number, while many other
plantations show lists of from 200 upwards. And
the average institute library doesn’t consist of
mere fiction, but includes erudite works on all
leading questions of the age, and the degree to
which the laboring classes prefer this reading to
the fiction affected by the commercial population
of the cities is calculated to astonish the person
who has acquired his theories in the school of
Bruce Smith.
“ Dico,” on bits of water in the Cabbage
Garden :
Re Australia’s elusive lakes, partly dealt with by
“Moorabinda” (B. 19/3/’08). About 50 miles west of
Geelong lies the Victorian lake country. The chief pools
are Oorangainite, Oolac, and Gnarpurt; and there are
dozens of smaller ones scattered around. Corangamite,
at present 22 miles long and about 10 miles broad, is the
largest lake in Victoria ; but its depth is trifling. I have
waded out for nearly a mile in places, and then had to sit
down to get out of the sun. Can’t say what is the
greatest depth recorded, but fancy 6ft. would be about
the average. The water is so heavily charged with salt
that even sea fish cannot live in it. Two varieties of shells
-—one white and about half an inch long ; the other
yellow and smaller still, both spiral-shaped—are found in
heaps along the shores ; but they are only shells, so frail
and brittle that a child can crush whole handfuls to
powder without an effort. By appearances, the little
builders died and vanished long ago.
’Tis claimed by some that Lake Corangamite is but the
dregs of a once extensive inlet from the Southern Ocean •
but marine fossils of a surticiently-recent period are not
forthcoming to support this contention. Rather, it would
seem that it is all that remains of a huge lake, possibly
with a southern outlet and consequently fresh that
covered these parts, when the Victorian Divide on the
north, and the Otways to the south, were towering snow-
capped ranges. Later, in comparatively recent ’times
away to the west and south, blazed and vomited that
great group of volcanoes, of which Mounts Myrtoon
Leura Noorat, Porndon etc., are the burnt-out stumps.’
The bed of the lake, in places, is covered with shattered
sheets of volcanic rock ; and to show that the water was
there at the time of eruption, it may be mentioned that
, under,slde these rock-layers often shows numbers of
stone ° re " nlentl ° ned tlny Sh6llS ’ embedded in the
To the north-west of Lake Corangamite, and separated
from it by a strip of land only about nine chains wide
lies Lake Gnarpurt, very shallow and about 14 miles in
drcumference. Almost every summer it becomes a mere
salt-field. Corangamite has never been known to dry up
altogether, but its bulk is very gradually diminish!,
Away back from the present shore is a senes o steep
banks, some of them four or five miles away. In most of
them at a depth of a foot or two, may be found deposits
of shells similar to those on the lake edge. Inexhaustfhle
supplies of fresh water are obtained bv well-sinking a U
around these briny lakes-in fact, right up to the shores
On the water-frontages of Leslie Manor station are mlny
brackish “soaks,” or springs ; and here, from October to
March is the great feeding-ground of that fine bird the
Cape Barron goose, as well as of swarms of wild duck of
. £f i\ YTk S b '° the ma k P ie goose was also very
plentiful, but it had not the migratory habits of the gray
goose, and has been practically exterminated B y
“J.G.” (and after this the discussion
ends) :
I don’t want to enter into a big argument with “Cicf
re shingles versus iron. But nobody save a fool would
drive in two lb. of nails to the square yard ; if he did it
is no wonder his shingle roof leaked. The shingle-roofer
who knows his business puts his roof on with the least
possible number of nails. Certainly the work of splitting
and dressing is indispensable in shingles, and also gives
work to a number of Australians. I suppose “Cict”digs
up his iron ready-made in roofing sheets. I have dwelt
in tents, like Jacob, and would a dashed sight sooner live
under canvas than under iron, but a wooden roof is far
and away cooler in summer, and also warmer in winter
I have drunk thousands of gallons of water caught off
wooden roofs, and it is every bit as good as that off the
boasted iron ones. Re the fiery qualities of wooden roofs.
I have seen plenty of houses burnt down by bush fires
and their iron roofs didn’t seem to save them much. fi|
fact, I think an iron roof is quite capable of starting a
fire on its own on a hot day. You can roast mutton, and
almost cook a damper on an iron roof in the summer
time, but you can’t do this with the despised wooden
overcoat.
AT HOGAN'S GROCERY.
“ What are your raisons ?”
“ Me raisons for what ? ”
“ Puddens, of course ?”
“ If ye thinks yerself so mighty smart [?] [?]
yer raisons—on the j or ! Come outside !”
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Prime Minister replied that to a degree almost in-
conceivable the whole life of Papua was permeated by
practices appertaining to sorcery. One sorcerer put his
case to the policeman who went to warn him that he
would be dealt with. He said :—“What’s the position?
I have an established reputation as a sorcerer. I can’t
get rid of it. Someone comes to me and asks me to use
my sorcery against his enemy. If I don’t he waits for
me with a club. If I do the policeman comes and runs
me in ; so what’s a poor sorcerer to do?” —Daily paper.
When you’ve got a reputation as a wizard,'
And your curses are in general demand,
You can breathe an incantation on a lizard,
And a fee of any magnitude demand.
Then the chiefs of any consequence retain you
For the little tribal troubles that occur,
And the enemies w'ho otherwise would brain you,
All refrain because you are the sorcerer.
A magician’s stock-in-trade is not extensive
(Any graveyard will supply you with the lot),
Bones and skulls and withered limbs are not expensive,
And the incantation patter’s mostly rot,
You must learn to do a little dismal howling,
For it makes the hero shrink into a cur,
And ,\ v ou’ll hear the people whisper when you’re prowling
“ He’s a very energetic sorcerer ! ”
But, if after you have worked up a connection,
You’re informed that you’re illegal—like the Tote,
And your clients send in word from each direction
That unless you curse some more they’ll slit your throat,
Then a sorcerer is chary of appearing-,
And he tells the world in manner very wise,
The Government is simply interfering
With the vested rights of Private Enterprise.
N.S. W.
E. FRANCIS.
HIS CREED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have seen a bride of less than an hour sitting' on her
milking-stool in her newly-made husband’s cowyard—
scarcely time to ger, home after the ceremony and don
her milking garb. No time for honeymoon there. I have
seen wee children sitting, heavy-eyed and weary, nodding
over their books in school. The poor mites were up at
4 o’clock to help with the cows, at 9 a paternal Govern-
ment says they must study. Would that same paternal
Government would see that their conditions were such
that they be in a fit state to study! Broken-down
women, old-young children, and weary men abound on
the rivers, and why ? The greed of gold has conquered
th#n. All they live for is a big cheque at the end of the
month. One farmer who has a cheque for £lOO coining
in each month has his daughters at service. Why?
Because they will not drudge in the cowyard, but prefer
to leave home rather than be compelled to do so or
starve. —Latter in Sydney paper.
I am a dairy-farmer ; one
That scoffeth at romance.
I strain from dawn till set of sun
My milk cheque to enhance.
The Cow I worship as my God, ■
Her shed I make my fane.
My votive gift’s the toothsome sod
Whereon she feeds amain.
Each morn at fopr my babes I fling
Forth to perform the rite
Of driving in the Holy Thing
(And eke again at night).
When she is bailed that must be milked
My progeny bows down,
And grafts—no one of these is bilked
Of Labor’s glorious Crown.
What though the youngsters have to wend
To school that day a mile
Or so away ? Wouldst have them end
Toil here ? You rouse a smile.
No, at six sharp the Deity
Is rounded up again,
And milked and fed ; then we at tea
Start while the shadows wane.
Later all join in polishing
The separating cans ;
Then sweep the bails till the dark wing
Of Night more service bans.
What though the children haggard grow ?
What though the wife grows thin ?
What though they sick and weary show ?
The milk-cheque still comes in.
A hard creed mine, say those who hold
By teachings from the Mount —
But then they have not got my gold
Nor my fat bank account.
N.S.W.
“ 10-2-4.”
SV
Learn by Post
ETTER
W in your ipare time, and without
' with your regular vocation, aubjecta which will
enable you to attain apeedy promotion in you
preaent poaition, or qualify you lor a more coi
genial and better paid occupation.
STOTT
HOAfiE'S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
"JSsi
n _ on a
t“svsS
Chamberlains Pain Balm cures sore
muscles caused by hard work or severe exercise of
any kind, It is the favorite liniment of
fii e P 8 r h“ teS ’ U the muBcle «
The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 1"
Bridge Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
£2 2s. per annum upwards—special policies for your
special needs.*


“Nymsie”: Where have all the bush
bitds gone? Since the drought indications in
Northern Victoria have become pronounced, and
the rivers degenerated into necklaces of murky
boles, the water-side birds appear to have
migrated. On the plains, bird life is not, save for
a solitary hungry hawk here and there, breasting
the wind. The leaning gums of the waterway are
quite deserted, the cheery laugh of Jack Kooka-
burra is rarely heard, and when it is, what a gruff
contrast it sounds to the hope-inspiring cachin-
nation of the green grass days. Even Dad
Mopoke appears to have eloped with his
best girl, and all along the place where the
river used to flow “mum’s the word,” night
and morn. Old Magpie wears a seedy look,
and squints on the world with a pessimistic
eye. He yodels not, nor does he show the same-
freedom of wing when his distressed companion
in trousers ventures near. Round the great irri-
gation channel country the absence ot bird life is
just as noticeable. A stray crane wings a laggard
flight after a surfeit of yabbies or insect-pests in
embryo. Sooner or later this graceful visitor will
become the target and the prey of the pea-rifle
vandal. Bunny thrives and makes a tasty dish on
many a board. It is marvellous the condition
Bunny takes on from practically no discernible
sustenance. The trappers have eased off
since the demand for tinned bunny decreased in
the Cold Country, presumably because John Bull,
Esq., has heard the noise made by the barrackers
for Danysz. Snakes, lizards and frogs have been
remarkably scarce this season. The hoary old
gums along the river seem too tired to lean any
longer. They are ant-haunts, or probable refuges
in case of floods, to a greater extent this season
than usual. Three inches of rain spread over a
fortnight will witness a change on the face of Ma
Earth, but where is that rain ?
* * * *
“ Itan ” : Queensland, which nature sup-
plied with few decent ports, lately discovered
another—although Captain Cook named Weary
Bay quite a few years ago. In the seventies the
beche-de-mer men, cedar-getters, and miners used
this fine entrance, but rushes in other parts drew
people away, and Weary Bay was forgotten.
Cooktown is itself too well served to bother about
it, and Port Douglas has no present cash interests
in the same direction. Ignorance, lack of popu-
lation, and the lies of the Tories to the effect that
white men can’t exist there, have fostered neglect
of the port safeguarded by Cape Tribulation.
Close handy are great belts of timber equal to any-
thing in the districts now so rapidly opening up
back of Cairns. A few of the varieties are kauri,
cedar, beech, oak, maple, elm, hickory and
hardwoods. The country is rich in soil, beauti-
fully undulating, and wealthy in the most gor-
geous scenery. There are the great Bloomfield
Falls, and the river is navigable for small craft
right to the foot of the big cataract. If the dis-
trict were roaded, and a few business people cast
their lot there to aid the handful of men who are
already stirring up things, Weary Bay would
become a busy centre. The country can produce
all manner of tropical crops, and the little fossick-
ing which has been done promises rich returns if
capital were forthcoming. This place offers a
good chance to enterprising young Australians
with grit and pluck. Who’ll go and help to re-
claim it? The boom time in North Queensland is
coming. In Australia the North has no peer for
great possibilities.
TWO OF A KIND.
THE LATEST ARRIVAL (relating his experiences):
“ And while I was in India don’t you
kno[?], my favorite sport — haw —was pig-
sticking.”
BILL (reflectively): “ Well, now, that's junny. I
was a slaughterman meself wunst, but I
couldn't see no fun in it.”
“Bill Outback”: Say, it’s time The
Bulletin shut down on those urban outbackers
who can’t write a Further-Out par without re-
ferring to that tinpot trifler “ Jimmie Pannikin.”
I suppose they fondly imagine that the mere
mention of “ Jimmie Pintpot ” gives an Outback
par quite a sand and saltbush smell. Even “ Wun
Hi ” can’t write about Max Adeler without having
seven plays on “Jim’s” pen-name. I have seen
“James T.D.U.” (tin-drinking utensil), and I
agree with the simple-minded convent school
girlie who said : “ Why, he looks like a pros-
perous publican ! His troubles about the Out-
hackers ! His woes about the nightmare journeys
through the Open Spaces ! His snivelling sorrows
for the grilled and gritty battlers of Outback !
His sincere sympathy for sore-eved bairns of Back-
o’-Beyond ! His privations ! Goat and galah for
tucker! He weighs 17 stone!!” All this Out-
back racket is merely a “ Pannikin” Pose. It’s
time he was knocked off his perilous perch
as an Outback expert, so let us have no more
references (gratuitous advertisements) for pon-
derous “ Pannikin.” I shan’t refer to him again,
anyhow.
Time seems a wearable substance in com-
parison with some Australian woods. A pair of
dray wheels that had worn out 40 years turned up
at Wellington (N.S.W.) the other day, as good as
new, for re-tyring. They were cut out of red-gum
timber and show what that substance is capable
of when it lays itself out to do all it knows.
“ Cict ” : Was spectator of a frustrated
attempt at robbery from the person t’other
day. Our adult and foraging cat had taken a
rabbit in charge, and was wandering home-
wards with same, when she was accosted in
the stubble by a gohanna. Said go. appeared
obsessed by a resolve to commandeer that
bunny, and, with an impudent leer, planted
himself in pussy’s path. The feline, after
carefully depositing her lunch on the earth,
hoisted her banner on the outer wall and
spat full across the reptile’s vision. Unde-
terred, the go. advanced warily until only half
a fathom of grass separated the pair. Our
mouser’s eyes emitted a pointed glare of a
reddish tint as she humped her back and
expectorated some more, but the lizard’s
countenance was devoid of all emotion save
avarice, and, sliding forwards, he hoisted his
face in a brazen and provocative manner. Our
cat bounded skyward, and landed on the
go.’s neck. Then it was as though all of
Nature were running amok. For eleven
minutes the mill lasted, and the fury of it
was as of a cyclone on the ran-tan in a
thunderstorm. Shortly after that the atmos-
phere cleared, and so did our cat and her
dinner. Fully 75 per cent, of her raiment
she had left on the field, but she had
scrapped the good scrap and won. So hors
de combat had she rendered the go. that his
interest in food had evaporated, for he was
very dead.
“ Hassan ” : Mushroom-hunting is a
fine art in Centennial Park, Sydney. One
has to get on the track of the beast early, for
no mushroom has been known to raise its
head from the ground for years. The fungus
has grown cunning with much hunting, and
the Caesarian operation is necessary. Armed
with a knife, the desperate hunter goes forth
in the cold dawn, and, with his head bent
almost to the ground, he listens for the
breathing of the fungus underground, and looks
for the crack which shows the vegetable’s attempt
to burst through and expand its petals to the
breeze. Then, with his knife he fearlessly digs it
up. One distinguished hunter told me the other
day that 11 tons of mushrooms had been taken in
this way from the park during last year. If he
had said 10 tons I might have believed him.
Take these as specimens of shearers’ huts
on some of the big western N.S.W. runs : No. 1
hut contained, at last shearing, 34 bunks. It was
4Gft. long, 16ft. wide, 7ft. Bin. high. It had one
door only, and no windows—there were two sky-
lights, but they were fixtures. No. 2 hut con-
tained 18 bunks, and was 31ft. long, 9£ft. wide,
and 9ft. high, with no better arrangements for
ventilation. Messrs. J. A. McDonald (organising
secretary of the A.W.U.), Bowman, and others
guarantee the accuracy of the description in these
two cases, the localities of which they name.
Also they present a long list of other huts in other
localities, all about equally bad. Yet, years ago a
Shearers’ Accommodation Act went on the N.S.W.
Statute Book, and it was fondly thought that
the Government, armed with the powers of that
measure, would secure for the men at least decent
and healthy sleeping accommodation. It is true
that the Government has in some cases exercised
the powers conferred upon it, but its duty was to
exercise them in every case, and wherein it has
made exceptions it should give Parliament the
reasons for having done so. The alleged reasons
for delay in enforcing the measure three or four
years ago were the occurrence of droughts or
floods or fires, but these excuses were exhausted
long ago, so that something new will be looked
for to explain why huts of the kind described are
allowed to exist.
“ Philo ” his lie :
He joined me in the shelter of an overhanging rock,
threw his dripping swag at his feet, w’rung out his tat-
tered hat, and shook the rain out of his beard. He
remarked that it was wet, and his dog energetically dis-
tributed its surplus moisture over me. I acquiesced, and
he kicked the dug. A motionless gohanna caught his
eye. He pelted it with stones until it went scuttling
away.
“ Wunnerful the pace them there things ken get up,”
he said, reminiscently. “Noo a bloke back o’ Bourke
who useter train them for racin’ purposes, and the pace
that some of them there gohanners could travel ’d sur-
prise yer. There was two—a male and a female—that
were just erbout equal, and the excitement that them there
animals useter cause when they were raced against one an-
other was sumthink wunnerful. There was some prutty
good peds in the district and the gohanner-trainer useter
back his animals against chem. But the go. always won
easily. It’d just keep the end of its tail in er line with the
runner’s feet, and no matter how fast he went he could
never get any furth r along the go. It was only when
the two swift gos. were raced together that yer could get
any idea how fa’st they could travel. The gohanner owner
mated these two for breeding purposes, an’ the result was
er record-breaker. When it was only half-grown there
wasn’t a gohanner in the stable that could come near it.
“ Well,.one day er perfessional runner comes up from
Sydney fer the show, an’ beats all the local joints bad.
He gotter hear erbout the racin’ gohanner, and he offers
to wager an even twenty quid that he could beat it
over er 300yds. course. At first the gohanner bloke
wouldn’t take it on, because the gohanner had only been
trained for 100yds. and he thought the distance’d be too
much for it, but after er bit of persuasion from the boys
the match was made. All the district turned out ter see
the race. Talk erbout excitement. It was wunnerful.
Some of the city coves, who had come up with the ped.,
were bettin’ strong on their friend, but the local people
took orl the money they could get erbout the go., which
was er good bit. The Mayor acted as starter, an’ the J.P.
was the judge. An’ it was er race. For the first 100yds.
the go. kept the ped. at its tail comfor’able, as usual, and
it looked er moral for the go. But after that it seemed
to gradu’ly tire, and at 200yds. the ped. had drew up to
erbout its middle, which was er bad sign. Both were orl
out, but the go. was gettin’ more an’ more tired, and at
250yds. the ped.’s feet were almost level with its head.
The noise was deaf’ning. Everyone was howlin’ an’ yellin’
an’ shoutin’ an’ stampin’ an’ kickin’ and jumpin’. Y’er
’d er thought that it was er lunatic asylum havin’ er day
out. Ten yards from the line the ped. was leadin’ by fully
two feet, an’ the go.’s. chance looked abs’lutely hopeless.
Everyone but the friends of the ped. ’ad stopped shoutin’.
The local people was lookin’ erbout as cheerful as boiled
lobsters. Three yards from home the ped. was leadin’ by
more than er yard, an’ the local people was gettin’ ready
to hand over the coin, when orl of er sudden the go. rears
up on his tail and gives one tremenjus spring an’ lands
across the line in er heap. In the excitement that fol-
lered, everyone forgot erbout the go., which continued to
lay where it had landed. When it was picked up it was
perfectly dead. Eh V Yes, that was it —’e trained it too
fine.
“ Now w’en I was down in Gippsland we ’ad a racin’
stable of gohanners, an’ one of’em—Eh, well! s’long.”
Ihe soothing and healing properties of
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm make it a favorite
remedy for cuts, bruises, burns, and scalds. First
application gives relief.*
THE YOUNG BAL-ZAC
K\e came- to <,66- tpe gd-iidr- »
u <) jt Was a. busy day •
Tt>fry aspect t>inr> to be seated,/or
Tt>e boss t>e "Was nw&y-
/H\t daid Ityal bevyould vOait a while -
u \ Tt>ey could pot dnVe him off—
j-je pad a mild and patient smile,
And sport consumptive eoy£h.
fTphey told tKe goss - and,(Ken and (Kerf,'
U He cursed them North and south.
Ke hacl a sized pair
Of scissors in his mouth.
youth produced a paper- bale -
u Qf/ear be seemed, exempt
A,™* ] wish to sell this tale
It is my/irst attempt.
D think you will admire the prose-
The tale is better/ar—
]l probes a womans heart, and shows
What worr\er\ ready are.”
n£\e was not ir\ me least unnerved.
u t) g>ut spoke with proper pride.
Woal a£e are you?"tne Boss observed
the youth replied..,
tjTnjhe Ross he coughed-and quick and
LI They shjA&d/romlhe scene,(smart.
The prober of a womans Peart
A Whose a£_e was just nineteen.
C.R.
A DECADENT SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The putrid, purple moon with oblique rays
Reddened the swarthy waters with its haze,
Wherein squirmed vicious, vinous forms of things un-
earthly ;
The reek of many a carrion corpse
Rang on the air with clang unmirthly ;
Hot vapors poured their vitric, venomed breath
Into this seething bowl of irk and death.
Stark on the shuddering shore the ghostly trees
Whispered weird motifs to the charnel breeze.
VIC.
BALDERDAIRE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
.W o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.J.L. : Payment was sent on 17tli December
to the address you sent. Letter came back unclaimed
on 17th March, so apparently you were too tired to call
for it. We publish this notice in case you fail to call for
our letter of explanation....M.F. : The alteration of title
was a suggestion of the sub-editor’s before passing on to
editor, at whose hands it met its doom. When a thing is
returneu it isn’t necessary to answer in “ Corres-
pondence.”. ... W. Craig : No, the Prime Minister never
kept a hotel in his life Marie M. : Your yarn is about
“ Domestic Service in England and the Colonies.” You
haven’t learned the A B C of the writing trade yet.
Start by learning that this country isn't “ the Colonies ” ;
it is Australia... .Stron : (1) Can’t acknowledge pars in
this column ; (2) sometimes pars don’t get to publication
for a week or two ; (3) all good pars are printed except
when there are too many good pars for the space ; then
the best get in.. ..James B. : There is already in print a
reply to that charge of cruelty against buckjumping
shows A.B.J.S.M. : Same reply; we can’t print
columns of opinions that buckjumping is not cruel....
Chas. Walker : We take a ’long breath and begin : (1)
Present Pope is Pius X. (2) Last Pope, Leo XIII. (3)
Died 20th July, 1903. (4) (Queensland national debt at
30/tS/’O7 (latest figures) was £41,764,407. (4) The Morgan
Government took office on 17/9/’O3. On June 30, 1904,
the debt, after nine months of Morgan administration,
was £41,773,297, so there has been a slight reduction.
(5) Nooody can say what is the best harbor in the world.
Some of tnem are hardly explored yet. If you mean the
best harbor with a city on it, Constantinople, Rio Janeiro
and Sydney fight for the honor, though it is difficult to
see why Hobart shouldn’t have a look in. (6) Sydney is
probably the seventh and Melbourne the eighth city in
the British Empire. (7) At census of 1901, Sydney
496,990 people ; Melbourne, 501,580. Nothing since then
save estimates, but it is recognised that, while both cities
have greatly increased, Sydney is now ahead. And there is
reason to believe that both places have passed Madras....
Ban no : Suggestion rather out of date. Worrall’s sermon
seems quite forgotten now Rebel: You don’t see a
joke when it comes your way Quartz Crystal :
Much too vast for the size of the incident
E. Pollard: Sorry can’t help you T.A.N. : “Curse of
Civilisation” as full of jags as a crosscut saw J.M, :
“Play” too ordinary E.P.B. : You can rhyme; now
find something worth rhyming... .Dog-growl : Ditto....
Comet: “ idolaters ” close up ; others nowhere
N.R.Y.: We cannot dive into your trouble with
that nurse. She may be as incompetent as you
say, but the good opinion of those seven medicos inclines
us in her favor.... Patch: Jokes autumnal... Rapids:
Don’t waste so many postage stamps Chink : You
impugn the judgment of "Microsis” in regard to the
supreme goat-hauntedness of Charters Towers (Q-), and
advance Carisbrook (Vic.) as the most goat-infested spot
in the Commonwealth. But a mere wild assertion of
this sort, with a bald list of the different hide-colors
sported by Carisbrook goats, is insufficient evidence
H. H. ; Spoilt by a false rhyme in 2nd and 4th lines of
2nd verse, and bad metre in the 3rd line C.F.P. : It
would take a much defter touch to make anything of
that Cherrypicker: Graphic and convincing. Sorry
it’s quite out of our line... G.W. : Rather late in the day
to bring forward the merits of Guy Fawkes as a Federal
capital site... .Grafter: The Australian Government goes
as far as it can in the cornsacks matter. It can’t, of
course, prohibit the making of out-size (wharf-laborer-
outing size) sacks, but it can prevent their importation
or their exportation when filled ; and that is a fairly com-
prehensive hold-up Mularula : The cricket ball w'ent
down a rabbit-burrow, and 15 runs were run. Not un-
duly impressive either as a lie or a fact... .M.S.D. : What
may be called “ crockery underwear ” joke not suitable
for the 8., which tries to be humorous without such ad-
ventitious aids as crockery Jim: Objection to
“ Ooloo,” on the grounds that he is a liar, noted....
Jack Plane: No, The Bulletin has been published in
Sydney ever since it came into existence.. ..M.H. : Story
about “ your kids and my kids and our kids ” is very old
and battered.. ..J.J.K. (Melbourne): Your plaint about
your letters to this office not reaching their destination
probably means that they w'ere refused. The
utter impossibility of getting Victorians to remember
that their penny postal system only applies to their own
State makes us tired, and when in one day we received
a claim for about 10s. for short postage on Victorian
letters, none of them addressed in the handwriting of
known contributors, we just told the post office to keep
the lot. And it was such a relief that ive have let the
post office keep about a bushel since then....Wyung:
Yarn re that Melbourne tramway far too vast. If
we gave space on that scale to the small scandals
of each city this paper would run to 150 pages
R.E. : Verse defective. Yarn good in material, but not
terse enough in the telling Sundowner: Nothing in
either Grey Girl : They are not quite good enough,
though “Proposal” has an excellent idea and a few
clever touches Fair Dinkum : The rhymes are too ob-
viously dragged in... .M.G.W. : You take the matter too
seriously. The catalogue-compiler is seldom a literary
artist. Ray X. : There’s humor in it, but as a whole it
is too sloppy and shapeless France : Rather impres-
sive. Rejected with hesitation... .Maire : Rejected with-
out hesitation Nemo: Not utterly hopeless, but you
have a long literary road to travel... .C. Robinson : Seems
to be a capital story, spoilt by lack of consecutiveness
and perspicuity A.H.G.N. : Gives a very confused and
unsatisfactory effect. In the case inquired about, it
wouldn’t matter which rhyme you used Lily S. B. :
Incoherent and rhapsodical.... Wang : That “motive”
may be quite original, as far as you are concerned, but it
has been used before.... Sam Spry: You haven’t the
literary equipment for heroic verse of that kind....
Walter Brown : Unfortunately The Bulletin can do
nothing at this stage of the matter. Get one of the
Labor members to bring the scandal before the State
Parliament.... Nero : Communications re the person who
“ lives close to Nature ” on the sidewalk of a city street
will henceforth be treated despitefully. We Weary of
that Nature-lover W.G.: Doesn’t matter enough to
make a correction necessary., We’d have a controversy
raging for months perhaps as to whether he does or does
not call the inspector “ Bill.” Bemboka : These verses
appeared first in The Bulletin over the signature of Mr,
Thomas E. Spencer. Apparently the Burma Critic stole
them without acknowledgment, and then the Indian
Times borrowed them from the Critic. .. .Quan : What
was the name of the township, and how did it happen ?
Runham : “ The Inter-Stater ” just missed the mark.
... .Unsuitable. —Alf N.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.M.: The resemblance to Joseph Ward isn’t so strik-
ing as it might be. Of course it isn’t so bad that he
might be mistaken for Tittell Brune or Jennie Lee, but
the resemblance might be improved on C. Fitz : None
near the mark.... F.N. : None of the four gets within
more than gunshot of success M.R<S. : The joke is
very, very small, and the office microscope is mislaid....
L.J.S. : A shockingly foolish idea, and a most inartistic
failure Bert R. : The sth of November joke that comes
to hand on April 2, is something extra in the way of
belated art. ..Hal: Dim picture, and dam dim joke in
faint pencil.
A Good Watch
is the celebrated “ Fx. & R.” Watch.
The world produces nothing- more reliable than
these watches.
For bush use and rough wear they are the
BEST POSSIBLE.
In a plain solid silver double case with your own
initials engraved-in large monogram form
they are 55/-
They have 15 jewels, and each watch bears a
written guarantee for 15 years.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FICURES CASH.
55/-
J-plate Lever,
extra jewelled,
plain double
silver case, with
, monogram,


OK ,°Mc
/tfjbj i-o \\
I / r/}/'/,.
*' Tire Sunday \
TVfcin Service., is
unnecessary
O)oreK
ir«> • tfcee)
Tfj? cl)drel> :sv»><J&y'f>*i , ''S
I donT J" |
His *(it>S • " 4M i- •
BGfi-LAYIKG EXTRAORDINARY.
' A WORLD’S RECORD.
M ri Dr*Ke :—' on Y Y/
__ **rslie, ,s
Clul record
bl M .no record h*>* K "^'?
v coming — U&JI 1 j ..
Vs s indeceol^^
PRELATES HE NT THE RABBIT.
BALLARAT, Wednesday.
Archbishop Carr, daring his private visit
to Ballarat a few days ago, engaged in a
! shooting excursion at, Bunker's Hill,
C^gKec^r:- ' U*es ye** Ki^rws
'but''tf>oT~ X'n't" /oaded |
Hi S l?cv*rt*»ce- Wl »is+! * W &.
divil "tf>e rabbits T Know ]>)oT f
OH
Cvwf
[also j
The Tow. of
Un downed ly w>n,
Wad"Cr on Hj« Co<rr>)>'^>' 0n
1 of- K«*e*v°.r-
-1
Resident"-*ls our bUceloWsuWro<>(). i
swih"burne : '• yes!—w*ryr °(° |
l(oOncils oa/e very little +° cW»+i«S-
I H'v/owld ne«<4 very smajl Cowt
t 1 indeed 'to a saye
* ■ -for "tec'HhicaJ educaji®***
[BCnfJ
fUre^y
o f V'
*ib-"to-dade
Ouf^ if |
V> a,re en'tT+lcd
-fe a, bra+ectWe <i“^y
(Sculptor j
Bl^^,V/Hite,^Colo(' —' Wfjil* yau
\rz k'Vout'Tt',wi II yo«
KliVter ?
\
'Sllmw
gj M r J««lk:ins S*>4
Juices ruling
"A J*n >i*d X ri S Hr+o T?e.
OnpS J)VeK_u-
<,+ej,j>ed if,er of e-n^ue+Te
M* a .bit'dry
» *^7-S.C. If- , fooK A kip
V. Swio icom "H,® bXnxy |* -
* w£\+er both !
f "‘lp tffe. G> tV)rr)OH We<\l ify
WouM Only actte.net *fo it's
Own T?«s»ness £c
V’Y hotice of- hne. it'wo uld
do UMr r ‘
P )om Bcnt^
Q>y BI I!
» 71|. 1
t c
I tje Shepp^rfs n Cemetery
”Tr«<,^ c S reduced nje
WAg«s of- -flje Ser-fan "to
£l. |>er wcoK , "to
Scarcity of devKs -
Tor.
Is,.- Work !
~
"to I>ie resc M eJ
I live on & 'tJee.K !
- If - 'tH ere s ho i’ll d& r n
Soon
IN BENT’S OWN COUNTRY.


%
%
\
a <2
%
\\
V %
%
Bruce Smith (to policeman) frantically:
“ For Heaven’s sake, my man, flna
those men at once, or 1 shall only
have three left to talk about."
Looking for evidence against Nash.
CO f\P ARISONS ARE
ODIOUS.
Chinaman (looking at the
24ft. python in Jan-
son's •* Young Zoo ”
in George street, Syd-
ney): "My countly-
men shut out and that
fellow let in free—now
whaffor ? ”
Shaking things up. William Lyne gets to work.
Mr. Joseph Cook asks: "What would happen
to Australia if war broke out now ? ”
What would happen ? Well, that’s an easy one. Joe Cook and Bruce
Smith would be seen Jumping out of a back window of Parliament House
There would also be a special Parliamentary train to Oodnadatta.
THE PASSING SHOW.


PERSONAL
ITEMS
It is reported that W. P. Crick has pur-
chased Kangaroo Mount Estate, near Gundagai
(N.S.W.). The property consists of 5000 acres
of limestone country, well watered. The price paid
is said to have been two guineas per acre. P. Crick
intends to run a stud farm, and pursue the fleet-
ing and transitory and unreliable horse from a
commercial instead of a sporting point of view.
London Times praises Frank M‘Comas’
London exhibition of water-colors. M ‘Comas is
a Sydney artist who went to America, won some
fame and a rich wife, and is now beginning to
rank with the first-raters in painting. Australia,
according to the Stinking Fishermen, can’t do
anything but drag wool off the sheep’s hack ; but,
in proportion to its population, it has given the
world more brains than any other modern com-
m unity.
About the last of the band of Scottish
emigrants imported to the Ma State in 1830 by
good old John Dun more Lang was casually heard
of. the other day, in the person of David H. Weir,
farmer, of Tinarnba (Gippsland). Weir is the sole
survivor of the plucky hand that crossed the
Snowy Mountains, in ’4O, in the track of Angus
Macmillan, and opened up North Gippsland.
He was a citizen worth acquiring, for at the age
of 97 he still has some go left in him.
Between Julian Salomons and the late
William Manning there never was at any time
much love lost. Upon one occasion Salomons
was arguing a case before Manning, then Primary
Judge in Equity. Several times Manning inter-
rupted the argument, and at length • he said,
testily, “ Really-er-Mr. Salomons, I shall be-er-
compelled presently to come-er-to the conclusion
that-er-er-you know nothing about the principles
of Equity.” Salomons threw his brief on the Bar
table with a hang, and snapped out, “ I confess I
don’t— as interpreted by your Honor.” During
the silence that followed a fly might be heard
breathing. Salomons relieved the tension by
quietly picking up his brief and resuming his
argument.
QUITE DEAD.
The D.T. assaults G. H. Reid most grievously in two
columns, blaming his laziness, etc., for the failure of the
Opposition to displace Alfred Deakin.
LITTLE BOY : “ Now, then, Granny, knock off.
It’s no good beating a dead donkey.”
A recent N.S.W. Government Gazette
has the following notice: “Department of the
Attorney-General and of Justice. His Excellency
the Governor, with the advice of the Executive
Council, has approved of the resignation OF
George Russell, executioner, Sheriff’s Depart-
ment, OF his position in the Public Service, being
accepted from March 4, 1908. (Signed) C. G.
Wade.” The grammar might be better, but the
fact is fairly obvious. Plainly, the hangman has
deposited his rope on the desk of his superior
officer, and handed in his gallows and resignation.
Hangmen are a fleeting folk nowadays, and the
Department must look back with a certain sorrow
to the steady, deep-rooted times of Nosey Bob,
who was N.S. W. ’s reliable executioner for some-
thing like 30 years. There were giants in those
days—gigantic hangmen, that is.
The name of O’Byfne passes
from the one-time conspicuous
gable at the George-street corner
of Athlone Place, Sydney. The
Australian head of that O’Byrne
clan would have been “sent out’*
after the rising of the Irish
patriots had he insisted on the
luxury of a trial. But he said to
the authorities, “See here, I’ll
go out.” Numbers of Irish patriots
arrived in Botany Bay in like
Circumstances, When the case
against him Was not sufficiently
strong the Crown intimated,
through the gaol governor, that
if the prisoner liked to yo he
Would save a lot of trouble, to
himself especially, for otherwise
he would be detained in a
noisome, filthy, over-crowded gaol
till the Case Was strong enough,
even if he stayed there till the Day
Of Judgment. So O’Byrne said i
“See here, I’ll go Otit.” He did
tvell from the Staff, flicking up
land and tnonev ttherever he
turned. The Athlone Place pro-
perty kept the name mast high
till the resumption destroyers
came along. Another O’Byrne
landmark, the Bible Hall in
William-street, now occupied as
a nuns’ school, was stripped of
its glory some years ago by the
Equity Court. O’Byrne meant it
to be a Woolloomooloo challenge
ground to Protestantism in all its
phases. Archbishop Polding set
a preacher or two to mount a
pulpit there and throw out the
challenge from time to time, for
lawyers ad vised that the land and
income were only tenable by obedience to the
terms of the bequest. But it was found wearying
and unsatisfactory work, and, after repeated
applications, the Equity Court allowed the be-
quest to be earned by less militant but much more
valuable services.
For the first time in at least 25 years the
Murray River between Albury and Echuca has
been navigated by a boat urged by modern
machinery. Thirty years ago the steamer trade
on Australia’s great artery was considerable, but
the railway-builders destroyed it as far as the
Upper Murray is concerned. The Lone Hand
motor boat, in which E. J. Brady is exploiting
the Riverina for “copy,” has gone down safely as
far as Swan Hill and was petrolling cheerfully
towards Adelaide when last heard from.
The case of Canon Nash is now raging in
England. One day Melbourne-receives a cable
announcing that no evidence of misconduct on the
part of the Canon is discoverable in the United
Kingdom. The next day Archbishop Clarke
reports that he has unearthed proofs that are
serious if not murky. This is followed by a cable
to the effect that an important witness for the,
accusers admits that his charges against the Rev.
Nash are un verifiable; and al most in thesame breath
further enlightenment is poured on the subject by a
perfectly new set of unspecified rumors said to‘he
hacked up by facts not divulged, and stromrly
propped by persons unknown. Theextreme diffi-
culty of demonstrating that the suspected re-
spected clergyman didn t do anything is equalled
by the extraordinary arduousness of proving that
he did, and The Bulletin advises the parties to
toss for it.
The pioneer journalist of the South Sea
Islands finished his screed at Suva (Fiji) recently.
George L. Griffith founded the Fiji Times in 18G9,
and many an experienced Australian journalist
will appreciate his pride in the
fact that the paper never missed
an issue in the 39 years of its
existence—although the irregular
arrival of transports with paper
and other war material many
times made publication problem-
atical. Before the British annexa-
tion of the group the young Times
found it a difficult business to get
itself circulated, but its resouice-
ful boss climbed over the trouble
by establishing the “ Fiji Times
Express Service,” and printing
his own postage stamps. One of
Griffith’s most strenuous fights
happened about 1871, when some
British residents started a Go-
vernment with Big Chief Cako-
bau as nominal king. Griffith’s
opposition to this scheme had
much to do with the ultimate
annexation of the group. Griffiths
also founded the Samoan Times,
at Apia, and got it delivered to
its readers with the early bread-fruit and yam by
the “Samoan Times Express Service.”
A remnant of aboriginal royalty put in an
appearance at the Milton (N.S.W.) show, last
week. Maria, who is a queen thereabouts, is now,
allegedly, 90 years of age, and to visit the show
she walked barefoot from Ulladulla (Holey Dollar
of old), a distance of four miles. Her Majesty
enjoys excellent health, notwithstanding her age.
Her subjects have dwindled down to a round
dozen, and give little trouble. When Maria re-
fuses her royal assent to a Bill it just drops.
Last week John Hyland passed out at
Warrnamhool (Vic.), cetat 80. He landed at Bris-
hane, then known as Moreton Bay, in 1850.
There he joined the mounted constabulary. In
1852 he and his wife went to Sydney, over the
Blue Mountains, on horseback, he carrying an
infant a few months old in front of him. In those
days there were no made roads, and none but an
accomplished bushman would have attempted
such a ride. From Sydney the Hyland family
rode on to Melbourne, where for a few months the
house-father acted as orderly to Governor Latrobe.
In late life he was an auctioneer at Warrnamhool.
The Earl of Dudley, Australia’s future
Governor-General, arrived in Ireland as Lord-
Lieutenant, awhile back, a staunch Unionist. A
year’s personal experience of the needs of the
country turned him into a Wyndhamite Devolu-
tionisq or advocate of Irish self-government by
instalments—which is to say, in plain terms, a
Home Ruler. (As Tariff Reform is to Protection
in England, the land of deceiving phrases which
deceive not, so is Devolution to Home Rule.)
The brilliant Wyndham—who, till he accepted,
in an evil hour for his party, the Irish portfolio,
was the most fervent of Tory Unionists—’verted
to Devolution shortly after he got the opportunity
to address his mind seriously to Irish affairs.
Whereupon he was forced to resign, and hassince
been more or less of an outcast from Conserva-
tism. The fact that Dudley is known to have had
thoughts of his own marks him out, to some
extent, from the generality of Governors.
AFTER THE FREETRADE BOUT.
Both as patriots and producers we must hail with satis-
faction the return of England to a sane fiscal policy.—AGE.
“ Come on, dad, pull yourself together and yet
that Frectrade straw out of your head! ”
George Withers, laud agent, was found
dead lately in his office at Perth (W.A.). He was
an old-time builder in Sydney, and had a hand
in the construction of the George-street Arcade,
in the vicinity of the Markets. Likewise he
dabbled mildly in politics. He and E. W. O Sul-
livan were defeated together at South Sydney in
1885 ; and in 1887 he won a seat there, with
brewer Toohey, softsgoodsman Riley and B. R.
Wise as colleagues. South Sydney in those days
drove four members in one team.
James Munro, ex-Premier and ex-Agent-
General of Victoria, whose darkened later days
were spent house-agenting in a Melbourne suburb,
left £202 when he passed out. Some wildly ex-
aggerated reports say he left £203. It wasn’t
much, yet Munro had this amount of luck —he
didn’t get down to 7d., like Parkes; and he
managed to earn his crust to the last, collecting
the rent of the four-roomed wooden cottage on
piles, with the goat underneath. Premier Ward,
of Maoriland, and Premier Bent, of Munro’s own
State, both at one time struck financial bottom,
even as old James did. But they had the re-
bounding capacity, and Munro hadn’t.
“ O.” : The death of musical Miss Woolley
in Sydney, the other day, recalis the
excitement in. Australia when the
catastrophe to the London, on which
her father was a passenger, became
known. When the vessel showed signs
of foundering in the Bay of Biscay, the
sailors, some of them Dutchmen, re-
fused to work. Instead they broke
bulk, got drunk, and went drunk to
the bottom, intense indignation swept
over Australia, -and the A. S. N. Co.,
then the largest local boat-owner,
sacked every Dutchman in its service,
officers and men alike. It was a tine
wholesale act, and somewhat sugges-
tive of the deeds of the Boer War time,
when certain Fat Men, who didn’t go
to the war themselves, started sacking
Dutch, Belgian, German, French, or
Polish employees on the general sus-
picion than they must be anti-British.
And in the excitement a Peruvian,
who was clerking in Sydney, was paid
a week’s wages, and shown the door
on the suspicion that he was a
“ blasted foreigner ” of some kind.
He spent the the sack at
the Public Library, reading up Trans-
vaal history, and trying to find out
when his country had sent an army to
help P. Kruger.
Loyal L. Wirt, the cute Yankee
Congregationalist, who wrestled with
sin at Newcastle (N.S.W.), and after-
wards at Brisbane, and threw up
the latter job for reasons not unconnected with
the infrequency of the dollar, has resumed busi-
ness at Harrow-on-the-Hill, near London. As
the show he is now running has about £15,000 in
hand for a new church, hall and parsonage, it is
evident that Loyal L. is now wrestling with a
substantial stake put up.
Hassan : If ever you find yourself
with a sore head and a repentant heart before
Paddy Dwyer, P.M., in Melbourne District
Court you held bGttor at his old jokes about
mothers-in-law, marriage, beer, or any other of
those joyous clogs to human progress which
humor has claimed for its own. For Paddy is a
humorist who takes himself seriously. He never
loses a chance. Sometimes he gets off a good
wheeze, which the reporters take, and the sub-
editors fling out because they think it is faked.
Mostly, however, his jokes are merely magisterial.
But Heaven helptheman whodoesn’tlaugh at them
It is whispered that .once, after an accused had
refused to laugh at the oldest jape out of the
bottom of the bag, he was served with seven years
for iookmg upon the lobster when it was red
Inis statement isn’t true, but it doesn’t matter.
Another Eureka Stockader passed out at
Geelong (Vic.) on the 31st March, the peison
°f, ” Leech, a ged 93. The ancient was con-
Siderable of a rover in his young days, having left
Ins Cold Country home in a whaler when only a
boy of 12. l our years later he inspected Van
Diemen s Land in the barque Marquis of Hastings
After wandering round the Speck’s coast for a few
years, he helped to sail the Lady Emma thence to
Portland Bay where the only sign of civilisation
was the Henty homestead. Back at Melbourne
lie deserted and humped Matilda to Geelong’
where he helped build the first jetty. Then the
g ° ld i ]T r gnp P ed hlm - b ut after Eureka he
settled down to the simple life in the Sleepy City
where the years seem to have made up in quantity
what they lacked in quality. Now he sleeps as
soundly as ever. *
Concerning a matrimonial enthusiast
Toothsmith Hyne, a bigamist who runs Solomon closelr
for the bun of matrimony, got seven years’ penal servi.
tude in London last month. Photographs in current
American papers show him to be identical with Dr.
Witzhoff, who was at different times and places Western,
Reader, Muller, Reider, and Schotze. In one U.S.A.’
State alone (Ohio) this marriageable marvel contracted 32
bigamous marriages. In all, his Hamland tally was
102 hitchings, of which 101 were bigamous. He robbed
each successive wife in complete and comprehensive
fashion of every bean she possessed before passing away
with a new one. When he came to the United Kingdom,
he took the name of Western, and at once began trailing
destitute brides behind him. Eight of these were per-
suaded to testify ; and they amply sufficed. A curious
feature was the dog-like affection of his victims for this
unpleasant man. Till he unwarily admitted that one of
them (nie Bell) was his favorite, the police had difficulty
in getting the evidence they needed. Thereafter the less
favored defected ; but the much-wronged iady, “nte
Bell ” (she was his first wife), remained staunch to the
end. She told a Daily Mail representative that she had
forgiven the prisoner, and would be at the prison door
waiting for him when he came out—“ the best and kindest
husband ever woman had.” Which indicates somewhat
the baffling diversity of female taste in spouses.
Is there anyone in Australia
who knows that slavery exists in the British
colonies ? In all the dependencies of Asia the
Chinese have a form of slavery which is condoned
by the Government. Any poor Chinese can sell
his infant son or daughter to a wealthy Chinaman,
and the rich Chow agrees to feed and support
same until of age. These slaves are supposed to
he given a “present” and started in life when
they marry, but until that time they are as much
the property of their master as his horse or his
furniture, and can be disposed of just in the same
way. And, as a general matter of fact, the slave
remains a slave till death, and his or her children
are slaves all their days. Their position is about
the same as that of the old-time serfs in Russia or
the negroes in America before the liberation.
How would that suit the ideas of a White
Australia ?
THROUGH FORCE OF HABIT.
Mr. Deakin addressed a meeting in Sydney at which all
shades of political opinion were represented. He [?]
that defence was a national duty.— Daily Paper.
DEAKIN: “The matter of defence is a national
duty.”
ONE OF THE SHADES : “Oh, I say, look here.
What about private enterprise ! ”
The scramble for Carruthers’ boots in the
N.S. W. State Parliament is a mixed one, and, thu*
far, 12 Liberal and Reformers are announced ready
for the fray, and a solitary Laborite. Among
the scramblers T. Jessep and J. Hurley are
conspicuous.
Havelock Ellis, in a recent English maga-
zine : >; (
However much we may sympathise with the
the young Japanese nation in learning- the * ess ° ,ls
Europe has taught, we still have to recognise that t
success is a blow dealt at the whole of Europe. It is
true that there is any “yellow peril,” but a is
doubtedly true that Asia has now said to fc ur 1 •
“ Hitherto and no further! ’’and every n on-European pe P
begins to take heart. Whatever the quarrels of Europ .
nations among themselves may he, we have to re ®°K
that the giant who guards Europe in the East, ana
maintains a foothold for Europe on that Pucinc -
which in the future will assuredly be the centre o
world, has for the moment been heavily stricken, »
blow to Russia at the hands of Asiatics is a blow
prestige of all Europe, a blow from which it wml P e
never again recover. It is far too early to speak
passing of Europe as a predominant world-force,
would be foolish to hide from ourselves that we Eur p
have seen a writing on the wall that is not na
decipher.
MEALS OF OTHER DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At atl “ Old Folks at Home,” Which State Premier Bent
attended at Melbourne Exhibition Building, the other
evening, he broke oilt into lugubrious lamentations oyer
the dirirters he used to have 30 years ago. “ How I Wish
I coiild be hack in the good old days again ! said Thomas,
Hit wat-worn hero longs to light
Old battles o’er, to slay the slaih ;
but tommy seeks a mild delight,
And still is longing, day and night;
to eat old dinners o’er again.
tor dinners of this vulgar day
The Premier makes no eager quest;
He eats them, feeling all the way
Grim apprehension. Truth to say,
Do what he will, they won’t digest.
Alas, ’tis distance, year by year.
That lends enchantment to the stew,
And most of us, oppressed with care,
Dyspeptic, would be glad to fare
Back thirty years to dinner too.
vie.
S.S.
SCHMIDT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear Mr. “ Veldt,” will you excuse a sudden rhyming fit
That took me when I came upon your verse ■
Schmidt ? ce rnin R
I tried my best to overcome the urgentness of it
But try as try I might, alas ! Pegasus seized the bit.
I thought of all the jingles that were ever sung or writ
And all the funny poems that the poets thought w'
wit. ere
A mightv volume two feet think would searcelv hoM
skit ’ a
Containing all the pile of words that seem to rhyme with
Schmidt! 1,0
So with a pen, a pint of ink, and writing pad I sit
And wrack my brain, and strain my eyes, and make nw
teeth to grit, •
And while I conjure up the few my meni’ry will permit
And snatch at those which through my mind fantastical’lv
flit, 1
Some fiend unseen keeps goading me from out the Name-
less Pit
To try how many English words there are that rhvnu.
with Schmidt !
I think I want to go to sleep! My head aches like to
split !
I groan and swear, and tear my hair, and beg the fiend to
quit !
1 wish he were a human thing whose bald head I might
hit !
I long to pulverise him for a loathsome hypocrite !
But I can only drive my pen and, cursing him, submit,
And damn the time he made me rhyme the dreadful name
of Schmidt!
S. A.
ML.
The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisina.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences Tel. 321.
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine
Chemist refund money if it fails to cure. k.
GROVE S signature is on each box. Is. ljd*


“ Now I’ve wrecked the ship I’ll smoKe
the HAVELOCK ! ”


PILITICAL
POINTS
The S.A. Treasurer expects a surplus of
Over £500,000 at the end of next June, and the
whole amount will go towards lessening the lia-
bilities of the State.
Anderson, of Sydney, the Six Imported
Hatters man, is now pursuing at law three Im-
ported Hatters who, he claims, left his employ-
ment without due notice. Truly, over-much Hatter
will yet drive Australia mad.
Premier Wade has stated that if Canberra
is selected as a site for ah Australian capital, the
N.S.W. Parliament will be prepared to “deal
liberally ” with the Commonwealth in the matter
of area. But he doesn’t define his liberality, so it
may be 6000 square miles, or it may be 150—the
wild liberality of the man who offered 6d. to the
person who saved him from drowning.
There is enough bull-dog spirit breathed
into this tail-end of a letter in Sydney Telegraph
to make a half-breed Chow shed his pigtail
through sheer emotion as he falls on the palpi-
tating neck of Spruce Myth :
One thing is certain, that the British spirit of fair play
must be maintained ; also the most sacred rights of free
labor ; notwithstanding the power of the uniofO, which I
fear have become tyrannical-, and at times unreasonable.—
Yours, etc.,
Beecroft, March 27. John Young.
The boycott of Japanese goods by the
Uhittese, who consider that their country is being
arrogantly trodden upon by the Supercilious
Brown Person, is another evidence that while the
distant Jap may Took green the adjacent Jap
looks very, very brown. The people who are in
close contact with him—the Formosans, Koreans,
Manchurians, Chinese, Californians tind British
Columbians—-all seem to think just now that they
could get cm without him.
The Australian Government did exactly
the right thing in bringing down its Federal
Capital Bill, based on the fact that Parliament
has already chosen Dalgety as the site. To have
done otherwise would have stultified the House
by ignoring a decision which was come to whilst
Watson was leader—a decision which Deakin
supported, and which Reid subsequently agreed
should not be disturbed.
From a Sydney paper one day last week :
There were 17convictions at the Newtown Police Court
yesterday in cases in which parents neglected to send
their children to school for the required number of days
(70) in the half-year. Fines were imposed, which ranged
from is. to ss.
The other day, on information supplied to an in-
spector, a child of 11 was returned to school
from a factory where he was earning 7s. 6d. a
week at the expense of his health and his future.
From a selfish parent’s standpoint, 7s. 6d. a week,
with an occasional—a very occasional—outlay of
Is. in fines, is a rather good investment, but from
the standpoint of the child and the State it spells
bankruptcy.
John Hurley, an ancient and partly-for-
gotten gentleman, who is applying for Carruthers’
old job at St. George (N.S.W.), says in his
electoral address :
Needless to say I am a strong supporter of the Wade
Administration, and strongly opposed to the pernicious
THREE-PARTY SYSTEM.
Apparently these things are said through sheer
force of habit. It is the custom of the good old
party hack to state that he believes strongly in
the two-party system as practised in the United
Kingdom, though the United Kingdom has had
three distinct parties for the last 40 years at least,
and has had four parties for about 20 years, and
has now developed at least five parties—Conserva-
tives, Liberal Unionists, Liberals, Home Rulers,
and Labor men. And N.S.W. just now has only
two parties, so J. Hurley might as well ask for
votes on the ground that he is against the leaning
tower of Pisa as because he is against the three
party system. But it is habit—just weary old
habit. J. Hurley’s other great principle is that
he is hostile to the sewage farm.
When Premier Wade exhibited his now
famous Canberra pictures in the vestibule of
Parliament House, Melbourne, there was no view
of Cotter Creek, the source of water supply for
his proposed capital. Instead of which there was
a view of “ Canberra River,” showing some almost
stagnant water lying between willows. There is
no sign of any “ Canberra River” on the map, so
this matter is a mystery. Possibly some scrap of
the Queanbeyan River was utilised. The absence
of the Cotter Creek led to Wade and his pictures
being jeered at, and when the pictures were
returned to Sydney and again exhibited in the
Intelligence Department’s window, a view of the
junction of the Cotter Creek and Murrumbidgee
River was included. But apparently it was not
on perpetual exhibition, for when a Bulletin man
went up to photograph it, he found it had
been removed. Apparently the picture takes
after the creek, and is given to vanishing when
most required.
The Newcastle (N.S.W.) property-owners
who got the Government to appoint a Royal Conl-
mission on the creeping habit of their city are
annoyed at the commission’s report. This is first;
that creeps are caused by the fact that there are
great cavities Under Newcastle; second, that
there is no guarantee that it wbn’t breep iii
the Future; and, third, that the people who built
the houses where they did, ill the Way they did*
and knowing what they did; hadn’t nnlch sense*
This third finding is what Newcastle is cussing
stbout. The other two matters it kneW before.
N.S.W. Minisfceri for Works Lee received a
deputation t’other day flepresentirig the fchinb-
owners of the Burfagorang silver brines. The
mining folk explained to the Miiiister that they
carted their ore (some 12,000 tons a year) to Cam-
den. They Wanted a better road tb Picton Lakhs;
and if they got it. they would be able to increase
their output to 25,000 tons a year, arid the road
Would only cost about £2500. Solemn Lee looked
hard at the deputation and asked what rates the
hrirting interests wfete payihg, He Was told
£2O a year. He then remarked that he wouldn’t
Spend £2500 oh its rOad, but that he would drop
a sharp line to the local shire re the £2O a year
business. In the Words of the rninute-book, “the
deputation then Withdrew.”
COTTER CREEK
At the junction with the Murrumbidgee River. The dark water on the left is the-Murrumbidgee.
On January 24, 1908, the Cotter was at this spot eight yards wide, with an average depth of
six inches. On the same date the pools on the right were covered with floating oil. (This is
the water supply for Mr, Wade's proposed Canberra Capital,)
“ G.H.” : The Victorian Railway Commis-
sioners have been graciously pleased to grant a
reduction of freight rates on certain produce from
Mildura “when sent direct for export beyond the
Commonwealth.” Well, we have heard much
about the Australian Government exceeding its
powers, but when Tait and co. give a bonus of 10s.
per ton out of State revenue to exporters, as
against Australian sellers of Mildura fruits, is the
statute broken or is it only Bent ?
On account. of bad roads the maize from
the outlying farms in the Atherton (N.Q.) district
is being brought into Atherton on mules. There
are about sixty mules at work, and each carries
four bushels (a bag), which is reckoned a fair load.
Yet when the Australian Government makes a
regulation to prevent farmers from loading the
wharf laborers with bags of wheat weighing, in
some cases, half as much again as the bags of
maize the Atherton mules carry, Qocky lifts up
his whiskers and his voice, and howls to the zenith
that he’s being ruined.
SNOWDRIFTS ON KOSCIUSKO.
The water of the Snowy River (on which stands Dalyety, the selected Capital of Australia),
is brewed from these drifts.
Photo. — Kerry, Sydney.
It is unfair to the N.S.W. taxpayer to
pass £l2OO of public money into the pocket of Joe
Carruthers for any work he can do at the Franco-
British Exhibition. Of course, a couple of other
nominal jobs have been placed in his hands to
make it appear that he is in official harness, but
his entire services would be well paid at less than
half the amount set down. Only for the suspicion
that the holding of his Parliamentary seat would
lead to the same trouble which cost exhibitioner
Combes his seat over a dozen years ago, the Par-
liamentary salary would likely run on also.
Joseph has drawn more in salaries from N.S.W.
than any other member of the present Legislative
Assembly.
if Thomas Bent could have hoard the con-
versation of a Ballarat miner recently, hfe might
have quit bellowing for a while and thought a
little. Said mifier was working a little show of
his own at Ballarat, 28 miles from the City Of
Statues, and the other day cleaned up a brushing
of lldwt. per ton at the State battery. The total
yield carrie to a few dunces, and, ds he could prove
how he got it, he tVould, In any well-regulated
comrriunity; hake had several pounds in his
pocket itl half-ari-hout. But Bent’s Gold
Buyers’ Act blocked hiitl. His Credit Vas
exhausted, arid the storekeeper dared not
take the dust in settlement; The district gold-
buyer had been forced out of business. So the
rriart with the pocketful of gold started to walk to
Balldrat, Two wayside hotels refused him meals
—he had nd money, and the mere possession of
gold ostracised him, so he had to toil on, famished
and footsore. A Ballarat bank finally accommo-
dated him—at 2s. per oz. leas than he formerly
got; but it (Vas worth all that to listen to his
language On parson Worfall, whose ill-regulated
shouts about gold-stealing brought the Act into
existence, and his remarks re Bent and hasty
legislation generally. It is curious to remember
that Victoria has a House of Landlords, the one
alleged virtue Of which is that it stops hasty
legislation.
From Melbourne comes further evidence
of the pernicious effect of the new Tariff. Baker
and Rouse, hitherto large importers of photo-
graphers’ materials, propose establishing at
Abbotsford (Vic.) a factory for the manufacture of
many articles they have previously imported. The
factory and plant will involve an estimated ex-
penditure of £25,000 for a start. It will also mean
more work and wages for Australian workmen,
and boots for their wives and kiddies.
Wussleyan preacher Barnes, who had a
brief spell of Ministerial glory as a member of
Philp’s temporary Ministry in Bananaland, and
is now very hungry, lifted up his loud voice in the
Assembly recently and said that “William Kid-
ston had been drummed out of Falkirk.” The
impudent statement has aroused many of the
bairns of that Scotch centre, both friends and
political enemies of Queensland’s Premier, to fill
columns of the Brisbane press with statements
Which brand Barnes as a person of vast unreli-
ability. They have fallen upon Barnes like 42
she-bears, and rent him.
Labor member Barber introduced the ques-
tion of payment of members’ salaries from the
date of election, and the granting of an allowance
for postage and telegrams, to the Queensland
Assembiy the other day. It was well received
both by Premier Kidston and Opposition leader
, .IP’. and the former promised to introduce
legislation on the matter next session. The case
of Levitt member for Carpentaria, probably Tm
pressed the Assembly with the reasonableness of
paying members from the date of election as is
the case in the Australian Parliament and so™ of
the btateones, and not from the date of the return
of writ, as is clone in Queensland. The last Queen ”
his opponent had polled every available vnf ”
the two places in 'question es the re
We v nt ; y r he °° uld «’‘ beaten
b »* deSjjfts siKra
Si. M. Herald crossed the liubicon of
National politics on April 4. Henceforth it will
sup in the camp of Irish Hotne Rule. Here is
how it finishes its leader on Coghlan and the
Times :
The British Empire will further the interests neither of
humanity nor of British diplomacy unless the inhabitants
of each portion of it are allowed to determine what con-
ditions atre essential to 1 their national life.
John E. Redmond and Brother Willie looked on
the Herald as a journalistic impenitent thief.
But on April 4 the paper burfied its traditions]
composed a new article of faith, and printed it as
above. Or has it simply blundered ?
Treasurer Peake told a meeting of financial
men* the other day, that since South Australia’s
Labor Government came into office (which was
two years and eight months ago) it has paid off
public debt, or paid out of revenue for public works
usually met out of loans, to the extent of £750,1)00.
This wise policy is being continued, and quite half
of the £1,000,000 which came due on January 1
has been paid off out of revenue. That is the sort
of financial policy that puts Labor Governinents
in office, and keeps them there, If James
McGowen, of N.S.W., would only have sense
enough to get a financial policy ! If he would even
get any kind of a policy that wouldn’t consist of
tagging along at the heels of Wade as a sort of
small, deputy State Fright ! 1
Senator P. J. Lynch, of Westralia, who
has travelled considerably, on the capital site
quest:—
Tooma, as far as charms of scenery are concerned is
perhaps, unapproachable. But I was disappointed at’the
small area of the suggested site—only five miles by two
miles, and a portion of that low-lying oh the
border of the Murray. Why, it is only an area
of 10 sq. miles-altogether too small. Certainly
there is room for expansion in a northerly anil
north-westerly direction, but that would he over ad
elevated plain With steep hills, which would seriously
interfere with building operations. The water supply
appears to be quite inadequate, judging from the flow of
the Murray at the present time ; and the Murray repre-
sents the waters from the junction of three or four
rivers, including the Indi and the Tooma. The Tootna
River has been suggested as the source of the
supply generally for motive power and lighting, but this
would necessitate enormous expenditure in impounding
the waters in the mountains. The volume of water flow-
ing in the Murray, after receiving the flow from Indi and
Tooma Rivers, seemed to me as less than the volume of
the aqueduct supplying Sydney, and if this is so, how
can it he expected that the waters of the Tooma River
alone would suffice for the Federal capital? The greatest
drawback of the proposed Tooma site appears to be its
inaccessibility front the sea, enclosed as it is on the east
by a barrier of hills.
WHY NOT GIVE WAY?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Workingman, your cussedness
(Or so the papers say)
Ks causing sorrow and distress ;
So why don’t you give way ?
The land that learns to cringe and cower
Will always rise to fame !
It crawls (it may be kicked) to power,
Arid you should do the same !
N.S.W.
OWEN DEED.
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarant*«d.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
pts
&O TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fred. Nageo, Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought, Price Lists Gratis
WHY RED BLOOD MEANS HEALTH.
Because it Ensures an Abundant Supply of
Oxygen.
How Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills make the
Blood Rich and Red, and Enable it to
Absorb Oxygen, the Great Supporter of
Life.
In no disease is delay or neglect more danger-
ous than in anaemia, or poverty of the blood. It
is common in young girls and in persons who are
overworked or confined within doors, and makes
its approach in so stealthy a manner that it is
often well developed before its presence is recog-
nised,
In anaemia the blood becomes thin and watery.
It is then that the characteristic symptoms of
langour, paleness of lips, cheeks and gums, dull
eyes, loss of appetite, shortness of breath, and pal-
pitation of the heart upon the slightest exertion
appear. If neglected the disease slowly and grad-
ually progresses until hope of recovery is gone.
But taken in time the disease is readily curable,
the specific being a tonic medicine which increases
the number of red blood corpuscles thus enabling
the blood to carry the life-giving oxygen to all the
tissues of the body. Such a tonic is Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. These pills have had unbounded
in curing this stubborn disease because of
this wonderful property. The cure of anaemia
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is as certain as
anything in medical science.
“Fifteen months ago I got very run down,”
said Mrs. Thomas Clarke, whose home is at the
rear of Iodide-street, Broken Hill. “ I lost a
little girl through pleurisy, and I think the grief
and worry pulled me down, for I was a fortnight
without taking my clothes off. Every atom of
strength left me. I could hardly drag myself
about, some days I’d have to give up my house-
work and go and lie down. As to eating, I couldn’t
fancy a thing. All food tasted alike. I only
wanted something sour. I was restless all night
and drowsy and heavy all day. In the morning I
woke up with a vile coppery taste in my mouth
and my tongue coated. My food seemed to lodge
on my chest like a stone, and gave me a sore
feeling there. I had constant headaches —it was
just as if my head was being torn open, and other
times it was a sick, dull, bilious sort of pain over
my eyes. My head would swim if I did any
sewing, and I’d have to leave off, because my sight
got so blurred. I had queer pains round the heart
that frightened me terribly. I thought I was
going to die, and my limbs were sore and ached all
over. I got as thin as .a rake, my clothes just
hung on me. I had dark rings round my eyes,
my face was yellow and my hands waxy. My
nerves were so weak that I’d start at the least
sound. I took quantities of quinine and iron
medicines but they did me no good. Then Nurse
Edwards of this town advised me to give Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills a trial. The first box did me
a little good. That gave me a little heart to go
on, and when I had finished less than six boxes I
was quite well again—I am now in very good
health.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills actually make new
blood. They don’t bother with mere symptoms.
They go down to the very cause of disease in the
blood, and cure that. But you must insist on
getting the same kind as cured Mrs. Clarke.
Sold by retailers and the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
post free.*
This Elastic Truss—
yy
U
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
is the acme of comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter Sc.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.


• •
• •
WEAR
Buckley & Nunn’s
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Also in Three
other Shapes
Same Price.
No. lO
ALL SIZE.S and
FITTINGS.
Shall we
send you a
pair ?
Posted,
STAG’S
HEAD
BRAND
or
BOOTS
As Illustrated,
In BOX CALF,
14/6
BUCKLEY & NUNN, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
WRITE FOR OUR BOOT CATALOGUE (ILLUSTRATED).
THIS TOUCHES
YOUR
PURSE
(Ui)
Q
-ft
C 1
*
A
fa
*
A
6.
*
3
0-
C
A
A
V
~T
S.
c
<s>
<*
V
-ft
vf
=f
'-ft
-ft
.:-
o
:w
>*lv:v
Ssi
We are
selling.
while stock
on hand lasts,
our well-known
"HAMILTON” DISC
HARROWS, at un-
heard of Prices, 1.e.:
8 disc, 16" dia. £.6/15/-;
12 disc, 16" dia. £7/15/-;
14 disc, 16 * dia. £B/15/-; 14 disc, 18' dia. £9/5/-;
14 disc, 20' dia. £9/15/- ; 16 disc, 20' dia. £ll/5/-
Prlces Include for carriage. Transport, truck. 15/-extra
EASY TERMS—£3 down and Balance by P/IN due February
Ist. 1909—N0 Interest.
FREIGHT FREE at your nearest Railway Station (North
Queensland. Northern Territory, and W.A. excepted.
New Goods Fully Guaranteed. Thousands now at work, and
giving highest satisfaction.
Send for Pamphlet and full particulars-
International Harvester Company of America
(incorporated)
Melbourne, Adelaide and Launceston
Brisbane, Sydney,
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V„ VI.
Forwarded Post Free to any Address. - 1 *-J PacKet ot
SPECIAL RATES TO ACENTB. lOd. o *U.
Malthoid Roof Gardens'
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“ If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” —Marcus Aurelius.
Many of the beautiful homes of Southern California have roof gardens, the
floors of which are covered with REINFORCED MALTHOTD, upon which
House Parties are held throughout the season, without the slightest injury to the
roof. Sydney, with its lovely harbor views, is an ideal location for the adoption
of the flat roof, which may be enjoyed as garden, dining-room, sleeping apart-
ment, lounge and promenade, with delightful advantages if RE INFORCED
MALTHOID is used.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
G. A. GARDINER.
SORBY & CO., Nrwcastlf,.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N S.W.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
iCATARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
| of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgi , Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send T°n Shillings for Medi-
cator coni plete, with 4 months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st„ Melbourne.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler,
371 George Street,
SYDNEY.
THIS
RACING WATCH
(CHRONOGRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60-
%
J
a
THIS racing CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and I
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
time. It counts the minutes on the small top dial,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. The
Chronograph is only in use when wanted —the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the case, and the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GtJN-
METAB, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white dial,
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed in
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not give
complete satisfaction, I will return your purchase
money in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to b$ as reliable as any ten
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I have
the same works in sterling silver cases and solid
Gold Cases.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
GOOD RESULTS.
Clements Tonic
Cures and Strengthens.
THE PROOF.
(BY A SPECIAL REPORTER.)
With a view to bringing before the public a
matter of considerable importance, a reporter
rapped at 114 Glebe Road, Glebe, where Mrs.
Hannah Wells resides. The lady appt red in
response, and upon the pressman’s mission being
explained, she said
“Certainly. Nothing would give me more plea-
sure than to relate the story of my great achieve-
ment of four years ago, especially as it will be so
serviceable to many in want of guidance. You
see it was after fruitlessly trying several home
remedies that I saw about Clements Tonic in the
papers, and made up my mind to find out what it
was like for myself, as I was very ill, and was
willing to take anything so long as I got better.
I was as
WEAK AND MISERABLE AS ANY
WOMAN COULD BE,
and had such a sallow complexion, too, that to
look at me you would have thought I had the
jaundice. My chest used to cause me no end of
bother, for often I felt that something was there,
blocking my breath, besides having heavy, op-
pressive pains as well. I hadn’t any inclination
to eat.
NO APPETITE AT ALL,
so what could I expect but to get thin and deli-
cate looking, which I assuredly did. From the
time I arose from bed of a morning till I returned
again in the evening I was as languid and indo-
lent as could be. When I tried to sleep at night
I could not, and oh ! it was so wretched being
there hour after hour waiting for the daylight,
and when it came, what did it bring? Only
another day of sorrow. My sight got bad, and
my eyes felt as heavy as lead ; the taste in my
mouth was awfully bitter, and the worst of it was
that my head was always aching.
“Indeed, I don’t know what I hadn’t got to
make life a burden, and if I hadn’t taken Clements
Tonic when I did I am afraid to think what would
have happened, for I was going down hill fast.
“ Had your nerves given way at all ? ”
“Oh ! I was fearfully nervous, scarcely able to
move without getting a shock at some trivial thing
Qr other, and even when I managed to snatch a
little sleep my mind was unsettled with various
ugly dreams. Now, that is where Clements Tonic
came in with good results very speedily. It
quieted my nerves, and gave me such com-
mand over myself that nothing surprised or
excited me, and as for having nasty dreams
or getting frightened at anything—why, I
was quite exempt in both respects. I used to
meet trouble halfway too, but I got quite out of
that habit since using Clements Tonic, which also
made me eat as hungrily as if I had taken a good
sea trip before each meal. What surprised me
more, though, and my friends too, was the manner
in which my pains subsided, for when I told them
that I was perfectly at ease, and that my head-
aches were gone, they could scarcely believe me.
But it is nevertheless a fact that Clements Tonic
cured me and strengthened me thoroughly, and
in the interests of similar sufferers you may pub-
lish these remarks as it suits you.”
Subscribed and declared at Glebe, this twenty-
fourth day of August, one thousand nine hundred
and three, before me, W. T. TATE, J.P.


A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, April 7, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
The Bathurst Show and race meeting occurred
last week. From Wednesday morning till Satur-
day evening the old town lived violently.
Bathurst, during Show week, is said by those who
have journeyed far afield (to Sydney, Gosford
and so on) to resemble Paris at the latter’s
best. Paris, the Bathurstian admits frankly,
is a little bigger than Bathurst ; the
City of the Plains is, on the other hand, more
brilliant and gay than the French capital.
Two unfortunate happenings marked this year’s
revels. The A. H. and P. Committee had invited
Mr. Wade and a cloud of other State members
to come up and feast free of charge,
and rejoice, and make the district look
as Gallic as possible. Only two turned
up Gillies, M.L.A., and Miller, member
for the constituency—neither of whom is
a bit Gallic. Gillies made an entertain-
ing assault on the Federal Government, and
kindred institutions. He was in menacing
mood. He spoke emotionally of the wrongs
that were being done upon “Noo South.” He
warned all present that they must cease. He
denounced the absent Wade, pointing out that
Carruthers would, in his place, have seceshedlong
ere this. A wild-eyed bagman followed, and
taking for his text, “Bags and the Ma State,” or
something, howled to the heavens for “Justice.”
It was all charmingly vague and mysterious,
and would have given the rustics of the
pre-Educational Act period the creeps had
they heard it. Of infinitely more serious
import to all but Gillies, Miller, and the bagman,
was the milk-salting episode. Some dastard—
presumably a Federalist—-crawled furtively into
a refreshment tent and poured salt into 16 gallons
of milk, so that many were forced to go tea-less.
Before composing itself to slumber once again the
town agreed that with less salt and not so much
Gillies and Miller the place would have been more
like Paris than ever.
A graduate of Sydney Uni.—Mr. Philip Caro-
after a four years ivander jahreu in U.S. A., fluffs
about the Land whose fleet is going to drown its
anchor in our harbors :
“ The American woman hasn’t any advantage
over the Australian in the matter of looks, but she
does put on her clothes with better effect. The
cost of those clothes? Well, there must be
shops somewhere about New York where
women go who cannot afford to spend more
than, say, the average professional Australian
man’s wife does on clothes, but I never
looked through their plate-glass. City clerks
have told me that their favorite stroll at lunch
hour was to Marshall & Field’s windows to look
at the hats and frocks. Rather enjoyed the star-
gown gazing myself. The lace frocks on view
one morning were marked from £2OO to £lOOO.
No, not dollars pounds. And a little toque
which I remember distinctly, because I thought
it was a stuffed galah parrot, was priced at
£6O. I am almost sure it was a galah —if
not, it was a case of impersonation, or im-
posture, or illegal use of a trade mark. As
for dogs, the smart woman not only worships
them living, but she carries them about
dead—and stuffed. If a very expensive dog—the
kind that is ‘ in ’ in a fashionable sense—dies, his
missus, after a decent interval of mourning while
he is at the taxidermist’s, resumes drives with the
dear departed in his old place on her lap or on a
cushion by her side. Thus is the stuffed dog
better than the dead lion that is left to take his
chance.
“ You are going to have ‘ The Merry
Widow’? I wonder if it’s been expurgated
in spots for Australian consumption ! In New
York and Chicago, you know, the ultra-refined
theatre-goers either would not see the play at all,
or they left the theatre when the shocks
got too shocking. The play that fetched me
was ‘The Road to Yesterday.’ It runs
on tne same lines as ‘ When Knights were
Bold.’ But it was an understood thing that no
respectable woman would go to ‘ The Merry
Widow’s ’ can-can show. Perhaps she has got
more discreet with age and her journey out here.
“Hilda Spong, the Australian, was about the
handsomest woman I saw in America. She is a
£reat success. So tire the two DeMnes, Sydney
and Arthur. In the American theatres the women
of'the boxes—and it’s boxes, boxes all the way in
the swell parts of the house—wear their hats until
tfie play starts. 1 hen they take off their many-
doßared headgear. Talking of women—my belief
in American chivalry towards the sex is as dead
as the Pilgrim Fathers. I have seen two pretty,
modest-looking girls strap-hanging on a car-jour-
ney of 4o minutes. They were the only women
m a car-load of thirty-odd men. None offered
them a seat. And the rush for the workers’trains
and trams in the evening is such a headlong one
that the American is not surprised to see women
and children violently hustled or actually
knocked down as if in a football scrum.
Of course there are exceptions. A million-
aire rushing for the Purple Flyer—the million-
aire’s express—would not knock down a Gibson
girl and go on without asking if she were
hurt. Possibly, for one reason, that he would be
rushing in a motor car, and there is a prejudice
against the motor man who kills a woman and
doesn’t stop to speak to the remains.
“As for the domestic servant problem : It is no
longer a problem over there. The lack of the
domestic Maud Muller is an accepted evil. ‘ Thou
shalt go without is the average housewife’s creed.
Millionaires, of course, must have serving maids
in their mansions—they can afford such exotic
luxuries. A young married couple of my
acquaintance has a cook who gets thirty-
seven shillings a week, but she does no-
thing but prepare three very simple meals
daily Her missis does all the other work
of the house The chef of a professional
mans club of 100 members to which I belonged
gets £5O a month, and has eight men under him'
and Ins hours are from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Flowers
are nearly as expensive as jewellery. My first
purchase was violets. The girl counted them
carefully, like sovereigns. Would 100 be enough ?
They would. Six dollars twenty-five cents, please.
Thanks. I left the shop dazed and minus 255.
American fruit is grown for show—but I’ve paid
Bs. a dozen for apples.”
Another Thrill has been introduced into the
Blue Mountain scenery. A new Pass, hacked out
of the grudging cliff’s face and fenced along the
verge of the precipice’s brow, gives shuddering
sights of what the poet calls “ Heaven’s waste
hollows.” For those who like to go down into an
abyss by way of steps cut in a vertical promon-
tory, or for those cowardly ones who like to hang on
by their handsand hair, and merely gaze down upon
the abyss carpeted with a gum forest, and see birds
flying no bigger than moths, and watch the at-
mosphere make strange harmonies of color on a
waterfall or patch of mist—well, the new
Pass will give these all that’s coming to
them. The new perpendicular thrill is at
Wentworth Falls, and has been named the
National Pass. It begins from near the Lodore
Falls, and by it the person who wants to have
shivers can make a/i almost complete circuit of
the Jamieson Valley, and shiver all the way.
A mere man sends along this story. lam using
it in a reckless moment in full expectation of
being arrested for publishing the odds, which. I
am told, is contrary to Mr. Kidston’s Gambling
Act, or Mr. Bent’s, or some other old thing :
Two firm friends in the front row of the chorus were
admired by a Man of Means. Each pretended to think it
was the other, and bluffed not to want to. Daphne wore
her fair hair parted in the mathematically correct centre.
Her hats showed the complexion tints to best advantage.
Olive was Daphne’s color antithesis, but made a dead-
heat on charms. Their garments cost a great deal, and
they knew how to put them on. The girls were admitted
by everyone to be the pick of the basket. Reginald could
not make up his mind which one he loved least. Their
chance was even money, the field. Neither could break
away from the other. The race was neck and neck. When
the vacation came Olive, who had more discernment than
Daphne, resolved on a bold plan. The two friends went
to a seaside resort. Bathing parties were the feature of
the chosen spot. Daphne did not suspect any ulterior
motive. Reginald came down at the week-ends and
joined in. The two girls disrobed in a special box,
and were more modest than the violet. They both
pretended they didn’t like appearing in public
like that, and kept in the deep water, except
sometimes when there was an uninterrupted view.
The Man of Means could not help observing that Olive in
her gown made Venus de Milo look like a back number.
Daphne was not altogether the perfect model. Con-
ventional costume hides a multitude of ends and corners.
After the return to civilisation Olive’s chance had im-
proved to about six to four on, while Daphne’s market
price was no better than 10 to one against. A few weeks
later Olive and Reginald were being congratulated by
their friends. Daphne is to be the principal bridesmaid.
It’s a wise man that doesn't marry clothes.
Mrs. Masseran, the divinity who re-moulds the
feminine form to suit the frock of the hour, will
be in Sydney and at the Metropole from the Bth
to the 23rd of this month. As everyone knows;
the corset of this April is very different from the
corset of last April, and report says that the Mas-
seran corset will give you the new hipless figure,
and so save you the time and fatigue of going out
to Centennial Park clad in a sweater and rolling
down a steep grass slope. That’s how one woman
of my ken is acquiring the new figure.
Miss Inez Bensusan, a Sydneysider living in
London—a vital-spark kind of girl with a bright,
clever face and eyes that have a streak of fire in
them—has written a play, “The Philosopher’s
Stone,” which is to be produced by the Society of
Play Actors. Miss Bensusan tried the stage here,
and did so well that it seemed a wonder she didn’t
stick to it.
Lady Chelmsford, who leads Society in the city
of poinsiettias and pineapples, has been in. Sydney
staying at the Wentworth.
Another distinguished visitor is a Mr. Clarke, a
brother of the ex-Queen of Hawaii. He sings like
a leader of one of the nine choirs of angels, and
speaks, looks, and is appallingly well-educated.
A wail from a far-off bride : “The little vessel
that runs on the coast of the Kimberley (W.A.)
district landed me, my three days’ husband, and, as
I thought, all my baggage at my new home —such
a desolate spot—and went on its way round the
coast. The box I thought was mine con-
tained naught but a Bible, a pair of trousers, and
a coil of rope! I had absolutely nothing of my
trousseau but the clothes I travelled in, and as it
will be two months before we again see the vessel,
I’ll have to cut a dash in the trousers, or wear the
rope and carry the Bible.”
I have just heard a joke about a hospital matron
who controls an institution in a M.L. township
where the patients never die ; they just grow old in
the wards. There is no Home for the Aged Needy,
so the local hospital takes its place. The matron
was called on to separate two combatants, one
aged 94 and the other 86. The rascals got fight-
ing over a religious point. I believe the matron
slapped them well, gave them some sulphur and
treacle, and sent them to bed without'any supper.
Kayser, late general manager of the Tasmanian
Mount Bischoff mine, is stated to be going to
England to live. His wife’s maiden name is
Druce, and she is a cousin of George Hollamby
Druce who went nap on the Portland estates.
Her people were in the tailoring trade at the tail
end of the gold-digging days. Probably Kayser
aforesaid is anxious to get closer to cousin Port-
land.
Miss Helen Botha, daughter of the one-time
Boer General and present Premier of the Trans-
vaal, who shared with Miss Eileen Ward, of Rain-
bow Troutland, the admiring collective gaze of
Bull when the over-seas’ Premiers were in
London lately, has been married in Pretoria to a
Mr. Daniel de Waal. A week later her aunt,
Miss Marie Botha, was married in London to a
Mr. Hawkins, an Englishman. Aunty got
engaged whilst chaperoning her niece, and on the
voyage back to their African farm the interest in
myrtle and orange blossom and satin charmeuse
must have been mutual, Aunty’s gorgeous
wedding frock was embroidered with padded
sprays of Cape (goose?) berries.
The beehive hat may be expected in Sydney
before April’s rosy face fades and gives place to
the damaged countenance of May. An old-
fashioned, rounded-cone hive was the inspiration,
for nowadays the smart, up-to-date bee gets busy
on her artificial comb in a square, box-like piece
of architecture. The millinery hive is fashioned
of flowers and feathers, but to bring it right up to
fashionable bee-line you must have imitation bees
and jewelled bee hat-pins in it. Then your
enemies may truly say you have a bee in your
bonnet.
Miss Marie Narelle and her concert co. were on
the Omrah, from Westralia, and her music-
making brought her coin and applause. Also,
she picked up a valuable “objay dart,” as we say,
when we speak the pure Mounser Frog language.
It is an Irish cross of bog-oak criftlely carved and
inscriptioned,. and many centuries old. A man
on the liner who collects “objays” offered her
three hundred pounds for it, but the singer said,
“ Not for the value of the Omrah.” Probably the
old relic has the alleged luck-bringing qualities of
the Maoriland tiki. Every oversea singer and
actress who goes to M. L. scratches at the doors of
the Tourist Department, mewing for a tiki.
Another valuable prop. Marie picked upsomewhere
in Queensland—a tenor. Passengers on the liner
swore by the Tuneful Nine that not since Dani
has there been heard a finer voice in the Bight.
The girl who “fluffs” to me from the Omrah
seems to have lost her heart (of chalk) to members
of the “Miss Hook of Holland” co., who were
on board. One Appleby “has a dimple in his
chin, and a Wallace Brownlow voice.” Miss
Ruth Lincoln is a chic little girl (something like
Billie Barlow) with a perfectly trained voice, and
Miss Orford’s head of splendid red hair will burn
up the male heart as if it were paper.
Mr. Gerard Kean, that ordinary young man
with the extraordinary tenor voice that he used
to misuse “ something awful,” sends news of him-
self from London. Also he encloses a programme
of a recital given by him in the Steinway Hall in
February. The concert bill says, “Mrs. Melba,
during her recent tour of Australia, ‘discovered’
this young singer.” What a big, fat “fox” is
that! The humoristic Kean was picked out as a
crude marvel from an Eisteddfodd, or something
in the song-competition line, at Bendigo, by Mr.
George Grimm, the Sydney teacher, a year or two
previous to Melba’s last visit. Later, he went on
tour with the Amy Sherwin concert co. Both
Grimm and Sherwin gave him training. Now de
Reszke has the Victorian's remarkable voice in
his charge, and, according to the young man’s own
account, he made a huge success of his recital.
“Members of the nobility sent him congratula-
tions on his achievement, and people waited in
crowds in the street to cheer him.-”
Miss Amy Smith, one of the pretty Sydney
girls of Mrs. “Motor-car” Preston’s outward-
bound party, caught a fever at Ceylon, and on
March 12 was laid up at the Galle Face Hotel. A
fever is not the usual marine product that pretty
girls pick up when travelling.
A serried crowd of women looked from the gal-
leries of the Town Hall down on to the smoke-
dried, chip-throated Liedertafelers and their
guests at the smoke concert last week. The
smoke of the weed-burning was undiluted with
liquid refreshment. No liquor now comes into
the Hall on such occasions, and the way members
behowl themselves on the matter is truly piteous.
Mr. Andrew Black, Miss Bessie Beattie of
Charters Towers, Miss Doris Furner of Goul-
burn, and Miss Ethel Ridings of Adelaide, have
gone off on an inter-S.tate concert tour. The
gallant widower has three young and unusually
pretty damsels to chaperone.
Mr. Philip Newbury hasn’t got any fatter
during his five years’ absence from Australia.
Nor has he got any grey in his artfully-arranged
curls. Whatever there is of expansion and ad-
dition is in his voice, which, contrary to expecta-
tion, is better than on his last visit. After his
“Lend Me Your Aid” and the excerpt from “The
Queen of Sheba,” the audience behaved as if it
had had a dynamite cocktail, and wanted another.
After Newbury, the visiting organist Scott proved
second favorite, and he has already got friendly
with the grand organ, and pets it like a tame
rabbit. Mrs, Spada’s good humored smile and
attractive gown helped the effect of her singing,
and Mrs. Appleby, the pianist, is a huggable-
looking pawist of the ivory.
Miss Maggie McKinnon, a scholar aCthe Pres-
byterian Sabbath School, Marrickville, has the
rare and unspeakably dismal record of having,
with the exception of one solitary Sabbath (which
stands out like a bright oasis in a desert), an un-
broken record of attendance at Sunday sehool
during the past ten (10) years. On the one occasion
referred to, her absence was due to illness. It
seems almost a marvel that the poor kid, in her
intense desire to preserve her record of ceaseless
attendance, didn’t get herself carried to the Sun-
day school premises on ashutteron the memor-
able occasion above hinted at.
Boh sends this tale of her household
troubles :
We have a new maid. Her name is Vere. To pronounce
it properly, you must open your mouth like a young
magpie demanding his counter-lunch. She told us when
she came that her family had seen better days—that was
(of course) before she disgraced them by taking a decent
job. Vere has learnt elocution, and intones the order to
the butcher. Also, when she shyly mentions— which she
does about seven times a week—that she won’t be home
until black midnight, she speaks in a “ Heaven-has-heard-
me-you-cannof-harm-me-now ” voice that makes one
ashamed to sniff at the old excuse about going to see
mother. Our maid leads a double life. When she con-
descends to do our work, she wears her hair up When
she takes her five-shillings-a-quarter accent out for an
airing, her hair comes down, and yards of tan limbs propel
our Vere round the corner. There ,l Mother ” awaits her
clad in a suit of checks loud enough to stop a Gebimin
band, and a tie that is an outrage, and smoking a cigarette
that ought to be put out by afire-hose. This apparition
is greeted with Vere’s “ ”
voice, and she inquires in her “ chest " tones whether the
cold suffered from is bettah. Then they fade into the
landscape, leaving a faint odor of vile tobacco and
butterfly scent on the summer breeze.
Miss Ruby Guest’s annual concert in Sydney
w,l -j thls y«>r be given in aid of the
Child Study Association. It will happen on
April 15. Ihe I remier orchestra, consisting of
mghty mandolines and banjos, combined with a
tuii-stnnged orchestra, all conducted by Miss
Ruby Guest, will be one of the attractions. Mrs.
Rosa Bird, .an Australian singer who has been
for many yeafes in London, will be another.
Mr. Lardelli, who, in spite of his Neapolitan
name, thinks and. speaks in good Australian will
rove an entertainment in the Centenary Hall on
Tuesday ApriU 4 . Asacomposei, pianist, organist
and teacher the musician is well-known and he has
the enviable reputation of doing all four things
well. Miss Geraldine Rivers, Messrs Harofd
Whittle, E. Sussmilch and Bryce Carter will
assist Mr. Lardelli. Messrs. A. H. Normal!
Ayers, Southwell, S. D. Townsend, T. E. Snen’
and R. B. Parry have charge of arrangements fT
the entertainment, and are arranging with n
their might.
Mr. Sydney Nicholson, son of old Charles
Nicholson, baronet and one time N.S.W. politician
has been appointed organist at Canterbury (E n „ j
Cathedral." Canterbury is the blue ribbon of th
organ playing or grinding world. The mighty
old cathedral dominates the mean-streeted littl
town that surrounds it. A parson in Canterbury
is no laughable “Private Secretary ” sort of indi
vidual, but a personage. A rural dean arouses"
veneration. When a bishop passes, the towns-
folk feel quite faint. Their ideals of earthlv
perfection are the Archbishop (for the time
being) and Henniker Heaton. Mr. Nichol-
son is on to a highly respectable and, moreover
soft job.
Yours Affectionately,
AKL[?].
CHARLES
* HEIDSIECK
CHAMPAGNE.
The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
0
c
\
i
<?
Wholesale
for Australia—
, Hog'S. Robinson
& Co., Propty.,Ld.
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR
& CO.,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Liqueurists to the House of Lords.
Grey Hair is not always a badge of honor, it may be
a symbol of neglect. Nature never intended that woman’s
hair should be faded and scanty. In the field of beauty
men don’t count, and in their ease a bald head may be
an ornament. But the woman who loses her hair ioses
a precious part of her beauty, and so goes handicapped
Makeshifts are unsatisfactory. Far better to have
an abundance of one’s own hair in perfect condition. A
few years ago that was not easy. But, sigh no more
ladies ! Dr. Lykuski’s Hair Tonic stimulates, preserves'
and permantly beautifies the hair. It can be used with
confidence, there is no disappointment, where there is no
failure, 3s. fid. Pneumatic Combs, feed the roots of the
hair with the Tonic, 2s. fid. each. Special Herbs for
washing the hair, are delightfully pleasant to use, and
their effect is singularly wholesome and strengthening. ] s
a packet. Leading chemists, or direct from H. Rubinstein
and Co., Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street
Sydney; 274 Collins Street, Melbourne; and 9 Brandon
Street, Wellington, N.Z.*
It is gratifying to know that the British
House of Commons, notwithstanding the invasion
of the labor-leaguer and the socialist, is not yet hy
any means a played-out institution. London
Tailor and Cutter, a journal devoted to the
higher and nether culture, states that Britain’s
Lower House “is improving in its sartorial
aspect ; and that even the representatives of the
proletariat seem to have been unconsciously in-
fluenced by the traditions of the place.” This is
matter for great thankfulness to the proletariat.
Now it is the Chinese who are protesting
against Japanese immigration into Manchuria, on
the ground that the.« Monkey is a disreputable
little animal when you scratch the bogus gilt off.
This comes from Nagasaki;—
In the opinion of the Chinese, the social side of the
Japanese communities within her borders is as great a
menace to her rightful progress as the monopolisation of
her trade facilities. Nor is this opinion based on the dis-
affected reports from Chinese or foreign sources alone;
the Japanese themselves admit that the moral quality of
the immigrants going into Manchuria is a menace to
Japan’s administration of the country. One of the lead-
ing Japanese newspapers asserts boldly that “In the
Japanese settlements in Manchuria more personsare en-
gagged in the social evil than in honest business," and the
editor gives figures to prove the truth of his allegation,
concluding with the regret that the Japanese settlements
in Manchuria are bringing shame upon the reputation of
the whole empire. As the Japanese Government taxes
this sort of thing and reckons it among the important
sources of national income, it is not expected that much
will he done toward its discouragement. China is crying
out, however, and every foreigner who has any worthy
interest in the country heartily echoes the protest,as
much against this seething flood of immorality as against
unscrupulousness in trade.
I’m the Robur Tea Girl,
and wish to point out some
of the reasons why you should
use Robur tea.
It is very economical —
about 4 spoonfuls will be
found to equal 5 of ordinary
tea.
It is delicious—quite pure
—and a really wonderfully
wholesome beverage.
Full weight of leaf is
guaranteed in each package
—the wrapper or tin is not
weighed in.
The No. 1 Grade is
particularly nice, fine tea-
just you try it!
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
“BLACK and WHITE.
FACILE PR INCEPS ~
11
SEMPER IDEM


Kodak brings added pleasure
to every recreation. There is no fuss,
bother or dark room in the Kodak way
of picture making—a simple, easy pro-
cess and daylight all the way.
•WHICH GAME DO
TT YOU PLAY ?
Whether Golf or Bowls on Land, Surf Shooting on the
Beach, or Spooning in the Shady Nooks, it is a genuine
pleasure to have
*RODAR
ALWAYS
HANDY.
They are so light to carry, so simple to use, so certain
to produce good pictures, that they lead the procession all
the world over. For sterling worth, COMBINED WITH
SMALL COST, they are beyond the reach of criticism.
And NO DARKROOM is Required
At any stage of Photography with a KODAK.
PRICES
Range
from
A Kodak “Brownie” at 5/6
TO A -Plate F.P.R. at £9
Send for Illustrated Catalogue with Prices , FREE.
TFp Proprietary Limited
Sole Agents in Australia
for KODAK LIMITED.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78-80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
ll* 3THOYS
t IUI »***•'
INSECTS
A zestful relish
scious tomatoes —
picked fruits fresh from the garden, fairly
bursting with ruby ripeness —only these
ire good enough for Dy\son to use in the
making of his Tomato Sauce. All the
delicacy and daintiness of\a Home Made
preserve—and yet more choicely flavoured,
bwing to a score of years experience in .
. condiment making. •
-S:
/There are n<X preservatives
of any kind whatever in Ajj
Wk\ DYASQNTS
5b TOMATO 'SAUCE. v :
* Tomato Chiutney. >'
Tomato Catsup. c : :
Sold by Grocers everywhere
HPT
' I imrfwl
J *


MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April G, 1908.
My Dear Yarrik.—
When the Auxiliary Squadron entered Port
Phillip, Melbourne’s Best People made des-
perate but futile efforts to get acquainted
with the new star in the Australian naval
firmament. There never was such a circus.
Everybody knew that Admiral Poore, Fawkes’
successor, was in charge of the flagship, but no
one seemed to realise the fact that officially Poore
had not then reached Australia at .all, according to
etiquette and other sorts of foolishness, and the
dignity of cocked hat. It seems that before
a new Admiral can claim official status in
Australia he must formally land at Sydney,
with proper pomp, and baggage, and bang-
ing of guns, and fan-faring of trumpets. So in
the meantime, Poore was “not in Australia,”
nor was he in England, nor was he definitely any-
where. And the squadron was not in Hobson’s Bay,
and nothingthat was, was. But Melbourne’s Gilded
Citizens could not realise these things. The flagship
was besieged with suffering flunkeys in motor
launches and distinguished persons in yachts, who
passed in cards and messages and requests and invi-
tations all day long, and were all sent empty away
with the same tired answer that “the Admiral is
not in Australia, and cannot, therefore, receive or
be received.” The members of the Military Board
thought they had a right to insist on a shake
with Poore. But they don’t think so any more.
Half-a-dozen Upper House Councillors were
badly snubbed. A few civic dignitaries had
the corners knocked off their assurance,
and even titled personages were made to
understand that Admiralty etiquette is not to be
frivolled with or have its tail shaken or dis-
arranged. Only one man touched flesh with
the new Admiral —Naval Commandant Tickell.
And his visit was on pressing business, and could
not be denied. All that was transacted during the
interview will, however, have to be solemnly gone
over again now that the Admiral has “reached”
Australia, according to the strict rules arid jokes
of the game. Just what would happen if a war-
like emergency arose whilst the fleet was only
pretending to be in Hobson’s Bay is a question
that would furnish good material for a guessing
competition, or a comic opera.
Melbourne is looking up yarns re the new vice-
regals and their folk. One Dudley tale relates to
his daddy. Dudley pere, it runs, wab remarkable
for a good many eccentricities, amongst them
long, curling hair worn clustering around his
noble countenance. The legend runs that he had
no ears. They had been cut off on an occasion
when an Ottoman elegant caught him in the family
harem, paying compliments to a pet odalisque.
His rank was too high to make his murder advis-
able, so he was merely cut in three pieces—one
Dudley and two ears. The odalisque was doubt-
less put in a bag with three cats and dropped into
the Golden Horn. This lie has been told of so
many people with long hair that perhaps you are
tired of hearing it.
“ Mrs. Arthur Hunt, daughter of your late Mrs.
John Marks, is on her way back to Sydney,”
scribbles a Londoner, who also speaks of our
recent “ Tryphena” :
Sir George and Lady Doughty have just come up to
town. They’ve taken a quite pleasant house at Bucking-
ham Gate, for the season. Lady Doughty is looking re-
markably well—much fatter, and cheerful as ever. She
takes a huge interest in politics, and, in society, identifies
herself particularly with her husband’s party. The pair
are going to entertain rather elaborately this season.
Lady D. says she’s “just too happy, except that
she misses some Australian pleasures.” She writes a
trood deal in the Saturday issues of her husband’s Great
Grimsby newspaper ; but she doesn’t write in her old
style. She’ll be out in Australia towards the end of this
year, I believe.
And D. J. Quinn, a gifted Australian journalist, who
has been knocking about London arid Paris during the
last few years, has already sailed homeward. He is the
man who was Bill Lyne’s secretary during the Conference
last year.
Fred McCubbin got a little of his deserts, last
week, when the Northqotes went down to the
quaint studio bv the Yarra, and viewed his work.
The process occupied a large part of theG.-G.’s
valuable afternoon. “Mac” lost two pictures,
and gained £2lO. One canvas was a vista of
Swanston-street; the other, “Richmond, from
the Yarra,” both appreciative renderings of the
beauty of Melbourne stern and wild.
The Clapp sisters have returned from their in-
spiration hunt. Beside inspirations they’ve
brought back some achievements in the way of
wonderful garments, as well as a budget of news
about wattle blossoms abroad. But before I go
any further I want to rave about an imported
frock the ladies have in trust for some lucky
woman. It's a skirt-long trail of supple banana
cloth, with a roguish coatlet—and oh ! roguery in
in a coat is as fatal to me as Circe was to the men
before Ulysses—a coatlet in panne tinted
passionate pink (a shade which is a cross
’tween burnt orange and blush rose), laden
with silken broideries of grapes and roses,
with a peacock’s feather blowing through
the rich design in places. It is “to be worn,” as
the fashion papers say, with a hat of glowing pink,
with some coppery grapes, and fifty fronds of
paradise birds’ plumage ; and an old ivory cane,
and bronze shoes ; and some details in ancient
lace. I shall say no more. I can’t talk of Miss
Clapp’s news while I’m thinking of that ecstasy in
coatlets, and that reverie in skirts.
Nellie Yietch, the ever young, who tells Mel-
bourne youth howto “speak a piece,” gave a
joyous party at the Vienna Cafe last week as a
finale to her holiday, and a farewell to a Sydney
presswoman, Miss Glasheen. It was a particu-
larly good-looking party and created a dazzle
in its corner. Mrs. Burt is over from her
Westralian home for a scintilating month.
She accented her pale, oval face and pansy eyes
with a purple hat. Mrs. Marsh scarcely gave the
field to her imposing sister, M'iss Reidy, who also
farewells ; she is bound for a jaunt in Europe.
Jolly little Miss Ryan—green-clad—made her
chestnut horse dance at the Vienna door, and the
hostess herself dazzled in the pallor of ermine
furs, the sight of which suggested that the ice-
bergy and snowbally season is nearly upon us.
The paler light of the Pinsehof duo—the Eliza-
beth chicken, whom the wealthy Wertheims
carried off for some joyful foreign journeyings—
sends hurrah-news from Genoa of a prospective
two-months’ jaunt in Italy, where the organ-
grinders and the macaroni come from. The elder
sister, Carmen, lingers enviously in Melbourne
waiting for Mama Pinsehof to tear herself away
from Papa Yon for a like holiday. Carmen of
the Voice turns up her pretty nose at the talk of
study in Germany. She is out for frivol, and it is
understood that she never wants to look a concert
platform in the back again.
Alice, the gilt-haired bud of the Dinsmore
quartette of smart sisters, said “she would”—
said it, too, as if she meant it—to her Mr.
Bairdley last Week, to the accompaniment of
orange blossom and vast crash of organ. The
bride wore white panne velvet and sundries.
Melbourne Anglican Grammar School jubileed
on Saturday with the pent-up enthusiasm of 50
years relay of Old Boy and New, and the relays
hurrah’d in various keys. Lunch was a quaint
gathering of Old Boys who are stout and New
Boys who are thin, but who will accumulate waist-
coat by-and-bye. Tasmanian Bishop Mercer
guested at the top corner. The proceedings
extended over a cricket match, a tennis tourna-
ment, a concert and a garden-party. The frozen
Excellencies starred at the lawn-parade, which
was an hilarious mixture of sunshine, green grass,
white canvas and pink parasol, with an all-
embracing flare of military band and a plethora
of excited flanneled youth.
Just before theatre time on Saturday night,
where Brighton-road cuts into trafficky St. Kilda-
road, a jolly theatreward motor party dashed into
a horse and buggy. The horse and light dog-cart
were lifted and turned completely round in their
tracks, and the men found the gutter, and
looked upon it, and saw it was bad. None
of the motorists was injured except Miss Moffatt
who had her nose and wrist broken. Inquiries
have been flying in for Miss Doris Moffatt—since
Mrs. Jack Moffatt was of the party—but that
young lady is on her way to London. The invalid
is a Riverina cousin of the Chiffon-Moffatts who
was contemplating an Easter visit here and in
Sydney. The little lady is mending steadily, and
is now able to sit up and wonder where her holiday
has got to.
Maoriland treated its Rumfords royally. But
Auckland got a sad set-back. Crossing from
Sydney, the Buttery Impressario wired “leaving
by boat.” Auckland got out its brass band, its
reception committee, its choirs of girls; it laid
red carpet on the wharf, and smiled a smile
like the entrance to Hauraki Gulf. Reporters
rushed the incoming boat, and found one poor
modest advance agent, who had failed to impart
the fact that the Butts were to follow in the next
steamer. The offender sneaked off the boat by
the back stairs, and concealed himself from an
outraged populace, while a wail floated over the
harbor city.
As Clara Butt sailed up the trembling steps of
the Town Hall on Saturday, with her head
swathed turban-like in a scarf, she looked like a
Queen of Sheba with the glimmer of ropes of
jewels glancing from muffling wraps and gleaming
in her ears. Unswathed and on the platform, she
was superbly dusky. Her dress was the blue-
grey of a rain-cloud, and was fringed with rain-
drops ; a tropical blaze of diamonds banked her
huge chest, and she was fairly chained with ropes
of pearls and emeralds. Women gasped at the
sight of such an Aladdin’s store of jewels and so
many feet of frontage to spread the baubles on.
In a packed house, the returned T. Brune shone
resplendent in cloth of gold fitting her slenderness
like a sheath, and some of its glitter guarded by a
blue cloak that boasted bullion tassels big enough
fer an elephant’s trappings. She had smoothed
her wildly curly locks down to a “ Peter Pan ”-ish
primness, and looked interestingly pale.
A marriage engagement acts like wine on some
feminines. The domestic servant problem lately
tied itself into an extra knot in the household of
a prosperous citizen through his daughter arrang-
ing to marry an ancient capitalist. As the
lady had reached the age of 40 years without a
proposal, she suffered a rush of haughty elation to
the head at her new experience, and during the
last stages of the engagement the domestics went
off one after the other like Chinese crackers.
They wouldn’t stay in the house at any price.
This disaster led to the presence of a number of
brand new menials on the fateful day—menials
who did themselves proud in all sorts of
ways, including beer. Not the least con-
spicuous figure was that of the new coachy, who
was a nigger, chosen for his color to provide a
tame-family-retainer touch. His performance
took place at the church-entrance, when the door
of the carriage remained securely jammed for at
least five minutes. During this time the verger
alternately wrestled with the handle and whis-
pered curses at the black one, who flatly refused
to compromise his nigger dignity to the extent of
leaving the box. He said that if the lady couldn’t
get out of the coach to get married it wasn’t his
business. He would drive her home, if she liked,
and she could stay in the vehicle for the brief
remainder of her days. He was needlessly em-
phatic about the word “brief.” Finally, when
the freight within was almost beside herself with
rage, the door flew open like a mad thing, the
charming bride-elect bounced upon the gravel
covered with suitable blushes, and the organ
began to wail.
W. F. Monypenny, who has been appointed
under the new arrangements as assistant editor of
London Times, is first cousin to Dr. Jim Har-
binson, of Brighton. Mr. Monypenny has already
edited Beaconsfield’s “Life’’for the Times, and
also represented that organ in South Africa before
and during the Boer war, and almost had the dis-
tinction of being hanged by Paul Kruger.
In one Melbourne tea room the consumer is now
solemnly handed a coupon with her dope, the
which entitles her to a bout of free fortune-telling.
The length of the forecasting process depends on
the size of the reveller’s bill—a plethora of cakes
giving her the right to a surplusage of the use of
the prophetess. A device employed in an opposi-
tion establishment is to hand the female patron a
free insurance against accidental death within
twenty-four hours. But it is too like the skeleton-
at-the-feast business of old Rome for these flip-
pant days, and the acoident insurance scheme has
failed to catch on.
Mrs. Ernest Luke—the Miss D’Arcy Lane of
the “ Hook ” company—is staying at the George
with one or two other members of the co. Ihe
large lady is not so radiant as aforetime. Her
milk and roses don’t flourish under a regime of
grease-paint, and additional flesh blurs her
gracious contours. She is so devoted to her work
that Sassiety has barely had a glimpse of her.
Jennie Brennan, the mentor of Melbourne s
dancing feet, is staying with Amy Castles at
St. John’s Wood, London, where that ultra-
respectable vocaliste dwells in Acacia House.
Miss Brennan returns shortly to her profitable
classes.
Mrs. and Mr. Bolton Houghton went off to
Japan in the Eastern for a holiday six-month.
The pleasant pair were just inundated with good
wishes, and gifts, and official presentations. One
of their au revoir festivities was arranged by folk
belonging to five nationalities, who had enjoyed
the Houghtons’ discerning appreciation, or charm-
ing hospitality. This cosmopolitan compliment
took the form of a dinner, and a programme for
which songs were sung in as many tongues as were
wagged in Babel.
The resignation of Governor Talbottle will be
regretted. Victoria might go further (horizon-
tally that is ; it would be hard to go further verti-
cally than Talbottle) and fare worse.' He has had
a quiet time in this State, without even a political
crisis to harass him, for he took office on the same
day that Thomas Bent became Premier, and he
gobs out leaving T. Bent still Premier.
From “ Rosna,” in Adelaide: —
After one night of Marie Narelle, with her sweet voice
and her bewitching smiles, Adelaide w r as perfectly willing
to fall down and let her walk over it if she listed. Her three
concerts were so thronged that she was persuaded to stay
on and give another ; and four consecutive packed houses
is a giddy record here. The first night our Irish corps came
out from its shebeen and its fastnesses to serenade the
lady and carry her in triumph to the Town Hall. After
the concert, it escorted her back, amid wild throngs that
fought to shake hands with her through the carriage win-
dow. As for the audiences, their greed w'as that of the per-
son who lends money at 100 per cent., and the charm-
ing songstress sang an average of 18 numbers a night
before she could persuade the audience to depart
in peace. Even, then, people declined to go home,
and crowded the vestibule and footpath waiting for
a last smile, while the fatted Robert of the law
urged them to be good and move on. Miss Narelle’s
frocks were beauteous things. One was a gorgeous cream
satin with narrow panels of sequined passementerie, and
trimmed with exquisite lace, another a princess robe of
green panne, and a third a dream of embroidered glacfe
over palest pink. Every night the populace brought out
its best beribboned garden to bestow upon her. His Ex.
came all the way from Marble Hill for the second concert.
Our gubernatorial are musical folk, and are to be seen at
most concerts of note. The Star departed for Broken
Hill on Saturday amid theories of the populace.
Maude Thorne, the pretty little “ Humpty Dumpty
princess, had a fox-terrier pup handed up to her at the
first night of the pantomime in the middle of a bouquet
of roses. The gift took its novel position very calmly,
eyed the audience with a blase air and flourished a tail
that wasn’t worth mentioning.
The 0. H. Angases leaped off for England in a body last
week to marry their one daughter to Captain ex-aide
Ryder. The benedict-elect preceded them by a few days
in the Asturias. All the people on the Angas Station
combined in a farewell to the family and hurled an illumi-
nated address at the bride-elect, setting forth her many
excellences.
Adelaide has quite a respectable quantity of population
after all. On the evening of April 1 there were, a crowded
carnival at the Olympia rink, a thronged opening cere-
mony at the Columbia rink, a jammed Marie Narelle
concert, and a suffocating “ Humpty Dumpty ” all raging
at once, to say nothing of the Tivoli and various other minor
shows. The Columbia rink burst into being at the Exhibi-
tion Building, and issued invitations for its opening excite-
ment, which was performed by the Mayor, Mr. Frank
Johnson, with ceremony and splendor. The great barn
was a bower of pink peach blossom and electric light, and
the guests slid to the beauteous strains of “ Humptv
Dumpty ” music. The Colonel Lees took a party along
to see the fray ; the Melroses had another; pretty Mrs.
Clem Hill and her cricketing husband were to the fore ;
also the Mayoress, Mrs. Mayfield, and her daughter, and
a crowd more. The new rink is secretaried by share-
broker Hussey, and society threatens to patronise it in
great force. At the Olympia a fancy-dress carnival drew
a crowd of equal magnitude, but less ton. The Very
Best People find Hindley-street an obstacle, or think
they do, though the theatre is situated in the same
vicinity. There were some good dresses and some that
were fearsomely platitudinous. The only noteworthy
team was “Keep off the grass”—five damsels in green
grassy costumes and peaked grassy hats, very skilfully
made. They easily gathered in first prize. “ Humpty
Dumpty,” an excellent copy of Bert Gilbert as the tramp
a ridiculous Harry Shine in his diminutive sailor suit a
Julius Superbus Charley’s Aunt, A Knight that was
Bold, A Spring Chicken, and some graceful pierrots were
an^ ng^h ?^ es l‘ Tl ?e she-frocking was undistinguished.
Ihe Gebhardt-Heinicke marriage is to happen next
month, instead of in August as at first arranged, and the
bride elect is off to Melbourne town after frocks and
frills for the trousseau. The Fox-Robertson wedding at
which the Butt-Rumford voices will assist, has been
definitely fixed for Easter Tuesday, and the church will
probably be thronged with mean persons hoping to hear
the great Clara for nothing.
Blanche Arral is actually among us at last, after dis-
appointing Adelaide about nine times. She’s an elusive
warbler, and I shall not commit myself to the statement
that she sang to us until the event is fairly over. Even
then I would like to have an affidavit
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
During this maritime, strike the N.S.W.
Government Shipping Office seems to have
adopted a policy of allowing everybody and any-
body to ship as seamen. Already there has been
reported a case wherein a boat was in danger
through the amateur crew being sea-sick and in-
capable. Now, it is the business of the Shipping
Office, strike or no strike, to maintain all the ore
cautions which the Legislature has thought neces’
saryfor safeguarding the travelling public The
fact that a strike is on does not warrant any
neglect of those precautions. It is just as uh
pleasant to be drowned during the currency of a
stiike as at any other time.
No more remarkable tale has been told for
a long time than that of the loss of the Be-a
which went down on Sunday night off the N.S.W
coast. It was a calm, clear night, and there was
no visible cause of trouble. Then the steamer
began to tip up. It tipped more and more-in
fact, it tipped for all it was worth. It kept on
tipping persistently. And finally it tipped too
much, and rolled over. Presumably a sea «£k
was wide open, and the Bega had been filling
the time since it left Twofold Bay. On no
de“^toTp ,tS “ m POSSiMe t 0 if ta&i
The Federal Customs officers are wild at
the issue of a circular which encroaches on the
annual leave allowed to them as phblic servants.
Their main grievance is a departmental rule that
when an officer gets sick leave it is to count as his
annual holiday, and no regular leave will be
granted him that year. The curious thing is that
the Federal P.S. Commissioner tried the same
brilliantly stupid idea on the Post Office, but there
it was biffed out by the Minister, first because he
said it was illegal, and second because, if an officer
had been really ill, he badly wanted his ordinary
recreation leave that he might recuperate. S 0
while one big Federal Department has adopted
the scheme as legal and sensible, the other won’t
because it is illegal and inhuman to boot, and
there is much heartburning in the Customs
accordingly.
DUNLOP
HOT
WATER
BAGS
Last many
Winters.
Winter
Comforts.
There's nothing that conveys so
much comfort for so little
money—as our Dunlop Bags.
Their cost is nothing as com-
pared to their worth. 7 hey
outwear the imported bag o» tng
to their Better Quality,
and being freshly made and free
from perish do not crack or
burst. They may cost you a
shilling or so more, but their
Quality Warrants it, for
a cheap bag gives poor service.
Obtainable all leading Stores or
Chemists, but accept only
“Dunlop" Brand which is
marked on all our bags. Failing
to obtain “Dunlop” Brand
kindly write as direct.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide. Perth.
Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z. ,
(Idunlopli
L RUBBER, l
HEELS
W-i
for
'/ Easy v
Walking
-/
or
f
OUTWEAR
ALL OTHERS
None their Equal for Quality
and Comfort.
Accept only “DUNLOP” Brand
ALL BOOT SHOPS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., all Stitti aod K. 2.
BJLQ
45
■ VI TE -NE.W-
JTXLL«JMPL
s£*>’
WORLD


&•
hbX
m
■A
i
? '
I*
-•>’
«*!>**!
r
***
■
AWARbE
'*o*
§ c (4 \
tr r ; ’
r I RTF.
-fv4
FINEST
ueur
m
SUPPLIED
TO W£
(sW6ST6nDCIUBS
John‘Dewar & Sons.l
Distillers PERTH. Scottand&LO#® o*’l 0 *’1
?r M
g?m
wx
* . /
>■
AWARDE
50MBPA]
Jfv
p
J E RTH
t r Ai} ®*f J
SL-Ai; '^aS
FINEST
ueur
m,
1$ AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPUED TO THE I
MMP&RSIINSTIT(JT6
&msr<SM>Cim
\ JohnDewaroSons H
. Distillers PERTH. Scoltond a LONDON
M
*4
DEWARS
A WORD TO THE WISE IS SUFFICIENT


Business, Robbery, etc.
The Adelaide Agricultural Society has done so
■\ ell with its autumn and spring shows of late years that
it has voluntarily' relinquished the Government subsidy,
which had been paid to it for over half a century. Ii
probably' stands alone in the Commonwealth (it is cer-
tainly by itself in South Aus.) in thus refusing to milk
the State cow when that animal was standing ready at
the door.
* * * *
“J.G.” : If the foreign tram co. does anything
the Bendigo City Council doesn’t approve of, and if the
Council bucks about it, the co. tells the council, in effect,
to go to Hades, whereupon the council at once shuts up.
It was supposed when the trams were started that lines
would be laid down in various streets for the convenience
of the people ; but the crafty co. only laid them down in
a couple of the main streets where a good revenue was
assured, and no attempt has been made to run trams
anywhere else. The treatment of conductors and
drivers is a scandal. The conductors’ pay is
wretched ; but the co.’s eye for a doubtful coin
or a missed fare is keener than a crow’s is for a lamb’s
optic. No matter what size the crowd, the conductor
has to work it by' himself; yet, while he gets no assist-
tance, the greedy co. raises the fares whenever there is
anything special on. The fool Bendigo Council, not
satisfied with giving its streets away to the co., also gave
it the right to run a motor boat on the dam at Bendigo
(Lake Weeroona), and even over a little tinpot thing like
that the co. doesn’t do all it undertook.
“Croson”: I wouldn’t be so rude as to say
that “Samey” (B. 5/3/’08) argues through his hat, but
when he took up his pen he evidently laid down his
intellect. In my' comparison of what the producer gets
and the consumer pays for eucalyptus oil, I said that the
former got 6d. a lb. for the pure, distilled article. I got
that information from Thk Lonk Hand, whose writer got
it from the producer himself. The price to the consumer
(6d. per 20z.) is the ruling retail chemist’s price in Mel-
bourne ; I have paid it myself. I am well aware that the
bottles are nominally 2£oz. vessels, but they seldom, if
ever, contain more than 2oz. I allowed something for the
bottle, cork, etc., but I failed to account for the amazing
difference between 6d. a lb. and Bs. a lb. “ Samey ” says
the chemist’s bottles cost him “ roughly ljd.” Well, on
March 10, I got a quotation from a Melbourne bottle
merchant for as many’as I wanted of those 2£oz. bottles
at Bs. per gross—less than Jd. each. Allowing |d. for
cork and wrapper, the chemist’s filled bottle costs him
lfd. ; yet he charges 6d. If he can buy it from the pro-
ducer, why is he ass enough to pay the wholesaler from
Is. 9d. to 3s. 6d. ? “Samev” moans about the “poor
chemist.” Does he call Felton, Grimwade and Co. poor?
The man I mostly patronise (he trades in a workers’
suburb, in which he has two shops) drives his own motor.
Boor devil! Hard up—and he looks so prosperous ! I
weep for him !
* * * •
Melbourne Board of Health, learning that one
particular dairyman had been found to have eiglit out of
10 samples of milk adulterated with from 10 to 23 per
cent, of water, went into the finances of his case, and
found he was making some £6OO a year out of the water
he sold as milk. The Board, therefore, wants higher
penalties provided. But it is also a higher minimum
penalr.y that is needed to block the honorarium’s tendency
to encourage theft —or, in case of repeated offences, the
provision of gaol without the ioption. Even £6OO a year
isn’t much good to a man if he has to spend the following
year or two in quod to square it.
Otto Larsen was a sailor, and made many
voyages around Cape Horn. As it takes a sailing vessel
anything from three days to three months to get through
that storm-haunted fragment of sea, Larsen must have
had a crowd of experiences stored up in his brain when
he finally shook the salt of the ocean off his sea boots and
laid aside his oilskins, in order to devote himself to litera-
ture. These experiences have given him an idea which
looks as if it mignt have money in it. A little north of the
fearsome Cape are the Straits of Magellan, and it has struck
Larsen that, as sailing ships could be towed through in
about 36 hours, and so avoid the risk and delay' of the
Horn passage, a fleet of powerful tugs stationed in the
Straits would be a paying proposition. A company is now
being formed in Denmark with a capital of 800,000 dollars
to buy the necessary vessels and start operations. The
idea of taking ships through the Cape’s quiet back lane
instead of letting them waste perhaps eight weeks,
clawing their way’ round the raging front door, looks
simple and feasible any'how.
* • » •
A lax and dirty law in Victoria permits codlin-
moth-eaten apples, so long as there is a trace of apple
left, to go to jam factories to be made into tasty
jelly. That is bad, though it might be worse ; the man
who doesn’t desire to treat his stomach to boiled moth
needn’t buy’ or eat “apple ’’jelly, and it can be boycotted
as a sure and reliable horror. But recent inquiry has shown
that the pulp from the codlin apple is liable to be used by
some nice, clean, honest jam manufacturers as “ stock ” for
all sorts of preserves. That is to say, the Victorian apricot,
black-currant, peach or strawberry jams on the market are
sometimes boiled moth. Under the Victorian Pure Foods
Act, when jam is made of mixed fruits it must be so
labelled, and the label must indicate fruit pre^
ponderates by naming it first. Unluckily, a rr
an animal it need not be mentioned, a d
to state which insect predominates. One pulp
that he defies any analyst to say when co PP ~
has been used with the delicate strawberry o , tartblack
currant. So until the unclean law is altered boiled motn
seems inevitable. .
“Hiuhen” - “Dere’s nuddin’ like crockery,
remarked the proprietor of the Royal Exchange and
Barter Mart, as he hustled the flies off the anclen .gar
ments adorning the window. Clolhin 8 g
mongerv’s goot, but crockery—deres nuddin
crockerv. Dere vas a man in here lwt vee .
from de country. One of dem easy', confidm
‘ I’m gettin’ married,’ sez he, an I vants, some c p
saucers.’ Veil, I sold ’ini a few dozen, an e pays for em
like a toff, an’ gives me ’is address. Of course, -
him, ‘Dese crockeries are sent at de buy er s risk. D y
vill be packed mit de care of a mudder for her only child,
but if anvdings gets itself broken ve vill not be
To-dav I received a letter from him saying all the cups'as
broken. Certintly dev vas packed mit sO'aw und ea
How vas dey broken? Vell-pizness is pizness, und ve
must somehow get rid of our damaged stock. *ani
Dere’s nuddin’ like crockery.” #
“ San Remo ” : A magistrate in Au vergne
(France) was appealed to by a lady and a corset-maker
about one of the contrivances that hold the »' od c'T
woman together. The lady said it was a bad tit and
didn’t grasp her form properly. She also refused t° pay
font. The manufacturer said it was a lovely fit, and
claimed the money. The French J. P. (who seems to have
had a better grasp of language than the Australian
variety) puzzled over it for a week, and then produced
this beautiful judgement.
“ Whereas we , having heard both parties, find
the point at issue to be whether the corset did
fit or not, and whereas to decide the pbint we
should require to see the corset, which has not. been pro-
dueed, and whereas were it produced we should require
it to be tried on in our presence, and whereas even were
it produced and tried on in our presence to decide the
point whether it fits or not we would require to possess
in the matter certain aptitudes and faculties which are
not in our province ; for these reasons we can but declare
ourselves incompetent in the question.”
A Chief Justice couldn’t have got out of it more grace-
fcll-v- ,
“ J.G.”: Re imported Yankee axe handles
(B. 13/2/’08). I was working for a Freetrade cocky at a
fencing job, and broke his pick handle—an imported
eighteenpennv stick. Then I got a box sapling and made
another handle. The boss said “ the damn thing
wouldn’t last tw'o minutes.” So he sent to the store and
had another Yankee handle bought, as “no Australian
timber was worth a curse for a job like that. I made
mv grey' box handle, nevertheless, and used it for the
rest of‘the job. That was just on five years ago. The
handle is as to-day as it was then, and has been in
use nearly all the time,‘but the last I saw of the cocky’s
imported handle was when the broken butt was being
used to ram five bushels of wheat into a four-bushel ba^.
* * * •
“ Harrison O.” : There are debt-collectors, and
blokes who collect debts, and it has been my
rotten luck to have large experience of them. There
is the chap paid on commission ; he collects
debts. Then there is the debt collector who re-
ceives a regular screw ; he does not collect debts.
Once knew one of the former, who would enter a shop
to collect a just and lawful, and, if told to go to Sheol,
would march out of the door, and standing on the foot-
path in front of the shop would holler : “Come outside,
William Jones, and pay your just debts,” or something
equally unkind and inconsiderate. He was one day en-
gaged in doing this in a busy part of the town, when
there came a sound as of immense feet striking the stone
pavement, and the Law happened along and fined him for
hollerin’ in a public place.
Everybody (nearly) has beard of the banket
who, when a run started on his bank, warmed his
sovereigns before handing them out, so as to spread the
idea that he had a coin-factory on the premises, and could
therefore issue sovereigns till further orders. The man
who did it was “Brooks, the Banker,” and the yarn i>
recalled through the death, the other day, of his son.
the very ancient Lord Crawshaw, who used some ol
“ Brook's, the Banker’s ” money to buy himself a eheaj
line in peerages.
* » » •
“ Mitchell ” : Don’t throw bricks at me when I
tell you that a while ago, caught by a widely-published
advt., I ordered some goods from Vienna, Austria, and
sent the money (about £6) for them in postal notes. The
goods arrived all right, but as they were forwarded on the
“reimbursement” system, I could only get them by
paying for them over again, a bank here doing the collect-
ing. The bank can give me no information, and requests
for the return of my £0 have produced no reply. Is “ re-
imbursement” another way of spelling “Business,
robbery', etc.”?
The N.S.W. Fruit Pests Act, passed last session,
is, so far, a failure. One reason is that the private grower
escapes scot free, no matter how dirty he is. This is
especially the case in the near West, the natural home
of the apple industry in N. S. Wales. The professional
fruitgrowers thereabouts usually bandage the trees or do
something to check the pest, but the private grower does
nothing. One tradesman in a western town has a garden
almost as large as some orchards, and therein he is breed-
ing enough codlin moth to populate the whole apple dis-
trict west of the mountains. It is all just about as
ridiculous as it would be if in the city only the pubs and
boarding-houses were required to connect with sewers and
assist the garbage off the premises.
* * * *
“C.S.G.”: Wilson was a surf-bather. Every
morning he took his dip, and those who kept timorously
away from the outer breakers envied his dashing pluck as
his bald head rushed to meet them on the crest of a huge
roller.
But on a fatal day he bought a water frontage, and
forthwith lost his dash. He gradually sank until he was
nothing hut a third breakerer—a poor weak creature of no
moral fibre. His friends shook their heads darkly as they
hinted at the cause. The lawyers had got him, thev
said. He had infringed some law- in building on his
water frontage, and litigation had resulted. The case had
gone from court to court, and then started again at the
bottom court. Wilson dined with lawyers, and had them
out for the night. He explained legal intricacies to his
friends. He became a bore
Then, when his money and his water-frontage were
gone, the cases ceased, and Wilson went out again into
the first breaker. He stayed in there all day, and slept
in a tent at night. He said the only place where he was
safe was in the water, because, he explained, no lawyers
went there. At last the bitter day came. Wilson was
floating outside the breakers, and the sun glistened on
his bald head. A new-comer swam towards him. “ Hullo,
Wilson !” he shouted. Wilson looked and gave a scream
of anguish. He swam hastily towards the open sea,
heeding not ominous black fins that cleaved the water
near him. “Come back, you fool ! ” the stranger shouted.
Wilson swam towards the sharks. They got him.
“ Most inexplicable,” said the stranger afterwards to
Wilson’s friends. “ Directly he saw me he swam to where
the sharks were.”
“ Who are you ? ” someone asked.
“ I’m Wilson’s lawyer,” was the reply.
Wilson’s friends shuddered and tip-toed softly away.
A DRINKING SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Collector of Customs held an inquiry into the com-
plaint that Mrs. Threlfall, of YVarrnambool, had unlawfully
manufactured beer. It was shown that the officer had
purchased ginger beer and herb beer from Mrs. Threlfall.
The former was alleged to contain 8£ per cent, and the
latter 3 per cent, of proof spirits. It was stated that
ordinary’ beer contained from 10 to 11 per cent, of spirit,
and that the ginger beer was nearly as intoxicating as
ordinary beer. . . . Mrs. Threlfall was proceeded against
in February of last year in consequence of it being reported
that children had been seen coming out of her premises
“ reeling.”— Daily paper.
Fill a glass with ginger beer,
Drink it down and fill again ;
You w’ill wear a sleepy leer,
And you will not feel the cane.
Spend your pennies like a King,
And, when all the liquor’s stowed,
Lift your squeaky voice and sing
As y'ou’re reeling down the road.
For it’s good old, rare old, fermented ginger -beer !
The fences run to meet us and we’re feeling very queer.
The teacher’s saying something, but we’re dashed if we
can hear
When we’ve had a pint or two o’ good old ginger!
’Cause the pubs ar" shut on Sunday’,
My dad hates the Day of Thirst;
It’s just the same as Monday
If I w’ant to have a burst ;
So as I take my liquor,
At the tuck-shop lass I wink
( Am can do it when you “ shikker ”
On a good teetotal drink !).
For it’s good old, strong old, fermented ginger -beer,
And poor old Dad, he thirsts at home—he never comes in
here.
We’ll make a day of it, eh, lads? (Another round, my
dear !)
Oh ! th’ world looks brighter through a glass o’ ginger !
When you’ve had a rotten day,
And been kept in after school,
Take a sprat and sneak away'
Where th’ ginger’s sweet and cool.
It’s no good to add and fret
When th’ figgers won’t agree ;
It is wiser to forget—
So you take this tip from me.
Yes, the good old, rare old, fermented ginger-beer !
It sparkles and it bubbles, and it’s not too bloomin’ dear.
Don’t waste yer time! You wait yer chance, and get
away from here,
An’ go down and have a pint or two o’ ginger!
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
Many sufferers from rheumatism have been
surprised and delighted at the prompt relief
obtained by applying Chamberlain’s Pain Balm.
A permanent cure may be effected by continuing
the use of this liniment for a short time.*
A Noted Moustache Producer.—Capillarine, the well-
known preparation of Messrs. Craig' and Aitken s, has
created a demand for itself which merit alone is responsible
for. For 20 years this famous moustache producer has
given supreme satisfaction to all who have used it. Its
hair producing qualities are all the more surprising hv the
short space of time it takes to bring about the desired
result. The thinnest moustache can be made strong and
handsome by this preparation. No other hair producer
is so quick and effective as Capillarine. Messrs. Craig
and Aitken say that one jar is quite sufficient for anyone
to test the merits of Capillarine. It’s action is just as
quick on one face as it is on another. The price is 10s. 6d.,
and is obtainable at Craig and Aitken’s, 654 George
Street, Sydney. Established 25 years.*
better
Ability.
Office Equipment. Methods.
There is a time-worn saying that “Salesmen
are horn —not made ! ”
The first part of that saying is true, and will
always be true. The phenomenon of being born
seems to be common to all men, salesmen included.
Sheldon holds, however, that Salesmen are
“ made ” as well as born, and he has proved his
claim in thousands of cases. He holds that even
the “born” Salesman can be made stronger by
his system of true education —that no Salesman
is so good he cannot become better.
A Sale is a mental thing or process—the intelli-
gent co-operation of one mind with another. A
sale is brought about, therefore, not by technical
knowledge alone, but by the power of persuasion
—the ability to persuade another to your way of
thinking. And the power to persuade is the
result of a masterful personality and of that only.
Salesmanship is a profession, and the highest
paid of all professions. There is more money in
selling than in anything else — if you can sell.
Salesmen virtually set their own salaries, because
they are producers ; and in proportion as they
produce are they paid.
On the salesman —the business mrfn —there are
no limits set. As he can produce, in that pro-
portion can he take. Wealth—material power—
and all the good things that go with them, await
the man who can learn to be a great salesman—the
man who can create business.
But this wonderful power to create business—
this masterful personality that persuades —from
where does it come ? It conies from the man him-
self, from the development of the latent forces
within him. All growth is from within outward.
All successful men are,men of strong personality.
And all normal men have the material out of
which to develop strong personality.
We have helped 29,000 students—helped them
to greater strength which they have turned into
increased earning's. On the average we
multiply a student’s earning capacity by two—no
matter what his income or position may be.
We have spent £200,000 to perfect the course of
study that will make you stronger, that will
double your earning capacity.
And you can master it in your spare moments
—no time needed from your regular business.
All instruction is bv correspondence.
Write for 24-page booklet on Personal Power.
Desks.
A good Desk is really an office within an office. The affairs of the
business centre there; it is the radiating point, and, if correctly designed, it
affords just what is needed —privacy, convenience, and comfort.
The Roll Top Desk is the high-water mark of desk development,
and with its lock drawers, pigeon-holes directly within reach, and roll
curtain to pull down over papers, ensuring that they will remain
undisturbed and free from dust, it is little wonder the modern man of
affairs feels that he cannot do without one. Write for our catalogue
of special values in desks of all kinds. We both manufacture locally,
and import direct from foreign makers.
Safes.
To carry on business without a Fire-Proof Safe amounts to some-
thing like criminal negligence. Records, private papers, books of account,
receipts, etc., should be protected. The value of insurance depends upon
its collection, and where the records of a business have been destroyed
by fire, it is impossible to establish a claim. A good safe prevents all
confusion and loss. Our safes have a record of nearly 40 years in Aus-
tralasia, and they are better now than ever before. Write for catalogue.
Typewriters.
The Briton is a standard machine improved by simplicity, Universal
keyboard— improved escapement —automatic ribbon movement. Swift,
strong and silent. Write for terms and full description. Agents wanted
in unallotted territory.
Systems.
A card or filing system to be valuable to you must be made to
fit your business as far as possible. These systems are very simple, and
save hours of useless worry, and prevent hundreds of delays and errors.
We manufacture and import Cabinets of all kinds, and design and
install systems for all purposes. Write for the details of advantage that
these modern appliances afford. Catalogues, etc., free of charge.
Can you afford to waste time and effort experi-
menting with business problems which other men
have solved ?
Will you deny yourself the opportunity to learn
the proved facts of business —in these days of
competition when one established fact is worth a
hatful of theory ?
Business knowledge is Brain Capital.
The Business Man's
Library
edited by 100 Business Men with world-
wide reputations.
Vol. I—Organisation
2 Costs
3 Credits (SL Collections
4 Correspondence
5
6 Selling
7 Advertising'
8— Personality
9 Employer &. Employee
lO — Accounting (Q. Office
Methods
Now used by nearly 750 Australian Firms.
Also
“System** Magazine-
The International Monthly Magazine of
Business (English or American Edition)*
“ Salesmanship ** —
A Monthly Journal that will put life,
enthusiasm and efficiency into every
department of any business.
THe SHeldon School
of Salesmanship,
Southern Sales Limited
supervised by
282-284 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (Box 1700).


Your Fine- Looking Imported
Piano is being; Torn to Pieces.
It may look well enough.
It may sound well enough.
It may have lasted you some years.
Bu„ it has a wooden wrest-plank, and it is being torn to pieces.
You see, there are no less than two hundred and sixteen levers in it. Each lever is banged into a hole, a trifle
smaller than itself, in a wooden plank.
Each lever has a steel wire attached to it, and every wire is at high tension.
The total pull of those two hundred and sixteen wires on
the two hundred and sixteen levers is nearly sixty-seven
thousand pounds (67,0001 b.).
No wooden wrest-plank, even though it be made of many
plies of timber, can stand such a strain. Not even if the strain
was only on one lever.
What happens then when the plank is fairly honeycombed
with levers P The wood, of course, gives way ever so little, and—■
your piano is out of tune.
The tuner calls.
He tv/ists those two hundred and sixteen levers about,
straining the wires up to pitch again.
But the same thing occurs again
And again.
And again every time the piano is tuned, till at last the wood
splits, as shown in Fig. 1 on this page.
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 2.—The Beale-Vader
Patent Piano-frame, re-
moved from the piano,
and the end of the wrest-
plank cut off to show the
wrest-pins in the solid
iron frame.
The piano cannot then be repaired, except at
great expense.
But this is not so with the Beale Pianos.
In the Beale Pianos there is a solid iron plate,
instead of the usual wooden plank.
See Figs. 2 and 3.
That iron plate will stand any strain that can
be put upon it,*
Consequently Beale Pianos will last a life-
time, and they will require tuning only when the
wires stretch, at long intervals.
Hence we guarantee Beale Pianos for twenty-
five years.
And OUR guarantee is worth something, for
we are the largest distributors of pianos in Australia,
having branches throughout the Commonwealth.
Our catalogue will be sent to you free on
request.
ms
•a •
Pml
P’£* 1* Part of the wooden wrest-plank of an imported piano. Note
how close the lever-holes are. The wood has split, and the piano cannot
be tuned. This is an average wooden wrest-plank, neither better nor
worse than is usually found in imported pianos, and consequently they
are subject to the above fault, which cannot be remedied except at
great expense.
\
#%.
m
\
THE BEALE-VADER
PATENT.
Fig. 3. —A nearer view
of the Beale-Vade.r frame
shown in Fig. 2. Note
the wrest-pins and ten-
sion-screws contained
entirely in solid iron.
It is important for
piano-buyers to note
that these pins can be
adjusted to ANY ten-
sion, tight, medium, or
loose, by means of the
tension screws at the
back. We always
adjust them to resist
the pull-round of the
strings, but at the same
time they are easily
turned by the tuner
WITHOUT TOUCH-
ING THE TENSION
SCREWS. Our Pianos
are tuned in the ordinary
way, BY ONE MAN
ONLY, FROM THE
FRONT ONLY. Be
sure to note this, and
when you go to compare
our pianos with the im-
ported you will know
what to think if you are
told otherwise by un-
scrupulous competitors.
ALL BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS ARE GUARANTEED
FOR. TWENTY-FIVE YEARS.
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,’
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A. ; 837 Hay Street. Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only
address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
There are some queer fish at Broken Hill.
When Tom Burrows dropped in and swung a pair of
Indian clubs for several days and more nights, the Mayor
and others heaved up and rushed him with ruby and
diamond mementoes. Exactly wherein lies the charm of
watching a man, trained to the business, swing a couple
of pieces of wood for some days aiid nights is hard to say,
but it seems to have charmed them to some purpose at
Broken Hill. A small windmill can be backed to beat
Burrows hopelessly in the waving business every time,
but, so far, no one has heard of any mayor and citizens
presenting any windmills with jewellery. This sort of
thing is not sport. It is professional-showman business.
Swinging clubs is a good, useful, and healthy exercise
when practised in moderation ; but, as Burrows practises
it, it is not calculated to make a community stronger or
better able to resist an army of invasion. And the object
of all real sport is to make the bodies of the people sound
and strong. When it gets past that and becomes a
means for someone to make a living out of, it becomes
something of a curse.
* * * #
That curious accident that befell the well-known
motorist, 0. B. Kellow, one of the best and most careful
drivers in the Commonwealth, is another example of the
fact that the top of the hill is the most dangerous part of
the road. In this case the jinker was ascending one side,
and Kellow’s motor the other, and naturally they did not
see one another’s lights till they actually met. And then
there was hardly time to see them. It was the long arm
of coincidence again. Had one reached the top five
seconds before the other, there would presumably have
been no smash. But they arrived simultaneously from
opposite sides. Then the first intimation the two
drivers had was a smash, in which one of Mr. Kellow’s
party had her nose and wrist broken, and the jinker
people were hurled some distance, their vehicle smashed,
and their pony killed mortally dead. Apparently the only
way to avoid that sort of smash is for ail vehicles to carry
a masthead light. Otherwise, when two vehicles
reach the top, absolutely together, from opposite sides,
there is bound to be a smash.
Record-breaker E. A. Pearson writes to correct
the impression that his Sydney to Melbourne ride was
unpaced, Although he was not paced throughout, he
had assistance from cyclists and motorists a portion of
the journey, and wherever it was available. Probably
he would have chipped a little more off the record had
he been assisted right through. Under these circum-
stances, Mr. Salvana’s attempt on the time will be quite
legitimate, although somewhat unsatisfactory, as it is
understood he will have a motor bike to make him go right
through. Meanwhile it may be mentioned that it was a
remarkably square and honest thing for Mr. Pearson to
thus formally disclaim credit which he thought wasn’t
due. Most liien take whatever credit comes their way—
due or not.
* + * *
There is to be no race on Sydney Harbor for
the Albert Cup this season. The Fairbanks being
the only craft nominated, it wins in a walk over.
Whatmore’s -hydroplane could not be finished in
time, and that curious mixture of caution and
recklessness didn’t commit himself by nominating
while there was a fear the “thing” could not be
ready. How'ever, it will make its first appearance early
in Mav, and ought to astonish the natives con-
siderably, It- is only lift, long, lOin. deep, and 40in.
wide, with the plane cut in the midship three inches.
The bottom is dead flat, and the sides perpendicular.
Every ounce of unnecessary w'eight has been eliminated,
aqd the fearsome sight is expected to do 20 miles an hour
easily. The hqll is being constructed by Hayes, of Bal-
main, a smart man at delicate experiments, and the
4h.p. double-cylinder two-cycle Aster engine will be in-
stalled at Mort’s Dock under the personal supervision of
tfie redoubtable Charlie Relph. The Dock is making a
specially designed steel propeller, which will be nickeled
and fqrm the end of a Jin. steel shaft- Whatmore has cut
some pretty capers on the top of the water in his time,
but whizzing round in this he should break all his pre-
vious records.
t * * *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union is making
another change in the rnethod of deciding the premier-
ship. Each of the ten clqbs will meet all the others once,
and the two at the bottom of the list will tumble right
oqt of the competition, The other eight wifi draw for
opponents,, and the four clubs which are defeated will
also drop out. Theo the four m ee t once, aqd the two
that are defeated go under, leaving the two top dogs to
fight for the supremacy. The flavor of sudden death is a
distinct improvement. How the league will decide its
championship has not transpired.
* f f *
Sydney Metropolitan Rugby Union jiad four
first grade practice matches on Saturday, and it was in-
teresting fo note th,at Eastern Suburbs, Which af the end
of last season was a wreck owing to the irruption of the
League, has apparently pulled itself together. It
managed to overwhelm North Sydney. The League held
a match at the Agricultural Ground, the contestants
being Eastern Suburbs and South Sydney. On this occa-
sion Eastern Suburbs was licked. Another League match
was held at Rosebery Park, where Newtown beat Western
Suburbs. An interesting struggle is going on just now
for possession of Redfern Park, for which the League has
made application, undertaking to make many improve-
ments, pay a liberal rent, and hand over all improvements
free of cost at the end of the lease. Good as the offer is,
there are some aldermen who are very hostile, and it is
quite evident that the football riot has spread to other
circles. Its outbreak in the municipal councils is merely
humorous, but it will be a serious matter if it spreads to
the church.
* » * *
The remarks in Bulletin of March 26 on the
finances of the Essendon Football Club (Vic.) were
founded on erroneous ideas, and one of the grievous
things in the scheme of creation is the awful distance ope
can get away from accuracy if he starts from wrong ideas.
In this case a club that, according to the audited and
certified balance-sheet it has sent along, has actually been
the pure merino in the matter of professionalism, was
incorrectly branded as a shocking example. AmJ all this
because a reporter who took down the remarks of a rather
copious orator failed to grasp that the speaker, was re-
ferring to another club. The Essendon Club, is acquitted
of the charge of professionalism, and more, is set on a
pedestal as an example to other bodies of the same sort.
And The Bulletin’s Melbourne sporting authority says
that he has lost all faith in copious orators.
, * * * *
The still lingering 1 idea that Rugby is the
popular form of football in England should have received
its knock-out when news came that the Soccer game
between England and Scotland drew a crowd of 180,000,
of which 50,000 had to be turned away owing to lack of
accommodation. When did a Rugby match dra,w like
that ?
There is much raking over of jerseys and pick-
ing out of toe-ball boots in Maoriland in preparation for
the forthcoming visit of the British Rugby team. Several
members of the notorious “All Black” combination are
crawling back to the field, and all the younger fry are
scrambling for positions in the teams for the big matches.
One bright particular star this season will probably be
Donald Stuart, supposed to be the finest forward Maori-
land has ever produced. He missed the “ All Black” trip
to Fogland in 1905 by reason of a doctor’s certificate, but
he will play this year for Dunedin Pirates, and probably
represent Otago and Maoriland. The cash spectre seeni s
to loom large in Rugby affairs just now, and there i s
likely to be the usual wild and whirling cry with refer*
enee to paying players for time lost and expenses-
Nothing has been definitely settled, but it is fairly well*
known that several prominent players intend to apply to
their unions for such payment. Evidently the unions
will find themselves between the devil of secret payments
and the deep sea of professionalism, and there is much
speculation as to what the result will be.
* * * *
The interest in Sydney cricket is languid, North
Sydney having won the Metropolitan Premiership beyond
ail hope of recovery. The opening of the final round
on a dull, wet Saturday afternoon was a dreary business.
The top score was made by Glebe against Middle
Harbor, 390 being placed on the board for a loss of
seven wickets. Of this creditable score Bubb pounded
together 130. Burwood was next in order of merit,
making ‘221 for seven wickets against Paddington, and
again one man was responsible for the display, Strange
making 102 off his own bat. These two were the only
century-getters. Petersham made 185 against Gordon,
and Redfern smote 142 with its piebald hands against
Balmain. Waverle.v made only 82 against North Sydney.
In the bye Sydney made 200 against Callan Park. Among
the bowlers, Deane’s seven Waverley wickets for 24 was
easily top of the list. Sullivan, of Balmain, did well
against Redfern, taking five wickets for 45 ; and he was
backed up by Fitzhardinge, who knocked down three for
28. Schmidt, of Callan Park, caught a streak of glory
with three Sydney wickets for 39 ; but all the rest were
of no account.
* * * *
In Carlyle Ryan, Ascot Vale (Vic.) State school,
is the proud possessor of the champion bowler for
this season, and possibly for all previous time. He took
134 wickets (a record) for 261 runs—average, 1‘94 (another
record). His best performances were 11 for 2 against
Kensington, including a pair of hat-tricks in one innings,
and 14 for 26 against Essendon (district premiers), includ-
ing five wickets with five successive balls. He might
have added to the number of wickets had not a misplaced
bit of house put him out of the final against Essendon.
Tne brick was meant for someone else, but all the same
Ryan ceased bowling for the season.
Melbourne first grade cricket entered upon the
final round of the season last Saturday, with little visible
joy and with gradually diminishing public interest.
Spectacularly the best struggle—if these matches can be
called struggles—was that between South and Carlton at
the latter’s ground. Carlton, going in first, totalled 373
at the close of the day, to which Fontaine contributed
121 in 73 minutes’batting. Other useful batsmen were
Gardiner (82) and Hetherington (59 not out). Up at
North’s ground, the local team had to forfeit its match
with Fitzroy, owing to some argument with the reserve
committee, which had cheekily lent or otherwise
disposed of the ground for a bike carnival on
the following Saturday. Accordingly, the afternoon
was spent in a “scratch” match between the two
teams. North knocking up 230 for three wickets (of which
Carroll made 162 not out) declared its innings closed.
’Roy’s response was only 149. East Melbourne, the
season’s premier, made a torpid show against Melbourne,
its tally being 158 for eight wickets, to which Frank
Laver contributed 53 not out. Richmond provided a little
gentle radiance in its score of 302 for eight wickets
against Essendon ; but the other contests were as vain as
the good young man’s strivings for the “terewth.”
University batted up 208 against Prahran, which
club responded amiably with tnree for 21. Colling-
wood, suffering from ennui, or something, gave up
the ghost for 140 against St. Kilda. After much
pressing, St. Kilda modestly responded with six for 117.
Yet with these scores no bowler was particularly success-
ful, except, maybe Rogers, who gathered seven for 69 in
the ’Varsity-cttm-P’ran tea-party. Quite the liveliest per-
formance for many a day was seen in the second grade
match between Melbourne and North at M. C. C. Ground.
Seemingly, Melbourne smote vigorously, for it hit up 412
for one wicket only. The persons responsible for this
remarkable exhibition were mostly Johnston (184), Jen-
nings (178) and Sundries (26), all not out. Strange how
persons with plain names do big and unassuming things.
Just think of Johnston who sat on the alligator !
In the presence of Premier Bent and the elite
of South Melbourne, as the sassiety journals put it, Mrs.
Isa Bell and Miss Ivy Evans sprinted over 50, 100, and 150
yards for the ladies’ championship of Australia on that
ill-omened day, April 1. To commence, a 75yds. girls’
handicap was put through in heats, the winner turning
up in 12-vear-old Dulcie Downs, of Fitzroy, who got syds.
start. Sister May ran second from scratch. Then
Mrs. Isa and Miss Ivy cantered over the 50,vds.,
the maiden winning easily by syds. Bike races
filled in time while the ladies recovered front
their arduous velocity. Then the two moved speedily
over the 100yds., Ivy again winning easily. Though the
argument was thus settled, the pair of swift ladies
kindly gave the spectators a third exhibition of
their lusty endeavors by galloping over 150yds., and Miss
Evans a third time lost the plleged Champion. So she
won the title, a sash, a hadge, and a side wager of £5O.
Between whiles occurred a 100yds. scratch test, the
winner of which is exipected to challenge Miss Evans at
some future date. The final of this was the only exciting
event of the afternoon, little May Downs once more
showing her superiority, but by only a few feet,
over Lily Watton, a 15-year-old stripling front Werribee,
The episodes merely accentuate the ancient conclusion
that though female children can run, canter, gallop, or
sprint, women are not built for that purpose, the 14-year-
old May Downs—still a child in every respect—easily
losing her older antagonists. Mature intends women for
other tfian sprinting purposes, and they may as well
realise the fact at once. Iyy Evans’- time for the s,oyds.
was 7£see., for the 100yds. 14 l-ssec., and for the 150yds.
22sec., while little May Downs leaped over the century in
13 2-ssec. Thopgh the members’ stand was well filled,
the “ gate ” was poor—the 1500, cash spectators yielding-
little more than expenses.
The most unaccountable item about the episode
was how Mrs. Isa ever came to dub herself Lady
Champion of Australia ; either she is sadly out of form—
apd she didn’t look it —or she was never anywhere near
being on the yopf of things. She is a medium-sized, fair
woman, carrying a tanned skin and 37 years. Ivy Evans is
a cheerful-looking damsel of 20 or so, dark, plump, and
possessing legs that many a ipan might envy. Isa
adorned herself ip a sky-blue cap, blue silk
blouse apd runping pants reaching to the knees,
apd regulation pumps. Ivy was similarly attired
Save for bjack pants apd the absence of a cap. This
writer is of opinion that Mrs. Isa would have beep better
advised had she pitted her daughter against Miss Evans,
the infant being taller and plumper than her mother,
and promising to take after her father, a long, dark,
serious-minded gentleman, who looks as though he
follows the profession of storeman or carter. It was a
joyless exhibition anyhow, and the piost solemn spectacle
o,ri tb,e ground was T. Bent.,
* * n •
Miss Ivy Evans, the moderately deer-footed
lpdy who ran away from Mrs. Newman (Mrs. Isa Bell) at
South Melbourne "for the ladies’ championship of Victoria
is to meet Mrs. S. Brennan, said to be the streak-of-light-
nipg of N.S.W., somewhere about Easter Monday.
• * *
Sculler Fogwell, it is pleasing to note, has no
difficulty in obtaining a stake for his match with
Thoroughgood, of Newcastle. At a meeting of his sup-
porters at Coraki on Friday night it was decided to find
the whole of his backing, and £l2O was subscribed in the
room. Evidently Fogwell is a small tin god on wheels
round about Coraki.
* * * *
E. Williams, who runs a circus somewhere in
Australia, is a man who will probably die rich. He
recently flung a bomb-like challenge into the camp of the
Buckjumpers Ltd. He offered to back his horse Cyclone
to throw any rider in the camp for £5O, the house to be
divided between him and Buckjumpers Ltd.; or he offered
to take £2O for exes, and back his horse to throw the two
Dempseys in one night for the whole of the gross takings,
the contest to take place on Easter Monday night.
Money talks, they say, but apparently Williams’ money
roars.
“Ancient”- The sweep promoter and his
agents increase and multiply in and aboiit Sydney, and
every week gather huge sums made U P book of
method is to pay a fairly good amount for each
tickets sold. Possibly there isn t a big _ b ■ its
about the city without a sweep-ticket agent among
employees, and no one appears to know where,, wh ,
how Ihe tbine-s are drawn, or who draws thein—M tney
are drawn at "all. The confidence of human nature in
gambling matters is truly remarkable. #
Ordinarily the Sydney pony-course patron gets
seven races for his mone.v-one more than piovided at
horse gatherings ; but Rosebery Park Club, at its Mast
meeting, served up 12. Excessively big fields compellec
divisions and two deciding heats in a couple of instances,
and a dead heat was run off.
* * *
Cabled news of the death of the Duke of Po-
land's famous stallion St. Simon, by Ualopin-St. Angela,
recalls that he was bought at the sale of Prince Batthy-
anv’s stud in 1883 for 1660g5., and was never beaten in a
race. His fees at the stud rose gradually from 50J-S.
500»-s in 1899, and even at that figure the list was always
filled in advance. From 1894 to 1904 the owner s income
from St. Simon varied between £12,000 and £-0,000
annually, and, up to 1905, fees alone totalled a quarter ot
a million. St. Simon sired Persimmon, La Heche, urns-
quin, Diamond Jubilee, Signorina, Memoir, William • »
Semolina, Amiable, Parley Dale, Rabelais, etc. all Jig
wealth winners. #
Pony racing is now considerable of a misnomer
when applied to what goes on at Sydney’s unregistered
courses, as a majority of the events are for horses.
Trainers recognised by the A.J.O. purpose tor
permission to handle ponies of 14.2 and under, and run
them at meetings without the pale, as occurs in Victoria
—where complications have arisen in consequence, ana
many more are brewing. In certain Victorian cases
registered trainers prepare ponies that compete with
horses that are disqualified by the V.R.0., and those
ponies still remain eligible to race at meetings neia
under the patronage of the Grand Panjandrum of the
State. It is suggested that a registered trainer might be
disqualified at an unregistered meeting, and the V.R.L.
be compelled either to endorse the punishment (thus
practically recognising the outlawed section) or smart
under the stigma of entertaining l, as an angel one whom
even the tabooed had branded as a devil.
* * * *
The jumping programme for the approaching
A.J.O. autumn meeting promises poorly indeed. Only
seven nominated for first, and ten for second Steeple, and
possibly less than half will start in each instance, which
is in keeping with the usual thing these times. Twelve
months ago only five started in the second A.J.O. Autumn
’Chase, and three fell. The hurdle race at Rosehill on
Saturday discovered clearly the great inferiority of some •
of present-day junipers. Of 11 on the card, five were
scratched, and only two of the other six saw the journey
out. That usually safe conveyance, Blend, turned turtle
at the first fence, and, two furlongs further, Protector
and his rider had to be gathered up. Later, Old Bob came
a cropper. Favorite, YV.A., held a long lead from Gerah
and Bunny, but blunder d at the second last obstacle
and toppled over. Gerah won. *
Ikey Mo was in such strong force at the recent
Wanganui (M.L.) meet that license fees for two days
totalled £972 10s. Yet the machine prospered, and showed
£l6l more than for the same period last year.
The toughness of the genus jockey : M.L.
cross-country rider Phillips was picked up months ago at
Canterbury (Sydney), apparently as dead as his mount,
Cambooya 11., and was subsequently unconscious several
weeks. Afterwards, he was sent to Rookwood Asylum as
a hopeless case. Now he is about again, and rapidly
recovering.
At the Richmond (Vic.) racecourse, on the 31st
ult., Dan Patch (sired by Rothschild) lowered the mile
record (his own) by lsec., pacing it, after “warming
heats” in American fashion, in 2min. lOsec. He was
paced “ from behind,” a racehorse galloping in his rear,
apparently with the idea that the hoof-beats might
induce Dan to think the police were after him. He w’as
driven by Lou Robertson, and both deserved the ovation
they received.
The Bulletin receives this letter about a moke :
“ In to-day’s edition, page 28, first column, you state :
‘The yarn that got abroad just before the running of the
Australian Cup that Tartan had gone lame, seems to have
been another addition to the long list of horse fairy
tales.’ Only one inference can be placed on that
sentence, and on behalf of my trainer and myself
I say, that inference is a lie, whether inten-
tional or accidental does not affect the result and
the influence on the public mind. It would be
interesting to ascertain what reason your contributor
assigns for my action, as on paper Tartan appeared to be
certain of winning four races in Melbourne against an
improbable chance of winning two here. That the object
of scratching him would have been influenced by any
monetary considerations is abused hv the fact that on the
afternoon I received the information I showed the cor-
respondence to three members of the ring, and, in order
to safeguard the public, I informed Mr. Wilkinson, of the
News, and his comments appeared in that evening’s
edition.
“ Did your correspondent; exhibit as much zeal in
verifying his ideas as he has in his endeavor to mis-
lead your readers, he could havs ascertained the true facts
from Mr. Wood, V.S., who attended the horse in Mel-
bourne, or from Mr, Gribben, V.S., who attended him
since his return. Any trainer present at Flemington
after the Caulfield meeting could have satisfied him that
the horse was absolutely lame, and racing at the time an
utter impossibility.
“ Regarding the latter portion of the paragraph re-
ferring to his work ' sroing as smoothly, etc.,’ he hasn’t
done one gallop worth the name until this morning for
over six weeks, and except his previous condition stands
to him, his chances of success are disagreeably remote,
“Regretting the circumstance that ohliges me to
trouble you at such length, I am, yours faithfully, James
G. Macken.”
* * * *
Champion swimmer Frank Beaurepaire w’as
accorded a send-off at the Melbourne City Baths last
Friday night, prior to his departure for the Olympic
Games at London. The show was handled by the
Victorian Amateur Swimming Association for the express
purpose of raising funds. Consequently a weary gather-
ing, of city councillors, along with the gaud Mayor of
South Melbourne or somewhere, rolled up. Thomas
Bent also accepted an invite, but evidently smelt a rat,
and turned dog. Perhaps he had caught a cold and was
hoarse. Bogey entered the wet, and gave an exhibition
220yds. paddle in 2min. 38see. without turning a hair.
Wally Grant crawled 66yds. in 3945ec., and Fred Richard-
son propelled himself, breast-stroke fashion, over 220yds.
in 3min. 21sec. Marj.y Richardson and Lily Beaurepaire
covered a hundred in 87sec. On the whole the paddlings
weren’t too bad, considering that the experts had turned
up the game for the year. The city Fats said a lot and
did little, and it’s doubtful if the money obtained will
meet the whisky bill. Frank Beaurepaire, accompanied
by manager Tom Horloek, has to make the trip on a third-
class steamer ticket.
Rushcutters Bay baths (Sydney) achieved
another step on the climb to fame on Saturday, when at
the second annual carnival of the East Sydney Ladies’
Club, Miss Mina Wylie, of the Wentworth Olub, broke all
previous women’s records by swimming 100yds. in
lmin. 15 4-ssec. Miss Fanny Durack won the club’s
diving championship. Both these ladies belong to well-
known aquatic families, and the salt of the sea is in their
blood.
’ * * * *
Victoria has chosen its inter-State eight-oar
championship crew, and the critics are remarking that
it is composed of ancients. Donald, the stroke, is 40
years old, and there is bitter complaint that in-
sufficient new blood has been introduced. No doubt it is
very irritating to find the old champions blossoming
perennially, just the same as it was absolute hardship to
the gay young bucks when the wealthy old rela-
lives went on living for ever. The youngsters should
agitate for a new method of selection, by whi/w
the best men would be picked from a number
competing crews. And men that would probablv h
unsatisfactory. Where men pull together in eights'it j!
■ hard to pick out the best without causing heartburnimrs
Tiie Tasmanian Union has also picked its crew and tl
Vic. Rowing Association is inquiring of the other State
bodies if they are agreeable to the Flyspeck being renre
sented by two crews. The reason is that there is a dispute
as to whether the Tasmanian Union or the Rowing Assm
ciation bosses rowing in Appleland. Tne Rowing Associa"
tion is a Launceston body, and originally bossed only the
northern districts of the isle. The Tasmanian Rowing
Union is located in Hobart, the capital, and has done its
best to come to a working arrangement, or to effect an
amalgamation, with the Association. Rut the northern
crowd has held aloof, and refuses to amalgamate with the
Union unless the Union consents to go inside. The Union
naturally declines to go inside, and the Associating
threatening to disqualify all members of the Union, and
claims that it is recognised as a governing body by the
other State Associations, and so its disqualification* must
be upheld. Which, if its disqualifications are wrong or
unjust, is plain rot. In the meantime the Tasmanian
Union lias picked its crew, and seems to have euchred the
Association.
George Gray (turned 10 on the 28th ult.) has
been playing billiards for just 40 months, and he gave an
exhibition during his match with young Percy Beddne
that made men who have been playing for'4o years
hesitate concerning Herbert Spencer’s remark to his friend
about a misspent youth. Though in the mateli (6000 up
Beddoe receiving 1000) Gray just failed to catch his
opponent, he made several breaks that would have ob-
tained half a column from the Melbourne dailies if they
had been made by a Roberts, a Stephenson, or an Inman.
The hoy has a future, and a big one, in the billiard world.
At present he is a one-shot player, sacrificing everything
to getting losers off the red in the middle pockets
“ Strike me blue,” said a man from a wav-back station,
“ don’t he yard up that blank,v red bullock to them blank
side gates every time 1 ” This was after the youngster
had played 70 consecutive shots of the kind that made
Inman’s game worth looking at.
Young Gray’s style is novel. When playing,
his fore arm (from elbow to palm) rests upon the table,
and he “ bridges long.” • His touch is delicate, and his
knowledge of strength much greater than his years. He
lacks accuracy in screwing, and has not yet taken up the
game “at the top of the table.” This latter is quicker in
scoring, but not so effective from a spectacular point of
view as the middle-cwm-top-pockets combination. When
playing Gray brings his head down level with the table.
If he always keeps his head level —well, there are great
possibilities.
Consider the dimensions of crack axeman Bob
Hannon, of Peakehurst (N.S.W.) : Height (without
boots) 6ft. Bin., chest 41 in., arm 13in., weight 16st. 61b.
They have something much better to do with
their pigeons in S.A. than shoot them. The Homing
Association there claims to be “ the only one in the
world, outside South Africa,” that has a challenge shield
for competition. The last race, from Oodnadatta to
Adelaide, 545 miles, produced a whole crop of records.
As one of these was the fact that out of 170 liberated,
100 birds ultimately found their way home, it will be seen
that the owner takes a good sporting risk every time he
nominates. The winner covered 1413 yards a minute-
just 48 miles an hour for the whole long journey.
* * * *
John Wren, of Melbourne, ex-totenmn, etc.,
has suddenly' discovered that he has an ambition in life.
It is not a very elevating one, and whether John attains
his ambition or not, will make very little difference to
the world at large. The goal of his earthly career is to
have a £5OOO race at Ascot (Melh.) course.
* * * ♦
The downfall of Hackenschmidt at the arms of
Yankee Frank Gotch was totally unexpected. Asthispaper
has often said, a wrestling match, all in, is about the most
deadly and brutal game a human being can take on ; and
the struggle with Gotch seems to have been everything
in. We read that for two hours Gotch “severely
punished” Hack, and then succeeded in throwing him
heavily' by some means that the referee disallowed. Hack
declined to go on, however, and so forfeited the world’s
championship.
* * * *
When Major Taylor was in Europe last he
utterly failed to strike form. Having intended to retire
permanently from the track, he had allowed himself to get
hog-fat inside, and, like many another athlete, found that
it takes a long while to shift inside fat. He has been
hard at work getting rid of the internal adipose tissue,
and reckons he has now succeeded, so he will race again
this year, when he hopes to definitely settle the vexed
question whether he or Kramer is the greater wheeler.
Strong efforts are being made to detain Kramer in
Europe, and if they succeed Taylor will meet him in
Paris. This will be their first race since 1902.
* * *
This is the day of the old stagers. At cricket,
Warwick Armstrong and Montague Alfred Noble are still
might.v, but the dearth of new blood is more apparent in
c.veling than any other branch of sport. Frank Kramer, Ivor
Lawson and Major Taylor are still reckoned the best in
America, while ancient Eilegaard, Mayer and Rutt hold
pride of place in Europe. The only new-comer is our
own Australian A. J. Clark, whom the cognoscenti in the
United States reckon in the same class as the giants
aforementioned.
“ Antos” : It was during last summer’s hot-
test spell that I wandered into the ice-cream shop
down our street. Pietro, the proprietor’s brother,
was holding forth on his wrongs in general. I
herewith give you a rough sketch of his ravings:—
In da vinta tima I sella da fisha. Da beople buya da
flsha ; saya “ Loflev da fisha, Pietro.” I maka da mon .
Strika me die, de summer tima come, beople sava, 1
wanta da fisha. Pietro : stinka da fish.” I sella da shopa.
I buva da ore:’ —lofley da org’ ! —maka da muse —peautifiu
da muse ! I getta da monk’—cleva da monk’t—taka <la
pena—amusa da public. Lorda blimea, da polisa coma,
he sava, “Where da lise’, Pietro?” I saya, “Da monk
no cotta da lise, I washa da monk’.” Da polisa he sava,
“ Whera da lisen’, Pietro ? Showa da lisen’.”_ Ino gotta
da lisen’. The polisa, he runna me in. Whila da polisa
loka me up, the larrakino teesa da monk’ —giva da nionK
da pip—he gatta da consump’—kicka da bucket. 1g p
backa do ole gama—l sella da peanuto, lordablima.
PILES CURED IN 6TO 14 DAYS. '
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
CHILDREN’S ENEMY.
Intestinal Worms Eradicated by Comstocks
Worm Pellets.
Many a mother is puzzled why her child is so
fretful and cannot be pacified. The bowels
be regular, but more frequently are alternate
constipated and very relaxed. Invariably •
cause is due to intestinal worms, which irr 'P*
the bowels and set up a slight
Ordinary laxatives do not remove all the worm.,
and consequently the irritation is not aba e •
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
safe and reliable remedy for children and adu ••
Full directions on every box. Obtainable a
chemists and stores, or will be forwarded on , r J! ceI rr
of price, Is. 6d. (six boxes, Bs.). The > •
Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Vt.V
c.o^°
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents— Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 18 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.


KUGELMANN’S
©
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty’
Aid.”
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Xwo penny
Stamp,
Kugelmann's Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
tf. E. KUQELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Amusements.
GILHOOLEY’S AUSTRALIA
ORCHESTRA plays. for every leading
Society function in Sydney, and is always up-to-date;
latest music. W. R. CILHOOLEY, Tel. 3931,
84 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Theatre royal. Sydney.
Direction of J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT and Miss OLA HUMPHREY,
IN
THE LADY OE LYONS.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices as usual.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Under the direction of J. G. WILLIAMSON.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In the Farcical Musical Play,
THE LADY DANDIES.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST SIX NIGHTS OF
EDWIN GEACH’S PREMIER DRAMATIC
COMPANY
.. IN ..
THE POWER OF THE CROSS.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, and 1/- Plan at Elvy’s.
QRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EASTER SATURDAY, APRIL 18,
CLYDE MEYNELL & JOHN GUNN
Present for the first time in Australasia, the romantic
historical play, by Edward Ferris,
A BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK.
Interpreted bv their PREMIER DRAMATIC CO.,
Including HARCOURT BEATTY & MADGE McINTOSH.
Prices 45., 25., and Is.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
THE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s,
WIRTH BROS.
w
IRTH BROS.
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
Opening PRINCE ALFRED PARK,
SATURDAY, APRIL 11.
IN A VAST CITY OF TENTS.
The Biggest Show ever seen in Sydney. New and
Wonderful Attractions, specially engaged by Mr. Philip
Wirth during his recent tour of the world.
Among these Dazzling Artists are the following, who
will appear for the first time in Australia :
THE SIDNEY BROTHERS
.JILKET AND JENNY
THE LES CROTTONS
BROTHERS RODRIQUES
THE BROTHERS GAMOK
BEBE AND PASTORE
OTTO AND EMIL.
HAGENBECH’S MARVELLOUS WILD
ANIMAL GROUP, in charge of HERR BATTY.
Also, Reappearance, after six years, of
JOHN WELBY COOKE,
the World’s Greatest Jockey-act Rider.
4 FOUR MENAGERIES IN ONE. 4
HAGENBECK’S, bostock and wombrells,
FITZGERALD BROS.’ and WIRTHS HUGE ZOO
The Greatest Collection of Wild Animals since the Ark.
WONDROUS SIGHTS.
A Geographical and Zoological Ocular Object Lesson.
MATINEES :
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS, and HOLIDAYS.
PRICES : Reserved Chairs at Paling’s, 4s. ; Back Chairs,
3s. : American Back Folding Chairs and Carpet Seats,
2s. *, Gallery, Is. Children Half-price, except Gallery.
FIRST MATINEE, WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction .. . HENKY HAYWARD.
GREAT SUCCESS OF
MASKELYNE AND DEV ANT’S
MYSTERIES.
(Late MASKELYNE and COOKE.)
Which for 34 years has been the leading entertainment
in London.
Admission—4s.. 35., 25., and Is. Plan at Nicholson’s.
The glaciarium, Sydney.
Lessee .. .. Mr. T. J. WEST.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & ‘SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
The Pre-eminent and Incomparable
WEST’S PICTURES r The Best of All ”).
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 3s. Plan at Nicholson’s.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor <fc Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
Immense Success of MISS MARGARET PARKER & CO.
in “SUNSHINE.”
KAUFMANN TROUPE, World's Greatest Bicyclists.
Mr. CHARLES MILDARE, England’s Greatest Whistler.
J. P. LING, London’s Celebrated Mimetic Monologuist
and Versatile Entertainer.
IKE AND WILL SCOTT. Mr. FRED BLUETT.
Mr. FRANK HARWOOD. LEONARD NELSON.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
Mr. EDWIN BOYDE, London’s Celebrated Singing
Comedian.
THREE CUNARDS, Step and Clog Dancers.
ARTOIS BROTHERS, Comedy Horizontal Bar Act.
ALMA GRAY, Vocalist, Dancer.
SYLVO, World’s Greatest Comedy Juggler.
DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
GRACE ELTON, Bellringer, Xylophonist, Violinist.
Plan at Allan’s. ,tg~ PRICES—3s, 2s lid, 2s, Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMEDY CO.,
Including MR. THOMAS KINGSTON and MRS.
ROBERT BROUGH,
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Day Sale at Palmer’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS.
Meynell and Gunn’s Newly-Organised Dramatic Co.,
including
MISS BEATRICE HOLLOWAY
THE LITTLE BREAD WINNER.
Plan at Allan’s.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/-
EXT SATURDAY AFTERNOON, 3 PM.
N
THE FIRST
BEARD ORCHESTRAL CONCERT.
BEARD ORCHESTRAL CONCERT.
ONE HUNDRED PERFORMERS.
ONE HUNDRED PERFORMERS.
UNDER DISTINGUISHED PATRONAGE.
Subscription to the Series of FOUR CONCERTS :
16s. (Reserved) ; 10s. (Unreserved).
55., 35., and 2s.
Under the Management of HJALMAR JOSEPHI.
MELBOURNE.
J. and N, TAIT.
TO-MORROW, FRIDAY EVENING, APRIL 10,
FINAL PERFORMANCE OF
Town hall,
Direction
CLARA BUTT
KENNERLEY RUMEORD.
Box Plan and Tickets at Allan’s.
... —, R x H * S O L Y M P • A
W EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THt Kix.
ALL Tfflp WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
CiLntA'ot' Programme Each Week.
Anv Picture worthy of note to be seen at WESTS
' PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box plan aC Glen
The
“TRUMP''
GRAPHO-
phone.
“ LYRIC ” REPRODUCER, POLISHED
CABINET, FLOWER HORN.
EXTRAORDINARY VALUE.
Winds silently.
Can be wound while playing.
Motor raliable and easily accessible.
Careful attention to the smallest detail.
. Write for our Kevised Price List of
GRAPH-o-phones and Records—
all prices reduced.
m’wm. s a
fat, '
The Best
Talking Machine
Value ever offered.
PRICE:
£2 ss.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Gen’l,
255 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY.
it
K
EUCALYPTUS OIL
PUREST AND STRONGEST.
See Analyst’s Quarantee on Every Bottle.
Sold by All Chemists and Grocers.
Mail us your order direct for al6 ounce bottle of ECKERSLEY’S EUCALYPTUS. You get double
the strength and eight times the quantity of oil contained in ordinary bottle (16 ounces).
Posted all over Australia for 3s. 3d.
ECKERSLEY (Sb SONS. Bourke Street, Melbourne.
SHILLINGS
FOR
FIVE
FORTUNE
A
wmYtiTRT
r:
Hundreds of Profitable Trade Secrets, now
first published.
Valuable Formulae for Many Processes,
hitherto jealously withheld.
Methods for Making a Multitude of
Marketable Articles.
Money-Making "Wrinkles re i a ting to Every
Trade and Manufacture.
ESTABLISH yourself in business and become Independent
Whether you are a man or woman, boy or girl, employed
or unemployed, you may secure a Constant Income and a
Respectable Business, without hard woik or worry, by making
at your own home in your spare time some of the hundreds
Of articles which find ready sale everywhere, the manufacture
of which is clearly described in this valuable book. Study
the careers of the most successful men of the world and you
find that many of them began in a small way by making
something in general request, and by gradual extension came
to own mammoth concerns. A single recipe properly
employed may be the foundation of a fortune. Pear’s Soap,
PRO^fVBLE
Sec^
VALU
Wft+ttKLEJg^
PRACTIC.
PRQtS^SeSES.
MQ«EV-MAK
X?Ydea:
&
ft I^l
A STM
IK BJJX^ISS
WiraOUT
_W>CAPITAb
MWCE
£2CH>a Year
vou^X
SPARE TyKE,
Beecham’s Pills. Holloway’s Ointment, Aspinall’s Enamel and hundreds of similar things, from which huge incomes are derived,
may be equalled or even surpassed by some of the articles described among the 3000 Priceless Recipes Any bright and intelli*
gent person may earn a good living In a pleasant way by utilising toe information here afforded. This Valuable 'Vorlc of 368
pages (each page 4 inches by 6 inches) is not tne production of some obsenre gleaner from out-of-date sources, but is the result of
the life-work of the Famous Scientist. Dr. N. T. Oliver, who has selected and published only the best of the many formula
submitted to him, having thoroughly tested every recipe, many of which cost large sums to acquire. Every process is fully
described in the simplest language. It is uoi a cookery book. It is a book of recipes, and NOTHING BUT RECIPES, of
inestimable value to Farmers, Housekeepers, Mechanics, Manufacturers, Chemists, Confectioners. Metal Workers, and, in fact, to
everybody. Bingle recipes are worth many times the cost of the volume. Write at once for this Valuable Book, which
will be sent by post to any address, carriage paid, for Pive Shilling*. There is no extra charge, nor any duty to pay. Only a
limited number are available, which we expect will all be sold by the 30th November next. After that date we cannot guarantee
delivery Cut this advertisement out at once, as it will not appear again, and forward it with your order an. 4 Five Shillings to
The Union Manufacturing & Agency C0. ,299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
L<i«d
w /.
limn mm]
m
v/Arz/
KEEP TO
THE RIGHT*
%
0
I
1
/
<2l
»J
aJ=O
V


SELECTING GIFTS by MAIL
Our Mail Order Department makes it easy to shop from any distance.
No matter where you reside, you are perfectly safe in doing business
witb us by Mail. • • • • Absolute satisfaction guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR,
Silver-PkAed, Richly Embossed.
Post 10/6. Pree.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
FREE CATALOGUE
On t equest we will gladly send
you our Illustrated Catalogue POST
FREE to any address. Write for a
copy. It’s yours for the asking.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Black Morocco Leather,
Silk Lined.
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
%
J
1
m
'AT'
I
..
A. SAUNDERS.
LADY’S SOLID SILVER PURSE and CARD-CASE,
Handsomely Embossed.
With Solid Silver Extension Frame; size, sin x 3in.
Post £3. Pree.
Other Styles, £2/5/, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/-
FREE CARRIAGE
Our system of FREE CARRIAGE on
all goods to any part of Australasia
means a big saving to you. Goods
packed to ensure safe delivery.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHAIN PURSE,
Seal Leather, Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 15/6. Free.
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20,/.
a. Saunders.
■HAIR BRUSH, Solid sitm
Long White Mstles.
Post a0;?6 Free,
Other styles,
'7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
STAMP DAMPER, Solid Silver,
Crystal Glass Roller.
Post 7/0. Pree.
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO POUCH,
Buckskin, Silver
Shield, Rubber Lined.
Post 4/6.;. Pree.
)tlier styles, 5/6,' 6/6, 7/6, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET POMADE POT,
Silver Mounted, Cut Glass.
Post 7/6. Pree.
Larger, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
NAIL FILE, Solid Silver,
Steel Blade.
Post 3/6. Pree.
Glove Hook, 3/6.
K&a
'3k
A. SENDERS.
Handsome TOILET SET, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed,
Finest Quality Bristles, complete in Silk-line.) Morocco Case.
Post £lO. Free.
Other styles, £2/10/, £3/10/, £4/10// £5/10/, £6/ 10/, £7/10/, £lO,
A. SAUNDERS.
SWAN PINCUSHION,
Solid Silver, Velvet Top.
Post 5/0. Pree.
Other styles, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
WWWHSMt
r r
A. SAUNDERS.
SILVER DORCAS THIMBLE,
Steel Lined.
Post 3/6. Pree.
Other Styles, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Black Morocco> Leather Strap PURSE,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 8/6. Free.
other styles, 4/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
iS 3".
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Silver, Richly
Embossed, Fine Bristles.
Post 10/6. Free,
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK INKSTAND, Polished Nickel Mounts,
Crystal Glass Bottles, Solid Oak Base.
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6, 16/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENCH BRIAR PIPE, Pure Silver Mounts and Screw,
Amber Stem.
Post 12/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
Solid Silver Mounted.
Post 15/6. Free.
Other Styles, 15/6, 18/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S POCKET-BOOK. Black Morocco, Silk Lined,
Pure Silver Mounts and Lock.
Post 12/0. Free.
Other styles, 5/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 'l7/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD GLASS, Rapid Adjustment,
Large Field, with Sling and Case.
Post J 22. Pree.
Other styles, "12/6, 15/, 20/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH. Solid Nickel, Highly
Burnished, Badger Bristles.
Post 5/6. Pree.
Other styles, -7/6, 8/6, 10/6. 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Solid Silver,
Embossed Handles, Finest Sheffield Steel,
Post 15/6. Pree.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Black Morocco Leather,
Pure Silver Mounts.
Post 8/6. Pree.
Other styles, 6/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOLID SILVER CLOTH OR HAT BRUSH
Kichly Embossed, Long Bristles.
Post 7/0. Pree.
Other styles, 5/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
re
A. SAUNDERS.
GiENT ’S COLLAR STUD BOX, Pure
Silver-Plated, Pierced Design.
Post 7/0. Pree.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, S/6.
r?
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco Cwered,
Silver-plated Mound a
Post 10/6. Free.
Other styles, 12/6., 15/, 20/,.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815, §l7
George-street,
Opposite New Sydney, N.S.W.


In the Bachelor’s Den
t Do you notice sometimes how things “ bung fire ”at a bachelor’s evening ?
The only fellow who can sing has a cold, the elocutionist didn’t turn up, and
somehow the old jokes have lost their vim.
How you wish for some entertainer that would make things lively—an
entertainer you could depend on —versatile and willing.
That is exactly the place the genuine Edison Phonograph fills. It is
the best thing in the world to help get over the first half-hour and to fill in
the odd intervals.
It introduces the wits of others at the right time to make people talk
and be sociable, but even for the gathering where all are congenial and bright
The Edison Phonograph
with Gold-Moulded Records
introduces a new note of amusement. It will cheer the churlish (if there
are any), enliven the dull, and move the most unresponsive. Its variety is
so great that every taste is catered for. With an Edison Phonograph the
music and entertainment of the entire world is brought to your own den.
You can have selections from the latest opera without going to the
theatre. You can hear the comedian who is making London laugh, or the
singer that moves the hearts of Americans.
Don’t you think such an instrument would be worth having? The
reduced prices enable anyone to buy an Edison Phonograph, and the
Records are only 1/3 each. Remember—the Edison Phonograph
Will Keep Things Moving'.
Write for lists and the name of your nearest dealer. He will be glad
to let you hear the Edison—free of charge.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.
Dept. 8., 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
r
; i
t-JS
nmmmm
X
< 't.
THERMOS
fc»
PATENT
HK
fplS
HOT
OR
COLD
LIQUIDS
REMAIN
SO IN
THERMOS
BOTTLES.
PRICES t
PINTS from 2Js.
QUARTS from 425.
POSTED ANY-
WHERE, Is, and
Is, 6d. Extra,
Invaluable to Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists, Military Men, Excur-
sionists, &c. No need to boil the “ billy.” Take your tea or other
liquid refreshment with you, and simply pour out Hot or Cold as desired.
THOS. WEBB SONS
230 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HOT SUBJECTS
WARD’S STOVES:
Ward’s Ailing-ton Stoves Cove"' 1 *)
Ward’s Southern Light Stoves
Ward’s Dux Stoves
Ward’s Beacon Light Stoves
Ward’s Dover Stoves
Ward’s Wash Coppers
The name of WARD on any of the above
Stoves will signify '‘BEST QUALITY
Send for Catalogue “S.”
JAMES WARD,
501 George Street, Sydney.
THE GEM OF MONARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil -is equally
rich—growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptionally EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
Further information may be obtained from the Secretary, Mount Cooper Estate-, Lt<J., 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney; H. A. Mefe\verhei\ Royal Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney; The Manager, Mount Cooper
Estate Holt’s Flat, N.S.W. ; or The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Makes you look pianly
MOUSTACHLESS MEN
CAPII.LARINE has given more joy to Moustachless
men than any other preparation sold. It is a CERTAIN
Moustache Producer. Thousands have proved it by the
appearance of a Moustache where they had none before.
You can do the little rubbed in at night is all
that is needed. Get a jar and try it to-night.
CAPILLARINE IS 10/6 A JAR.
In a plain wrapper, post
free to any part of the
world.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Established 25 Years.
Field Classes. Race Classes
Is any Bulletin Reader in need of such ? An exceptional opportunity occurs.
MR. OSBORN, “The Optician,”
176 PITT STREET,
4 DOORS FROM
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE,
has just returned from England, and while there purchased a magnificent stock at
exceptionally low prices. These are now offered at prices at least half ordinary figures.
A good Field Class in Case complete from £l.
Very Powerful Glass, Splendid Definition,
Long Range, as illustrated. In Case, with
Sling Strap, complete and Post Free,
£2-0-0
Illustrations of others and full particulars sent per return
by mentioning requirements.
■f* NOTE ADDRESS.
Xshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET CF TEN, lOd.


PERFECT CORE OF
SEVERE ECZEMA
Disease Had Lasted Over Two Years
—Several Remedies and Medical
Advice Proved to No Advantage-
Feared He Would Lose Position —
Immediately Relieved and Perma-
nently Cured by Use of
ONE COMPLETE SET
OF CUTICURA REMEDIES
“I had eczema for over two years
on my body and neck. I had tried
several remedies and also had private
medical advice, all to no advantage.
This was a source of great worry to
me, being in a business where I have to
handle food and my trouble, if known,
might have meant the loss of my berth.
When I was advised to try the Cuticura
Remedies, I did so, and I am very
thankful to say the eczema began to
get better at once and before I had used
one set, comprising Cuticura Soap,
Cuticura Ointment, and Cuticura Re-
solvent Pills, my skin was quite clear
of eczema. It is now eighteen months
since I tried the Cuticura Remedies,
and I have had no return of the com-
plaint, so I think that Cuticura has the
right to the credit of curing me. W.
Jennings, 100, Belle Ville Road, North-
cote Road, Clapham Junction, Dec.
13, 1906.”
ITCHING RASH
Kept Little Girl Awake. She
Scratched Until Blood Came.
Cured by Cuticura Remedies. '
"Some time ago my little girl suf-
fered from an itching rash on her back
and legs. It was bad both night and
day, but worse at nights. When
warm in bed, she could not rest for she
used to scratch until blood came She
was about two years old when I tried
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment.
One cake of Cuticura Soap and half
a box of Cuticura Ointment made her
all right. She is four years old now,
and quite well. Mrs. Annie Graham,
Robinsons Cottages, High Seaton, near
Workington, Cumberland, Dec. 16, ’06.”
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults eon-
slsts of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cutiapra
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.: R. Towns
<fcCo., Sydney: Lennon, Cape Town, etc.: B. K. Paul.
Calcutta: Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
tar Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
The Feurich Piano
is
a Quality Piano.
Its exquisite tone is a
source of wonderment
and delight to all
musicians and music
lovers.
Within its magnificent
case is contained every
piano point of quality.
Built to stand the ex-
tremes of our climate—
of majestic and im-
posing appearance, and
sold at a moderate price,
it is an ’ instrument
deserving of your most
earnest consideration
before arriving at a
buying decision.
Cash or deferred pay-
ments. We will gladly
send you Catalogue and
Price List free.
Nicholson & Co.
LTD.,
342 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
NTJ
. .i l
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained In all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Wrfte us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877. |
115,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Australia laughed 11 ! No. S.
and keeps laughing. Red Harry Is.
The Inky Way.
“ Sandra” : Cable work on the dailies affords numerous
pitfalls, and a new man going on the job invariably makes
a number of absurd mistakes. For the most part these
absurdities pass unnoticed (except by the men doing the
cables on the other papers), because there are so many
foolish items cabled by the syndicate that foolish mistakes
at this end merely harmonise with them. An average of
seven cables of about 100 words each come through every
night, but on special occasions, such as a San Francisco
earthquake, or an Imperial Conference, or a war, the
number may be doubled. Some of the messages deal with
a single item, and others cover half-a-dozen items or more.
It is the latter messages that provide the pitfalls. The
cable-man at this end has nothing to show him where one
item ends and another begins, and it often happens that
the first few words of a new item will make
fairly good sense if read on to the item before,
especially when the message has been mutilated
in transmission. Thus it may happen that the readers of
one paper are supplied with the information that Lord
Fitzbkgdad has been granted a divorce from his wife, and
that Colonel Hellebore and another 139 gentlemen were
joined as co-respondents ; while the other paper takes
the “ another 139 ” in the cable to refer to the next item
in the message, dealing with the prosecution of members
of the Russian Duma for saying “Boo” to the Czar’s
shadow. But the most frequent source of mistakes is the
racing cablegram. All that is cabled through is the
names of the three placed horses. The race is not men-
tioned, but the cable man at this end consults
“ Weatherby’s Racing Calendar,” in which he finds full
details of every important event, together with the
entries. These races are arranged under the dates on
which they are to be run, so all the cable man has to do is
to turn up the race run op the date of the cable, and
he will find that the • placed horses mentioned
were entered. But in many instances the names of three
horses, if read on to another item in the cable, will make
sense of a kind. In order to minimise mistakes, the
names are always sent at the end of a message and not in
the body, but this does not prevent the cableman who
is new to his work brightening up his part of the paper
by a lovely jest. It is not solnany years ago that one big
paper, in giving the cabled report of a speech by Joseph
Chamberlain at Birmingham, said, “In concluding his
speech Mr. Chamberlain severely criticised the leader of
the Government, who, he said, had the voracity of a
Tyrone lobster.” Voracity had won the Manchester Cup,
with Tyrone second, and Lobster third. A worse error
was once perpetrated by a Tasmanian jotrrnal in a racing
item which was cabled through “O. B. Dean Swift,
Roseate Dawn.” 0.8. was first in the Cambridgeshire
Stakes, or some such race, Dean Swift second, and
Roseate Dawn third. But the paper had some dim know-
ledge of another Dean Swift, and, mistaking 0.8. for a
mutilation of the word “ obituary,” it announced that a
cable message from London “ contained the news of the
death of Dean Swift, author of the well-known hymn,
‘ Roseate Dawn.’ ” After that there was a great silence.
• * * * *
The London Daily Mail has a circulation “ five times
larger than that of any penny paper in England." It
penetrates to the home. The Britisher loves and
admires it. It appeals to him tremendously. And in
return the Daily Mail studies its Britisher and tries to
give him what he wants. It features a correspondence
column —the same being on the leader page, and in close
proximity to the Court news. A sample (21/l/’08)
IN SORROW FOR HER PET.
To the Editor of the Daily Mail.
Sir,—l have just taken my pet dog, aged sixteen
years, to be destroyed.
He licked my face all over in the carriage, as if he
knew I was taking him to death.
I kissed my pet before the official took him from
my arms, and I kissed him again after the end had
come. Has a dog a soul? Surely it must have if
human beings can love them so truly and be so faith-
fully loved in return.
Bayswater. B.
* * * *
Sample of a Scotch advertisement, printed in Glasgow
in October 23, 1758 :—“We, Robert McNair and Jean
Holmes, having taken into consideration the way and
manner our daughter Jean acted in her marriage, that
she took none of our advice, nor advised us before she
married, for which reason we discharged her from our
family for more than twelve months ; and, being afraid
that some or other of our family may also presume to
marry without duly advising us thereof, we, taking the
affair into our serious consideration, hereby discharge all
and every one of our children from offering to marry
without our special advice and consent first had
and obtained ; and if any of our children should
propose or presume to offer marriage to any,
without as aforesaid our advice and consent, they,
in that case, shall be banished from our family
twelve months, and if they should go so far as to marry
without our advice and consent, in that case they are to
be banished from the family seven years ; but whoever
advises us of their intention to marry, and obtains our
consent, shall not only remain children of the family, but
also shall have a due proportion of our Goods, Gear, and
Estate as we shall think convenient, and as the bargain
requires; and, further, if any one of our children shall
marry clandestinely, they, by so doing, shall lose all
claim or title to our Effects, Goods, Gear, or Estate ; and
we intimate this to all concerned, that none may pretend
ignorance.”
THE MYSTIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An “ Ode to the Moon ” did he indite
With his two-and-a-half soul-power.
(’Twas the child of a starlit summer night,
Begot by a gloomy hour.)
And he vowed it was a work immense,
And he quoted it a lot,
And he published it at his own expense ;
But the cold, hard world said—“ Rot 1 ”
And he wrote him ringing verse of horse,
And the stockman, and his pipe,
And the brooding bushland ; but, of course,
The world just murmured—” Tripe 1”
So he sat him down for another fling,
And his time-exposure mind
Evolved a topical sort of thing,
Of a gay and hum’rous kind.
And he looked to see the world go wild,
And laugh until it cried ;
But the verse was poor and the humor mild,
And—“ Bosh ! ” the tired world sighed.
Then he oiled his weird, ball-bearing mind,
In a dull, despairing mood,
And he wrote a thing of a cryptic kind,
Which nobody understood.
’Twas an ode to the “ Umph ” and the “ Thingmebob,”
With a lilt and a right good ring,
And hints of a smirk, a snarl, a sob,
And a murky murmuring.
Nay, nobody understood a word,
Nor strove to understand ;
But few dared say it was absurd,
So most agreed ’twas “ Grand ! ”
Then he let his hair grow lank and long,
And an air intense he got,
And ever he strove to nurse in song
The cult of the “ Dunnownat.”
And now he never writes in vain,
But a famous man is he,
With a ten soul-power and a chuck-lathe brain,
And an air of mysterie.
So, of his lot take heed ; I wot
If you aspire to fame,
Don’t waste a tune on horse or moon,
But rave of Whatsitsname;
It’s tame,
But still it’s Whatsitsname.
VIC.
DEN.
X
.
DL2
This Very Stylish Balmoral
for Gentlemen - - 27/6
Gentlemen whose tastes rest with good footwear will find this
hoot of the very best workmanship throughout. Of Patent
Enamel Kid, welted, it makes a very stylish Dress Boot, and
on account of its material, will not soil with the dust’
Price 27/6. Add 1/- for postage if ordering in Victoria-1
1/8 if in other States.
Drop us a Post Card for our Booklet “Shoe-
light,” beautifully illustrated with our"
finest footwear. We send it FREE.
LEEMING’S Boot Stores
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 303 Chapel Street
Prahran ; 1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. ’
OBESITY
PERMANENTLY CURED !
MANY people have said, “If a cure can be found
for Obesity, and one that will effectually
reduce fat without harm to the patient, the dis-
coverers would make a fort-
une.” We havefoui'd the rem-
edy . Our main idea is just
now, however, to have you
use the treatment so that you
may help to start our endless
chain of patients.
“ FATCURE” re-
moves excess fat and
cures Obesity and the
cure is permanent. It
takes off from five
pounds a week to over
two stone a month.
Many cases bse a pound . .
a day. It is not a patent medicine. It is
a scientific treatment by the use of vegetable
extracts in tablet form.
Mrs 0. J. Murphy, of Glenmore Road, Pad-
dington, writes: “Your remedy reduced my
wc :ht 37 lbs. and I now feel splendid.”
bend a twopenny stamp for free sample and
our booklet, which we send free under sealed
cover. Write or call 'or sample to-day.
Thousands endorse “ Fateure.” Let us send you
their letters commending it.
THE WATWORTH GO. Suite J,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street. Take lift.
QS
UP
v<
fIC
T
YOU CAN
IMPROVE
YOUR
POSITION
Tiicj>.r»b <y
Splendid
“Wfemy
'4303:
£OMMERCIAL
BOOKKEEPING.
ACCOUNTANCY.
SHORTHAND.
•PENMANSHIP.
ENGLISH.
LANGUAGES, AC.
CRICULTURAL.
SOIL MANAGEMENT
DRAINAGE AND
IRRIGATION.
BREEDING AND
MANAGEMENT OF
LIVE STOCK, AC.
QOMMERCIAL ART
DRAWING.
LLU ST RATING,
ADVERTISEMENT
WRITING.*
DESIGNING. AC.
HIGHER SALARIES and
splendid prospects await '
those who take advantage
ol our system o! POSTAL
INSTRUCTION. We teach
wherever the mail reaches,
and our methods ensure the
acquirement ol MONEY.
MAKING KNOWLEDGE.
Our instruction is thorough,
practical and complete, and
our instructors are men o!
unquestionable ability and
experience. Every student
receives careful individual
attention, and the instruction f
is private. We prepare
candidates for all PUBLIC
EXAMINATIONS.
It costs nothing to inquire.
Write TO-DAY for FREE
copy of PROSPECTUS E
and state subject in which
you are interested.
STOTTS
ORRESPONDENQ
COLLEGE
56 HUNTtR ST SYDNEY
<l2B COLLINS ST MELBOURNE
We are on theSPOT
with CKYSTfiIATE BIUIARD BALLS
The •
Only •
Subslifufe
for •
Ivory
155
£UZAB£T/f$T
AiCOC/f & C?P/yMJ-
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball. .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long, as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“Knights of the Cue” freely
admit its superiority.
&
Sydney Showrooms —
422 GEORGE STREET
MAKE MONEY WITH THE
EDISON CINEMATOGRAPH!
Price : £32 10s.
We are selling them all over Australia and New Zealand to enterprising showmen
who want the finest projecting Kinetoscope in the world
FOR BRILLIANCY OF PICTURES, ACCURACY ANb PORTABILITY,
THE EDISON IS AT THE TOP.
It can be operated without any previous knowledge of the art. It gives brilliant
results, and is equipped with reels that hold from 1,000 to 12,000 feet of films-
It is fitted with a stereoptican attachment for showing standard size lantern slides.
It will outlast any other machine on the market. It does its work perfectly
all the time.
We make Films of Every Description to Order. We let Films out on Hire.
We do the largest Cinematograph business In Australia.
Write for Full Particulars. 200,000 Feet of New Films In
Stock to Select from.
JLRDANS LTD.
OSBORN & JERDAN, Ltd.
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL.
SYDNEY.


Missing; Friends.
WILLIAM CLARK, deceased, and OTHERS.
IF JAMES and ALFRED HARDING, and
.their three sisters (being children of
WALTER HARDING, late of Bishopsgate
Street,-London, England), and Wm. THITCH-
ENER, EMMA POCOCK, and CHAS. COLE
(being children of the late Mrs.-S. COLE of
Enfield, Middlesex, England), and REUBEN
son of the late Mrs. M. A. WOODHOUSIE (of
Enfield, aforesaid), and THOMAS PARROTT
(Godchild of the late G. J. BRAIKENRIDGE,
or their representatives, will communicate with
Messrs. BRAIKENRIDGE and EDWARDS,
Solicitors, 16 Bartletts Buildings, London, Eng-
land, they' will hear of something to their
advantage
N. A. S. GREER.
F above will write Box 314, G.P.0., Brisbane
■ to his advantage.
CONNELL. Timothy (son of late John Connell,
of Bacchus Marsh, farmer, deceased) or any-
one knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with NATIONAL TRUSTEE COMPANY,
Queen Street, Melbourne.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, vou’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
’ TO
MEND
HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
v No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets; and bend back the prongs
N all Ironmongeis or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
x 09%: Sydney, or Bifurcated Se
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington.' Hng.
r.i c e List on
application.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
The
CITY MUTUAL
fipC' INSURANCE COMPANY
r inH LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney,
A SHAVING OUTFIT FOR 10/6
There s everything you need for a comfortable shave.
A complete outfit—good quality at a price that is less
than you would pay for the article singly.
IT MAKES A USEFUL PRESENT. 10/6 pOST FREE
1 Cood Razor 1 Razor Strop 1 Packet Ra 7n >- Paata
1 Shaving Mug 1 Stick Shaving Soap 1 Stop-blood Stick *
POST FREE, 10/6.
Your money back if you are not pleased—but it is pretty certain you will be.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654- George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
1 Shaving Brush
1 Bottle Bay Rum
The DAYTON
Moneyweight
SCALES . . .
are the BEST In the WORLD.
THEY SAVE TIME, LABOR and MONEY
They give you the Weight and
Money Value at the same time.
Messrs. Henry Pooley and Son (the celebrated Scale
Makers of London) have taken up the sole agency
of The Dayton Moneyweight Scales for Great
Britain, proving that these scales are the BEST on
the British Market.
Sole Agents:
THE DAYTON MONEYWEIGHT SCALE CO. LTD.,
3 Q.V. MARKETS, SYDNEY.
,1*
NEW SONGS I®- 8
ONLY 7d. EACH. LlSt.
Words with Full Piano. Accompaniment.
12 for 6s. 3d. Post Free Anywhere.
“Is your Mother in, Molly Malone?
I’se a-waitin’for yer, Josie—lsn’t that like a Man?—lt is the
scarecrow—lt’s a different girl again—lt's all right in the sum-
mer time—lt’s not the Old Man’s Voice (It’s just the Dear Old
Song)—l’ve got a feelin’ for you—lt’s the poor that help the poor
—lt’s part of a P’liceman’s Duty—l’ve made up my mind to Sail
Away—l want Molly and she wants me—l want you to notice
my Leggings—Jeannie Lee—Joliy good luck to the girl who
loves a soldier—Just kiss yourself good-bye—Etc.
Our Music lists & Illustrated Novelty Cata ogue posted free,
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Coding St.. Melbourne.
riIHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
JL Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
A WHOLESOME BEVERAGE.
“0.T.” is recognised everywhere as the
most wholesome and invigorating beverage
of the day.
Made from pure ingredients, carefully
selected, and in surroundings that are
scrupulously clean, this famous beverage
has created a demand unequalled by any
other drink—alcoholic or non-alcoholic—in
the world.
It is no mere picturesque idea to suppose
that a natural drink, derived from ingre-
dients of recognised purity, is the most
wholesome of all.
Just as pure herhs, fruit juices, and
chillies are known to be beneficial to health,
so “0.T.,” possessing the same properties
in the same proportion, invigorates and
fortifies.
And the delicious flavor of “ 0.T.,” gentle
at first, increases as it passes over the
tongue, and there is never a gap, never a
hint of foreign substance. The flavor is full
and generous, evaporates slowly, and
caresses the whole palate.
The factory in which “ 0.T.” is made is
the only cordial factory in the world that
works overtime in the summer.
To meet the Australian demand, 44,000
bottles of “0.T.” are now turned out weekly,
and as each bottle contains thirty good
drinks, this means that 1,320,000 nips of
‘O.T.” are consumed every week.
“0.T.” is sold everywhere—by hotels,
grocers, and chemists. If your retailer says
he cannot supply you with the genuine
‘0.T.,” drop a postcard to us, and we will
see that you are supplied.
Mixed with whisky, wine, soda, lemonade,
or water, “ 0.T.” makes a splendid drink all
the year round.
'H
n
“O.T
ft
The Great
Australian
Drink.
JWOi
WO
u
I
O.T.
11
The Premier
Winter
Beverage.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
. . extraordinary success of “ 0.T.” in every State of the Commonwealth has brought
into the market more than the ordinary number of products of unscrupulous traders who
seek to take advantage of the wide publicity given to this popular beverage, and to hood-
wink the public in their endeavor to pass off an inferior beverage as the genuine “0.T.”
1 hese counterfeit preparations contain none of those pure, health-giving ingredients that
have made “ 0.T.” so popular, and the trader who gives you one of these so-called “just as
Rood substitutes does so in order to swell his profits at your expense. The proprietors of
‘O.T. offer a
REWARD OF £lOO
for information leading to the conviction of any persons wilfully misrepresenting or selling
an inferior beverage as “ O.T. 5 or refilling “ 0.T.” bottles with an imitation beverage.
“0.T.” is not only a Splendid Drink, but a CURE for
INDIGESTION, FLATULENCY, COUGHS and COLDS.
f
r>
A iki
N V
I*7 £
iZD.
Ou^
o
»,. K
dOJ)
■ ustV MARt = *
w.hh % o i uc,ous
hot 1 W - M,SK Y
OB b op RUM
cold I punch
WAT f R 3 ° r "tth any
O kind of Spin',
■X if Wine efe
D y
J Dixon a fo
’• * *"• V' •p§ o * j
A Cut »r C urc I
/■>/>■ c * >r-«> j
LOOK
FOR
THE
RED
CHILLI
TRADE
MARK.
See the Maker’s
Name on Bottle.
AND
MAKE
QUITE
SURE
YOU
GET
“ 0.T.”
m
FOR YOUR PROTECTION.
The extraordinary success of “ 0.T.” in
every State of the Commonwealth has
brought even more of the average number
of cheap imitations into the field—inferior
substitutes, manufactured solely for the
purpose of extra profit.
Inventive genius has discovered a hun-
dred and one questionable expedients for
imitating the “0.T.” bottle, the and
such other points as tend to give coun-
terfeit preparations a likeness to “ 0.T.”
The whole alphabet has been exploited in
the endeavor to find combinations of letters
that will fall off the tongue with a sound
most easily mistaken for “0.T.”
Of course, there is a bigger share of profit
to the manufacturer and the retailer on
these so-called just-as-good substitutes than
on the real thing—generally because the
materials or ingredients are inferior, or the
essential part of them lacking altogether.
The Public is, therefore, warned when
ordering to scrutinise the label very
closely, to look for the lied Chilli Trade
Mark, and to see that the bottle is the same
in every detail as the one illustrated in this
advertisement.
That distinctive “ 0.T.” label is put on
the bottle for your protection from unreliable
and worthless substitutes. You know what
you want—do not let the dealer choose for
you.
And remember there is no other beverage
“just as good” as “0.T.”
As a thirst-quenching beverage for all
seasons it has no equal, and as a cure for
colds, chills, influenza, indigestion, etc., it
has reached a high standard of merit.
Ladies have now discovered that there
are medicinal properties in “0.T.” which
relieve pain.
Manufactured by
~w~
J. DIXON AND CO.,
Distributors for
Victoria,
High Street, PRAHRAN, MELBOURNE.
Sydney Wholesale Agents: ORME, KEIGWAN AND CO.
Brisbane Wholesale Agents : QUINLAN, GRAY AND CO.
TOLLEY LTD, Fremantle, Agents for West Australia.
A. E. N. F. TOLLEY, Adelaide, Agent for South Australia.
JOHNSON & WILMOTT, Agents for Launceston, Tasmania.
FERGUSSON & CO., Agents for Hobart, Tasmania.
Or direct from J. DIXON, Victoria,
IYTEARLY all merchants will supply it. It is also sold in India, London, South Africa, and Japan. Agents wanted where not represented. This
IN Drink is wanted all over the world. It is the sensible person’s drink of the future ; something long wanted between the soft and hard drink.
RETAILED BY HOTELS, GROCERS AND CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.


GRANTS DRAFTS
Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies A ct , 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 192 L.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413.206 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116.621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual kite
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR ,
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000.000. ! •
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. NkiV, South Wales:
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. .J. F. Burns, Chairman.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
T 4?B an k of llorth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital v. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNS, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2.000.000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great liritain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
$5
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
JST.
W.
Montdepietej).f!i|.C o '>[td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT • •* i
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
, Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Svdney : Hon. A. W. Murks, H.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John SfcK, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allkn,
Escp, J. Cami’Bkll Wood Esq. Adelaide : B. A.
jKssor, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grimwadk,
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
' AND
agency company limited
M 412 Collins-St., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9 ° 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. . 0 0
Directors : F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman: R. Murray
Smith Ksu., C M. G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.,
Hon J. M. Pratt, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BOR ROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
’ANDS.” bv Edward Dyson.
“ Best book of Australian humor, 4s. bd.
Snipping
UNT. ID. L.
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen,
via Ports.
Leave Melb’rne 3 days later
„ Adelaide 6 „
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE,
NEW BRITAIN. NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA sth MAY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR .. .. .. 2nd JUNE.
PRINZ SICISMUND .. .. 30th JUNE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Exoellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOII.MANN & CO.. 7 and 9 Bridge-street. Svdnev.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
LIMITKIK ”
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £475,041 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 174,350 0 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stock) 70,000 0 0
£719,391 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Aoet., E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIH€.
Durban , Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING at DURBAN WHARF. , .
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY
fw Burire .. .. I Noon. April 24
♦MILTIADES lA. Douglas, R.N.R. j Noon, May 22
MORAVIAN IH. Schleman ■• 1 June
* Twin Screw, a Third Class only.
FARES:
Saloon 3rd Ol&ss.
london .. From £57 .'.£l6 Os to £2O Os.
Oape'or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to> £l7 1/s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
Dalyety and Company, Ltd.,
Airents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
r p win-screw 12,000 ton Steamers*
PERSIC, to sail about 11th April.
TROPIC (Cargo only) to sail about
10th April.
RUNIC, to sai. about 13th May.
MEDIC, AERIC and SUEVIC to follow.
FARRS—Capetown or Durban
London
New V'ork, &c.
£l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
19 0 0 to 30 0 0
25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on A rmhcation.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalijehj and ( oinpanif. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
> HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.).
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES A
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
G
EOLOGY of Cold
Occurrence.
WILLIAM BRADFORD, Mining Reporter, first-
references, late Specialist in matters of Lode
Structure in its relation to Gold Occurrence for the
Victo ian Mines Department under. Professor Gregory.
Twenty-five years experience in mines and mining fields.
Photography—on surface and below. Line work —
contours and vertical sections. > >
OPEN FOR ENGAGEMENT (Press or otherwise)
EARLY IN MAY.
Address— BALL AR AT EAST.
mmamm
Hasa
»- V. . l
i/vm*
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
Legal Notice.
riMIE Court of Probate in Frederilceberg
I Jurisdiction, Seal and, Denmark, lias pub-
lished Legal Notice as follows :
“Notice is Hereby Given that all persons
having any claims or demands against the Estate
of CHRISTIAN LUDVIG JENSEN, deceased,
retired Master-Saddler, and his wife NATALIA
(or NATHALIE) ELISA EMANUELE, nee
GRONBECH, the liabilities of which Estate have
not been admitted, are hereby required tq send
the particulars in writing of their claims to the
undersigned Court of Probate on or before the
day coming six months after this date.
“The heirs to the persons above-named are
required likewise to send . their names and
addresses, together with proofs of their claims, to
us within the same six months and to protect their
interests during the administration of the Estate.
“Court of Probate in Frederiksberg Jurisdiction,
Dated this 11th day of December, 1907.
SYLOW.”
Referring to the above Legal Notice, I, the
undersigned, Consul General of Denmark, do
hereby particularly request Mrs. (or Miss)
NATALIA (or NATHALIE or MATHILDA)
ELISA EMANUELE GRONBECH (or JEN-
SEN, or JOHNSON, or JORGENSEN), born in
the year 1834, in the Island of Bornholm,
Denmark, who presumably in the seventies arrived
at A'ustraha and has -been known by the names
above stated, to send me, in due time, particulars
of her olaims together with proofs thereof.
Whosoever may be in a position to give infor-
mation as to whether the person aforesaid is alive
or deceased, and as to her present place of resi-
dence, or the one she occupied at the time of her
death, is hereby requested kindly to send in such
information to me.
F. W. WERE,
Consul General,
412 a Collins Street, Melbourne. •
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at —
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, '1 to 5 Beaoonsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rpHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
■*- the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much loner than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Rtgent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
tbe Society or
motor manufacturers
and Craaers, £ta.
For the protection, tnann anttntnt ana
development o/ the A nlomobilc Jndunry.
The Society has organised a
TRADE INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT
which will be pleased, without
fee, to direct enquirers to the
Traders who can best supply
their needs, whether for Motor
Cars (commercial or pleasure),
Motor Agricultural Machines,
Motor Boats, Fire Engines,
Stationary Motors,Component
Parts, Tyres, or Accessories.
Address :
Maxwell House, Arundel St,
London, England.
Snipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
A"d GULF PORTS,
FivEMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongala, April 10.
S.S. Coolgardie, Tuesday
April 7.
S.S. Grantala, April 25.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY.
TOWNSVIT.BE,
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Marloo, April 11.
S.S Yongala, April 18.
Best and ('.Ueupest Houte to doldileliiit.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IYJESSAGERIES /yjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/-' to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCLRSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail. Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
P. de BURE,
General Manager in Australia,
57 Pitt Street.
Tel. 378.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE. 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY. April 11.
BOMBALA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
April 18.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S. A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) .
KANOWNA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, May 2.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA. 2 p.m., SATURDAY
April 11.
ALLINGA. 5 p.m., TUESDAY
April 14.
PEREGRINE. *2 p.m., SATOR
DAY, April 18.
Passenger Ticket? interchangeable with othe
State S.S. Companies. Full particulars on applies
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 35)
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Trim?.
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708. '
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL Llfrfe.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
*#■
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F—-H.— —iSi
Federal-Houlder-Shire.
FOR
London and Liverpool
(i via SUEZ CANAL).
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER,
“SOMERSET”
(CALLING AT HOBART)
11,000 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander.
Will be despatched from Svdney on the 10th April, 190
„ „ „ Melbourne „ 20th Apr;, 90»
„ Adelaide „ 25th April, W
Taking Wool, General and Refrigerated Cargo for U.
and Continent at lowest current, rates of ireignc. _
Excellent accommodation for saloon and tnira-
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists
two-berth deck cabins on the upper deck, situated a
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises ’ ’
and 8-berth cabins, all of which are situated on tne
deck, with dining-rooms on the upper deck, r.
light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess earned.
FARES — paq/ 10/-
SALOON
THIRD-CLASS - £l2/12/- £l3/13/-
Wool and other cargo received at F.H.S. 11 harf, Bar ■
Island. Passengers’ luggage on day of sailing only.
For full particulars, pamphlets, etc., apply t 0
BIRT & COMPANY, LIMITED, 7 Macquarie Place,
Telephone 585. Managing Agents.


HOW TO ASSIST NATURE IN A PLEASANT WAY
BY MERIT ALONE.
Kutnow’s Powder is a delightfully refreshing
health-regulator, pleasant to the taste, painless in
action, and infallible in keeping the system clean,
clear, wholesome, and efficient. Its reputation has
been acquired by merit, and has been enhanced by
the recognition and endorsement of the most dis-
tinguished members of the medical profession in all
parts of the world for liver torpor, constipation,
bad breath, backache, languor, rheumatism, and
kidney troubles. Try it at once.
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of
all conscientious Chemists throughout the World.
See that the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow &
Co., Ld., ’ and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap, ’ are on the
carton and bottle. You then
Get Genuine
KUTNOW’S POWDER
!.
1 -r-
-m\m
Dim
fci
. KUTNOW’S
Improved ErrcßvtsctNT CarlSßad
POWDER.
ft
mrschcnsprung or Deer Leap
L?
4 * London
41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.
REGISTERED TRADE MARK..
Convincing EVIDENCE
The testimony below refers only to the
Genuine Kutnow's Powder, but NOT to
fraudulent substitutes.
A CIVIL ENGINEER
WRITES :
“Mr W. Barns Kinsey, M.lnst.C.E.,
FjG.S., has pleasure in stating that his personal
experience of Kutnow’s Powder for the alleviation
of rheumatism and allied complaints bears out fully
what Messrs. Kutnow & Co. claim for their
preparation.”
Southsea, May 9th, 1907.
Rev. J. PALLUEL
WRITES :
“ Roman Catholic Mission, Nagpur,
“ British India, 4th July, 1907.
“ Dear Sirs,- —After having used the bottle of
Kutnow's Powder which you were good enough to-
send me, and encouraged by its beneficial effects, I
at once obtained three more bottles of your powder
from Bombay. I am more than ever convinced of
the efficacy of Kutnow’s Powder and its cleansing
and anti-bilious properties, and you can consider
me hereafter as one of your best clients.
“ With best thanks, believe me,
“ Yours faithfully,
“ (Rev.) J. PALLUEL.”
KUTNOW’S POWDER dispels dyspepsia
[3.
These handsome new styles
are all very special value. They
combine the best finish with real
gems and full quality gold. We are
positive that every piece shown here
will be highly prized.
'awscviz
We forward by registered post daily on
receipt of remittance. The most careful
attention to country orders.
TO MAIL ORDER BUYERS.-In send-
ing your orders to us you run no
' risk, as the money you send us is
at your disposal, if the goods are not in
every way satisfactory. We are not
satisfied until you are.
Dl277—Fine Diamond, Pearl, ana
15ct. Gold Brooch, £9/10/-.
C 3334. —15ct. Gold Brooch, Pearls,
and Australian Rubies, £3/3/-.
F 9278 —18ct. Gold Ring,
Half-Hoop of Diamonds
and Rubies, or Sap-
phires, £2/101-.
U i
SN
H64o.—lBct. Gold, Dia-
mond and Ruby Ring,
£7/10/-.
H 641. —18ct. Gold, Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
£7/10/-.
GB9B2.—Fine Diamond,
18ct. i-Hoop Ring-,
£lO,lOl-.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£7/10/-.
H 5274
18ct. Ring-, Diamonds
and Olivine, £2/15/-
02793.
■ 18ct. Gold, Ruby, and
Opal Ring, £2/7/6.
GB9B4.—Fine Diamond,
18ct. Half-Hoop Ring,
£lBlOl-.
If with Diamonds and
Rabies or Sapphires,
£llllO/-.
■ r§»
1911.—18 ct. Gold Ring,
set fine Golden Topaz,
£2/5/-.
H 731
Diamonds or Sanphires,
18ct. Gold, £ 5/15/-.
m*m
G 8986. —Fine Diamond,
18ct. Half-Hoop Ring-,
£3O.
If with Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£lB/101-.
:r:
H 6240
Fine Diamond and
Emerald Ring, £ B/8/-.
C 8829
Five Diamonds, 18ct.
Gold Ring, £3/10/-
GB9BO. —Fine Diamond
Ring-, 18ct., £5:5/.
If Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3/10/-.
171 A.—lBct. Gold, Five
Fine Opals, £ 2/10 /-.
■
G 5296. —Fine Diamond
and Sapphire Ring, 18ct.
Go}d, £ lO/10 /-
D 1276. —15ct. Gold, Fine Diamond
and Pearl Brooch, £7/70/-.
BUS
IS M
gy.ui
C 3332. —15ct. Gold Brooch and
Pendant, Pearls and Cape
Kubies, £4/151-.
G3314.—8eal Pearls and 15ct. Gold Brooch,
C3312.—15ct. Gold and Heal Pearl Brooch, £2/15/-.
You may have seen this stvle of Brooch advertised at a seemingly lower
price only no quality of gold is mentioned, and the word
‘ paste is omitted before “ Pearl Set.”
C 3313. —Real Pearls and 15et. Gold Brooch, £2/5/».
os 119.—Handsome Bangrle, Real Pearls and Sapphires,
' 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-.
F5419.—Tw0
Diamonds, Three
Samphires, 18ct.
(Gold, £2.
03324. Daisy Bangle, Real Pearls, 15ct. Gold, £3/15/
H 1228
Five Diamond
Ring-, 18et. Gold,
£515/-.
r
r /
C3322.—Fine Scroll Bangle, »ea.l Pearls, Turquoise,
and 15ct. Gold, £6/10/-
ORDER BY MAIL IF UNABLE TO CALL. MONEY BACK IF WE FAIL TO PLEASE YOU.
Catalogues of Watci.es, Jewellery, Silver and Silver-Plated Goods SENT FREE ON REQUEST


GgEENHt
J&vm
c
ARE SAFE
' and WEAR.
The World’s Standard for Quality. I
W. W. GREENER’S J
“Facile Princeps
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son,3l7, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
address ‘Greener, Birmingham.’
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT ft Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
FROOTOIDS
For Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
000
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
They are elegant in appearance, pleasant
to take, and, what is of the utmost
importance, are thoroughly reliable in
affording quick relief.
Frootoids are immensely more valu-
able than an ordinary aperient, in so far
that they not only act as an aperient,
but do remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident at once by the disappearance of
headache, the head becoming clear, and
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient
medicine to take when any Congestion
or Blood Poison is present, or when Con-
gestion of the Brain or Apoplexy is pre-
sent or threatening. They have been
tested, and have been proved to afford
quick relief in such cases when other
aperients have not done any good at all.
It is of the utmost importance that this
should be borne in mind, for in such
cases to take an ordinary aperient is to
waste time and permit of a serious ill-
ness becoming fatal.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver,
and quickly cure bilious attacks that
“antibilious pills” make worse. Many
people have been made sick and ill by
“antibilious pills” who could have been
cured at once by Frootoids. People
should not allow themselves to be duped
into contracting a medicine-taking habit
by being persuaded to take daily doses
with each meal of so-called indigestion
cures that do NOT cure. Frootoids
have been subjected to extensive tests,
and have in every case proved success-
ful in completely curing the complaints
named.
The ordinary adult dose of Frootoids,
of which there are 72 in a bottle, is 2 to .
4 —more or less as required—taken, pre-
ferably at bedtime, when constipated,
or at the commencement of any other
disease requiring an aperient, as an
aukilliary with the special medicine
necessary for the case. A constipated
habit of body will be completely cured
if the patient will on each occasion,
when suffering, take a dose of Frootoids,
instead of an ordinary aperient; making
the interval between the taking of each
dose longer and the dose smaller. The
patient thus gradually becomes indepen-
dent of Aperient Medicines.
oOo
For sale by leading Chemists and
Storekeepers. Retail price, 1/6. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not
obtainable locally, send direct to the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria.
NOTICE. —The materials in FROOT-
OIDS are of the VERY BEST QUALITY
and consist, amongst other ingredients,
of the active principle of each of
FIVE different MEDICAL FRUITS and
ROOTS, so combined and proportioned
in a particular way that a far BETTER
result is obtained than from an ordinary
aperient.
4 POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
\ Price, 6d.
I
HI
RODOX is the most suc-
cessful Rabbit Poison
used in Victoria. This is
shown by the hundreds
of testimonials received.
2V 2 lb. Tins, 2j- each.
Wholesale Agents:
Rocke, Tompsitt & Cc<
MELBOURNE.
THE FINAL TOUCH
OF PERFECTION.
Agents —
Harrison Sc Attwood.
Sydney.
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes.
Of all Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNES
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUM AT ISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England—l/1%, 2/9, 4/6.
Greatest
ever ottered In Australia:
F Cbe famous
Knife Coulters
Included
it
Blue Jap
=s=o
tf
2-Furrou?
Walking piougtr
Dod ploughs
Fullp Guaranteed
to your nearest Railway station- nortpern territory
nontv Queensland, and Western Australia excepted
no interest £asP CCflllS
3 furrow, £7=ls=o. Same terms as 2 furrow.
\ you can return the Plouah after one week’s trial, at OUR
expense, if it is not all we claim for it.
Write NOW for full particulars to cur Braticb bouse in the State in which you Hoe
International fiaroester Company of America
(incorporated)
Roma St. Brisbane, 37 Broadway, Sydney: 515 Bourke
St. IHelbourne; Bank St. Adelaide; and
75 Jork St Caunceston
LLO WAY S PILLS
<S>
&
£
&
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for and LuDg
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo-®* welcome relief
in a very short time.
vV .sS> v
rs ♦/
m OINTMENT


“ Viator ” writes
Putnam Weale’s book ort "'fhfe fte-khrtpirig of thte
East" refers to his travels tfirdrtgH China and Japart
during thte late War, and throiigh Korea and Manchuria
after the war. He begirts With graphic VrtVa'-dhW dp the
YartgtSV irt a 30(»-tort (irtrart &tV4m%r. At tian'kovy he
takes the railroad tor Pekirt. brt. Revan has lately U.
» MelWrtrne, hU, trip. oVer. the sahiejfnJ
i We .y. e lS to find that French is the official
rtrt the railway, it being- Belgian. Th'ds the
Stations are Gare FiUviale; or .station o! the
R IV there’s a Gare Hahkowville, Which
Sll l j Fe Yank than French. Rattling towards Pekin,
Wekle finds that the line has been constructed with appal-
ling extravagance, not 10 expensive works butsn salaries',
perquisites, anil pricings Chief;Engineer
gets£4ooo ayear, rt'ett, £iooo An,l so forth; lint these
A xv,) H e khan in a very subordinate
JfeAle *° l,^( husta ,| d that he had made £5OOO,
casl> is slopped out right and left,
n Chinese get their whack. But the railroad
v profitable on an unprecedented scale, and
sWamp over all the robberies. As regards Manchuria,
thro <3v ®*' u thfe terrain, says fchdt Riissia still
holds of the coibifcry and its railroad. The
ftTrhin a fu en i 60rt ,V lilb \ of f4iI HV, from Dalriy to
Itdnl “k ft -U° r # l ',? e Wegaugeiorthe.baby roilihg
3 •A e ? froHi Japan. Thus the Russians
rW'Wltoy take down their stofek a<>ain. Weale’s
Si m 6 I”, lnstmctioh is showing how incalculably
«p»?- R x WJW? Manchuria;. Ode chapter is headed
Russia an Undefeated Powek” , Yoii will agbe with
this when, lie poartts out that;when peace was made
£n S nnn tw? a , hI ?JW offi eers,. 917,000
hoises, and 1600 gipis, . surel.v these must be
eaten, up Hefory feussia s is, brought to her knees. Weale
demonstrates how Russian. power in Manchuria crows
tak6n t 0 lO ° P UP the railway
S.A. Premier Price isn’t talking Stinking
Fish or State Frights in London. He seems to be
“barracking” whole-heartedly for the Common-
wealth and its policy. In which respect the
difference between Price and some other State
Premiers is very conspicuous.
ANDERSON’S
WILL NOT
BLISTER.
SAFE
HORSE
CURE.
Is the finest remedy for Broken Knees,
Sore Shoulders, Flesh Wounds, Burns,
and Scalds, Swellings, Sprains and
Rheumatism.
If not obtainable of Storekeeper or
Chemist, send for sample bottle 2s. 9d.,
post paid 3s. fid., to Sydney Depot—
-30 P 0. CHAMBERS, PITT STREET.
£
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS,
/ A the Bunch
u p .st fr» e.
'tlirfee Black Tips>
or Blatk Tippfed
with White.
Write to-day. Sehti
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free;
Miller s Feather Bhop 4
Corner Strand Ar_„de, Pitt St;, SYDNEY ; algo at
COrnOr of Cftus ka and “wanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
(Mviiiion I'hk BuiilktLn-.J (6
REFERENDUM
UnanimousEkctioT)
of the
Celebrated
ARAHTit tI^
ThePremierPipe
of the World
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
Australian
ESTABLIstIKb 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
Freehold anri r p „ City or Suburban Properties, or on
wsasysar „r «?
states or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
UP to «0 Tier o^nTnPrh* 1 * condlfcion allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
U ] -0 ier cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine
~S ““ awt&ftß
- Ao “*"' : E, ' h *^s^'t-iL F R A riNrs„«„,
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. Is. Packet of TEN. lOd
L
&
'//
0
n o
>
/ ©
“Chuck”
the Drugs
it is too 1 Ate ! Stop dosiiig yOur nerves
And stomach With stimulating poisons which give false
strength of deadeh the iierves, thereby affecting only the
symptoms, while the cause) of the symptoms
grows worse. Drtlgs never reach the cause for they do
hot Create strength. Remember you can stop the pain in a bad
tooth with drugs, but the bad tooth remains and grows worse,
if yoU are weak Or in pain, drugs will temporarily give you
false strength or deaden the pain, but the cause of the
weakness Or pain remains with you, and the longer it remains
the worse it grows. The drug-doser eventually must pay
Nature’s price for the false strength he gets, just as the drunkard
must pay days of remorse and misery for the few short hours of
intoxication he enjoys. Therefore, if you are now,
dosing your system with poisonous drugs, stop it before
it is too late! Stop it and use Nature’s cure-Electricity, which gives to the weak, worn-out bodv
and nerves the very strength they have lost. Electricity is nerve food, it is the life of the blood a
healthy body is full of it, a weak, nerveless body lacks it. Use it as we apply it with the celebrated
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt
and it will cure you. If you suffer from Nervousness, WeaKness, Debility, Varico-
cele, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Weak BacK, Indigestion or Constipation
throw all your pills, powders and medicines out of the window, and use this rational, natural cure-
Electricity—which the foremost scientists of the present day admit is the only remedy which cures absolutely. There is not
an ailing man or woman whom it will not benefit, and it can do no harm when applied with our Belt. It will not burn
sting or shock, although the heating, vitalizing thrill can be felt all through the bodv as it pours its life-giving power into
the nerves, blood and tissues, building them up and driving pain, weakness and disease out of the system.
Our Belts are sold in every civilized country in the world. The thousands of testimonials we have received from all
parts of Australia, and the many years of success we have had here, are absolute proof that Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt is
the standard. We have many imitators but no equals. Don’t be misled by false “ Free Belt ” offers, or the extravagant
claims of those who promise an impossible appliance as bait for a 20-guinea course of drugs. Don’t taKe drugs ; use
Electricity alone as we apply it and you will have nothing to regret. Our prices are within the reach of all.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the
failure of all other treatments.
It gives the prices and all information about the belts. We will mail
it, together with some of our testimonials, free, post paid to all who
write us, and our specialists will give you a diagnosis of your case
free. iAII communications are treated with strict confidence.
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
Castlereag'h and Market Streets, SYDNEY,
JOSEPH R. Corcoran
the McLaughlin co., Dept. 10,
CASTLEREAGH and MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Please send me your Free Illustrated Book, Testi-
monials and Price List.
Name
lB
Address
HEARN ES SHO <K*E ms
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fe CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breaching, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where " Coughs" have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6, Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and bj s e
.Proprietor, VV. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. Ilearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
&f>e LEADING
HOUSE «>*•
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
>VE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more
Our SPECIAL SNAP
No. 200/16.
The Reliable Fishing Rod.
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
Price 14s
CANT
B
BEAT
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
4in., 7/6 ea. ; sin., 9/6 each
Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
jIARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiibor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Preamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning- mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, la. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowt River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDouoal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be tooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, pp- Established, S 5 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. Nisw Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d uost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife's Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is* AA Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to. all Irenes, 1906
Edition, Is posted. \ f.st Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2S. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Sd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, IfiOO illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing', Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only 1 *
'“Dalli
For Household Use.— To use it is the best,
most simple and most comfortable way of
ironing. Independent of stove and gas, it can
be used anywhere. Non-Inflammable fuel
without noxious fumes. No risk from fire;
healthier and safer than any other iron.
Dallinette
(A Smaller “ Dalli.”)
For light work and travelling only.
For general household work use the “ Dalli."
Having a larger ironing surface and .greater
heating capacity every description of ironing
can be done with it.
Stocked by:
F. Las.sktter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
read
’ MARK,
HOW
TO
LOOK
YOUNG.
TWAIN’S
HOY/
NOT TO
GROW
OLD.
GREY HAIRS are quite in keeping with the role played by the
GREAT Humorist. But ordinary men desire to retain their
youth, keep their situations, not look too old at forty. Women
desire o retain th§ir youth and beauty. Darken grey hairs with
LOGKYER’S r E s h t a <£ er
In bottles 1/6, of all chemists and stores.
D
YSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,” 4s.
lightful and wickedly true.I’* 1 ’*
6d. “ De-
WHY DON’T
YOU BUY A
WINCHESTER?
6/- pet- tOO ;
57/6 per 1000
Winchester Repeating' Rifles
1892 Model, ’32 Calibre, Central Fire, 6 shot,
24-inch Octagon Barrel, Weight about 7 lb.
PRICE 59/-
Winchester Repeating- Carbines
1892 Model, ’32 Calibre, Central Fire, 6 Shot,
20-inch Round Barrel, Weight about 5f lb.
PRICE 56/6
THUMB TRIGGER S.S. MODEL *22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long ,„ .
22 Long Rifle Cartridges . . ... wm
1902 S.S. MODEL, ’22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long, 22 Long Rifle Cartridges, 20/
1904 S.S. MODEL, ’22 Cal., takes 22 Short, 22 Long, 22 Long Rifle Cartridges, 25/-
1906 REPEATER, 22 Cal., takes 15 '22 Cal. Short Cartridges /
JAMES MARTIN & CO.
683 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Under Vice«Reg'al
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . .
Miss Van Brakkbl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair- lf»1 Htvr st-d _
Workers & Dermatologists, 01 STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Oastlei-on o-h oi
TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS ta i n™*'
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138
On the Trail of the Trust
Price 1/3
POST FREE.
££ BriHsb=flustralaslan
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE,- £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters rnay be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
Londr !i.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
director
J. E. SCANTLEBURY.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES ,
94 KINO STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter :
Copy of Testimonial.
To Mr. MURPHY.
GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
Lady Mary Lygon ivishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied: with the two costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well.
(Signed) C. JARDINIER.


The Gun.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HAIL to the. Gun !
; i To the four-point-seven bore,
To the good old hundred-ton,
To the monster by the shore
That rears its bulk to roar
In the sun !
That, reeling from its stroke,
Sinks down behind its smoke—
Hail to the Gun !
To the Snider and the Enfield and the old
Martini-Henry;
To the Remington, the Chassepot, and the
Mauser and Mannlicher ;
Good destroyers, every one.
In the field and by the hedge ;
From the trench and dyke and ledge ;
With their hot and hurried breath
Spitting out a sudden death—
Hail to the Gun !
To the Mitrailleuse and Gardner ;
To the Hotchkiss and the Gatling ;
To the shrieking Nordenfelt;
To the pom-pom, hurling death along the veldt.
To the heavy ordnance rolling;
To the howitzers a-rattling—
Though the aftermath of battling
Be the Dead March and the tolling—
Hail to the Gun !
Black muzzles through the ports ;
Heavy cannon on the forts ;
Solid shot and screaming shells !
From their domineering stations,
From their grim machicolations
And crenelles—
Waiting, waiting ; huge, sublime !
Waiting ; merciless and strong—
When the nations march along.
They are drums to beat the time !
Hail to the Gun !
When it thunders out at sea ;
When it crackles ’mongst the hills,
Arrogant with tyranny,
Over those that bear its ills,
Who would shun
The dominion of the instrument that kills.
Hail to the Gun !
To the Maxim and the Armstrong and the Krupp,
From whose black and grimy throats
Issue cunning devilries.
To the grim artilleries
From whose muzzles, lifted up,
By the gateways of the seas,
Death is dealt to all that floats !
Hail to the Gun !
Has it not with savage lust
Turned the living flesh to dust?
An ancient plan.
Whereby the ingenuity of man
Has perfected a thing to burn him blind !
It hath done
Mighty work for all mankind—
Once by methods obsolete ;
Now made perfect and complete
To smite and slay—
To batter out the breath,
To mutilate and stun,
To deal in sudden death—
More effective now to-day
To destroy !
That agony and terror shall enmesh
The quivering human flesh !
To rend and maim ;
Till, with joy,
As of old, shall men acclaim—
All, save those enwrapt with pain
And the wounded, marred and slain —
“ Hail to the Gun ! ”
vie.
C. G. A. COLLES.
Children of the Gulf.
JIMMY YIK’S AQUARIUM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CHOWS ’ave good business heads,” said
Cloncurry Bill recently. “ It’s ten
years since I was up the Gulf country.
I’ve seen hundreds of Chinkies waitin’ at the back
o’ Thursday Island in big sampans. ’Ave seen
’em pertendin’ ter trade with the snotter boats
till they got the word from Port Darwin, an’
down they came like a crowd o’ centipedes inter
Queensland.
“ See about 2000 of ’em once crossin’ the
Palmer, carryin’ their sick in baskets. How do
they travel ? I shepherded ’em to the Mitchell,
an’ it wuz the biggest Chow army y’ever see. All
day they said nuffin’. It would ’a’ taken the
Australian perlice force to arrest ’em. In the day
time they wasn’t there. At night it wuz like
Hong Kong playin’ pak-a-poo across the flats.
How do they hide themselves ?
“ Spoke to the Government when I got back.
‘ How many Chows was there ? ’ sez the Govern-
ment. ‘ About 2000,’ I sez. Strike me pink,
they despatched a half-caste trooper to disperse
’em—about three years after ! Most of them
Chows wus keepin’ stores in Brisbane an’ Towns-
ville by that time.
“Don’t like the Gulf back country. I’m
speakin’ about Wills’ Creek an’ the Mulligan
River. Got ter put a screen round yer beer when
yer drinkin’ ter keep the flies from ’avin’ a bath.
When a bloke lifts his beer yer think he’s sayin’
‘ Amen,’ with a meat safe in front of his face.
Insecks ain’t got a chance, back o’ the Flinders,
when a bloke makes up his mind ter protect his
thirst.
“ The Gulf s full o’ Chows —black Chows an’
medium Chows, an’ speckled Mandarins, thick as
raffles on a Saturday night.
Jimmy \ik took the bean as a storekeeper.
If yer bought a pound o’ currants, he’d throw in a
couple of dead flies ter make the scale go down.
“ He’ad a butcher’s shop at the side of the
store ; big mangrove creek at the back. Wednes-
day wus killin’ day. Creek was pretty red on
1 hursday arter he’d slew a few sheep an’ a couple
of beasts. The water useter rot round his place !
They called it the blood-swamp.
Bout three weeks arter he started slingin’
offal about, up swarmed the ’gators from' the out-
holes. 1 hey made things pretty lively round
Yik’s back yard.
“ He took no notice of ’em at first, until one
day a bloke showed him a real alligator-skin
satchel what cost about two quid in London.
Then Jimmy sat down an’ tried to count how
much vallible ’gator wus goin’ ter waste. He puts
up a six-foot iron fence both sides o’ the creek,
an’ next killin’-day, when the ’gators smelt the
’ot meat, they lined up fer a front seat in the
blood-hole. Then Jimmy blocked up both ends,
an’ counted his catch.
“There wus about two dozen old men and
young men ’gators an’ a dozen lady crocs who said
that Chinese mud wus a lovely thing to hide yer
face in. There was four little ’gators what
couldn’t bite their own dinner.
“ They didn’t seem ter mind bein’ penned up
in the slush paddick, so long as they got a bit o’
live meat reg’lar. Yik found that ’gators is ix-
pensive boarders ter feed. Barrin’ young civil
servants, I never see anythin’ to ekwil their appe-
tites. When they wus real hungry they formed
into a holler square an’ threatened to bore under
the fence an’ start killin’ sheep on their own.
“Jimmy couldn’t afford ter fatten ’em on
mutton, so he started to indooce innercent dawgs
into the shop. Poodle dawgs an’ cattle pups
went astray, until there wusn’t a bark left in the
township.
“ The ’gators got ’em. If yer feed a ’gator on
dawg he goes dreamy an’ soft about the eyes till
he almost persuades yer ter give him yer pup to
mind.
“ The goats started ter disappear. Jimmy
useter hang cabbage leaves about the store, an’ the
goats wud walk in. Yik rushed ’em through a
side door an’ introdooced ’em to the rile fambily.
The rile fambily knowed the ixact moment a goat
was enterin’ the store. They sat up an’ waited
fer the door to open. Six of ’em rushed a poor
old nanny one night. She disappeared all right,
horns an’ all. Don’t talk ter me about land
agents.
“ Yik got red-hot in the end with his rile
fambily. He started ter pass travellin’ live stock
into ’em. It wus a case of puttin’ a fence round
yer cow if yer wanted her to pick a bit of grass by
the creek.
“Two miner blokes travellin’ ter Noo Guinea
put up at the pub one night, an’ turned out their
horses. Next mornin’ they found a couple o’ sets
of shoes in Jimmy’s paddick. How did they
perform ! It was their language what broke up
the drought.
“They spotted the Chow’s game. Next night
they put a young goat inside the fence, an’ the rile
fambily rushed it four deep. Jest as their mouths
wus wavin’ bits of nanny in the air, about a
hundred-weight of dynamite lifted the ’gator farm
into a sugar plantation.
“Jimmy said nuffin’. He jest collected the
pieces of dead ’gator an’ carried ’em inter the
shop. Same night we heard his choppin’-machine
at work sif it was poundin’ a blue-metal factory.
Then it stopped sudden as though it was swal-
lerin’ a ironclad.
“ He arst me ter go in next day an’ repair the
machine. It wus tangled up.
“ ‘ ’Gator skins are good enough fer nailin’ on
boots,’ I sez. ‘ Dunno as they’re much good fer
sausages.’
“ After that he left the Gulf, an’ bought a per-
formin’ shark, named Ben Bolt. Ben ad bin
eddicated by a Jap pearler. He could do all sorts
o’ tricks —drive a cab across the tank, jump oft a
table, an’ wheel the takin’s ’ome in a barrer. His
boss trick wus scootin’ round the big tank with a
belltopper fixed over his left eye. The Chow
useter sit up all night teachin’ him noo tricks.
“ He worked fer two months tryin’ ter fix up a
mock-trial scene in the tank. Got a horsehair
wig fer Ben, an’ indooced him to sit on a bench.
He got that far all right ; then he introdooced
five or six live schnapper ter play witness an’
lawyers. But when the Chow turned his back to
light the gas, the counsel an’ jury wasn’t to be
seen. An’ Ben Bolt wus sittin’ innercent as life
on the bench.
“ The Chow was wild. He accused the ticket-
taker of stealin’ the schnapper an’ sellin’ ’em to
the Manly Aquarium.
“ Then Jimmy Yik hit on a tableau, called the
’Eavenly Twins. The shark played lead, and the
Chow was the other twin. He was dressed in a
barrister’s nightgown.
“ Rehearsin’ the Twins wus ticklish work.
The Chow useter sit in the tank lookin’ 'aid at
Ben Bolt, an’ Ben, dressed as a plain shark, useter
smile at Jimmy.
“The ’Eavenly Twins would ’ave run into a
hundred nights if the larrikins hadn’t turned out
the gas one Saturday. They said Jimmy would
’ave plenty of time to get out of the tank.
“ ’E didn’t.
“When the landlord came for his rent on
Monday mornin’, he began to ask for Jimmy.
Then the shark turned sorrowfully in the tank
an’ the landlord dropped his umbrella an’ looked
at him.
‘‘ ‘ What did yer do it fer ?’ he sez. 1 An’ him
owin’ me a month’s rent.’
“ But the landlord wasn’t ter be done out of
his rent. He organised a benefit for Jimmy’s
widder, another fer the orphans, an’ two fer the
blind asylum.
“ Then the larrikins got in an’ started pilin’
beer bottles inter the tank. It took two cartloads
ter fill it up an’ bring Ben Bolt to the top. They
let him stay there until the smell started ter lower
the rents of surroundin’ proputty.
“Then they summoned a poor fish-hawker next
door. The proputty owners said he wuz keepin’
capital out of the country allowin’ his marine
reptiles to smell eight hours a day. They fined
him two quid fer harborin’ performin’ lawyers an’
a tank full of bottles.
“ My word, he got off easy ! ”
ALBERT DORINGTON.
! axo'fomc
10M,
Is. 6(f.
THESE
PRIZES
r
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us to sell more we offer FREE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id. each, or 6d. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
we will forward you 6 Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Filled Mutt
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
Books, Dressing Cases and many others. The more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don't send any money—just your name and address.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
/ Post Card \
\ Department /;
476 George-sfreet, SYDNEY.
• •
• •
STOP THAT COUGH
BY TAKING
MRS. MACLURCAN’iS
COUGH CURE.
All Chemists and
Storekeepers, « if, ■
Price *' U
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For LIVER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, 4c.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity
Average Dose.— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION,
Note the name “ Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Pari
of the Label.
L
MAKE
your
own
AERATED WATERS
WITH AN
AUSTRAL AERATED
WATER MACHINE
AERATED WATERS cost less than
FOURPENCE PER DOZEN pro-
duced by these machines.
Prices from £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and full particulars from
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
628 and 630 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
CONJURING TRICKS,
PUZZLES, SURPRISE
& JOKE NOVELTIES.
The Look and Laug'h Glass.
See the Passing
Show. Y our friends
grotesquely Photo-
graph e d—s tout
people look thin —
thin people look
stout. The Laugh-
ing Camera fur-
nishes all this, and
more. By getting
a focus on passing
pedestrians, horses,
waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures
The Laughing Camera
are witnessed. All grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly made, and cannot get
out of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Quite Shocking, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOGRAPH.—A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having- a
microscopic lens fitted into one end. While ,
the victim is absorbed in admiration of the j
pretty picture, and turns the button in the |
confident expectation of seeing something|
interesting, a spring syringe is brought into|
action, and the observer experiences a very i
great surprise. It is very simple to operate, i
cannot get out of order, and can be carried I
in the vest pocket. Full directions with
each one.
Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue-
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
D.R. G. M
K.K.o.r-WS
piiiiiiii!iHi ll ,:ii | iiiiiiiiiiiHHiiiiiii l ;!ini l: .iiilii |
PUZ ZLE PURSES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market. Even
our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts baffled. Three
entirely different moves before the purse can be opened.
It is made of superior leather, with inside pocket, and
strong- polished nickel frame. Illustrated directions en-
closed. Post free, anywhere, 2/-. Do not miss this
chance of obtaining one of the best and most
useful puzzles ever produced.
w
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Strekt, Sydney.
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.


The Pride of Yankee-blow.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHE was a cheap American—
A ten-wheel Mogul rig;
And all the yard was envious.
She looked so bright and big.
Her chest stuck out Diana-like,
Too proud was she to know
The small Australian engines there,
Of fifty tons or so.
The cleaners shone her up all day,
And dreamed of her at night.
With bated breath they spoke of her—
They said she was “ All right ! ”
She didn’t make the records jump,
Yet day by day she grew
Too full of pride to even snort,
Unless she wanted to.
Her valve-gear it was delicate,
She had a narrow fire ;
But she was big and beautiful—
What more do you require ?
Among the drivers she was called
“ The Duchess ” ; yet I know
The engines had a name for her—
They called her “ Yankee-blow.”
One day “The Duchess,” running fast
Along the mountain side,
Came suddenly around a curve
Upon a heavy slide
Of clay and rocks, which quite debarred
A thoroughfare that day,
She whistled loud in anger, but
It didn’t move away.
And then she screamed in terror to
The carriages behind
To save her from disaster, but
They didn’t seem to mind.
Instead, they shoved her all they knew
Until she hit the mass,
And sank her pilot into it
To make it let her pass.
She was a proud American,
But built too cheap and fine,
Somewhere near Philadelphia—
I’m taking none in mine.
When she had quite decided who
Was talking, she looked like
A portly dame of fashion that
Had fallen off her bike.
They telegraphed for some of those
Australian plain machines
The Yankee used to giggle at
And call the “ Fellaheens.”
So one came out and took the train,
And one backed softly down
And hooked on to old “ Yankee-blow ”
To haul her back to town.
It dragged her off with disrespect,
And laughed at her mishap ;
It told her of the lot of wrecks
The line has had to “scrap.”
At every station on the way
They’d pass an engine which
Would ask “ the Duchess ” rudely if
She grew up in a ditch ;
And word was flashed along the line,
“ Look out and see the show ;
A pony engine’s bringing home
The wreck of ‘Yankee-blow.’”
They ran her to the hospital,
And she was there for weeks
Adjusting all her piston-valves,
And plugging boiler-leaks.
She’s done a lot of things since then,
From bust cylinder-heads
To spreading all her side-rods out
And wearing valves to shreds.
She is a fine American,
And, dash it! she don’t care
Who pays her little exes, bill—
That isn’t her affair.
They build ’em cheap in U.S.A.,
But Vhat I want to show
Is this—we build ’em better here—
Better than “ Yankee-blow ! ”
M \ORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
Breathes there a Man.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD often met and admired the old
foreigner. He was so tall and smart and
military-looking. And I secretly wove
round him a romance. He looked like the last
ruin of a noble family.
Then, with pity, I noted a change. He no
longer took his place jauntily at the next table to
mine. But I met him, and saw him turn into a
Flinders-street “sixpenny.” His cuffs were
frayed, and the watch-chain was missing. I men-
tally wondered how long the money would last;
Melbourne pawnbrokers are not lavish in their
advances. One day I turned in and took a seat
opposite him. He was studying the “ Situations
Vacant” of the Age.
Presently he looked up ; and, affecting a care-
less tone, I asked : “ Out of a position, M’sieur? ”
He nodded calmly.
“ I am out —yes, out of a position, and out of
luck. I will soon be out of elbows, M’sieu.”
Presently I drew him on to talk of France.
Then I got my first surprise.
“No, M’sieu, I do not return. France I do not
longer have any regard for. I have what you
call—wash my hands—yes. I am now naturalise’—
I have papers, ah, yes. Australia I adopt, I
salute your flag. France have treat me badly,
ver’ badly. She is—what you call it—one rotten
country—yes, one rotten country.”
“You’re about right there, Frenchy,” a wharf
laborer on my left struck in; “it’s the rottenest
flamin’ place in the world.”
The old Frenchman stiffened. “M’sieu,” he
said deliberately, “probably speaks from per-
sonal experience. Yes, of course.”
“ Wotcher mean?” asked the other, darkly.
I translated. I didn’t want to miss the circus.
“ Have you ever been in France Monsieur wishes
to know ?”
“ No I ain’t,” he growled. “ But, all the same,
I stick to what I say. I had a Froggie for a mate
once on a mining tribute, an’ he beat me fer arf a
quid. An’ we ’ad a second mate on my last trip
to the Big Smoke. He was a Frenchy, an’ he was
no dam good. I stick to it France is just wot
Mossoo says—a darned rotten country.”
M’sieur was white-lipped, then livid.
“ And for these reasons” —he spoke with diffi-
culty— “you say, you abuse, you speak her a
rotten country.”
The other gazed at him astonished.
“Why, you said it yerself, Froggie. Didn’t
you say you wos a nacheralised Britisher ? Didn’t
yer, now ? An’—an'—an’ didn’t yer bloomin’
country send Dreyfust to exile fer 20 bloomin’
years, an’—an’, anyhow, we licked yer outer sight
at Waterloo.”
Then the tornado burst. “Pig! Canaille!
Wharf rat! I spit upon you, I scorn you.”
The hot soup flew straight, and the “ wharf
rat ” leaped up cursing.
“ A fig for Waterloo ! That for Dreyfus ! I
would have hanged him ! His head should have
fallen ! That for your Nelson ! ” The sugar
basin hit me that time. “ Vive Napoleon ! Yive
France ! I hurrah for her, queen of the world.”
A waiter, hurrying up, got the bread-board full
in the chest, and curled up with a yell.
“Come on, wharf rat! I fight for La Belle
France ! Yes, come on ! I will fight you to a—
what you call a finish.”
He had thrown everything throwable by this
time, and the “wharf rat” got at him. But
M’sieur was game. He kicked, bit, tore, scratched,
and fell upon his enemy literally tooth and nail.
The wharf toiler had enough. He, too, was a
game fighter, but this was not the kind of warfare
he was used to.
“ That’ll do, Froggie ! I pass. I’ve’ad enough !
You’re a bloomin’ earthquake, an’ yer don’t fight
fair. Call ’im orf,” he appealed to me.
I did ; at least, I dragged him off. One eye was
closed, and a beautiful russet-green color was
spreading slowly over the cheek. His lip was
split; I think he had swallowed a tooth, but he
was still game. He faced the crowd erect and
defiant.
“ Messieurs,” he said, proudly, “does—is any
other gentleman of an inclination to describe La
Belle France a rot-ten country ?’’
He was twirling a broken soup-plate sugges-
tively in his hand, so no one said anything dero-
gatory to France.
That night I had for a companion for three
merry hours a riotous Frenchman, whose battered
features would have ensured him a free pass into
Wren’s pavilion at any time. He sang the Mar-
seillaise on 16 occasions, beating time with a
broken soup-plate.
KU-KLUX.
Two Ways of Love-
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was early Sunday morning in the fish-
shop. The storm and stress of Saturday
night was over, and nothing survived but
greasy, cracked dishes, empty beer-bottles, and
the smell of fish —always the smell of stale fish.
Behind the stained counter Pietro and his
spouse, weary-eyed and perspiring, were washing
up. With a hand-sweep the little fat Italian
cleared each plate of its bones and fragments,
which crashed into a large refuse barrel. Then
he rushed the plate into a sinkful of filthy steam-
ing water. Immediately Nina fished it out, and,
wiping it with a towel which had once been a
petticoat, placed it on a rapidly-growing pile of
dishes.
In the supper-room, behind the dingy, red cur-
tain, Nell, Loo, and the man from Out Back still
lingered.
Nell’s physiognomy would have earned her two
months, without the option, for a casual drunk,
but, with her reputation thrown in, it usually got
her six months’ hard.
Loo, on the other hand, was pretty —so very
pretty that, wanting her companions and sur-
roundings, she might have been anything, from a
post-card queen to a Governor’s daughter. The
fair, wavy masses of hair, the silly, - trusting,
violet eyes, the soft, pouting, carmine lips, the
round, yielding figure, would have converted the
puny soul of a Methodist parson into a great red
thumping heart.
There is no need to describe the man from Out
Back. Sufficient to say, he was Loo’s victim,
drunk and incapable, and it was high time he
returned to the ranges.
“Givesh shomething to drink,” he grunted.
“Right you are,” said Nell, helping herself
liberally, and passing the bottle to Loo.
“Yes,” continued Loo, whose reminiscences
had been interrupted, “ I did love that Johnny.”
Nell spluttered in her beer
“Real love, you know. He was such a '
gentleman—took me to Melbourne and Christ-
church ; any amount of money. His uncle or old
man was a duke or a lord or something like that
at Home. He’d been to Oxford. Gave me cham-
pagne suppers and everything I wanted.”
“ Where’s ’e now ? ” interrupted Nell.
“ Well, I was going to tell you. He got a cable
—his uncle or old man or somebody died, and he
sailed in the Ornrah. Promised to come back in
six months ; said he would marry me arid all the
rest, you know ; swore he’d allow me six quid a
week till he came back, and would post a cheque
from Fremantle.”
Loo stopped, breathlessly.
“Did ’e come back?” queried Nell perfunctorily.
“No,” said Loo indifferently, and emptied her
glass.
Up above the rain hammered ponderously on
the roof, almost drowning the clash of dishes in
the bar.
The man from Out Back snored suddenly, his
nose buried in his waistcoat. The temptation was 1
too much for Nell. She winked at Loo, who
leant her elbows on the table, her little, white
hands supporting her head with its fair, wavy
masses of hair, her eyes dreamy with tender
memories. Deftly and carefully Nell went through
the sleeper’s pockets, scornfully rejecting every-
thing not of commercial value.
Presently Loo sighed, and began to sniffle.
Maudlin tears filled the silly, trusting violet eyes,
made little runnels down the round, powdered
cheeks, and splashed into the plate. She laid her
head on her arms on the table, a torrent of weep-
ing seized her and swayed her soft, yielding body,
while she murmured monotonously, again and
again.
“ And he never sent me a blanky bean.”
R.E.S.
Does Your Back
Ever Ache?
* Every picture
tells a story.’’
Don’t make light of
a pain in the back. It
means there is conges-
tion and inflammation
in the kidneys—that
the kidneys are
clogged and inactive,
can’t do their whole
duty of filtering the
blood. It means the
circulation of impure
blood throughout the
body, a weakening of
every nerve, muscle,
and vital organ.
Doan’s Kidney Pills
have a quick and
direct action on the
kidneys. They drive
out the poisons that
infest the blood,
cleanse and stimulate
the kidneys, regulate
the urine, cure backache, dizziness and languor, and per-
manently heal the kidneys.
SYDNEY MAN CURED.
Mr. J. Livingstone, Ingleburn, near Liverpool, says:—“For years I
suffered from gravel. I had medical advice and underwent three operations
in two years for stone in the bladder, but I only got relief for a couple of
months after each operation, and would soon be as bad as ever again. I got
little rest, and did not know what it was to get two hours’ sleep at a time.
I was so bad with backache that I would cry out with the pain, and to bend
was agony. I simply could not do my work. To add to my sufferings, my
secretions were very frequent and high-colored. After the best doctors
failed to cure me, I did not think that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills would
be able to cure me, but my wife kept on urging me to try them. At last I
did get them, and after taking one box I felt a little better ; after using the
third box I knew that I was on the road to recovery, and had great hopes of
a perfect cure. I was not disappointed, for after eight boxes I was sound
and well. The gravel and backache were cured, my secretions were natural,
and I slept like a baby. lam quite cured, and consider my cure a miracle.
I spent a lot of money and was tortured with operations, yet could not get
well, and a few boxes of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, at the paltry cost of
£l, cured me.”
Eight years later, Mr. Livingstone says: “The above is quite true —
every word —and I can now tell you that I’m still well. My cure proves that
there s nothing as good as Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for the kidneys.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cure Inflamma-
tion of the Kidneys and Bladder, Pain or
Dull Ache in the Back, Joints and
Muscles; cure Gravel, Weak Heart,
and all Urinary Troubles.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2/9 per box
(six boxes 15/3), or will be
posted on receipt of price by
Foster=McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Piles
Cured After Years of Suffering.—
Proof tliat Doan's Ointment
Will Cure Piles.
Piles rarely kill, but they cause constant
torture. This is especially true in the case of
those who are ever so slightly constipated
Piles can be quickly and permanently cured
without pain, cutting, or detention from
business. This has been proved in thousands
of cases of both sexes and of all ages, and in
the very worst as well as in ordinary eases
No one who has not suffered the tortures of
itching, painful and bleeding Piles can appre-
ciate for a moment the marvellous sense of
relief that follows the use of Doan’s Ointment
Oo at once and get a pot of this ointment; it
will end your sufferings.
Mrs. F. Flynn, Melbourne Cleaning and
Dyeing Co., 233 Darling Street, Balmain,
Sydney savs : -“ No one likes their health
troubles to be made public, but if knowledge
w , IU t . he means of saving other people years
of suffering, then I think it a duty to make a
public statement. For over twelve months I
suffered from protruding piles, the pain of this
terrible complaint prevented me from getting
proper rest at night, and it was a great
trouble to get about, and so I could not do
my work. I was really in a bad state, and
the pain nearly drove me mad. I cannot now
remember all the remedies I used; I got
everything I heard about, but it was only
waste of time, for they did not even give me
ease. When at my worst I commenced using
Doan s Ointment, I got immediate relief, and
one pot cured me. I have had time to test
my cure, it is six months since I used the
Ointment, and I have had no signs of the
ailment since. I earnestly recommend all
sufferers to try this wonderful Ointment,”
W hen we say that Doan’s Ointment will
cure piles, we mean exactly what we say,
nothing more or less, and it is because of the
thousands who have been cured that we are
able to say this. The above is one instance ;
we have similar testimony from every town
in Australia. Doan’s Ointment is sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per pot,
or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.


A Wonderful Blood Purifier
A Grateful Mother Writes;
«?*
f*
t-r
“My little son suffered ter-
ribly with eczema. His head
and face were one mass of
sores, and I thought he would
be disfigured for life. But no,
after taking five bottles of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla he was
entirely cured. You are at
liberty to use this photo and
testimonial as you like, as I
can attribute my son’s cure
to nothing but Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla.
Yours gratefully,
Mrs. L. Wilson,
Adelaide. ”
As now Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
Make sure that you get “Ayer’s” Sarsaparilla —not some
other kind, put up to imitate it, and which will do you no good.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Dowell, Mass., U. S. A.
fill
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving away prizes such as MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES’ and GENT'S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIKUES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship. LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS. SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES. HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward vou 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonetie,
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list. WE TRUST*
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every case
positively as represented in our illustrations.
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
■
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
___ in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free— or write
S. GREEN, slO, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
X Series, IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwaided Post Free
to any address.
Do You Know
that more than half the sickness in the world, especially of
women, is caused by constipation? It can be prevented if
BEECHAM’S PILLS are taken whenever nature calls for
assistance. Comfort and happiness follow the use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
THE HANDY HOME REMEDY.
There’s no secret about the value of Beecham’s Pills as a
family medicine. Thousands of families always keep a box
handy—and it is the first resort in case of sickness appearing,
being the “stitch in time” which prevents further trouble, and
possibly serious illness. If you have not got a box of
BEECHAM’S PILLS in the house, get one now, you never know
how soon it may be needed. A dose taken when ailments arise
will soon right the wrong and restore you to health and vigour.
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price ///£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
WYSE & WHITE,
Squatters’ Agents for Employment
and General Station Supplies,
No. 1 London Bank Chambers,
Pitt & Market Sts., Sydney.
Coming direct from the Outer
Darling, we know your wants and
are in a position to supply them.
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
lat-s* improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney. Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book aud Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Or. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk.” a
collectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
Compulsory Windlng-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
** to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price .. .. .. .. .. .. £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 lbs. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. .. . ..£0 13 9
UUt. l i ICC . . . . . . . . . JLO J 7
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
rjIHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
I of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to everv home—
iu dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where hies
m
m
are troublesome.
Clean, oeat and
ornamental, will
not soilor injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
seas. m.
cold by
W holesale
)■r u ggists,
Groce, s and
Hardware
Dealer a ,
Sydney —Anthony Hordern &Sons ; Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O'Connell St. ; F. H. Faulding & Co., O'Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Savers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim.Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe & Co. Ltd,
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., CT.S.d
Tremendously Powerful
Long Stroke, Automatic
WINDMILL.
Australian Invention. —
QUO TA TBONS SENT ON
APPLICATION.
WINDMILLS can be in-
spected working at Bay
Road Railway Station,
North Sydney -
PATERNOSTERS
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . -
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists In
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Frae, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 t G.P.0., SYDNEY,
ASTHMA CURE
GRINIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coußhs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GKIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAK-
KITES. fsold by all Chemists-
mek
AND
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments
on receipt of this adversisement. J3P" Note Address i
DR. MARTIN, /VI. D., “emumy House," 151 E/izabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing:. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


Waterproof Macintoshes
The “ Doris ” Macintosh for ladies is a very smart
style with gauntlet cuffs, plain collar, medium ful-
0
ness in skirt, and sewn throughout.
There are v arious grades, but one
we think you would like is a
feather-weight, in Olive rubber.
Maid’s length, 22/6; three-quarter
length, 27/6; full length, 30/-
The “Clontarf ” Macintosh for
men is full-cut with vertical pockets, and
cuff straps. It is a good-looking- coat and
thoroughly waterproof in Olive rubber,
light-weight Italian for 30/-
When ordering, give height and easy chest measure-
ment. Carriage paid to any address Ask for our
illustrated catalogue—free on request.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 George Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve. Is ;
Packet of Ten, lOd.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
£r
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Reel.Mltor
Minps or Quarries Weight about 181 b-. Operated by compressed air, consuming about 25 CUBIC Fkt. 1
Mines or Only ONE WORKINC PART-Strictly ONE MAN Rock Dnlls.
& J. LEfr.PRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY
JOHN W. JAFFRAY,
ENGINEER & MACHINERY MERCHANT,
Vickery’s
Chambers,
BUYER, SELLER &
IMPORTER of
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
machinery
ENGINES, BOILERS, PUMPS.
Mining, Woodworking, Brickmaking, Refriger*
ating, Wool Scouring and Drying Machinery,
Engineers’ Tools, Contractors’ Piant, &c.
Low Pricks and Satisfaction Ensured.
it jAFFRAY’S MACHINERY REGISTER.”
JOHN HURST & CO.
Watchmakers and Jewellers,
HAVE REMOVED
St. to &
FROM
WOLFE
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDEIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
i j
ib®h?i§
Mi
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pumo than the Knowles/'
PROFIT
AND
LOSS
2
Friends took two separate contracts of n similar nature, but some distance apart. In both cases
the same kind of rock was to be excavated, and the estimates for this work were the same. They
met after the jobs were finished. Tom was all smiles, while Bill looked as though he had just lost a
lawsuit. Tom said, *“ Why, Bill, whatever is the matter ?” Bill said, “I lost money over niy job,
old man, and don’t know how I did it.” “Well,” Tom said, “yours was the same kind of job as mine was, and I made a good haul on mine,
and Tom said immediately, “That’swhere your profits went, old man, I used
‘ HERVEY’S
What explosives did you use ? ” Bill told him,
RACKAROCR.”
“JODELITE”
The recognised British Wood-Preserving Liquid for Wood
Blocks, Piles, Girders, Decking, Fence and Gate Posts,
Foundation Timbers, Flooring, Telegraph Poles, Manila
Hopes, etc. It absolutely prevents White Ants, Wood
Lice, Rats, Vermin, Teredo, Wet and Dry Rot, Splitting,
Warping, etc.
TUBING
(Flexible Metallic)
In Steel and Bronze, for Steam, Air, Water, Gas, Oil, Tar,
Naphtha, etc., to 10-in. internal dia. Tubing made to
stand 3001 b. steam pressure. No reduction in diameter for
connections as they all lit on outside and not inside as on
other tubing. All Sizes in Stock.
“FFRRODOR’
Best Preservative Paint for Iron, Steel, Ti A
Stone, or Cement. All Colors in Stock. T
which thoroughly adheres to Galvanised Iro
withstands Acids, Salt Spray, etc., and does n
Water for Drinking purposes. One painting v
is equal to at least two paintings with any oth<
All Storekeepers, or direct from
R. A. HERVEY,
Cor. Clarence and King Streets. Sydney.
Established 1884* Telephone 618.
Explosives, Machinery and Supplies for Mining, Quarrying, Dredging, Sluicing, Irrigation, etc.; Contractors’, Engineers’ and Builders’ Sundries.
Sole Agent Articles and Ooods of special manufacture. Hard Work Saving Devices a Specialty.
The
Is the Only SUCCESSFUL
SLIMER on the Market.
It is treating satisfactorily Antimony, Tin and other
Slimes. CAPACITY 12 TONS PER DAY.
Since the “ SPERRY ” was introduced, important improvements have been
made in the direction of higher efficiency and greater stability.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Manufacturers. Sydney & Melbourne
M
i
.1 ».
*3»ws
