

ord to the Wise is sufficient
K
DEWAR’S
J 9
R. Gr. && CO.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
For Every Description
OF
High-Glass Machinery.
7 Dent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND ...
128 William St., Melbourne, vie.
HOBART.
[alley s Orient fjotei.
PIONEER
leather
BELTIISIG
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
m
Take it back.
[ must have
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
THE ROYAL
EDISWAN LAMP.
V
aim
/JAM,'
Em
|6TA
$8
H
3
Economy in Current.
Equality ok Light.
THE
edisom a m
United Electric
Light Co., Ltd.
Australasian Branch:
58 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY.
Queensland Depflt:
Commonwealth
Buildings,
Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE.
Victorian Depot: 45 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Clll , u)(2lJ(j&Urf /MuJ / f{u U fyfrt.
For
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc.
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present day
are ■ • ■ * ■
99
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTORS.
Estimates,
Advice,
and
Instructions
Free.
THE “ SILVERTOWN”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch :
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
9
“HOUSE OF LOROS”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
“LYSACHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & GO. LTD.
30 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIEB.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE.
SIMPLE.
ECONOMICAL.
RELIABLE.
DURABLE.
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engines# o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
.
"
SJLVMJ.SV3
FISHING TACKLE IS THE BEST.
SEND FDR ALL OUR LISTS.
330-332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
refrigerators
ECONOMY
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
c. A. MacDONALD, 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mVM MS NOOIIiH
HE LI DOM SPA sh®uW be taken with 1
feed as a Table Water. /
*S4UOj§V
‘'OO V NIHOO
-v-.
The Bulletin
V01.29.— N0. 1472.]
[Thursday, April 30, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


new books George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
71 CASTLEREACH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Crawford, Priina Donna, 2s 6d and 3s 6d, postage sd.
Garvin, Charles, The Rugged Rath, 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Castle, A. and E., Flower o’ the Orange, 2s 9d postage.
Ohnet, The Ironmaster, new edition, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Pearse, Practical Bookbinding, Is 3d, postage 3d.
Proctor, Leather Industries Laboratory Hand Book, 21s,
postage Is.
Oliver, The Diseases of Occupation, 12s 6d, post 9d.
Huxley, Man's Place in Nature, E.P.A. series, Sd posted.
Crotch, Telegraph Systems, illus., 65., Griffin.
I'avenc, The Explorers of East, Centre and West of Aus-
T , t A ral > a ’ intro, by Sir J. Forrest, fully Ulus., 12s Gd, p. 8d.
The Australian Manual of Accountancy and Comrnercia
Law, by several authors, 670 pages, 21s, postasre is fidi
Donn,son, With the Banks at ber Mercy; an AustralSr!
Bankuig Story, 3s 6d, postage 4d.
John Drummond, The White Chief; a Storv of Mew
Zealand, 3s 6d, postage Cd. y evv
Wdson Ewing’s Lady, a novel, author of The Spinders
o S DU, p. Du. f
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro longed
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt
of stamps from C. HUDSON, Manufacturing
Chemist, 5 & 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
The Tin Wreath
Henry
Lawson.
I claim to know “something good” for
The Bulletin’s Galvanised-iron Halo Stakes
for Australian Bards. If the race
goes by clever riming, I’m in-
clined to have a win and a place
on “Kodak,” and a saver on
O. C. Cabot. But if it is run to suit the
patriotic drum-bang rimer, then Hervey
and Bedford must be reckoned with. If the
nominations and acceptances show that
Dorothy McCrae is a trier, she may be with
them at the finish. If the value of the
stakes comprises only a tin head-bangle that
has been dust-catching in The Bulletin’s
office for ages, I’d give it to Hop’s Under-
study, and let the youngster amuse himself
with it as a hoop. If, as I think, the laurel
wreath is to go to the bard who is worthily
keeping up the reputation of Gordon, Ken-
dall, Paterson and co., who are Australian
bards, the tin ornament ought to be posted
right away to H. Lawson.
ANON.
The Bard of
the Bush.
When that wreath is burnished and made
fit for encircling the noble brow of the
chosen of Australia s bards,
I want to trot forward good
old Harry Lawson. Gordon,
Kendall and Daley were
poets, but not Australian—the scent of the
gum-leaves wasn’t pungent enough. Quinn,
Brunton Stephens and Essex Evaus wrote
poetry, but it wasn’t Australian. Ogilvie
wrote well and truly of the bush, but the
sentimentalism necessarily clinging to a
scion of the “ Bonnie Hoose o’ Airlie ” took
a fall out of him at intervals, much too fre-
quent for the yarran and spinifex. Pater-
son did well while he lasted—but his Pegasus
was a four-furlong weed. Scattered among
the others, as “ Gilrooney,” “ Milky White,”
etc., much could be gleaned; but gleaning
is slow work, only fit for non-unionists.
Grant Hervey is solid and stirring, and
Goodge jingles well. But Harry started
with, kept with us stirrup to stirrup, and
romps in a clear furlong in advance as the
Bard of the Bush. When he sang of the
time “ When the World was Wide,” he
showed that he was of the bush, for the bush
and with the bush ; and up to date he has
left not a line of verse to which the most
hypercritical could point and say : “That is
not of the bush ; that is not Australian.”
And Australian bushmen swear by Harry.
And when it comes to the truly pathetic,
where is all your poetry ? Not on the same
selection with that plaint of the bushman
whose happiest moments are embittered
with the suspicion that his “ Pants begin to
go.” You of the purple and fine linen can
form no idea of the eerie feeling that bailiffs
the bushman when he realises that his moles
have weakened in their bosom—when he
pays his best girl the homage that royalty
exacts, backing out of her smiling presence.
And when “ unmerciful disaster followed
fast and followed faster,” it was cheery old
Harry who slapped us on the back and said :
Do not whine.
Keep your smile in working order for the brighter
days to come;
If there is no corn in Egypt, surely Africa has
some.
When the bush is known and respected—
when its strong battlers’ set-backs and com-
pensations are writ large as a spur to those
who keep on leaning against posts—when a
liberty-loving united Australia looks back
with pride on the men who “ blazed the
track ” —then Henry Lawson will take his
rightful place as the Chief of Australia’s
CABER.
A Word for
“Gilrooney”
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” fits the tin millinery
on to the head of “Gilrooney. He “ has
the gifts of exquisite melody,
a fine imagination, a happy,
wholesome humor, a pas-
sionate love of humanity,
the broad, tolerant spirit of optimism, strik-
ing susceptibility to beauty in any shape, a
great capacity for taking pains—in short, all
the emotional-intellectual equipment of the
Celt, born and bred in the lonely but lovely
bush of Anstralia.”
Why not a
Tin Leaf Each?
I\e the final disposal of The Bulletin's
laurel wreath, I rise to say that it can’t be
done— intact. Justice can
only be dispensed by
handing the gewgaw
round in pieces. There-
fore, unsolder the wattle-daubs and pass ’em
on to Roderic Quinn, H. McCrae, Arthur
Adams, Dora Wilcox, Henry Lawson, “ Fur-
ness Born,” Mary Gilmore, C. G. A. Colies,
H. Church, AN ill Lawson, Essex Evans,
E. Dyson, and others — to a limited
number. Pass a leaf each to W. T. Goodge,
Frank Henty, “Kodak,” O. C. Cabot, E. S.
Emerson, Edmund Fisher, “Veldt,” O’Hara,
M. Forrest, Frank Bellman, and so on, as
far as the leaves will suffice. Randolph Bed-
ford and Grant Hervey are entitled to the
solder. “ Stargazer ” gets the paint. The
nail and odor of sanctity go to Berny
O’Dowd. Norman Lilley may claim the
void created—if included in the spoils.
To choose any Australasian bard for the
sole distinction of wearing The Bulletin’s
nebulous hat is an utter impossibility where
fairness is the essence of the distinction ; for
the styles of the various bards entitled to
some distinction vary so. Take the Lawsons,
for instance. Take Frank Henty’s nervy
style, and compare it with Grant Hervey’s high
faiutin, or Randolph Bedford’s more labored
efforts. Take Colles’ graceful gamut of
ink impressions, or W. T. Goodge's catchy
jingles—and where are you ? Is the Aus-
tralasian song-writer and Muse-wooer to be
judged worthy of being even the Red Page
laureate because he (or she) adopts one style,
say like Bernard O’Dowd, Hebblethvvaite,
and co. ? Certainly not—and more so, because
most Bulletin bards affect the style that
seems most likely of editorial acceptance in
the bean-raking sense. The Bulletin laureate
w r ould not be the chosen one of, say, The
Australasian’s readers, and vice versa.
Truth to say, Australia has no national
versifier worthy the sole distinction of
Laureate. Essex Evans’ “ Awake, Arisq ! ”
ode brought him into a lucky prominence
more through good fortune than remember-
some work. Grant Hervey’s stuff has a
melodious ring—likewise metallic, as though
prompted by the nibblings of the money-
bag. But enough ! Parcel the gewgaw,
and let contentment reign till some bard
buds forth from the core of some great
calamity—say Australia’s invasion by the
Japs. Most of the pi’esent claimants will
have been nipped off by the pinch of Time
and forgotten ere then. And since no par-
ticipant in the present scramble can claim
sole perpetual title to his (or her) tinny
cx-umb, at the editorial trump all pieces must
be returned. Then, when a Laureate does
reign o’er the bardlets of our Great Loan
Land, he may be crowned with a wreath
intact.
PERI WINKLE.
A Novel of the Sea
There is a satisfying epic largeness o:
treatment in Edward Noble’s novel,
The Grain Carriers (Blackwood). It is a
novel with a purpose—and a good purpose,
too —but Noble is too subtle a craftsman tc
subordinate his purpose to his yarn. The
story is of two grain carriers, which leave
’Frisco for London, and the voyages of these
rival ships is made the theme for a damning
indictment of the recent clumsy effort oi
England to fight the bounty-fed trade of hei
rivals by lowei’ing the load line—and en-
dangering the safety—of her own ships. Of
these grain carriers one of Noble’s characters
thus speaks:
“ There’s nothing particularly inspiring
about them, nothing to make your poets
squirm; they aren’t lofty and trim anc
dainty, as were the old-time ships ; theyTe
innocent of any attempt at skittishness—no
poles, no gilt work, no scroll or fancy
figures on the prow, just lead-colored tanks
with steel rigging and iron ratlines; all hard,
dividend-earning iron and steel. That’s
what I figure them at—iron tanks, bare to
the point of indecency. .. . Waal, who put
them up ? ”
“ My owners.”
“ Wrong there. It’s your nation that put
’em up. It’s your nation that is responsible
for their darned sloppiness—the nation that
has killed its farmers and turned its country
into a park ; that has forced its farm hands
to emigrate or get into the cities—a nation
that would turn them into Hell if it
thought it could get grain cheaper by
hustling them there. . . . The British nation
wants cheap bread. It’s nothing to her
how it comes. Gutter-tanks from the Black
Sea; gutter-tanks round the Horn. She
has killed her farmers. She wants grain,
and the Germans have got together a lot of
ships to carry it. Germany has subsidised
her ships; so has France ; so, too, will
America. . . . It’s a losing game for you men
of the sea. It stands to reason you’ll get
whipped. The cheap ships you’re building
won’t help you. The cheap crews you’re
carrying won't help you. Increase of load-
line won’t help you ; but it’s the dying kick
of your nation and you’d better come in out
of the rain. . . . And when you run things
fine at sea, you are playing a game in which
men’s lives are risked for gold.”
So these iron warehouses—these biscuit-
tins with rounded ends—stagger toward the
Horn in their losing fight with the other
nations to feed the country that can’t feed
herself. And the yarn is an interesting and
exciting one; and though, perfoi’ce, the
note is sometimes a little "forced, the book
remains one of the best sea-yarns since The
Nigger of the Narcissus. F2.
The Portrait of Christ
rnHE curious and interesting question
whether we possess a portrait of Christ
is considered by James Burns in The
Christ Face in Art (Duckworth, per Dymoek’s
Library, Sydney). Despite the extraordi-
nary variety of treatment by artists of all
ages of the Christ face, it is impossible
to overlook the fact that one distinct
type of feature recurs again and again.
Is this type of face an actual portrait or
merely a conventionalised ideal ? Burns, by
means of over sixty admirable pictures of
the face of Christ in art, provides the
material for an unbiassed judgment. First,
as to the historical probability, there is no
reason to postulate that no portrait of Christ
was ever drawn during the life of Jesus upon
earth ; though the likeness attributed to
St. Luke by that most unreliable of
witnesses, tradition, does not Hatter Christ,
nor show much skill on the part of the
artist. Tradition also acknowledges two
early photographs of Christ, produced, in one
instance, by the subject washing his face
and wiping it on a cloth, which thereupon
retained a perfect portrait of his features,
while in the well-known Veronica legend
that lady, seeing Jesus passing on his way to
Calvary, handed him her veil to wipe the
perspiration from his face, The veil
photographed the features, and, judging
from the illustration given of the im-
pression at St. Silvestro, Rome, it was a
remarkably vivid portrait of an intellectual
type. Unfortunately for these evidences of
miraculous photography, all these alleged
portraits have been dismissed by the higher
criticism of both Art and Theology as be-
longing to a much later date. But a general
resemblance of feature persists in most
of the paintings, dating from a type
found in the catacombs of Rome. The
question is whether this is a copy of an
original portrait made while Christ was alive
or from the recollection of Christ’s appear-
ance, or whether gradually an ideal type
of feature grew up and was accepted as
the conventional Christ. None of the
Evangelists mention Christ’s appearance.
And, following Jewish law, the Early
Church regarded it as impious to make any
image of Christ in his purely human aspect.
It was not till the fourth century that artists
began to pass from the classic, conventional
conception of Christ as the ideal or symbol
(as found in the catacombs) to what they
imagined to be his actual appearance.
“They first introduced the beard, then the
hair parted in the middle, and so gradually
there was created a conventional likeness,
which became stereotyped in the hands of
the Byzantine workers, and which has been
handed down, and more or less followed,
until the present day.”
So Burns comes to the conclusion that it
is highly improbable that any authentic like-
ness of Christ exists. Art is without direct
knowledge of his actual appearance.,
And a comparison of the many types of
face presented us by artists in this book
proves that there is little main agreement
upon the essential features. In fact, Christ
was painted as a Spaniard in Spain, as a
Venetian in Venice, as a Tuscan in Tuscany,
as a Fleming in Flanders, as a German in
Germany, as a Dutchman in Holland, as an
Englishman in England. Had a Chinaman
painted him he would have certainly showed
us a Chinaman. With a rarity remarkable
he is presented as a Jew.
Indeed, these portraits show, in the main,
little of that devotional feeling that presum-
ably inspired their makers. There is an
assortment of horror and brutality, of course
—blood and piercing thorns, which in
Quentin Matsys borders on the ludicrous.
Botticelli shows an affected Christ, Luini
a girlish Christ, Baroccio and Andrea del
Sarto a silly Christ, Maratti a merely hand-
some Christ, Rossetti a modern English-
man. Michael Angelo portrays Christ as
a muscular prize-fighter, Velasquez as
a commonplace man, H. van Eyck as
Buddha, J. van Eyck as Shakespeare, Mem-
ling as a Tartar, Rubens as a very
dead criminal. Madox Brown gives us a
Christ washing his Disciples’ feet, garbed
and looking like a servant girl ; Holman
Hunt—but everyone has seen Hunt’s bar-
baric conception. Probably the most in-
spired attempts at ideal portraiture are
da Vinci’s delicate “ Head of Christ,”
Raphael’s robust “Transfiguration,” and
Guido Reni’s wonderful “ Ecce Homo.”
The Simple Life
Trucking
Stock
I am awakened at 4 a.ra. by the sun, glaring
angrily over the horizon. Already the haze is
shimmering and the heat is unbearable. The
comparatively cool breath of night air has been
rudely dispelled by the dawn. The
ghastly, sickening heat is working
up to that stage of awfulness when
the despair of never-never seizes
you. A drought is on Out Back, and starving stock
is being feverishly hurried to the railway to be
trucked away to the mountains at “starving
stock’’ rates.
A mob of cattle from the Queensland border
and a big consignment of sheep on their last legs
have travelled in during the night, and 60 trucks
of them have to be ready by 5 in the afternoon.
Already I can hear the others stirring. I put on
a pair of dungarees, and hustle into the kitchen,
and, with a gibe at the yellow heathen who has
charge of the culinary department, I seize a hunk
of bread, and pour into a mug black tea which has
been stewing all night. I fill it up with water in
a futile endeavor to drown the tannic acid. The
dry Dread sticks in my throat, and I have a nasty
taste in ray mouth, but I wash 'em down with the
Chinaman’s horrible concoction.
The boss is now in the trap, yelling loudly and
impatientfy. I bolt the last crust and jump j n
We drive off, and at the corner of the street nic
up half a score of hungry-looking urchins ear-
armed with a substantial nulla. We allow’ then
about five seconds to climb aboard, and therethev
are hanging in festoons to the buckboard—am
tailboard—until our rattling vehicle is quite oh
soured. We are followed by seven lean and savage
mongrels, but good with stock. Their tongues
hang out, and they pant, for the temperature
is now close to 110°, and the dust rises from the
road in a yellow cloud. In half-an-hour we reach
the trucking yard, and all hands begin to push the
trucks into position. I am a sort of working
ganger. I strip off my shirt and tighten my belt
then I fasten-to the gangways and wrestle with
truck doors and revile the stiff fastenings. Thereis
no shade, and I am soon steaming with perspira-
tion. Then the boys begin to hustle up the stock"
The lean dogs fairly scream at them and bite tin-
boys yell, and the wild-eyed bullocks rush hi’thei
and thither. I rush round furiously here, there
and everywhere, waving a stick to turn refractory
brutes. The dust is raised in clouds, and the mil
now high in the heavens shrieks at us through the
haze. I hustle the bullocks on the gangways and
then pandemonium ! The boys come to’ the
attack like young demons in Hell, and belt and
prod with the waddies. A dog which has been
kicked on the side of the jaw howls dismally
The bullocks rush blindly, with slavering mouths'
and slip and kick the dust and muck all over us’
One goes down and madly kicks, and breaks his
leg. How we strain to extricate the brute— and
by H ! the heat is indescribable ! My scanty
clothes are wringing wet and my face black with
dirt. I have yelled so much that I can yell no
more. My tongue is dry as leather and my throat
raw.
Sixty trucks by five o’clock, and the tempera-
ture now 112°. A baresark fury seizes me. I
work like a devil doomed to eternal labor in the
turmoil of dust and smell, until we knock off for
breakfast. Surely I drink a gallon of tea.
The greasy crows sit on the rails and watch for
the slaughter. There is no time to smoke. I get
my shoulder against the buffer of a truck and
shove and shove. Then we start on the sheep.
The temperature is 115°, and the sun through the
dust is like a ball of fire. The inferno starts
again. Stupid, bleating sheep are urged up to the
races. The boys are more like imps of the devil
than ever as they wrestle with distressed mothers
bleating piteously for their lambs born overnight,
which I have knocked on the head as fast as I
could sort ’em out. They are too weak to travel,
so the crows—the devils! how they gloat!
Hour after hour I toil. At 4 o’clock the tempera-
ture has climbed up to 117°—high water mark.
The awfulness of that heat ! Imagine a score of
dim figures cursing, shouting, sweating and
hustling—the dog with the broken jaw in the
thickest of the fray—all mixed up in a cloud of
yellow dust. Five more trucks to go! How I
urge these boys ! even with vulgar threats of
violence.
Sharp at 5 the engine whistles along. The last
sheep is trucked, and the long day’s toil is over.
Dead to the world we mount the old buckboard,
and you wouldn’t know the torn and bedraggled
crowd and the exhausted dogs. We are silent till
we reach old Billy’s. The boss, without a word,
pulls up and we each drink one of the battered
pewters full of beer. There are occasions when a
beer is worth a guinea a time, and this is one of
them.
I go inside and have a shower and change my
shirt. You city coves don’t know the luxury of
a clean shirt ! As soon as the bullock-bell rings I
spar up to the festive board. Old Billy cuts off a
tremendous hunk of corned beef and piles on the
vegetables. “'Ere yer are, mate,’’ he says;
“there’s no backin’ yer cart ’ere.” After tea we
play crib and smoke.
At midnight, old Billy the publican roars out,
“ Bed O ! ” and shambles round to put out the
lights. We all leave the bar, and I creep into the
alley-way and there sweat like a ’possum in a
hollow log until the sun glares at me again in the
morning.
JOE ANDERSON.
With the Banks at her Mercy , by A.
Dennison (The Lockely Library, Sydney),
may have some interest for bank managers.
It is the story of a fraud worked on Aus-
tralian banks, but is a little too technical for
the general reader. All that need be said
of the book is fortunately said by the author.
“ The author claims that this is an ‘original’
story. It is quite different from ordinary
stories in subject, conception, plot, character
and treatment. It is terse and dramatic-
limited to the doings of two characters. . .
Sydney B. .T. Skertchlv, in The Story of the
Noble Opal (Flavelle, Brisbane), has witten an
elaborate and interesting account of this typical
Australian stone.
The thirtieth part of that useful work, The
Forest Flora of N.S. W., by J. H. Maiden, contains
a group of excellent photographs of our native
trees.


(U
Fashionable FURS
Offered at Anthony Horderns*
Famous Low Prices,
No. 60— Liffht and Dark Sable Marmot
Stoles, 47s 6d, 59s 6d.
Similar styles, 42s 6d, 52s 6d.
No. 53—Litrht and Dark Sable Marmot
Fur Stole, 37s 6d.
Smaller, 19s 9d, 255.
Thrower Scarves, 21s, 265. 30s.
ShL 6 ~r rench Hair :
o| e, Bight and D
Brw ". White, Black, Cl
cnilla, 6s 6d.
Smaller, 5s 3d.
Larger, 7s 9d.'
No. 63a—Real Sable Fitch Fur
Muffs, 425, 455, 635.
Mounted with Heads, 70s
77s 6d, 90s.
No. 37a —Light and Dark Sable Mar-
mot Muffs, to match Stoles,
11s 6d, 13s 6d, 15s 6d, 18s 6d.
French Hair, Brown and Grey, 5s 9d.
Brown and White .. .. 6s 9d.
No. 505—Stone Marten Foxaline
Kecord Stoles, 45in., 22s 6d.
White, 60in., 255.
The Furs shown on this page form but a small
selection from the extensive assortment we offer in the
Celebrated Green Room at the New Palace Emporium.
No. 19 —French Hair Fur Stole, Light
and Dark Brown, Stone Marten,
White, Black, 13s Gd.
No. 6274—Real Fitch Sable Stoles, 84s.
Similar styles, 72s 6d, 955, £5 ss, £6 6s.
No. 146—Stone Marten Fur Sets, £2l.
Smaller Sets, £l6 16s to £lB 18s.
Smaller Stoles, £8 10s to £lO 10s.
Muffs, £5 15s 6d to £7 7s.
Our Autumn and
Winter Fashion
Portfolio illus-
trates the latest
Novelties of the
Season in Stylish
Dresses, Perfect-
ly-Fitting Skirts
and Modish
Millinery.
£
Send for a Copy,
posted FREE on
application.
No. 55a —Light and Dark Sable Mar-
mots, 25s 6d, 29s 6d.
Stone Marten Poxaline, 15s 6d.
White Foxaline, 13s 6d, 15s 6d.
No. 45a— French Hair Fur Muffs,
Black, White, Brown, Grey, 9s 6d.
White, 10s 6d.
Stone Marten, 11s 6d, 13s 6d.
No. 661—Canadian Fox, 32s 6d, 40s, 425.
Muff, 12s 6d.
Brown Bear, 32s 6d, 37s 6d, 455, 52s 6d.
Muff, 21s, 255.
No. I—Brown Opossum, 80m., 30s.
Smaller, 17s 6d, 19s 6d, 25s 6d, 27s 6d.
Muffs to match, 7s 6d.
No. 22—French Hair Fur Stoles,
Brown, Sable, Black. White.
Marten, Chinchilla, 15s 6d.
Smaller size, 11s 6d. Larger size,
, Dark
Stone
17s 6d.
-Vo. 103—Stone Marten Foxaline Stoles, 30s.
Muffs to match, 15s 6d.
Similar styles in White—No. 272, 21s :
No. 273, 30s ; No. 1273, 355.
No. 64—Real Fitch Sable Stoles, 72in., 50s, 60s.
63in., 455, 755.
72in., 52s 6d, 60s, 72s 6d, 755, 84s.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


tin
and other
SKINS;
A| so BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send t,
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY'S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Ltd.
S YDKTB Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments ol SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TAELOW.and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to verv best advantage. Account bales rendered prompt y.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sple Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape «* BOOKS-
f
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
East, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. Tiie
Wife, The Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. Mr Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Heptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/8.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bf.lls, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ; post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 ; posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, ]/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is;
postl/3. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/-; post 1/3. Manning’s
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal of
French Art, in 5 parts, 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards: Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions. Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, i24S pages, over 400 col.
plates and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 2s. 6d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
New Tricks with Coins,ls. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover's Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, by Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Merrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, Is. ; post Is. 3d.
VSF" AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
Vs
FREE.
FREE PRIZE—No Money Wanted-
This Picture Puzzle represents a Lion and Ills
Keeper—Find the Face of the Keeper, and return to
us with your name and address, and we will give a
genuine FOUNTAIN PEN Free; only one answer is
allowed. We make this marvellous offer to advertise our
Mending Tissue. Mending Tissue is an article used for mak-
Hnen n^ &*c. bl 'lt’winhem any cToth?nuc°h qldfkefand’bettw than'with the needle or A
Mendin to distribiit e* riemls* fnoShat are
reauire vou to collect, from each person, with whom you leave a sample, 6d. (half the selling
nrice You then return us the money, and for this service we give Free, and in
addition to the Fountain Pen, Keyless Watches (with written guarantee), Musical Instruments,
Silver Ware Purses, Bags, Dinner Sets, &c. This is at least worth investigating It costs
nothing to try and you take no risk. We simply ask you to interpret our puzzle and send us
your name and address. We then award you the
Fountain Pen and send you the 12 packages of Mending Tissue. Distribute them according
to°iustructions and we will send you, Free, the prize you choose. Could anything be fmrer.
This great offer is only open for a limited time. We will only accept answers from those who
d "i SStTSS' Pr ' ,lOU ' GOTTI PERCHA TRADIKO CO.. US A.b St.. S„ln„.
ENO S ‘FRUET SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘ FRUIT Salt ’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO'S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEF3T COMPETITION.
2Tie Best Brands Only of SPIRITS
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Free!
2-ft High.
A LIFE-SIZE DOLL, C"DITir I I
OR A BOY’S RIFLE I nLL ! !
The Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks, brown eye , and represented with flesh-col jure i body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will standalone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of best material rapid in its action, and
ccuiate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WHT6H
CHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle Pop
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the mouev to/*, and we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World —Imitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Geld and Silver Jewellery.
Phonographs, and Many Choice ard Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent wilh the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Boy’s Rifle.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return.
Windsor Wright &Co., Seedsman, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
CB
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
OB
Are the most successful corset design ever created*
From
8/11
to
4
Guineas.
Hi*
sum amhb
mw
===,*
i
A single test has convinced thousands
of women that here Is a type immeait
urably superior to all other
fronted corsets.
Wherever smarthfese and
refined elegance holdssway,
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets
'are pre-eminent.
In 50 different
styles.
Light as air, yet guaranteed
to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES
FROM ALL PROGRESSIVE STORES
If any difficulty in procuring the cornet
<style, write for book of types to
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & CO.
Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
16 Barrack Street, SYDNEY; and BRISBANE.
<l. BUNTING, Central House, Hobson Street,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’l
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
Renewal of a
Notable Offer.
Further free week’s test
of M Hair Drill.”
There can be no doubt that all Colonial residents greatly appreciated the recent
opportunity provided them for a week’s free “ Hair Drill,” for a most significant
reference was made to the very frank offer lately made in the columns of their paper.
This was only to be expected, for it is indeed a deplorable fact that residence m
foreign climes has a very detrimental effect upon the beauty, health, and conditions
of the hair. / . J
Men and women alike who dwell in the Colonies and Dependencies have long grieved
over the fact that the climate and circumstances act very adversely upon the hair, and
that, as a consequence, many scalp and hair defects become quickly apparent and very
pronounced. Unfortunately the use of most of the prevalent specifics is entirely
without benefit, for they are based generally upon vague knowledge of hair requirements
and are generally compounded of ingredients lacking in nutrition and culturative value.
These, whether taken internally or applied externally, have always proved dis-
appointing, and at times injurious both to the head, hair, and health. Still there is
one undoubted application of approved merit and reputation, and it cannot be gainsayed
that Edwards’ “ Harlene” is a real hair restorer, a real fault corrector, a real stimulant,
tonic, and preserver for the hair; whether it be affected with dryness, brittleness,
scurfiness, or greasiness; whether it shows signs of decay or evidenced by lack of bistre,
colour, or healthy and beautiful appearance, or whether its deterioration is marked by
greyness, patchiness, vacuum, or baldness. For many years has Edwards’ ' Harlene
held an envied and unrivalled reputation as a true specific for all untoward conditions ot
the hair, and the volume of praise accorded to this notable preparation confirm very
striking testimony from the highest quarter.
Royalties, dignitaries of the State, social leaders, ladies and gentlemen occupying
high positions, as well as the great general public, have used it, and always with the
most gratifying results, for the use of “ Harlene ” overcomes any tendency or condition
of hair weakness and disease. .
It actually drills and disciplines the hair into healthy condition, and the faith of the
proprietors in their preparation is abundantly shown by the very open offer they recently
made and which now, by popular request, they are repeating. Jf
They are perfectly willing to send any applicant a very generous supply of Harlene. •
sufficient for one week’s thorough use and trial. The supply is perfectly free, an®
is accompanied by an interesting booklet dealing with hair difficulties and aj&h full|
instructions for the use of “ Harlene.” It is only necessary to enclose three pepjw stamps
foi cover of carriage to Edwards’ “Harlene” Co., 95 and 96 High lf<sdo «f
mentioning this paper.
Edwards’ “ Harlene” is of course obtainable of chemists the wide,*K<silsiQY. e r-


k^v
PI
§
Why be bald headed and old look-
ing before your time? Neglect of
the hair causes dandruff, and dan-
druff is the forerunner of falling
hair and baldness. The remedy is
Mger’s
ytair Vigor
A gentleman residing at Dunedin,
N.Z., writes under date Jan. 7,1907:
“It is with gratitude I write you that I
have now a splendid head of hair, both thick
and very soft, all owing to my having used
your wonderful Hair Vigor. I was almost
bald headed before I used the Hair Vigor. I
still use it once a day, rubbing it well into the
roots of the hair. I used to wear a skull-cap,
and I am very grateful to Ayer’s Hair Vigor
for the improvement it has made in my looks.”
Be warned in time. Use Ayer’s
Hair Vigorand preserve your youth.
Prepared by Dr. j. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Keeps
the skin
soft and
smooth and, by
nourishing it, eradi-
cates lines or wrinkles.
Made by Mrs. Pomeroy
Ltd.. 29, Old Bond Street,
London. England.
p
o
M
E
SKIN
FOOD
Of all
Stores or
Chemists
mHE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
I in magazine form. It's the finest shilling's
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
“ My little daughter, aged 2,
had to undergo a very seri-
ous operation, which left
her weak and ill. The re-
sults of SCOTT’S Emul-
sion were beyond my ex-
pectations, for my daughter
is now strong and well, and
owes her good
Health
and strength to SCOT 1 ’S Emul-
sion, which I found to be a
combined food and medicine.”
(Mrs.) Avis Derrick.
Victoria Estate, Ingham, Herbert River,
N. Queensland. 6/6/07.
ABOVE IS THE PROOF IN THE FACTS.
HERE IS PROOF IN THE REASON WHY :
SCOTT’S Emulsion easily demonstrates
its superiority over all competitive emul-
sions when put to the test of actual trial.
The test is in the cure—the hard work is
in the laboratory. The materials selec-
ted are always the very best, and the
SCOTT process is the result of long and
painstaking experiment; it has never
been rivalled. This is why SCOTT’S
has an unchallenged record of cures.
Therefore, when purchasing, don’t ask
for “ Emulsion ; ” ask for and get
scons
Emulsion
—the difference between them means a
cure for you !
See that
“ the
Fishman
with the
Fish” is
on the
package
Of all
Chemists
and
Dealers
in
Medicines
<2>
O^tA\NQTo/y
£
IRISH MOSS
r
FOR
-The besf remedy- :
" INFLUENZA, y
COUGHS,
Ask for Bonn ing ton 9 L IT! S *
and seetkatyou get it. AST HMA.
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Send us your name and address and yon will receive by retnm Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
the finest ever published, which is of interest to every rider. This Book contains large handsome Photo
Engravings, including beautiful country scenes; ic describes every detail of the manufacture of a high-
grad ■ Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between high-class Work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
WITH THE FREE ART BOOK
yon will receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
ever made by any cycle manutacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are able to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten years,
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we <an sell
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct from the factory at less than manufacturers’ prices ; how we
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every trial and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding ; how you can make large profits easily—all are fully explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL
An Imperative Need.
Until you are free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms —torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss of appetite,, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishness, and the rest. In your condition
Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
speedily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
recruit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic purgatives.
Q
cnis
PILLS
A CURED WOMAN
Relates her Intense Sufferings—how Doctors
Failed to do her any Good. She Finally Tried
Clements Tonic
Which Makes Permanent Cure.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.) ;
Here is a narrative which will assuredly put many a reader on the right track—supplied to us by
Mrs Annie Young of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt. It was at Mrs. Young’s present address, where
she has been living for the past eleven years, that our special correspondent was granted the inter-
view which appears hereunder
“It is thirteen years since I had the illness you refer to. It doesn t seem half so long ago, tor
everything is as fresh in my memory as though it was only yesterday.”
“ Were you experiencing any physical pain ? ” T , ,
“oh 1 don’t talk about it. Have you ever had neuralgia in the head ? I hope not, tor it was
something dreadful. Right across the forehead, through from one temple to the other, and up to the
top of my head, the most acute pain imaginable harassed me. The agony was so great that often I
imagined something was pressing on my brain, and I really used to think I would go mad with it.
It had such an effect on me, indeed, that even my sight went bad, and, as for the feeling in my eyes
—well they felt as if they were double the size they should have been. Ah! what desolate, melan-
choly days they were ! I’m sure I felt myself to be about the most unhappy woman in the world,
and 1 think I had occasion to be, in view of the fact that the outlook was so black,
“Do you mean that your prospects of getting strong again seemed remote? ” .
“ They did, indeed, for I had been attended to by several doctors, and the most they could do for
me was to give just a little relief now and then ; but there was nothing lasting about it, and: if I felt a
trifle better one day, I was sure to feel ten times worse the next, and the medicine, besides being so
ineffective was always disagreeable to take. A strange thing was that I felt always so worn-out,
drowsy and exhausted—as if I was only fit to go somewhere and lie down and die—yet, when I made
an effort to sleep, do you think I could ? Not a bit of it. I’d twist and turn nearly the whole night
through, and when at last I dosed off the dreams I had were fearful.” .
“ And you couldn’t get permanent relief from these symptoms through the medicine prescribed
for un f ortunate i y . But finally I got something to do me good. Clements Tonic ft was, and
the best’remedy I ever had in my life, too. Goodness, what a show it made of everything
else I had taken, for instead of only easing me a little occasionally, it went right to the base of my
infirmities, and lifted them out by the roots ! In addition to what I have already told you, I must
state that I was highly nervous—nobody could be more so, for I was actually afraid to stay in my own
house by myself, and was continually worrying myself about things that I imagined were going to
happen Trouble was always hanging over me, and I couldn’t get the idea out of my head+-not until
I had been taking Clements Tonic for a space of time, when, quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding
over such silly things, and my mind became as happy as the day. Oh ! it was wonderful what an
altered woman Clements Tonic made me. Instead of being anxious and timid all day, I got as happy
and cheerful as possible—nothing frightened me, and my nerves were steady. It is because I know
so many nervous women that I deem it my dpty to say what a splendid remedy Clements Tonic is for
that complaint, though, for that matter, it wap equally beneficial to me in othfijs-ways. I used to get
pains down the small of my back and about my shoulders, also palpitation arid pains in the region of
my heart, which made me think that something very serious was wrong with me there; but Clements
Tonic showed itself to be such a pain-removing medium that I can faithfully recommeqd it to all
sufferers. Its regulating influences on the heart were extraordinary, and for making one’s sleep sound
and peaceful the same remedy was the only one to meet with my requirements. I wish I had used it
months before, for plenty of people told me what a grand medicine Clements Tonic was. The least I
can do is to assist my neighbors to throw off their afflictions, so you may publish my experiences in
any manner you like.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I ANNIE YOUNG, ol Myrtle-street, Leichhardt, in the State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of
Australia do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
and is a ’true and faithful account of my illness and cure by Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission
to publish in any w y my statements—which I give voluntarily, without receiving any payment ; and I make
this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths
Act 1900 (Sgd.) ANNIE YOUNG.
Subscribed and declared at Petersham this fifth day of September, one thousand nine hundred and four,
before me, H - ETANS * J.P.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lost Fairies.
They come no more with the dancing feet,
Where the daffodil chorus rang sweet, so sweet,
Fairies o’ mine, have ye fled for ever ?
Shall we meet no more as we used to meet ?
They come no more and the wheels run slow,
And the laughter is hushed that I used to know ;
The white owl cries in the twilit meadows,
Where our revels rang in the long ago.
O ! a fairy came knocking one day, one day,
At the meadow-sweet gates where we used to
play—
I heard him knock, but my heart was weary,
And I sent him weeping away, away.
And ever since then, though my heart be sore
With waiting and watching, they come no more ;
And the lilies have stolen their golden sandals,
And the poppies are flaunting the gowns they
wore.
Ah ! Ever since then i’ the noon o’ the flowers,
When the lights are soft in the fairy bowers,
I sigh and sigh for the banished laughter,
For the singing soul of the wasted hours.
Do they mourn me, I wonder, as one that passed
While the sentinel snapdragons slumbered fast?
Or is it they seek me, all loyal-hearted,
And dream they shall find me, at last, at last ?
I know not; ever the red suns rise
And roll to their rest in the western skies,
But the loved lost voices are silent, silent—
And leaps no light to the darkened eyes.
Only when Twilight lifteth her wand
And turns the glory to shadow-land
I hear in the stillness a sound of weeping—
And know the meaning, and understand.
They have passed the boundaries mortals know,
Where the asphodel blooms and the dream-stars
glow,
Though I seek them, seek them till suns be
ashes,
I shall never find them wherever I go.
They will come no more with the dancing feet.
Where the daffodil chorus rang sweet, so sweet ;
Where the white owl cries in the haunted
meadows
We shall meet no more as we used to meet.
VIC.
M. E. J. PITT.
The Wageman.
With mind that never wonders why
The Fates but gave him leave to moil,
The wageman lifts his pick on high.
And labors through his daily toil.
Long years have shackled him and held
Him hopeless to the wheel of strife.
He is content so he has quelled
The calling needs of child and wife.
The gaudy cars flash quickly past —
He asks no question of his God.
“ So it will be unto the last,”
And bends above the yawning sod.
The straying kine along the street
Share board with him ; he does not f mi
It strange that they should cross his feei,
And sniff above his mid-day meal.
The years that lead him to the grave
No visioned fields of pleasure yield.
Nor stilly lakes whose waters lave
Pond lilies bursting from the shield ;
But when the twilight woos the night,
And from the skies the white stars peer,
He seeks the welcome tavern light,
And broods above his pot of beer.
TAS.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.
Hallet's Cove.
You ask me where I went, sweetheart, last Sunday
afternoon ?
I wandered down to Hallet’s Cove
And mused beside the ti-tree grove.
A pretty yacht approached the spot,
And anchored off the dune.
Three maidens and three men rowed in
And leaped upon the shore ;
And two went slowly down the strand,
And other two went hand-in-hand
Round to the right, and out of sight,
As lots have done before.
But one came pacing solemnly, all lonely and
demure,
Leaving the other standing there
To kick his heels and chafe and stare,
And smoke and fret and fume and sweat,
(And swear, you may be sure !)
But when the one had strolled a mile (a mile but
barely half)
She stopped beside a shelt’ring rock ;
(She wore a pretty “Sky-blue frock),
Then down she sat,
Took off her hat
(And I could hear her laugh !)
And then came striding up amain, the one who
chafed and swore,
And sate him down beside of her
And seemed to ask her, as it were,
What HE had done, beneath the sun !
(And quite a great deal more !)
I don’t know what the maiden said, but presently
she took
His head between her hands, like this,
And gave him kiss and kiss on kiss !
How many ? Well! I cannot tell!
1 didn’t like to look !
S.A
NIL.


/
o
p
£
%
o
c>
IT*
FCT
WUNDERLICH
®(&ARTMETALe®
CEILINGS
ORIGINATED BY EXPERT DESIGNERS.
Modelled by first-class Artists « *
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists
Erected by competent Tradesmen •
Decorated by skilled Colorists « «
Who are thoroughly conversant wilts
the many Varied Forms of Artistic
Effort Classic and Modern. •. »
ZVriSt for Jllustrattd (Catalogue.
13be ZVunderlitsb Patent (Beiling dr Roofing Qoy., Jbtd.,
SYDNEY: 56 PITT ST.
MELBOURNE: 123 QUEEN ST
im
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
a
ur&s
Cocoa
A
'IT
&
M
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures A
robust health.
foiie *Jc>y
of Living
*Wl:i
I’XJO
IfflUl
■ I
t*
!J
lllllLl
I! II
iiroil
im&u
iii ii
HJ
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes front
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or wartments
may be secured separately by the day f n. 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
PAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
guarantee
given.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living in it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
-5 Mutual Life Building's, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.-
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful* Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
x Executive Building's. J* M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. Director.
The World goes round
the Sun Brooks
Saddles go
round the
World!
for
comfort
awheel
The recognised
Standard of saddle
perfection therefore
held in highest favour by
all cyclists the world over
Sole makers:
/ 3
0. B. BROOKS & Co. Ld., The
Saddle Specialists, Birmingham, Eng.
Of all Dealers.
The New Fragrant Tobacco.
Hand Made from
Specially Selected
Virginia Leaf.
£K
Tobacco
Mar u factored in
Richmond Virginia.
Larus C°
Packed by RToww-i« Co.Agenr; .Sydney.
m
ZSBSa*
SPECIAL OFFER
to Bulletin readers:
If von cannot pet
GOLD BOND locally,
send 1/- (postal note
or stamps) to R.
Towns & Co., Sydney,
Australasian Apents,
and you will receive
a 2oz. tin, post free.
Facsimile 'reduced) of Soz. tin.
No connection with any Trust or Combine.
English
Prize Awards:- London 1851, Paris 1889,
Lonhon 1862, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
\ f /
N
ROTHE
MAMS
fed
Watch es
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
GANT
E.RIGIi &Co.\2P.
SYDNEY and
Brisbane *
K-yj^
-j
* -v \ r
X
<M' '' ' *3m r, '-Jm v
' " ' y -'A
; :<di ;r
/
✓
<**>
'N
/f
> V"V / *
s~
\C>
* f v *•> *'■ -V
/''X
F/^N'
' 's *, y,' y r \
- /v —. «-v
m
A.
t^
s'
J r •>
X
Xf/?
N' V >
•»* If •« '-'/' s


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 29.—N0. 1472.
THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1908.
Prick 6d
LANCASHIRE EXPRESSES ITS VIEWS ON BRITISH FREETRADE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“Australia for the. A nstraliaus.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... sSI “
Half-yearly ... ... ... I.
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By fiendiny direct to The Bulletin Office. Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
Hour to Address Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige, the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods o f address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojficials. The person may not be there ; the official
always is.
Special Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
The Editor will care fully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
tivc columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamvs
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed, if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not. responsible lor the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A mat curs in. ltlnnle and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Uotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
U.S.A. —Jones News Co., New Orleans, Lo.’
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
A gents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6§in. x lfiin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, APRIL 30, 1908.
THE FEDERAL CITY, AND SYDNEY’S
NEED FOR A NEW CUSTOMER.
During last week The Bulletin received a rather
stained postcard from (of all places) Bull’s Creek,
in South Australia, stating that the Federal
capital question threatened to become a weari-
ness, and urging that a change of subject was
desirable. And to this the only possible reply is
that, even if the Federal capital question becomes
a weariness twenty times over, it is a matter of
such vast importance that it can’t be allowed to
rest. In the selection of this capital, Australia
has a chance to make history as it was never
made before. It has an opportunity to do some-
thing that has no precedent in all the world’s
records, from the days of Adam onwards. Never
previously, so far as we are aware, has a free
people set out to create a city that was to be the
capital of a whole continent, and that a con-
tinent that was wholly under one Govern-
ment, and occupied by people of one race
and one language. The event is unique,
and an effort should be made to realise
the greatness of the occasion and live up to it.
As a rule the men who are mixed up, for good or
evil, in the greatest events of history fail to realise
the size and importance of their doings. Judas
Iscariot, when he broke faith and sold his
Master, probably didn’t know that he was doing
anything more important than George Reid did
when he broke faith with the other States and
sold Australia over the matter of the Federal
capital site. Pontius Pilate, on the one im-
portant day of his life, probably felt as if he had
merely done an ordinary morning’s work, the
same as any other magistrate might do, and didn’t
feel even so abject as Pontius Johnson,
M.H.R., ought to do when he howls in the
press for the subordination of the interests
of a whole continent to the overwhelming
necessity for having the political centre (if
Australia in his own electorate of Lang (N.S.W.).
The small men—the Pilates and Johnsons and
so on —who are permitted by an inscrutable
Providence to fool with great events, view these
events from a purely twopenny or three-halfpenny
standard, and, as a rule, they don’t live long
enough to know that they were unconsciously
making or marring history. The parochial-minded
Mohammedan ass who destroyed the library of
Alexandria probably felt just as complaisant over
his work as will the allegedly Christian but
wholly parish ass of this country, if he succeeds in
destroying something of even greater importance —
the chance of making the world’s one continental
capital a place worthy of the continent it represents.
For the sake of beauty and cleanliness and
other advantages, the first idea of the Builder of a
City is to place his work beside a river—a large
and beautiful river, if possible, but at all events
a river. Even the person who built Damascus, in
the days when Baby Genesis was in its cradle, and
Exodus was still unborn, knew that much. The
fact was so obvious that it obtruded on the popu-
lar intelligence before Abraham was heard of.
And this fact obtrudes especially in Australia,
where water is scarce, and rivers, in proportion to
the size of the country, are few. Yet Australia
has some rivers to be proud of. The Victoria,
Daly, and Roper, in the Northern Territory, are
sizable water courses. There are five reasonable
streams flowing into the Gulf of Carpentaria. The
Burdekin, Fitzroy, Mary, etc., in eastern
Queensland are respectably wet. There are
two or three notable bits of water in Westralia.
In N.S.W. the Clarence and Macleav have
points about them, and the Murray-Darling
represents length without breadth —it is the Big
Trickle that the dwellers by its banks call it.
The Snowy is the best of the "N.S.W. streams for
purity, for scenery, and for the unfailing nature
of its supply ; in the great drought year of 1902 it
COTTER CREEK,
Which Premier Wade, of N.S. W., thinks good enough for the water supply of an Australian
Capital at Canberra. Even this is more than a dozen miles away from the proposed city, which,
as far as scenery is concerned, will be quite dry.
was the only river in the State which showed no
failure or diminution. And away in the centre of
this continent the Finke roars along (in modera-
tion) and foams (to a certain extent) till it loses
itself in the sands. Its career is short, but while
it lasts it is a river that (in its better moments) is
worthy to have a big centre of population on its
banks, and the unbuilt Finke City might have
been a fairly good capital.
* ** * * •
Yet by a curious and insane perversity or mal-
evolence or cussedness, we find the press of Sydney
crying out almost unanimously for a Dry Capital.
In Australia, as in all drought-cursed countries,
water is the first essential, and the man who
builds even a hamlet away from water, when he
can build alongside an ever-flowing stream, seems
the last possibility in the way of a raving lunatic.
All the same, the N.S.W. State Government, and
the Foreign-trade papers which back it up in its
unaccountable vagaries, have fixed on Canberra as
the ideal place to be the world’s one really conti-
nental city. The Canberra site is about five
miles from a small creek, and 13 miles from
a rather larger creek. It has no river or
stream or rivulet in sight—in fact, it seems to have
been selected in order that its drouth may be a
voice howling in the ear of the visitor from
afar, and telling him that this is a dry country
with the spectre of Thirst brooding over it at all
times. Mr. E. M. de Burgh, a N.S.W. engineer,
was put on last year to report on the possibilities
THE OTTAWA RIVER,
Alongside which Canada built its Capital.
of water supply for this Dry Spot, and the best
suggestion he could make was that water should
be pumped up to a height of over 500 ft. to supply
the city. When the pumps fail the supply will
naturally stop. The insanity of deliberately
building a city which, according to the best method
engineers can discover, is to depend on pumps for
every drop of its water, when sites can be found
to which a splendid flow will come, day
and night, all the year round, simply because
water always takes a downhill course, ought to be
fairly obvious. And the folly of creating a city
where there is no moisture within miles to
brighten the landscape, when lovely water scenery
can be found not far off, would have seemed like
madness even to the builders of Damascus. They
at least had sense enough to keep an eye on
Abana and Pharpar for a drinking supply, and as
a means of irrigation, and as something that was
calculated to brighten the surroundings, and make
the desert blossom like the rose.
Still the Dry Spot, far removed.from any visible
sign of water, where a wretched city is to depend
for a drink on having its fluid pumped up to a
height of over 500 ft., has been made into a sort of
gospel by the Sydney daily press. Australia is
full of dry spots, but for the sake of keeping up
the perpetual quarrel with the Australian Govern-
ment, this particular Dry Spot has been made a
fetich. Its visible advantages, in the view of the
anti-Australian press, are these : (1) A capital built
there will be, by reason of its disadvantages, a
small, mean city, which will always be over-
shadowed by the State capitals, therefore it will
be a constant evidence of the triumph of State
Frights over Federal interests; (2) it can have
no port, so it will be kept poor and humble; and
(3) it will be wholly surrounded by N.S.W. State
territory, and will be dependent on the forbear-
ance of the State for road and railway communi-
cation and for water supply, therefore it will be
kept weak and dependent. Also (4) if the anti-
Australian anti-Federal gang can force on Aus-
tralia as a capital its particular Dry and Un-
promising Spot, it will have the satisfaction
of insulting and humiliating the Government
of Australia. Even if the capital were
fixed at a Still Drier and More Undesirable Spot,
so long as it wasn’t the anti-Australian party s
special spot, the triumph wouldn’t be complete.
• * * *
Yet all this time it is practically certain that a
Federal capital on the Snowy River would be
vastly more profitable to N.S.W. than one at
Canberra. There is a chance, by reason of the
splendid water-supply and the magnificent water
power, to raise a great and noble city beside the
Snowy, and the bigger the city the more business
would there be to be done. The capital would
have its own Federal port at Twofold Bay, but
that would benefit Sydney rather than injure it.
The vessels that went in there must come from
somewhere, and the vessels that left there must
go somewhere. Most of them would come from
Sydney* or go to Sydney, as the nearest coastal
city. It would be a hideous loss to -Sydney’s
commerce if Melbourne were destroyed, for then
all the Sydney shipping that exists by trading
with Melbourne would become a mere bad debt,
and most of the £2,000,000 worth or so of goods
which N.S.W. sends annually to Victoria would
be unsold ; and it will be the same loss to Sydney
if the Federal capital on Monaro and the Federal
port on Twofold Bay are never called into exist-
ence. It would be a vast financial disaster to the
N.S.W. railways if the big city of Melbourne dis-
appeared off the map, and it will be the same kind
of loss if the big city that is capable of growing up
on the Snowy doesn’t come on to the map. In a
certain sense it is gratifying to the N. S. Waler to
know that Sydney is more populous than Mel-
bourne, and that N.S.W. has more people than
Victoria, but that kind of gratification isn’t busi-
ness. If Victoria, with lj million people, buys about
£2,000,000 worth of N S. W. goods annually, there is
always a fair chance that Victoria with six million
people would buy £8,000,000 worth of goods. On
this same basis it is to the sordid interest of
Sydney to have the Australian capital planted
where "it will have the best possible chance to grow
big, and to give it every opportunity, by furnish-
ing it with all the room for expansion that it
wants and all the sea-outlet that it desires, to grow
as big as possible. It is absurd to say that Dalgety is
too far away for Sydney’s trade to reach it, when
Sydney sends so vast a quantity of goods to Mel-
bourne, which is twice as remote. And while it
may suit the petty silly vanity of politicians
like Johnson to clamor for a small, mean,
unpopulated Australian capital on some Dry
Spot where there is no hope of expansion,
it is up to his constituents to remember
that Johnson has no goods to sell, and it is all
the same to him whether there are 20,000 people
in the new city, or 150,000. And it is good enough
for Premier Wade, with only his political dignity
to consider, to denounce the absurdity of the pro-
posed Federal capital at Dalgety with a Federal
port on Twofold Bay ; Wade has no ships that
want a new port to trade to, and he isn’t
even a seaman, or a lumper, or a ship’s carpenter.
In their silly little parish-mindedness these
Sydney politicians hold that Sydney would rather
have a small customer than a big one, and that
Sydney shipowners don’t want new ports to trade
with. So they clamor for the small capital on the
Dry Spot.
* * * *
Australia should aim at having the most
glorious capital it can raise, merely by reason of
patriotism and national pride. It should aim at
being able to take the foreign visitor there with
satisfaction, instead of being reduced to getting a
bogus medical certificate to say it is too ill to
travel in order to avoid accompanying its foreign
guest to the dreadful place. But if part of
Australia isn’t capable of being influenced by
these considerations, that objectionable section of
the community should at least think of business.
It should have ambitions for a new city to which
McMillan can send his fluff-traveller with profit
and Toohey his beer-traveller with remuneration!
It should remember that the A.U.S.N. boats can’t
go up Cotter Creek, and that there is no money in
loading the ship that is going to Canberra, or re-
pairing the vessel that comes back from
Lyndhurst. And when Wade and Johnson
holler for a hopeless little city in a Dry Spot, it
should always remember that Wade has no fluff to
sell and Johnson has no beer to dispose of. These
are sordid considerations, but even sordid con-
siderations can’t be wholly ignored.
ABOUT THE ALLEGED FREETRADE
OF N.S.W.
A correspondent writes with an axe dipped in
blood :
I read and studied the statement of vour
friend, Mr. McLachlan, in last week’s Bulletin
to this effect:—
Knowing- as I do (as a Protectionist) that the other
States had for years the run of our open markets, with
which to build up their industries, whilst their ma'rkets
were closed to N.S. W., I challenge The Bulletin to prove
that this State has, by Act of legislation or commercial
intrigue, ever done one action to the prejudice of the
other States, or any of their inhabitants.
Now I think it is up to some one to reply to that
monstrous piece of cheek and bluff, and here is my
reply
The Queensland people grew sugar, and wanted to sell it
to “ Free trade ” N.S.W.—it was the only thing of any very
great importance that they had to sell. Did they find the
open market that Mr. McLaculan shouts about? Not
much 1 They were stunned by a duty of £5 per ton put
on to protect the N.S. W. sugar industry. It was at long
last reduced to £3 a ton.
The Queenslanders had timber to sell. Right up to
1896, Freetrade N.S.W. met them with all sorts of duties
—3s. per 100 ft. on hardwood, Is. Od. per 100 ft. on cedar,
and so on.
The Victorians and S. Australians were great cn wine.
Freetrade N.S. W. met them at the border with a Pro-
tective duty of ss. per gallon.
In Northern Victoria (Wangaratta, Beechworth, Bright,
etc.) they can make a splendid beer with the mountain
water. They tried to send it into “ Freetrade ” N.S.W.,
and found Ma State waiting for them at the border with
a Protective duty of 6d. per gallon.
Victoria got early into the bacon, cheese, ham and
butter business. “Freetrade” N.S.W. met them with
Protective duties of 3d., 2d., 2d., and Id. per lb. respect-
ively, and kept these duties on till its own industries
were well established.
Victoria was ahead of N.S.W. in the tobacco industry.
“ Freetrade ” N.S.W. put a huge Customs duty on
imported tobacco and a very small excise duty (for a long
time it had no excise duty at all) on local tobacco.
S. Australia had a salt industry. “ Freetrade ” N.S.W.
put 20s. per ton Protective duty on salt.
Except for the period between 1896 and 1901 the
“ Freetrade ” policy of N.S.W. consisted mostly in letting
in free the things that Europe and Asia had to sell, and
levying Protective duties on the few things the neighbor-
ing States had to sell. And even in the 1896-1901 period the
enthusiasm with which N.S.W. protected itself against
Queensland sugar, and the wine, beer and tobacco of
Victoria and S.A., was marvellous. True, it offered us a
free market for tea, coffee, jute, cotton, and so on, but
we didn’t produce these things.
N.S.W. carried its own newspapers free, while those of
the adjacent States had to pay £d. postage within its
borders —this in order to protect its own mostly-
Freetrade press. Victoria never got down to this level.
It was N.S.W. which caused the break of gauge in Aus-
tralian railways. In 1852 an Act was passed in Sydney
fixing sft. Sin. as the standard gauge. South Australia
and Victoria agreed to follow suit. Then, when these
States had let contracts on the sft. 3in. gauge, N.S.W.
changed to the 4ft. B£in. gauge without any reference to
the other States —just did it in an offhand way, as if it
were the whole show —and chaos set in all round.
It was N.S.W. which destroyed the old system of
border freetrade with Victoria. There was freetrade
on the border for a number of years, but N.S.W.,
in its usual large way, demanded that Victoria
should pay a big annual subsidy if the arrangement was
to continue, and failing that (in 1864) it built Custom
houses and commenced to collect duties. In 1865 Vic-
toria agreed to pav the subsidy, and there was freetrade
on the border till* 1873. Then N.S.W. altered the tariff
(which had been a matter of mutual arrangement) with-
out consultation with Victoria, just as it altered the rail-
way gauge, and chaos again set in.
In addition to its tariff Protection, N.S.W’. always pro-
tected its industries in a large, general way, by a system
of differential railway rates.
* * * *
Mr. McLachlan makes a huge fuss about how the other
States had the run of N.S.W. territory, while shutting
their own territory against N.S.W. Well, here are some
figures of trade between N.S.W. and Victoria, as set
out on page 130 of the “ Wealth and Progress of N.S.W.”
for 1901. lam sorry they are not more complete
N.S.W. Imports N.S.W. Exports
from Victoria. to Victoria.
1870 .. £1,153,695 .. £2,583,552
1875 .. 2,066,156 .. 4,269,770
1880 .. 2,187,119 .. 4,578,867
1885 .. 3,309,696 .. 3,450,796
1890 .. 2,097,259 .. 5,386,553
1891 .. 2,818,935 .. 5,443,663
1892 .. 2,432,399 .. 4,278,907
1893 .. 2,020.421 .. 3,620,302
1894 .. 1,583,206 .. 3,129,663
1895 .. 1,499,592 .. 3,078,017
1896 .. 2,115,721 .. 3,296,451
1897 .. 2,854,497 .. 2,961,988
1898 .. 5,301,214 .. 3,294,618
1899 .. 2,905,656 .. 3,703,278
1900 .. 3,396,782 .. 3,977,828
Thus in every year, save 1898, Victoria took more from
N.S.W. than N.S.W. did from Victoria. And even in
1898 Victoria took more goods from N.S.W. than N.S.W.
did from Victoria ; of the £5,301,214 worth which N.S.W.
took from Victoria £3,489,150 was gold. This was the
year’s record : _ , v
Victoria sent to N.s. w-
Ordinary goods £1,812,064
Gold .. .. .. .. 3,489,150
■ ’ £5,301,214
N.S. W. sent to Victoria.
Ordinary goods .. .. .. £1,887,517
Wool (for export) .. .. 1,399,442
Gold .. ... ~ ■ .. 7,659
£3,294,618
That was the real situation, during the one year on the
list published by the N.S.W. Statistician, when it aw
seem that Victoria was indebted to N.S.W. for ben g
good customer. t
Now remember, I don’t object to the N.S.W. tariff, or
the N.S.W. differential railway rates. Victoria n ~
no right to object to these things, tor "hey
all in the game—the game it played itself. What
many others object to is the insufferable and ln !f rn d
of patronage assumed by some Freetraders and Tree
newspapers in Sydney. While for years and y e *J®
taxed and protected almost everything we Victorian
to sell them, they called themselves Freetrader •
They professed to look down on us as P j
benighted Protectionists who hadn’t their bea
Freetrade gospel. They lectured us ; I have seen aDOu
30 scoffs at Victoria in one issue of Sydney Teles
While we were admitting so much of their gooas >
or at a very low tariff, that they, almost every yea >
more to us (coal, live stock, drapery, etc., etc.)
they bought from us, they assumed the aspect oi wsj
kind benefactors who were giving us the free ru
N.S.W. markets while they professed that »e
crowd of narrow-minded people who were s i *j
them out from Victorian markets. It is thi I #
confidence trick, of which Mr. John McLachlan “
worthy exponent—this silly air of superiority, , „
tude which suggests that the other States b . #t
mendicants depending on the charity of •' ejn
causes ill-will within the Commonwealth. As au»
point, when Federation was on the tapis, the lac • ~
Dibbs said that “ ill 1893 all our gold went dow-n t *
bourne to help the Victorians. That will s .
dependent they are on us.” Yet in 1893 (the gre


breakage year) the N.S.W. statistics show that more gold
went from Victoria to N.S.W. than from N.S.W. to
Victoria Mr. Dibbs never took the trouble to look up
the facts ; he simply threw; the usual insult at random.
In a general way the British Empire is more civil to a
twentieth-rate Central American republic than the im-
porting gang of Sydney is to the'other Australian States.
And until that Sydney crowd ceases to lie about the “Free-
trade ” that it never had, and the “ free markets ” that it
never offered to us, and drops its patronising manners
the ill-will must needs continue.
We don’t really mind being swindled out of our
chance of the Federal capital by the outrageous device
by which the N.S.W. Parliament nullified its people’s
acceptance of the first Federal Constitution, and got a new
Constitution fixed up w hereby the capital was allotted to it.
We don’t very much mind even the insolent claim of the
N.S.W. Assembly to practically fix the site of the capital,
or to veto the site chosen by the Parliament of
Australia. But the parental and superior attitude of
people who talk about having given us free access to
their markets, when they know' quite well that they did
nothing of the kind, gives us the tired sensation. And
what do these alleged Freetraders gain by it? As far as
I can see —nothing, save the pleasure of being coarse and
ill-bred, and the satisfaction of bounding a great deal.
THE POST OFFICE.
How much can be done towards smothering
reason by mere vigor of assertion is shown by the
general acceptance as truth of the charge of
“Federal postal maladministration.” Because it
has been said so often that Federation has brought
chaos to the Post Office, most people are inclined
to believe that it is so ; even those in the position
to know better are half convinced that there is
something very scandalous in the fact that a few
little hitches have marred a truly marvellous
record of postal progress and economy. In the
recent Parliamentary debates on the Post Office,
it was hardly questioned that the administration
needed mercy rather than justice. Yet an impar-
tial investigation of the facts suggests that no
special pleading is needed to make out a case for
the much-abused department; that, given bare
justice, it will escape censure and deserve praise.
Primarily, of course, the Post and Telegraph
Department should be an instrument of civilisa-
tion and good government. Considering the
help that a good postal and telegraph service
gives to education, to the promotion of rural
settlement, to the preservation of public health,
to the maintenance of the Jaw, a community can
very well afford to face a small loss on postal
transactions. Note the growth of the functions
of the Post Office since Federation, and the con-
sequent growth of its incidental services to the
community:—
Pre- Post-
Federation, Federation,
1901. 1906.
Money Order transactions,
value £8,275,354 £10,049,062
Postal Notes, number .. 3,695,952 6,267,569
Letters, etc. (excluding
newspapers) .1 .. 422,182,924 559,225,387
Telegrams .. .. 15,771,188 20,539,440
Kevenue £2,372,861 £3,130,034
Expenditure £2,467,794 £2,965,773
Newspapers are excluded from this comparison
because, whilst the Federation has enormously
decreased the general charges on newspapers, it
insisted on abolishing the special Protective free
postage enjoyed in N. S. Wales by the morning
Freetrade newspapers, and consequently those
journals now employ carriers to do much of the
work which the Post Office used to perform
gratuitously. A comparison of telephones is not
possible owing to the fact that the States did not
separate their telephone and telegraph figures.
But the increase in telephone business has been
in correspondence with the enormous increase of
facilities and reduction of rates. A proportion, a
small proportion, of this general increased use of
postal and telegraphic and telephonic facilities is,
of course, due to the natural increase of population.
But most of it is to be ascribed to the radical
reforms in Post Office administration effected by
the Federation. The Commonwealth found the
Post Office lagging a good deal behind the current
of modern progress. It has brought it, in regard
to rates and facilities, well to the van. Telegraph
rates, for instance, have been reduced by the
Federation by from 33 to 75 per cent, throughout
the Commonwealth. Compare some of the tele-
graph charges
Before Since
, Federation. Federation.
Suburban Rate (Vic.) 10 words for 9d. 16 words for 6d.
Interstate to VVestralia 10 words for 3s. 16 words for Is.
Interstate toTasmania 10 words for from
T , 2s. to 4s. 16 words for Is.
Inland Telegrams 10 words for from
9d. to Is. 16 words for 9d.
The telephone rates have been also largely
reduced. Some examples :
Before Since
Federation. Federation.
Hureau fee (main system) .. 3d. Id.
Per zone (country systems) .. 6d. 4d.
Annual rent for City telephone £9 £5
In the postal rates there have been also large
reductions. Victoria has had since Federation
(the change was made just at the dawn of union
so that the Commonwealth would have to find the
money) a penny postage system within its borders.
Ihe Australian rate to Great Britain has been
reduced from 2Jd. to 2d. per half oz. Interstate
newspaper postage has been enormously reduced ;
a paper is carried now for £d., whereas the pre-
federation rate in some cases was Fees on
postal orders and postal notes have been cut down
ny as much as 50 per cent.
These huge reductions of rates have not, as is
represented in some quarters, been matched by
reductions in salaries and wages. The lower-class
employees have, by the “ minimum wage ” pro-
vision of the Commonwealth Public Service Act,
been assured of at least £llO a year when they
reach the age of 21. This clause alone involved
wage increases totalling £190,362 a year. Summar-
ising roughly, postal employees, since Federation,
lave been better off as regards wages in most
7 ," ateB > though a little worse off in Victoria. But
be condition of the lower-grade employees has
been everywhere improved.
* » * *
In Australian State administration it is a fre-
Que.nt b'istom to found an apparent reform on a
oasis of borrowed money. Rates are reduced and
ages increased in a service, and the deficit thus
'mated is met out of loan funds. It has not
p ee " 'With the Federal administration of the
t , ’Juice. Though a loss in 1901 has been
rned into a profit in 1906, not a single penny of
1 uiutiey has been expended from first to
s ,' Before Federation all the States, more
f P f, S ’ Spiffed post and telegraph works to loan
-I-ho Federation, since its existence, has
dy, Hbarly £1,000,000, and has provided for
£1*439 ~ a m more (the exact total is
Hi’ '*3), out of revenue for new works which
tes w ? u .ld have charged to loans. And
diir' v P rov ’ s i? n for all that, and providing
worb g tle ooming year for all the urgent new
that S anC * ne T s f a ff appointments, it is calculated
win i next 7 ear s deficit of expenditure over revenue
for £2O0 ’ 000 - If of the cost of new works
tiort' ° (formerly charged to loan funds) only a
■{j ,ou is charged to the current year, then the
rmres will continue to show a, substantial surplus.
It is a record that the Commonwealth has every
reason to be proud of. It is not, however, a
record that is put forward to justify any failure to
correct obvious faults in administration which
have developed. In the quick advance from an
old-fashioned and expensive to a modern and
cheap system there have been mistakes. The
staff has had to suffer unduly from over-
work. Effective decentralisation, though often
ordered by Ministerial minute, has never
really been secured. Now and again political
influence has been allowed to intrude mis-
chievously. Mistakes have been made in the Post
Office censorship. These faults exist, and should
be remedied (as regards most of them, the Post-
master-General can be credited with a sincere
desire to see them remedied). But even if they
are viewed through the most unfair of magnifying
glasses, they cannot be made big enough to over-
lap the essential fact that the Federal Post Office
has been one of the great blessings of the union.
It has multiplied facilities by two, it has in many
branches divided charges by three ; and it stands
self-supporting without calling for a single cent of
loan money for renewals or new works. It would
be a good thing for Australia if all State depart-
ments were managed as well.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Scheme that. Fails.
There is every reason to believe that *he con-
spiracy which blocked the Capital Site Bill the
other night will fail badly. There had been an
anxious counting of head's on that memorable
Ihursday, and it was found that a small majority
for Dalgety was assured. So the party that wants
a small, mean capital which won’t overshadow
the provincial cities, did as does the gambler who
upsets the table when he finds the game going
against him. There arose Webster, ofN.S.W.,
with what was practically a vote of censure',
and no minute in all the year would do for
Webster and his bogus Post Office grievance
except that minute when the vote was about to be
taken which would knock, Webster’s Canberra
capital into a cocked hat. With the aid
of Cook, Reid, and others the Capital Site Bill
was side-tracked by Webster’s sudden and
incurable grievance. Then the Sydney Telegraph
found its usual correspondent, who wrote to it
“ Again Melbourne has been too clever for us
and its usual Johnson, M.H.R., who wrote
to say bitterly that in the matter the
Federal city, N.S.W. could obviously Hope for
no justice from this Parliament. Yet, after all
this worry and scheming, there is reason to believe
that the scheme will fail. The obvious idea was
to postpone the capital question till next session
or next Parliament, in the hope that a Can-
berra majority would be found somewhere
in the meantime, and meanwhile to raise
the usual clamor to the effect that N.S.W.
was again the victim of a conspiracy of the
other States. But it is practically certain that
the Capital Site Bill will come on this session after
all, and that the idea of hanging it up till a
Canberra majority can be got together will fall
through.
♦
Johnson’s Capital.
Last week the dreadful Johnson, M.H.R. for
Lang (N.S.W.), wrote to Sydney Telegraph a
long letter about the selection of the Australian
capital. In that letter he contrived, with marvel-
lous ingenuity, to avoid a single reference to the
interests, or the rights, or the claims, or the people
of Australia. There wasn’t in it one word about
the advisability of selecting a good site, a place
where there is abundance of water and water
power, where the climate is healthy, where the
scenery is something for Australia to be proud of,
where it will be possible to raise a great and rich
and beautiful city, worthy of its dignity as the one
place in all the world that is the'capital of
a whole continent. These things never struck
Johnson. The Australians are proud of their
country, their race, and their future; and
when they take the casual English or
Yankee or Canadian visitor to their metropolis
they would fain take him to some place that isn’t
a mere dry little town without even a creek with-
in seven miles of it, as would be the case with the
proposed capital at Canberra—they would like to
show him a city that he couldn’t truthfully declare
to be a poor, one-horse town worthy of a poor,
one-horse race. That is the first idea that
would strike the man who is a real Aus-
tralian, not a mere parish Bumble, pottering
over little local grudges and tenth-rate village
animosities. But it didn’t strike Johnson.
Johnson’s attitude was purely local, and
wholly confined to his own alley. In his
long letter he mentioned New South Wales
seven times, “our own State” (N.S.W.) once,
Sydney three times, George’s River once, National
Park once, Botany once, Cronulla Beach
once, Kurringai Chase once, Gosford once,
Hawkesbury River once, Illawarra once, Mel-
bourne (as a malignant place that was always
trying to do something wicked and horrible) five
times, and Victoria (as a locality full of baneful
influences) five times. Queensland, 8.A., Tas-
mania, Westralia, weren’t mentioned at all. And
of Australia, our mother-land, the only continent
which was ever peopled by one race, speaking one
language, and living under one free Government
—about its rights, its hopes, its prospects, and
its future, the petty, wretched Johnson had
nothing to say. He never even mentioned Aus-
tralia in connection with the choice of Australia’s
capital. Apparently the poor little creature had
never heard of his own great country. There are
2,972,000 square miles of Australia, and all N.S.W.
and Victoria put together make less than 400,000
of these, but Johnson, dealing with the question
of the capital of this great continent, could think
of nothing but the bogus “wr«ngs” of the Ma
State, and the alleged machinations of some
people at Melbourne. He told the old lie about
the people of N.S.W. having: rejected the first
Constitution (they really accepted it, but their
acceptance was annulled by a petty act of
treachery on the part of the State Parlia-
ment). He represented the people of N.S.W.
as a crowd of dirty little schemers who,
after their State had started the Federa-
tion movement, wouldn’t go on with it
unless they were bribed by being promised
possession of the capital. He told a garbled
story about something, that he said was privately
decided, re the location of the capital, at a con-
ference of six State Premiers, as if the Australian
people were bound by any alleged agreement that
was never accepted by them or even submitted
to them for acceptance. And he said that it
was now the business of the people of N.S.W. to
get the capital fixed as near to Sydney as the Con-
stitution would allow. There was no mention about
selecting the best capital site in the interests of
N.S.W.—of which, in a population sense, Sydney
only represents one-third. And as for any attempt
to seleqt the best capital site in the interests of
Australia, Johnson never alluded to Australia.
W hat he did most enthusiastically recommend was
a capital in, or close to, his own electorate, down by
historic ” Botany. He didn’t say that Botany
was the sort of place where we could grow a
capital that would be wprthy of Australia, but he
said it was “ historic.” Also, it is convenient to
his own electorate. The selection of an Aus-
tralian metropolis is a unique event, for never
before is there any record of a people setting out
to build a political centre for a whole continent.
And into this matter, which is a matter of some
size, and worthy of consideration from the highest
patriotic motives, intrudes .Johnson, who appa-
rently never heard of Australia, clamoring for a
capital at Botany adjacent to his own garbage tin.
The Ruins of Sydney.
Dear Bulletin, —As one who is cursed with a
strange, weird detestation of the glorious tenets
of Freetrade, I rejoice to note the ruin—the
damnable and devastating Ruin—with which Pro-
tection has blighted your fair city of Sydney. I
return after an absence of eight years (a period
curiously close to the time during which Sydney
has groaned under the tyranny of a tariff), and
what do I find ? I find so much ruin, masquerad-
ing in the guise of an unholy Prosperity, that I
am constrained to wonder how you can stand it,
instead of rushing into the gory battlefield behind
Johnson and Joe Cook, and flinging away your
lives, or at least your livelihoods, in the sacred
cause of the foreigner. The first thing that struck
me, after leaving Owe’Sullivan’s new railway
station, was the happy and contented look of the
S. M. Herald and the Daily Kellygraph. For
journals that have been pining away for eight
years in the cold, moist shadow cast by an unfeel-
ing Federation, aggravated by Protection, they
seem remarkably well-nourished. Ruin seems
to agree with them, while it has—paradoxically
enough—caused a great distension in the size and
advertising revenue of the Evening News. It isn’t
only the papers that Federation and a tariff have
ruined so satisfactorily. They have provided vast
material for far-in-tne-future Ruins in the New
Sydney which I see rising out of the Old—those
huge, ornate, solid buildings like Challis House,
the Bank of Australasia, Hordern’s, Grace
Bros., and a score more. And the population—
the people whom G. Reid prophesied as pattering
about in bare feet, or words to that effect—how
nobly they are bearing up against the Ruins
which daily encompass tliem ! “Doing the
Block,” the other afternoon, I noticed with dis-
may that the girls were still there—only more so !
A bewildering procession of youth and beauty
promenaded past me for three mortal hours, and
I am perfectly certain that Solomon and the
Queen of Sheba in all their glory would not have
attracted extra attention in that crowd. Why,
even Melbourne, where this kind of Ruin actually
receives encouragement, could not have excelled the
spectacle—indeed I’ve serious doubts whether it
could have equalled it. And the Ruin in the
shops! They were packed with it; the most
beautiful and expensive kind of Ruin you could
think of—silks and satins, and jewels, and knick-
knacks, and gorgeous bonnets, and stupefying
“creations,” while the places where they sell
small lingerie blazed like perpendicular flower-
beds. And down the bay, and all along the
Harbor—which Bruce Smith said was to be a
silent Desolation, set round three shags and a
solitary fisherman I found traces of this
awful Ruin in the splendid, flaming terraces
of new villas crowning the heights along
North Shore, Mosman’s Bay, Chowder Bay,
and Middle Harbor; while all the ferry boats
seemed to have contracted Ruin badly—so much
larger, swifter, more luxurious and numerous were
they than in the days of Separatism and Free-
trade. And I went out and had a look at the
Ruin of Manly and the Ruin of Watson’s Bay,
and a lot more Ruins, each more Ruinous than the
last; and what with new houses and newly-built
pubs, and new parks and swimming-baths, and
gardens, and statues, and motor-boats, and golf
club-houses, and private piers, and surf-bathing
houses, and new tram-lines, and ice-cream shops,
and other things, I came to the conclusion that I
must end my days in Sydney, so as to imbibe
some of the strange stuff and be comfortably
Ruined myself under a cold, hard Federation with
a devilish, calculating tariff.— O. C. Cabot.
«
Britain’s Hunger Duties and its Free Food
Joke.
During the recent election at Manchester
(England), the Freetrade person and the
Tariff Reform person shouted at each other with
excessive bitterness. The Freetrade person said
that the Tariff Reform person was irrevocably
committed to a tax on the food of the people, ” and
on account of this sin he vainly urged the people of
Manchester to wipe out the Tariff Reform in-
dividual. He is a Free Fooder of the deepest
dye, is the Freetrade person; and can’t stand
the Tariff Reform inhabitant. And the simple,
trusting- folk who don’t investigate for themselves,
but just assimilate the bluff of cheeky frauds like
the British Free Fooder, hardly begin to realise
that this sort of thing is all bluff, and that Britain
is really an inveterate taxer of its people’s food
and drink. Here is last year’s record from the
land of the Free Food swindle :
British Customs Receipts 1906-7.
Sugar £5,839,866
Tea ... ... 5,596,907
Molasses 268,374
Cocoa, etc 246,990
Raisins 215,859
Coffee 175,319
Confectionery 152,123
Figs, plums, prunes .. .. 129,739
Currants 121,721
Chicory 48,600
Total Food Duties.. .. £12,795,498
And that is saying nothing of £13,316,018 levied
on tobacco (largely a poor man’s luxury), and the
beer tax, and other trifles that made up the Customs
taxation ot Freetrade Britain last year to
£33,169,804 A huge raiser of revenue at the Cus-
toms is Freetrade Britain ; it gathers together
more money in that way than does any other
country on earth bar the United States (and
the U.S. has twice its population). And a fierce,
hard taxer of the people’s food—mainly the poor
people’s food —is Bull’s country ; it raises more
money by Customs duties on food than does
France, Germany, Russia, Austria, or any other
country on earth, with the doubtful exception of
the United States. The British Free Food lie
is an impudent jest from basement to roof. It is
contradicted and disproved by every book of
reference or official publication that deals with
British revenue matters. It is as foolishly un-
convincing a yarn as would be a statement that
all Englishmen are niggers, or that the Pyramids
are located in Ireland, or that Edward VII. is a
Hottentot. It is vaguely suggestive of the case
of the old-time British seaman who is supposed
to have sung ‘‘Britons never shall be slaves”
before and after the daily flogging. It ranks
with the legend that Britain is a land where want
is practically unknown, and where Freedom has
its special and most glorious home and location
and roost. On this glaring Free Food or Free
Breakfast Table mendacity is based that lofty
and patronising compassion which the Briton is
taught to shed upon the allegedly oppressed and
over-taxed foreigner. Yet it must be admitted
that there is a material difference between
Britain’s food duties and those of most other
nations. Other nations, when they tax food for
revenue purposes, mostly give preference to
articles which their own lands can produce, so
that the taxes may incidentally encourage and help
along local industry in addition to filling the local
Treasury. Britain confines itself rigorously to
taxing articles that can’t be produced locally, so
as to make dead sure that its Food Taxes won’t inci-
dentally help along any local industry, or find any
British person a job, or do anything at all for him
except raise prices and make his life more miser-
able. The taxes enumerated are Hunger Duties
pure and simple. The Manchester election was,
to a great extent, fought out on the Free Food
issue, and the Free Fooder, representative of the
party which collects the Hunger Duties, was
defeated. Bull begins to see the joke.
♦
Cheapness and Smash.
It is too early yet to say what was the immediate
cause of the appalling railway smash at Bray-
brook (Vic.), or how many of a dozen small acts
of foolish, ignorant economy and muddle combined
to make the trouble. But something of the causes
that lie behind the immediate cause seem visible
enough. Things are coming to light which make
it seem a marvel that Victoria hasn’t a fatal
accident daily as a steady average. The Victorian
railways start under a gigantic handicap. All
over the Western District, the most fertile part of
the country, a crowd of brutishly selfish rich land-
owners are allowed to shut out population, and
keep the country a grassy wilderness. These con-
ditions make it impossible for a huge proportion
of the Victorian railway lines to pay under ordi-
nary conditions, for there are practically no people
in the country they traverse to use them. If Premier
Bent were anything but the roaring fraud he is,
the difficulty might be got over by breaking up
the big estates, and settling the country, and
making work for the outlying lines to do. But as
Bent is only a roarer in land settlement matters,
Victoria is trying to make its railways pay by the '
other alternative. Repairs are starved, wages are
low, a woman does the work of a man, and a man
does the work of two or three men, and a bov tries
to do the work of a horse. For instance, Bray-
brook Junction, where the recent horror took
place, has a staff of three men and a boy. That
enables one man to be on duty at a time. The
man on the job has to look after the Junction
generally—it is within seven miles of Melbourne,
and the Ballarat-Adelaide line and the Bendigo
line, both of which carry a heavy traffic, join
there. He has to supervise (by telegraph) two
adjacent stations where a horrible economy has
cut down the staff to one woman. He has to look
after a private siding, where a large business is
done. He attends to two busy telegraph instru-
ments. He looks after a signal box with 33 levers.
He operates the block system. He opens and
shuts the gates by hand ; a few pounds have been
saved by not interlocking them with the signal
apparatus. Also he sells tickets, books parcels
and heavy goods, yells the name of the station,
opens and shuts carriage doors, answers idiotic
questions, and is his own station-cleaner. Like-
wise he keeps the cash and the accounts. The
removal of the great Sunshine Harvester Works
to Braybrook made an enormous increase in the
work of the station, and by way of celebrating the
event it is alleged that the staff has been cut down
from seven men to three and a boy. (To compensate
for this the name of the station was changed to
Sunshine.”) Three signalmen are said to have been
retrenched, and for want of signalmen (who cost
money) and an extra signal-box (which costs
money) it seems to have been necessary to make
variations in the safe and reliable block system,
which variations are calculated to go far towards
making it a mere gamble and quite unreliable.
Then, under the slipshod, run-down policy of cheap-
ness at any price, trains were late. The shambling
device of having a gigantic train hauled by two
engines, instead of two trains with one engine
each, enabled one guard to do the work ofHwo ;
but as the platforms were too short for the length
of the train, it had to make two separate stops at
almost every station, and it got later and later
as it went along. This added to the con-
fusion. And some money seems to have been
saved by having the old, weak, out-of-date
Westinghouse brake of 1873 instead of the vastly
superior one patented in 1885. By these and like
devices the Victorian railways are made to pay.
It is an awful job to make a system pay which has
to meet the interest bill and the expense bill on
hundreds of miles of line where there is practically
no traffic because callous land-grabbers shut out
the people who would make traffic, but the marvel
has been achieved. Therefore the verdict in the
first place is one of murder done for the sake of
sordid gain by certain big landlords of Victoria.
His Programme.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. J. H. Clayton, who is contesting' the St. George
referred in his speech at Rockdale last night to the
federal capital question. If he were returned, and the
matter was not settled, he would go so far as favoring a
cry for secession. Of course, they might not get it. They
would no doubt receive a reply from the British Govern-
ment stating that secession could not be extended, but that
the capital site question should be settled, and the capital
put in the place intended for it in New South Wales, etc.,
etc.— Sydney Daily Telegraph, 25/4/’OB.
Gents, I would be your member ; I would stand
By Mister Wade, and wail and weep and gnash
My teeth about Our Wrongs, to beat the band.
With me on deck something will have to smash.
Here is my scheme for boosting up this seat
And doing Noo South lasting service : I
Propose to make the Commonwealth cold meat
Unless it hearkens to St. George’s cry.
My maiden speech shall be devoted to
A burning plaint in re the Capital;
Rockdale I pick—failing its choice, I’ll do
This mischief to Lyne, Deakin, Groom et al.
I shall go ’Ome— l, J. H. Clayton ! —and,
In full view of the British Government,
Heap ashes on my skull, and likewise sand,
Proof of my grief o’er “The Agreement” rent.
This grisly sight I hope—nay, gents, I know—
Must o’er the Ma-land cast a dreary blight.
“Look at im,” folks will say. “Doesn’t this show
That Clayton’s seat’s the only proper site ?”
The move may fail; Australia may stand fast
To the Monaro plains, which now enmesh
Her fancy. So? Then straightway to the mast
I nail my watchword—“Rockdale or Secesh ! ”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


STUDY YOUR HEALTH. DRINK ONLY “
“FRANZ JOSEF” LAGER.
FRESH SHIPMENTS ALWAYS ARRIVING.
Ask for RISK’S OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
We are the largest Importers of above in Australia.
We are Agents for the Best Film Makers of the
World. We receive New Films every week, and our
stock of subjects in hand is immense.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Merchants,
386 CEORCE STREET (near G.P.0., Sydney).
Branch : 93 Qubbn Street, Brisbane.
Johnson—His Trucks.
Thus the S. M. Herald in a leading article on
“Stock and Railways” last week :
The shortage of trucks, which has inflicted loss on the
country running into hundreds of thousands of pounds
a member of the deputation estimated that half a million
pounds’ worth of sheep was lost in Riverina alone—-has
already been publicly regretted by the Chief Com-
missioner ; but we may hope that he. is now convinced of
the unsoundness of the policy of keeping the rolling stock
down. Clearly there should be, as the President of the
Chamber urged, a reserve of trucks sufficient to meet any
emergency that may reasonably be expected to arise. If
they must lie idle for part of the year it cannot be helped.
They should be there, if only as an insurance of the pro-
ducers against preventable loss.
Now, supposing it had been Oliver, the Aus-
tralian, instead of the imported Johnson, who
was charged with spilling £500,000 of good
Cornstalk money in one district in one year
how would the Herald have raved ! Even
the Herald couldn’t find any charge of
fooling away the public money or of mud-
dling away the public interests to level at
Oliver when he was Railway Commissioner, so
it howled day after day, and week after week, for
his official head on the alleged ground that, in the
seclusion of the office, he and two other officials,
who had tried to usurp his authority, didn’t agree
too well. The excuse was so paltry that many
people set down the frenzied denunciation of
Oliver to the sordid fact that he objected to the
free carriage of newspapers by train. Then the
8. M. Herald discovered Johnson. It guaranteed
Johnson. It went bail for Johnson. It assured
N.S.W. that not only would Johnson put every-
thing right with the railways (it didn’t say what
was wrong with them), but that he would solve the
tramway problem (it didn’t say what the tramway
problem was). It even said that the only thing that
would put the Lands Department straight would be
the handing over of the management to “a man like
Johnson.” It became silly and raving mad about
Johnson, and its Johnson obsession made it a
laughing stock. Now, what with the vast increase
in the number of accidents, the alleged shortage
of trucks, the heavy stock losses which the
Herald itself ascribes to needless . muddle,
and the complaints about confusion and
demoralisation, the old paper is fighting
a desperate rear-guard action to save the
battered remnants of its idol from falling into
the hands of the enemy. The community knows
the value of the S. M. Herald’s judgment now.
Every time that paper recommends Canberra as
an ideal capital the public will think of Johnson,
and Canberra it will think of as Johnsonville.
The Herald’s yearnings for a place like Canberra
and for a man like Johnson are twin emotions.
4
Johnson—His Luggage Van.
TheN.S. W. people who travel on Johnson’s trains
oughtperhaps tobethankfulif they are landed with
breath in their bodies and their limbs unbroken.
Still there are ungrateful reprobates who expect
more. Some of them, for instance, think that
their personal luggage, grabbed from them at
their home station, ought to be landed along with
them; but nowadays that sort is liable to be dis-
appointed. At Albury the Melbourne express is
frequently cut up into two divisions; and though
one lands at. Sydney (with luck) at anything from
three-quarters of an hour to two hours ahead of the
other, only the other one carries any luggage. Also
the other one doesn’t stop at stations for which it
has no passengers ; consequently people who have
travelled by the first division, and have got out at
some station for which the second division of the
train has no passengers, subsequently seethesecond
train whiz past, carrying their luggage with it on
to Sydney. From a mere plain Australian point
of view it seems a rotten way of doing things.
But presumably it’s all right—the imported Mr.
Johnsing is in charge, and the S. M. Herald
gave the foreign Mr. Johnsing a sort of Sunday-
school certificate even before it knew him.
♦
The Very Sudden Awakening of Bull.
The Manchester election result constitutes the
most smashing set-back Freetrade has endured in
the United Kingdom during the past half-dozen
years. It is Churchill’s misfortune that he
stands in relation to the Freetrade principle, in
the voting public’s eye, as no other member of his
party does. It was on the fiscal issue alone that
he seceded from the party of his forebears ; it was,
he pointed out, only the “urgent necessity for
keeping inviolate the doctrine of Bright and of
Cobden” that impelled him to break with
Chamberlain, Balfour, Chaplin, and his other
khaki associates at the last British general election.
As a candidate, Churchill looked incomparably
strong. He was sure of a measure of Home Rule
support; and still surer (since no Englishman
believes him, on his record, to be other than anti-
Home Rule) of practically every Unionist Free-
trade vote polled in the constituency. (These, as
a recent Reuter’s message indicates, he duly got.)
Withal he is a picturesque figure, a BARNUM-like
self-advertiser, the coitler of pungent and telling
phrases, a fine platform speaker, the most mag-
netic personality in either House—the type, in
fact, the British elector well loves and is cheerfully
prepared to trudge through miles of slush and
drizzle to support. Said Harcourt, a hereditary
Freetrader and Whig, when the four-figure
victory of the Protectionists at Hastings was
made known last month :
I now know of no constituency safe for the Freetrade
cause.
Manchester has proved how truly he judged.
The Briton is changing his views in a hurry.
He feels the crying need of Protection and of a
modern system of land defence, and so is turning,
despite himself, to the party which, with all its
demerits, promises him those things.
.4.
Again the Tocsin.
Richard Arthur, M.L.A. (of Sydney), writes
The stars in their courses fight awhile for Australia.
Who could have dreamed that when the Maine flew
heavenwards in Havana harbor, the rebound would
reach to Australasian seas? And yet without this, no
Stars and Stripes would wave in Manila, and no battle-
ships save those of Nippon float to-day in the Pacific.
Now the great and efficient war fleet of a kindred people
is making for the Philippines, where it will stay, what-
ever the reports to the contrary, and Roo«evelt is
demanding four greater Dreadnoughts, that the peace
of the Pacific be not threatened. Never had the
Australians a better friend than this strenuous, dis-
interested, conflict-loving man, who has sent again
and again kindly greetings and pregnant warnings across
the seas to the younger democracy, and now, as a gage
of the bonds of kinship, orders the battleships of the
Great Republic to our shores. He has been called the
Peacemaker—a title not without warrant, and yet listen
to his words : “ Neither arbitration nor any other device
can prevent the gravest and most terrible wrong to
peoples who have lost their capacity for self-defence. The
nation that is opulent and unarmed invites disaster.
Even more direct comes the warning from the most philo-
sophic present-day student of the destiny of nations—the
author of “The Influence of Sea Power in History ” : “I
wonder at the improvidence of Australasia in trusting that
laws, though breathing the most popular convictions and
purpose, can protect their land from that which threatens.
All the naval power of the British Empire cannot suffice
ultimately to save a remote community which neither
breeds men in plenty, nor imports them freely.” The
American fleet in the Pacific has probably delayed our
day of trial, will possibly give us an ally in our hour of
need. But nothing can abrogate the eternal law that
nations hold their own, not by help from without, but by
the power which they themselves possess. And no
people need to have this truth thundered without ceasing
in their ears as do they of Australia.
*.
A scrkam from Sydney Telegraph :
Even manufacturing for our own requirements is an
oppressively costly business, as is made painfully evident
by the present fiscal burdens. How much more profit-
able nationally could the sum we pay in excessive Cus-
toms taxes be spent in bringing more land under cultiva-
tion, in experimenting to find suitable crops and to sup-
press plant and stock diseases, in irrigation, in perfecting
dry-farming 'methods, in attracting new settlers and
giving them facilities to immediately become producers !
To take concrete instances, what venture in protection-
ism is remotely comparable in potential significance or
possible results to the achievements of the late Mr.
Farrer in developing disease- and drought-resisting
wheats ? Or what equivalent amount in Customs taxes
to that spent on the Barren Jack dam could equal it in
returns to Australia —for should Barren Jack prove a
practical success, the lesson it will teach the Common-
wealth, the possibilities it will illustrate in a land where
sites for storages are so abundantly provided for by
Nature, must be inestimable.
That is the sort of silly argument that the anti-
Australian gang is always trying to pass on an
innocent and guileless public. The Protectionist
policy has supplied N.S.W. with about £2,000,000
a year more revenue than it had before. It has
enabled N.S.W., for the first time in about 60
years, to reduce its debt a little. It has increased
the value of N.S.W. manufactures from £9,000,000
a year to £12,000,000, which is about twice
the value of all the State's agriculture put
together. And it has increased the number of
people employed in N.S.W. manufacturing in-
dustries by more than 50 per cent. And mean-
while the wonderful and blastiferous “achieve-
ments of the late Mr. Farrer in developing
disease- and drought-resisting wheats ” have done
so little for N.S.W. that the value of its agricul-
tural produce was less in 1907 than in 1901; and
as for the Barren Jack reservoir, it hasn’t returned
a copper to Australia, though it has swallowed a
considerable amount of good Australian money.
Moreover, it is the Protectionist policy which has
supplied the funds to pay for the Barren Jack reser-
voir, and which has lifted N.S.W. out of the old
condition of chronic deficit, and made it a State
with a surplus. “ The achievements of the late
Mr. Farrer in developing disease- and drought-
resisting wheats ” haven’t been worth 2d. to
Australia as compared with the achievements of
the present Alfred Deakin, and William Lyne,
and Austin Chapman in developing disease- and
drought-resisting manufactures.
“Sr.”: I support your motion for a searching
Federal inquiry into Australian railway manage-
ment in general, and the Victorian article in
particular. Tait introduced Canadian methods
to Victoria. He would make the railways show a
profit. He would start the “economic” regime
in solid earnest. And he did. He bobbed his
head to the statue of and scoffed at
adequacy. Boys at 2s. and 3s. a day are substi-
tuted for the men at 7s. a day. Porters and
assistants are now mostly lads. Gangers are
given extra lengths, and less men are employed
on the permanent way. At Gembrook, where a
recent accident happened, six men were employed
on the road at the time of the mishap, whereas
before Tait’s Dictatorship 16 men looked after a
similar mileage. In 1891 engine-drivers received
13s. 3d. per day; in 1905 they got 12s. sd. All
the Departments have more or less surrendered
competency in the interests of cheapness. Here
are some figures computed from the De-
partment’s statistics in relation to accidents:
For ten years from 1885-6 to 1895-6 the num-
ber of persons injured on the Victorian railways
was 3073. From 1895-6 to 1905 the number was
5343, or an increase of 2270. The number of rail-
way employees —either contractors’ or Depart-
mental-injured in the same term of years was
1437 from 1885-6 to 1895-6, and 2852 from
1895-6 to 1905, an increase of close on 100,
per cent. Solly (Railway representative in the
Victorian Assembly), in commenting upon the
salaries, hours and conditions of railway men under
the Canadian Tait’s management, is reported
in Hansard (28/11/’O5) to have said : “ The result
will be a great smash on our railways. In con-
nection with it everybody will be blamed but
those responsible for the conditions that presaged
the accident.” Bent, as Minister for Railways,
is a sawdust nonentity. The Department’s own
officers report to him that the rolling-stock,
machinery, permanent way, etc., are all in tip-
top condition, and Bent is satisfied, just files the
reports and goes out to a bowling-green and
records his marvellous reminiscences. Just
imagine a Department’s officer furnishing a re-
port to the effect that the Department that he
administers, and is paid a fairly round screw to
look after, is in a chaotic, broken-down, busted
condition, and needs someone to get to work at
things. As you say, a Federal inquiry into the
management of Australian railways is badly
wanted.
- «- ■
John Bull’s views on his own stomach, and his
views on the other fellow’s stomach, are evidently
two widely-different sets of view. A Royal Com-
mission is inquiring into the mysteries of British
whisky, and it has learned, among other things,
that though there is strict Excise supervision over
the things that are put in whisky for local con-
sumption, any blamed old substance can go into
whisky intended for export. There seems to be
no limitation at all ; the line isn’t even drawn at
kerosene and old boots, supposing any loony dis-
tiller wanted to shove them into the barrel. In
fact, whisky for export need not be whisky at all. It
may be a mere compound of essences. These
essences, despite the fact that their employment
in Bull’s own drink is quite illegal, are openly
advertised in England, and as they must be
used for something, it is assumed that the
liquor exported for the benefit of the “colonial”
stomach very often consists of them. No
wonder Scotchmen and Irishmen say that the
liquor they get here isn’t the same as they got
on the old home heather or the old, home bog.
Anyhow, it’s time Australia made its own whisky.
■ ♦
The five Judges of the High Court have decided
that Archibald Currie and Co.’s steamers, ship-
ping their crews in India, do not begin and end
their voyage in Australia, wherefore the Arbitra-
tion Court has no jurisdiction over them. Very
well; then what else are they but foreign ships ?
Yet, in spite of that, one is subsidised by Bent
to run to Singapore, and all are allowed exemp-
tion from pilotage in Melbourne as Victorian-
registered ships. Further, by some juggling, they
are allowed pilotage exemption in N. S. Wales,
though nearly all their masters are supposed to
have the new certificate that is limited to ships in
the inter-State or South Sea Island trade. Thus,
when it comes to dodging the Arbitration Court
they are foreign, and when it comes to dodging
pilotage dues they are not foreign, but Australian.
The Curries ought, under these circumstances,
to be promptly called upon to make up their
minds which they are going to be. If they prefer
to be Australian—all right, then the Australian
Arbitration law must apply to them. If, how-
ever, they prefer to be foreign, let them run up
the Chow or whatever other Asiatic flag they
please; only in that case they can’t expect to have
the rights and privileges of Australians. Cer-
tainly Australia can’t allow them to pretend to be
both foreign and Australian at the same time—
can’t, that is, if it wants to preserve its reputa-
tion for being moderately sane.
-♦
The usual female, with the usual tale of assault,
battery and reft virtue, has turned up at Auckland
(M.L.). She had wandered on to the wharf one
calm Sabbath eve, wrapped in holy meditation,
whenthefirst engineerof asteamerruthlessly seized
her and dragged her up gangways, flights of stairs
and ladders to his cabin on the upper deck. Then,
bereft of her above-mentioned article, she left the
ship to keep an appointment with her lover, who,
“on account of something he heard,” told the
police. Then Kettle, P.M., took a hand. Wit-
nesses mentioned that there was a crowd on the
wharf at the time, that the silky stillness
of the night was unbroken by any cries,
and that as it was high water it would have
taken an acrobat to swarm up the ladder to the
deck. Also the usual female admitted that she
had left the ship and walked up the wharf before
complaining to anyone ; likewise that she refused
to allow a doctor to examine her for the bruises
sustained in all the frightful dragging and maul-
ing. Instead, however, of bundling her out
or committing her for perjury, for the proper
encouragement of others of like mind, Magis-
trate Kettle took three days to think over the
matter before throwing the case out heavily.
Meanwhile, the accused hp.s probably lost his
job, while the woman stalks abroad in the
clanking noonday, and there is no police authority
with sufficient starch in his vertebrae to haul her
up to a place where she could get the reward of
her efforts.
MISS ERNESTINE LOU AT (a Sydney
Soprano, who gives a concert at the Y.M.C.A.
Hall on April 30).
Photo by Talma, Sydney.
“ F.C.,” from Melbourne
Now that things are sorting themselves out somewhat,
in a manner of speaking, the Victorian public is remem-
bering things it had forgotten and learning others that it
ought to have known but didn’t. Only three short days
after the Sunshine horror, the Adelaide-Melbourne ex-
press was at Murray Bridge, when it was found necessary
to temporarily divide the train. While the rear part—five
carriages and engine—was being shunted, it unac-
countably dashed into the foremost stationary carriages.
Nobody was killed, but several passengers were more or
less injured, and some of the carriages were tossed off the
rails. The train got away over two hours late, but, says
the Age report, the driver made up one hour of the lost time
in the run to Ballarat. Apparently the usually
gradual Victorian trains can run a good deal faster
than is supposed, when the driver has to make
up time. Another interesting item of informa-
tion is the amazing fact that the brakes now'
in use on Victorian passenger trains are the old-style
Wf.stinghousk brakes produced in 73, though the Bent
State goods trains are provided with a much more power-
ful Wbstinghouse brake patented in ’B5, the reason
alleged for this thrifty folly being that the goods
trains are too heavy for the slow-acting, old-
fashioned Westinghouse. So the Bendigo express was
so heavy that it required two of the most .powerful
engines to draw it at the scheduled speed of 36 miles
per hour ;it was admittedly overcrowded it was run-
ning on a continuous arid notoriously dangerous down
grade; it was behind time; the driver was expected to
make up lost time ; and it was supplied with a slow-
acting, venerable make of brake. Yet certain people are
surprised at the driver saying the brake wouldn’t act.
Two other accidents happened on the day of the
Murray Bridge occurrence —a connecting rod broke on the
Bendigo-Echuca train, and some trucks fan off the line
at Pirron Yaloak. Neither of these casualties could be
due to negligence of drivers, guards, or signalmen.
Mr. Wade, of N.S.W., has stated that his
attitude at the Premiers’ Conference will be one
of “ give and take.” It always is Wade’s idea in
politics to give “ cheek ” and to take the earth.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Humpty Dumpty.”
Criterion .. _ “A Beggar on Horseback."
The Royal “ The Lady Dandies.”
Palace Maskelyne and Devant’s Co.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Town Hall West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’ 00.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirth Bros.’Circus.
Centenary Hall Max Schluter, Violinist.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “John Glayde’s Honor.”
Princess’s. .. _ “ Peter Pan.”
Bijou “ The Southern Cross.”
Theatre Royal “ Miss Hook of Holland.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
• ♦
“ 10-2-4 ” spends a dreary evening :
I was in at the death of Wonderland City last Saturday
night. One requires scant imagination to grasp how de-
pressing a thing it needs must be to see a Wonder-City
moribund, with the death-rattle in its main street, as ic
were ; and so I had made an almost hysterical effort to
attend a merrier function that evening. But a stronger
will than mine compelled ; wherefore at 9 p.m. I stood,
imprecant, by her side, my shoes full of Bilanderson’s
private beach sand, a screaming easterly gale whizzing
past my ears, gazing dully at the antics of a number of
supers in front of an alleged castle. This was the act the
daily papers had billed that morning as
FIRE. FIRE AND FLAMES. FIRE.
FIRE. A Thrilling Drama in Dumb Show. FIRE.
FIRE. FIRE. FIRE. FIRE. FIRE. FIRE.
Presently a gas-jet flared at one of the windows, whereat
the supers massed together and wailed “Fire!” very
eerily. Forth fared the firemen. Gas was by this time
burning merrily in several places. The flatne-subduers
sped nimbly up and down ladders amid ribald laughter
from the onlookers. The gas continued to burn. And
now, very, very slowly the front of the castle swung out-
wards and deposited itself cautiously on the beach. At
the same time a well-aimed limelight shaft disclosed a
large person in white slumber-wear tick-tacking frenziedly
on a high-placed rafter. Later, having secured a measure
of attention, he leaped into a net below, and the crowd
dispersed, sneezing and making cynical remarks.
I hurried off with my companion and dispensed hard-
won coin to view “ The Mermaid.” In a chill, crypt-like
wilderness of unstable cane chairs we sat alone, and
waited. I brooded on the Grave, the Wrongs of my
State, the Apostolic Secesh Succession, the Hereafter.
Some’ small, dirty boys came in riotously, but grew
reverent in sudden fashiom, and crouched abjectly silent
in the middle distance. A young man, attended by three
maidens, entered, and “ The Mermaid ” was exhibited.
We fled from this young woman as soon as was feasible,
and stood on a platform above “ The Maze,” observing
two little girls in immense hats wandering with the pur-
posefulness of extreme youth amongst a number of
revolving corrugated-iron drain pipes. The strains of
weird music mingled sadly with the blast; sharp, anxious
steam whistles sounded from the beach below; the
attendants, ticket-purveyors and stall-holders looked in-
expressibly dejected to the eye, great mournfulness
seized me in its grip. . , , ,
Mv companion, cheery to the last, pointed to where a
small band was grouped by a tank. Thither we pro-
ceeded at a hopeful trot, or amble, or canter. An inclined
wooden shute shot up to a stand about 20ft. above the
level of the water. On the stand was a stout young man
with a bicycle. A small emotional official, grotesque in
outsize coat and cap, gesticulated at the tank-side, pas-
sionately exhorting the multitude. Of a sudden he turned
dramatically to the cyclist and howled the following:
“ Daredevil Dee, rekerllect that in doin’ the feat you now
propose, vou take yer life in yer own ’ands ! (A pause.)
That bein’ understood, grip yer ’andle-bars, compose yer-
self, Daredevil, hand go ! 1 ”
Whereupon the young man rode smartly down the
slope and fell into the pneumonia-trap at his feet. Most
of us then wended homewards. Not while I live will I,
if I know it, attend at the death-throes of another city.
* * *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney) “Humpty
Dumpty” has been breaking himself out of his
shell eight times a week, and getting a start of six
“ wishes” in consideration of his motherless con-
dition ; and Bert Gilbert goes submarining six
nights a week and twice on Wednesdays and holi-
days, and bores a hole in the machine to see if any
mermaids are about, and shoots the sharks that
swim in instead; and Harry Phydora, who is
King Solium’s own Martha, insists that the king
shall have no truck with mermaids—“ half-women
and half-kippers” ; and the Wheel of Life flashes
its hundred tights and its thousand lights; and
Harry Shine is cured of a fearful cold ; and
in the ballet of the States the dashing Wes-
tralians, clanking with golden sovereigns, continue
to get the loudest cheer—and 437 other things
conspire to make this writer lament that he can t
be H. Dumpty for just one night. If J.L.vV.s
fairy queen gave him a start of two wish e s, he
reckons off-hand that he would demand (1) halt ot
J.C.W.’s pantomime profits delivered in seven (or
more) motor-cars, and (2) the instant execution ot
the crow that has been scattering lamentations
from thebird-and-monkey shop in The Bulletin s
neighborhood for the past three months. Alter
that the other four wishes could stand over in
more comfort for further consideration.
* * *
‘ 1 The Beggar on Horseback ’ ’ still cleaves,
Waite-like, to the saddle, so to speak, at Sydney
Criterion. As a matter of actual, unmetaphoncal
fact, this particular mendicant is absorbed most o
his time swashbuckling very gamesomely on foot
But the distinction makes no difference, hn
multitudes go to view the entrancing atmosphere
of daredevilry and bloodshed that surrounds
destitute equestrian they love whether in or ou
of the pigskin; ajid Harcourt Beatty supplies
those goods nightly, full measure and brimming
over.
The last nights of “ The Lady Dandies”
threaten at Sydney Royal, and the local theatre-
goer’s life is the greyer thereat. J
sweet little Fanny Dango pierces with her bar
wiles the heart of male Suburbia every night mu
different places (and occasionally of an afternoon J,
and Florrie Young sings ever so strenuously,
while Reg Roberts wins applause, and Bedou
in the Bill-Adams-of-Waterloo manner. And thi-
paper’s tip to the man and the woman on the tram
is “ Go and see these people ere it is too late .
At Sydney Pakc * Will, the Witch and
the Watchman, is still proving attractive to 1. ge
crowds, but the management has reinforcea ilt
with two fresh illusions. In one, a Urg ' 8
frame is suspended in the centre of tll i V r)n l ot | 1
that the audience can see over, un^® r ’an
sides of it. Into this frame there suddenly
materialises an egg, which bursts wlth a J^ ken .
gives freedom to a fine full-grown sprmg chicken
Said that the poultry farmers. are approaching
Maskelyne and Devant to acquire t rjj, e
hatching them in that way on a iargeseaie.
other bright particular gem is Maske y
Valentine’s Eve, in which a jilted bacheie > * w)th
alone in his room on the good times h w _
the girl who finally preferred , th ® ot^ e /-lii t u
Rummaging out an old valentine, he cd^
test the popular superstition that y
ing a valentine the wraith of «e
darling will appear. So he bums the djence
amidst a breathless silence and a startle
gasps as a woman materialises out o


Money with the Cinematograph.
t , et us , s^ow y°u how—write for full particulars
ln ay t , e ‘ have everything for the show-
Ltd O' ™ anS late Osborn and Jordan,
■too •’Cinematograph Soecialists and Electricians,
vewge Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
“Che Clarion,”
Randolph Bedford’s Paper,
will appear Monthly from 15th MAY.
PRICE - - 6d.
A MONTHLY OF A NEW KIND.
Caktoons in Colors.
A NEWSPAPER in its Political, Mining,
Financial, Social, Theatrical, Musical, Art,
Literary and Fashion pages, and in its
Articles and Cartoons; and
A MAGAZINE in its Story Matter, Verse
and General Criticism.
“THE CLARION”
for 6s. posted to any Australasian address
for a year.
You’ll want it longer than that.
The Biggest Value for Money
Australia has ever seen.
"THE CLARION” for a year 6s.
New ! Distinctive ! Individualistic 1
Address—
RANDOLPH BEDFORD, “ Clarion " Office,
444 Chancery Lane, Melbourne
space before him. Another item which isn’t an
illusion, but sounds remarkably like it, is the
ability of Barclay Gammon to produce the most
weird howls from the interior of the piano. The
Lord have mercy on the people in his boarding
house when he’s practising the production of
howls.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum, Spencer’s Theatre-
scope still varies scenes of flood and rugged coast
with the concentrated essence of “ The Shriek in
the Bloodstained Dustbin,” and shows sky-scrap-
ing romances, where wild-eyed men struggle like
demons among chimney tops, fall down frightful
flues 10,000 ft. deep, and come up smiling for the
next round. Spencer caters for all classes,
and his fearsome melodrama is counterbalanced
by a series of idyllic pictures entitled “Cupid’s
Pranks.” Also, there is a flavor of ghastly up-to-
dateness in the pictures of Sunshine station with
the debris lying all around, and the arrival of
Tait and other potentates on the scene. As a
good stirring set of Aims, The Bulletin suggests
that Spencer should bioscope the book of Genesis
and Revelation. It would be interesting if well
done, and would suit the atmosphere of the
Lyceum.
** * *
West’s Pictures are now located at Sydney
Town Hall, the Glaciarium being required for a
purpose signified by its icy name. Among the
films is one that reproduces the recent Show, but
although it is well-rendered, the Show has become
a great weariness.
*■ * * *
It seems a paradox to call a shadow bright,
but The Shadow, a little paper issued on behalf
of the Women’s Labor Bazaar, has brightness and
brains and versatility. It starts with a kindly
message to the editor from Lord Beauchamp, and
runs a number of serious articles, leavened with
romantic prose and verse. Mrs. Ada Holman
edits the bantling, and artist Watkins is credited
with the artistic cover-picture. The Women’s
Labor Bazaar makes for a successful close in the
Sydney Trades Hall, down in Goulburn-street.
* * *
The Sydney “ Muffs ” are lashing out like
a blood steed. Next Tuesday and Wednesday
this bunch of tried amateurs will stage “As You
Like It,” under the direction of Mr. Ivan Hill, who
was here with those round, cheery cherubs, the
Westminster choristers.
** * *
Max Schliiter, the Danish violinist, has
returned to Sydney, and under J. and N. Tait’s
direction commences a series of three concerts at
the Centenary Hall (the Town Hall being booked
to another management) on Monday evening
next. The other two concerts transpire on
Thursday and the following Saturday. Miss
Emma Sussmilch and Messrs. Godfrey Smith and
.T. Edward Sykes are to assist the BeethovCn-
visaged violinist during the season.
* # *• *
Sydney Tivoli still holds strongly to the
same site, and also with reasonable reliability to
the same programme. The Kaufmann cyclists
have discovered a few more positions in which
people may risk their necks on bicycles, and
Charles Mildare whistles more like a canary than
ever.
** * *
“John Glayde’s Honor,” produced at
Melbourne Her Majesty’s last Saturday night, is
chiefly a study of temperaments. The theme is
the delicate but persistent problem of the “odd
man.” Mrs. Glayde is a lady of thirty-one, and
her lover, Trevor Lerode, is a man of twenty-
eight. He looks less than that in the play, and
seems to be struggling hard to conceal his feeding-
bottle. The play opens in Mrs. Glayde’s Parisian
flat. The time is night, and Mrs. Glayde and a half-
dozen friends, including the estimable Lerode,
are seated around the supper table. The conver-
sation is of the brand that is made in Mayfair,
and bottled for export. Prom this bottled
dialogue, it transpires that John Glayde is an iron
king, and a magnate who is fast swallow-
ing the continent that Columbus discovered.
He is so busy swallowing that his wife is shame-
fully neglected. Lerode is an artist, and is paint-
ing her portrait. He doesn’t neglect Mrs. Glayde.
The arrangement, however, isn’t to the taste of
Lerode’s ma, a lady whose innate worldliness is
touched by superfine idiocy and Puritanism. She
wants her son to wed the daughter of a titled
brewer, and she cables in cryptic language to
•Tohn Glayde, who is away, swallowing as usual.
He leaves a partially-eaten republic on his plate,
with teeth marks on it, and flies homewards, and
hounds into his wife’s supper party. His appear-
ance is surprising, and his welcome is of the tem-
perature of a polar bear. Thereafter Glayde
learns things by degrees, and offers to give up
swallowing, and be a more attentive husband.
His wife upbraids him, but later capitulates, a
heap of expensive clothes, in his arms. Then in
the midst of the reconciliation she elopes. The
news rouses John the Swallower from his tender
reflections and his dreams of a happier and better
life. He puts on a corrugated brow, and sticks
his jaw out eight inches. Also he overtakes the
pair, and in a fine dramatic scene casts his wife
oil, promises to divorce her and provide her with
an income, and then departs, leaving two poor,
purposeless beings with the expression of the lost
dog at the corner. The end is something of an
anti-climax, but is startling and powerful withal.
* ■» * *
Thomas Kingston makes a good impression
as John Glayde. Inclined a little to melodramatic
e * a BBerati° n at times, he still displays resources
or feeling hitherto unsuspected. Still a little
restraint and less robustiousness in places would
probably be more appreciated. Cyril Mackay
capably delineates the character of Trevor Lerode;
ut, on appearances, the disparity between
is age and that of Mrs. Glayde seems rather
against the author’s conceptions of both charac-
>f rS ' f^ B phristopher Branley, Gregan McMahon
as to deliver abridged theseson mostly everything.
■ ’nee he is a “ man about town,” his self-esteem
s cool but plausible; yet his cynicism and general
”k U P suggest the amazing British tripper, rather
an the dilettante that Christopher purports to be.
nf ri jholwood gives a splendid character study
\V 11 ay d e s servant, Shurmur ; while Leonard
l , e h as Howard Collingham, a journalist, is a
eait to the profession. As regards Mrs. Brough,
t L 6 ac l^ s , w ith artistic naturalness and earnestness,
i nr 0 sonie respects she hardly makes an
al Mrs. Glayde. The mildly acidulated
_ aracter of Lady Lerode falls to Miss Emma
Miss n W^0 ’ e° ur se, is excellent. As for
the * , e Fergusson, she gives an exposition of
part of an American heiress that is somewhat
rre> Miss Nellie Calvin’s contribution to the
entertainment is small but pretentious ; and Miss
-Laly litheradge is pleasant in an unimportant
part as an vny6nue of seventeen.
** * *
A second inspection of “Miss Hook of
Holla,nd, at Melbourne Royal, induces no sub-
stantial change in last week’s pronouncement.
.Like its forerunners, the show is as orthodox as %
meat tea in a serious Baptist family, though it
lacks the heaviness and stolidity of that respect-
able Sabbath feed. As to the yarn, its discovery
or tracking out is often a difficult matter,
especially at a time like the present, when the
ottice bloodhound is laid up with inflammation of
the tail. The most definite fact about “Miss
is that it supplies a number of tunes that
will be memorable, six months hence, on boarding-
house pianos. Bast week the virtues of Miss
Rssie Perrin and Mr. Tom Payne were
unwittingly left unrecorded. The glamor
of their duet, “ Toddle Round Amster-
J am > 1S now duly recognised and admitted,
in addition, each possesses a sprightly pair of
legs. Meanwhile the average masculine ear and
eye are attracted by Miss Emmeline Orford, who
sings of “ A little pink petti, from Peter.” Miss
Orford is likely to become popular, though her
mannerisms, on occasion, are rather more outre
than expressive.
* # *
The memoirs of the Lisle family, known
to the populace as “ The Southern Cross,” still
cause agitation in the interior of Melbourne Bijou.
This agitation is Certainly more noisy than con-
vincing; but its aim is Liberty and its end is
Bathos, so it may be excused. Yet the incidental
downing of Britain in the process of making the
bathos is calculated to aggravate the Imperialist.
Compensation for this scurvy treatment of “ pore
ole Hingland ” is, however, plentiful. By 11 p.m.
the spectator is thoroughly sated with vivid
impressions of England’s aristocracy. Before
him struts, in hunting togs, Lord George Lisle,
the archetype of a patrician noodle, whose super-
ciliousness is only redeemed by his arrant
villainy. Then comes the Honourable Walter,
his brother, a curious mixture of Soshand Conser-
vatism a sort of mild anarchist diluted with
Reidism. Follow Lord Julien and Lady Linda
Lovelace, Lord Brandon, Lady Lisle, and
Lady Dunmore a band whose convictions
might be likened to fungi adhering to old dead
trees. Altogether, it is a fine array of talent,
though its collective intelligence doesn’t amount
to. a tolerable Willie Kelly. A word or two
might be imparted on James, the valet, and his
stately side whiskers; but the subject is getting
complex.
** * *
“ Peter Pan,” at Melbourne Princess’s, is
winning the devotion of most people who see him.
He has already become a hobby; a little while
longer he’ll be a full-grown habit, even with
superior people who usually study the drama
only by means of books borrowed from the
Public Library. On second or third seeing,
one concludes that “Peter” charms our
egotism. Anyone this side of senility (which is
that afflicting period when one can recollect no
further back than the time when he was a devil of a
fellow)—anyone may find in “ Peter Pan ” the very
words he or she spoke when going to bed by candle
light hundreds of years ago. Anyone can see that
Peter’s a plagiarist who lives the life we dreamed
about as we lay awake in our white enamel cots
and watched the lights flicker. We played
his pirate game, armed with broken clothes-
pegs, as we hid behind big tree-trunks, and yelled
hideously a,t nothing in particular. The most
unimaginative citizen can get a thrill by watching
Peter. Memory will say to him, giggling : “Pooh !
we did that thirty years ago or more.” Or
else : “ Good Lord ! Barrie’s not very original.
Our kids have been saying, and doing, and
talking about such things ever since they
could stand up without clinging to the leg of
a table.” And a superbly-stodgy personage,
with a massive little Mary and a very bald patoh,
can easily feel that he’s more than half responsible
for the delicate phantasy that drifts past his eyes ;
and think that that dashed Barrie fellow has
swindled him out of one of his v.ery own ideas.
** * *
The Melbourne Opera House show bowls
along at the rathe: leisurely pace it has cultivated
of late, and nothing very new agitates its dead
calm. The comic element just now is represented
by the Scott Brothers and the Ueane Tribune
Trio. Both these turns remind the expert
psychologist who views them of a sunlit
corner of the garden of an idiot asylum.
Both are cheerful—as they claim to be—but
both are inane and unhumorous. Alma Gray is
still singing “ My Waratah.” She sings it through
her nose now. Baby Watson, with her charmingly
clear articulation, has an excuse for her extreme
youth. The babe has more idea of piping her
native tongue than most of her seniors at the
O.H. Fanny Powers and the Artois Brothers are
other saving clauses in the list.
* * *
Bland Holt has been doing splendid busi-
ness at Adelaide Royal with the “ White
Heather.” The crowded audiences do not worry
at all because the play so heavily dates itself back
to last century by showing cycling as a fashion-
able fad. Harrie Ireland is the remarkable
heroine who cannot honorably love Jim unless
she can prove that she is the lawful wife of Bill.
Arthur Styan is the villainous lawful hus-
band (and Walter Baker is not in the
co.). As for Bland Holt and his wife, they
both score heavily in their old parts. Clara
Butt has paid a flying visit to Adelaide, and
after assisting at the wedding of an old friend,
has profitably employed her voice at the Town
Hall on her way to catch the Melbourne express.
William Lang, too, has done his best for the city’s
amusement. Widely advertised as “Australia’s
only champion,” he has disfigured the faces of
several prominent citizens at the City Baths,
which have dried up for the winter to make a big
athletic arena.
Sydney Telegraph (27/4/’08) on Winston
Churchill’s defeat at Manchester (England):—
He has been defeated, not on the straight-out issue of
Preferentialism or Freetrade, as the whooping of the
tariff reform press would like the public to believe, but on
a multiplicity of puzzling minor issues that have com-
pletely overshadowed the fiscal question.
And Winston Churchill (25/4/’08) on the same
subject:—
Mr. Churchill himself admitted that the result was a
heavy, bitter, and crushing blow at Freetrade, a blow that
carried disastrous consequences.—(Reuter, 27/4/’08.)
RESUROET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Wonderland City closed on Saturday night.” —Daily
paper item.
Are you quite dead, my Wonderland, I wonder,
Like Pompeii,
Gomorrah, and such towns, whom Heaven’s shocked
thunder
Hid from the public eye?
Nay ! I’ll not think it; you were stainless ever.
Ne’er did you drink
Supply, howbeit ardent the endeavor
Of toper’s avid wink.
Always, in your chaste glades, the electric spark,
Bright, clear and placid,
Shone tireless ; and on cuddlings in the dark
Imposed the acid.
The gambling person shunned you like the Devil.
(Bookies won’t bet
On rampless switchback sprints, devoid of evil
E’en if they’re let.)
By all of which I hold that, like the Phoenix,
You shall arise ;
And as of yore cause rival towns to be nix
In “Noo South’s” eyes.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Acacia ” : Usually when a woman goes into a lion’s
den, her name is written large on all the hoardings and
programmes. But in Wirths’ circus there is a placid-
looking German woman, who wears short pants, a red
coat and shoes and stockings, and goes unarmed into an
iron enclosure, where six lions, two leopards, a Russian
bear, six wolves and sundry dogs are met together, and
she lies down among them as unconcernedly as though
they were eggs or Bibles. Also she makes an obstacle of
herself, and the beasts jump over her. She looks as un-
concerned as Daniel probably didn’t; so those male
creatures who assert that woman is afraid of a mouse may
for ever hold their peace, and if they feel it slipping they
can sand their hands and get a fresh grip.
“ Pam ” : Lizzie Newbold, the Richmond (Vic.) soprano,
has been taken in hand by a local committee. The
treasurer has now over ill2o in hand as the result of a
local benefit (£4O) and contributions. The idea is to give
a succession of benefits round the suburbs, and thus
raise £5OO wherewith to send Lizzie to learn her art at
the feet of Marchesi. It was suggested that the next
concert should be held at Collingwood, but the scheme
ran into a snag in the shape of a certain A.N.A. man
and local councillor, who didn’t see that the girl with the
wondrous voice had any claims on Collingwood !
You see, Lizzie Newbold hails from Richmond, and State
Frights having now degenerated into Parish Frights—and
Parish Pump Frights at that—the gentleman doesn’t see
where the claim comes in. On Melba’s say-so, Lizzie has
the best voice she has met with. The girl is a fellow-
Australian, a fellow-Victorian, and a fellow-Melbournian,
all which things might count. But she doesn’t come from
Collingwood, so this truly wondrous person doesn’t see
what Collingwood has to do with her case. Ye gods ! The
little girl is a national possession—an all-Australian pos-
session. Melba can’t last for ever, and it’s up to us to
keep an Australian at the head of the world’s soprani,
if we have one who can take the top place. Everybody
who knows anything about the game reckons that Miss
Newbold has the brains and the voice to get on the roof
of things. And, what’s more, she will get there, and
thick-headed aldermanic obstructionists will be glad
enough some day to flee from ridicule and hide from
public view behind a pile of unsold brown sugar at 2Ad.
a pound.
Talk about realism ! ' In “ The Southern Cross,” at
Melbourne Bijou, the good ship Dumbarton tosses (that
is to say, all except the poop tosses—the poop seems to
be a fixture), and the winds howl, and the waves dash,
and the angry waters leap. But still you don’t realise
how true to Nature Bilanderson’s stage-carpenter is until
the Irish coachman pauses dolorously at the side of the
heaving vessel, and !
“ Star ” : A good deal of Edwin Brett’s Huntley business
in “ Miss Hook of Holland,” at Melbourne Royal, is rather
old rope, being only a variant of the stuff the comedian
gave us in “The Girl from Kay’s” and other musical
shows. Brett follows him in every attitude and accent,
and tries to catch his stammer, but the suave and gracious
fatuousness with which George P. H. can invest a
character is missing, and with it the true flavor and
fancy of the original Hoggenheimer.
“JeanSibi”: Miss Ruth Lincoln, of the “Miss Hook
of Holland ” co., is said to have put an edge on her warble
at the same grindstone as Mrs. Butt-Rumford, the ma of
Joy, Coy, Annoy, VVoy VVoy, etc. But this fact pales
beside the programme statement that Miss Lincoln is a
connoisseur, with unprobed depths of aesthetic feeling.
Her private vice is the collection of old china and antiques
—which is so much tonier than Miss Tittell Croon’s pub-
lished predilections for mere “ gy-urls.” Still, even Miss
Lincoln’s pretensions are nothing to blow about. Writer
knew a lady who collected antiques and buried four ; and
it still knows a professional lady who collects dried dogs’
livers and hangs them over her bed as charms.
“J. 8.”: I rise amid much acid clamor concerning
Julius Knight’s legs and limelight to pay him a deserved
tribute in another direction. He is a tine and discrimi-
nating stage director and effect producer. An anachronism
or a solecism is a rarity in a Knight production ; in most
of the other imported shows the futile mistake arises and
strikes the onlooker severely in the eye about three times
a scene, or thereabouts. Julius handles his crowds well,
and gets the last ounce of effect out of the gentleman
with the pike or halberd every time. In this important
respect he is ahead of any mime Australia has known for
years past. The local stage super is unlike his English
brother inasmuch as he gets no lengthy rehearsals
(Irving, that greatest of stage managers, thought nothing
of rehearsing an ordinary “ street crowd ” daily for a
month), and he is also unlike the French super., who is
an embryo Coquelin often enough, and only suping as a
preliminary to stepping into the principal’s shoes. Julius’
success in getting the good work he does out of the local
article is, in the circumstances, notable and praiseworthy.
Alfred Dampier, the like of whose Voice is not heard on
present-day Australian stages, is living in retire-
ment in a Sydney suburb. He is paralysed down one
side, but retains all his faculties, and more than an echo
of the Voice. A daughter acts with Geach, and a son
started on a country tour last week with a sheaf of the
old man’s plays.
An Australian prima donna had an encouraging, albeit
nasty, experience the other day. She was on the point of
signing for an engagement in one of the big European
opera houses, when the management (old, bald as to the
skull, and possessed of the purposelessly waving lower
limb of the paraplegic subject) arrested her hand and
said, “Stay, mademoiselle; have you a lover?” The
singer, removing her paw with all the bewildered rage of
a stout healthy young Hibernian who had had her princi-
ples whacked in deeply by the good sisters of an up-
country convent, replied that she had not. “ Good ! ”
observed the human ruin, contentedly. “Then I shall be
he. It is settled. Come back at 7 p.m., and we shall ar-
range details over a little dinner.” The songstress retired
without signing, and omitted to return. Also, she didn’t
say what she wanted to say, for her voice was stuck in her
mental doorway. The evasion of managers is as exciting
a sport in the Old World for those singers who have
arrived but mean to keep “ straight ” as is the evasion of
duns for those who haven’t arrived ; nor is there any close
season for either pastime. Even as a glut of writs and
judgment summons indicates her status to the vocal
failure in Europe, so a surplusage of shameful and utterly
uncalled-for proposals from aged and staggery males tells
the aspiring Voice-possessor that she has of a surety
made good.
“Blue Peter”: The new Meynell-Wren-Clarke syndi*
cate has spent a lot of money on its “ Hook of Holland ”
venture, but if it wants to stir up J.C.W. to any extent it
will need to spend a bit more. Melbourne Royal, where
Miss Hook fascinates, clamors for attention in front as
well as behind. The awful old blue curtain rag', with its
beer and corset advertisements, should be scrapped ; it is
an eyesore. The traditional Royal programmes which
the syndicate adheres to—a thin trickle of cast meander-
ing through a book of advertisements—madden more
than they inform. And lastly, the gritty-looking little
boys who vend sweets and the like with raucous cries
between the acts should have their occupations taken
from them. These reforms instituted, and a paying
crowd should fill the Royal in paying numbers. It is a
foolish theatrical syndicate which spoils its show for a
ha’porth of grease-paint.
“J.A.C.”: Mrs. Melba has been giving an American
magazine some points on singing. Among them:
Unless the structure of the larynx be understood, the
attack cannot be perfect.” Yet there were great singers
before anything was really known about the structure of
the larynx, and as for the “ attack ” —ye gods 1 think of
David s attack on Goliath, and deeds like that before
anatomy was invented. Seriously, Malibran, Rubini,
Lablache, Pasta, and the like did not worry themselves
concerning the “ structure of the larynx ” ; they sang be-
cause they couldn’t help it. I myself have known many
eminent vocalists whose laryngeal erudition was of the
vaguest. Faucelli, for instance, with a voice of nightin-
gale sweetness, and who sang like a condensed celestial
choir, never to his knowledge had any larynx—if he
had had he couldn’t have spelt it. I could cite
many others. Tamagno and Masini, I am convinced,
could not have told a larynx from a bar of soap. How-
ever, Mrs. Melba gives one piece of really valuable in-
formation : “Foreign languages are essential to the
singer, and are best acquired in the countries where they
are spoken.” Ordinary people would never have thought
of that, and would have tried to learn German at
Parramatta.
“Sr.”: “ E.O’F’s ” par (B. 9/4/*08) reminds me. I once
had a little experience as the leader of “ Omnes" behind
the scenes. It was a Single Tax drama yclept “The
Dictator,” written, I believe, by Max Hirsch. In the
great act wherein the Dictator orates from the drawing-
room window unto the mob congregated in the street, it
was part of the show that the crowd should yell out ap-
proval at his utterances. He started. As soon as we got
the first cue the unwashed and vulgar mob yelled
“ Hoorarrrr,” “ Horrr,” “Hear, hear,” etc. One of the
vulgar populace behind a side piece, thinking it
was really an election meeting, and that G. Reid
was speaking, started to sing out “ Loafer.”
He kept yelling out “Loafer!” through ‘the
whole blessed oration. The amateur stage manager,
property master and scenic mechanist angnly approached
the bloke and sang out to him to “ shut up, y’ fool ! ”
“LOAFER!!” yelled the bloke. “Shut up, will you;
they can’t hear anything downstairs.” “ LOAFER-R - !!! ”
screamed the turbulent one. “ Won’t you stop, you
blithering mule ? ” “ LOAFER !!!! ” was the loud reply.
Then the stage manager did his great act. He swung his
mighty fist and caught the screamer one on the jaw, and
the bloke subsided to the floor with a faint “ loaf .
When he regained consciousness he became angry. " Who
punched me?” he howled. “I did,” said the enraged
scenic mechanist. “ You wouldn’t stop singing out
‘ loafer,’ and I punched you.” “ Why didn’t you tell me
to stop, then?” “ I did, five times, you blank 1” “ Well,
I didn’t hear you. But what did you want to punch me
for?” The property manager looked hard at the bloke,
and just then the curtain went down.
“ O’F.”: The serio is an interesting study. Some-
times she has a voice, but usually it is just a
good, plain, robust, healthy shout. Her legs are
invariably magnificent. Originally well-formed and
plump, they have been developed and hardened
until they fill her stockings to bursting point. She
sings or talks a song as a prelude to a certain amount
of leaping about. The song isn’t an indispensable part of
the turn, but she has to do something while the orchestra
plays the tune. A song cannot be sung unless it has
words, therefore she is provided with a certain quantity of
remarks the same length as the music. The hearers
never allow themselves to be affected by the sad story—
it is usually a sad story—that the words unfold, because
they know from experience that, as soon as she is readv,
the singer will scatter care to the winds and throw herself
into the air like a kangaroo bounding over a suburban
terrace. Personally, I have no great liking for step-
dancing, and the sad songs never make me shed tears.
All the same, I would miss the lady. Her limbs are a
delight to the eye, and her healthy shouting is a fine,
vigorous, cheerful sound. As long as she doesn’t insist
on singing more than three verses, I can enjoy her turn.
“The Swimmer”: Was at a smoke-night recently
where each man, as he gave up his ticket at the door,
was handed four small pieces of cardboard, each of which
entitled him to one threepenny drink, and thus allowed
him to collect full value for the bob he had paid to
enter. When the drinks were supplied, the barman
took a ticket from each in his hat. Two rounds had
been served. Peace and good swill prevailed—when
suddenly Harmony broke with a crash. The chairman
rose, his eyes blazing with passion. “ Arf a mo’l ”he
howied, at the same time imperatively waving down a
young man who had just started to intone “ Would You
Care?” “ ‘ Arf a mo’,’ I say, and I’ll thank yer all ter
close yer blanked faces fer a minute. There’s a cow
sittin’ somewhere in this room that fer meanness and
treachery strikes yer ’umble as the limit. ’E’s just had a
drink on a cigarette card.” And thereafter there was con-
fusion and blasphemy.
THE PLAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I’m playing at the theatre,”
The splendid fellow said.
The simple people gathered there
Gazed on his noble head.
They loved to stand within the shine
That aureoled an actor fine.
They stood him drinks. “ And do you play
The hero grand?” they asked.
“ Or figure as the hostler gay,
By whom the Duke’s unmasked ? ”
The stranger gravely sipped his rum.
“ Ah, no,” he said. “ I play the drum ! ”
VIC.
S.S.


OUR
21-
Australian jZ?
Woollen Rug
This Rug is made in Australia from Australian
Wool, is pure Wool throughout, and beautifully
cosy and warm. The pattern is reversible, so
that it is as good one side as the other. We have
designs that include Plaids, Tartans, Stripes,
and Checks. If you cannot call, let us send you
one by mail; we do this carriage paid with the
understanding that if it is not suitable it may
be returned and your money will be refunded.
WRITE FOR OUR MEN’S CATALOGUE.
IT IS POST FREE.
DAVID JONES Ltd.
SYDNEY.
ys~m
HARR I N G TON’S
The Largest Importers of
CAMERAS and
PHOTO MATERIALS
Reflex
in the Southern Hemisphere.
The “ Crackshot ” Camera, 7s. 6d. “ Victor ’’ Cameras
from 30s. “ Kodak ” Cameras, various style.
Goerz Anschutz Cameras, Studio Cameras
Dallmeyer, Goerz, Voigtlander, and other famous
The^ew'’Adhesive Dry Mounting Machines and all
accessories. . Henart-
Photo Materials, an immense stock in ever> P
ment. Our New Illustrated Catalogue now rea y-
The “Australian Photographic Journal,” enlarged, up-to da
4s. (id. post free for a year.
HARRWTON & GO., Ltd. Photographic Merchants,
386 George Street, Sydney ; and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane. ■ —
SOCIETY
PENEOLD'S
WINES
HE KNEW,
CYNICAL WAITRESS: “ What'll you have to
follow!”
DYSPEPTIC (haring a holiday): “Hell upon
earth."
One item only of the appalling Sunshine
(Vic.) disaster makes pleasant reading. Once the
rescuers arrived, all worked steadily and silently,
without fuss, without delay. The injured showed
splendid pluck and often splendid self-sacrifice.
But the aid was long in coming, and hopelessly
inadequate when it did come. With the staffs on
duty at night at Spencer-street, a well-equipped
ambulance train should have reached Sunshine in
less than half-an-hour from the first news of the
trouble. It actually took nearly an hour-and-a-
half, and, though repeated messages indicated a
dire'calamity, it contained only one doctor, with
13 trained first-aid men, 16 untrained assistants,
stretchers, 12 beds and pillows, 16 rugs, 24 towels,
six hand-lamps (a reokless half-dozen), and one
paokage of splints. There were neither axes, saws
nor sorewjacks to get the wounded out, and
neither the guards’ vans nor the station offices
boasted so much even as an axe. Incredible as it
seems, too, that ambulance train was stopped at
every station on the way out, and when it brought
back its first load of dead and wounded it was
kept at North Melbourne while porters went
through collecting tickets ! The department
wouldn’t even frank out to their suburban homes
passengers who had come through that awful
horror sound in limb but reft of purses and
money. Some had to borrow in order to buy a
tuppenny train ticket. The reverence of lait s
department for the regulations is very touching.
The deplorable thing is that it didn t have the
same reverence for its running time-tables. it it
had, the accident wouldn’t have happened.
* * * *
The stoic casualness of the Australian
transpired at Sunshine as usual. One lad of 18
lay with his head on his mate’s knee, smoking
cigarettes, and quietly waiting till the rescuers
reached him and levered the heavy carriage frame
off his broken legs. Another youth, with the side
of his face smashed and his eye hanging on his
cheek, asked the doctor if he could save the
organ. The doctor shook his head sadly. Ah,
well.” he, philosophised, “ I suppose it’a a goner.
Half-an-hour later he was dead. Another lay
with a crushed hip against the fence.
Finally an ambulance man reached him. “Never
mind me, old man ; there’s others worse than me.
But just put a pad or something under my back,
will you?” Yet even as the attendant lifted
him he fell over, dead from internal haemorrhage.
. * * *
Most of those who escaped alive from that
splintered Hell at Sunshine were dragged through
the wrecked carriage windows. Lucky for them
it wasn’t the Adelaide express. _ The new cars on
that inter-Stater are provided with only a narrow
door at each end, while across each window are
two strong brass bars. Attention was drawn to
this danger when the carriages were first used,
but Tait and Co. took no notice, though any man
with a fairly long experience of Australian railways
could have told them that it was the barring of
windows that caused very much of the unneces-
sary suffering and probably added to tlie loss of
life when N. S. Wales had its biggest smash out-
side Redfern station.
* * * *
“ Snell ” writes :
Interviews with passengers who were in the Ballarat
train, and went through the whole grim calamity at Bray-
brook (Vic.), betray a curious inability in man and woman
alike to comprehend such a catastrophe as a whole. Each
person I have spoken to has his or her own climax, the
one sight or sound that dominates everything else,
leavin»-'the rest of the picture vague, blurred, and dream-
like. "The woman who saw a hoy trying to climb up the
side of a carriage—“and I put down my hand
to help him, but he was dead ’’—saw little or
nothing else, could describe no more. A young fellow
“ heard a man screaming under the timber,” and to him
that was the tragedy. Another saw a youth under a
beam, “ and the lower half of his body was almost broken
off, but he said: ‘ Don’t mind me, I’m all right ! ’ Oh,
Go'd, he thought he wasn’t hurt!” That “he thought
he wasn’t hurt! ” was the burden of ttiis man’s story.
He tried to tell more, but was all confused. The poor
wretch with the fractured spine who thought he wasn’t
hurt was his one flame of fiery reality in the vast night-
mare. Everywhere you could pick up notes of
color, vivid, crimson, but nowhere a picture. The
rescuers found one woman secured in a sitting
position under a mass of fragments, suckling her infant.
Her injuries were very slight. But the most dramatic
incident of the disaster happened to Laffan, a fireman
who was hard at work among the rescuers when be dis-
covered two bodies under the debris. He called for
assistance. “ Here are two poor g'irls ! he said. When
help came, and the bodies were lifted out, Laffan recog-
nised his two sisters. Both were dead. Trie unfortunate
fireman had no idea that his sisters were in the wrecked
train.
m * * *
As one of the side issues of the Braybrook
(Vie.) smash, it was decided to hitch the defen-
dant engine to another train of the same weight,
and run it over the same bit of line at the same
speed, and see if the brakes would pull it up in
time. Which vaguely suggests the case of Muddy-
feet, the bay horse, which was said to have jibbed
on the 13th of the month, at the seventh mile-
stone on the road to Bottletree. His owner
didn’t believe it, so he took Muddyfeet to the
same milestone on the 13th of next month, and as
he didn’t jib then, the charge was held to be
absolutely disproved. #
“ Josh’s ” letter :
It is surely up to Victoria to lodge a protest against
the action of Railway Commissioner Tait, who is now
bustling about like a herd of ants going nowhere, and
“ investigating ” the Braybrook horror for all he is worth.
There are three possibilities in the Braybrook tragedy :
(1) It may have been caused by the neglect or
incapacity of a subordinate; (2) the system devised
by Tait may be so bad, confused and inefficient
that a great accident was bound to come sooner
or later ; (3) the power behind Tait (which is Bent) may
have made such impossible demands in the way of profits
that the system, however bad, ramshackle, and inefficient,
is the best that can be supplied at the price. But He
That Wears The Cigar In His Countenance has not only,
in effect, acquitted Bent and himself without trial, but is
acting as judge in the matter of the other accused.
* * » *
A ghastly sidelight on the recent Victorian
railway tragedy was the competition displayed
between rival undertakeries for the possession of
the corpses. All the ghouls who were retained by
bereaved relatives and friends lined up in the
A CHEAP SALE.
SHE (angrily): “ You said we’d have nice long
evenings to ourselves when we were married;
but with your club night, and your Masons'
and Oddfellows nights, and your smoke night
that must he kept sacred, and your extra
evenings out —where do I come in?"
HE : "My dath, you have the remnants—it's a
bargain!"
Spencer-street station yard on the Tuesday. Then
out of their unseemly haste sprang misunder-
standings and arguments as to certain ghouls
rights to certain bodies. Sometimes, it is
alleged, two claimed the one corpse. One
ghoul even rang up a brother ghoul, assert-
ing that he had collared his corpse, and
further proceedings would be taken. It all sug-
gested once more that this is work which, as in
Paris, the municipality ought to attend to, for by
no other plan does it seem possible to have it done
with appropriate decency at times of stress. As
soon as the element of competition begins to rage
on the surface of things, and a voice begins to
clamor <k Gimme me cadaver, then lnvateii<n-
terprise undertakery becomes a horror.
* * • *
A gruesome narrative was that of the crew
of the steamer Opland, which crawled into Port
Phillip a day or two ago. The vessel, officered by
Norwegians and partly manned by Chows, was
beating its way somewhere off Cape Nelson on the
night of April 17. A few minutes after midnight,
a Chow quartermaster just toppled over the iron
foc’s’le railing and disappeared. He didn’t say any-
thing, but left a relic in the shape of 10 inches of
pigtail, caught in a nut on the railing. Apparently
there wasn’t any row at the time ; but now other
Chowson board allege that the deceased was pushed
overboard by one of the officers. He had refused
to furl the bridge awnings, it was alleged, and
there was an argument and a scuffle —and, well
the Chow had gone overboard, leaving a streak of
black hair behind him. The officer interested
admitted the argument with Confucius, but swore
that he left the yellow man on deck toiling, or
supposed to be toiling, at the disputed job. As
the old tub was in ballast and was rolling heavily,
it is quite probable that the Chow did tumble,
over without assistance ; but, of course, the matter
has to be probed, though with Norwegians on.
one side and Chows on another, the chances are.
the investigation will pull up in a hopeless maze
of contradictions.
The resumption of Queen and Wexford
streets (Sydney) is causing the Chow to gather up
his Joss and other impedimenta, and find fresh
fields to contaminate. Seemingly, the Rocks
resumed area looks very green to the exploring
Chow. The other day a deputation told Trea-
surer Waddell a weird tale of happenings in
that locality—-of an attempted Chow invasion ;of
bonuses of from £5 up to £l5 offered by Chows, to
induce white people to give up their houses; of
white women who were ogled and leered at in
their back yards by the Joss agony ; of waterside
workers (for whom the Rocks should be an
eminently suitable place of residence) being
squeezed out by Chows, and forced to live in
distant suburbs, and pay ill-spared tram
fares to get to their work. Waddell was
more or less sympathetic with the Rocks’
desire to be white, but was careful that no
“injustice” should be done. Yet it is difficult to
say off-hand the exact sort of justice that is de-
served by the undesirable immigrant who made
Wexford-street a loathsome plague-spot on fair
Sydney. Perhaps a large stone-wall and a platoon
of infantry with ball ammunition would about fill
the bill; "failing that, strict segregation, as far
away as possible from the white centres, should be
insisted upon.
An old cottage in Argyle-street, Fitzroy
(Melb.), has put up something of a record ; it has
housed one couple for over 50 years. Alex.
Duncan came to Victoria in 1851, and in ’53 hung
out his farrier’s shingle in Fitzroy. On his
marriage, in April, ’5B, he went with his wife to
the cottage in Argyle-street, and the two have
lived in the little bandbox of a place ever since.
Theirs has been a dull, drab life. They have
never gone house-hunting, and battled with the
property-agent in his lair. Alex. Duncan has
never fought three rounds with the carter who
has broken all the crockery in the course of the
shift, and then given him "lip ” and tried to over-
charge him 10s. He never “ shot the moon’ with
the horse’s hoofs tied up in bags, and the rent
collector running behind clothed with curses
as with a garment. He never had wild
adventures with the linoleum that bags so
horribly in the centre when it is laid down
on a new floor. The pleasure of smelling
the incense of dewy morn from the top
of a van-load of furniture, with the hens tied in
front and the dog dragging behind, was never Ins.
He lacked the roving instinct, which made Drake
circumnavigate the globe, and Heraclius pursue
the Persian hordes across Asia Minor, and which
makes other men, with the gipsy blood in their
veins, rise up in the spring and remove from
No. 10 Boggs Lane to No. 17 Bagdad Alley.
A stay-at-home person was Alex. Duncan, and he
lost much fun in consequence. This writer, when
he was 13 years old, held bitter discourse at
6 a.m. with a cabman who objected to an iron
stove and a kitchen table and some sundries being
put in the four-wheeler and carried five miles for
3s.—the rest of the furniture had been shifted by
hand in the night. And the sunrise was crimson,
and the cabman’s language was a bright bay color,
and the cab horse was brown, and the whole
thing was a picturesque memory, and a color
scheme that will never be forgotten.
* * » *
“ L.D.” (acidly) :
At Castlemaine, t’other day, a man leaned out of a rail-
way car as the train was moving off, caught hold of a lane
boy standing on the platform, and dragged him along
with the train. (This, it was explained afterwards, was
done in fun.”) The little lad on whom this humor-lover
played his joke fell between the platform and the foot-
board of the train, and, had it not been for the prompt
action of two women who caught his clothing and p -
vented him getting under the train, he would have teen
killed. There is many a man in this sad old world v\ nose
sense of fun is such that it ought to get him ten year
every time it is brought into play. The Castlemaine tra -
wit is a type whose over-developed comic sense merit
life-sentence any day of the week.
On a recent Saturday this advt. appeared
in the S. M. Herald :
-WANTED, farmer take healthy boy, aged years,
' • keep ret. servs., open wk. A. J., M’ville P.O.
Poor kid 1 It is only' in the land of Cow-slavery
that the infant of 74 is supposed to render enougi
service to pay for his keep and leave a margin
profit to his bucolic boss, and the idea is a>
infamy. The parent or guardian who seeks
shunt his responsibility out into
world to toil for his own food and clothes a
muddy tail of Cow, should be urgently inquired
into by the police. Also the Herald sho
refuse the sixpence of the ungodly in such a cas-
Even for the price of a two-line advt. ltisn two
while to help on the scheme for making an
spring go out and wrestle with fate at the y
age of 7£. .
TWENTY-TWO KINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Monday Evening.—State Councillor Martin
has published a remarkable book upon Germany’s future,
contending that the maintenance of 22 monarchs, with
civil lists and separate governments, throws an enormous
financial burden upon the Empire. If the separate States
were swept away, he asserts, a saving of £50,000,000 a
year would be possible. —Daily Paper.
A king in his crown is an excellent sight,
He causes a deal of hilarity.
The commoner looks on H.M. with delight,
And says he is kept out of charity.
He’s useful to cheer and to open bazaars,
He’s covered all over with crosses and stars,
And jingles along with his gorgeous hussars,
A splendid example of charity.
Unemployed hoot at him,
Villains all shoot at him
Because he is kept out of charity.
A king with his Court is a glittering dream,
And awfully good to society.
He sends invitation cards out by the ream,
And cares not a fig for propriety.
He spills money carelessly over the land,
The value of it he does not understand ;
He hasn’t to earn it with brain or with hand,
So squanders it all on society—
Throws it religiously,
Hurls it prodigiously
All over the best of society.
One king by himself is an excellent jest—
A jest that we treat with civility.
He’s kept in a castle, and fed on the best,
And served with a winking humility.
But suffering Teutons to action are stirred
When kings roam about in an indolent herd,
For twenty-two monarchs are really absurd ;
They’re not things of any utility.
They are irrational
Jokes that are national,
And aggravate all the nobility.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


THIS RING
CURES RHEUMATISM
surely; it first relieves—then cures the
anrl ™ Rheumatism and all kindred troubles,
a we -shall beglad- to send you testimony to prove
• . Imitations do no good—don’t accept them,
neir only recommendation is cheapness.
Ask for the GENUINE RHEUMACNETIC RING
(Patd.)
Made of Highly-Polished
Steel, nickel plated, 7/6.
Booklet Free on Application.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart, 2 J
u
Not a minute should be lost when a child
shows symptoms of croup. Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy given as soon as the child becomes hoarse,
or even after the croupy cough appears, will
prevent the attack.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing’saloon, where Six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
m
The New KNITTED VEST.
A Fancy Vest that every man ought to be
interested in. This is our first - shipment
for the season, and they are the best we
have ever opened.
Beautifully knitted and finished—with
braided edges four pockets Warm —
stylish looking and most comfortable.
They come in different designs, with
Black Ground and White Spots or figures,
and Black Ground with Red Spots—also
Brown with Green design.
Price 10/0 Each.
Postage 6d. extra.
PEAPES & CO., LTD,,
“ Men's Outfitters
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
“ Stony ” : We are indeed, in some things,
a peculiar race. On the 17th of April of this year
many people arose at cock-crow and sallied forth
to signalise the anniversary of an age-old Tragedy.
It was done to sad music and many genuflections
and with the wearing of a great variety of fashion-
able clothes. Afterwards, the crowd came back
to breakfast and ate Buns—Buns which bore on
their sacrilegious back the Sign of that age-old
Tragedy. During the meal the bun-baker was
criticised, and silly jokes were made as to the
currants which a niggard hand had faintly scat-
tered among the breadstuffs. All through the
days those Buns haunted the eating-room, and the
jokelet, unlike the Buns, passed upon its weary
round, nor staled thereby. It is an old Family
Custom, this sacrilege of the Bun. Small good
it does; for in the very homes where the Hot
Cross Bun is a shibboleth and a fetich and a good
old English craze, too often there is a hitch in the
practical application of those principles concern-
ing which the Bun is to remind us. Their appli-
cation is too often left to a bunch of small-souled
psalm-singers, who sling talk about “ your betters ”
and the “responsibilities of wealth,” and who,
with a bun in one hand and a tract in the other’
and with a cup of weak tea at knee, speak warn-
ings to the young man upon the dangers of his
beery path, and advise him to vote the Prohibi-
tion ticket, even though Freetrade and Aunty
Sosh and the Marriage Tie perjury be blazoned
upon that same ticket in letters of mud. The
lessons of the Tragedy have gone astray a lot on
their way through the centuries.
THE LEAP - YEAR ALTERNATIVE.
JEAN: "Do you like my yloves? Aren't they
beautiful!"
MAY: "They’re quite nice. To whom did you
propose!"
One of the oldest landmarks in Victoria’s
nf ri v iHage of Williamstown is being de-
<' ishea the old Chronicle office in Ann-street.
e P a P er was founded in 1854 by John Bennett
„ Pnens, an all-round journalist, at home either
snn re P°F‘er, editor, or compositor. Mr. Stephens’
town * K ° arrieB ° n a Panting business at Williams-
nrir!!’' the . news P a per—the oldest suburban
\ in Victoria—has passed into other hands.
KUBELIK AND HIS WIFE.
The famous violinist will appear at Sydney Town Hall on May 19.
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant :
3 VI If nl V cr ° J ss Geor S e ’ s River, opposite Sans Souci,
recently offered at auction by a firm of Sydney auc-
tioneers is a somewhat historic spot. In the early ’forties
one of the Laycocks built the old house, which still
stands with many modern additions. This Mr. Laycock
was an astute man. He bought Sylvania (not then so
known) bought another block of land at Bottle Forest,
and another block in the direction of Kurnell. By these
means he had the use of thfe intervening land in the
triangle. He sold Sylvania to Tom Holt, first N.S W
Treasurer under Responsible Government, and Thomas
made additions to the house and ornamented
the grounds. He also named it after Sylvania
daughter of Ewan Cameron, of Balmain, who
* Ho ' fc - original Laycock was a sergeant
in the New South Wales or Rum-Selling Corps. He
gained a position as quartermaster through his “ bravery ”
in slaying a rebel at Castle-hill in 1804. He was 7ft. high
and no male descendant of his was, or is, under 6ft This
Thomas Laycock owned two grants at Vaucluse, which
he sold to Henry Hayes, the convict baronet, who was
transported for attempted abduction. Hayes sold to
Captain Piper, who in turn sold to W. C. Wentworth. He
had other grants, amounting to thousands of acres, iust
outside Sydney ; but the glory of the Laycocks, as landed
propnetors has departed. Elias, the sculler, is one of
the descendants. This scribe met some great-grand-
daughters at the sale, but the giant stature was not in
them.
* * * *
The glaive is dashed at the collective foot
of an entire street (Sydney Star, 22/4/’08)
TF any of the residents of Mill-street, Pyrmon't, con-
tinues to scandalise and use abusive language to
defame my character after this date, legal proceed-
ings will he taken. Agnes Casey.
“ M.” : Something in B. (2/4/’08) about a
Sydney clergyman inviting immigrants to avail
themselves of “ ever ready coun-
sel and advice,” reminds me of
how unwilling the general run
of humanity is to accept any-
thing of the kind from the clergy.
I was quarantined with a Sydrtey
hotelkeeper’s family and household
during the plague scare. We thought
the thing rather a lark, and were in
quite high spirits. The fat cook
and one thin housemaid had been
pronounced plague-stricken, but as
they walked downstairs and took
their places in the ambulance in a
fairly cheerful mood we weren’t
really upset about them. Only the
hotelkeeper was upset. It ruined
him. However, when we reached
the jetty of the quarantine station,
a parson met us and said he hoped
to have the spiritual cure of us, or
something, during our enforced resi-
dence at the station. Panic seized
us. The barmaids, who had for-
gotten what religion they were,
crowded behind each other, making
frantic hissing appeals to anything
and everything. “Swear Pin a
Catholic ! Swear I’m a Catholic ! ”
they entreated wildly. We all
swore we were Catholics, right
down to the “ boots ” ; and the par-
son, with a disappointed look, fol-
lowed us up to the buildings. When
we reached the house a priest
emerged smiling earnestly, and the
parson had his revenge. “ All mem-
bers of your flock, Father O’Grady,”
he said, waving his hand at the
mob of us cowering together, panic-
stricken now indeed. There wasn’t
one of us who knew the Mass from
the Rabbit Act.
“ Wyung ” writes :
Melbourne Metropolitan Fire Brigade is a community of
“ handy ” individuals who could give any ordinary ship’s
company a long start. The men are nearly all skilled
artisans, and they are arranged in groups. Thus, one
station does all the brigade’s painting ; another does the
horse-shoeing and smithy work. Still another builds the
necessary furniture. There are stations that make
specialties of all the trades that are necessary for the
maintenance of the brigade. There is even an electrical
engineering and fitting department at the head station.
When the Postal Department wants a new switchboard
it calls for tenders, and, as likely as not, buys a German
one. When the M.F.B. needs a switchboard it makes the
thing straight away. I saw one, the other day, just
finished, and a magnificent piece of work it was. Asked
a brigade officer why he did not use the post-office plant,
for the brigade makes all its own signalling and telephone
appliances. He laughed, and said: “The post office is
10 years behind us—it would never do.” Physically, the
M.F.B. is a clever athletic troupe. The men are all kept
at the highest pitch of physical efficiency. They are
clever boxers and wrestlers, daring steeplejacks and
amazing ladder climbers. They have to be. But the old
men—a fireman becomes old in the middle of life—have
either to be kept on the strength till they die or turned
adrift. There is no pension fund. And the old men
are mostly kept on from sentimental considerations,
whereby the efficiency of the brigade is greatly impaired.
Not long ago an ancient was found dying in the street.
He expired on the way .to the hospital. That old man
had spent his whole life in the ranks of Melbourne’s fire
fighters. He had either to remain on the active strength
or go out into the unsympathetic cold. And he stayed.
He was rated on the active strength of the brigade to the
last day of his life. This sort of thing is the blot on an
otherwise magnificent system.
The Adelaide Tramway Trust has got on
far enough to accept a tender for constructing the
permanent way of the new electric lines, and thac
and the overhead work will be pushed on simul-
taneously ; though the contract for the latter part
of the job hasn t been made yet. By degrees
Adelaide is breaking itself in to look kindly upon
the whirling machines of the future, though there
are still people who have misgivings about them.
Itiver since most of Adelaide can remember, there
have been half-a-dozen different tram companies
working quite independently ; and now that the
Irust issues 14 penny tickets for a shilling, avail-
able on any penny section of any line, Adelaide is
beginning to really see that the old system was a
bit inconvenient—a great part of it only had vague
opinions on the subject previously. In adozen other
ways the Trust has already made a great improve-
ment. The cars, though as lumbering as ever, are
now moderately clean instead of beingindescribably
dirty, the horses are better kept, and a car now
rarely waits more than four minutes for a woman
and seven parcels that are puffing down a side-
street and looking as though they might be a
passenger if they got enough encouragement. It
has evidently been a hard job to break suburban
Adelaide of its faith in the patience of the tram-
car, but it is being done by degrees.
Yet in one branch of furious locomotion,
Adelaide is easily ahead of every other city of Aus-
tralia. The motor-car is so common a machine
that there is even a car-stand in Currie-
street, with an average of seven or eight vehicles
on the rank ; and when you ring up a livery stable
for a cab, it is becoming necessary to specify
whether you want it pulled by horses, or prefer
one of the sort that leaves a “bad smell behind.
Of course, the level Adelaide and suburban roads
suit the cars; but the cars don’t suit the soft
limestone with which the suburbs are in the
habit of building their tracks, and the suburban
councillor (only a “city ” in S. Aus. has aldermen)
is either ordering harder rock or is cursing vio-
lently about the dust, and threatening to make the
motor-car pay for it in some way.
“Groper” : Don’t tell me that the farm-
burner has had his day. Listen to this : Two men
in Perth assaulted and robbed an old man, and
the learned Judge, after scratching a bare place
out of his false hair, got a sudden attack of a long
dead disease. He gave one man twelve months,
and the other only five, because the latter had
fought in the Boer War. Yet the soldier who
would attack an old man would probably take
care to be out of the way when a young man w'as
shooting at him, and it might have been a fair
thing to give him 18 months, on the off
chance that he was a very bad discredit to his
country in the days when the Boer farm looked
like the last days of Pompeii.
* * +
“Vulcan” : Coaly Newcastle (N.S.W.) is
going to initiate the Commonwealth into the joys
of living in a Yankee sky-scraper. The building
—a hotel, eight storeys high—will be of the steel
skeleton type, clothed in reinforced concrete, with
roof garden, electric light and lifts, and similar
luxuries. A necessary corollary to this brand of
edifice is an efficient fire-fighting brigade. Coal-
opolis, though among the six biggest towns in
Australia, is about on a par, from the flame-com-
bating point of view, with the sort of ham-
let where the Oldest Inhabitant attaches himself
to his grandchild’s toy bucket, and dashes fren-
ziedly to the salving, what time the flames of
the doomed hostelry wherein he has caroused
since boyhood lick the midnight firmament. If
the new Newcastle structure does no more than
stir local enthusiasm on behalf of up-to-date blaze-
extinguishing methods, its hideousness will not
have been in vain.
The just-printed annual report of the
Government of Papua contains a story that doesn’t
do Queensland officialdom much credit. A Euro-
pean, who had a few years ago been acquitted of
murder on the ground of insanity, got into Daru
gaol again, and presently became very violent and
manifestly insane—among other things, he tried
to murder the Resident Magistrate. So the
unfortunate was put on board the Papuan Govern-
ment steamer with a guard, and taken to Thurs-
day Island, in the hope that the Queensland
Government would admit him to one of its
asylums. Papua offered to pay maintenance
charges, etc.; but Queensland officialdom slammed
all the doors in the man’s face, and the poor
wretch had to be carted back to Papua, to be
shut up in a police-cell—the only accommodation
available.
* * * *
After The Bulletin’s account
(16/4/’08) of the way Paris deals with its unem-
ployed, it is interesting to see how much better
the business is managed by Private Enterprise in
Australia. S. M. Herald (18/4/’08) summarises
the annual report of a local Night Refuge for men
for 1907. Thus, for a start: —
The men who fill the dormitory night after night, year
in and year out, are the castaways, as a rule, not of in-
dustrial distress, but of an irresponsible life. The com-
mittee recognises that it would not do to inquire too
closely into their lives and unhappy condition.
Which is an idiotic thing to say. Why not try to
sift the good from the bad, and secure for the
better men another chance ? But here is a fuller
statement of the practical working of the place :
During last year, 4397 different men were admitted
for shelter, each man on an average stopping four nights,
and before leaving each morning each man received a
light breakfast. (Compare that with the Parisian casual’s
hot supper of soup and bread before going to bed at
night, and his breakfast of ditto ditto in the morning, to
say nothing of the bath, and the two mattresses, and sheets
—real sheets.) During the winter months particularly,
the need of the institution is most apparent, for it is no
uncommon thing on cold, bleak nights for men to be
turned away because there is no room for them.
Strangers always have preference when the doors are
open, and sometimes the room is filled with men, the
majority of whom have never known its shelter before.
The principle thus adopted renders it almost impossible
for any man to obtain- more than a modicum of relief.
That partly accounts for the chronic unemployed
of Sydney. Instead of giving a starving man a
good supper, a bath, a clean change of clothes, a
comfortable bed and a good warm breakfast to
put heart in him to look for work outside, and
instead of helping him to do the looking, the rule
in Sydney is that the least possible help shall be
given, because the old idea about poverty and
disease, once so prevalent among fanatics, is still
cherished among the zealots who run these shelters.
THE LEPIDOPTEROUS SPREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s an awful sound of buzzing in the air around the
town—
A buzzing which the residents would dearly like to
drown ;
It sounds like forty thousand bees about a flowering gum,
And fills the Federal atmosphere with devastating hum.
Strange insects whoosh and whiz about, they’re not a
moment still ;
They’re whirling over Deakin’s plate, and bothering old
Bill;
They’re falling into Chapman’s soup, and into Mauger’s
tea,
And generally keeping up a lepidopterous spree !
A lengthy insect, full of spite, flies straight at Deakin’s
head,
But misses him by half-an-inch, and hits the wall instead!
It shrills with wrath, and blunders back, and strikes
against a dish ;
And Old Bill says a naughty word—it’s wading in his fish!
Strange gnats and flies of every size buzz round with
might and main,
And fall into the Federal food to be fished out again ;
And with smeared heads and cluttered legs and gravy-
spattered wings * J
They whoosh about in insect wrath and buzz most direful
things !
They are an Insect Conference—they fill the Federal air
With thuds and hums and creaks and chirps and buzzings
of despair ;
Their whir and whiz just hinders business—that’s all
it does.
So the people of this continent will simply let them buzz t
N.B.W.
O. C. CABOT.
THE AMAZING ARISTOCRAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With a view to encouraging subscriptions to the
Linlithgow statue fund, the Argus is publishing local
reminiscences of “ dear Lord Hopetoun. Here is one
supplied by a Melb. banker :
“I found his Lordship, bare-headed, divested of coat
and waistcoat, carrying the gardeuer’sson, and just about
to start a race with three other youngsters.”
And here is an even more delightful anecdote betraying
the almost human attributes of a real live earl:—
“ His Excellency entered a tramcar near the top of
Collins-street. As there were but two empty seats,
opposite each other, he sat in one and his aide-de-camp
in the other, but, as chance had it, his Lordship
sat next a Chinese. The aide-de-camp, in dumb show,
offered to change seats, but by a strenuous facial grimace s
(on the far side), which looked very like a wink, the
Governor indicated that he would do nothing of the kind.
And yet a third, breathing charming insouciance and a
naive humor
“ His Lordship usually walked to church. With a friend
I passed him on one occasion. We raised our hats, and
so did he. We could not resist turning our heads to look
at him after he passed. To our amusement, he did the
same simultaneously, and waved his hand with a good-
natured acknowledgment.”
These incidents, we are told, “ illustrate the homely
camaraderie that endeared his lordship to everybody ” :
Oh, pleasing, strange, and quaint indeed,
These pretty little tales to read
Of how an earl in mufti can
Behave precisely like a man.
He lifts his hat the same as us,
He plays with youthful innocence—
And he a lord ! Mysterious
The workings are of Providence.
We’re tempted to believe that he
Ate bread and butter with his tea.
He wore these common woollen suits,
And walked about in leather boots ;
And sat unmoved, observers vow,
Within a tram, beside a Chow 1
Imagination totters when
We see the statement in cold ink,
That on a day well known to men
The earl unbended in a wink.
He winked ! We’d really like to know
Could human goodness further go !
Most wondrous though the ’mazing fact
That men not dippy, mad, or cracked,
Men sane and sentient can find
Some joy in piffle of this kind,
Can gasp incredulous delight
When any duke or earl behaves
Just like an ordinary wight.
Poor flatterers they are, these knaves,
Such acts in men should cause no fuss,
E’en though in apes they’re marvellous !
vie.
SILAS SNELL.


National Gas Engines & Suction Plants
MODEL 1908 GAS ENGINES STOCKED.
N.B.—National Suction Plants at Royal Show , England, awarded Gold
Medal (highest award) against all competitors.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., 64 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE: Queen’s Bridge Street
BALLARAT: Lydlard Street.
, BENDIGO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any A \\
IN STOCK —Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, earn
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping, all sizes. > lotteries Ltd.’S
Sole Agents of F. Reddaway & Co.’s Genuine Camel Hair Belting; Ransomes Sims, an
Portable Traotlon and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident Society:
Ordinary Department.
Written
off or
Provided
against Added
Total Ex- Depreoi- to
Income. Claims, penses. ation. Lunds.
1896.. £2.029,674 £1,225,123 £180,750 £57,874 £565,927
1897.. 2,080,566 1,118,915 179,215 31,397 751,039
1898.. 2,152,177 1,223,261 197,977 31,468
1899 2,243,644 1,104,551 223,942 19,461 895,690
1900.. 2,364,216 1,178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1901.. 2,456,389 1,389,051 208,749 23,920 834,669
1902.. 2,509,729 1,355,073 218,394 21,663 914,599
1903.. 2,598,809 1,451,680 229,987 21,832 895,310
1904.. 2 687,155 1,519.890 237,293 37,260 892,712
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,341 245,242 38,701 \ 355947
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 J
1906.. 2,932,755 1,645,681 259,769 29,818 I 999 746
Aid to Industrial Department 6,741 j
1907.. 3,086,216 1,738,804 272,267 42,475 1,032,670
For the first time on record this splendid Australian
society (which has apparently made up its mind not to be
all-Australian any more) adds more than a million to its
funds as the result of one year’s work. Compared with
such figures, those of the boom years surrounding 1890
were small onions. In the tremendous boom-vear 1889,
for instance, in spite of the fact that the society averaged
over 6 per cent, interest, the total amount added to the
funds was only £742,312. And still, in spite of a 50 per
cent, increase in less than 20 years, Australia isn t wide
enough !
Certainly the society hasn’t, in some respects,
made the progress which it should have done, considei-
ing its quite unique advantages. The cost rate, on the
basis of premiums received, has been almost stationary
for years past. According even to the official reckoning,
the expenses amounted last year to a shade under 13 9
per cent, of the premium income, while so long as 40
years ago—in 1867—the rate was 12 per cent., though
that was rather under the average of the period. Even
compared with total income there is not the improve-
ment that there should be, remembering that a steadily
increasing amount of income is derived from cheaply-
managed investments: —
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1898 .. £9 4 0 per cent. 1903 .. £8 17 0 per cent.
1899.. 919 8 „ 1904.. 816 7 „
1900 .. 9 0 5 „ 1905 .. 815 6 „
1901 .. 810 0 „ 1906 .. 817 2 „
1902 .. 814 0 „ 1907 .. 816 5 „
The fact probably is that the A.M.P. had too good a
time. It suffered as many a mine has suffered—from the
ease with which the money came in. When a mine is
afflicted that way, bad habits grow on officers and work-
men alike—just as they grow on our savage brother Bill
who doesn’t have to work for his cocoanut. To make it
do its best, the society really needed another society
treading more closely on its heels. And there are plenty
of signs that it is getting what it needed most. For many
years past the report of the society has not been available
before May, and generally very late in May’. This year
it was in policy-holders’ hands by April 24. The alert,
aggressive Citizens’ —smaller, certainly'—sends its report
out in February, and probably that has something to do
with the extra hustle of the A.M.P.
But before we can tell whether expense rates
are low or high, it is necessary to find out how much new
business is being got in ; for a society that just sat down
and waited for its existing policy-holders to die, could
work for 4 or 5 per cent., or less if it were a big office.
Here, then, is a comparison running back 30 years. It
shows the renewal premiums (or receipts from old busi-
ness), the revenue during the year from new business,
and the total expenses. Then it is assumed that the old
business cost 7 per cent, to manage, and annuity' business
3 per cent., and the balance of the expenses is taken to
represent the cost of the new business :
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiums. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877 .. £353,345 £33,951 £58,905 99 '6 p.c.
1887 .. 837,164 103,694 131,591 70T „
1890 .. 989,353 126,016 157,371 69'7 „
1897 .. 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87.4 „
1906 .. 1,716,721 164,249 259,769 84‘1 „
1907 .. 1,791,403 169,348 272,267 85'6 „
Expenses are, therefore, a little lower than they were,
say, 10 years ago. But they ought to be a good deal
lower, for, on account of the great prosperity of Australia
recently, it ought to have been easier to rope in fat poli-
cies. The rate ought to have got down much nearer that
which ruled in the big boom period, represented above
by the two years 1887 and 1890. The A.M.P. has done
well. With all its advantages it ought to have done
better, and, now that it has aroused itself, it is very likely
that it will do better, unless the risky foreign business
spoils things.
The past year’s interest earnings were larger
than any have been before in this century :
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1898.. £4 17 0 per cent. 1903.. £4 8 10 per cent.
1899.. 41410 „ 1904.. 490 „
1900.. 4 11 10 „ 1905.. 4 9 8 „
1901.. 4 9 7 „ 1906.. 4 9 7 „
1902.. 4 9 6 „ 1907.. 4 911 „
Interest earnings need to be considered along with a
statement as to how the funds are invested. This shows
the distribution of the assets at various dates :
1895. 1906. 1907.
Public securities .. £602,007 £4,751,705 £5,159,316
Municipal loans .. 339,489 1,889,490 2,351,431
Mortgages ... .. 7,202,332 9,788,593 9,901,471
Policy loans .. .. 3,482,805 4,446,736 4,411,821
Foreclosures.. .. 538,454 604,289 543,048
Premises .. .. 371,430 412,144 411,000
Cash, etc 1,176,547 890,356 1,063,403
The proportions (with those for 1905) work out like
this
1895. 1905. 1906. 1907.
Public securi-
ties .. .. 2 - 5 p.c. 19 - 0 p.c. 20‘9 p.c. 21 - 7 p.c.
Municipal loans 4"4 „ 7 - 6 ~ 8 - 3 ~ 9‘9 ~
Mortgages .. 52‘5 „ 43‘5 ~ 42‘9 „ 41’5 ~
Policy loans .. 25’4 ~ 20 - 5 ~ 19’5 ~ 18’5 ~
Foreclosures .. 3'9 „ 2'9 ~ 2‘6 ~ 2 - 3 ~
Premises .. 2‘7 ~ I’B ~ l - 8 ~ l - 7 ~
Cash, etc. .. B'6 „ 4‘7 „ 4‘o „ 4-4 „
The movement is all the right way—not towards
bigger interest earnings, it is true, but towards
much greater security. Thus, between 1895 and 1907,
the public securities have increased from a poor
6 - 9 p.c. of the assets to 31’6 p.c. ; and behind
these securities stands the taxable wealth of the country.
Policy loans go on shrinking ; and that is a good thing,
too, for when the policy loan comes in the real purpose of
insurance flies out. The assets taken into account in the
foregoing include, besides the insurance fund, a reserve
to provide for depreciation of securities (£125,158, as
against £114,988 twelve months ago). To this fund has
been added during the year £12,385, charged against
revenue ; so that £2216 has been written off during the
year, in addition to £30,091 written off and charged
against revenue account direot. As against the £12,386
which has been added to the depreciation fund and
charged to revenue account, £13,786, being surplus on
properties sold, has been included in revenue account.
Industrial Department.
Ex- Added to Added to
Income. Claims, penses. Deficit. Funds.
1905 .. £6,123 £124 £19,069 £13,070
1906 .. 18,610 669 23,572 5,631
1907 .. 34,551 1,689 30,663 £2,199
The position is at present like this
Aid received from society .. • •
Net deficit as above .. .. •• lo,oo^
Funds as per society’s statement .. £2,239
The aid received from the society is not shown in the
accounts as a debt owing by this branch to the Ordinary
department, as it ought to be shown. In the matter of
expense rate, the society’s experience is getting a bit
less awful; but last year it still cost £BB 14s. lid. per
cent, of the total income to do the business.
The A. M. P.’s surplus for the year was
£808,812, out of which £700,813 will be distributed in
bonuses. The result will compare with that of some
previous years in this way :
1888-’93 (five boom years).. 40-3 p.c. of premiums.
1894-’9B 34 T „ „
1898-1903 34-8 „ »
1903-’O6 35-7 „ »
1907 36-1 „
Interim bonuses have been paid, which bring the total
for the past year up to 36'5 per cent.
* • • •
The Bank of Adelaide (S. Australia)
To Re- Re-
March. Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1897 .. £31,047 7 p.c. = £28,000 £3,047 £l7o,obi
1898 33 401 7 ~ ~ 28,000 5,401 1/5,962
1899 - 33,026 7 ” ” 28,000 5,026 180,988
1900 38 413 8 ~ ~ 32,000 6,413 187,401
1901 " 48 097 8 32 000 16,097 203,498
1902 " 45 925 8 32 000 13,925 217,423
1903 “ 52 317 8 32 000 20,317 237,740
1904 I! 47 337 8 ” " 82,000 15,337 253,077
1905 47 876 8 ~ „ 32,000 15,876 268,953
1906 ” 46,286 8 „ „ 32,000 14,286 283,239
1907 56 265 8} 34,000 22,265 305,504
1908 I: 9 ” ” 36,000 20,510 326,014
That is a fine procession of figures. S. Australia sticks
very close to its one bank, its Bank of Adelaide , and
there are very good reasons why it should think highly
of it. All through the troubles of 12 or 14 years ago,
when so many other Australian banks were breaking it
more or less gently to their shareholders that all their
capital was gone, this Bank of Adelaide continued the
even tenor of its 7 per cent, dividends. Since then,
things in S. Australia have improved in a remarkable way.
And it isn’t all attributable to good years. These past f our
seasons certainly have been better than usual, and prices
have been higher than usual; but, so far as the great
S. Australian business of agriculture is concerned, the
vastly increased use of artificial manures, and the exten-
sion of mixed farming—the latter coupled with increased
facilities for frozen-latnb export —have put a new face on
the State. The South Australian farmers had passed
through a good school, too ; they had had a desperately
bad time and had been forced into methods of very strict
economy. As a whole, therefore, the position not only
of the S. Australian farmer, but of S. Australia, is now
very sound. The farmer has paid off the local store-
keeper, the local storekeeper has cleared himself with
the wholesale merchant, and the wholesale merchant
isn’t so horribly polite to the bank manager as he was a
few years ago. From these improvements the Bank of
Adelaide, being so typical a S. Australian concern, must
have got a lot of benefit; and the benefit ought to have
extended further than the mere matter of disclosed
profits.
Yet the present balance-sheet figures show no
improvement on those of a year ago :
Mar., 1907. Mar., 1908.
Notes in circula- ,
tion .. .. £179,622 £185,540 Inc. £5,918
Bills in circula- „
lation, etc. .. 503,991 297,452 Dec. 206,539
Deposits .. 3,269,238 3,090,618 Dec. 178,620
Liquid assets .. 2,343,016 2,226,230 Dec. 116,786
Advances .. 2,256,414 2,006,688 Dec. 249,726
Premises .. 76,925 84,707 Inc. 7,782
But this bank does the business of the Government of
S. Australia, and the State’s large but irregular transac-
tions in borrowing and repaying often affect the balance-
sheet figures. Still, it is quite likely that there has been a
real shrinkage in advances, partly for the reason mentioned
just now. Further, notwithstanding the prosperity of
the State, there has been no very great amount of
new land settlement. It is the N. S. Wales and
Queensland land-subdivider that has been, flooding
South Australia with his advertisements, and imploring
the local farmer to get into country where the
raindrop isn’t so unusual. Though there has been
a steady rise in land values in most districts, this
competition of the other States has prevented much in
the way of a boom in S. Aus. ; which is probably another
reason why this bank’s advances haven’t moved up.
Later on, no doubt, the Bank of Adelaide will be thanking
its lucky star that it was so ; for there is going to be
trouble over the boom that has sent land up (in N.S.W.
particularly) to £lO an acre—in only moderate agricultural
districts too.
The Bank of Adelaide has no less than 62 per
cent, of its total debt to the public represented by liquid
assets. Under ordinary circumstances something like 35
per cent, is generally considered enough ; but on account
of this bank’s relations with the Government, it
is possible that the circumstances on any given
date are not ordinary. In any case, however, its
position appears to be strong. Its total debts are almost
exactly five-times greater than its capital and reserves,
and that is a very moderate proportion. And yet, in
spite of the unusual proportion of liquid assets (which, as
a rule, don’t earn very much), and in spite of the only-
moderate amount of public money of which the bank
has the benefit, the profits show £8 os. 3d. per cent, on
capital and reserves combined. The thing that seems
most certain from that is that the assets are an excellent
lot.
* * * *
Tooth and Co., Ltd., brewers, etc. (Sydney)
Added
Net to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., 1902.. £41,536 8 p.c. = £36,000 £5,536 £135,498
Sept., 1902.. 40,768 8 „ ~ 36,000 4,768 140,266
Mar., 1903.. 41,209 8 „ ~ 36,000 5,209 145,475
Sept., 1903.. 39,053 8 „ „ 36,000 3,053 148,528
Mar., 1904 .. 43,414 8 „ ~ 36,000 7,414 155,942
Sept., 1904 .. 37,570 8 ~ ~ 36,000 1,570 157,512
Mar., 1905 .. 46,964 8 ~ ~ 36,000 10,964 168,476
Sept., 1905.. 37,394 8 „ „ 36,000 1,394 169,870
Mar., 1906.. 46,532 8 „ „ 36,000 10,532 180,402
Sept., 1906.. 38,286 8 „ ~ 36,000 2,286 182,688
Mar., 1907 .. 45,156 8 „ „ 36,000 9,156 191,844
Sept., 1907.. 53,889 10 „ „ 45,000 8,889 200,733
Mar., 1908.. 75,071 10 „ „ 45,000 30,071 230,804
Of the half-year’s profits, however, £15,000 has been set
aside as “ provision for re-building and depreciation of
securities.” So far this £15,000 has been treated as a
reserve, and, therefore, has not been written off profits ;
but it is quite likely that it will not appear again, in
which case £15,000 will have to come off the half-year’s
profits to reduce them to net. Besides this special
appropriation, the usual £5OOO has been written off profits
to provide for depreciation of plant and machinery. Com-
pared with the present spring in profits the best high
jump at the Sydney Easter show was apoor performance ;
and there is nothing in the accounts to explain the how
or why of it. Various items compare this way
Mar., Mar., Mar.,
1900. 1907. 1908.
Debts to public £16,763 £17,777 £29,294
Properties, goodwill, plant .. 647,831 604,932 600,667
Public stock and deposits .. 92,896 183,761 237,212
Cash balances 61,727 31,638 50,103
Stock 63,966 96,607 111,073
Book debts 215,195 234,682 211,143
Profits on brewings, rents, etc. 132,377 146,563 199,688
Management, wages, etc. .. 91,898 96,406 119,616
Nothing is said to account for the spring in profits from
brewings, etc., from £146,563 to £199,688. Times have
been good ; but they were good also in 1906-7,
and the improvement since then (if there has
been any) would hardly explain the increase shown.
There may have been recoveries of debts written
off as bad ; also it may not have been thought necessary
to write off as much profit as a provision for bad debts.
Anyway, the change is remarkable. In eight years, the
co. has increased its liquid assets by £142,692 and its
stock by £57,117; and meantime the co.’s debt to the
public has been increased by only £12,531, while no fresh
capital has been got in from the shareholders. Certainly,
“ properties, goodwill, plant, etc.,” have shrunk ; but it
is pretty certain that that has been less from sales than
from amounts written off out of profits. The position,
based on past records, is, therefore, very strong. (It
should be mentioned that the table above opens with
the first 8 per cent, dividend in recent years; for ten
years preceding that, 7 per cent, was paid. But it will
also be noted that the £150,000 or so added to liquid assets
in the past eight years brings in probably £6OOO a year,
equal to two-thirds of 1 per cent, on the capital.) Whether
the past is a good guide to the future in the whole-
sale and retail Bung business isn’t to be judged
from balance-sheets and revenue accounts. Lately
in N. S. Wales special Licensing Courts have been can-
celling licenses and throwing beer-pumps out of action.
But it has yet to be seen how brewery profits will be
affected in the long run. No doubt less beer will be
drunk when only nine pub doors gape than when 12
gape ; but the reduction in the quantity of beer swallowed
isn’t likely to amount to one-fourth. There will, however,
be a big reduction in expenses ; and the brewery will get
a lot of that advantage. Taken all round, the future of
the Bung business is obscure and uncertain, and that sort
of investment has become more or less of a gamble—with
no prospects certainly of any very sudden knock-out.
The Federal Building, Land and Invest-
ment Society, Ltd. (Brisbane), from the year when
£68,272 of capital was forfeited, and applied to cover
losses
Forfeited
Loss on Capital
Loss on Pro- Total Carried to Nominal
Mar., Business, perty. Loss. Reserves. Reserves.
1898 .. £1289 £1520 £2809 £276 £17,218
1899 .. 1481 867 2298 366 15,286
1900 .. 897 • 540 1437 456 14,453
1901 .. 649 153 802 1830 15,481
1902 .. 196 565 761 484 15,204
1903 .. 256 59 315 62 14,951
Profit.
1904 .. 243 35 208 245 14,988
Loss.
1905 .. 73 1279 1352 1152 14,788
1906 .. 56 348 404 338 14,722
Profit. Profit.
1907 .. 28 28 55 14,805
Loss.
1908 .. 187 548 361 14,444
This society was born in 1886, in the days of Queensland’s
Great Continuous Drunk, and it bears the birthstain to
this day. At the end of its ninth year it found that it
had freehold properties, mostly foreclosures, which had
cost about £120,000, and were'estimated to be worth no
more than £62,083. An attempt was made to square
things in 1896 by writing the shares down from £l to
12s. 6d., and getting in an unpaid ss. per share. But
shareholders either couldn’t come up to scratch or had
no hope that anything would be left after the deposits,
debentures, and other debts of about £60,000 had been
paid ; consequently shares had to be forfeited whole-
sale, and of the 148,398 which had been subscribed, no
less than 59,235 have been ruled out, notwithstanding
that no attempt was made to get in more than half-a-
crown a share. Very little progress has been made in
the way of realising the assets. In fact, it is only during
the past three or four years that Queensland has been
able to hold up its head and remember that it had such
things as assets. Even now there is no demand worth
mentioning for city and suburban lands; Queensland’s
small boom has been practically all in the country.
Therefore the present position compares in only a
moderately satisfactory way with that of 10 years back
Mar., 1898. Mar., 1908.
Deposits .. .. £32,471 £39,625 Inc. £7,154
Other liabilities .. 23,297 4,576 Dec. 18,721
Advances, etc. .. 47,786 51,563 Inc. 3,777
Freeholds.. .. 62,447 50,553 Dec. 11,894
Other assets .. 1,040 1,698 Inc. 658
But, while the debts have been reduced by £11,567, it
has to be noted that £6882 of new capital has been paid
up and has been available for reducing the bill. We thus
arrive at the results of ten years’ work :
Cash available (calls) .. .. .. £6,882
Freeholds sold 11,894
Total £18,776
And that has been absorbed in this way
Increased advances .. .. .. £3,777
Increased “ other assets ” .. .. 658
Liabilities wiped off 11,567
Net loss on business and realisations 2,774
Total £18,776
Things are being helped along by the arrival of a little
more presumably profitable new business ; but the pro-
gress is very slow, and how it will all pan out nobody can
tell. Moreover, on present appearances, this generation
won’t be in the best of health when the final panning-out
does arrive ; for it has taken 10 years to work off £11,894
worth (book value) of assets, and £50,553 worth still re-
main on hand.
tt * * *
The Riverina Frozen Meat Co. (Melbourne):
Divi- Written To Re- Re-
March, Profits, dends. Off. serves. serves.
1899 .. £197 Nil £546 £5,598
1900 .. 2578 „ £2578 8,176
1901 .. 7413 ~ 998 6415 14,591
1902 .. 267 „ 676 14,182
Losses.
1903 .. 2867 „ 171 11,144
1904 .. 2612 „ 8,532
1905 .. 1778 „ 149 6,605
1906 .. 894 ~ 32 5,679
Profit.
1907 .. 551 „ 370 181 5,860
Loss.
1908 .. 1054 „ 139 4,667
The principal recent work of this co. has been to freeze
the shareholders. So far as can be traced, no dividend
has ever been paid, and for many years past the works
have not been used, except at a few odd times, when
somebody has been got to lease them for a while. Twelve
months ago, with the rapid increase of flocks, it looked
as though the co. might be able to do something fairly
profitable; but while most of the other parts of
N. S. Wales have had a good time, drought has looked in
again on the Riverina, and there is no stock that would
pay to freeze. Altogether, in fact, back-country works
of this kind have been a ghastly failure in N. S. Wales :
those established at Menindie and Bourke, for instance,
were a ghastlier failure than even this ven-
ture has been. Though the list printed above
shows nominal reserves of £4667, there is pro-
bably a large actual deficit, because the amounts
written off—amounts really spent on repairs and main-
tenance —can’t represent anything like the depreciation
of the plant. To add to its troubles the co. has £15,000
of 5 per cent, debentures. These, which were renewed a
few years ago, fall due next year. Still the co. doesn’t
consist of men who need be worried over a little £15,000.
The Horsfalls, Austins, and others of that size are in-
terested, and they probably regard the works as some-
thing- that may come in handy some day, when the
country breeds more cattle and sheep than it knows what
to do with, and when it may be an advantage to have a
convenient pot to put them into. But it will probably be
many a long day before it won’t pay better to truck them
alive to Melbourne or Sydney, and deal with the surplus
there.
* * * *
The Heddon-Greta Coal Co. (N.S.W.):—
Deficit
Total (apart
Charged to from
Coal Land Develop- Develop.
Sales. Sales. ment. ment).
Sept., 1902 .. £2983 £668 £4BBB £1241
Mar., 1903 .. 4290 1685 5692 521
Sept., 1903 .. 8599 94 7573 380
Mar., 1904 .. 9927 209 9881 1620
Sept., 1904 .. 11,898 278 11,017 2064
Mar., 1905 .. 11,986 12,460 2064
Sept., 1905 .. 6956 13,961 3406
Mar., 1906 .. 12,420 14,323 3638
Sept., 1906 .. 10,373 14,323 3894
Mar., 1907 .. 11,197 14,323 3770
Sept., 1907 .. 19,194 14,323 1903
Mar., 1908 .. 16,468 14,638 1017
So, without deducting money spent on development and
charged to that account, the profit for the half-year was
£BB6, as against £1867 in the previous term. The form of
the accounts has been somewhat altered ; hitherto receipts
from coal sales have been distinguished from other
receipts. All, however, are now lumped together ; but
“ other receipts ” have lately not amounted to more than
a few pounds for rent. The position disclosed is not very
satisfactory : coal sales have fallen off, admittedly be-
cause some bords have been worked out. In view of that
admission, it is very doubtful whether the development
account can be regarded as a good asset, at any rate for
20s. in the £. The proper course, obviously, is to wipe
the item out by means of a regular charge upon each ton
of coal mined ; and if that course had been adopted, the
small profit shown during the last two terms would
have been further reduced. “ Flotation and preliminary
expenses, £906,” still also figures as an item among the
assets ; and it is surely time that that was written off out
of profits. At present the situation is that that much
capital is not represented by anything shareholders can
see or smell or pawn. However, the co. has a good area,
and it is now sinking and boring—the latter with the object
of getting the big East Greta seam which ought to be found
in this property. Thecapital is £42,573 in ordinary shares,
£20,844 in pref. shares, and £4OOO in debentures ; the co.
also has overdrafts of £2558. It began with too little
capital nnd too much debenture debt, even presuming
plain sailing ; but, instead of plain sailing, it struck fire
and other misfortune, and had to issue the pref. shares,
which have made a sad change in the outlook for the
ordinary shareholders. Nothing has been written off the
book-value of the freehold, in spite of the very con-
siderable extraction of coal, and it does not appear that
the plant has been written down to cover depreciation;
so it seems highly probable that the actual results are
not even as good as they look on the surface.
* * * *
The Townsville Gas and Coke Co. (Q.)
Dividend and Written To Re- Re-
March, Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves.
1901.. 12£ p.c. = £1969 £3963
1902.. £3505 10 „ „ 1575 £1930 6883
1903.. 3466 10 „ „ 1575 £lBO2 89 5972
1904.. 3705 10 „ „ 1575 2130 8102
1905.. 3751 10 „ „ 1575 1691 485 8587
1906.. 3504 12£ „ ~ 1969 1335 200 8787
1907.. 3738 12| „ „ 1969 1299 470 9267
£7500 of Reserves Capitalised .. 1757
1908.. 3390 10 p.c. 1643 375 1372 3129
During the year the capital was increased from £15,000t0
£24,854, partly by declaring a dividend of 50 per cent,
and applying the money to a new' share issue, partly by
getting in a little outside cash. The effect of the change
is that old shareholders will have three shares instead of
two to play with ; moreover, a 15 per cent, dividend
can masquerade as one of 10 per cent., so con-
sumers won’t feel so annoyed about it. The
amount shown as written off last year (£375) is really
the amount collared by the canny Kidston by way of tax
on this so-called “ dividend ” of 50 p.c. ; to show it as
written off seemed the most convenient way of getting
rid of the item. Nothing else was written off to cover
depreciation or otherwise, though £522 was spent on
renewals and charged to revenue account. The co. has
been adding a little to its works, but at the end of the
year there was still a credit balance at the bank (£243),
while there was an overdraft of £1757 twelve months ago.
Still, as against the credit balance, there were sundry
creditors for £616. With the recent juggle a new form
of accounts has arrived, and those now presented, having
got the bad lumping habit, leave a good deal more to
the imagination than the old accounts used to. It is the
old business: in connection with the supply of public
necessaries and the profit it makes out of them, Private
Enterprise comes to see that it is safer to put as much of
its transactions as possible away in the dark—" out of
sight, out of mind,” it hopes.
* * * *
It was the late W. R. Wilson who first went
along the east coast of Asia to find out whether Australian
lead producers couldn’t find a market nearer than London ;
and the trade, both in silver and lead, has grown so
vastly that nowadays the Broken Hill Prop, has Chinese
and other Asiatic customers for 6000 tons of lead per
month. Most of this is used up in linings for tea chests,
etc. ; but hundreds of tons go towards making a face
powder, prodigiously used by Chinese women. The
B. H. Prop.’s output of metals hasn’t been seriously
affected by the shrinkage in prices ; for the last four weeks
385,1380 z. silver and 7101 tons lead w’ere refined, but this
includes 105,2710 z. silver and 2755 tons lead from
purchased ores. Besides this, there were zinc
concentrates containing 2530 tons zinc, 97,9330 z. silver,
and 640 tons lead. Very little of this lead is, however,
paid for by the European spelter-makers, who, as a rule,
allow nothing at all for the first 8 per cent, of lead. Ine
co. is still enlarging its smelting output, and has lately
made a contract with the Sulphide Corporation for some
of its surplus lead concentrates.
* * * *
The last eight weeks’ work of the Broken Hill
Prop, throws scorn on the pretty prevalent idea that t e
fall in prices has just about crumpled up the field. Here
are the figures for that period :
Mine Ore. Purchased Ore. Total.
Lead .. 8,845 tons 4,790 tons
Silver .. 587,0710 z. 155.8450 Z. 742,9160*.
Zinc .. 4,803 tons - 4,803 tons
This is exclusive of silver and lead contained in zinc con-
centrates. So far as the output from the mine s own ore
goes, the foregoing figures show an annual product
57,492 tons lead and 3,815,9610 z. silver. Including pur
chased ores, the output is at the rate of 88,627 tons
and 4,828,9540 z. silver a year ; while the co. s output
year (when it was doing practically no ore-buying)
59,039 tons lead and 5,481,3350 z. silver.
The world’s output of lead in 1906 was esti-
mated at 980,000 tons. Assuming that it will be t
same this year, then, even if the
present output is only maintained at the pas _*
months’ rate, this one co.’s output will represen
than one-eleventh of the world s total supp. -
matter of fact, however, the present output is bemg c
siderably increased, so the proportion will proDaDy
nearer one-eighth or one-ninth. #
Big outputs don’t necessarily mean big.
and the Broken Hill Prop, has decidedl to let the q ar
terly div. go by. Of course there w » howl, and,
other things, the “cursed tariff is K'hbetea.
people who, 15 months ago, encouraged others to
“ Brokens ” at £5 12s. 6d. or more are busy encour* o(
the other stupid idea that the B. H. P rO P- P he t j r jff
Is. 6d. or 2s. 6d. regularly once a quarter befo .
arrived. Even Is. 6d. a quarter is rhe Veceiit
yet this is the record for four years before tb
metal boom
May, 1901 .. £120,000 May, 1903 ..
Nov., 1901.. 48,000 Nov., 1903 ..
May, 1902 .. 48,000 May, 1904 ..
Nov. 1902 .. 48,000 Nov., 1904 .. *>>


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATESs-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
the pacific cable board,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
* m P e rial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
F. H. LLOYD & CO. Ltd
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
The Aerial Tramways which have been erected
for the British and Sulphide Corporation (Central) Mines
at Broken Hill are fine examples of present-day skill and
technical knowledge. The Mines will effect considerable
saving by means of these Aeriahvays as compared with
any other known mechanical contrivance for handling
ores on a large scale; The British Mine will economise
to over 2s. per ton. These two plants have already been
subjected to severe tests, and have amply demonstrated
their worth and ability. Both Aerialways were supplied
by W. & J. Lempriere, of Melbourne, who represent-A.
Bleichert & Co., of London, the largest firm in the world
for the manufacture of transport appliances.*
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * + ■
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks .of. cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
• * * *
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“Shaw’’Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by‘ the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer —which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. It some of the hardest lodes in the
Boulder these machines bore over lin. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [4
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issiie of
August 7, 1907, writes regarding the Crtlo’nial Mutual Life
Assurance Society 7 Limited :—“ It is 1 a go-ahead concern ;
its operations are planned on a large scale ; its connec-
tions are planted over a vast area—Australia, New
Zealand, Africa, and the British Isles. The Society
moves with the times in adapting its contracts to the
changing needs of new 7 generations ; it is progressive, up-
to-date, and in a condition of well-organised activity.”*
* * * *
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £690,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1907) £642,759.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* « * •
Cameron and Sutherland claim to carry the
largest stock of machinery of all kinds in Australasia, and
in support of this they ask all in want of mining
machinery, motive power, lathes, drilling machines, aryd
mining supplies, to inspect the stock in their warehouses
in Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat, and Bendigo. Quality
and price are right. Send for latest catalogue, post free.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Oastlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
» * * »
The engineering and pipe works of Mephan
Ferguson, Melbourne, present a very busy appearance
just now. We notice in course of construction two steam
boilers, with mountings, uptakes, funnels, etc., for the
Melbourne Harbor Trust, also a number of dredge
buckets for same Trust ; stamper shoes, dies and cams,
heavy and light forgings for mining plants, shipping,
etc.; also fluming, bolts, nuts, washers, Helyambo scoops,
and every description of contractors’ iron work. Amongst
machinery completed is a new hydraulic multiple
punching machine, weighing over 20 tons, and capable of
punching 120 holes in 10 seconds, with a pressure of 520
tons per stroke. This machine will be used in the manu-
facture of 48in. and 54in. diameter pipes for the Melbourne
water supply, a contract for which has been signed.*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting
Company of Australia, Ltd., have placed their order for
complete boiler-house equipment with Babcock and
Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The order, which com-
prises five large boilers, each with superheater and
mechanical stoker, one economiser and two induced
draft fans, was obtained in keen competition with other
makes of water-tube boilers. Babcock and Wilcox have
also received an order from the same firm for a Reavell
Air Compressor for which they are sole licensees in
Australia.*
■ * * »
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * *
Canbelego. —Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
Economy in the Handling of Goods is a
question Of paramount importance in every industry.
Jeffrey Labor Saving Appliances not only effect, this
economy, but they enable goods to be handled in greater
quantities. Gibson, Battle & Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street,
Sydney, design plants for any requirements free of cost ;
given a few particulars of the duty for which the plant is
required they can quote for the most up-to-date and
suitable equipment. In all parts of the w'orld Jeffrey
Conveying Machinery is steadily pushing its Way to uni-
versal acceptance.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street,
Sole Agents
MELBOURNE.
for
BOCHUM UNION
Steel Rails, Trucks, Points and Crossings, Turntables,
Large Stocks Always on Hand, •
Importers of Tramway, Minings Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds, [l
Whether the B. H. Prop, really isn’t earning enough now
to pay £144,000 a half-year can’t be said for certain.
Chairman Darling- says it isn’t ; and it ought to be re-
membered (but often isn’t), that though the co. paid
£288,000 last half-year, the disclosed profits were only
£lB7/42 net. Further, lead was £l5 18s. 9d. per ton on
Novei. her 80 (the end of the half-year), and silver was
2s. 2fd. standard, whereas the metals now are worth
about £l3 7s. 6d. and 2s. 0 11-16 d. The shock the market
professes to get when these mines don’t pay regular
quarterly divs. simply proves that even now it hasn’t got
them in the right perspective, but still views them from
the recent boom view-point.
* * * ■*
“Watcher”: The Zinc Corporation’s plant at
Broken Hill has now begun to produce on a commercial
basis, and the results are said to be satisfactory to the
management. On the principle that a sprat is better
than no fish, that may be so. But, on the work at
present being done, the profits, if any, must be small.
Take the Corporation’s published figures. The Block 10
tailings, which the Corporation has treated, totalled 4790
ton 9, assaying 17 p.c. zinc, filoz. silver, and 4 p.c. lead,
whio'h produced 1359 tons zinc concentrates assaying 44
p.c. zinc, 13oz. silver, and 7 p.c. lead, and 58 tons of lead
concentrates assaying 50 p.c. lead, 35£oz. silver and 10
p.c. zinc. To start with, then, the tailings treated con-
tained 814.3 tons of zinc, and of this 597.90 tons were re-
covered in the zinc concentrates. The recovery of zinc can
therefore be set down at 73.4 p.c. Of the 191.0 tons of
lead contained in the tailings, only 32‘48 tons were re-
covered, equal to a recovery of 16’9 per cent. The lead in
the zinc concentrates cannot be taken into account as
recovered, because it is not worth anything to the Cor-
poration. The zinc contained in the lead concentrates is
also of no value to the Corporation, as no payment would
be reoeived for it; in fact, such a high percentage of zinc
in a lead concentrate would considerably increase the re-
turning charge on the concentrate —at the rate of perhaps
Is. per unit for all over 10 units. Even the philanthropic
B. H. Prop, would hardly offer better terms than that.
Therefore the only zinc that can be regarded as recovered
is contained in the zinc concentrate, because that
is the only zinc the Corporation will be paid for. Of
course, the silver contained in the zinc concentrates will
be worth a little ; the smelters would probably pay for
about half of it at. So, as half the silver will be
paid for, only half of it can be said to have been
recovered, and this, together with the silver con-
tained in the lead concentrate, gives a recovery of silver
of 84 per Cent. Looked at in this way, the result is not
anywhere near as brilliant as the Corporation’s bald
figures would suggest.
° * ■» * *
If something doesn’t happen along very soon in
the way of a buyer for the Broken Hill South’s surplus
output of concentrates, that co. will have a big white
elephant to keep in its stable. The new mill, just com-
pleted, is a fine, up-to-date structure, but, so far, there
isn’t anything for it to do. The old mill is working to
only about half its capacity, and even then it turns out
more concentrates than there are buyers for. In its
predicament the South has one consolation. A new con-
centrating mill always takes two or three months to pro-
perly adjust, so the dull time ahead won’t be all wasted.
r • * * *
The desperate efforts made by the B. H. Junction
North to drag working costs down from their elevated
position threaten to stir up a hornet’s nest. For a long
time past miners and truckers have shaken a deprecatory
forefinger at the man who sets the contracts in that mine,
but up to now the aggrieved ones’ only resource has been
to “ pull out.” That meant irregular tonnages for the
mine, but it also meant lower working costs. Unfortu-
nately, the situation arising from this state of things is
likely to jeopardise harmonious relations between
owners and men all along the line of lode.
* * * *
At Wyalong (N.S.W.) all the properties are
again open under the new working conditions. More
outside attention has lately been directed to this field,
and already Sydney cos. control such properties as
Barrier, Homeward Bound, Brookman’s, and, lastly, the
Klondike, where they are making extensive preparations
for following the reef down in the deep country. The
syndicate is not having very good luck with the Called
Back, but intends to continue development work. The
Operator lease is being reshuffled by the Mines Depart-
ment, another scramble for possession having recently
taken place. This time there are some dozen applicants
for it.
- * * * •
For a mine that was awarded columns of gush
in the boom time, the Cangai, near Grafton (N.S.W.),
is still managing to produce mighty little in the way of
results. The last week’s work (three furnaces) showed
141 tons ore smelted for 31J tons matte. But the pro-
duct was of such poor grade (39 per cent.) that the
copper contents were barely over 12 tons. Cangai may
be building up tremendous reserves ; if it isn’t, 141 tons
is a ridiculous output for a mine that scatters remarks
concerning 7ft. faces of solid ore almost as freely as if it
were another Mt. Morgan or Lyell.
* * * *
This year the want-of-firewood trouble at
Lloyd’s mine (N.S.W.) has started very early in the
winter. Manager Corbould’s idea last year was to build
a cheap tram to get out into the timber, the furnaces
having cleared nearly everything that is combustible in
the neighborhood ; but mine and market both went back
on the co., and when the directors looked into the till
they doubted whether there was the money there to do
it. So things drifted on in the old w’ay, except that
every month the fuel got more remote, and now supplies
have failed again, and the stoppage of work is once more
visible in the distance.
* * * *
The people and papers that boomed the Light-
ning Ridge opal-field so outrageously, and hurried scores
of men out into the remote far west (N.S.W.), probably
feel a bit ashamed of themselves now. For weeks past
practically no gem has been found. The blanks in opal-
mining at White Cliffs were bad enough; at Lightning
Ridge they are simply murderous.
» * * »
London and Western Australian Exploration
Co., which buys mines and other delusions, and also
dabbles in shares, had a bad time last year. Receipts,
principally dividends on investments, totalled £8556 ; but
the expenditure was no less than £33,325, made up chiefly
of loss on other speculations, £13,419 ; abandoned
options, £6628 ; and Australian expenses, £9414. Thus a
loss of £24,769 was shown. The book values of the co.’s
two principal investments—the “ Sink ” Corporation and
the Lancefield—also showed a heavy shrinkage at the
time the accounts were made up ; but instead of writing
them down to their then market valuation, the directors
provided a reserve of £lOO,OOO for depreciation. This
they hope will be extinguished by and by ; and so does
Ihe Bulletin, though it has mighty little faith. The co.
recently gave Australia the cold shoulder, and is now
prospecting for suitable properties in the Malay States.
Meantime the five directors continue to divide £lOOO in
fees, and spend an additional £2OOO in London office ex-
penses, and if on past records shareholders think they
are getting value for the money, they must be a very
easily pleased lot.
Principal Westralian results for March :
Ton- Value per
nage. Revenue. Profit. ton.
Great Boulder .. .. 13,848 £46,411 £25,638 675.
Golden Horseshoe .. 23,484 51,452 20,158 435. 9d.
Ivanhoe .. .. - .. 19,645 42,076 21,044 425. lOd.
Boulder Perseverance.. 17,035 25,741 6,750 30s. 2d.
Great Fingall .. .. 22,023 35,246 13,161 325.
Sons of Gwalia.. ..13,130 20,968 7,057 31s. lid.
Kalgurli 10,775 29,652 16,036 555.
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 12,024 16,003 4,092 265. 7d.
Lake View Consols .. 9,868 11,943 1,378 245. 2d.
South Kalgurli.. .. 9,029 12,502 1,881 275. Bd.
Associated .. .. 10,395 21,991 7,882 425. 3d.
Associated Northern.. 3,730 9,564 5,293 51s. 3d.
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,187 10,514 2,281 50s.
Gwalia South .. .. 1,908 5,185 2,154 545. 4d.
Hainault .. .. 6,210 7,554 464 245. 4d.
Northern Mines .. 8,775 6,116 14 13s. lid.
V » v >en 2,133 4,426 740 41s. 6d.
Golden Ridge .. .. 1,954 4,555 2,416 465. 7d.
Greenmount .. .. 2,070 2,340 273 225. 7d.
Mararoa, whose capital expenditure amounted to nearly
£2OOO, showed a loss of £653 on 525. 7d. ore ; the Lance-
field’s loss was £2730 on 28s. 6d. ore ; and the Golden
Pole’s loss was £654 on 395. 4d. ore.
* * * *
Boulder Main Reef Co. (W.A.) is thinking of
applying for Government assistance to deepen the main
shaft from 1900 ft. to 2500 ft. The management is vain
enough to believe that one or more of the Boulder shoots
will be struck at that depth, but that is an opinion which
quite a number of people don’t share. Meantime, the
mill has re-started, and the old tale that sufficient revenue
will be earned to pay working expenses and nearly cover
cost of current development is being told. Whether, in
Spite of this announcement, the working capital will
rapidly melt away and render another reconstruction
imperative remains to be seen. The chances are that it
will.
* * * *
The local press still praises the Coolgardie
Redemption (W.A.). The latest puff states that it “ pro-
mises to develop into one of the best propositions in
Coolgardie”; but, as practically all the shows there are
derelicts, that is not saying much. The Redemption
really belongs to the played-out class of mine so common
in the West, that would only have prospects if everybody
worked for nothing and no one charged anything, and
somehow that sort of man takes a lot of finding.
* » * *
Barrambie Ranges (W.A.) has put out £30,000
of the £90,000 worth of gold which was said to he in sight,
and is now grubbing round to find the rest. The flicker
of hope it lives on is that it may hit gold at 200 ft. In
true Victorian fashion, sinking has been postponed until
the mine is pretty well at a standstill. Rock drills in
such country should have been the first thought. With
the eyes of the directors fixed on the big gold estimate,
that detail was overlooked, although driving and sinking
were costing just about 50 percent, more than they should.
If the Board had any pluck, and any faith in the mine, it
would call up some capital and complete the equipment.
No. 2 crosscut will soon tell whether the gold lives to
200 ft. If it does, shareholders should put on their biggest
hob-nailed boots before setting out to make a radical
change in the Board.
* * * *
Electric pumps and other oddments do not help
the Duke and Main Lead Consols, Maryborough (Vic.), on
the road to health, strength, and wealth. As with all
deep-lead bleeders, call comes on top of call, so £70,000 of
capital and gold have gone, with nary a sprat
returned to shareholders. There is plenty of
Mark Tapleyan congratulation from directors that
remunerative work is at hand at No. 2 shaft. With the
gutter dipping below the level of the main drive, and a
forest of timber needed to log up the wash drives, some-
thing more than the 13dwt. dirt being got will be wanted
to show any margin of profit. The ground is too green to
give the best result, but the co. is one of the hard-ups,
and must keep going. After all, the mine lies round No. 1
shaft. Work there is a bit further on than six months back.
There is some nice wash, but it has all the patchiness
of the Duke lead, and that has proved fatal to the Duke
United near by. Still, Duke and Main Lead shares hold
their own with a bit of judicious propping.
* * # *
David Syme dipped pretty deeply into mining,
but as a rule he didn’t let his name appear. His family
has not the same reserve, for J.H. toots the horn over the
Argo dredge and other shows. This Argo has been a dis-
tinctly costly Victorian show. Now a rift in the cloud
appears, as better gold is in the wash. But costs run to
6id. per cubic yard, so good dirt must come to pay divs.
ft * * *
Briseis Extended (Tas.) has a vast hole in the
ground, and a neat little gap in its banking account. The
claim is about the most doleful of the Tasmanian tin
boom relics, not omitting the Cybele—more doleful still
because of broken promises and unfulfilled expectations.
In all, £27,000 has gone in plant and work, and the half-
year’s operations show a loss of £948; the actual cash
position of the eo. is nearly £5OO to the bad. Another pro-
mise of good things ahead is now held out; the manager
says that when he lowers the pump to the bottom
he will get good results. If he does not, the directors
should let in the Ringarooma River, and moor the barge
as a monument to wasted effort. The best tin should be
at the bottom ; the cost of elevating should be light ; so
Pennington has a chance there. But what afterwards?
1k fc * *
Zeehan is in crape over the Tasmanian Smelting
Co. As Premier Evans refuses to help the co. other than
by a reduction in freights, the plant is to be shut down.
This hits half the mines under the belt, and throws a big
body of workers idle. If the proposed Rosebery smelter
were up, things would not be so bad ; but it isn’t, and that
ends the matter for the present.
* * * *
The feature of recent developments at the North
Lvell has been the proving of ore bodies 50ft. wide and
270 ft. long on what may be termed the ground floor of
the 850 ft. level. Ore reserves have largely increased, for,
except as to a few feet above the 850 ft. level, some of
these big blocks are practically solid up to the 700 ft. level.
But with irregular bodies conservative estimates have to
be made. The best development at 1000 ft. has been the
downward continuation of No. 23 stope ore body. This
has been opened 'soft. wide and 40ft. long, with good,
even-grade ore showing at both ends. It is this develop-
ment that has kept the Lyell crowd in good heart.
Prospecting is going on vigorously to pick up the down-
ward continuation of No. 20 stope ore body, but it seems
none too easy to find.
* * * *
New Golden Gate, Mathinna, gives
gold-mining a needed fillip by striking what seems to bp
a new make of stone at 1900 ft. —the deepest at
which payable stone has been got in the island. lids a
little early, in fact, to say that this lot is payable ; but
the quality (24dwt.) is ail right, and only the quantity
remains in doubt. , ,;
* * * *
Queensland still shivers when it considers its
gold returns. Last year’s were chilly, but the total out-
put for this March was only £151,164, as againfet £168,792
in March, 1907. Gympie’s fall is greatest ;>its total out-
put was a poor 32630 z., or less than half that of the pre-
vious March. Apart from the Etheridge,! which includes
the new Oaks rush, Mt. Morgan is practically the only
field that holds its end up.
* * * *
Aldershot Works, run to a by the
English-owned Queensland ' Smelting Co., found the
mortgagee on the doormat last week. The solicitors for
the debenture-holders took possession of the works, and
it looks as if they will find the- security of very little
value. It is understood that the Rothschilds are the
debenture-holders. The Pinnacles mine, outside Broken
Hill, once in the hands of the Q. S. Co., was also mortgaged
to the Rothschilds, so that the whole concern appears now
to have been lost by the co. Aldershot Works are badly
situated and badly laid out. Two or three times in the
history of the co. Australian brains and energy nearly
pulled the concern out of the mud, but after assuming
each time a little air of respectability and cleanliness, it
dropped back into the ditch again. This time it seems a
certainty it will stay there. It’s a pity, for Queensland
wants a smelter badly ; but the Aldershot Works cannot
hope to fill the bill successfully. High treatment costs
will always render it an impossibility from the producer’s
point of view.
* * * ■*
Mount Elliott (Q.), which got its tramway Bill
through, is looking exceedingly well. The oxidised zone
is gradually being replaced by sulphides. At 280 ft. the
ore is partially mineralised, and averages nearly 15 per
cent., copper, with better gold values than have been
hitherto met with. Sinkingisbeing rapidlypushedforward,
and the shaft is half way down to v the next level, where it
is expected that the ore will be sufficiently mineralised to
warrant smelting being, started on a good basis. The
original intention of the co. was to treat the oxidised ore
for black copper, but the prospect of abundance of
sulphide ores will make the smelting proposition a much
simpler one. The furnace will not be blown in until these
sulphides are properly opened up.
* * * *
J. Bowie Wilson, who took H. P. Seale’s place
as mine manager at Mount Morgan when the latter went
up to the post of assistant general manager, has resigned
from the job. For the present the mine is apparently
looking after itself. Mount Morgan is practically held
together by its brainy young men, and what would happen
to the mine and undertaking generally if Seale were to
vacate, those in the know hesitate to say.
A man who is used to making tallies cuts up the
population of the Oaks rush (N.Q.) this way: Making
good money, 200 ; making wages, 300 ; carrying their
tools about, 500. You can hire dry-blowers on the field ;
but most of the dirt is carted to water, and that licks up
12s. a ton. The field has one advantage: “tucker” is
fairly cheap—the Q.M.E. Co. is selling beef at 4d. per lb.
“ The best little rush since the Palmer,” an old battler
describes it; “but it’s not big enough for even the men
who are already on it.”
• * « *
Some permanent good may come of the Oaks
(Queensland) gold rush, which so far has yielded probably
6000 oz. of gold. Some of the men are turning their
attention to the unbroken stone, and one or two payable
leaders are being folkwed. A few years ago the Einas-
leigh copper mine, in that district, sent a fair-sized parcel
of ore to Cockle Creek, and over and above 22 per cent,
copper it was found to contain 3oz. silver and 12dwt.
gold per ton. That auriferous stone will ultimately be
found in payable quantities in the neighborhood is as cer-
tain as anything in mining can be.
• * * *
A deputation of members for mining districts
urges Queensland Minister for Mines Blair to establish a
State battery and State smelter. Miners reckon they are
not getting a fair deal from the battery ow'ners,
who, they urge, are the buyers of the product. A
State battery could safely be undertaken by the Govern-
ment, especially if it is to treat tin stone; but
a £3OOO State smelter at Mareeba, as asked for, will pro-
bably be a vehicle for losing money. Miners undertake
to put up a third or half of the sum if the Govern-
ment will go the other half. The suggestion is a
fair one, but will probably end in loss to both
parties. If the Government goes in for smelting,
it must be prepared to spend a heap of money
in doing the thing properly; and the miners on their
side must be prepared to guarantee a certain tonnage of
material, so that the scheme can be worked out on
business lines from the inception. To build a smelter to
treat nothing in particular is a wild undertaking. It is
like putting up a butter factory before one is assured that
there are cows to supply the cream, or grass to feed the
cows. If the miners have got the ore, let them go to the
Government and say “ We’ll guarantee you so much
copper.” Then the industry starts right away as an
industry, and not as a rank speculation.
* • * •
The recently-reported manganese-cobalt find
near Gympie has been quickly followed by another at
Pittsworth (Q.), where a clay formation has been dis-
covered carrying a small band of mineral containing- both
these metals. The percentage is very small, however,
and the manganese is therefore valueless ; but cobalt is
undoubtedly present, and as the metal is worth some-
where near 50s. a unit, it may be worth while to consider
the advisability of concentrating the ore. There should
not be much difficulty in obtaining in this way a product
containing about 5 per cent, cobalt. Whether there is
sufficient ore available to justify this treatment remains
to be proved.
* * * *
Charters Towers has now jumped to the con-
clusion that the long extension of the famous Day Dawn
reef 150 ft. or so over the boundary of Mills’ United is a
reef distinct from the Brilliant with which it had been
associated. It was the improved look of the reef as the
level was extended that caused the flutter in shares. If
the reef maintains its value of £2 19s. 2d. per ton for an
average width of 3ft., the New Brilliant Freehold will
have to sink its shaft and open out on the Day Dawn
shoot systematically. That is why the Towers is jubilant;
it means renewed life for a field rather down on its luck.
They are accustomed to see these shoots of mineral
stone with a flat underlie pass from one lease to another ;
but the speculator generally gets about two years ahead
of the event —as, for instance, in the case of the New
Brilliant Freeholds. Even now there are punters taking
a long shot at Brilliant Block or East Mexican shares. A
while back the latter were in great favor because the ex-
tension of the higher levels of Mills’ United Day Dawn
shoot was thought to be a certainty.
* * * *
South Glanmire and Monkland, Gympie (Q.),
has got an improvement in its No. 2 reef at the 1100 ft.
level ; but manager Jewell, in his quiet way, mentioned,
a few days since, that the gold was not so good as the
appearance of the black slate floors had led them to ex-
pect. ,1 South Glanmire needs something good, for shares
had, .a, neck-breaking drop a while ago. A Queensland
Government official was recently sent up to examine the
old Gympie mines that have sacked so many hands. The
resurrection of an old mining camp is rather a big order,
but the Government is going to do what it can by helping
iV legitimate ” prospecting. The East Oriental and Glan-
mire offers encouragement: at the 2174 ft. level the for-
mation is large and the ore can be cheaply mined ; the
average so far has been about lldwt. The mine keeps 20
head going. It may be only a temporary enrichment of
the reef ; but, even so, it is something to go on with.
* * ■» *
Mount Molloy (Q.), which made the shocking
miscalculation regarding the cost of its tramway, and then
drifted along until the Q. N. Bank talked a quantity of
very plain English to it, proposes to raise the wind by
issuing 50,000 pref. shares of £l, at a discount of 10s.
That is to say, the shares are to be £l, but shareholders
are only to pay 10s. for them, and they are only to be
preferential until the 10s. has been repaid. There will be
no difficulty in getting the money, especially as the rail-
way ought to put Molloy in the way of doing a good cus-
tom-smelting business when times are opportune.
No less than 105 more coke ovens have either
been just completed or are nearing completion at Bulli
(N.S.W.). For a few 7 years past N.S.W. has been supply-
ing all its own coke requirements, yet 20 years ago it was
alleged that “ Australia couldn’t make coke,” and it
probably wouldn’t have seriously tried to do it if Dibbs
hadn’t arrived with a stiff Protective duty. There was
then just the same howl about “ penalising tjie mining
industry ” that there is to-day ; yet to-day coke costs less
than one-fourth of w-hat the imported coke used to cost,
and Protection, instead of “penalising the mining
industry,” makes it possible to smelt ores which were
formerly left untouched. And it isn’t good coal w'hich is
being used up either ; it is the small stuff which in most
cases was formerly thrown on a dump and treated as
profitless waste.
Investor: (1) Balance-sheet procurable from
the eo.’8 office only ; and when you do fret ifc it won’t
help you much, because most of the assets ma- he worth
5s. or 20s. in the £ for all you will be able to t-U. (2) No ;
for one thing, no matter how bad the ma'..„gement, no
mere resolution of the shareholders can change it....
Frater : The S. Aus. co. is understood to have a good grip
on northern business, but is being badly cut at for the
city trade Watiroa : No, don’t touch them.... .James :
(1) The Blocks anj'way have no hope within the time
mentioned ; other has some. Won’t advise as to the rest.
(2) About three years ; with the funds in hand, yes. (3)
Dunno. (4) Rotten management.. .W.W.: (1) Oan’t regard
them as an investment. (2) Doubtful if they can be
regarded as an investment either; but Sulphides and
Souths come nearest to 'requirements...; .Jamestown :
Citizens’paid capital is £20,000 ; divs. are limited to 10
per cent., which was paid in 1907 and for many years
previously. The div. is charged to the Industrial branch
revenue account. But in return for guaranteeing a
maximum expense rate, shareholders take one-fifth of the
surplus profits ; this one-fifth amounted for last year to
£11,730.


There is no better medicine for babies than
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. Its pleasant taste,
and prompt and effectual cures make it a favorite
with the mothers of small children.*
Are Moustaches Fashionable ? One is com-
pelled to believe so when he sees the number of men—
reputedly the leaders in men’s styles—wearing- this
pirsute ornament. And to the man who cannot grow one
this must be annoying, and often times a disadvantage.
Still there is hope for him. “ Capillarine’’—prepared
from a noted dermatologist’s private formula—is guaran-
teed to produce a strong, handsome moustache where
none can be grown at present. It is harmless and un-
detectable in use—very forceful as a moustache grower—
and has a successful career of 25 years behind it as a re-
commendation. Messrs. Craig and Aitken, of 654 George
Street, are the proprietors. " They post “Capillarine”
free, anywhere, for 10s. 6d.*
POSTAL EDUCATION
RF ARS GOOD FRUIT
High Salaries and splendid prospects are
opened up to those young men and women
who use rightly their spare evening hour*
k o- '•»*•*;
Tuition. Besides all general educa i
we teach by easy and simp®
k yet thorough methods i
(• Bookkeeping, Business Penmsnship »«l
r . Correspondence, Arithmetic, Short an
Typewriting, etc.
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical and Architectural Drawing, ' c -
"HOME STUDY."
ss
o
£5O
m
STOTT & H OAJLB'S l
BUSINESS COLLB Q t!
THE FUNERAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They are carting him along,
And it seems a trifle wrong
That Billy, rightful King of Merriniee,
Should be going home to rest
With his badge upon his breast,
And not a soul to sing corroboree.
In the dawn of Sixty-Three
Such a strapping buck was he,
And his nulla made his foeman’s noddle ring ;
And in sundry tribal rows,
And in battling for a spouse,
Did he prove himself as every inch a king.
But his bitter bane was Rum,
And whene’er his soul was glum.
He liquored free to glad his bosom tearful ;
And whene’er his soul was gay
He would put some more away,
Just to keep his heart a-feeling doubly cheerful.
In the savage days of yore
He was savage to the core,
And would dine upon a comrade now and then •
But as times grew dull and tame,
He had turned to other game,
But he never ceased to love his fellow-men.
Though his dusky mates had gone,
Still he lingered on and on,
When the whites of land and living had bereft him ;
But to-night he’ll soundly sleep
In a narrow bed and deep,
In the only plot this callous world has left him.
Doff your hats and let him pass
To his couch beneath the grass ;
He was Majesty, though sable, when we knew him ,
And what’er his failings be,
He was King in Merrimee
Till another Sable Monarch overthrew him.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
A BORIGIN[
ALITIES
A while ago Resident Magistrate Jiear
made what is alleged to be the first regular inquiry
ever made concerning the Barau tribe in Papua.
The Baraus are nomads and an extraordinary little
lot. Naturally, on a first acquaintance, Jiear
couldn’t find out very much about them ; and
amongst the things that he couldn’t find was a
single case in which there was more than one
child living of the same parentage. Jiear can’t
say for certain, but the practice seems to be to
smother every child after the first. Probably
there isn’t more than some truth in the yarn ;
because if two people only leave one child behind
them, that tribe pretty obviously must have been
a tremendous tribe to start with, or it hasn’t been
carrying on the cheerful business very long.
A DEBATABLE QUESTION.
LEWIS: “ I see the doctors are disputin' about
which is the best side to lie on in bed, the
left or the right.”
LONNEN (the curtain-lectured): “If they're like
my missus they'll find there's a great deal to
be said on both sides."
“ Camp-Oven ” : I had the collie pup with
me when we sighted a huge porcupine scoffing
ants. The pup immediately waded in, whereupon
porky rolled up pincushion-wise. I had great
difficulty in separating the pair for the second
round ; but after I had made the separation,
helped by a hardwood rail, the pup showed no
anxiety to again leave his corner. Then P.
Cushion started to roll down the hillside. After
smashing Postle’s down-hill record to smithereens
he cannoned against a sapling, and effected a neat
pocket shot into a neighboring gully. The pup is
off “pork.” Coming inside the house he even
shied at the door-mat.
“Itan ” : They are talking rain records in
Bananaland now, since the great sheets of rain
have been swilling the dry west and turning the
valleys into rivers and lakes. But the storms of
Outback are not in it compared with the moisture
that occasionally happens to the coast. At Nam-
hour, a decade ago, 120 in. fell in three months.
Everything went blue-mouldy—clothes, boots,
books. While this steaming was going on, a
drought was cracking the black soil of the Darling
Downs, and breaking the hearts of the cockies.
But weather is a strange, unaccountable female
altogether. One recent morning, Watson’s Bay,
down Sydney Harbor, got nearly 2in. of rain
within a couple of hours; yet when the ferries
landed their cargoes of dripping brollies at the
city, dust was playing about the Quay, and
making fun of the water-carts.
•»•***
“ R.N. ” writes :
Am no “ theatrical manager ” of the type who wailed
and whirled so polysyllabically re buckjumping
(B. 26/3/’08), yet the other night I felt parlously inclined
to agree with that verbose person in re the cruelty of the
business. Understand that I don’t disapprove of the
game where the horses are willing buckers. It then seems
to me to resolve itself into a fair go between man and
beast, where the only genuine annoyance the latter may
he said to suffer is that of having 12 or 13 stone
of masculinity adhering to its spine. But on a cer-
tain night last week things were far otherwise.
About half the horses that were led into the ring refused
to buck up to anywhere near the form of their riders.
For their docility the poor brutes got bad gruellings with
cutting-whips—which brand of whip, in the hands of a
Waite or a Dempsey, is an agonising weapon. No
rational, unhysterical male objects to seeing professional
horsemen tackle genuine outlaws like Snips, Cooee, etc. ;
hut the spectacle of the tame, weary, bogus outlaw, who
has to be lashed about the head before he will begin his
outlawry, arouses pity, and an overflowing measure of
sickened disgust in regard to his assailants.
* * * *
“ W.J.A.” : In the Warrego, in dry times
when the water is low, tremendous cod-fish are
found in the deep holes. How old they are no
man knoweth. Their eyes are deep sunken, their
skins lined and leathery looking, and they are
very hungry. A shearers’ cook caught one of
them a little while back, and as the boys didn’t
care to take it on, he benevolently presented it to
the church bazaar to be raffled for at Is. a time. The
bazaar was some weeks ahead, so they tethered
the cod by the top lip, and flung it a few frogs
occasionally to go on with. It was eventually
won by Dooley, a Roman Catholic, who, in a fit
of generosity, donated it to his own church, which
also contemplated a bazaar. As it w r as a good
asset, it was again put on a diet of frogs, with occa-
sional grasshoppers, etc. In due course the second
bazaar eventuated, and a shearer was the fortu-
nate winner. Then they adjourned to the hotel,
and had a “ Tambaroora ” for the fish, and finished
up by being fired into the road at an early hour.
As by this time the fish was thoroughly impreg-
nated with frogs, grasshoppers, lizards, and the
like, and ceased to be a payable asset, they de-
cided to sell it to the Chinaman. I don’t know
how much it realised, for I wasn’t present when
they cut the money out in beer, but I have the
word of the yellow Pagan who ate it that its flesh
was “ welly goo’.”
* * a •
“ S.” : “ Some iv th’ worst mugs on earth
is the blokes what git sent out from England t’
distant relations
who’re squatters
in Australia,” said
Crosby. “They’re
mostly a bit dip-
py, ’n’ when
they’re not mad
they’re cracked.
There was a lad
name iv Alfie at
Lowther’s, lar s t
year, ’n’, blime,
I’ve knowed asses
what ud deny th’
relationship. Alfie
was on’y a rouse-
about, ’n’ he hadn’t
gumption enough
fer that. One
mornin’ we woke
up t’ find that
someone had gath-
ered up all th’ togs
in th’ hut, ’n’
dropped them in
th’sheep-wash. Th’
boots was flung
into th’ big dam.
When we charged
Alfie with th’ prank,
he jis jumped round
like an infernal id-
yit, yellin’ ‘ April
fool ! April fool ! ’
Later, we found the
sheep had bin
boxed. ‘ April fool! ’
howled Alfie. Some-
one put a plug iv
toby in th’ soup.
‘ April fool! ’ sez
Alfie. There was red
ochre in the pud-
din’, long Mick sat
down on a red-hot
bucket, th’ grass pad-
dock was fired, ’n’
we was sent down
th’ river on a five-
mile rush coz iv a
yarn about th’ boss
havin’ bin bit with
a snake. It was all A 1 tie’s
April-fool business. But, blime, we had th’
laugh agin’ him, after all; ’n’, my oath, we did
laugh. We didn’t stop fer a week. You see,
dates had got mixed a bit out there, ’n’ it wasn’t
th’ first iv April, after all ! ”
* * * *
“ Cict ” : I£e“Polstan” (B. 2/4/’08) and
the frilled lizard’s frill. Wherefore art thou
“ Polstan,” and why art thou so ? You carefully
exude the mis-statement that the reptile neither
uses its Elizabethan tucks and flounces (why not
call it a Susannahan decoration ? ) as a storehouse
nor yet as a bank, and in the next sentence you
orate thusly : “The frill is used as a receptacle
merely in which to store rations for future refer-
ence, or use, or consumption, or something.”
That was my contention, and you further back it
up by narrating your experience when holding a
post mortem on the animal, where you quote the
contents of its frill as insects, etc. As to your
concluding clause, wherein you assert that its
folds are only there for the convenient stowing
away of the apparatus when not in use, what’s its
apparatus, anyway, if it’s not grasshoppers?
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the
cause. Used the world over to cure a cold in one
day. E. W. GROVE’S signature on box. Is. l£d.
THE OUTRAGE.
BYSTANDER (referring to infuriated
party in the background): “ What's
the matter with him ? ”
CITIZEN : “ Well, you see, he's Boss Goat or something in the Orange Lodge, and he’s just
drawn the Cardinal in a half-crown sweep.”
“ Pewter Plate ” : I have never seen any-
one run to print over the unusual habits of some
Western District (Vic.) lakes ! There is consider-
able individuality about some of them. Take, for
instance, Bullen Merri and Gnotuk. A strip of
land about 150yds. wide keeps them from mixing.
Gnotuk, which is saucer-shaped and slightly fresher
than the Dead Sea, rejoices in a water level 26ft.
higher than its shamrock-shaped neighbor, Bullen
Merri, which nestles up against its bosom.
Bullen Merri, by the way, means, in abo-
riginal lingo, as near as possible, decree
nisi, and obtained its name through an errant
lubra who leaped from the tribal dock one night
on the occasion of a great divorce trial at the
Gnotuk assizes. She fled into the dark and gloomy
wave and did the trudgeon across to the camp fire
of the loved but lone co-respondent, who belonged
to a neighbor tribe on the opposite shore —two
miles off. The lady wasn’t pursued because the
tribal John Hops were afraid their uniforms might
wash off. Gnotuk protests at times against the
presence of a white man’s burial depdt on its best
bank by emitting, without any warning, the most
abominable stench. The origin of this hefty
flavor no one knows—or else hasn’t told. It
doesn’t emanate from weed or anything putrify-
ing on the beach, as some reckon, because the
smell smells as bad in winter as in summer. The
water of Gnotuk is so salt that a dead dog never
gets any deader, so long as it keeps out in the
brine, and doesn’t lie too long on the water’s
edge and bask in the sun. And if you dangle your
legs for an hour where Gnotuk laps your boots,
said boots will emerge covered with an incrusta-
tion like unto limestone. Fourteen years ago
Gnotuk subsided hurriedly in one act sft. with a
roar that shook its banks, and frightened a young
couple philandering near by. The two were so
scared that they got married next day. But per-
chance some other Abo. bloke would like to tell
that yarn ?
* * * *
“ Edyson ” : The prim gentleman in the
corner had not been invited to join in the conver-
sation, but he did not merely join in—he took it
over. He had a distinctly decorous appearance,
and from his sober garb and his grave manner I
had placed him as a parson of a sect that was not
strict in the matter of neck-wear, nor about the cut
of a collar. “ Your conversation, gentlemen,” he
said, “recalls to my mind the distressing error of
judgment that prostrated poor M‘Cubbin. M‘Cub-
bin was a good man, an agriculturist of great
industry and wide experience, who had been
tempted into a wild-cat mining scheme, and was
left an almost penniless stranger in a strange land
within a week of arriving on the Barrier. But
M'Cubbin was a man of courage. He went north,
where land was available, with the intention of
taking up 1000 acres, and starting life afresh. He
selected on a curious upland where the soil,
though a trifle dry, seemed most promising, and
set to work. He toiled with remarkable assiduity,
put in a crop, and, to his great joy, saw it sprout-
ing in the course of a very short time. Conceive
M‘Cubbin’s frame of mind on awaking one
night to find his hut tumbling to pieces about his
ears, and his farm positively disintegrating.
M’Cubbin actually fell right through his thousand
acres of arable land. Striking a rock in his descent,
he lay unconscious for five hours. When he
recovered he was on a barren hillside, and
the whole stretch of scenery was foreign to him.
The poor man was simply heart-broken, gentle-
men, on learning that he had selected a
dust storm temporarily delayed in its descent on
Broken Hill, and had fenced and cultivated 80
acres of it. Excuse me, but your feeble experiences
of dust storms extorted this story from me.” And
then we all opened our mouths to speak, and shut
them again without breaking the silence.
“ Camp-Oven ” : “I struck the champion
idiot weight-lifter, recently. Whilst in the Gil-
gandra (N.S.W.) district, I visited a sleeper-
cutters’ camp. The men were employing their
after-dinner interval in discussing busted records
and other feats of endurance, when a huge, shaggy
individual, with the constitution of a working
bullock, volunteered to carry three sleepers (green)
100 paces and return the same distance. After
lurching unsteadily up the straight, to the open-
mouthed surprise of the crowd, someone hazarded
a sovereign that he could not increase his load bv
an extra sleeper and still perform the feat. The
speculator lost his quid. To vary the proceedings,
two kerosene tins were brought out, filled almost
SO INOPPORTUNE.
“ Delightful change in the weather; magnificent
rain at last.”
“Yes, but so inopportune, my dear fellow. Our
special service for rain was to have been held
next Sunday.”
to the brim with water, and a fevv bricks put in
the bottom of each for ballast. Pin-wire was em-
ployed for handles. A course was marked out on
the most bumpy and log-strewn piece of ground
near the camp, and over this the mighty ass nad
to carry the tins without a spell and without
spilling a drop of water. As he essayed the task,
excitement ran high among the crowd, for at
times the water was dangerously near a spill, and
a neat poise just saved the giant idiot from
disaster as his foot turned in a rabbit-burrow.
Again he was successful. Just as I was leaving,
I discovered this human screw-jack hitched on to
a stout sapling which would have taken a traction-
engine to shift. A pair of trace-chains were
fastened securely round his hairy neck, whilst a
big, blue vein stood out on his brow, the thickness
of the M.F.B.’s largest hose, and he was pulling
like all Gehenna for ss.


WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
THE. FAMILY STIMULANT.
LUCKY BLACK OPAL.
Marion Crawford writes of it in ** Soprano ” as follows:
“ I wish you good luck,” he said lightly. “ Thank you,” she
answered ; “ one can never have too much of it—never ! Get a
talisman, a charm, a jagoo. . . . A Black Opal is-the best, but
if you choose that you must get it yourself—you must buy it,
find it, Or earn it. Otherwise it will have no effect.”
Black Opal is creating a furore in London.
A new Geological Discovery—it aroused Scientists.—lts
unparalleled beauty captured Society.
We are showing it in great profusion—both in the rough,
cut, and mounted as jewellery.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash.
23 HUNTER STREET.
Black
Opal and
Olivines,
set in
Fine
Gold,
£l5 15s.
“Rapids” : Be account of the hermit-dog
(B. 12/3/’08). It reminds me of the method
adopted by a South Coast (N.S.W.) selector some
years ago. No well-defined boundary marked his
holding, but a surveyor, following the track
brushed by his assistant, had roughly marked its
limits. A belt of felled timber followed by a
running fire ; a blackened waste sprinkled with
seed and then clothed with soft green grass ; a
barn-shaped slab-house with bark roof—such were
the steps which marked the development of his
selection. The little grass plot which had to sup-
port a saddle-horse and a few poddies, the
foundation of his herd, was a great temptation to
the wallabies which swarmed in the scrub that
bounded two sides of the clearing. So the selec-
tor organised a canine army of sentinels. Tied
to trees about 50yds. apart, and whenever pos-
sible commanding a wallaby-track, these fellows
took up their duties at sundown, and they were
an indispensable garrison. Much barking and
tail-wagging greeted the selector when he came to
release them at early morning. Then they set off
into the scrub to run down something for break-
fast.
* * * «
“Macfcavish,” who is evi-
dently an imaginative Scot, remarked, in a recent
“ Abo.” par, on the weirdness of the fox’s cry.
The fox gives a short, sharp yelp when hunting,
and a snappy snarl when discussing family
matters ; but for eeriness neither note is a patch
on the dingo’s wail, or even the howl of the com-
mon hoiise dog in low spirits. Reynard often
sounds his hunting song under a tree where fowls
are roosting, and a storm of startled chooks
usually drop from their perches in sheer funk.
This proceeding argues thoughtfulness on the
fox’s part, but there are contradictions in his
character. One is a habit of stopping to locate an
unusual sound, which habit often gives a fox-
shooter an easy shot. Another equally foolish
trait is a weakness for a lair in a tree with only
one entrance to the hollow. Generally it is a
standing tree so inclined as to be easily climbed,
with a hole about 20ft. up, where a limb has been
broken off. The marks the fox makes passing up
and down advertise his domicile as plainly as a
signboard, and, when discovered, the animal has
no hope of escape unless the individual who
ascertains him is of small size and nothing very
great in the way of enterprise.
THE SPIRIT OF DEFENCE AT BILLY-GOAT FLAT.
“ J.S.W.” : On a Riverina station I went
for a drive last week with the boss. Two weary,
dejected mokes drew us across miles of grey
plain, as bare of grass as the cranium of Charles
the Bald, to one of the tanks. Here was camped
a curious specimen of humanity—short of legs,
long of arms, filthy beyond description—a casual
dwarf, whose duty it was to drag out sheep that
had become bogged in the tank. “Good day,”
said the boss. “Day, Boss.” “How many to-
day ?” “ Seventy-nine, Boss, so far. ” The heaps
of skins, the mournful, long-drawn-out “ Coor,
Coor” of the crows as they dropped or rose
heavily, the sickening smell and the barren waste,
and the stumpy, professional dragger-out were a
picture. Another small, dirty tent was half-
hidden in a bit of brush. “Is that part of the
dwarf’s camp?” I asked. “No; a rabbiter’s.
He went away to get married this week.” “Good
God! Is he coming back?” “Yes, he brings
h's bride with him to-morrow or the next day.”
I hen I fainted and remembered no more.
THE SUBSCRIPTION HABIT.
POLICEMAN (to drunk who is holding up a
lamp-post): “Here! What’s yer name?”
DRUNK (who is returning from a charitable fete,
hands the policeman fire shillings): “Put
(hie) me down as (hie) ‘X.Y.Z’ ”
“Sr.”: “Your crowd’s a nice lot, aren’t
they ? Y’ father did a year. You orter talk about
my people ! Y’orter ! Why, yer own brother
took yer down fer four poun’s. You orter tork
about my people ! ” It was the same old com-
batants fighting for the same old household
championships, and using the same old arguments.
“ Yes,” she declared, right at the front gate, and
addressing the people who peeped behind the
window blinds. “Yes, why yer own son’s aloafer
and booser like yerself. Go round and see Mrs.
Brown ! Go on, yer drunkard !” And then she
started to weep. Frequent “shut ups” sounded
inside the house at intervals. Finally he came
out to the door with a bucket. “Ef yer don’t
shut up, yer big mad fool, I’ll bang this water over
you!” “You dare!” replied the big, stout
amazon to the little shrimp of a hubby who stood
with his bucket at the door. “You dare! Jist
do it! See what I’ll give you ! Go on ! Throw
it, y’coward!” “Damn me, I will!” shrieked
the wizened hubby, and with a mighty heave he
poured a Niagara over the big, fat, complaining
woman. She didn’t scream. She couldn’t speak
with the shock. All she did was to cough and
wipe her face. For two solid months they’ve
been as quiet as lambs. Nary brawl or fight.
“Joe Billycan”: I agree with “ Mun-
dadji ” (B. 26/3/’08) that man’s noblest friend
prefers to choose his own burying ground. I
remember at the beginning of one very severe
winter an old, casual neddy was continually
hanging round a camp that he had selected, in-
stead of being with his cobbers, as was his wont.
The old bloke noticed it, and opined that it
wouldn’t be a bad lurk if we brought him in and
gave him some corn, as he reckoned the old fellow
would come in handy in the spring, getting in the
crop. It will thus be noticed that the old man’s
sympathy was of the useful (to himself) kind. But
though the ancient equine would eat the corn, he
would immediately mooch back to the camp, with
a suspended head, and sleep there all day, wearing
an expression on his dial likethatof an old leg-weary
gladiator thinking of his departed glory. He
“threw his seven” a week later—from senile
decay, I think; anyhow, he was old enough to
have a vote. We buried him under the shade of
the old apple tree.
“The Rager ” : Anyone ever hear of
Muldoon? Muldoon, like Blackguard Brummy,
Black Andy, Bill the Miner, and Cooper’s Creek,
was a famous character and celebrity on the rivers.
He was the only man that was ever known to
drink right off a bottle of “carriers’ rum ”
or painkiller without winking. Em-
brocation and turpentine he swal-
lowed at one gulp—and asked
for more ! As for beer, well,
he would drink it out of a
bucket. He feared neither
gods, men, nor dogs—
only blue devils!
Snakes, cats, rats,
and spiders he did-
n’t mind—if they
were dead. It was
a common thing for
him to polish off a
loaf of bread and
two pounds of half-
cooked steak and
then rise up and
say, “ Thank God
for that snack ! ” No
mate could travel
with Muldoon long,
as it meant starva-
tion—for the mate.
The mate would do
the cadging, and
Muldoon would do
the eating. When
at Big Yanko, Mul-
doon stowed away
the largest meal of
which we have any
record. He got out-
side of 27 rock-cakes,
the same number of
chops, a bottle of
pickles, two loaves of
bread, a tin of mar-
malade and three
pounds of vegetables.
The shearers had to
hunt him in the end, as
he was running the mess
account up too high. If
he had remained there
much longer they would all
have been in debt. So they filled his ration-
bags and turned him adrift to look for another
fattening paddock. After he had taken his de-
parture, the cook discovered that be had stolen a
whole newly-killed sheep and all the yeast.
* * * *
Up in Papua Judge Murray and the
magistrates are struggling with the eternal dress
problem. They have long since come to the con-
clusion that the habit of wearing clothes is killing
their Papuans, yet they know that their Papuans
would rather be killed than be out of the white
man’s fashion. It started this way. The white
man can kill with great suddenness and mystery ;
therefore the white man lives up two flights in the
human kennel. But the white man wears clothes ;
therefore when the Papuan wants to put on dog
and climb up a storey, he must wear clothes too.
But as he can’t get enough clothes to go round,
Billu’s clothes to-day are Jimmu’s clothes to-
morrow ; and so the gorgeous shirt wanders through
the village and doesn’t get washed anywhere on the
voyage. Now, it is bad enough to wear clothes
to-day, and go protected only by native innocence
and a shark’s tooth to-morrow; but worse still is
the habit of passing the clothes around, seeing the
number of lung-diseased subjects that they come
in contact with. The consequent increase of pul-
monary trouble is something awful; in the past
two years some tribes have lost no less than 20
per cent, of their numbers—mostly from this
cause. At the start the Papuan magistrate tried
to discourage clothes ; but the missionary frowned
horribly, and, anyway, apart from the missionary,
the plan didn’t answer. Consequently, nowadays,
the Papuan magistrate reckons among his minor
duties the education of the natives in the rational
use of shirts and other unnecessary garments.
* * * *
“Naye-Baal”: The gecko turns up on
Kangaroo Hills, North Queensland, as the latest
Australian claimant to honors and notoriety, and
is assuming fearsome proportions in debate. The
affirmative party alleges that he (gecko) is a true
chameleon, and the opposition says he ain’t, and
that anybody who says he is is a plain ass with
long ears and a frill on his tail. The chameleon-
ites are a growing power, and the conservatives,
maddened by-desertions from their ranks, have
become bellicose. On the policy laid down by
The Bulletin’s pet chameleon I have taken a
decisive yes-no stand. We know the gecko in
many shades, but the schism comes in on this
question : Is the brown or dark yellow saurian of
the evening the identical bright green gecko of
the morning, and does he alter his hue to accom-
modate himself to his environment ? I am seeking
to have the matter settled by a Commission of
Bulletin Aboriginals, for the row is driving
capital out of the country.
* * * *
“ Cict ” : He the multifarious names tacked
on to some of the N.S.W. towns. Was commis-
sioned recently to collect an account from
Adelong. Address supplied me was “L. Jones,
Adelong.” Struck Tumut, and inquired the
route. lnquiree asked if I wanted Adelong,
Adelong Crossing, Main Adelong, Middle Ade-
long, or Upper Adelong, and then sat back
calmly to observe the effect. Visited the lot ulti-
mately. Each included several houses and a
school; and most of them a pub, church and post-
office. They were easy to find, as they one and
all slept the peaceful sleep of stagnation on a
common creek—that of Adelong to wit. The
most elusive thing about them proved to be
Jones, who still evades me.
THE AFTER-DINNER APPLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Cole suggests the substitution of apples for tobacco,
inasmuch as “good apples are a delicious, health-giving
food, while tobacco is not a food, but a disease-giving,
offence-giving, and demoralising poison.” It will be
remembered that somewhat similar opinions in regard to
tobacco were held by the late John Alexander Bowie.—
Argus, mi'oB.
When Bill, the teamster, seeks the shade beside the billa-
bong,
To boil the billy and to pass the bully beef along
To Jim, off-siding ; when, beside the crib-fire, smoking
blue,
They pull their ancient cutties out, and fill ’em up anew,
Not here do loaded boughs bend down, with apples by
the score,
To scatter juicy joys on those who smoke big pipes no
more ;
There is no other pleasure
Than smoke to bless their leisure—
Last time they saw an apple was some eighteen months
before 1
When, rib and jowl bedraped in fat, the steady diner sits
And, platter after platter, gives his ten-course dinner tits ;
When as, the final nectar rolling kindly on his tongue,
He chaffs his pink companion, who is golden-tressed and
young—
When, fed and wined, he sprawls, and spreads his heels
upon the floor,
There’s room in his economy for smoke, and nothing
more !
He has no strength to grapple
In earnest with an apple—
“ Cigars !” Just hear his comfortable, super-fatted roar 1
VIC.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) unll be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
M.R.B. (Colac, Vic.): You send a silly news-
paper cutting' about a sow, which cost 2d. for short
postage, because you can’t remember that your Victorian
penny stamp only carries a letter within Victoria
Deeby : We don’t profess to acknowledge pars, and those
you sent were much below your old standard Darling-
downs : If a man announces that he sells “ milk and
water,” he will probably escape the penalties of the
adulteration law —provided he states honestly how much
water there is in his milk. But he ought to get three
months’ gaol for spoiling one of the good things that
Providence (and Cow) gives to man... Gumleaf : The
sort of incident that might have been mildly funny in
real life, but which in cold print looks damphoolish
Solitaire: Your contention that, “As it is, religious
people are almost bound to take the part of Asiatics,
even though the bulk of them are regarded as heathens,
because their [viz. , religious people’s] gods are Asiatic,”
is about the most original thing in its line
that has reached this office during recent years
Wigram : Your style is too rich and fruity.. ..John N. H. :
Good material, but your style is flat and your spelling
disastrous... Bay: You have more imagination than
skill in directing it Thorold H. : The verse hasn’t the
ease and dexterity required by the subject W.P.B.:
Interesting, but too wordy and long-winded Cara P. :
Too vague and indeterminate .. .Achilles B. : Has a good
descriptive touch, but isn’t well enough versified....
Hover: All right—give us a spell; and we don’t think
there is much use in your resuming... .J.F.D.: Laborious
humor H.H. : Pardonable as a first attempt
Grey Girl: Refreshingly candid, but very crude Alf
Nudson : Even your syntax is bad. “They doth show.”
for instance (J.S.G. : One is spoilt by “gay old beg-
gar,” and the other by “ pleasantly dolly.”... .Matthew
D. : Both have some grace, and one has an original flavor,
but the workmanship is poor G.M.B. : Pathetic, and
even poetic in places, but marred by various weaknesses
of form... .Constant Reader : There are no original draw-
ings by Phil May on hand.. ..H.R.S. : Suggestion afflicted
with an overplus of venerableness... .Insane Native : You
evidently understand the subject, but you don’t make it
presentable Onward Vic.: Very little merit in either.
.... Omega : has absolutely nothing to recommend it
Nero : Rather funny, but too stiff in the metrical joints.
C.E. : Much too longfor us, in any case Milla-
mana : There is an idea in it, and the last verse is rather
good... .Grey Box : Goat jests need to be carefully selec-
ted nowadays G.W. : Crude and ineffective
Way back : The office hungers for the name and address of
the “ well-known Society lady who smokes after dinner on
the verandah with the visiting Major.” Send these ; also,
the major’s moniker, age and regiment. The matchbox
incident they figured in occurred first in the naughty old
days of Launcelot and Guinevere... .Bill Way-back : As
you remark, “Outback” is demonstrably “ a little acid-
minded chap, whose literary style proves him an igno-
ramus, etc.” Let the contemptible fellow die the jour-
nalistic death... .Nemesis : Quite a lot of people, who
send almost illegible addresses, and no evidence, and no
affidavits, ask us to publish dangerous and costly libels.
Then when we don’t publish these libels they write —
signing themselves, vaguely, “ Jbkmxblb L. Sminmth, of
Kuuuuuuuuub,” so far as we can make out —and say their
faith in us as a fearless democratic paper is wholly shattered.
Where in Heaven’s name is the place you write from V. ..
Denyah : If pars appear, cut them out and forward them
to the accountant, with your name and date of publica-
tion. .. .Lai Ritter : The point is good, but the execution
is poor.. ..R.S.H. : A wishy-washy production Douglas
T. : Hardly reaches middling-.... Gertrude A.: Both rather
feeble and commonplace... .Ghiniquy : Pretty well versi-
fied—and that’s all P. O’L. : Very rough and unsatis-
factory work.. ..W.P.B. : Spoilt by bad rhymes and other
faults of form....Geo. R. : Too straggly and shape-
less Sipahi : Your trouble is lack of consecu-
tiveness. Better arranged, it would have made a good
yarn....Rob Roy: Very realistic. Pity it isn’t better
put together... .Ivan : You don’t make enough of it,...
Morgan L.F. : Fairly picturesque, but doesn’t cry out for
print Mabel: The dialect is too awful, and represents
no known lingo under the sun Little Georgie :
Sentiments excellent, but the phonetic spelling kills it....
Max H. : Both of that aggravating type that is too good
to damn, yet not good enough to print.. ..Phoenix: In-
trinsically interesting. Sorry it’s out of our line....
V.B. : Excused accordingly Atom: Simply—ppoh !..
. .J.H.L. : Versification all right, but the matter is peri-
lously akin to bosh Whittall G. : Both above medi-
ocrity, but one has a deadly flat finish, and the other too
much preliminary detail... .Marina YV. : Verse bad and
sketch worse....Gee Lee: Smooth, but thin and con-
ventional E. Daley: They didn’t impress us suf-
ficiently... .Keel : Your statement that Grant Hervey is
“ void of all knowledge of true political economy "duly
noted. If you mean the importer’s brand of political
economy 7 , he probably is. Also he is probably 7 better
without it.... J.K.S.: It beats mediocrity 7 only by a short
head... .Sawdust K.: Pity verses 1 and 2 are so weak.
No. 3 is capital... .O.C.H.: Moderately well written, but
otherwise not of much account.. . .Max Hurd : They have
nothing to recommend them.. .Wattle : Humors of sixty-
year-old female inebriate leave us quite cold and unamused
. ...J.B. : TheS. M. Herald’s advice to Australia to reduce
its imports was wise, but it doesn’t square at all
with the paper’s Freetrade policy J.A.C.: The
anecdote of “ Runtz, the prominent London archi-
tect,” concerning- the jerry-builder, his foreman
and the prospective buyer, was a flagrant Reidism
when the tents of Shem were being erected
S. P.O. : It might have been much better done, and it cost
us 8d., short postage... .A.W.B.: We are not inclined to
disturb your own verdict that it is doggerel
... .Spartan : Appears to be meant for a piece of elaborate
horse-roguery, but you haven’t made the point clear
enough... .B.S. : Lamentably lame and tame.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Malan : It didn’t catch o:i... .Midge : Full of draw-
backs and disadvantages. ..Jim C. : Female figure too
baggy and shapeless, and the joke isn’t up to much....
E.I). : You don’t shine in the artistic world... .Z.Y.X. :
They represent a very primitive and improbable brand of
art....P. Tucker: With proper training you might do
good work, assuming that the specimens you send are
not mere copies from comic papers.... Bill Marche : Draw-
ing of three Things or Objects, labelled Deakin, Wade,
and Bent respectively, and surrounded by faint ink
scratches, is useless as a cartoon suggestion—even with
the illuminating gag, “ E finita la commedia! ”
appended....N. B. : Immature age does not con-
done your drawing of Professor David. Send us some-
thing when you are a decade older.


life invader, ns 1 &>**',
Vi 'terrific
tooK "1&
Ple1f)or& o\ Pe+ty
Ak[>ein< - eci &is (^e
»n tf/XT country '
[6fl -" I witfi you old I - Weve too. j
For Hi* K/ew
Gov General op
Aw*,' 1 ' J_ or d Pud Icy
borvjc
'fi< aborts
Tlrnes)
I Wo, 3) "fo .
Pr©Jess OK ljfy declined
~tfye inViferfToti -fe Urt%
O>v,-t?ol
"&rr rn .. c -.
jjM'ly r^rj
*ltfe ProfsssoK Woaldnt' 'fouc'U it~ . w
w 4 J»itcVi Hv* * I»•
'er / H* °( s orrie
V"1
&d ,
f, J I n '
1 life
,L VS
if* Wort/ irP
mm VvfTTe -/or 4 e &
{ Wr*.ly View I _
Every -
Kje 'pc'hind it 4_o
r^»^->/l4'Cc.l^
MELBOURNE MATTERS.


“RIGHT AWAY!”


The OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY,
THIS old-established and popular
Hotel is now under entirely
new proprietorship
Central and Charming: Situation. Special
Attention to the Cuisine.
Lift and all Modern Conveniences. Tel. 321.
F. O. ROBINSON, Proprietor.
See “THE CRITIC.”
Obtainable all Newsagents
or GORDON & GOTCH.
GIGANTIC COMPETITION. £12,000 in Cash Prizes.
P r < ze » £5000; 2nd, £2000; 3rd, £lOOO, and others.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is unequalled
for the cure of coughs, colds, and influenza. It
acts on Nature’s plan, relieves the lungs, opens
the secretions, and restores the system to a natural
and healthy condition.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Davey Weir, the 96-year-old Dunmore
Lang emigrant who helped to open up North
Gippsland in 184 d, died recently. He bequeaths
three generations of sturdy descendants to the
country of his adoption.
Deceased British Prime Minister Campbell-
Bannerman had points. No game was preserved
on his estate at Belmont Castle. His old carriage
horses he declined to sell. When out of date he
sent them to the country, and pensioned them off
on green grass for the balance of their lives. His
wife, when dying, said, “He never gave me an
unkind word.”
Warden Harry Graves, of Sydney, stock
and station agent, who passed to the pastures of
Elysium last week, had been connected with
pastoral pursuits longer than most men now living.
His half-century’s experience served to teach
him as much as it was possible for a human being
to know in regard to the sheep as a money-spinner.
Deceased came of Limerick (Ireland) military
stock, and afforded a model of unbending Toryism
to all who ran across him.
SENATOR SYMON.
It has apparently been demonstrated to
the satisfaction of his accusers that Canon Nash,
of Geelong (Vic.), did nothing worth I mentioning
after all. The Argus congratulates the Canon on
the re-opening of a future for him. That is all
right in its way, but the Canon has lost a very
interesting past, and the aura of Byronic wicked-
ness which imaginative people wove about him
has burst. He was darkly suspected of being a
pirate. Now it proves that he is only a preacher.
GEOGRAPHY AND HORSE.
KINDLY VISITOR (examining the class): “Tell me some of the principal hays in New South Wales.”
IMPASSIONED SMALL BOY : “ Yes'm; Poseidon , Antonins , and Apologue.”
Died, at Maryborough (Q.), on April 18,
aged 76, George Negus, who established railway
carriage works in that towm, and built the first
passenger cars made in thb Northern State.
A noticeable absentee from the Royal
Commission on Beautifying Sydney is J. D. Fitz-
Gerald. Why was he not included 2 No other
citizen has done as much as he to force to the
front the question of a Greater and a More Beauti-
ful Sydney.
William Higgs, Queensland’s democratic
ex-Senator, has got a Government billet in
Sydney as director of the Queensland Tourist
Bureau and Intelligence Department. His job is
fixed for two years, by which time the Senate
elections will be round again, and his State may
be weary of Sayers and Ohataway and Sledger.
The death of Harry Foran, at St. Vincent’s
Hospital, Melbourne, is announced. He was aged
45 years. County Clare, in Ireland, was his birth-
place. On arrival in Victoria, some 20 years ago,
he obtained an appointment in the Public In-
struction Department. Leaving the service he
moved on to Sydney, and began life as a loud and
unstable variety of politician, the Domain being
the chief scene of his eloquence. He contested
many Parliamentary seats, with no success. A
couple of years ago he returned to Melbourne,
where he agitated some more.
“Silas” : The other day Magistrate Meekin
of Melbournetold an old road makerof myaequaint-
ance, 66 years of age, gone in the back, sft. Bin.
high, and weighing about eight stone, that he had
years of hard work in him yet, and declined to
risk giving him the old-age pension without a
birth certificate. A week later I saw that Meekin.
a substantial man, portly, and in his prime, had
given notice of his resolve to retire on his pension.
And it is not a 10s. pension that is due to Mr.
Meekin mild, you can bet.
One of the best known men on Sydney’s
water front is master-mariner Joe Weston,
of Balmain, who has owned for vears the
queerest-looking lot of sea-going craft that
travel along the N.S.W. coast. The recent strike
spelt trouble to Joe Weston. When the North
Coast beer supplvran out, the Sydney brewers char-
tered his fleet of two to carry beer to the parched
districts. The Sophia Ann (flagship) had just suc-
cessfully landed a full cargo of XXX at the Tweed
River, and was thumping out over the bar on its
way for more, when it became disabled. In trying
to get back into the river it developed into a total
wreck, and a big loss to Weston. The local Sal-
vation Army held a rally the night after the
disaster, and publicly thanked the Almighty for
wreaking just vengeance on the beer-carrier. The
success of the meeting was marred, however, by
a carping sister, who remarked that she thought
Providence would have shown more sense by
wrecking Sophia Ann before the lady landed ail
that beer.
Some May birthdays: Prof. Henderson
(Adelaide), 38 on the Ist; Capt. W. R. Randell,
the first navigator of the Murray, who still lives
at Gumeracha (S.A.), 84 on the 2nd ; Opposition
leader C M. Prendergast (Vic.), 54 on the 6th :
Sidney Kidman, “the Cattle King,” 51, and
Bendigo’s Bishop Reville, 64 on the 9th ; Speaker
Holder, 58, Education Director Neale (Tas.) 55
io d u C !l i a f P °P e Cooper (Q.), 60,' "0n the
12ch ; Sudden” Solomon (S.A.), 55 on the 13th ;
Chief Justice Madden, 64 on the 16th ; Bishop
Langley (Bendigo), 62, Premier Moore (W.A.)
38, and Railways Commissioner Pendleton (S.A.)’
Hon e ,l 7th ; Hennik er Heaton, 60 on the 18th -
Mrs. Melba, 43 on the 19th ; Engineer-in-Chief
° n J he 22nd ; p ean Vance
80 - H : n , d Bishop Murray (Maitland), 80, on
the 2 5th ; Bishop Riley (Perth), 54 on the 26th ;
poet G. Gordon McCrae, 75 on the 29th.
Since George gave up bossing the W.A.
Ministry as Commissioner for Railways, and
essayed cockying at Olive Hill, J.’ T. (or
“Jaunty”) Short has assumed acting command of
the Westralian lines. This gentleman has cut down
the staff, the expenses, the service, and every-
thing that an axe could get at, and what prevails
now is known as the Short (sighted) policy. Over-
time has to be cut out in enforced idleness, and
it seems likely that soon everything will be cut out
except the occasional accident.
“ Ifcan ” sends a memo. :
There were some things at the Sydney Easter Show
worth looking at. One exhibit was a collection of
farm products sent in by two Paddington boys, son of a
chimney sweep, who went on the land seven years ago so
ignorant of the business that they could not use a plough,
and almost too poor to buy one. They were then 11 and
13 years of age. With splendid pluck, these Prevost
Bros, tackled a 140-acre block of mountain land near Moss
Vale, and fought ignorance and irnpecuniosity until they
got both enemies under their feet. Then they began to
make headway. Now they offer a lesson to Australia, for
their collection at the Show would have done credit to a
State farm, where the management had an expert staff
and the run of the State Treasury. There seemed to be
no end to the variety of stuff produced on the small hill
farm, and it has a fair supply of live-stock as well. Also
the youths reckon they are only beginning, and hope,
after a few more years of bogging in, to do greater things.
Two more Federal Labor members are set
down for matrimony at an early date. The
Laborites who have entered the married state
since becoming members of the Australian Parlia-
ment include MeDougall, Fisher, Needham, Catts,
Russell, and Fraser. The roll of Deakinites,
Reidites, and corner men only tots up Keating,
Hume Cook, and Motor Kelly. Yet it is some of
these latter who spout about the Labor policy
being destructive to the home.
The profound kindness that Victoria heaps
on its helpless poor, viz., six months’ gaol, lately
fell like the gentle ton of coals from heaven on
ex-champion runner Albert E. Bird. Bird, who
is now 76 years old, had his share of good and ill
fortune before, in his old age, the usual Victorian
charge brought him once more into publicity.
The Court made severe remarks about the absence
of receiving homes for such cases, and this
moved Premier Bent (who is an ex-sprinter
himself, and was once a famous swimmer and
balloonist) to say indignantly that there
was no need to imprison a man because
of poverty, and to “express surprise” at
the magistrate’s ignorance of any refuge but gaol
for a penniless totterer. Well, if Victoria has
any other refuge, it is about time Bent told the
magistrates where it is, for Victoria’s helpless and
impecunious have been going to gaol for quite a
long time now. In Bird’s case Bent is doling out
a trifle from the “compassionate allowance”
which he controls, so Methuselah, the runner, will
dodge gaol after all.
The confused tale of this paper’s Oldest
Inhabitant:—
John Pascoe Fawkner, the founder of Melbourne, who
died in 1869, left but little of this world’s goods. He
made a will, however, of which Mr. G. B. Hailes, an old
colonist and old friend, was the executor. Mr. Hailes
died some years ago, but old Johnny’s will was before the
Court last week, after 40 years, when an order was made
to “ pay out” to certain beneficiaries. John P. Fawkner
left a widow, but no offspring. The widow married
a political barrister who had been a bookseller—
J. J. Walsh. Apropos of the founder of Melbourne.
It is not generally known that Fawkner’s party
was saved from slaughter by Derrimut, a native.
Mr. Fred Hailes, son of J. P. Fawkner’s executor, has
shown me an ancient photograph of Derrimut lying dead
in the Melbourne Hospital. The photo is by Davies, who
had a studio opposite the Theatre Royal. On the back of the
photo in the founder’s handwriting are the words : “ The
last of the chiefs of the Boonorong tribe, Derrimut, died
26th April, 1864. He preserved the lives of. the whole of
the first colonists when about to be massacred by up-
country tribes ; 300 were assembled together at‘Mel-
bourne in 1835. —John P. Fawkner.” Fawkner had six
copies of the photograph struck off, one of which he gave
Hailes, senr.
Bent, Victorias astounding Athlete-
Courtier-Gardener-Songster-Statesman combina'
tion, is not going, after all, to marry the wealthy
M.L. female that Sydney and Melbourne dailies
accused him of a while back. Yet is he not
hopeless outsider for Love’s invaluable stakes*
He is now reported to have flung, heaved piled'
deposited, or whatnot, himself, his achievements’
and the achievements he alleges are his, at the feet
of a Queenscliff (Vic.) matron, and she is said to
have accepted the offering with seemly gratifica-
Bonyfchon, of the S. Aus. Advertiser
has lost his general manager, Robert Cooper wU
broke down while S’langdon was away in £
land last year, and died last week from a hope
less nervous disease. For 30 years Cooper had
been most of the skilled business brain of the
Advertiser ; Bonython was still plodding along
on the staff when he joined the paper, after an
English training as an accountant and an Aus-
tralian training in breeding jumbucks in the Port
Lincoln district. It was a pretty tough struggle
they had in their earlier days, so Cooper got into
the habit of attending to details himself • and he
would probably have lived a lot longer (he was6ll
if he had been able to drop the habit subsequently.
Corpse item from “ F.C.” :
The Vic. Licenses Reduction Board’s recent innni™
into South Melbourne’s drinkeries concerned
Hotel, among others, and brought up memories of an olri
enme. In ’B4, J. B Slack, a wealthy miser who lived
alone in the house where the Star shines now though h
shone next door then, was found dead, his throat e, t
from ear to ear and a razor in his left hand Though U
was shown that Slack was not left-handed the hi*
Coroner Youl and a jury verdicted “Suicide” S«i
months later, William Barnes, then a compulsorv res
dent of Pentridge Stockade, babbled fatuously about
Slack s death and the interested authorities inquired
further. Slack s body was exhumed, and it was found
that the cut in his throat ran from right to left which
tended to show murder instead of suicide. Anvhow
Barnes was duly hanged in May, ’B5, and thus he realised
at length the folly of opening his mouth and letting the
wind blow his tongue about.
“ Minko ” : Anent Darling, the self-styled
m 7 low °. r late) y ™ Melbourne
(U. A/4/ 08). this fantastic person daily harangued
delighted crowds and distributed pamphlets for a
while in San Francisco streets, attired only in an
armless shirt, opened down the front, and a pair
of frayed trousers, the latter garments terminating
above the knees. The “nachur” man was un-
molested by the police until a few days prior to
the annual convention of Knights Templar,
when he and several other Ishmaelites were haled
before the beak on a large, general charge of
“ being characters calculated to undesirably affect
the visitors’ impression of the city of San Fran-
cisco.” Darling was discharged on entering into
a promise to remove himself and his wardrobe to
Honolulu forthwith. Darling was leading man
of his year at Stanford University in physiological
research, and an athlete of some note.
BETTER EVEN THAN CANBERRA.
FIRST ANTARCTIC EXPLORER: “By Jove , what a
splendid site for the Australian Federal
Capital! So far away from Melbourne , too.
I must write and tell Wade.”
A WORD OF ADVICE TO A KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
London, Wednesday Evening.—The police at Lisbon
have discovered a plot to murder King Manuel at the
opening of the Cortes.
The Republican newspapers advise King Manuel to
remember the fate of his father and brother.— Reuter,
SU/ltl’oB.
When the bombs are hurtling round you, Man-u-el,
Making peaceful Lisbon seem a perfect Hell,
Produce your memo book ;
Open it, and have a look
At the fate which, erst, your relatives befell.
In the joys of regal life in Portugal,
’Mid the pleasing strife of clique and of cabal
You will probably forget
Your own forehead once was wet
With red gore spilled by a son of Belial.
Always brood on your progenitor’s sad end ;
It will buck you.up, and wonderfully tend
To make you spry and cheery
In the presence of the eerie
Anarchist, with cans of dynamite to vend.
Never put the hideously blood-stained knife,
The smoking gun, the crash and scream of strife
From your mind, my youthful king—
By which practice you will bring
To yourself the blithe and perfect Cheerful Life.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
DULY QUALIFIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In 1886 Sir Thomas Gibson-Carmichael married the
daughter of Captain Albert Nugent, E.N. He is in-
terested in natural history, and has written various
papers upon centipedes and spiders.—Argcs re new Vic.
Governor.
He was a quaint and shabby bloke,
And, while his air was dreary,
His atmosphere, you’ll grieve to hear,
Was singularly beery.
He came up through the dust and smoke
Of Melbourne on a loping moke.
An eye opaque and bleary
Shone in his old and faded head.
He wished to see the Gov., he said,
About a little tlie’ry.
Upon the nice vice-regal mat
Encamped the dusty rider.
He turned his sleeve, and made believe
To pluck a purple spider,
And then a pink one. As he sat
He counted fifty in his hat.
He pushed the portal wider.
“ Come out, you loafers ! ” thundered he.
“ Of insects for his Ex’llencee
I’m general provider.”
He tore his whisker out like weeds,
Which didn’t seem to thin id.
He stuffed it in a pannikin,
And said he with a grin : “ It
Is half a pint of centipedes.
I’ve more to meet vice-regal needs.
I’ll catch ’em in a minute.
For spiders, mister, how is that?"
The Gov’nor peered into the hat.
Said he : “ There’s nothing in it ! ”
The bushy rose and murmured “ Fie !|
I’m only Brown, from Biam.
I ain’t well-bred, I ain’t well-read,
And just now deadly dry am ;
But on this point I qualify.
’Bout centerpedes and spiders I
Particularly fly am. •
And let me say you’ll never be
Well up'in natural his'tbree
Till you’re as drunk as I am! ”
VIC.
SILAS SNELL.


/
y
\Vv*
if
6
/
iiLVs -Jem , V
v
:>
i®
y
rt
■
*. J»:*'
*
111
'P
■’: '
!¥► A
iy
O
SI
• . ”
MS
,
s
:
.
r, i
y.
;. .' • J
: k
%yj \u
N
•><
■
’
X
\
ir
\
U
SJ
ft?
#X
s
v
y¥
WHAT WAS THEIR ANSWER?
Life is not worth living without “HAVELOCK.” Tobacco,
and you can’t smoke “ HAVELOCK” when you’re dead.
(For answer and moral see next Bulletin.)


When so many patent medicines contain
opium and other harmful drugs, ic is a relief to
know of one that is free, and that “one” is
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. This fact makes
it not only the best, but also the safest to use.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
824 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
The enquiries of the British Royal Com-
mission on the blending of whiskies have proved
the truth of the old saw that some whiskies are
good and others better. Just the same the discrim-
inating public shows by its partiality for IXO.L.
that it demands the best. G. Reid would suffer
less from loss of memory (B. cartoon 24/4/’08) if
he consistently resorted to the scholarly brand as
a mental refresher.*
GtO TO HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps, but if you
want real good stamps, send to
Fr?d. Hagei), Ltd.
FOREIGN STAMP IMPORTERS,
182 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Australian Stamps Bought. Prioe Lists Gratis
The greatest danger from influenza is of its
resulting in pneumonia. This can be obviated by
using Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, as it not only
cures influenza, but counteracts any tendency of
the disease towards pneumonia.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33/- per Half-doxen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
ft
K
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bali Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Mklbourne.
281 George St.
( opp. Hunter St.)
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
It looks as though China were making
ready to give back answers to Japan. According
to some accounts, the Chinese army is reaching a
high stage of efficiency, and the Chinese arsenals
are turning out guns equal in quality to those of
the best European works. When Australia
wanted some defence “ material,” the other day,
one engine firm offered to supply the goods from
China at a rate far below the English or Austra-
lian price. Of course the decision of Minister
Ewing was to manufacture in Australia ; but the
Chinese offer shows the progress that the Yellow
Man makes towards efficiency in warfare.
YEA-NAY.
An almost futile attempt to portray a notorious
political twister, as described by Deakin.—(Vide
daily papers.)
Britain’s so-called Freetrade Government
meets with one disaster after another. Winston
Churchill, going up for re-election after being
appointed a Minister, at Manchester, where
the original Freetraders came from, has lost his
seat. It is a rare thing for a Minister to be thus
thrown out, for any electorate feels a pride in
being represented by a member of the Cabinet,
and the conversion in two years of a majority of
12U into a minority of 429 is serious. Then at
Dewsbury, where the rags are sold, Churchill’s
colleague only got in by a majority of 1516— a
grievous falling away from his 3810 majority of
two years ago. And at best he is a minority
candidate who only crawled in on a split vote.
There is again talk of Premier Bent recon-
structing his Cabinet. He hasn’t yet passed every
member of the House through it, but he has gone
a long way on that road. Since he became
Premier, on Feb. 16, 1904, he has had three Lands
Ministers (Taverner, Murray, and Mackey), two
Agricultural ditto (Murray and Swinburne), two
Water Supply ditto (McLeod and Swinburne), five
Chief Secs. (Murray, Gillott, Mackey, Langdon,
and Peacock), and about as many honorary Minis-
ters as cared to take the billet. Now it is broadly
hinted that he wouldn’t lose much if he dropped
Sachse, Cameron, McLeod, and “honorary”
Pitt.
A queer story comes down from Papua to
the effect that a Japanese schooner lately sailed
into Samarai, and proceeded to land its crew
without first getting pratique. When the autho-
rities came down on the skipper, he told them
through an interpreter that he didn’t savee
pratique, didn’t know what a clearance was, and
hadn’t a scrap of paper on board to show what, his
vessel was, where she belonged to, who he was, or
what right he had to her. He said he was beche-
de-mer fishing, and had just run over from Thurs-
day Island, where he had been living for years.
There must be some queer, shambling goings-on in
Torres Straits if that Jap skipper’s account of him-
self was only half true —if, for instance, a brown
Asiatic can get possession of a schooner without a
scrap of writing to show for it, can leave the port
without a clearance or any formality, and go
wandering about beche-de-mer fishing, or making
believe to doit, and landing men unceremoniously
anywhere and anyhow.
Bigjohn Forrest lent his vast intellect to
the Bendigo Easter Fair, and in the course of an
oration expressed something like sorrow to hear
that Bendigo municipality was practically out of
debt. Then, according to a report of the pro-
ceedings, he scattered this wisdom :
They should float a large loan, so as to be able to carry
out extensive works that appear to be necessary. Many
people were averse to borrowing, but it was not the mere
fact of borrowing, it was the awful expenditure of
borrowed money that led people or municipal bodies into
trouble.
Think of the vast value of the information that it
doesn’t matter if you only borrow, so long as you
don’t spend. As a further subject for some of
these deep reflections, The Bulletin suggests that
Bigjohn should point out to some Rechabite lodge
that it doesn’t matter how much beer you buy, so
long as you don’t drink it. The Rechabite will
probably want to know what’s the use of buying
beer in that case, and Bigjohn will get interesting
when he proceeds to answer the question.
“ Galleryite ” writes :
The lately-closed session of the Queensland Parliament
was a remarkable one. It began on March 3, and during
its seven weeks’ existence twelve measures were passed,
besides Appropriation Bills and eleven Railway Bills.
The dozen measures were : the Land Surveyors Act,
Factories and Shops Amendment Act, Election Acts
Amendment Act, Old Age Pensions Act, Technical In-
struction Act, Wages Boards Act, Inspection of Boilers
and Machinery Act, Sugar Works Guarantee Act, Consti-
tution Amendment Act, Parliamentary Bills Referendum
Act, Land Acts Amendment Act, and Referendum (Bible
in State Schools) Act. The start was inauspicious. The
Government was unable to elect one of its supporters
either as Speaker or Chairman of Committees,
and had eventually to support the candidature of
a Philpite and a Laborite respectively for those posi-
tions. The Address-in-Reply was of an uncommon
character. It was practically a censure upon the Gover-
nor for his unconstitutional acts. These time-wasting
matters took up a fortnight, and then the House settled
down to work in dead earnest, and put up the above per-
formance, which must be an Australian record for legisla-
tion. Beginning with Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs-
day as sitting days, Friday was added, and subsequently
Monday swelled the list, and when, in the last week, the
House couldn’t sit on Friday (Good Friday), it sat on
Saturday, beginning at 10.30 a.m., and it didn’t knock off
till 1 o’clock on Sunday morning. It was a hard-working
session, and memorable for swift Democratic legislation.
“Mate”: Be Australia’s Navigation Bill
(B. 26/3/’08). Don’t see why the British Board of
Trade should “suggest alterations” in it. It’s
only going a step ahead of that Board in the
direction it prides itself most on taking— i.e., im-
proving the conditions of our sailors. The Board
enforces its regulations on all ships flying the
British flag when it can get hold of them. For
instance, some few years ago an Australian regis-
tered ship went to an English port. It was
British built, and not more than five or six years
old, but the regulations as to accommodation and
ventilation had changed since it was built.
It had to be brought up to date before
the Board would let it * leave port. Yet
it wasn’t trying to do a coasting trade,
and it was never likely to see England again.
Also its provisions were examined, and some of
them condemned. They were hauled ashore and
destroyed ; the skipper’s offer to take them to sea
and dump them was coldly declined. No doubt
the Australian shipowner considered this a griev-
ance, but he was not consulted. What we need
is a respectable navy to back up the “hot, firm
words of Deakin.” The British shipowner has
very strong objections to the American Naviga-
tion Law ; but the British Board of Trade doesn’t
dreatn of embodying them in “suggestions” to
Uncle Sam.
“ Solitaire,” from Maoriland :
The Church Gazette again: “No! Labor will not
further Christianity by preaching its doctrines from the
pulpit. If these doctrines are in keeping with Christian
teaching and principles, then they are being preached as
it is, and if they are not the pulpit is no place for them.”
This reminds one of the old Mahometan and the Alexan-
drian Library. “ Are the books antagonistic to the true
faith ? Then they are pernicious. Destroy them ! Are
they in accord with the Koran ? If so, they are not
necessary. Destroy them ! ” And they were all destroyed.
The Church Gazette is beautifully solid on the idea that
it is teaching the whole gospel and the pure gospel; and
that its preachments can’t be improved upon in any way.
If Arbitration laws are Scriptural, then the Church is, and
always has been, strongly advocating them, even though
it might sound as if it were cursing them. And if the
Church doesn’t advocate them then that proves that they
are unscriptural. For though the Church, when you get
down to details, is only the Rev. Jones and the Rev.
Smith ; yet Jones and Smith are infallible, and they know
everything, and any proposal for the improvement or
enlightenment of Jones or Smith is superfluous, not to
say impertinent. In fact, you can always find out for
certain if a theory is true bv asking the inspired Jones,
and if you are bewildered by conflicting political creeds
the one sure remedy is to lay the matter before Smith.
Hollis, M.L.A., speaking of the recent
rush of railway accidents in N.S.W., complained
of the rigid, wooden and indiscriminating
methods of so-called “discipline.” As an in-
stance he quoted the case of a man who was fined
a whole day’s pay for staying at a watering
station one minute over the time allowed for
taking in water. The minute was occupied in the
adjustment or repair of a portion of the mechan-
ism of the engine, but next time that driver will
know better, and will let the thing rip. Discipline
must be maintained.
Joe Cook’s latest was an hysterical deliver-
ance when Bill Lyne proposed to agree to some of
the Senate’s tariff amendments which tended to
raise the duties passed formerly by the Reps. Joe’s
idea was that those duties were adopted by the Reps,
as an honorable compromise, and that Bill had no
right to agree to the Senate action in raising them.
Bill, in reply, asked Cook if he would stick to the
alleged “compromise” by voting against the
Senate’s proposed reductions of certain duties.
Cook couldn’t promise that he would, and Bill
just said “Well!” and Joe said “ Well!" and
Bill said “WELL !”
The uncouth Bent, of Victoria, announces
that “ the State Cabinet has decided to keep in
its own hands the superintendence of the arrange-
ments for welcoming and entertaining the
American fleet when it arrives.” It can only be
hoped that before that fleet arrives some one
will have taught Premier Bent some sense and
a little quantity of manners. The idea of
Bent’s waistcoat being the first thing the visitors
see on landing, and the vision of Thomas, with a
comic song about “Jack Jolt” in his mouth, and
a large cabbage in his right hand, asking the U.S.
admiral if the ’ot weather makes him sweat; and
the prospect of Bent and Deakin shoving each
other on the landing steps —it is too awful. This
country wants to give its visitors a good impres-
sion. It will exhibit Deakin with some pride, and
it reckons five of the State Premiers will pass in-
spection, but it wants Thomas Bent to go to
Birdsville or Hergott Springs till the event is
over.
“ Eiddal "on a great Victorian irrigation
work :
The Waranga-Mallee Channel will pass through some
queer country, and, unless the Water Supply experts
have made a tremendous allowance for soakage, the
whole scheme, as far as the Waranga Basin storage
supply' is concerned, is likely to prove an expensive
fiasco. The steam scoops are at work on a big contract
approaching the Campaspe, and toil away without the
previous interposition of the plough, the big dredge-like
affairs pulling up fill after fill of sand-drift. Stuff that is
so soft as that means soakage, unless the bed of the
channel is cemented at a cost that would have staggered
Cheops even. The experts seemingly think that a coat-
ing of silt, naturally applied over the bed of the channel,
which will be composed of stone chips, will prevent this
disastrous soakage. Time will tell. But one thing is cer-
tain : the hundred miles of channel way to the Coliban,
which measures a chain wide and about 7ft. deep (a
pretty good river, in fact) will just about deplete
the Basin first filling. A big dam 6ft. deep and
about 150yds. long and a chain wide —part of the channel
scooped out in advance for water storage for the use of
the contractor’s camp —was filled from the Campaspe
Trust’s channel. In less than six weeks the water had
nearly all soaked away, and that was on one of the
soundest bits of ground yet scooped. What will the per-
petual sponge-like soakage be in the sand-drift country?
A humorous feature of the business is the presence of
Yankee irrigation expert Meade, who is roaring up and
down the country telling of the advantages of irrigation.
The country doesn’t want to hear general whoops and
remarks about the wetness of water and such-like, nor
does it crave for loose eloquence and generalities. What
it desires is a plain, flat assurance that the channel won’t
leak.
Pleasing slab from N. F. Spielvogel’s
lately-published book, “A Gutnsucker on the
Tramp” (G. Robertson and Co.): —
I have had to defend Australia from most abominable
calumnies. Such questions as “Why would you not
allow the Six Hatters to land in Australia ?” “ Why did
you put the Six Hatters in prison?” “Why did you
refuse to allow Indians to save themselves from drown-
ing?” “What about the Petriana?” My denials were
met with copies of Australian papers, confirming my
opponent’s argument.
It will probably be 20 years before Australia
recovers the good name which the Argus and
other Tory liars stole away. In the Petriana
Myth days there was an idea that a large section
of Australia might be terrified into abandoning the
democratic party by flooding the English papers
with incredible falsehoods about the party’s doings,
by thus filling England with a hatred and loathing
of Australia which would necessarily find ex-
pression in the English press ; and then by widely
circulating here the English press expressions of
horror, disgust, and detestation, in order to show
Australian democrats what an unbiassed outer
world thought of their policy. But the Australian
democracy went right on its way, and Toryism
gained nothing but the unutterable disgrace that
naturally attaches to the kind of person who
would sell his mother at auction and spend the
proceeds in beer.
From “ 0.,” on a situation which is still
hanging fire: —
Would the Governor-General have sent for Lyne had
Deakin persisted in resigning on the Webster vote? The
question is useful only as indicating what might or might
not happen in a similar contingency. When the head" of
a Government retires, all the members of the Govern-
ment automatically disappear, and there is no longer a
Minister in existence. All are mere members of Parlia-
ment. On that basis, the Governor-General might
send for Lyne, or Reid, or Fisher, or any other
member who was likely to command an effective majority,
or who seemed to deserve a trial. But there is
another matter to consider. Inasmuch as a Cabinet is
constitutionally assumed to work as a unit, an adverse
vote which causes the Prime Minister to retire affects all
the members of the Government. If the cause of the
vote were purely personal, the retirement of the Prime
Minister might justify the summoning of a colleague to
take his place. But if the vote relate to policy or admini-
stration, sending for a colleague of the retired Prime
Minister is exactly the same as sending for the retired
Prime Minister himself. Of course, if the Governor-
General could be persuaded that Deakin didn’t retire on
account of an adverse vote, but through weariness or a
boil on the back of his neck, then the sending for
Lyne would be in perfect order. Failing that* it
seems that Webster should have been sent for as the man
who made the trouble ; or Fisher, as the leader of the
party to which Webster nominally belongs. Personally I
think if Deakin ultimately goes out it is the duty of the
Governor-General to send for Webster. The spectacle
of Webster forming a Ministry, and offering George Reid
the position of Postmaster-General, is a thing which
would enrich the world with mirth and make the desert
of dry politics blossom like the rose.
“ Cict : Made one of a camping-out party
t’other week, and in response to an order directed
to a local South Coast retailer, we received th
following supplies :
Half-dozen French toilet soaps, 1 ditto hair comb 1 A
hair brush 3 Vienna pipes, i doz. Scandinavian con
densed milk, \ doz. Belgian candles, 1 Yankee alarm
timepiece, 1 do. axe, 2 do. tins boot-shine, 2 do phvin
cards, 2 do. tents, I gross Dago vestas, 2 doz. do lemon
(in nice tissue paper), 2 doz. Seville oranges, I German
concertina, 1 doz. do. postcards of English scenes * An
Yorkshire sauce, I Japanese camp-stool, 1 Yung l 7
mirror, I doz. German crockery, i doz. Sheffield cutle™
1 doz. Scotch whisky, k doz. South Aus. wines ’
251 b. sack of N. S. Wales flour.
Can we not yet import all the flour required in
the State, though we have been existing for ion
solid years? Ugh ! Is Reid dead? jS|
PICTURE OF A FEDERAL CRISIS, TAKEN
BY OUR OWN PHOTOGRAPHER ON
THE SPOT.
“Excelsior” writes from Queensland re
the Federal capital:
I believe “Indaba” in your last issue has struck the
right note. Australia is to be a great nation. Instead
of the present six States —three of unwieldy size
—it should, and will, he divided into many more. Already
each State is pushing its railways inland towards the
centre, and it is a logical conclusion that eventually these
lines will all meet somewhere on the North-and-South
transcontinental line, which must come before long. As
other States are formed from Geraldton, in the West, to
Tow'nsville, in the East, each State railway will converge
to pretty near the same point, and, granted that a place
can be found, say, in the Northern Territory (and I know
it can be found) with suitable climatic and other condi-
tions, that is where the future political capital of Aus-
tralia should be. I should like to see this question
thrashed out, and by people who really know something of
Central Australia, which is certainly not the desert we
were taught to believe it 50 or 60 years ago.
LINES ADDRESSED TO JOHNSON, M.H.R. FOR LANG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was never contemplated by the Premiers’ Conference
that the Federal capital should be anywhere in the
vicinity of Dalgety. . . . Victorian politicians say, bang
the agreement ! “ Why,” they ask, “ should New South
Wales have the capital at all?” . . . Twofold Bay is
scarcely belter than an open roadstead, exposed to the
full force of the heavy winds that blow and the heavy
seas that roll. . . . But, can anyone imagine any fairer
prospects for sites for a Federal city than those afforded
by the areas lying between George’s River and National
Park. The magnificent beach of Cronulla is included in
this area.—W. E. Johnson, brokenly, in Sydney Tele-
graph, »/4/’0S — and most other mornings.
Bear with me, Mister Johnson, for my brain
Is (through your fault) in a wild, hopeless whirl;
I scan your letters—o’er and o’er again—
About that Site, avid for Truth, the Pearl.
Tell me—who am confused — ivhen did the Con-
Ference of State Fright Premiers decide
To ban Dalgety ? Eagerly anon
I’ll publish what you now right deftly hide.
Disclose the wicked politicians that
Cry “Do not give Noo South a site at all” ;
Give names ! The villains should be levelled flat.
They are dishonest, and deserve to fall.
Last year Australia’s chosen site you viewed
(See Hansard) as a “ gem ” it were a “ vile
And dreadful crime to steal ” ; how you have slewed
Right round! You hold it “bleak,” "poor,” “not
worth while.”
The Bay of Twofold, which you raved o’er erst,
To-day for some dark cause you choose to damn.
The Port you once upheld is now Ma’s “worst”—
A place beneath purloinment by sane man.
Out of this coil one salient fact alway
Stands out; your protest-drum you do not bang
Anent Cronulla Beach —O Johnson ! say,
Is this because Cronulla is in Lang?
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
A HEAP OF MISERY FROM
INDIGESTION.
Weak Stomachs need Tone and Strength.
Sydney Woman had a bad bout of Indigestion ;
Headaches ; Heartburn ; Drowsy and
Listless ; Stomach Strengthened by Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills.
Indigestion is an everyday complaint. Nine
people out of ten get it some time or other.
Meals taken hurriedly or at irregular intervals,
food eaten too fast, or other little causes, not
noticed at the time, bring on a heap of worry and
misery in indigestion. Sometimes it’s the promi-
nent symptom in people who are bloodless. The
stomach simply becomes too weak to do its work.
Headaches start, the sight of food sickens, and
what little is eaten doesn’t nourish, the heart
thumps, sleeplessness and a depressed feeling sets
in till life isn’t worth living. To cure indigestion,
strengthen the stomach. This is what Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills do. They have cured indi-
gestion in men and women when every other
means failed. They sharpen the appetite and
enable the one who takes them to get nourishment
from every bite of food taken. If you’ve got
indigestion look to your blood and be cured, as
Mrs. Pierce was.
“I have suffered tortures from indigestion for
years, practically from girlhood,” said Mrs. John
Pierce, 177 Pyrmont Street, Pvrmont, Sydney. “I
never had any appetite, and what I swallowed lay
on my chest like a cold stone. My shoulder blades
would ache and I’d nearly feel suffocated. The
pains lasted for some time after each meal. My
head ached till I was nearly crazed, the pain
being up both sides. Every little while there was
a buzzing in my ears and I’d get quite dizzy. I
had no strength. All day long I was drowsy and
listless. My tongue was always coated' and I
had always a vile taste in my mouth. Often I had
some very bad attacks of vomiting. The doctor
told me my indigestion was chronic, but I got no
benefit from his treatment. Nothing did me any
real good till I read about Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills. I read about them in a little book, so I
thought I would give them a trial. After the
first box I was able to eat my meals without fear
of suffering afterwards. I began to sleep better
and to get a little stronger. Before I left off Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills I was fully restored to health ;
every trace of the indigestion had gone, and I
have never had it since. lam thankful to say
that I am now in very good health.”
You must insist on getting the same kind as
cured Mrs. Pierce. Sold by retailers and the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Australasia, Ltd., Syd-
ney, at 2s. 9d. a box, or six boxes 15s. 3d., post free.


BUILT of the
very best .
material by
experts of life-
long training,
RONISCH . .
PIANOS are
grand wear
resisters.
They Have a
beautifully . .
fu 11 tone,
quality, and
an extreme
delicacy of .
touch.
*
The case worK
desig'ns are
unique and
refined.
They are . .
guaranteed to
stand true in
any climate.
RONISCH PIANOS
mm
W. H. PALING <a Co. Ltd.
336 George Street, Sydney.
And at BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
We have a. .
fine display of
these Pianos,
and shall he
delighted to
shew them to
you.
They can be
bought either
for Cash or
on our Easy-
Payment
System.
Catalogues . .
are free for
the asking.
Wear the...
Well-known
" PERFECTS SHIRT (Regd.)
For Everyday Wear it
cannot be beaten.
Ready to Wear.
In Oxford Materials.
5/6
Fifty Patterns to
Select from.
urnULntLBouRNE.
MB ps
j
\ v
4*
1
IP
Ik
r \
)
M".
m
mmmm
wmm
WMS»
Also the
Celebrated
“CESTUS" SHIRT (w
For Country Wear. Ready to r / /
Wear, in Ceylon Materials, ■»// O
BUCKLEY & NUNN, LIMITED,
300-310 BOURKE STREET, fIELBOURNE.
MAY NUMBER NOW ON SALE
The Lone Hand
BEGINS its second year with the strongest number yet produced.
With the aid of the lessons of a year, the Editor claims now to
have gauged the feeling of the Australian public, and to be able
to supply them with the sort of Magazine they want.
That the sort of Magazine they want is the sort which the press
the world over, in its criticisms of " The Lone Hand " declares to be
about the best sort in the world, is a good compliment to Australian taste,
** The Lone Hand " for May starts off with a humorous cover by
“ Hop "; a characteristic bush picture (in three colors) by Fred Leist
follows; and Norman Lindsay helps to make the number memorable
with another of his Great Stories, dealing with Gautama's life.
THE CHIEF STORIES are by Randolph Bedford, Kathleen
Watson, M. M. Phillips, and C. A. Jeffries. Ambrose Pratt's great
serial, ** The Big Five," develops its interest, and tells of heavy
fighting in the Northern Territory.
THE ARTICLES keep up to the usual high standard of interest.
Acting as our Special Commissioner, Lieut.-Col. Antill went recently
to Australian Papua to investigate the conditions there, and gives this
month his conclusions. Beatrix Tracy continues her powerful articles
on Women in Industry with " The Chorus Girl," a bright and frank
description of theatrical life from the inside. Blamire Young writes
on Longstaff's newest picture. Louis Esson gives the first of his
impressions of Asia. Rene Clement (Paris) writes graphically of the
history and development of the motor car. " Byrock " has a topical
article on "The Great Rider," comparing our Australian buck jump
riders with great British masters of horsemanship.
And there is half a score of other great features.
Yes, May will be a memorable number.
Buy it; decide that you must be a steady reader, and send a
year's subscription direct to the office or to your nearest newsagent.
The |one Hand
214 George Street,
SYDNEY.


o°
Cherry Brandy
... THE BEST is ...
Peter F. Heering's.
NO COMPEERS.
The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
c
< v
Wholesale
for Australia —
Hogg, Robinson
&Co., Propty.,Ld.
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR
& CO.,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Liqueurists to the House of Lords.
The Desire to be Beautiful is only natural,
indeed it would be unnatural for any woman to wish to
be otherw'ise. You cannot afford to neglect your skin and
complexion if you wish to be beautiful, for without a
good complexion you haven’t a chance, and yet any girl
can have a skin to match any beauty’s in the world.
Yalaze. That is the secret. Valaze is at once the
mightiest guard and the finest food of beauty as concerns
the beauty of the skin. Valaze is of incomparable value,
but its actual cost is 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., postage 6d. The
Valaze Massage Rollers will banish wrinkles, fill out
hollows, and rejuvenate the whole appearance of the face.
To the woman who desires to keep her skin permanently
healthy and beautiful, these are the absolute necessaries
of the toilet. Single Roller 8s. 6d., a set of two 18s. 6d.,
and full set of three in case 25s. From all chemists, or
direct from Mile. Rubinstein and Co., Valaze Massage
Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney; 274 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; or 9 Brandon Street, Wellington, N.Z.* [2
<sr
v-,
! 1)
•jlvAm
& M 2
I’m the Robur Tea Gir!.
I’ll give you a tip about
making tea worth taking note
of. When you intend to make
tea, empty your kettle, and
fillitwith freshwater —water
that has been boiled before
becomes hard, and hard water
doesn’t make good tea you
didn’t know that before,
did you?
If you’ve never used
Robur, you ought to commence
at once —you may as well
be drinking pure good tea
as any other, especially w’hen
you can get it without payin2
any more for it.
((
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE.”
fZFMPER IDEM
FACILE PRINCE PS
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydnky, April 28, 1908.
My Dkar Artnt, —
Most of the people who ought to be bitten to
death by wild lambs have gone back to their
homes in the Back of the Beyond. The Agricul-
tural Show brought them to Sydney. The closing
of the same has sent them back. They bumped
into one like Tait’s trains, owing to a habit they
have of walking in one direction whilst looking
in another. The be-Rovalled show was a great
success, both as regards fatstock and gate receipts,
and the riding of Mrs. Stace and other skirted
ceutaurs in the jumping contests will hang in one’s
memory gallery until some other riders and ridden
do the rocket-oum-grasshopper act to greater
advantage, if such a thing be possible.
At the St. Vincent’s Ball, Mrs. John Hughes
set, “ Coal,” was decidedly first favorite. It was
entirely of girls in black sequined frocks over silk,
long black gloves, and tiaras of jet, illumined
with tiny electric bulbs. They carried miners’
safety lamps as they emerged from a representa-
tion of the inside workings of a coal mine.
Next was the “Butter set,” headed byMesdames
Toohey and Kenna in frocks of buttercupsilk (short,
and turned up to show buttercup and white striped
petticoats), white fichus, bunches of clover on
their chests, the same flowers in their white mob
caps, and carrying little pats of butter on platters.
In between the acts they retired to a dairy which
was set up on the right-hand side of the dais.
The best-looking girls composed the “ Oranges
and Lemons” set, for the fruit industry, and,
appropriately, they wore large hoop earrings
A la Dago. They danced very little, but were
content to look nice on their stall, standing in
tiers, with the “Bells of St. Clement’s” dangling
in front.
About half-time the vice-regal procession pro-
cessed round the hall to view the sets on their
native heaths, and Lady Northcote said nice
things to everyone concerned.
The majority of the new frocks were built over
silver and gold tissue, and the head-dresses were in
the same line. One decoration was the body of a
bird of paradise with its whole tail dangling over
the back of the wearer’s hair. The galleries and
ballroom were crowded, which makes for financial
success, and the honorary secs. (Mrs. Barlow, Mrs.
Watkins, and Miss Glasheen) could not desire
anything better.
Her Bx. Northcote, at her ball on Tuesday
night, might have been representing the effect of
sunset on polar ice. She glimmered in white
satin, blazed with diamonds, emeralds and silver-
tissue, and glowed softly yellowish as to under-
skirt. The new ladv-o’-war Poore looked as light-
hearted as a sea-gull. Also she was as white as
one—hair, face and frock. The youngest Madden
girl, and the youngest Manning damsel (Trixie),
and a Currie Elies charmer were debutantes.
Premier Wade’s consort is making a toast-and-
rose effect with a glad gown she is wearing at
evening happenings and circumstances. Report
says it is silver tissue over rose glace, but brown,
rather than silver, seemed the transparent en-
closure.
Was it Wilde or Shaw who wrote that too few
clothes and too much color always showed that a
woman was getting desperate ? He—whichever
he it was —meant the drop of nitric acid for
unmarried women. But at certain balls
that rolled tins week, married women, and
grandmothers at that, gave fearsome bone
and suet and brisket expositions. At the
St. Vincent’s those in the gallery got —well,
it was a shame to take so much for so little money.
The older some women get the more spinal but-
tons or hump-fat they seem desirous of exhibiting.
One well-known dame displayed as much of her
parchment back and front as she dared, and com-
promised with transparencies down to her waist.
Another showed a back view that more than any-
thing resembled a side of beef from one of the
prize stock at the recent show. As if anyone—
man or woman —wanted to gloat upon unlimited
ancient fat, or an indefinite quantity of middle-
aged bones. Still if they gave these exhibitions
in the sacred cause of Charity, they meant, well.
Charity uncovereth a multitude of shins, as some
wag remarked.
Thirty thousand persons—an official estimate —
witnessed the Sydney Cup, at Rannwick, Easter
Monday. Both vice-regal boxes were filled with
two sets of Excellencies and suites and guests,
shaded black, violet, brown and grey. The color
schemes of this year’s fashions are like Swinburne
poems.
The smart debutantes of this Resurrection time
may be said to be emancipated, let alone out.
They chipped the shell of the conventional “ in ”
at the Matrons’ ball on Monday night. On
Tuesday night they came further out into
the electric light at the Government House
Ball. On Wednesday several of them came
out some more at St. Vincent’s ball. On Thursday
night a clutch of the bantlings were at the
E. W. Knoxes’ dance given for the debut of Miss
Janet Knox, and on Friday night the whole
brood was at the Union Club ball. Truly, they
have emerged, and their outness is complete.
A new social feature of the just-finished race
festivities was the Brobdingnagian theatre party.
The movement began with a comparatively paltry
affair for 30 persons, donated by a dame who
already had a pile of generous entertainments to
her credit. The idea caught on. It reached its
climax on Saturday night, when a host and
hostess turned blandly up at Her Majesty’s with a
three-figure tally of guests in tow. If this sort of
thing is going to develop into a fashion, J.C. W. will
have to take serious thought. His most constant
Saturday night patrons are the simple leg-and-
sing-song-loving children of Israel, who live sur-
rounded by hard cash, cold fried fish, and
diamonds in Maeleay-street, Potts Point, and yet
remain withal Peris in regard to the Society front
gate. These will assuredly be sorely annoyed,
if they find—as was the case last week—every
decent seat pre-empted on the evening whereon
they have for years been accustomed to go forth
and glitter publicly, and be altogether happy.
Already there is heated talk in Bethlehem, and
round about Jabesh, and Hazor, and Ramoth-
Gilead, and the talk is mostly of the Society
matron, who wants to buy her theatre-seats in the
bulk, being charged extra for taking a quantity,
instead of less, as is the commercial wont.
Hobart’s “ season ” just about finished when the
Pah’f’l led the fleet out of the beautiful Derwent
and on back to Sydney fortheEaster worship of the
horse. After that the Tasmanian maiden shut
herself within doors to re-cultivate the peach-
bloom that tradition insists upon her struggling
after. By way of waving a good-bye, the snow
gathered on Mount Wellington and tossed out white
arms that stretched right down to “the Springs.”
A recent back-comer tells me that the Hobart
tripper of a few years back would be liable to be
bushed to-day if it were not for the very much
alive Tourist Association. No longer is the Fairy
Bower the stopping-place for everything that
isn’t a human antelope; drags run up to
the Springs, and a good track leads on to
the pinnacle of Mount Wellington ; and you don’t
have to go even that far to get the
only Commonwealth view of winding water
that seriously threatens to knock our own bit of
Harbor off tiie top perch. Tasmania still dodders
along many of its old ways, but it has learned
quite a heap of things about tourist traffic and
accommodation.
But Adelaide, which in so many things resem-
bles Tasmania (without Tasmania’s snows), has
learned nothing. If the ocean-boater drops off
there to see how pious the city really is, he risks
a desperately dull wander unless he has friends to
take him in hand. Mostly, however, he doesn’t
drop off unless the weather is something extra in
blue-and-gold, because as yet only one of the four
big ocean mail-carriers uses the Outer Harbor.
The boats of the other three just haul up some-
where out in St. Vincent’s Guif, and you go shore-
wards in a bobbing launch. Sometimes, if it’s very
rough, and you must land, you get dropped on to the
bobbing launch in a “ bosun’s chair ” or a basket.
It rests with the gods whereabouts in the launch
you drop. Arthur Searcy, President of S. Aus-
tralia’s Marine Board, was once being landed in a
bosun’s chair from the old R.M.S. Rosetta, and
by an unfortunate frolic of the gods he was dropped
down the funnel of the launch. He was a great
advocate for Harbor improvements after that.
Yet now that S. Aus. has got them, most of the
ocean liners won’t use them —all owing to some
base money considerations, I’m told.
The Captain Walter Lumsden, whose cruiser
was rammed by the American liner St. Paul,
on Saturday afternoon last, is well known to
Australians. He married Melbourne’s Miss Fitz-
gerald a while back, and took her away
to the Scottish castle he is understood to own.
Why a man with a charming wife and a castle
wants to go trapesing about the high seas and run-
ning the risk of violent colds, sudden death, and
sea-sickness is an unexplained and unexplainable
mystery to the female mind. The captain—as is
the invariable convention in these circumstances
—was the last to leave his vessel; and even
then he was loth to abandon her entirely.
The cable shows that when she overturned he
adhered to her keel with a pathetically earnest
adhesiveness, and there abode till removed by the
crew of the St. Paul. It is a lesson to all woman-
kind on the sort of thing that happens to the
husband who goes down to the sea in cruisers.
Don’t pray now for a goose that lays a golden
egg—just supplicate for a chook that will lay a
regular supply of the common, yolky sort. Down
in smelly Sussex-street last week that sort was
bringing 2s. 4d. a dozen wholesale, and there were
hardly enough to make two puddings in all the
market. A produce man, whom I implored to
give an explanation of the disaster, said that it
was partly owing to S’Africa and partly to the
high price of wheat and stuff. A horrible sus-
picion floated in upon me that the warrior in
S’Africa had got so confirmed in the habit of com-
mandeering poultry and wringing their necks that
when he returned he went on doing it. But what
the produce man really meant was that a while
ago N. S. Wales foolishly sent away tens of thou-
sands of frozen fowl, and then fowl food got so
dear that it wasn’t worth while incubating any
more fowl. So Sussex-street sells eggs at 2s. 4d.,
and when you want one with your fried bacon the
hotel manager pushes his head in the doorway and
frowns horribly.
Miss Madge Mclntosh and Miss Gunn, of the
Meynell and Gunn (etc.) Co., have got themselves
a furnished house at Milson’s Point, with a tennis
court, and a garden, and a cat, and a vine over a
porch, and a blessed damozel of their very own to
ask “ Wot’s for the butcher to-day, mum ? ” Assets
like these are not to be had in the closer settlement
area of grand hotels.
Mrs. Geddes-Crawford (widow of a Sydney
journalist), who is interested in immigration and
other patriotic subjects, will give a lecture in St.
James’ Hall on Thursday evening next. She will
give her impressions of travel in the British Isles,
America, Italy, Argentina, and Maoriland, besides
recounting her experience of two years on the
land, and several months’ acquaintance of the
billets of housemaid and nursemaid in Australia.
It sounds an attractive mosaic, and, if successful,
will be the first of a series. Then Mrs. Crawford
will go to India to further pursue the matter under
discussion.
For the Easter camp this year wet weather
mostly ruled, and this kept visitors away to a large
extent. Yet Tommy’s girl didn’t seem to have
her ardor very much diminished, and she spooned
with Tommy during his hours off, on the cold,
dank flats around Liverpool, in about the usual
numbers. The artillery deserted their usual camp
at National Park and began training at Heathcote,
trekking afterwards to Liverpool, where they were
brigaded with the Infantry and the Light Horse,
and participated in some highly theatrical show
manoeuvres. These were lost to visitors, owing
to the fact that they were held many miles from
everywhere in a wild gully between Liverpool and
the coast. Woman’s gentle influence touched- the
camp of Mars, however, on Thursday night, when
the regimental messes had for visitors at dinner
the nurses of the Liverpool hospital.
Wonder why our women folk don’t take to
camping-out as a holiday attraction now and
again. In Victoria mixed parties under canvass —
with, of course, proper chaperonage —are fairly
usual; and the tent-dwelling idea has so much
caught on that a great canvas hotel is one of the
summer attractions at the Lakes Entrance. In
N. S. Wales, where there are 1001 beauty spots
that can only be well exploited by tent-dwellers,
girls seem to leave the delights of camp life to
their brothers. Yet there could be no more
healthful, delightful and comfortable way of put-
ting in a week than under canvas. Seeing the
soldiers’ tents helped to convince me of this.
The tent, properly pitched and drained and pro-
vided with good equipment, has all the comforts
of a house and few of its worries.
Young George Castles, brother of the wonder-
ful three Castles sisters, joined the “Lady Madcap”
Co. in Hobart, and the tenor voice he lifted
proved the laddie worthy of his relationship to the
three lassies.
Miss Donnelly, a sister of Mrs. Agent-General
Coghlan, was married last week at Waverley to
Mr. Seafortli Mackenzie. A beautiful name is
Seaforth Mackenzie, and suggestive of the Scotch
Highlands, and the kilts, and things like that.
A Sydney presswoman, part of whose daily
grind consists of compiling lists beginning
“ Amongst those present,” lately started to leave
out the name of a married lady who is making
herself conspicuous with a Tertium Quid.
The lady sent T. Quid to the office to protest
against the slight offered to “the best-dressed
woman at the races.” The curious thing is that
he went and protested as directed.
Mr. Gresley Lukin, editor of the Wellington
(M.L.) Post, is in Sydney on a holiday, staying
with a married daughter, Mrs. Saclier, at North
Sydney. Bishop and Mrs. Julius, also of the Un-
stable Isles, will be here this week.
There was no Captain Leslie Wilson, A.D.C.,
at last week’s festivities. His father —who was
the Colonel the son is one day going to be—died
recently. A big section of Sydney will extend
its personal sympathy to this young man, who is
the kindliest, as he is the most talented and tact-
ful, of his type yet seen in these parts.
A persistently-rumored engagement is that of
Miss Nora Dangar, one of Sydney’s prettiest
girls, and daughter of H. C. Dangar, M.L.C.,
to a relative in a far land. The maiden
left aboard the Mongolia this week on a visit to
the Abbey Dangars in India.
Another pair of engagements : Miss B. Bab-
bington, of Parramatta, of one of the First
Quality Families, to a Mr. Bobertson, of Hay;
and Miss Gwen Tooth to a son of the late Dr.
Bundle.
The latest Australienne to success considerably
in the Cold Country is the little Manly soprano,
Miss Hilda Mulligan, the sister of solicitor Mr.
“ Jack ” Mulligan. She was one of the lucky
ones whom Melba told to acquire a knowledge of
French and Italian, and then get away to Europe
and just keep on singing. If she sang long
enough her voice would do the rest. So Miss
Mulligan stole away to Milan and to Paris, where
she learned the languages in between singing.
Then she hied her to London, where she sang
before Moody Manners, who promptly engaged her
for his grand opera co., and, after sundry re-
hearsals, promoted her to be leading soprano. Last
month she appeared in Scotland with the co., and
wild-eyed men in kilts threw away the whuskey and
the haggis and drew the claymore to do her honor.
The performances were frightfully delayed owing
to the Scotsmen threatening to turn on the bag-
pipes unless Miss Mulligan sang her numbers on an
average of three times each. At Perth, where
she appeared in “La Traviata” and “La
Boheme,” she drove the press to “fine writing,”
and when an Australian girl can drive the Scotch
press to fine writing it is proof positive that she is
something out of the common. After the tour of
North Britain the co. will shift to England, and
if the little Manly girl can create the same im-
pression in the big provincial cities she is a made
woman.
Maoriland visiting bowlers will go back to the
Dominion with a freshened knowledge of
“ancient” Australian history. They and the
Victorian bowlers, and ladies accompanying
them, went by tram and steamer to Kurnell on
Friday, and listened to a historical speech from
Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan. Kurnell is that bit of the
Cosmos on which Captain Cook planted the piece
of English bunting that practically wrapped Aus-
tralia up as Bull’s property. The picnic, which
started at ten in the morning, and was given by
Mr. W. Macleod, President of the N.5.W.8.A.,
was attended by over 250 visitors, who absorbed
with equal enthusiasm food and historical narra-
tive. At La Perouse, en route, the party saw the
monument, watched the boomerang-throwing, and
inspected the cable-station ; and the aborigines
showed their shell-work. At lunch, the President
of the Victorian team, Mr. Charles Wood, and he
of Maoriland, Mr. Waddel, responded cheerfully
to the N.S.W. President’s humorous wailings ac
the lickings Captain Cookland had got at bowls
from the Maorilanders. “ Knowledge by suffering
entereth,” says the poet; but the picnickers, full
of nourishment, tradition, and information about
bowls, and cables, and Cook, and shell-work,
wouldn’t read it the poet’s way.
Yet another understanding between marine and
pastoral products has been arrived at locally, for
“the marriage will shortly take place ” of Miss
Eglantine Campbell, daughter of Hon. “Willie”
Campbell, and one Dudley North, 8.N., of
H.M.S. Powerful. The prospective groom is
a lieutenant, and has a colonel for a father;
against which distinction the lady sets off a
maternal grandparent, who, in his golden
middle age, was a C.B. and a K.C.M.G. ; and a
great-grandsire (Sir Bichard Bourke), who, in the
intervals of being a British general, misgoverned
N.S.W. somewhat.
Miss Mary Bobinson, who has been pianist to
Sydney Philharmonic these many years, and has
otherwise done much to earn the gratitude of the
musical, is to have a benefit concert in the Cen-
tenary Hall on May 6. The musicians will help
with a good programme ; the public should help
with a good audience.
West’s Pictures move from the Glaciarium into
the Town Hall to-night (Monday).
The Kapurthala rajah, who married Delgado,
a famous Spanish dancer or something, last month,
has been rushed like a spring bargain sale by
London Society mammas on each successive visit he
paid to the City of Smoke. This potentate is about
35, looks 50, weighs anything from 15 stone up.
wards, and owns enough diamonds to tip up a
coastal steamer. He is no snide plutocrat like his
fellow-countryman, Dhuleep Singh. Thatis known
beyond question. He rules Kapurthala, and
wrests therefrom a massive income. It is a
particularly bitter blow in the circumstances that
he should now be numbered among the Lost
Niggers of Debrett.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane :—
The air is dark with threatening of balls. The General
Hospital animal will hop upon the sloping boards of the
Exhibition concert hall on Thursday night, when the full
weight of the vice-regal foot will be applied at 8.30 pre-
cisely. On May 4 the Commercial Rowing Club will come
along, and this year this well-manned function lias been
selected as the principal opportunity for flappers, who
will burst forth in the usual chifiony cloud in great
numbers.
On Thursday afternoon there was the usual struggle of
the be-f rocked sex round the tables of the Queensland Hor-
ticultural Society’s annual show of chrysanthemums and
dahlias. Mrs. Cowley, wife of the ex-Speaker, herself a
successful gardener, said the usual nice things from the
platform, and said them very prettily, so that she reallv
deserved her bouquet, tied with the colors of St. George
of which royal and honorable society A. Cowley is top
dog.
No vice-regal light was shed upon the proceedings,
as her Ladyship is too busy these times shaking up into
unwilling action the weary Mothers’ Unions, where a
lot of distrait and ill-gowned house-fraus congregate to
drink tea, and listen to such words of wisdom as fall
from the mouth of the determined president, or are
poured forth by some fluttered curate. One day last
week, the Government House horses got nerves ori their
way home from an entertainment of this sort, and gal-
loped over a small Italian “ Fish-O” on the banks of the
river road. The damage done was trifling.
The Children’s Hospital, that wonderful place that some
day is to have a proper sanitary system, an infants’ ward,
and a diphtheria ward that is not of rotten wood and
swarming with microbes, has been getting itself into
high disfavor again this week. On all sides come com-
plaints of distracted parents, who allege neglect of their
infants—in one case leading to a diseased bone, and in
another to a loss of 24 hours in treating a serious
case, which delay, it is said, almost cost the little
patient’s life. But the hospital is thick-skinned and
accustomed to complaints, and if there is any right way
of setting the machine of investigation and reform in
motion, no one seems to have discovered it.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


BY APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS LTD
VICE-REGAL’JEWELLERS • WATCHMAKERS • SILVERSMITHS
Plain Gold & Gem Set Bangles
THE FINEST STOCK
IN AUSTRALIA.
From £2 10s. to £5O
Plain Cold Jointed Armlet
Plain Cold Armlet i..d-15-O
AM
Write for illustrated Catalogue—SENT POST FREE.
Goods Forwarded on Approval.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON • ADDRESS 19-CHARTERHOUSF-STREET
The Royal Bank of Australia Limited
Head Office : MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
FORTIETH REPORT.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting on 39th April , 1908.
THE Directors have pleasure in placing- before Shareholders the annexed balance sheet and statement of accounts
for the half-year ending 31st March, duly audited and certified.
The net profits (including £4941 6s. 9d. brought from last half-year) amounted to .. £19,957 12 5
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz. :—
To pay a dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum
To transfer to the reserve fund (making it £37,500)
To defray the cost of alterations to the Melbourne premises..
and to carry forward the balance .. .,
During the past half-year the directors have succeeded in obtaining a share of the State Government banking
account on the same terms as the other banks, and this, in conjunction with the general expansion of the business,
has necessitated somewhat extensive alterations in the head office premises, the cost of which is provided for above.
The Melbou rne business continues to grow on healthy lines, and the two branches are satisfactory contributors
to the profits of the hank.
The Directors acknowledge with pleasure the good work done by Shareholders in the past in bringing business to
the bank, and they hope for a continuance of the same friendly assistance in the future.
. Bv Order of the Hoard. H. T. WILSON, Manager.
BALANCE SHEET of
THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
For the Half-year Ending 31st March, 1908.
CAPITAL ANI) LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-1>W),000 shares of £4
eac h £2,400,000 0 0
Capital Subscribed .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. £200,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. 80,000 0 0
Profit and Loss Account 19,957 12 5
v £299,957 12 5
Rotes in Circulation ' 13,030 0 0
Bills in Circulation 152,051 12 4
Government Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest .. Nil
Bearing Interest.. ..40,434 7 8
A ,_ I O
Other Deposits—Rebate
and Interest Accrued—
Not Bearing Interest £493,511 10 4
Bearing Interest 738,587 8 10
T , , 1,232,098 19 2
Balances due to other Banks .. .. 690 7 3
n . . £1,738,268 18 10
contingent Liabilities as per contra .. 405,990 0 0
£2,144,258 18 10
ASSETS.
By Coin, Bullion, and Cash
at Bankers .. ..£308,537 17 0
Notes and Bills of other
£651,655 10 7
Real Estate, consisting’ of—
Bank Premises .. .. .. .. 55,000 0 0
Other Real Estate at cost to Bank .. 9,367 7 9
Bills Discounted and other Advances,
exclusive of provision for Bad and
Doubtful Debts . 1,020,326 0 6
Bank Furniture, Fittings, Stationery,
etc 1,920 0 0
£1,738,268 18 10
Liabilities and Securities of Customers
and others in respect of Contingent
Liabilities as per contra .. .. 405,990 0 0
£2,144,258 18 10
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Rent
Balance..
, and other charges
.. £6,331 11 7
.. 19,957 12 5
£26,289 4 0
..£16,941 6 9
By Balance at 30th September, 1907..
Less Dividend declared
30th October, 1907 .. £7,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund 6,000 0 0
Balance carried down .. ..
Profits for the half-year after deducting’
interest accrued on deposits and rebate
on bills current, less reserves for bad
and doubtful debts
12,000 0 0
4,941 6 9
21,347 17 3
£26,289 4 0
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
T° Balance..
£BO,OOO 0 0
£BO,OOO 0 0
By Balance at 30th September, 1907.. ..£76,000 0 0
Transfer from Profit and Loss Account,
30th October, 1907 .. .. .. ■ . . 6,000 0 0
£BO,OOO 0 0
Melbourne,
9th April, 1903.
THOMAS KIDD, P.S.A.A. (Ensr.)
ARTHUR W. CLEVELAND, F.I.A.V.
Auditors.
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited
THE THIRTIETH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Thirtieth Ordinary General Meeting,
to be held at the Hank, 126 Elizabeth Street, at noon, on Thursday, 30th April, 1908.
REPORT.
T IIE . DIRECTORS bep to submit to the Shareholders tl.eir Thirtieth Report, with a balance sheet and statement
J[ of profit, and loss for the half-year ended 31st March, 1908, duly audited.
After providing for expenses of management, interest accrued on deposits, rebate on bills current taxon
note circulation, income tax, and making- provision for bad and doubtful debts, the net nrofit
amounted to f
Brought forward from 30th September! 1907 !! .. "
£23,206 4
857 10
Which the Directors propose to apportion as follows, viz. :
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on preference shares
Dividend at the rate of 6 per cent, per annum on ordinary shares
To reserve fund (making it £120,000)
Balance carried forward
The dividend will be payable at the Head Office on and after the Ist May, and at the Branches on receipt of advice.
.... The Thirtieth Ordmary General Meeting of Shareholders will be held at the Head Office of the Company 126
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, on Thursday, the 30th day of April, 1908, at noon. P y
.. ~ „„„„ B.V Order of the Board,
Melbourne, 15th April, 1908. SELBY PAXTON, General Manager.
BALANCE SHEET of
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
For the Half-year ending 31st March, 1908.
To Capital Paid Up, viz. :
31,184 preference shares
paid in cash to £9lss. £304,044 0 0
77,878 ordinary shares
paid in cash to £1 15s. 135,236 10 0
Reserve fund
Profit and loss
Notes in circulation ..
Bills in circulation
Balances due to other banks ..
Government Deposits—
Not bearing- interest,
£35,973 Is. Id. ; bear-
ing interest £284,277
13s. lid. .. .. £320,250 15 0
Other deposits—rebate
and interest accrued—
Not bearing interest,
£1,208,295 10s. sd. ;
bearing interest,
£1,585,165 2s. 6d. .. 2,793,460 12 11
Contingent liabilities, as per contra ..
£439,280 10 0
120,000 0 0
19,063 14 7
123,504 0 0
122,390 8 6
236 12 6
3,113,711 7 11
157,566 7 9
£4,095,753 1 3
By coin, bullion and cash
at bankers..
Coin in transitu
British consols, £70,668
15s. 2d. at £B2 per
cent., £57,948 7s. 6d. ;
Victoria Government
stock and debentures,
Metropolitan Board,
of Works, Municipal
and Metropolitan
Gas Co. debentures,
at valuation, £80,891
Os. 3d.
Bills and remittances
in transitu..
Notes of other banks
Balances due from
other banks
Stamps ..
£634,085 0
100,000 0
138,839 7
203,137 17
915 0
41,546 0
1,183 11
8
0
9
4
0
8
3
£1,119,706 17 8
Real estate, consisting' of—
Bank premises at cost to new bank.. 199,536 15 4
Other real estate at valuation .. 47.563 14 1
Bills discounted and other advances,
exclusive of provision for bad or
doubtful debts .. .. .. 2,571,379 6 5
Liabilities of customers and others in
respect of contingent liabilities, as
per contra .. .. .. 157,566 7 9
£4,095,753 1 3
PROFIT AND LO£S ACCOUNT
To Current expenses (including salaries,
rents, repairs, stationery, etc.)
Bank note tax
Transfer to reserve fund
Balance
£26,670 7 8
1,194 11 4
5,000 0 0
19,063 14 7
£51,928 13 7
By Balance brought forward .. .. £857 10 3
Gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing: for interest accrued on de-
posits, rebate on bills current, and
making provision for income tax and
bad and doubtful debts .. .. 51,071 3 4
£51,928 13 7
RESERVE. FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
.£120,000 0 0
£120,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward
Transfer from profit and loss ..
..£115,000 0 0
5,000 0 0
£120,000 0 0
I, SELBY PAXTON, General Manager of the Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited, do solemnly and sincerely
declare—
That the reserve fund amounts to £120,000, and the accumulated profits to £19,063 14s. 7d., and are used in the
business.
That the accompanying statement and balance sheet of the bank is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true
in every particular.
The names, addresses, and occupations of the persons who are directors of the company at the date hereof are :
The Hon.. Thomas Skene, of Melbourne, land owner ; Thomas Russell, of Malvern Road, Armadale, gentleman ; John
Johnston Smart, of Orrong Road, Toorak, gentleman ; James Moloney, of Collins Street, Melbourne, barrister and
solicitor ; Bowes Kelly, of Melbourne, gentleman.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions
of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria, rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for wilful and
corrupt perjury.
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 15th day of April, one thousand nine hundred and eight.
Before me, ROBERT S. INGLIS, J.P. SELBY PAXTON.
Melbourne, 14th April, 1908.
To the Shareholders of the Colonial Bank of Australasia, Limited.
Ladies and Gentlemen,—We beg to report that we have audited the accounts of the Colonial Bank of Australasia
Limited for the half-year ended 31st March, 1908, the assets and liabilities of the branches being taken on the certiti
cates of the managers and accountants, and that the accompanying balance sheet is, in our opinion, correct. We
have also to report that during such audit we have not observed or become acquainted with any breach of the “Com-
panies Acts ’’ committed by the company, or any director, manager, employee, auditor or shareholder thereof, and
that, so far as we are in a position to form an opinion, the balance sheet and accounts have been drawn up in accord-
ance with the provisions of the “ Companies Acts,” and present a correct view of the state of the company’s affairs,
and that all our requisitions in regard to the shareholders, as well as the private balance sheet, have been duly com-
plied with. We are, ladies and gentlemen, yours fathfullv,
JOHN BISHOP, F.O.P.A.)
J. O. DUIUAN /
Auditors.
We, Thomas Skene and Thomas Russell, of Melbourne, being directors of the Colonial Bank of Australasia
Limited, do hereby certify that, in our opinion, the above balance sheet is correct, and is drawn up so as to exhibit a
correct view of the state of the company's affairs.
Dated at Melbourne, this 14th day of April, 1908.
THOMAS SKENE, \
THOMAS RUSSELL f
Witness—T. N. Collins.
Directors.
y
0.
5 Unrivalled for the Complexion/^
Cold Medal. Paris Exhibition, 1900. F. WOLFF & 80HN,
Crand Prix, St. Louis, 1904. KARLSRUHE.
Of all Chemists and Perfumers. Be sure you get WOLFF’S.
Sole Agents: LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne and Sydney.
Under Vice>Reg'al
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkkl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
Wr TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
THE OEM OF MONARO.
The Famous Mount Cooper Estate.
Mount Cooper adjoins that great fattening property, The Bibbenluke Estate. The soil is equally
rich—growing Wheat, Oats, Lucerne and Potatoes to perfection.
The UNSOLD BLOCKS are for PRIVATE SALE.
Exceptionally EASY TERMS given to Buyers.
Further Information may be obtained from the Secretary, Mount Cooper Estate, Ltd., 117 Pitt Street,
Sydney ; H. A. Merewether, Royal Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney; The Manager, Mount Cooper
Estate, Holt’s Flat, N.S.W. ; or The New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co., Ltd., Sydney.


UcconncnpcD«
Br Tnc'LAnctf
ntPICAL
faCULTY"
’ o=-C2=o
We would - like.
you-To
yymple • hr\
oJr- oorexpervse
R<
Oer\d * •
'QK • Dooft LtT= *
f? Ftrp -Tntn •
- o^>O
JOUBERT & JOUBERT, ,
Flinders St., Melbourne.
CLAUDE HEALY & CO.,
63 Pitt Street, Sydney
L. E. JOUBERT,
Perth, W.A.
CIOO-I
II
'vO o :
“XJiE FOOD THAT MAKES THE BABY GROW."
ItK 'imp°rtance°/’figvre
AWell Drafted L&dy Mvjt
H&Ve&Good Figure, # *°** I
by\V&^rirvo)
Only j
V
* £
m
m
D
0
o
ASK
'for THEM
• AND 4
SEE 9
THAT YOU
l GET
\THEM.i
O
Poems of Love, Life, and
Sentiment,
Being the Best Poems oe ELLA WHEELER WILCOX
A large Crown Bvo Volume of 160 pages, P ft P® r c °
Is. 6d., or attractively bound in Cloth Boards *
Postage 3d.
T. C. LOTHIAN, 220 Little Collins Street, MkLBOCM*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melboubne, Apbil 27, 1908.
My Deab Yabbik,—
Elsie Moore, the plump beauty who once was a
caryatid in the chorus of J.C. W.’s opera co., was
married to her millionaire youth in N’York last
week. She changed her state with pomp on
Tuesday—so she cabled to her chums, the pretty
Butler sisters. And those ladies distributed the
glad news forthwith. The bewitching Elsie was—
amongst other things—a sister of the late Lady
Pratt-Winter, and quite successful on the
American stage —in certain r6les which demanded
a pretty face and an appetising figure. Her
husband'—whose name escapes me for the moment
-—has sufficient dollars to make half-a-mil!ion
sovereigns or more ; also he has a pair of heavily-
gilded progenitors, who think their new daughter
the nicest ever. Apropos to Mrs. Elsie, a wise
man said that, to be a theatrical success in the
U.S.A., she had all desirable qualifications—a
femininely-fair front, and strong masculine back-
ing. (Which are difficult to obtain simultaneously,
by the way.)
Another comic opera girl, lucky enough. to
possess those same potent weapons against
failure, was Ida Barnard. She’s making good
use of them. She is appearing in London in a
tolerable part and a gorgeous frock. Also she
makes her appearance from time to time at the
smartest Anglo-Australian functions that occur.
The female traveller ’twixt Melbourne and
Sydney is beginning to get her dues from the
inter-State railway authorities, whereat she is
gushfully grateful. No more is she thrust into
six square feet of stuffiness, with three more of
herself, and left to swelter there the night long,
from about nine o’clock, just because a com-
mercial traveller in the main car wants to go to
bed early. Now she’s got all to herself the
largest and most comfortable compartment
she can want (even if she numbers only four).
The compartment has chairs and tables, and even
ash-trays for her contentment, and is ever so much
nicer than anything provided for mere men. This
departmental detail has an essential significance.
It’s yet another proof that the era of Woman is
close upon us. Now, both men and women write
for her almost exclusively (surely no men
find pleasure in the unending succession
of stories of passion, padded with baby
Tailors strive to cut skirts rather
than "rousers. Artists paint portraits of
feminine prettiness, rather than of masculine
genius. Political newspapers give Mrs. Woman
a couple of pages of cookery recipes to herself.
And, at latest, insensible creatures like railway
commissioners exert themselves for her comfort.
Truly, if the importance of being feminine is
recognised and appreciated at this rate, in a de-
cade or two it’ll be worth while being womanly.
Now, I am told quite definitely that there is not
an atom of truth in the various yarns current
about Alfred De'akin and the Syme estate. The
Prime Minister does not benefit by a single
penny from the will; he is not to be in any way
associated with the future management of the
Age. The fact that Syme and Deakin were for
many years close personal friends, and the
thought that it would be a very good use
for a dying millionaire to put some of his money
to —that of recouping part of the financial loss
that the honest politician has to suffer for his
patriotism—probably inspired the yarns freely
current in Melbourne as to Deakin’s good luck.
But they have no basis of truth, which is a pity.
This year, when a murmured idea floated about
that Governor Talbot (who is also a soldier)
might like to join the Easter encampment, the
authorities demurred, and politely but fussily
hustled the idea out of perspective. It wouldn’t
be comfortable enough for His Tallness—better to
let him come when the band played “God Save.”
But Talbot and an aide descended quietly on a
neighboring hotel, to stay unofficially through the
Easter fray. The C.-O. of the artillery dis-
covered him, and invited him to mess at his camp.
Talbot sat on a camp stool and yarned about his
49 years of campaigning, and proved himself such
an out-and-out good fellow that the camp embraced
him. His kit was hauled over from the hotel,
and Talbot took up his quarters in the C.-O.’s tent
for the whole Langwarrin camp.
One of the many bungles after the ghastly Sun-
shine accident: The forepart of the Ballarat
train was uninjured. It was detached and sent
off with its passengers for Melbourne. People,
live and strong and kicking, hurried through to
the terminus, while the injured bled their lives out
among the wreckage. No one thought of turning
the well people out to help, and packing the
injured in the waiting train. Melbourne Hospital
had ambulances waiting at the station long before
the injured arrived. Whenatrain full of quite whole
excursioniststurned up, the waiting doctors danced
with fury. A relief train was despatched with
medical aid, and took two hours to reach the
scene. The next train from the wreck, carrying
injured and uninjured and the Ghastly Dead, was
hauled up at North Melbourne with a demand for
tickets. A callous guard shouting “Tickets
please ” to a train full of over-wrought people
who had spent the last few hours in Hell !
Even after the arrival in Melbourne, suburban
trains were held up for over two hours. After an
experience of six hours’ horror, three poor un-
escorted girls arrived at St. Kilda suburban
station in the grey chill of five o’clock early
morning. A porter demanded tickets. They
were not producible, having been dropped on the
field of the accident. The relentless official sent the
hysterical girls back to the ticket-office to get
fresh ones.
Mrs. Charlie Wallace and her sister, Mrs.
Parker, sailed for London on Tuesday. The
divorced beauty departed the scene of her strife,
looking very charming—brighter and plumper
than she has been since a year or so after her
marriage. She may go on the stage if oppor-
tunity offers, or eise go into one of the great
dressmaking establishments, and there learn to
put her artistic ideas into high-priced gar-
ments. Mrs. Parker will endeavor to sell some
songlets she has strung together.
The Mongolia deprived this State of the Butt
couple on Tuesday, and also deported Dr. Charlie
Ryan, who goes to Bullopolis to join his clever
wife and see his successful son. Surgeon Tom
Fitzgerald and his Nightingale of a daughter go
round as far as Fremantle by the same vessel.
The Butts, of course, were inundated with gush
and more tangible souvenirs, all of which they
graciously accepted. It might be better, perhaps,
if the enthusiastic mob which dances attendance
upon immigrant artists was more attentive to the
best of our local folk. But, obviously, a famous
name is a more valuable asset in Australia than
fine art.
The Marshall-Hall-Pinschof coterie talks of
building a great concert hall on Prince’s Court,
and popularising good music. It’s a negligible
plan. We’ve yet got to get good music estab-
lished in a small way, and good people to support
it. Anyhow, a clan like that one on Eastern
Hill isn’t fated to be our Mentor in music. Its
following is composed of two-thirds partisans and
one-third music lovers, which disproportion is
encouraged and maintained by the leaders of the
blind folk.
Hjalmar Jeremias Josephi presents two gifted
Australiennes and their music for Melbourne’s
edification in a while. Our Una Bourne joins
with NoraKyffin Thomas, of Adelaide, in a piano
and violin recital. Una, of course, is always an
exquisite little artist. Nora is a prize plum out
of the Joachim pudding, and fiddles like one of
the original angels who have never had their
technique tainted by an earthly apprenticeship.
The Rurr,fords gave a farewell reception at
Menzies’ on Friday. There was a steady stream
of paw shakers from 4.30 till 6.30. The Madden
lady, pale and quiet and alone, motored along for
a five minutes’ stay ; she covered a novice-white
frock with the dead black of a silk motor coat, and
accented the funereal note with a black hat bent
over a white face. Jovial John Forrest looked
small in comparison with the Butt lady; his
rotundity rades his height to a close finish. The
Forrest fady circulated her sweetest smile. Mrs
Daniels came with Mrs. Roberts. Daughter Bee
warmed the dull grey of the day with her auburn
locks—the hair that Fox painted in his most
successful portrait. She wore an adorable coat
of ’possum-colored cloth covering a lacy green
silk frilly frock, and topped the hair with brown
gear. The three youthful Tait matrons were smartly
tailored. Mrs. Rumford clothed her magnificence
in black lace and white, and Joy and Toy and
Boy and Coy were in blissful evidence. Daughter
Joy was fantastically fitted out as a pink silk
Juliet with her hair snooded in pearls, while Baby
Victor waddled about like a miniature George
Reid—his fat legs wobbling a Yes-No in his
attempts to walk, and his small rotundity clad in
tight white satin. It was a homely, friendly party.
Emelie Dyason, whose father digs ducats from
Golden City mines, rushes hilariously about Ben-
digo waving a contract. She is engaged as sole
pianiste with the Kubelik company for the whole
Australian tour. Miss Dyason possesses the true
Bendigonian harmony bump. Papa Dyason is a
musically-eccentric mortal, who turns his house into
a sort of refuge for orphan pianos. One drawing-
room possesses six grands, and twelve fiddles, an
odd ’cello and a trombone.
Louie Mueller, who warbles with the Kubelik
co., is the pianist’s most intense chum. The two
made their earliest mud pies from the same clay.
Clara Butt said she’d seen “ Peter Pan ”
twenty-one times in London, and she “would not
miss the Melbourne first night if she had to stand
at the back ! ” The management, however, found
the lady a box to fit her. It was a little tight at
the back seam, and the skirt was skimpy, but she
got into it.
Puccini, the Florentine composer, has just
woven a golden net of song-music round a Louise
Mack poem. Mrs. Louise-Mack-Creed is in Italy
now.
Mark Hambourg, of the Lion Head, approaches*
With him come Mrs. Hambourg and the Baby.
Baby Hambourg is busy laying down a mosaic of
schemes to wipe out the triple triumph of the Butt
Babies off his own bat.
Miss T. “Peter Pan ” Brune talks gaily of her
last New York visit. She stayed an hour’s jour-
ney from the city, with an adored sister, and
“ worked hard ’’ —went to the theatre every night
for study. She met Kyrle Bellew of the Legs.
He was working with Dan Frohmann.
Miss Noalles, the Victorian girl who toured
with the Brune co. so much two years
ago, is married in New York to a brother of the
Dress-Clapp sisters, and lives in the cunningest
flat with a Baby Clapp to play with. The Tittell
sister has her husband’s smoking room packed and
lined with Maori curios, collected for the Brune
lady by Maoriland Tourist Donne. The sister
tells visitor folk that the greenstones and the spears
and the deer-heads come from “ Down-There.”
Tittell says she often heard the term in New
York for Australia and Maoriland. Mebbe the
N’Yorkers expect the inhabitants to come up
served with flames and lava sauce.
Our sensational medico —or rather the one
whose sensationalism was most recently dis-
covered — is disappointing the uncommonly
righteous of this city in a most shameful fashion.
The kindly souls had forecast a dreadful future
for him. He was to wander from door to door
seeking patients and finding none. His case was
to be a Lesson to swift and unprincipled ado-
lescence; a Horrible Example to doddering eld.
However, by present indications, it is going to be
nothing of the sort. He has not to seek patients ;
they seek him. It is a fact that his practice has,
if anything, increased since the conclusion of
“The Case.” Churchgoers, when they get sick,
seem to lose all enthusiasm to avenge the Lord’s
fractured enactments, and think only of getting
hold of the best man to put them right again. It
is a paltry view, and enough to make a Sabbath-
school dominie say “ Blow ! ” quite irritably.
Miss “ Marina ” Murphy was most hospitable
to the cocoanut-oiled Fijians when they cricketed
here, so in a recent descent upon this city, the
fulness of the Brown Ones’ gratitude expanded
into a serenade, which struck the poor lady at a
horribly unaired hour one morning. The irri-
tated serenadee draped her head in a shawl, and
shivered in a clutched bath gown while she
thanked them forcibly. They spread themselves
with grins of delight all over her prize chrysan-
themum beds, and left the reek of their oiled
bodies on every verandah tile, and they wailed for
hours in the hope of coflee or resurrected Bun—
but the savage-surfeited lady hid her hospitable
head under the eider-down. Now, the child-like
savage wonders vaguely at the variableness of
the strange White.
The Jubilee of the Anglican Grammar School,
begun three weeks ago by jovial Old Boys, has
been elongated to a furious carnival by the Small
Boy and the Weedy Youth. Regattas and Fights
and Bun sprees made a golden dream, regretfully
relinquished on Saturday night with a final
Dramatic Frivol. The Jubilee jamboree has
embraced the Small Girl of local schools who has
rushed into an abandoned dissipation of New
Hair Ribbon for the enslavement of her bun-
filled boy.
The psychological inwardness of Hair Strings
has never appealed so strongly to me before.
“ Looks pretty ? ” snorted, one fourteen-year-old
feminine in my hearing. “Why, she’s worn the
same hair ribbon three times to Evenings, and her
stockings never match the color. Huh ! ” and she
tossed her scarlet-crested head scornfully, and
viewed her lanky scarlet legs with blissful superi-
ority, while she ostentatiously displayed the
infinitesimal fraction of a curve cut in her “semi-
evening ” dress.
The India brought a “frightfully fascinating”
(to quote “Peter Pan’s” Wendy) freight to
Toorak this trip. The Fairbairn’s one ewe lamb,
Alison, comes triumphantly home from the Coral
Strand for a Ti-tree trip, with Captain hubby in
tow, and Baby Balmain and its ayah in the lime-
light. Prof. Spencer’s wife and daughters were
also India passengers—returning after two years’
journeying. The girls have learnt French-as-she-
is-spoke at a Parisian pension, while Mamma
played about and took them for occasional jaunts.
Softgoods Butler and his imposing dame once
more add to the gaiety of show audiences. They’ve
motored all round the British Isles and over half
the European continent; they’ve climbed moun-
tains and slid down again with toboggan, and put
in a record rapid trip. The Butler baby-boys stay
at school in Paris, with Auntie Flo Wilson within
coo-ee.
Chapel-street, P’ran, the Mecca of the careful
housewife, the factory tart, and the people of no
importance, was lifted from its sordid gloom one
afternoon lately by a vision of Clara (there was only
one in Melbourne just then) and her devoted
Kennerley. They drove slowly along. Clara, as
she leant back, smiled lazily, and buried her
massive chin in the plateau of violets that decor-
ated that noble chest where the “Lost Chord”
might be found. Clara always reminds me of the
“Arabian Nights ” beauties. (I had a copy and
wasted my youth reading it in the hay loft.)
They had names like Ballyboudour, and had “the
bath ” with a great escort of maidens, and were
so modest they swooned whenever they saw a
man ! But they were beautiful, like Clara. And
as Kennerley smiled and talked to his wife
(as if he had just been introduced and was anxious
to make an impression), with his beautiful brown
eyes alight and the setting sun shining on his sage-
green hat, the heart of the careful housewife con-
tracted with sudden envy, and she didn’t seem to
care whether she bought beef or horse, for the old
man never looked at her like that. And the
little “factory rat” sniffed and murmured, “Did
jer see’er feather?” And when Clara was gone
the people of no importance returned to the
eternal two-and-elevenpenny flannelette blouse,
and the lame boy in the chair pinned the corner
of his rug round his faithful dog, for public atten-
tion had returned to him once more.
An interesting exile sends me the following
from London :
Our new Governor General, Lord Dudley, is recog-
nised by the cream of the Hub here, as in the Irish
capital, as one of the social ornaments of the hour.
He will be found more affable than any viceroy since
the late Lord Hopetoun’s time ; his wife, after a “ meteoric
career,” shines as one of the tactful, accomplished, cute,
but ingratiating graces of double-bevelled circles.
South Australian Agent-General Jenkins grows in the
girth two yards around —another Ho-Jolly Jenkins ! . . .
Mrs. Rupert Clarke circulates at Monte Carlo. . . .
Squatter Niall’s long figure perambulates Bond-street. . .
Hugh Ward buzzes round Piccadilly. . . . Jennie Brennan
rushes from town to town inspecting the panto twirlers.
The world is still young enough for a boy and
girl romance to bloom here and there in its
gardens. The heroine of this story is a fair,
slender girleen who bids fair to be one of
Melbourne’s Society beauties. Though not yet
a debutante, she has spent a fair section of
her 18 summers in the hot-house atmosphere of first
nights and cafes, hansom cabs and rinks, but
always under the careful wing of mamma, whose
ambitions for her lovely daughter were boundless.
But sometimes Cupid’s call is stronger than that
of Society, and, like the little girl in the fairy-tale,
she ran away and got married to a young lover
who had just left school. The pair were found in
an East Melbourne boarding-house, and last week
the little bride was whirled off to England, leaving
the little husband to break his little heart on this
side of the world.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide :
The Fox-Robertson wedding made the expected stir,
and a ripple or two over. The Rumford-Butt company
was right in the thick of the commotion. Mr. Kennerley
Butt gave the bride to her Benedict, the great Clara
distributed smiles to the elect, and both were photo-
graphed in the bridal group. Secretary Ibbs best-
manned the bridegroom, and accompanist Godfrey
helped organist Arthur Otto with his large obstreperous
instrument. The fully-choral Voice breathed at St. John’s,
which was garbed in a moderate amount of vegetation ;
and the subsequent reception occupied the Lyric Club,
where there was more vegetation, along with tea and a
beauteous absence of speeches. The bride wore a grace-
ful garment of white ninon, with soft lace and chiffon
fluffed about the bodice, and a white picture hat. Her
bridesmaiden, a young Koeppen-Wendt damsel, was in
palest pink glac6, and carried a floral staff ; and there
were two white-robed infant train-bearers (tbe bride's
small son and an infinitesimal niece). Mrs. Runiford was
resplendent in bright blue ninon de soie, panelled with gor-
geous Limerick lace, scattered over with silver butterflies.
Her hat was black and white, with the inevitable plumes
overoneear. Mrs. KoeppenPorter,mammaofthebride,was
garbed in black silk, with a violet toque, and she carried
some of the real variety of modest vegetable in her
bouquet. The pair are spending the first week of the
honey period in “ the Hills,” and then they join the Mon-
golia at Largs on April 30, and sail as far as Perth with
the Butts.
Another wedding of the week was that of Speaker
Coles’ daughter Annie and lawyer Willie Gunson. It
occurred quietly at Glenelg. The Attorney-General Prop-
stings, of Tasmania (Mrs. Propsting was the eldest Coles
daughter), came over in a body. The honeycomb in this
case is also being gathered in our weary, frequently-
mentioned hills.
The Butt-Runiford matinee on Thursday afternoon was
packed sky-high, and even a stray breeze was unable to
gain admission, because it had forgotten to book its seat.
Enthusiastic rows of damsels (flung to the organ, and two,
in the frenzy of the moment, created a diversion bvtrvin™
to get inside the instrument. The Great She wore cream
net over glacb, key-patterned in gold braid, with mint
floral ribbon braces, and a front bespread with diamond
and orders. Of course, she warbled about ten little tn»
and Eastertide. But the success of the afternoon
Mr. Kennerley Butt. He sang Alfred Hill’s Maori
ditties, and the “ Poi Dance” sent the populace
with enthusiasm. "
There died in Adelaide, last week, aged 66, Dr. William
Campbell, who had been practising in South Oss for over
30 years. He had long been honorary consulting phv
sician at the Children’s Hospital, and was a truly chad
table man in a quiet way. Also he was a considerable
authority on Art, and possessed a fine collection of nio
tures and china. Mrs. Arthur Rymill is one daughter
Bland Holt, at our Royal, is having houses that even
Julius Superfluous couldn’t rival. On Easter Mondav eve
enough population was turned away to fill every other
place of amusement in Adelaide, and “ The White
Heather ” had to be kept on for an extra week.
The Chrysanthemum Show on the lawns of the
Children’s Hospital clashed with the Butt matinbe •
therefore the attendance was small and shorn of frill’
although the shekels were all for the pet charity. Two
marquees housed the exhibits, and a “Continental”
wailed through the evening hours. Their Exes, went in
during the afternoon, and president John Lewis shook
them gratefully by the paw, and gave Lady Le Hunte a
nosegay. Miss Hague won the chief dinner-table prize
with pink begonias and ferns.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
Sydney’s old friend, Gilbert Parker, ap-
pears to have graduated from Freetrade through
Preferentialism to solid Protectionism. His last
speech in the House of Commons attributed the
ruin of the Kent hop industry to the dumping of
8000 tons of American hops in the United King-
dom all within a few weeks. It is obvious that
if such unrestricted imports may ruin a genera-
tions-old industry, they can most effectually pre-
vent the establishment of a new one. Horatio
Gilbert Parker was of the uncompromisingCobden
school while lecturing and journalising in Aus-
tralia, so that there is hope for others of his ilk.
John Davis, Owen Lewis, and Thomas
Rooksby, members of the crew of the ship Irene,
which reached Queensland with a cargo of immi-
grants on February 14, 1858, are still going strong
in Brisbane. They were photographed together
the other day. For the first year or two after
arrival, Davis was engaged in the Bananaland
coastal trade. He gave it up for river work,
chiefly as captain of tug boats. In this risky
work—in those days the navigation of the Bris-
bane River, even now no easy task, was like
looking for a clue to last year’s murder—he never
had an accident. Lewis became a road and
bridge contractor in Central Queensland.
Rooksby got a job at the Bulwer (Moreton Bay)
Pilot Station. Three years later he became
master of the lightship Rose, which used to boh
horribly up and down at the Brisbane bar. He
put in seven years there, when he was appointed
to the charge of the newly-built Bustard Head
lighthouse. He stuck to that job for thirty-three
years, and then retired.


x
\fc:
V >
vu
KB
"
V
«W-Sac
■ ! -■ '
Sfe
•' '
Wwiti
# '
iff.
MS? **
\
«§S
/
■-'
J>
MWM
J t
WmßSßmmmmdW" r i ' ! ''\
5...::. I &
. v:
Vt 3
-
?p\Rh>
>9
<£
5
o
Or
<
4/
V
o
o
<
12
n
*V
0,
JJ
V\\TH
s^’
4-
*
£>
/C
*0
<*
i
v
■v.
£x
<
*
J-
cc
V
V;
*
V
vH
e
vi- QrA i>
boo
A/AVIGfc
/dxi
o
■
*
Interstate Mail
Steamship Lines
I
S hinted in the
previous article
on the subject,
the N orthQueens-
land Winter Tour
opens up a series
of excursions, etc.,
of exceptional in-
terest to the traveller. It will
now be the purpose of this article to
indicate a little of what is to be seen. As
suggested previously, Cairns is generally the
goal of the northward-bound tourist; but there
are other towns along the route which will repay
inspection. Sydney was treated in an earlier
article, so it will suffice to pass it by without fur-
ther comment. Brisbane is the next port of call.
Prettily situated on the Brisbane River, it is well-
equipped with facilities for rapid conveyance to
any part of the environs. The best and cheapest
of these facilities is undoubtedly the excellent
electric tram service, the journey on the
Toowong line through the Western suburbs, as an
instance, being particularly delightful. From the
tram terminus a short walk brings one to Mount
Coot-tha, from which a magnificent view, embrac-
ing all the country between Ipswich and
Sandgate, may be obtained. One might men-
tion the seaside resorts of Sandgate and Redcliffe;
one might refer to the Eagle Farm Racecourse, to
the Bowling and Golf Clubs which welcome the
Southerner with a large, glad hand —but a mere
catalogue of names grows tiresome. Within the
city of Brisbane itself are many private and public
buildings, such as the Treasury, the G.P.0., His
Majesty’s Theatre, which have their counterparts
in southern capitals. The city is also adorned
with extensive parks, the Botanic Gardens on the
river bank at Garden Point, being notable on
account of its collection of tropical plants.
After leaving Brisbane in one of the steamers of
the Five Companies, one commences to experience
the delights of the sea journey, which returned
travellers have described in a language rich in
superlatives. One passes through the Whitsunday
Passage, with its wooded islands rising precipi-
tously from a sea that is like a big blue jewel cast
down indifferently. One takes a trip into fairy-
land, via the Hinchinbrook Channel. One sees,
on either side, rugged mountain slopes covered
with tropical verdure; island upon island,
tree-clad to the summit, passing by change-
less and beautiful —but one may not
dwell on these things lengthily.
But now the traveller finds
himself at Rockhampton, which
is 43 miles up the Fitzroy
River, and which is reached
by transhipping in Keppel
Bay. The city, which is the
outlet for the productions
from a great extent of pas-
toral and mineral country,
is memorable to the visitor
as having the world-famous Mount Morgan
gold and copper mines in its vicinity. The
mines, which yield, per annum, about three-
quarters of a million sterling in gold and cop-
per, are also celebrated for the completeness of
the plants used. For visitors interested in mining
developments these mines will have an undoubted
fascination ; while the engineer— indeed, the
person without any pretensions to knowledge on
the subject—will scarcely grudge the time spent
in an inspection. Again, the new blast furnaces
and converters, said to have a capacity of
10,000 tons per month, will have a special attrac-
tion for the expert. Of course, one may spend a
whole day advantageously in looking round Rock-
hampton itself. Its Anglican and Roman Catholic
Cathedrals, of a fine order of architecture, by the
way; its many public buildings; its Botanical
Gardens should all inspire more than a feeling of
indifference; while Emu Park, should also be
mentioned. Likewise, the spacious Olsen’s and
Johnson’s Caves, situated about 16 miles from the
city, should not be omitted from the itinerary of
the tourist who desires to be thorough.
Northward again is Mackay, on the Pioneer
River, and one of the principal centres of the
cane industry. Here one may observe the differ-
ent processes whereby the cane is crushed and
manufactured into sugar. The cane season does
not commence until about July; so the stranger
from the South will in all likelihood see the in-
dustry in its most flourishing conditions, and,
moreover, watch his own countrymen at work in
the fields. Naturally, Mackay in other ways is
well adapted for a short stay ; but space demands
just a passing comment. Its panoramic views and
the orchards in its vicinity secure for it a gradu-
ally increasing popularity.
Now comes Townsville, the commercial capital
of North Queensland. Townsville, about two days
by sea from Rockhampton, is the port of a large
area of mining and pastoral country, and also de-
rives much benefit from the cane and fruit-growing
districts. It is in no way meanly built; some of
its buildings, such as the Supreme Court and the
Custom House, may be said to be equal to
any similar edifices in Queensland ; while
its harbors afford to the deep sea traffic
accommodation of a high order. Cleveland Bay,
on the shores of which the city is built, is indeed
one of the finest anchorages on the Queens-
land coast. At Townsville the traveller en-
trains for Charters Towers, which, distant
about 80 miles, is the centre of goldfields,
said to be the richest in all Queensland. To give
some idea of their mineral wealth, it may be stated
tnat for one year (1906) the yield was 205,632 fine
ounces, to the value of £873,469. Since its dis-
covery, in 1872, the growth of the industry has
been wonderful, and it now supports a thriving
population of 25,000 inhabitants. No one who
visits Townsville can afford to overlook Charters
Towers, the town itself, irrespective of the various
mining properties, being a good illustration of a
mining town under sound municipal government.
#3?
Lastly comes Cairns, which is' best reached by
transhipping at Townsville, and proceeding per
Kuranda via Hinchinbrook, Lucinda Point, and
the Johnstone River. The town squats in a
wild tangle of jungle on the shores of Trinity
Bay. Cairns is the point of disembarkation
for excursions to the Barron Falls, the
fame of which is a byword in the mouths
of men. The rail journey, through miles of tropi-
cal vegetation and forest growths, is inexpressibly
beautiful. The traveller climbs up the wall of
mountain and, comfortably ensconced in a railway
compartment, gazes into mighty depths with
eternity at the bottom. But the journey is only a
preliminary to what is to follow. Annd a dense
tropical jungle the river hurls into a gorge eight
hundred feet below. Through the rising and
ever-changing mists the cataracts gleam, torn
into foam. But beyond the Falls at Kuranda—a
journey of a few hours hence by rail is the magni-
ficent Atherton Scrub. In all Australia there is
nothing so wildly beautiful as this. Here flourish
great cedars, rosewood and satinwood trees, ban-
yans, ferns, and orchids ; flowering vines climbing
the trunks to the height of quite a hundred feet —
all completing a picture grand and almost savagely
alluring. Beyond—but a journey of a couple of
hours —is Lake Eacharn, once a volcano, but now
asheetofdead blue water in the mountains. Then,
a dozen miles distant from Atherton, lie Herberton
and its tin mines, said to be equal to Southern
Tasmania in their prevailing climatic conditions.
Again, branching off at Mareeba, the railway goes
northerly to Chillagoe with its mines, its rocks,
and its wonderful limestone caves. One may
travel further on to Mount Garnet and to the
Innot Springs, declared to pos-
sess medicinal proper-
ties; and thus conclude
a trip that will be a
precious recollection
in after years. The
North Queensland
Winter Tour must
be made sometime—
if Queensland is to
be understood. That
time is now !


Biliousness
Headache and dizziness are natural con-
sequences of constipation, which in its turn
is due to a sluggish state of the liver. It is
the impurities with which these diseases load
your blood that cause all the trouble, and
before permanent relief can be obtained
these impurities must be got rid of. Take
Mother Seigel’s Syrup. This great medicine
regulates the liver and bowels, restores
digestion, and cleanses your whole system.
SICK
HEADACHE,
DIZZINESS
AND
CONSTIPATION
ARE
CURED
BY
“ I can testify that Mother Seigel’s
Syrup is a sure cure for indigestion,
biliousness, headaches, and all such
complaints. I have found it invalu-
able in the home.” —From Mrs. E.
Richards, 15, Bathurst Street, Syd-
ney, N.S.W., October 24th, 1907.
SYRUP
TAKE IT DAILY
AFTER MEALS.
The Date is Fixed
ST. AUBIN’S ESTATE,
SCONE.
The Pick of the Hunter District. St. Aubin's Estate contains 20,000 Acres of the
Richest and most Fertile Land in the State, and is now Subdivided
into Town Allotments,
Farms and Grazing Blocks.
Subdivision No. 1 contains 70 FARM BLOCKS, from 8 to 400 Acres. Terms
for this Subdivision: 10 per cent. Deposit, 10 per cent, in 3 months without
interest, and the Balance in 10 Yearly Payments, with 5 per cent, interest added.
Subdivision No. 2 contains 16 FARM BLOCKS, from 40 to 1360 Acres. Terms
for No. 2 Subdivision : 20 per cent. Deposit, 10 per cent, in 3 months without
interest, and the balance in 5 Yearly Payments, with 5 per cent, interest added.
Subdivision No. 3 contains 40 TOWN ALLOTMENTS AND FARMS. Terms
for No. 3 Subdivision : 20 per cent. Deposit, and the Balance in 12 Quarterly
Payments, with 5 per cent, interest added.
FOR AUCTION SALE
on
Tuesday, May 26,1908
at the
Oddfellows' Hall, Scone,
at 12.30 p.m.
Lithographs are now ready, and can be obtained from the Auctioneers, and from
Messrs. Andrews, Moseley and Manning, Solicitors to the Vendor.
Auctioneers:
Messrs. J. A Simpson and Co.; Messrs. Edward Higgens, Parkinson and Co.;
in conjunction with Messrs. Snape and Co.; Messrs. Rowlands and Dodd ;
Messrs. Norman Ebsworth, and Mr. H. H. Brown, of the Paterson.
W. BAKEWELL, St. Aubins, Scone.
NOTE.—Owing to a clerical error the date of Sale has been previously
announced for May 5 instead of May 26.
Palmer Gasoline Motors
MARINE and STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes. to 25 H.P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running. Catalog FREE.
PALMER BROS.,
Cos Cob,
Conn., U.S.A.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., Agents, Brisbane.
KNOWLES AUTOMOBILE & MOTOR POWER CO. LTD.,
Agents, Sydney.
*v'-
57>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE, Is. PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
' ■
a
SCRUBB’S cloud AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION.
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
So Vivifying after Cricket, Motoring and other Sports.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhh & Co. on each Bottle.
CONJURING TRICKS,
PUZZLES, SURPRISE
& JOKE NOVELTIES.
The Look and Laugh Glass
See the Passing:
Show. Y our friends
grotesquely Photo-
graphed—stout
people look thin-
thin people look
stout. The Laugh-
ing Camera fur-
nishes all this, and |
more. By getting
a focus on passing
pedestrians, horses,
waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the
most grotesque and
ludicrous pictures
The Laughing Camera
are witnessed. All grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly made, and cannot get
out of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
Quite Shocking, but not Naughty.
The JOKER’S SQUIRT CINEMATOGRAPH.—A
real startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having a
microscopic lens fitted into one end. While
the victim is absorbed in admiration of the |
pretty picture, and turns the button in thef
confident expectation of seeing something)
interesting, a spring syringe is brought into)
action, and the observer experiences a very i
great surprise. It is very simple to operate, i
cannot get out of order, and can be carried I
in the vest pocket. Full directions with
each one.
Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our new Illustrated Catalogue-
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
?T.- - -D. R. G. M. - “ K. K
|SH=§!
FXJZZLE. PUR-SsES.
The Latest and Best Puzzle Purse on the market. Even
our most industrious puzzle enthusiasts battled. x
entirely different moves before the purse can be openeu.
It is made of superior leather, with inside pocket,
strong polished nickel frame. Illustrated directions
closed. Post free, anywhere, 2/-. Bo not miss this
chance of obtaining one of the best and ui
useful puzzles ever produced.
w
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post-Office^
The Inky Way.
THE EVENING PAPER “SUB.”
[Fob Tub Bulletin.]
He calls us out at dead of night,
He wakes us from our troubled sleep ;
VVe blink and dress by candlelight,
And in the cold grey dawn we creep
(While he, impatient, waits and stews)
To glean the latest murder news.
He sends us to the deadhouse, too,
Where festive microbes prowl and lurk,
To hear the evidence so blue,
That tells of misery and murk.
He will not hearken to our views,
But only snaps “ We MUST have news.”
He sends us to police-courts drear,
Where tales of villainy are rife,
And where we see the curse of beer
Stamped on the bruised and battered wife,
And strain our ears lest we might lose
Some scrap of lurid, spicy news.
Confound this hard reporter’s life,
And hang the cry of “ Boil it down !”
And curse this never-ending strife,
A plague upon i.,e “ sub’s” grim frown ;
Blast these perpetual interviews !
DAMN this eternal yelp for news !
MA0R1LAND. H. E. BOON.
* * * *
G. L. Jessop, the mighty smiter of the cricket-field
(when he hits the ball), puts in his winter months as
judge of a Limerick competition. His latest award gives
£13 Os. 8d. to a line about a pantomime clown, whose
“ hits cause the misses to frown.” The words “ hits ” and
“misses” are both in inverted commas, and there is a
heavy black line under each word as well. They do ram
their jokes home in London.
* * * *
“The Age will be my monument,” David Syme said to
one of his sons just before his death. Syrne’s will, just
up for probate, shows the Age entailed —from father to
son —through generations of Byrne as far, as entail will
reach. The house of Syme will not easily die out. David,
the King, begat a great family, and about him rose many
sons and'many grandsons. And his monument he has
built himself, one great stone upon another, with the
sweat of his brow and the rude strength of his own labor,
and a fierce whip for the less willing in his working gangs.
* * * *
Asquith, the new British Prime Minister, indirectly
gave T. P. O’Connor, the editor of a London evening
paper the chance to write the most taking contents-
poster in journalism, It was in connection with the
Parnell Commission, which all Britain, and London in
particular, was watching at the time with frenzied in-
terest Asquith was acting as junior to Russell (after-
wards Chief Justice of England) who was cross-examining
the forger Piggott, and he pointed out to his leader
that the word “hesitancy” was spelt “hesitency”
in the damning letter which Parnell was alleged
by the Times to have written. Russell asked Piggott
to write a number of words—among them, “ hesitancy.
Piggott who had already been cornered and discredited
a score of times by the great barrister, fell in yet again.
He spelt the word “ hesitency.” He left the court, and
next morning failed to turn up, nor was he in the witness-
box that afternoon. He had vanished. And “T.P.’s”
contents-boards came out the same evening in flaring
capitals with the news
The Man who Hesitetes is Lost.
* * * *
The London Tribune, the paper which was started with
a blare of Freet-rade trumpets, two short years ago, as
the “official organ of Front Bench Liberalism,” has died
the death of the average new London daily of late years.
With S. J. Pryor, one of the most capable of British
journalists, as editor, and the financial backing of
Thomasson, M.P., a wealthy cotton spinner, it was
reasonable to expect that the Tribune venture would
succeed. But it didn’t ; instead it has lost £390,000.
The deceased journal was the only penny London
morning sheet advocating those vague things which are
known in Fogland as “ Liberal principles.” Other dailies
which have been started and proved rank and deadly
failures of very recent years (since the uprising of the
Daily Mail, that is to say) are the Majority, the Daily
Courier, the Morning, the Sun, and the Echo. The
much-boomed Daily Paper bust with a loud detonation
almost immediately it was launched. Freetrade England
is a remarkably bad place to start a Freetrade newspaper
in these days.
* * * *
W. E. Smith, Sydney, has issued a Local Government
Diary. It is for use by mayors, aldermen, councillors,
and the like, and gives a useful item of information for
each day in the year. Thus on Tuesday, April 21st (1567), so
the reader learns, “ the Spanish Armada was destroyed,”
while on the 11th of the same month (1893) “ Mo'sman
was incorporated.” This work caters with a sure hand
for the it<jn municipal mind whose range is simply
immense.
* * * *
“Crosscut”: He was the only other customer in the
pub, and I asked him to help me wash down some of the
dust. He was willing. Between gulps he said he was a
journalist, and had just terminated a short engagement
of three days with the bi-weekly Wild Dog Banner. On
the first day the tow n was visited by a clerical person of
enormous tonnage, who was announced to give an address
on “ The Value of Cheap Phonographs as a Civilising In.
fiuence on South Sea Cannibals.” My friend had
to make a two-column report. The day was warm,
and having no desire to hear anything more of
phonographs than he already knew, he dropped in at
a pub by the back way. The bar parlor was cool, and the
beer still cooler ; and the air outside had melted with the
heat and was running down the street. So he lingered
and had a few more. When he eventually arrived at the
meeting place, he found the hall locked and everybody
gone. But he had heard the same “ light” drone somere-
marks on the subject a little while before, so he
gave full rein to his imagination, which had been
well oiled during his stay in the pub, and churned
out two columns of eloquence about cannibals and
phonographs. The report was duly published, and
the “ Old Man ” went to the length of complimenting
him on the way he had handled it. Flattered, the new
reporter “ shouted ” for all Wild Dog. Next morning he
picked up “ our contemporary,” which intimated that
Canon Worryboy, having left the notes of his original
address behind him, had lectured instead on “Little
Lessons We Can Learn By Watching Beetles.” On the
opposite page appeared a scathing attack on the depraved
Wild Dog Banner for its senseless hoax, “ which, we ven-
ture to assert, will go near to ruining what circulation it
still has.” My friend left Wild Dog hurriedly ; and he
told me, with tears in his eyes, that he thought another
beer would give him strength enough to resume his
journey.
0 4 * * #
“ The Swimmer ” : Most of the Maoriland dailies have
such a lot of surplus space that they send out staff men
to report all the little tin-pot council meetings. Maori-
land pressmen are accustomed to the duty, but the strain
has driven imported pressmen to drink Maoriland heer.
One Rawdon—or something like it—a new-chum English
pressman with a haw-haw manner, was turned loose to
report a shire council meeting shortly after he joined the
Auckland Star. For three hours the council furiously
discussed whether it should have a new drainpipe at the
rear of the shire hall. Shortly before 10 o’clock Rawdon,
who had slept uneasily for the past hour, awoke with a
start to a recollection of the iniquitous liquor law which
closes the Auckland pubs at 10 sharp. The council was
still in the thick of the discussion. Rawdon waited until
an aged local legislator had finished his great speech on
the sacredness of the trust of public funds, and then ap-
proached the president. “ Your Worship,” he said
courteously, “ what is the price of this—haw—drain-
pipe? ” His Worship glanced at him in surprise. “ About
7s. 6d., I suppose,” he said. Rawdon seized the Mayor’s
hairy fist, and delicately slipped three half-crowns’into
his palm. “Let us bring this—haw—discussion to a
close,” he said. “ I want to get away.”


❖
j.
lsak in
«2
AUSTRALIAN PIANO MANUFACTURERS,
HAVE OBTAINED AT THE
ROYAL EASTER SHOW, 1908,
THE UNIQUE DISTINCTION OF
GRAND PRIZE
(which award Has never
been made by the Society
to any other exhibitor);
ALSO
FOUR GOLD MEDALS
AND ——
THREE FIRST PRIZES
THE AWARDS ARE AS FOLLOW:
For Horizontal Concert Grand Piano :
GRAND PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL
For Upright Pianos : GOLD MEDAL and FIRST PRIZE
For Piano Woodwork : GOLD MEDAL and FIRST PRIZE
For Piano Metalwork: GOLD MEDAL and FIRST PRIZE
BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANOS
ARE ON VIEW AT
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street,
Adelaide, S.A. ; 837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A. ; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only
address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.
?
EVERY BEALE AUSTRALIAN PIANO IS GUARANTEED FOR 25 YEARS. - *!


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
A WONDERFUL CORRECTIVE
Of all Disorders of the Stomach, Liver,
Kidneys, and the Blood.
It is not claimed that Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are a cure-all, but as a genuine corrective for
all common ailments arising from disorders of the
stomach, liver, and kidneys, they are undoubtedly
the best remedy on the market. An ounce of
prevention is often worth pounds of cure, and as
0"
DIRECTIONS
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
many people are more or
less subject to some weak-
ness, when the latter gives
warning of its approach it
is both wise and reasonable
to adopt some means of
preventing symptoms de-
velopinginto serious illness.
“For • the last seven
years,” says Mrs. W. Burt,
of Hillgroye, N.S.W., “I
have occasionally taken Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
for indigestion and con-
stipation, and I would not
be without them, for I find
they give me immediate
relief. I enjoy very good
health, and on any signs of
indisposition I have re-
course to Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills. I also
give them to the children
when they require them, and I think that is what
keeps them in such pood health. I can speak
highly of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a
mild corrective, and recommend them to others.”
The Bulletin has received a copy of the
Paraffine Paint Co.’s “No. 6 Interchange,” and learns
from it that mighty changes are taking place on the tops
of the buildings that are springing up all over Sydney, as
the result of Federation and Moderate Protection. With
the introduction of Paraffine Paint, P. & B. Concrete, and
Malthoid, the flat roof is rapidly becoming an institution,
and the city dweller is beginning to make a paradise of
ferns and pot plants out under the stars where he can sit
and smoke at nights, and breathe pure fresh air far above
the jangling* streets. Hitherto, the flat roof has meant a
leaky house, now it means merely a set of rooms cool in
summer, warm in winter, and dry as the proverbial bone,
and a private garden out under the sky where noise and
dust do not come.*
It is curious that England should have
founded itsEreetradefetich on theopinionsof a man
who failed dismally in business, lived on the charity
of his friends, and gave utterance to opinions which
are now everywhere discredited. A recent book
gives some facts in the life of Cobden. His firm,
Cobden Brothers, failed through mismanagement,
but there was immediately forthcoming a public
subscription of over £75,000 for Richard Cobden.
He thereupon made speculative investments in
land and in railways—not in railways in the coun-
try whose fortunes he thought he was o
make by Freetrade, but in America, -the
his friends, on three different occasions, ma
him donations, the last reaching over £4O, •
This business incompetent expressed grave cloudr.
as to England’s wisdom in retaining its colom ,
on the ground of their serious expense. He e
termed us “a blood-stained fetich, a hydra
three unnatural heads —India, Canada and
tralia:” which is not a nice name to call ov
dog. Asked how the working men could P r
themselves against their employers Ul } der lr | u
trade, his kindly advice was that they shorn <
save £2O and emigrate to the United states,
didn’t suggest liow the working-man was go B
to save his £2O. It was a thing that Cobden him
self was never able to do. And he seeme; Q ,
convinced that Freetrade England was g &
be a good place to get out of.
One of the sights of the Royal A £ rl^p[ed
Show in Sydney, last week, was the quarter-acre °oo P ,
t3UU*« 1U UIIVJ , ’ U'Vv'f
bv Arthur Leplastrier’s machinery exhibit. hin?
steam and oil engines whirred and hummed,
machines made the buzz of agricultura , - (i ’ cow
dairy appliances rattled good butter ou ■ o f se ' ec ’ t
juice. Special attention was devoted to the . j
type, and Mr. Leplastrier is now organising p best
department of his extensive business 1X) suPPb t of the
tvpe of gas suction engine in the world, the p sonie ’s
famous National Gas Engine Co., of England.
wood-working machinery, Massey s steami Ije plas-
all manner of engineering appliances, J „ were
trier’s well-known steel trucks and tramway systems,
also on view.* _
~ ‘ ,
All kinds of
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERQILL & 00., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
N.S.W. struck disaster on the bowling-greens
last week, when Victoria crushed it by 124 points to 84,
and Maoriland rolled it up with 95 to 78. But
the crowning disaster for the combined Australian
teams came on Saturday, at Ashfield green,
when the Maorilanders proved victorious by 11(1
to 114. The green, being slightly heavy after the wet
I weather, favored the invaders, who are somewhat tnore
accustomed to damp greens than the Australians, and as
its dampness did pot affect its order in any way, the
Maorilanders were in their element. It was a great
and magnificent struggle, and for once the bowlers
threw to the winds the fine reserve and stoical forti-
tude that usually characterise the ancient game, and
whooped and roared applause as each succeeding shot
sent the pendulum swinging now this way and now that.
Close as the victory was, it was unexpected, and came as
a surprise to most bowlers. The visitors had a good time
while in Australia, and among the pleasant features of the
trip was a day with the President, when they all went to
La Perouse arid thence by launch to Kurnell, where Mr.
E. W. O’Sullivan filled them up with history while
the President poured sustenance into them. The bowlers
declared themselves delighted with both operations.
* • * •
Points from Onkaparinga, Adelaide’s Easter
Monday picnic race-meeting- the Club having no other
fixture in the vear. Stakes given for the day, £2350,
including a £iooo steeplechase. Passed through the
totalisator, £20,633, of which the Club retains per
cent, and the Government another 2£ per cent. The
steeple winner, Tarpon, owned by R. M. Hawker, a local
sportsman, paid a dividend of £5 165., and the second
horse (after the cheerful S. A. custom) returned his
backers £4 16s. Oamelot(Tradition-Circlet), brought over
from Melbourne to win this event, and backed down to 6
to 4 in a field of 13, broke his back in the third round of
the long and trying 3|-mile course.
At Ararat (Vic.) the other Sunday, parson J. J.
Spalding (no relation to the Private Secretary) preached
from Isaiah, chap. 63, verse 1: “ Who is this that cometh
from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah ? this that
is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the greatness of
his strength ? ” The congregation gave a good guess. It
rushed from church, formed a syndicate, and backed
Dyed Garments for Sydney Cup, and Dyed Garments,
“'in the greatness of his strength,” got home ahead of the
field. Why don’t men go to church ? Well, if the Church
was always as accurate as this in its tips they would.
* * * *
Some A. J.C. fragments : Tartan has started in
34 races, of which he won 13, ran second in five, third in
six, and nowhere in 10. Of £17,771 stake money, N.S.W.
reps, gathered the big whack (£11,964), despite that the
two richest things (Doncaster and Cup) fell to visiting
nags. Westralian owner, P. A. Connolly, got away with
£2298, and was the biggest individual winner ; youthful
trainer-owner of Malt Queen (Harry Brennan, son of
“lucky Jim”)was second in the list with £2007. Vic-
torians carried £lB3B home, and Queenslanders
£1671. Most successful of 19 sires represented
were Wallace, Malster, Mikado 11., Positano and Grafton
—two wins each. The 24 races were won
by 16 jockeys. F. Hickey, D. Callinan, and Clayton
secured three each, and A. Hood and J. Smith (Vic. cross-
country rider) two each. The biggest of the few good
winners was P. A. Connolly j atop of his Cup pile he
scooped considerable over Poseidon’s Cumberland Stakes
and other events. Among unlucky owners M.L.’s bowler-
sport, Bill Lyons, who assisted materially in the Apologue
coup last spring, figured prominently. His well-per-
formed Waipuna, heavily backed, ran second twice-
coming just a bit too late in City Handicap (Wednesday),
and, though turned the other way about at the start of
the Place Handicap, was only beaten by a neck.
Though Randwick is, as a rule, a place of milk
and honey for Patrick Moses, probably at no time in the
A.J.C.’s long history have results been so persistently
against punters as on the latest occasion. The most
favorable day of the four from a backer’s view was the
last, and even then his natural enemy left the battle
ground with a fair margin to the good. The one handi-
cap in the long list that fell to a favorite was the Cup,
and once only did a second favorite (Tangaroa, in the
Rous Handicap) triumph. Black Range (Monday) and
Argea (Wednesday)—latter was 100 to 1 against for Don-
caster Handicap, and shaped accordingly, and stable
backed Adriatic in preference to Black Range—were
veritable things from the clouds. They saved Moses the
trouble of paying out, thus enabling him to straightway
begin gathering in his next load of loot. Of three w.f.a.
races first three days, two were ruinous to some
backers, and the excessive odds (12 to 1 on) asked
by Ikey about the winner (Mountain King) of the third
(the St. Leger) debarred all but out-and-out gamblers
from investing. Despite Poseidon’s prodigious failure in
the Autumn Stakes (Saturday), he made Tartan look a
commoner in the Cumberland Stakes (Wednesday), and
the bulk of the crowd demonstrated as a Randwick mob
never demonstrated before—the members’ stand contri-
buted considerably to the kick. They were sore over
Poseidon’s very late withdrawal from the Cup, which his
run in the Cumberland Stakes persuaded them he might
have won, and they were more pained over the reversal
of form compared with Saturday’s display, but the differ-
ence was accounted for by that bump mentioned in The
Bulletin (23/4/’08). Someone made a goodly haul
through Poseidon’s success. Independent of smaller
investments, bets of £3OO to £lOO, £350 to £lOO, and, in
one case, £4OO to £lOO, were booked. Reported that one
P. Moses boasts of landing £9OOO over the meeting and
another £7OOO.
* # * *
Mountain King’s displays were poor compared
with the brilliant things done by him in the spring. He
hadn’t the vim of last year—a fact possibly due to that
“ musical”trouble (which The Bulletin referred to some
time ago, thereby getting itself disliked in some quarters)
becoming more pronounced. Welcome Trist’s threat in
the straight during the running of the St. Leger sug-
gested that had Peru been a starter he might have sorely
tried “ the King,” who, on the following Wednesday,
didn’t win the All Aged Stakes too easily, though the
margin was a comfortable one. Hence the racing of him
again the same afternoon in Cumberland Stakes looked
folly. After battling hard over a mile to get away, the
horse tired almost to the crawling point.
* * * *
Poor as was the A. J.C. first steeple, the second,
on Saturday, fell even flatter. Two of the three starters
flopped and came down With such weight that neither 1 of
them was equal to going after the £BO and £4O (second
and third money) which waited for anything that could
finish before the next race. As in Easter Monday’s
spectacle, and in face of an added load of 101 b., Kuala
Lumper, who started favorite, again proved, the safest
convey—and was alone over 2£ miles of the 3-mile course.
Thus 'did £l2O of the £4OO offered revert to the club,
making a total unexpected saving for the day of £770,
which The Bulletin would be glad to hear has been
handed over to some hospital. Time these jumping farces
were dropped and the money put to better uses. Last
year’s second ’chase was bad enough, when three of five
starters fell, but .this year’s record bangs Banagher. ,
Tlie slow pace at which A.J.C. Plate (3m.)
was run on Saturday saved the club’s coffers £650. A
special provision fixes the maximum time-limit for the
race at 6min. 45sec., and if that be exceeded, half first,
second, and third money is withheld, consequently
winner only received £5OO, second £lOO, and third £5O.
The three starters (Poseidon, Tartan, and Dyed Gar-
ments) covered the first two furlongs in little better than
a walk. Randwick never before saw anything so bad of
its kind,' and hooting was general, but without, result
worth mentioning, till the beginning of the last ljm.,
when the trio got going strongly and finished fast. Posei-
don (3 to 1 on) won easily, with Tartan just in front of
the other starter. Time (6min. 49£sec.) is the slowest
ever recorded in the race’s history. The previous worst
during past 20 years was The Harvester’s 6min. 17sec. in
1896. The cheering of Poseidon was in marked contrast
with the roar of boo-hoos that owner Denison heard on
Wednesday, and plainly showed how very closely the
average racegoer’s feelings are associated with his
pocket. #
Theoutstandingfeaturesof the Sydney Metropoli-
tan Rugby Union’s competition so far have been the defeat
of Glebe, the premier club of last year, in both matches,
and the recovery of Eastern Suburbs from the effects of
the disruption 'of the League. When Messenger went
over to the Northern Union division he took half, and
the stronger half, of the kingdom with him. And the
spectacle of the reconstructed club defeating the formid-
able Glebe in a pitched battle on Saturday last was an
amazing one. The Eastern Suburbs deserved to win.
Captain Murnin handled his men as few generals have
handled an army, shouting instructions which were
obeyed to the letter, and paralysing the premiers with an
overwhelming combination of speed and tactics. It was
the match of the day.
The game opened with 20 minutes of give and
take, in which much long kicking kept both forwards
practically standing still. With a sudden rush Glebe
threw the East upon its goal line, and made a great effort
to score. D’Alpuget refused to save the situation by
forcing, and recklessly ran the ball out, and out of a
series of scrums the Eastern forwards suddenly swept
away in a magnificent dribbling rush. Glebe men
were side-stepped, and the Eastern line, sweeping
along with a perfect face, kept the leather zig-
zagging towards the Glebe line at a great speed.
Behind, the backs dusted along, ready for the pass if the
charge should be blocked. It was stopped right on the
line after one of the best combined efforts ever seen on a
Sydney football ground. With a huge effort East got the
ball to the backs, and the passing work was very pretty,
the last man dashing over the line, and scoring amid
tremendous enthusiasm. The shot at goal failed. In play
again, the East tried to repeat the combined movement,
but Glebe fell on the forwards in a manner that was more
vimful than legal. Men who were only making for the
ball were hauled down, and the heavy Reds, by sheer
weight and brute forcfe, shovelled the Eastern men
steadily back. Glebe reached a spot within 10yds. of the
Eastern line, and piling all its force on the ball, tried
to lift the whole Eastern team back over the line bodily.
It was a blunder. The Eastern backs got going, and the
ball was kicked into touch at half-way. But it was only a
respite. Glebe again got possession, and surging forward,
burst through and scored, and Hickey, adding the extra
points, placed the premiers ahead by five to three. The
second half opened with a struggle on the Eastern
line, where the tackling of the defenders was deadly.
Wrenching the ball from the stormers, Murnin sent his
forwards off at a gallop. They cut the Glebes down and
ran over them, till within striking distance, when the
rush became a passing charge, and a faulty pass gave
Glebe an opportunity to force. Then came the spec-
tacular part of the game. Murnin used his forwards as a
screen from behind which his-backs charged repeatedly,
and although the machine only pierced the Glebe line
once, scoring three, for the rest of the game Glebe was
penned up in its own 25, and only escaped a regular
debacle by sheer good luck. AVhen the whistle blew both
teams were exhausted, and the premiers were defeated by
six to five.
* * * *
The only other match worth mention was that
between University and Newtown. The first half was
spoilt by an excess of individual play, which, though
brilliant, was not Rugby. In the second half the Uni
pulled itself together, and let loose some fine passing
charges which made it victorious by 11 to eight. Manly
failed to live up to its early promise against South Sydney,
and was walloped by 15 to nil; South broke up
its combination and smothered the backs. At Epping
the Balmain team turned up three-quarters of an
hour late, but recovered from its tiredness in a
remarkable manner when it did arrive, and ran over North
Sydney to the tune of nine to nil. Down at Rushcutter’s
Bay a dreary struggle between Sydney and Western
Suburbs ended in the defeat of the latter by nine to six.
* * *
The general result of the scrimmage is to leave
University, Sydney, Eastern Suburbs and South Sydney
dead level with four points each. Balmain, Newtown,
North Sydney, and St. George form the second rank with
two points each, and behind them drift Glebe, Western
Suburbs and Manly with the sign of the fowl on their
banners.
• * * *
The three first-grade League matches in Sydney
were anything but attractive. The men were mostly
out of condition, combination was lacking, and it
was obvious that the teams had not yet settled down to
the new rules. The best play of the day was shown by a
new recruit, Conlon of the Glebe. The one bright
piece of strategy was the desperate way he played
to secure a goal right behind the posts after
crossing the line well on the wing. From where he
crossed it was almost impossible to kick the leather
between the posts, so he passed to another player, whose
chance of taking it was dubious. But it came off, and
the goal was duly kicked. Some of the long-range kick-
ing was also good, but taken all round the displays were
very disappointing. If the League is to last it will have
to show better football than that of Saturday.
At the Agricultural Ground, South Sydney
inflicted a crushing defeat on Western Suburbs, the
figures being 42 to seven. The Newtown-Glebe struggle
at Wentworth Park was much better in every way, and
Glebe won by seven points to two. Balmain and North
Sydney played a very mediocre game,in which flashes of
bright individual play were like whiskies at a charity con-
cert. Altogether it was a dull, drab day. Up at Newcastle,
the All Blacks knocked the contents out of a Newcastle
team, crushing it by 37 points to eight. The Australian
Rule Leaguers are still doing practice matches, but the
real campaign will commence this coming Saturday.
With a view to annexing the early and prema-
ture worm, the ten Vic. Football Association clubs started
their season last Saturday, a Week sooner than usual.
The reptile proved less juicy and luscious than expected,
for the day was a choice sample of midwinter, and the
League crowds weren’t taking any improved Association
game of 17 players a side. The innovation seemed to make
little difference, anyhow, the scrambling ruck play
being the same as of old. It is early yet to expect
concerted, scientific play among men who are mostly
unacquainted with each other’s styles and customs;
nevertheless, far too many of them seem obsessed, with
theidea that the best player is the one who “ bogs in” most
strenuously. Several have already acquired the honor of
being addressed as “ Bogger Smith ” or Jones as a result of
this reckless habit of tossing themselves around ; later on
they may grasp the fact that the cool individual who saves
himself not only lasts longer, but gets more work out
of the ball, so to speak, than the one who rushes
all over the ground in a vain attempt to do
something, often spoiling his mates’ chances in the pro-
cess. As for the games, the Premiers, Williamstown,
ran over the regrettable “ Ports ” by 76 points to
nine. Prahran spiflicated the reorganised “ North ”
by 87 to 14. The amateurs of Essendon made hacks
of the ditto Brighton team —late of the Metropolitan
Association and last year’s runners-up to the mighty
’Varsity team—by 105 to 43. Footscray scored 61
to Preston’s 43—which result argues that either
’Scray isn’t what it was, or Preston is a good
deal more. And the promising Brunswick 17 tackled
the newly-promoted juniors, Northcote, and adminis-
tered a Wallopping to the tune of 121 points to
30. There were no casualties, neither was any umpire
treated to a course of road-metal or palings. These
irregularities occur later on when the players get “ wet,”
and the barrackers are dry with barracking. The League
will begin to “ bog” next Saturday.
The Rugby championship of the British Isles
went again this year to Wales, which beat England,
Ireland and Scotland—the last-named only by one point.
England beat Ireland, which beat Scotland, but all the
matches were close. In “ Soccer,” England and Scotland
have the .championship to themselves, the other two
always competing, but without a hope.
The Mephistophelean influence again. Two
Victorian Patrick Moseses and a jockey were in the thick
of “ nap ” and gloating over a fat “ kitty ” at the moment
of impact between the trains at Sunshine. Flames fed on
the car above and below' and fiercely swallowed surround-
inglumber, but the sinful trio escaped absolutely
unsinged. * #
Australia is not the only country in which the
referee conies in for a violent time occasionally. Re-
cently, in Paris, the well-known rider Jacquelin, having
finished in the semi-final of the Grand Prix de l’Union
Velocopedique de France, found himself disqualified on
the protest of Sydney’s one-time visitor, Henri Meyer, he
of the odd stockings. Jacquelin, overcome by the length
of the name of the affair he had just competed in, flew
right “off his block” at this last infliction. First he
called the judge “hard names”; then he seized him,
and shook him, knocked his hat off, and sus-
pended violent operations to give his vocabulary
another show. The judge beat a retreat, with
Jacquelin in full pursuit. The crowd joined in the hunt,
and w'hen the judge broke the record and escaped, the
mob came back and made a bonfire of the seats and
barriers in the track, and started a row that continued
till no less than 300 French equivalents for c< ppers
arrived and made a huge casualty list which they called
the restoration of peace and quiet.
Latest reports from the States tell that cyclist
Major Taylor is rapidly recovering his old form, and has
beaten J. Fogler, the man who beat Lawson just before
Lawson beat Taylor.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cyclists’ Union will open its season
on Saturday, May 16, with a procession from Sydney
Domain through the city out to Centennial Park and
away to Ooogee, where the refreshments will be laid on.
As large prizes are to be offered for the best costumes and
most artistically ornamented machine, something special
in the way of a splash is anticipated.
•* * * *
Dick Arnst reappeared on the wheel at Temuka
(Canterbury, Maoriland) on Easter Monday. The handi-
capper smote him where he lived, making him concede a
series of starts up to 45yds. in a half-mile. This broke
Richard’s boiler ; when he caught his field he was so
pumped out that he couldn’t stay it out, and
finished fourth, howling to the men in front as
they streaked down the straight to wait for a
bloke. Dick always had a tendency to howl about some-
thing in his exciting finishes. When he streaked home
in the Sydney Thousand he was roaring “ I’ve won it !
I’ve won it 1 ” as he bounded over the line like a flash of
lightning going down a greasy steep place. Said that he
is returning to Australia shortly to row Pearce.
* * *
Hockey is going ahead around Sydney like
the great bounding kangaroo of the fairy tale.
Judging by the names they choose for their clubs,
the hockeyites have a sense of humor, or some-
thing just as good —as the chemist says. On
Saturday last the Corinthians met the Coronas, and
the Barbarians battled with the Sydneians, while, very
appropriately, the Bandits struggled with the Pilgrims.
Of the bunch, Corinthians are about the best, but the
whole six clubs are now high-class combinations, and
play a fine, fast game. In Saturday’s struggle the Coronas,
the baby' club, showed remarkable speed, but it was more
than counterbalanced by' the skill of the Corinthians, and
at half-time the scoring board was still empty. The
second half opened with a series of well-sustained attacks
by both sides, but the Corinthians were the rising tide,
and the infants were kept mostly on the defensive.
And a fine defence it was, the ball being banged out again
and again when a score seemed an absolute certainty. But
the skill of the older players asserted itself. Rushing the
leather down the wing they drew the defenders from the
goal, and like a flash it was centred and driven home.
Then Coronas began to go to pieces, condition failed, one
player retired injured, and the Corinthians came again
and again with short quick attacks which made
them winners hy five goals to nil. The Barbarians
beat the Sydneians by the same score after a tough
tussle, in which the beaten side showed good combina-
tion, but was outpaced. The Bandits downed the
Pilgrims by two goals tomne.
* * * *
Writer was under the impression that croquet
was as dead as the Family Herald sort of earl with the
long white hands; but the successful carrying out of a
championship tournament at Strathfield (Sydney), last
Saturday, seems to indicate that there are still people
who play the game and smash their toes when they get
excited—if anyone could get excited over croquet. A
large crowd of very' nice people looked on and applauded
in a pleasant, restrained and well-bred manner reminis-
cent of the order of Vere de Verb.
* * * •
N.S.W. Rowing Association made an ass of
itself by interfering in the Tasmanian rowing rumpus.
The bombastic Tas. Rowing Association, which does not
include half the clubs in Appleland, had played fast and
loose right through its negotiations with the Rowing
Union, first of all consenting to compromise, and then
declining to compromise unless the Union consented to
be eaten, bones and skin ; and also agreeing that two
rival crews should row off to see which should
represent the isle, and then backing out of the arrange-
ment and trying to enforce its disqualifications. A body
that cannot be relied on to keep any arrangements, and
which breaks its promises immediately it sees a
chance of scoring a point, is not worthy of con-
sideration. But the crusty old N.S.W. Rowing Ass,
which oarefully contrives to exclude manual workers
from its crews, could be relied upon to inter-
vene at the wrong moment, and prevent the disput-
>ng parties coming l to an arrangement between them-
selves. As it is, Tasmania will now send two crews to
Melbourne, and the Rowing Conference will be called upon
to decide which is to represent the Isle of Sleep. The
Conference will probably call upon them to row a race,
and let the winner represent the whole of Tasmania.
• * * »
George Whelch, the Akaroa (M.L.) sculler who
has been amateur sculling champion of his island for the
past two years, is now' out after boodle. He has a large
collection of silverware as the reward of 50 or 60 victories
as an amateur, but he wants a share of the gold which
Webb’s party has at command. As a sort of pre-
liminary flutter, Whelch tried to arrange a match with
Dick Arnst, but no reply was received from the ex-cyclist,
and the Akaroa people who are behind Whelch are now’
trying to make up their minds to put their man at the
champion without wasting any more time over the small
frV. There was some talk about a match betw-een Webb
and Arnst, but nothing has been heard of it for weeks,
and everything points to the probability of Webb having
to defend the title against Whelch. Very little has
been heard of Arnst since his return to Maoriland,
and he certainly has not been keeping in form on the
water. Whelch is a rattling good man—many l’engths
faster than any amateur in the Dominion. He “donkey-
licked” Webb, a few years ago, for the amateur cham-
pionship ; he is in the prime of athletic manhood ; his
daily toil as a waterman and fisherman keeps him “ hard ”
all the year round ; and, last but not least, Akaroa is
alive with good sports, and Whelch is in the happy posi-
tion of having stake-money at his command.
* * » *
Bamboo vaulting poles are not viewed with
favor in Southern Canterbury, the home of pole vaulting
in Maoriland, where quite a number of men can clear
10ft. 3in. as easily as they can kiss a good-looking girl.
Quite a number of the cracks have experienced broken
bones and bad shocks through the bamboos splintering
between the joints. The only way to make a bamboo
reasonably safe is to wind it with waxed thread from top
to bottom, and even then it is far from reliable. There’s
a small fortune for anybody who can sell a good, abso-
lutely unbreakable, and yet light vaulting pole in South
Canterbury, where the boys use the weapon for getting
across creeks when they take their walks abroad.
* * * *
Burns may not be the class of the old-time
fighters, but his claim to the title of the world’s heavy-
weight champion is ahead of any of theirs. He has
cleaned up in quick succession the American, the Aus-
tralian, the English and the Irish Champions—a record
never yet put up by any other stoush-merchant. By
latest advices he is going to follow Jim Jeffries’ example,
and take on again as many of his victims as offer, pro-
vided the offer rests on a sound cash basis.
THE ACHIEVING OF THE GLAD HAND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The hardened fight-fans fancy Bill’s latest method of
handling-out wallops. What they pay to see is blood and
hard slugging, regardless as to what causes the blood to
flow, or in what manner the slugging is administered.
These same fans would dig deeper into their pockets if
the management of a contest would guarantee 'a rough
and tumble fight which admits of biting, gouging, and
kicking.— N. Y. World, 18/8/'OB, in tardy appreciation of
Australia V Bill Squires.
William, we have misjudged you. Put it there,
And shake. The.U.S.A.
To him who scatters round teeth, blood and hair
Their billing devoirs pay.
In ’Frisco, when you fell to Tommy Burns,
We liked you muchly ; still
We glimpsed a weak spot in your ringside turns—
You did not fight to kill.
You never clinched and bit huge fragments from
An adversary’s frame ;
When pugs your placid forehead leaped upon
You failed to do the same.
Eye-gouging was a trick you seemed to shun ;
You never even kicked.
A boxer with such habits, here, is one
Full certain to be licked.
Of late you’ve changed—yet still are far too mild.
God’s country will not wax
Keal mad about you, Bill, till baresark, wild,
You win out with an axe !
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


1*
GOING *
In many instances the loss of hearing is a gradual and painless process. No pronounced warning of the
awful affliction is given you. In some cases the evidences are extremely acute—shooting pains dizziness
buzzing, ringing, and noises or discharge in the ears all testify to the dangerous condition of your ears If
you suffer in this way, think of the consequences. To live a life of partial oblivion The voices of friends
the melody, the intercourse of life will be yours no longer. Why not be permanently cured? It will cost
you nothing to prove the truth of this statement. We cheerfully give you full particulars of how you
can be cured in your own home by Pure Natural Aural Kinetics.
Mrs. ELIZA UNCLES (68 years of age), 257 Riley Street, SURRY HILLS, N.S W writes-—“I am
delighted to tell you I cured myself completely with your Earoscope.”
W. P. J. MOONEY, Esq., GYMPIE, Q., writes: “Your treatment was a God-send to me and it is
Certainly a blessing to poor suffering humanity. ”
C. R. SEWELL, Esq., 29 Morrah Street, PARKVILLE, MELBOURNE, writes “ I am very pleased to
inform you that after a few w-eeks’ treatment with the Earoscope I was completely cured ”
Mrs. JENNY STUART, 62 Bondi Road, WAYERLEY, writes “I am happy to tell vou that I am now
completely cured.”
Hr. P. J. SMYTHE, B.A., M.A.C., TORONTO, writes:—“ I cheerfully endorse the Earoscope home
treatment for deafness, head noises, ringing in the ears.”
Rev. HENRY GAINFORD, ADELAIDE, S.A., writes : —“ The Earoscope vou sent me has wrought a
marvellous change in my hearing.”
Mrs. JESSIE A. McINNES, WARIALDA, N.S.W., writes :—“I began to use vour Earoscope just a month
to-day, and I find a great change in my right ear, which was dead to all sounds.'”
W. J. JACOBS, Esq., Granite Street, STANTHORPE, Q., writes :—“I herewith gratefully wish to
inform you that the noises have entirely stopped, and I have regained my hearing, so that I can hear
ordinary conversation. I may state the right ear was totally deaf.”
G. BROWNING, Esq., Dumaresq Street, ARMIDALE, N.S.W., writes “I must say the Earoscope is a
wonderful invention. I cannot recommend it too highly, and have already spoken to several people
suffering like myself.”
THOMAS RICKABY, Esq., MINLATON, S.A., writes “ The Earoscope you sent me has improved my
hearing wonderfully.”
GEO. HART, Esq., c/o J. BURGE, Esq., TOOLAMBA, VIC., writes :—“ I wish I had purchased the
Earoscope twenty years ago.”
DAVID LINDSAY, Esq., 137 Victoria Street, SYDNEY, writes “ I thank you heartily for the good you
have done me, as you made a new man out of me entirely.”
E. C. ROESLER, Esq., MOUNT MOLLOY, Q., writes:—“ I wish to inform you that after a few treat-
ments I am relieved of the noises in my head, and can hear much better.”
H. W. GARLAND, Esq., CRAVEN CREEK, N.S.W., writes:—“I am very much pleased with the
Earoscope.”
JAMES THOMAS, Esq., YEULBA, Q., writes:—“I have much pleasure in informing you that after
three weeks’ treatment I am almost cured.”
THOUSANDS OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS ON FILE AT OUR INSTITUTE
- All it will cost you to get full particulars of this great boon to humanity is the postage stamp. Send
us your name and address, and we will forward to you FREE OF CHARGE the “EAROSCOPE
REVIEW,” with abundant testimonials from patients successfully cured with this “ EAROSCOPE ” after
all other treatments having failed to do any good in their complicated cases of many years’ standing
‘‘EAROSCOPE INST.,” 90 Pitt St. (Dept. 26) Sydney, N.S.W.
“D.” writes an obituary :
Obit unobtrusively, in a Soho (London) lodging house
(18/3/’08), Richard Benham, who was a figure in the world
15 years ago. He was the master swindler of his day.
Starting with nothing on earth, barring a unique gift for
lying, he raised £l5O (when only 23) from the bank
manager of his town by false representations, and pro-
ceeded to Brussels after certain “deeds.” By keeping
to a rigid system of living w'ell and paying no
one unless by “stumer” cheques, he found himself, six
years later, the highly-esteemed initiator, manager, and
owner of the Western Bank of London, Charing Cross.
This establishment exploded after six months, doing
damage to everyone in its vicinity except Benham.
About this period the latter was living in a £6OO per
annum mansion in Piccadilly ; and at the same time
running separate establishments at Brighton and Tun-
bridge Wells. He paid for necessaries (when he did pay)
by cheques drawn on bogus banks. The fact that at
Tunbridge Wells he borrowed £2OOO from a resident by
name Rolev, and established therewith a volunteer fire
brigade (neglecting to pay, however, for either the fire
engines or the firemen’s uniforms), indicates something of
the subtle humor of the man. Benham’s smash (it ran to
14 years’ hard labor) befell when the swindle he had
worked in connection with the London and General Bank
got abroad. As is usual with this class of fraud, the
fervor of his religious spirit was the admiration of every
old lady who happened across him.
The “TRUMP”
GRAPH-o-
phone.
" LYRIC ” REPRODUCER,
POLISHED CABINET,
FLOWER HORN.
EXTRAORDINARY VALUE,
Winds silently.
Can be wound while playing.
Motor Reliable and Easily Accessible.
Careful Attention to the Smallest Detail.
Columbia Gold* -t I -j
Moulded Records, I/O each.
WHITE FOR NEW LISTS.
tern
The
EXACTLY AS
ILLUSTRATED.
PRICE
£2 ss.
Columbia Phonograph Co. Gen’l,
2bS Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
o
k
@
ijK
1
1
A
■o=>
>v
<s*
\
ill
k\
FROM
£11.5.
CAN BE PLACED
ON ORDINARY
DINING KOOM TABLE
WRITE FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Alcock&C° 155 Elizabeth St Melbourne.
_ FROM
&.11.5.
BILLIARDS has
long been re-
cognised as the
King of Indoor
Games, and the
Alcock Table is
admittedly the
Monarch of Bil-
liard Tables. Our
Miniature Tables,
with Slate Beds,
represent a high
standard of excel-
lence, can be used
on any ordinary
Dining Table, in-
stantly removed and
stored against the
wall. They are not
toys, but perfect,
highly - finished
Tables throughout,
and are the best
known cure for dull
evenings.
jt
SYDNEY
Showrooms:
422 George Street.
KUGELMANN’S
©
&■
m
<& n
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
“Beauty's
Aid/'
FREE
SAMPLE
lent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pare Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
Little Stropping Required.
The edge of every PLUM RAZOR is so scientifically
ground and finely set that it needs the minimum of
stropping at shaving times.
When you purchase a PLUM we guarantee it for two years.
PRICE. lOs. 6d. Post Free.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
m
M'
Superintendent of Public Buildings Owen
Smyth, a wild and aggressive Irishman, has just
perpetrated the Hibernianism of establishing a
branch of the Society of St. George in Adelaide.
It is designed to stimulate Englishmen to forget
that they are Australians.
The Imperial Review, in a needlessly
greasy article on Horace Tozer, says the Queens-
land Agent-General “ hopes to return to his native
land.” Probably a good large section of this com-
munity hopes that the lion, member for the con-
stituency of Stinking Fish will think better of it,
and stay away for good. If he does return, there
should be a fairly large clod ready to be thrown at
him on sight, in memory of certain particularly
objectionable slanders he has uttered re Aus-
tralia’s democratic legislation.
Florence Eva Trevanion, a daughter of
Daniel Cooper, was complainant in a libel case in
the Bexhill (Eng.) police court the other week,
and incidentally the tale of the lady’s matrimonial
ventures was related by her solicitor. In 1882 she
wedded Hugh Arundell Trevanion, a cousin of
one of Britain’s insufficiently belted earls. The
marriage turned out a failure, and was dissolved
in 1888. Trevanion married again, and his second
wife died. Three months after the second wife’s
death, Daniel’s daughter, for the sake of their three
sons, became Trevanion’s wife a second time.
The second experiment was just as great a failure
as the first, and at the time of the libel case
divorce proceedings were again pending. It was
a stormy and confused narrative of matrimonial
mischance.
I
\
*=s
a v \
m
SSSBSES
Look Out!
TbercS Trouble Ahead
if you ride Cycle Tyres of the cheap
and nasty order. Specify Vulcanised
I
when purchasing your machine, or replacements,
and you can then rest assured that you have
the Best Tyres that Money Can Buy.
Roadster Tyres Guaranteed
Twelve Months. Beware of
Imitations. None Genuine
without this Trade Mark
These Tyres are made
by Australians for
Australian Roads.
Dunlop
Rubber Co*
All States
and N.Z.
Send for Copy of Our Artistic Booklet —“All About Dunlop Tyres.”
Posted on Application.


YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS IS ALL WE NEED
to mail you a copy of our Illustrated Catalogue, which shows all tbe latest
ideas. You can purchase by mail from tbis catalogue witb as certain satis-
faction as if you visited Sydney personally. All goods delivered carriage
Free to any address.
OPEN
FACE,
8/6
OPEN
FACE,
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-face
Keyless WATCHES, 8 7 6-
Higher grade, 10/, 12/6,
15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
Nurses’ Lever, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, set rubies,
pearls, and turquoise, or
all pearls, £3/lO-
Rubies; olivines, and
pearls, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold i-Hoop RING,
diamonds and rubies
or sapphires,
£3/10/.
Five diamonds, £3-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Heart BROOCH,
set opalo and diamonds,
£3/ 10/.
Larger size, £3/10/*
mm a
POCKET-BOOK, Morocco
leather, silk-lined, pure sil-
ver mounts and lock, 10
With shield, 12/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/.
SOLID
SILVER
SOLID
GOLD,
6 lO
2/-
O
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
WATCHES, fully jewelled, £U.
£2/10, £3. £3/10, £4, £5, £6, £7.
Gold-cased, £4/4, £5/5, £6/6.
Solid Gold. £6/10/, £7/10/,
£B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, £2O,
£5O.
Guaranteed 3,4, 5, and 6 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bee BROOCH,
set opals and amethyst,
S/6.
*4
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Shamrock Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set pure double-
cut diamonds and opals,
£4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pearls and
amethyst, £IS/10/.
Tourmalins and pearls,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold ’Xmas Bell
CIIARM, 7/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamond, and
Rubies or Sapphires,
30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, set
pearls and rubies or sap-
phires, 20/-
(i
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Shield and Dumb-
bell LINKS,
12/6
15ct Gold, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold BROOCH, set pure white pearls, olivine, anj
rubies, £ 7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BRACELET, set diamond and rubies or
sapphires, £4/ 10-
All Diamonds, £5/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphires,
£lO
Emerald centre, £l2/ LO.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphires,
*S/ * <>/.
All Diamonds, £l2/10/,
— J ife —QhQO^^YrrOQQQG<'
V I I <&> <§
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, Diamond and Rubies or
Sapphires, £3-
15ct Gold, £4/15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold-band RING,
Opal, Ruby, or Sapphire,
17/6-
15ct Gold, Opal, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold RING, Ni
gets, 25/.
15ct Gold, £2.
18ct Gold. £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Half-chased Bamboo BRACELET, with safety
chain, £3/5/.
Smaller, £2/5/, £2/15/.
A. SAUNDERS. '
15ct Gold PENDANT and NECKLET,
set pure double-cut diamonds
and fine opals, £4s*
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 3-Bird BROOCH,
set pearls, 30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 2-Heart and Spray
BROOCH, set fine white
pearls, £3-
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, 5 fine opals,
£2/10-
Large opals, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT and
NECKLET, set pure pearls and
amethysts, £4- loot Gold,
£5/10/.
Set pearls, tourmalines, and
peridots, loot Gold, £6/10/.
A. SAUNDERS,
9ct* Gold “Dinna Forget
CHARM, JO/.
Smaller, 7/6.
Hiisg
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Diamonds, and
Rubies, or Sapphires,
£2.
-—G~“
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar Wishbone
BROOCH, set pearls and
ruby or sapphire, 15/.
. A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Oval LINKS,
22/«.
15ct Gold, £2. Initials
engraved free.
SOLID
SILVER,
2 51-
SOLID
GOLD,
£3
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES,
Eully Jewelled, 155/.
30/, 35/, 40/, 50. Solid
Gold, £3/, £3/10, £4/,
£4/10. £5, £5/10, £6/10.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Harp BROOCH,
set fine white pearls
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, £ 10-
Emerald centre, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15c t Gold Ribbon
BROOCH, set fine pearls
and turquoise, £3/10/.
PURSE and CARDCASE
combined, Morocco leather,
pure silver mounts and
lock, 8/6-
Other styles. 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6.
OPEN
FACE,
7/6
extra
quality.
10 1-
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyfess WATCHES,
7/6, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
Higher grade, 25/.
All Guaranteed.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS.
809, 811, 813, 815, 817
George=*street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney-


£pb.RGAfJv§
2nd HAND ENGINES
f .
Present.
J Ruston c&i. Proctor. Clayton
<TX SKut tie worth, Roby. Mar-
shall. Hornsby. Aveling CSI Porter, etc.
'J'YPES ! STEAM-Portable Oi. Traction
OIL- Portable <n Stationary
I ALL GOOD Many First-Class
.... •< with years of satisfactory service
condition ( before them.
ALL MUST BE SOLD before our Annual
Inventory. May 31st. 1908
PRICES therefore are VERY LOW and
Terms EXCEPTIONALLY EASY
Descriptive Lists giving full particulars
forwarded on application
Engine Buyers who do not write to
us PROMPTLY miss the
OPPORTUNITY OF A LIFE-
TIME.
international harvests?
COMPANY OF AMERICA
PORAT E o)
ROMA ST. BRISBANE; 37 BROADWAY. SYDNEY•(
545 BOURKE ST. MELBOURNE; BANK ST..
•ADELAIDE; AND 75 YORK ST.
LAUNCESTON
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
Capillarine Gives Results!
It is a harmless preparation for the coaxing of
a strong moustache. We know its worth, and
guarantee the results. If it doesn’t do what we
claim for it, ask for your money back.
Post Free lOs. 6d
anywhere
in sealed cover.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney,
Established 25 Years.
Makes you look manly
Before
1fler
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies .
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
M ,
FILMS FOR HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE'.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
We hire films out to Cinemato-
graph Showmen throughout the
Australian States.
We have a stock of over
200,000 feet on hand—all good
subjects, and including the latest
productions.
We are constantly adding to
our stock.
We sell everything pertaining to
the animated picture business—
especially hiring out films.
Reference to T. J. WEST, Esq.,
King of the Picture Business.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE .
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY
COUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blairs
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
■ Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
r^T»i"a
m
&
V
FREE TRIAL!!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
mply drop us a post card with your name
na we will arrange to forward one of our
improved high grade ELECTRIC
B «Lrb FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
it 1 .' most perfect and complete ever invented.
, wul cur e all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
y.^lvei, and Stomach Complaints. Nervous-
SS| an d all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free
°» e copy of our beautifully illustrated
tdical Book, which should be read by all
* naud Women. If you are weak in any way
n ? l° n Ber, but write to-day for our splen-
1Q Bo °k and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
“lease mention this paper.
In a;
PLASMON is the nutritive substance of pure fresh milk in a dry, soluble form.
: Highly recommended by medical men familiar with its' conspicuous dietetic value. An
ideal aid in Indigestion and many forms of Stomach Derangement.
PLASMON
forms a complete diet in itself.
It aids the digestion and
greatly increases the nutri-
tivevalue of other foods with-
out affecting their flavour.
In addition to the original powder form of PLASMON this preparation may be had in a
variety of combinations—PLASMON COCOA, PLASMON CHOCOLATE, PLASMON
OATS, PLASMON BISCUITS, ARROWROOT, BLANCMANGE AND CUSTARD.
Plasmon increases the food value enormously. — LANCET.
Australian
PLASMON LTD., LONDON.
Depot : 5 and 7 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY.
s§s
rIfAS
• r *
*.V
n
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES. Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
Mr THOS. SHELTON, 18, Crown Street, Oxford, writes“ If the value of ‘ POWELL’S BALSAM OF
ANISEED’ was better known, many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung Troubles would do as I
have done for upwards of 50 years ; I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably
sets me up. It is invaluable. I have several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired
effect I have had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and 2or 3 bott.es had the desired effect when all
else failed. You may make what use of this you like.”— December 11th, i(/)y.
Mrs. S. W. BAILEY, 32, Manville Road, Balham, London, S.W., writes:—“l may add that I recommend your
BALSAM after 12 years constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and Warminster,
Wilts for 35 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers.”— -January, 1908.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORES.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland :
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
cbM-Sam
£
-N''
M
FOR
COUCHS.


SPECIALIST
PRESCRIBES
CUTICURA
A Famous French Specialist on Dis-
eases of the Skin Prescribes Cuti-
cura as the Most Effective Remedy
Known to Him, Charging as His
Fee 100 Francs (£4).
ALSO PRESCRIBED IN
HOSPITAL SAINT LOUIS
“Gentlemen: You may be pleased to
learn that a patient suffering from an
irritation of the skin, caused by motor-
ing, on consulting a noted physician in
Paris, for which a fee of one hundred
f rancs(f our pounds sterling) was charged,
was advised to use Cuticura, which ad-
vice, although received with astonish-
ment, was followed and resulted in a
perfect cure. ( Signed) Lewis Gower,
1123 Broadway, New York, U. S. A.,
December 16, 1906.”
French physicians, particularly those
making a specialty of the treatment of
skin diseases, have for many years re-
garded Cuticura as a specific and have
prescribed it freely. It enjoys the rare
distinction of being prescribed in the
Hospital Saint Louis, Paris, one of the
largest and most famous hospitals in the
world devoted exclusively to the treat-
ment of diseases of the skin.
SUFFERED FIVE YEARS
Cured by Cuticura.
“I have been suffering from irritation
of the skin for about five years. I was
two years under medical treatment, dur-
ing which time I was treated by several
doctors but derived no benefit whatever
from their skill. The first relief I got
was from Cuticura and now thank God
and the Cuticura Remedies, I am, I
think, perfectly cured. I used two sets
of Cuticura Soap, Cuticura Ointment,
and Cuticura Pills since last October,
and I can recommend the Cuticura Rem-
edies to any person suffering from the
same malady. Edward Mannering, 34,
Claremont St., Dublin, May 12, 1906.”
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humourof Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
&Co., Sydney: Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
oar Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
Asa result of the pro-
longed and careful
study of the science of
acoustics, and the complete
mechanical and technical
skill of the expert and ex-
perienced manufacturers, the
FEURICH PIMIO
stands in the front rank,
and challenges the pro-
ductions of any pianoforte
manufactory in Germany,
England, or the United
States of America.
The Feurich Patent Action,
which ensures absolute
perfection of touch and
repetition, is a feature con-
spicuous by its absence in
all other pianos.
CASH OR
EASY TERMS.
CATALOGUES AND
PRICE LIST FREE.
NICHOLSON & CO.
LIMITED,
342 George Street, Sydney.
JOHN BRUSH,
Saddler ,
371 George Street,
9YDKTEY.
115,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps laughing. Bed Harry Is.
Ladies’
Very Fine
Up-to-date
Walking
Shoe
for a
Guinea.
This is a splendid shoe
for Ladies a shoe
possessing in every
detail the chief points
concerning the finest
make, most stylish
and up-to-date ap-
pearance, and the
goodness of its wear-
ing quality. Of
Enamel Kid Derby
Oxford, with a welted
sole—it’s price is a Guinea. This shoe is becoming
extremely popular. Add 9d. for postage if
ordering in Victoria, Is. any other State.
Drop us a Post Card for our Booklet ‘ ‘ Shoe-
light,” beautifully illustrated with our
finest footwear. We send it FREE.
LEEMING’S BOOTS TORES, 109 Swanston
Street, Melbourne ; 303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
PERMANENTLY CURED !
MANY people have said, “If a cure can be found
for Obesity, and one that will effectually
reduce fat without harm to the patient, the dis-
coverers would make a fort-
une.” We havefoui'dthe rem-
edy. Our main idea is just
now, however, to have you
use the treatment so that you
may help to start our endless
chain of patients.
“ FATCURE ** re-
moves excess fat and
cures Obesity and the
cure is permanent. It
takes off from five
pounds a week to over
two stone a month.
Many cases lose a pound
a day. It is not a patent medicine. It is"
a scientific treatment by the use of vegetable '
extracts in tablet form. j
Mrs 0. J. Murphy, of Glenmore Road, Pad-1
dinstou, writes: “Your remedy reduced myj
w( 37 lbs. and I now feel splendid.” '
Send a twopenny stamp for free sample and ,
our booklet, which we send free under sealed,
cover. Write or call lor sample to-day.
Thousands endorse “ Fatcure.” Let us send you
their letters commending it.
THE WATWORTH GO. Suite J,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Entrance also from Market Street. Take lift.
lll
mm
POSt
m
n.c
TeC
YOU CAN 1
IMPROVE
s YOUR
POSITION
/Bg me».T\& y
xjjtip Splendid
y
QOMMERCIAL.
BOOKKEEPING.
ACCOUNTANCY.
SHORTHAND.
•PENMANSHIP.
ENGLISH.
LANGUAGES. AC.
AGRICULTURAL.
SOIL MANAGEMENT
ORAINAGE AND
IRRIGATION.
BREEDING AND
MANAGEMENT OF
LIVE STOCK, AC.
r OMMERCIAL ART
DRAWING.
LLUSTRATING.
ADVERTISEMENT
WRITING.JP
OCSIGNIWG. AC.
Isftjr*i»More Money.
HIGHER SALARIES and
splendid prospects await
those who take advantage
of our system of POSTAL
INSTRUCTION. We teach
wherever the mail reaches,
and our methods ensure the
acquirement of MONEY-
MAKING KNOWLEDGE.
Our instruction is thorough,
practical and complete, and
our instructors are men of
unquestionable ability and
experience. Every student
receives careful individual
attention, and the instruction
is private. We prepare
candidates for all PUBLIC
EXAMINATIONS.
It costs nothing to inquire.
Write TO-DAY for FRFE
copy of PROSPECTUS £
and state subject in which
you are interested.
SMS
EOT!
LIM
56 HUNTiR ST SYDNEY
*=»2S COLUtNS ST MELBOURNE
Legal Notices.
CHARLES EDWARD BERRY
an Order of the Chancery Division made in n.
matter of the Estate of Janies Beriv clle
nA v Smith IQD7 R IQOQ U • * UeC GaBed
B Y
Bourne v. Smith 1907. B. 1328 an Enquiry was H^! a f ed
to be made whether Charles Edward Berry' the son nfts
abovenamed James Berry late of Marton in the pj,„! the
Warwick Saddler was living or dead on the 3rd \u
1901 the date of the death of the said James Berrv »
living whether he was living in England at the date lf
said or if dead whether he left any and what child 6 '
living at the said date and any person or Persons el»w en
to be the said Charles Edward Berry or a child o r oh?/
ren of him or any persons claiming through them, a
who claim to be entitled to a share in the estate of th
said James Berry are by their Solicitors on or
,1.,., t.,„„ mca j . uc *ore the
tenth day of June 1908 to come in and prove their
claims
at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Swinfen Eady and M
Justice Neville at the Royal Courts of Justice Stri h
London England or in default thereof thev will h
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said OrH
Wednesday the 24th day of June 1908 at 12 of the cloot
at noon at the said Chambers is appointed for hearing and
adjudicating on the claims.
Dated this 9th day of March 1908.
Spencer Whitehead
Master.
NOTE.—The said Charles Edward Berry left England
many years ago for Victoria in the Commonwealth 0 f
Australia and was married on the 24th December 1870 J
Lubeck in the District of Horsham in the Colony of
Victoria to Emma Arnold who was daughter of JoseDh
Arnold and Janet Arnold formerly Somerville.
FIELD, ROSCOE & CO.,
36 Lincoln’s Inn Fields,
London, England
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs
“PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division of the
High Court of Justice, dated the 21st January, 1907
made in the Matter of the ESTATE of RICHARD
CALVER CLARKE, deceased, Clarke v. Hutchinson, 1906
C. 3735.—An Inquiry is directed in the following terms'
namely : An inquiry what children there were of William
Press and Robert Press, the brothers of the testator’s
wife, and what children there were of John Clarke
Thomas Clarke, Henry Clarke, and Ann Read, the brothers
and sister of the testator, and what children there were of
Charles Notley, and which of all such children are living
and as to such of them as are dead, an inquiry when they
died, and whether they attained the age of 21 years, and
as to such of them as died before the 10th September,
1906, having attained the age of 21 years, whether
they left any and what children them surviving,
or if they left no such children who are their
legal personal representatives, and as to such of them
as may have died since the 10th September, 1906, who are
their legal personal representatives. Notice is Hereby
Given that the persons claiming to be children of the
above-named William Press, Robert Press, John Clarke,
Thomas Clarke, Henry Clarke, Ann Read, and Charles
Notley, and especially the persons mentioned in the
schedule hereto, or the persons claiming through them,
or to be their legal personal representatives respectively,
are personally, or by their solicitors, on or before the
First day of J tfly, 1908, to come in and prove their claims,
at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Parker, at Room 252, the
Royal Courts of Justice, Strand, London, England, or in
default thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said order in this action. Wednesday,
the 15th day of July, 1908, at eleven o’clock in the fore-
noon, at the said Chambers, is appointed for the hearing
and adjudicating upon the claims.
C. BURNEY, Master.
GRIBBLE, ODDIE, SINCLAIR, and JOHNSON, 38
Bedford-row, London, England, Agents for
Humphry Lynde, Great Yarmouth, England,
Plaintiff’s Solicitor.
The SCHEDULE before referred to.
CHILDREN of WILLIAM PRESS.
ADELINE PRESS, one of the children of the said Wil-
liam Press, was born on the 16th July, 1830, atSust.ad,
Norfolk. She married one Thomas Adams, and emigrated
to Australia. She was last heard of about 25 years ago
as living in Australia.
RICHARD PRESS, a son of the said William Press, was
born in April, 1834, at Sustead, Norfolk. He was a
sailor, and went to America in his youth. He was last
heard of on the 7th September, 1871, and was then resid-
ing in New Caledonia. It is not known whether he was
married.
CHILDREN of JOHN CLARKE.
HENRY CLARKE was born in or about 1796, atHoxne,
Suffolk, and was a miller at that place. He is believed to
have left the neighborhood before 1840. It is supposed he
died shortly after, and was never married.
CHILDREN of H ANNAH CLARKE, a daughter of the
above-named John Clarke, who is believed to have married
one Charles Jeffery, a shoemaker, of Homerton, London.
She died 18th November, 1872.
JULIA ANN JEFFERY was born on the 16th January,
1833, and was married to Edwin Theodore Harris on the
4th June, 1854, at Bethnal-green, Middlesex. She is be-
lieved to have died many years ago.
WILLIAM JEFFERY was baptised on the 9th October,
1836, at Homerton, Middlesex. It is not known whether
he is living or dead.
HANNAH MARIA JEFFERY was born on the 17th
February, 1839, at Morning-lane, Homerton, Middlesex.
She lived with a man named Scott, and is believed to be
now dead.
JESSIE JEFFERY was born about 1840, and married a
man named Chapman. She is believed to have died many
years ago. .
SUSAN CLARKE was born about 1800, and is believed
to have married a man named Wood, who was a leather-
cutter in the Old Kent-road, London. She is supposedto
have died many years ago. She left one son, named
RICHARD WOOD, who was born about 1828, and is
also supposed to have been long dead.
CHILDREN of THOMAS CLARKE.
HARRIET CLARKE was baptised 13th September,
1813, at Earsham, Norfolk. She is believed to have
married one John Shaw, and lived for a time at Great
Yarmouth, Norfolk. She and her husband afterwards
emigrated, it is believed, to Jamaica. It is not known
whether she is living or dead, or whether she left any
children. ~..
WILLIAM GREEN SMITH CLARKE was baptised wn
July, 1816, at Earsham, aforesaid. He is believed t
have married and emigrated to Mexico. It is not know
whether he is living or dead, or whether he left any
children.
CHILDREN of CHARLES NOTLEY.
CHARLES NOTLEY was the natural child of Theodora
Notley, who afterwards married John Clarke, mention
in the above inquiry. He was born about 1794, a
baptised on the 20th July, 1794, at Hoxne, Suffolk. 1
not known whether he was married or whether hen
any children.
ECKERSLEY'S
EUCALYPTUS
Purest Sl Strongest
Analyst's Certificate
on Every Bottle.
ITfl
Mail us yotir order direct for a 16 ounce bottle of
ECKERSLEY’S EUCALYPTUS. You get double tne
strength and eight times the quantity of oil contained in
ordinary bottle <l6 ounces).
Posted all over Australia for 3s. 3d.
ECKERSLEY ©. SONS,
Bourke Street, Melbourne. —
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT as
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
of
m
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL AND
REFRESHED
IN
NOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
All Roughness, Redness,
T«»n f Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES. 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES. Sole Makers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents— Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.
The (Allegedly) Negligible Chow.
The extremely successful boycott of Japan by
China indicates a circumstance the anti-Defence
Australian hates to recognise—to wit, the Chow’s
dangerously earnest patriotism. A French
essayist discussed the problem recently as to
whether the loathing the Chink notoriously has
for “foreign barbarians” arises from effetely
ignorant prejudice, or from what he called “adis-
torted sentiment of nationalism,” and plumped
with a clothes-basketful of reasons for the second
theory. There now arises one “Chuey, grand
master of the Chinese Masonic Lodge of Australia
(numbering 10,000),” who takes a different
view. Said he, blandly, to a Sydney Telegraph
young man (16/4/’08): “ Some of your papers say
that China is to have a big army and navy. That
will be in hundreds of years. I know the Chinese.
I travel among them, and I know their feelings,
and I am quite sure that they will never want to
fight. They will never be aggressive.” And so
on—the gist of his contention being that the Chow
is naturally so peaceful and shockingly inoffensive
that nothing on earth will ever induce him to be
rude to Australia, and that it is therefore quite
superfluous on the Commonwealth’s part to go
arming itself and preparing for trouble which will
never arise. It is an argument that does not
impress The Bulletin worth a cent. China
has stated its intention of mulcting Japan
of £60.000,000 worth of trade before lifting the
present boycott. It will probably carry out
that threat; or at least a great part
of it. That will entail a big national sacrifice ; a
money sacrifice —the same brand of sacrifice pre-
cisely as is entailed on Germany or the United
Kingdom or America in fleet-building. It may
be said that the Chow will spill his money in his
country’s cause, and yet halt at spilling his blood.
History proves otherwise. The Chow is unusually
careless in the matter of his gore. These yellow
men, thousands of whom voluntarily die by
proxy, and who are wont to jest with the
public executioner two or three heads away
from them, have shown a like indifference
to death on many battle-fields. Their habits
and morals are vile, but their stolid courage is in-
disputable. Chuey and the anti-Defence person
in general would have rational Australians believe
that these people with whom national sentiment
is a fetich (to quote Chuey: “The individual
Chinese only stop in Australia long enough to make
money, and then they go back to the land of their
birth ”), who treat death with flippancy, and who
regard money as nothing in the scale with national
self-respect, are going to voluntarily keep them-
selves impotent for hundreds of years to come.
The dreadful thinness of the yarn places it in a
commanding position in the freak gallery which
contains the Petriana mendacity, the Six Hatters
lie, and such-like emaciated concoctions.
From Shem’s Country.
A letter from a British port in Asia :
Within view of the Monkey, and surrounded by his
yellow cousins, I want to talk WHITE AUSTRALIA. I
have always been a believer in the policy, and actual
contact with Asiatics in their own haunts has made me
rabid. I teach in a school which boasts about 300 of them
and their bastard cousins, the Eurasians.
The distant mountain is picturesque. It is only those
who are struggling up the sides who see the precipices
they walk beside, the chasm that yawns, or the boulder
that has slain. At a distance you cannot realise the situ-
ation you would be called upon to face, nor the conditions
arising from having among you, on an equal footing',
hordes of Asiatics. One or two of the spawn may, to
some tastes, appear picturesque—spectacular; but to
be in the midst of a whelming yellow or brown
flood, rolling its waves against the bulwarks
of our civilisation, flooding our public highways,
swarming in our public conveyances, threatening our
homes—that is the condition which the men and women
of our race should investigate and realise, before they
devote themselves to that strange philanthropy which is
so tender of the colored brother and sister, and so crimi-
nally ignorant of, and careless about, the terrible dan-
gers that threaten the women and children of our own
race. THERE IS NO COMMUNITY WHERE THE
ASIATICS EXIST IN ANY NUMBERS THAT THEY
HAVE NOT MADE THEMSELVES OFFENSIVE TO THE
WHITES.
Behind the adamantine resolve that the Australian
people shall for ever be a white people is an instinct that
few have analysed—the instinct for the preservation of
species. Preservation of species is one of the strongest
laws of nature. The lion does not mate with the tiger.
Race aversion is simply the unconscious recognition of
this creational difference, and the normal attitude to-
wards a mingling of the two races should be one of in-
stinctive animal revolt. Because some have told the
brown man, “You are the equal of the white man,” the
object most desired by him is the forbidden, the un-
attainable white woman. It is time those people knew
better. Let them hear the warning while it is uttered in
a still small voice. “The white woman is the coveted
desire of the brown man ; the despoiling of the white
woman is his chosen vengeance.”
The all-pervasiveness of the Eurasian, not by ones or
twos, but by the thousand—the Eurasian with his equality
insolence, his odiferous person, and his criminal ten-
dencies—is a factor for danger and discomfort that must
be held in check by the most far-seeing intelligence.
Right to associate with the white is the goal to which the
Asiatic strives. It is for this very reason that many a
Jap woman holds herself more honored in being the mis-
tress of some white man than in being the honest wife of
a good colored man. For the same reason the bastard
Eurasian, instead of being taught to be ashamed of his
whiter skin, which is proof of his disgraceful origin that
all the world may read, is proud of the white blood
which is there only through infamy and vileness. The
Eurasian child of infamy looks down with scorn upon the
pure-blooded Asiatic.
Miscegenation is a crime against two races. The
Eurasian is certainly no improvement on the white race.
Nor is he any improvement on the Asiatic of the best
type. Nature marks him for extermination by making
him physiologically inferior to both races, with far less
endurance and vitality, according to statistics, more
susceptible to disease especially tuberculosis and
insanity.
♦
Natal, which long ago adopted the coolie immi-
gration policy which the Bruce Smith party
recommends as the means whereby Australia is to
be saved, is stirring heavily in its sleep. The
voter there can do comparatively little, merely as
a voter, on account of an amazing system of gerry-
mandering, whereby the comparatively progressive
town of Durban has one member for each 1499
voters, while Alfred County, which returns a
Tory Minister, has one for every 195 voters. But
about half the voters have signed a petition which
is calculated to make the Moor Cabinet think
that something has hit it fairly hard, and they say
that they will find some way of ending the present
political fake. Some of the grievances which the
petition sets forth are as follows :
(a) The land is in the hands of the few, and largely
uncultivated and unproductive.
(b) The incidence of taxation is manifestly and
grievously unjust.
(c) Under a policy of drift there has arisen an absolute
confusion in the relations of the white and black popula-
tion, which is yearly intensifying.
(d) Asiatic immigration has become a serious danger
to the Colony. The Asiatic population now consider-
ably out-numbers the white population, and is rapidly
increasing.
(e) There has been gross extravagance in our State ex-
penditure, rendering our financial position one of grave
embarrassment, and the future of our Colony a cause
of great disquietude, if not alarm.
(f) Our white population is rapidly decreasing.
The situation suggests an old scriptural remark
slightly altered—what shall it profit a white man
if he gains 100,000 cheap niggers and loses himself ?


Arnott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
“D.J.” complains :
Sydney Sunday Times printed this slab of painful
foolishness (26/4/08)
|> if Winston Churchill’s name were something else, he
would have no place among the world’s prominent per-
It surely constitutes about the limit in the way of dirt-
cheap gibes. As a fact, Churchill is, apart from his name
oranv other adventitious circumstance, (1) a born war-
correspondent. The Morning Post boomed while his
S’ African letters where appearing. Rival sheets also had
their Debretted employees; but these cut no ice
whatever— for the simple reason that they couldn’t
write. Churchill*—the Churchill of to-day—is (2) a
recognised historical authority on the Victorian period,
and, to boot, a masterly handler of fine English prose.
His biography of his father has been accepted by critics
in a dozen languages, as a work ranking near Morley’s
“Gladstone.” He is (3) one of the most effective, if not
the most effective, of debaters on his side in the House of
Commons. As one result, although starting with the
Joint handicaps of youth and extreme personal unpopu-
larity, he made good so astoundingly in his Under-
yeoretaryship as to wholly overshadow his chief, Lord
Elgin ; and to render his elevation to Cabinet rank a
oertnintv in any reconstructed Ministry. He is (4)
admittedly the best platform man with a crowd-
rough or smooth —barring a couple or three of the Nation-
alist members, and classing Chamberlain as out of
the running— in the United Kingdom ; and (5) a
travel, novel, social and political writer of no mean
order. To suggest that a man of this mental calibre
depends on his name for his fame is surely un-
worthy nonsense. It is the class of jeer the Tory gutter
press of England ceased hurling at him years and years
ago- .
Amusements.
Centenary hall, Sydney
Under direction of J. & N. TAIT.
MONDAY EVENING- NEXT,
Also THURSDAY and SATURDAY.
MAX SGHLUTER
THE EMINENT DANISH VIOLINIST.
Plan at Paling’s. Prices—ss., 35., 25,, and Is.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings at 8. Wednesday Afternoon at 2.
LAST NIGHTS OP’
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
In the Charming Comic Opera,
THE LADY DANDIES.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Elvy & Co.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Evenings at 8. Wednesday & Saturday Afternoons at 2.
THE GRAND SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC
EXTRAVAGANZA,
HUMPTY DUMPTY.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATR E,~ SYDNEY.
Lessee: MR. FRANK MUSGROVE.
EUPERT CLARKE, JOHN WREN, MEYNELL and
GUNN’S COMPANY.
Evenings at 8. Wednesday at 2.
The Exciting, Romantic, and Historical Costume Drama,
A BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK,
Presented bv HARCOURT BEATTY and MADGE
McINTOSH and MEYNELL & GUNN’S LEADING
DRAMATIC CO.
Prices 4/-, 2/6, and 1/- Plan at Elvy’s.
THE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
yyiRTH BROS. WIRTH BROS.
greatest show on earth.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES :
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY AFTERNOON at 3.
Doors Open One Hour Earlier, giving ample time to
view the
4 HUGE MENAGERIES COMBINED 4
grand continental circus
brought to your very doors.
WATCH FOR THE GIRAFFE.
It is in Australia, alive and well. Magnificent, Rare,
Timid, Expensive, Powerful, Beautiful, Fragile Creature.
The first time ever in Australia. Be one of the first to
see it. Watch morning papers for its first appearance.
PRICES : Reserved Chairs (Box Plan at Paling’s), 45.,
35., 25., Is. Children under 10 half-price, except to
Gallery, which is full price to everybody.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction .. HENRY HAYWARD.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY at 2.30
MASKELYNE AND DEV ANT’S
MYSTERIES MASKELYNE
Wh’ .n and HOOKE)
uich for 34 years has been the leading entertainment
.... in London.
Admission— 45., 35., 25., and Is. Children Half-price.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
Tl V , OLI „ THEATRE, SYDNEY.
sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
M 7G MaNN TROUPE, World’s Greatest Bicyclists.
J P ini MILDARE, England’s Greatest Whistler.
• LING, London’s Celebrated Mimetic Monologuist
and Versatile Entertainer.
U- ASTERS ALBERT, London’s Duettists & Dancers.
M>ss NELLIE MAHER Mr. FRED. BLUETT
Miss LOTTIE KAY Mr. GEORGE DEAN
Ptnrilo LTER WHYTE The TWO COLLIERS.
2s, 6d.. 25.. and Is. Plan at Paling’s. _
0 P e E , R A H O MELBOURNE.
oole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
TWO AHLBERGS, Comedy Acrobats.
JOHN HIGGINS, Champion Jumper.
_ IKE and WILL SCOTT, Comedians.
A r Tnm ON A RDS, Step and Clog Dancers.
IOIS BROTHERS, Comedy Horizontal Bar Act.
SVT ALMA GRAY, Vocalist, Dancer,
nt-ixiii m ’ World’s Greatest Comedy Juggler.
UEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
an Allan’s. ggr PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
GILHOOLEY’S AUSTRALIA
ORCHESTRA plays for every leading
Society function in Sydney, and is always up-to-date ;
latest music. W. R. CILHOOLEY, Tel. 3931,
84 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
"["OWN HALL, SYDNEY.
NIGHTLY at 8.
MATlNEES—Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES “ The A j^ tof
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 1/6. Plan at Nicholson’s.
DRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Lessee and Manager .. Mr. J. C. Williamson.
CONTINUED ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS.
MISS TITTELL BRUNE & CO.
IN ....
PETER PAN,
By J. M. BARRIE.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A NOTABLE THEATRICAL EVENT.
MEYNELL and GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
IN
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By PAUL RUBENS.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
DIJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
NEW AUSTRALIAN DRAMATIC COMBINATION in
the ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN MELODRAMA,
THE SOUTHERN CROSS.
Popular Prices —35., 25., and Is. Early Doors 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING. EVERY EVENING.
A REAL PLAY OF REAL LIFE.
ALFRED SUTRO’S VITAL COMEDY DRAMA,
JOHN GLAYDE’S HONOR.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE lf T AI
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
p EA L ICE SKATING.
THE MELBOURNE
GLACIARIUM
Re-opens SATURDAY AFTERNOON, MAY 2.
POPULAR PRICES EVERY EVENING.
The New
Edison Records
The February list of Gold-
Moulded Records has been issued,
and you can hear any of the selec-
tions at your nearest dealer’s.
They include some splendid
items by leading artists, and if
you write us we will forward full
particulars of them all.
The Edison
Phonograph
will make the long cold nights pass
quickly and enjoyably. You can
take your ease by your cosy fireside
while the world’s best singers
entertain you.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
Missing: Friends.
HENRY PRISKE, formerly of Tataraimaka,
son of the late Phoebe Priske and Philip
Trescowthick Priske, is requested to communicate
with the undersigned at once, when he will hear
of something to his advantage.
STANDISH & STANDISH, Solicitors,
New Plymouth, New Zealand.
$
Read Your
“Bulletin ”
in Comfort.
OUR . ..
ACETYLENE
Gas Burners
Give HIGHEST ILLUMINATING
POWER and are MOST ECONOMICAL.
Sample Dozen Assorted Makes sent post free for
10/- Catalogues and Lists FREE.
ROBERT C. SWAN (XL CO. Ltd.,
119 BATHURST BTREET, SYDNEY.
i
WHAT IS CATARRH?
(CAT ARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgia Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4 months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
THE BANK OF ADELAIDE
FORTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
CHE Directors have pleasure in submitting herewith for fche information of Shareholders the
Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 30th March, 1908; also Statements of Profit and Loss Account
and the Reserve Fund on that date.
The balance to credit of Profit and Loss is , ... ... ...£59,014 6 0
Which it is proposed to appropriate as follows :
To Reserve Fund (making it £305,000) £20.000 0 0
Dividend at the rate of 9 per cent, per annum ... 18,000 0 0
38,000 0 0
Leaving a balance of ... ...£21,014 6 0
to be carried forward.
An Interim Dividend at the rate of 9 per cent, per annum was paid in November last.
During the year from 31st March, 1907, Owen and Freeling Agencies have been converted into
Branches, and Agencies have been opened at Edwardstown, Morgan, Parrakie, and Clarendon.
A desire having been expressed by some of the Shareholders at the last Annual Meeting that the
Board should give consideration to the establishment of an Officers’ Provident Fund, a scheme for
that purpose has been drawn up, and will be submitted to the Shareholders at a Special Meeting to be
held at the close of the business of the General Annual Meeting.
The General Annual Meeting will be held at No. 25 Waymouth-street, Adelaide, on Wednes-
day, 6th May, 1908, at 11.30 a.m., at which the Shareholders will be called upon to elect Two Direc-
tors in place of James Harvey, Esq., J.P., and the Honorable Sir Jenkm Coles, K.C.M.G., M.P.,
who retire by rotation, but are eligible for re-election, and offer themselves accordingly. The Share-
holders will also have to elect Two Auditors for the ensuing year, and fix the remuneration of the
retiring Auditors.
By order of the Board of Directors,
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
balance-sheet.
LIABILITIES.
Capital paid up.. ..£400,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 286,000 0 0
Profit and Loss 59,014 6 0
£744,014 6 0
Notes in Circulation 185,540 0 0
Bills in Circulation .. .. .. 270,414 8 8
Balances due to other Banks .. .. 4,039 18 9
Deposits .. .. .. .. .. 3,090,618 1 7
Interest Accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Discounted .. 22,998 3 5
£4,317,624 18 5
ASSETS.
By Specie, Bullion, and
Cash Balances ..£514,809 10 9
Government Debentures 458,088 14 5
Municipal Debentures.. 4,900 0 0
Money at Short Call .. 915,000 0 0
Balances due from other
Banks 159,066 1 8
Notes of other Banks .. 7,611 0 0
£2,059,475 6 10
Remittances in Transitu .. .. 166,754 11 3
Bank Premises and Furniture .. .. 84,707 8 0
Bills Receivable and all other Ad-
vances .. .. .. .. •• 2,006,687 12 4
£4,317,624 18 5
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FROM MARCH 25, 1907, TO MARCH 30, 1908.
To Reserve Fund as below .. £20,000 0 0
Dividend in May, 1907 .. 18,000 0 0
Dividend in November, 1907 18,000 0 0
£56,000 0 0
Balance ~ .. 59,014 6 0
£115,014 6 0
By Balance March 25, 1907 .. .. ..£58,504 6 7
Net Profit after making-
provision for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, Interest
Accrued on Fixed De-
posits and Rebate on
Bills Discounted, and
Expenses at Head Office
and 33 Branches, includ-
ing Salaries, Rents, etc., £59,950 19 5
Less Note Tax .. .. 3,441 0 0
£56,509 19 5
£115,014 6 0
RESERVE FUND.
To balance at this date .. .. ..£285,000 0 0
£285,000 0 0
By balance March 25, 1907 .. .. ..£265,000 0 0
Transfer from profit and loss, May, 1907 20,000 0 0
£285,000 0
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
It. t. MAHNKE, Acting Accountant.
A. GEO. DOWNER,
JAMES HARVEY,
H. C. E. MUECKE,
JENKIN COLES,
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE,
Directors.
We hereby certify that we have compared the above Balance-sheet with the Books and Accounts
of The Bank of Adelaide for the year ending March 30, 1908, that we have counted the cash and
examined the bills on hand at the Head Office (the assets and liabilities at the Branches other than
London being taken on the certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the respective Branches,
and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager), and that it is a correct abstract
of the same.
W. L. WARE, F.1.A.5.A., [
J. S. LLOYD, F.1.A.5.A., 1
Auditors.
Adelaide, April 16, 1908.
N/ IIARVESTER X
Company
3?Te rTcS
&
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
AND
THIS
advt WILL HOT
CUT IT OUT
Cockshutt “ Blue Jay” Walking Plows
While They Last
PREIOMT FREE to your nearest
Railway Station (Northern
Territory. North Queensland and
Western Australia excepted).
Terms : £2 lO O
Cash ; balance by P/Pi
due Feb'. Ist* 1909


Shipping.
LUND'S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
M elbournb Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
™ E Queensland national Bank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. 413,296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64.000 0 0
Interminable ueposit Stock ..3,116,621.0 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager. —W. V. RALSTON.
7he Colonial (Qutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C- J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman..
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
JAMES BURNT, Esq. (Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
j]ank of Qeui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
PAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMS.
WE
IF"
Free
Accident insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
dxr.s.'w.
[flont depietefl.il. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia..
Directors —Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C. (Gibbs,
Bright & Co.), Sir John See, K.C.M.G., J. J. Allen,
Esq., J. Campbell Wood Esq. Adelaide: L. A.
Jbssop, Esq. Melbourne Hon. F. S. Grim wade,
M.L.C.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
0
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP . £9O 000 0
DESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq., Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
lion J. M. Pratt,, M.L.C. ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager..
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
371ACT’RY ’ANDS,” by Edward Dvson.
j “ Best book of Australian humor,” 4s. 6d.
Shipping.
IST. 33. 31b.
(NORD-DHUTSCHF.R LLOYD.
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen,
via Ports.
‘Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY Everv Four Weeks, via BRISBANE
NEW BRITAIN, NEW GUINEA and MANILA to
HONGKONG, KOBE and YOKOHAMA.
MANILA sth MAY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 2nd JUNE.
PRINZ SICISMUND 30th JUNE.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
LOHMANN & CO., 7 and 9 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank nf Queensland
Capital Paid-dp .. .. „ .. £475,041 0 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 174.350 0 0
Reserve FuNDfln vested in Government Stock) 70,000 0 0
£719,391 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct.,E: H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throuahout the World.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
CUFIC, 8000 tons (Cargo only), to sail
about Bth May.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about 13th
May.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 10th
June.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £,15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and, all other Information
on Amplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalyety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AD€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
Twin Screw.
t New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
HOLIDAY
TO
N« QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
CRUISES
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking:, &c.
Bank of [)eui South ||)ales.
Establish kd 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital ~ £2,425,400 0 0
In course of Payment 74,600 0 0
£2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund.. .. .. ... ... 1,530,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors ... _. 2,500,000
0 0
£6,530,000 0 0
Directors :
The Hon. C. K. MacKkllar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Nor wand MaoLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Jambs Thomas Walker.
The IJon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax, Kt.
. riif ra- ) Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
Auditors . ( William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office-64 Old Broad Street.
With .Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America* Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks ; and conducts all customary
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
The gank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital .. .. ..£1,600,000
Reserve Fund.. .. .. .. 1,470,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,670,000
London Office: 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5-
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
Come and See ME
about Your Eyes.
OSBORN,
The Optician
(Late of Osborn & Jerdan),
176 PITT STREET (4 Doors from Her
Majesty’s Theatre), SYDNEY.
I have the skill, the latest appliances for EXACT
SIGHT TESTING, and the most perfectly appointed
Testing- Rooms in this city.
NO ONE CAN MAKE YOU GLASSES TO SO
EXACTLY SUIT YOUR SIGHT AT SUCH
MODERATE CHARGES AS I.
I have had over 20 years’ experience here, and
have tested THOUSANDS of Eyes. Why not yours ?
-
y:«i
;>r\^
H
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Stef.le, Sole Agent.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find everv comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, Mo J Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rTVH.E Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, £-hOur
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to arjd f rom
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE, -\
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Coolgardie, May 5.
S.S. Grantala, May 23.
BRISBANE,
MAO KAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports Norrh to Cairns
S.S. Innamincka, May 2.
S.S. Marloo, May 9.
Jiesf iin<l Cheapest Iloute to <j /?«/<<*
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after th„
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IyjjESSAGERIES /yjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
Mel-
bourne.
1 p.m.
1908.
May 21
June 18
July 16
Ade-
laide,
1 p.m
1908.
May 23
June 20
July 18
Aug-. 13|Aug. 15
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines. "
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange,
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTR,
Acting-General Manager in Australia
Tel. 375. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.ni., SATUR.
DAY, May 2.
KANOWNA, 32 noon, SATUR.
RAY, May 2.
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
KANOWNA, 12 noon, SATUR-
DAY, May 2.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
May 2.
GABO, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
av 5
PEREGRINE. 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, May 9.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe .
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F. H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire L/ines*
FOR
Durban, Capetown, London,
and Liverpool.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.”
11,300 Tons. G. T. Dkith.
Will be despatched from Brisbane on the 9th May, Wjj
„ „ „ Sydney „ 13th May, 908
~ Melbourne,, 18th May, 19
~ ~ Adelaide „ 23rd May, 190-
~ ~ ~ Albany „ 27th May, 190
To be followed by other fast twin-screw steamers.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and tnira-
passengers. The Saloon accommodation consists o
two-bertli cabins on the upper deck, situated &
ships. The Third-class accommodation comprises , >
and 6-berth cabins, all of which are situated on the'
deck. Electric light throughout. Surgeon and Stew ,
carried. Return Tickets issued. Prepaid passagesarr g
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
DURBAN .. £22 I f n lls £13135. £I51&-
CAPETOWN .. £24 15s. f** 1 '
LONDON and ) £4910s £l3 13s. £15155. £l7 W*
LIVERPOOL .. / -
Steerage Fares from Brisbane, One Guinea extra.
For further information, etc., apply to—
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney. , ne
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & CO., Ltd., Melbo
and Albany.
ELDER SMITH & CO., Ltd., Adelaide.


I
WMMbM
r . *4
if
* *
imcitra
DESTROYS
AiUfNOI W
INSECTS
■■:S
INSECTIBANE
*»
, --
WZJ
A zestful relisli
of luscious tomatoes —
picked fruits fresh from the garden, fairly
bursting with ruby eness—only these
ire good enough for Dy Us on to use in the
Leaking of his Tomato sauce. All the
iclicacy and daintiness of\a Home Made
preserve—and yet more choicely flavoured,
bwing to a score of years experience in .
condiment making. .:■s%.
j&V * :.* .. y Ai|iijl|[
m
There are n<X preservatives
of any kir.d whatever in
/
DYASON'S
TOMATO SAUCE.
Tomato Chutney.
Tomato Caijsup.
Sold by Grocers everywhere.
PURE TGtNi
You Want a Good Watch
THE ONLY THING YOU CAN PAY CASH
FOR, AND YET HAVE “ON TICK”
m
i
P
Gentleman's 10-ct. Solid Gold Hunt-
ing Cased Keyless Elgin Lever Watch.
Bu y 110w > as the duty is up 10 per cent.
Price, ,£8 10s.
25YCAR
m
m
We show here some of the best and most popular
styles of Watches now made. They combine Neat-
ness, Elegance, Quality, and Strength. Send along
your order now, you can’t do better. Remember
money back if the Watch you buy does not open
up to your satisfaction. You run absolutely no risk
when you deal with STEWART DAWSON & CO.
Our Special Thin Model Keyless Steel Crystal
Front Lever. The Best Guinea Watch in
Australia. JEI Is.
This shows our 14-ct. Gold-
Filled Watch for Women.
Sound, Serviceable. and
worth three of any cheap all-
gold watch. £ 4 10s.
DOni’T
DEL A Y,
WRITE
TO-DAY
TO
fl.|CTfpggg^
The Thinnest 12-Size American Watch
made. A 1 Elgin Lever Movement,
14-ct. Gold Case. For a man who
appreciates smartness this is the watch.
£8 10s.
This is a specially fine 10-ct.
Gold Full Hunting Elgin
Lever, and we can advise
any lady to wear it, as it is
good both in case and works.
Free and safe by post for
Gentleman’s 25-year 14-ct.
Gold-filled Hunting Case
Elgin Lever Watch. Im-
mensely superior to a cheap
all-gold watch. £5 10s.
- - A
2 5 YEAR
m
WRITE FOR OUR
FREE
CATALOGUES.


1907/8.
1
2
PER. CENT.
WOOL.
We have much, pleasure in announcing' that on and after the Ist July, 1908, our consolidated Wool
Selling Charge will be 2 per cent., in place of 2\ per cent, as at present.
Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Go., Ltd.
(A. M. L. & F. Co. Ltd.)
1908 9.
2
PER CENT.
WOOL. PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS
STOCK and STATION AGENTS
RLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
THIS
RACING WATCH
(CHRONOCRAPH LEVER).
GUARANTEED IN WRITING
FOR 3 YEARS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
60/-
60/-
\\
7.. V
THIS racing- CHRONOGRAPH is indispensable to
Racing Men, Trainers, Breeders, etc. It times
any trial or race to a fifth of a second, and I
guarantee it absolutely correct and reliable every
time. It counts the minutes on the small tbp dial,
and is instantaneous start, top, and fly back. The
Chronograph is only in use when wanted—the
ordinary works keep the time of day. It is a fully
jewelled movement, non-magnetic, direct quick train,
compensation balance, polished steel regulator, and
perfectly finished in every detail. It is wound
and set without opening the case, and the
chronograph started, stopped, and set back by simply
pressing the top. The case is the finest quality GUN-
METAL, perfectly dust proof—has a strong crystal
glass face, with bevelled edge, enamelled white dial,
with bold figures. Sent post free, and guaranteed in
writing for 3 YEARS, for 60/-. If it does not give
complete satisfaction, I will return 3-o ur purchase
money in full. This watch is something out of the
ordinary, and I warrant it to be as reliable as any ten
guinea watch made. Write for one to-day. I 'have
the same works in sterling silver cases and solid
Gold Cases.
DUNKUNG, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Winchester
si
wkwtfy &
y&zrn. ik A^n
y\i;
Nr.'/i]
mmywi
-TX
x r, ■. Z
■ v
“NEW RIVAL”
Loaded Black Powder
“Newßivals”are as per-
fect as brains and in-
genuity, coupled with
first-class materials and
mod ern methods of
manufacture, can make
them. They are sure
fire, make even pat-
terns, shoot hard and
strong and will stand
reloading. Ask for
“New Rivals” next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS
A
POLICY l-OR THK COMMONWEALTH
Price, (id.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
A
nn%
0
I
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON. « Er date #Loftus Sts., Sydney
9
I
It acts like a eharm In
DIARRIKEA.
4 o t/ M *
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World , in bottles, Is. 1 \d. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6cZ. each.
CAUTION-— Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
Elephant,” on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
A
m
1
m
-r
■
m
m
> V.
w,
s is®
1.7/
%
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
rjIHE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
JL plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system is a foolish system. We practically pay
our doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do but little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
things he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Dr. MCLAUGHLIN S ELECTRIC BEET
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
** worßs while you sheep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as 5c.l in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire *, your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-day, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man ! , . Send the COUPON to-dav.
or CALL for Tree Consultation, Hours—9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
THE McLAUGHUN CO.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh amt Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The McLaughlin co.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney*
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
USTame
Address
1


“ Mate ” : Enthusiasm for the colored
alien (B. 12/3/’08) is not confined to the British
female. The pious .of both sexes are badly
afflicted—unless they live right up against a
color question as in the Southern United States.
I was in one ship on this coast that carried a large
and flabby nigger cook. He was an object of very
special attention to a number of reverend
brothers—deacons and such. Don’t know the
denomination, but they seemed to run to grey
whiskers, a cheerful pessimism, and many mis-
applied pious expressions. They feted this
nigger at their tabernacles in various ports,
where he warmed their hearts with prayerful but
hysterical bellowings. They gave teas and suppers
with edifying embellishments, and invited black
brother. He was slobbered over by their wives
and daughters at great length. He used to dis-
cuss their charms with a weak-minded mess-room
boy in a style that would have made them one big
blush for the rest of their lives—had they known.
He was fired out as being too dirty for endurance,
and for weeks after his wild, black exit our sus-
ceptible mate used to put on a clean collar and
his best smile to try and make an impression on
the fair ones who came to inquire for Sambo.
“ J.D.R.” : Paragraph 6 of the memo-
randum concerning the proposed defence organisa-
tion says : “ It is proposed that all N.C.O’s and
officers shall pass through the ranks.” Hooray!
The corps to which I gave my valuable services
was officered, to a great extent, by bank clerks,
who would no sooner purchase their pretty uni’-
forms than they would receive notice from the
bank to rush off to some remote branch, so that
the corps was never sure how many officers it pos-
sessed, or who they were. This occurred time
after time, yet no effort was ever made to fill the
vacancies with non-com. officers who were situ-
ated permanently in the place, and had been 15
years in the service. Another Augustus would
be brought in, and so the thing went on. The
consummation of Prime Minister Deakin’s scheme
should have the effect of bringing the genuine,
natural Soldier out on top.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established^i B49. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
ProshniH __. City or Suburban Properties, or on
of ■DUK «O,^ bmeC, . , ’ Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
? ra ,° n e De *>e"tures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT lowest CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
nn r | ft n X rtS ¥ 8 P?? d n , onta \ n9 a condition allowing: Borrowers the privilege of repaying
r. P to _0 per cent, of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of anv fine.
Di r f.ctors— The Hon. A W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman ; Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Peputv-Chairman : Benjamin
fas 0 KarKxF BU, ' nS< EB £ : X ? e „ Hon - R ' J ' Black - M.L.0.; The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
HE \D OPFICF 87 ww-p s ynZ- Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
nr.AU OtMCE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY ■ ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
CONGO ROOFING
Just what you want to settle your roof problems. A permanent
reliable roofing, that anyone can apply themselves. Put up
m compact form, absolutely impervious to moisture, stands
any climate, lasts indefinitely.
Will outlast corrugated iron and being a non-
conductor of heat, is much cooler.
Congo is the “ Never-Leak Roof.”
Send for free samples to any of the addresses below—
Manufactured I y BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co-
Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by G. E. Crane & Sens, Ltd.,
Sydney; John Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne; George Wills
& Co., Brisbane ; Millar’s
Karri Jarrah Co., Perth,
West Australia.
F 2
rC..;*:
w'.
■las'll r ».
n n po 0 °2
»e»9
ri'"J
rff
f rf2
'rr
k
The bulletin post cards.-Now
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
QUEEN
ALEXANDRA
PRESENTED
&
*0
PIPES
to thcTROOPS
in SOUTH AFRICA
Obtainable from at! Tobacconists
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
The Famous Remedy For
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA
Cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir, —From a strict sense
of duty I feel that I should publish the following state-
ment, so that others may know what to do when the
awful fact is evident that a life is in danger of being
lost:—ln September, 1906, my little girl, aged at that
time 3 years, contracted Measles, and in the following
October was attacked by Bronchitis, Pneumonia and
Congestion of the Lungs. She was attended by a
legally qualified doctor of high standing, but his treat-
ment was not successful in arresting the progress of the
illness. On Saturday, the 21st October, 1906, he said
that her life was in danger—that there was very little
hope for her. For eight days and nights she had been
prostrated by Cough, Pain and Fever, and was lying
like a statue, unconscious. At this stage I was per-
suaded by a friend to obtain Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure,
with its auxiliary medicine for the Fever and Conges-
tion of the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue of
Medicines which accompanies each bottle of the Bron-
chitis Cure. I gave the medicine as directed, and there
was an improvement from the first dose of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure. The improvement continued after
each dose of the medicine. In a week she was perfectly
free from the Pneumonia, Congestion, Cough, Pain and
Fever, and was well, except that she was still weak. In
a fortnight she was quite recovered, and is now in
splendid health, and stronger than ever. Any person
asking for information about this grand medicine can
be supplied by me, or by any of my neighbours who have
witnessed its wonderful effects. It absolutely snatched
my child from an early grave.—Yours gratefully,
_ D. GARDINER,
Police Station, Geelong East, Feb. 5, 1908.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age.
Thoroughly Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief-Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l was very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me imme-
diate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am
thoroughly cured. Its effect on me has been mo-’t
wonderful. lam 73 years of age. I trust you will
make use of this statement by publishing it for the bene-
fit of humanity generally. Yours most i-» s^»c tf u lly,
THOMAS R. TRFZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
PNEUMONIA and PLEURISY
cured by
HEARNE'S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
I, Prudence M‘Kee, of Carr-street, South Geelong, in
view of the importance of a person making it quite clear
what treatment was successful in curing a serious and
complicated case when the medicine, directions and treat-
ment of a legally qualified doctor had failed, state as
follows
My son, Henry M‘Kee, then aged 8 years, had been
attended by a legally qualified doctor, who pronounced
him to be suffering from Pneumonia, Pleurisy and a
stoppage of the passing of Urine. Under the doctor’s
treatment the child gradually got worse, and the doctor
pronounced the case hopeless. He told me that the
child could not live. At this stage I obtained from
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Chemist, of Geelong, a bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and gave it to the child, ac-
cording to the directions which accompany each bottle
of it. The child improved after the second dose of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. He continued to improve
each day from each dose of Hearne’s Medicine alone, and
within three days he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy, and the Urine was passing satis-
factorily. He was out of bed at the end of a week,
completely recovered, and he is now in perfect health.
PRUDENCE M’KEE,
Carr-street, South Geelong, Feb. 6, 1908.
CONSUMPTION.
Too 111 to Leave His Bed.
A Complete Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell yeu about the wonder-
ful cure your medicine has effected in my case. About
three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough
was not severe, but it gradual,,, got worse, and I became
very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my
chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several oc-
casions there was blood in the expectorated matter. I
had been treated by a doctor who pronounced my case to
be consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill
to leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually imDroved. I am glad to say that the two
lots of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure,
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
BRONCHITIS and PLEURISY.
A Severe Case Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne'S Bronchitis Cure.
After Other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered
from a severe attack of influenza, and was confined to
my room for about a week, at the end of which time,
feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact
my business as usual. But I got up too soon, for the
very next day I had a relapse, and suffered tortures from
what the doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis.
The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders
was frightful, and for four long weeks I was confined to
my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor,
and all the time his medicine gave me but temporary
relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where
I resided, told me of a medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure—from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad at-
tack of bronchitis and pains in the chest, and begged
of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude
to you, tell you that, after the second bottle, my cough
had ceased; but what is more astonishing, the pains from
pleurisy entirely left me, and in about a week I was able
to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully,
, J. BRAHAM.
Melbourne “Punch” Cfifice, Melbourne.
ASTHMA-A 17 YEARS CASE.
Previous Treatment Failed.
Cured by Three Bottles,
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, wrote:—“After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine I quite got rid of the asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883 —fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it.
The medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure
in recommending it.”
Speaking in February, 1908, he states:—“l am keeping
very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
“ Hearne’s Medicine cured me of Asthma, from which
T had been suffering for twenty-five years, during which
time I had used almost every patent medicine on the
market—including asthma inhalations—without getting a
cure. It was 8 years ago that the cure was effected
by Hearne’s Medicine, and I now feel stronger than I
have felt for years—in fact. I f'-'-l r-lendid.”
C. WISEMAN.
Meredith, Victoria.
Beware of Imitations! The great success of HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure has induced a number of*
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “ Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving
the unsuspecting, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you
in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S, ana see tnat you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 26; Large Size, 46, Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1a does NOT contain any Morphia or any Opium whatever. It is equally beneficial
for the youngest child and the most aged person.
m
o
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “start the stomach” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
Wenger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
Hay market, Sydney, N.S.W.
X3hc LEADING
HOUSE
ICAN'T
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 20s. or more
Goods selected
more, and on
OUR
Special
Snap.
2/0
6/0
4/0
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
KEY BRAND.”
7T" T'zT Ti as p«, 0,.
«“7T»TTnTs
“«‘T ri^?ir K I“ F TTT
10/0
1/4 per box of 50
10/0
1/10 per box of 50
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boon oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is ‘2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeigiiborßaymond,ls; post,ls3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; po*t,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of 1< ate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11 s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford) 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young- and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riatre which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Ib. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How TO Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games) Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Evert
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Ui -
to-Dvte, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, 1 üblic
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang ok
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is , post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s tu.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the I irst
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, is post. Cay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All the«e prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Udf Established 25 1 ears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only'
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS
POSTAL NOTE
, MONEY ORDER, OR
OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is 1
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is Old Bush Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d-
Aristotle 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book op Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 1* tkl Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alb I>tgrees, 1906
Edition Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds* Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. How to
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason by Paine,
posted, Is 2d WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
| MOLLER’S I
GOD LIVER OIL
For Colds, Chest and Lung
Diseases, the safest remedy.
NO DISAGREEABLE AFTER EFFECTS
so often experienced when using
ordinary oils and emulsions.
Expeit Opinions :
Indian Medical Gazette:
“ Superior to any we have seen.’
Medical Review : ‘’lt is qui e
unexcelled.”
Sold in capsuled bottles only.
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, High Ho'ho'". ? onden.
factories: Loioten & Ctristiania, Norway.
V.
%
*3o*
MIIIHq
ey £s
/
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
I (some illustrated); Actresses’ Photos
Catalogue from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2W.
A. de SAILLE, 23, Rue de la Michodiere, Paris.
V. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and Dusk.” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers, lost
free from Bulletin office, ss.
D
YSON’S “Fact’ry ’Ands,”
lightful and wickedly true.
4s.
Gd.
De-
THE TESSAR
F 3-5, F 4*5, F 6*3.
. V,
Simplicity in Design. Brilliancy of the Image.
Exquisite and Uniform Definition from
centre to margin.
eaN BE FITTED to almost
any eaMERa.
Obtainable from all Dealers and from
New Bookie 1 P 78 n »* free
CARL ZEISS,
Jena.
ENGLISH BRANCH—
Margaret Street, Regent Street,
London, England.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerfu\ tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste istop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price .£1 7 s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia,- 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINPORFF BROS
* '* •• i ■ > •** i
J
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments,
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Queen St., Brisbane
L h i Britisb=Australasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price od
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordia y
invited to visit the Reading Room where hie
of all the leading Australian papers may De
inspected. Letters may be addressed care
the British-Australasian during the nrsi
two months of a visit to Great Britain,
formation on all topics of I ™P o^ tance _ r
visiting Australians is supplied by the pape*-
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
DIRECTOR
J. E. SOANTLEBURV.
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVINC WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received
our head cutter:
Copy of Testimonial overNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mt. MURPHI. ih&t
you Uoe W for


w;
7S
m
m
m
0?
/
'J&t
fm i
••• .•.%.>••>
I®
V. v
*. •>* y
It* v': :-'- x
tV:-.%Vy fa
"i'-W ,£
Wfffi
California
Syrup of Figs,
the most perfect laxative of
the century, is the preferred
medicine among physicians
and in millions Of families-,
it afits mildly yel VAorpughly
on the kidneys,. liver, bow,els
and stomach, and doe.s .not
.weaken them.- It isipafatatyp
to takQ;,and its beneficial
effects are permanent.
California Syrup of Figs,
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
f\Q
<3
<2
&
o
v»
h
&0E n\^
To obtain its beneficial effects, buy*
the genuine, which bears the
fiatne and trade tnark of the
ihanufaeturers;
gf i.i3 C ■"< <: ' •*. ••,t ! Tt.
~ T T Of T all Chemists, 1/3 and t/n.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO.,
32 Snow Hill, London.
Australian Branch:
7 Barrack Street, Sydney, N.S.W-
these rnrr
prizes rriLL
We already sell more Colored Picture Post Cards than any other firm in
Australasia. To enable us to sell more we otter FREE PRIZES to those who
sell the Cards for us at Id. each, or (id. a packet. Simply send your name and
address and we will forward you full particulars and
we will forward you 6 Dozen Post Cards at Id. each
(6/-) which you are to sell, and when sold remit us
our 6/. You can select your prize from our prize list, and we will mail
it to you free of all cost. The prizes are Ladies’ Gold Filled Muff
Chains, Ladies’ Belts, Gent’s Solid Sil: Watches, Gold Photo Pendants,
Silver-mounted Purses, Fountain Pens, Silver Backed Hair Brushes,
Books, Dressing Cases and many others. The.more cards you sell the
greater is the value of the prize. Don't send any money — just your name and address.
R.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
/ Post Card \
\ Department/ l
476 Gaorge-strest, SYDNEY.
• •
STOP THAT COUGH
feY TAKING
HRS. MACLURCAN'S
COUGH CURE.
All Chemists and
Store Keepers, « /l
Price
TRADE
yv
Made in
England
Underwear
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only ;
1. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK ’ ME7INO UNDERWEAR
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Sewcn
Prize Medals.
m
mm
■n
mu
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works 8 Birmingham, England,
As Idle as tile Milestones
(Old Maxim).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A S idle te 'the milestones, ‘that Vfe-
"side'the way, . „
As'careless kk thS? W&as that in tlie^ree-
't66k . i-■ j , it
bhckfe > Ynr and girth-strap and along ttie
Vith-Vracks ktlraV v
fey'the ntibss-hilik dflhking thusic from tlie rivulets
anow, , .
If he yeark ih slow procession like spectre's flit aftcl
pass, _ , .. ’
Xt silent as the milestones casting shades upon
'the grask,
See us lounging where the light-
Wkrtci shadows fall,
indolent as Sultans, when the little breezes
toy
With the tasseled screens and silken that grace a
harem’s hall.
The whiles we watch the wood-bird, sitting gray
and coy,
Or the water-lizard waiting where the lazy lilies
grow, ,
As idle as the tnilestoneh, whefe stupid grafters
hleepihg ‘like 'the 'cherhbs VhfeX the mik-
hight dew-qiieehs ivee^), ]
TheJr wihe-sßray o'VfT tent-fly, or 'fold’s of forest
ferh, ! , ,
tVi'ti day-orb’s heralds bid 'the thinning
inadoivh ‘iireef)
Th Jiheftdr of 'the 'ti-tree, where the 'w4e Yreeks
( t(visit aiid turn—
F6r there’s no one, here to Tell us we’re behind the
'tithes and slo^
br idling like k Milestone while men hurry to and
m
sometimes, when the spirit moves us, Arab-like
we shift,
And go “droving down the Cooper” and idly
croon a song.
The hours as soft and lazy as the weed-clogged
waves adrift
On some little inlet’s bosom where never sfcoWb-
gods throng,
But idle as the milestones that dream all tti^ht
and day
And heed not sweaty workers that a skopik
way-.
With hearts as h%h't S.S Schoolboys, and just 'as
Way (vatd t 66,
WeWVeahd dreahh ih shfhnSe'r hhk hAI the year
li'r6iind ; ;
■F6r When bhbieh (ve wander where brown-
Stemrhed tree'-fe'fns grew,
Xhd weary Mothers searching at nightfall some-
times found
Yd Slfeeping quiet and soundly by some lazy
stream aflow,
Xs placid as the milestones where thq groaning
waggons go. „ . _ . .> .
VIC.
C.E.D.
A Little Bourke-street Sketch.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
day is h'dfe Arid bririrs krri kcrireriv
| Th« musky OhriVes'e 'odrir hkrigs hriaVy ih
Tifeft Sing’s harrdfr Allri.y Arid aggravates
O’flheAs Misriry ks, drydhroated, he “bullocks”
*Mh-hkrid&l frith Viis lead.
I'hC blkttd hektheri foreman had p’rriiriisek to
"kiMehy giveydu iriari ”brit he i’4 k busy heathen
&nd forgetful of promises'. lib has disappeared
ifttb the iriteribr, frhbrb he supervises the cori-
ttriic'tiQii 6f Whites and sideboards, frail but
Nj&dih|\y ornate.
f wonea looks for him in vain. His throat is dry
as the surrounding shavings ; sweat pours into bib
eyes and ears, and makes channels thtbiigh the
black dust on his feature's,
, iWng oM'y tb JjthAofelfe his vision clear, he
übg#ediy bff ” his 12 x l’s, leaving till the
bnbrt lots. The kauri is so long and the
so narrow that distance has to be scientifi-
cally calculated so as to insinuate the timber into
Lee Sing’s yard without the tail of some board
penetrating the bedroom window of Ah Goon’s
residence on the other side of the alley*
Once in thg yard, O’Shea staggers down the
narrow pftSg a g e and raises the boards to a gapihg
sihdow in the second storey, Unseen ghouls do
!n@ rest, dragging the product of the forest into
we nuw of the workshop-, from which bourne it
frill afterwards return irt the shape of easy chairs.
It approaches the hour of 12. O’Shea is anxious
lb dine in the vicinity of the wharf, where his
bathe is good for a “ tray,” while here——
tth Casts a hopeless glance of yearning at the
Austral Hotel.
From the top of his load he observes prepara-
tions for dinner in the cabinet-maker’s higher up.
Ine Chinese cook emerges, bearing a steaming
cauldron of rice. Arrived at the tumble-down
s, nk, he turns the tap upon the provender, and,
w ith an inscrutable expression, gazes at two dis-
reputable fowls which have meandered into his
y^rd.
‘‘Shoo, shoo!” exclaims O’Shea, taking sure
aini w ith an unconsidered length.
“ Squawk, squawk ! ” go the fowls with one
acc °rd as, on horny legs, they bound away into
safety. The cook, still inscrutable, retires within.
‘Tough as me leather aiperan, no doubt, but
Oi wouldn’t see thim in a haythen pot, anny-
Wa ys,” soliloquises the toiler. “He turr-ned a
look av murrderous intint on the poulthry, sure
enough.”
Turning to work again in <a glow at his own
“rtue, he sees the tail of one of his boards slickly
1 sappearing into the next yard.
A moment later, a slovenly woman comfortably
miu f> a cigarette appears in the gateway,
ohea regards her questioningly. She regards
'm with a wink trembling in her eye. Stepping
a gain from Lee Sing’s premises, he detects
tv e k° ar d doing the disappearing trick. The
wief has been clumsy this time. Nakedly and
nwhamedly the board refuses to answer the
guiding hand, and projects into the alley. Subter-
fuge is i useless, so the lady makes the best of the
SltUaAlOfl. I , , f .. . I
''rkriglit.ain’titi 5j ” , she,asks cheerfully.
V V-9T W® dm} :Smus jAi Jcnpvw J? * ’ O’Shea,
i.' A a, desire to
(t n L jihamen in general combine to make him !
lenient. , •,• ,
, “ if,thes9 blanks ’erewop’t employ & tally-mahn !
jtpr sa-a-feguard their sthuff, what’s ut t’ do wid S
me?" , it |
L. “ T he bloke ,it» ’er©.”-rrBh© .indicates, JheV- -clank j
domicile—’s ’fraid I’U gofc.him ifcVe® trbuble. I
>yas coßped Vancq, an!, though ,’e ipaid the fine,
599 nm |cid§ ,’ad, ter scratch roan’ ’fer ourselves.
&<&,*, bad iSont er chap, ’e ain’t,” she adds,
c’nattuy, “but a terror to roust.”
She calmly helps herself to more timber, and
then softly closes the gate upon herself and her
spoils.
Time is passing, and O’Shea is getting desperate.
Framing the orifice of his mouth with his hands,
he bellows:
“ Hilloah, arre you blank.y Chows gain’ let
lend a hand at all ? ”
In answer, the sallow eoUrttertatt6e of Woo Ket,
underling to the Sing* appears ftom the
Workshop. I
“ Whaftor you say ‘blahky !
Irishman ?— blanky gopd—fcbG , tpuchee I
noise-r-too ,iiiucf\ee bpM—you blijig lqtten, deals.
,’tis.” ~ He becomes ex-1
kVWd’,’ 1 pooh, clacked, .bloken, ,Lee Sing
TH". fpr lubbish,.! He, pay. you boss good
moneyr—bjmeby he.tjalkee to bqss and gettee you
.Sack. Look .aaf, you blake Ah ,Coords glass, he
you waches—he gettbb you tlee month
in snail.” , Vt , , v ,, ~
~ ’giving promise of going on for
,? Vey,. (YSnea humbles his pride—his dinner-beer
dpß'ehds upon it.
“Luk ’ere, John,” he pleads, “we woan’t
quarr’l over a shtick or two—give us a help off wid
me load. That’s aal I ask av you or Hivin.”
He leers at the blank face of the Yellow Peril
with a politic smile, but the Peril backs away
non-committally, merely remarking irrelevantly
on the aspect of the weather.
O’Shea watches the blue slackness of his apparel
till the dark doorway swallows it.
“Too bahd,” he mutters $ “ too dharU bahd—
Oi’m planted at the Chink’s till afthet dinner.”
And even as he speaks the whistles artnoiinCb
the hour of twelve.
He climbs from his lead', his hbrs'e the
nosebag, and sdtiats dejectedly bn the kerb,
bpenirtg Ms tiiylWr bag listlessly. ,
‘‘•Slide, tis Fr6iaay,” he sayS, as thick slabs of
yelloW ’cOuth Meet his pyie.,. ,
C , ,as chaff”. h e , ipommehts, trying man-
fully to fodder ih his mouth, “dhrink Oi
must .have,”—,
■ A* l th'is Moment he is grievously interrupted by
the arrival of a second cart for the cabinet-maker.
It has safely negotiated the intricacies of an off-
shoot from Punch’s lane further up, and now turns
into Lee Sing’s alley, facing the munching moke
of O’Shea.
The new horse is an antiquated black, prodigal
of bone and morose of expression, and its
grasping nature is evidenced by its conduct. It
stretches forward till its pendulous lip and still cap-
able teeth are within reach of the other’s nosebag
yjhen it snavels the prey. It roots riotously with-
in the bag, contriving in one glorious moment to
garner pretty well every grain of oats it contains,
and scattering wastefully the chaff to the winds
of Little Bourkß-street. Then retribution descends
Upon it itt the shape Of a board at the end of
which dances and splutters ail infuriated Irishman.
“ Whoa” (thWaek) “ back, you thafe ! Where’s
yer dhriver, ve long bdny shtick of liquorice?”
(ThWaCk.) “Where iS he, Oi say, SO Oi Can give
him a tashte gv the dog that’s bitin’ VoU ? Whoa-
bA-gck 1 ”
The riiOrdse pile appears ihibreak;tble. BeydUd
regarding its flagellatdf ih a dbtabhed niaiirtei - it
Starids irnrhutabl'e'. But the Vibtiiii df the rdbberV
horse of little diScriniinatiOri ih commands—
abes back, arid Uhth §dbh effebt that it deposits
the rettiainder pf thb lbtld ih kri uriprenteditated
Mariner in the larie.
“My Oath!” screanis O’Shba; dropping the
piling and Writhihg in agorties of exasperation as
lie. surveys the higgledy-piggledy pile.
“My Oath, why Was Oi borrn—why was Oi
sirit into tile Wiirtld kt all, at all ? ”
A voice.bf'ekks across his wailings.
‘.‘ What’s the flaming row ? ” it inquires.
At the sound of the voice O’Shea staggers to his
feet.
“Are you the blank wot dhrives this yer—
hearse ? ”
“That’s me” —
“ Don’t spake, ye thafe ! ” yells O’Shea, cutting
short the explanation in its infancy. “Adacent
Tnahn ud be ashamed t’ open his mout’ in mo
face ! ”
“ That’s right ”
But again the explanation is decapitated.
“ Don’t spake—come out to Little Bourrke—k
mahn can’t shWing a bAt ih this shtinkin’ laby-
rinth —ye’re & ldir—ddn’t spake, Oi tell ye.
You’re !t disgrace td the Counthry, that’s phwat
ye ard. Ddn’t spake, of Oi’ll break iviry bone m
yoiir bddy, shtllall as Oi am and big as ye tink
ye arr'e. Don’t spake ! ”
Then O’Shea leans back, exhausted by his elo-
quence, and the other voice gets a chance to assert
itself.
“ Phwat’s that ? Ye was on’y askm me could
Oi do a taste ? ”
O’Shea sobs in ecstasy.
“ Saints alive, he axes me could Oi do a cthrm.c.
Aw, why didn’t ye spake before ? Oi didn t know
there was the proice av a dhrink in th’ whole
counthry. Come an, mahn, ye’re not the ugly
dog Oi tuk ye for at fir-rst on account av th b.t
av”a spill an’ previous throuble crossin’ the bridge
wid me load, an’ me name tuk by the police fur
obstructhing the thoroughfare, an’ another tlirip
to do to this same blanky haythen before Oi see
the insoide of me bed this noight ”
The climax of the tale is lost in the portal of
Returning roseate and moistened, O Shea finds
his load appreciably dwindled, while a glance at
the adjacent gate shows a rapidly-growing stack
in the dank yard of his lady acquaintance.
He does not need the tip gratuitously given by
two other ladies leaning from windows further on.
They nevertheless take advantage of the oppor-
tunity of showing their social superiority as
“ wives ” of their Chinamen by telling him that
that verson (the sanction of the law having been
apparently withheld from her union) has been
“pulling his leg.” . , ,
The person appearing opportunely is further
baited by having apple-peelings tossed into her
She is, however, too busy frying other fish to
retaliate. She puts the insult aside as material
for feud at some other date, and turns engagingly
to O’Shea:
“ Quite safe, ain’t it ?” she says. . . ,
O’Shea, slowly turning things over in his mind,
begins to feel uneasy. . , .
“ You won’t split, I know,” she giggles archly,
(Continued on next page.)


HEADACHE
A Prostrated Postmaster’s
Prompt and Perfect Cure.
ALIi headaches are traceable either to stomach
weakness, which lets the stomach become
“ run-down,” or to liver disorder, which
deranges bile secretion. To be a sufferer from
headache for a space of only half-an-hour is
very often a terrible experience. Most people
are content with the belief that a headache is
only a headache, and a thing when it comes
to be borne with as much patience and for-
bearance as the severity of the case may call
for. Bile Beans banish headaches, as they do
all other symptoms of digestive disorder,
by correcting the liver and stomach in a
natural manner by natural means, for
Bile Beans are compounded solely from
Nature’s finest vegetable remedies. Bile
Beans will cure a sick headache in a day,
and a regular course will permanently
remove the cause, banishing sick head-
aches from your life altogether.
“ I am never without a supply of Bile Beans in
my house,” says Mr. John Bath, Postmaster, of
Queenton, Queensland, “for they are a splendid
family medicine. Some time ago I retired to rest
one night feeling quite well, but was awakened in
the early morning with a fearful headache. My
head felt as though it had been crushed in a vice,
and I could not bear it to touch the pillow, being
forced to get up and sit in an armchair. Having a supply of Bile Beans in the house, I
took three of them, and was quickly relieved of the agonising pain. In the morning I was
my old self again, and able to attend to my duties as usual, which I am sure I would
have been unable to do but for Bile Beans. I have recommended Bile Beans to others,
and for the past four years they have been installed as my family medicine.”
yrJJ
-
/t
ME. J. BATH (from a photo).
BILE
BILIOUSNESS
Bile Beans are the recognised standard
remedy for BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION,
HEADACHE, PILES, CONSTIPATION, AN/EMIA,
DIZZINESS, LIVER TROUBLE, STOMACH DIS-
ORDER. DISTURBED SLEEP, BAD BREATH,
IMPURE BLOOD, LOSS OF APPETITE, SPASMS,
WIND, and all family ailments. Price 1/1$
and 2/9 per box (the 2/9 size contains
three times the 1/1J), of all Chemists and
Stores, or direct, post free, from The
Bile Bean Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
vJtii'
trying to cover short lengths with an inadequate
apron.
“Ye betther go aisy now,” cautions O’Shea.
“Ifth’boss”
His remonstrance is cut short by an indignant
“Whaffor?” And he turns to meet the immovable
countenance of the Chinese foreman.
“Whaffor?” he again demands, now of the
woman, who brazenly replaces the stolen property
and contemptuously replies:
“ Oh, a few bits of third-rate kauri—wot a’ell
of a row you’re makin’ about it, ole plait-’ead.”
“Whaffor?” demands the Chinese of O’Shea.
“Oi don’t knaw nothin’. Oi’m not fitted with
oyes behint. Why don’t ye emphloy a tally-mahn ?
It ud be chaper in th’ ind.”
But the Chinese has penetrated the yard. The
lady, a picture of outraged honesty, gives varied
and conflicting accounts of the plunder.
“Isn’t me wurrd good enough?” she exclaims
shrilly. “This chap give me th’ timber! It’s
’im wants rousin’ on, not me—a wumman. Well,
here it is straight: Me old bloke bought the stuff
a month ago ! ! ”
She lies shamelessly, indifferent to the fact that
her torrent of fiction deceives no one. Then the
back door opens, and a Chinese with a face like
a blotched and withered water-melon shuffles
through it.
The first heathen hastens to explain the trouble.
He of the melon-face advances and clutches the
woman’s arm :
“No goot—no goot, you ! ”
A torrent of unpublishable abuse follows —
abuse in which the words “polis,” “ plison,”
mingle quaintly with the names of strange gods—
abuse so blasphemous that O’Shea furtively crosses
himself, and the eyes of the morose black horse
exude tears.
The Chinese continues to descend with violence
upon his “wife.” Then he swoops low, and
catching up a half-caste baby, till now a silent
spectator of the scene, crowds it, bawling, upon
her, turns her face gatewards, raises his skinny
claw in a dramatic curse, and bundles her into the
lane.
“Shteady now !” remonstrates O’Shea.
“Shuttee up!” snarls the Chow. “She my
plopetty.”
Then he falls upon the boards of contention,
huddles them pell-mell into Lee Sing’s yard, and
locks himself into his own.
The woman, when she tires of calling insults
through the crack in the fence, picks the hair from
her eyes and sails majestically round to the front
entrance. This, open for business, offers no bar
to her ingress. She enters with triumph in her
eye, and the watermelon’s high-handed action is
rendered null and void.
“She’s a strong joint, isn’t she?” remarks a
passing girl to O’Shea, indicating slightingly the
reinstated one.
O’Shea has no answer ready, and the girl,
young and stylish in the millinery of Upper
Bourke-street, passes on to visit Mrs. Ah Goon,
whose offspring, the slant-eyed Albert and Vic-
toria Ah Goon, receive their aunt’s caresses in the
stoical manner inherited from “papa.”
O’Shea is curious regarding her, and the fore-
man, who has eyed her with a reflected air of
proprietorship, volunteers that she is the affianced
of Ah Sing, Lee Sing’s kinsman, and that “ she
live ’ere plesently ; mally Ah Sing bimeby.”
O’Shea is understood to doubt it. The China-
man is surprised.
“No mally Ah Sing?” he queries. “ P’laps
mally Wah Fat —allee same. Ah Sing find plenty
more gel. He lot money. He lot order for
wa’dlobe. He go China—yes—b.meby. Me no
gell ” (he becomes coy). “ Too poll ! ”
O’Shea makes no reply, and the Chinaman
goes on :
“ She mally Chinaman all li. She wive soon,
samee siste’ !” he adds, with conviction, pointing
fraternally to the European countenance of Mrs.
Ah Goon.
Further interest in the mingling of the races is
postponed by the approach of two well-tailored
men, whose air of silent authority causes the
citizens uneasiness.
They peer into doorways and over fences, and
gaze inquisitorially at inscrutable makers of rotten
washstands and broken-winded sofas destined for
the suburban time-payment stores.
O’Shea’s conscience, seldom without a sense of
guilt, has qualms also. He surmises them to be
connected with the Law, and liis thoughts hark
back repentantly to a recent episode in his career
in which he, a moonless night, a sack of potatoes,
and a silent, well-greased wheelbarrow were the
actors.
“Are they inshpector-rs ?” asks O’Shea, trem-
blingly. John’s evidence is not corroborative :
“ I de-no !” he answers, cheerfully.
“ Are they d’s ? ”
“ I de-no 1 ”
“ Ever seen ’em before ? ”
“ I de-no ! ”
“ Anny of yez wanted fer annythin’ ? ”
“ I de-no 1 ”
“Fer lottery tickets,- fer fan-tan, er marking
theearrds?”
“ I de-no ! ”
O’Shea gives up. From every window in
Punch’s Lane a shaven head projects, watching
the departing intruders. The latter turn to re-
view the scene. Every Chinese poll turns swiftly
as on one neck, and gazes indifferently in the
opposite direction.
They are rewarded, for up Little Bourke-street,
watch-housewards, comes a straggling procession.
Bare-legged guttersnipes head it, walking back-
wards and tumbling in the manner of acrobats.
Loafers fringe it, dogs bark at it, and blue-bloused
Chinese deride it.
The nucleus of the group is formed by a perspir-
ing policeman hauling along a battered daughter
of Little Bourke-street alleys. The “ trap ”is
having trouble with his case. Her objections to
the lockup are loud and very strenuous, and at every
other step she sheds some portion of her raiment.
The ease with which she accomplishes this sug-
gests to one of the bounding vanguard the making
of a “ book.”
“Wot’ll yer bet sue loses’em all be the time
she’s in ther jug ? ” he asks of a Catherine-wheel
turning beside him.
“ All wot ? ” inquires the wheel.
“’Er duds —clobber.”
An old derelict in the marine trade affords
Punch’s its next entertainment. He buys bottles,
and, lacking hard cash, pays for his purchases in
song. So obliging is he that when “the ladies”
happen to be out of bottles he pays, in the same
coin, for the promise of future bottles. Gems
from the comic operas follow one another in quick
succession, but “The Heart Bowed Down” sad-
dens O’Shea, and reduces him to sentimental
despair. Then the bottle merchant tries his
powers of invention. He narrates a tale of such
harrowing pathos that O’Shea goes to Lee Sing’s
office, intent on borrowing a small coin from that
dignitary himself with which to appease the
ravages hunger has made ’neath the draughty
waistcoat of the decayed artist.
When O'Shea returns empty-handed from his
errand the artist is discernible in the distance,
lie stays not for explanation. He wears O’Shea’s
coat. He has O’Shea’s tobacco in his pocket, and
he sprints for crowded streets and safety.
And as O’Shea lifts up his voice in malediction
an unimpassioned Chinese voice behind him says:
“ Whaffor ?”
VIC.
WEEROONA.
A Love Ilyll.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
GUS used to tell people he only worked
so as to wear out his old clothes.
(His dad never was seen in anything else.)
Gus entertained all the First Flight girls he
could stand, and who would stand him. They
knew he had plenty of money and didn't need to
toil. He told them so.
Gus first met Lola at a Dance—as distinguished
from a Darnce. When Lola and he had finished
noting atmospheric phenomena, they found they
also agreed on other points. Gus repeated ancient
history. Inside evens, Gus had told Lola more of
the things he hadn’t done (but which he would have
liked to do, and which he said he had done) than he
had any girl during the entire preceding fortnight.
Lola’s dad was president of the Anti-Everything
League and the local Progress Association, and
wore a 62in. vest. She had command of the
64 h.p., the brougham, and also the private han-
som, but preferred to ride in trams, and, in
between times, she walked. Gus was so fond of
walking.
Gus’s great anxiety was how to give her a good
time on 30s. per week (plus spiffs). He took to
repudiating his board as a matter of habit.
Though far from proud of pa, Gus would now
and then lower himself about this time so far as
to accept a small grant in aid whenever dad got
work at the tannery. And yet the adored of Lola
was on the rocks not seldom.
Sometimes the happy couple would go up stream
for a quiet afternoon. After explaining to Lola
how difficult it was to get good tenants, and that
the price of debentures was below par, he would
tell her what she was to have, nevertheless, when
the time came. Then they would select a green
spot and rest in the shade, keeping close together
lest something might come between them. Lola
would do the castle-building act, while Gus figured
out mentally how many times he would have to
walk to work till next salary day.
Gus had a credulous tailor, and was well sup-
plied with tweeds and serges. After a while he
started forgetting to give customers their change,
and the mean head rang a marked coin into him.
Gus got fired. He saw Lola, and did the George
Washington turn. He was a liar, and admitted
it modestly. Lola took the news like a lamb.
She was a sensible girl. Dad allowed her
£5OO a year for clothes and things, and she was
the only issue. She could afford to be generous.
Before saying the word she considered the situa-
tion. She was of age, and could marry at once if
she wanted to. She didn’t. Lola shared her for-
tune in the spring with another youth who had a
real income. Gus now spends his time dodging the
credulous tailor, and the church money feels as
lonely as ever in his hip pocket.
O. B. S.
Yap.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The German-Dnteh cable terminates at the island of Yap
in the South Pacific.— News Item.
SWEPT were the mantling miles aside,
A Spirit touched my dreaming eyes,
And mighty Yap arose in pride
Her scattered sons to mobilise.
They hustled from the ends of earth
To gather in their mother’s lap ;
And fill the land that gave them birth—
The wond’rous, thund’rous isle of Yap.
Reverberating from that shore
Rise woeful bowls from every beach ;
The Spell-binders in fury roar
With none to listen to their speech.
The petrels and the oysters care
For oratory not one scrap ;
There are no daily papers there,
There are no Hansard men in Yap.
But all outsiders keep away ;
The bold head-hunter steers his craft
To port, when awful noises play
Upon the breeze that chases aft;
The mariner who fears no foe
Marks off that island on the map,
And shudders when he has to go
Within a hundred miles of Yap.
I ventured close and saw a sight
That made my very blood run cold;
Upon a scarp that he did smite
In punctuation, Judkins bold
Made charges vague ; while, standing near,
Each with his face an open gap.
Were Woodfull, Worrall and Tregear
Vibrating hard the air of Yap.
Above a beach the breezes blew
The steady voice of Johnny Wren,
Proclaiming loud he was the true
And only friend of working men ;
I heard from Johnson’s shrill sad shriek
How Federation was a trap ;
While on a distant mountain peak
Neild stilled volcanic fires in Yap.
Carruthers yelled and so did Wade
In frenzy re Canberra’s site ;
Joe Cook in buzz-saw accents frayed
The palm leaves on a distant height;
Bruce Smith in pompous diction talked
About our brave ally, the Jap ;
While practising his “ Oxford ” stalked
Small Kelly on the Isle of Yap.
It was, indeed, a sight accursed ;
It sent my blood all curdling through
My shaking veins—but still the worst
Is that the picture isn’t true.
Not yet Australia’s air is clear
Of insect pests—by some mishap
Australia’s enemies are here
And not marooned on sunny Yap.
N.S.W.
H. GLUBB.


1
LJ?
s
#
W
a
The Leader of Them AH!
That is, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla; not
some other kind, but “ Ayer’s.”
This grand old family medicine
has stood the test for over sixty
years. That’s the kind you
should take. You cannot afford
to experiment, your health is
too precious.
You may not now be really ill
from some well-defined disease, and yet
yon know you are all run down, your
nerves are unstrung, and you feel weak
and discouraged.
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
is the strongest and best medicine you can
take to remove this tired and exhausted
feeling. It brings cheer, hope, courage.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disap-
point you. Bo sure that you get “AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
1
sn
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving awav prizes such as MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES' and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS. SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward vou 24 assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflo.ver, Stock, Mignonette,
Candytuft, Poppy. Sweet William, etc Sell the packets at 3d. pet-
packet, send us our money (6 -> and we will send you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every case
positively as represented in our illustrations.
Superior to !
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
[copaiba.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
m
Each Capsule bears the name
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, ao, Lam bet 1 1 Road. Loudon, Eng.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
m
'~gr-
&
&
7
i9>
-.C
Vi
(7
m
%
YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN
CrtzJce
REECHAMS
& -PILLS.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Cenulne)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England— 1/I*, 2/9, 4/6.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all Bias and affords comfort to every home-
in dining room, sleeping-room, and all places where Hies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, wjll
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
season.
Sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Grocers and
Hardware
Dealer s ,
among whom are :
Sydney— Anthony Hordorn & Sons ; Eliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St.: F. H Faulding & Co., O’Connell St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. , S. Hoffnuug & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Oottholf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoe &Co. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home —
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Office : 214 George Street, Sydney
Tremendously Powerful
Long Stroke, Automatic
WINDMILL.
Australian Invention.
Write for Catalogue "C.”
WINDMILLS can be in-
spected working at Bay
Road Railway Station,
North Sydney -
PATERNOSTER’S
THE old reliable
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froe, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G-P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
KRIMiULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, NervonsConghs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GHIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
MEN
and
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D.&c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
. from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. Wo similar book has ever been published.
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARCE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments
on receipt of this adversisement. PSP - Note Address :
FREE.
DR. MARTIN, M.D. r “^, ey House,” 151 Elizabeth~st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. —— HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


OILSKINS
FOR
WINTER.
n
BOATING and FISHING.
“Oilclad” Long- Regulation .. 10/6
“ Titan ” Long Regulation .. 12/6
“Dugong” Long Regulation .. 17/6
" Titan ” Sutts (Jacket & Pants) 12/6
RIDING or DRIVING.
“Dugong” Watershed .. .. 27/6
“ Rainbow ” Watershed .. .. 22/6
PERDRIAU’S deal exclusively in Rubber Goods, but
they do that perfectly. Call in and see our splendid
selection of Oilskins, or write for our illustrated catalogue
No. 17, and patterns of oilskin materials.
These prices are post free, and the coats can be had in
yellow or black. When ordering, quote height and easy
chest measurement.
Perdriau Rubber Co. ltd.
“ The House For All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, SYDNEY.
TYREE
RABBIT
DESIROYERS
will clear the run in
a few weeks. Now
used all over N.S. VV.
SPRAYERS
will save a Pastoralist 10 per cent, of bis
breeding ewes if sprayed before lambing.
TYREE LTD., 314 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
■
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill tor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated by compressed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART— Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLVENTS,— W . & J_ LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Water!
IN ABUNDANCE
May bo had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
PA
■y
Rider.
Write for
“B”
J Catalogue
IMPLIOITY
FIOIENCY.
The Beaver has stood the test of time.
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
CUTLERY
nn a p k
OH 1313030
WO’-F
M SR
or
M Ax
'e.1.0
rtt the Showrooms—
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at
SYDNEY
“TX-XE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS
J, & J. Maxfield, Ltd,, Sheffield
JOHN HURST & CO.
Watchmalters and Jewellers,
HAVE REMOVED FROM
321 George St. to 4 Hunter St., Sydney
Mat-Virtue
Catalogues Mailed Free.
SHEEP
SHEARING
MACHINERY
AUSTRALIAN MANUFACTURE ,
Seventeen Years’ Service,
Fully Tested, and found in-
comparably the BEST .
WILL our valued Pastoral
Friends kindly note
altered style of our FIRM
when sending orders or
enquiries.
E LI
VICTORIA : D. A. Skene, 484 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing: Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: Federal Sheep Shearing- Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing(W.A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
7 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
]S T . B.—Duplicates and
Supplies obtainable
from all Agencies.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/*
“CROSS” OIL FILTERS.
A FEW TESTIMONIALS.
T. Brunton & Co., Australian Flour Mills, North Melbourne :
“We are able to use the whole of the oil from the bearings. It thoroughly
cleans the oil, and is a great saving to us.”
Charles Hillman, Ivy Street, Redfern, Sydney :—“ The oil is put into the Filter just as
it comes from the machinery, and is as fit for use again as the day it was purchased. It paid for
itself in a few months.”
The Dunlop Rubber Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Melbourne: —“It enables us to use the
same oil several times over. We consider it a perfect Filter, and would not be without it.”
Johnson Hemp, Manager, Pearl Mine, Bendigo:—“lt thoroughly purifies the dirtiest
oil, and I can recommend it to any company.”
John Sharp & Sons, Australian Saw Mills, South Melbourne :—“We have had a Cross
Oil Filter for close on five years, and find it very effective.”
/reference /'s also kindly permitted to the following :
James Barclay, Launceston
Occidental G.M. Co., Cobar
Salisbdey Foundry Co.. Launceston
Scottish Gympie G.M. Co., Gympie
Tetley & Co., Harris Street, Sydney
Parramatta Woollen Mills, Sydney
W. C. Anglis, Melbourne
Saxton & Binns, Sydney
Govt. Cool Stores, Melbourne
Christchurch Drainage Board, N.Z.
Kitchen & Sons, Melbourne
E. H. Plant, Charters Towers
Dairy Farmers’ Co-op. Co., Sydney
Tasmanian Smelting Co., Zeehan.
Thos. McPherson & Son, Melbourne
South Australian Railways, Adelaide
H. McKenzie, Glebe Island, Sydney
J. Cockbill, Melbourne ,
Jumbunna Coal Co., Victoria
Metropolitan Gas Co.. Melbourne
Springhill & Central Leads, Victoria
W. S. Kimpton & Son, Melbourne
Melbourne Laundry, Victoria
Australian Paper Mills, Melbourne
These Filters are very largely used In the United States and Canada, etc., The United States Steel Corporation having 227, and the Standard Oil Co.,
to whom one would naturally think waste oil would be of no value, have nearly 100 Filters at work in their various Refineries.
All Store Keepers,
or direct from
R. A. HERVEY,
Cor. Clarence and King Streets, Sydney.
Established 1884> Telephone GlB.
Explosives, Machinery and Supplies for Mining, Quarrying, Dredging, Sluicing, Irrigation, etc. ; Contractors’, Engineers’ and Builders’ Sundries.
Sole Agent for Patented Articles and Goods of special manufacture. Hard Work Saving Devices a Specialty.
“iVIABOR”
ASSAY MATERIAL
ACCORDING TO TESTIMONIALS THE ADVANTAGES OF “MABOR” ARE
No change required in the methods of making or using.
Much shorter time to dry Cupels when made.
Absence of Variations due to atmospheric conditions.
Much greater regularity in the Cupels produced.
Absence of cracking in the muffle.
Accuracy in results of assays.
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd., agents, 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
