

A Word to the .Wise is s
nt
£*
DE"WA
Mining:
107 Kent street, Sydney,
" , —FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.s.w,
... AND .. .
12S William St, Melbourne, Vic.
3EIOBAHT
PIONEER
aMj LEATHER |=
■PbeXtin^l
EVE R V BELT GUARA NT EE D.
J.C. Liidotficl & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
Take it back ,
i must have
HUTTONS
Fine-Apple Erand
HAMS ®
BACON.
CHUBB'S NEW BOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
HaficnaL
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
I'nlly Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
♦
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted. TSJi
tL,
LA
u
yiru&i)
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVER? BOTTLE .
Stations,
Mines,
Warehouses,
Offices, Etc v
The Greatest Time
and Money-Savers
of the present da]
are ... .
»
u
SHOAOVHJ.NOO J.N3WNH3AOD
Esti
Ad vico,
and
instructions
Free.
THE “SILVERTOWN”
TELEGRAPH WORKS CO.
Sydney Branch:
279 GEORGE STREET,
33 MARGARET STREET.
“LYSAGHT’S”
WERE NETTING
ri
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
SAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD
39 PITT STREET, SYDINTBY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
Royal
Dutch
COCOA
is the Queen of all Cocoa
FOI V
l Arom^Strengtht-Purih:
NETS.
WRITE
EASTWfIY’S, SYDNEY.
m
3
m
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers— SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
jS
<8
W M
£0
tffc
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-MaKingf Machinery.
"ELI DON SPA WATER.
FREE EITHIA IS THE ANTIDOTE
OF URIC ACID.
9 • * • i '■ -•
GOLLIN & CO.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1481. ]
[Thursday, July 2, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS. George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.
3H STREET.
rDNEY.
Calvert, Granada, Past and Present, 9s, post 9d.
Grace, Tables for Curves, 6s, postage 4d.
Oonnan, Switchboard Measuring Instruments, 6s, post 6d.
Gibson, Geology of Coal and Coal Mining, 9s, post 9d.
Byart, The Charm of Edinburgh, 2s 6d, postage 3d.
Rene Bazin, Redemption, cloth 3s 6d, postage 6d.
Spooner, Machine Design Construction and Drawing, 700
pages, over 1400 figures, 12s 6d, postage 9d.
Sinclair, Railroad Men’s Catechism for All Interested in
Train Working, ss, postage 4d.
Straehey, Problems and Perils of Socialism, 8d posted.
Guillemand, Compendium of Australia, 16s, postage Is.
Martin (Sir T.), Queen Victoria as I Knew Her, 4s, posted
Vaehell, Procession of Life, cloth, new ed., Is 6d posted
Forsyth, Socialism : The Church and the Poor, Is 3d, p 3d
Norris, The Pit: “ Nelson’s Library,” cloth 9d, postage 3d'
Austin, Fire Assay of Gold, etc., fls 6d, postage 6d.
Campbell's 1907 Soil Culture Manual: a Complete Guide to
Scientific Agriculture, as Adapted to the Semi-Arid
Regions, 10s fid, post 6d.
1 HUDSON’S
“EUMEHTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Preis and Cir-
cular says
Jujubes
should be of
speeif.l Service
to Le 31 ure r s,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all w 1:' o are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon (ted
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea os
Windpipe.
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe- of .one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chefolsts, tins 1/6 post free on receipt
of stamps ifrom C. HUDSON, Manufacturing 1
Chemist,, 6 & 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney.
THE RED PAGE
About Brains
nMHE most important piece of mechan-
| ism of which the human brain
has any knowledge is the human
brain; but about its workings a genera-
tion which is specifically interested in
machinery knows very little. It there-
fore comes as a surprise to any but a
mental specialist to find from Dr. W. H.
Thomson’s treatise, Brain and Personality
(Hodder and Stoughton), how extensive
and exact is the modern anatomical
knowledge about this wonderful area of
grey matter. And the scientific study of
the brain is a quite recent department of
knowledge. For many of the thousands
of years of civilisation the functions of
the brain were not even guessed at. The
Hebrews- regarded the heart as the seat
of the soul, while the mind was located
in the kidneys, and all tender emotions
in the bowels.
Aristotle examined the brain for himself,
and came to the conclusion that its function
had nothing to do with mind, but that it was
a cooling organ which properly refrigerated
the blood for the heart.
W
But in 1861 the scientific study of the
brain began with Paul Broca’s proof of the
existence in the grey matter of the brain
of a definite locality that is the sole
seat of articulate speech—the area now
termed “ Broca’s convolution. ” %1870,
through the studies of other medical men,
it was established that each of the special
senses had its anatomical seat in the
brain ; while, in a centrally placed zone,
the seats of the voluntary movements of
the muscles of the body were also located.
But these investigators soon were con-
fronted with a most unexpected and sig-
nificant fact—that the anatomical seats
of the faculty of speech are found only in
one of the two similar hemispheres into
which the brain is divided. Thus, for all
practical purposes, a human being uses
only one-half of his brain. And it was
further discovered that the particular
half used depended upon a quite sub-
sidiary fact. It is not due to any special
fitness in that hemisphere that it, and it
only, has the gift of speech, so that if,
after middle-age, the speech-convolution
in that hemisphere isdamaged, that person
remains inarticulate, even though the
same convolution in the other hemisphere
is wholly intact. The particular hemi-
sphere used for speech depends on whether
the person is right- or left-handed. If
right-handed, we use the left half of the
brain. And this idiosyncrasy is deter-
mined by the apparently trivial fact that
as children we use one hand more than
the other. But it is obvious that this
stretching out of the hand of the child is
closely connected with speech. Gesture
language is the first language; and the
hand most used by the child for gesture
reacted upon the brain hemisphere with
which that hand was connected, and thus
fixed the speech centre in that hemi-
sphere, and left the other brain hemi-
sphere wordless, and therefore thought-
less, for life.
From these facts two conclusions flow :
First, that brain matter, as such, does not
originate speech, for then both hemispheres
would have • their speech centres; and,
second, that either of the hemispheres is
equally good for speech, if something begins
early enough in life to use it for that purpose.
That something is the stretching forth
of the child’s hand.
The next remarkable discovery estab-
lished the fact that not only speech, but
thought is a function only of the speech
hemisphere. It was proved that there
were areas of brain matter, injury t 6
which abolished all power to recognise
what the eye sees or the ear hears.
In the visual area is a place which, if
damaged, renders the person unable to recbg-
nise members of hi.s own family, though he
sees them ; and in the auditory area are
places-, one of which, if hurt, causes the
person to be no longer able to know his most
familiar tunes when he hears them ; while
by injury in another spot, he loses all power
of distinguishing sounds in general, so that
he cannot tell the bark of a dog from the
song of a bird, because they are alike only
noises to him.
W
And these important areas are found
only in one hemisphere—the left, for all
right-handed persons. And here we
come upon Thomson’s theory, well but-
tressed by proof, that, as none of those
wonderful mental faculties, including
that of speech, were connected with brain
matter at birth, but were created after-
wards, it follows that they were created
by the individual himself automatically
modifying his own brain. Thus man
builds up his own brain ; he is able to
add cubits to his mental stature. By
the constant repetition of a given stimu-
lus, such as the repetition of a word to a
child, we can, and do, effect a permanent
anatomical change in our brain stuff,
which adds a specific cerebral function to
that place. The grey layer of our brains
is actually plastic and capable of being
fashioned. It need not be left with
the slender equipment of functions
which Nature gives it at birth. Thus
the skilled violinist performs by means
of actually fashioning a special
violin centre in his brain, and the
plumber plumbs, or pretends to plumb,
by building up a special plumbing centre
in his left mental hemisphere. But this
mental plasticity diminishes with age.
And, of course,
It is not the whole brain which sees or
hears, but only particular limited areas to
which the consciousness of sight and hearing
respectively are confined.
The consciousness of sight and hearing
is neither in the eye nor the ear, but in
these special areas of the brain. The
eye does not see any more than an opera
glass sees. It is one place only in the
grey cortex which actually sees.
vf>
And now, having agreed that the grey
matter is the material seat of thought,
the question arises whether it is also the
source of thought. But if thought werre, as
it were, a secretion of the brain matter, if
one half of the brain were destroyed, half
the mental capacity would be gone. But
it has been abundantly demonstrated that
one of our two brains can do all the
thinking necessary ’ for the purposes of
life. Wherefore our two symmetrical
brains are not the sources, but the in-
struments, of thought. Thomson records
instances of persons quite unaffected by
the total destruction of one hemisphere of
the brain, provided it was the hemisphere
where the speech area is not situated.
So that all right-handed persons would
not be much incommoded if they lost the
use of the right hemisphere of their
brains. And—a discovery of the greatest
significance—it has been demonstrated
that certain well-defined areas of the
brain cortex minister as directly to
human thinking as others do to special
sensations or to movements.
9
The human brain in structure is not
unique. The brain of the chimpanzee
has not only every lobe, but every con-
volution, of the human brain. All at-
tempts to demonstrate a new, or super-
added, or special collection or arrange-
ment of grey matter in man’s brain,
which no other animal possesses, have
failed. Huxley states that:
As far as cerebral structure goes, it is clear
that man differs less from the chimpanzee
and orang than these do even from monkeys,
and that the difference between the brain of
the chimpanzee and of man is almost insig-
nificant when compared with that between
the chimpanzee brain and that of the lemur.
But the difference between the human
brain and all other brains is its possession
of speech. And the human mind created
speech : the mind is the cause of the
word. Words are the instruments
which the thinker invents or makes for
the purpose of defining his thought.
Packed like books upon a shelf in a small
patch of grey matter, not larger than a
hazel nut, resides, every word than can be
spoken.
Let this remarkable piece of matter be
separately destroyed, as it often is by a gush
of blood from a ruptured artery, and the
consciousness is utterly unable to find a
word with which to express itself. It still
may have its power to receive all words from
others through eye and ear, but not a word
can it communicate in return.
Thomson furnishes remarkable in-
stances of such happenings. There is the
case of an educated man, struck by word-
blindness, who, owing to injury in only
one part of the speech convolution, could
not read English, but could read Greek.
The English shelves in his brain had
been destroyed ; the G reek shelves, which
had been added to his 1 >rain later in life,
and were therefore ssi kiated apart from
the English compartment, had escaped
injury. That was all. *
0 \
But it is evident that the brain does
not account for man. That something
whose agency accounts for the difference
between man and the other animals is the
Ego, the human personality. As in the
celebrated case of Helen Keller, blind,
deaf and dumb, it is shown that the
human personality can build up its own
brain to perform new and difficult func-
tions. The human will is as different
and separate from the brain as the
violinist is separate from, and not the
product of, his violin. What happens
when the various thinking centres of the
brain are not co-ordinated by the control-
ling human will, or personality, is evident
in dreams.
In dreams some nerve centres' happen to
awake by themselves, and thus ,start ideas
without any control or connection from other
nerve centres which are still asleep, and
which, if they were also awake, wjould tell
them : “ That is not true ; stop till 1 think
with you ! ” ’
As to the Will, and its alleged free-
dom, that opens a metaphysical question,
which is probably incapable of settlement
except by the methods of pragmatism.
The sole fact of importance is that the
brain is subordinate to this Witl : the
brain, can be fashioned, and used by the
will for its purposes ; it can even the let
out on hire by the will—as in tha case
of lawyers who, for a fee, will Use | this
instrument for any purpose required by
its client. And, finally, Thomson justly
points out the practical application on his
thesis : that the progress of the race pan
only be effected by the improvement of
the human will, not of the human brain,
The brain will do as it is told: the will
is the boss, and the common-sense of the
employee has to give way to the pre-
judices of the boss.
The weekly declaration of the polling for
Australasian poet-laureate places the leading
candidates in this order of popularity : H.
Lawson, R. Quinn and A. H. Aciamr.
(equal), H. McCrae, G. Hervey, M. Forrest.
Voters are requested to poll early.
Out of America, the land of feminine
fiction—written by girls for children—has
come a sternly masculine novel. Old Wives
for New (Appleton, New York, per G,
Robertson) is an audacious novel—not great
art, but great realism—treating of marriage
with a cynical frankness and a stern truth.
David Graham Phillips has written some
good (American) novels, such as The Plum
Tree and The Cost ; but here he has a more
insistent note. It is the story of a wife who
had “settled down ”-—and grown fat, ai
woman who thought it a crime to retain hen
looks or her figure five years after her
marriage. But her husband, having made
his fortune, found that he was a young ;
man yet. And the first sign of his
recognition of this fact was the purchase
of gorgeous pyjamas. And the wife’s
regeneration comes with—well, clothes, and
a beauty doctor. The end is divorce, and
both husband and wife live happily ever
after—with other, and more suita Die, part-
ners. The story is brutal enough ; but as
an antidote to the over-stressed sentiment-
ality of the average American novel, this book
is welcome. It is a brutal picture of Ameri-
can civilisation, showing pitilessly, and quite,
unconsciously, the power that money there
has over the courts, the medical profession,
the women. Considered in another aspect
this novel is a tragedy of fat, and the wife’s
efforts to escape her doom is described with
what might be termed frank and illuminating
detail. And as a picture of a disagreeable
civilisation—the sort that, so far, Australia
is free from—this book may serve its pur-
pose. It is capably constructed, and aggres-
sively modern. It will be read.
Little we see out here of the best work of
George W. Lambert; but, for Australia, he
gives of his best in a book, The Bomance of
Australia, by W. H. Lang (T. C. Jack,
London) —a boy’s book in the “ Romance of
Empire” series. The letterpress tells the
picturesque story of Australia for the Eng-
lish boy; but it is in its pictures in color that
its value consists for Australia. Lambert’s
are no mere illustrations to the story ; they
are pictures, excellently reproduced, of the
chief events in our history. Their art quality
is wonderfully high, and the series comprises
as yet the most complete and satisfying thing
that Lambert has done. They have all
the immediate appeal of his' “Black
Soil Plains,” strengthened by his re-
cently-acquired solidity of composition
and his marvellously developed feeling for
color. One picture, depicting the departure
of three vessels from Lima, is a gorgeous riot
of color, with a foreground of Spaniards on
the quay, which, of other living artists, only
Brangwyn could do. His ‘ ‘ Governor Phillip
in Sydney Cove ” is pictorially satisfying ;
his “Mining Camp” shows all the force of
his recent work in The Lone Hand; and
“Sticking up a Gold Escort,” and “The
Last Stand of the Kellys ” show the painter
delighting in color and strength. It is
evident that Lambert is the man to do for
N.S.W. a great historical picture. Of his
recent work in the It.A., The Athenceum
speaks in terms of judicious praise. In his
big portrait-group it calls attention to
“ the superior steadiness and refinement of
draughtsmanship hidden beneath a summary
execution.” And of the artist the critic
says, ‘‘ He is one of the most gifted of living
painters in the nice modulation of the weight
of paint—a natural leader of the band of
younger artists who, with admirable enthu-
siasm, have addressed-themselves to painting
works on a large scale, of ample design and
handsome, unworried surface.” This, in a
highly critical notice, in which no other
Australian artist is mentioned.
The Simple Life
A Ploughing
Idyll.
My eyes open while it is yet dark, feeling about
for my clothes. I creep gently from the room,
for there is no need to waken
the others. It is pale starlight,
the sky green in the east, as I
cross to the stable and feed the
horses, Then to the wood heap, and in ten
minutes billets are split to last the day. An arm-
ful is taken to the house, and, as I blow up the
flame of the smouldering apple log with my hat,
the “go” chortles his morning laugh in the dead
gum by the slip-rails.
The green in the east turns to pink, red,
orange, with a fan flame of fire ; the Stars fade, the
day is born. Our rooster crows, answering an
earlier bird on the next ridge. The old cow
rattles benjbell as she gets to her feet in the yard.
Now the pulseless air gathers movement, the dead
silencemelting into indefinable sounds, the buzz
of insects, rustle of leaves, twitter of birds, the
hum of waking life welcoming the morning. When
the kettle is filled, Mary is stirring. I slip down
the brow to the water'll ole; a platypus dives, in
before me.'. A swim round, a run on the dewy
grass, and I dress going to breakfast.
A cut of corned beef, home-made bread, and a
billy of tea served to a bush appetite. A drink
for the horses, a vault on Captain,, and we jog
down to the flat. They pretend awkwardness
when tbe chains are hooked to the double furrow,
pull irregularly, back over the bars, then bite each
other —a daily comedy ; but soon they settle down
in the collar-like machines. Up and down, up
and down, the fresh-sliced garth showing its naked-
ness in long, raw strips, exhaling a subtle,
soothing odor. There is a cadence in the plough’s
movement, the step of the horses, and my own
measured tramp with the reins. This is not toil,
but some ordered ceremonial, some sacred rite
in which I minister.
One land is done, then another. Now I pause
at the headland to give the beasts a spell. ‘Darkie
starts nibbling grass, but Captain bites him play-
fully on the neck ; they would soon be at their
games again did I not restart them.
Jacky winters, wagtails, and derwinters hop
behind me, hunting for insects; crows, with no
apparent business, float overhead cawing ; at one
end of the paddock a magpie, with wild cries,
makes a dash at my head —we are too near her
nest; from under, the horses’ feet a hare springs
from its form, and scuds away, Towser in vain
pursuit. In the quince hedge rozellas chatter and
gnaw the fruit. What will they eat next?
I count time by the furrows, the height of the
Sun, the length of my shadow ; but the horses have
a more accurate clock, for at eleven sharp they pull
jp dead. They know it is dinner-time,. and I
lave not unhooked them when Mary bangs the
milk pan.
' Dinner! corned beef, potatoes, cabbage, pump-
kin, and tea in a pint cup. The gods do not dine
as well if they miss the pipe that comes after-
wards. What a flavor chat tobacco has! The
afternoon is as the morning, as to-morrow will be
like to-day. Monotonous? Yes! But sweet
wi|h its monotony, its sense of fulfilment, of
satisfied powers, of work accomplished. Sweet,
as Nature makes life sweet to those who go to
lie! /
O.K.Y.


JL
a
No. 835.— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, Plain or
Engraved, Plat or Half-Round, 15/-,
17/6, 19/-, 22/6, 24/-, 26/-, 28/-, 32/6.
No. 834. 9ct. Cold Milanese Bracelet, Set with Turquoise
and Pearls, 50/-, 60/-, 63/-, 72/6;
Ditto, without Stones, 45/-, 445/-, 55/-, 60/-, 65/-.
No. 836.— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, Pearl Set, with Garnet
Sapphire, or Amethyst Centre, 35/-
No. 837.— 9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Set with Pearls, Amethvst
Centre, 34/6.
No. 871. No. 872.
Ladies’l3et Gold Cress Ring's, set with 3 Rubies or Sapphires
and 2 Diamonds, 37/6, 45/-, 63/-, 75/-, 84/- ;
Ditto, set with 3 Diamonds and 2 Sapphires or Rubies,
45/-, 63/-, 75/-, 84/-, 105/-
Pattern E. Pattern F.
Set. Gold Keepers, Various Designs, 12/6, 14/-, 16/C.
15ct. Cold Keepers, Various Designs, 16/6, 17/6, 18/6 20/’*
22/6, 25/-, 30/- ' ’ ' ’ U
ISct. Gold Keepers, Various Designs, 18/6, 20/- 21/- 2256
25/-, 28/6, 30/-, 32/6, 35/-, 40/- ’
No. 888.— Single Stone Dia-
mond Bing, £5, £7/7/-,
£B/15/-, £lO, £ll/15/-,
£l7/10/-, £25 to £B5.
No. 865.— Ladies’ 5-Stone
Diamond Rings, 42/-, 50/-,
63/-, 75/-, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-
120/-, 147/-, to £45 each.
No. 838 —9ct. Goid Half-Round Engraved Buckle
Bracelets, 25/6, 29/-, 34/-
9ot. Cold Flat Engraved Buckle Bracelets, 20/-
23/6, 29/-, 34/-
No. 839.— 9 ct. Cold Amethyst Set Bracelet, 30/
ft
Ko - 840.—9 et. Gold Fancy Edge Bracelet, set with
3 Rubies or Sapphires, and 2 Diamonds, 35/6.
High-Grade Jewellery at
Anthony Horderns* Famous Low Prices
We are Manufacturing Jewellers and Universal Providers, and our
enormous trade with every part of the Commonwealth enables us to
sell in larger quantities than any other Store; our system of Spot
Cash Trading affords us the pick of the best markets, and the
unique combination enables us to offer absolutely
TOP QUALITY AT BOTTOM PRICE.
No. 850.— 9 ct. Gold Brooch, with 3 Pearls,
3 Rubies, or 3 Sapphires, 15/6
No. 849. —15 ct. Cold Brooch, with Brilliant,
2 Rubies or Sapphires, 32/6 ; 9ct., 17/6
No. 372. — 9ct. Gold Fancy Bar Brooch,
Circle set with 3 Pearls and 1 Ruby. 6/6.
No. —9ct. Gold Brooch,
“Mizpah,” 10/6
No. 61x.— 15ct. Cola Brooch, set 1 Brilliant,
1 Bubv or Sapphire, 42/-
No. 842x.— 9ct. Cold Brooch, “Best
Wishes,” 12/6
No. 219S.— .jet. Gold Pearl-
set Pendant, with Amethyst,
Garnet or Greenstone Centre,
£2/17/6, £3/3/-
DAINTY
PEARL
PENDANTS
No. 2198 - .oct. Cold Pearl-
set Pendant, Amethyst or
Garnet Centre, with Pearl or
Coral Drop, £l/14/-
The Pendants illus-
trated are typical
of many others
offered at Anthony
Horderns’ Famous
Low Prices.
No. 2168 — 'YS' Amethyst
15ct. Cold A Centre,
Pearl-set M\ £2/18/6.
Pendant,
Many other designs are shown in our Illustrated Price List
of Presents to Suit Every Purse. Send for a Copy, posted
free on application, and let us demonstrate the Marvellous
Economy there is in Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
No. 832a.— Oct Gold Bamboo Bracelet. 47/6 ;
Smaller Sizes, 37/6, 35/-, 30/-, 25/-, 23/6.
No. 29x. —9ct. Cold Brooch
(Wishbone), 5/=
■ ■
No. 854.— 9 ct. Cold Brooch, with Rubv and
Sapphire, or Pearl and Sapphire, 9/6
No. 844 x Cold Brooch, set with
either Ruby or Sapphire, or 2 Rubies and
Pearl, or 2 Sapphires and Pearl, 22/6
No. 387. 9ct. Cold Wishbone Brooch,
with Spray, set 1 Ruby, 4/6.
No. 838.— 9 ct. Cold Brooch, with Ruby
or Sapphire, 10/6
No. 53x.— 9ct. Cold Brooch, set 1 Sap-
phire or Ruby, 4 Real Pearls, 10/9.
No. 832.— 9 ct. Cold Bamboo Bracelet, 30/-
*
No. 841.— 9 ct. Cold Bracelet, Set with Pearls and Rubies,
or Sapphires and Pearls, 32/6.
J>o. 842. 9ct. Cold Bracelet, Set with Imitation Ruby in
Centre with 7 Pearls either side, as illustrated, 27/6.
No. 843.— 9 ct Cold Bracelet, with Safety Chain, Set with
11 Garnets, Topaz or Amethysts, and 20 Pearls, 50/-
Gentlemen’s Gold and
Silver Alberts.
Our assortment is most extensive, the prices almost as
various. The illustrations represent popular designs of
Alberts, which are available in both Gold and Silver in the
patterns shown, at the prices quoted in the following' list
Silver Alberts, Single Chain .. .. 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
Silver Alberts, Double Chain .. 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/-
Coid Alberts, Double Chain, 9ct., 65/-, 70/-, 75/-, 80/-
84/-, 90/-, 105/-
Cold Alberts, Double Chain, 15ct., 105/-, 125/-, 135/-, 147/-
160/-, 185/-, 200/-, 250/-, 280/-
The difference in price indicates the difference
in weight and workmanship.
Pattern No. 2.
Pattern No. 7.
Pattern No. 10.
No. 844. — 9ct. Cold Bracelet, Set with Pearls and Rubies,
Sapphires and Pearls, or All Sapphires or Rubies, 42/-
No. 845.— Child’s act. uoid Curb Bracelet, 10/-
No. 846. — 9ct. Cold Bracelet, Set with Pearls and Rubies or
Sapphires and Pearls, 42/-
15ct. Ditto, from 84/-
No. 847. — 9ct. Cold Bracelet, with Safety Chain, with 3
Imitation Rubies, Artistically Mounted, 27/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


MtllT
and other
SKINS;
A,so BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Go.
Ltd.
SYDNB "ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape « BOOKS.
KREUTZER SONATA, Is. How to
Dance, Is. Forbidden Fruits, 2s.
Human Brutes ; and all Zola’s,
Is 6d each. Ventriloquism Made
Easy, Is. Up-to-Date Comic Reciter,
Is. Irish Comic Reciter, Is.
Dramatic Reciter, Is. Reynolds’
Court of London Series, 2s. How
to Win at Bridge, Is. 3d. The
Wife, Tiie Husband, and The Lover,
Is ; posted Is 3d. My Neighbour
Raymond, Is ; posted Is 3d. Decameron of
Boccaccio, 2/6. Hrptameron, 2/6. Bride of the
First Night, 1/3. Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3.
How to Mesmerise : Hypnotism and Clairvoyance,
Is. Love Under the Tiles, Is ; post Is 3d.
Camille, Is. Electric Bells, Is. Fruits of Philo-
sophy, Is. Australian Ready Reckoner and Light-
ning Calculator, Is. ;post Is. 2d. Every Man His
Own Builder, 1/3 posted 1/6. Wood-finishing,
Staining, Varnishing, Polishing, 1/-. Canary-
Keeping, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/3. Dream Book,
1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry, Is. The Cuckold, Is;
postl/3. Kreutzkr Sonata, 1/-; post 1/3. Manning’s
Great Horse Book, 10/6 post free. The Ideal op
French Art, in 5 Darts. 2s each. Zingara Gipsy For-
tune Telling Cards : Love, Business, Futurity, and
with full directions. Is ; posted, Is 3d. Girl with
Three Pair Stays, is : posted Is 3d. Ovid’s Art of
Love, 2/6. Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Talk, 20th Cen-
tury edition, very latest, P24S pages, over 400 col.
plates,and engravings, 7/6 posted. Irish Jokes and
Witty Sayings, 9d. Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. Midwives’
Handbook, 92 illustrations, 25.6 d. ; posted 2s. lOd.
NkwTricks with Goins, Is. Scientific Wrestling,
ls.3d. Lover’s Letter Writer, Is. Phrenology,
Is. King Koko, a Conjuring Entertainment, Is. 3d.
Stolen Sweets, 2s. Melbourne Barmaid, Is.
Gay Life in Melbourne, Is. Passion’s Paradise,
2s. Letter Writer, Is. Speeches and Toasts,
Public Speaking Made Easy, Is. Wife’s Guide
and Friend, hv Dr. Warren, Is ; post 1/2 . Ferrets
and Ferreting 1/3. Mbrrie England, Is. 3d.
United States Army Exercises, 3s. ; post Is. 3d.
J3WAND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
WINCHESTER
Black Powder Shotgun Cartridges
The important points in a shotgun cartridge are relia-
bility, uniformity of loading, evenness of pattern, hard
shooting qualities and strength to withstand reloading.
All these virtues are found in Winchester “New Rival”
Loaded Shotgun Cartridges. Ask for them the next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS.
NATURAL
ENO’S
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited,
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
' TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Best Brands Only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
Free
m t
2-ft High.
ft LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR ft BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life-sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-painted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks,brown eye , and represented with flesh-coloure i body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., high v
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of bestmaterial rapid in its action,
cc>i;ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver Wd '
CHAIN and PENDANT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE), and when you have sold them»
return the money to/*, aIK * we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU
•We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains. Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents —a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds—also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send vour name and address plainly written, ana we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return
Windsor Wright &Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, fI.S.W.
Boy’s Rifle.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
,TMU*
CORStTS
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
I
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS &Co., Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE.
„ „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House, . TT „„. T
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
WHEN YOU
BUY YOUR BICYCLE
SPECIFY B.S.A. FITTINGS—
Don’t, however, stop at specification-see that your instructions are carried
out-look for the mark of the Piled Rifles on every component part-that,
and that only, is your guarantee. Unscrupulous dealers will probably off«
you "B.S.n. pattern”—describe the machine built therefrom as ‘ just as goo ,
but don’t be misled-therC is nothing "just as good”-there may be something
which at first sight looks the same, but test will reveal its inferiority.
We place the mark on every part fot your protection-insist on its appearance
every time. The B.S.n..Handbook will tell you exactly where to look for it
—send for it tO-day.
D. Y. RENNIE, representing
BIRMINGHAM SMALL ARMS CO. LTD.*
4 Stock Exchange Buildings*
MELBOURNE.
Wm
gy* nccov(\\oi\
'EafifflMmgs*
No Other is Good
Enough For You ...
The full, rich, ORGAN-LIKE TONES of the
World’s Best Accordion,
“The MEZON”
will while away many a pleasant hour for you.
“ THE MEZON ” ACCORDION is Artistically
Designed and Beautifully Finished. Awarded
SILVER and GOLD MEDALS at Antwerp
and Leipzic.
PRICES : As illustrated, 42/- ; others, 30/-,
35/- £3/3/- and £4/10/-. Guaranteed 12
months. Carefully packed and forwarded
anywhere.
WRITE FOR YOURS TO-DAY.
Splendid Illustrated Catalogue of Musical In-
struments of all descriptions mailed Free
on request.
E. LYONS,
Sole Agent, 256 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE.


Poor little fellow! He coughs
so hard he cannot sleep. That
makes him weak and sickly all the
next day. His brother thinks this
ooughing is terrible. So do we, for
we know that just a few doses of
flyer's
'Cherry 9eetoral
will stop the cough. For sixty years
it has been the standard remedy
with men, women, and children for
colds, coughs, and all throat and
lung diseases. It contains no nar-
cotic or poison of any kind. Be sure
that you get Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. Accept no cheap and worth-
less substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL.
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
“ Pneumonia left my son
Leslie, aged 4, with very
weak
lungs
and such a cough that his
poor little body was nearly
racked to pieces. I tried
many preparations without
benefit and really thought he
would die. On the doctor’s
recommendation I gave
Scott’s Emulsion and he
steadily began to improve.
Very soon he was stronger
and better than he had ever
been before; he is now a
fine boy and owes his life to
Scott’s. He likes Scott’s.”
78 Glebe St.,Glebe, (Mrs.) N. MOORE.
Sydney, N.S.W. 4/9/07.
ABOVE IS THE PROOF IN THE FACTS.
HERE IS PROOF IN THE REASON WHY:
SCOTT’S cured the lungs and
strengthened the system because
SCOTT’S is made of the finest,
purest, most invigorating cod liver
oil in the world—the oil, namely,
which comes from the
livers of cod fish caught
off the Lofoten Isles
(Norway), where they
are primest; and be-
cause this oil is made
easy to take and digest,
by the original perfec-
ted SCOTT process.
Remember: SCOTT’S
cured this little boy,
not an emulsion “just
as good ” no emul-
sion is “just as good ” as SCOTT’S.
Therefore, when purchasing, don’t
ask for “ Emulsionask for and get
tm
Scott’s
Emulsion
—the difference between them
means a cure for you I See that “the
Fishman with the Fish” is on the
package.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in
Medicines.
IRISH iOSS
_ nR -The best remedy-
FDR " INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
Askfor Bonn mg tons C ° L °bronCH ITIS,
and see thatyou get it . ASTH MA.
FREE TO ALL CYCLISTS.
Send us y° ur name and address and yon will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
the finest ever published, which is of interest to every rider. This Book contains large handsome Phoi o
En^ r S ,vin , gs * . includin & beautiful country scenes; ic describes every detail of the manufacture of a high-
grad* Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between high-class work
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
you will receive the most liberal and marvellous Bicycle offer
_ ever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are able to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry factory, guaranteed ten years,
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and approval; how we <an sell
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct from the factory at less than manufacturers’ prices ; how we
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every trial and test you wish before your pur-
chase becomes binding; how you can make larga profits easily—all are fully explained in our latest propo-
sition, which will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
WITH THE FREE ART BOOK
MEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Himyadi Janos
For LITER COMPLAINTS, OBESITY, Ac.
The VIENNA MEDICAL PRESS” says:-
“ Hunyadi Janos may be regarded as a specific for obesity.”
Average Dose. — A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.-
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
' ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Part
of the Label.
When yon ask for
BOVRIL
do not take a cheap imitation. BOVRIL is all beef and is a
standardised strength-giving food.
Always have BOVRIL handy.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King:.
MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE
CODLIVEROIL
(Sold in Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Remedy for Coughs. Colds, Consumption and
all Lung complaints.
As a food, anti husltlot'-uu for both children
and adults, MOLLER’S OIL is unequalled . .
BECAUSE; It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell.
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, emulsions, &c.
MOLLER’S HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
A GUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS SAYS ABOUT MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL .
Medical Review.—“ We have no hesitation in saving it is quite unexcelled. It is
of a pale golden colour ; it is free from any trace of free acid ; it is easily assimilated,
and, what is most important, it does not cause eructations or nausea.”
Medical Press.—“ Messrs. Peter Moller, Ltd., by the introduction of their
Hydroxyl-Free Cod-Liver Oil, have placed in the hands of medicalmen a most excel-
lent and valuable preparation which is almost free from taste, limpid in character,
and, what is a still greater charm, does not cause the objectionable ‘ repeatings ’ we
are so familiar with in certain brands.”
MOLLER’S COD-LIVER OIL has been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and the only Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. To be obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Nether-World.
Most certainly my luck was out *'
When Fortune lodged me here-about,
In dingy diggings, attic-front,
That shrinks beneath a leaking spout.
A butcher holds the fort next door,
And opposite two pubs implore ;
The flies are gorged with flesh and beer ;
My larder holds less toothsome store.
My neighbor of the attic-back’s
A swine ; he never tipple lacks ;
It makes my inmost vitals squirm
To see him guzzling, through the cracks.
I’d join his vast potations, ut
Pignus amicitice —rather !—but
He never asks me ; in the pub
He lushes till the bar is shut.
And then the creature, drenched with gin,
Stands torturing a violin ;
When alcoholic orgies end
• His maudlin symphonies begin.
Around in Bacchanalian dance
Street nymphs and satyrs whirl and prance;
It seems a kind of devilry
Invokes the feet of circumstance.
Upon the public pavement-bench
A satyr busks a buxom wench ;
Above, my nostrils are distressed
With beery smell and meaty stench.
Policeman X, come unawares,
Disperses the enamored pairs ;
My neighbor’s fiddling then is o’er;
His curses rumble up the stairs.
Gaunt spectres reel from private bars
And taint the night with rank cigars ;
The city hides its shame in sleep,
Its gravity the jest of stars.
The roof is live with vagrant cats,
The street with yelping curs and rats,
When o’er the house-tops, cool and sweet,
The soft north-easter pit-a-pats.
What vintages may mortals choose
That cannot pay their lodging-dues ?
If one should tempt me now to drink,
By shade of Villon, I’d refuse !
N.S.W.
W.M.W.
Sic Passim.
See them standing all in a row,
All in a row, the Three ;
The man I love, and the man you love,
And the man they say loves me.
The man they say loves me loves you,
And the man you love loves me.
The man I love belongs elsewhere,
And the other girl keeps the ke^.
See them standing all in a row,
All in a row, the Three ;
The man you love, the man I love,
And the man they say loves me !
QUEENSLAND.
SIDNEY S. SEVERN.
The Dead in the Sea.
All the Dead that live in the Sea
Thrust their hoary arms at me,
All their scaly hands were gripping,
And their hard, white eyes were dripping
With the phosphor of the sea.
All the drifting souls that be
Called me out into the sea,
And my soul was horror-drunken
As their lips that shivered, shrunken,
Shouted in the shifting sea :
“There is blood upon your hands,
And a heart upon the sands —
In the moonlight, red and vivid,
Pours a stream that gushes livid
O’er the whiteness of the sands.
“You are one with us,” they cried,
“Doomed to feel the sifting tide
Eat you to a thing of seeming,
Till you wander, white and screaming,
At the sifting of the tide.”
Then I flung my arms apart,
Laughed, for all my death of heart—
“ You would have me white and shrieking?
See, the thing that reddens, reeking,
All the white sands is my heart.
“ Into it a passion stole
Subtly poisoning my soul,
So I killed it, horror-drunken
Lest I wander white and sunken
Passion-preyed and sapped in soul.
“All you drifting souls that be
Take this hated love of me ”
Then my heart in anguish kissing
Straight I flung it, plunging, hissing
To the Dead that live in the Sea.
N.S.W.
ALAN HOLDSWORTH.


/
o\ /-
r\jsr wzrwm v
HR WWd
[jggajSK&Qi^
o
<?.
B-
-w
WUNDERLICH
ART METAL
CEILINGS.
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists. •
Originated by' expert Designers • «
Modelled by first-class Artists • «
Erected by competent Tradesmen. • •
DECORATED BY SKILLED COLORISTS.
Decorated by Skilled Coloritta.
wko epply their seotc of art
to the greatest advnatage oo
Wunderlich Metal. • • •
WriU for JButlralod fttfahjm.
SYDNEY: XDunderlied Jsimited,
50 PITT ST. Ns . Wm|ea PottlJ Addrci!l _ Box 474. Q.F.0.. Sydaey. l2 ° QUEEN ST -
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's. J. M. CAMPBELL,
George Street, Brisbane. Director.
Under Vice-Regal
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(■Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkbl),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair. 161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY,
Workers & Dermatologists, Between Elizabeth and Oastlereaph Streets.
pr- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINCS MADE UP. Telephone 2138.
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk, •
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures
robust health.
folze <Jqy
ofLiving J
A
'R?
&
L'Yv
235 Different Packages
of Viarums Styles and Sizes
are necessary in putting up Sherwin-Williams Paint and
Varnish Products for the markets of the world. This is
necessary on account of the large variety of products
manufactured by The Sherwin-Williams Co. They do not
sell one product for use on everything that needs painting,
buf make a special product for every different requirement.
This assures that, no matter what you paint or varnish, the
product you use will be specially adapted for that particular
purpose when you use Sherwin-Williams.
When you want to finish your Buildings, outside or inside,
Chairs, Tables, Fixtures, Bedsteads, Bath-tubs, Boses, Stools,
Cupboards, Implements, Tools, or anything in your Home,
Shop or Factory, ask your Dealer for Sherwin-Williams,
Color Cards are free for the asking,
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. MORRISON, Sydney, New South Wales.
,I. GRAHAM & SON, Wauerly, Sydney, New South Wales. JOHN Meabher & Co., LTD., Temora, New South Wales.
A. Parsons & Co., Wollongong,
D. COPELAND & CO., Wagga Wagga,
FREDERICK ASH, LTD., Newcastle,
Charles Regan. Tamworth,
T. J. PHILLIPS, Dubbo,
Bracey's Limited, Llthgow,
BROOKS, Robinson & CO., LTD., Melbourne, Victoria.
CROOKS & BROOKER, Port Adelaide, South Australia.
COUCHE, CALDER & CO., Perth, West Australia.
ROONEY & CO., Townsuille, Queensland.
R. S. EXTON & CO., Brisbane, Queensland.
Hockley & CO., Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. FRED C. DONNISON, Lock Box 811, Sydney , New South Wales.
AN HONEST PROPOSITION
TO PARTIALLY
DEAF PEOPLE.
The “EXTRA EAR ”
is a scientifically constructed HEARING APPARATL'3, which can he
worn with comfort at Home, in Church, Theatre, or Concert Hall.
Weight under Joz.
The “EXTRA EAR" is not “invisible” or “ electric,” nor will it cure you of deafness, but it is
just the most useful instrument invented to date for the comfort of anyone whose hearing is defective.
Price 213., postage paid, to any address. Money Order or Postal Notes must accompany orders.
OUR GUARANTEE.—Money refunded in full if Instrument is found unsuitable, and is posted hack to
us in original wrapper within seven days of receipt; [Please mention this paper.
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD a , The Surgical Supply House,
Contractors to Queensland Government and Hospitals. BRISBANE, Q.
Reference ; English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd. —All Branches. N.B.—We publish no testimonials.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the —
L O U I S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET To be obtained from
Drapers and Silh Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
i
mm
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living’ in it.
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.-
5 Mutual Life Buildin^s y MARTIN PLACE)
B.RicK b £>B d Sydney, Brisbane
damp walls


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
V OL. 29.—N0. 1481.
THURSDAY, JULY 2. IQOft
Pkick 6d
THEIR TROUBLES ABOUT THE EMPLOYEES !
CHORUS OF DAILY PAPERS, STATE FRIGHTERS, Etc.: "HOORAY! DEAKIN WAS RUNNING TO HELP THE FACTORY
EMPLOYEES, AND TRIPPED, HOORAY!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... 6 V
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiib Bulletin Office 'l’wenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tun Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Betters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojlicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Sjieciul Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved oy
the publishers. .
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly conji-
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will he returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further , those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of -MS.
'/v> Aniiituii.ru ill ltlac[c mid ll'hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will he paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be pixid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , h.C.,
Irvine and Forsyth, 441 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Dews Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai.— Brewer and Co.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents ’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6fin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JULY 2, 1908.
ON THE WISDOM OF GIVING YOURSELF
A LIFT.
A WEEK or two ago Adelaide wanted some iron
and steel for its street tramways. The old
bathing-boxes that have been lumbering through
the city and suburbs behind horses that had
mostly long-since earned a pension are to go, and
in their place a Tramways Trust is to provide a
complete electric system. It is a considerable
job, therefore, and will call for very many tons of
iron and steel. For a start something like
£50,000 worth of rails and plates will be
wanted, and poles and wire and axles and
sundries will run to £20,000 more. The
Tramways Trust isn’t a soulless commercial
concern, or a company of shareholders who regard
the business as merely a machine for turning out
dividends. Almost anything can be expected of
a com pany of that sort. Its shareholders feel no
personal responsibility, and m most cases the
directors have only one formula : Our business
is simply to make dividends for shareholders.
-Vdelaide had tasted that sort of company for over
25 years, and had got very tired of it—so
tired of it that at last that sort of con-
cern had to go. Therefore 18 months
or so back the Government agreed to put up the
money to buy out what in such cases is facetiously
Enterprise, and State and'
nalities between them formed the lrust. yet
though this Trust was designed expressly to get
rid of short-sighted and debilitated concerns
whose sole idea was prompt dividends, one of its
osvn earliest actions shows that it hasn t got ideas
the orders have now been given.
At the moment when this public body, repre-
senting a section of the people of had
a very fair-sized order to give, steel works
lately established in the Commonwealth, were
struggling to keep breath in t.heir ■ mf bty
The circumstances were well known ro p
York to the Leeuwin. Alter years of batt f
and unable any longer to bear up against t .
difference of Australia, the founder of the bus
ness walked out and the mortgagee walked in.
He and those associated with him had but re-
cently spent over £lOO,OOO in new plant to turn
out precisely those goods for which a rare demand
has just arisen in Adelaide. They asked for a
stiff Customs duty upon their manufactures; but
they were refused it. All they could get
was a schedule providing for a fairly stiff
duty when it was shown practically that
the works could do without a duty. lhat,
of course, did not satisfy the genuine Pro-
tectionists; but it was Australia’s bad luck that,
masquerading as Protectionists before the electors,
there were men in the House who were prepared
on almost any occasion to join forces with the
G. Reid section of industry-preventers with the
object of whittling down a duty. The same
thing happened with the Lyne tariff as had
happened previously with the Kingston tariff.
Having purposely cut various duties down in
order to meet the certain objections of the unholy
alliance previously mentioned, the unholy alliance
disregarded the concessions already made, and
whittled the tariff down still further. The result
is that, as Sampson, one of the members of
the “ Corner ” party has admitted, the tariff
is now less Protective than the average
of the world’s Protective tariffs. Amongst other
things, instead of there being an adequate duty to
put the infant steel industry firmly on its feet, and
to offer it effective shelter from the onslaughts of
the foreign manufacturer, always ready to fight to
knock out a possible rival, the infant is invited to
go ahead and show that it can supply the market.
Then, when it has shown that it can supply the
market without Protection, the tariff, in au amaz-
ing burst of magnanimous generosity, promises
that Protection shall be forthcoming. “ When
you can swim,” it says in effect, “ you can have a
Lifebelt. If you can’t swim, you can get away
from the wreck as best you can.” And the action
of the Adelaide Tramways Trust shows that it is
going to meet a good many rocks in the course of
the struggle.
To leave matters hung up in that way is prac-
tically to invite Australia to adopt something
very like the Swadeshi movement that has recently
figured in India. Ram Chunder and Ali Baba
have ho Protective tariff, and very little hope of
getting one yet awhile; but that doesn t stop
them from having dreams of reviving some of the
glories of India. As Louis Esson, writing on
the spot, describes it in the current Lone Hand,
Swadeshi is, “a kind of voluntary Protection, the
object of which is to urge people to support the
goods of their own country, and to foster and
preserve thereby fast-decaying native industries,
and to insist always on haying such goods.” It is
a poor substitute for scientific Protection. It
allows the soulless company, consisting of
shareholders who feel no personal respon-
sibility, to go on buying the foreign goods
if they are offered (as they very likely will
be) at some small fraction under the price of the
local goods. It protects nobody against himself
and there are few people who don’t need to be pro-
tected against themselves when they stand in
front of the bargain counter. But, poor substitute
as it is, it is vastly better than nothing at all;
and until the present tariff is made effective,
especially with regard to such a supremely im-
portant industry as iron and steel manufacture, it
looks as though the poor Indian’s Swadeshi policy
will have to be energetically cultivated in Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
It is not a matter only of sentiment. The
Adelaide Tramways Trust, for instance, is going
to send something over £60,000 out of Australia.
Most of that money will be paid to workmen—
very nearly the whole of it, in one way and an-
other. There are a lot of tram-fares in £60,000 ;
but it is the foreign tram that is going to collect
them as things are, and not the Adelaide Trust.
Had that money been kept in Australia there
would have been more people to ride in the trams
that will presently be scaring the contemplative
Adelaide saunterer out of his wits; and the
money would have gone round and round, fatten-
ing everybody a little in the process. It will go
round and round now, but the foreigner will be
fattened and not the Australian. And, apart
from that, Adelaide will be wanting some more
iron and steel before long—even this Trust will
have to lay other lines and provide other rolling
stock almost as soon as it has finished the contracts
now in lland ; and it will have to go on buying
iron and steel as long as it lives. Some day it
may want iron and steel very promptly ; and then
it would probably be glad to give a month s takings
if only works were handy capable of supplying
what it needs. The old Adelaide tram companies
which kept the wheeled arks lumbering through
the streets and out to the suburbs were scoffed at a
hundred times a day for their short-sightedness.
Yet, assuming that the Lithgow works could
supply the metal, the Trust is ecju&lly short-
sighted over a far greater matter. In its petty-
fogging attempt to save a trifle, it probably forgot
that the American had to pay a few pence extra
per ton when first he bought his own iron ; but he
gets his iron amazingly cheap now. I hose few
extra pounds he spent have been the most mag-
nificent investment of his life.
* * * *
Australia can only become great in much
the same way. To the Protective tariff it
needs to add a little—or preferably a lot—of the
practical patriotism that will demand Australian
goods and will have a few energetic remarks handy
when the Australian goods are presented bearing
some thin foreign disguise or tag. . And the further
the Protective tariff is from the ideal, the greater
the demand for this practical patriotism. Protec-
tion, we are assured, is the settled policy of Aus-
tralia. Even the S. M. Herald and the other
alleged Freetrade papers speciously tell us that
“ the tariff is now out of the way.” It isn t out of
the way, except to this extent—we have got as
little Protection, perhaps, as we ever shall have.
But, accepting their view that it is out of the way,
and that w'e have settled down to Protection, then
tiiG sooner we do what [Protection is for, and en-
courage the firm establishment of Australian
industries, the better for everybody. It is a fool
of a country that will sustain a Protective tariff to
encourage local industries, and at the same time
deliberately sustain foreign industries by belittling
and disparaging the local products.
THE NEW PROTECTION.
The High Court decision last week in the Excise
cases, Commonwealth v. Bargkn and Common-
wealth v. M'Kay, does not mean that that policy
which has become known as the “New Pro-
tection ” has been frustrated, but that a particular
means of carrying it out has been declared uncon-
stitutional. The idea of the “ New Protection”—
which is only new comparatively ; it is just as old
as The Bulletin's advocacy of-Protection—is that
the State interferes in a,n industry, by differential
excises, or by taxes on imports, primarily' for the
purpose of making possible a community of well-
paid workers; that a tariff scheme should be
devised not merely to build up an industry, not
merely to give manufacturers fair profits, but to
give employment at such rates as will allow a
White Australian to live as a decent citizen—a
married citizen, with well-fed, decently-clad
children. Such is the “New Protection. I his
Australian Government, recognising its justice
and wisdom, endeavored to give effect to it; but
the limitations imposed by the Federal Constitu-
tion made difficulties. If the Federation had had
control of industrial legislation throughout the
Commonwealth, it might have secured the New
Protection with the greatest of ease, by vesting in
the Federal Arbitration Court the power to
enforce a decent minimum wage in every protected
industry. Lacking that control, the Deakin
Government tried an indirect way of arriving at
the same end. In one particular industry, by way
of a trial, it was enacted that the Protectionist
tariff should be so much ; that there should be a
countervailing duty of Excise, by collecting which
the benefit of the tariff would be nullified ; and
that this Excise should be remitted if, but only
if, fair rates of wages were paid.
* * * *
This makeshift Was challenged on Constitutional
grounds. It was urged that, though the Com-
monwealth had power to impose and remit
Customs duties and Excise duties, it had no legal
right, under pretence of exercising that power, to
assume the power to regulate wages. On the
other side it was argued that, the power to impose
and remit duties being absolute, it was no business
of anybody to consider what was the ultimate
effect of an exercise of that power. Ihree ex-
cellent lawyers, with Conservative leanings
politically, have agreed with the first contention.
Two excellent lawyers, with Radical leanings,
have taken the second view. And the three, ot
course, over-rule the two. There is no doubt that
all five Judges were quite honest in their differing
judgments. The issue is one of those fine
Constitutional points which are partly legal, partly
political, and on which a man inevitably decides
in accordance with his mental bias. Ihe .Bul-
letin naturally agrees with the dissenting two
Judges; and, apart from the politico-legal merits
of the abstract question, there is at least this
much of actual fact to be cited in favor of their
view : the Sugar Excise Act, with its remissions
in favor of white-grown sugar, is an exercise ot
the power of imposing and remitting taxation
obviously with an arriere pensee —that of en-
couraging the employment of white labor m the
lt seems to be exactly on a par with
the New Protection Excise ; and its constitution-
ality has never been challenged. If there is a
difference, it is a difference not obvious to the lay
mind. Of course, any pretence in legislation, any
adoption of un-candid means to gain an end is
to be condemned theoretically. But practi-
cally it is often found convenient. Our Immi-
gration Restriction Act is a notable instance
in point. It affects to be concerned only in keep-
ing out illiterate people. Its real purpose is to
exclude people who from racial or other reasons
are undesirable.
• * * *
However, the indirect way of arriving at the New
Protection is condemned as unconstitutional, and
there is an end of that method. It * s for
the Government now to find a means which ts
Constitutional of arriving at the same end. As
our national Articles of Association stand, there
does not seem to be any valid means. But those
articles are not unalterable. The method ot
change is a little cumbrous certainly, but not so
cumbrous as to prevent one change having been
already made—that dealing with the date of the
general elections. It seems to be clearly the
business of the Government to proceed to seek
an alteration of the Federal Constitution, which
will put into the hands of the Commonwealth con-
trol of industrial legislation throughout Aus-
tralia. This change has been already shown to be
necessary. Since all Australia is under the one
tariff, it is necessary, in the interests of fair play,
that all Australia should be on the same level as
regards the governmental regulation of wages and
hours of workers. Otherwise a State enforcing
fair rates may find its industries being gradually
driven into another State, where there is no check
on sweating, and not be able to stop the cheap
labor products at its boundaries by a tariff. When
each State had its own tariff there was no essen-
tial injustice in different States having different
ideas as to wage rates. If N. b. Wales
enforced a decent rate in a certain industry
and Victoria allowed sweating, N. b. Wales had
always the remedy of shutting out the umair
competition with a Customs tariff. Now with a
common tariff and no inter-State duties, a common
decree of interference with labor conditions
becomes imperative. If the banning of the sub-
terfuge by which the Australian Government
sought to enforce its New Protection has the effect
of vesting in the Federation full power oyer all
industrial matters, it will be of ultimate benefit
though of present disadvantage.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Federation and the Land.
The Australian Government is gradually being
forced into the position that it must declare a
Federal land policy. However reluctant Prime
Minister Deakin may he to take another big step
in progressive Federalism, the logic of circum-
stances compels some action. On the one side is
the avowed need of population. The Prime
Minister, like every other patriotic Australian, is
a strong ’immigrationist. He recognises the need of
vast additions to our white garrison from abroad
—not the puny trickle of servant girls and
farm boys that the Wade Government has been
able to attract by hard touting, but a strong, ever-
flowing stream of new citizens, a Snowy .River of
immigrants. But, like every other sensible Aus-
tralian, he is compelled to admit that for the
agricultural immigrant who comes to-day there is
no good land offering ; and gradually he is being
compelled to admit that the policy of waiting for
the States to make land available is a hopeless one.
The urgency of attracting immigrants has been
admitted these last six years. During that time
no one of the States has made any move to wrest
from the monopolist land sufficient for its own
would-be farmers, let alone for new settlers from
abroad. The position disclosed in the House of
Representatives recently—farmers in Victoria
being compelled to migrate, because they cannot
get land, whilst British people are urged to come
here in the hope of getting land-forces to one
inescapable conclusion. Australia has the land.
Australia wants the population. At present the
land is not available because the States per-
sist in allowing a dog-in-the-manger system
of monopoly. The Commonwealth must step in
and undertake what the States refuse to do. There
may, in consequence, be some grumbles from
Wade, and splutters from Bent. Even so,
the language of an angry fat man and a sour thin
one can’t be allowed to stand in the way of Aus-
tralia.
Painful Accident to an Insect.
N.S.W. Chief-insect Wade got hold of a mag-
nificent State grievance a week or ten days ago, and
lost no time in blowing it up to a tremendous
size; and then, just when he and the Sydney
dailies were painting the bladder in nice attractive
stripes of blue and crimson, and it had begun to
take the public eye, Prime Minister Deakin
pushed a pin into it. It came about in this way.
When the State Premiers met in Melbourne six
weeks or so back, they first shut the doors on the
reporters, and then, having discussed their State
woes at great length, admitted the representatives
of Australia, and fired a sort of ultimatum at them.
In regard to the financial relations of Common-
wealth and States, the State Premiers demanded (1)
a fixed annual sum from the Commonwealth s col-
lections of Customs and Excise; (2) a proportionate
part of all increases. That was the first section
of the ultimatum. In the second part they
offered, if the Commonwealth took over the ola-
age pension payments, to accept less than their
present three-fourths of the Commonwealth
revenue. Really, one was the hook and the other
the bait. Prime Minister Deakin naturally said
that he was quite willing to accept the bait, but the
book was, of course, absurd. And it was—it
would have left the Commonwealth pledged to
pay to the States a large fixed sum no matter
how bad the year might be, and no matter
how tremendous its own necessities might be,
and the necessities of a Government charged with
the defence of a continent may be very tremen-
dous indeed. Yet while it proposed to put the
Commonwealth into such a position at times of
stress or adversity, the State Premiers’ scheme
ensured for the States a proportion of the surplus
in the fat years. The States were going to stand
on velvet,” and moreover “ have a bit to nothing.
They would never stand to lose ; but they would al-
ways stand to win; Of course the proposal was not
accepted ; and the conference broke up. Thereup-
on, being determined that Australia should have
defence and old-age pensions, the Commonwealth
Parliament passed the Surplus Revenue Act.
This in particular authorised the Government
to take the whole one-fourth of the Customs and
Excise revenue to which the Constitution entitles
it, and, if it did not expend all of it, to pay
the balance into a trust fund to provide
for the pending large outlay on the two projects
defence and old-age pensions. But as the Com-
monwealth works on C.O.D. principles, it decided
that it must have a fund before it starts the pay-
ments ; consequently the pensions will not begin
until July, 1909. In that delay Wade, the
mischief-maker, saw what he thought was his
chance. “If,” he said in effect, “the Government
had accepted the offer of the State Premiers, the
poor old people might have had their pensions at
once”; and he went on to explain that the
Premiers had made an unconditional offer, and
the Commonwealth Government had not accepted
it. The Commonwealth Government had de-
clared that the Surplus Revenue Act and
its other financial proposals were necessary,
because the Government was determined to
push on with old-age pensions and de-
fence; and Wade, dropping all reference to
defence, asked what Australia thought or a
Government which wouldn t accept an uncon-
ditional offer of the States to provide pension
money straight away. Prime Minister Deakin
replied that an unconditional offer never was
made ; on the contrary, when he had asked it he
could take clause 2—the bait—without clause 1—
the hook—both State Premier Wade and State
Premier Moore (Westralia) said he couldn t.
Wade however—still blowing up his State
grievance bladder, while the Daily Telegraph
painted gaudy stripes on it—declared he did.
And then the puncture happened. ‘ Very well,
said Prime Minister Deakin; “if I misunder-
stood the State Premiers I am very sorry.
However, it’s not too late —we U accept
the unconditional offer now.” Then the blad-
der rapidly began to have the appearance
of a wet rag, with an agitated insect wriggling in the
folds of it, and explaining that things were
different now, and perhaps the other States didn t
quite mean it like that, and possibly theie had
been ambiguity somewhere. And while the insect
wriggles the Telegraph has dropped its pot of
striped paint, and has begun to talk about the
New Protection with tremendous energy, and as
though it had never talked about anything else ad
its life.
Three Men in Trouble.
During a wet night recently, E airbairn, Irvine,
and Knox addressed a political meeting at Mal-
vern, one of Melbourne’s shiny-hat suburbs. The
Age had printed an analysis of the votes these
gentlemen had cast on the Tariff Bill. It had
pointed out that all three of these alleged Pro-
tectionists had voted nearly half the time with
the Freetrade crowd, and had been absent a lot
of the rest of the time ; so the good Protectionist
paper threateningly asked “ Whaffor ! Ihe
meeting on the wet night was toiillow the culprits
to explain. Of course they all said they had been
misrepresented. No amount of mere denial will,
however, alter the fact that to the backsliding of
these three very much of the unsatisfactory state
of numerous items of the present tariff is entirely
due. Whenever there was a close vote, KNOX,
Irvine and Fairbairn were almost always
on the Freetrade side. The piano duties
are a very flagrant example. As originally
proposed, the duty was just about right.
In the first run through, 5 per cent, was chipped
off. This left the industry with its head above
water, but struggling. Then at the last moment
came another attack by the Foreign-traders, who
went for a further 5 per cent, reduction Ihe
struggle was a close one; in fact, one vote did the
scandalous work, and that one vote was lair-
bairn’s. Fairbairn admitted (at the wet meet-
ing) that he got the Age support because he was a
Protectionist, and he fatuously explains his piano
vote by the statement that the lobbying and piano-
playing in the lobby disgusted him. I believe,
he said, “it put me down 5 per cent. bo a fine
Australian industry is made the sport of fortune,
because of the confessed foolishness of I airbairn.
Of Joe Cook, Willie Kelly, and that gang,
nothing good was expected, and nobody
was disappointed when nothing was ob-
tained. But Knox and Fairbairn, likewise
Irvine, diligently promised on the hustings
to vote for Protective duties. Yet they all three
have turned out such utterly unreliable, shandy-
gaff Protectionists that a strenuous effort must be
made next time to fill their places with the
genuine article. It ought to be easy to fill
Irvine’s place ; not too difficult to shift the Hat ,
and not impossible to displace 1 airbairn— -the
man who was so annoyed because somebody
played a piano in the lobby that he forgot al
about his pledges and his promises. 1 hat sort of
man needs shifting very badly—to be replaced by
one who will think less of his own dainty ear and
more of the empty spaces of Australia.


Miscegenation.
Clause 51 of the Constitution Act gives to the
Australian Parliament full power over the marriage
laws of the Commonwealth. It is time that that
power was exercised to punish with heavy
penalties miscegenation. The White Aus-
tralia policy is really ethical rather than
economic. Its chief purpose is to keep Aus-
tralia for a pure white race with no taint
of black bastardy. That purpose is to an
extent defeated by the fact that the colored folk
yve already have in our midst are permitted to mix
in marriage, or the equivalent of marriage, with
the white population. Marriages of Chinese to
European women are quite common ; the other
day, a Japanese resident in N. S. Wales adver-
tised openly for a white wife ; and the aboriginal
women are very frequently the victims of white
men. So there comes a distinct half-breed
element in the population, an element which is of
grave danger to our racial purity. A recent
report from Westralia showed the extent of the
evil of miscegenation there :
In connection with the case in which William Kirk-
wood, who, at Norseman, was fined £l5 in default
two months for living with an aboriginal woman
named Maggie, it is stated that he applied to the Abori-
gines Department for permission to" marry the woman.
The Department said he could do so at the end of 12
months, if he did not change his mind. Interviewed in
Perth, Mr. Gale, chief Protector of the Aborigines, said
that one reason for refusal was consideration for Kirk-
wood’s relations, who were most respectable people on
the goldfields. Moreover, if he gave permission straight
away for all the marriages he was asked to, he would be
cursed in time to come by hundreds of men whom he had
allowed to commit a rash act of contracting marriages with
native women, and so become heavily handicapped on
their return to civilisation by the presence of ignorant
aboriginal wives and half-caste children. As an instance,
Mr. Gale stated that some years ago a young settler far
out was given permission to marry a particular gin,
which he did, and he had received a letter from him
announcing that his wife had gone back to her old native
customs. She persisted in the practice of having all the
natives of the locality at his house, and had also taken to
drink. There had been one child by the marriage, and
that the mother was taking away, and he desired the
assistance of the Protector to enable him to save it from
its mother. When marrying the native, the husband had
made over his farm to her, which she had since squan-
dered. The matter, Mr. Gale stated, was typical of
marriages between white men and native women, and
would receive his attention.
Now, it should be in Australia a criminal offence
for a white man to marry or live with a colored
woman, or for a colored man to marry or live
with a white woman ; and the punishment should
be harsh enough and certain enough to act as an
effective deterrent. It is within the power of the
Australian Parliament to enact this; and the
power needs to be promptly exercised.
An Exploded Electioneering Grag.
One day last week the Sydney Daily Telegraph
published a cartoon vvhich represented Wade
saying “Awake! Arise! Organise!” and so
forth to an elderly, criminal-looking person whom
he seemed to have surprised in the act of faking
the accounts. Underneath was written :
The Premier spoke of the necessity for the Liberal party
organising. It was, lie said, a lesson they must take from
the Labor party, who did not wait for an election to come
along, but organised all the year round.
Also :
The business man who cannot afford to give his personal
attention to politics is just the one in need of an organi-
sation of this kind, but he is usually the last to recognise
mat fact. The elections are over, they will not occur
again for two or three years, and he thinks there is no
need tor him to bother about politics in the meantime.
It a recrudescence of the old, unconvincing gag
which is exploited a 3 each succeeding election
Jr ec *eral or State) approaches. At such times, both
t“ e Sydney morning dailies moan to the effect
that “ Liberalism” (i.e, Deform, Anti-Sosh, State
bnghtism, etc.) never spends any money on its
propaganda, never works beforehand to gain such
victories as it does gain, never “arises,” never
organises, never does a thing. The gag is based
on the fiction that Liberalism just sits down all
the year round, and then, when the appointed
time comes, wins victories, moral and otherwise,
by sheer force of its own inherent virtue. Labor,
contrariwise, is limned as a huge, menacing, ever-
aetive Force. It is represented as teeming with
money, instinct with tireless energy, madly
resolved to destroy every elderly person with a
ledger in the community. When an election
happens along, and “Liberalism” either (a) wins
or (b) is beaten, two explanations are always forth-
coming. It is pointed out in case (a) that
a signal victory has been won over the
massed forces of organised Labor in the
very teeth of Liberal apathy.” However
considerable the vote-total of the victorious
candidate happens to be, it is said to comprise
but a minute fraction of the Liberal electors in
the constituency who were panting to go to the
polls, but didn’t, on account of the shameful
slackness and over-confidence of their leaders.
In case (6), after a preliminary yelp or two of
pain, the seat is talked to very firmly. The
papers assure it that it is at heart overwhelmingly
“ Liberal.'’ It is pointed out that the Labor can-
didate with whom the constituency has allowed
itself to be cursed, owing to the lackadaisical folly
of those comprising it, does not in any sense repre-
sent the real political sentiment of the neighbor-
hood. A sermon is preached, with “the well-
known cunning and resource and organising genius
of the Laborites” as text. The Labor party’s re-
cognised habit of coming forward with enormous
sums of money on behalf of its nominees is darkly
adumbrated, and the discourse closes with a heart-
appeal to “all Liberals worth their salt” not to
suffer so awful a calamity to occur again. It is
interesting, in view of the above, to look at the
actual facts in this regard. At last Federal elec-
tions, wherein Ma State “Liberalism” went
down with a horrid thud, the whole of the coun-
try districts were fairly creeping with paid
“Liberal” organisers. There was not a back-
blocks township of any importance but had its
plug-hatted visitor who conferred earnestly with
local magnates, and thereafter drove round like
any bagman to the homes of the “willing workers”
• l*! 3 ® locality. In nearly every city and township
“Liberal Leagues” were formed, and lies were
eagerly promulgated as to the calamities that
would falj upon. Ma if the “Socialist” candidate
were not defeated. This went on during practi-
cally the whole of 1906. Greitv stumped the
country from the beginning of October till the
end of December, giving his preposterous version
of the inner meaning of the Deakin-Watson
policy. His weird mendacities produced a per-
ceptible scare among the more foolish of the well-
to-do classes. They worked harder in the re-
actionary cause than they had ever done before;
and when polling day came, their motors and
carriages and personal influence, did powerful
service. As to “money contributions,” those
Liberals who were “in the know” were the
first to admit exultingly during the heat of the
fray that they were one landowner
alone put his hand in his pocket to the tune of
nearly £3OOO. As against this impressive dis-
play of energy, what a feeble showing Labor
made ! It had no millionaire adherents, no orator
who could afford to put in three months stumping
the country in its advocacy, little money for paid
organisers, and no social “pull.” On polling day
its supporters mostly walked to record their votes ;
in a lamentable number of cases the supporter
couldn’t leave his job or couldn’t get anyone
to mind the baby or cook the old man’s
dinner, and so held the vote over till
next time. In some of the most populous
centres (Bathurst, which threw out Sin Smith
in favor of Laborite Carr, may be cited)
the local Labor League barely ran into double
figures, and a fair proportion of the people who
voted Labor didn’t know the city owned a Labor
League at all. In the name of com monsense and
humor the Sydney dailies should agree to drop
their futile old gag about the lack of organising
and the prevalence of apathy among Liberals.
The real troubles with “Liberalism” are that
“ Liberalism’s ” size is such a small size, and is
growing still smaller by a perfectly natural pro-
cess, since most of its tenets are as discredited
nowadays as Freetrade, or as the class of political
thought which damned Early Closing and Old-
Age Pensions a few years back, and denounced
them as “ Pernicious Socialism.” And those are
troubles that all the “awaking” and organising
on earth won’t cure.
The Yellow Pup and the Germ of Rabies.
In Trentham, a Victorian mining township, one
Pincombe lately went to his front window, and,
taking steady aim with a rifle, shot a lay reader
of the Church of England, who was talking to his
wife on the verandah opposite. He subsequently
fired at a policeman who went to arrest him, and,
as the result of the policeman’s better aim with a
revolver, he died some days later. On examina-
tion, he proved to be a walking armory. He
carried two loaded revolvers, and his. pockets
were full of cartridges. Investigations showed
that Pincombe was a maniac of a most dangerous
type—a sufferer from a religious mania—and that
his wife had a few months previously been com-
mitted to an asylum after chopping off her hand in
supposed obedience to a Biblical command.
Viewed in the light of after events, the marvel
seems to be that Pincombe should have been
permitted to remain at large so long. For long
past, both he and his wife had been a menace to
public safety. They had been afflicted with
Orangeism in its most virulent form, and Pin-
combe had, on a number of occasions, asserted
that he was a sturdy Protestant who saw no
other way of downing Rome except by assassi-
nating the local members of the Roman Catholic
Church. Yet, probably because so many
maniacs of the sort are allowed to go at
large, the law took no notice. Finally the
unfortunate victim of the tragedy came to
live at Trentham; and, as an Anglican, in the
virulent Orange mind, is only a Papist in dis-
guise, ready to come out in the open when Rome
makes her long-expected spring, Pincombe
turned his attention to the harmless lay reader,
threatening him with violence, and persistently
annoying him and his family for the glorification
of sturdy Protestantism. As the lay reader paid
no heed to his incoherent utterances, Pincombe —
probably after a fresh perusal of the Orange litera-
ture that was found on his premises—loaded
his gun, and calmly killed the man whom he
regarded as a menace to the British Con-
stitution, and a weak-kneed Protestant, and
a spy of the Vatican. The question that
arises out of this sad affair is: How much
responsibility lies with the deceased Pincombe
and how much with the Protestant Defence
Association, and the Orange Lodge, and the
lecturers and journalists who make a good living
i out incendiary flapdoodle to maniacs of
the Pincombe class? Had the remnants of his mind
not been inflamed by reading and listening to the
professional spellbinders who circulate inferential
libels of the grossest type, he would probably
have been content to work off his surplusage
of mania over State Eights or vegetarianism or
golf. In India the British Government has found
it necessary to curb the enthusiasm of the orators
and writers, who advocate bomb-throwing; and
other countries (including many like the United
States, where there is an absolutely Democratic
franchise) have taken action to prevent the advo-
cacy of murder as a means of combating im-
aginary grievances. Australia, on the other hand,
has left it open for anybody who chooses to preach
a Jehad which, though it may not openly ad vocate
assassination, certainly suggests no other way in
which to defeat the infernal machinations of a
power that it holds is enveloping the whole com-
munity in its nefarious tentacles. Pincombe
is only one of hundreds in Australia, who
have been mad enough to carry out what
is regarded as a sacred and solemn trust.
In every average Australian community of
a hundred people, there is already at least
one maniac who firmly believes that the
Roman Catholic and the Anglican are pests, and
that; their removal would be a distinct gain to the
community. The people responsible for develop-
ing such mental kinks may now gratify themselves
that there would be to-day two more live men and
probably one more sane woman in Australia had
they been less eager to circulate picturesque
fiction about the intentions of the Crimson Lady.
+
Humbug and Divorce.
His Honor said he was perfectly satisfied as to the course
he should adopt. Mr. Blank’s evidence had confirmed
him in the belief that the view he had originally taken
was the correct one, namely, that the petitioner and her
family in this case wished to get rid of the respondent.
He felt a great deal of sympathy with the young woman,
as he would with any young woman treated in the same
way ; but it was impossible to believe that he (respondent)
was away from his wife against her will for three years.
Continuing, his Honor said: “My own opinion is that
tills young woman, and all her people, are but too glad
to get rid of this young man. It is obvious to me that
she hoped at the expiration of three years to obtain a
divorce on the ground of desertion. That hope, as far as
this Court is concerned, will not be realised. The peti-
tion is dismissed.”— Law Report.
So, under the divorce law of N. S. Wales, a
petitioner in a desertion case doesn’t get relief if
he or she. is honest enough to admit that things
matrimonial have got to such a pass that the de-
sertion wasn’t viewed as an unalloyed tragedy.
Oue Sydney Bradford left his wife over three
years ago. He did not come back. His wife duly
petitioned for a divorce on the grounds of
desertion; but Justice Simpson, after hearing
Mrs. Bradford and her witnesses, con-
ceived a haunting notion that the petitioner
wasn’t as sorry as the law would have her be that
Bradford hadn’t come back. So his Honor
adopted the usual, but perfectly irrational, course
of dismissing the petition, thereby keeping within
the bonds of wedlock two people who haven’t seen
one another for years, who plainly don’t want to
see one another, and whose past relations pre-
clude their living in harmony for ten minutes on
end, even if they did come together again. During
the week that followed the tossing-out of this case
a whole sheaf of other desertion-petitions were
granted by the same Judge sitting in the same
jurisdiction. But, in these cases, the petitioning
parties were carefhl to suggest, in every possible
fashion known to the rules of evidence, that up to
the very moment of the hearing they were just
panting to be re-united to those from whom, a few
minutes later, they asked the law to separate them
for life. It seems a fair conclusion that a propor-
tion of the successful petitioning parties knew
rather more about legal procedure, or had a more
elastic brand of conscience, than the un-
successful Bradford lady. Under present
conditions, the solicitor who doesn’t make
his petitioning client wise as to the correct
attitude to adopt in court in a desertion
case is of an almost unnatural probity. A show
of deep grief on petitioner’s part in regard to the
continued absence of respondent is a prime essen-
tial when in the witness-box. Also, “manu-
factured evidence,” in the way of wild letters
(of which fair copies have been taken previously)
demanding the wanderer’s return, sometimes
come in handy. In a score of ways the Court is
flagrantly humbugged, and apparently it is more
or less willing that it should be humbugged, so
long as its face is saved in the matter. On the
other hand, in a lamentably large number of cases
where the granting of a divorce is obviously
equitable, the Judge is forced to hold his hand
because an honest petitioner with an honest set of
witnesses has bumped up against a fool law-
principle!
—-—-
Leprosy in New Caledonia.
“ Wanderer” sends a ghastly message :
About 25 years ago, according to records, a Chinese
developed leprosy in the north of New Caledonia. To-day
there are fully 400 white and over 1000 native lepers. In
days gone by, when the island was in a better financial
position than it is at present, the local Government
formed a leper station on the Island of Belep. The up-
keep, however, became too heavy, so the patients were
brought back to the mainland, and now roam round at
their own sweet will. The Government certainly does
something : it allows the native leper 31b. of rice a week
on condition that he lives in a hut apart from other
people. But the natives are too kind to their sick to obey
any such regulation. I have often seen the lepers enter-
taining a dozen or more of their own tribe to “ afternoon
tea.”
One day I visited a camp to borrow a horse from the
Chief. Not seeing anyone about, I cruised round the
various huts. Lifting the mat at one of the doors I
crawled in. On the floor there were three figures huddled
together, a woman and two boys, all badly decayed with
leprosy. I did not wait to make any inquiries about the
horse. Mosquitoes were fairly plentiful at the time, and
I gasped as I thought of it.
Twelve miles from that particular camp, I came across
two women and four cnildren walking along the main
track. There was also a baby in arms, the bearer being
an old woman, evidently the grandmother. I noticed
she had a piece of rag concealing the upper part of her
face. As I passed she looked up. I shall never forget
that noseless face. They camped that night, all together
in a native hut.
In the same district I was camped for a month, living
in a grass hut I had got built. We were prospecting a
river for dredging purposes. Once a week fresh meat
was sent up from a cattle station 10 miles off. One day,
on my return from work, I saw my cook and another
native hoy busy at work salting and hanging up the meat.
As the stranger raised his arm I saw he was a mass of
raw flesh from armpit to elbow. He had already lost
most of his toes. We did without fresh meat that vveek.
I asked a leading citizen why on earth they did not
isolate the lepers ? His reply was: “It would not be
safe.” I guessed what that meant.
But what mistaken kindness! If one case has grown
to 1400 in 25 years, inaction during the next 25 years will
produce results that are too ghastly to contemplate.
There is talk about the sale of New Caledonia to Eng-
land. It should go cheap !
“F.D.,” from Melbourne: What a lot of fancy
soldiers Australia is getting ! Seems as if, the
genuine article being denied, the country is
sprouting excrescences:—
Lot 1. Melbourne Cavalry Corps.—Use : Governor’s
escort on show days. The Melbourne cavalry men look
pretty and are very “ class.” God save Australia ! Quite
20 men, all told.
Lot 2. Mounted Cadets.—The pups of Lot 1. Same
remarks as to “ class ” apply. Again, God save Australia !
Lot 3. Sunday School Naval Cadets.—Thislotisa little
more alive than lots 1 and 2, but it is a fancy corps never-
theless, lacking order and business control. May develop
into something useful —and may not. Again, God save,
etc.
Lot 4. State School “ Kidettes.”—Use :To prevent
public attention being directed to the woeful state of Aus-
tralian defence. The lads march in warlike array down
the street, and folks feel good and say, “ There you are i
Australia’s future is safe." God save Australia I—the
cadets can’t.
Lot 5. Miniature Rifle Clubs.—Weapon : pea rifles—ye
gods ! Is land so valuable in Australia that 30ft. is all we
can spare for training men in defence?
Lot 6. Motor Corps.—Use : An easy way to sport a
“ commission ’’ —privates not admitted. This corps could
be of the greatest use, but
Lot 7. Intelligence Corps. (Judgment suspended. It
can easily be useful. It can easily be fancy soldiery. Let
us pray, etc.)
Lot 8. Rifle clubs.—A mixed lot. The good is very
good ; the bad is blanky bad. The cold truth is this :
rifle clubs drag all and sundry into their ranks —the fat
and the lean, the fit and the unfit, and then the captain’s
great concern is to get each to shoot the “musketry
course ” (40 rounds yearly). For each member who com-
pletes that course, his club gets ss. grid 200 rounds of free
ammunition yearly. The “ dummy ” doesn’t use the free
stuff, but the active member uses it for him, and the ss.
provides prizes.' In spite of this incentive, 40 per cent.
of rifle Qlub members failed to shoot the “ musketry ”
last year (official figures). How many of the 60 per cent,
who did shoot are “dummies,,” dragged to the range by
the wool to qualify the club for free ammunition and five
bob ? Who i hall say that fancy soldiers don’t abound in
rifle clubs, for, if 40 per cent, never go near the rifle
ranges, how often do, say, another 30 per cent, go?
Now, only a fool would argue against cavalry,
cadets (mounted, naval and State-school), motor
and intelligence corps, and rifle clubs ; but only
the same fool would trust his country’s safety to
these corps as they exist in Australia. They are
mischievous in that they hide the nakedness of
Australian defence from public gaze. They are
the appearance of defence, and not the thing
itself. And the beginning and middle and end
of their weakness, if not their uselessness, is the
absence of the element of compulsion in their
make-up. Compulsion would put them on a busi-
ness footing and increase their numbers tenfold.
Advance, Compulsion!—and “God save Aus-
tralia ! ” too, if you like.
♦ '
One man in Melbourne hasn’t lost any time in
expressing his opinion of the absurd penalties in-
flicted under the adulteration laws. This law-
breaker was, on May 28, fined £lO for putting 59
per cent, of water in the milk he sold ; and on
June 15 the same man was fined £l5 over a little
matter of some alleged milk which consisted of 54
per cent, water. Either he had determined to
defy the law, or he was taking the most obvious
method of recouping himself for the previous loss.
The case really offers the strongest argument
against the folly of persistently fining food-adul-
terators. Their offences are quite as flagrant,
more frequent, and often more disastrous in their
consequences than those of the burglar or the
embezzler, and they should be treated no more
leniently than those menaces to society. If the
warning conveyed by a tine for a first offence be
unheeded, they should, on subsequent conviction,
be put where they will be unable to do further
mischief. As this case clearly shows, a fine merely
acts with some men as an incentive to further
adulteration, and the sooner the law tries some
other remedy the better for everybody but the
swindler himself and the undertaker.
Brisbane, under-taxed, municipally-bungled, and
landlord-bossed, is again juggling with the ques-
tion of a new town-hall. The hope of Mayor
Buchanan is that, even if they spent £lOO,OOO on
it, they could make the place self-supporting.
The city undoubtedly needs a commodious and
central public hall, though if it gets a revenue
from the new ambition, it will be largely at the
expense of that exceedingly pale elephant, the
Exhibition Building, away out of the city
proper. Nevertheless, much as Brisbane needs
a hall, before it tackles the job of build-
ing one the Council should put the city finances
straight, increase the rates so as to provide a
respectable sinking fund for the new and the old
debt, and arrange for a sanitary system which
will at least be modern. This programme, how-
ever, would at once strike the property owner,
who is the voter, in a vital spot, and he will imme-
diately set to work to crush the project. Bris-
bane can, therefore, never expect municipal
reform till Parliament supplies a measure which
will give the rent-payer and the adult a vote.
Apropos J apanese public policy. It was mentioned
incidentally in a Sydney law court, last week,
that Japan won’t allow a foreign country to serve
any document of a legal character upon any
Japanese subject in Japan. This is a degree of
“ exclusion ” which no white Power attempts. In
effect it means that a foreigner can’t sue a
swindling Japanese debtor or enforce any civil
remedy on a Japanese subject in his own country.
♦ •
Doctor Gore, Bishop of Birmingham (Eng.),
seems to have come to the conclusion that it is
time the Church got down out of its Carriage and
went on foot among the meek and lowly, as its
Founder did some two thousand years ago in
Jerusalem. In his paper read at the Pan-Angli-
can Congress, Dr. Gore said :
This, then, is the first great claim we make upon the
Church to-day, and it should make a tremendous act of
penitence for having failed so long and on so wide a scale
to behave as the champion of the oppressed and the
weak ; for having tolerated what it ought not to have
tolerated ; for having so often been on the wrong side.
And the penitence must lead to reparation while there is
yet time, ere the well-merited judgments of God take all
weapons of social influence out of our hands.
It looks like the warning of a clear-headed man,
who sees the dry-rot eating into the heart of the
great institution of which he is one of the heads.
Pious English people subscribe heavily to missions
for the black heathen in foreign lands, while their
motors every time they go outside their gates have
to toot like mad to drive the ragged white heathen
from under the wheels.
Launceston (Tas.), though it has got in its
electric-lighting scheme a magnificent object
lesson on the benefits of municipal ownership,
proposes to make an ass of itself, and give a shove-
on to the usual syndicate. Some time ago a tram-
way concession was granted to a Melbourne specu
lator, who bet £2OOO to nothing that he would be
able to float a co. and rake in a pot of promoters’
shares. But something went wrong with the
works, the co. hasn’t been floated, and the time
allowed the concessionaire is just about up. Some
body, however, shook Launceston violently in r
before the time expired, and woke it up . }
asked it in a shocked voice whether it would
allow the concession to fall through—wouldn’t
China Makes Some Inquiries.
As a sign that China is anxious to look after not only
her own interests, hut those of her subjects, she has lately
sent out to Australia a distinguished student, Mr.
Thomas Ling, who has reached Sydney. He has been
despatched to inquire into the condition of his fellow-
subjects in Australia.
Seen at the house of Mr. Sun Johnson, Mr. Ling was
found dressed in a long flowing silk of a light purple
color, over which he wore a black figure gauze vest, lined
with light-blue satin. He wore the Government official
black boots, which are made of velvet, with centre and
side leather seams, and soles about lin. thick. On his
head was a silk cap of black gauze. On the top of the
cap was a vivid ornamented button, which gave a tone to
the entire outfit. Mr. Ling looks a gentleman.—S. M.
Herald.
For this is the way of the nations—the law that
their chosen know—
They must stammer and halt at an ugly word, and
smile on a friendly foe.
And this is the fashion of nations all, yellow and
black and white—
To quibble and question and bow and crawl till
the arm is ready to smite.
And whoso trusts to an open face shall learn ere
he. plays his part
That a smiling mouth is no fair guide to the
beating of the heart.
So we take your hand in the days of truce, and
grant you shelter and guide
Through the labyrinth of a nether world, to the
haunts where your people hide.
Hold close to your body your purple robes, and
harden your velvet-shod feet,
For the way is narrow and crooked and dark, and
strange' snares stand in the street ;
If the woe of a woman will harm your eyes, then
cover your buttoned head,
And grope your way, for at every step there is
woe in the track: ye shall tread.
We stand in the street where your people are that
herd in the hovelled hell,
And (uncover your eyes !) thro’ doors ajar, see the
white face ; mark each well! —
Slaves of the sword that your legions wield, soul-
lost and body-bound,
Outcasts driven from mart and field to the hell of
the lusting ground !
Yet how shall you know how your people thrive
who see with the eyes of the East ?
Go, ask of the slaves in the human hive that
fatten your people’s feast!
“Cheap” is the burthen of your creed, “Cheap”
is your people’s cry ;
Australia answers in her great need, “Hear are
the children that die l ”
Return to your people and speak them fair (Nay !
smother your gift of guile !)
And say you have breathed Australia’s air, and
lived in the light of her smile;
And wash from your eyes her glory of gold, nor
covet a guardless gem—
Go, tell them Australia is weak, yet bold, and not
for the sons of Shem.
For the East is old and her ways are rude, and
her vision is warped and strange;
She has slept so long in her solitude, her people
may never change;
But the Southern orb is but risen now at the ’hest
of a high com mand—-
Star of the Nations that grows and glows o’er a
newer, a white man’s land.
TAS.
C. LOUIS RANDALL.


a
Why Remain
DEAF? I
Having been naturally cured
from deafness and most dis-
tressing head noises without
anv medicine or electricity,
will send to all unfortunate
sufferers FREE, information
how to cure themselves at
their own homes with pure
natural aural ldnetics, on mentioning this taper.
Address: “ EAROSCOPL,” 90 Pitt St. Sydney.
25,000
More Signatures
required to monster petition to
Federal Parliament re One Parlia-
ment for all Australia Referendum. Who will
volunteer to get some ? Write AT ONCE for
petition forms tb
“ NATIONAL COMMITTEE,**
192 CASTLEREACH STREET, SYDNEY.
CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS.
DUTY
REMOVED.
Important Reduction in Price of Films.
New Shipments arriving Every Week from all
the Leading Makers.
We are the Largest Importers of above in
the Commonwealth.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Stock Mkh chants,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
it put up the money itself, and save
the £2OOO t Since then people have been bustling
round, and trying to get the concession extended,
so that they may have time to raise the necessary
money. In other words, Launceston proposes to
hand over the job of raising the money to
a syndicate, which won’t be able to raise it
on such good terms as the city could itself ,
for a start, even if the syndicate succeeds, Laun-
ceston will be expected to pay 5 per cent, interest,
whereas it could most likely raise the money 1
self for 4 per cent. Afterwards, if the town
grows, the syndicate will want as much more as it
can squeeze out of its customers if it can get
that much, it will want the same 28 per cent, that
the Melbourne Tramway Co. paid its shareholders
last year. In brief, the municipality that hands a
business of this sort over to a syndicate is a poor
sort of place which has made up its mind that it
will never grow and become a big city, but will
always be small, and mean, and miserable, and
will never be in a position to yield big profits on
an undertaking of this sort. Either it is that sort
of municipality, or it is an outrageous fool; for ot
course if it did have faith in itself and its future,
and wasn’t an outrageous fool, it wouldn t hand
the future over to any syndicate, but would keep
a hold upon that future for itself and its children.
The evidence in the Sunshine (Vic.) inquest was
almost concluded, and learned counsel were pre-
paring for their addresses, when the jury—that
jury that wasn’t thought to be necessary at first—
looked at the Sunshine “ signal book.” Then the
foreman began to put a few questions. He found
that a wrong signal—the 3-1 instead of the 1-5
had been given seven or eight times in the last
month. As it seemed to be a good deal like a
habit, further information was sought on the
point; wherefore next day the traffic inspector
was put in the box. He admitted that the book
was supposed to be checked weekly in his office
and errors in signalling reported to him, but that
none had been so reported ; that, from December
1, 1907, to April 20, 1908, the signal had been
given correctly 187 times, and incorrectly, it
seemed, 137 times; and that on every one of these
occasions the collision that actually occurred was
threatened—it all depended on the simultaneous
arrival of the two trains. Apparently, the de-
partment was ignorant of this risky state
of affairs, and would have continued so till
the Day of Judgment but for the investigating
habit of a juryman. It was an awful series of
admissions, for it practically meant that the com-
plete system of signalling trains, with its accom-
panying safeguards and checks, had broken down.
The department promptly suspended two porters
and a signal-book checker. What the public
wants just now, however, is not the punish-
ment of three overworked and underpaid
minor employees, but some sort of guarantee
that the “block signal system,” winch is supposed
to assure the safety of every train, hasn t utterly
broken down or is in course of breaking down.
The one insistent fact that hits the public is that
the Sunshine disaster of April 20th might have
just as easily happened on any one of 137 different
occasions since last November—and the depart-
ment knew nothing about the risk that was being
run ! Which isn’t a matter to be answered by
suspending two porters and a small clerk.
♦
“Old Soldier”: —
It isn’t exactly pleasant to learn that the German
papers are getting excited about a proposed visit of
British warships to the North of Europe. As the cable
puts it" “A section of German newspapers accuse the
British of desiring to practise landing manoeuvres in the
Baltic preparatory to attacking Germany in conjunction
with Russia and France.” If that is the result of the
recent visit of King Edward the Peacemaker to Russia,
and of the French President’s visit to England, the two .
potentates would have done a great deal better to hiive
stayed at home. It isn’t easy to persuade the steady-
0-oino* Germans that there can be smoke without fire, that
monarehs travel about visiting each other without
having something up their sleeves, and that international
understandings have no definite object beyond senti-
mental friendliness. Still less can they understand the
frantic zeal of the British Admiralty in pressing forward
manoeuvres at such a tremendous cost of life and material
as has been incurred lately in the Channel. To say the
least of it, these German papers can make out some sort
of case for their suspicions. But, anyhow, the mention
of “ landing manoeuvres ” suggests the idea that it might
l>e as well for Australia to practise “ repelling manoeu-
vres ” The Army has had quite a surfeit of high strategy,
lias'practised battle-tactics inland (where it is never
likely to be called upon to fight), and has reproduced the
Boer War in little ; but it has never been shown how to
repel a landing in force.
Rabbit-exterminator Danysz is not coming back
to Australia. This is the latest authentic infor-
mation from Paris. He now practically admits
that the problem of bunny’s eradication is a trifle
bigger than he anticipated when N.b.W. went
hurriedly to the expense of importing him and his
bottle eff Rough on Rabbits. When he was
coquetting for the job he gave all manner of assur-
ances, mostly plausible and sometimes non-com-
mittal, that the disease he proposed letting loose
was harmless to all bird and animal life bar
bunnv The N.S. W. Deform Ministry, anxious to
curry favor with Squatterdom, seemed inclined
to rush at the gate with both horns
until the Australian Government stepped m
and said a few things with considerable deter-
mination. The wisdom of its interference is
pretty patent now, for Danysz himself admits
from the eeelusion of Paris, that the disease might
have killed “ small birds.” This means probably
that it would have eventually attacked large mds
and large animals. After this, the crowd which
shrieked so much bad and threatening language
at the Australian Government may concede some
credit to W. Lyne and the affable Prime Minister,
who, in this matter, wasn t as affable as they
wanted him to be.
Britain begins to have big streaks of Protection
on its Ereetrade. Recently it passed an Act de-
claring that no foreign patent shall hold good in
England unless the patentee either manufactures
the patented article in England or arranges with
someone else to do so on fair terms. The result is
that distracted foreigners, threatened with the
loss of their patents, have already spent about
£**2s 000 000 in buildings and machinery for the
manufacture in England of goods previously im-
ported. The Australian Patent Bill contained
an exactly similar proviso, but certain foolish
persons had it struck out because it was “con-
trary to British precedent,” or something like
that. Now Britain supplies the precedent, a,nd
Australia should waste no time in following
the good example. There are scores of indus-
tries which can’t be started here because some
essential parts of the article to be manufactured
are covered by patents, and because the owners of
these patents will neither manufacture here them-
selves, nor allow anybody else to do so on reason-
able terms, or even on unreasonable terms. Almost
every civilised country has dealt with this diffi-
culty just as Britain has done, but somehow
Australia lags behind.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Thief.”
Theatre Royal “ The Prince of Pilsen.”
Criterion “ The Morals of Marcus.”
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Merry Widow.”
Bijou “East Lynne.”
Theatre Royal “ The Belle of Mayfair.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Princess’s “ Mrs. Wiggs, of the Cabbage
Patch.”
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
-S ■
By all the rules of the game “The Thief,”
played for the first time in Australia at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) on Saturday night, should be
a very doubtful popular success. One of the rules
of the game is that the heroine, though she may
sin, must be still more sinned against. Miss
Tittell Brune had a part like that in Leah
Kleschna. She was a burglar, certainly ; but then
she had an old Fagin of a father. Moreover, very
early in the proceedings she said “ I will not,” and
cut all that sort of thing, with Fagin in a rage and
herself in the black frock of contrition. The
Thief to whom Miss Anglin introduced Sydney
on Saturday night didn’t have the visible excuse
of a father who was in the business. Her
sole defence was that, for love of her hus-
band, she had robbed their hosts. Not
robbed them to help him out of a scrape
—the rules of the game will allow of that in
a heroine. She stole merely that, in order to
keep the love of her husband, she might frock
herself magnificently. Evidently she thinks her
husband’s love is a poor thing ; yet she professes
to adore him. And, though she confesses in the
second act, she allows another —-her best friend’s
son —to stand the racket for the crime until the
last moment. Right until the last five minutes,
though she tells some specious yarns,
she really comes out of the business
shockingly. She is the very incarna-
tion of selfishness and meanness;
and those are not the materials out
of which stage goddesses are made.
Perhaps, certainly, she isn’t intended
to be a heroine. In that case, how-
ever, by all the rules of the game, she
can’t be a great popular success—
anyway, a great favorite with the
womankind which bulks largest in
theatre audiences.
* * *
And Miss Anglin deserves to
be a success, and a very pronounced
one. Her work in the part is very
striking indeed. She is the most
“natural” leading lady J.C.W. has
imported for many a day. Pretty
well everybody in these parts knows
Mrs. Brough’s methods. Shut your
eyes during the first act, and you
could very easily believe that Mrs.
Brough was playing the part. When
Mr. Williamson chose old-friend Gr.
S. Titheradge to join Miss Anglin,
something of that resemblance must
have been in his mind ; for Mrs.
Brough and Titheradge were for so
long fellow-workers in the same de-
lightful school, where the harmony
was so complete. Subsequently there
are more dramatic moments, intensely
dramatic.some of them ; and then the
resemblance is mislaid. The “ atmos-
phere ” is so well preserved, however,
that when now and then, though
rarely, “The Thief” lapses into
melodrama, the thing flies up and hits you
at once. After having wrung from his
eleven-months bride the confession that she
has been robbing their hosts—Richard Voy-
sin’s old friend and employer he is too —
Yoysin suddenly wakes up to what appears
to be a more awful fact still. The young
19-year-old son of the host has confessed to
the crime—Confessed on her instigation. How
came she to have such power over him?' In his
new agony of jealousy he wants to rush out and
break things. And then there is a touch of the
crude melodrama. If he dares to leave the room,
she will throw herself over the cliff ; and she
rushes to the convenient bedroom window. That
sort of thing isn’t worthy of the rest of what in
general is a very clever little play—all the more
clever because the interest has to be sustained by
so few people, and, therefore, with few elaborate
complications. In the second act not a soul but
Richard Yoysin (Henry Kolker) and his wife
Marise, the very gradually-penitent thief, are on
the stage.
* * * *
Titheradge, who on Saturday night had
a welcome back that any actor might well
remember with pride all the days of his life —
Titheradge played with all his old art and brains.
He got his effects so quietly, so naturally. For
two hours and a half he was not Titheradge,
actor and daffodil-grower, but a loveable old
gentleman who had had thrust into him, inch by
inch as it were, the awful belief that his one and
most precious son was a thief. When the unsus-
pecting Yoysin steps forward to condole with him
on the instant when the belief is complete, you
feel that that is wrong—that so old a friend would
be silent as death itself in the presence of*grief so
great. Henry Kolker, the new man, with an
American nose, is most effective in the quiet,
earnest moments of Voysin. He is playful, how-
ever, with difficulty, and his little grunts
when in that mood are not beautiful. For
the rest, Titheradge, jun., as the young ass who
turns out such a brick, made a very favorable
first appearance; and Miss Vaughan did con-
scientious work as the wife of the tortured host.
Mention was made just now of how Voysin steps
forward to condole. Compare that with tne
silent eloquence of Madame Lagarde as the cur-
tain falls upon the father who has just been con-
vinced that his boy is a thief and other things -
falls upon a wife moving to his side without a
word, and putting an arm of love and comfort
upon his shoulder. Miss Vaughan does it ad-
mirably.
** * *
No deterioration is to be observed in
“The Morals of Marcus,” at Sydney Criteriqn.
A. S. Homewood, who is their custodian, wins
edified applause nightly for the unsmirched state
in which he preserves them. Rigid morality is
not a money-spinner, as a general thing (alas !
likewise alack !); but the brand that Marcus pur-
veys is, and it is going to continue so for another
ten days at the least.
** * *
The last days of “ The Prince of Pi'lsen ”
at Sydney Royal are brightened by the fact that
Miss Fan Dango has returned to the cast. A
serious illness kept the bright little lady off the
bill for some weeks. On Saturday week “The
Red Mill,” a Dutch musical play, will be staged
in place of “The Prince of Pilsen.” The princi-
pal thrill in it comes from the escape of the lovers
by springing on to one of the arms of a friendly
red mill and descending to earth and safety as it
sweeps downward.
*
Film of the Franco-British Exhibition
opening, at West’s Picture Show at the Palace, is
dragging in the public as a vast net catches the
mullet shoal. Faces of just-beknighted Carruthers
and of Agent-General Coghlan show up almost as
clearly as those of the Wales pair. The “White
City ” was opened in pelting rain, and the faithful
film has the rain in spears—millions of spears of
rain that looks just like Australian rain, and
splashes in the same way, and falls just as ours
does on people without umbrellas. It’s most
familiar-looking rain. That it is no respecter
of persons is proved by its falling on
the Princess of Wales, who has no umbrella,
and on her Consort’s shiny top hat. The
Dudleys are also in the picture ; and other
gorgeous persons are getting patriotically wet,
while some more are showing a hundred square
miles of massed wet umbrellas. Another attrac-
tion of West’s is the famous religious function
known as Corpus Christi, which takes place at
Manly every vear. Cardinal Moran allowed him"
self to be filmed ; in fact, the procession is all there
—all save the hymn that is sung on the occasion.
** * *
That charming brace of melody-makers,
Mr. and Mrs. Mallinson, begin their song recitals
at the Sydney Town Hall on Saturday night.
OLD FRIEND G. S. TITHERADGE.
Photo, by H. W. Barnett, London.
Mrs. Mallinson, a handsome blonde Dane, who as
Anna Steinliauer was a noted soprano in her own
country, interprets the song compositions of her
husband, Albert Mallinson. The composer him-
self is so well known by his works (melodious) and
deeds (musical) that if this Pen attempted intro-
ductions indignant subscribers would arise, and
write that next they would be told that imperial
Crnsar was dead and turned to clay.
* *
Mr. Nelson Illingworth introduced a
phenomenal boy soprano last week at a packed
invitation concert at the Y.M.O.A. Hall. Phe-
nomenon is a pupil of Mr. Illingworth, and by
name Joseph Flanagan. The youngster trilled
like a skylark and rouladed like a minor Melba,
and generally astonished and delighted his
hearers. Miss Bessie Beattie, Mr. W. J. Grieve,
and Mr. Illingworth helped to fill a good pro-
gramme.
* * *
If some misguided person were to charge
the present Sydney Tivoli programme with incit-
ing an audience to enthuse, it would be instantly
acquitted without a stain on its character. Of
the artists . now appearing there, the Deane
Tribune Trio, Rigoletto Brothers, Baby Watson,
Alberto and Fred Bluett do nearly all the enter-
taining—the rest of the company are just, present.
The Tivoli’s temperature—judging by its songs—
is steadily going up, and it has taken several turns
for the worse.
* * *
“The Tame Cat,” a Somewhat Colonial
Comedy in four acts, by Arthur H. Adams,
author of “Tapu,” will mew for the first time on
any stage at a matinee at the Criterion on Satur-
day, July 11. This comedy drama is the first
attempt at a play of the Pinero type, written by
an Australian, and first produced in Australia.
The work was well spoken of by the late Robert
Brough, and Herbert Flemming has said ditto to
that. It will be interpreted by the Sydney
“ Muffs,” with one of the strongest amateur casts
yet got together in Sydney. The leading lady is
Miss Beatrice Usher, who played with Miss Ola
Humphrey, and understudied that actress.
Herbert Fletcher takes the “ Titheradge ” part.
The name part will be assumed by the author;
and two of the chief character parts are taken
by Miss Elsie Prince (as “ the little grey moth )
and Leslie Casey as a quite exceptional valet,
Pobble. The chief comedy part, that of the
Marchioness of Calmseas, will be in the hands ot
Miss Katharine Brook. The play is being pro-
duced by Stanley McKay; Miss Rawson, Lady
Poore and the Mayoral Hughes couple are ex-
pected to be there ; and the charity to benefi tis
St. Martha’s Industrial Home, Leichhardt. Ihe
staging will be provided by Herbert Flemming.
** * *
Before the Royal Artillery Band, from
Neweastle-on-Tyne, started to blow its way up
North from Sydney this week, somebody hatched
a good idea. The band’s programme includes a
tinal blast in Sydney two days before the Ameri-
can Fleet arrives; and the previously mentioned
good idea is to hang on to the trombone and the
big drum and bandmaster Smith and all the rest
for a week or 10 days. There will be plenty of
noise of assorted kinds while Uncle Sam is here-
abouts, but there will only be one crack military
band in these latitudes ; and it seems a waste of
good opportunity to let that particular band
sail out of Sydney Harbor for Maoriland 48
hours or so before the fleet sails in.
Sydney bandsmen are pushing on the idea,
and country bandsmen are writing down to
urge them to keep pushing. For a week or 10
days the Government could buy the band, and all
the noise it could make, for a matter of £7OO or so ;
and, though it would be required to produce much
melody for the public to hear gratis, it could be
turned on to one or two special affairs in Sydney
Cricket Ground or elsewhere, to recoup the bulk
of the outlay. Anyway, if possible, the band ought
to be kept here for the big spree.
** m *
A show that merits more patronage than
most is the Ball (with gallery attractions) which
Mrs. J. C. Williamson is organising at Sydney
Town Hall on the 29th of this month. It is in aid
of the local Hospice for the Dying, where needy
patients, whose cases are too hopeless even for the
hospitals, are taken in and looked after free of
charge till the end. Tickets are 6s. each, and
may be obtained from the Hospice authorities, or
from Mrs. Williamson.
*
At Melbourne Princess’s, “ Mrs. Wiggs of
the Cabbage Patch” made a furore on Saturday
night. The American co., with two popular ex-
ceptions—George Bryant and Miss Reitfarth—are
new to us. So is the environment of the play,
the cadences of its poetry, the point of its kitchen-
fire philosophy, and its strenuous presentment of
the commonplace and the unavoidable in a new
form. To dissociate the play and the players,
and mark where personalities cease to captivate
and the playwright’s art begins, is difficult. The
show achieves a fine degree of unity. Probably
the book of Alice Hegan Rice was poor
literature ; but it makes unique drama.
Its sentimentalism is of so casual a sort
its heroes and heroines such pitiable, contemptible,
kind, foolish creatures that one is tempted to
appreciate it as a satire. Human nature is an
ugly waif which nobody can clothe into beauty.
The Cabbage Patch dwellers are fearsomely faith-
ful to their kind. Truth has no right to flaunt in
nakedness, though, as Alice H. Rice permits it;
it should hide itself in a mantle of aphorisms, or
an apron made of epigrams, when it goes Godiva-
inrr before a world seeking delusions and distrac-
tions. In Mrs. Wiggs it does neither. At best
it wears a switch of false hair on its baldish head,
or a bow upon its buzzom.
* * * *
Mrs. Wiggs is a slum-dweller in Louis-
ville, Kentucky, where she struggles with her
family of four. An adolescent son stands in the
place'of her husband, who “went west ”in earlier
days. Coming home one evening, the boy finds
“Lovey Mary” looking for a night’s lodging.
Mary lias decamped from a neighboring asylum
where overlooked children wear check uniforms
and infinite miseries upon their frail shoulders.
She has with her the reason —a small boy whc
has been her charge since he was flung into the
institution by a casual mother, and who now has
been claimed by its father. Mrs. Wiggs takes
the orphans in. The pursuing father happens
upon the house, and is deceived suc-
cessfully by Lovey Mary. He is the
husband of Mrs. Wiggs, and Mary’s idol is the
result of his association with a circus rider,
recently defunct. Wiggs passes unknowingly
through his wife’s house, to continue his search
for the love-child which she is harboring. At
length Wiggs returns to confess and be forgiven,
and become established as the father of five.
That’s one story—the Other is Miss Hazy’s. Miss
Hazy is so much of a spinster that her figure has
moved round, and her character become a petulant
falsetto. Under the tutelage of sensible Mrs.
Wiggs, she has paid one dollar to an agency
and secured a husband—one Stubbins, a pensioner
who fought in the commissariat, on both sides,
in the Slave War. His name is Hiram, and he is
seduced to the point of marriage by the pies Mrs.
Wiggs makes and Miss Hazy pretends to. When
Stubbins has suffered the cooking of which his
deceptive missus is really capable, he takes to
drink and betrays Lovey Mary’s whereabouts to
Mr. Wiggs. Later, Mrs. Wiggs captures him in
his cups, and deports him from the Patch on a
freight-car, provisioning him with some of the
famous pies. Those same pies draw him back
eventually to his Hazy and duty, and everyone is
happy and husbanded.
Stubbins is the villain of the piece a
lumbering fool whose stomach is his evil genius.
Wiggs is the average animal man. Mrs. Wiggs
is an exposition of the power of character. She is
an epic in her way—large in her tenement-bound
life heroic in her motherhood, a fool in hei
womanliness, a cheat in her subtlety, a poetess in
her disorderly alley-fashion, an angel in hei
matter-of-fact way, an animal in her basic
instincts. Take from her all her raciness of
phrase, and her theatric emphasis of intonation,
and she is just woman, and adorable—an invitation
to the sex to be natural. For the rest there
is local color. Jennie Reiffarth is a fat
old Dutch woman ; Helene Raymond plays
Mrs. Eicliorn, the acrid-thoughted, saw-voiced
virago of tlie settlement. And there are
the futile old men who, left to the mercy ot
their senility, are afflicted by the vices of the sexes
on either side of them ; also snuffy little girls and
smudgy little boys who are as like the real things,
as the real things are.
* * *
As Mrs. Wiggs, Miss Ada Dwyer shows a
genius of naturalness. Her dignity, her subtle


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how —write for full particulars
to-day —free. We have everything for the show-
man. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
Ltd., Cinematograph Specialists and Electricians,
393 George Street, Sydney.*
art, her deep, quiet pathos and slow bubbling
humor combine to make the most impressive
piece of female acting this writer has seen
for more than a while. Miss Raymond and
Miss Lowell (as Miss Hazy) and the termagant
are supreme in their spontaneous-seeming comedy.
Miss Lowell never sheds her characteristic de-
meanor, nor a detail of her mannerisms. She is a
delight. Miss Reiffarth, of course, is artistic.
The men are beneath the ladies’ level. But the
Stubbins of John F. Webber is a noble piece of
low comedy. Drunk and sober, he is inoffensive,
yet funny, which is a fine record for any man.
George Bryant, as Wiggs, is sombrely impressive.
And Lottie Almr, as Mary, is a most appealing
and admirable ingenue. Argyle Campbell and
Eugene Shakespeare complete a remarkably even
cast. ' •
* $ -* *
The chief point about “The Heart of a
Hero,” which appeared at; Melbourne Bijou last
Saturday night, is its titanic imagination. Most
Other things the author has ignored. Sense and
relevance are abandoned quite early in the piece.;
the incidental pathos and sentiment are simply
maddening; while the humor is as purpose-
less as humor can be. The first act
introduces Mrs. Ryder and daughter May.
One learns that May has been pursued by no less
than three, but has centred her young affections
in one—Collison, a fastidious-looking youth with
an exquisite bleat. The other two are Mark and
Wilfred Marie, brothers—and (note the innova-
tion) both as bad as the eggs of yester-week.
Mark is the lord of Linton Hal], and has a past
(like Wilfred’s) inclining to the perpendicular.
Mark has already deserted a lady, much to the
grief of her parents (who died on account of the
sudden disrepute) and of her brother, Jem Res-
dale, henceforth a wanderer seeking his fallen
relative and her betrayer. Jem, reciting his life-
story to the world, observes Mark among the
bystanders. Some futile argumeht, but no vio-
lence, follows. Meanwhile, Wilfred has not been
inactive. He has helped himself to a miser’s
secret hoard ; has compromised May’s young man
in connection with another man’s signature ; and
has cast not a few leers at the girleen herself.
Wilfred, always occupied, meets the miser, and,
of course, knocks him out with a hunting crop,
and secretes the body in the ruins of an abbey.
Thereupon happens Mark’s earlier flame, garbed
in the half-mourning of maidens in an equivocal
position. Wilfred fastens on to her leech-like,
and tells her things about Mark which make her
so jealous that she shoots Mark, the tragedy being
witnessed by Jem, who at that moment recognises
his own sister. May, being found alone with the
corpse, is apprehended and gaoled. A Hibernian
person is incarcerated next door. Naturally, he
carries a revolver, so he gags and binds his
gaoler, prances giddily into the next cell, and
assists May to escape. She is, however,
recaptured ; and her condition excites Jem to
such commiseration that he displays the “heart
of a hero ” by declaring himself the murderer.
He is also arrested, also escapes, and returns to
discover Wilfred luring May to her ruin. In the
last act she is found robed in spiritless grey, and
tied to a post, seemingly in a dungeon upon the
floor of which the long-lost miser, not dead, but
alive and clawing, at a heap of straw, expresses
himself with canine howls. The scene which
follows is simply incredible. Wilfred, becoming
exuberant, pounces in with a whip and gives the
miser abiding. Thereupon, being called “Coward !”
by the vision in grey, he bares her pure, white
bosom and drives his dagger in for an inch
or two. Happily, however, he is captured at his
fell work—and while a detective and a crowd of
nondescripts were unravelling the intricacies of the
astounding yarn, the writer left, stunned with
the daring of Lingford Carson, melodramatist.
*** * .
Of Wilfred Marie (Jefferson Taite) let it
be said that only the eminent Lucifer himself
could do justice to his malignance. Therefore
J. Taite is excused, and shall be remembered
solely for his brilliantly sceptical grin. As Jem
Resdale, Ernest Leicester is cheerful and robust,
though he gets sometimes very near the bathetic.
Other males of fair to mediocre quality are J. P.
O’Neill, John Hesford and Stewart Garner. The
ladies are not so satisfactory. Miss Helen Fergus
gives the best interpretation, in Mrs. Ryder;
while Miss Ethel Buckley plays daughter
May with more assurance than anything else.
Miss Nellie Ferguson, as the errant Resdale lady,
is undistinguished. Next Saturday night she will
appear as Lady Isabel in “East Lynne.” Yes,
once more !
** * #
“ The Merry Widow ” continues her fas-
cination at Melbourne Her Majesty’s, though
there are persons who aver that better acqua.nt-
ance spells disillusionment. Of all the riches that
are spread, “Maxims,” as warbled by Andrew
Higginson, seems the most popular melody. Still
“Yilia,” “The Cavalier,” and “ A Dutiful
Wife” have their many adorers. Of the mimes,
Baron Popoff is the most envied. When the
Baroness is safely in bed, he can creep down to,
Maxim’s and jettison much of his respectability
without fear of its loss being discovered.
** * *
“The Belle of Mayfair,” at Melbourne
Royal, is tinkling out her tunes to a succession of
huge audiences. The company and the show
begin to know each other better, wherefore the
evening ends earlier and passes more gaily than
on the opening night. Comedian Brett continues
the chief offender against an artistic ideal. But,
anyhow, that’s the first principle of “comic re-
lief” ; so he mustn’t be censured. Cromwell and
the blithe Bottomley boy both do good deeds.
Cromwell’s lengthy monologue on marriage (which
is middle-age even when one is only 18) is a large
success. It is as insolent in its offensive truth
as a sermon by Bernard Shaw. Miss Lincoln
sings like a prima donna for ten minutes, and
looks like a beauty actress for the other hours;
which is an endearing achievement.
Sinclair pronounces words of one syllable even
with a complexity of intonation that is absolutely
Chinese—that wonderful Chinese, in which one
can say “Thank you ! ” or cast reflections upon
one’s wife’s mother merely by swinging the same
word at a different angle. The chorus work all
round is uniquely good. But the orchestra has
the vices of an opposition German band, and
blares both solos and ensembles into the realm of
supposition. The “Belle” will continue till
further notice, and the number in which early
Victorian angels exhibit their under-frills will
continue to earn the loudest laugh on record. Just
as a woman’s frocks are the romance of her, her
underlinen is the fundamental basis of the truly
popular joke—particularly when it’s frilled.
T. J. West, determined upon interlarding
his picture show with an occasional juvenile thrill,
is at present responsible for “Tracked by a Red-
skin ” at Melbourne Olympia. But the element
of instruction is maintained as heretofore, “Fish-
Preserving in Astrachan ” giving details of an
interesting industry which Australia may have
some day before long.
** * *
The Opera House is being supported by
the sketch wherein the married Meymotts act
with cheerful realism. Otherwise the theatre is
subsiding into unequivocal tediousness. The
humor of Austin Rudd is like an aldermanic
dinner—-oily, indigestible, strong-flavored, and
old while his dancing is like unto the demolition
of a double-fronted villa, in its noisiness and lack
of beauty. Fanny Powers imitates the vulgarities
of the serios of yester-year, and the previous year,
and the year before; Charles Mildare whistles ;
and the four Rosebuds cast brawny limbs above
their full-blown heads, and sing in voices which
bear the canker of a twang.
** H *
There are various noises in the distance.
The Cherniavskißrothers (Leo, Jan and Misehel),
Russian instrumentalists, are coming, after jour-
neying through Europe with great success, and
scoring a triumph in London. The eldest of the
three is only 16, the youngest is 11. Melbourne
will be visited in August, when a series of con-
certs will be given in the Town Hall. Popular
baritone A. C. Bottoms, who- is leaving for Eng-
land within a few weeks, will give a farewell con-
cert in Melbourne Masonic Hall on Tuesday, July
7th. Miss Edith Fowler (Tasmania), Miss Mercy
Flitton, H. C. Smith, and Louis Hattenbach will
help. And, finally, the Melbourne Chamber Con-
certs, which were established 26 years ago by the
late Mr. T. PI. G-uennett, will be resumed on
Wednesday, July Bth, by Mrs. Christesen,
Messrs. F. O. Schieblich, Gr. Weston, and H.
Schraeder, assisted by Miss' Una Bourne and
Louis Hattenbach. The first concert will in-
clude Schubert’s quartet in G- Major.
*- * -:u *
Adelaide has done its duty by “Peter
Pan ” for a fortnight. A second careful view of
the piece emphasises the essential thinness of the
fabric, and the weird ingenuity of the stage
management. As for the playing of the hero,
well—than Miss Brune (and the same may well
apply to Pauline Chase and Maude Adams, and
all the other Peter Pans of civilisation) no heroine
could be sweeter; but Peter was a Boy, and she isn’t
Peter ! This does not at all worry the children,
who form the backbone of the crowded houses.
A child can accept the buxom principal-
boy of pantomime as a realistic prince, and
Miss Brune really is boy-ish (people lately from
London say she is the best Peter they have seen,
anyway). A curious feature of this piece is that
it inspires long arguments. For instance, to the
present writer a real blot On the play is that
purple patch which others rave over, the Emer-
sonian outburst: “I am the spirit of. eternal
youth, flowers springing, birds singing,” and so
on, all very self-conscious and transcendental,
and quite outside the picture of a small boy who,
five seconds later, is kicking a large - over-
board. The acting is too good all-round to par-
ticularise ; but Rosie Fitzgerald is a young person
that Australia is going to be specially proud of.
The Theatre Royal has now fallen out of the
clouds, and “ The Squatter’s Daughter ” is back
for another short season. This play shears sheep’s
wool instead or cutting lions’ tails off, and prefers
bushranging to piracy, and there isn’t a fairy or a
crocodile anywhere about it.
A Kingston Memorial.
A FUND has been established to provide a
memorial to C. C. Kingston, the great Aus-
tralian who lately -wore himself out in the service
of his country. Subscriptions (from Is. up to an
unlimited number of pounds) will be received by
the Advertiser, Adelaide, or by The Bulletin.
——- ♦ ...
N.S.W., which has ,piled up such a huge
debit for railways, was the first British oversea state
to attempt, to build them out of its own resources.
James Simmons was first on the shareholders’ list
and Robert Lowe was second. Lowe promised to
brag all over the Empire of N. S. Wales’ pluck and
self-reliance, but be lost a lot of money in the
venture, and he didn’t brag. Charlie Cowper,- the
Slippery One, left politics to become manager of
the company, and was the only man who made
cash out of the venture. When the co. failed,
Slippery Cowper slipped back to politics and be-
came Premier.
The gentleman who has been hanging on
to land round about Sydney, in the expectation
that some day neighbors will build and make his
little lot valuable, is getting desperate, now
that a municipal land-tax has arrived. One estate
is advertising that it will give the possession and
use of land free to builders. When a sale has
been made the land will have to be paid for, but
at a very low price. The estate wants, of course,
to dodge the land-tax on at-present unoccupied
blocks. Also, tired of waiting for somebody else
to build on neighboring land, it is driven to
almost give away some of its own land, so as to
create a demand for the balance. It all shows
that the land-tax is doing just what its friends
said it would, viz., forcing land into use.
“D.J.,” about a site :
There is no question as to the desirability of the Tra-
falgar Square site for the Commonwealth offices, which a
wire from Melbourne (23/6/’08) represents, the Deakin
Government to be bidding for. The Square itself has
been defined with some justice as “ the finest site in
Europe.” From a business point of view the Northum-
berland Avenue corner —which is the place the Federal
Government wants—is incomparably the best. It faces
and splits up the mighty stream of traffic going East
from the West End of London. One huge section
pours to the left' along the Strand; the other to
the right down Northumberland Avenue, and so to the
City via the Embankment. With the Commonwealth
offices, so placed- 50,000 Britishers, or thereabouts, a day
would have Australia’s existence and importance im-
pressed on them—no mean advantage from an advertising
standpoint. In W. Lyons, who owns the coveted site,
the Australian Government will likely find a hard bar-
gainer. He is one of the keenest Jew business men in
Bull land. He built up Salmon and Gluckstein’s, whose
retail tobacco-shops, w’ifh their plate-glass legend, “ 25
per cent, cheaper than anywhere else,” are now studded
all over London and the provinces. (He adopted the
simple, effective old device of under-selling all
the neighboring establishments till they retired in
a burst state.) Turning his attention to catering, he
made a mamnmth success of the Trocadero—a restaurant
where the merely moderately-moneyed London youth
may get a gorgeous-looking meal amid a profusion of ex-
pensive-looking appurtenances for,a paltry sum. He has
even wrested large piles of cash out of the drama. The
price asked for the site (£200,000), considering where it is,
and who is asking, appears very reasonable.
The thoughtful smile at Tommy Bent’s
title; but although he has not achieved the
D.C.L. brand of the Intellectual, the D.C.L.
brand of whisky has, doubtless, often helped him
to sensible decisions when his natural inclinations
might have led him to foolish ones. And the
man who can take counsel from the brand of
wisdom must sometimes be capable of wise acts.*
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Star” : I notice in Australia, particularly at perform-
ances of musical comedies and the like, a growing inti-
macy between stage and audience that is destructive
of ail theatrical illusions, and should be put down by-
wise heads with a firm foot. The familiarity with the front
stalls exhibited by performers drags them right out of their
dramatic environment, and the close acquaintance of the
front stalls with the characters behind the lights is the
familiarity that breeds contempt in the rest of the audi-
ence. At one theatre this condition ofthingsisan absolute
nuisance to the bulk of the patrons, who hate to have the
intimacy of stalls and stage continually thrust upon
them. The plain persons go to see a play, and for the
most part see byplay, with intervals when half the people
in the orchestra-chairs rush “behind,” with a flutter of
draperies and a gabble of tongues intended to invite
public attention to their enviable close acquaintanceship
with the arts. Managers who permit this lack the sense
to see that half the attraction of the stage arises from
those illusions which are shattered by such philandering,
and this lack of sense must lead to a plentiful lack of
cents later on.
“Vulcan” : Beatrice Miranda’s recently-cabled engage-
ment by 7 the Carl Rosa Opera Co. makes the second Aus-
tralian “star” in the combination. Hilda Mulligan, of
Manly (N.S.W.), has been singing first contralto parts for
some time past. It is becoming as difficult for the Ma
Land, to keep the successful Australian voice out of its
ear these days as it is to keep the work of the successful
Australasian artist out of its eye—2l of these artists, by 7
the way, are represented in this year’s Royal Academy
show alone.
“D”: Maxim’s, whereof the counterfeit presentment is
being shown to Melbournites nightly just now, was sold to
a company for £104,000 last month. London Daily Chron-
icle brought all the force of its heavy ammunition to bear
on the scheme when it was first mooted (the original idea
of the owners was to float the concern in London), but the
sale wasn’t spoiled, apparently. The shocked fa shion in
which the Ohroniclk denounced the aw-ful orgies which
raged in Maxim’s probably did the cause of the
promoters more service than any amount of praise could
have done ; for the British investor knows that in Paris-
by-nignt virtuous propriety 7 doesn’t pay. As a fact, how -
ever, Maxim’s is by no means the hair-raising spot it has
been depicted. Up to the small hours of the morning, it
is just an ordinary bar-lounge eating-place, where well-
to-do men about town and frail females congregate with-
out undue riot. The cooking is good, so are the drinks ;
and half the establishment’s patrons visit it, not that they
may be badly shocked, but that they may be well-fed.
After supper, ladies dance among the tables. A space is
cleared for the purpose—an easy matter, since
most of the supperers sit at tables near the walls. A
degenerate youth or so, in Quartier Latin evening dress,
joins in the revels. When 1 last saw this youth he was
dancing the Maxixe. Doubtless he has another step now 7;
but whatever it is it will be shocking, as that is what the
young man is paid by the management to be. But at
Maxim’s he is never more than moderately 7 shocking.
The guide to Paris who wants to show 7 his friend the
genuine goods in this line takes him by the hand and
leads him in the direction of Montmartre, w’here at the
“ Rat Mort” and kindred institutions he is enabled to see
what the Parisian can really do in the shocking line when
he and she try in concert.
“E.O’F.”: One of the saddest things about the
variety stage—and there are many sad things both off
and on—is that the “artist” has to stick to it for life. I
know of no more depressing sight than a woman of
mellow age prancing heavily on a public platform with
her daughter, and shouting inane remarks in time to the
music. After many years' experience of music halls, I
am seriously thinking of starting a fund for the Restora-
tion of Grandmothers to the Fireside. No hearth can be
considered complete without a white-capped grandmother
sitting by it knitting woollen comforters for the heathen,
and no woman over 50 should be expected to earn her crust
with comic songs and by rattling her feet on the stage.
Moreover, the nation that permits such an injustice to
continue is slipping rapidly into History’s dustbin. It
will be a fearful thing if the small boy of two thousand
years hence has to read out in a small, shrill voice—“ The
de-cline of, the Aus-tra-lian peo-ple dated from the time
when they be-gan to tol-er-ate their grandmothers as
ser-io-com-ics.”
“ Star ” : A recollection. “ Othello ” was the play ; the
old Melbourne Opera House was the theatre ; George
Miln was the Moor. The tragedy was somewhat pro-
tracted through an obvious difference of opinion betw 7 een
the tragedian and his tiny wife, w 7 ho was playing Desde-
mona—in a way. The death-hed scene w-as linked agony
long drawn out, and when Othello let off one of his
fiercer blasts before applying the pillow cure, a disgusted
plebeian in the gallery howled : “ Oh, Well, ferGord’ssake
fight it out when you go home, and get on with the
dashed play ! ”
“F.A.R.”: Ellen Terry has much to say in her auto-
biography of the superstitions of mummers and their
premonitions. They are almost as bad as gamblers. Poor
old Sallie Booth, the “Alvina Starlight” of “ What Hap-
pened to Jones,” in Charles Arnold’s co., was very much
afraid of the supernatural, though she laughed it off.
Recollect sitting with her at “The Waverley,” in Mel-
bourne, just before she went to Sydney. Something-
cropped up about Spiritualism, and she avowed her belief
that spirits could come back on the prowl. At last, “I’ll
prove it some day,”she said. “I’m an old woman, and
it won’t be long before I turn up the profession and life
generally. When I do, I’ll come and give you particu-
lars.” Three weeks later she died in Sydney. The
plague got both her and Ada Lee. I could tell a queer
tale of the fulfilment of her prophecy 7, but I would only’
be called a liar. Talking about Sallie Booth reminds me
of her inveterate cigarette smoking. A tray of cigarettes
always stood on her table for visitors, and she’d always
join them. “My nerves are gone,” she used to say ;
“ and it’s got to be these or whisky 7 , and too many of us
choose the whisky’. So I stick to the cigarettes.”
From Paris comes news of a proposal to provide
theatres on the long-distance express trains in France.
The idea is sneered at by many, but the same scoff
occurred when dining and sleeping cars were first
suggested, A wealthy 7 theatrical syndicate is behind the
proposal. The cars already designed are to seat 50
persons, and will have a small stage at one end. The
performances will be continuous, and it will be possible to
book a seat for any’ particular hour. There doesn’t seem
to be much left that a person can’t do on a modern
railway train. He can get born, send telegrams, transact
business, get married, dine, and die. Now he will be able
to go to the theatre as well, and then about the only
thing that won’t be supplied on the train will be fly ing
burial.
Wangaratta, a pleasant tree-planted little town on
Victoria’s N.E. railway 7 line, is greedy for distinction as a
rural centre of Art. Though the enthusiasts are only 7
half a handful, they have lately managed to lure
Paderewski, Dolores, and Melba their way. Melba asked
and got £3OO for her visit. The receipts about covered
expenses, but Wangaratta’s troubles whether they did
or not! What it is most concerned about is getting its
name into the Art papers. Melba was very’ friendly.
She distributed autograph photos of herself lavishly 7.
She called Mrs. Publican aside and said that the fried
fritters were lovely, and kissed little Miss Publican on the
brow—possibly because she didn’t sing to the diva. But
she wouldn’t go to the local library museum to see the
dead cat, said to have been stroked by one of the Pharaohs,
that Tommy Norcutt (32 y’ears secretary to the Institute)
worships devoutly 7. Some Wangaratta voyageur secured
this feline mummy in Cairo, and a new library worthy of
the treasure is now 7 being built.
“The Prooshan”: For cool, unadulterated cheek give
me the Bustling Billy that strikes little sick towns with
a eotnbination of himself and his missus, w’ho contortions
badly 7 on a wooden chair. Some time ago one of these
struck Adelong (N.S.W.), and sought the bandmaster
about noon, and spoke thus: “See, boss, it’s this way 7—
I’m a bit down on me luck. I couldn’t fetch me ’ole
show’ along, and I’m givin’ a bit of a show at the ’all to-
night. Can you and the boys chune a bit in the street
and get us a ’ouse—a bit of a ’ouse ? I don’t suppose this
’ere ’ole could find a ’ouse for Missus bloomin’ Melber ;
but will yer come along an’ ’elp a fellow artist? ” The
B.M. said his band was in Gundagai, but he’d get a man
to beat the drum, and he’d fetch along his cornet and see
what he could do. “It w 7 on’t cost you anything, old
man, anyway,” said the man of music. “And, it might
give you' a few pounds.” He kept his w 7 ord, and never
corneted better, while the drummer plugged as if he were
a Salvationist. The result was a £5 house. A week
later Bustling Billy struck the Wagga bandmaster, who
happened to be a brother of the Adelong artist: “Now,
look ’ere , boss, I’m givin’ a show to-night, and I engages
your band, but see it is a band, not the top and bottom
of a band like I got at blanky Adelong.”
Fred Graham and Nelly Dent have left Maoriland for
London to try 7 their quaint and artistic little sketches on
the Fog. Judging by 7 the sketches that Rickards has im-
ported, the Fog is going to learn something.
“G.D.M.”: Just enough room, please, to pin to the
masthead, or some other old place, “O.K.’s” attack
(B. 25/6/’08) on Ada Crosslev. It is merely untrue to say
“Our Ada” enjoys a waning popularity. She is justly
regarded as the leading contralto singer in Britain, and
her continuous engagements at all the leading musical
festivals and for all the principal grand concerts in
London prove her to be in the very 7 first rank of singers.
I heard her at a Patti concert, early 7 this year ; and if she
“ had no voice to speak of,” Adelina Patti would not per-
sonally have asked Madame Crossley to sing for her.
“ Vulcan ” : Small wonder J. Bull takes his pleasures
glumly ! Here are some prices for a Covent Garden “ gala”
night,When Edw'ard Rex was present w'ith the French
President: Grand and pit tier boxes, 40 guineas each ;
first tier boxes, 30 guineas each ; second tier boxes, 15
guineas ; orchestra stalls, seven guineas each ; balcony 7
stalls, four guineas each ; amphitheatre stalls, first and
second rows, tw 7 o guineas each ; third and fourth row's,
one and a half guineas each ; and the fifth, sixth and
seventh rows, one guinea each. The gallery w 7 as unreserved
at 10s. a seat—you just paid 10s. and broke your neck.
But, as somebody said, it isn’t so much the music as the
chance of showing your jewels that’s worth the money 7.
“ Star ”: Dot Bouoicault, the stage manager, is making
heaps of money at the expense of Dot Boucicault, the
artist. Titheradge says he is easily the best producer of
plays in London, and has a standing engagement with
Prohman, but with liberty to stage plays for other man-
agers. He is so hard at it all the days of the year that
Titheradge found him as difficult to approach as if he
were a Czar expecting every caller to have a bomb in his
hat. Boucicault should be acting-manager of a national
theatre somewhere.
“ Hiphen ” : In one of New York’s leading vaudeville
theatres, Wednesday evening of each week is given up to
amateur performances. All people, male or female, old
or young, ugly or, pretty, are at liberty to proffer their
servieesrand do a turn. If the turn goes well with the
audience it usually means an engagement for the per-
former at one of New York’s minor halls. If, however,
the performer fails to win the approval of the crowd, his
(or her) career is quickly cut short. As a man the gallery
rises and cries : “ Git the ’ook 1 Git the ’ook ! ” Imme-
diately an enormous hook on a 10ft. pole emerges from
the wings, and hauls the unfortunate performer ignomini-
ouslyby arm, leg, or neck, into oblivion. j
“j. A. C.” : Robert Wood, the young artist recently
acquitted of the Camden Town (London) murder charge,
having been offered several engagements, made a few ap-
pearances in one or two Loudon music halls as a lightning-
sketcher. These engagements were soon cancelled “ owii g
to many expressions of public feeling,” and the protest
of a strong combination of vaudeville performers, rejoic-
ing in the unsavory’name of the “Water Rats,” who
urged that the “discontinuance of such an engagement
was advisable in the interests of the profession generally.'’
By all means ; keep unsullied the pure, elevating variety-
stage ! Had Wood been engaged solely’ to pander to
vulgar curiosity, then “public feeling” and the “ Water
Rats*’ would have undoubtedly’ been right; but Wood is
an adroit and rapid sketcher, who entered the music-hall
business with profit to himself and amusement to the
public. A jury had unanimously acquitted Wood, and
he left the court with as clear a character as any of the
virtuous people who were heaving moral bricks at him.
Like the Balaclava heroes, he had suffered because some-
one had blundered, and because he had suffered “ public
feeling” threw bricks at him, and the “Noncom-Grundy
conscience ” threw mud.
A splendid work of art is “ Beale Austra-
lian Pianos,” a catalogue in three colors of the
instruments Beale and Co. manufacture. The
pianos are Australian, and they are first class :
the printing of this catalogue is Australian and it
is first class too.
THE LEGEND OF SIR THOMAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Thomas Bent, Premier of Victoria, to be K.C.M.G.
—Neivs item.
Sir Thomas is the Singing- Knight;
A harp upon his shield hath he,
And you may hear him when the light
Hath faded on the lea.
Sir Thomas is the King of Song-,
His monarch’s chosen minstrel he,
And all the songs he sing-s belong-
Unto antiquitee.
Long years ago—so runs the tale
I learnt beside my mother’s knee—
He grew 7 the lilies of the vale
Beside the sad, sad sea.
And ever as he walked among
The blooms he carolled merrilee,
And to the gentle breeze he flung
His ancient minstrelsy.
Long years the gentle youth abode
With his pale lilies by 7 the sea,
Till the King heard him as he rode.
“ My halidom ! ” cried he ;
“Go fetch me straight this minstrel sweet !
Go fetch him straight and true to me !
He shall have gold if he repeat
His gallant minstrelsy !”
Then leaped Sir Mordred from his steed
And fell upon his bended knee.
“ I do but live to serve thy need,
I’ll fetch him straight,” said he.
Sir Mordred takes his trusty sword
And bravely strides across the lea
Where, ’midst the lily-studded sward,
Rings out the minstrelsy.
Anon Sir Mordred, full of joy,
Comes proudly back across the lea
Leading a shy 7 and gentle boy.
“ Thy minstrel, sire,” says he.
Then looks the King upon the lad ;
And “ Prithee, gentle boy 7,” says he,
“ Canst charm a king, with humors bad,
With thy gay minstrelsy?”
And not a word does Thomas say,
But pipes him up right merrilee ;
And loud the monarch laughs that day—
Both long and loud laughs he.
The minstrel all his song outpours
Till he stands silent on the lea ;
Then from its sheath his monarch draws
His sword. “ Now kneel,” says he.
Alack ! Aday ! The lily dies
And withers by the w’inter sea,
While in the Lighted Court he plies
His knightly minstrelsy.
N.S.W.
KODAK.
THE SOUBRETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See on the stage the fabled fairy prance,
The heroine of many’ a song and dance ;
And flash young fools who ogle sigh to think
Of all the quarts of champagne she must drink
At gilded suppers (dreaming dreams of stout
And oysters, which they fain would shout),
Of midnight cabs, and surreptitious loves,
Of motor-cars, and—which man buys her gloves?
The show is over, homeward see her trudge,
An hour a fairy, all the rest a drudge ....
Her loafing husband lifts his tousled head,
Snarls, wakes the kids .... the soubrette goes to bed.
K-S . w .
C. S. GILMOUR.


SALE TIME AND
MEN’S TUNIC SHIRTS.
BE AN OPPORTUNIST AND SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY
Men’s Tunic Shirts, made of Soft Zephyr, with a
centre pleat, stiff cuffs, in effective Stripe Designs
in Blue, Heliotrope, Pink and Fawns, in all sizes.
When ordering send size of collar. They make com-
fortable and good Shirts for both City and Country
wear.
They are only one of the many lines that are re-
duced throughout our house during Sale Time..
USUAL PRICE, 5/0,
SALE PRICE, 4/9,
and 5 % Discount for Cash.
All goods, excepting only Furniture and Floor
Covering, are: sent Carriage Paid throughout the
Commonwealth.
David Jones Ltd.* Sydney.
The owner scratched the favorite horse,
The punter scratched his head,
And gazed distracted to the course ;
Then to his friends he said :
“ This punting may allure, but not
As other things allure,
And I would sooner put my lot
On Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,”*
Society
Over the foundering of the steamer Bega
on the N.S.W. South Coast everybody was nicely
whitewashed, and the Court settled down com-
fortably to the theory that the vessel wasn t either
overloaded or improperly loaded, and must have
run into some sunken obstacle, and had a hole
knocked through her. That is a nice, soft cushion
to go to sleep on; but it suggests, for all that,
two questions—(l) How was it that nobody no-
ticed the blow that knocked a hole through the
bottom of the ship? (2) Was the ship so much
like tissue paper that a hole could be punched
through her without anybody knowing anything
about the little mishap until a flood of water drew
attention to it?
NO DEADLY INJURIES.
A man tell out of the Alps, a distance of over 2000 feet.
He only fractured one of his legs.—D.T.
ALFRED: “Do you mean to tell me its vocally
pwobable that he never even bagged his
twousers or eweased his collah?"
In the book wherein this paper keeps a
record of the just and the unjust, the mostly
empty credit side in the Cow-man s page looks as
though it might receive an entry soon. At
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.), which is mostly cow,
the biggest meeting ever held in the town wound
up with a resolution that Australia s oig question
is National Defence; and it pledged itself to
barrack hard for the necessary legislation At
present, certainly, it is only “ barrack ; Ihe rSUL-
PETIN doesn’t hear of 51)0 applications for enrol-
ment flowing into the Defence Department from
Murwillumbah. Yet, when the yellow horde
sweeps down from the North, all the mere holler-
ing and barracking in the world won t stop it.
Even the yell of the man who has been exercising
his lungs by calling the cows home all his life,
won’t carry as far as a Japanese gun.
A Christian Scientist in Melbourne says
that in some cases cure by faith is dead certain.
Possibly. But in others it appears to be certain
death ; and the difficulty is to sort the cases out
beforehand.
* * * *
Melbourne has adopted a proposal, born of
the Victorian Branch of the British Medical Asso-
ciation, for the establishment of an institution to
teach people, and more especially dairymen, what
clean milk is. For the sake of brevity the insti-
tution is to be called The Talbot Milk Institution
for the Supply of Special Clean Milk for Infants,
and is to have the following chief functions :
(1) The formulation of standard conditions for the pro-
duction, handling', storage, and distribution of special
clean milk for infants. . , , - .
(2) The establishment or subsidisation of a model dairj
farm and dairy, and milk depfits, for the production,
handling, storage, and distribution of special clean milk
under the conditions formulated. .
(3) The encouragement of the establishment of associ-
ated municipal or other milk depfits. ~
(4) The distribution (on a philanthropic basis) ot tne
milk produced to milk depdts, to approved infants, an
to approved charitable institutions. .
(5) To educate the public as to the advantages of special
clean milk, and to inform the profession where such milk
can be obtained. ...
(6) The “ hall-marking” by the institution of any milk
complying with the standard formulated, such milk to be
sold with such “ hall-mark.”
Which has Sosh staring from nearly every line of
it. If, however, the T-M.1.5.5.C.M.1. would
devote itself to just half of merely one of its
six functions, it would save itself a whole Jot ot
unnecessary trouble ; also it might save a whole
lot of unnecessary deaths. That particular halt
of the one essential plank relates to municipal
milk depbts ; for if the T.M.1., etc., would only
get them established, it wouldn’t need to worry
about educating the public to the advantages ot
pure milk. The Law doesn’t worry about educat-
ion' the public to the advantages of consulting
only legally qualified lawyers ; it simply declines
to allow anybody who isn’t legally qualified to
practise.
* * * *
The strong but unsuccessful agitation for
respiting murderer Coleman, in Adelaide, was
mostly helped on by strong temperance devotees,
the deed having admittedly been inspired by much
steady drinking. An odd feature of the deputa-
tion to the Government was the way in which tne
defending counsel was thrown over, several
speakers professing to have found points which
might have turned a verdict if pressed at
the trial. Public opinion was, however, clearly
anti-Coleman. The Register dropped in a
“must hang” leader every few days, and
for once the anti-party wrote to the
papers as well as the others. There wasn t
much solid argument in the fevv hundred
letters that flowed into the daily papers
for three weeks; hut one anti-gallows man did
make a point. For years S. Aus. hasn’t had a
hanging, he said,‘and then no sooner did it have
one°than Coleman went and used his gun. On
the other side, the most notable contribution was
made by an Anglican parson (who signed his name
too). He argued that all persons speaking for
the murderer were really accessories-after-the 1 -
fact! It seems pretty safe to bet that that gentle
shepherd is a whale for Old Scripture texts.
* * * *
“ Kodak ” goes to Court: —
Whenever a case with Chinamen in it, or one that
contains circumstances remotely connected with China-
men, comes on for hearing in the courts, there seems to
he a fearful amount of uncertainty as to whether 800
Yan->- isn’t Hip Yah, and whether Sing Hap is Sue Tong
or Boong Sue. While counsel are getting hot and angry
it, someone from the body of the court
makes a muffled remark to the effect that a yellow person
with a mournful name of Ah Too Soon is synonymous
with the whole lot—all except Hip Yah, who is an inter-
loper and no Freemason. This clears the atmosphere a
little, and enables the learned hut bothered gentlemen to
turn their attention to the hilariously-named Hip >ah,
and endeavor to disentangle him from the rest of the
story. After a quarter of an hour’s wrangling. Hip iah
is just looking like coming out of the narrative, when an
infuriated market-gardener rises in the back of the court,
and says that he is Ah Too Soon, but that lie arrived too
late to correct the libellous statements regarding his con-
nection with the case. He says that he is unacquainted
with 800 Yanp: and Sue Tong-, but that he knows
Boong Sue, and is a cousin of Hip \ah,
who once changed his name to Sing Hap during
a period of mourning for his uncle Hang Too who had
one eye and was a Freemason, but blew up at Hong Bong
by mistake. Recalled with great fury by the presiding
magistrate, Ah Too Soon works himself into a fearful
state of excitement, explaining that his uncle Hang 100
was going to Canton with a cargo of fireworks which were
to be used to celebrate a mandarin’s divorce, when a
member of the crew who had been crossed in love flung*
a stink-pot into the hold and blew up the junk. When it
is pointed out to him that the Court wants to know about
Hip' Yah and that his uncle Hang Too doesn’t matter, Ah
Too Soon gets in a fury and sa3 r s that the blowing up of
Hang Too was a blot on the family ’scutcheon and caused
much confusion ; that in consequence of it both he and
Hip Yah had to come to a foreign land and call themselves
differently, so that brother Chows who had known them
by their maiden names were unable to find them. The
Court, having now found out a little about Hip Yah, tries
to drive Ah Too Soon back in the direction of 800 Yang
and Sue Tong, but he insists in shaking the singed frag-
ments of his exploded uncle, Hang Too, at the Court
and bewailing the ancient disaster. «oong Sue—who
up to now has been sitting quietly in the dock—
here gets up and cries out in a loud voice that there isn
any Hip Yah—that Ah Too Soon onee was Hip Yah, and
sold bad fish, but that he changed his name when he
started to grow cabbages. Boong Sue furthermore states
that he has his doubts as to whether there ever was a
Hang Too, but that he has no doubt at all that Ah Too
Soon stole the ducks himself. Ah Too Soon is passion-
ately declaring that he is innocent, and that his uncle
really was terribly exploded, when the Bench angrily dis-
misses the case, and enormous constables hunt them all
out of the court-room. Then 800 Yang and Sue Tong
and Ah Too Soon, and the rest of them all write home to
China by next mail and inform their numerous relatives
they have been most gloriously acquitted of stealing a
pair of ducks, and that, in consequence, great honor has
befallen them amongst the foreign devils.
THE TOO CHEERFUL GIVER.
PARSON (sotto voce before commencing the service);
“ Who gives the bride away?”
DAD (jolly): “I do, y ’ Worship!”
Bride (disgusted) : “ You've done nothing else
all day! ”
A couple of hotels of note came before the
De-licensing Board of Bendigo (Vic.) lately. At
one, the Golden Eagle, the beer pump has been
worked by members of the Abel family for the
last 40 years without a single conviction, ihe
other, the Johnson’s Reef, at- California Gully,
boasted of early-day glories, when ex-R.M. 1 an-
ton “Bendigo Mac,” and other notables shook a
foot in its ball-room. Still Bendigo is much over-
pubbed, so somebody has to go.
, * * *
The British s.s. Jessie Burns coughed into
Wellington (M.L.) harbor a few days ago. The
usual fo’c’s’le knife-dagger-and-dynamite scrap
led to the appearance in Court of a school of Boys
of the Bull-dog Breed. Consider their names :
Joseph Zimmerman, Gustav Vauzaak, E ll gen
Full-Haase, Athol Zani, and Fritz Reibert. And
now the British bull-dog boy .is making a fuss
because, while he can’t get a job himself, Jimmy
Ah Fat and Sing Low want to' also join the list.
**V ‘ *
When Cairns (N.Q.) has its week of
carnival razzle-dazzle in the middle of July, one
of the excursions to be provided for the holiday-
tripper from the South will land him at Gieen
Island Green Island is situated alongside
the Barrier Reef, about 12 miles from the
mainland. It was discovered in 1770 by
an old salt named Cook, who was at
that time pottering about the Austra-
lian coast in a dug-out called the
Endeavour. He named the little
scrap of island after his friend
Charles Green, an astronomer,
who was aboard the lugger,
having been sent out by the
Royal Society to witness
the transit of Venus.
Astronomer Green died
on the way home,
when the ship was
crossing the lndian
Ocean, making for
the Cape of Good
Hope. At present,
the only inhabitants
of Green Island are a
white caretaker and
severalaboriginalswho
fill in time fishing on
the reef or pursuing
the flighty beche-de-
mer. Cocoanut palms
and other tropical vege-
tation make the island a miniature paradise;
and endless varieties of coral and shell surround
the speck. The rare visiting tourist nearly
always wants to cart away bits of the scenery to
show friends at home, and as the whole lot could
be stowed into a few dress-baskets, a caretaker
has been dropped down there to guard the
treasures.
* * « *
Thus does a kindred soul try to save the
odd sixpence in the columns of a Sydney paper :
ttt ANTED to meet, bv gent., a twin soul, strictly
VV hon. and confidents, own add. pref. v. mat.
T.S. G.P.O.
*.'■**.•
From “ No. 1936 ” ;
I’m iust out from Mick Cody’s “home” at Coburg
(Vie). It’s an over-rated pub. Here is the bill of fare.
Breakfast (7 a.m.): Maize-meal (hominy). rh '' ner ;
Boiled beef, 12oz. ; potatoes, 16oz. ; brown bread, 20oz. ,
mixed vegetables, 2oz. ; brown sugar, loz Supper.
Hominy, 4oz. Water, ad lib. Week in, week out, the
menu never varies, till you loathe the insipid muck which
supplies breakfast and supper, and you fairly pray to
have boiled beef cut off at the main. Fortunately many
of the “screws” (warders) traffic. The charges are.
lib. tobacco and lib. tea, 15s. ; daily paper, 6d. - cocoa,
2s. 6d. tin ; matches. Is. doz. ; jam 2s. tin , Jetters, 10s.
for six. Amongst the prisoners, tobacco the regular
currency. The daily allowance (hereinafter called a
ration) is quarter of a 3d. plug of Starlight. The scale
of charges is : 20oz. bread daily for three rations a week ,
sporting page of newspaper ( a kite ), two ™ tlo ™L’
hospital rations, four rations; Christmas duff, two
rations : onions, two for half ration ; sugar, 7oz. for one
ration • methylated spirits, half ration a nip ; matches,
one ration a box. The term “ hard labor ”is a misnomer
as work starts at 7.30 a.m., dinner ’' i a v work
130 and knock-off time is 3 p.m. On Saturday worK
ceases at 11.30 a.m. I guess a man won t get m y
blisters on his hands working 3IJ hours a week *
two things they teach at Cody s Hotel are ioann S
and hunger.
“ Philoyid ” : A
new and valuable
small book is the
History of Jewish
Literature from A.H.
70, by Israel Abra-
hams. After the de-
struction of Jerusa-
lem a fragment of
the National Council
remained in a small
town named Jamma.
Here the book of
the Midrash, or
Gemara, grew up.
It was completed
somewhere about the
same time as the
New Testament.
About a century
after the Midrash
came the Palestinian
Talmud, and about a
century after that
the Babylonian Tal-
mud, an improve-
ment on the Pales-
tinian. The Talmud
is a sort of Cyclo-
paedia. It may be
called a huge maga-
zine, though nothing
like so huge as that
appalling Chinese
Cyclopaedia in the
British Museum-
-150 monster volumes,
liabbis say the Tal-
mud is wine, and the
Midrash spiced wine.
As soon as the books
of the New Testa-
ment became access-
ible they were highly
esteemed by the Jews
for their literary
power, though their
doctrine was reject-
ed. The modern Tal-
mud is the enormous
and unique illus-
trated Jewish Encyclopaedia, 12 volumes, recently
published in America. It includes articles on
Christ, Jerusalem, Paul, Mendelssohn, Disraeli,
(Sydney, Melbourne, Berlin, New York, and
multitudes beside.
* * * *
Melbourne has provided a new kind of
citizen, of whom no one can yet say for certain
whether he is a bad egg or the victim of very bad
luck. He was in the Hippodrome the other night,
soaking up Dead wood Dick drama, and incidentally
nursing a baby. He assimilated the episodes till
the interval, when he requested a ‘ kind-looking
lady” alongside him to hold the infant and its
feeding-bottle while he departed for a trifle of
refreshment. That was the last seen of him unti
next day, when, at the urgent invitation of the
police, who apparently knew something, be ap-
peared at the City Court charged with child-
abandonment. Then it transpired that he had a
wife and two other children, one of them in the
Hospital; also that business had been so bad—he
had been hawking on Prince’s Bridge—that tucker
had been scarce with them of late. To give the
little mite of 10 weeks old a chance, tne father
took it to a Neglected Children’s Home. As it
wasn’t a legally-neglected child they refused it, so
the parent “ abandoned ” it, with a full bottle of
milk for a start, to a “ kind-looking woman, lhe
Law remanded the case, and when it gets
acquainted with the full facts it will probably do
something sensible. That is mostly the way with
the Law, which has a woeful habit of spending £5
to stop a leak when £1 would have prevented it.
THE COUSIN JACK CHOIR AT THE
COMPETITIONS.
The Conductor (at the ffff passage): “Give
un lip, boys, or else thcee'st licked.
The Jap doesn’t uphold the marriage tie as
well as might be expected of one honored with the
approval of B. Smith. A woman, resident in
Australia, who was rash enough m 1902 to wea
one of Britain’s coppery friends, found'cause to
repent of her bargain, and asked the Divorce
Court to let her loose. The gentleman had pre-
viously returned to his native rice-swamp, and
from there he wrote in this kindly fashion to his
deserted half :
Dear Lady.—After we married on 23rd April, 1902, al-
though then I had no will to leave you alone there, I re-
turned to Japan without any information to you on account
of some reason. Since then I had a will whether to go there
or to call you near here, but could not carry out for
several other reasons. Now that you have demanded me
the dissolvement of the contract of marriage, I do consent
to do so, in accordance with your request. So I hope
that you would take the process you deem proper to
dissolve the marriage on this letter. If this letter aldne
be unfavorable, please inform me of the important points.
Then I will resend a letter as soon as your information is
to hand.
It is vague, certainly, but it seems to suggest that
the marriage-tie is rather a casual thing in Nippon,
and that Mr. Yoshiwarra lets things slide a.good
deal and is not ashamed.
FLIPPANCY REBUKED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Even her father’s manner towards her seemed strange,
and his behavior confirmed a suspicion she had previously
entertained, but had crushed down as both ridiculous
and unfilial, that he was positively afraid of his own
servants.— Sydney Telegraph seriaZ, “ The Spin of the
Coin,” Chapter VII.
“ Afraid ! ” And do you wonder, girl ?
Hast faced the just-sacked menial in her hall,
Defiant, girt about with broom and pail,
The while a gin-thick odor over all
Brooded? And if you have did you not quail?
“ Afraid ! ” Hast tried an immigrant ?
Do you know what it is to ring a bell,
And in a half-an-hour or so to hear
The words “ Well ? Wodger want ? ” and see her fell,
Hard face—so stern that all hands quase with fear ?
“ Afraid ! ” Hast ever “ jobbed ” a cook,
And two days later found her fighting drunk,
Waving a meat-axe ? Nay! If so, you d learn
That in that grisly case a hurried “ bunk ”
From home were needful —and a slow return.
“ Afraid ! Nay, chiid, you make me tired !
Unwitting, at a tragedy you jest.
“ Ridiculous ! ” Know that in life’s grim path
The terror which surpasses all the rest
Resides within a servant’s face of wrath.
N.S.W. _ » *
10-2-4.


Rheumatic Patients
Use Nature’s infallible cure-Electricity-by
wearing 1 the Rheumagnetic Ring. Recom-
mended and used by doctors. Speedily
relieves or cures Gout, Sciatica, Insomnia,
Neuralgia and Weak Nerves. Ask us to
prove it.
We will send our Booklet FREE.
THE “RHEUMAGNETIC”
RING, nickel finished, 7/6
post free.
THE RHEUMAGNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 46-47 Melville
Street, Hobart, [1 ,
V
«r:
DON’T YOU WANT
THIS VEST?
This is a representation of only one
of the New Fancy Vests we have to
offer you this season. We have many
styles and designs—made of pure
wool—smart - looking—self-conform-
ing and long-wearing. •
We know of nothing better in ready-
to-wear Fancy Vests.
The 14/6 Vest is Black with Red
Spots, with White Spots; Blue with
Red Spots.
PRICE s
1 4/0 each; others, 16/6 (SL 18/6
Add 6d. for Postage.
Please state Chest Measurement.
PEAPES CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309-311 George St., Sydney.
S. M. Herald ad. (20/6/’08)
pROFESSOR SO-AND-SO, the only Mind Reader in
Australia. Wonder without, pretence. Olair-
voyancy unchallenged. Your husband found. Hours
10 to 10. Seance, Sund. n., 8. - St., Redfern.
The Professor doesn’t go quite far,enough. What
the woman-world hankers after is a clairvoyant
who can advertise—“ Your husband found out.”
* * * *
Rev. R. A. Green, of Casterton (Vic.),
hurst into flames in the pulpit the other Sunday
gesticulating in the course of a heated harrangue,
he ignited a box of matches in his breast pocket.
-V greatly put out, and was extinguished
with difficulty. The local paper says the congre-
gation was reminded of Elijah and the pillar of
nre. Put that did not deter one humdrum elder
from dousing the Rev. Green with a bucket of
water. If Elijah had happened in this prosaic
age, somebody would certainly have turned the
hose on him-
* . . *
The Christian Science enterprise seems to
have decided to spend a little money in adver-
lsmg in The Bulletin cannot account
in any other way for the sudden rush of both
Sydney dailies to give a full report to a “Chris-
tian Science ’ lecture. “ Christian Science” as a
payable proposition in healing beats the record of
every pill and every “Young Man, let me be
your tneiid concern in the world.
WHEN WE HAIL COLUMBIA.
I suppose we ll ’are ter do a song an ’ darnee,
or something .”
The development of the internal explosion
engine is the mechanical marvel of the last 10
years. A pint of spirit and an engine that a man
can carry under Ins arm will take you about the
country on a bicycle at the rate of 50 miles an
hour ; while a six-cylinder engine of no great size
has shifted a car at the rate of nearly 130 miles an
hour ! Now comes the news that J. Bull is pre-
paring to build a battleship driven by internal ex-
plosion engines, with either petrol or alcohol as
fuel. This freak fighting craft will be minus
funnels and will show a perfectly clear deck, so
that all of its guns can be trained in any direction.
It will look like a flattened whale in the water,
ana will probably be the thin end of the wedge in
the way of replacing steam by petrol as the motive
power of the world’s navies.
. A.Melbourne priest, the other day, mar-
ried an old couple—bride, Roman Catholic, 68
years of age ; bridegroom, Protestant, admitting
75. Dispensation was granted for the “ mixed ”
marriage on the usual terms ; viz., that the family
should be brought up in the R.C. faith. The
bridegroom (who was very particular about his
pen) signed the undertaking with tremendous
seriousness. “ And, whatever they may say,”
said his Reverence, afterwards, “faith isn’t as
dead as it might be amongst our Protestant
brethren.”
*** . #
About an old hostelry
One of the Bendigo hotels listed to show cause why it
Bm n ke . c, osed by ' the Licenses Reduction
Board is the Criterion, at the corner of Munday and
m he'hnin re n tB ’ 13 Th ?. 0rifierioh was the first wooden pub
to be built when Bendigo was a canvas city. At the time
e »» c j'i on was the highest two-roomed building
outside Melbourne. The Cri. was a social centre in those
days. Governors Hotham, Barkly and Darling, and half-
Governors Macarthur and Carey put up there whenever
cam . e ~f co Bendigo. Hotham once addressed a
meeting of diggers from its balcony, and the assembled
thousands cheered and yelled with delight and reckoned
"’ asan orl right bloke, or words to that
Vf or !l n l )tln 7’ as a Side lig-ht on the changeable-
tha l a f ?' v uionths after, that same crowd
m d tt, V n b ? delighted to have hanged Charley Hotham
the C . r !^ n ?? balcony, ,f it had had the chance,
from the middle sixties onwards the centre of Bendigo
,13 A tCa< , ' l y P r ?£ ress ing away from the Criterion
site, and the old pub is now far removed from the world
or wealth and fashion.
* * * *
Probably the most surprised person in
Australia during 1905 was the man who, on seeing
a photograph of his wife with another male per-
son, inquired of his sister-in-law who it was, and
was informed, “That’s Edie’s other husband.”
Ihe statement of the solemn morning journal
(which last week reported the divorce proceed-
ings) that “ a stormy scene followed, and he broke
up the home, ’ seems rather superfluous. The
only retort a helpleiss man can make to a remark
°”, h u at description is to slay the piano, and cut
oft the sideboard without a shilling.
♦ * * *
Undeserved sympathy is a thing they
simply loatheat Broken Hill. From the Barrier
Miner (18/6/’08) - barrier
C E.-BE IT KN°WN-That I, Mrs.
~ /. BRADLEY, care R. E. A. Kitchen, am NOT
identical with the unfortunate victim of last Satur-
day evening s robbery at Railway Town.
Tip to now nobody on the Barrier seems to have
bpwff t * at he , lS ? fc tl ? e Person who died week
before last; and when that advt. occurs there will
“Pnw“wV r 0 0“ left on the list of possible
Public Notices —unless somebody notifies that
he*s the person who died. That one might be
squeezed in somehow.
* * *
, r 4; CUrio ! J : S ca ® e lately figured in a
Melbourne Court had a dramatic climax. It han-
Pe hnd lady—the usual inconceivable enigina
—had charged her husband, from whom she was
with having thrown a.corrosive fluid
in the" f stated that she had met him casually
m the street, and, as she was leaving him, she felt
' n £ in £ pam in the face. Medical evidence
testified that she had been
struck by sulphuric acid,
which, moreover, had
trickled down upon the
blouse she was wearing.
Then other sort of evi-
dence began to ripple out
of the witness-box. For
instance, it was alleged
that, though the effect of
the acid would be prac-
ticallv instantaneous, no
marks were noticed on this
lady’s face until the morn-
ing after the alleged meet-
ing. Still, nothing more
definite than that was forth-
coming, so his Honor pro-
ceeded to sum up in an
inconclusive fashion. And
just then an inquisitive
juryman, who had started
to finger the blouse, drew
attention of the Court to a
stain on the inside of the
drapery, and asked the lady
how the acid could get at
the lining of the blouse with-
out damaging the outside
of the dress. She intimated
that it must have soaked
through ; but expert evi-
dence, recalled, demon-
strated that the outside
material, which was of
wool, would have been
charred if that theory
held good. Thereupon
the jury retired, pro-
bably wondering whether
the lady had worn her
blouse inside out. Still, it
took that jury three-quarters
of an hour to say “Not
guilty. Evidently yet another phase of the
eternal Eve had been worrying the 12 ; for it is
hard to imagine that a woman, who was mani-
festly ignorant of the possibilities of corrosive
fluids, would damage herself and her looks merely
to injure her hubby. Yet, if they wouldn’t swallow
the lady’s story, that seemed the only alternative.
* * * •
The Spanish Main never produced a
pirate with the gloating capacity of the average
evening paper. In that respect, moreover
Sydney’s own Bloodstain can hold its own with
the best of them ; and the Bloodstain showed
about the best that it can do when, the other
evening, it described the life of the murderer in
the condemned cell. Then the reader, hurrying
hearthwards in a crowded tram, could hardly hear
the rattle of the wheels for the clashing of gaolers’
keys, and the double straps depending from the
top of the car swung emptily as if hungry for
necks to stretch and break. Let us read a little of
our Bloodstain :
He is given over into the keeping of the sheriff until
the. inevitable hour of execution. He has preyed upon
society, and society must be guarded against him. He
must be held safe and fast by all the cunning of iron bolt
and bar. He can have no hope of escape. He will never
go outside those tall grey walls again. His surroundings
remind him with ever-insistent force of the hour, to which
each instant brings him nearer. Perchance the horror of
his crime has never come home to him ; has seemed a
justifiable act; he has thought himself a victim of ill
circumstance. But when the bolts clash and keys jangle
as he enters the double cell, the memory of his judge’s
words comes home to him with more awful force ; he is
helpless, hopeless, has done with the world. Thence-
forth, until the bandage has been drawn over his eyes, he
may never be alone. He must have no chance of cheating
the hangman’s rope. Night and day, sleeping or wakiiw
the warder’s eye is on him as he sits apart in the double
cell watching the prisoner.
Generosity as regards hemp could go no further—
unless, indeed, with every copy our Bloodstain
gave away a foot or two of hangman’s rope as a
bonus.
The foolish self-drugging habit reached its
pinnacle m that Delegate (N.S.W.) man who went
to see what the next world was like last week.
He was an old man, and he had heard or read or
dreamed that phosphorus was a good thing as a
medicine. He took it regularly in the handy form
or match heads for a week ; then he died.
Fitz : Talk about the tired Austra-
j|,an! A benehman employed at a mill in the
East Gippsland (Vic.) forest cycles 20 miles to his
work and 20 miles back again every day over a
mostly shocking road—Sundays, of' course, ex-
cepted. “And,” concluded my informant, con-
temptuously, “just because he is too lazy to make
his own bed and fry his own chops.” Eaziness like
that makes me shudder. I hope I don’t catch it.
* * * *
Sydney University Medical School cele-
brated its “silver jubilee” by a dinner last week.
IroviSion had been made from the ’fifties for the
granting of degrees in medicine, but in those days
only an examining body existed. In 1883 how-
ever, Professor T. P. Anderson Stuart was im-
ported from Edinburgh, and began teaching
in a dingy, four-roomed cottage at the back
of the main building, where the bodies used
to go bad at first, owing to faulty pre-
servatives. But things gradually improved,
l ie Professor founded the Medical Society in ’B7.
alien the present school was built, and that is now
to be extended at a cost of £20,000. Professor
James T. Wilson arrived later on to take up the
teaching of anatomy, the founder limiting himself
thenceforward to physiology; then Professor
Welsh was put into the new chair of pathology in
1902. Beginning with Professor Stuart, Dr.
McCormick (Sydney’s well-known surgeon), and
two students, the institution has grown till it
holds nearly 300 students, three professors, 14
lecturers and five demonstrators. Of the first
half-dozen graduates—the onlv ones to receive
their training in the original -shanty—Dr. W G
Armstrong, the Sydney Health Officer, is about
the best known, and can really claim to be the
first graduate.
Apropos the Australian politician’s breath-
less ipterest in “our great primary industries.”
Attorney-General Blair (Q.) owned up, the other
day, that he had just seen some sheep-shearing
for the first time in his life. And yet he was born
at Warwick, within cooee of shearing sheds.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
THE WOMAN OF SOME IMPORTANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A large and fashionable gathering, including everybody
who is anybody, and a lot who are not, assembled, etc.^-
Averaije “ Society” weekly, any iveek.
When she of the tender feet goes in where the moonlight
paints the deep
In a thousand trembling, tender tints, as the calm sea
sinks to sleep—
When she, poor thing, goes in with her quite exclusive
racketing-set.
What do you think she thinks of when she reaches the
swarming wet ?
When she who is far too nice to know the people who are
not known—
The so-superior swimming miss, who’s razzled to skin and
bone—
What does she think when a fine fat barmaid drowses
into view, , ;
Lolling along like a pale, pink dream in the wake of a
joyful crew ?
What is the solid comfort She of the blue, patrician nose
Finds in the fact of her socialize when a Her can wear
fine do es?
What does she feel at the playhouse when the woman
who has no shame,
Although she’s called Miss Smith, shows shoulders more
than worth the name ?
It’s j’oy to own an honored name and. a fortune in beer or
wool,
T ° rr a privafce hansom cab and a money-box bulging
B ut the cab-lamp has a leery glare, and the horse has a
leery grin
In his starboard tooth as he sees the shanks of his mis-
tress climbing in.
VIC.
FRANK HENTY
THE PUG AND THE POET.
[Fob The Bulletin.]
T / r OTJ leaned across the bar. Chlorine,
J Petite, and delicate, and fair;
Beneath the bright electric sheen,
That rippled on you:- fragrant hair.
And as I drank my Haig and Haig
(I rather think it was the tenth,
Although the tally's somewhat vague),
You coyly sipped your Crime de menthe.
The morning post had brought a cheque,
And I was as a gilded toff;
I bent and kissed your cool white neck—
You told me you had “ Tuesdays off”—
N.S.VV.
Then pictured I some
sylvan nook,
Where ire might bide
in dalliance sivect;
You slew my conscience
with a look.
And bound me captive
at your feet.
The clock upon the city
tower
Boomed out its warning
near and far,
When lo ! at the eleventh hour,
There lurched within the ■private bar
A hulking brute with bullet head,
Who seemed (at least to me) half tight ;
And shouted coarsely, ‘’ Strikemedcd,
Don't keep me waitin' 'ere all night.”
I left you then for evermore,
And, as I sought the outer air,
I asked the pot-boy at the door:
IV ho is that ruffian lingering there 1 ”
His heart with pity seemed to stir,
For one so sadly out of date:
Why, blime, don't yer know ’im, sir ?
That s Bloggs, the champion ’eavy-weight ! ”
HORACK HALLORAN.
MISS MARY ANN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bishop Mercer, of Tasmania, discoursing on social in-
equality at Lithgow (N.S.W.), dwelt upon the grievances
of domestic servants. “A girl serving in a shop,” said
Tasmania severely “is called ‘Miss,’ and a servant is
called Sarah or ‘Susan.’ For years I have insisted that
everybody coming to my house shall call those who are
good enough to do my household work ‘ Miss,’ just as
anybody else is called.” That makes it all right.
No more should people hear about
The grievance of the servant girl
Who’s not allowed her Sunday out,
Nor let to put her hair in curl ;
Who must abjure a willing chap,
And simper when the boss is rude,
And wear the limp, degrading cap •
Of dire, domestic servitude ; -
For willingly she’ll bear all this
To hear herself addressed as “ Miss. ”
Her hours are long, her graft is hard ;
She s wakened by the chicken’s sire
When wintry frosts encrust the yard
To struggle with the kitchen fire.
She thaws the water in the tap,
And hears the early sausage sizz.
Her wage is ten-and-six mayhap,
With something off for breakages.
All this she’ll brook if giv’n by you
The Miss that she’s entitled to.
The lesson’s plain. The husband that
(To make home happy, more or less)
Cajoles the missus with a hat,
The maid must flatter with address.
His servant girl will not resign
If called at five, provided she
Is not called by the name of “ Jine
She only asks for courtesy.
So Miss the girl, for it repeals
The chance of missing many meals.
VIC.
SNELL.


TRAMWAY MATERIAL.
SPECIALISE in Steel Side Tip Trucks, Steel Rails, Portable
Tramway, Ball-Bearing Turntables, Portable Switches,
Permanent Switches, Locomotives, etc.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER CSL CO., 04 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
hold full stocks of all Mining Requisites,
including Air Compressors, Rock Drills,
Engines and Boilers, Steam Pumps,
■ Batteries, Krom Rolls, Concentrating
Bathes, all sizes, Radial and Pillar Drills, Punch and Shear
Machinery etc apd Nut Cutters,'Vhafting, Pulleys, Belting.
Machines, Pipe and - . » * Manchester, CAMEL HAIR BELTING; RANSOMES’, SIMS’,
Sole Agents for portable, STATIONARY and TRACTION ENGINES.
Street. Melbourne; Post Office Chambers, Sydney; Lydiard Street, Ballarat; and Bend.go.
The Wild cat
Column
The Commonwealth’s Surplus Revenue Act is
falling in for a deal of discussion. Among others, the
Sydney Chamber of Commerce has decided that it is
“inequitable, inconsiderate, and inopportune” for a
number of poor reasons. It is quite safe to say, .however,
that, in connection with a private business, the financial
men belonging to the Chamber of Commerce would not
have hesitated to do precisely what the Commonwealth
Government and Parliament did. The trouble with the
Sydney Chamber is that it is mostly importer, and there-
fore this Government’s acts must be bad.
The facts with regard to the Surplus Revenue
Act are quite simple. The Government has very large
expenditure looming ahead. Under the Constitution the
States are entitled to three-fourths of the Customs and
Excise revenue. Having already paid to the States
during the year 1907-8 large sums in excess of the three-
fourths, the Commonwealth decided out of the revenue
of the last month of the year to provide a little towards
the coming expenditure. That is the whole matter. The
States say it is spoliation and robbery. Premier Wade
says it is burglary, piracy, and other trifles. Any busi-
ness man knows it is every-day, proper and prudent com-
mercial practice.
G. S. Littlejohn proposed the Sydney Chamber
of Commerce resolution. The name of Littlejohn was
long connected with a very great concern, the A.M.P.
This Littlejohn’s father was for years that admirably-
managed society’s chairman. Now the A.M.P. is a
mutual society, and undertakes to distribute all profits
among the policy-holders. Yet, if anybody will look up
the last report of this very admirably managed society,
he will find that there is a fund which has been provided
out of past profits to provide for possible future losses
through slumps in property values ; and for last year,
instead of policy-holders getting bonuses representing the
whole of the profits, £90,000 was withdrawn and paid into
this fund. Nobody said a word against it. Everybody
who knows a thing about finance knows that it was a
most proper thing to do. Audit is just what the Com-
monwealth did. Having discharged its legal obligations,
it. provided for the future by putting certain surplus
money into a fund, so that the strain upon the States in
the future may be eased a little.
It is alleged, however, that, having received
large surpluses in the early part of the year, the States
were led to believe they would get large surpluses all the
year. If the States were misled, they misled themselves ;
the Commonwealth Treasurer repeatedly warned them
that their good time couldn’t continue. And, anyhow,
take this case. For years the M. L. A. was one of the
most faithfully and conscientiously managed life insurance
offices in Australia. Dr. MacLaurin, the Chancellor of
the University, was its chairman. For years it had made
its valuations on a certain interest basis. It decided,
however, that the basis was rather too high, and pro-
ceeded to lower it. This was the result: policy-holders who
had bonus accumulations of (say) £2OO found when they got
their next triennial notice that their bonus accumulations
had actually been reduced to £l9O, or thereabouts. No-
body, however, accused Dr. MacLaurin of being either a
burglar or a brigand. On the contrary, it was admitted
that, though many a policy-holder had, no doubt, misled
himself—in exactly the same way as the State Treasurers
have misled themselves—yet what the M.L.A. did was
quite honest and quite the proper thing to do.
The whole truth about the matter is that the
Surplus Revenue Act makes a nasty gap in the haloes
that various State Premiers and Treasurers have been
building for themselves. While most of them snarled and
snapped at the Commonwealth, they drew from it im-
mense sums, averaging' nearly a million a year, and
then pointed to their surpluses, and strutted, and crowed,
and said “ Alone I did it.” In the current year there has
been an extra amount of strutting and crowing—probably
because in two or three States a State election is close at
hand, or because Parliamentary trouble is brewing. And
now, just when some of them were in the middle of a parti-
cularly impressive strut, the Commonwealth spoils things.
It is awkward for the strutters ; but so far as the Austra-
lian public is concerned it doesn’t matter two straws.
Nobody is going to eat the money. Simply in this year of
plenty a few thousand pounds are to be put aside to pay
the piper in 1909, which is hardly likely to be so fat a
vear. That is a principle which every sane banker in
Australia has been very busy practising during the past
two or three years. And now the Sydney Chamber of
Commerce —the very concern which ought to applaud
this providence—calls the policy “inequitable, incon-
siderate and inopportune.” It ought to be ashamed
of itself.
. * * *
The half-year closed with prospects rather im-
proved for some of the lately-gloomy places of Australia.
Metals certainlv are no firmer, but wool is; and most of
the droughty parts of Victoria have had rain. Melbourne
for the last three months has been taking a pessimistic
view of things, and business in many lines has been
wretched ; the chances are that it will improve pretty
rapidly As soon as the wool-market started to look up a
strong Sydney-Melbourne syndicate was formed, with re-
sources of as much as £2,000,000, to buy wool. Appa-
rently however, it missed the best of the rise. Men who
ought’to know haven’t got very much confidence in that
rise, by the way, and put it down to speculation rather
than to any legitimate trade demand.
, « * *
Since January 1, when it began lending
money to settlers, the N.S.W. State Bank has granted
over 500 loans, and altogether has advanced about
£1 000,000 to the man on the land. Commenting on the
bank’s operations, the S. M. Herald is betrayed into
saving :—“ An astonishing fact is that very nearly half
of"the loans made, or taken over [from the old Advances
to Settlers Board], have been repaid, even during the
short time the bank has been engaged in this loaning
business —a symptom which might not be welcomed by
every bank, but which, in the case of the State Bank,
whose object is to give settlers a footing, may reasonably
be taken as a sign that the object of the loans has been
attained.” That puts the difference between Socialism
and Private Enterprise in a nutshell. The private bank’s
business is to make profits by the continued dependence
of the borrower upon the bank’s funds ; while the State
Bank isn’t out after profits, and welcomes quick repay-
ments and the speedy discharge of the mortgage.
* * * *
The cement industry yields another illustration
of the devastating effects of Protection. Before Federa-
tion arrived, cement was duty-free in N. S. Wales ; and,
although the industry (having once been helped by a
tariff) had been in existence for many years, it never
made much progress. With Federation, however, arrived
a Protective duty < f 9d. per cwt., and the output of
cement produced went up greatly. Like this
1902 . £46,500 1005 .. £BB,lOO
1903 55,740 1906 .. 128,487
1904 ... 54>50 1907 .. 144,548
The Bank of New Zealand (Maoriland)
@dd Losses Paid Interest
and towards on
Colonial loss of Money Divi-
BankPur- Assets Ad- dend
chase, etc., Reali- vanced 5
Pro- Written sation by per Re-
Mar., fits. Off. Board. State. cent, serves.
1898.. £182,532 £10,132 £74,900 £97,500 £2^,474
1899.. 191,420 43,920 50,000 97,500 23,474
1900 242,520 95,020 50,000 97,500 23,474
1901.. 300,242 160,665 50,000 89,577 23,4/4
1902 . 289,502 37,001 151,135 80,000 £21,366 23,4/4
1903.. 290,591 15,001 174,410 80,000 21,180 23,474
1904.. 293,316 12,500 179,022 80,000 21,281 23,987
1905.. 320,909 15,001 206,312 51,9/8 47,618 23,987
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£19,910) 43,897
1906.. 330,330 16,001.224,329 40,000 59,000 43,897
Premium on Sale of Forfeited Shares (£37,397) 81,294
7J p.c. pref.
10 p.c. ord.
1907.. 343,881 16,000 40,000 87,500 281,675
1908.. 369,923 20,000 40,000 87,500 504,098
This bank, which was only saved, 14 years ago, by the in-
tervention of the Maoriland Government, has a capital ot
£1 000,000 in ordinary shares—of which, however, only
half is paid up—£soo.ooo in preference shares owned
by the State, and £1,000,000 of 4 per cent, guaran-
teed stock, also held by the State, and maturing
in July 1914. The pref. shares and the stock were taken
bv the Government in part repayment of the loan made
by the Government to save the bank in the days before
Socialistic legislation put a new complexion on Maori-
land. The State’s pref. shares are entitled to a hrst 5
per cent. ; after that, they are entitled to 1 per cent, for
every 2 per cent, beyond 5 per cent, received by the
ordinary shares; but they are not entitled to mote
than 10 per cent, at any time. Thus, when the
pref. shares get 7* per cent., the ordinary shares
get 10 per cent. ; when ordinary snares get 12 per cent.,
prefs. will be entitled to 8* per cent. ; when prefs. get 10
per cent, ordinaries will get 15 per cent. Prefs. stop at
10 per cent. ; but there is no limit to the height to which
ordinaries may soar. To pay 10 per cent. on prefs- an
15 percent, on ordinaries will call for £120,000 , 10 per
cent, on prefs. and 20 per cent, on ordinaries would
absorb £150,000.
It is true that, after paying the 4 per cent, in-
terest on the guaranteed stock and writing off £20,000,
£309,923 of profits are left for the past year ; and that
would pay a great deal more than the last div. mentioned
above. But the bank has to keep its eye on that million
of stock maturing in July, 1914. As that is now
used as capital, it is desirable that the amount
should be replaced by reserves; in other words,
that that much additional capital should be built
up out of undivided profits before 1914. Excellent
progress is being made that way ; and at present it seems
to be the bank’s policy to definitely put by at least
£159,000 a year. In 1907 £168,705 was set aside ; this
year’ £200,000. But, even after the million has been
made good, there will be obvious objections to the
announcement of a 20 per cent, dividend. In this case
four-fifths of the capital has been written off, so that a
10 per cent, dividend is only 2 per cent, on the actually
paid capital; but that can’t always be explained. Under
the circumstances, in order to make the div. look a little
less steep, the chances are that the uncalled capital of
£3 6s. Bd. a share (on the ordinary shares) will he
called up, thus making them fully paid to £(i H*’;, 1,;,
The result will be that, with only another £500,000
more of capital, a 10 per cent. div. will absorb
£lOO,OOO on the ordinary issue, instead of 20
per cent, being required on the present £500,000.
And the bank can very well stand some more capital.
Even assuming it will have £1,300,000 of reserves by
1914 and assuming further that the deposits and other
liabilities don’t grow at all, it will still have only £-1 of
its own capital to every £6 15s. of the public s money in
the business. An increase of capital is therefore very
desirable, as it is hardly likely that the deposits will
stand still.
The bank’s progress during the past 12 months
looks very satisfactory on the published figures. A com-
parison of the chief balance-sheet items
Mar.,’o7. Mar.,’oB.
Notes in Circulation.. £965,190 £912,627 Dec. £52,563
Bills in OircuUtion .. 2,194;814 1,838,676 Dec. 356,138
Deuosits ..12,909,160 12,771,413 Dec. 137,/47
Liqffid Assets .. ..8,500,813 7,399,884 Dec. 1,100,929
° assets S6tB B ° ar . d 758,199 471,235 Dec. 286,964
Advances .. 8,813,601 9,871,341 Inc. 1,057,740
Premises! etc.” ... 322:725 321,853 Dec. 872
Thus though the deposits and other such money with
the bank have been reduced by £546,448, the advances
have been increased by £1,057,740. This has involved a '
very heavy drain on the liquid assets ; but even now the
latter represent a very substantial 48 per cent, of the total
debts to the public. Yet, notwithstanding that large
holding of liquid assets, the bulk of them bringing in a
very small return, the year’s profit was at the gorgeous
rate of £l6 4s. 3d. p.c. on capital and reserves combined,
even counting in the £1,000,000 of 4 p.c stock as capital
The one unpleasant doubt is with regard to the futuie of
Maoriland’s securities. The borrowing into which the
Dominion has plunged must stop, and when it does stop
Maoriland’s fictitious prosperity will get a check, and
there very probably will be a slump. In fact, things
point that way already. * s
' xhe Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd. Added
Provided to In-
Ex- for De- suranee
Dec., Income. Claims. penses. preciation. Fund-
-1896.. £392,705 £193,941 £73,189 - £ j20,584
1897.. 397,012 196,092 80,403 120,517
1898 412 898 220,073 79,996 112,829
1 qqq 409 744 209 907 75:832 - 124,005
looo:: 40M28 2i5;526 77,735 £67,969 42,198
1901 412,816 226,783 79,577
1902 ’ 429,263 226,512 81,002 121,/49
1903.: 438,825 236’,874 87,731 - 114,220
1901 454,758 248,313 95,1/5 111,-/0
1905:: 461 663 281,453 101.078 50,000 29,132
1906.. 466,326 335,946 104,564 25,316
1907.. 483,486 273,080 107,141 103,265
This society’s annual report creeps out in a more leisurely
fashion than that of any other insurance concern in Aus-
tralia. In fact, the report frequently isn’t available until
some weeks after the annual meeting of. policy-holders.
Apparently there is something characteristic about this
gradualness ; for the society makes comparatively poor
progress. It evidently can’t get into the hustling habit;
and in insurance he who hesitates to hustle is lost in the
distance. Ten years ago the renewal premiums received
for the 12 months amounted to £285,932 ; for the past. 12
months the total is £308,139, or an increase in 10, years of
onlvB per cent. Compare that with the figures of the
AMP: that society’s renewal premiums have moved up
from £1,220,405 to £1,791,403, an increase of 47 per cent,
in the same period. And, for all that, the A.M. P. sa\s
progress in recent years hasn’t been rapid enough, where-
fore'it has decided to do what the Colonial Mutual did
years ago and establish offices in England and S. Africa.
The Colonial Mutual’s experience certainly doesn’t offer
much encouragement.
Still it must be admitted that, though on the 10
years’ record the results are so poor—so far, that is to
say, as concerns getting business and keeping it—the
most recent results are the least unsatisfactory. Thus. 10
years ago the new premiums for the year were just under
10 per cent, of the amount of the old or renewal
premiums, whereas for last year the proportion was only
just under 18 per cent. Certainly this new business is
costly. Compared with total income the expenses in
recent years have moved this way :
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1898 .£l9 7 6 per cent. 1903 ..£l9 19 10 per cent.
1899 18 10 1 „ 1904 .. 20 18 7 „
1900 .. 19 2 6 „ 1905 .. 211710 „
1901 .. 19 5 6 „ 1906 .. 22 8 8 „
1902 .. 18 17 5 „ 1907 .. 22 3 2 „
Assuming that the renewal premiums (old business) cost
7 per cent, to collect, etc., and that the annuity business
costs 3 per cent., then the balance, or £85,444 for the
past year, would represent the cost of the new business ;
and that would mean 155 - 7 per cent, of thei new-business
(or first-vear’s) premiums. In other words, £54,881 of
new premiums would cost £85,444 to secure. There are
somewhat higher rates than that among Australian in-
surance offices ; but there are many that are much lower.
Besides having too high an expense rate, the
society is also troubled with a low rate of inteiest-
earnings:—
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900 .. £3 17 11 per cent. 1904 .. £4 1 4 per cent.
1901 .. 317 11 „ 1905 .. 3 1.7.11 „
1902 .. 319 4 „ 1906 .. 318 1 ~
1903 .. 319 8 „ 1907 .. 316 9 „
If this comparatively low rate were due to a heavy hold-
ing of State and other gold-edged securities, no criticism
would be offered; but unfortunately it isn t. The low
rate is rather due to a very heavy bundle of free-
holds and leaseholds—a bolding which dates back to the
boom days. The total assets may be cut up like
Public securities .. .. ..
Mortgages ..
Policy loans, etc
Freeholds and leaseholds
Cash, outstanding premiums, etc. .. 259,510
Total.. ..£3,085,700
Compare the proportion in which the various assets are
held with the figures of some other offices
M.L Coloma 1
A.M.P. Citizens’. State. Mutual.
Public Securities .. 31'6 p.c. 58 - 7 p.c. 19’9 p.c. I(P2 p.c.
Mortgages .. .. 41-5 „ 22;5 „ 56;2 „40 5 „
Policy Loans, etc... 18v5 ~ 5 9 „164 ~ . ”
Freeholds, etc. .. 4'o „ 9‘3 „ 29 „ o 0 „
Cash, etc 4-4 „ 3-9 „ 4-6 „ 8 4 „
Bonuses are derived almost wholly from three sources—a
low expense rate, a high interest rate, a good mortality
experience. It is pretty obvious that the Colonial Mutual
must depend wholly, or nearly wholly, upon the last-
named source. _
Besides the insurance fund the society has very
wisely established an investment fluctuation fund, which
in recent years has been operated upon as follows .
Investment Fluctuation Fund.
Wri o r Balance. Balance
£4,515 £35,2°3 gjg ;; £79,713
18 " • • \fi7 d 9 d 6 e 9 } 102 ’ 776 1905 .. (Added\ 115,049
1900 3’143 99,333 160,000 J
iom " 2 577 96 756 1906 .. 34,330 80,t19
SS,:: i0;789 1907.. 8,157 72,562
The advantage of having such an independent fund is
that the actuary does not take it into account in esti-
mating what amount (if any) the society has available for
bonuses : and that is a protection so far as future bonuses
are concerned, because it more or less guarantees that
future profits will be available for bonuses, and won t be
swamped to provide for losses on properties, etc. But
whether in the present case the existing reserve fund
would he sufficient to write assets down to market value
is another matter, which you can only guess at by looking
at the unsatisfactory size of the interest return.
* * *
Swallow and Abiell, Ltd. (Melbourne),
manufacturers of foodstuffs
Re-
serves.
Added to (Nomi-
April, Profits. Dividends Reserves, nal).
1899 .. £6,530 2£ p.c. = £3648 £2,88- £-8,5.4
innn .. 3648 2,711 0±,600
iqm •• 7 124 t ■ ;, 3648 3,476 84,711
1902 3| „ „ 5473 10,410 45,121
1903 .. 4,097 Nil - « 024
1904 .. 15,420 Nil 35,bU4
IQn - Nil 10,658 36,262
mnfi " 12 140 11 p.c. = £1824 10,316 46,578
PO7 I: S™ 2l P „ „ 3648 8,561 55,139
WOS 2,234 2i „ „ 3648 - 53,725
This is a most erratic business. A few years ago there
was a drought, and the co.’s raw materials cost )t so much
that in order to hold its connection it actually had to
make a loss Then suddenly the seasons changed, and
there was plenty in Australia; whereupon down propped
prices and the co. had to do a considerable amount of
writing down. (Its stock usually runs to about £50,000)
Then there was another good time for three y®ars
materials 6 Were cheap, ".oney «pW.fu , an
protected market was good. Now the old drou no
has been worrying Victoria again—worrying Vic-
tor a where O/ this co.’s buying is done, more
an’ an other part of Australia-so profate have
slumped badly ; and the outlook is still far from
satisfactory' 3 so that even the 2* per cent div. is in great
ieopardy. ' Shares in the co. are naturally ver y toeciila-
Hvp A few years ago they were kicking about at a
penny ot thereabouts (they are £1 paid, with alos l,a-
P;i; tY \ • this time two years ago they were worth ss. ,12
months ago they had got up to 10s. ; now they can be
bad for under 7s. There are, apart from the uncertainty
of the seasons, two things the matter with the co : first,
Rs bW debt • second, its big swag of paper assets. Besides
£2462 of debentures there are £59,862 of mortgages and
overdrafts as against £61,574 last year. In 1903
toev were up to £94,293; but stocks have
been reduced since then. Then as to the paper
assets: when the co. was formed 20 years ago, goodwill,
fvooi.nlrls machinery, etc., were lumped into one item,
and £148,500 was set against it; and at that amount it has
stood ever since. The co. paid 8 per cent, the first year
-in fact an interim div. at the rate of 8 per cent was
paid the first half-year ; and the goodwill was no doubt
reckoned up on a boom basis. The average dividend for
the past 10 vears has been If per cent, so pretty clearly
the value of the goodwill has diminished. Therefore the
Serves shown above are purely nominal ; in reality,
there must be a deficit. And then, nothing has been
written off for depreciation of freeholds (bought in 1888)
and machinery, though, curiously enough, the book-value
of machinery,'etc., put in since then is favored with occa-
sional reductions to coyer wear and tear.
* * *
Pobt Adelaide Dock: Co., Ltd. (S.A.) :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
t 7 o £2680 ' £l/19 £l-1,865
June, 06..£4399 7 p.c. 394
Bee - ’ O® -- L” ” 2680 - 551 13,810
June, 0/.. 3-31 7 ~ ~ 9213 16 023
Dec., ’07.. 4893 7 „ „ 2680 - 2213 io,u-3
This is an old-established co., dating from 1879 ; but its
shares are now becoming more widely scattered than they
Stb be For some years it paid 5 per cent, j then in
1899 the div. went up to 6 per cent., and the list aoove
starts from the paymen tof the fir,l7 per cen t Recently,
the co. purchased Princes Wharf, at P» tt Ade “ ;
which accounts for a mortgage o £lO,OOO apart
from that it owed nothing at the last balance
m oft IdUy Jfo
there 1 are 4686 shares authorised, but unissued. The
principal assets are the dock and other Rhis
property account stands at £99,230. Repairs are cnargeu
to profit and loss, but apparently nothing has been
written off to provide for depreciation, if any. Besides
the property account there were liquid assets on Decem-
ber 31 amounting to £3007 after providing for the dn l-
dend and outstanding debts other than the mort a*e
The earnings are irregular, but for many years past thej
havebeenmore than enough to pay the current dividend:
and the Board is iiifluential-wluch is of some import-
ance in connection with a concerned this kind.
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan and
Deposit Co. (Melbourne) from the time when, 4-10,0-2
having been embezzled, £14,728 of capital was written off,
which left the co. with £826 of reserves Rg _ Re _
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Apr., 1902 ..£lOl9 $ per cent. = £516 £503 £1329
Oct., 1902.. 1156 8 „ „ 516 64U
Apr., 1903.. 688 8 „ „ 516 172
Oct., 1903.. 949 8 „ „ 516 433
Apr., 1904.. 820 8 „ „ 224 3102
Oct., 1904 .. 740 8 ~ >■ 516 3440
Apr., 1905 .. 856 8 ~ >• “15 _ 3739
Oct., 1905.. 863 8 „ „ 516 347
Apr., 1906.. 986 8 ~ » 516 4993
Oct. 1906.. 950 8 „ ~.516 434 4b«
Apr., 1907 .. 1014 10 „ ~645 369
Oct., 1907 .. 655 10 ~ >♦ -.o 5089
Apr., 1908.. 664 10 „ ~ 646 18
The co. accepts money on fixed deposit and owes £481«
on that account; five years ago the total was £8232. At
the latter date (April, 1903) the advances and stock in
hand were valued at £18,984 ; the item f !^nge
£lB 956 The other asset items show hardly any change.
fSally therefore the co. is doing.the same amount o^
business as it was doing five years ago but has* displaced
about £3OOO of borrowed money by the amount
accumulated profits. Profits should show yip better
under those circumstances, but somehow they have
done so during the past 12 months ; and as far as can be
traced, that is largely due to the growth of expenses.
Anyhow, though interest must be less now totai ex
peiises were £2426 last half-year as against £2167 five
years * * *
Wunderlich’s, the people who have done so
much to improve the interior decoration of the house
that Australia lives in. have undergone a change aco
with a nominal capital of £200,000 and .a paid capita l of
£145,000, has been formed to acquire the Wunderhc
business of stamped-ceiling manufacturers and tile-
merchants, and also the stamped-ceiling and tile depart
ments of W. H. Bocke and Co. Proprietary Ltd., of Mel-
bourne. The head office will remain in Sydney, and that
strong combination of artists and businessmen, the three
brothers Wunderlich, wiil continue as general nianagers.
With them, as directors, will be associated W. T. Jiailneu,
W. Densham, and Theo. Fink, of Melbourne.
V * » *
Directors of Broken Hill mines haye had a fair
amount to say concerning the way in which the mining
industry on the Barrier is being taxed by the per
cent, increase in wages conceded at the height of tfie
boom. There is a good deal of the bogey about that, as
a matter of fact, the only men who are at present bene-
fiting perceptibly by the increase are the wages men.
Nearly all ore-breaking and trucking is done on contract,
so these wages men are principally employed on the sur-
face. The great bulk of mining work is being done
as cheaply as it was before the increase was granted.
Very few' miners are now earning £1 per shift—practically
none. Before the increase they could be counted by
dozens every pay day. The good miner who used to earn
his pound a shift has now, as a rule, to be content with
145., and he does more work for it. Certainly some of
what is saved by the cos. in this way goes to pay the httie
' extra that is earned by the wages man. Under these cir-
cumstances, and considering that the bad times have
brought about increased labor efficiency on the. field,
there isn’t as much in the directors growl as the outsider
might think. *
In its pride, the Broken Hill South manage-
ment had an idea that its new mill was going to be
different from every other mill, and would run to the Lick
from the very start. At first everything did go very
smoothly, but in a little while the trouble started, and for
weeks the machinery suffered from spasms, and required
no end of nursing. Still everything was fixed up in time,
and now the mill is running very well. The mine gene
rallv, however, wears a deserted, tomb-like aspect. L e y
man who can be done without is being put off, and
development work has entirely ceased. Just when the
mine was ready to enter on a brilliant career of increased
productiveness, the insurmountable obstacle of low meU
prices rose in the way. Yet there is this consolation
the ore bodies will keep, and so (with a little care) wi
the mill. „ *
* * * .
People who have not yet lost faith m the
Broken Hill Junction are hopefully watching develop-
ments in the King section, where the lode has been cut at
the 400 ft. level of the old shaft. The position is peculiar.
Even should the deposit prove to be of any size, it is not
at all certain that the Junction will benebh by C ;
So far as is known, this body had a width of over 30ft. at
the 300 ft. level, but it did not extend very far northward
(that is, in the direction in which the ore must go to be
of any use to the Junction). Going down to the 400 ft.
level the bodv maintained an eastern underlie, and the
ingle was equal to about 27ft. in 100. At the 300 ft. level
the footwall was about 12ft. on the west side of the shaft
At the 400 ft. level it was cut 12ft. on the east side, ine
British boundary is only 24ft. on the east side of King
shaft and the course of the lode is a lew
points east of north. If the ore shoot has a
Fenvth of a few hundred feet, the Junction
will get a good deal of ore. If it is a short one, and the
eastern underlay is maintained, the ore will be nearly all
in the British at the 500 ft. level. There are indications,
however, that the ore-shoot followed south from Browne s
600 ft. level will connect with the body in Kings. One
favorable point about the latter is that the ore broken
in the crosscut at the 400 ft. level is very good stuft.
* *■ * *
There are signs of the British Broken Hill
resuming productive operations before long. Develop-
merit and preparatory work is being pushed ahead, ana
the new power plant is nearing completion. .Thousands
of tons of good ore have been added to the mine s reserves
by the development work done on the 600 ft. and 80Utt.
levels, and with the conrpletion of Thompson shaft to the
latter level the new ore bodies can be cheaply mured.
When the British does take off its coat again it ought to
be able to work with much better results than were being
obtained last year.
* * * *
Considerable mystery Covers around the can-
celled Operator lease, at Wyalong (N.S. W.), and the fact
that it is still idle, and has been so for the past two y ears,
goes to show that there is something w-rong about
Moore’s new Mining Act. In October last the lease was
cancelled, and some two dozen appliearitsscrambelfor
it. Subsequently, through some irregularity, the "inner
was outed. 1 Another wild scramble took place in March
last, when onlookers, peggers out, and luridlanguage
were mixed up in indescribable confusion followed by a
rush to the Mining Registrar’s office. Nothing 'reen
heard since, and it is charitably supposed that the De-
partment is endeavoring to pick another winner. Appar-
ently the Warden is only a cipher in the matter.
In 1903 the yield of the Greta coal seam was
571.096 tons, or about 13 per cent, of the total output of
the Northern or Newcastle (N.S.W.) field. Last year the
Greta output was 1,871,624 tons, which, in spite of the
activity in the older mines of Newcastle, represented
nearly 31 per cent, of the total output of the field. Ihese
figures show the very rapid development of the boutn
Maitland district, where the Greta pits are. It is there-
abouts i hat the S.. Australian Government hopes to
establish a coal mine ; hut the property over which it has
an option is one in which rather deeper sinking than
usual will be necessary. • ’ ■ . #
Re-treatment of mill residues is now all the go
at Kalgoorlie. The Great Boulder and Lake View people
are hard at it, and the Oroya-Brown Hill management is
sampling the dump on the Brown Hill lease to see if it is
worth while following suit.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W. A.) is going the way
this paper said it would. The grade has shrunk, profits
have dwindled, many of the high-falutin tales told to
shareholders at the last two annual meetings have proved
to be largely tarradiddles. Last month the recoverable
value of the ore treated dropped to 265. 2d. The official
explanation, as previously mentioned, was that a surplus
expected from the April operations did not come to light,
and that, having no bullion reserve to draw on, the
management had no alternative but to declare the gold
actually obtained. This is one way of putting it,


ABSOLUTE SECURITY
for Trust Management
can only be obtained
by appointing
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents, (ELc.
2,4, & 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser & Chalmers
LIMITED.
STAMP MILLS.
DUTY PER DAY.
IVANHOE C.M
GOLDEN HORSESHOE (new mill)
OROYA BLACK RANGE
OROYA BROWNHILL
SONS OF CWALIA
Australian Office :
Equitable Building, Melbourne.
’ [3
6.57 tons
6.25 „
7.14 „
8.07 „
8.84 „
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, every small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving- waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
than with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
* Hr * sp
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. ffm, Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * »
A double 12in. suction dredge plant has just
been supplied to the Tekka Tin Mining Company of
Perak, Federated Malay States, by the Austral Otis,
Engineering Company of South Melbourne. The plant
consists of two boilers, two 12in. gravel pumps, gravel
pump engine, air pump, surface condenser, feed pumps,
service pump, steam exhaust and other piping and
connections ; also Oregon barge and housing. The engine
is a marine type vertical coupled compound 350h.p.
The gravel pumps are both fixed on the same shaft, and
can be driven independently of each other. The boilers
are return tube dry back type. The barge is 50ft. x,4sft.
x sft., which gives ample room and sufficient floating
capacity.* [3
* » * »
The Insurance, Banking and Financial
Review, of London, in its August issue, commenting upon
the Society’s last annual report, writes :—“ At the period
in question, indeed, it was considered by some that the
Colonial Mutual was, to use an Americanism, ‘ trying to
bite off more than it could chew.’ Time has proved,
however, that if the then four-year-old could go fast it
could also go sure, and its completion of £1,156,510 of
new life business last year indicates that not only is the
energy of its younger days unabated, but that it retains
the confidence placed in it from the moment of its birth.”*
* * * . *
Before ordering Mining Plant be sure you have
a copy of Cameron and Sutherland’s priced catalogue.
We can supply everything you want right through from
Rock Drills to Cyanide Plant, including Reddaway’s
Camel Hair Belts, Motive Power, Lathes, Drilling
Machines, etc., for the Engineering Department, Winding
Gear, Concentrators, etc. Address :— Cameron and
Sutherland, Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat and Bendigo.*
**' * *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get- a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other . big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane. *
* * * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and ProspectoKS,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector's
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * ■* *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W,
Mont de PieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett, Manager.*
• * » •
The liquidator’s note of sale, by public auction,
of the machinery plant and stock of the Australian Forge
and Engineering Co. Proprietary, Ltd., Williamstown, has
been withdrawn, the whole of it having been sold
privately to the well-known firm of Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, ironfounder, etc., Melbourne, who has removed
everything to his engineering works, Footscray.
Machinery merchants, engineers, mining companies, and
others interested are invited to inspect this plant, which
is now offered for sale at very low prices. Detailed
catalogues are being prepared and will be posted to any
address on application to Mephan Ferguson, head office
and engineering works, Footscray.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
In connection with the visit of the American
Fleet, engineers will be interested to note that 16 of the
vessels, including all of the Class “A ” battleships, are
fitted with water-tube boilers of the Babcock and Wilcox
make. This boiler is also being extensively adopted in
the Australian Mercantile Marine, two recent orders being
the S.S. Paringa, 1500 1.H.P., and S.S. Koombaba,
4200 1.H.P., both for the Adelaide S.S. Co.’s inter-State
trade.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
• * * .*
Ganbelego.—Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
The Korting Two-Cycle Suction Gas Engine, by
Mather and Platt, is being introduced in Australia by
Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney; and 128
William Street, Melbourne. This engine, - which works
equally well on suction, producer, or town gas, is the,only
gas engine in which an impulse is given with every stroke,
as in the steam engine. For electrical and mill driving
—for which certain starting, even turning and close
governing are so important—it has proved an ideal power.
It has long passed the experimental stage, and is being
extensively used all over Europe and America.*
* * * «
CHARTERS TOWERS. — Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
COHMANN COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
KRAUSS LOCOMOTIVES
as purchased by the Govts, of N.S.W., victoria
and Tasmania, and ail principal mining com
panies, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M & R Co
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds [•> *
another and more candid way would be to confess that
“ sweetening ” ore is now very hard to find, and that the
co. has Buckley’s chance of making the ±90,000 a year
profit which was officially estimated a while ago.
Boulder Hamilton has been asked to look into
things at the Hainault (YV.A.); but as managers in the
West have a deeply-rooted dislike to reporting on each
other’s work, the odds against him acceding to the
request are too long to put on this page.
* * » *
Boulder Main Reefs (W.A.) are now being
nibbled at on the off-chance of the Boulder shoot pitching
into the property at depth. At present it looks as if the
southern limit of the values will reach Boulder Main Reef
at about 3000 ft. vertical, but to do this the shoot will
have to maintain its present pitch, and there is no
guarantee that it will.
* * ■ . *■ *
Portion of the old Ivanhoe Venture at Boulder
(W.A.) has been pegged and applied for. Eleven years
ago this ground was the scene of some excitement; it
was from there that a number of alluvial men were dragged
to gaol for defying Wittenoom’s notorious regulation,
limiting alluvial mining to 10ft. below the surface. The
hubbub which followed this outrage was the indirect
means of Bigjohn Forrest being prodded below the belt
with the point of an umbrella, over which so much fuss
was made at the time.
* * * *
The Kinsella, at Cue (W.A.), has been sampled
by the Fingall management to 300 ft. and found wanting.
The No. 4 ievel is now being tested to prove whether the
yarn that the previous owners left oft working in good
ore is a lie or not. All the chances are that it is a yarn
of the romantic sort.
Northern Mines, Ltd., Lawlers (W. A.), struggles
hard to save money on the mining and treatment of 14s.
ore ; and as supplies have to be brought 600 miles by rail
and 80-odd miles by road, it deserves some sort of medal
for its attempt. There is nothing for the shareholders in
the mines worked by this co., but it is estimated that
there is sufficient gold in the surface dump of slimes to
give them a Christmas box at some time or other.
* * * ■*
Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.) is a voracious con-
cern. Last year’s receipts—±3s,6oB—were swallowed up
in working expenses, and more went the same way ; also
all the available cash left over from the last reconstruc-
tion was spent on the new mill. Now the co. is hunting
for more capital to supply its wants, and proposes to get
it by trading off some of the reserve shares at 2s. 6d.
apiece. The old yarn about the mine being good and the
prospect of early dividends better is again being spun,
but shareholders must be getting suspicious by this time.
* ■» * *
Gwalia South shares (W.A.) rose 7s. the other
day on the possibility of some rich values struck at 300 ft.
turning out to be a big thing. As the Board, which
belongs to the goldfields, held back news of the develop-
ment for some days, the local paper got angry, and told
the directors that they were not alive to their responsi-
bilities. The secretary has since explained that the
Board had been fooled so often in the past with dis-
coveries away from the main shoot that on this occasion
it thought it best to say nothing until driving had been
started. All very well ; but why make shareholders play
second fiddle to the broker’s tout, and possibly the direc-
tor’s friend, in the matter of getting the latest informa-
tion concerning the mine ?
■* * * «
Peak Hill Goldfield, Ltd. (W.A.), dragged Dar-
lington Simpson into the London Court of Appeal, the
other day, on an application for security for Costs in con-
nection with an appeal from an order of a lower court.
In support of the application, it was pointed out that
Simpson already owed theco. upwards of ±l7OO for Costs,
whereupon Simpson’s counsel admitted that a -prima facie.
case for security had been made out. As a result, the
Court ordered Simpson to put up ±5O as security within
14 days. Simpson is the man who once entertained ex-
Governor Jerry Smith at dinner, and served up the fowl
on gold plates.
* * * *
The latest about the Great Tower Hill recon-
struction (W.A.) is that the directors propose, in the first
place, to offer the shares in the new co. to shareholders.
If they come in, and all the scrip is taken up, ±40,000
will be raked in ; but if they don’t (which is more likely)
the provision of ±25,000 by somebody or other is, it is
alleged, practically assured. As the latter sum is barely
sufficient to wipe off the co.’s debts and do a little further
development, the scheme can only be regarded as a sort
of temporary financial prop.
* * * *
Assistant Government Geologist Campbell
(W.A.) has returned from a visit of inspection to the iron
deposits near Derby, in the Nor’-west. The result of
Campbell’s investigations has not yet been made public,
but the leaseholders’ agent, who accompanied him, says
that the full inspection has raised the estimate of
visible ore to 40,000,000 tons within the pegged area.
From Rutter Clarke, the godparent of the
show: —“ The Bulletin’s Mararoa correspondent is
again laboring under a misapprehension. The financial
position of the co. at the present time is such that we
have cash in hand sufficient to cover all contemplated capi-
tal expenditure, including the sinking of the newmain shaft
to the No. 5 level, completing the erection of the addi-
tional 10-head of stamps (already paid for), erecting
additional cyanide plant, and also dynamo ; so that prac-
tically all profits from now on will go towards payment
of dividends, and the Board sees no reason why the first
dividend of Is. should not be declared in September and
made payable the first week in October, thus having the
September gold in hand before the dividend is paid, and
there is no reason why the co. should not be able to pay
Is. per quarter from that date.”
* * » «
There is considerable rejoicing over the last
crushing from the New Brilliant Freehold, which re-
turned about ±6 a ton, or more than double the first lot.
The drive, which is in some 250 ft., has averaged more
than three tons of crushing stuff per foot, and the average
of the two lots pans out about ±4 10s. per ton., a good
yield both as to quantity and quality. There is a good
profit on driving the level; but, considering the amount
of dead work the Freehold has ahead, it is just as well
not to be too previous iu calculating, profits. As the
drive is trending slightly to the south of east, it is not
easy to calculate the ore reserves* even if the reef main-
tains its size and value. It was thought that the N. B.
Freehold would have 90ft. of backs when the drive started
from Mills United No. 7 level, but a slight trend to the
south shortens the distance towards the East Mexican
boundary. That is partly the reason East Mexicans,
although they have proved nothing, are in such request.
Mills United were firmer just before ithe dividend was
due ; the large fortnightly yield makes the mine the most
profitable on the Towers. The return is now consider-
ably below £4 a ton, and the market value of the mine is
about half of what it was some few months since. No. 13
is at 2100 ft. vertical, and so far it has not proved much
good, although there has been some improvement during
the last few feet of driving.
The prospects of the Brilliant group of mines
getting an extension eastward of the Day Dawn remain
very vague. The Brilliant St. George shaft is 1070 ft.
deep, and the Day Dawn reef, if it extends that far, is
expected at 1800 ft. or 2000 ft. In searching for the Dawn
it is quite possible that some other formation will be
intersected ; that is also just the sort of chance the Queen
Cross has in sinking for the St. George. Kelly’s Q. Block
also has vague hopes, partly on the strength of the St.
George, which is being worked near the boundary by the
Phoebe, and partly because of the proximity of the
Brilliant and St. George. Kelly’s last trial crushing did
not give much satisfaction, and a call payable on July 6
has been announced. The reef Kelly’s has been working
paid fairly well last year, but the grade of the stone has
fallen away to about half what it used to be. There
should, however, be a chance of it improving again, for
Kelly’s has always been erratic. This reef passes into the
Brilliant Central, which is a 20-acre lease. The latter
has had an improved yield, and, considering its past his-
tory, has been rather neglected by the market.
* * * *
Premier Kidston evidently meant business when
he said that the Government would work the Dawson
coalfield (Central Queensland). An agreement has been
signed between the Government and Mt. Morgan G. M.
Co., whereby the latter agrees to take 25,000 tons of
Dawson coal per annum for five years. To give effect to
this, a railway will have to be built to connect Mt.
Morgan with Dawson Valley. That will not be hard.
The Dawson Valley is reported to be more than ordi-
narily rich in good agricultural land, but so far as is at
present known the mineral resources are over-rated.
The coal agreement having been signed, the
Queensland Railway Department is engaging itself on the
survey. There is to be no delay. Premier Kidston’s
desire that the State shall run a coalfield is quite com-
mendable ; but is Kidston sure that he will be able to
mine—at a payable price—25,000 tons of coal per annum
from the Dawson ? It is a question that should be settled
by reasonable development work before the railway is
built; and nothing else but development work can
settle it. The Dawson is a field which looks as if it could
supply 25,000 tons each year easily. But mining pro-
positions often look like that at the start. As Private
Enterprise has not made a name for itself on the Dawson,
and is very wild that Kidston decided to go in and do the
thing witli Government money, it will be well for Kidston
to move just as cautiously as, say, the Mt. Morgan Co.
itself would if it were opening up the field. If Kidston
is sure the tonnage is available, well and good.
In deciding that the Queensland Government
shall have a coalfield of its own on the Dawson, Premier
Kidston is doubtless guided by the report of Rankin,
manager of the Queensland Collieries, who supervised for
the Government the extraction of a parcel of mineral from
the Dawson for official tests. Said tests were not alto-
gether satisfactory. Theoretically, however, that was
not the fault of the coal, which, on analysis, is “clinking
good stuff.” Consumers would be glad if it were not so
“ clinking good.” Like most of the Central and North
Queensland coals (they are semi-anthracitic) the Dawson
,is non-coking and difficult to burn “on its own.” With
experience, however, it is practically certain that we will
learn the method of burning the coal “on its own ” and
get, excellent results ; and later, perhaps, it may be even
coked.
Mt. Morgan Co., in making the agreement to
take 25,000 tons per annum of Dawson coal, must feel
certain of one of two things, viz., either the works can
burn it satisfactorily, or that the Government will not
raise the quantity at the price. Captain Richard reckons
that he can burn it.
* * * *
The obsequies of Glassford Creek, the Central
Queensland copper show, begin. The action taken by the
Q.N. Bank, claiming £22,988 from G. C. Willcocks, one of
the guarantors of the overdraft, has been settled ; and the
guarantors —the directors—come into possession of the
property. It is very pitiable. Glassford Creek, which
the much injudiciously-boomed Thomas Gibb was going to
make huge profits out of, could not even liquidate its
banker ; and the claim for which G. P. Doolette was
going to give a big cash price and innumerable shares
cannot find a buyer at any price. The mine, with its twin
brother, Mt. Hector, was going to be a second Mt. Lyell;
instead, it has been partly farce and partly tragedy.
* * * *
And what is to become of Mt. Hector, the other
thing that Thomas Gibb sponsored ? Those who are run-
ning the show at present will solemnly tell you they are
making a profit. Presently, by a juggle of figures ren-
dered possible by the change in management, someone
may possibly assert that, since so-and-so, Hector has paid
its way and'furnished cash for development. If there is
one word that neither Glassford, Hector, nor Cannindah
understood, it is “development.” Some “develop-
ment ” is on a par with the peeling of an orange.
When the orange is eaten, what is left is the mine. At
present, Glassford, Hector, and Cannindah are each but
an eaten orange. Some day some mining men may find
the tree.
• * * *
The new manager of Starcke United, Cook-
town (Q.), has not the gift of breaking the news gently,
and shareholders have not been long in learning the
worst. Those who dropped their shares on receipt of his
first report will have no difficulty in getting in again soon
at a considerably lower figure. An item from his last
report: “ Between the two levels a costly drive is neces-
sary to get at IBft. of backs in a reef which has been cut
out by a crosscourse, and this, with 18 inches of stone in
the eastern level, is apparently all the ore available at pre-
sent.” He d.ies not see where the stone is coming from
to keep the mill going much longer, so “ there is nothing
to be sanguine over.” All he wants at present to con-
tinue development are—(l) shaft re-timbered, (2) new skid-
way, (3) a good pumping plant, (4) brace altered, (5)
everything else repaired. Meantime, however, some few
hopeful people continue to pick up the shares.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) prepares to spend some of that
£50,000 which the Government promises for the encourage-
ment of mining in the State. An association is to be
formed, and controlled by the Government, subscribers,
and prospectors. If anything good is found the pros-
pectors—the men who do the work at 255. a week “ sub-
sist money”—are to get one-half, the subscribers one-
fourth, and the Government one-fourth ; but before a co.
can be floated to take over a claim, back wages of the
prospectors must be paid out of the gold won. The
Government’s interest in any'co. floated is to be in paid-
up shares, vested in the association for further prospect-
ing. Apparently the local people don’t propose any pro-
vision for putting the voted coin back into the State’s
money-bag. The State, as usual, is the only party that is
expected to lay something to nothing.
* * * *
Metallurgist Tomlinson, who is tackling the
problem at Great Fitzroy for 8., M. and Co., has done
things which give confidence that if anybody can pull
that proposition through, it is this experienced Austra-
lian. Some years ago he smelted the ores at Blayney
(N.S.W.), after many failures had been made, producing
slags of which Australian metallurgical practice was
very proud at the time. Later, at Yelta (S.A.),
he made profits with copper at about £5B.
When the French co. sent out an engineer to relieve
L. G. Hancock of the management, the mine was well
developed and surface equipment completed. Fat divi-
dends appeared within reach. With the change of
management Tomlinson resigned to join the Wallaroo Co.
This proved the turning point in the career of the Yelta.
Previously, the metallurgical branch was incessantly
clamoring for ore. The new people could not furnace it
fast enough, so the second furnace was installed to insure
against delays. Unfortunately they could not duplicate
the mine, and within 12 months troubles appeared, as
they generally do when development is allowed to slide.
Right through the abnormally high prices the Yelta Co.
just paid its way, and with copper at £75 it suspended
operations. The employees even had to wait for the
realisation on the final “ cleaning out ” of the stopes
before the balance of wages could be paid.
* * * *
“Aseogian”: “Pyrrhotite” (B. 28/5/’08) is
rather wide of the mark in his criticism of Great Fitzroy
(Q.) ore-treatment. The furnace was reckoned to smelt
100 tons of ore per day, and its capacity continues to
improve on that. The slag shows that the work is equal
to the best reported anywhere in the Commonwealth, the
loss in copper being o'3 per cent., and in gold o’l2dwt.
The furnace was specially designed to embody the most
modern principles in copper smelting, and so successful
have results been that the management contemplates the
immediate erection of a furnace of 250 tons daily capacity
built on similar lines. Testimony is accorded the good
work at Great Fitzroy by the Mt. Lyell, which is altering
the height of water jackets on one of its furnaces to
correspond with Great Fitzroy smelter, and by the
tendency towards higher water jackets on all newly-
constructed furnaces.
* * * *
Jamieson quicksilver (Vic.) is being stoked up
after a long spell of smouldering. Quicksilver occurs
there in a native state in schist. There was talk years
back that a bottle of the stuff had been distilled after a
good deal of fussing and furnacing ; but the mercury
didn’t reach shareholders in sufficient strength to loosen
their purse strings. So the deposit has stood as a geo-
logical curiosity till to-day, when another milling trial is
to be attempted.
* * * *
New Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.), instead of con-
ducting a thanksgiving service for getting its southern
lease, is grumbling because it was fined by Minister
McLeod for carelessness. Some people always find pricks
to kick, and the New Jubilee crowd are a sample of that
sort. They alighted on a payable shoot of stone, 270 ft.
in length, when nearly every one thought the mine . the
rankest duffer out. They wiped out the deficit, and
shocked the investor by declaring a dividend when the
cash ought to have been bottled up for development.
They put up no more than about £7OOO to reach the de-
lectable stage of making profits. Yet they want to crowd
McLeod in a corner over a paltry £2O fine. There isn’t
any reason advanced why the fine should not be imposed,
save precedent. Scotch McLeod is as likely to be swayed
by that, though, as he would be by an offer to return to
his old Victorian Cornish job.
* * * *
Geologist Stanley Hunter has gone to the
Sloane and Scotchmans, Stawell (Vic.), to put in a
diamond drill to test the big- formations there. When
he gets the quartz, he might be engaged to put some
gold into it, because Stawell hasn’t seen much better
than 3dwt. dirt for a generation past. A few hundred
feet of sinking puffs out nearly all the shows in the
Silurian, in Victoria.
South Star, Ballarat, unabashed by failure, and
unashamed at the congratulations sent to Bent when
the reef was cut at 3000 ft., wants another £5OOO to
do -more prospecting. So do we all. If only
the Government would give lots of people £5OOO
they would even put a fiver out of petty cash towards a
statue to Sir Thomas A’Bent. Soberly, it is impossible to
speak seriously about this South Star business ; and
somebody else must be left to sandbag it.
* * * *
.As they go at present, it will take the two
Junction dredges at Bright (Vic.) about nine years to get
through the co.’s remaining ground—that is at the rate
of about 16 acres a half-year. The ground has been
giving 170 oz. to the acre, and six months’ return pans out
at a shade above 27000 z. This meant last half-year that
the co. paid ss. (£2500) in divs., and wrote off £SOO in one
way and another. The dredges each handle between 5000
and 6000 cub. yards per week, and costs average a shade
under £57 a week per dredge. The show has a “ toney ”
lot of lady shareholders, who hitch the left shoulder an
inch up and listen hard when they hear the little word
“ Junction ” breathed in Melbourne tea-rooms.
* * * *
Gladstone dredge (Tas.) has given up trying to
chew tin out of the hard gravels at Bell’s Flat, and is off
back to the Scotia, where expert Ormond says there is
“six months’ profitable work.” This is the prelude to
the assertion that once “the plant commences work on
these lower leases the career of the co. will be long and
profitable.” When, after much strain and tribulation, the
dredge got to Bell’s Flat there was to be a similar second
advent. It came in calls and other troubles, and there isn’t
much guarantee that there won’t be a repetition of the same
kick-up at the Scotia. True, the crowd has learnt a bit
since it left Scotia’s happy soil, and it may now be able
to strike the three tons a week which were to come
thence. Meanwhile, the Ringarooma is thumping out
two tons a week to show that it is not impossible to save
tin if the ground carries it.
* * * *
The trouble at the Magnet, on the West Coast
(Tas.), continues. The Miners’ Association men are still
out, but others are at work. The management says it is
getting on beautifully ; all the same, it appears to be
seeking miners from the Hobart Labor Bureau, and that
looks a pretty hopeless job. The trouble, as pointed out
before, started with the dismissal of the miners’ president
and secretary on the ground that they conducted a ballot
unfairly. The union miners deny it, and ask to be con-
fronted with the directors’ informants; but they can’t
find them. Under the circumstances the men are stick-
ing to their officers ; only two, it is claimed, have broken
away. There is a good deal of bitterness brewing, as usual
when strikes happen ; and complaints are made about
the conduct of the local police and other officers. Also it
is alleged that the co., which owns the tramway to the
township, has notified local tradesmen that it won’t carry
their supplies if they furnish bread and meat to strikers—
and that is a petty piece of tyranny if the statement is
true.
* * * *
The Pt. Lincoln Copper Co., the mostly-English
concern which a while back took over the old Reedy
Greek mine (S.A.)and re-christened it the Kitticoola, has
just made what appears to be a rich strike at the north
end of the 180 ft. level. The lode at latest advices was sft.
6in. wide and assayed over the full width 2oz. 9dwt. 15gr.
free gold. The co. is using a 21-drill Taylor-Horsfield
and a 6-drill Rand compressor, and hopes to open out on
a large scale shortly, and prospects are very cheerful.
Surat: (1) Inscribed stock is stock for which no
bonds, capable of being passed from hand to hand, are
issued ; but in a register the name of the owner and the
amount he holds are inscribed. Certificates are, however,
sometimes given to the owner. Q.N. 3£ per cent, in-
scribed stock at 17s. would give a return of £4 2s. 4d. per
cent. (2) The risk is comparatively small, and the return
corresponds... .Nomadic : “ The case is pending.” Then
that shuts out comment... .Lochrin : Don’t know any
“ Widows and Orphans’ Insurance Society,” and doubt
whether there is such a thing.
It * * *
“ M.C.” : “ Virgil” (B. 21/5/’08) takes exception
to the word “ syndicate ” as applied to the Mt. Elliott (Q.)
railway. Exactly how the agreement will pan out no one
knows, but it is certain that Queensland will have a big
debt to pay if it continues to build railways on the time-
bargain system. It would, for instance, have to raise a
special loan if it had to buy the Chillagoe line at 28 4-7
times the average net profits for five years past. The
copper mines will make the Mt. Elliott line pay exceed-
ingly well ; but 15 years is a long period in the history of
a copper region. The fact that the traffic may get' the
same kind of temporary boom that the Ohillagoe line is
getting will probably make the cost of resumption heavy.
That old blunder, the Cairns railway, and the subsequent
farming-out of cheaply-made sections of the trunk line to
Private Enterprise, should have taught Queensland a
lesson ; but it has not done so. Queensland has borrowed
an enormous sum to bring up the Cloncurry line 478 miles
from Townsville. There are 70-odd miles to bring the
railway to its objective, the big copper mines ; and to pay
for that work this agreement is designed to provide
£lOO,OOO, or about .half the money; for, the other half
Queensland has to pay 4 per cent. Deferring: payment of
£lOO,OOO is of no advantage, and the chances are it will
prove a costly privilege.
» * * *
That ancient squatting absentee, the Scottish
Australian Investment Co., is still battering away at the
old arrears of preference interest. When drought dis-
aster happened 15 years or so back, the co. didn’t do the
heroic thing and write off large slices of capital, hut at
first reduced and finally (in 1897) shut off dividends, and
turned the profits aside to fill up the vast hole in the
assets. As there were about £300,000 worth of deben-
tures to keep going, not much progress was made till
1905, when the preference dividends (5 per cent, on
£400,000) were five years in arrears. It is now, however,
reckoned that the old drought losses have been about
provided for, and at, the last half-yearly meeting in
London (May 22) it was decided to pay up the preference
dividend to June 30, 1904. That leaves 2J years, (£50,000)
still owing.


POSTAL EDUCATION]
REARS GOOD"FRUIT
High Salaries and splendid prospects are
opened up to those young men and women
, who use rightly their spare evening hours
mastering our courses of Postal
'uition. Besides all general educational
Jsubjects we teach by easy and simple
yet thorough methods:—
J. Bookkeeping, Business Penmanship and
* Correspondence, Arithmetic, Shorthand,
Typewriting, etc.
rElectrical and Mechanical Engineering,
Mechanical'and Architectural Drawing, etc.
tor “HOME STUDY.** Post Er«« on application
STOTT H
BUSINESS COLLEGE
MOORE STREET. SVONEV
S 8
fso
&
&
tip
%
The Austral seasons come and go
In summer’s heat and winter’s snow ;
And spring unfolds her fresh green shoots ;
And autumn brings her gifts of fruits.
Each change is fraught with human ills,
With coughs and colds and sudden chills ;
But life is safe, and health is sure
By taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
r*P
v
m
A PhilosopKer ?
No, lam not exactly—but I know more
about “ The Philosophy of Dress”—l know
where the best values are in Men’s or
Boys’ Clothing. Send for a copy To-Day—
“The Philosophy of Dress**
will show you how to
“Pay Less and Dress Better.**
Sent Post Pree on application.
Lincoln Stuart fit Co* Pty. Ltd.
FLINDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
It is notable that in the United Kingdom,
whence the foolish indigenous town councillor
hankers to import his shade-trees, the Australian
gum (which the aforesaid councillor mostly looks
on as unsightly and common, and generally un-
desirable) is considered a very beautiful hunk of
foliage. Following from London Daily Mail
(4/4/’08) is the sort of tribute the despised old
gum is liable to get when it takes its walks
abroad:—
Garden-owners should sow at once in heat some seeds
of the Blue Gum Tree of Australia, as Eucalyptus
globulus is popularly called. The trees give a distin-
guished look to the garden in which they are grown. In
mild parts of the country some of the Eucalypti live for
many years, and there is, we believe, one specimen, at
Whittingehame, N. 8., something like 80ft. in height. On
a hot day, when the sun is shining on the Eucalyptus, the
aroma is both agreeable and invigorating. It has the
special quality of rendering a malaria-laden atmosphere
more wholesome.
And there are more adjectives to the same effect.
TOO SUDDEN.
STOUT PARTY: “Say, Jimmy, there's a cove at
th’ corner wants to shout for y’r.”
JIMMY: “’Ere, 'old 'ard, Willie. Y'r know
bloomin' well that I got a weak ’art."
“ Grey Lynn ” discovers a fantod :
There is a natural curiosity in the shape of a grub in
the Otway Ranges (Vic.). It grows in loose, friable soil
at the foot of the wattles, and only the greenish tip shows
above ground. With the first autumn rains the grub
“sprouts”up, and as winter comes it rots away to a
brown pulp. In the summer this pulp is transformed into
a thin, transparent caterpillar. As yet no one I know of
has succeeded in rearing one away from its wattle sur-
roundings. Very little is known of its life history, as the
life-cycle is broken by the action of a fungus. The cater-
pillar eats the spores of the fungus, which immediately
grow and presently send up a shoot from the top of the
caterpillar’s head. The moth or butterfly, so far as I can
glean, is unknown.
“The Prooshan ” : Hear, hear, and loud
applause to The Bulletin par re the trials of the
country coach-driver. I have just been watchingthe
tail of the Batlow-Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) coach
round the curve on the stage from Batlow to the
little digger township of Tumba. The rain is pour-
ing down in sheets. The road to the white gate is
“mud pie” axle deep. Thence it is snow for 15
miles, perhaps for the whole of the stage. The
night will fall in 30 minutes as black as soot. The
genial jehu, Jack Galvin, is alone ; and, God help
him, it will be 11 p.m. when he reaches Tumba, if
he succeeds in steering home, frozen, stiff and
numbed. Yet at 3 a.m. he must be on that seat
again for the return plough. Little children
should be taught to say on such nights as these,
“God help Jack Galvin to-night,” as a sort of
tailboard to their bedside supplications. On the
dawn breaking, some winded Woman will rush
down to the road as he struggles along, waving her
hat and shouting, “Oh ! Mr. Galvin, would yer
mind seein’ if Phillips (Oh my goodness, i’m
winded !) —seein’ if Phillips has done our saddle,
and you can pay him. and be sure and ask if they
got any gumboots at Batlow, size 10 ? ” He is ex-
pected toregister dogs, get post orders, sell gold, buy
drapery, inquire for lime, and carry poultry and
pensioners for nix. He has about 13 letter-boxes
to pull up at; also he is expected to look pleasant,
keep to time, and nourish a dozen horses with
chaff at £lO a ton. He needs sympathy all right.
“Groper”: “ Thos. Coombe,” in his
endeavor to set The Bulletin right (14/5/’08) on
land conditions in Westralia, only tells half the
truth. He says : “ There are millions of acres
still available here for farmers at 10s, per acre.”
There are; but how far from the nearest town ?
I am 40 miles out, on a place taken up three years
ago, and there is not enough good land available
between here and the town to make a decent
farm. A selector camped with me the other night.
He had been hunting for some time over a good
part of the Southern district, and couldn’t find
500 acres of agricultural land west of the new
rabbit-proof fence. There is a spur line 24 miles
from my place, but it is practically of no
use to me, for there is no store there
where a man can get rations, and any
stuff ordered from the town is dumped
out in the wet, or else miscarried. These
spur lines are constructed with borrowed
money on the cheap and nasty principle. The
Wagin-Dumbleyung line has all its sleepers of
salmon gum, a wood that rots before white ants
can get a look in. All land round a proposed spur
is locked up, and surveyed prior to being taken
up, and the surveyors include much useless coun-
try. There are several blocks adjoining this
place that have been surveyed so that the land is
of no use to anyone, unless a large area is
taken up containing a great quantity of
sand plain, iron-stone rubble, and poison coun-
try. “T. Coombe” says: “A few years ago we
were large importers of foodstuffs.” Barring
wheat and horse-feed, we still are. Al l inventory
of my camp gives the following: Queensland
milk, Victorian meat, Victorian oatmeal, Queens-
land sugar, South Aus. jam, South Aus. tomato
sauce, etc. Westralia isn’t a bad place, but if a
man wants land in any quantity he’ll have to go
outside the rabbit-proof fence, and he’ll have to
put up with the inconvenience of being over 40
miles from town, and of having only a rough bush
track most of the way. The old days of easy dis-
tances are done, and will remain done until towns
begin to grow at the tail-ends of the spur lines.
* * * *
The Cow curse has reached Maoriland, and
God has allowed His Own Country to get in as
bad a way as Australia, which is not understood
to be under His special protection. A member of
the Auckland Trades and Labor Council stated, at
a meeting of that body recently, that there were
no greater slaves in the Dominion than the farm
laborers; and another member said that a law
ought to be passed “to prevent the abominable
system of child slavery ” which prevailed in the
country districts. In Taranaki he had seen chil-
dren out in winter at daylight, after cows, when
the weather was simply freezing. The chairman
of the meeting chipped in with statistics to the
effect that Taranaki school children obtained a
lower standard of passes than those in any other
province, and it was quite a common thing to see
boys and girls 14 years of age still in the second
standard. The reason was that the children were
so fagged by the time they got to school that they
were entirely unfit for school work, and the reason
of their weariness was the same old reason—Cow.
* » * *
“ Ooks ” : “ Mussel ” (B. 11/6/’08) is
right re deposits in shell fish. The spider crab is
responsible for the same every time. Have
watched for hours the antics of this unscrupulously
ingenious crawler. It works on scientific lines.
When it decides that dinner hour has arrived it
balances a fair-sized boulder or pebble on its
shoulder, and waits behind a hedge of seaweed for
the shell-fish to yawn. In due course the doomed
bivalve does so. In a flash the spider is by the
other’s side, and in about a flash and a half the
pebble has been heaved into the folds of its over-
coat. The shell-fish curses freely, shakes itself
violently, and otherwise exerts much energy striv-
ing to expel the donation. But without avail.
The spider crab watches its victim’s efforts with
callous calm, and then proceeds, with much gusto,
etc., to dine. The common or garden variety of crab
has not the ingenuity of its more brainy relative,
the spider, and in feeling blindly about in the
neighborhood of a yawning mussel, manages ever
and anon to lose a claw, on which the mussel
makes a frugal lunch.
* * » *
“ Krys W.” : He was our policeman. He
had a weak mind. One day he called his worse
half, and broke it gently on her that he was going
to end it all. For once in her life she appeared
interested in something he was going to do. Even
the delightful exhilaration of hearing her next-
door neighbor yelling to her over the fence to
come quick, as she had found out the other cat’s
age, failed to move her. He told her that soon
she would be a widow. Then, with a martial
stride, he marched through the garden gate “ for
the last time,” towards the creek, while she went
out and laid the table for one. Just as she was
about half-way through, and was wondering if she
would indulge in a full outfit in black or only a
hat, she heard a martial tread returning. Her
bobby husband wandered sheepishly in and sat
down. “ There wasn’t enough water at the
place,” he said, by way of explanation.
“ Botheration !” she replied, as she went to look
for another cup and saucer. “ I hate rising in the
middle of my dinner. Why on earth didn’t you
try further down ? ”
ANOTHER C. WASHINGTON.
FATHER (to hoy who has chopped down his favorite apple tree): “0! Couldn't yer ’are found
nothing else to do hut that ? ”
BOY: “ Nah! Brekfuss was over, and dinner wasn't ready s ivas it l”
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Saw a Gundagai
(N.S.W.) farmer feeding his cows on grape-vine
cuttings. The famished beasts chewed up the
cuttings in haste, and swallowed them with scant
satisfaction. Hunger will drive starving stock to
eat almost anything. It’s a pity that many stock-
owners are not devoured by their shockingly
neglected beasties. If starving stockowners had
to endure "001 of the long-drawn-out agony of their
empty-stomached herds, they’d soon insure in
some way against the horrible hunger of the bad
seasons. How small and inept many men would
feel if their cattle could speak just at present!
* * * *
“ Agricola : ” Sin Loong had not been
long with us fossicking in the ranges, and conse-
quently had been kept very busy sampling our
native edibles. He was economical, and preferred to
pick his dinner out of trees. Towards
the gohanna he displayed much aver-
sion, but ’possum lined his internal
arrangements six days out of the
week. However, having once tasted
porcupine stew at the humpy of a
brother Celestial, his soul yearned
for more of the delicacy with a yearn
the size of an ox. Knowing this,
the next porky I met I seized by the
hind leg, and bore him casually past
the kerosene-tin front door of Sin t
Loong, just as that alleged human
prepared to sally forth to his claim.
His eyes glistened, and tears dripped
from his mouth. “Hi-yah!” yelled
he. “ You sell’im. Mi k penny. Hi?”
The coin and the porky exchanged
owners, and the latter was tethered
by a piece of twine to a table-leg in
the hut. Returning in the evening,
I espied a frantic figure in dungarees
dashing rapidly round the hut, peer-
ing into the corners at the back of
the chimney and gazing up into the
surrounding trees. “Hi-yah” he
howled as I drew near. “ Sak-a-loey.
You shteelem pig. Whaffor?” “No
fear,” said I, and, looking into the
hut, I could see the part of the string
attached to the table-leg just visible
above the dirt floor. It was easy to
see where the yellow Pagan’s sup-
per had secreted itself, and, with a
good pull, I hoisted him to light
again. In his joy, Sin Loong tried to
fall on my neck and exude gratitude,
but I was always good on the side-
step. As I left, he wasexpostulating
with the unfortunate beast. “ Whaffor
too muchee lun away ? Nexee time
no mo’. No feah ! ” And he punctu-
ated his discourse vehemently with a tomahawk.
* * * *
“Boronia”: Allow me to join violent
issue with “Groper” (B. 14/5/’08) as to the possi-
bility of eradicating the poison plant. You
simply cannot do it. There are paddocks here'-
abouts (Bridgetown, W.A.) which have been con-
stantly cropped for the last 20 years, and yet, if a
fire were to pass over them, the poison weed
would be visible everywhere a few weeks later.
As to whether the murder-vegetable grows from
seed or roots in these pa.ddocks, no one appears to
know for certain. Am inclined to think the roots
are the cause of the trouble, as it would be hardly
possible for seed to remain sound for 20 years in
the dust, and no plant has been allowed to go to
seed on the land for that period.
Elders and Jather were camped alongside
the mountain railway, about 10 miles beyond
Fern Tree Gully. They had their camp fire
blazing, and the black billy nestled on the ashes.
The evening down train went whizzing by,
wheezing, and coughing, and rattling like a crazy
battery ; and suddenly a door flew open, a man
came clawing forth, struck the embankment with
the broad of his back, hurtled clean over the fence,
and landed in a sitting position in the camp fire
of Elders and Jather, sending the billy flying, and
scattering flaming logs all over the place. Jather
plucked the intruder off the fire before he began
to fry, and he sat for a moment, rubbing himself,
and gazing ruefully after the train. Then he
spoke. “Cripes,” he said, “I had a through
ticket to the Gully. Wonder if they’ll give me a
bit of me coin back.”
A RETROSPECT.
THE TIRED DISH-TWISTER : “ First it was a good
spec. Then it got ter specking. Now it's a
case of seem’ spectres.”
“ Mate ” : I should like to add the result
of my observations on the subject of “ the North,
where the white man can’t live.” As you go up
the coast to Brisbane, Rockhampton, Mackay,
Townsville and Cairns, the men who do heavy
work—wharf-lumping and such—get bigger and
more burly, and are altogether finer specimens of
manhood than in Melbourne or Sydney. It’s the
indoor men—clerks and shopkeepers—who are
thin, yellow and washed out.
TO KEEP OUR CATTLE FAT.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
Mackinnon, of Victoria, says straight out that the
opening of fattening country is of more importance
than defence. — Bulletin, 28/5/’OB.
Now what the dickens do they want to come and bother
for,
And worry us with tales about Australia going to war ?
I hate this Jingo claptrap talk of “ National Defence ”!
It’s quite unnecessary. And then think of the expense !
Just fancy running railways all the way to Palmerston
Because some fools get scared about a Monkey with a
gun !
There’s plenty time, ten years to come, to think about all
that.
The railway WE want NOW is one to keep our cattle fat!
Then listen to the tw'addle about making guns and shells
With money that we ought to spend in free artesian
wells !
The land I bought for next to nought, two dozen years
ago,
Is splendid fatt’ning country now', where anything will
grow'!
And all that is required (that I may reap what I have
sown)
Is rail communication with those other blocks I own.
Then I can warm my coat-tails, standing on the parlor
mat,
Or simply go to sleep, and keep my sheep and cattle fat!
The blasted blank disloyalty of these colonial clods
Is, like their damned impertinence, a sight for men and
gods!
They quite forget that if they had to fight the Jap or
Russ,
They couldn’t do it for a day without the help of US !
And all the while they’re “ rotting ” about training men to
fight,
And irreligious rubbish like “ We’ll keep Australia
white ! ”
They’re only wasting breath and time (and so I tell them,
flat)
That should be spent in helping US to KEEP OUR
CATTLE FAT!
S. A.
NIL.


The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to our household. And so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridsre Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
£2 2s. per annum upwards—special policies for your
special needs.*
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemist refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. lAd.
THE LUCKY
OPAL BLACK
The opposite of White Opal, of
which Marion Crawford wrote
as under in “ Soprano
“I wish you good luck,” he
said lightly.
“ Thank you,” she answered,
“one can never have too much
of it, never —get a Talisman, a
Charm, a ‘ Jagoe.’ .... A BLACK OPAL is the Best, but, if you choose that, you must get it yourself—you
must buy it—find it—or earn it—otherwise it will have no effect.”
We hold the finest stock of this beautiful gem in Australia. We receive it in the rough from the mines.
We cut it.—We mount it.—We set it in Sydney.—We export it largely.
We retain some of the Best for our Sydney Retail Trade, and sell it at half London Retail Prices.
18ct. Gold Setting,
5 Opals, from
36/-
Black Opal and two
Choice Golden Sap-
phires, all Aus-
tralian, £l2/12/-
Diamonds and exquisite
Opal, £3O.
PLAIN FIGURES
CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
FREE OF DUTY.
“ What is it,-Bill?”
“ One of them ’ere blokes as is himported! ”
A STATISTICAL ITEM.
OLD GENT (reading statistics): “Good Heavens! Just imagine it. Every time I breathe a
man dies.”
NASTY PERSON (opposite): “ Um. Well , try cloves.”
“Karl”: Sydney Sunday Times com-
mented recently on the discovery in Germany by
a Swede of a small fish known as “ the blue-eyed
fish.” “Blue-eyes” feed on mosquito larvm, and
are in use all over the world where the anopheles
or malaria-spreading mosquitoes lurk. As a
matter of fact, these fish are Australian natives,
and their larvfe-eatmg tendencies were first made
known by our own naturalists. They are tiny
creatures, growing about an inch long, and are in
much request among fanciers for their aquaria.
Some of them were lately sent to Rome, where
they are being bred in large numbers previous to
beino- liberated in the malaria-infested districts
along the Tiber. The U.S.A. are also reaching
for them with eager hands. And now the Sydney
Sunday Times has heard of them all the way
from Germany. Some day it will discover Parra-
matta by reading about it in a German paper.
* * * *
“ Wurrym ”’: This is the sort of yarn that
reads as if it should be accompanied by a deposit,
but I’ll chance it. The affair happened at Auburn
station, on the Upper Burnett (Q), there being
present at the time Dick S the Rev. T. V •
A , Tom Chapman (then manager of the
station, and afterwards P.M. at Charleville),
and others. Standing on
the verandah at the head
station, one of the group
called attention to a c-row
on a stump about 300yds.
off in the middle of a cul.
tivation paddock. Chap-
man brought out a Win-
chester. “ Here, S ,”
he said, “see if you can
shift him.” S fired,
and the bird flew off in
a devil of a hurry. At
the same moment a horse
in an adjoining paddock
to the left , but about
500yds. jfrorn the slioot-
ist, rolled over and
struggled ineffectually to
rise. Simultaneously, a
man on horseback, driv-
ing cows into the milk-
ing yard about 500yds.
off to the right, ducked
and raced his nag to
shelter. He presently
arrived at the house a
very wrathful cow-per-
suader, demanding what
sort of garnished joke
they thought it was try-
ing to pot him, and for
two gory decorated pins
he’d shift the ears of the
whole flaring lot. Some-
thing unusual had hap-
pened to that bullet, so
all hands fled out to in-
vestigate, and to attend
to the struggling horse.
The horse was found to
be paralysed in the hind-
quarters; one of the
vertebrm of the back had
been cut clean through.
The stump on which the
crow had been perched
was examined; and on
top was discovered a
shear blade, driven deep
into the wood, edge
turned towards the house.
The bullet had plainly
hit the shear blade ami
split; one half had struck
the horse, the other had scared the cowman.
w » » *
“ Quan ” : Always thought that dead trees,
in common with green ones, were in the habit of
upending themselves during a strong wind, but
was lately told" by a man who alleges that' he has
had experience in the Gippsland (Vic.) forests
that the dead timber selects calm weather,
especially that immediately preceding a storm,
for its downfall. Is this so, and, if so, why is it so?
At old games the fox is, perhaps, an
expert, but put him at a new notion and he is as
stupid as an alderman. On a recent night a
roasted rabbit, trailed along the bush at Gundaroo
(N.S.W.), was the means of leading 14 foxes by
the noses into traps. The inventor of the notion
makes a strong point of not handling the rabbit.
But how did the fox think the roasted rabbit
went along the track? The assumption is, on the
theory of not handling the rabbit, that he thought
the roast joint was out on its own account, and as
14 of him trotted, one after another, into captivity,
the assumption seems reasonable. But that
argues whole-souled idiocy on the part of Reynard.
His utter inability to rise to a new set of roast
circumstances was his undoing.
* * * *
“Agricola”: What a helpless, cowardly
bird the turkey is when assailed by an active and
determined opponent ! The other day, our flock
of 19 turkeys, in their search for grasshoppers,
encroached on the territory policed by a pair of
magpies. Then the air was filled with screams,
black and white streaks, turmoil and snapping
beaks. The turkeys ringed round, and fought
desperately for central positions. The magpies
showed much contempt for them, and, lighting on
the ground within a couple of yards, cast reflections
On their character and ancestry, and declared that
the egg the old gobbler was hatched from was
illegitimate. At this the gobbler sallied forth,
but after a battle that lasted one second he fled to
the shelter of his harem. Finally, the whole mob
moved off in close order, with the magpies harry-
ing the stragglers. They escorted the retreating
force within 100yds. of home, and then returned
to hunt the coarse and indigestible grasshopper.
As they departed, the turkeys gobbled defiantly,
as though they had been spoiling for a fight all the
time. Then they came home, and brutally mur-
dered an old black duck that was too busy laying
to get out of their way.
* * * *
“ Wintong ” : Let me project myself into
the wombat controversy. I claim to speak with
expert knowledge. It is my ill-fortune to live in
what is probably the wombattiest region on earth ;
my home is near Kingston, which is in the S.E. of
South Oss. First as to “ Janor,” who says in his
ignorance that the wombat is lazy and digs not from
choice. Zoo. wombats mayn’t; the sort I know
toil unceasingly for the pure love of graft, and, as
a result, great mounds are to be seen here piled
around their burrows on all sides, while the local
rabbit residences have been distended almost out
of recognition to accommodate the hog-like,
yakker-hardened carcase of the interloping worn.
That these, nine tunes out of ten, are works of
supererogation is proved by the fact that J.
Wombat has any quantity of residences already,
which were excavated for him by remote ancestors;
nor has anyone ever seen a wombat inhabiting
any of the rabbit burrows he enlarges so untiringly.
Arid now for “ Cict,” whose scalp I make bold to
snatch from “Karl” (B. 23/4/’08). I say that
rabbits, cats, snakes, stumpy-tailed lizards, foxes,
bats, owls, and many other creepy and crawly
things do inhabit wombat holes at the same time
as the original excavator or owner. The varie-
gated creatures I have dislodged from under-
ground caverns, where they dwelt on flag-
rantly amicable terms with womby, would fill a
natural-history book. A point all your controver-
sialists have missed to date is that the wombat is
the world’s pest in the matter of ruining wire-
netting fences. He makes fresh boles each night,
nor has any complication of barb wire, logs, etc.,
been yet invented that he can’t get under or
through. He seems, also, to be proof against any
known kind of poison.
At THE ZOO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sixteen thousand persons visited the Zoological Gardens
during May of this year, a rise of over 6000 compared with
May, 1907 .'—News item.
The brown bear prowls in his pit,
Where it’s wet and cold arid dim ;
His coat is a shocking fit,
But that doesn’t worry him.
He pleads for the ancient bun
With a red-tongued, foolish leer ;
The Family hurls him one,
And it hits him on the ear,
Then the monster meekly chews,
Whilst the visiting folk lean o’er
And indignantly refuse
To donate him any more.
And the charitable child
Who flings him a piece of bread
Is seized by a parent wild
And thumped till he’s almost dead.
The lion sits in his cage
With a royally savage sneer ;
He lashes his tail with rage
When the visiting folk draw near. .
And his eyes are like niotor lamps,
And his noble mouth looks grim
When they point at him with gatpps,
And Auntie remarks “ That’s ’ini 1 ”
The tiger—who lives next dpor—
Looks up from the meat he tears,
Then rises up from the floor *
And growls in his throat and stares.
Then roars and leaps at each bar
When the infant, who was cuffed,
Enquires of his parent, “ Par,
Is ’e real or is ’e stuffed ? ”
The leopard lies on a board
And cocks an attentive ear ;
He eyes the approaching horde
Who shout to each other, “ ’Ere 1
Come along an’ ’ave a squint 1
There’s spots all over ’is ’ide 1 ”
And the shamed beast does a sprint,
And hurries away inside.
The villainous dingo frets,
And stops in his endless walk ;
His breath comes in hurried jets
Of steam as he hears them talk :
“ Them’s what they catch in th’ bush 1
Ain’t ’e got a most ’orrid scowl ?
Now, ’Enry, don’t go an’ push 1
Let’s wait an’ see if ’e’ll ’owl 1”
fhe adjutant by the pool;
Sunk deep in a reverie,
Hears, “ My 1 don’t ’e look a fool?
’E’s as bald as ’e can be 1
Look at ’is old w’ite-washed legs—
They’re nothin’ but skin an’ bone 1 ’’
The bird, with one sad eye, begs
Them all to leave him alone.
The zebra—calm as a rule—
Stops short with a look of pain ;
“ E’s jus’ like a painted mule !
I wonder is it a stain ?
It might be f’r all y’ know 1
Y’ could dye ’im black an’ cream 1. . .
Now ’e’s orf 1 Now watch ’im 1 Whoa !
Ain’t’e like a football team ! ”
The eagle with ’brellas they poke,
And cast at the apes the rind
Of apples, while Dad blows smoke
At owls till they’re drunk and blind.
They prod, they stir, and they fling
Till at last they homeward strut,
And each wild, dishevelled thing
Gives thanks when the Zoo is shut.
N.S.W.
KODAK.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.D.G. : Asphyxiated condition of Bathurst
noted already, and a word or two more on the subject
still in type O’Racle : Smart; but, alas, not printable
in a family paper. Try us with some more F.A.M. :
Commonplace....lnquirer : As a matter of equity, yes.
If they owed the principal, they owed also the interest.
.... Edward Hattam : You’re this week’s champion. You
(1) use a faint pencil; (2) write all over both sides of the
paper; (B) write rubbish ; and (4) get us fined 4d. for
short postage... .F.C. (Eden): Something about O’Riley
and Hogan and a wallaby-trap ; also diagrams marked
“Trap,” “Bate,” “Snare,” and “Button.” All very
mysterious Poleaxe: Desist! The yarn of the cocky’s
wife who had squared grains of corn for false teeth is too
powerful altogether Oglamite : Not badly done, but
the reception of the lost soul in the nether world is a
stale theme....R.A.P. (M.L.) : “The Concertina” rather
humorous in spots ; but it is over-long drawn out
R.F.B. : Strongly suggestive of Pope, and too artificial,
anyhow, for the present-day taste... .Surveyor : Doesn’t
quite get into the “first flight.” Mysie Meß. : Not
devoid of power, but too conventional in general treat-
ment W.T.S. : Too lugubrious and long-winded
T. Webb, et al.: When the morning of the india-rubber-
newspaper-era dawns we will be able to start acknow-
ledgingpars ; not before.. W. R. Woods : You say, “ This is
original, straight wire.” Well, the wire is straighter
than a corkscrew and not so straight as a rainbow. That
joke appeared in The Bulletin years ago —Joseph O’N.:
There’s one thing missing out of your patriotic whoop—
you say nothing of the Australian navy and the big well-
armed, well-trained Australian citzen army, without
which all whoop is only dust and ashes. Can’t sug-
gest a good Australian name for a baby girl (un-
less you called her Waratah), or for a boy,
unless—no, we give up the boy question.......
Targo: Apparently very earnest, but not very intelligible.
We don’t see how killing the brother —if that’s what you
did —could have made matters any better Dabbs :An
old story done into very indifferent verse E.A.R.: No
strength or distinctive quality in any of them A
Looker On : Sorry for those nurses, but we’ve no room
for hospital rows J.8.L.: Verse sentiment excellent,
but for the rest you are too ragged and uneven in the
matter of style, metre, etc Ellam : Dill is not worth
the whirling verbal tornado you unloose at him. He is
just a harmless old joke with a passion for exposing his
legs, and leaping about in the calcium light, and trying
to make people think Rome has its Eye on him with a
view to poisoning his soda and milk. Give Dill a rest:
he grows redundant and wearisome... Dickinson (Moula-
mein): Interested to hear of the engineer who tries to
make water run up hill, but he is a somewhat diminutive
fowl for anybody’s gun W.P.8.: You are the third this
week to send that jape about “ Willy being no violet,”
etc. ; and all of you write from different parts of the
Commonwealth. And about six of you sent it during
previous weeks. Now we find it in an evening paper
which alleges that William the Dirty hung out in England.
U. K. Robertson : (l)Yes. (2) Not less than £50,000....
J.R. : “Twin Outcasts” is a vague sort of thing, which
rhymes occasionally, and at other times lets things slide
..‘..Quineecha: “The Only Hope” is pretty : pretty
verse merely : and the final aspiration about meeting the
young woman in Heaven has been done to death... .H.
Tory (it looks like that) : You say, “ I am forwarding you
a few poems,” but ne’er a poem was enclosed, though
there were two pretty blue stamps G.B. : Mildly
diverting, but too slight S. Kein: Thanks, but we
see so many of our jokes (pictorial and otherwise) that
have been stolen by British papers that cuttings of the
sort no longer absorb us... .J.W. (M.L.): Tired of kirk
broils: there is a sameness about them which renders
them as oppressive on acquaintance as a mothers’ meeting
joke A.K.C. : Can’t quite grasp what “The Frozen
Kiss ” is about, but it appears to .be marrow-chilling, or
nothing. Three sample staves :
The ebb-tide laps the dismal strand ;
Cold wind-gusts pant and lash ; the sand,
Like hunted deer ere slavering hound
Forces his proud knees to the ground.
The tree-giant, doomed and seared with age,
Bows to the night’s cruel badinage,
Shedding his scanty leaves like tears
Wrung from the heart by. aching years.
Outstretched beneath the shrouded skies.
With shaking limbs and sunken eyes,
Peering aghast at Future’s deeps,
The Failure rolls his head and weeps.
... E.C.: Didn’t have the remotest chance S.C. :
Very awkward and unskilful... .G.W.T. : Declined with
great energy. Most unsavory yarn we’ve struck for a
long time.. .'.Arthur H. : Couidri’t hammer any meaning
out of it Hub: Skeleton of a good story, but mere
bones are useless to us.. ..F.8.0.: Wordy and windy....
Hal E. : Too obviously after —a long way after—Jack
London, or Bill Liverpool, or some such person Marc
Antonv : Sheer indecencies, all. Your mind needs treat-
ment—with carbolic.. .M.A. : (1) Rhymed story of gohanna
which became inebriated is too painfully realistic in the
matter of details. (2) Riddles we abhor..... Angow : Hope-
less drivel, and the stamps that you said were end sed
weren’t there The Bushranger: Accept your heated
assurance that you have never read a line of Neild’s lyrics.
It was evidently a case of unconscious plagiarism on your
part. Don’t buy Neild’s lyrics. It is nos good for a bush-
worker to be alone with Neild’s poetry. Your verses
aren’t printed for the reason that they are very, very
bad; and for no other reason... .E.S.O. : “Wishing
Well” arid “Memories” have a soft, vague little pretti-
ness, and that is all Benita : “ Cupid’s Song ” barely
rises above commonplace... .The Wasp : Weliked “Scene
in the Slums ” best. Here it is in all its dreadfulness :
In the slums of the city
A fierce brawl did occur.
The shrieks of depraved women
Did rend the night air.
A vile ally ruffian, named
Beer-Sinker Jack,
Did brutally belabor a
Poor aged Black.
Police and blue murder
The old outcasts did bawl,
Which brought officers of Justice
On the scene of the brawl.
A mob followed and hooted
The notorious rough,
Who was lodged by the police
In the city lookup.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
0.8. C.: No visible advantages about any of them....
Trawool: We agree to say nothing more about your pic-
ture. We’ll never throw the matter up against you, in
fact.... A.C.: The hoof in your picture looks much more
like a diving-bell with hair on it Will G. (W.A.): Too
crude and not very humorous Dick Hartley: Please
write gags in ink —not in faint pencil. Pencil has a lot
of disadvantages Cipher: Please also avoid the faint
pencil-mark curse, and use good ink (made in Australia).
Belter : Drawing horrible ; joke poor. •


Tfe 'Ape ' 'f&yours
ayno Sunday Jp* - j
ml^eArrofW^r"
'■ "Pic liffle cljUYcijes ,
esj>ec fyose se'T'on a
l)i|l t will Conje in -fine &
Attics. ,
tfjtf'Hfe Rev-M-ffobiirsoh
W *Wt*M ,-fe %K n « r
brotecfion %gA»*»sHs® U*n*fic
f? n comVe ,1)M-r W*
»ro'rf/* > »p could dorie
co>r?noi'lte4 So w&
“jfre Asj
I r
. '
rne !' ' -
fcje * V^if
■till Sft’oiKfejJr
/ v \ r pi'
Ho erect"
locKs
Hill , is
Me rely 'hcK'liwo
iP 1 , b
»je op
Hope
(*?)
T*f<? —'■ Economy!'
&e*>+" " WhSk+ll bJkY ‘Hfc ‘
Tscfe ;—. ‘ fr\orz £-cotiomjf I
"Ar% Cih Com^rttfee
hi€€'f'«ng urj^n
lnr)OUsly iv?
-f-OK $£
V>Si<" Onion
% & SHVipCs Should i*
.. / d /
Boy See*»'to w^n'T'»s or»e •
j>erljt\J>s I'd belter "fiicje if’ 'fill HjeyKe Pokm !
Il i „,, 11 1,, 1111111 rri imn m~ 11 jttti'tt'i rrmnTi n : ; 1111 1 '
"Ike
V
A o ►>
ted Pi»>n -j'OK Itjee
broker I
Wooden II SAys V? 'found by
•^ A children op
round clies+" tfjoso
Wjore Suburb Kew
y©M ©vdy
ITOMn d tye th«>r| Whz+'if t,e |
little* lower dowrj
Wc»re ii+bis.
t 5 SV/s 'tfof' Aft»r «.re Wi II
\ bvo”b>'t'ion 'before entc-t-ioo He^vei-v
O<»T &-fctnKgrs will »jo-f*require,^
I AS ■'•met) As ns')’."
BeK+* i<> no Jou fef beaded!
f Vic/foViAn Wo»»i4n<j B
•fi r*r€ of
woul d be to ''teinjinafel
mA* V* , 'o« r >iy*fA'f*on of "tfe
CaUoti'y( /\^g)
BENT AND OTHER LARGE TRIFLES.


‘•The more far-seeing students of
history saw danger in a cut-and-drled
federation of the Empire while the
Empire was still growing. We should
await developments while the different
parts were growing, apd
allow the great national part-
nership to evolve in the
light of experience of the
various needs, which were
from time to time revealing I
themselves.” —Bruce Smith ,
at the Women’s Patriotic
Club.
sir xmam cariiutubhs. k.c.m.g.
SIR ’ECTOR.
The Merry Monarch: “Why, I’m blest
if it Isn’t the Insect! What a lark I’’
Arid drawing his sword-cane (which
he never goes without now) —
“Arise, Sir Hector Carruthersl”
quoth he.
To show the ghastly effects of knight-
hood upon some people, The Bulletin
here reproduces a portrait of Car-
ruthers, published since the “accident,”
by his organ, the Sydney D.T.
INTENSE COLD.
Considerable delay was caused at the Ivanhoe Colliery, Piper’s Flat,
yesterday, owing to the brakes of the train being frozen to the wheels and the
wheels frozen to the rails.
Female patriots : “ How delightfully, sweetly eloquent I Nothing more
ambiguously soul-stirring has been heard since Whitfield and his
‘ Mesopotamia.’ ”
The homesick-looking gentleman
seen standing in the snow-drift is
Mr. Johnson, the new State Rail-
way Commissioner.
In the
course of a
discussion at
Waverley Council
lately, it was pointed out
that the municipal status of
Waverley demanded that Its
Mayor should be suitably robed
while the aldermen were In session,
in order to give tone and dignity
to the position. What the robe or
uniform may be has been left to
Mayor Watkins’ own option.
Cutting a channel in the ice for the American fleet—or what may
happen if the present cold snap continues.
RELIGIOUS,
Bishop of Hobart: “Pah!
look at all this dust I
got on my gaiters in
Sydney! ”
“Hop” begs to remind his
Worship that, above all
things, he must see to it that
this costume shall reach from
“ neck to kn^e.”
Adelaide. Sunday.—The Govern*
ment has instructed the Sheriff
to exclude the press from Cole-
man’s execution and all future
hangings. Only the officials and
clergymen will be present.
Melb. Age writer: “Oh, let me have
it; plentifully mixed with ink, it
will make splendid mud to throw at
Sydney.”
Chorus of Parsons : •• But for
the inercy of Providence we
might have been even as
those poor pressmen-”
SOME INCIDENTS OF A COLD WEEK.


THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation,
Special Attention to
the Cuisine, . * *
Lift and all Modern Conveniences,
Tel, 321,
F. 0, Robinson, Proprietor
There are woods of high mercantile value,
Rare woods of great beauty and price,
And woods of such close grain and hardness,
As resist all white ants, rats, and mice.
But the Woods of all woods to be lauded
(You all will agree, I am sure),
Is the Woods to whom mankind’s indebted,
For the only Great Peppermint Cure.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Alf Brasch’s humorous “ Barnes ” stories
will be turned into a book shortly.
C. C. Kingston left only £2lOO behind
him, mostly represented by an insurance policy.
There is a widow, but no children.
Queen Victoria, of Spain, has given birth
to another son. There’s one thins to be said for
British princesses : they look after the succession.
Brilliant Freeholds, of Charters Towers,
have had a steady market rise from 3s. to 28s. in
six months ; and Tom Mills, of the Mills United,
next door, owns about 40,000 of them.
Jim Southam, oldest inhabitant of Tilba
Tilba (N.S.W.), and a one-time prominent South
Coast cricketer, finished his innings of 89 on the
21st June, and retired to the 6x4 pavilion, leav-
ing a patriarchal tribe in the field.
Mr. Reid has been lecturing to a Sydney
audience on “The Evils of Snobbery.” His
attention was first called to the subject when he
alienated two valuable Labor party sympathisers
in the Reps, by contemptuously alluding to the
Labor party as a “ Steerage ” crowd.
Sydney Nicholson, a son of that Charles
Nicholson who first was Speaker of the old
N.S.W. Leg. Council, and then Speaker of the
Queensland Leg. Council, was the other day
appointed organist of Canterbury Cathedral —the
place where there is a chair for the sweated Arch-
bishop whose living is worth a poor £15,000 a
year.
-D; Murphy, of Northampton Downs
(Q.) station, played the part of Moses to Attor-
ney-txeneral Blair for most of his recent 3000-mile
pilgrimage (by motor car) through Western and
Worth-Wes tern Bananaland. A.D. is a son of
Francis Murphy, Speaker of the first Victorian
Assembly. His firm pioneered the Barcoo district.
Jimmy Cobra, a member of the Kumi-
laroi (Upper Hunter) tribe, and the oldest black
brother in the Clarence River district, has gone
aloft from Yugilbar (N.S.W.). Jimmy did
the cross-country trip from Merton, on the Hunter
River, about 70 years ago with the late Captain
Ogilvie, and had lived at Yulgilbar ever since.
Rupert Clarke’s estate at Sunbury (Vic.)
is now dotted about with hoardings, upon which
gaudy pictures of “Miss Hook of Holland ” are
pasted, to the great astonishment of the jumbucks
in the paddocks, as well as of those passengers in
the Melbourne-Bendigo train who are unfamiliar
with Rupert and his unconventional little ways.
A yarn has been published by one Sydney
paper that J. C. Watson intends to come back to
N.S.W. State politics. If he did he would be
Premier just as soon as the people had a say.
But, unfortunately, there is no chance of such a
development. Watson will not leave the greater
Parliament forthelesser; after abandoning Federal
politics he will probably be found engaged in the
gold-dredging industry.
Brisbane saw Binghi in a new place the
other Sunday, when James Noble, a black brother
from the Yarrabah (N.Q.) Anglican Mission Sta-
tion, conducted service at Holy Trinity Church,
Merton-road, and preached a sermon to the white
congregation of that Bethel on “ Fate.” For at
least one part of the business James ought to have
a natural genius. Even the mere untrained Jimmy
can say “ Gib it tikapenny ” most eloquently.
It is openly admitted now by those who
should know best that the resignation of State
C.-J. Darley (N.S.W.) is at hand. His deafness is
increasing, and the colds he scouted in his lusty
middle-age get him down badly these time , and
make court work impossible. Pilcher, K.( , will
have first call on the billet; in default Adrian
Knox is the best-backed candidate among legal
men.
Captain William Cottier set sail from Bris-
bane for the Golden Shore the other day, aged
83. He came to Australia before the mast in the
early (fifties, got a job on one of the A.S.N. (now
A.U.S.N.) vessels running between Sydney and
Gladstone (Q.)' ? and gradually climbed up till at
the time of his retirement, 15 years ago, he was
commodore of the co.’s fleet.
The latest recruit to Australia’s Inky Way
is J. B. Ferguson, a brother of that one-time
humorously eloquent member of the N.S.W.
Labor party, who let his ambition land him in the
dust between two stools. J. B. Ferguson, an
energetic, good Australian, with literary tastes,
had climbed up to be accountant to the big Sul-
phide Corporation, when the metal slump came.
Then he looked afield, and bought a paper up at
Armidale (N.S.W.).
THE RIVAL BALLOONS.
N.S.W. : “Garni Mine's longer than yours."
VICTORIA : “ Yah, but mine's got more gas in it.”
B. R. Wise has given up the lease of his
London flat, and will start for Australia probably
in August.
Carruthers holds the ancient view, evi-
dently, that Joseph is an unsatisfactory name.
In his benighted state he wishes to be known by
the more ornate moniker of Hector. The way
local knights sheer off the name Joseph is quite
marked. Judge Joseph Innes used to foam at the
mouth if he was addressed as anything but “Sir
George.”
A. P. Clapin, who has been awarded the
1.5.0., is a lately retired public servant of N.S.W.
Joining the Lands Department in 1850, he was
sent over to the staff of the Legislative Council in
the days of Irresponsible Government, and t.iallv
retired from the position of clerk to the present-
day Legislative Council after 57 years’ service.
Clapin is 80 or more, and if the distinction is
worth anything he might well have been given it
before. But perhaps 1.5.0. is intended to stand
for Is So Old.
Rear-Admiral Charles Stillman Sperry,
who comes in command of the American Fleet to
Australasia, and is pictured this week, saw naval
service first in China, and in time rose to be Pre-
sident of the Naval War College at Newport.
During the Spanish-American war he was ord-
nance officer at the New York navy-yard, and was
responsible for the outfitting of the fleet.
Mrs. Olivia Mary Connolly, who died at
Bundaberg (Q.) on June 16, was a contributor to
the Irish Nation, then edited by Charles Gavan
Duffy, during the stirring times of ’4B. She was
Olivia Mary Knight in those days, and wrote as
“ Thomasine.” Coming to Australia in 1862, she
joined the Queensland State school service ; and
thereafter Irish Home Rule envoys visiting Aus-
tralia made a point of going north to have a chat
with her.
Kingston never wasted woi-ds. When he
drafted bills for the first Commonwealth Govern-
ment, people who were used to old, diffuse
draughtsmanship gasped at his brief, conclusive
snap—“ Penalty, £10.” But he was the same 27
years ago, when he made his will. This was the
whole document:—
I, Charles Cameron Kingston, of Adelaide, solicitor, bv
this my last will, give all my estate, real and personal, to
tax'hereof Wh ° m 1 aPP ° int S ° le eX6CU '
And the man knew his own mind so well that it
stood at that to the end.
FRIENDLY FOOTBALL.
—A FEATURE OF
THE FUTURE.
In the match Fitzroy v.
Essendon, for instance, every
man on one side was bleeding’
from injuries received[?]at the
hands of his opponents or
their supporters. A crowd
waited for the players to
leave, with the deliberate
intention of doing them
serious injury, and had
Essendon not escaped by the back wav anything might
have happened from maiming to manslaughter.—Mel-
bourne paper.
W ILLIAM( undertaker’s driver) : “ ’Old’s business ,
Jantes ? ”
JAMES: “ I've oriy pinked up a couple o’ fares so
far, but the ambulance is doin’ well.”
A note from an ancient who has dropped
out —James Mirams :
Apropos “ Melb.’s ” paragraph (B. 18/6/’08) about the
Aqk ana the men who wrote for it of old. In the later
seventies I became a leader writer for the Age, and occa-
sionally for the Leader ; and continued in that capacity
until m the later ’eighties. I then became so fully
occupied with other engagements that I had no time to
give to writing. In addition to writing leaders, I wrote
many series of cross-headed articles—-such, for instance
(writing now from memory), as the following: “ The
Tasmanian Treaty”; “Protection and the Farmers”'
“ The Farmers and the Tariff.” Roughly, I might say
that all the articles, during that period, dealing with
statistics, finance, Protection, the balance of trade, the
tariff, and kindred topics were written by me. I wrote
also for the Daily Telegraph ; and on one occasion three
leaders of mine appeared on the same day—two in the
Age and one in the D.T. The last I wrote for the Age
was a series of cross-headed articles on “A National
Bank,” in May, 1893.
J. W. Walker, of Mannum (S.A.), supplies
his version of a scrap of Australian history :—-
“ Skimp ” (B. 11/6/’08) states that the first steamboat on
the Murray was the Lady Augusta, navigated by old Cap-
tain Cadell. This is not correct, although many besides
Skimp would tell you the same thing. The honor is
really due to Captain W. R. Randell, of Gumeracha and
Mannum. He built and navigated the first steamer on
the river, the Mary Ann. Her first boiler is still lying on
the river bank in this township.
The Mary Ann left here on March 25, 1853—five months
before Cadell’s boat appeared on the river. She steamed
up as far as Pense’s Reach, below Overland Corner, a
point 250 miles from the river’s mouth. Owing to the
low state of the Murray, she was unable to proceed
further, and so returned to Mannum. Previous to this
she had steamed to Goolwa, 95 miles down stream for
Customs clearances, there being no Customs officer here.
On August 13 (same year, 1853), Captain Randell ao-ain
started up-river, and had reached near where Mildura now
is before Cadell, with the Lady Augusta, overtook him.
From there on to Swan Hill it was a race between them
and the Lady Augusta succeeded in reaching that place
three hours before the Mary Ann. The S.A. Government
had offered a bonus of £2OOO for the first steamer of a
certain tonnage and horsepower that successfully navi-
gated the river to Swan Hill and back. Unfortunately
the Mary Annjwas not up to the required tonnage, etc.’
and so Cadell, with the larger boat, received the bonus’
The Government, however, made Captain Randell a pre-
sent of £3OO, and acknowledged him as being the first on
the river, warmly thanked him, etc.
Whilst Cadell was lying at Swan Hill, Captain Randell
steamed on up to what was then known as Maiden’s
Punt, now Moama, and brought down a load of wool for
Cadell.
On his return trip, owing to some difficulty re insur-
ance, he did not take any cargo, but brought down
despatches from the Governor—who was with Cadell—
and reports for the Adelaide press. The official docu-
ments proving all this are in existence.
Captain Randell was also the first to navigate the
Upper Darling by steamer, reaching a point known as the
“ Native Fisheries,” where Brewarrina now stands, 1600
miles from the sea. Previous to this, steamers had only
gone up as far as Mount Murchison, a little above Wii-
cannia. His steamer was also the first to navigate the
Murrumbidgee. He went up as far as where Hay now is
then know as Lang’s Crossing.
The pioneer navigator of the Murray, Murrumbidgee
and Darling is still hale and hearty, resides at Gumeracha’
near Adelaide, takes as much interest as ever in matters
connected with the river, still owns several river craft
and, until recently, was the sole proprietor of the only
dry dock in this State.
A while ago The Bulletin printed a para-
graph about a row that had arisen in Adelaide
between the Rev. Eugene Perrin, of the Unley
C. of E. Tabernacle, and his organist,' Smith-Hall
(who, by the way, has since been comforted with a
presentation from the congregation). These Smith-
Halls have a habit of holding their end up in
quarrels with the parson. The original Australian
Smith-Hall was one of the very early editors of
the very early Monitor, of Sydney. The Moni-
tor had a way of being di respectful to a Govern-
ment that didn’t deserve anything better, where-
fore when Editor Smith-Hall turned up at the
family pew in the more or less official St. James’
Church he found that that fraction of the taber-
nacle had been boarded up. Whereupon Smith-
Hall took the fighting reputation of the Monitor
in one hand and a chair in the other, and climbed
over the barricade. The man who has been
battling with the S. Australian rector is a grand-
son of the warrior of St. James’.
The knighting of John Hay, of Sydney, is
an inexplicable sort of affair. It looks as though
the Crown had had its leg dragged by sqmeone.
The bauble is handed out as a general thing (1) to
those who hold, or have held, public positions ;
(2) to the donors of big cheques to public institu-
tions ; (3) to colored citizens of the Empire
whose achievements merit some sort of cheap
recognition. John Hay fulfils none of the
above conditions. He is a shrinking, reclu-
sive old person who has never held any sort
of public position. He has never been in
Parliament, never been a mayor ; he has not even
been a suburban alderman. Till last week his
name was unknown outside the confines of the
Berry estates. The only big cheque he ever gave
to a public institution was one he had to give
under the terms of the Berry bequest. And,
finally, he is not one of the Empire’s colored citi-
zens, but a white man from Scotland. About the
only feasible explanation so far of the Hay title is
that its earned it by travelling to England
on the same ship as Joke Carruthers.
Professor Cyril Elwell,
an Australian who is Pro-
fessor of Mathematics at
Leland Stanford University
(U.S.A.), was recently made
a member of Sigma XI., a
fraternity of the most emin-
ent American scientific work-
ers. Elwell, whose father
trod the Inky Way in Aus-
tralia—he was on the Bris-
bane Courier, the S. M.
Herald and N.S.W. Han-
sard—received his early education at Fort-street
(Sydney) Model School.
James Crowe, just dead in Adelaide, had
fought m the Crimea and the Indian Mutiny, and
Michael Lees had fought in the Mutiny and the
Maoriland wars. Each was given a military
f uneral, with other veterans as bearers, and cadets
firing three volleys over the grave. This paying
the last honors to all old campaigners, without
distinction of military rank or social position, is a
S.A. innovation, first uncorked by Dr. O’Reilv,
R.C. Archbishop of Adelaide, at a banquet given
last November, on the jubilee of Lucknow. The
idea was; taken up by Federal Rep. Hutchison
and others, and Defence-Minister Ewing has given
instructions for the same Course to be followed in
all the States.
The late C. A. Smyth, K.C. (Vic.), was
the last of a band of barristers who fled from a
famine in Ireland and found fatness in early
Victoria. Brewster and Barry formed the ad-
vance guard. The former was, in the late ’3o’s,
Judge of the Court of Requests; but he invested
judiciously at the early land sales, and then retired
from the Bench, with a fortune that finally cut
up for £150,000. After leaving the Bench he
studied divinity, and became an Irish rector.
Barry for a time was also Judge of the Court of
Requests, but he afterwards became Supreme
Court Judge. Stawell landed in Victoria in the
’4o’s, took to squatting, lost the little money
he had, returned to the Bar, became Attorney-
General, and appointed himself Chief Justice—to
the great disgust of Barry. Molesworth left a
little Equity practice in Dublin, and jumped into
a great one in Melbourne. He, too, was appointed
to the Supreme Court Bench. Higinbotham also
sailed into the quiet haven of judicial rest, but it
took him 30 years to get there. Biding, Bindon,
Dunne, Hackett, Nolan, Macoboy, Quinlan and
Trench all became County Court Judges ; while
Martley, whose appointment was actually decided
on by the Cabinet of the day, had the bad
luck to be found out in a joyous escapade.
Adamson, Armstrong, F. L. Smyth and Walsh
were Crown Prosecutors ; indeed, the last two for
a time were on the County Court Bench. O. A.
Smyth’s own career as Acting County Court
Judge of the Beechworth District was brief but
merry ; after a very brief sitting, the Court had to
adjourn for medical treatment. After that episode
Smyth; went back to the Bar. In the ’Bo’s he
made in each of two successive years more than
£5OOO, nearly all from Crown briefs. Twice he
was invited to take a County Court Judgeship, but
he had had enough of that.
ADMIRAL SPERRY, IN COMMAND OF
THE AMERICAN FLEET.
A recent arrival in Sydney is one Quintal,
from Norfolk Island —a descendant of the Bounty
mutineer Quintal, one of the seamen who took
black wives and settled on Pitcairn Island. The
Quintal ancestor was afterwards murdered on the
Island, but not before he had surrounded himself
with a big family. The present Quintal comes as a
deputation to State Gov. Rawson on a question as
to what title he and his friends have to their land
in Norfolk Island. When the Bounty descendants
got too many for Pitcairn Island, the British
Government deported a crowd of them to Norfolk
Island. These people say they were promised
Eossession of the lands granted them in their new
ome, but lately the British Government has
evicted some of them, claiming that they are but
tenants at will. Hence Quintal’s quest.
A VISION or SMITH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. BROCE SMITH'S LECTURE.
“ English Originally Black.”
Mr. Bruce Smith delivered a splendid lecture on “ Aus-
tralia and the British Empire,” under the auspices of the
Women’s Patriotic Club, last night. He said that the
British people were probably the most mixed race in the
world . . . coming originally out of the centre of Asia, the
home of the Aryans. If this now widelv-accepted theory
be correct, we were originally a black people, bleached in
the makinsr by our ancestral sojourn in Northern Europe,
and our subsequent settlement for many centuries in the
British Isles. — Sydney paper.
By Boadicea’s rods !
By the hoary Druid gods !
Hear the rounded periods—
Legend, myth !
Pearls of learning grandly cast
From a store of knowledge vast,
While the ghosts of ages past
Stand by Smith.
Facts and figures from a tub,
Flung to those who’d scorn to scrub—
Tis the Patriotic Club
And its kith,
Listening to what he tells,
With its cultured, sweet “ Well! wells 1”
Or mute 'neath the fearful spells
Cast by Smith.
While the ev’ning faints and wanes,
He talks on of Celts and Danes,
Giving of his bursting brains
All the pith ;
Carrying all the Patriots back
By the legend-haunted track
To the days when we were black—
Black as Smith.
Though Smith would appreciate
Our resumption of that state,
We will not be like the grate,
Even with
Thoughts of how in ages gone
Woad upon his thick hide shone,
Till the Romans fell upon
A blue Smith.
Why does Smith neglect to tell
How that ancient blue Smith fell ?
Lord above ! how it would sell!
Meredith,
What a theme for noble speech,
To describe his ev’ry screech.
Till upon the trampled beach
A red Smith
Lay and weltered, breathing fast
Blue and red right to the last;
Where he fell they raised no vast
Monolith.
As he talks about it now,
Purple is his learned brow
(It’s a nice shade, you’ll allow—
Purple Smith 1).
Oh ! a nightmare I have seen—
Smiths of scarlet, Smiths of green,
Smiths that never should have been—
Awful mj'ths 1
Ev’ry color, ev’ry shade,
Drawn up in a dim parade—
Smiths by the Great Artist made :
Tinted Smiths.
Yellow, hlack-and-tan and red,
Smiths that through the ages fled,
Dripping Smiths come from their bed
In a frith ;
Smiths from jungle, cave and seS,
All the Smiths of History
Arched across eternity—
Rainbow Smith !
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS


r,
w*
X
till
m
v j ‘
mu
X
w
Ui>
>v
1
rv
v-/j
\j.
/
tk.
»
\
V v
%
/
//
%
4
li
K
N»
m
i
I
k
rXJo'rd^n^—
\<2
;3>en_
-^5
K\
%\
m\
[IWS
i
.« As . sir ’ Thomas, I suppose I shall have to chucK the ‘ song
and dance,’ but I can still enjoy my smoKe of HAVELOCK.!


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Arti.tic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Man.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER . BRADLEY and CO.,
82* George street. Sydney.
MORE BLOOD TO CURE BLOODLESSNESS.
That’s the Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills Wat.
Sydney Girl Ailing for Want of Good Blood.
No Strength or Energy ; Headaches ; So
Weak; Laid Up Foe Days. Took Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. In Splendid
Health To-day.
Anaemia is a state of bloodlessness. Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills for Pale People actually
make new blood. That’s the whole thing in a nut-
shell about curing bloodlessness. There’s really
nothing else for it, because no other medicine will
replenish the blood supply so quickly and surely.
That’s why in the end anaemic people have to take
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Those who start with
them as soon as they suspect anaemia, and there
are many signs, get their health back sooner than
those who first experiment with something else.
The signs of anaemia are paleness, white lips
and gums, constant tired feeling ; shortness of
breath ; heart palpitation ; indigestion ; headaches.
It gets worse all the time ; that’s the greatest dan-
ger. Anaemia very often ends in a deadly decline.
One of the first signs you will notice that Dr.
Williams’ : Pink Pills are doing you good is the
sharp appetite they create. You’ll feel that you
can’t get enough to eat. Then you’re on the road
to health, and it won’t be long until you feel full
of energy and fit to enjoy life. Half the women
of Australia owe their good health to Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. One of them is Miss Laura Cornish,
3 Edward Lane, Darlington.
“I suffered greatly from anaemia,” said Miss
Cornish, “I rarely cared to eat a plain, honest
meal, anything sour such as vinegar or lemons
with salt suited me, and I’d send out and get
the lemons if I hadn’t any in the house. I had
such a craving some days that I’d be ravenous;
next day I’d eat nothing. Even if I sat down to
the table the ravenous feeling would disappear,
Sometimes the sight or the rattle of a tea cup
would put\ me off eating. My head would ache
dreadfully at each side of the temples, and I’d have
to go and lie down at once. My head seemed as
if it was opening and shutting till I’d be nearly
dazed. My lips and gums were always pale, and
occasionally my face would turn quite greenish.
If I pulled down my eyelids there wouldn’t be a
sign of blood. My hands were clammy and my
feet always cold. I was so low spirited that often
I’d be in tears. I’d think some dreadful cloud
was hanging over me. Several times I’d have to
stop away from work for two or three days a week.
I qover cared to go out and enjoy myself or take a
walk for pleasure, it was as much as I could do to
get about. I had no strength or energy at all.
The lightest effort was a burden. I was terribly
dark tinder the eyes and very wasted away in flesh.
I always had a pain in my chest, especially after
eating; it would go right through to my back.
Sometimes I’d wake up in the night with a start
and trembling, bathed in a cold perspiration. I was
ailing ike this for quite a year when some girl
friends where I used to work advised me to try
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I got some from
Pattinson’s in George Street, and felt a great
change for the better with the finish of the first
box. By the time I had fairly started the second
box I could feel the good i was getting. My
flesh got firmer and a little color came back to my
face and lips. I began to look forward to a meal
and could enjoy it without any bad after effects.
I kept on steadily with the course, taking three
pills a day. The headaches lessened and soon it
was strange for me to have one, and, best of all,
that weariness and all-gone feeling began to leave
me. I felt so much brighter and brisker that I
was able to go out to work and not miss a day,
and all my low spirits went. I shall always re-
commend Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Five boxes
gave me the good health that I now enjoy.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all medicine
dealers, or if you cannot get them locally, send
direct to The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of
Australasia, Ltd., Sydney. 2s. 9d. for one box;
six boxes for 15s. 3d., post free.
This Elastic Truss—
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofoomfort,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
If Bent really wants to know the tricks of
the chaff trade, referred to in a recent Bulletin,
he needn’t go outside his own Parliamentary sup-
porters to learn them. But Bent, who says he
can do nothing in the matter, probably knows that
much already.
Anti-Sosh, and especially the Stinking
Fish brand of the fantod, will be delighted to hear
that a Royal Commission in Great Britain has
recommended that the State should purchase all
the good stud horses suitable for military stock-
raising, and entirely control the breeding of such
animals in future.
It is announced so innocently in Mel-
bourne that unfortunately the Government found
it impossible to dispose of any of the Sunshine
accident claims in June. Bent and Tait’s
financial year ends on June 30 ; and a little thing;
like the Sunshine smash mustn’t be allowed to
spoil the look of the surplus.
Further and further the State pushes
itself in between the hunger of the many and the
greed of the few. Russia provides State granaries
and supervises the distribution of food supplies ;
now it is cabled that the Swiss National Council
proposes to take to itself a monopoly of the sale
of corn and flour. But Australia still puts up
with the “honorable understandings” of its
private food-speculators.
It isn’t only the patriotic Australian who
sees Australia’s danger. Writing to Professor
Anderson Stuart, of the Immigration League,
from Oregon (U.S.A.), Smedley V. Burgess, a
well-known American, says :
You are existing on the sufferance of the Imperial
navy, but in your day of trouble that part of the navy
which might save you might be elsewhere, and then your
all would be gone. Again, I would urge you to get
people quickly settled on your land.
“Throw’open your land !” he urges. But, alas,
he doesn’t know that we have thrown open our
land —most of it in the south and east, anyway :
thrown it open to sheep and cattle, but not to
men. And that is just where a progressive land-
tax comes in.
WHAT'S IN A NAME!
The King has approved the “ War Office Army List,”
showing the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and- 6th Australian
Light Horse Regiments (New South Wales) as being allied
to the “ King’s Colonials, Yeomanry.”— News Item.
Pom-pom and machine gun sections are to be added by
the Commonwealth to the Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th
Australian Light Horse Regiments.— News Item.
N EDWARD:“ Here's a nice feather for your hat."
T HE TRUMPETER: “ Thanks, Nedward, thanks.
But you couldn’t make it a pom-pom, could
you ? We could do a lot more tickling with
a pom-pom."
When the foreign-trade Anti-Australian
press is left without other mischief for its idle
hands to do, it strives to stir up strife between
Deakin and Lyne. It is pointed out in speciously
friendly or in openly hostile paragraphs, that
Lyne is the real leader, and so on. But it doesn’t
cut any ice. Two old hands at the political game
are not caught with such chaff as that.
From a paper of 50 years ago :
It having been found that Sydney sand was very suit-
able for the manufacture of glass—more especially glass
for optical purposes—a few hundredweight was recently
sent home, and Mr. Pellatt, of the Falcon Manufactory,
says that, in his opinion, “ Sydney sand excels all others
for whiteness, brilliancy, and fusibility.”
And after practically 50 years of the Freetrade
theory, how much high-quality glass is made in
Sydney ?
The Commonwealth is committing another
outrage. Some time ago its Statistician prepared
a “Year Book of the Commonwealth,” to show
what things Australia was doing and what it
might do in the future ; and now Minister Keat-
ing has authorised the free distribution of copies,
through the State Education Departments, to the
State schools, mainly for the use of teachers. The
State Rights party will no doubt see to it that
this effort to put in a good word for Australia
receives its merited reproof.
Premier Tom Price will be back in
Adelaide about the middle of July, and the South
Australian Parliament will open its next session
on the last Thursday of that month. Four days
later the Price Cabinet will be three years old,
and all its members will then, among other things,
be entitled to be styled “honorable” for life.
I here is no immediate prospect of trouble, and
the portents are that the session will be quiet and
profitable.
Sydney Telegraph on the military situa-
tion in Australia:
That very interest in military exercises is what guar-
antees an effective volunteer or militia force, and there-
fore renders conscription unnecessary.
Australia, with a population of four and a half
millions, and a continent to defend, has something
less than 20,000 efficient soldiers. That is the
effective defence that “interest in military exer-
cises ” has so far guaranteed.
The municipality of Sydney, at its own
electric power-house at Pvrmont, is proving that
60 tons of coal can be burned daily without any
visible smoke getting out of the chimney. That
experience is the best of practical reasons for
prompt legislation to put an end to the smoke
nuisance which makes Sydney atmospherically
one of the dirtiest cities in the world. Cheap
coal has conduced largely to the Sydney habit of
letting much of the fuel go up the chimney as
soot; and it has involved a dear sacrifice of com-
fort and even of life.
H. M. Hyndman —publicist, writer of
Freetrade essays and pamphlets, and worker
among the submerged masses of England—deals
tersely (London Daily Mail, 10/5/’08) with the
tattered old Freetrade contention as to Germany’s
poverty and Britain’s prosperity :
I defy Mr. Chiozza Money to show me any town in the
Fatherland, where there is the same amount of slumdom
and hopeless, degraded misery and squalor, in proportion
to the population, that I can show him in London, Man-
chester, Glasgow, Liverpool, Birmingham, or Dundee
after two full generations of capitalist Freetrade.
There is no deposit to be forfeited in a
S.A. election, and anybody with enough nerve
can put the State to the expense of a contest.
There were two of them in the recent Adelaide
City election ; and while the Labor candidate was
winning from a straight-out opponent by 2000
majority, the two “ independents ’’ scored 76 and
52. One of them turned out to be a humorist.
At the declaration of the poll he was represented
by a letter, “to express my regret that the
exigencies of personal safety should preclude my
being present.” The letter was dated “ from the
deepest recesses of a culvert, where my friends
have advised me to stay for a time.”
Away back in ’65, when Daylesford (Vic.)
had a small land boom, one Vanina sold certain
lands to various persons. Before the contracts
could be registered and the lands transferred, the
bottom of the boom dropped
out, and nobody bothered any
more about the lots. Vanina
and his customers are dead
now, but they have left heirs
and assigns; and as Bent’s
land-purchase schemes and
other circumstances have sent
Daylesford land values soaring
again, these heirs and assigns
have become interested in the
ancient transactions. The other
day the Law was therefore
asked to allow the contracts to
be registered, whereupon it
opined that the matter, since
it concerned the disposal of
real property, was of great
moment, and must be dis-
pensed accurately and—with
Costs. All which worry and
argument would have been
avoided if the municipality
had levied an adequate
local rate, or if the Go-
vernment had had sense
enough to impose a
land-tax. As it is,
municipality and State have been guarding
and improving the properties all these years,
and now certain people who cared not a farthing
about the matter step in and collar the profits.
In a mild and half-apologetic way Queens-
land begins to prod the squatter who still houses his
shearing hands in the pig-sty. A Winton manager
was hauled up the other day and ordered to do so
many things that it looked as though he hadn’t so
far done anything at all that the Shearers and
Shed Hands’ Accommodation Act has been telling
him to do. Hitherto in two States the Act has
been allowed to lie dormant because of the
squatters’ bad times; but the bottom has fallen
out of that excuse, and a few fines are now hap-
pening here and there.
The S. M. Herald is wobbling again.
First it said that the Federal finance proposals
were very good proposals ; then it said they were
shocking; now it is up on the
fence saying that they are
very good proposals if you
look at them one way, and
very shocking if you look at
them another way. But the
irresolute old woman has very
definite opinions on one sub-
ject, at least. If the States
win, “then there is a pro-
spect of neglected defence
or additional taxation,” and
the prospect of additional
taxation breaks the Herald
right up. So the tendency
of the Herald just now is
to approve of the Federal
scheme in a mild way and
beg the States to be careful
and save the ha’pence, and try to pull through
somehow.
When Premier Wade is tired of being
rude to the Federal Parliament on the subject of
the Federal Capital, he vents a playful humor on
the severity of the Dalgety climate in winter,
and pictures the Australian Parliament sitting on
an iceberg. In the cold snap of mid-June the
thermometer at Bombala went down to 29 deg.
There is no person living near enough to Canberra
to say how cold it was there; the nearest reading
obtainable was at Queanbeyan, and there the
glass went down to sixteen degrees, or 16 degrees
below freezing point.
Spruce Myth has been addressing another
tame meeting in Sydney and advising Australia
not to trouble much about naval defence—it will
be quite enough if it protects its harbors. So it
will, if Australia is prepared always to- let ’em all-
come—Jap and Chow and Manilaman. In fact,
remembering the Myth’s wretched views on the
subject of letting ’em all come, The Bulletin
doesn’t know what he wants to waste money on
harbor defences for. Possibly, however, - Mr.
Smith realises that you need a little time to pack
up even a wig.
RUINED.
Dr. Clarence Read told the North Shore Communication
Commission that he preferred a bridge to a tunnel. It
would be undoubtedly the healthier.
Oh, doctor! And I thought you and us were
friends. ”
It looks as if the United States’ biggest
and ugliest old sin may shortly come home to
roost at the White House. The negro vote has
hitherto gone pretty solidly for the Republicans ;
but Taft, who has won the Republican nomination
for the job of wearing Roosevelt’s boots, dis-
missed the Twenty-fifth (negro) regiment after the
Brownsville affair, so the negro says he won’t
swallow Taft. If he won’t, then the White House
will probably have to change its name. It won’t
be Black exactly, but it will be a good deal
Speckled.
The Stinking Fish is a far-swimming
animal. Writes a notable Australian from
Athens (whence hails Demetrius Observitopulos,
chief vendor of more or less fresh fish in Aus-
tralia) :
I struck the Six Hatters lie even in Athens ! One of
the ablest of the Ministers “ could not understand why
we would not let Englishmen land in Australia,” and in-
stanced the glaring case of the Six Hatters. Lord!
How I would like to make the Argus, the Telegraph, the
Herald and George Reid consume the rest of their days
in doing penance and making retribution to Australia of
even a small portion of the money loss that lie has caused
the country.
South Sydney, now represented in the
Reps, by J. 0. Watson, will see a wild political
jamboree at the next Federal and State elections.
Parties have for months past been filling their
gall-sacs with deadly venom. A new working-
man’s institute was devised as a fortress of
strength, and when O’Sullivan was set atop, one
party rejoiced. But the other parties were awake,
and at the christening of the institute J. 0.
Watson, McGowen, W. M. Hughes, G. Reid, Jim
Hogue, and Jeamy Graham presented themselves
as sponsors—all Codlins, no Shorts.
New York Tribune gives a warm approval
to the Deakin defence scheme (19/4/’08); and it
adds :
. The sentiment of nationality is strong in Australia, as
it is in Canada, in Maoriland, and in South Africa, and it
is entirely compatible with the most profound and endur-
ing attachment to the Empire as a whole. An essential
element of nationality is militant sufficiency for self-
defence, even in excess of any imminent or proximate
perils. It is the ambition of Australia to be a country
competent for self-defence, as well as endowed with self-
government, and that is an ambition creditable alike to
patriotism and to civic wisdom.
Ambassador Whitelaw Reid owns and controls
the Tribune, which thrives on the reputation of
being the brainiest daily in the U.S.A.
Brisbane Observer (20/6/’08) on the vic-
tory of the country football team (practically all of
whom were northern men) over the metropolis:— *
Victorious ! Those pertinacious Countrymen, com-
plexioned with “the shadowed livery of the burnished
sun,” of brawn, muscle and stamina, perhaps educationally
deficient in the finer arts of Rugby, but possessed of the
essential “ devil ” in acute form, and remarkable powers
of adaptability, have swooped down upon the metropoli-
tan camp, and stolen away with fifteen scalps to decorate
their wigwams.
And for years Brisbane’s Tory press—including the,
Observer —has been trying to convince a sceptical
world that North Queensland is only fit for blacks,
browns or brindles, and that the white race de-
generates in those tropic regions.
THE SAME OLD GUTTER.
Knibbs (Government Statist) re the adoption of decimal
system of coinage, etc., remarks that the change is abso-
lutely essential to progress.
BRITANNIA AND CO. “ Yes, it’s an uncomfort-
able old gutter , certainly; but please don’t
disturb us — we’ve got so used to lying in it.”
Even if 1000 men are put off in one lump
from the Victorian railways—for the purpose, per-
haps, of showing as few on the books as possible
at the end of the financial year, when the report
is made up—other branches of the department cry
aloud for quite that number. There is room for
some hundreds in the lower grades of the trans-
portation and locomotive branches. The perma-
nent men in those grades are continually working
overtime, and getting themselves disliked by the
' officers for growling about it. The engines are
“rotten” for want of cleaners, and falling to
pieces for need of repairs. Annual leave, usually
worked off during the slack winter months, has
scarcely been started yet this year. And the
American fleet is in the offing, and when it gets
a bit nearer no men will be allowed off.
British statesmen begin to take the Ger-
man menace very seriously. It is now regarded
as only a question of time till Holland, and per-
haps Denmark, will fall into the Teutonic maw,
and the Dutch colonial empire with them. There
are between 12,000,000 and 15,000,000 Germans in
the Austrian Empire, and if that very cracked
and shaky structure bursts, and they hook
on to the Yaterland, there will be the large
spectacle of a Germanic empire with a popu-
lation of about 90,000,000. German papers
have recently declared that British statecraft
is making gigantic efforts to fetch about
an Anglo-Franco-Russian military convention to
counterbalance this impending nightmare. If it
does, and the two nightmares fight, it will be a
sizeable disagreement.
The report that China is raking together
many million taels with a view to building a ser-
viceable, up-to-date navy, should make Australia
think hard. It will be a humiliating thing if, in
a few years’ time, this country has to admit to
itself that the almost unintelligible heathen, who
brings the vegetables to the back-door and says
All-li !”has, in the event of a row about the
change, a big fleet to back him up, while the
superior white person inside, who consumes the
slug-haunted cabbage and roars out orders to the
cook, has nothing much beyond his loud voice.
Bananaland’s next session will see a Bill
providing for a railway between Longreach and
Win ton, thus connecting the Central and Northern
systems. From a mining point of view the link is
very important, since it will bring into touch the
coal belts of the Dawson with the copper country
of Cloncurry. Besides, it will run through good
sheep and cattle country,'and also be an important
section of the great East Australian trunk line
which will some day hitch the Gulf country with
Sydney on one side and with the Territory on the
other, and thus reduce to a minimum the risks of
cattle raising and droving in those parts.


for Country &Towa Wear.
Best Value
in
Australia
m
0
0
f
m,
l
I
i
I
w
r
85
Write/or Patterns
and
Self Measurement
Forms.
Cut Style & Finish,o/ High Standard.
BUCKUYtNUNN L™
sourke Sr Melbourne.
m
"ii
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
Notice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
La ■
-MALTHOID ROOFING
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
"If it is not seemly, do it not;
If it is not true, speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
We simply want to advise you in your own interests that MALTHOID
ROOFING is the one that will suit you in every particular. It is devoid of
the faults of shingles, slates, or iron, as it is storm, wind and rain proof
under all conditions, and is so simply laid that it appeals to every sensible
person.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
'CLfflt
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
G. A. GAEDINEE.
SOEBY & CO., Newcastle.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
F. LASSETTER & CO., LTD.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The New
Model
BRITON
Universal Keyboard.
Steel Type and Bars.
Two=Color Ribbon.
Tabulating Indicator.
Simple, Strong, Durable.
A Standard Machine Simplified.
Typewriter
Is Now Ready.
WE GUARANTEE IT!
The Briton
is essentially a Correspondence machine. Over
40,000 in use. Letters from satisfied customers
everywhere—on file. Every machine guaranteed for two years. Seeing is believing
—using is knowing. Write for Free Catalogue and Description, also particulars of our
FREE TRIAL OFFER.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
282-4 George Street, Sydney.
A- Mans DbstEriend Is—
ECKOOLEY-S
MENIADLINIL
MENTHOLINE and I arc inseparable friends.
The familiar little bottle has a permanent
abiding place in a corner of my waistcoat
pocket. If lam threatened with a HEADACHE, a
sniff or two soon puts me right. If I feel the slightest
symptoms of a COLD, or if I catch a CHILL,
MENTHOLINE provides a cure on the spot. It is
pleasant, palatable and pungent to take, and a certain
remedy for INFLUENZA, COUGHS, COLDS,
SORE THROAT, HOARSENESS, QUINSY,
and all troubles of the Throat or Lungs. All
Chemists and Storekeepers sell MENTHOLINE—*
ECKERSLEY'S MENTHOLINE (be sure it is
Eckersley's). If you cannot readily procure MEN-
THOLINE locally, write direct to the manufacturers,
Messrs. ECKERSLEY & SONS, 628 BOURKE
STREET, MELBOURNE, who will post a bottle
to you for 1/-, or four bottles for 3/6, with the name
of the storekeeper nearest you who stocks it. Free
Trial Bottle for a twopenny stamp of any State.


The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
<?
K s
Wholesale
for Australia— i
Hogg, Robinson i
& Co., Propty.,Ld. j
Sydney & Melbourne, j
HUMPHREY TAYLOR !
& co., !
LONDON, ENGLAND, 2
Liqueurists to the House of Lords, j
Girls, why be plain ? You can, if you choose,
always be radiant and charming', even if your features
are irregular and indifferent. But your complexion must
be perfect, then people will turn to look again. Valaze
creates beauty and preserves it. Valaze perfects the good
skin, purifies the bad skin, and beautifies all skins.
Pimples, wrinkles, freckles, and all blemishes disappear
under the spell pf Valaze ; 6s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and 6d.
postage. For removing superfluous hairs there is nothing
like the Novena Hair Destroyer. It removes the hairs
without any detriment to the skin, and after application
leaves a delightfully cool sensation ; 6s. 6d., 6d. postage.
All chemists, or direct from Helena Rubinstein and Co.,
Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt-street, Sydney; 274
Collins-street, Melbourne ; 9 Brandon-street, Wellington,
N.Z.* [1
Even if you live at Geelong you die in the
'end, though Canon Goodman put off the event
until he was 87. A kindly, tolerant old soul he
was, and for some of the spirit which Christ
Church, Geelong, has lately displayed over Canon
Gnash he was responsible. But he was better
known as examining chaplain; under all the
Bishops from Perry to Clarke he held that
Eatriarchal job, and passed three or four hundred
udding clerics through his hands.
“ Mopane,” from Bulawayo (Africa)
“ The Long Arm ” again ! Awhile back, in Capetown,
an acquaintance was talking of Australians, and men-
tioned that during the Boer war he was in hospital in
Salisbury, Rhodesia, and that the next bed was occupied
by an Australian, who spoke in a peculiar way, as though
he had lost the roof of his mouth. Years ago, when I
used to ride with the Adelaide Hunt Club, there was a
man employed by one of the members, and he spoke just
like that. So, at a venture, I said “ Was his name
Moloney ? ” “By Jove !” my friend said, “ that was his
name.” Then we compared notes. It was the same man.
t*JsC******** * * * * * * * 3$C *
Rohu
i r
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
I’m here to give hints
about making tea—here’s one
point : —Always warm your
teapot thoroughly before you
measuie in the tea, more
especially in cold weather,
because to get all the goodness
out of the leaves the water
should be actually boiling while
on them—a cold teapot chills
the water cff the boil instantly,
and your cup of tea isn’t then
so good as if ought to be.
The No. 1 Grade Robur
is beautiful tea—it has a nice
flavor, and is very economical
By Royal Warrants of Appointment to His Majesty the King and H.R.H. The Prince of Wales.
BUCHANAN’S WHISKY,
BLACK and WHITE
93
FACILE PRINCEPS
SEMPER IDEM
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, June 30, 1908.
My Dear Arini, —
Patient Rawsons came along as usual to present
* e P ri^e ® the Juvenile Ball in aid of the Civil
Ambulance. A small Hamilton Marshall girl, as
Folly, ’ made the thought of wisdom seem
foolish. A little Mack damsel, as “Jane Austen,”
in a short-waisted white muslin, a knob of hair on
her poll, and side: curls,'was “real' cute,” and
knocked the pride and prejudice out of anyone
who carried such unhappy emotions. A Rolin
silken-hair was a good number of The Bulletin.
A little girl as The Lone Hand, with a waste
basket on her head, wings on her feet, and
a white satin frock printed in colors with the
covers of the maga., was the “ literary feature ”
of the ball. The maga. and Jane Austen had a
dance together. There was a jolly little Maori in
correct lack of clothes. His costume is said to
have cost two shillings. .An abundance of mamas
and a sprinkling of papas were present. Mrs.
lom Rolin, in an afternoon Empire gown of green
velvet, looked the most picturesque circumstance
amongst the grown-ups.
Manager (for Anglin) Nethersole surveyed
“ The Morals of Marcus” on a night last week at
the Criterion. That night two months ago he
was observing the same play in a Philadelphian
theatre, with the creator of the Marcus r6le, Au brey
Browne, in the cast. A.B. is a noted cricketer,
and was bricketing, hot mumming, here and in
Maoriland some years ago. The Criterion’s Mr.
Homewood—the gentleman who is struck on
History, a ragged Syrian girl and black cats —
used to be in. a Nethersole Co. in U.S. The
piece gives Miss Guildford-Quinn, an Australian
girl, a capital chance as Carlotta, the Syrian child
of Nature, with a vast capacity for chocolates and
for cuddling the dry Historian. She springs with
the grace of a cat up on to a sofa, and wears a
crimson silk, wingv kind of robe as only dark,
elfin creatures may.
It is a frocky play. As Judith Main waring,
Miss Day’s first enclosure is an afternoon one of
shot-green and blue silk, with sleeves and under-
bodice of guipure. Oriental trimmings wander
according to the wills of designer and wearer;
and on top of all is a satin straw hat, with shaded
green roses. A Black silk muslin in the second
act is worn over white satin, and with it a mar-
vellous Paisley shawl, 200 years old, as thin as
mist, and looped into present-day burnouse
fashion. Yet the looping was done a century
ago. The third-act gown is a bewildering con-
fection of emerald glace, floral- ribbon, gold net;
with a wide hat of brown tulle and pink roses.
Miss Nellie Mortyne, as Miss Ordeyne, in the
first act has an attractive frock of striped canvas
cloth, with pink and black trimmings. The new
girl from Maoriland, Miss Laing-Meason, did her
little Dora part satisfactorily in a pink frock.
The Mrs. Livingstone Learmonth widow who
is to marry Viscount Portman is related to the
alliteratively-named Sydney family. The Viscount
is in his seventy-ninth year, so the widow had
better hurry up to the ceremony, or she’ll have to
take the Viscount to church in a bath chair.
Some rambling mental snap-shots and eye-snaps
of the first night of “ The Thief ” —the collection
beginning before the fair Thief herself arrests and
holds the faculties :
The piercing cold of a westerly, straight off the ice.
Would it be possible to heat the Blue Mountains with
steam-pipes, and so temper the Sydney wind to the shorn
[of upper clothes] lambs and ewes in the stalls of Her
Majesty’s? One of the most ablebodied draughts under
which I ever refrigerated blew in upon the stalled sheep.
It blew upon my tailor-made and an outer coat like a
railway-rug, and found me out, even as the Thief is found
out; yet a lady near me endured it on an absolutely
denuded neck and shoulder: denuded, that is to say, save
for an opal and diamond necklace and pendant that
blinded the eyes of the stalled sheep and oxen. Thrice is
she .clothed, who (though ddcolletg) hath a diamond
pendant on her brisket, and she who hath not one
shivereth, though she be wrapped up in rugs.
The man with me has stifled nine sneezes, and a
feminine voice in our neighborhood says “ If he does it
twenty-four more times it’s a sign he’s' got the plague.
Don’t you remember in ‘ The Scarlet Pimpernel ’ that
thirty-three sneezes meant the plague?” After that she
passes for quite a wit and a well-informed person.
If one had known what a boom hair-combs were going
to have, wouldn’t one have sunk all one’s capital in
tortoiseshell and turquoise and gilded tin, and thus
reaped a fortune? Many women are wearing half crowns
of pink rosebuds, iridescent butterflies, and things like
daddy longlegses and praying mantises, mostly in vitriolic
shades of green. A tall girl, with a long ostrich feather
trailing from above one ear, enters with a party, and the
feather gets her a lot of observation. Feather is a peculiar
shade of green. Heine described Marguerite’s bodice, in
a noted picture of that damsel and Faust, as being of the
hue of green soap. Possibly the plume of the lady of the
feathered ear was soap-green.
Mrs.'liolker, wife of the Anglin’s leading man, comes in
and causes a buzz. She isn’t an actress... more buzz
quite young, and very pretty, well nourished hair like
a fair baby’s, and parted at the side. Dressed in perfect
taste. Yet none would mistake her for an Australienne
or a United Kingdomenne. “An American ” touches the
spot. (The joke will be on me if she proves to be a Ken-
tish lass or a Dublin belle, or some such.)
At Paris House last week, at a dinner given to Miss
Anglin, the Star modestly mentioned her fear of being- a
failure with our critical audiences. “No matter,” sooth-
ingly responded a male materialisation of Tact; “ Tither-
adge is such a favorite here, he’ll save the situation.”
Loud shrieks of utter'silence... .
Voice borne on the westerly draught: “ How queer it
is to see women in evening dress at the theatres ! In
America they come in awfully smart Waists and hats—
but they don’t keep on the hats.”
Overture is crashing to a finale. The procession of
men, and women in Empire gowns of velvet or lace, grows
denser. They keep on their theatre coats. The eyes of
their motors burn in the darkness without. Five men
come in a party, without a leaven of femininity, evidently
from a first-rate dinner. If the menu left any interstices
these are filled with a stuffing of profound self-satisfac-
tion. If the Commonwealth had just'become a Limited
Liability Co., I should have sworn that that Big Five
formed its Board of Directors. They were so excessively
prosperous-looking, their hair was so. white, and their fat
was so ruddy. Many pretty women nodded to them.
When the curtain went up, and after the tumult of
greeting, the first scene resolved into the love-
making of the two eleven-months-married lovers. My
Big Five were convulsed with inward laughter. The.love-
making done by any but artful artists would be of the
most drivelling, infantile,, silly-billy description. As it
was, my Big' Five rocked with laughter, looked at each
other unutterable things, and choked. But, in the second
act, when the lady is grovelling in tears full-length on
the fleecy mat at her husband’s patent-leathers, the Big
Five were apoplectic with indignation. They would not
(especially after such a Dinner as they had enjoyed) allow
any pretty young women, who didn’t bulge anywhere
and who was dressed in a pink neglige , to flop round on
the floor in tears and anguish.
They didn’t laugh any more. They just wriggled on
their velvet chairs. What if she was a thief ! She hadn’t
loved the other fellow better than the fellow she was
grovelling to. Only that matters. Also the fact that
she didn’t bulge as she lay on her face on the mat.
The insistent cry of the fascinating Thief to her
husband, ‘‘l-love you, I love you, ’’ and the re-
iteration that she stole because of her idolatrous
love for him—these things would be wearisome
were it not that the audience has to be sand-
bagged, so to speak, into remaining in sympathy
with her while she endeavors to make her
husband hold his tongue and allow an in-
nocent youth to take her guilt on himself.
The scene of the two principals takes 40
minutes, yet you might have heard a cough drop.
A woman very much in love can sandbag
herself with her love (which sounds a paradox).
The painful play is full of curiously effective poses
by the two principals. For many minutes Miss
Anglin and Mr. Kolker stand in silence with their
backs to the audience, and their heads drooping,
while Mr. Titheradge and Miss Vaughan are talk-
ing. _ But all watch those two backs. Kolker is a
Harrison Fisher man with a voice of remarkable
and melodious sonorousness, but his dress-pants
bag at the knees.
The dailies which plunged, into the subject of
the Hay lineage, apropos the knighting which old
honorary-Dr. Hay, of Crow's Nest and Coolan-
gatta, endured last week, were in error,
for the most part. Alexander Hay, who, con-
jointly with H. I). Morton, manages the family
estates, is not a brother of John Hay, as
alleged, but a half-brother, Mrs. P. H. Morton
and the Hay girls (there are half-a-dozen of
them) are half-sisters. The Berry Estate,
rich as it undoubtedly is, is far from being the
astoundingly desirable proposition from the Hay
standpoint that it looks from a railway carriage
window. David Berry saddled it with all sorts
of imposts in the way of grants to the Berry dis-
trict, and to overseas universities, and so on.
Reported that Dr. Vivers has bought “Glen-
rock,” the old home of the John Marks family.
The price asked and paid was £ll,OOO. The new
owner of “Glenrock” does more motoring than
doctoring. He has “interests” (which are vague
things, ranging from fifth shares in Tatt.’s sweeps
to million-acre cattle runs) in Queensland. He
proceeds aboard his motor at short intervals to ob-
serve his interests growing, or doing whatever in-
terests are accustomed to do, and then hurries back
to the Australia Hotel, where he abides while in
Sydney. Dr. Vivers is understood to have powerful
matrimonial leanings. An almost incredible
number of maidens claim that they have refused
his hand (and motor) during the last three years.
It will remain to be seen if they remain adamant
with “ Glenrock ” thrown into the balance. The
girl who rebuffs matrimonially a tall, be-spectacled
young man, the owner of an unimpeachable moral
character, three motor-cars, Queensland interests
and “ Glenrock,” seems too self-immolating to be
true.
Mrs. David, whose Professor-husband is in the
Antarctic with the Shackleton try-trv-try-again
expedition, must be wishing (now that she feels
the wind so cold that it burns) that she had tied
hubby by the leg. However, she, being an un-
common personality, will probably work off her
anxiety by digging up a few acres of ground at
her home in the Blew Mountains.
Mr. Charles Hughes, who, as sub-manager of
the TJ.S.S. Co. of Maoriland in Sydney, was such
a comfort to the bewildered would-be passenger,
male or female, has left us to be Tasmanian man-
ager of the Dominion’s crafts ; and his new head-
quarters will be in Hobart. Tasmania will have
to send us an incredible quantity of apples to
atone for the taking of Mr. Hughes.
Young Australia is the most stage-stricken of
communities. That section of it that doesn’t
practise muddied oafdom or flannelled folly is in
all its spare time mewing about amateur theatri-
cals. Mr. Ewing (the rhyme of Ewing with mew-
ing is just one of my unconscious strokes of
genius) would lift his Defence scheme into instant
popularity if he intimated that dramatic clubsi
would be encouraged at encampments ; and thej
youth who bears himself most heroically, though'
guyed by the stage enemy, should thenceforth;
wear medals on his chest. These perfectly
sympathetic remarks are inspired partly by
a glance at a colossal pile of cards of invitation!
from divers metropolitan and suburban dramatic
and operatic clubs, and partly by a document from
Mr. Percy Gray, intimating the birth of the
Lyric Opera Club. The club’s exact birthplace is
on the vacuum left by Mr. Philip Lytton’s
“Players”; and Mr. Gray says that within its
fold “ are some of the leading amateurs of Syd-
ney,” and that it is going to make an earnest bid
to take the doughnut. This week the precocious
amateur bantling is producing Audran’s comic
opera “Olivette,” in the Standard Theatre.
Miss Mary Learmonth, a member of the exten-
sive Lawson clan, was married last week to Mr.j
William Busby, of Cargo. Knoxes, Icelys,
Maeltays, and other relatives of the bride
abounded. Mr. “Steenie” Osborne (he is a
Currandooley Osborne, and hence one of import-
ance) was best man, and simulated a liking for his
job with considerable skill.
Mr. Bruce Campbell, of a Monaro squattage,
and Miss Heather Keys are preparing for the till-!
death-do-us-part drama. Miss Heather is aj
recent debutante, a cousin ,or Some such of Miss'
Vinia de Loitte and of Miss Ruby Adams.
Another engagement is that of Miss Muriel;
Carter, a pretty Darling Pointer, to Mr. Edgd
Partington, who is Something and Someone of 1
Importance at Fiji.
Young Dion Titheradge is a bewidering advt.
for some Piccadilly tailor and Park-lane society.!
His clothes, his eyeglass and his bleat leave no-i
thing to be desired. Yet he has no eye-pane or'
bleat when playing the amorous school boy.
Miss Phillis Dangar (she is a daughter of
Abbey Dangar, noted as the owner of Baroona
Station, N.S.W., and as the writer of some of the
longest, dreariest and most muddled letters to the
Eress extant) wedded Major Lovell, of the 29th
lancers, on May 27, at Ootamacund. Southern
India. _ The bride’s sister was the only bridesmaid,
and Miss Norah Dangar, a pretty cousin, was a
looker-on.
The G. P. Donnelleys, of Maoriland, are at the
Australia. She, a noted Maori chieftainess,
brought oser a retinue of Maori relatives to com-
fort her during a period of suffering in a private
hospital. Mrs. Perry, her widowed daughter,
who is with her, is a handsome half-caste.
With mighty blare of trumpets and bashing of
cymbal gongs, dinner bells, muffin tocsins, and so
forth, a club—the Imperial Colonial Club and
Overseas Union —is being organised at 3 Bolton-
street, London, W. The organising or guilty
party is Mrs. Hwfa, Williams. She is the
best-dressed woman in England. A few years
ago she contested a tailor’s bill, and fought
a strenuous law-action on the basic principle that
it was impossible for a woman to dress on £5OO
a year—or £5OOO, I forget which. Anyhow, the
women of England (who matter socially) were
with her to a female. Her Hwfa is a retired
Army officer; and he manages Sandown Park
Racecourse, where the Grand Military and
such-like smart events transpire. If you
want to annoy Hwfa (or his spouse) pro-
nounce the front part of their joint desig-
nation (the part which distinguishes them
from all the common plebeian Williamses who keep
shops) in any other way than “ HooFer,” with a
vigorous accent on the Hoof. It makes them
simply furious. To revert to the club, it has for
Vice-Presidents an imposing collection of Debrett
frequenters. Earls are as common as bathos on
Empire Day ; Countesses abound and bound ; so
do Barts. The idea of this scintillating titular
display is to lure on the type of “Colonial” who
won’t sink his or her entrance fee and subscription
nioney in any club unless assured that the
investment will return a solid dividend in
the way of “People of Social Position”
(quotation from J. McA. Onslow). Without
wishing to direct the contemptuous, much less the
blighting, eye on.the new scheme, I would fain
point out that the “ Colonial ” who joins an ’Ome-
land club of this sort under the impression that he
(or she) will here meet the vice-presidents en masse
taking their matutinal kipper, or mid-day snack,
or supper beer, or what not, associates himself
with a Brick of Rolled Gold, and becomes tempo-
rarily related, as it were, to a Fiji uncle. The
Debretters all have other clubs. Their enthusiasm
for the “ colonies ” and the people who live there
halts at (1) going amongst “ Colonials ” on well-
salaried gubernatorial jobs, and (2) letting their
names be inscribed as honorary members and vice-
presidentsof “Colonial’’clubs. They are vice-presi-
dents on much the same terms as G. Reid is a vice-
president of the East Sydney Hopscotch Associa-
tion. They are sleeping vice-presidents, so to
speak. They hang up their emblazoned gamps in
a “Colonial” club about as often as George, the
Shekel-Seeker of the Sydney Law-Courts, hangs
his up in the Australian Parliament.
There is one feature of the new scheme which
promises interesting developments. The “ Pre-
liminary Announcement” states firmly, uncompro-
misingly, that “NO person not received in Good
Society will be admitted a member of the club.”
As the local society (like so many other societies)
is composed of about 152 J distinct groups, no one
of which admits that the other is “ in Society ” at
- all, the sorting-out process is going to be difficult.
\What will happen; when Mrs. Henry Charles
Bangup swishes into the smoking-room and there
discovers Mrs. Bill Rorty (she who morphia-
injects, and whose drawing-room is one large
silver-framed photo gallery of her naval and other
acquaintances, past and present), I do not care to
contemplate. And the tragedy that will happen
when the Rorty dame finds that the wife of a
State Premier, or some other hopelessly impossible
person of the sort, has been inadvertently admitted
to membership will be terrible.
Paquin, whom France made a Knight of the
Legion of Honor because he knew how to make a
dress-bill grow bigger than anybody else, died a
while ago. Though he was the founder of the
business that out-glittered Worth’s, he was only
42 when his wife was left a widow with £140,000
to comfort her, besides “all other his property
absolutely.” And reading the list of “all other
his property,” it seems that the £140,000 was just
a trifle to go on with—enough, say, to buy a frock
or so at the shop.
Whether the fluffy-billowy petticoat goes (as
French dress-builders say it must) in favor of
jupes culottes, which are in plain Australian
“ bloomers,” designed to accentuate the slimness
of the wearer, or whether (as is more likely) it
stays, there is no doubt the tall, slight, albeit
rounded, form has come definitely. Most of the
required effect can be gained without going to the
weird lengths the Parisian mannequins did at the
races the other day. The thing needed, after all,
is mainly the figure. With it almost any old
thing does; without it, nothing is of much
avail. Sydney has a heap of girls who
would look divine without straining them-
selves an atom in the new Directoire fashion.
The two that naturally occur are Mrs. Alec
Hay and Miss Elsie Anderson.
Thus the man on the tram, speaking in an acid
tone : “ Why, that American Fleet won’t spend a
copper here ! Its got everything to eat with it,
from so many million pounds of spring lamb
down to matches, and everything to wear from
an admiral’s uniform down to an iron finger-ring
for rheumatism. I’m off it.”
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane :
Touching the exclusiveness of the Assembly Balls, of
which I wrote recently, it is now whispered that an awful
retribution is likely to overtake the chilly committee
when the Military and Naval Ball comes round as some
of the cold-shouldered mankind are said to be in the
front-rank among Australia’s defenders.
Talking of hops reminds, me that the yachting fraternity
held their annual frivol on Thursday night last, and the
South Brisbane Hall was a struggling mass of chiffon and
naval uniform. The departing Pyramus war-skiff men
took the opportunity of bidding yet another farewell to
the Brisbane girl; One stalwart officer has captivated an
until-now stony heart, whose owner is, or was till this
week, quite unaware of the existence in Melbourne of a
charming wife and babe. But why worry? Is not the
Challenger to arrive in these winding waters on July 29th ?
There wals the inevitable at-hotne on the Pyramus last
week and several dozen Society folk were received by
Lieut. Darley at the Ed ward-street ferry steps and boated
over bythfe bovs in blue. On the warship everyone was
welcomed by Captain Miehell, while Mrs. Forrester stood
by in a becoming'green cloth gown. There was the usual
display ol bunting, and read excitement prevailed over
the shooting contest, the prizes being ships’ ribbons, and
other such trophies.
Breathe it gently—Brisbane may at last have a Town
Hall. After a succession of half-hearted efforts, Mayor
Buchanan is determined, and—hey 1 presto ! —the thing
is, of course, done. Where he means to build it, or where
the money is to come from, hasn’t transpired ; but, again,
Why worry ? I believe that, without grumbling, the tax-
payers would even pay up—well, at least tenpence, if
only they could have a decent-sized hall to house their
organ in a convenient spot in the city.
It’s as cold as charity here just now, and Brisbane is
smothered in furs, coats, and warm sbcks and gloves.
But Southerners, who are arriving in shiploads twice a
week—until the Eschenhagen Cute and “the tea-shop
where the Devils are ’’ (as Rowe’s black-capped damsels
are called), look like miniature Paris Caf6s—laugh
at our idea of cold, and flit about the sunny
Botanic Gardens in white blouse-waists. They revel in the
sunshine, these folks ; and the little maids at the Kiosk
are nearly dead-beat serving tea on the Sun-kissed tables.
Ostentation is never a Strong point with the medical
and nursing profesh, and it wasn’t surprising to find Dr.
H. V. Foxton, eldest son of Federal-member Foxton,
having a very quiet wedding on Tuesday. The other
party chiefly concerned was pretty Nurse C.ter, just
through her three years’training at the “General ” —an
olive branch of Captain and Mrs. Cater, of Bowen Hills.
Yours Affectionately,
AKEN RHL.


4
t
■_: ■
***
r
■ ■ sew-
\
I®
; Tr>
***
■M
<*■
mu
'. 1 /
, w * «* -T-^ :
J
. , '•. -'V. :
V,
gis;»: ■■• : ;
mam
Wl
' i ,
tm
»s
a
I
tV ' '
•4
- . - ' t
1
. * .k.
£ -j
11111
W
Hi
is
.
BURKE &
11®
WESTON
No Waters are bluer, no
Skies more gracious, than
those oi the Queensland Coast !
It is now Winter over most of Australia,
but there is no Winter in Queensland.
It is there still bright and glowing.
The Tourists' Ideal Trip in Winter is to go
aboard the Mail Train at Sydney or Mel-
bourne, and wake up in Sunny Queensland.
Write to the Queensland Railway Department, Brisbane,
for Full Particulars.


“ P.D.”
CORSETS
THE CORSET that is recommended by
Fashion's leading authorities. Beautifully
designed by the most skilful of French
Corsetieres, and thoroughly tailored; every
pair possesses the graceful lines and curves
that are synonymous with a charmingly
perfect figure. Fit you like a glove—yet
for comfort, stylishness and service the
P.D. Corset is absolutely unrivalled.
Insist on a
“P.D”
All Drapers.
IP
A
■ha
'M
|| Sel/.Closii\3
Tobacco Pouch
Smokers will reach
\ for their Money
| as soon as they see this
£ Neat and Effective Pouctv
! IT LOOKS GOOD
g AND IS GOOD.
j Nq Splitting, No Trouble,
and Air-Tight.
If you want a Sati
Pouch at little cost
Dunlop Self-Closing
Pouch will suit.- Ask
your Tobacconist to
show you a sample.
Only accept
“ Dunlop” Brand,
for they are
newly-made,
and will last
for years.
Ouniop Pouches
made in
various
Styles.
sfactory
the
* «r
Mac<e in
Red Rubber
in Three
Sizes—
- 72 OZ.
1 OZ. <
V/2 ozs.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide.
Perm, Brisbane & Christchurch N.Z.
IS
/4 “ *
/ \
Re
DUNLOP
BAGS
SH
F
Give
fy Long ;
(F, Service. I
v, d
mat
There's no trouble with
DUNLOP
Hot Water Bag*
The imported article is usually half
perished when offered to the public.
Result—poor service and dissatisfaction.
Dunlop Bags are ALL FRESHLY MADE
OF THE BEST MATERIAL, last several
Winters and
DO NOT LEAK.
Stocked In Eleven Sizes from Bln. x 6in. to 14ln. ■ tOln.
If you want satisfaction accept only " DUNLOP
BRAND," and If you have any difficulty In
obtaining same, send to us direct
DUNLOP RUBBER. CO. OF AUST. LTD.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth. Brlebane, and
Christchurch, N.L
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 29, 1908.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
I sigh for a Kerristian Scientist with a sense of
humor. Till now I’ve never met one of either sex.
On Tuesday night I went to the Town Hall to hear
a beatific young man, named Bicknell, expound the
science founded by the lady, since accused of un-
sound mind, and found guilty at least of an
unsound degree of wealth. I found him to
be a plump, contented-seeming personage, who
set platitudes sailing gaily before the breeze of
a smooth baritone voice. A big audience
was there, and it applauded his truisms with as
much enthusiasm as original observations would
have deserved. In the audience, however, one
sat apart. He was a cripple, heavy-browed and
sombre-eyed, who seemed to suffer while he lis-
tened. He was under the very eye of Bicknell—
beside him, practically. On the platform the
high-priest of Mrs. Eddy trolled forth: “ Pleasure
and pain are each within our grasp—we are
the guardians of our bodies and our souls.”
Then, with that pitiful figure before him,
said the undiverting Dowie: “There is no
such thing as suffering.” I wept for the
emptiness of his gospel of ease, wept for the
huddled creature who gave it the lie. And still
Mr. Bicknell prated. As we coursed down the
stairs into the sleety night, I overheard a female
voice: “You know Mrs. Eddy must really be a
genius—she’s worth hundreds of thousands of
pounds.” That comment seemed to explain, in
some degree, why she has them.
The “ dog governess ” has arrived. I met one
of her out walking last week. She looked a nice
girl, and worthy of a better job. A sad old bull
dog, a fox terrier, and a sheep dog were her
pupils. She begins her toil at seven every
morning, taking her charges for a gentle walk.
Then she gives them breakfast. After breakfast
“ Mother ” (as the weird old lady who owns them
calls herself) spends an hour with the pack,
during which respite the “ governess” may feed
herself. Then the family is washed —Bully, and
all—and again they are conducted over the land-
scape, again they are fed, and again they are
walked. For this the nice girl gets a pound a
week. And there are other compensations. She
is not required to sleep in the nursery, the dogs
don’t tell if she meets a young man, and she can
have every evening out.
The Madden Guy and a couple of his satellites
have been flinging a gay leg in the face of Mel-
bourne this comic-opera season, and Sassiety is so
annoyed that, like the chondoglossosaurus of
classic memory, it almost bit the leg off last week.
The Ormond Collegians gave a ball in St. Kilda
Town Hall. The plump Guy adorned himself in
his Hieland garb and invaded the festivity early in
the evening. Later, he departed with his suite.
Anon he reappeared with some ladies of the ballet
in their best frocks. Then the fun began. None
of the buoyant youths troubled to be nice to their
earlier partners, but just flung themselves into a
whirl with the stage ladies, who twinkled their
experienced toes right over the finer feelings of
all the girls who glared at them. Sassiety was
shocked. It likes its play-actress served up at the
table of an established matron, for some reason.
For all that, usually the unconventional kitten
who capers round on the arm of an ineligible is a
lot less dangerous. She doesn’t marry her
chaperone’s brother. She only amuses the man.
A tragic sequel to the death-story of a popular
soldier-man is being published amongst his friends.
From here he was sent awhile ago to an Imperial
fort. Soon after the story came that he was dead
—the victim of an indiscriminate microbe. Now
from his own letters since received, and other
sources, it’s learnt that his body was found at the
foot of a precipice, and that he was coerced into
suicide by the infamous brutality of his English
brother officers and their “ragging” attentions.
The “ Bri’sh otf’cer ” appears to be often the sort
of beast who should be flayed in pieces, put to dry
in a salt-bin, and then steamed over a slow fire.
Miss Burrows, who was ministering-angel-in-
chief at Surgeon Thos. Fitzgerald’s hospital until
the other day, has committed matrimony. Her
accomplice before the fact was Mr. Tom Robert-
son, of Mt. Mitchell and other dividend-breeding
squattages. Cupid ignored both of ’em until
after their fiftieth year. The mature Thomas is
possessed of an annual £9OOO, therefore the pair
won’t need to furnish on time payment. And all
the male invalids of many ages whom Miss Burrows
met during her days of hospital matronhood have
cast gorgeous gifts at the feet of the lady who
coaxed them into swallowing grey powders and
black draughts. At present the family is ocean-
lining somewhere ’twixt here and Ceylon.
This day a post-card reached me—a perfectly.
shaped eucalypt leaf, fresh from its mother tree,
odorous of spring days, suggestive of many de-
lights. It was from Artist Hal Waugh, who has
been living the simple life that is made fearsome,
and occasionally complex, by the bull-ant bravo
and the intriguing ear-wig. And it announced
that an exhibition of his bush paintings will
happen next Thursday, and go on happening for
a month. That gum-leaf settled me. I’ll go to
the Bush at Bernard’s even if it snows on Thurs-
day.
Mrs. Rumor (usually an evil-minded baggage,
whom I should like to divorce from her deceived
husband, Belief) tells this time a respectable tale.
It is of a sentimental farce which followed some
Sassiety stage-playings. A beauteous youth and
a maiden who is so modest that she confesses “ I
sometimes wonder if I’m really as lovely as the
public thinks me,” took part in the mummery.
Now the youth sues for the charmer’s hand.
He caught papa in an easy mood, and got
his consent —previously he had made a note
of his beloved’s vows to be tender and true.
Then mamma uplifted her dramatic soprano voice,
and said that it should never be—that her girl
must have at least money, if she forewent a title.
So now there is a distraught family and a dis-
gruntled lover. Papa is afraid of both wife and
daughter, mamma is furious and decided, the
damsel is stubborn. And the wretched young
man’s vanity has to bear the aspersion that he
isn’t good enough for the girl who loves him.
Moral: Don’t let your daughter play sentimental
parts in private theatricals until you’ve married
her outside them.
Lady Northcote, wrapped in ermine, with a
bodyguard of three Gentlemen Helps and one
husband, had a special blue plush pen fixed for
her in the Princess’s circle, so that she could have a
good view of the Wiggs’ Cabbage Patch. ’Most
all the Americans in Melbourne rolled up to listen
to the familiar “Waal now” on the stage
(noticed a fascinating softness in the Dwyer-Wiggs
natural accent in comparison with the usual over-
Yankee-d drawl of stage imitations). One visitor
from the States dazzled, like an Oriental beauty,
in blood-red cr£pe and fringe, with three white
Lotus blooms in her black hair, and a ring of
square-cut sapphires (“camphires,” Mrs. Wiggs
calls them) finely clutching her white neck.
Railway Tait hosted a party of men without his
imposing wife. “ Blue Moon ” Baritone Kenneth
dashed about the theatre like a schoolboy home
for holidays. Heinze shone from a mist of blue
drapery and golden sidf-appreciation, resting
after her Marshall-Hall-Wagner warble of the
afternoon. Mrs. Burrell brought an uncommonly
pretty niece, Ailsa. She looks pure Saxon,
instead of Teuton—hair quite silver-fair in two
thick curled pigtails, and eyes as blue as ice-seas.
The house was packed, but all eyes were for the
Wiggses, especially Miss Dwyer-Wiggs and Miss
Lowell-Hazv, and the fascination was all in the
character acting. Rather a strong contrast to the
Fetich of Dress worshipped on the stage lately.
Our two comic operas flourishing mightily at Her
Majesty’s and the Royal are garbed in the last cry
of Frenchy fashion ; at Mrs. Wiggs’ show all the
dresses of all the acts, heaped in the centre of the
stage, wouldn’t bring 15s. lid. at an auction.
“Miss Lucie” is allowed a feather or two, and
pretty Lovey Mary decks herself solely in her
gorgeous red-gold hair, with something minor in
gingham as a foundation.
The Wiggs patently plagiarise Barrie’s “ Little
Minister” in their first act. “Was that no’ a
chap?” queries Barrie’s cottager, politely, after a
frenzied and silent sorting of the reception room
(with the best spoons in view and the mother’s
new shawl hanging with studied carelessness from
a bureau drawer), as she unlatched the door to the
guests she’d seen long before. Mrs. Wiggs,
warned that “the company” is coming, fran-
tically sorts the kitchen, and the white-bowed
bride plasters on her “ false front,” and sweetly
remarks “ Was thet a knock ? ”
The cold, dark, winter nights have brought the
scourge of the wayfarer who thuds respectable
gold-watched citizens over the head with a waddy,
or scares the uncavaliered female to such terror
that her false fringe rises on electrified end.
Now the park wastes of Outer St. Kilda boast a
man with spring boots and a delicate sense
of humor, which materialises in phosphorescent
lettering, “Prepare to meet thy Doom,” spread
over his manly chest. The hysterical girl walks in
fear by night, and Johnnydom is out for the
spectre’s blood. “He ran me into a pretty excur-
sion t’other night,” murmured a man I know.
“Nearly the last train, and a shrinking girl in the
carriage, who claimed acquaintance with a cousin
of a friend of your sister, and dived into a horrific
account of the ‘ ghost.’ What could I do but see
the girl home? —a mile or two along a blustering sea
road. A nice thing if I’m run in as cavalier to every
stray kitten of a girl whom the wretch scares ! ”
A girl who was “chased” ran wildly for a far-
off house, and brought the household tumbling
out at her banging. A passing man was ques-
tioned, and turned scornfully on the panting girl.
“Foolish woman,” he haw-ed, “why did you not
square your shoulders and turn on him!” (The
girl is sft. 2in., and slight as a sapling). “You
merely encourage the man by your fright.”
Ex-Justice Hartley Williams (who, to his other
fame, adds the possession of Sydney Beautv-girl,
Mrs. Muriel-Williams-Watt, as a daughter) is re-
ported convalescent after a bout, in a London
Hospital, with a fierce -itis.
People have been looking lately for the direct
descendants of John Pascoe Fawkner, founder of
Melbourne jointly with John Batman. The little
pioneer certainly left a widow, who afterwards
married barrister J. J. Walsh ; but there were no
little Fawkners. There were, however, two girls,
“daughtfers-by-adoption.” One of these girls—
now Mrs. Eliza Springhill—lives at Hunter’s Hill,
Sydney. “Johnny ” Fawkner himself resided in
Sydney 1818-20, and then returned to Van
Diemen’s Land. He had to go to Sydney over a
little trouble connected with the escape of some
bond-men.
A curio in the way of interviews appeared last
week in our homely Hkrald. It presented Frau-
lein Heinze in the interrogatory web of Mr.
Hartiing. The subject matter amounts to this :
“Just more than one year I have spent in your
beautiful climate. Wagner is good, and Beethoven
is better.” That’s all, and that’s a column. And
yet Mr, Hartiing is an intimate acquaintance of
the lady’s, and could have got her to tell the true
story of the 72 squabbles which constituted the
opera tour.
Musician Fred Baird tells the ladies of the
Austral Salon that there should be more art in
laughter. “The uncultured laugh is either a
giggle, a cackle, or a crow, but three years’ culti-
vation will refine it to a string of pearls—a rip-
pling, silvery, bubbling laugh.” That’s all very
well; but who is going to spend three years learn-
ing to laugh, with the prospect of then discover-
ing that there is nothing to laugh at? Possibly
there’s a time coming when we shall have the
artistic laugher as a public entertainer, supersed-
ing the thousand-guinea soprano of our time ; but
if the coming laugher resembles present-day
singers of laughing songs, there will be some
advantage in being dead about that time.
That comely damsel, Miss May Callinan, than
whom no one had a nimbler toe nor a daintier
way of being frivolous, has surprised her friends
and adorned the Order by, a Week or so ago, enter-
ing the Loretto Convent.
The St. Kilda Bachelors rise to a pleasant sense
of their hostly duties. They break into an
hilarious At Home, with dancing in the corner
(my experience has noticed dancing in the open,
heretofore, and snuggling in the corner). Tues-
day, July 7, is the date, and St. Kilda Town Hall
the place. The mauve invitation cards boast a
pen-and-ink corpulent bachelor sketched thereon
— smoking! That spells wallflowers among the
girls.
The death of Joshua Lake was a sad thing,
sudden and quite unexpected. He was in full
charge of the British Art Collection, which has
just finished its visit to Melbourne.
Poor old Lake ! —he had his ups and downs.
Before the 1888 Exhibition, times were ragged
and rough. At this Exhibition he was given
charge of the Art Galleries (an excellent
collection), and jumped right from poverty
to an eye-glass and frock coat, and the
warm red of vice-regal receptioning carpets.
Probably he helped along the complication that
proved a fatal illness by the awful draughts of that
cavernous Exhibition building, wherein the last
collection was set in a nest of thin board screens
that veiled from the eye the wastes of cold empti-
ness. Pie spent hours of every day sitting work-
ing, working, writing—frozen. It was a cold
place.
The collection goes on to Brisbane, and does
not stop in Sydnej 7 on the road. Sydney’s
Du Faur sent a representative to Melbourne for
criticism and purchase, but declared that there
was no hall in Sydney vacant that would give the
pictures suitable room.
About fifty haw-ty people committeed at the
Catholic Ladies’ College last week for the pre-
liminaries of an August Ball—an august ball in
August—in aid of the building fund of the school.
The Northcote Lady, the Madden lady, the
wives of Justices Isaacs and Cussen, the Grooms,
the Chapmans and the Keatings, and Secretary
Mrs. St. Ledger are putting energy and interest
into the affair.
The Mallinsons gave two more charming re-
citals in Melbourne last week. At the Matinee
on Wednesday they broke their just-we-two rule,
and halved the programme with German song-
makers. Mrs. Mallinson, in an ivory lace sheath
of frock that drove the chooltv part of her house
mad with envy, sang any little song she liked,
and showed off her voice in other than Mallinson
melody. The Maddens came in full force; and
the Pinschofs and Mrs. Heinze and the whole of
the Yarmany following brought their artistic ears.
The death of Mother Mary Joseph Sherlock, on
Sunday morning last, has caused much sorrow.
She was the oldest religieuse in Victoria, and was
at the Convent of Mercy, Fitzroy, at the time of
her death. The Reverend Mother was the
daughter of Sir Robert Sherlock, of Dublin. She
made her religious vows in the Bagot-street Con-
vent, Dublin, in 1850. A year later she left Ireland
for Perth (W. A.) with four other pioneer Sisters of
Mercy. The Mother was the foundress of both the
orphan asylums at South Melbourne in 1860, and
had full charge of them until the arrival of the
Christian Brothers in 1870, who then took over
the care of the boys. She is the last to depart of
the four sisters who established the Fitzroy
Nicholson-street convent as early as 1857.
Maggie Stirling, our local Butt-like contralto,
gives a concert in the Masonic Hall on Wednes-
day, July 1. The warble is under most frosty and
Excellency patronage, tailed off with Maddens and
Mayors.
The Janet Lady makes a brave fight. She is
now said to be slowly recovering, and likely to
live through many years of pink-edged para-
graphs. Dropsy and other complications, follow-
ing on double pneumonia, gave the doctors reason
for very grave fear; but the lady’s wonderful
vitality and will-power defied defeat.
Mrs. Solicitor Eagleston gave a “Brown”
evening at Wulmore. A Brown Night has no
relation to a Pink Dance or a Blue Bridge Party,
or a Red Devilled Supper; it has higher in-
tellectual significance, and is sacred to the reading
and discussion of the Manx poet. The Brown
Night has been thrashing its way in a furious
furore lately through elevated circles. Mrs.
Deakin and Mrs. Ivy-Deakin-Brookes are very
warm Brownites.
The Federal Ministerial ladies are rising up to
call her departing Excellency blessed with a
gift. It is not to be presented until the end
of the week ; but a murmur floats out that it is to
be an Australian jewel, and of Southern Cross
design.
From “Rosna,”in Adelaide —which is the same
sort of a town as it was last week, only a little
more troubled with chilblains :
Hundreds of people braved the weepy elements for the
Mayoral Ball on the 24th, and hundreds of people decided
that, for once, that often-dreary function was worth all the
wear and tear. To begin with, the decoration scheme was
entirely dainty and in good taste. Soft saffron tints
and silver were the color scheme, the whole carried out
in orchids and butterflies. Thousands of electric lights
weredistributed over the landscape; orchidsand asparagus
fern and mirrors and silver butterflies covered the wall
spaces and hid the balcony; a great wheel of saffron orchids
hung from the centre chandelier, and from each of the
smaller ones swung great, graceful, saffron orchid butter-
flies. A larger butterfly fluttered over the dais, and on
the stage three bowers of saffron orchids, with an accom-
paniment of palms, effectively concealed the sitters-out.
Other unusual and attractive features about the spree
were the quantity of youth and beauty present, and the
prevalence of Man. A portion of our naval forces came
ashore with its gun in its hand, and guarded the
guests—including their Exes—on the perilous passage up
the staircase. When the Le Huntes arrived fife band
played the usual “ Gorsave,” and for Lieutenant-Ex.
Way it burst forth into “The Song of Australia” (our
national song—so there !).
Lady Le Hunte wore a soft black satin and gauze
striped raiment, with appliqud bretelles over a white
chiffon bodice. Miss Clowes came garbed in graceful
green, sprinkled with pale pink rosebuds, and sundry
gold tassels bobbed about it. Mayoress Mrs. Mayfield
had a lovely flowered glace frock, with a deep berthe of
fine cream lace ; and Miss Mayfield was a pale-yellow clad
maiden, with a golden-shower bouquet to match her
locks. Mrs. Herbert Rymill was in a moonbeamy,
silver blue chiffon, and carried a scarlet bouquet;
and the Bray dame wore black net embroidered
in white. One of the most extensive frilly
triumphs was Mrs. George Dean’s green chiffon,
with a border of pink rose-wreaths, and trimmed with
bands of green velvet; and another dream was Miss
Eotheringham’s sequined heliotrope raiment. Mrs. L.
Bonython had a white satin, with roses lurking about the
spangled net over-dress ; and a Bonython damsel was a
debutante in white satin and wondrous thread lace.
Another dainty bud was little Miss Craven, in a soft,
shimmery satin frock, with much fluffiness on the bodice.
A British correspondent recounts that Adelaide’s
beauteous bachelor, Abe Shannon, now wandering in
alien lands, is much in the company of Kidman-of-the-
Kine. The two are frequently seen wandering down an
obscure lane called The Strand. They come from the
same portion'of South Oss, but have never hitherto been
known to kiss in public. It’s wonderful what we’ll do
when we’re pilgrims and strangers.
Miss Tit tell Pan Brune has been setting us an example
in energy. Each Wednesday during the “Peter Pan”
season in Adelaide, after a strenuous matinee and evening
performance, she finished up with a ball, and danced
gaily for an hour or so. First night it was the Royal
British Nurses’ chivoo ; next night at the Mayoral ball
she wasgolden-gowned in an Empire frock of merveilleux,
with square-cut yoke of blue gold passementerie. The
“Peter Pan” man gement, by the way, followed its
kindly Melbourne precedent of inviting the lame and halt
and blind infants of the State to the matinees, and a very
joyful and hilarious audience those infants made.
Mr. Harry Dutton and his specially-constructed
mountain-leaping motor are contemplating another dash
for the interior, and on through to Port Darwin. His
last attempt in the middle of summer was frustrated by
floods, so we shan’t be astonished if he’s turned back this
time by fearsome droughts. Anyway, something has
happened to our climate, for we’ve had snow again, and
enough of it to stop the Broken Hill express.
J. R. Wilton, the brilliant Adelaide young man, son of
journalist Wilton, has just climbed to top place on the
natural science tripod at Cambridge. At least, I think
that’s what it is. Same youth was fifth wrangler and
sundry other occult things last year, and now has exactly
one-and-a-half barrow-loads of laurels to bring back to
South Oss with him.
Some seven or eight hundred fancy-frocked infants
“ came out ” for the Mayoral kiddies’ bail on the 26th, and
a joyous spree it was. A double line of ancient Kings and
modern Czars and Milkmaids and Aborigines and Japs
and Pierrettes formed a guard up the staircase. After-
wards, each infant was duly announced, and received by
the Mayor and Mrs. Mayfield in ceremonious fashion ; and
then the whole throng was formed into a polonaise by
Hugo Leschen. About a dozen grown-ups took the
guests in hand after that, and saw that no infant added
to the mural decorations.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Boomerang
Pure
Grape
Brandy
\
1 ;
ini
.
,
’ ’ -
,■ ■
as
ms
.
1
si V
■ ■ . " '
. • ■ "
IK
e. 'ML : . 7
m
m
.
9 xtekik
4 *
± ■ i-S
K
:S
V fpffl
ip
is
i
.
. s
■;•■■"’■
gig v.
-
■J s ' av *
•"- v
m
Mi
. , ;-Hr
— ;
&
#Bl
M
'
_
The Distillery is Ours, but the KEYS are in the
Hands of The Commonwealth Excise Officers.
They cannot by law permit a Single Gallon to leave the
Distillery unless it is
This applies equally
to WHISKY
and BRANDY.
Absolutely Pure and
Absolutely Matured.
WE MAKE NOTHING BUT
POT STILL
PURE MALT
WHISKY
(Joshua’s Special)
AND
POT STILL
PURE GRAPE
BRANDY
(Boomerang; THree-Starj
The Commonwealth of Australia stands behind our Absolute Guarantee of Age and Purity
JOSHUA BROTHERS PROPY. LTD.


Established 1732.
When you need a Pill, take a
Brandreth’s
Pill
PURELY VEGETABLE.
ALWAYS EFFECTIVE.
For Chronic Constipation.
Brandreth’s Pills purify the blood,
invigorate the digestion and cleanse the
stomach and bowels. They stimulate the
liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
depraved secretions. They are a tonic
medicine that regulate, purify and fortify the whole system.
Constipation, Dizziness, Drowsiness, Coated Tongue, Bad
Breath, Headache, Pain in Stomach, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Diver Complaint, Bilious Headache, Jaundice, or any disorder
arising from impure state of the blood.
FOR SALE BY DRUGGISTS throughout the world.
<0 Pills in every Box.
Draw the picture up
close before your eyes
and watch the pill
go into the mouth.
Established 1847.
AllceckS Porous Plaster
A Universal Remedy -for Pain.
Wherever there’s pain apply an Allcock’s Plaster.
Hot or Cold Liquids remain
so in Thermos Bottles.
THERMOS
PRICES—PINTS from 215.; QUARTS from 425.
Posted anywhere, Is. and Is. 6d. extra.
Invaluable to Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists,
Military Men, Excursionists, etc. No need to
boil-the “ billy.” Take your tea or other liquid
refreshment with you, and simply pour out
Hot or Cold as desired.
THOS. WEBB * SONS,
236 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport
Remedy’ for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, etc.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
‘COAG-ULINE,’ * KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
—Cements for broken and other articles.
MOUNTAIN FLAX (‘ Linum Catharticum ’ Trade
Mark) PILLS. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
PATERNOSTER’S
ma pills h
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
.. FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, .Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
; i
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
[keener
~*JNS
ARE SAFE 1
and WEAR. ‘
The World’s Standard for Quality.
W. W. GREENER’S
“Facile Princeps
The BEST SHOOTING
Gun in the World.
For Cat a' agues write W. P. Thomp-
son, 317, Collins St., Melbourne ; or
address‘Greener. Birmingham.
TO LET FURNISHED.
Beautiful Melbourne Mansion,
10 Acres of Lawns, Cardens, &c. Superb View of
the Bay. Within easy reach of the City.
Magnificent Reception Rooms. Provision for
400 Cuests. Furniture cost £10,030.
Over 30 Rooms. Dining Room, 35ft. x 25ft.; Drawing-
Room, 44ft. xlSft.; Billiard Room, 28ft. x 20ft.
Stables, Coach-house, Orchard, Tennis Courts.
The owner is willing to let for a period, furnished, or
unfurnished, at a very reasonable rental.
For further Particulars apply—
BAILLIEU, PATTERSON & SONS FTY, LTD.
375 Coliins Street, MELBOURNE.
INSURE AGAINST FIRE.
The
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED,
OFFERS BEST FACILITIES
And Undoubted Security.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
95 Pitt Street, Sydney.
X
S'
5V
S
V
S'
J)
•S’
N
■S'
S'
N
fV
P A*
QOr^o
s£
rs
<o
%
$$
N>
$
IHJ&
WwME
■f Tabu;
Wf is the
fMOMARCH
r . . oe •
Billiard
Tables.
iiTiTQn
‘PLASMON
INCREASES THE FOOD..
VALUE ENORMOUSLY”
. Lancet. —. *
PV.K
COCOA
10 TIMES MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA
DELICIOUS
DIGESTIBLE
BUnOVINHISV
GRIWAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Aflthma, Nervous Concha,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
],-tTFS, Sn d bv all Chamiflt.
The Ideal Winter Holiday Resort.
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
AN ELECTRICALLY-LIGHTED AND STEAM=HEATED PALACE
situated upon the most imposing outlook on the
BLUE MOUNTAINS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Now’s the Time for the Rest Cure and the full enjoyment of a quiet Holiday.
Telephones
4349 Central.
29 Katoomba.
For Details apply—
City Office, 38 Castlereagh Street.
CONJURING TRICKS, PUZZLES, SURPRISE
AND JOKE NOVELTIES.
Something quite new, a real mysUfler.iand one of
the cleverest tricks ever invented. This little trie ,
which can be carried in the vest, ne .
fails to add to an evening s amusement and sin
dispensable to a conjurer. It represents the coma
of threepenny pieces from plain pieces of metal
and one, two, or three coins can be made at t
will of the operator. Full directions enclosed.
Price 11-, post free anywhere.
COMIC MAKE-UPS.
Consisting of a
pair of false eyes
(made of cellu-
loid and unbreak-
able), price Bd. ;
a set of false teeth
(made of celluloid
and unbreakable),
price 10d. ; a
false nose (made
of canvas cloth,
beautifully colored and made in every conceivable
shape), price 6d. ; and a false moustache any coloi
and easilv attached to the nostrils, price 3d. each ,
or the complete set 2/-, post free anywhere.
THE MAGIC
COINER.
mm
THE SPRAY WATER
PISTOL.
Will stop the most
vicious dog or man with-
out permanent -injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unescorted ladies, night-
watchmen, etc, Has more effect on beggars and
tramps than a watchdog. It creates great amuse-
ment for young and old, and is one of the: most
popular jolie novelties ever’placed on the Australian
market. Reloading unlimited, length 5 inches,
nickel-plated and nicely ornamented. I'rice 1/6
post free to any part of the world.
MAGIC BEDELIA BALLS.
Very novel and surprising-.
You squeeze the ball and out
pops the legs, as shown, in
an amazingly life-like manner.
On releasing the pressure the
legs at once disappear. One
of the most comical novelties
to he found in our varied
stock, and affords no end of
of amusement for old and
young. Price #/-, post free
Send for our new Illustrated
Catalogue—just published.
Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Strbkt, Sydney.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sr.”: I’ve noted another species of the
“whisperer” tribe. He is a confederate of the street
vendor of novelties. After the manager of the “ stand ”
has pitched his market place on the gutter banks and
has carefully arranged his stock of the “ Egyptian scent
bean,” the “ Universal American tool,” or the “ Electric
Clothes Cleaner,” the cobber stands abstractedly in front
of the establishment diligently looking at nothing in
particular, whilst the boss talks disjointedly and aim-
lessly to him. After ten minutes, perchance, the little
crowd curiously assembles. Then the whisperer begins
his labors. He inquires, “ How do you do that?” He
offers his coat for the removal of the grease spot—he
carries a stock of stains on his coat. He examines all
things on the table, expresses his ardent astonishment at
the very reasonable prices demanded, purchases the first
sample'of the goods, shows it to the crowd in a patronis-
ing fashion, and walks away congratulating himself on his
bargain. But he only goes up to the end of the lane. From
that point of vantage he watches till the people disperse,
as they always do when the boss Comes down from patter
to business. Then he ambles sadly back and again begins
his abstracted interest in nothing. Standing in front of
the emporium on a brass stand, .attracting a crowd by a
curious gaze, is an awful pastime. The boss and the
whisperer take it in turns to do the vacant gaze and the
inquiring interjection and the offering of the grease spot.
The Australian Commerce Act lately laid its
restraining hand on a Melbourne wine merchant who had
imported some alleged brandy from Austria. It was
suggested that the concoction was merely colored potato
spirit: anyhow, it wasn’t brandy, and it was invoiced at
3 francs (2s. 6d.) per gallon ! That is the sort of poison
that used to be shoved on to Australians as biandy ; and
“ brandy” at 2s. 6d. a gallon was one of the reasons why
certain importers raved so against the Commerce Act.
“Pork Chop”: Australia begins to feel the
grip of the cattle ring. It costs more to buy Australian
meat in Australia than it does in foreign markets. In
Queensland the small men are not benefited much by the
rise, because they cannot get their stock sent to Sydney
and Melbourne, and the northern works are too busy on
foreign orders to slaughter and freeze for the south.
All the time the Kidman crowd is operating; and
although that crowd has control of 50,000 sq. miles of
Australian territory, its buyers recently went through
Queensland and bought up every available store hoof, and
the other tentacles are industriously at work in the local
retail markets, squeezing the consumers for all theyaie
worth. The Australian Government must do a bit of
hustling, or there will be serious trouble later on. If the
meat works are too busy packing for their contracts, then
a State plant might be established at a convenient centre
in the North, to buy the meat from the squeezed small
men and sell it in the southern cities to the just as badly
squeezed consumers.
* * * *
“W. 1.8.”: When the steamer was about an
hour out from Darwin, myself and fellow-passengers
noticed a small boat under sail put out from the coast
and make towards us. When it was within a mile or so
of the ship, two Chinese passengers suddenly mounted
the poop, and, between them, threw overboard three small
boxes, which floated aft and were picked up by the boat.
It was all done under the eyes of the ship’s and
appeared to me about as barefaced a bit of smugglmg as
you could wish to see. Such risks lam sure woulqonly
he taken over opium. Opium can be bought in Hong
Kong for 13s. per tin and sold in Darwin for something
like £lO, and as the profit is pretty dazzling, Ah Sin just
blinks and goes ahead. The unfortunate part of it is that
the Law thereabouts seems to blink and go astern —or else
it just blinks and stays where it is.
* * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: The S. M. Heralds
special commissioner, dealing with the question of the
Barrier Railway, writes: —“The camel is apparently too
hard a thing for the white man. We met one who had
tried driving them. He reckoned it was Afghan s work.
Which shows how bad a hand a special commissioner can
be at conclusion-drawing' when he tries. Camel-dfiving
isn’t “ too hard ” for the white man. On the contrary, 1 saw
a boy of 16 managing a camel-train of eight out Wilcanma
way t’other day ; and he did it with as much ease as if
the big brutes were donkeys. The only thing that makes
camel-driving distasteful to the white is the pay, which is
not white man’s but Afghan’s pay. It takes a patriotic
sheet, like the Herald, to reason that, because a nigger is
doing work a white man isn’t, the only conclusion possible
is that the white man hasn’t enough brains or energy to
do that work.
* ■» * * *
“Viator”: P. H. Kent, for some time a
resident in China, is the author of a new and compre-
hensive book oil the Chinese railways, as they were last
year. It will surprise, most readers to hear that there
were 3539 miles in actual working, 1285 under construc-
tion, with 4774, in addition, sanctioned by the Government,
which is ardently going into the business with both
hands. It is palpable that the State is determined to
acquire all the lines. Meanwhile they are made by com-
panies. The capital is Chinese, English, German, Japanese,
French, Russian, Belgian, and not much American. The
Chinese railway workshops, at Tongshan, are goodly rivals
to those of Eveleigh in Sydney, Newport in Mel-
bourne, Or Petone in Maoriland, turning out loco-
motives, carriages, and trucks. There is also a
great factory of steel rails, emulative of those in
America, Britain, and Japan. The lines pay; well.
Imagination can hardly outrun their development-
cutting right and left, up and down, through 400,000,000
population, with unbounded resources in coal, iron, agri-
culture, and manufactures. The Chinese opposition to
railways, in the near past, has not been understood. As
soon as the French attack in the south necessitated tele-
graphic communication with Pekin, and the network
began, Chinese statesmen believed in railways. They
wanted to make them for themselves, with Chinese capi-
tal, but Chow capital was unaccountably nervous. So
the foreigners crept in. Mr. Kent ably describes the
whole history, but it is no use giving an abstract here,
when all difficulties have been blown away, except that
of the Government resolve, already mentioned,' to buy
out the whole stock, lock and barrel, when strong
enough.
SAGES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From cradle to grave do their maxims,
Their false aphorisms, pursue us,
Professing to sweeten what draughts
The beldames of circumstance brew us.
I took their advice when a maiden,
My lot with another’s to mingle ;
And married because they had told me
“ No woman’s complete when she’s single.”
And now I’m a widow who struggles
To gain what is needful for seven ;
And I mean (when I’ve time) to consider
How best to be happy—in Heaven.
Oh, the problem of how to make coins
Of stubborn small values more plastic—
The shilling perform as the pound,
The common brown penny elastic !
Hoes the Sage (whom I’m bound to imagine
Sits far away, hoary and hairy)
Keep seven strong boys by his muscle,
Unassisted by raven or fairy ?
Does he ever with purse that is flabby
Go forth with elation and ardor,
For seven rude urchins to cater
Whose shrine in the house is the larder ?
Did he ever go out to the coal-bin,
’Mid all his philosophy subtle,
And find it is empty —that coal can,
Like wise men’s philosophy, scuttle ?
Has he ever owed rent, and had visions
Of bailiffs—the bogies of mortals
Whose “ sticks ” are their own, but whose cottage
Is some other man’s, to the portals ?
Does he ever—out why should I further
Affect to believe that the sinner
Ever strove by the sweat of his brow
To earn what he gobbles for dinner ?
That ever he fathered an urchin,
Or a roof for a woman provided ;
Paid a tax, or hustled for labor,
With Life ever touched or collided?
I’m still a poor widow who struggles
To gain what is needful for seiven ;
And I mean—when I’ve time—to consider
“ How Best to be Happy in Heaven.”
VIC.
ALPENSTOCK


' | 'HE most significant fact about the Beale Australian Pianos is that they
are guaranteed for twenty-five years, while our nearest competitois
will not warrant the instruments they sell for more than twelve years.
How is it that we are able to guarantee our instruments for a so much
longer period ? The answer is simple. We are manufacturers. We know
how much faith we can put in our own product. We know that by the
use of our patent iron wrest-plank the weakest part of a piano becomes
the most durable part. We know that every detail of material, of work-
manship, and of system of manufacture is of unsurpassable quality. We
know all this because we make every detail in our own factories, going
to vastly more trouble than if we just bought our parts from special
suppliers as other makers do; and we go to that trouble for no other,
reason than to obtain and retain complete control of the quality through-
out. We know that our patented system of building the cabinet work
in cross-plies absolutely precludes the possibility of warping or cracking.
We know that our secret process for fortifying the sounding board
against sudden and great changes of temperature renders it impervious
to climate influence. And we know, and our customers know, that
those qualities which appeal to the musician-—tone and touch —are in
the Beale Pianos unequalled.
This is why we guarantee the Beale Australian Pianos for twenty-
five years.
And our guarantee is worth something, for our organisation
extends throughout the Commonwealth, selling more pianos per year
than any other firm in Australia. We cannot afford to trifle with the
name that our pianos have won for themselves throughout
this continent.
£
"THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.;
837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
HEADACHE.
The First Symptom op Every Form of
Disease.
Sick and nervous headaches are but the symp-
toms of other ailments to which they are merely
sympathetic, such as indigestion, biliousness, con-
stipation, or some other irregularity of the system.
Many women habitually suffer from headaches,
which make life a daily purgatory. Indeed, this
complaint may be regarded as peculiarly an affec-
tion of the feminine sex, an ailment common to all
women, from girlhood to old age.
“After years of suffering with sick headaches,”
writes Mrs. Josephson, 14 Parsons Street, Rozelle,
Sydney, “ I was induced by a friend to try Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, and, although I
was dubious of their
doing me any good, I
made up my mind to
give them a trial, and
before I had finished
the first bottle I felt
considerably relieved.
I kept on taking the
Jills occasionally until
had taken three
bottles in all, and I
found I had quite over-
come my ailments; they
have made quite a new
woman of me. It is
over twelve months since I took the pills, and as
I have had no return of the trouble, I can honestly
recommend them to anyone suffering as I was.
You can use this in any way you like.”
To overcome headaches it is absolutely necessary
to get at the cause. Drugs which act on the heart
and reduce the pulsations only have a temporary
effect. If you suffer from indigestion, biliousness,
constipation, disorder of the liver and kidneys, or
from any weakness peculior to your sex, there is
no better remedy than Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills.
Mrs. Josephson.
(From a photo.)
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LAS6R
E. EESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to Hi# Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERQILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFEBN, SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Anglo-Welsh Rugby team in Maoriland
almost retrieved its banner on Saturday in the slush
of the Athletic Park at Wellington. It had been raining
fora week ; anywhere else it would be called waterspout-
ing. It was an ideal day for a British team; for the
Maorilander, used as he is to rain, it was a bit too moist.
The terrific back machine, on which the Maoriland
Rugbyite prides himself, was out of it in that soup, and
the Mudlarks from the Cold Country had nothing to fear
from the passing charges. Fortune was with the best
dribblers, and the English footballer is, man for man,
always a better dribbler than the Maorilander. So
they dribbled and sprawled, always keeping the ball in
close touch, and completely eclipsed the Maoriland pack.
The back division, accustomed to spending its time
charging the other fellow’s line, was kept struggling all it
knew to defend its own. A Maoriland representative
team is about as unscrupulous as a Yankee Oil Trust; but
the British team showed that it had mastered the island
finesse, and proved as full of tricks as a pack of cards. But
the Maoriland referees are keen, and British offside play
right in front of their own line gave the Maorilanders a free
kick which Francis converted into a goal, thus giving the
local team a start of three. In the second spell, the British
captain played the Waterloo game. Splendid line kicking
by the British full-back carried the leather into the
Maoriland 25, whence dribbling rushes were let loose.
The Blacks played desperately, roughly, fiendishly, but
to no purpose. Every time the line was cleared and the
ball sent into neutral territory, it came soaring back
on the line, and those fearsome dribbling charges
made the Maorilanders shiver. The mighty Wal-
lace was the local full-back, and he played the game
of his life, saving his side again and again. So
fiercely did he rage that the British only succeeded in
crossing his line once, and the failure to convert the try
made the difference between a draw and a defeat. Maori-
land was as good as beaten, but its luck and the English
inability to kick between the posts saved it from the
crowning disgrace of beaten by the weakest inter-
national team that has ever invaded the Dominion.
* « • •
Draws were the order of the day on Saturday,
the N.S.W.-Queensland match also ending that way, with
nine points each. The weather was ideal, and 9000 people
looked on. Queensland started with a war-whoop,
whereat the spectators clung to one another in terror,
and the Walers looked on with awe. The team followed
up its hideous noise with a wild rush, completely over-
whelming the scared Walers, who just managed to prevent
a score by smart forcing. This was a new beginning, and the
Blue side pulled itself together, the captain whispered a few
words of religious comfort, and then for the Ma State —
forward, charge ! McOue, of Newtown, crossed the line,
but just as he was falling on the ball he was upended,
and fell on his head. He hung on to the leather, though,
and, rolling on it, scored a try. Dazed and shaken, he
staggered off the ground, and as his substitute came on,
the kick at goal failed. Queensland kicked a penalty
goal, and followed up with a try, which Car-
michael just missed converting. N.S.W. was getting
the worst of the play, when Hickey, of Glebe,
evened things by kicking a penalty goal. The first half
was running out when Queensland came with a combined
rush, swept over the struggling N.S.W. pack, reached
the line, where the backs inflicted a check, and then rolled
through by sheer strength. Again the kick failed. In
fact, right through the match the kicking was miserable,
not one try being converted on either side. The second
spell was more even, N.S.W. playing with better
combination. Queensland, leading by nine to six,
played desperately for a win, and the tackling
became very rough. The Maroon men came round
the scrum so quickly that all attempts to pass
out to the N.S.W. back division were smothered, and
the superior speed of the Queensland pack kept play con-
fined mostly to N.S.W. territory. Only once did the
Blues get the ball out, when a three-man pass brought
another try, which Hickey also failed to convert, and
thereby lost N.S.W.’s one chance of victory. Thence-
forward the Maroons kept the Walers on the defensive,
and when the whistle blew were attacking strongly.
Under cover of darkness N.S.W. escaped from the field,
having just missed defeat half-a-dozen times in the
second half.
* * * *
Brisbane had a feast of football on Saturday,
the League’s comic-opera All Maori team beating a local
crowd by 19 to 16. It was a bright, sparkling game, and
drew almost as big a crowd as the Union inter-State
tussle. Scoring was fast and frequent, and some of the
passing charges were really brilliant.
.* * » *
In Sydney the Rugby Union’s competition first
round came to end on Saturday, and under the
sudden-death clause North Sydney, Western Suburbs,
and Balmain step down into the dust. Manly just
managed to struggle into the second round by defeat-
ing Balmain by 12 points to eight. The only result
is, of course, to prolong its agony, as the other
clubs left in are the terrible Glebe, the formidable
Newtown, the whirling University, the grim South Syd-
ney, the ferocious Eastern Suburbs, the flabby Sydney,
and spineless St. George. It had been more merciful to
have killed off Manly, Sydney, and St. George at once.
The present position is: University and Newtown, 20
points each ; Glebe, 18; South Sydney, 16; Eastern
Suburbs, 12 ; Sydney and Manly, nine ; and St. George,
eight. The wind has been tempered for the shorn
lamb by pitting Manly and St. George for next
Saturday, when, of course, the defeated team will
drop right out. Sydney will probably receive the cold
steel the same day, as it is up against Glebe, and on
paper has practically no hope. The match of the day will
be Newtown and South Sydney, at Sydney Cricket
Ground, where, in the shadow of sudden death, both
teams can be relied upon to play their darnedest—and
their darnedest will be worth going far to see.
* * * ♦
Saturday’s matches, with the big teams shorn
of their best players, who were away in Brisbane, were
full of dreadful possibilities. Glebe, a very different team
to that it usually puts in the field, downed St. George, but
onlv by the comparatively narrow margin of eight to nil.
Eastern Suburbs brought what was practically a second-
grade team against Sydney, but, ragged as it was, it was
good enough for the job—l 6 to 3. Sydney had abso-
lutely no combination, and should engage a coach, or
take some other drastic measures to lick itself into shape.
But the closest shave of all was Newtown’s narrow win
of six to five over the struggling Western Suburbs. It
would not have affected Newtown’s position materially if
it had lost, but it was a very scared team all the same.
The best effort of the day was North Sydney’s desperate
struggle to escape annihilation at the hands of University,
and had anv University men been representing the Ma
State at Brisbane, North Sydney would probably have
won through. As it was, against the blue and gold
whirlwind it had never a hope, and went down by 26 to
11 Manly’s victory over Balmain by 11 to eight was
absolutely the finest game the Villagers have put on view
up to date.
* * ■* *
There is much “Yah” and “Booh” among
Queensland footballers just now, over the eternal question
of the elasticity of players’ exes. An Association was
lately formed, and some Union men said—“ Booh ! Pro-
fessionals ! ” Now the Association is busy telling the
Union that, when it (the Association) fired out a man for
demanding more than out-of-pocket exes., the Union
promptly snapped him up ; and it wants to know if that
isn’t encouraging the very thing the Union professes to
be so shocked about.
Victoria v. S.A. football (Australian rules, of
course) came off in Adelaide this year in vile weather.
The home team was short of the Norwoods—barring two
of their best men who had not been able to go to Sydney;
on the other hand the Victorian team was entirely Asso-
ciation, the League having allowed that body to jump
the inter-State claim. The crowd, which had climbed to
a record 27,000 for the club game Norwood v. “ Port,” fell
to a wet and muddy 8000 ; but the 8000 saw the game of
their lives. The first half was give and take, with S.A.
having rather the better of it. In the third quarter the
Vic. men came along like 18 machine-made devils, held
their opponents pointless, and hurled on five swift goals,
thus leading by three. And behold ! in the last quarter
the fiends were lambs, and the lambs were fiends; S.A.
rushed on four goals (to nil) and won by one.
* * * *
“ Adelaide ” : The scoring in the recent football
match, S.A. v. Vic., gives a clue to the fascination that
the Australian code has for spectators. S.A. scored
9 goals 10 behinds to 8 goals 9 behinds. That is, there
was a goal scored about every five minutes, and a score of
some kind every 2£ minutes. I see that, in the final
Norwood match in Sydney, the vital incidents were even
a shade closer together than that. For the average spec-
tator, who is not an acute critic, but wants excitement
and lots of it, neither Rugby nor Soccer can compare
with this kind of thing.
*•*■*•*■
“J.H.”: Re a par in B. 25/6/’OB. This year
only two men were picked from Sydney Uni. to play
inter-State Rugby up North—Hughes and Bullock (the
latter in Dr. Moran’s place). Both men are in their last
year in medicine, and couldn’t possibly spare the fort-
night away; and that was the only reason why they
didn’t go. Last year, however, when six men were
picked, there were no final exams, pending, and so they
all went.
* * » ¥
The young men whoindulgein recreative football
on Wednesday afternoons, and their barrackers, had a high
old time at Toorak Park during the encounter of P’ran
and St. Hilda. The game was so willing that two players
will be invited to explain their pugnacious behavior ;
and towards the end the crowd stepped over the railings
and jobbed people promiscuously, and players and
barrackers became mixed up in a whirl of arms and legs
and curses. A strong force of -police had been laid
on to cope with anticipated riot, but even what they
call a strong police force in Melbourne was lost in a
sea of stoush, and only bobbed up now and then like a
submarine coming- up to breathe. It took ten minutes’
hard, promiscuous hitting to clear the ground for the final
quarter. If this swarming-over-the-railings habit isn’t
discouraged it may yet be necessary to tie the audience to
the fence.
V * * *
On Saturday Melbourne football grounds were
sodden, and there was mud over all the place. It had
showered in the morning, and promised to do so in the
afternoon. Nevertheless, 25,000 spectators stood around
the St. Hilda ground, mostly urging the local 18 to smash
Carlton. The latter were requested to smash likewise,
and responded enthusiastically. There could be no chance
of a scientific game, so both sides bogged in, and a joyous
tumult ensuedup to three-quartertime, when the Holy Men
were but seven points to the bad —34 to 41. After that,
however, they went to pieces, and the commotion ended
72 to 41. Saints excelled in high marking, but they
wasted chance after chance by careless passing and
handling. On South’s ground at the other end of Albert
Park a sloppy argument between “ Skinner’s hirelings”
and ’Roy resulted in a discreditable victory for the former.
They well deserved to lose for scoring 2 goals 19 behinds,
but as ’Roy could only scrape up 2 goals 6 behinds,
South’s fearsome kicking escaped the penalty it merited.
Collingwood was at home to Geelong, and held
them safe throughout—66 to 46. ’Wood has lately dis-
covered that something is wrong with the team’s compo-
sition, and on Saturday it stood down four seasoned
players with good results. Also its committee is getting
its former captain—Leach—back to drill the machine into
a victorious groove. Essendon met ’Varsity on their
mutual ground at East Melbourne, and a gorgeous
struggle ensued. The Students were handicapped by the
loss of four injured men, but it is doubtful if they could
have won with their best team. It was a case of
lightness and speed against weight and muscle, and the
heavy ground was against the heavy men. Still it was a
pleasing engagement, decided only in the last few
minutes. Melbourne continued its lop-sided career by
jumping on Richmond. The scores were : Melbourne,
11 goals 16 behinds ; Richmond, 1 goal 6 behinds, and as
the democratic suburb had beaten the big club’s repre-
sentatives at their previous meeting, and as both had
about the same number of wins to their credit, this
awful score calls for a lot more explanation than the
writer has about him.
* * * *
Since Port Melbourne, the black sheep of the
Association, drew its game against ’Scray a month ago, it;
has beaten Brunswick and VVilliamstown,- and on Satur-
day it beat Essendon by 41 to 27. The scene of the dis-
turbance was the notorious Port ground, and the com-
mittee had laid on a band to soothe the savage breasts of
the ’bailers. Heaven knows whether its uprising is due
to the band, but Port certainly has uprisen, and if it
wins all its remaining seven matches, and if P’ran
or Brunswick will oblige by losing at least four,
it may yet have the glory of flying the pennant.
Brighton provided afternoon tea and a “ dirty doing ”
for ’Cote (98 to 28); 'Town passed a like compliment,
without the tea, to Preston (55 to 30) ; and Brunswick
and P’ran put up a great struggle on the former’s ground,
the brickies eventually winning by 49 to 33. Also Foot-
scray practised ground and lofty kicking with much
success. During the two hours’ practice they notched
28 goals 20 behinds, and would have done better but that
North’s alleged ’bailers occasionally got in the way.
Scores were 188 points to 28.
• « • *
Essendon’s regrettable habit of enticing League
stars into its fold—purely for the love of the game—
has just landed a South Melbourne ’bailer in the mud.
The youth foolishly took it for granted that the
“ Sowth ” would let him go, and applied for an Essen-
don (A) permit before getting a clearance from his own
club. Essendon was quite agreeable, but when he
asked South’s committee for his clearance, that body
promptly expelled him. Also, it mentioned the matter
to the League, and that body will quite likely dis-
qualify him for a term. All the same, this player is a
victim of frightfully hard luck, as dozens of League
players have gone to the Association without the League
or their clubs making the least objection.
* * * *
The League games on Saturday, except that
between South Sydney and Newcastle, were not particu-
larly interesting. Eastern Suburbs galloped over Cum-
berland, which played a man short, by 26 to five. North
Sydney' scored 23 while Western Suburbs made eight.
South Sydney, in the second half, butchered Newcastle
by 30 to 11; and Glebe went down to Birchgrove Park
and fell on Balmain. In the first half Balmain responded
cheerfully, but in the second, when it had both Glebe and
the wind against it, the score went from three all to 16
to three. Then the barracker, who was all Balmaniac,
arose and howled for gore. But he met something solid
in the way of resistance, and subsided ungracefully, while
the victorious Glebe inquired if there was any other
gentleman who would like to make a few remarks.
* * ■* m
Newcastle started magnificently, the captain
kicking two field goals in the first five minutes. That
roused the enthusiasm of his men, and it looked as if
South were going to be overwhelmed. But a penalty
goal steadied Newcastle, and a series of back charges
resulted in South Sydney crossing the line twice, and
lifting the score to eight to four. Newcastle pulled itself
together, and from the centre went right through South
to the line, where there was a brief check ; but the backs,
trooping up, scored a try which was converted, and
the first half ended with Newcastle leading by nine
to eight. The second spell was opened by an amazing
charge by South Sydney, in which no less than nine
men handled the ball while at full speed. That
was the commencement of the butchery of Newcastle.
With the wind behind, Soutn Sydney developed a beau-
tiful combination, back and front. The scrum heeled,
the backs whipped it away to the flying gentlemen who
started for Newcastle immediately, and usually arrived
there on time. The coaly men played with dogged
pluck, and, in the face of impending disaster and the
merciless wind, gamely dribbled it down to the Southern
line, only to he swept back in confusion. Only two points
from a solitary penalty goal lit up the spell of their
agony, while South Sydney added 22 points. It was
cruel.
* * * *
The giants in Sydney Rugby League’s competi-
tion are Eastern Suburbs (14 points), and South Sydney and
Glebe (12 each). Newcastle and North Sydney lead the
single-figure list with eight each.
V * * *
The Soccer competition for the Rawson Cup
was remarkable for the career of Glebe, which held .an
unbeaten record for the whole eight -matches, winning
seven and drawing one. It also scored two points for a
bye, which brought its points to 17 out of a possible of
18. During the competition it "scored 20" goals, and had
13 scored against it. Pyrmont, whidh on Saturday last
vanquished Ultimo by two goals to nil, ran into second
place with 16 competition points. It scored 25 goals and
lost only nine—a remarkable performance. But the
difference between it and Glebe was that, although it had
the same number of wins to its credit, it lost its eighth
game, instead of making it a draw, as the premier
club did. Garden Island, which last season was despised
and rejected of footballers, is third, in spite of the fact
that it struck disaster last Saturday, when Rozelle
smashed it by four goals to two. Rozelle was almost a
derelict club, second last on the competition list; but on
Saturday it opened a ferocious bombardment of Garden
Island goal from all sorts of impossible angles, and at
distances that seemed ridiculous. Bull (most appropriate
name, for Garden Island is an English team) stood in the
mouth of the net, and clawed the air as the ball came
soaring down, and mostly he clawed it to some purpose.
But four times he was baffled, and the blessed thing got
into the net in spite of him. It was a pretty game.
Refereeing is becoming a dangerous business;
and it is often the grandstands that start the trouble.
The referee didn’t mind when it was the “ sprats” that
tore down palings and waded in, for then he could always
escape among the “best people.” But now it is very
often the “ best people ” who set the bricks flying. Worst of
all, the women ferociously use the hat-pin, and go for the
face, where the referee keeps his eye. This female horror
with the hat-pin must be put down, and the howling
ruffian who swings a stick or hurls blue metal must also
be suppressed. And the best way to do that is to organise
a referee defence corps.
* * * *
“Looker On,” stirred by the issue of weights
for the big Spring events, does some calculating: Up to
date, 47 Melbourne Cups have been run, occupying 168 min.
7sec., or 94 miles in 2hr. 48min. 7sec. In that half-after-
noon of time, spread over 47 years, the winners have
humped an aggregate weight of 3645 t. 61b. Average win-
ning time, 3min. 34isec. (approximate). Average winning
weight, 7st. 101 b. (approximate). There have been two
winners on the lOst. mark, five on the 9st., 10 on the Bst.,
19 on the 7st., 11 thereunder. Three successive winners
on the Bst. mark were Dunlop (1887) Bst. 31b., Mentor Bst.
31b., Bravo Bst. 71b. On the 7st. mark, there have been two
of these “ runs ” —Auraria, 7st. 41b. ; Newhaven, 7st. 131 b.;
Gaulus, 7st. 81b., won in succession ; and, after a year’s
break, Merriwee (7st. 61b.), Clean Sweep (7st.),
Revenue (7st. 101 b.). The lucky weights have been 7st. 131 b.
(The Assyrian and Glenloth, two rank outsiders, and
Newhaven, the favorite),, and 7st. 61b. (Merriwee,
Acrasia, Poseidon). More races of any importance
have been won at 7st. 131 b. than with any other. No
7st. 131 b. horse will win this year, however, as that is one
of the imposts the handicapper hasn’t written in either
Cup. On the Melbourne 7st. 61b. mark, there are Cross
Battery, Jack Smith, Locksmith, Ringdove, and Blue
Book.
* * * »
In spite of all Wren’s precautions, the man with
the bag and the hook plays his capers on the pony courses
at times. In the Novice Handicap (Fitzroy), the other
day, the stewards, having their doubts about Mick, who
was defeated by Sweetheart, by half-a-head, asked the
nipper on top for an explanation. He owned up that
the pony’s owner, an unsophisticated youth, who hardly
knew a horse from a heifer, had allowed a certain Ikey
Moses to “ manage ’’ the prad’s preparation; that
the said Ikey had given him (the jock) certain
instructions which he had duly carried out; also
that the Ikey had paid him a winning fee
for losing. The books of Ikey and two of his
friends being carefully inspected, the stewards suspended
the jockey during their pleasure, disqualified Ikey for life,
hung his mates up for further consideration, and dis-
qualified the prad. Then the Ikeys departed in a violent
frame of mind, declaring that it was “ red hot.” Which it
was—so hot that the hottest part should have been put
into something extra cool. Say, a cell at Pentridge.
* * * *
Patrick Moses continues a fruitful source of
revenue to Maoriland and Westralian race promoters,
though it is really the fatuous backer who pays. The
new Maoriland Gaming Act compels the licensing of P.
Moses. At Ellerslie, recently, each of 31 of the brother-
hood parted with £2O 10s. (inclusive of clerks’ fees) for
one day’s betting privileges, and that £635 contributed
largely towards a substantial profit. Every Mo. doing
business at the Westralian T.O.’s one-day winter meeting
a week or two ago had to disgorge 12 guineas.
* * *
Queensland T.C. is leaping weightily on Patrick
Moses as to his betting-shop transactions. The new law
says that any of him who is connected in any way with a
shop will have his bookmaker’s license cancelled, and his
bag will be taken from him, and even his cheek won’t
save him.
• • •
Last year Maoriland Legislature passed a Gam-
ing Act, which provided that racing clubs should grant
bookmakers of good reputation licenses to bet on their
courses. The clubs have been confining the bookmakers
to certain parts of the enclosures, and those who refused
to agree to remain in the selected territory were either
thrown out or refused licenses for subsequent meetings.
One named Ross applied to the Manawatu R.C. for a
license, but refused to agree to confine his operations to
the spot selected by the club, arguing that the latter had
no power to say where he should bet. The club said:
“Very well, we shall not license you ! ” And it didn’t.
Then Ross came along with a little writ for £lOOO, claim-
ing that, by refusing to grant him a license, the Club
brands him as a bookmaker of bad reputation, or no
reputation at all, as the Act says bookmakers with good
reputations must be licensed. It’s a pretty kettle of fish,
and the gentry whose noses fall down on their chins and
whose chins fall down on their waistcoats, are gathering
round to see what is to come forth.
* * * *
The air is full of rumors of mighty bruising, and
the whispered information that James Jeffries himself
may be in Bydney when the Fleet arrives, is filling the
minds of stoush lovers with vain imaginings. But cer-
tain it is that with Thomas Burns, “Boshter Bill,” and
other international stars in Sydney, there will be a
great and tremendous revival of the science of biff.
And the pity of it is that we haven’t a decent hall for
scrapping purposes, although, presumably, owing to
the money that lurks -in the moving pictures, most of
the really “classic” smashing matches will take place
in the open air. In the meantime, “Terrible Tiny”
wants a match.
* * * *
“Snell”: Mike Schreck, the American who is
being imported to meet Burns, Squires, Lang, and others,
is only a middleweight, and not a large one at that.
Fighting in the welter-weight division, he beat Tommy
Burns, but that victory has been discounted by the licking
Burns gave him later, when both had about attained their
limit. Twin Sullivan, who whipped Squires .in a long,
horrid battle, has recorded two decisive victories over
Schreck ; on the other hand, Schreck has a decision over
Jack Johnson to his credit (won before Johnson became
the remarkable fighting engine he now is), and has notched
a knock-out against Marvin Hart. Schreck is only sft.
Sin. and a decimal, but is built like a butcher’s block, and
has a hit like a kick. On the whole, the chances are
strongly against the world’s championship changing
hands in Australia.
The Melbourne grappling game supplied another
artful drawn contest t’other night, when quaint-legged
Buttan Singh (Ust. 3Jlb.) and Lancashire expert Peter
Bannan (list. 31b.) squirmed on the mat at the Oyclorama.
The night was wild and wet; but those who risked damp
socks were rewarded with a scientific spectacle that
obliterated all previous attempts at cleverness hereabouts.
The pair supplied 75 minutes of as pretty and intri-
cate work as an enthusiast could wish. Play was dis-
tinctly wary on top, but on the mat the exchange of
holds was so rapid and various that it needed an expert
eye to fully', grasp the value of the situations. For the
most part Peter had the dark-skinned exponent thinking.
Despite this, Buttan obtained an arm hold and leg crook,
and turned the white man over on his shoulders. Bannan
saved the situation for the moment with a bridge, but
eventually succumbed to pressure, and Singh registered a
fall in 28min. IJsec. On resuming, the encounter spread
itself over 22min. 34£sec., when Bannan caught the old
'un napping and laid him on his back with an arm roll.
With a fall apiece the,pair put in some unflagging work
till the clock had turned for 75min. Then referee Jim
Beckett announced a draw in accordance with the articles
of agreement. Brawny George Dinnie signified his desire
to meet Clarence Weber by hurling sundry sums of money
on the mat prior to the ’rastle.
* * * *
Brother Tuck, sculler Webb’s backer, is defend-
ing, himself vigorously. He says that both Stanbury and
Tresidder kept Webb shivering in his boat for long
periods, and thereby endangered his health. Therefore
he inserted the clause that the man who failed to
materialise at 4 p.m. sharp should be biffed out. He
says that as the conditions apply equally to Webb, who,
in the case of default, stands to lose the title as well as
the spons, there is nothing unfair about them. But so
far Tuck has not explained why he wanted the money put
up so long before the race.
* ;* * *
“ Vulcan ” : To the initiated, sculler Webb’s
“ four o’olock sharp ” isn’t the purposely harassing con-
dition it appears on the surface. Take Webb’s ract* with
Tressider, f’instance. The latter kept the Maorilander
fooling around the post for fully 45 minutes before he
could make up his mind to “ go,” and had Webb half-
frozen, and mentally bordering on frenzy. Just consider.
Each race means eight or more weeks’ severe training ;
the menieat, drink, dream, and see nothing but race the
whole time, and ultimately reach the post finely-drawn
bundles of raw nerves all a-quiver. The strain of the
start, under these conditions, is tremendous. Webb
knows his own temperament best, and, anyway, he binds
himself equally with Arnst in the matter.
■*■*•**
Evidently the rowing habit is incurable. With
the “ retired ” Towns’ departure Londonwards comes word
of “retired” Durnan’s itch for another “go.” The
Canuck called in on this country with a big-gun reputation,
and went off with the tremendous report of a ha’penny
cracker. Now, after fifteen months’ oblivion, he suddenly
shoots out a challenge to take on Webb for the cham-
pionship and £5OO aside, either in Wanganui or Toronto,
either visitor to have £2OO as exes. On the face of it, the
Canadian either thinks he’s struck something extra in
form, or, considers the Maorilander considerably in the
rear of G. Towns.
* * * *
The V.O.A. lately had another go at the old
problem of how to popularise cricket, and to that end
decided, in choosing the State’s teams, to revert to the
old single-selector policy, Hughie Trumble was named
as the best available man for the job ; but it is by no
means certain that he yvill rush it, for there are more
curses than halfpence attached to it. Also the Ass. pon-
dered over a complicated system of district cricket,
which proposes that the present 13 first-grade clubs are
to continue as such (the districts remaining much as at
present) for three years, that they be regraded at the end
of that period and regraded annually, the existing; eight
second-grade clubs to have no representation on the
V.C.A., but to be more or less under its control. Prac-
tically this means that 13 first-graders are to continue to
consume the whole cake as aforetime, and the second-
graders are to wait three years before being allowed a
nibble. Thirteen clubs are, however, too many to play a
top-no'teh round., And, anyhow, the man is a humorist
who propounds that waiting scheme as an encouragement
to young cricketers.
¥ • * *
Some of the members of the late English cricket
team —the One that lost the ashes—arrived in England
with sore heads and embittered feelings. One section
growled because the weather was hot when the test
matches were being played, which was an unavoidable
circumstance and the act of God ; but the general griev-
ance was against the umpires. “ Taken generally, the
umpirihg was pretty bad all round, with England the
greatest sufferer,” wailed Hayes; while Barnes com-
plained of the umpiring in the test matches, and said that
“glaring mistakes were repeatedly made against US.”
Probably this method of explaining how the match was
lost will continue as long as the live-meat umpire is above
ground, and even when he is superseded by the mechani-
cal steam umpire the losing party will still say that the
machine was badly oiled, or that somebody had put a
half-brick into the machinery, which made it give strange
decisions.
» # * •
“Stork”: The Victorian amateur biff and
rastle championships occur at Melbourne Masonic Hall,
and not, as stated (B. 18/6/’08), at the Cyclorama, Which
is about the last structure the A. A. would engage. It
has no desire to even play in the same yard as the artful
pro.


'S
/
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid/'
ITR.EE
SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors—
H. E. KUQELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
A Perfedl Electric Battery
m
NEW
MEDICAL APPARATUS
WirH DFW BATTER*
Wm
LN
&■
Cm
-
m
wk
£
One of these Batteries in the house
saves many a doctor’s bill.
By using it with regularity you can
effectively > ward off the agonies of
Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago or
Gout. It is equally good for Neu-
ralgia and Headache.
Can be used by everybody down to
the youngest child —is not easily
broken, has no wearing parts, and a
few pence will replace the cells when
they are spent. Send for one to-day.
eß.ce 35/- ™
and if it doesn’t come up to our
description, we return your money.
We have a Booklet about the Battery* Send for a FREE COPY*
JERDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 QEORQE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
When you Shave Use a PLUM
—And you MUST get satisfaction. No pulling or tearing
—just a quick, gentle shave with good results. It’s the
blade of silver steel,that does it.
We guarantee it for two years, and will exchange for
another if it does not turn out as we claim.
THE PLUM RAZOR, Price 10/6, Post Free Anywhere.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
RECORD
IA
M
COLUMBIA NEW-PROCESS RECORDS
(DISC or CYLIKDES) will fit any make of “Talking Machine,” and make it sound
almost as good as a Columbia CrjELAFEL-o-plioiie. Send for our new Catalogues of :
10in. DISC RECORDS at 2/6 each; I2in. t)ISC RECORDS at 4/= each;
GOLD=MOULDED CYLINDER RECORDS at 1/3 each.
Say which, or say all —Free, of course.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO. Gen'!, 255 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
“ Itan ” writes :
The unfederal—nqt to say petty and
action of some States respecting border railways displays
the provincial insects’ littleness to a T, or anything else
that is brief and explicit. The Wade-Wood-Waddell
Government of N.S.W. is adopting the policy of the pre-
vious two Administrations in refusing to connect the
Tweed Heads with Murwillumbah, just because, if that
were done, Brisbane might draw some of the trade of the
northern rivers to which it is geographically entitled. The
North Coast line, of course, will not be complete till this
link is welded, but the influence of Sydney will
stop the connection till the balance of the line is
finished between Grafton and Maitland. The same spirit
is displayed at Tocumwal, on the Victorian border. Vic-
toria built a line to Tocumwal, but the Ma State refuses
to construct the 13 miles to connect Tocumwal with
Finley, on the N.S.W. system. If the Ma State builds the
line from Casino to Acacia Creek, on the Queensl nd
border, the northern State will probably, on the same
mean principle, refuse to extend its line from
Killarney, four miles away. That link would
attract to Byron Bay (N.S.W.) some of the
trade of the south-east Darling Downs, which is
the milk in the cocoanut and the nigger on the fence.
Then further west the two States are found playing a
costly game of cut-throat. The Queensland authorities
are sending the steel messenger out to Goondiwindi, and
perhaps further—a line almost parallel with the border-
while N.S.W. is reaching up to the same locality with a
spur of the north-west system. These parallel lines are a
fearful waste of money, but one is wanted to drag the
trade to Brisbane, and the other to drag the same trade
to Sydney. There is a bitter necessity for the transfer of
the railways to the Commonwealth. Then there would
be a chance of a uniform gauge, and a prospect of a com-
plete reorganisation which would aim at letting every
district send its produce for export by the shortest and
cheapest route to the nearest port. '
Amusements.
JJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
V 1 Lessee and Manager :J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
J C. Williamson presents to the Australian Public
MARGARET ANGLTN,
the DISTINGUISHED AMERICAN ACTRESS,
in the Powerful TH R THTKE
Emotional Play, x J- XT xli .
MARGARET ANGLIN as MARISE VOYSIN.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON. .
LAST NIGHTS.
LAST NIGHTS.
ELECTRICAL SUCCESS of Pixley and Luders’s
Million-Laughter-Voltage Musical Play,
THE PRJNCti OE PILSEN.
Box Plan at El'vy’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : MR. FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HERBERT FLEMMING’S NEW ENGLISH
COMEDY COMPANY
In the Great London Success,
THE MORALS OE MARCUS.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices as usual.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY AT 2 P.M.
Dancing.
PERFECT WALTZING, THE TWO STEP, Etc.
MR. & MRS. ROBERTS
RECEIVE PUPILS Morning, Afternoon, and Evening.
PRIVATE LESSONS (unusual advantages). VARIOUS
SUPERIOR CLASSES AVAILABLE.
EVERY DAY AND EVENING.
COLLEGES AND PRIVATE CLASSES VISITED.
Commodious arid Centrally Situated Rooms.
160 PHILLIP STREET (next St. Stephen’s Church).
ST. JAMES’S HALL, CLASSES FOR ADULTS EVERY
WEDNESDAY. AFTERNOON, 3.30 ; EVENING, at 8.
THE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s,
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
WEST’S PICTURES
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
jHE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
GRAND FANCY COSTUME
ICE CARNIVAL,
THURSDAY, 30th JULY.
THE GLACIARIUM, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
SALMON and CHESTER, Comedy Sketch Artists.
THE DESMOND SISTERS, Character Duettists.
GRAFTON C. WEST, Character Comedian and Dancer.
Miss IDA BEK RIDGE. Mr. RICHARD CECIL.
Mr. HARRY LINDEN. Mr. FRED BLUETT.
THE RIGOLETTO BROTHERS, Revolving Ladder
Experts. THE THREE GIBSON GIBBS.
THE.DEANE TRIBUNE TRIO, Comedy Sketch Artists.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d.‘, 25., arid Is: Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE MEYMOTTS, Comedy Sketch Artists.
MUSICAL IBSONS.
MYRTLE MARSDEN, Soprano.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
ETHEL PRESTON, Acrobatic Song and Dance Artiste.
J. It. LING, Mimetic Monoloquist.
CHARI.ES MILDARE, Whistler.
REGAN and RYAN, Eccentric Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. &T PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
EW THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING. A TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.
MEYNELL and GUNN’S
ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
—in—
THE BELLE OF MAYFAIR.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
NOW IN THE SEVENTH WEEK.
THE CENTURY’S GREATEST MUSICAL SUCCESS.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MERRY WIDOW.
Re-appearance of MISS CARRIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
pRINCESS’S' THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMEDY
CO. IN
MRS. WIGGS OR THE
CABBAGE PATCH.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
IJ O U THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, JULY 2, FRIDAY, JULY 3,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE HEART OF A HERO.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 4,
EDWIN GEACH’S NEW DRAMATIC CO.
IN
BAST LYNNE (For Five Nights Only).
Special Engagement ERNEST LEICESTER, Popular
London Actor.
Popular Prices —35., 25., and Is. Early Doors 6d. extra.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES Tl “ S?LI.
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to .be seen at. WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. . Bon Plan>t,Glen’s.
p»EAL ICE SK AT* IN G.
MELBOURNE GLACIABXUM.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
POPULAR PRICES EVERY EVENING,
ONE SHILLING.
SCHOOL CHILDREN, SATURDAY MORNINGS,
SIXPENCE.
Friends.
T 3 ANDOLPII (William Henry), left England for Aus-
tralia 25 years ago ; last heard of going to Tasmania
in 1883. Brother Henry asks.
CEALEY,- CHARLES GEER, came to Australia 46
years ago from Poplar, London. Was a native of
Guernsey, Channel Islands. Sister Emmalina asks.
Address — MRS. R. BENTLEY, Woodford,
176 PALMERSTON STREET, PERTH, W. Australia.
Legal Notice.
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE. ,
Probate, Divorce, and Admiralty Division.
(Divorce.)
To ROBERT NOBLE BUTCHER late of 59
Dee Terrace Jarrow in the County of Durham
(butcher).
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued in this Division citing you to appear
and answer the petition of SUSAN ELIZA
BUTCHER of 59 Dee Terrace Jarrow in the
County of Durham praying for a dissolution of
marriage. In default of your so appearing you
will not be allowed to address the Court and the
Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
proved and pronounce sentence in respect thereto.
And take further notice that for the purpose
aforesaid within one month after the date of this'
publication ail appearance must be entered at'
the Divorce Registry Somerset House Strand
London. _
W. INDERWICK,
Registrar.
IS ADORE GOLDMAN
9 Southampton Street, Bloomsbury Square,
London, W.C.,
Agent for NIEL & CRUTE, Sunderland,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes.
Of all Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
NEAT and
STRONG
TO
MEND
BELTS'and HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if- you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simplydrive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1098. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
. - Tul ular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington. Eng.
Price List on
application.
FROOTQIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G-. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria. .
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


YOUR SHOPPING BY POST.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s PURSE, solid silver, richly embossed
l£ 3^nTiiin! k liDed ’ With fOUF com P^tments:
POST 21/ FREE.
Other styles, 25/, -30/, 35/, 40/, 5; /. •
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, real amber stem, solid sil-
ver mounts and screws, straight or bent stem.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
Our facilities for taking good care of Country Customers were never
better, and we guarantee prompt and satisfactory service
through our up-to-date Mail Order Department.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUES.
If you’re interest-
ed in Watches,
Clocks. Jewellery,
Silver-plate, Lea-
ther or Optical
Goods, write for
our Illustrated
Catalogue. We will
send you a copy
post free on re-
quest. Write to-
day. It’s freely
yours for the ask-
ing, and is worth
having.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ WAISTBELT, pure silver-plated*
nickel silver, A 1 quality, pierced floral design,
in all sizes to fit any vaist.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 16/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUiNj-iERb.
CARD-RECEIVER, pure silver-plated, handsomely
graved and embossed, satin finished.
| 17/6
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Chain PURSE, croco-
diie leather, gold or green,
solid silver mounts and chain. - ’
POST 25/ FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6,
21/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET MIRROR, pure tAver-
plated, richly embossed, bevelled
' irirrror. ■
POST 10/6. FREE.
BRUSH to match, 10/6.
m
tm
pg«
ri*
ASK
r
i
f
m
I'M
r
i
m
iSS#j
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT SPRAY, fine hobnail cut crys-
tal glass, solid silver top, full size.
POST 12/0 FREE.
Smaller Size, 10/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, imitation tortoiseshell, 9ct
gold, scroll mount, securely riveted mount.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent's Ebony HAIR BRUSH, solid
silver shield, fine white bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 12/6. 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
WAX-MATCH HOLDER and ASH
TRAY, pure silver-plated,
nickel-silver pierced base.
POST 4/6 FREE.
To hold Safety Matches, 6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Combination TRINKET STAND and PI .
CUSHION, pure silver-plated, satin finish.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO JAR, pure silver-plated, liand-engraved,
satin finished, height s|in.
POST 17/6 FREE.
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
buying
by mail.
You may safely or-
der by mail if you
cannot make a per-
sonal selection, as
we pledge our-
selves to treat
every customer
with absolute fair-
ness. With the ex-
ception of Clocks
and Chinaware, we
send all goods car-
riage free to any
part of Austra-
lasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
PLAYING-CARD CASE, .pure, silver-plated,
richly embossed, with cards' and card-liftin~ at-
tachment.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
Gent.’
Razors,
scissors,
A. SAUNDERS.
s SHAVING ROLL, comprising
finest Sheffield steel, corn knife,
in leather roll.
pair of
tweezers,
POST 21/ FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 22/6.
/ A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, 4 pieces, solid silver,
richly embossed handles, polished steel
ends.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
M
’Brinr
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, solid silver, richly em-
bossed, long white bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Peggy HAND-BAG, Morocco
leather, nicely finished, silk
sewn.
POST 8/6 FREE.
Other styles in fancy leathers,
from 10/6, 12/6, 15/, to 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, solid silver,
richly embossed, fine white
bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE HOLDER, real amber holder, gold-
mounted, in richly-engraved sterling silver case 2iin
long.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
* A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING BRUSH and SOAP HOLDER,
solid silver, fine badger bristles, soap fits into
handle.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
fS
mm
RH
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS BOTTLE,
fine hobnail cut-glass
bottle, engraved top, 3in
high.
POST 7/6 FREE.
Other sizes, 5/6, 8/6,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Cloth or Hat BRUSH, solid silver, riclilv embossed,
“Day Dream” pattern, 7in long, extra long, fine, white
bristles.
POST 20/ FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 10/, 12/0, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Head SALTS BOTTLE,
fine hobnail cut-glass,
engraved silver top,
height 3|in, 8/6; 2iin,
5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT-PIN STAND, pure silver-plated
amethyst thistle, velvet base, /’in
high.
POST 3/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6, 16/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAU
ERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


You will Need Thesewhen “The Fleet” Arrives
mm.
>
Always fresh and clean, free from all the defects
to V/hich Photographic Films are subject, and
trustworthy under all conditions.
■ = o
A FOLDING POCKET KODAK,
VMUULIK ■lllllll I WMlIf
because it does the best work, and does it every
time. Never fails to give the best possible
results for every exposure, and makes Photography
an economical pastime.
All Prices from 30s. to £l2.
KODAK
mmsmm
Approved as the most perfect
Film by the leading Photo-
graphers of the World.
Iml
Proprietary Limited
Sole Agents in Australia
for KODAK LIMITED.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “The Block/
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
’ 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
■
G
»
P
n drink- n
r,v) ato
ori
SK-O* 0 !
0
0
fRW 1
fRR Dt
m Ab
M An
ftP AS H ‘N
WHISKY
brandy
WINE OR
CC-BEERo,
MAKES A
DELICIOUS
drink -v
ALSO THE
BEST
LIQUEUR
AFTER MEALS
H IN
pAS
%
WHISKY
BRANDY
WINE OR
EC- BEERoi
makes a
DELICIOUS
'c drink -V
ALSO THE
BEST
LIQUEUR
AFTER ME »LS
A
/uSE°»
/? WITH O
jj SODA %
g WATER *
2 lemonade*
o MOT «
» on f
/
’ WITH
SOOA
water
| LEMONADE;
\ HOT •
ocold l
WATIA*
oCOuD ;
C^WATLR/
V/
Ted byT3^
>A»nurachurvd
Eg
JDixon&O
rtX HIOH 3T P A>HAAN tICT T
A GREAT CURE
FOR INDIGESTION
JDixon&C?
& PB,H "fl"v,|;T,.
-'Z^Tipxonl
g/?£vi7 cc/«£
FOR INDIGESTION
W
Just as during the actual
play you can trace the keen
enjoyment of Football on
the faces of the players
and spectators, so during
the intervals you can easily
trace their keen enjoy =
ment of the famous drink
—“ 0.T.”
And in the home of the
Football enthusiast you
are sure to find a bottle of
“0.T.,” for he knows that
however cold or wet the
afternoon ipay be, the
“0.T.” remedy will protect
him from cold and chills.
Manufactured by—
J. DIXON & CO.
HIGH STREET, PRAHRAN,
MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
Orrne, Keigwin & Co.
WHEN you think how the Edison Phono-
graph eaters to every taste, it is really
surprising. It is equally good in entertain-
ing a crowd of friends, amusing the family,
or in helping you to “ pass a few hours by
yourself”
It is just as good rendering a plaintive ballad or a lively waltz.
It sings to you in your quiet moments and enlivens your lively ones.
You needn’t trouble to go out in the cold to attend the theatre.
Your own home can be a theatre in which you can command the
world's star-artists 'to minister to your pleasure.
If you are fond of a homely dance, the Edison will be the band
and give you the very best dance music without netting tired.
Why not purchase one at once ? If you imagine that the Edison
Phonograph is a squeaky, raspy affair that scratches like a nutmeg
grater, just go to a dealer and ask him to play some selections on
his machine. The Edison is a perfect reproducer of all sounds, and gives
them to you with a purity that falls little short of the human voice.
Ask us to forward lists of records and machines and the name of
your nearest dealer.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia. Ltd,.
Dept. 8., 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


FOR 10 YEARS
Doctors and a Skin Hospital did Him
No Good —Sickness Caused Loss
in. Wages of Over £3OO—A
Friend Whose Father was Cured
of Eczema Advised Him to Try the
Cuticura Treatment.
A TRIPLE CURE BY THE
CUTICURA REMEDIES
“My eczema has been ten years’
standing and it has cost me over £3OO
in loss of wages. lam a carpenter and
joiner by trade. I have been under
doctors, and I also attended the skin
hospital, but none of them did me any
good. When I was at Horley I pur-
chased some of the Cuticmra Remedies,
and I was working about all the day,
not giving my leg a chance, but after
purchasing twelve sets of the Cuticura
Remedies they cured the eczema in my
limb. I also had spots on the scalp,
but they are all gone now. I have had
these sore pimples fifty years. My
scalp is now all clean. My eczema
was on the right limb from the ankle
upwards, which was as raw as a piece
of beef. I shall recommend the Cuti-
cura Remedies to all I see afflicted with
eczema. Publish this statement for all
the world, and let any one write to me
and I will reply.
“I also purchased three vials of Cuti-
cura Pills for my wife and they have
done her a lot of good. Before taking
them she dared hardly to eat anything
on account of the pain afterwards; now
she can eat anything and plenty of it.
She is getting quite fat now and is quite
a different woman. I was first advised
to try the Cuticura Remedies by a
man who lives at Redhill whose father
was cured of a bad eczema on the head.
No doctors nor hospitals oould cure it.
After a few applications the whole crust
of the head came off and left him a
healthy scalp. This man’s age was over
seventy years. Although lam cured of
eczema I shall always have Cuticura
by me, and use the Cuticura Pills now
and then, for I find the Pills keep my
head very clear and my appetite good.
Chas. Gambrill, 166, High St., Rams-
gate, March 7 and April 17, 1906.”
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
& Co., Sydney: Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta: Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
aa~ Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin*Diseases.
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1577.
NTS
'The Artistic FEURICH 1
Built on ideal lines with
a standard of artistry—
that impresses everyone
who sees it —and possess-
ing a tone of wonderful
beauty—which strikes a
sympathetic chord in the
breast of every true music
lover, the
FEURIGH PIANO
stands to-day as the em-
bodiment of sterling piano
worth .
Sold at a moderate price,
and built to suit the
climatic condition of our
variable climate, it is
the one instrument which
will withstand the wear
of years—and be all the
better for it ♦
►The FEURICH Piano'
CASH OR DEFERRED PAYMENTS.
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
115,000
The WaybacK iSeries.
Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps aughing. Red Harry Is.
Australian Mutual Provident Society
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. *
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
tralian States or New Zealand IWT~ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF Interest
P°u d c ° ntains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of reravin
n t 0 -0 per cent ' of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of anv fine'
«“» «¥SSW MS -—■“rssa^•
HAS MONEY TO LEND
This Lady's Shoe is
Correia for Winter Wear,
16/6
It s one of those Patent Leather Tie Shoes so much
in vogue this winter. The toe is daintily rounded,
and the Cuban Heel gives an effective smartness to
its appearance. With pump soles the price is 16/6,
or at a Guinea we sell this shoe in the same style
with a hand-sewn sole.
Whichever you order, add 3d. for
postage if in Victoria ; 1/- any
other State.
LEEMING’S
BOOT
STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
J Vji/A.,
ilr^
W)
%
/V
w\
A Li/e-time Necessity
It is not simply now and then, but always and every day that
> Horlick’s Malted Milk proves its value and its handiness.
A reliable food for the baby, a source of strength to the
growing boy, a stamina giver for athletes, a stimulating,
blood-making food for anaemic girls, a valuable tonic for
shaken nerves, and a digestible and enjoyable food for old
age—all of these things you find in Horlick’s Malted Milk.
Made in a moment —only water needed.
Sold by all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, &e.
HORLICKS MALTED MILK
Samples: 82 Pitt Street. Sydney, N. S. Wales. Horlick's Food Co. Slough, Bucks, England.
e
EDUCATION
B Y,» 8.0 S T
Prepare for a Good Position! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and
tiaining within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own homo.
practical
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
VVe prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
... Is
.. JOd
WOMEN
SUFFER. MORE
THAN MEN.
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men. Ex-
cess fat takes away a
woman’s loveliness—gives
her an ugly, ungainly ap-
pearance, impedes her
gait, interferes with her maternal in-
stincts, injures her general health,, and
makes life a burden.
99
FATCURE,
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable. It is non-poisonous and harm-
less. The fat when reduced does not return.
Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe
and harmless treatment for Obesity. Send
2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample and
full particulars, or call if convenient.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, CABTLEREACH ST., STDNEY. [32
QIYEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O IA the Bunch
u post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
WATCH.
GUARANTEED IN WRITING FOR 12 MONTHS.
POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALIA
FOR
The “ Dreadnought ” is an exceptionally strong',
polished steel cylinder watch, with high-grade,
jewelled movement, with nickelled dome. It is
wound up and the hands set without opening the
case hy the latest keyless mechanism. You can have
the case either GUNMETAL or NICKEL. Both are
practically dustproof, and have a strong bevelled
crystal glass face. Every watch thoroughly tested
and regulated before being offered for sale, and
guaranteed in writing for 12 months. Sent post free
anywhere for 10/-
Your money returned in full if you are not satisfied.
Write for Catalogue, Post Free.
DUNKLING, The JEWELLER,
315-317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
The Inky Way.
o u* e •'^ ecease d ex-Police Superintendent Lenthall,
of N.S. vv., was on the Inky Track for a short time some
oO or more years ago. He started what he used to briefly
refer to as “the Rag,” at North Sydney, and used to
® a "y T the formes across to the city to be machined.
The Rag ” didn’t pay, and Lenthall was a poor collector
and an inefficient borrower, which made it pay worse.
Then one day, on his way across, he dropped the formes,
and the next issue of the paper became a mere shriek or
heap or devastation of type on the vessel’s deck. It didn’t
seem worth while re-setting the paper, and “ the Rag”
was allowed to perish.
* * * *
S. M. Herald announces, with some pride, that it is
installing- two electric motors to drive its presses in place
of the old steam plant. It is doubtful, however, if elec-
tricity will enable the Herald to hold back Australia any
harder than it did with hot water. Tiik Bulletin grieves
when it thinks of the purposes some water has served. A
lot of it must have been really nice water.
* * ' * *
No. 1., vol. 1., of Tasmania’s democratic Daily Post
arrived on May 27, wearing the eloquent blessing of Alfred
Deakin on page 7. And the gospel which it expounded
on page 6 deserved not only the Prime Minister’s blessing,
but also the pence of all democratic Tasmania. Close on
the heels of the Post’s first general declaration of policy
followed an article calling for an honest land-tax in the
interests of land-users ; and in Tasmania, above most
places, the heels of a general declaration of policy couldn’t
be trodden upon by anything better.
Adelaide Advertiser will complete its half-century on
July 12 next. Editor Bonython has been connected with
the paper for 44 of the 50 years. He began as a junior
reporter under the founder, J. H. Barrow, who exchanged
the pulpit for politics and the press, and was once
Treasurer of S.A. The first two editors of the Advertiser
were Congregational parsons, and the third was the son
of another. Bonython is the fourth to sit in the uneasy
chair.
* * » »
“D.” : Sydney Star, in its efforts to be bright and
snappy in a politically non-committal fashion, is importing
curious Old World newspaper notions. The latest move
is to award some citizen (regardless of his food prefer-
ences) a cake every week. The idea is cribbed from John
Bull, a little London weekly run by Horatio Bottomley,
M.P., company-promoter, racehorse-owner—and other
things. “The delicious confection ’’(as the Star play-
fully put it) went in the first place to G. H. Reid, to-
gether with a column of tame and guarded chat, such as
the man in the tram who has the gift of alliteration and
of polysyllabic talk is wont to hand out most mornings.
* * * *
London Times, which was recently struck with a bill for
£7500 for libelling publisher Murray, admitted in the
course of the trial that “Artifex,” who contributed a
slashing letter to the paper denouncing Murray as a pub-
lishing cormorant, was really Mr. Hooper, one of the
Times’ own managers. A. M.‘ Sullivan, in another libel
action, admitted that during his editorship of Dublin
Nation many dashing letters that appeared in the paper
as written by “ Pro Bono Publico” and other such well-
known citizens, were wuitten by himself or by members
of the staff. But often the fraud sticks out like a cow-
catcher. When the Daily Whooper or Morning Wiieezer
prints a letter signed “Mother of 27 Girls,” or “Citizen
of 140 Years’ Standing,” or “ Convict Doing a 500 Years’
Sentence,” and beginning, “The thanks of the entire
community are owing to you for your logicallv-reasoned
and beautifully-worded leading article of yesterday morn-
ing—a literary masterpiece, and manifestly the product
of a highly-gifted and elaborately-trained intellect,” the
reader always has suspicions that are as dark as the con-
tents of the coal-box.
* * * *
“Kola” : Isn’t it a curious satire upon the boasted and
continually-advertised power of the Age that Victoria is
the most conservative of the whole five mainland States?
It is the one State where the Labor party is a nonentity ;
and even the Federal Labor men it returns are few and—
most of them—personally insignificant. Queensland,
Southralia, and VVestralia have all had Labor Ministries ;
but Victoria has never been within coo-ee of one.’
Surely, if the Age was the power it was cracked up
to be, the State should have a better record than this?
For my own part, I believe that King David’s power was
much over-rated. At any rate, whenever he tried his
hardest to do anything—such as keeping Gillies and
Trenwith out of Parliament—he failed miserably. Most
of the Age successes, on the other hand, have simply been
of the kind that consists in driving the horse in the direc-
tion that the animal had previously determined to go.
“D.”: The country correspondent with a developed
news-sense must make a good thing out of his job. On a
recent day Sydney Telegraph contained the following
items from Bathurst (N.S.W.), which is a deadish old
town, shut off from progress and the eventfulness that
marches therewith, by a stout fence of unburst estates :
(1) A couple of pars re Early Closing.
(2) A par telling of the transfer of an indigenous rail-
way official to another town.
(3) Something about a local nurse.
(4) Half a column on Closer Settlement.
(5) A personal item concerning an aged female resident
and the inevitable purse of sovereigns she snared, and the
unescapable illuminated address with which she was
presented.
(6) A lengthy report of the formation of an Irrigation
League, with precis of speeches.
(7) An account of how the local riflers propose chal-
lenging the best of the on-coming Yankee fleet to a match,
M'ith remarks of local notables on the subject, and a fore-
cast of the local team.
The correspondent is usually a reporter on the news-
paper of the town he writes from. At the above rate his
earnings from the metropolitan sheet would surpass the
screws of any three country editors by several sacks of
gold per annum.
* * * *
“ H.E.8.” : A reporter, a weekly paper photographer,
and a glass eye worn by the latter, were responsible for a
shocking episode which happened lately in Maoriland.
The men are employed by the same paper, and had been
consigned to One Shrub Flat, or somewhere, to “ do ” the
annual agricultural show of the district. The hayseeds
were more than the height of hospitality, and with a
view to getting a good yarn in the papers, filled the
journalist and the snap-shot fiend well above Plimsoll
mark w r ith back-blocks beer. The consequence was
that they both went to pieces early in the even-
ing, but they managed to negotiate the stairs on
all-fours and find their room. In spite of the
fact that he was wholly beer-logged, the camera-man had
enough instinct left to take out his glass optic, and
according to custom, place it in a tumbler of water. His
brother-drunk had in the meantime climbed into bed
with his boots on,, and was making the window-frames
rattle with his snores—consequently he didn’t see the
operation. In the brief hours of the morning the ink-
slinger was awakened by his tongue falling against
his teeth like a lump of wood. He struggled out of bed
and groped round the room for something wet with
which to break the drought. Happening to hit on the
glass of water containing the mechanism, he drained it
at one gulp, and it was not till he was getting dressed
some hours later,, that he caught sight of the all-seeing
substance staring coldly at him from the depths of the
empty tumbler. Then he spoke to the photographer in
tones that made all further acquaintance impossible
between them.
LABOR LOST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was an antiquarian,
A learned and persistent man,
And on a tile from Thebes he spent
All hours the kindly heavens sent.
For many years the sage had pored
To learn what wisdom dark was stored ,
In hieroglyphics quaint and wry
That numbed his brain and warped his eye.
At length with rapture rare found he
The key to ope the mystery.
He spelt the message from the dead,
And then he kicked himself to bed,
For this is what he’d labored o’er :
“Sav when a door is not a door.
When it’s a jar.” Strange birds and cranks
Translated thus —“ Declined with thanks ! ”
YIC.
SNELL.


REGARDING CHAMBERLAIN’
NEGLECTED COLDS.
GOOD ADVICE TO WISE WOMEN
AND PRUDENT MEN.
“ Don’t trifle with a cold,” is good advice for
prudent men and women. It may be vital in the
case of a child. Proper food, good ventilation,
and dry, warm clothing are the proper safeguards
against colds. If they are maintained through
the changeable weather of Autumn, Winter and
Spring, the chances of . a surprise from ordinary
colds will be slight. But the ordinary light cold
will become severe if neglected, and a we -
established, ripe cold is to the germ of diphtheria
what honey is to the bee. The greatest menace
to child-life-is. the neglected cold. Whether it is
a child or adult, the cold slight or severe, the very
best treatment that can be adopted is to give
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It is safe and
sure. The great popularity and immense sale of
this medicine have been attained by its remark-
able cures of this ailment. A cold never results
in pneumonia when Chamberlain’s Gough Remedy
INFLUENZA.
PHYSICAL AND MENTAL AGONY.
LACK OF SYMPATHY.
Before we can sympathise with others we must
have suffered ourselves. No one, can realise the
suffering attendant on an attack of influenza
unless lie has had the actual experience. There is
probably no disease that causes so much physical
and mental agony, or which so successfully defies
medical aid. All danger from influenza, however,
may be avoided by the prompt use of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy.
A GOOD HABIT.
The mother who has acquired the habit of
keeping a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
on hand saves herself a great amount of uneasi-
ness and anxiety. Coughs, colds, or croup, to
which children are susceptible, are quickly cured
by its use. It counteracts any tendency of a cold
to result in pneumonia, and if given as soon as the
first symptoms of croup appear it will prevent the
attack. This remedy contains no opium, and
mothers give it to their little ones with a feeling
of perfect security.
CHAMBERLAIN'S COUGH REMEDY,
sold everywhere, 1/6.
CROUP.
MUST CHECK DISEASE AT THE
START.
Don’t neglect the first symptoms of croup in
your child. This hoarseness and croupy cough
are often overlooked by persons not acquainted
with the disease, and sometimes not heeded by
those that know the danger signal. Thousands of
infant children die yearly of croup. Every one of
these innocents could have been saved had Cham-
Cough Remedy been given in tune. The
time wasted in sending for a physician or for
medicine when a child shows symptoms of croup
often proves fatal. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
should always be kept in the house for immediate
use. Remember, it will prevent an attack if given
as soon as the child becomes hoarse, or even after
the croupy cough appears Chamberlain’s Cough
Remddy is safe and sure. Contains no narcotics.
Always cures. It is the mother’s favorite cough
-remedy in all parts of the world.
HOARSENESS.
HOW CAUSED AND WHEN
DANGEROUS.
Hoarseness, or roughness of voice, arises from
several causes. The most common is when the
mucus is allowed to collect on the vocal cords.
This is dangerous, for, unless the mucus is re-
moved, it is . most likely to become a hotbed of
disease, and wi.ll develop into some serious chronic
throat or lung complaint. A small dose of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will work wonders.
Not only does it at once clear away the mucus,
but also assists Nature to strengthen the vocal
cords, and make the accumulation less likely to
occur. The mere fact that Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is free from all narcotics makes it the
best to use in all cases of hoarseness.
Another common cause of hoarseness is the
swelling or looseness of the vocal cords. This is
generally caused by sudden exposure or by pro-
tracted public speaking. This phase is often
called “ clergyman’s hoarseness.” The soothing
properties of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy act
most beneficially in such ,cases, and by soothing
any inflamed cords soon enables them to resume
a natural condition.
Officially Declared Free.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is the only cough
remedy sold in Australasia that has been officially
declared by Australian authorities Free from, all
BRONCHITIS.
WHAT IT IS AND WHAT
TO DO.
This is only another name for a severe cold in
the chest. In its commencement it is attended
with cough, hoarseness, more or less pain, soreness
of the throat and lungs, expectoration of mucus,
sometimes mixed with blood, tightness about the
chest or throat, a difficulty in breathing. In its
last stages, high fever and night sweats prevail.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is soothing and heal-
ing. It is always the common neglected cold that
causes the trouble. Take Chamberlain s Cough
Remedy at the first indication of the cough or
cold, and thus avoid any serious complications.
ONE INSTANCE.
Mrs. Jessie Lomas writes: “I strongly advise
every parent to keep a bottle of Chamberlain s
Cough Remedy in the house, and always make a
point of telling my friends of the wonderful re-
covery of my son. For eleven years he had
suffered from acute Bronchitis, and though I had
'him try a lot of things, nothing seemed to give
him permanent relief. A medical man advised
me to get Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and I
did so. A decided improvement was noticed be-
fore the first bottle was used, and I am pleased to
state that after he had taken four bottles he was
completely cured, and is now enjoying the best of
health.”
PNEUMONIA.
THE CAUSES, AND HOW TO PREVENT.
Old people and those who have weak lungs can-
not be too careful in guarding against this disease.
Pneumonia always results from a cold or from an
attack of influenza, and can be prevented by the
timely use of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. A
great many people who have had every reason to
fear pneumonia have warded it off by the prompt
use of this remedy. Pneumonia usually begins
with a heavy chill, followed with high fever, pain
in the lungs, and difficult breathing, and great
prostration. Take Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
at once, in order to check these symptoms. We
do not claim that it will cure pneumonia, but do
claim that it will prevent it if taken in time.
The Only One.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is the only
cough remedy sold in Australiasia that has the
Guarantee of the United States Government under
the Pure Food Law to contain no poison or danger-
ous narcotics.
WHOOPING COUGH.
SYMPTOMS AND ITS
DANGERS.
Whooping cough is a very 1 dangerous disease
unless treated properly. Statistics show that
there are more deaths from it than from scarlet
fever. You cannot mistake the symptoms —pro-
tracted coughing, worse at night—peculiar sound
or whoop—labored expectoration of mucus-
apparent suffocation after coughing. Give Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy at once, repeating the
dose frequently. The quick relief afforded by
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy makes it a favorite
with mothers of small children. It liquefies the
tough mucus, making it easier to expectorate,
keeps the cough loose, and counteracts any
tendency toward pneumonia. This remedy has
been used in many epidemics of whooping cough,
and always with perfect success. There is no
danger whatever from the disease when it is freely
given. It contains nothing injurious, and may be
given as confidently to a baby as to an adult.
DIPHTHERIA.
RESULTS FROM A NEGLECTED COLD.
One often hears the expression, “My child
caught a severe cold, which developed into diph-
theria,” when the truth was that the cold had
simply left the little one particularly susceptible
to the wandering diphtheria germ. When Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy is given, it not only cures
the cold, but greatly lessens the danger of diph-
theria or any other germ disease being contracted.
There is no danger in giving this remedy, as it
contains no opium or other harmful drug, and may
be given to a baby as confidently as to an adult.
Every Bottle Guaranteed.
If you fail to get beneficial results after using
two-thirds of a bottle of
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
according to directions,'return it to your dealer
and get your money back. It is well known for
its prompt cures of coughs, colds, and croup.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY,
Officially declared free from all poison.
Sold Everywhere, 1/6.
Makes you look manly
Before
<fl«
A Safe
and Sure
Moustache Producer.
Send us 10/6 in Postal Notes or Money Order for a pot of
OAPILLARINE—foIIow the simple instructions, and you will be
rewarded with a full moustache. There’s no need to be ashamed
of your too-youthful appearance. OAPILLARINE has been used
in Australia for over 20 years and has always proved a success.
A POT SENT POST FREE ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD
IN PLAIN SEALED WRAPPER FOR 10/6.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 25 Years.
m
S-
&
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
and sports
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 1908.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Calander, ‘ S r treeC ’
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLINU.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November sth.
To anv person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
results wilfbe posted. Tickets maybe had from Agents in all towns,
or direct from ALLAN MoDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
THE INKLESS PEN
IT WRITES . .
WITH WATER
Sixpence each, Two for Ninepence, Three for One Shilling,
y Carriage Paid. Extra Nibs 2/- per Dozen, fit any holder.
Stamps of any State accepted. These Pens are obtainable only from
rr-Frp., UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY COMPANY,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
DINNEFORD'S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
TOOTH’S XXX ALE is UNRIVALLED^
AULD JOCR
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
PROPRIETORS,
KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON . £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
jMkxho'irne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
r . i
Banking, Public Companies, <&c.
national gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 186 S.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
. Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
.Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock ..3,116,621 o 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout AUjstrftjasi.a, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman; Hon. A: J.
Caban, Esq., M.U-U,Johh .Cameron,.. Esq;i Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial f[)utual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :•
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000. '
Policies Issued 106, £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling.: Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agrents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of naio Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH-:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
TOTAL CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £2,000,000.
UNCALLED CAPITAL £500,000.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.— mii
10*
$
FAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS,
WE
Free
Accident insurance
Poiicies
now presented to customers/
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
oxr.s.iw.
fflont depieteoJi|. Co., Ctd.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEBEAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident arid Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, Esq., M.L.O.
(Gibbs, Bright & Oo.); E. Vickery, Esq. ; J. Campbell-
Wood, Esq. : J. J. Allen, Esq. ; E. Laidley, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
agency company limited
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grioe, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; lioq. Thomas'Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
A
POLICY ton the
Price, Gd.
COMMONWEALTH
Shipping.
3\r. jd. l,
(NORD-DKUTSCHER LLO YD. )
Four-Weekly Mail Service
M^wn ENG /?-? S B00KED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marsei Ipr t a.,*. 1 H
£3 <3
*T\vin-Sere\v Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
Trom SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
MANILA .. .. 'tv - TTTT V
PRINZ WALDEMAR . .] ‘' 25th AUG
PRINZ SICISMUNO .. ..22nd SEPT.
JI? Urpa f* d Sea g 0 ing Qualities - Maximum Speed.
Safety and Tonnaere, Best Accommodation. Excellent
£™ n *A?;s uTv - *» ,m "
Tel. 698. * LOHkANN & CO.; 7 Bridire-street.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal gank of Queensland
hlMlTlUJ). "
Capital Paid-up £185.003 10 0
Reserve Liability op Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D. Day. Chief Acct., E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDCE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
TN€ AB€RP€€N Ll>!€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLII 3 AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
♦Twin Screw. f New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. Sr i Class.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 10th
July.
SUEi/IC, 12,500 tons, to sail about sth
August,
PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New iTork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables , and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgetij and Com,pang. Ltd.,
; v Agents in Australia.
F HOUPAy
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands’ (2 ports),
Solomon: Islands (about 8
CRUISES. %
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports),' Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet. •
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking;, &c.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,250,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,220,000 0 0
Reserve Liability •' ... 1,250,000 0 0
£3,720,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. R. Jones, M.L.C. Hon. 11. Moses, M.L.C.
E. W. Knox, Esq.
Auditors :
E- S. Cape, Esq., and F. \V. Hixson, Esq. .
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
T. A. Dibbs, General Manager : T. B. Gadeu,
Assistant-Manager and Chief Inspector; A. J.
Soutar, Accountant; W. C. B. Tiley, H. H. Massie,
W. H. Pinhey, Inspectors.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane
r Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; B. \V. Levy, Esq.;
Hon. 11. S. Littleton. Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New Soutn Wales
and in Queensland.
Agencies throughout the world.
UNITED
THE
INSURANCE
CO. Limited).
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c; Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M.TINLEY, Manager.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
WHAT IS CATARRH?
[CATARRH is inflammation of the lining membrane
| of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
1-ever, Headache, Neuralgii, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
tator complete, with 4 months’ treatment, post free-
6TAR NOVELTY CO., *29 Collins-st„ Melbourne.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find everv comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beacon jfield Parade
ST. HILDA.
rpHiS Largest and Best-App'ointed Boarding-house in
A the Colonies. Magnificent Situation, facing Beaen.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, |-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
‘EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
lt is also p'sasant and refreshing for
> bath or toi r', and a good safeguard
) against infectious diseases.
* Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
i - ■
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, I
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE. >
Transhipping- at Fremantle I
to all North Western Ports, I
GERALDTON (W.A.) J
S.S. Yongrala, July 3.
(To Melbourne only.)
S.S. Grantala, July 18.
(Without transhipment.)
.S. S. Marloo, July 4.
S.S. Yongala, July 11.
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
~ **est and Cheapest Houle to Hold Helds.
aaloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
nrst Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which , can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjfESSAGER/ES J^jARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting- General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 pitt street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELOiSG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, July 4.
BOMBALA, 2 p.m,, SATURDAY,
July 11.
AOELADE \
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and caveo for S.A., j
n.. I I'ons, Perth,
ii.'pKouii, and all ■
<. r V : W.A. ports.) J
BURRUMBEET. 2 p.m., WED-
NESDAY, J uly 15.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
July 4.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
July 7.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, July 11. "
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. F'lll particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES: FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 17Q6, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN’AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE
to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
"UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H.—s.
Federal-Houlder*Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
T.S.S. “DORSET.”
11,300 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander.
Will be despatched from Brisbane on the 2nd July, 1908
„ „ „ Sydney „ 9th July, 1908
„ „ „ Melbourne „ 13th July, 1908
To be followed by other fast twin-screw steamers.
Excellent accommodation for saloon passengers. The
saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth cabins
on the upper deck, situated amidships.
Electric light throughout. Surgeon and Stewardess
carried. Return Tickets issued. Prepaid passages
arranged
SALOON FARES- ' ,
LONDON and LIVERPOOL ,- . £49 Ios.
For futher particulars, illustrated pamphlets, etc.,
apply to—
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Brisbane and Sydney.
McILM RAITII, McEACUARN & CO., Ltd., Melbourne.


PRESENTATION
lECES
It you have a Presentation in view and want something ofi the
h * t aualitv then the goods we show to-day will be of
particular interest, as they represent the Newest and f
their kinds —shipped to us direct from the already world-famed
TREASURE HOUSE of STEWART, DAWSON & CO. m London.
f amo7it
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.
Order by Mail, as we pay carriage to any part of Australia. If
by any chance the goods do not please, we exchange or refund
money without argument. Write for our big FREE ART
CATALOGUE of 112 Pages.
No. F 438- Richly-Chased Full-size A 1
Quality Silver-plated Tea Pot, £2 15s.
No. G26s2.—Richly Hand-Engraved A 1
Quality Silver-plated Full-size Tea Pot,
£2 12s. 6d.
No. F 5099.— Richly Hand-Engraved and
Eluted A 1 Quality Silver-plated Full-size
Tea Pot, £ 2 10s.
No. G4227.—Richly Chased A 1 Quality
Silver-plated Afternoon Tea Pot, with
Sugar and Cream to match, £3/17/6.
No. Gsll2.—Handsome Plain Tea Pot,
Afternoon Size, A 1 Quality Silver-plate,
with Sugar and Cream to match, a3/IZ/6.
11
I
il ,| iuinnniunnmw\\W^
iPtffi
SnliH Silver Presentation Service, with Inscription complete, £B7 10s.
m
9a
m
h
ISO
m
VA
2Te>;
. ■
No. G 5760. —A 1 Quality Silver-plated
full-size Tea and Coffee Service, £9.
ASSIST NATURE IN A PLEASANT WAY
BY MERIT ALONE.
Kutnow’s Powder is a delightfully refreshing
health-regulator, pleasant to the taste, painless in
action, and infallible in keeping the system clean,
clear, wholesome, and efficient. Its reputation has
been acquired by merit, and has been enhanced by
the recognition and endorsement of the most dis-
tinguished members of the medical profession in all
parts of the world for liver torpor, constipation,
bad breath, backache, languor, rheumatism, and
kidney troubles. Try it at once.
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of
all conscientious Chemists throughout the World.
See that the fac-simile signature, “S. KutnoW &
CO., Ld.,” and the registered trade mark,
“ Hirschensprung, or Deer Leap/’ are on the
carton and bottle. You then
Get Genuine
KUTNOW’S POWDER.
!
Sfl
am
If KUTNO WS
l" “ _ _ , r«a«
Improved ErreßvesccNT CarISBAD
POWDER,
E
ffl
Hirsdicnsprung or Deer Leap
L?
London
t 41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.t t
I RECtSTERED TRADE $
Convincing EVIDENCE
The testimony below refers only to the
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder, but NOT to
fraudulent substitutes.
A CIVIL ENGINEER
WRITES :
“Mis W. Barns Kinsey, IVUnst.C.E.,
F.G.S., has pleasure in stating that his personal
experience of Kutnow’s Powder for the alleviation
of rheumatism and allied complaints hears out fully
what Messrs. Kutnow & Co. claim for their
preparation.”
Southsea, May 9th, 1907.
Rev. J. PALLUEL
WRITES :
“ Roman Catholic Mission, Nagpur,
“ British India, 4th July, 1907.
“ Dear Sirs, —After having used the bottle of
Kutnow’s Powder which you were good enough to
send me, and encouraged by its beneficial effects, I
at once obtained three more bottles of your powder
from Bombay. I am more than ever convinced of
the efficacy of Kutnow’s Powder and its cleansing
and anti-bilious properties, and you can consider
me hereafter as one of your best clients.
“ With best thanks, believe me,
“ Yours faithfully,
11 (Rev.) J. PALLUEL.’*
KUTNOW S POWDER dispels dyspepsia
™ ™ [3.


“ Mate” explains things :
“Bobstay” (B. 11/6/’08), in regard to Burns, Philp’s
threat to change the port of register of their ships to
Melbourne, has got mixed up with the rigging somewhat.
He says “ some masters can use their pilotage exemption
certificates only if their commands are registered in Vic-
toria, while the Sydney exemptions extend to all the
Commonwealth and Maoriland.” It is well known that
up to 1897 New South Wales exemption certificates were
available for any ships—even foreign ones—in any trade.
Then (I think it was under the glorious Freetrade
Government of George Reid) they were limited to Aus-
tralian registered ships in the State, inter-State, and
South Sea Island trades.
Victorian exemptions were always so limited— except
in the case of ships registered in Victoria, which are
allowed to use exemptions for Victorian ports whatever
trade they are in.
Thus Burns, Philp’s ships running to Singapore have
to pay pilotage in Melbourne, being registered in Sydney.
But the Currie line, that these B. P. ships compete with,
being Victorian, is exempt, which puts B. P. at a dis-
advantage.
The N.S.W. law is a curiosity which allows the
man who happened to pass his exam, in December,
1897, to pilot his ship in and out of our Glorious Harbor,
even if she’s a Dutch one, with a cargo of saurkraut from
Sausageland—while the man who passed in January,
1898, can only pilot his ship if she’s an Australian one, in
the inter-State or South Sea trade. This puts the younger
men in the service at a serious disadvantage.
I know one man with the new exemption, who only got
his command, in a British ship, by agreeing to pay the
Sydney pilotage himself—all the other masters in the line
having the old exemption.
THE BALLET GIRL
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913, G.P.0., SYDNEY,
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England f
o
r
""'ir —. W 'll' 1
rrrm
pomelo
EALSAMXIX
yr" r>
-SM-SAM Qp .
<C
&
<fc
'^AO
aß>
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES* Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
Mr. Thos. Shelton, 18, Crown Street, Oxford, writes:—“lf the value of ‘POWELL’S BALSAM OF ANISEED*
was better known, many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung Troubles would do as I have done for
upwards of 50 years; I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably sets me up. It is
invaluable. I have several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have had three
attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and 2or 3 bottles had the desired effect when all else failed. You may make
what use of this you like.”— December nth, 1907.
a ®AILEY > 3 3 > Manville Road, Balham, London, S.W., writes:—“ I may add that I recommend your
M a ‘ ter 13 years constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and Warminster,
Wilts, for 35 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers."— January, 1908. '
Sold toy all Chemists and Stores.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL,, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
Sole Wholesale Agents for Neiv South Wales and Queensland :—
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR COUGHS.
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
po equal for thoroughly cleansing the system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ill-health
known as “run-down” or “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway's Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
fs known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo-«* welcome relief
in a very short time.
&
HEARNES
BRONCHITIS
CURE
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, & CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis. Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where “ Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. -• Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. iAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


>/
/
\
/
77
\
Si I D!
ill .
»!««}; i
WHAT IT MEANS
to have your body contain an abundant supply of Electricity. It means strength, vigor, vitality, freedom from pains and
aches, steady nerves, self confidence, ambition and success, for success cannot be reached without these things. It means that if you
suffer from Nervousness, Weakness, Debility, Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble, Seiatiea, Asthma, Indigestion
Or Constipation, that if you will stop dosing yourself with useless and dangerous drugs, and fill your nerves, blood, muscles
and tissues with the electric strength they lack, that you will soon have as sound and strong a body as Nature intended you to have.
No weakness or disease can exist in a body fully charged with Electricity—the fact that it does exist is the strongest proof that the
body lacks Electricity. Science has proven that a strong, vigorous, healthy body contains a large amount of Electricity.
WHAT THE FOREMOST MEDICAL SCIENTISTS SAY
Prof. O. S. FOWLER
PROF. O. S. Fowrer, in his work on the treat-
ment of nervous diseases, says: — “Sufferers
little realise how far they are restorable, yet
they seek relief in wrong directions, for .medi-
cine cannot cure this class of disease ; but, on
the contrary, they almost universally prove in-
jurious. They are no more adapted to reach these
cases than a dose of ipecac or jalap is to assuage
a mother’s grief for the loss of her darling babe,
for the disease- —being largely local—the restora-
tives must be applied directly to those prostrated
parts, and since electricity is undoubtedly the
instrumentality of all life, it necessarily follows
that this element constitutes Nature’s own most
potent remedy in these diseases when rightly
applied.”
Prof. EDGAR S. LARKIN
Prof. Edgar L. Larkin, the eminent scientist, discussing “ The
New Physiology,” in an article dated June 24, 1905, says:—“The
trend of science is toward electricity on all sides. Discoveries made
hour by hour point to one grand conclusion—the substratum of
Nature is Electricity. Life, force and mind are intimately related
with it. All animals are merely electrical machines. A man,
brain and body, is a battery, and nerves correspond to wires.
It is now certain that transmission of sensation over them is
electric. Nerves have been cut and a galvanometer inserted ; the
needle moved, proving that nerve power is electric. The human
system is an electro-chemic battery, and the life principle is
electrical. The electric age is here. Drugs are hard hit on
all sides, and an intelligent physician tells me that he has almost
entirely stopped their use. The word health now means a normal
supply of Electricity in the bodv. and the word disease means an
insufficiency of that power.”
Prof. JACQUES LOEB
Prof. Jacques Loeb, of California University,
who is undoubtedly one of the world’s fore-
most authorities on electric currents as ap-
plied to the human body; after much experi-
menting has made this announcement : “ A
part of the chemical energy of food-stuffs is
transformed into electrical energy, which in
turn gives energy to the muscles and or-
gans of the body. . . . Electricity, and
not heat, is the life of the body. These
discoveries are going to upset the theories of
medicine as administered by the physicians
of to-day, as it is settled that Electricity is
the basis of human vitality.”
The most advanced scientists in the world having advocated the use of electricity in preference to drugs, it only remains for you who suffer to obtain the best and
most advanced method of applying it. This is only to be found in the improved Dr. McLaughlin's Electric Belt, which is the standard electric body
battery of the world and the only appliance adapted for self treatment. You wear it for a few hours a day or at night while you sleep. Used as we advise, with special
attachments for all parts of the body so that the current can be directed to the weakened or ailing part, it sends a strong current of life-giving electricity into the
weakened nerves, tissues and muscles, forcing into them a strong circulation or hot blood charged with electricity. That is how it cures and Strengthens
permanently —by forcing the blood to make strength —and that is why a permanent cure is established in from one to six months according to the conditions.
Here are some proofs. We have received thousands of such letters in the past seven years.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
I have worn a Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt since
the 12th October, 1906 up to Ist January, 1907, and I
have received a wonderful amount of good from it
for what I might call a broken-down system, having
been a sufferer from Debility, Indigestion, anti
General Weakness. I now feel quite a different
man in every way ; work is no trouble to me. I
advise anyone suffering from any of the above
complaints to use a Dr. McLaughlin Electric Belt,
as I am sure it will bring about a certain cure.
WILLIAM E. ALDER,
Manning Road, via Gloucester, N.S.W.
The Dr. McLaughlin Co.
I am now quite well, thanks to the Belt, and know that if I
take another turn the Belt will soon set me right again.
After I wore the Belt for two weeks, I began to
feel better, and now I not only do all my house-
work, but have a large vegetable garden in perfect
order. My friends are quite convinced about the Belt —that
it is the only remedy that ever did me any good.- If you
know of any lady, or poor, hard-working woman, suffering
las I have done, tell her to write to me. I will convince her
by writing a true account of my sufferings and the cure.
Yours gratefully, Mrs. E. R. CAMM,
Deptford Road, Bruthen, Vic.
The Dr. McDaughein Co.
In reply to yours of recent date I am pleased to
be in a position to state that the Belt supplied me
has completely cured my back, and it has been
strong and well now for nearly two years; to those
suffering from a lame back I can recommend it as a
sure cure. My work includes heavy riding, pick
and shovel, fencing, and all such kind of work as
is followed by a station hand.—Yours gratefully,
JAMES ARMSTRONG, Jnr.,
Arches Siding, N. C. Railway,
Rockhampton, Q’land.
TO MEN!
If you are not the man you should be ; if you suffer from Weakness,
Varieoeele, Nervousness, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Weak:
Back, Asthma, Kidney, Stomach or Liver Troubles, do
not despair because drugs have failed to cure you, use Nature’s cure—
Electricity. It will cure you, it cannot fail : for when you are weak and
sick, it is electricity which your system lacks and must have before it can
become strong again. Our belts have special attachments for men.
TO WOMEN!
If you suffer from Nervousness. Headache, Dragging Pains,
Insomnia, Weak Back, Asthma, Rheumatism, Seiatiea,
Stomach, Kidney or Bowel Troubles don’t take drugs, for they
cannot make strength, and that is what you need. The strength of your
.nervous system is electricity, therefore, when you are weak and nervous,
if you fill your body with its grand strengthening influence, it must
become strong. Our belts have special attachments for women.
The Dr. McLaughlin Improved Electric Belt is the standard electric body battery of the world. . We have branch offices i
Asia, Africa, Canada and the United States. Our appliances have many imitators, but no equals. Beware of Cheap
our exposure of the free belt fraud. Our Belts are guaranteed not to burn, blister or shock:
n all the principal cities of Europe,
Imitations. Write us for
the most sensitive person.
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated book,
which every man and woman should
read. It shows how and why our belt
cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE;, post paid
to all who write us, and our specialists
will give you a full diagnosis of your case free. AH communications are treated with .strict
confidence. Write once giving us an idea of your ailments, or fill out the coupon and
mail it to
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO., DEPT. iO,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Joseph w. concoimi
THE MeLAUGHLIN CO., DEPT. 10,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STS., SYDNEY.
Please send me your FREE IREUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
15


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
&f>e LEADING
HOUSE
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
fJES'ESHEES?!?*
No. 200/16.
The Reliable Fishing Rod .
I
The Reliable Rod is made of
Best Selected Greenheart,
being fitted with Best Quality
Mountings and Snake Rings,
12 feet, 3 joints, including
long top for Fly Fishing, and
extra short top for Spinning.
This rod is a serviceable one
for both river and salt water
fishing.
Price 14»
CANT
B
BEAT
The Reliable Wood Reel
is fitted with moveable check, and the new Roller
Line Guard.
4in., 7/0 ea.; sin., 9/0 each
No. 2 B.w.G. Anglers’ Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boot Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baidheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle's Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taughf 1 '3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. aiw
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME cyclopedia
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR •• PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, <fcc., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is .posted. Parlor Magic, Is
Sosted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
[an His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australi an Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s fid. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your oash. Established, 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, la SkA Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d: Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
I
A
L
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVING WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter:—
Copy of Testimonial.
GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY.
Lady Mary Lygon ivishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied with the two costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well.
(Signed) C. JARDINIER.
NEW C\ub Cartridges are
perfectly made. They are
loaded with highest grade black
powder and standard shot. The
result is perfect work in the
hunting field. Clean kills even
at long range. . More game
for you than for the man with
inferior cartridges.
For sale by leading dealers.
The Union Metallic
Cartridge Company
’ BRIDGEPORT. CONN.. U. S. A.
~UM. C.
NEW CLUB
CARTRIDGES
Britisl)=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
p r ; rp , A/f POST FREE, £1 per year,
tJLI* in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Aostralasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
THE FINAL TOUCH *
OF PERFECTION.
(erebos
Salt
Agents—
Harrison & Attwood,
Sydney.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS .
/lets like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Eaoh Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices In England— ///J, 2/9, 416.


£
C
>s^
NURSE
SAYS
Whatagrand
Remedy. It
always cures,
whether it be
Coughs, Colds,
Croup, Whoop-
ing Cough, Bron-
chitis, or any of the
other numerous
winter troubles. I
always recommend
Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery.
DB SHELDONS
HEW
DISCOVERY
'READ, MARK, I.EARN
HOW
TO
£*OOK
YOUNG,
" c "7!
HOW
NOT Td
GROW
OLDi
TWAIN’S
GREY HAIRS are quite in keeping with the role played by the
Great Humorist. But ordinary men desire to retain their
youth, keep their situations, not look too old at forty. Women
desire to retain their youth and beauty. Darken grey hairs with
LOGKYER’S
HAIR
RESTORER
In bottles 1/6, of nil chemists and stores.
Cpe Societp of
motor manufacturers
and traders, £td.
For the protection t encouragement ana
development of the A utomobile Industry .
The Society has organised a
TRADE INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT
•which will be pleased, without
fee, to direct enquirers to the
Traders who can best supply
their needs, whether for Motor
Cars (commercial or pleasure),
Motor Agricultural Machines,
Motor Boats, Fire Engines,
Stationary Motors,Component
Parts, Tyres, or Accessories.
Address:
Maxwell House, Arundel St.
London, England.
C\tTYO?
zcy.
\*s
URL RSk
Gough
Cure
COUGHS CQIDS.
RRONCHIAICATAfiUH
SPASMODIC CROUP.
WINTfD COUGH,
■nd all Diseases of the
Air Passages,
Mrs. H. MACLURCAN,
Miss FLORENCE YOUNG
TT" ' •
Australia’s Charming Lyric Soprano, writes in favor of
Mrs. Maclurcan’s Great Cough Cure, the Proven Remedy
of Coughs, Colds, and all Lung and Throat Evils.
Grand Hotel, Melbourne, dune 16, ’OB.
a | have derived great benefit front ‘ Mrs. Mac-
lurcan’s Cough Cure,’ and shall be pleased to re-
commend it to my friends. It is invaluable for the
vo,ce -” (Signed) FLORENCE YOUNG.
Miss Florence Young sings the praises of this great lung and
throat remedy almost as sweetly as she sings soroe of her
charming musical numbers. All wise people will keep it
handy. It is the lungs’ great safe-guarder against Winter perils.
Mrs. Maclurcan’s Cough Cure—Cures
Do not neglect a cold or cough for a single day. They often forerun Pneumonia and
Consumption. This great remedy saves life. A baby a week old may take it.
All Chemists and Storekeepers 1/6 per bottle throughout the Commonwealth.
Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
cll uI ■ ITT
■V^o«rr
vr^Sm
m
m
m
m
1
I R6*5
\8
I
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP.
6d. per Tablet.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Post Free 6d. from “Th*
Bulletin ** Office
God and Supra-God.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LONG at his forge of the world,
God labored on in the dark,
Till from his anvil was hurled,
Redly rebellious, a spark.
Clumsy, this blacksmith, and blind,
Hammering vaguely his plan,
Till from one stroke undesigned,
Forging, haphazard, a Mind,
He had made possible —Man.
Still on his crude work intent,
Toil-worn and feeble and old,
God on his fumbling way went,
Making and breaking each mould.
Uni-cell, starfish and germ
Passed in and out of his dream,
Plesiosaurus and worm—
Each did its work for its term.
None of them finished his scheme.
But ’mid the debris cast out,
Glowed the red eye of the spark.
Coming the old gods to flout,
Smouldering lone in ,th’e dark,
Fiercely contemptuous, Man,
Flung in his corner unseen,
His new creation began,
Took up the clumsy old plan,
Fashioned the wheel, the machine.
Slowly a new world took shape,
Bettering God’s dim design ;
He was content with the grape ;
Man found within it the wine !
God merely scattered the seed,
Thankful his work was complete,
Till from that chaos of weed
With his imperious need
Man, the creator, brought wheat.
Giving his task with a sigh
To this strange god he had made,
God saw him build to the sky
Triumphs he never essayed.
Having evolved him the horse,
God drowsed again in his dream ;
Man, with his worship of force,
Man, with his God-like resource,
Multiplied it into steam.
Into God’s chaos of pain
Man came to build and complete ;
Made it with Justice more sane,
Made it with Pity more sweet.
Finding a world but half-hewed,
Lacking the kindlier half.
Into this universe crude.
Strode this divinity rude—
Man, who created the Laugh !
Man took his woman, a clod.
Lifted her up to his side ;
Made her divine, like a god,
Put in her chastity, pride.
Poets and troubadours long
Cunningly made her their theme,
Hymned her away from all wrong,
Till she became as their song ;
Peerless, she stepped from their dream !
God was content with the ape ;
That his mean climax, his goal.
Man took that bestial shape,
Made it divine with a soul.
So, with this soul to aspire,
Onward this Supra-God goes.
Which is the nobler, the higher—
God, who broke off at the briar ;
Man, who created the rose ?
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
A Woman’s Kiss.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE man on the bed twisted wearily,
kicked the sheet from his heated limbs,
and groaned.
“Then that’s all,” he said. “Hand me that
drink, Harkness. Thanks. Now, you’d better
get, an’ the quicker the better. Harkness ! ”
Harkness stooped his face to the mosquito-
curtains. It had hardened in this last half-hour,
and his Voice had a jar in it.
“Yesj sir?”
“Bounce him! Bounce him like the Devil!
Gad! I Wish I could be along. But there’s no
time to waste, and so you’ll have to do your best.
He’ll crumble like a sand-bank if you tackle him
low. Major ! Bah ! He was never in any army
but the noble army of liars. And he took a higher
rank there, I’ll go bail.”
Harkness shifted his feet, nervously. He was
only mounted-constable, and young at that, and
the fever patient on the bed was sub-inspector of
the district. But the Major belonged to Hark-
ness’ childhood, and something of the fear and
admiration which the big, red-faced, bluff soldier
had given the boy was quick in the man still.
“ If you know he’s guilty, sir,” he said, “ I
can’t doubt it. But I’ve seen him up against some
Eretty rough bits in my time, an’ I don’t reckon
e’s a funk. He may be everythin’ else, sir ; but
I can’t think he’ll give the other chaps away.”
The man on the bed looked at him in grim
curiosity.
“ You’re young yet, Harkness,” he said.
“You’re young, or you’d know that the ordinary
man will do anything under the sun to save his
skin. The Major will turn King’s evidence with-
out any trouble at all, and I expect you to bring
me back the names of the whole boiling. Then
we’ll arrange what to do next. You can go.”
Harkness went out into the stinging heat of the
Queensland sun with his head low. To play a
straight hard game was delight to him always,
but this dirty work seemed to sear him, body and
soul. He walked swiftly through the little town-
ship where the log huts and the iron shanties
huddled in the shade of the scanty gums. Against
the straddled legs of the water tank a couple of
old gins squatted, smoking, and behind them the
level distance quivered and rocked in the heat.
The squeal of a saw came from somewhere, and
the lowing of a half-starved cow. For the rest the
street was naked and desolate, devoid of promise
or hope, and Harkness passed down it with the
gritting of its dust between his teeth.
Among the old tin cans and rubbish of an
empty section the brown-faced children of
the township were playing with shouts that
rang on the hot air. Not so many years ago
Harkness had played there himself, and once the
Major had bowled a burst cricket-ball against a
kerosene tin for him.
“I dunno,” he muttered. “I dunno. He
might ’a’ done this. Chard don’t mistake often.
But he won’t peach. Glory, if I cud think the
Major was that sort o’ a cur I cud b’lieve any
harm of anyone.”
Then he turned in at the Major’s gate, and
from the verandah the Major looked up at the
click of the latch. His purple, bloated face
changed an instant and his teeth tightened on his
pipe-stern ; but Harkness did not see, as he trod
the sandy path quickly and halted at the foot of
the steps.
“ Can I come up an’ speak to yer for a minute,
sir ? ” he asked
“Certainly,” said the Major, affably. “Cer-
tainly, Ted. Come along up and have a nip.”
Harkness had come to taste that whisky before
he did aught else. But he picked up the glass
with a sudden sickness of heart.
“Fine color,” he said. “ An’ fine flavor, too.
This never came from Mother Martin’s, Major—or
from Schelling’s, either.”
“Of course not. I get it up bv the cask from
Townsville,” said the Major. And his haste and
his uncertain voice gave the game into Harkness’
grasp in a moment.
Harkness slid his left hand inside his tunic,
where the handcuffs lay ; and he stepped sheer in
front of the elder man, looking down on him.
“I don’t think so,” he said. “This whisky
never paid Customs, Major. But I can tell you
where it came from, if you’d like to know . . . no,
you don’t.”
He grabbed the uplifted right arm and wrenched
it round, spilling the Major back into the cane
chair ; and something of the iron of his grip ran
into his voice.
“Sit quiet,” he’said. “That game’s up. So
yer do know somethin’ about that private still
back in the Hummocks. Chard said so. Will
you kip quiet ? I don’t want to put the darbies
on yer. But they’re handy.”
The purple networks veined the Major’s cheeks
yet, but between them the flesh was livid. His
breath came harshly, and sweat stood on his
forehead.
“You’re mistaken,” he said, weakly. “Ted,
my dear boy, you’re mistaken. You —you wouldn’t
think this of the old Major, would you ? Have
you forgotten Roy, and little Molly, and all the
stories I used to tell you three in the evenings
long ago?”
Harkness made no answer. But the question
cut to the quick of him. He had not forgotten.
But when Time came to pull up the unbreakable
line of caste into a barrier, he had tried to forget.
Many days he saw Molly Ross from Hillbank
still. But she would never again sit with him on
the Major’s verandah with her arm round his neck
and the pinafores of both stained with mango-
juice. Her warm, sticky kisses had forgotten his
lips long years since. It was Roy only who knew
them now, and Harkness turned himself from the
knowledge, speaking slowly.
“ Thinkin’s no good, sir. I got orders ter take
yer, unless”
His voice broke. Even now he could not hint
dishonor to the man he had loved in his earlier
years.
“ What? What? ” A sudden gleam of hope lit
the strained, puffy face. “Unless what? I—l
can’t be taken. You must know that, Ted. Do
you mean—can I buy myself off ? Can I? ”
“ At a price,” said' Harkness, remembering the
Major’s tales of the knights of old ; tales that had
first waked chivalry in himself.
“A price! Good Lord ! A price!” The Major
laughed hysterically. “Is that it? So you’re no
better than anyone else, after all, Ted. How
much d’ you want?”
“Me!” Harkness stepped back. “Me! by
Heaven, if you think I”
He broke off, biting his lip.
“It’s not ter me you’ll be payin’,” he said,
thickly.
“Who then? What is it? Tell me. Can’t
you tell me ? ”
The Major sat forward, with the chair creaking
under his weight, and something of cunning and
eagerness ran into the bleared eyes. Harkness
remembered Chard’s words: “ The ordinary man
will do anything under the sun to save his skin,”
and his blood went suddenly cold.
“Yes, I can tell you,” he said. “I want the
names of the other men—all of them. You can
buy yourself off at that price. You can sell yer
honor ter save yer skin.”
He spoke dryly, and his eyes were hard with
doubt and contempt. But still he scarcely be-
lieved. The Major drew a long breath, reached
for the whisky, and drained a glass. Then he
said:
“ I never thought of that.- Great Heavens
above ! I never thought of that.”
Harkness opened his pocket-book and sought
for a pencil.
“You’ve got your choice,” he said briefly.
“ Ah,” said the Major. His hand shook as he
put the glass down, and he did not look at Hark-
ness. Harkness made no movement. Far off
down the road sounded the clop-clop of horses
trotting through the heavy dust, and below the
verandah came the soft grate of a snake sliding
over wood.
“ I take it,” said the Major, speaking suddenly.
“Are you ready? There are ten in it beside my-
self.”
He gave the names by one and one, and Hark-
ness jotted them down. They were all men known
to him, and their faces looked at him from the
pencilled lines as the man who had taught him
honor swore their liberty away.
“... And Roy Calvert,” ended the Major.
Harkness dropped the pencil, and something
contracted his heart. He had loved Roy in his
youth, and hated him in his manhood. But the
girl whom Roy was to marry he had loved always.
Then he turned on the Major fiercely.
“ That’s a lie,” he said. “ That’s a damned
lie. Not Roy. I can’t believe it of Roy.”
“Hallo! Who wants me?”
The quick high voice and the ring of light feet
on the verandah jarred Harkness to sharp under-
standing. He swung round to meet the man who
had been his playmate. But Roy was quicker.
One glance at the table where Harkness had
dropped the handcuffs, and at the Major’s face
told him. , ,
“Hell!” he said, and dived off the verandah,
and sprang for the gate before Harkness could
move to follow. _
A gii’l sat her horse in the roadway, holding
Roy’s chestnut mare. She cried out as the man
snatched the rein from her, flung himself in the
saddle, and called one sentence to her as he
turned.
(Continued on next page.)


LIFE OR DEATH.
Keep the Kidneys Healthy
and you Will Live to a Good
Old Age —Neg'led Them and
Suffering and Death must
Soon Follow.
t! Every
"Picture
Tells a
Story.”
Weak Kidneys, Bladder and Liver Troubles,
Rheumatism, Gout, Lame Back, Gravel, Bright's
Disease, Diabetes, and nearly all the Ills of Men
and Women can be traced to the Kidneys,
A SYDNEY MAN
OWES HIS LIFE TO DOAN’S PILLS.
Mr. P. Smith, 1 Cheltenham Street, Balmain, Sydney, says : —“I used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for kidney trouble, and they worked a
miracle in my case. I had been under three doctors at different times, but
their treatment did me no good. I used to be so bad that I would have to
be carried home on a cart, if an attack came on when working in the street.
Sometimes I have been taken to the hospital when one. of these bad attacks
came on. My wife says she thought that I would never live through some
of these bad turns. I suffered with a kind of biliousness and vomiting.
My secretions were very bad, I could never bend my back or move at all.
when I had a bad turn. The people at the hospital gave me medicines,
and recommended rubbing in liniments, but it was of no use, they did not
benefit me. I saw an advertisement for Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and procured this remedy. I only took one box and was cured. When I
finished them I started work, and have worked ever since. It is heavy
work lam doing, but it does not affect me. These pills cured me after
years of suffering, and the relief was almost instantaneous.”
Mrs. Smith says, eight years later : “My husband has had wonderful
health since he used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. lam convinced that
he owes his life to this remedy. He takes a dose of the pills now and
again, just as a precaution, and because he thinks the kidneys need a tonic
sometimes. He is now so well, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and
Storekeepers at 2/9 per box (six boxes, 15/3), or will be posted
on receint of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt St., Sydney.
V
*1
ECZEMA CURED.
Mr. H. Watson, 3 . Alfred Street,
Annandale, Sydney, says:—“A couple
of years ago I had Eczema break out
very badly on my chest. It was shortly
after I returned from a trip to India,
where I had gone with horses. I had
fever badly in India, and the Eczema
seemed to be the result of this sickness,
It was very severe, and spread rapidly,
until I was in such a state that the pain
and irritation nearly drove me mad.
When I went to bed at night my suffer-
ings were worse, and it was nearly morn-
ing before I could get to sleep. A man
I know advised me to get Doan’s Oint-
ment, saying that he had heard of great
results by using this preparation. I
thought it a good idea, and obtained
a pot. The first application was cooling,
and the second soothed the itch, and
after that I got along splendidly. Every
time I applied the ointment there was a
marked improvement, until I was quite
cured. Within a month from the first
time I used the ointment not one trace
of the ailment remained. Doan’s Oint-
ment is a splendid preparation for
Eczema, skin irritation, to take inflam-
mation from the skin, and to heal.”
Four years later Mr. Watson says :
“ It is a long time since Doan’s Ointment
cured me of Eczema, and I am pleased to
say that the cure is permanent. lam
quite free of this dreadful complaint, and
have been during the past four years.”
The most obstinate of all skin diseases
—Eczema —is permanently cured by the
great skin remedy, Doan’s Ointment.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2/9 per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
But be sure you get DOAN’S.
“ M °Hy, don’t give Harkness your horse,” he
said, and jammed in the spurs with a fierce hook
hat sent the mare forward in a swirl of dust.
Then Molly saw Harkness’s face.
“ Lend me Yarrow,” he said. “ Yes, I’m after
him. I can’t help it, Molly.”
He had not called her Molly these seven years.
But in this moment they forgot the past. She
stooped, laying her ungloved hand to his neck,
and its touch hurt Harkness.
“Ted,” she cried, “Ted; what is it? Oh,
for my sake don’t hurt him, Ted ! ”
I can’t help it, Molly. I can’t. He’s got
into trouble, an’ he must stand it. Molly, I
Her breath was on his cheek, and the cloud of
her hair about him. Through its shadow he saw
the red lips he had kissed, and the brown eyes
swimming with tears. Molly was playing for
time.
“Ted, Ted,” she said, piteously. “You
haven’t forgotten ? Oh, you haven’t forgotten
how you used to say you’d do anything in the
world for me. Ted, you cared for me then. You
cared.”
Harkness cared yet. But he did not sav so.
He stood still, his eyes on her face, and his breath
uneven. He had not seen her so closely these
man y years, and he had not guessed that the
sweet tricks and tones of the child Molly would
have ripened so in the woman.
“ Ted,” she whispered, and a hot tear fell on
his hand.
“ I can’t,” said Harkness then. He moved. “ I
must go,” he said. “I—l have got to get him.
In the glare of sunlight that burnt the empty
street Molly bent lower and kissed him on the
lips. Then she flung her head back from him,
holding him still round the neck.
“ Can you break my heart now, Ted ?” she said.
“Oh, you can’t, you can’t. You know you’d
sooner break your own.”
A moment Harkness stared at her, dazed. He
put up a hand, drew it across his mouth, and
looked at it. Then he shook himself free.
“What made you do that?” he burst out.
“ What made you ! God, you women are cruel.
You’re cruel ! ” He turned from her. “ I’ll hold
my tongue,” he said. “It’s bound to come out
pretty quick, but it’ll give him a chance. It’s all
I can do. But I’ll do that. I’ll do it.”
“On your honor ? ” said the woman who had
won her game.
Harkness laughed.
“Yes, on my honor,” he said, and went back
to the Major without another look. But his lips
and his heart were burning.
He unclasped his pocket-book again, and handed
it over to the Major.
“Sign there,” he said. “It’s yer freedom.
Sign, I tell yer. You have got nothin’ to be
afraid o’ now. Damn it, man ; you’ve bought
your own hide at the expense o’ your soul already.
The law won’t make yer pay any more.”
What about Boy?” demanded the Major.
“ I didn’t notice. Have you got his name down?”
Disgust and loathing for this man had passed
in Harkness. For he, too, had sold what was not
his to sell.
“ That’s all right,” he said. And ten minutes
later he stood by Chard’s bed and repeated it.
Chard turned the book in his hot hands and
grinned.
“I told you so,” he said. “Honor’s only a
name. We all sell it for something we value
more. Have you got all the names here? ”
“ Yes,” lied Harkness, steadily.
“ Then you can go and wire them down to
headquarters. We should lay our hands on the
lot in a week. This’ll mean a rise for you,
Harkness.”
But Harkness laughed and went out, un-
speaking. For he knew better.
G. B. Lancaster.
Back in our Street.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN ?—ln the ‘ ‘ countless ages of
eternity?” or a string of quadrillion
years ?—if you can get any meaning out
of either.
It was after Time had long grown weary of
counting his age, that the guide took me to the
Out Beyond, where the stars were big, and where
comets shot.
He kindly showed me the incandescent nebulae
merrily swirling itself concentrically into new
suns and systems. It was very good of him.
I saw vast globes (of measurement which, if set
down, only runs to ridicule), wrestling with each
other in the fierce sweep of their forced orbits. I
saw some, by sheer pace alone, crumbled, with a
flash, into instant dissolution. Or the tremendous
strain of their tidal attraction would burst their
shells asunder, so that their bowels of fire gushed
out with a Viang, amid a blaze of spouting
vapors. It was fine !
And over the great spaces came a noise like the
breaking of ocean on a rock shore.
It was the toning that distance gave to the
crash and bellowings and groanings of the roaring
fires by which great central engines, such as
Arcturus, maintain the machinery of their revolv-
ing systems.
In a word, a Universe in full swing ; and soon I
got satiated with its wonders and deafened with
its din. The illumination began to pall, and none
of it to have any meaning, except the big over-
whelming and enduring meaning that all this had
been going on for ever, and would do so for aye—
that it was all the repose that Matter would ever
get as long as repose meant resting, and as long as
resting had anything to do with Specific Gravity.
I had learned something of that before somewhere
—that all of it everywhere was simply an attempt
to fall to rest, like the balls of the conjurer that are
caught and thrown up again.
So we rested our eyes—or my eyes—on one of
the dark patches that were scattered about here
and there —‘‘off ” corners, in whose odd-shaped
spaces it had been forgotten to put stars, it
seemed, and it was a relief to be gazing straight
into the black middle of one of them, away from
the maddening whirl.
There was then a sense of vaster space, for I
thought that the Wank I was looking into was
simply a huge hole, the blackness of nothing, the
nothingness of infinite and unimpeded empty
distance. But it was not so. As sight grew
accustomed to it there was disclosed a darker
dark, and where I had vainly imagined a restful
blank all was motion. These spaces only looked
black because the suns and worlds in them were
burnt out, and my vision was forced with a new
interest to watch vast black globes as they
tumbled round each other there in these for-
gotten corners. These were only the lumber yards
of Heaven’s second-hand material, it seemed, full
of great suns that no longer shone, exhausted and
dead as the planets that still faithfully ambled
round them—all cold with the cooling of a million
years.
Eons past, the nebulae of Time’s morning had
formed them; their noon of blaze and combustion
had consumed them; and this was their night of
darkness, but not of rest. Gravity still held and
forced them into their orbits in orderly revolution.
‘‘They will get caught up again some day,”
said the guide. “Some mightier influence will
come along, and, crashing them into sparks, will
sweep them on with it, and work them all up with
itself into some new and vaster system !”
But for the present, there they were tumbling
over each other in the dark. It seemed so odd,
so useless, this orrery of burnt-out spheres all
turning round so patiently there in their different
paths, long ages after they themselves were dead !
Corpses of a period unburied, here in the dark,
all by themselves, going through the mechanical
movements of the living! I laughed at these
dead worlds ! The guide looked at me when I
laughed.
“ Look harder ! ” he said.
Now, when I had first chanced to peer into this
black space of back numbers my eyes had
focussed, close at hand, a dark globe of the fifth
or sixth magnitude, with a few small ones going
round it, but as I got used to the darkness, I had
been led off this by the bigger things beyond, that
had dwarfed them altogether. I had no eyes for
the cricket balls in front once I perceived these
huge balloons rolling about in the gloom behind.
Size was age, I knew, and I went off on a tan-
gent, wondering how many yesterdays it had
taken those big fellows to run their course of
making, all the way from incandescent nebula to
this finish- of cold, black residuum !
But now, being told to “ look harder,” I came
back to examining the smaller spheres that had
first caught my eye. Though not so large, their
outlines were clearer than the others, being nearer,
and I could piece them out fairly well.
In the middle there was what had been a sun,
now dark and silent, its splutterings and roarings
for ever extinguished. And one by one I made
out, with strange feelings that grew as I looked,
his half-dozen or so planets of different sizes.
“ Look harder ! ”
But there was no need to say it. I looked
harder. My eyes were glued to it, and the more
I looked at that obsolete system the stronger got
my suspicion of what I was looking at. Emotion,
too, was knocking at the door. This dead sun
and his litter were something different, something
more to me than all the rest of the universe put
together ! Wonder and curiosity had all gone, and
eagerness had taken their place.
Ihree of the planets—like little beads they
were—lay very close to the dead sun, and one,
the biggest, had a little dark moon going round
it. How often had I seen yon speck, as a beauti-
ful silver disc sailing through fleecy clouds ! How
long had the candle been burnt out, and the
beautiful Venus, the fruitful Earth, the ruddy
Mars, the mighty Jupiter, the mysterious Saturn,
the distant Neptune—all been in eternal eclipse ?
Where are the snows and ice and palms and
verdure of poles and equator now ?
Where now, 0 Mars, the heroism of those
canals ?
What made Saturn at last of that ring, and
where are the belts of lone, and the moons, new
and full ?
Where is the Higher Criticism, the hogwash of
Art and Poetry, and St. Peter’s ?
Where are the daisies that grew o’er me ?
“ O come ! don’t snigger ! ’’ said the voice at my
elbow, as we turned away. “But it’s a funny
thing,” he went on, “ how, no matter what a man
goes through, he never seems to forget the place
he was brought up in ! I’ve proved it scores of
times. That was all I brought you out for to-day.”
G. BRON.
In Autumn.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE drowsy wealth of serried sunlight lies
On hillsides where the April shadows
play.
The valley smiles beneath the soft blue
skies,
The misty range in purple fades away.
The day draws evenwards, the scented air
Is musical with wild birds’ scattered tunes,
And all the earth is dreamy, sweet, and fair,
These Autumn afternoons.
Dawn throws a misty glamor on the hills,
Noon sheds a golden radiance on the vale,
Ev’ning is perfect where the sunlight fills
The grey rock heights, and floods the branches
frail. ' . .
And following the great sun’s crimson trail
The dusk, the stars’ white splendor, and the
moon’s
Dear magic hours ere sunbeams fade and fail
On Autumn afternoons.
Do you recall that long departed year?
Remember yet those days of rose and gold ?
Or must I deem that I alone hold dear
Those vanished dreams, those bygone times of
old !
The mountain’s eagles keep the secret well,
The gorges lock the story in their glooms ;
Is Memory alone the tale to tell
These Autumn afternoons ?
Cool, cool and grey the high, massed clouds are
piled ;
Green, green and cool the ferny dells stretch
down ;
And I, I feel the call of the lone wild
In haunting hollows, far from mart and town.
I’d ask no golden boon, but only this—
One hour amid the bushland’s flower festoons,
One hour to live a bygone dream of bliss
These Autumn afternoons.
I’d see the blue lakes and the golden plains
From some grey granite fortress, and behold
The river swollen deep with autumn rains,
With rushings swift and murmurings manifold.
We’d tread the path long years ago we trod
Till the sun’s light had silvered to the moon’s ;
But I am here, and you—lare safe with God
These Autumn afternoens.
Out in the dusk the pale star-flowers unfold ;
Down in the gorge the river rambles on ;
High in the blue the moon’s faint crescent gold,
For these must be though all we love are gone.
For glory of the season’s changes fills
The bushland ways—December’s unto June’s—
Though all be lost amid the old, grey bills
These Autumn afternoons.
vie.
KATHLEEN WALKER,


m
Jm.4
>V£<ssU«
; \ t ji
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
IN order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving away prizes such as MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES’ and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIKI.ES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship, LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BkOOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER,
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward you 24 assorted
packets of ourreliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette,
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will seud you by return
mail any present you may select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defy contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZEIS ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every case
positively as represented in our illustrations.
a
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOND ST SYDNEY. NSW.
Superior to
INJEwTIONS
CUBHBS and
[COPAIBA.
Cure£ the same
diseases " itiiout
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsnle bears the name 3®^
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT,
In use since 1506
.
•
CURES
Australian Blight,Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Auk your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write •
S. GREEN, no. Lambpth Iload, Loudon, Eng.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
U*:
%■<&
r'' ’ ’ ,
FREE
NO MONEY WANTED.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art POST CARDS to sell for us,
at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and
we will send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the
list of jewellery which we forward you. By continuing the sale of our
cards you can earn a LADY’S or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and
CHAW, a PHOTO. CAMERA loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES,
GOLD RINGS, LADIES’ GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT
RIFLES of faithful workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or
Gent.’s DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK. You can
return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers in post cards in
Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal
offer. Be the first in vour district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen
REGAL POST CARD CO.,K yi26 Bond-st., Sydney.
COLORED and
ARTISTIC
POST CARDS.
Familiar Quotations
pregnant with meaning are being handed down from one generation to
another. Many examples might be quoted, and their applicability to the
subject of health noted. For example, “Forewarned is forearmed.’’
Directly symptoms of a disordered Stomach appear, that is “the warning,”
and all the “arming” that is necessary is a box of Beecham’S Pills.
“A stitch in time saves nine.” Beecham’S Pills will quickly arrest any
disposition to Stomach, Liver, or Kidney trouble.
“Worth a Guinea a Box”
This is another familiar quotation but applying specially to Beecham’S
Pills. These enjoy a popularity that can be claimed by no other
preparation: and the last named expression has become proverbial
because thousands of people all over the world have benefitted by the
use of the medicine to which it refers. For really buoyant health—free-
dom from ache or pain—a system attuned alike to work or pleasure —take
Beecham’S Pills.
Sold everywhere in boxes , price lllh (56 pills ) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Wncs '
STEEL WINGS
WINDMILLS
BUILT IN AUSTRALIA. AN AUSTRALIAN INVENTION.
The Wind=wheel runs inside a frame
and HAS A BEARING ON EACH SIDE.
This fact ALONE enables us to build
Wind=wheels up to 100 feet in dia=
meter at Qne=ouarter tne Price of
Steam Plants of equal power. The
cost of maintenance in our case is
NIL.
We shall be pleased to supply esti=
mates for complete Pumping or Power
Installations.
Steel Wings Windmill Company, Ltd.
Department C, BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
FREE TRIAL I!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS free.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC B LT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Live 1 , and St omach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in any way
delav no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
i Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib,, left full choke, rig'ht modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. .. £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
With cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual nrice, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . .. ®l3 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made pa.yable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
$
men
and
WOMEN
Or. John Martin, M.D. &c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women,and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 38. Thi9 magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
To all persons suffering- from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments”
on receipt of this adversisement. {SIT" Note Address s
DR. MARTIN, M.D., "eimiey House," 151 Elizabeth-st.,
Please mention this paper when writing. HYDE PARK, SYDNEY,


the coat
YOU NEED.
The “ Watershed *' Oilskin will
Keep you dry whether ridinjr
ddriejr or walking It’s a splen-
didly made coat.
Zu e u S ugr ® n Br” costs 27/6 :
The Rainbow,” 22/6.
m “ CLOMTARF ” MACINTOSH.
TMs w a beautifully-finished coat,
Qttt lB ttic latest English Style, and
aade from light weight Italian with
the new Olive Rubber Surface. Our
fcrtee w only 30/-
When ordering Macintoshes or Oil-
skiM quote your height and easv chest
measurement over clothes.
These and other articles for winter
wear are more fully described in our
Catalogue No. 17. Aek us for a copy to be sent you.
PRRDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD
" Th e House for All Rubber Goods,”
gyp George Street, Sydney.
II
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
mn£T& VALVE DR ' LL . • Pneumatic Hammer Sock Drill tor
quarries. vvetg-ftt about lSlbs. Operated hy compressed air, eonsununr about 25 CUBIC FEET
s PART—StrloiSjp ONE MAN Rook Orflls.
ot air per minute. Only ONE
W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
606
LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADh
MARK
The BTRONCEST and most EFFICIENT yet. produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against interior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Sole Importers: JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
W. Circular Quay, Sydney.
JOHN HURST & CO., 4 Hunter Street, SYDNEY,
WatchmaKers and Jewellers, TELEPHONE 5177.
Taken Hot with
Lemon at Bedtime,
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Cures Colds.
*
Jusr What the Doctor Onfered
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
Wov Prices apply—J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Pitt Street, Sydney
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
i
I* > .
i
M,
1
gmm
m
v-
\\
>\v
m
■■
1
fKNOW^/ )
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/'
If want a vSteel >Split Pulley, and want the BEST, specify
The AMERICAN
Tt *77 <T f ® eta1 ’ sti f n f d by internal central Flanges and rolled Beads on edges; six duplex steel arms
radiating from a steel nub, and without nvets between hub and rim. See that you get a Pulley like this MiT'
The advantages of “ American ” Steel Split Pulley are strength and rigidity, which renders it practically indestructible.
"!; ha * 6l ® ht 1S I t,W °: thjX f S lesß than that of an ordinary cast-iron Pulley, and about that of most wooden ones/
undevtigh sWs 63 Se S^PuSiT^n l^ 088 w stv ™% th ' is true . rannin S and perfectly balanced, and positively safe
u 1 g , speens. me only Pulley on the , market with a groove m centre of rim. by which the air / allnwbrl fn
and tin. enable. the American Pulley to transmit 33* per cent, more horse-power tljn a cit-iron Pulley.
A GENTS Bushin^s s«PPHed for Shafts ©f different diameters. Large Stocks carried.
D
Machinery
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
COMPRESSORS
Laidlaw-Dunn-Cordon Co., America
Tilghman’s Sand Blast Co., England
Before you decide it will pay you to inquire
into the Merits and Prices of these machines.
• aj> ' ■ \ . j
263 George Street, Sydney:
486 Collins Street, Melbourne
