

Word
to the
Wise is
sufficient
107 Kent
TWiriing- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
street, Sydney,
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
SOLE AGENTS
Jeffrey
Labor Saving Appliances.
See Wild Cat Column.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne,
HOBA.RT.
SSffl
Jaiiy’s Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER
'BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C, Ludowici & Son, Ltd., 117 York St., Sydney
ddfg
Take it back.
I must have-
HUTTON’S
Pinc-Appk Brand I
HAMS r t
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
When sages leave you In despair
And poets fail to thrill you,
And everything seems'lull of care,
TAYHARISS
will fill you
With raptures rich and rare,
’Tls
New Sweet
“TAYKAKISS”
That has the joys beyond compare.
dCC , & CLU(&Cs u CCa
THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
Contractors for the Erection and Complete Equipment of Generating Stations for Light, Power and Traction.
Manufacturers of Dynamos, Motors, Switchboards, Cables, etc.
THE INDIA RUBBER, GUTTA-PERCHA AND TELEGRAPH WORKS COMPANY LIMITED
(The silvertown rubber coo,
27Q GEORGE STREET
-SYDNEY.
BLNSDORPS
CH
L'
is the Queen of all Cocoas
fQ\
L Aroma,Strength e-Purit>c
rttsmm
Jw
df
A word to the wise is better
than a wink to a blind horse.
You can persuade a wise man if
your argument’s good, but a
blind horse can’t see the point.
HANSEN’S
21K
gd
f
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The wise man is he who makes
use of the best material avail-
able for his purpose. The best
roofing for your purpose is
MALTHOID. Send for booklet.
:h l>
.
((
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses in existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
Hff --y*
SPA WATER
y>*srs*
HfELIDON SPA and MILK is strongly recom-
mended for nervous irritation .
GOLUN & CO.,
Agents, . ,
The Bulletin
VoL29.— No. 1507.]
[Thursday, December 31, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS
ON ANY SUBJECT.
Write us for any Books you Require.
We Welcome Inquiries.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & COL PROP. Ltd.
71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
AN
vI.UJQ
«»
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing 1 No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “ Proved to be effective bacterioidally
as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, “ BUMENTHOL JUJtf EE ® ” do
not intcrefere with the Digestion ; oh the conti' ar . v , Obey
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic BPPetties
prervent abnormal fermentation of the food whe® taken
after food.
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/6 in Stamps
/ sVß^ev
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., ia yobk stbeet,
THE RED PAGE
Verses by Frank Morton
AN IMPRESSION: HOBART.
Shea fair (not flaxen), sparkling (scarcely gay),
And something in her her goads a man and stings,
And glads the hodden day with streaks of gold,
Charm, it may be. Beauty?
She’s pretty in her manner, but I’ve seen
A thousand prettier woman serving drinks.
She dresses well but rather rakishly,
“, n “.™ a small provocative chin that prods
lhe little town, and punctures it in spots,
lhe men admire the spots. The women sniff—
JL hewomen nameless in this woman’s set —
Calling them plague-spots. That is idiocy.
lhe little woman is a little fool
(They all are, more or less); but she has style,
bnap, personality, and with all these
A certain ultra-womanishness that stabs
Mere men about her when she mounts a tram,
Or sits bare-shouldered in a theatre
most damnably from out her head),
And leaves them limp as paper.
r,.. . ... Do you know,
1 like these little, vivid, insolent women,
Who trifle with our breathing world, although
D(i f it cared) could brush them off like flies.
'rn' le ls > please note, an English plutocrat,
The daughter of a man that cornered soap,
And lathered into millions. She is fine,
A fruit from out my country, one of those
Albion’s fair daughters we read of in books
And jingo piffle-journals. God is good.)
I like the hardihood with which a child,
A babe scarce born, affronts the Minotaur.
So, partly, that is why I like this one,
This little squeaking wisp o’ womanhood v
The gods designed for one use and forgot
(Using tag-ends for job lots) e’en to fit
Her perfectly for that. She is so small,
This tiny toy in our big, sinful world,
So artless in her pretty devil-may-care
(She’s been seen drinking whisky ! and, they say,
Smokes real cigars ! Just Heaven ! what a waste
Of good tobacco !), and I think she thinks
She’s twenty Cleopatras bottled up
In one delicious corset.
Let me add,
I d like a corset that she’s worn to death
To put against my heart on winter nights
When I am old and all this life I love
To-day, has left me stranded.
I am told
Her.husband is a gilded tittlebat,
Spared to us by his noble family
To make a warship toney for the girls
Who come along on Sundays. Well, he has
My compliments. I think he’ll keep smooth
brows.
I’ll bet my head his tricky little wife
Is chaste as Herrick ; though, on top of that,
The kindest little creature in the world.
THE MOUSE.
Strong in youth’s ardor and the pride
Of life, the lover kissed his bride.
(And here and there about the house
There crept a timid little mouse).
For them glad day’s long ecstasy,
Deep night’s incomparable sky ;
Mere trappings of their dear delight,
All splendors of the day and night.
Suave dusks of summer glowed and waned;
But in their blood the sun remained.
Dawn flooded rapturous from the east;
And dawn by dawn their joy increased.
Their love no grey foreboding blurred, *
No shadow of the lurking Third.
But, ’twixt a whisper and a kiss,
Death drew her close and made her His.
And in the gloom whence joy had fled
The lover lay, a shape of dread.
(But still secure about the house
There crept the timid little mouse.)
BALLAD OF THE PERISHABLE
PERFUME.
Verviene’sa perfume well repays the choosing,
Subtle but piquante, strong yet delicate; ’
Jasmine is tit for any fairy’s using ;
Patchoulils bright, but not (they say) sedate,
Wood-violet I’ve used myself of late;
Few scents are dainty and demure as this is;
More evanescent, many . . . cruel Fate !
Where is the fragrance of our last year’s kisses?
Rich Rondeletia ladies are refusing
(Myself, I like it; but they’re obdurate);
Lavender’s still the thing for spray-diffusing—
About one’s clothes, it’s rather out of date.
Heliotrope’s brisk and gaily intricate :
Lends color to our bread-and-butter misses,
Who’resometimes rather jaded and distraite...
Where is the fragrance of our last year’s kisses ?
The older scents the olden charm are losing.
Moss-rose is of stale sentiment impregnate.
Bergamot’s beastly. Musk deserves aimsing ;
But I’m too tired tostart on that. Musk’smate,
The fiend called Frangipani, ’s saturate
Of every boredom of exploited blisses.
Once these too charmed, but now they irritate.
Where is the fragrance of our last year’s kisses ?
ENVOY.
Lalage ! Inez ! Maude! Irene ! Kate !
Dear mob of Bets and Sues and Tots and Cissies !
Ah ! sweet, lost sharers of Youth’s lost estate :
Where is the fragrance of our last year’s kisses?
EPILOGUE.
We fear not death. We have no tears
For perished hopes. We dread the cold,
On-coming, uneventful years
When even Love himself grows old.
Gnarled Age is near, a grisly sphinx
With stony, ruthless eyes of hate.
(What was her name, that little minx
Who wrecked my life, in Eighty-eight ?)
We care no whit for garish Fame,
The crowd’s applause can’t trouble us ;
The “fit and few ” are much the same.
Their praise and censure frivolous.
We’ve lost our heritage of Youth :
That knowledge stings . . . (Her eyes were blue:
The other one, the gentle Ruth,
Who broke my heart, in Ninety-two.)
We’re old and hipped and out-of-date,
Our wind is scant, our hair is thin;
And Prudence guards at every gate
Domains we used to wander in. -■ J
We’re cheerful as unfeathered crows
In wormless deserts dead-alive ...
(Now, was it Dorothy, or Rose,
That killed my faith, in Ninety-five ?)
Within the garden of my heart
The trees are lifeless all and dead,
And Memory, sitting pale apart.
Weeps for old joys for ever fled . . .
There is a girl across the way,
A lass with eyes that plead and sue,
Who ... hang it! I will call to-day :
My pulse leaps still. Here’s luck, Nought-two !
Frank Morton. Business: Rebellion.
JOB: Flaying politicians. Religion: Girls.
HOBBIES: (1) Neckties, (2) shoe-strings.
FAVORITE READING: (I),Rabelais, (2) sermons.
Very Frank Morton
With foreword, postscript, and portrait,
and some quite unnecessary and mediocre
illustrations—good wine needs no bush—
Frank Morton hands his sheaf of verses
to the world. And the world should
be grateful. Laughter and Tears (N.Z.
Times Co., Wellington, M.L., by sub-
scription only) has in it laughter and tears.
Morton does not touch any subject without
adorning it with a cultured style or a pretty
wit: but it is open to us to suggest that
herein he has touched too many things,
and some things too often. Whenever he
deals witli Girls—a dictionary could
be compiled of their innumerable names
—he repeats himself. He would proba-
bly justly reply that it was the Girls who
repeated themselves. But a judicious sift-
ing out of a few of his Lalages, Inezes,
Doras, Mauds, Suzettes, Kates, Myrtillas,
Nances, Marjories, Penelopes, Jennies and
Phyllises would have improved the quality,
without destroying the flavor, of their kisses.
In his “precious” preface Morton rather
needlessly asserts that his verses are not
primarily moral. He offers his verses
frankly, “not fearing for their reception,
albeit some of them are rather for the smoke-
room than the sewing-bee.” But in his
Rabelaisian postscript he quickly comes to
earth with the remark that the reputation
bestowed upon him by the self-anointed of
being busy in profanities, careless of the
upholstery of reticence, a disturber of
serenities,” helps to sell his book. And he
is not at all ashamed that rational critics
have averred that his verses are “ too sexy.”
“ Ihe curate weds Priscilla for precisely the
same reason that induced Paris to abduct the
for-ever-incomparable Helen. ”
®j: which is needless. The question
about Morton’s verses is not whether they
are immoral or “too sexy,” but whether
they are poetry. And poetry is not written
either for the smoking-room or the sowing-
bee. It is written for the reader. And
Morton will find his reader.
vl/
Moiton has a literary flavor, redolent of
the book-lover, somewhat rare among our
Australasian bards : none of his work, how-
ever slight in theme, is slovenly. And he
has the gift of happy phrase and the buoy-
ancy of an optimistic outlook on life. He is
tonic to the jaded soul.
Methinks that life, whate’er betide,
Is just to love while youth has breath,
Then . . . what delicious suicide,
If Love should kiss itself to death !
And always he has the dainty touch, and
even in his naughtiness he is artistic.
Suzette slips off her conscious bodice and
Its sister skirt. . .
Thus semi-nude, like Beauty’s self bedight
With mere disfigurement of lawn and lace,
The magic of her so-appealing grace
Is infinite. ...
She steps into the bath. A happy breeze
Strays in and sighs. The water, audible
Of joy, enshrines her lissomness . . . We’ll pull
The curtain, please !
Here, too, is a stanza from his “ Song of the
Remnant ” that is worth quoting :
And never a soul of us won right through—
Through with delight to the goal he sought.
Nothing an inch from the Best would do . . .
God ! but our failure is dearly bought!
Some are young yet, but the Deities won’t
Help such a pitiful lot:
There’s the Man who could Do if he Dared (but he
don’t),
And the Girl who Would Rather Not.
In “ Marjorie,” recently published in The
Lone Hand , and in a dozen other verses, he
says (possibly) a trite thing with (certainly) a
perfect art. He is perhaps the best ballade-
writer in Australia, and his command of
other verse-forms show a mind soaked
in good literature. It is really sur-
prising, therefore, to find him asking
in some ingenious stanzas the mean-
ing of Meredith. For his verse shows
everywhere the signs of an extensive reading,
and in a ballade he cleverly gives a list of
his astonishing authors.
W
But it is in his portraiture that Morton
excels. Such things as “An Impression,”
“A Twisted Idyl,” and “Madge Malone”
show his art sure of itself, a little careless
and over-lavish of phrase, but painting a
picture that will not fade. And his parents
showed some prescience in christening him
Frank.
Her small breasts were bare
Almost to the nipples, in the modern way :
Impertinent breasts jutting to right and left
As though in cool derision of beholders. . , .
The story ? That’s the story. Just, you see,
The ordinary idyl, somewhat twisted,
In just the ordinary way.
The sequel ?
Oh, in the end of course I married Nell,
And in the end of course I loved dear Madge,
Who is not married yet.
And Nell, my wife?
Oh, she loves me—(what is the vulgar phrase);—
Worships the ground I tread on., .just, you see,
The ordinary idyl intertwisted.
And thus he dismisses “ Madge Malone,”
his model :
... And it happens that I’ve found her,
Madge Malone !
By your gracious lines inspired,
I begin to—Getting tired ?
Joints all aching ? Head awhirl ?
Poor old girl !
Come right down and fry a flounder.
Laughter and Tears (more laughter than tears
—and even the tears come through smiles) is
a book not for
The prudes that peer, the shrews that shrill,
but for all lovers of vers de soctite admirably
done. The man behind the verse, too, can-
not be forgotten. His is a sane and vivid
outlook in a drab world, and for him Aus-
tralasia should be thankful.
So, for an aftertaste :
Omniscient, I (at twenty-three)
Hailed you my goddess, priestess, queen,
You swore eternal truth to me
Sincerely—being seventeen.
Do you remember, Lalage ?
The grinding years roll on, and we,
Who loved so well, know cark and care;
And I (alas for vows ! ma mie)
Forget the color of your hair....
Do you remember, Lalage ?
-
For the kiddies there are The Lady of the Blue
Beads, by Annie R. Rentoul, illustrated by
Ida S. Rentoul (G. Robertson, Sydney),
and Bill Baillie , by Ellis Rowan (Whitcombe
and Tombs, Melbourne). The former book is
admirably produced, and the latter, the story of
something that looks like a rabbit-roo or a kanga-
rabbit, is illustrated with some charming color-
pictures of Australian wild-flowers.
In the latest part of The Forest Flora of
N.S. W., J. H. Maiden strongly advises the use
of white mahogany (often mistakenly confused
with stringybark) as a tough, strong, and ex-
tremely durable timber, which is excellent for
posts, piles, girders, golf-heads, and, he believes,
for wood blocks. Posts of it are reported to have
lasted fifty years without injury. The same issue
contains photographs and full descriptions of the
properties of the red honeysuckle and the gidgee.
The value of this work when completed will be
undeniable. Part Xof the same author’s Critical
Revision of the Genus Eucalyptus is also to hand.
“P. Winkle” somewhat justly pauses to
remark: On the Red Page (Ik 22/10/’08)
Louis Becke lays the bait for Australian
Short Story weavers to send their weft to
certain London journals mentioned—which
may be all very well for Louis Becke, but
taken by and large is a pretty big, not to
say unsatisfactory, order for the weavers.
How will we fare in sending our “ White
Wings '" to the ' Big Smoke, if, say, the
London Leader only pays when the accepted
stuff is published ? How can the lone bush-
man who fashions ink-ware keep track of his
London publishers’ consummations ? I take
it very few London journals pay imme-
diately on acceptance like The Bulletin,
Australian Journal, and a. few (very few)
other Australian publications. With these
prints the prose or verse weaver knows
where he is'; not so with prints that maybe
work the Kathleen Mavourneen oracle—“it
may be for years or it may be for never” —to
keep contributors on tenterhooks. Then,
say, one tired of waiting, and sent, at the
behest of the Pates, the same story or sketch
to The Bulletin, which is quick to decide and
pay, where would the little matter of copy-
right come in if accepted ? Taken with a
moment’s consideration, Louis Becke’s be-
hest to Australian writers to send their stuff
oversea sounds sloppy and insincere. Not
that London editors are likely to be dis-
honest—not at all—but if my memory
serves me correctly, Red Page writers have
nOt been as enamored with Big Smoke
editorial ways as I would have liked—not by
long chalks. The legend tells us they are
mighty long-winded—both in a publication
and financial sense, besides being imbued
with even more darned cussedness than the
fantods of Sunny Australia. Anyhow, my
puny weavings will continue to flutter round
the dens of my native land until something
more satisfactory crops up than the empty
exhortation to bombard certain London
editors, seeing some pastmasters at the game
of fiction now on the spot appear to be doing
none too well in tickling the palates of Big
Smoke editors.
America is also out after an A mericanaise.
The National Institute of Arts and Letters
offers prizes for the best productions de-
signed to supersede “America” and The
Star-Speckled Banner.”
A cheaper edition, in three small volumes,
of the letters of that very ordinary woman,
Victoria, is now published by Murray for
those who may may happen to be enough
interested.
The abiding popularity of “ Banjo \ is
proved by the issue of forty-thousand copies
of The Man from Snowy River. In October,
1895, Angus and Robertson started publica-
tion of this record-breaker by an issue of
1250 copies. Within a fortnight an edition
of 1000 more followed, and within the year
the total copies printed numbered 11,000.
After that, editions of 5000 began to appear,
and now this, the twenty-third impression,
is an edition of 4500. The previous Aus-
tralian edition was one of 5000 in June,
1906. The London editions total 5000
copies.. Sometimes poetry—of a kind—pays.
From The Amateur Gardener (The Lockley
Library, Moore-street, Sydney) comes the second
edition of Rose Growing Made Easy, admirably
llustrated and written for local conditions.
Anatole Franco
Timely is Ihe latest volume of the “ Con-
temporary Men of Letters ” series, in that it
m devoted to Anatole France (Heinemann).
Ihe works of this foremost living author in
France are now being published in English,
and for Lane’s successive translations there
man eager and a growing demand. George
Brandes, one of the foremost European
critics, writes what is little more than an
impression of Anatole France, but it con-
veys the sincerity, the audacity, the irony,
the naivete, and the artist in the man more
vividly than a conventional biography filled
with dates and analyses. This son of a book-
seller first attracted attention with The Grime
of Sylvester Bonnard { per Roycroft Library,
Sydney), which delightful tale is the fourth
volume of Lane’s sumptuous series of transla-
tions. This simple story, without a scintilla of
a plot, gives one of the most charming pic-
tures of a charming old man that have ever
been painted. It is, indeed, an unforgettable
creation—this worldly-wise, simple old phil-
osopher and book-collector. And, as every-
where in Anatole France, there is much
thought and a delicate irony. This is a book
to dally over lazily.
Now, in his old age, Anatole France,
sceptic, philosopher, popular novelist, has
embraced the cause of Socialism, and in the
defence of that cause has thrown the whole
weight of his popularity, his philosophy, his
knowledge. It is a sign of the times.


Tute
ii
Dinner Cruet, Electroplated on Nickel Silver, 4
Cut Glass Bottles, 20/=
I
No. 1049— Entree Dishes, Oblong 1 shape, Electro-
plate on Nickel Silver, 10in., choice design, 88/6 pair
o
m
No. 976— Pretty Biscuit, Butter and Cheese
Stand, Painted Porcelain, Electroplated Mounts,
with Knife and Fork, 17/6.
7;
Mo. 1061— Oak Liquor Frame, First Quality
Electroplated Mounts, 3 Cut Glass Bottles, Hand-
somely Finished, with Lock, 57/6.
-1
:..'7
No. 1011— Single Jam Dish, Electroplated on
Nickel Silver Frame, rich Ruby Glass Dish, 14/6.
3»'
No. 1020— Sugar Basin and Scoop, Electroplated
on Britannia Metal, Handsomely Engraved, 18/6.
Satisfaction in Silverware
... AT ...
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
No. 1022—Oak Biscuit Barrel,
Mounted Electro-plate on
Nickel Silver, 21/=
No. 993— Lunch Cruet,
Electro-plated on Nickel
Silver, i Cut Glass Bottles,
23/=
No. 1024— China Biscuit
Barrel, mounted Electro-
plate on Nickel Silver,
choice design, 10/-
No. 1072 — Flower Vase, Electro
plated on Britannia Metal,
Engraved Glass' Vase, 8/-=
We are Family Drapers,
Complete House Fur=
nishers, Manufacturing
Jewellers and Universal
Providers, and our
Unique System of Spot
Cash Trading is a
guarantee of
Top Quality
... and ...
Bottom Price
Write for Departmental
Price Lists, posted free
on application.
No. 1002— Revolving Cruet,
Electro-plate on Britannia
Metal, chased designs, 4
Bottles, 16/=
No. R93sl— Jam Spoon,
Electroplated Bowl, with
Sterling Silver Handle, 3/-
Handsome Tilting Kettle, Electroplated on
Britannia Metal, Ruby Chased, holds Two
Quarts, 43/-
TERMS—SPOT CASH.
No. Ro3sl— Butter Knife,
Electroplated Blade, with
Sterling Silver Handle, 3/»
No. 14759— Biscuit Box, Electroplated on Britannia
Metal, Chased Design, 44/=
No. 1047— Entree Dishes, Oval, Electroplate on
Nickel Silver, 10in., 56/= pair.
•*£6
o. 1007— Butter Dish, Electroplated on Nickel
Silver Frame and Cover, Crystal Glass Dish,
Pretty Design, 7/9.
No. 998— Dinner Cruet, 6 Cut Glass Bottles,
Electroplate on Nickel Silver Frame, 46/6.
No. 989— Combination Frame, Electro-plated on
Nickel Silver, 2 Eg}? Cups and Spoons, Gold-
lined, Butter Dish and Knife, 19/6.
No. 086— Double Pickle Jar, Electroplate on
Britannia Metal Frame, Covers and Tongs, Glass
Jars, 18/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


VIOL
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON & CO. Ltd.,
SYDNEY,
Wool and Produce Brokers, Stock and Station Agents.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
S YDNE Y.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
One Thousand
Ways to Get Rich*
Money-Making for the
Multitude.
Though it contains
Hundreds of Secrets
that are worth
Pounds,
the Price is only
1/6, Post Free 1/9
WHY REMAIN
POOR?
Tommy Burns’ Scientific
Boxing, 40 photo-illustra-
tions, 3/-, posted 3/6. Dr.
Foote's Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Comic
Reciter, 1/-. Readv-made
Speeches and Toast®, 1/-.
Bride of tiie First Night,
1/3. That Rascal Gustave,
1/3. Freemasonry Ex-
plained, 1/3. New Tricks
with Cards, 1/-. How to
Mesmerise, 1/-. Every
Man His Own Builder,
1/6. Better Writer, 1/-.
Lover’s Guide. 1/3.
IW~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
7 J
L
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing- Billiard Balis,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 b Bourke St., Melbourne
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘Fruit Salt ’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
hv Natural Means There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
C AUTlON.— Examine
otherwise you
the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT,’
have the sincerest form of flattery-IMITATION.
Prepared only by
J. C ENO. Ltd.,‘FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
gdf
ICal
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES— ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO., P ly. Ltd., 276 8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL *900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES The Be “ *£* o,iy ° f SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
<
H « a
mmSmM
a
CORSETS.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/|| to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co.,
Flinder’s Lane, MELBOURNE,
Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
DINNEFORDS
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNES
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at Post Office Chambers, 116 Pitt Street.—Hon. W. C. HIGGS, Local Director.
After Effects of Influenza,
There is no better equipment for life than a
stock of such information as a reporter gleaned
from Mr* Henry Adolphus Adams, cabinetmaker,
of 16 Burton Street, Camperdown, because it can
be so readily turned to one’s own account if cir-
cumstances require. Mr. Adams said, “ Fifteen
years from date I was a painter, but did not
contract the trouble so peculiar to that trade,
namblXt colic; but I got something just as bad
though* about the time'.l speak of.”
“What was that ? ” inquired the pressman.
“Influenza,” was the response, “and when a
man gets a proper attack of that complaint he
knows about it,” said Mr. Adams, with emphasis.
“ I was so ill that my doctor would not allow me
anything but milk food, so you may depend I
did nQt get very fat ©n that. For six solid months
I was laid up, utterly unfit for work, and not able
to get about at all. How much weight I lost
goodness knows, but a great amount at all events,
for their was little left of me but skin and bone.
I was down to tjie lowest possible ebb, and felt
like a helpless mortal, drifting out slowly, but
surely, upon the tide of adversity tha,t had so
ruthlessly set in against me. No medicine that
had as yet been administered was capable of
stemming the adverse current, and it seemed
that I might as well give up the fight for life and
consign myself resignedly to the merciless fate
that yawned before me. My appetite was gone,
I could not sleep, excepting in short stages that
had no refreshinginfluence upon me, and I had such
severe aching sensations in all parts of my body
that I could not lie anyway with the least degree
of comfort. In my head the dull, depressing pains
almost racked my brain. They were too severe
to enable me to spend a"few hours reading, even
if I could have settled my mind to do so, which I
doubt; and there were many signs at hand that
my liver was thoroughly upset. My tongue, for
one thing, was completely overlain with a white
coating ; the taste in my mouth was like gall, and
the pains across the kidneys were so bad that I
could hardly bend my back, added to which my
shoulder blades had pains under them too.
Taken altogether, there was little of me left but
aches and pains, and what I would have done
without Clements Tonic I do not know.”
“That was the medicine which cured you, I
believe?”
“Nothing else but Clements Tonic saved me, I
give you my word. It was touch-and-go with me
when I started on it, for I was almost too feeble
to stand. My nerves had gone. Any set
me all of a shake, especially if it came to my ears
abruptly, and I had in my excessive weakness
contracted the habit of worrying more than I had
ever done in my life. But what a lucky stroke to
think of Clements Tonic after all the medicine I
had taken for no result! And it would be very
ungrateful of me if I did not hand down my ex-
perience of that remedy for my fellow citizens,
as I am quite convinced it is a veritable boon
to mankind. As a strength-producing agent it
certainly is far ahead of any remedy 1 know of,
and for pulling together one’s shattered nerves,
it cannot be excelled. Clements Tonic applied in
my case like a strong man leading a helpless,
hopeless wreck of humanity away from certain
danger—it accomplished an act of revivification,
and to my last day on earth I shall be thankful.
So far as putting to rights my digestive organs
was concerned, Clements Tonic was equally
effective, all the old troubles disappearing as if
wafted away by the magician’s wand, and I did
not leave off taking it till a thorough I’ecovery was
firmly established.”
“Have you had any further experience with
Clements Tonic?”
“ I have heard of numerous cases it has cured,
but I can speak of its value from another point of
view myself. It is a reliable remedy for neuralgia,
for some time ago I had a bad attack and Clements
Tonic gave me relief very speedily. Yes, there is
nothing I think so highly of as Clements 'Tonic,
and I don’t mind you publishing every syllable
I’ve uttered, in any way it suits you.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, HENRY ADOLPHUS ADAMS, of 16 Burton Street,
Camperdown, in the State of New South Wales, Common-
wealth of Australia, do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it
contains apd is a true and faithful account of my illness
and cure byClements Tonic, and also contains myfull per-
mission to publish in any way my statements—which I
give voluntarily, without receiving any payment; and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the
Oaths Act, 1900.
/ft-
Subscribed and declared at Camperdown, this twentv-
seventh day of February, one thousand nine hundred
and eight, before me,
91 C. S. MALLETT. J.P.


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. That’s
what every one does who uses
this splendid
preparation
for the hair.
If you don’t
f want to
praise it, then
you must not
use it. You see,
you will be so pleased
with it that you will
i just have to tell your
friends all about it.
t 9
Wm
Mger’s
flair Vigor
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U-S. A.
gdfg
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODE r,s <
Coaster Hub
£3alo to £9
db, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
1 Inverted Lever Eim Drakes, variable gears
and all lates imprbvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any tort in the worlcl. JWe guarantee safe deli' ery.
ACTIVE AStrrS
wanted in each district
Large profits easily made.
,/rite at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our tnecial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., Dept. 280 Liverpool-
A Woman’s Vote —Result
When our Australian women exercise the
franchise, it is a foregone conclusion that
the women’s vote will be on the side of
progress —quality and not quantity of mem-
bers. We see it in everyday life—there
are three women to-day using Sunlight
Soap for laundry and housework to one
using any other scap in the world. Why?
Because women quickly recognise quality,
and the progress effected by the Sunlight
way of washing described on the cardbox of
every tablet Try Sunlight Soap next wash
day arid you will vote there is nothing better.
HORLICKS
MALTED
MIIvK
Important Notice.
Attention is drawn to the fact
that Horlick’s Malted
Milk has been analysed
by the Board of Health and
admitted free of duty.
Chemists, etc. are therefore
safe in selling Horlick’s
and parents are guaranteed
a suitable food for children
from birth, which contains No Starch.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
' RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
DON’T FORGET THAT
SCOTT’S EMULSION
is just as Useful for Sickness in
Summer as in Winter.
Translated French Novels,
(Some Illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogues from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2ld
C. ARTHUR, 6 Passage Crana, Monte Carlo.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve,
Is. ; Packet of Ten, lOd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
&
IRISH
IRISH MOSS
george" b!onninqton
MOSS
THE WONDERFUL
MEDICINE.
CURES WHILE
SLEEPING.
Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs and
YIELD QUICKLY TO ITS ACTION.
Colds
dfg
Have you seen the new
Prana” Sparklet Syphon
for making pure, fresh sodawater or any sparkling
mineral waters* just when you want
to* wherever you may be ? It # s done
in a minute by using
“Prana” Sparklets
which can be obtained of all Stores*
Ironmongers* &c«* throughout Aus'
I tralasia.
For full particulars apply to any of the
undermentioned firms* who will give you
the name and address of your nearest dealer.
S. Hoffnung & Co., Sydney and Brisbane; Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne;
G. Wood, Son & Co., Adelaide; G. P. Harris, Scarfe & Co., Fremantle;
Alfred Shaw, Ltd., Townsville.
Sole Makers: Aerators, Ltd., " Prana ” Sparklet Works, London.
Under Vice-R.eg'al
df
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereagrh Streets.
pp- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINCS MADE UP.
STOCK.
Telephone 2138.
&he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE Is. PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
THe question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe other Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally— you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s Health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years®
Matchless for the Complexion.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Surf-Bather.
Pert little Mrs. Andy Brown
Has such a figure, plump and fit.
To dress her well in hat and gown
Cost Andy B. a tidy bit.
She said it needed lovely furs,
The latest frocking that occurs,
To show a pretty shape like hers.
Her dresses seemed to fill the place.
If Andy was incautious, he
Got tangled in the silk and lace,
And tripped among the lingerie.
And his accumulating ills
(A long sustained attack of bills)
Defied all advertised pills.
Now Andy’s happy all the day,
He drinks the best, and smokes always ;
He has no long accounts to pay,
For Mary’s got the bathing craze.
She dips and dips, and quite concurs
The less one wears the less one errs,
Who has a natty shape like hers.
VIC.
SNELL.
The Last Man.
There are many ways in life,
With its thousand chances rife,
Wherein men may be distinguished —if they can :
One the town may crimson paint,
And another be a saint,
And a third a fat suburban alderman.
There are types of ev’ry grade,
But one type there is that’s made
For no other purpose anyone can find
But to be set down and classed
As the Party who is Last,
And is nearly always never Left Behind.
When the town is silent quite,
And the last boat goes at night,
You can hear his hoofs a-clatter down the street;
And you presently will jump
To the fact that, in a lump.
He has landed on your head or on your feet.
If the boat’s ten minutes late,
It is, all the same, his fate
To come pounding down and panting to the pier,
Just in time, with reckless leap,
To come landing in a heap
On the deck upon his boko, or his ear.
It’s the same, too, with a train —
Rules are made for him in vain—
He comes panting on the platform out of breath,
And, with wild and sanguine spring,
To a carriage-door he’ll cling,
And is always on the verge of sudden death.
It will not astonish me
If on Judgment Hay I see
Tearing down the slopes of Palestine, full bat,
With his shroud-tails flying white,
When the show is finished quite,
Him—the Last Man—in the Yale Jehoshaphat.
CREEVE ROE.
Our Colored Brethren.
We have brownish-yellow brothers
Up in China and Japan,
And a multitude of others
Like the Hindoo and Afghan,
And the Pagan bloke who smothers
All the Christians that he can.
We’ve a lot of dear relations
At the back of Timbuctoo,
And they flock around the stations
Where the missionary crew
Finds them easy situations
And some minor jobs to do.
There are brethren who are nearer
Than the gentle Soudanese ;
But was brother ever dearer
Or more easy to appease ?
Could a mother’s love be clearer
Than our love for such as these ?
Down amongst the Isles of Coral
Dwell some other brethren who,
Says the Reverend Mr. Worrall,
Have a claim on me and you.
(But the claim is only “ moral,”
So what can a fellow do ?)
We have brothers small and skinny,
We have others fat and tall,
And each smiling picaninny
Is related to us all;
And we weep into our pinny
. When we hear our brother call.
Oh ! our brother has his village,
And he has his harem, too ;
But his pastime it is pillage
And the tasty human stew.
(In between he does some tillage
For the missionary crew.)
It is only right and proper,
It is only just and fair,
That our brethren, black and copper,
Who are scattered here and there,
Should receive our old belltopper
And the thrippence we can spare.
But they’re nicely isolated
In their islands oversea,
And, as God has segregated
Them with care from you and me,
Let us keep them as they’re rated
By Eternity’s decree.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASLEY.


SPECIFIES
o
£
•J-
-o
&L 1^
T.he up=io=date architect’s practical experience has taught
him that the Wunderlich Designs embossed in Metal are
the ideal form for ceilings and wall-linings.
1 hey looK better and last longer than the old-fashioned
style and never give any trouble.
For decorative purposes they are wonderfully adaptable
and lend themselves to endless color combinations.
Write for our handsomely illustrated catalogue which
explains the system and gives numerous designs.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
I'
BW
Sydney Showrooms:
56 PITT ST.
Postal Address:
Box 474 G.P.0.. Sydney.
Melbourne Showrooms;
243 COLLINS ST.
o TJie*JE&sen ce of *Vi ta?li ty
CADBURY’S COCOA
gives valuable support to the whole system. It contains
everything essential to the maintenance and restoration of
vitality, is easily digested, and possesses the delicious,
full, genuine cocoa flavour.
in*
SUPPORTS
LL
NS
0
0
f.
c.
f.
0
•• K
*9X3
Most men say shaving
is a nuisance—until they try the Auto Strop
Safety Razor. Then they readily admit that
this wonderful little razor makes shaving
agreeable and easy. With the
Auto Strop
Safety Razor you can restore the
original keenness of the blade in a moment
without taking the razor apart. This guarantees
a clean, smooth, comfortable shave <
every time you use the Auto Strop.
Jii'f AntoStrop Safety Razor, with i 2 blades of the*finest
steel, special horse-hide strop, in case complete, 25/= nett.
A {rents for Manufacturers :
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., Ltd.,
Sydney and Melbourne.
g
This shows how the
Auto Strop strops itselt.
ATTRACTIVE CHEAP QUEENSLAND FREEHOLDS.
5 MILES FROM BRISBANE.— SOB acres, 200 acres being: splendid agricultural laud, balance first-class
grazing land, permanent water, well improved, fenced, subdivided, 40 acres cultivation, 40 cows in
profit. 755. per acre.
5 MILES FROM CITY, FREEZING WORKS. Etc. —15,380 acres freehold, rich alluvial soil, well grassed,
black soil and ridges, river frontage, lagoons, fenced, good house, would fatten 600 to 800 bullocks
annually. 40s. per acre. Good terms.
13 MILES FROM SOUTHERN AND WESTERN L1NE.— 2230 acres, 1000 acres light scrub, balance plains,
frontage to creek, also well, windmill, fenced (new), five paddocks, 1800 lambing ewes given in. 70s.
per acre. Freehold. Good terms.
3 MILES FROM DALBY. —4028 acres, freehold, rich black soil, box and myall, permanently watered by
wells, with mills and reservoirs, securely fenced, good residence, yards, woolshed, etc., splendid
property, recommend inspection. 84s. per acre.
For further particulars, apply to
NEW ZEALAND LOAN AND MERCANTILE AGENCY CO., LTD.,
Stock, Land and Property Salesmen, BRISBANE.
“RATITE”
IS USED
by Municipal, Military and Naval Authorities,
by Steamship Companies, by Grain Stores,
Slaughter Houses, and Factories all over the
civilised world.
CIENTIFIC and INFALLIBLE
RAT
Exterminator.
Harmless to Man and to all Domestic Animals.
3/6 per Tube; 3 Tubes, tO/- Post Free.
Regular Weekly Supplies received by
CARL ZOELLER & CO. LTD.
The Surgical and Veterinary Supply House,
246 Queen Street, BRISBANE)
as Agents for
Pasteur Vaccine Go. Ltd.,
7 Rue Meyerbeer, PARIS.
EVERY PIPEFUL A PLEASURE
PERFECTION
IIJCO
ZUI
h 09
TOBACCO
LIGHT and DARK
In Plugs, or Cut XJp in Tins, 2ozs. and 4ozs.
df
EDUCATION
BYJ ROST
Mi
Prepare for a Good Position! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
CIRCULAR QUAY SYDNEY, N.S.W,
'AMfc
m
36'
' ' -*4i
"S.a
1 , fSr’i
Ef
f I?
■'•V3,
■fey—
Has earned
success
by if’s genuine
jnerif
m
EraaßgWHhg* i j -S
Ww;rsst; :
irW f
BRttfeS
%
P -M
fo
RDBEROID
ROOFING.
“To have your roof last—
use Ruberoid Roofing first.”
Because RUBEROID
is cheap in price, you must
not class it a “ cheap ”
roofing. Buildings upon
which no expense has
been spared have been and
to=day are being roofed
with RUBEROID,
RUBEROID is the
most economical roofing
you can buy.
Wholesale Agents :
£. Rich 8 Co. Ltd.,
Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.—N0. 1507.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1908.
PIUOB 6O
2. t started all right, but while
Crossirt’ the Domain my well-
known White Australia sentiments
asserted theirselves. “Is it fer me
to give aid and comfort to the alien
• races?” 1 says.
4. That night 1 dreamt that me
an’ a gorriller had a
with plum puddens for gloves,
v and methawt 1 got. a nasty .
Pone in the dirt net-wagon
that l haint got over JgM
' yet. ■ ? SPs
3 “ Not me!” 1 says; and sitting
down on a secluded spot, 1 bestowed
that pudden where it would do the
most srood. .
1. On Boxln’ Day
the boss says to
me, he says :
'•Here, take what’s left of the Christ-
mas. podding, and give It to -Jack
Johnson, at the Stadium, with ■/
•Hop’s’ compliments.”
. ■
7. BOXING DAY.—I have just heard
of the nasty accident as happened
to Mr. Burns at the Stadium this
morning.
>«*
. C ' v
. V sfi '
1* NN . <<vC •
, c*'
\W -
,Vx
\
\<V V < <#' cV
o -
lf the police had interfered a little
1 earlier the Circashion peoples would
a been spared this great 'umilia-
tion.
V. They 'say Tommy
Burns has a Boney -
part face. P’raps if Jack Johnson had
been-in Wellington's place at Waterloo
the resemblance would ’a’ been still
more strikin’.
10. Meanwhile Time flics. Wishing you
a Happy New Year, 1 am,
YOUR DUTIFUL PUPIL.
(dc?v jNcTzh s tudV)
THE FESTIVE SEASON (SO-CALLED).— (“ Hop's ” Understudy here does his best.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printer] end Published by William Maclkod, of
7 Lnsgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
'j'nk Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
J.'alJ yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Bp sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shiiiinns sterling you can have. Thk Bulletin posted
regulai iy to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
It on> to A ddress Letters.
Correspondents to The Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an e.,'ent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of ado res.
Business letters (wait, rcard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is ii'.t a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometii ies caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojlicia.s. The person may not be there ; the official
alioays is.
Sped til Entice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents o r this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The rig 1 ' £to reproduce or translate any part of
'hr contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
toe publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence " column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiie Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS., will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fortvarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in llluclz anil White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolbom, London, W.C.
South Africa. —'The Central News Agency, Capetoivn;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Dong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
A dents’ Sjieciul Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6§in. x lUin.,
ivill be fortvarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 31, 1908.
PROPOSED RECONSTRUCTION OF
SYDNEY.
Sydney is taking stock these days in a worried
frame of mind. It begins to realise that it can t
crowd much more traffic into its narrow, crooked
streets without running over a cat or something,
and it hates to run over cats. It has almost
reached the limit—in fact, it isn’t certain that it
may not in some localities have quite reached the
limit. Sydney is now the most populous city in
Australia, having beaten Melbourne by a nose a
few years ago. Yet it is far from being the largest
city in Australia. Sydney itself, apart from its
suburbs, stands on an area about one-third that
of Melbourne ; less than that of either Brisbane
or Adelaide ; and only a fraction more than that
of Hobart. Sydney and its suburbs camp on a
space that is far less than that of either Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, or Adelaide with their suburbs.
These facts are the beginning of trouble, and
how large that beginning is can be roughly esti-
mated by these figures :
Estimated Oity^
Population. Area Population
(1906). (in Acres). per 100 Acres.
Svdnev.. .. 124,486 2759 4511
Melbourne .. 100,840 7396 1363
Brisbane .. 37,690 3520 10/0
Adelaide .. 40,045 3700 108.,
Perth .. 29,760 2300 1293
Hobart .. 25,389 2703 939
Or, again, the position of the various cities and
their suburbs may be considered as follows
Estimated
Population, Cities Population
and Suburbs Area Per 100
(1906). (in Acres). Acres.
Svdnev •• 538,800 93,094 578
Melbourne .. 526,400 163,480 322
Brisbane .. 132,468 195,200 68
Adelaide .. 175,641 99,358 177
Perth .. 53,800 13,299 405
Hobart ■■ 34,985 7,206 486
As a mere matter of figures the position of
Sydney, by comparison with that of other
Australian cities, is bad enough. Yet the
figures alone don’t half express the difficulty.
Sydney is very thinly peopled according to
European ideas. But it is a hilly city, and
ouite a number of its streets are disqualified tor
the ordinary purposes of traffic by reason of their
unevenness! Liverpool-street, for instance, east
of College-sticet, ought, judged by its useful
aspect on the map, to carry a vast amount of the
traffic that now howls and curses and smashes in
Oxford-street. But, as a matter of fact, by reason
of its unevenness, the middle of the highway
might almost be used for agriculture. It might
be filled in, or a viaduct might be built across the
stupendous hollow, after the manner of Geo. IV.
Bridge at Edinburgh, but neither has been done.
Then a vast number of other streets are more or
less disqualified by the fact that they have no
independent existence of their own. There are
eight parallel streets running north and south in
the city proper, but Sussex, Kent, Clarence, York,
Pitt and Castlereagh streets all presently give up
the individual ghost and empty themselves into
George-street. The five great main streets
which traverse Pyrmont also empty themselves
into George-street, and while it is possible to
start for the eastern suburbs by any one of about
20 streets the wayfarer invariably finds himself
before long in either Oxford-street or William-
street (it is ten to one he finds himself in Oxford-
street), unless he reaches the water side and falls
overboard. Devonshire, Cooper, Collins, Arthur,
Foveaux, Albion, Ann, Gipps, Foster, Campbell,
Goulburn, Stanley, Burton, Liverpool, Bay, Wool-
loomooloo, Plunket and other streets all start east-
ward and come to dead ends. For purposes of
long-distance traffic Sydney has three streets —
George, Oxford and William. An expert who
knows the city’s lanes, by-roads, alleys, back-
yards, short cuts and side entrances can find other
ways, but the choice of the average traveller is
limited. Such an expert once drove this writer
from Marrickville to Surry Hills by short cuts,
on the simple rule that when he saw a turning he
turned it and when he saw a hen he ran over it, but
the road he took was quite unfit for regular traffic.
* » * *
Into this quaint and disorganised city have
been thrown certain needless and extra elements
of disturbance. The two or three streets which
carry its long-distance traffic are not wide, neither
are they straight. There are no bridges over the
harbor, therefore the traffic from the many
suburbs on the other side of the water is brought
to Sydney by ferry-boat and dumped down in two
great heaps at two distinct spots, Circular Quay
(which isn’t really circular) being far the bigger
and more furious heap of the pair. And there is
no railway through the city, as in Melbourne,
Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and most European
and American cities; and no large, general
suburban railway system as in Melbourne and
most other civilised places. Passengers from
the north, the west and the south are dumped
out of the train at Owe’Sullivan’s White
Elephant, about a mile from the place
most of them want to go to, and they
rush madly for tram-cars that won’t hold them,
and the tram-cars rush madly along narrow streets
that can’t conveniently hold them. And because
there is no city railway and also no bridges across
the harbor, the multitudinous passengers from the
suburbs beyond the harbor land on certain
crowded quays, and rush for tram-cars in the same
fashion. In the effort to repair this flurried state
of things a number of tramway by-lines have
been laid down, and more are still being laid
down, so that some of the tramway traffic that
used to go along congested Smith-street is
switched up Robinson-street on to Jones-street,
while some of the traffic that used to hustle along
congested Jones-street is switched down Brown-
street on to Smith-street. The principal results
are (1) that the car goes off the line and blocks
Thomson-street, and (2) that the person who
hasn’t dropped to the inwardness of all this
switching mystery waits in the wrong street and
loses his car.
* * * *
As if these difficulties were not enough, on this
harassed city drop three extra and needless
troubles: (1) A small but noisy section of fools
demands, with horrid howls, that the Australian
capital shall be placed where all its trade will help
to further congest a place which is already so
congested that it doesn’t know what to do with
itself. (2) A curiously demented railway policy,
made by curiously demented people, prevents
Twofold Bay and Jervis Bay and one or two
other good ports being connected with the country
behind them so as to relieve the pressure on con-
gested Sydney. The demented railway policy
even seeks to drag trade past Newcastle in order
to further heap up the pressure on congested
Sydney ; and the producers of remote country
districts are compelled to pay freight for a need-
less 100 or 150 or 200 or even more miles in order
to drag trade, at great loss, to a city which is
admittedly so overcrowded that it has only a faint
idea how to meet its troubles. Also (3) Sydney
and suburbs are divided into more than 40 munici-
palities, and the streets are also bossed by the Gas
Go., the Hydraulic Power Co., the Water and
Sewerage Board, and the Tramway Department.
All these confused and tangled-up authorities,
and especially the 40-odd mayors, and the similar
number of town clerks, and the 475 or 1112
aldermen, make any comprehensive scheme of
reform very difficult.
« * * *
A number of things are wanted to firing about
the repair of Sydney—-and four things more
particularly. These are (1) the abandonment of
the brutishly selfish policy which seeks to drag
everything to Sydney (including the Federal
capital) whether there is room for it or not—
which says in one breath that Sydney is so
crowded that it will be necessary to spend
millions on reconstruction in order to make room,
and which bellows in the next breath
that any scheme for carrying off some of the
future trade to new ports at Twofold Bay or
Jervis Bay, and thus relieving the pressure,
is an outrage that only Blood will wipe
out. The next essential (2) is the estab-
lishment of a Greater Sydney, any effective
reform being impossible with over 40 mayors
and from 519 to 1083 alderman. Another essential
(3) is a good plan of campaign ; and a fourth is a
heroic readiness to spend £10,000,000 or £12,000,000
or more on the job. Probably it will require a
good deal more than £12,000,000, for, in the way
of straightening streets, widening streets, making
new streets, opening out many of the blind streets
that come to dead ends, diverting many of the
deranged streets which pour all their traffic into
other streets instead of going straight ahead on
their own account, digging down hills that make
traffic impossible and throwing them into holes
that do likewise, filling in swampy places, making
railways, making bridges, making wharves and
demolishing slums, the work to be done is
enormous. First and foremost in every scheme
comes the city railway, which is so badly
required in order to relieve the over-
burdened streets of some of their traffic ;
and the city railway scheme can’t be faced in real
earnest without making the great Owk’Sullivan
Folly something very much akin to a bad debt.
The purpose of the proposed extension is to bring
straight into the city the hordes, swarms and
multitudes of people who really want to come
straight into the city, but who, under the com-
pulsion of Owe’Sullivan, now empty themselves
out of that swift express train, the Flying
Johnson, at Redfern, and heap themselves into
about six or ten densely-packed tramcars, which
then whirl round and rush down a steep place to
Paddy’s Market. If the new railway extension
is so devised as to carry most of these people
where they want to go to, there will be compara-
tively little use for the White Elephant, and if
the new extension isn’t so devised, it is difficult
to see what purpose it will serve. A city and
suburban railway system is, in fact, inevitable. In
no city, however wide its highways and however
large its spaces, does any save a wholly demented
local authority try to shove all the traffic into the
streets. The noise and hurry and wear and tear,
the nervous strain, the dust, the mangled people,
and the wildly-fleeing dogs make life too exciting
under such conditions.
* • * *
It is now nearly 20 years since The Bulletin
wrote its first article on the necessary Recon-
struction of Sydney. That was before the mis-
placed White Elephant was built, and before
tramcars had begun to scurry down almost every
little by-way in the city, and to rush unex-
pectedly round almost every corner. Since then
the need for reconstruction has become far more
urgent, and the prospective cost has probably
doubled. That is a serious matter, but
there is nothing to be gained by waiting
till it doubles again. For years, while the
work is in hand, Sydney will look like
the ruins of a bombarded city, but that also
is unavoidable. In the end, Sydney will be only
a patchwork metropolis, but there is no reason
why it shouldn’t be a very beautiful patchwork.
The first important step is to create a Greater
Sydney, so as to have a central authority which
can wrestle with the trouble. The second is to
carry the railway through the city, and over or
under the harbor, so that there will be less
traffic in the streets while roads are being dug
up and houses loaded wholesale into carts and
wheeled away. Meanwhile Premier Wade
might put on one or two extra taxes, and begin
practising a little economy in order to raise some
money for the work ; likewise, he might buy a
pickaxe, and try to take the kink out of his back
with a view to some hard toil ahead.
When the Board of Health is Made Com-
mander-in-Chief.
“A. 8.” dreams of a time when the invader will
go forth with an airship or two and a shelf-full of
bottles: —
Possibly the most ludicrous of all the flapdoodle talked
at banquets is the praise which the soldier and the
sailor get for having pressed every discovery of modern
science into the good work of slaughtering men.
From the time of Kipling’s cave man who deplored the
improvement of arrowheads, the military mind has
throughout the ages been, as a matter of fact, the most
conservative. It fought tooth and nail against the cross-
bow, against gunpowder, against steam as a motive power
for ships, against ironclads, against torpedoes and against
submarines. Every advance that has been made in war-
like engineering has been absolutely forced on the armies
of different nations; and it has only been the tardy
adoption by one side which has made the other take it
up to avert annihilation. At present, the naval and
military man is just as conservative as the paleolithic
person who wanted to go on using the arrowhead his
father used.
* * * *
The truth is that the armies and navies of the world,
when considered as man-killing machines, are utterly
out of date. Despite the advances of science, the War
Offices of the world have not yet called the scientists into
their conclaves. They have followed the same old policy
of handing over the defence of the nation to some
magnificent person, with butterfly moustaches and a
padded chest, principally because he has 14 quarterings
on his escutcheon. The scientist—the man who has
solved the mysteries of the war of life and death—is left
to his laboratory, when he might accomplish in
24 hours more than the beauteous swaggerer
in the garish coat could do in 15 months. The
nations have not awakened to the fact that all the fleets
of the world are as but a paper bag in a heavy rain
beside one tinv test tube with half an ounce of the right
fluid in it. The pale, sad, bald-headed person in his
laboratory has in his possession the raw material of de-
vastation, and the reserve power of annihilating whole
races; and it has never occurred to any of those coun-
tries, which are spending all they possess for the right to
continue spending it, to get the individual in the dress-
ing-gown to apply some of his time to the warlike aspect
of bacteriology.
* • • *
There is nothing new or revolutionary in the idea. One
of the first invasions on record was that of Sennacherib,
the Assyrian who came do\yn like a wolf on the fold, and
had his entire army swept out of existence by a disease
which would be identified by any modern school-boy as
of germ origin. * Thousands of similar instances have
occurred since. The awful slaughter during Napoleon’s
retreat from Moscow was attributed to the cold. But cold
alone does not kill people except by actual exposure, and
the vast majority of Napoleon’s soldiers died from disease.
The same thing has happened to a less degree in every
war of recent years. Britain and Germany in South
Africa, the United States in Cuba and the Philippines,
and Russia in Manchuria lost enormously through disease ;
and from fifty to a hundred years back, when medical
science was not so far advanced as it is now, it was not
uncommon for a campaign to finish with the deaths from
disease twice as great as those in battle. In the U.S.
Civil War the Federal army had 96,000 men killed, while
185,000 died of sickness.
’ * * * *
If we get such results as these in war—if the gun, with
all possible encouragement, does so little, while the germ,
with all possible discouragement, does so much—what
might not happen if the gun were allowed to run to seed
while the germ got a leg-up in every possible fashion?
Nature shows us the way. To certain races it has given,
by a long and cruel process of natural selection, the
power of resisting certain diseases. The European army
which dares to occupy Pekin or Canton or Tokio, will
find itself decimated by typhoid and small-pox and other
dirt diseases, to which the native, living among them for
generations, has grown immune. An outbreak of beri-
beri in Thursday Island would leave that delectable
locality destitute of Asiatics, while the white Australian
and Binghi would escape unscathed. The visitation of a
few germs of measles (which a white man regards as little
more serious than a cold in the head) has swept entire
South Sea islands clean of their occupants. These are
not theories, but scientific facts, and facts whose appli-
cability to defence are patent to anybody but the pomp-
ous dunderheads charged with the duty of defending
their countries from aggression.
* * * *
For the defence of Australia—the matter of greatest
interest to Australians—the obvious thing for the Prime
Minister to do is, not to “ blew ” his money on an
Australian navy, nor an imperial subsidy, nor a com-
pulsory service scheme, but to send for Dr. Armstrong
and Dr. Norris, and, appointing them commanders-in-
chief, give them a few thousands to spend on a laboratory
and a staff. The public would certainly not get what
the papers proudly term “something for its money.”
The Governor-General wouldn’t even have a guard
of honor for the opening of Parliament, unless Dr. Arm-
strong could spare the man who swept out the laboratory
to go along in his Sunday suit. But the defence of
Australia would be assured. Left to their own resources,
with about the same money required to keep one regi-
ment in pipeclay, Armstrong and Norris would workout
a scheme under which it would be unsafe for any invader
to put foot on the Australian shore. It is already well-
known that Europeans are immune to beri-beri, while it
is almost invariably a fatal disease to Asiatics ; and this
alone would terminate once and for all any fear of Aus-
tralia being invaded by the Chinese, Japanese or Indians.
If they were foolhardy enough to try, it would only be
necessary to send out an intrepid scout to smash a test
tube in the route of the invaders, and they would be with
Sennacherib in the morning.
* » * »
The scientist is probably aware of many more delicate
distinctions, and, if he is not, it would not require much
research on the part of an able man to discover the
effects of various germs on different nations. For in-
stance, it might be found that influenza, seldom a serious
complaint among Australians, was only one degree less
deadly than small-pox among the Montenegrins • and
consequently, if Montenegro ever invaded Austra ia it
would only be necessary to let the influenza microbes out
of their cage and the new arrivals would be obliterated
Similarly, the resistant powers of other races to certain
ailments would be ascertained, and in those where thev
were weakest endeavors would be made to strengthen
Australia in view of a possible future conflict. The obiec
tion that the other side would be engaged in similar
research, and would apply similar tactics, would be of
little weight. For the bulwarks which Nature has pro-
vided in habituating a nation to its own surroundings
and making the strange country an unhealthy place for
the stranger, would operate all the time, and this balance
would be just sufficient to ensure the triumph of the
defender on every occasion. There would be no wars of
aggression ; universal disarmament would be accom-
plished ; and peace would be automatic.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A New Gilded Cage for the Insects.
“ Clarence O’Hagan ” : It seems that a totally
unauthorised crowd of mostly fourth-rate poli-
ticians, heedless or contemptuous of the Inevitable,
coolly proposes to spend a couple of hundred
thousand pounds in “ rehousing ” its ignoble self.
A committee of the New South Wales Legislative
Assembly has been considering a scheme for re-
modelling the existing “House” in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, with a view to erecting a palatial
building in which Wade can sneer at the Common-
wealth and McGowen discuss Billjim’s dirt-
money amid luxurious surroundings. Because in
pre-Federation days the boomsters of Melbourne
jobbed together to put up a Parliament House for
themselves and their toadies at a cost of £7OOO per
member or more, the N.S.W. State misrepre-
sentatives propose to build in similar style for their
own behoof and dignity and general “dog.” The
people of the State, who will have to find the money
wherewith Wood and Holman may insult each
other amid semi-imperial splendors, are not to be
asked what they think of the scheme. “ Blarst the
public!” is the attitude, if not the speech, assumed.
In five or ten years from now there will come an
irresistible demand from the Australian people
(always provided the Japs haven’t got in by that
time) for the total abolition of all the existing
State Legislatures and the creation of handy-sized
and unpretentious Local Government bodies.
Why, then, should New South Wales be forced
to spend £200,000 or even £IOO,OOO in providing
princely accommodation for those political
ephemerce and their ridiculous Black Bods and
Bearers of the Elevated Jam Pot? I hope this
question will be taken up and looked over very
carefully by the electors before it can be sneaked
through. Is it for the country’s good, or peace, or
advancement, or prosperity, or comfort; or is it
for the further swelling-out of a horde of jealous,
bitter Australia-haters, whose billets are even now
marked in the nation's books as—“ Unnecessary
—to be dispensed with ” ?
A Cry from the Big Landlord’s Country.
From “ Newsboy ”
I was glad to observe The Bulletin’s advocacy (5/11/’08)
of the claims of Portland (Vic.) as a seaport. There can be
no doubt that unless there is an alteration in the infamous
railway policy—by which produce, which should be de-
spatched abroad direct from Portland, is instead dragged
258 needless miles by rail and shipped from Melbourne—
Portland’s population will continue to decline. The dis-
trict of which it is the natural outlet is one of the richest
in Victoria, and though at present it does not yield any-
thing like what it should yield owing to the fact that it
suffers severely from the Big-Landlord blight, yet were
its little bit of trade allowed to take its proper course, it
is certain that Portland would develop into a large town.
The land in the immediate vicinity is particularly
adapted to small farming and fruit growing, and numerous
orchards have been started thereabouts with—in nearly
every instance —excellent results from the harvest point
of view. But the want of a sufficient local population to
consume the fruit, and its inability to compete in
the Melbourne market with fruit grown nearer to
Bentopolis, have just about killed the local orchards. I
have seen hundreds of tons of apples such as retail in
Melbourne at from 3d. to 6d. per pound lying rotting
upon the ground in Portland orchards, because—with
freight, storage and auction charges—it did not pay to
gather them. I recall one orchardist telling me that,
after paying freight to Melbourne, the cost of packing and
other charges, his crop yielded him only an average of a
penny a case ! Out of this he had to keep himself and
family and pay for any assistance he required in cultivat-
ing. Owing to the Big-Landlord blight, the district is
mainly given over to sheep (and, incidentally, rabbits) ;
yet, even with the Blight, were the mutton, wool, tallow
and other products derived therefrom shipped direct
from Portland, the fruit-growing industry could probably
be made to pay by reason of the increased population
which would result to the town. But, despite the facts
that Portland has been equipped by the Victorian tax-
payers with a magnificent (and expensive) deep-water
pier capable of accommodating the largest vessels afloat,
and supplied by Private Enterprise with large and up-to-
date freezing works, the bulk of the district’s products
continue to go to Melbourne. Portland is the natural
outlet of all western Victoria and the eastern extremity
of South Australia ; but the railways have been carefully
laid out, and the freights have been carefully adjusted, to
keep trade away from it lest damage should be done to
Melbourne and Adelaide. In this respect it is
exactly like a heap of other dead ports in Australia.
Besides the resources already referred to, the district
yields large quantities of valuable wattle-bark, which is
in great demand for tanning purposes. Further, it has
valuable deposits of bitumen, large tracts of grass-tree
(until recently regarded as worthless, but now proven, to
yield both alcohol and varnish); and an inexhaustible
sea-harvest of edible fish—but then there is hardly any-
body about to eat fish, and the octopus city of Melbourne
is too far off. In connection with the bitumen deposits,
the existence of coal is also suspected ; but then Port-
land with coal would have a stupendous advantage
over Hobson’s Bay without coal, so Melbourne—where all
the money is—looks coldly on any enterprise in this
direction. Altogether, I know of no other portion of
Victoria which is so rich in natural advantages as this
district, nor do I know any other part which has been so
grossly misused. Explorer Mitciiell named it “ Australia
Felix,” and—considering it as it should, and could, be —it
deserved the epithet. At present, however, it is a cause
of heart-break to thousands, and unless the remedies it
requires—they are simple enough : merely (a) a proper
scale of railway charges, and ( b) a graduated land-tax—be
administered to it quickly, it will probably revert shortly
to its native state; while Portland, like Oliver Gold-
smith’s Sweet Auburn, will become a deserted village.
The Duke is Irritated.
“ 0.K.” : His Grace the Duke of Westminster
(salute!) has apparently expressed stern dis-
approval of Socialism. If the British Government
is going to grant pensions (of ss. a week and
downwards) to septuagenarians, it is time for him
—says his Grace the Duke —to discontinue the
pensions that he has been doling out to super-
annuated toilers on his—haw !—estates. Accord-
ing to latest advices, it doesn’t really seem that
his Grace will cutoff the pensions that are already
being paid ; but it seems that no further grants
will be made. This will indicate clearly the dis-
approval of his Grace. Evidently his Grace
resents this new-fangled act of Government in-
trusion upon the domain of lordly patronage. It
is Socialistic and therefore abominable. The
Government, in granting old-age allowances,
admits its liability to the recipients, and this
strikes a death blow at the feudal relations
between the lord of the manor and his tenants
and dependents. Pensions are things that
should be dispensed in charity by dukes
and sich at their sovereign pleasure. And


the Duke of Westminster, as the richest
landlord in Britain, doubtless intends to make
himself darned unpleasant in retaliation for this
invasion of his proud domain, so to speak. In the
meantime he will revenge himself on the Govern-
ment by saving money at the expense of aged and
toothless minions. Also, he will push to its
uttermost limits the grand old family policy or
raising the rents when the leases run out. lhere
is great scope for his Grace the Duke to express
his annoyance. For instance, a year or two ago,
before ho had had his indignation aroused, the
drapery firm of one Gorringe, in the Bucking-
ham Palace Road, applied to his Grace
for a renewal of the firm’s lease, and
his Grace was pleased to raise the rent
£3OOO a year at one fell swoop. _ Had he
foreseen the possibility of old-age pensions being
granted by the Government in defiance of the
wishes of the lords of the soil, his Grace would
probably have imposed an extra penalty of not
less than £SOOO a year upon the draper aforesaid.
It is easy to see that Britain’s mighty landowners
are powers to be reckoned with by any Govern-
ment that leans to Socialism. 1 hey own the
earth and the souls of most of the people who
thereon are; they own the beer trade and the souls
of them who toil therein. In fact, they own the
Government in a great measure, and when they
get annoyed it is time for the Hempire to break
out into a profuse perspiration.
"Wanted: A Marine Appeal Court.
“ Shellback ” writes about the Court that deals
with the skipper’s ticket: —
The Australian Government strongly and rightly resents
any interference with the clauses of the Navigation Act
by the British Board of Trade. But, on the question of
certificates of competency, there is a good deal to be
said in favor of the British authority’s view. A recent
Sydney Evening News article on the subject concludes
as follows:
“ Apparently the sole conclusion to be drawn from the
Board of Trade’s persistent attitude in the business is
that it is distrustful of the judicial and practical ability
of Australian Courts of Marine Inquiry.”
In view of some recent decisions by N.S.W. Courts of
Marine Inquiry, it well may be distrustful. We badly
need a Marine Court of Appeal. Theoretically, no doubt,
an appeal is already open to the Governor-iu-Council, but
that is only time and money thrown away.
Some recent instances may be quoted :
Suva-Hero collision : 2nd mate Suva, six months’ sus-
pension ; master Hero, 12 months’ suspension.
Pareoia-Colac collision : Both masters, 12 months’ sus-
pension.
Westralia, stranding : Master, 12 months’ suspension.
Bega, foundering: Master and all concerned, exon-
erated.
Pifeshire, stranding (total loss): Master, 12 months
suspension ; mate, ditto.
In these sentences an absurd inconsistency is evident.
In the Suva-Hero case, the tug goes to sea, deliberately
breaking Clause 60 of the N.S.VV. Navigation Act, which
states that all N.S.W. coasting vessels of 100 tons burden
and upwards shall carry, in addition to a master, at least
a first mate. Now it takes two vessels to make a col-
lision, and one of them must be primarily in fault through
not taking timely means to give way according to the
regulations, thereby causing some doubt in the other’s
mind as to the correct action to take to avoid smash.
Yet both officers are punished for one’s fault. The same
thing applies in the case of the Pareoia-Colac collision.
Re the Westralia, the vessel merely touched, without
suffering any damage or delay; yet the master gets the
same sentence as that dealt out to the master of the Pife-
shire, whose vessel was stranded under highly suspicious
circumstances (see finding of the Court). Where is the
consistency?
In connection with the Bega mystery all responsible
parties were exonerated, in spite of the fact, as proved in
court, that the master knew not only that most of his
crew were strange to the ship, but also could only by a
large stretch of imagination be called seamen.
The Judge presiding at marine inquiries carries into
court too much of the judicial element, forgetting
entirely that the defendant is on trial for an error of
judgment and not a criminal offence; and it would be
well for his Honor to bear in mind that severe sentences
for slight errors of judgment are anything but conducive
to efficiency in the marine executive.
The main defect, however, seems to lie with the
appointment of nautical assessors, who receive their
commissions in a haphazard sort of way from the
Goverrior-in-Couneil. Many of these gentlemen belong
to a bygone age, when their qualifications were doubtless
of the best. Now they are dug out of the semi-retire-
ment from which some of their number emerge at times
of industrial crises to brush the moth and rust off their
certificates, and temporarily hypothecate them with
owners, whose legitimate employees are then seeking
better terms of employment.
A nautical assessor requires to be a thoroughly up-to-
date man, fully qualified to appreciate the position of
officers in charge of high-speed vessels when at close
quarters with other shipping. The fact that a man held
oommand of a sailing vessel 20 years ago does not neces-
sarily qualify him for a position where he has to advise a
Judge unversed in nautical lore, and in whose hands lies
the future life-career of perhaps a brilliant seaman.
-
The Vine and the Thistle.
ELWOOD Mead, the moderately new irrigation
expert, hasn’t flurried himself in an endeavor to
get a grip of Victorian irrigation conditions ; but
havingfinally reached a well-considered conclusion,
he has briefly, though indirectly, informed T. Bent
that the Cabbage Garden’s irrigation policy is a
farce and a fraud, and that he would recommend
no further extensions of water-works until it has
been altered. Mead has naturally inspected
Mildura, among other places where water is laid
on, and finds that that settlement contains some
4000 people thriving on 11,000 acres, that the
water revenue equals £16,500 a year, and that the
produce of 8000 acres averages £3O per acre per
annum. Then he shows the other picture
There are in the Deakin and East Goulburn districts
several areas of the size of Mildura, with equal advantages,
which if subdivided and settled would produce results
of equal value. The present holdings are too large, the
population too small, and there is a disinclination on the
part of the present residents to practise irrigation.
Under present conditions there must be a continuous loss
of £4OOO a year in East Goulburn and £7050 in Deakin.
Though the voters’ list of the Rodney Trust showed 701
landowners in 1891, in 1906—15 years later— it showed
but 707. The chief dependence is still on rain, and there
are neither the changes in method of cultivation nor the
increase of population that ought to go with irrigation.
He recommends a Closer Settlement Irrigation
policy, with the acquisition (compulsorily if neces-
sary) of areas on which to carry out that policy ;
and in the event of such areas being resumed com-
pulsorily, he considers that the price should be
governed by the unirrigated value of the land.
This is very good so far, but, as . this paper has
long since pointed out, a closer settlement policy,
whether applied to irrigated or unirrigated lands,
is of no effect unless it is accompanied by provisions
for preventing the simultaneous accumulation of
other large areas. On the very day that
Elwood Mead made his report, the Bald
Hills Estate, near Melbourne, hitherto a
locked-up sheep run, was cut up into 18
blocks of about 350 acres each, and sold in one
hour for £57,000; but the whole 6400 acres went
to seven men, one of whom bought 1900 acres,
another 1500, and a third, already an extensive
landowner, 1000 acres. It certainly would be
something gained to make two vines grow where
only a thistle grows now $ but Australia will not
have all that it is capable of having until the man
who grows and tends the two vines gets the pro-
duce from them, and doesn’t have to give a big
share of the grapes for the privilege of being
allowed to work on somebody else’s land. To get
over that difficulty it may be necessary to introduce
a progressive water rate—a rate levied on the whole
irrigable area, but advancing as the size of the
area increases. Or, if size isn’t a fair criterion on
account of inequalities in the productive capabili-
ties of land, then the productive capabilities might
govern the case. Anyhow, two things are de-
manded with a 500-h.p. demand—something to
compel people in irrigable districts to use the
water that has been brought at great national
expense to them ; and something to encourage
the subdivision of the irrigable areas either before
or after the water has been turned in upon them.
♦
The Foolishness of Mr. Gompers.
The Victorian Employers’ Federation tendered a
welcome home smoke-night to its notorious lec-
turer, Walpole, the other evening; and Wal-
pole, who has been travelling about England and
America, had some curious stories to tell of his
experiences. In America, said Mr. Walpole,
the people were staggered to learn that our trade
was hampered and interfered with by wage laws
and the like ; and they considered that Australia
was in a parlous condition, and was dead certain
to go to the dogs. Walpole, it appears, came
across a gentleman named Gompers, who possesses
the high-sounding title of President of the Ameri-
can Federation of Labor. He was, so Mr. Wal-
pole avers, fiercely opposed to Socialism ; which
is much the same as saying that a, man is much
opposed to food. Food and Socialism are con-
sumed every day, and the only difference
of opinion amongst men is as regards the
quantity and quality. But Gompers denounced
the whole Socialistic business in just about the
cockiest fashion imaginable :
Economically, you are unsound; socially, you are
wrong ; industrially, you are an impossibility.
The Bulletin is getting dog-tired and dead-
weary of the alleged opinions of the far-away
foreign Labor oracle. Just while Walpole was
dragging the above pearl of wisdom across some
12,000 miles of deep, wet water, the Socialist (as
Walpole calls it) Party in Australia had quietly
become the Government of the Commonwealth.
Fisher may be an “industrial impossibility,
but he is just now Prime Minister of Australia,
while Walpole’s friend Gompers has just
been sentenced to 12 months’ gaol for defying
the law in regard to the characteristically
American method of “black-listing.’ Our
Labor party may be “economically unsound,
but it is the largest party in Parliament,
and has furnished two Ministries. On the other
hand, Gompers, of the American Federation of
Labor, is such small potatoes in his own country
that he has no Labor party worth mentioning in
Congress. It was cabled, with alarm, during the
last Presidential contest, that Gompers, after
deep consultation, had decided to throw the Labor
vote in with Bryan. Whether he threw it too
far, and it got lost, or whether it got broke when
it fell, hasn’t transpired. But, anyway, Bryan
lost the election by over 1,000,000 votes. When
Price or Fisher speaks something happens. The
Gompers party seems to have made such a mess of
things that it can hardly even return a single
member. Probably it is the failure of Gompers
which makes Walpole admire him so much and
quote his opinions so earnestly. “ Take Gompers
advice, and be a law-breaking nonentity like
Gompers” is apparently Walpole’s counsel.
The Water Spouts of the Way-Back.
Oe the first dozen artesian bores put down by the
Government in N. S. Wales, only one has had a
meter put on it, so to speak ; therefore, there isn’t
much exact evidence one way or the other as to
whether, with the increase of bores, the flow has
slackened off. And even as to the one—the
Coonamble whose flow has been actually
measured with any regularity, the records are
very sketchy. Thus, though the bore was com-
pleted in 1893, the first measurement was appa-
rently made in 1901, when the flow was 950,000
gallons per day. Fifteen months later, when it
was measured again, it was only 770,000 gallons ;
10 months later it was 749,441 gallons; and two
years and nine months later it was 442,333 gal-
lons. The Barringun bore’s output was measured
in March, 1902, when it was 52,300 gallons a
day; on June 5, 1907, it was 40,550 gallons. In
the other cases, all that they have to go by is the
height to which the water spouts now, compared
with what it did in 1891-2-3, the years when the
spouting started ; and the results are not at all
cheerful. For instance, Native Dog bore is reck-
oned on this evidence to have eased off from
500,000 gallons a day in 1891 to 46,672 gallons in
1907; Tinchekoola from 52,000 gallons to 7522
gallons; and Moongulla from 850,000 gallons to
285,867 gallons. There used to be a vague idea
that the artesian supplies were “ inexhaustible ”
—that, no matter how many holes Australia
punched into its underground water-bag, the
original holes would go on squirting just
as cheerfully on the last day as they did
on the first. Consequently there was the
same old sinful waste of artesian water as there
is of the other sort of water. And the Govern-
ment took so little interest in the matter that
it didn’t even check the flow, to see whether it
was easing off or not. Now, however, when a few
thousands of millions or billions of gallons have
been allowed to run into the sands, the stop-
watch is at last used. Sufficient has already been
found out to prove that the supply isn’t “inex-
haustible ’’—only a fool would, in fact, have sup-
posed that any water-bag was inexhaustible, any
more than any lake is bottomless—and, therefore,
settlement on the artesian area has its limits.
“Dry farming,” “artesian water-supply,” and
half-a-dozen other things have been boomed at
various times, mainly with the object of pre-
serving to big landlords the vast areas they
hold in the naturally well-watered districts.
The schemes have worked splendidly; and the
big landlords have been permitted to keep their
huge territories. But while “irrigation with
artesian water,” “ dry farming,” etc., etc., have
looked splendid in theory, the practical man
hasn’t had any faith in them—it is one thing to
run a farm in the “Soil” columns of a daily
paper, and quite another to do it out at Never-
tire. So the practical man has competed for the
land in the decently-watered districts of the Coast
and the eastern midlands, and as he has com-
peted the price has gone up and up, so that, even
if the big landlords magnanimously cut up their
holdings now, they will get a rich reward for their
wolfish ingenuity in so long devising schemes
for choking the people off a high pro-
gressive land-tax. Yet if they hang on,
and the stiff, progressive land-tax does not arrive,
their reward is likely to be still greater ; for the
steady falling off of the artesian supply and the
comparative failure of “ dry farming ” will only
add to the demand for country where neither
artesian water nor “dry farming” is necessary,
and with the increased demand will come higher
prices. And staggering prices for land will mean
slavery for somebody—the farmer, the farmer’s
helpers, or the farmer’s children, or for all three
classes at once.
The She-Clerk.
The days of the poor male clerk are numbered on
whatever tablet the recording angel uses for the
purpose. Harold and his high collar are dis-
appearing down the office stair, and the stool he
toiled on at £2 per week is covered by Gertie in
a skirt and blouse, at anything from £1 down-
wards. Gertie, the clerkess, has now arrived in
force, and, unless the voice of legislation is_re-
quisitioned to call Harold back, Gertie stands a
good chance of being left an old maid. It is not
the slightest use Harold trying to gird up his
endurance and his high collar sufficiently to com-
bat the starvation tactics of Gertie —who has
neither the ability nor the desire to see a year or
so beyond her pretty front hair. To the rising
and falling—young men whom she meets at
“evenings” she frankly admits that she detests
housework. However, in lieu of cooking or dust-
ing, she goes each morning to the town, and trifles
with Commerce for about as much as would keep
a silkworm in mulberry leaves. At home, Pa has
to employ a general or yard-marshal to do the
household work that would otherwise serve to
interest the absent Gertie. The lieutenant-colonel
costs Pa about the same amount that Gertie gets in
town, but as Gertie spends her salary on blouses,
hair-pads and other rigging, Pa is a loser on the
deal to the extent of the military person’s wages.
Gertie meanwhile is throwing away her ct.ances
of matrimony with Harold by doing him out of
his job and high collar. So to speak, she is
throwing away her woman’s right for a mess of
stockings. The offer of £1 a week is sufficient to
bring a horde of Gerties of all ages and shapes
round an office just about the time the advertiser
is getting up. Some Gerties are fairly capable,
but mostly Gertrude is a beautiful nuisance w .o
occupies a position above the grubby office-buy,
and exacts, amid the rush of the busiest day, a
deference that belongs only to the drawing-room.
Thus it happens that Gertie, with her peach-
bloom complexion, becomes a strain on the staff’s
nerves. Generally speaking, two of her can do
the work of a moderately-inclined male, and leave a
marginonMr.FAT’swagesaccount. Which usually
is Mr. Fat’s main and only object in life. The
writer has worked in offices with Gertie, and though
she was frequently a smart little woman, and very
often a charming one, she could never do the same
work for as long or as well as a man, and she
invariably left some of her good looks behind her
when she fled the office on the return journey to
the kitchen via the altar. The iniquitous desire
for cheapness at any cost is the only reason for
her beautiful presence on Harold’s stool; and as
the Nation, Pa, Harold and Gertie herself have
all got to lose heavily to stuff the few extra
shillings into Mr. Fat’s already bloated cashbox,
it is time that Gertie was told to demand the
same salary as Harold was getting, or, failing
that, to run back home and let Harold have his
job back. Otherwise, Harold may not be able to
marry her, and then there’ll be no orange-blossom
and no babies, and life will be a very lonely and
heart-breaking business indeed.
♦
It is a common gag of the Tory press that “Labor
is always ready ” for a general election. The gag
pleases the Labor men, and tends to make them
settle down into a state of contentment which is
very good for their enemies ; also it urges the
Tory party to renewed exertions, which is also
very good for Labor’s enemies. As a matter of
fact Labor’s political machine, in some States at
least, is a mass of aged rust and confusion and
misfit parts and discord and antiquated pro-
ceedings. Exactly how unready and ungreased
the Labor machine is in Victoria can be guessed
by the fact that before the implement could even
get up a canter 12 BiiNT-ites had been re-elected
without opposition. Bent himself was unopposed,
which was a horrible mistake. Thomas should
have been kept hustling and orating for his seat
to the last moment, for every time Bent orates
he makes about £2,000,000 worth of fresh promises,
and also puts both feet in his mouth, and like-
wise remembers about another dozen remarkable
things he used to do or to be when he was young.
To give him a chance to retire from the platform
—and thus take his feet out of his mouth—on
nomination day was folly. The events of that
unlucky nomination day put great stomach into
the previously alarmed Bent party.
Of course the betting and tote-promoting crowd
put its various heads together as soon as Wade’s
stringent Anti-Gambling Act was passed at the
tail-end of last session ; but the only idea incubated
so far is that of an “ insurance ” co. In that case
the risk will be the chance whether a certain horse
will or will not arrive first on a certain occasion.
As a guide to the “ investing ” public the co. will
draw up a list of “ premiums” which will be re-
quired before accepting a “risk.” It is argued
that insurance on the point whether a certain
horse will or will not arrive first is no
more gambling than the practice among
marine underwriters of insuring or betting
up to 90 guineas per cent, that a par-
ticular overdue ship will not arrive at all.
But the tote-promoters had better not be too sure
about it. A fire or marine insurance policy, ex-
cept it be of one particular and little-known
pattern, is merely an agreement to indemnify the
insurer against loss —which is why a man only gets
£2OO when his loss is only £2OO, notwithstanding
that the policy may have been for £5OO. And a
man who takes out a “policy” of the sort pro-
posed by the newly-suggested co. may have some
difficulty in persuading a Court that either he or
his co. stands on the same footing as that.
♦
Ben Morgan, whom the British Manufacturers’
Association sent out a year ago to inspect the
Australian Socialist tiger at close quarters, and to
find out if it was really the ravenous beast that
the Argus, Daily Telegraph, and other
Stinking Fish papers have told the world that it
is, has made his report. In effect, Morgan in a
polite way calls the Australian Stinking Fish
crowd various sorts of liar. The raging tiger
Socialism, he says, isn’t what in Europe they
would call Socialism at all; the Australian
Socialist is mostly a good, business-like person who
has done wonderful things for the development of
the country. As to railways alone, he reckons that,
without the alleged tiger, Australia would not have
had half the mileage nor nearly as good accommoda-
tion ; and more than half the big mining fields
would as yet have been undeveloped. Altogether,
in the view of the representative of the British
Manufacturers’ Association, the Australian Social-
ist tiger, which G. Reid exploited at last elec-
tions, is a good, honest-working bullock, which
has been hitched on to logs and rocks, and has
cleared the track, and is still on hand to give a
heave when Private Enterprise gets into a bog.
♦
“Q.F.C.”: The cabled information that Lord
Kitchener is to be “entrusted with the task of
co-operating with ‘the colonies’ in consolidating
all the Empire’s Land Forces into a homogeneous
army furnished with a plan for mobilisation for
war,” is something that wants watching closely.
Australia has more than once emphasised the fact
that any forces maintained here must be for
A Song of Loans.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brisbane, Monday.—ln the Assembly the Treasurer
moved the adoption of the loan proposals, amounting to
£3,208,000. He said it would be necessary to replenish
the loan fund if they wished to carry out the public works
policy. It need not follow that the whole amount would
require to be raised at the one time. The Government
could take advantage of any favorable opportunity to raise
as much of the money as it might require. After a
long discussion the motion was agreed to, and the Bill
covering the amount passed all its stages — Daily paper.
Loans !
Raising loans !
Oh! the statesmen talk about 4hem in most
reverential tones;
For the end and aim of finance in a young
Australian State
Is to pass the I O U to your descendants on a
plate.
We’re the men that made the nation,
We’re the coves that raised the cash,
And we show no agitation
O’er the gay financial hash
Made of loans—loans —loans—
Which mature when our bones,
Gone to dust,
Rest in peace within the country that our
borrowing has bust.
Loans !
Always loans !
Tho’ our Uncle’s looking doubtful and the money
prophet moans.
Ev’ry little drain and culvert has its little load of
debt,
Tho’ they’re falling into ruins you pay int’rest on
them yet;
Then the principal, remember
(Oh ! the reproductive work !)
It is due this next December,
And you mustn’t dare to shirk ;
That means loans—loans —loans
To pay up for sticks and stones,
For which you
Should have paid some twenty years ago out of
your revenue.
Loans !
Easy loans !
How the P.N. statesman with them for his ignor-
ance atones !
Though they’re hateful to the decent, ready-
money patriot,
With the cash of Uncle Cohen you can cover up
a lot;
When the Treasury is flowing
You can pat your noble chest
Whilst luxuriantly growing
Goes the bill for interest;
For the loans —loans —loans
Raised by dull, financial drones,
New and old,
And the total is the price for which the future has
been sold.
Loans!
Endless loans !
How the microbe of the pawnshop is embedded in
our bones!
We can never do a hand’s turn without rushing to
the Jew,
And the Dawn is veiled and hidden by our
mighty I O U.
Over Things That Really Matter
We can haggle endlessly ;
But we waste no idle chatter
When a few more Bills we see,
For the loans —loans —loans
That Necessity condones
(Time to pay !),
Bo we mortgage Baby’s Future to pay up for Dad’s
To-day.
Loans !
Lazy loans !
We are paying, paying, paying—yet the country
Cohen owns,
For the bridge that now is shaky and the agM
telephone
And the railway that’s not paying all were pur-
chased with a loan,
Which was raised by some forgotten
Dead-and-gone incompetent;
For the works now old and rotten
We are paying heaps per cent.
That is loans — loans—loans
(Smith, and Robinson, and Jones—
Dead and gone
’Twas their nation’s I O U that they all left their
mark upon !)
Loans !
Bygone Jones,
Smith and Robinson—and others—spoke in opti-
mistic tones
To the early-day electors of the blessings they’d
in view
Which were all to be accomplished by the magic
I OU.
Loans for roads and drains and sewers,
Ev’ry thing was done with loans,
While the plucky pathway-hewers,
Smith, and Robinson, and Jones—
With their loans—loans —loans—
Stacked up debt
And retired unto the graveyard out of the financial
wet.
Loans!
Ancient loans !
They’re the aftermath of Robinson, the sediment
of Jones,
Not to mention their coadjutor, the very gifted
Smith, -
And his numerous successors, his financial kin and
kith
Ranged in order—buried neatly—
Each his tombstone on his chest.
We forget them all completely
Till we pay the interest
On their loans—loans —loans,
Which outlast the spendthrift bones
Of those who
Signed the bill and left posterity to settle with
the Jew.
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


The Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co. of Australia, Ltd.
Buyers of
ORES, MATTES, CONCENTRATES, ETC., containing Copper, Gold, Silver.
Smelters and Refiners of COPPER, GOLD, SILVER.
WORKS ARE NOW READY TO RECEIVE.
REGISTERED OFFICE :
118 Pitt Street, Sydney (J. S. Spark, Secretary).
WORKS:
Port Kembla, N.S.W. (B. Magnus, Manager).
ORE PURCHASE DEPARTMENT:
Francis H. Snow, 7/11 Bridge Street, Sydney;
and at 89 King William Street, Adelaide;
and St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
To whom communications should be addressed.
CINEMATOGRAPHS and FILMS.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
SALE & EXCHANGE LIBRARY for keeping-up your
supply of Fresh Subjects. Join it and Save Money.
Send to us or please call for Full Particulars.
HARRINGTONS LTD., 386 Ceorge Street, Sydney.
179 Collins St., Melbourne ; 93 Queen St., Brisbane.
“defence” —and defence only. “Curly” Hut
TON, when he came out in 1902, very nearly
deluded BigJOHN Forrest into committing the
mistake of taking up what was smugly called
the “offensive-defensive” policy, or “the de-
fence of Australian interests wherever they
might be threatened.” But somebody was
cute, enough to see through the little dodge.
Then some Major man in the War Office, with
half the letters of the alphabet after his name,
came along with a memorandum plagiarising dear
old General George French’s scheme for raising
Imperial battalions in the colonies; but once
again the beastly democratic Parliament wasn’t
having any. Quite recently some fanatic in the
Federal House of Reps, wanted the Government
to get Kitchener out here to reorganise our too-
often reorganised forces—(? farces) —and now we
get the full strength of things in the cables lately
published. “Co-operation in consolidating the
land forces of the Empire ” sounds very pretty,
but the scheme won’t work. Any scheme of co-
operation will mean the maintenance of
a force oil British lines, and that won’t
suit the Commonwealth. Also it will mean
that dear old England will want to have
a say in how we run the Australian army,
and what we spend upon it. That won’t do
either. The defence of the Empire isn’t going to
be worked out that way, and when the Empire is
in the soup, Australia will want all its men and
guns to defend itself. Australia is part of the
Empire, and if Australians defend Australia that is
about all that should be asked of them. And when
the time comes they will do that defence according
to their own methods, and not under the direction
of some swagger soldier man who would, under a
co-operative scheme, be detailed for duty in “ the
colonies.”
How the Land was Stolen from the People.
An Ancient Inhabitant writes :
In the early twenties of last century there arrived in
N.S.W. two men who, later on, had a remarkable influ-
ence upon settlement on the South Coast of the State.
They were Alexander Berry, the rescuer of the survivors
of the crew of the Boyd, the others being massacred by
the Maoris ; and Edward Wolstoncrakt, his brother-in-
law. In those days when settlers brought money to
N. S. Wales they were given grants of land in proportion
to the amount they brought; so the fatter the pig the
more it was greased. Accordingly, when Berry and
Wolstoncraft arrived, they were given 1500 acres each at
Numba, on the Shoalhaven River. Alexander Berry at
once started to develop his property, and carry on a
timber trade. In those days there were thousands of
splendid cedar trees on the South Coast, and Berry soon
began to accumulate a fortune, and had assigned to him
a large number of men. He was in the main a
good employer. Gathering bits of land together,
he laid the foundations of the splendid Berry estate
with its beautiful homestead of Coolangatta. Wolston-
craft, on the other hand, did not do much developing,
but he shot miles ahead of Berry, for all that, by a bold
and successful piece of roguery. He wrote to Governor
Macquarie, pointing out that his health was bad, and he
wished to exchange 500 acres of his land near Numba for
500 acres at Crow’s Nest, on the North Shore, facing
Sydney. The Governor consented, and in due course the
transfer was made. But Wolstoncraft never kept his
part of the contract. Through the duplicity of a Govern-
ment official, “1500 acres ”on the map was altered to
“ 1000 acres.” So the official map was altered, but Wol-
stoncraft’s boundaries remained exactly where they
were, and the 500 acres were never transferred to
the Government. Later on Thomas Mitchell, Surveyor-
General, had his suspicions aroused, and wrote some
strong reports about the matter ; but the Wolstoncraft
influence was too strong even for him, and the 500 acres
were never cutout of the Numba property. Wolston-
craft’s roguery and sharp practice did not stop at that.
In the early days of N. S. Wales it was easy to persuade
some of the Government surveyors to throw in an extra
piece of land when they were measuring a holding for a
settler. A little application of palm oil—the showing of
30 or 50 golden reasons—and the thing was done. There-
fore, when the Crow’s Nest property was handed over
to VVoLsroxCRAFT, it contained 630 acres, “ exclusive of
rocks and sand.” The words quoted should be
noted, for it will be seen later on how
they were worked upon. Right in front of a
portion of the Crow’s Nest property is Gore Bay, and in
it is (or was) Gore Island. At high water, a boat could
be rowed between that island and the mainland ; at low
water, the rocks and sand could be plainly seen.
It was, therefore, undoubtedly excluded from the
Crow’s Nest grant, and the owner of the latter
had no claim whatever to the island. How, then,
did they get possession of that island, which would
have made an excellent park for the people? In
a very simple manner. They merely built a causeway
between the mainland and the island, and annexed the
latter. There it is to-day, part and parcel of the Berry
estate on the Sydney North Shore ; and, according to
law, any land held for over 60 years against the Crown
became the property of the holder. A railway now runs
through ihe Crow’s Nest property, and shops and houses
are built all over it. Recently some of the foreshore was
conveyed back to the Government in return for certain
valuable consideration, and will some day be very useful
and valuable for wharfage sites. It is probably not over-
doing it to say that already the 600 acres left are worth
fully £5OO per acre as an average, and that means an estate
that would total up £300,000. When Wolstoncraft
died, the Crow’s Nest and Numba properties passed into
the hands of Alexander Berry, from whom they went to
David Berry, and they are now portion of the world-
famed Berry estate, held by a relative of the Berrys, the
lately-knighted Hay, who has done a great deal
to improve and enhance the value of this great
property. No blame whatever is attached to Hay,
or even to David Berry, for this great land
steal, for they only came into the possession of the estate
when by process of law it had become the possession of
the Berrys. There can be no doubt, however, that
Alexander Berry was fully cognisant of his brother-in-
law’s nefarious proceedings, by which the Crown was
cheated out of 630 acres of valuable land. This Alexander
Berry was the man who prosecuted and imprisoned the
famous Dr. Lang for a speech in which that fiery orator
described Alexander Berry as “ the Shoalhaven incubus.”
Alexander Berry, who in his days did good work for
N. S. Wales, is dead and unhonored: whilst Wolston-
craft, who is also dead and who did nothing but steal
these 680 acres of land, has had a railway station and a
suburb called after him. Such is fame !
♦
The Graduated Land Tax; Plans and
Specifications for a Crusade.
One point on which the Labor parties, State and
Federal, neglect their opportunity is in their
failure to systematically educate the small tenant
farmer, and the shares farmer, and the man who
wants to be a farmer but can’t get land because of
the horrible greed ‘of the big landlord, on the
advantages of the graduated land-tax. A
slow and rather dull person is the small
farmer. He requires to be told a thing
many times before it soaks deeply into his cow-
trodden intelligence. He is assured by his land-
lord, and probably by his parson, and certainly
by the awful daily paper which he buys for the
sake of its cow intelligence, that the Labor
party’s graduated land-tax policy is aimed ulti-
mately at him, and that the final result
will be confiscation of the farm which,
as a rule, can’t be confiscated from him
because it isn’t his, and is never likely
to be his. He hears this lie so often that he
mostly believes it, and he hears the truth so sel-
dom that he knows practically nothing about it;
so he votes pretty steadily for his tyrant and op-
pressor and against the only party that is trying
to do anythiifg for him. Therefore Labor requires
to raise a fighting fund with which to hire a few
brilliant, eloquent, earnest-minded lecturers—
men who know the subject from A to Z —to go to
and fro over every part of Australia where the big
landlord hangs out, and preach the graduated
land-tax gospel. They should address meetings
in towns and villages and hamlets, and should also
pursue the cocky to his own home and distribute
literature to him, and speak the great Truth af-
fably into his ear. And they should do this, not
merely just before an election, but all the time.
The facts which they have to lay before the
cocky are plain and simple, but they require to
be laid before each individual cocky 200 times to
make certain that they have arrived. In the
main they consist of these six propositions :
(1) The graduated land-tax is devised as a means to
compel the land monopolist to sell his land at its real
value, instead of at the artificial price to which it has been
run up by an artificially-created land famine.
(2) Its purpose is to create a vast body of small, inde-
pendent and well-to-do farmers, not one of whom will
have any landlord to oppress him, or will be loaded with the
interest on a huge mortgage incurred through buying
his land at an exorbitant artificial price.
(3) The small farmer himself will pay no graduated
land-tax whatever. The exemption will provide for that.
(4) If the cocky is foolish enough to believe that the
ultimate confiscation of land is intended, that can’t be
helped. But let it be pointed out to him thatin sucha case
the graduated land-tax is the only thing that will avert
the confiscation. The small farmer won’t vote for the
confiscation of his own land any more than will the
millionaire landowner. On a place like, say, the great
Bibbenluke estate, in N.S.W., there is now one land-
holder and his family to vote against confiscation. If a
huge graduated land-tax broke Bibbenluke up into small
farms there would be probably 1000 landowners and their
families to vote against confiscation. And that would
make confiscation 1000 times less likely to happen.
(5) But if things continue as they are, and the country
districts reihain as empty as they are, and the cities
maintain their preponderance, the position will be dif-
ferent. The Labor party will become more and more an
association of landless city artisans, of landless miners, of
landless shearers, canefield workers, and such-like, and in
course of time they will be strong enough to con-
fiscate the land of the cocky if they want to, be-
cause there is so little cocky that his vote against confis-
cation won’t amount to much.
(6) The Labor party has no confiscation ideas whatso-
ever. But if anything is calculated to make it get such
ideas it is the stupid, insensate, wooden-headed fashion
in which so many of the serfs of the big landlord cling to
the cause of the oppressor.
If a few lecturers stumped the big-landlord-ridden
sections of Australia incessantly for three years
with that gospel, there might be an amazing
shake-up of the dry political bones at next elec-
tion. And if there wasn’t—well, the next thing
to do would be to stump the country for three
years more and relate the facts all over again.
“ Mate’s ” story
The Victorian Marine Board, when it becomes a Court
of Marine Inquiry, is an iniquity. There comes up before
it the captain or mate whose vessel hit something hard.
It may be that the economical owners didn’t provide any
save the cheapest and least reliable charts, and the unfor-
tunate officer hadn’t the money to buy the best charts;
but that isn’t taken into consideration. It may be that
the defendant was utterly worn out through working
excessive and incredible hours, hut that isn’t taken into
consideration either. The ship may be rotten and
undermanned, the engines old, and the night thick,
hut these things don’t matter much. Having
eliminated awkward side issues, and resolved that
owners are never by any chance responsible, the
Court comes down to the question—which ill-paid
mariner teas responsible? It is understood that a
wretchedly-remunerated officer ought to he infallible
—infallible even at £2 a week. Judges aren’t suspended
for nine months and ordered to pay costs when the
Supreme Court or the High Court decides that they have
made a grievous error (on £3O or £lO a week salary, and
with three days or three weeks, or three months if they
like, to consider their decision instead of having to re-
solve the problem in half a minute), but the mariner is
different. Having taken it for granted that the owner
can’t be responsible, the Victorian Marine Court has to
find that some sea officer is liable, for somebody must be
liable. The Court is rather old and fossilised, and out of
touch with modern things, but after deep consideration
(its victim had possibly a minute to consider) it fixes on
somebody—probably the captain. Then it suspends his
certificate, wipes out in one act all that he has
gained by years of faithful service on starvation
pay, blights his career utterly, and orders him,
out of the 2d. or so he has managed to save, to pay the
costs of the inquiry. The man who is run in by the big
feet of the Law isn’t required to pay the magistrate’s
salary and the rent of the gaol in addition to doing 14
days ; in fact, this outrage is reserved for the mariner
person alone. Yet he isn’t charged with any crime ; all
he is accused of in most cases is that once—just once—in
many years he failed to be infallible.
Commonwealth: Statistician Knibbs is just boiling
over with disappointment. Until Unification
arrives he has to depend on the State returns for
most of the material for the Commonwealth Year
Book ; yet by the middle of December, 1908, only
four out of 14 sections in the N.S. W. Statistical
Register for 1907 had been issued, Westralia had
issued only three out of 13 sections, and Tasmania
only two out of nine. Apparently it isn’t the
fault of the State Statisticians : for they cheer-
fully resolved in 1906 to do all they could to help
the work of the Commonwealth Statistical Office,
It seems to be just another case of certain State
Governments’ pettiness ; so far as statistics are
concerned they know they have the Common-
wealth at their mercy, and they do just what the
small-minded bully does under such circumstances.
Consequently the Australian statistics for 1907
won’t be issued till well on into 1909, and by that
time they will be ancient history, and the man
who might look at them and get from them a good
opinion of Australia will most likely throw them
into the lumber-room along with the other out-of-
date litter.
Mr. Kuppers Loosen, a German scientist and an
authority of some tonnage on the Pacific races, re-
cently told S. M. Herald
The Chinese will wake up as the Japanese have done.
The uneducated Chinese are better educated than the
well-educated Japanese. They are an aggressive race,
restless ; a dangerous race—not quiet, agricultural people
like the Turks. There is the great question in the future
between the Mongolians and the West. The British and
Americans are not as good to rule the Eastern countries
as the Russians. The Russian conquers the Asiatics, and
then he settles down and amalgamates with them. He
is very near kin to them. But the British and the Ameri-
cans cannot amalgamate with the Eastern peopled, and
trouble is sure to come.
In Australia here you may be able to keep the Chinese
out if you people your land very quickly with agricul-
tural people. That will keep them out for certain.
Nothing else will. Naturally, it hurts them —Japan and
China —to be kept out of a big land like this. And they
will not be kept out. Anavy? We in Germany are build-
ing a great navy to protect one little thousandth of the
coastline you have here. And that navy has 60,000,000
people to back it up. Why, these people will come in,
in peace or war. There is only one way—to. fill'up the
land with whites before they fill it up with colored
people.
That is the great question coming. And, compared
with the Mongols, English and Germans and Americans
are practically the same. The English are only worse to
deal with Asiatics because they are richer. When the
Germans are richer they will be the same. If they are
wise they will stand together. Only they may not be
wise. f
+
Queensland has a railway or two that it ought to
be glad to hang about the necks of its enemies.
On the whole it would most likely pick out for
its worst enemy the line that wanders back from
Cooktown to nowhere. Last year for the miles,
which cost £352,338, it only got in £lBlB of
revenue altogether, and the thing cost £42115 to
keep going, without even thinking of Cohen’s
little bill of about £13,000. The next worst
enemy would probably get the line that dawdles
down from Normanton, which is more or less on
“the Gulf,” to Croydon, which is more or less
(but chiefly more) on its uppers. That streak of
decaying rails and sleepers is steadily going from
bad to worse, and doesn’t nowadays pay its coal
and wages bill. But there is another and
even more disastrous fragment that would carry
passengers to nowhere if they wanted to
go, which they don’t —the one that meanders into
the scrub at the back of Bowen. It had a posi-
tive rush of passengers last year —carried no less
than 1496 of them, which is something enormous
when you consider that in 1906 it plunged along
with 891, or an average of well over two a day—
say two and a baby in arms. This line, of course,
doesn’t pay its way either ; still if the traffic were
50 per cent, bigger and the expenses weren’t any
heavier, it very nearly would, provided, of course,
the old familiar Cohen omitted to call for his
little trifle of interest, a mere £6OOO or so in this
case.
A while ago when one Peter Rodger, the ex-
contractor for Melbourne’s central railway station,
was booted off the work and his contract cancelled,
he asked for compensation, though, according to a
provision in the contract, the Railway Commis-
sioners had full power to take over the job. Still he
asked for the compensation, and secured a trifle of
£11,700 in settlement. It appears that he asked a
person name Cro —yes, Croker, to see another
Johnny named Ben —half a moment—yes, Bent;
and the two looked into the matter. Of course, in
looking into the matter, they had their heads close
together, and then people wondered where they
had seen those two heads close together before.
Fit and Ready.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, be you clerk or farmer,
Or chip of any trade,
Rise up and don your armor
And sharpen up your blade,
And stand you strong and steady
And stern to guard your right,
For he that’s fit and ready
Is he that wins the fight.
’Tis meagre consolation
To know your cause is just,
Yet see your gallant nation
Lie groaning in the dust;
Poor comfort in your sorrow,
And joy exceeding small,
If foreign guns to-morrow
Should hold your land in thrall.
So, be you bloke or banker
Or any mother’s son,
Learn first to be a ranker,
And how to point a gun ;
It’s well to be a “ goffer,”
It’s well to boost a ball.
But he’s an idle scoffer
Who thinks it all in all.
So, be you boots or baker,
Or any father’s child,
A barman or a Quaker,
And white, however wild,
Just learn to mount a neddy
And keep your pistols bright,
For he that’s fit and ready
Is he that wins the fight!
VIC.
C. G. A. COLLES.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :
Previous] v acknowledged .. £l2B 11 11
E. J ’ 2 6
Thursday Island Waterside Workers’
Union .. .. .. .. .. 110
Federated Miners’Union, Gwalia, W. A. 17 2
Jas. Hanley .. .. .. .. 10 6
Rev. Dean Drayne .. .. .. 10 6
Wallace and Laurie 11 0
A. Beard .. .. .. .. .. 5 0
A. H. Farmer .. .. .. 2 6
J. T. Salmon .. .. .. ... 26
M. Salmon .. .. 10
£132 15 7
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Duchess of Dantzic ’’
Theatre Royal “The Sign of the Cross.”
Criterion “ The Gayest of the Gay.”
Palace / “ 5° bl " son Crusoe ” (mating).
T TT t“ The Woman Pays.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
J IVOLI Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Jack and Jill.”
Princess’s “ Charley’s Aunt.”
Theatre Royal “ Cinderella.”
Kinc, ’ s “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”
Buou “The Unwritten Law.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Wirtii’s Park The Riding Horse, etc.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
“The Woman Pays,” now rushing every
evening at Sydney Palace, proves to be the usual
Cockney production with the white-haired squire
who hates to have his door darkened, and who is
willing to do anything but honest work in order
to keep the estate unburst and the leaky ancestral
roof over his head. The sallow and much too
obvious villain is also present, as is also the lady
with the infant and no certificate. Honest tars
in sou’westers and sea boots pervade the stage at
intervals and roar hoarsely at each other like
seals suffering from heavy colds. (Roaring and
pulling of forelocks are the recognised hall-
marks of honesty in melodrama.) An impos-
sible Irishman and an incredible Jew pro-
vide the comic relief; the hero is the usual
poor but honest and stupid youth ; and the hero-
ine is the same limp, unoriginal maiden who has
wept and defied the villain through three acts for
untold years.
* * * *
That well-known horror of village life,
the Finger of Scorn, has a good deal to do
with making the Woman Pay. It is because she
has got tired of having the Finger pointed at her
that Nell Morland threatens to tell the world that
Roger Marchant is the father of her child. Roger,
as manager to the decayed and idle squire, is
naturally shocked. His main occupation as
manager seems to consist of walking about and
overhearing conversations. To obtain possession
of a letter he murders the decrepit village post-
man in the first act, by shaking his riding-crop at
the back of the ancient’s neck. The tragedy hap-
pens in full view of the alleged comic Irishman,
who has climbed a tree with a poached hare. The
Irishman, however, considerately keeps his mouth
closed, and the villain proceeds to ruin the heio
by hiring the inebriate father of his mistress to
cut the hero’s boat adrift. The hero, who by this
time has married the squire’s daughter under
stormy circumstances, and is living in a canvas
cottage directly opposite the village pub, is over-
come with grief, and has to be comforted in the
public street by his young wife. She suggests an
appeal to the man who has declared, he won’t have
his door darkened, but the proud, young husband
(in sea-boots and sou’-wester) says “No.” He
talks, instead, in a wild-eyed desperate way of
getting honest work, and tramps off in search of
it amid loud cheers from the audience. Mean while
the wife honorably borrows a sovereign from tlie
doctor wherewith to fly to the door-daylight-
saver for help; at which the villain, who is
imperfectly concealed behind the trellis porch
of the tied house, sneers loudly. The comic
servant girl soon afterwards conveniently drops the
explanatory note left by the departed wife, thus
enabling the villain to forge and substitute for it
an utterly unreasonable “Farewell for ever ! I’ve
gone with the doctor ” epistle. This is picked up
joyfully by the comic domestic help, who thinks
it is the original document. The work-seeking
hero, \vho has in the meantime signed on to help
search for the Pole, returns home with his ad-
vance money, and is handed the forged letter. A
few minutes afterwards he is dragged off to sea,
shouting that he will follow his wife and the
medico “to the ends of the earth” —which,
as well as being a vague address, is also
the wrong one. Follows a shipwreck scene,
in which there is a lot of roaring on the part
of the crew, and a tableau of the hero adrift on
the ocean with his arms round a long, rounded
piece of timber —presumably the Pole. The inter-
val that succeeds is supposed to be three years,
and then the curtain rises on the mortgaged
manor with the Jew demanding his money
through his nose. The lamentable squire, who
has taken his grass-widowed daughter back to his
useless bosom, is approached by his villainous
manager with an offer of financial help in return
for his daughter’s hand in matrimony. The help-
less landed gentry, after conferring together,
agree to the sacrifice, which is duly consummated,
but, on emerging from the village church,
the bridal party meets the Pole-finder face to
face, whilst the prostrate form of the uncertificated
lady—who has escaped from a hospital clad only
in her evening attire —bars their path. Act 4is
devoted mainly to retribution and the usual
matrimonial re-adj ustuients.
* * * *
Kenneth Hunter, as Sid Armstrong the
hero, and Jefferson Taite as the crudely vil-
lainous Marchant, are both fairly satisfactory.
Nellie Ferguson, as heroine Madge Armstrong,
acts winsomely; and Ethel Buckley, as Polly
Stokes, the maid, bustles merrily through
her part. The stencilled characters of melodrama
leave little room either for acting or criticism,
and it should be sufficient to say that everyone
does his or her duty—regardless of whether Eng-
land expects it or not.
* * *
The rack at Sydney Royal is in good work-
ing order. The lions are a-hunger for Christians
young and old. The property Cross has lost none
of its power to avert harm. Julius is well. In a
word, “The Sign of the Cross” is going very,
very strongly, and proposes to persevere on the
same lines for another fortnight at least.
* 4* *
“ The Gayest of the Gay,” the new Syd-
ney Criterion marrow-cooler, is an admixture of
gore and holiness. The gods love this class of
work, and it dies old accordingly. Miss Eugenie
Duggan sustains no less than three roles. As
Kate Latimer she is a pure and charming wife.
Under the alias of Belle Baseombe she is a grass
widow, and reprehensibly gay, but still good at
heart. As Susan Meredith, nurse, she is saintly.
She desists not, whether she speaks in the name
of Kate, Belle, or Susan, from scarifying the
naughty rich, and insisting on the negligeableness
of diamonds and “ fizz,” and the hollow vanity of
what foolish worldlings miscall “a life of
pleasure.” This loathing of cheerfulness pervades
the whole play. All .the characters, barring those
who are plainly of the criminal class, show them-
selves to be skilled pulpiteers. “The Gayest of
the Gay ” acts from end to end as though it had
been written by a demented Wesleyan deacon in
his own heart’s blood.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire—new
subjects constantly arriving'. Machines, parts,
and accessories stocked. Write us. Jerdan s
Ltd., 393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
/rf_. INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining: its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
A housewife in the Federated Malay States
sends her personal experience for the benefit of
B. Smith and the gentlemen who say that "under
Freetrade of course things must be cheaper ” :
I have always kept thorough account of expenses. In
Australia we lived on £l5O per annum ; but in the
Federated Malay States I could not manage to make ends
meet on £330, even with the greatest care. Although
this is a Freetrade country (the only dutiable articles
being spirits and opium), the only things which atv
cheaper here than in Australia are bananas, whisky and
tobacco. A few people try to live on the last two.
Then somebody has to pay for a funeral ; and funerals arc-
most expensive here.
The loss of the tug Advance with seven
out of its company of eight off Newcastle Heads
is one of the quickest things in marine disasters
this country has yet experienced. On Christnn s
night, about 10 o’clock, the big four-maste i
barque Iverna was signalled off the coal port, and,
as it sent up two rockets, the Advance was sent
out in haste to lend a helping tow rope. A fairly
heavy sea was running, and the big ship was
plunging along at about twelve knots. The tug
steamed up and attempted to cross the barque's
bows to the weather side. At the critical moment
something seems to have failed, for the next
moment a capsized tug was drifting astern of the
sailing ship, which forged ahead into the night
while shouting men threw over lifebuoys and got a
boat out. From the fact that the impact was
very slight, the first theory advanced would seem
to be correct—that the Iverna was lifted by a sea
right on to the tug’s quarter. The captain of
the lost boat was the only person seen by the
Iverna people after the smash. It was just a
glimpse of a man with a pipe clenched between
his teeth scrambling up the tilted bridge as his
vessel slowly turned over. Then the Advance ex-
ploded and sank.
In our advertising columns will be found a
description of the Dugandan Estate, which is to be sold
by auction at Boonah, Queensland, on Saturday, Bth
February, 1909. The estate is a particularly attractive
one bn account of its being situated in the heart of one of
the best agricultural and dairying districts of Southern
Queensland. There is a charming homestead with an
area of 550 acres, an improved dairy farm of 210 acres,
and 47 agricultural and grazing blocks from 13 acres to
552 acres. The estate possesses many attractions, such as
good railway facilities, being only 59 miles from Brisbane
and within a mile of Boonah township and railway
station- There is,an abundant and well-distributed rain-
fall of 37 inches, a large Co-operative Butter Factory, an
established township with two banks, school, hospital,
etc. The land contains a nice proportion of typical
lucerne flats, which will grow potatoes to perfection,
well-grassed ridges, some standing scrub and some
recently cleared scrub, which latter, together with many
of the flats, have been well planted with paspalum. A
particular feature in connection with the sale is the
liberal terms which are offered to buyers, which give the
poor man a chance with his more fortunate competitor,
namely, 20 years, with one tenth cash and interest at 5
percent. An illustrated plan of the estate will be for-
warded on application to the auctioneers, Isles, I.ove and
Co., Brisbane, Queensland, or to the local agent, Wilson
Anderson, 8S Pitt Street, Sydney.*
Kate is the devoted wife of Jack Latimer,
and he loves her passing well himself. But
he also loves drink and gaming. So he stuns
while “under the influence —a bookmaker c
“Rogue of the Turf,” and flees the country. And
Hubert Steele (an Arch Fiend) observes Ha .
Ha ! ” and escorts Mrs. Latimer to London, assur-
ing- her that she shall there assume the style of
“&ayest of the Gay.” Act 11. reveals Kate try-
ing to live up to her title in “ a Picciuhlly 1 lat
—and failing miserably. And indeed when the
writer gazed upon Kate’s fellow revellers, arid on
the furniture of her flat, and on its red and
blue wineglasses and so forth, he felt inclined
to climb across the footlights and wring her hand
in silent sympathy. It would require a myopic
subject in an advanced stage of exultatory mania to
be merry in such an environment. After a while,
Hubert calls at the Hotel de Luxe, Hyde lark
and chloroforms Susan —a virtuous nurse and
sister of Belle (formerly Kate) —so that she passes
over. Belle enters and observes the cadaver of her
relative. Straightway she buttonholes, as it were,
Heaven (a chronic habit with her), and announces
to it her intention of burying the infamously gay
personality of Belle in the tomb of Susan, and
being for the remainder of her life dreary like the
deceased. As the curtain falls she is seen to be
disrobing preparatory to changing clothes with
the dead pietist. Act 111. ojjjens with “The
Hospital Saturday Fete.” Belle has obtained a
collection-box on the false pretence that she is
Susan, and with it she moves about alms-seeking.
Hubert steps forward and essays to assassinate
her —more as a matter of habit, seemingly, than
as a lesson to Hospital Saturday enthusiasts in
general. A little later Jack Latimer returns
wearing the Judkinese garments that betoken
spiritual regeneration. Everybody immediately
starts going back on Hubert. When last seen the
police are hurrying Hube off, in a heavily
ILLEGALLY AT LARGE.
Moral Victorians want to have the curfew
established, so that all girls under 15 may be
rung off the streets and squares at 8 o’clock. The
probable result will be a quaint discovery that
the bright little Victorian girl is growing old
before her time.
manacled state, with the expressed intention of
trying him for his life on some 83 separate and un-
answerable indictments.
Miss Eugenie Duggan is equally convinc-
ing as Kate, as Belle, and as Susan. She strikes the
religious note repeatedly, and with all the
vigor of a Sal Army drum expert. At the
end of each bit of vice-flagellation the lime shines
greenly down on Eugenie’s upturned face, thereby
immensely enhancing the effect of her words.
Laurence Dunbar is an indisputable Arch-Fiend.
There is no infamy that he puts behind him. The
critic who carps at the Arch-Fiendishness of
Laurence is unworthy of his job. And so with
the rest of the cast. Sir F. Hardinge (J. 11.
Nunn) is both Noble and True. Percy Palgrave
(Temple Harrison) is palpably an Innocent
Abroad. Miss Bowman and Miss Linden are Gay
Night Birds, if ever there were such fowl; and
Barney O’Brien (G. Carey) is as Irish as Jake
Howland (P. Walshe) is roguish.
** * *
“Robinson Crusoe,” at Sydney Palace,
isn’t a grown-up pantomime, and therefore cannot
be criticised from a grown-up standpoint. It is
acted throughout by children for children. The
author of the book, however, seems to have over-
looked the fact that he was writing for youngsters,
as many of the allusions require an adult mind to
appreciate or understand them. The thread of
the story, too, is frequently mislaid amongst the
extra demons and fairies introduced, and, as the
indignant politician would say, “ the long speeches
of these people tend to obscure the main issue.”
Although the Palace management has done well
with its team of youngsters, it would have done
better by sailing closer to the story-book version
of the narrative. The dances and songs are the
most attractive things about the show from a
grown-up point of view. “ Crusoe ” will voyage
daily at the matinee until further notice.
* * *
The only Ada raised her glorious voice in
song at Sydney Town Hall on Christmas night,
and The Bulletin is glad to record that Sydney
seized the chance and flowed into the building till
the only unoccupied spots in the edifice were the
tilted roofs of the two pianos. The big, holiday
audience demanded encores with hands and feet
from all alike, and Ada herself, John Harrison,
Percy Grainger, Peon Sametini, and Jay Pyan
responded, until the printed programme repre-
sented just about half the evening’s melody.
“Oh ! Rest in the Lord” and “Maying ’ were
the great contralto’s best numbers ; whilst John
Harrison roused most enthusiasm with Stephen
Adams’ “Star of Bethlehem.” Leon Sametini
with his golden-toned violin, Percy Grainger, Jay
Ryan, and J. E. Sykes with the grand organ each
added a double share to the melodious feast. The
concert ended in a large-sized ovation for the
gracious star, who called for and led forward
J. E. Sykes aforesaid, in order that he might take
a share of the glory.
$ * 4ff *
At Sydney Glaciarium and the Lyceum
Messrs. West and Spencer are educating the
bucolic mind on the beauties of travel. Bill from
Mulga Flat and his missus find themselves sud-
denly whisked away to revel in the fading glories
of Venice, or the scenery of Ancona, and to watch
the native toilers of Rhodesia making a crust in
their native haunts. How the cinematograph
man succeeded in getting these people to pose is
a mvsterv which the moving film does not explain.
West’s show will shortly be brightened up by
scenes from French plays, in which the immortal
Bernhardt, the evergreen Rejane, and other
celestial beings have posed for the fiend who
takes pictures by turning a handle.
#* * *
Gouriet will continue to be thwarted at
Her Majesty’s (Sydney) until Friday next; then,
with the second evening of the New Year, “ The
Merry Widow ” will hire storage for her hats, and
“ The Duchess of Dantzic” will take her place.
The Duchess is mostly about a washing-bill; and
some preliminary advertising pictures represent
Florence Young alongside the tub. In addition
to the wash-tub there will be a great display of
Napoleonic costumes, Nap. being alleged to be
the gentleman who forgot to pay the washer-lady
—a fatal mistake, to which Wellington drew
attention in 1815. In fact, it was no doubt in deli-
cate allusion to the matter that Wellington chose
Waterloo as the scene.
Sydney Tivdi this week is rejoicing in the
dusky presence of Mr. Johnson, of the bass viol
and the Stadium smile. Had Mr. Burns been
a couple of stone heavier and half a foot
longer, the limelight and the salary might
have been his ; mainly owing to his
carelessness in only being 12 stone
instead of 14, and sft. Tin. instead
of 6ft., the glare and the cash are
Mr. Johnson’s. After Mr. John-
son, the programme includes
Amalia and Leonora, equili-
brists, and Cristofolo,
equilibrist and juggler.
Mackinnon’s Scottish
Meisters, J. W. Rickaby,
Goodfellow and Gregson,
the Sisters Reno, and
Charles Faning are
amongst those present.
Died last week from
the complaint that
kills everybody nowa-
days —heart failure—
John F. Sheridan,
comedian. His age was
an unknown quantity,
but when one remem-
bers how long he
Widow O’Briened in
our midst and in the
midst of other com-
munities his years were
at least a bagful. Con-
sidering how well-
known was John F.
Sheridan it is won-
derful how little can
be said about him.
Beyond the fact that
he played Widow
O’Brien he leaves very
little material for an obituary. The old Fun
on the Bristol” kept changing, till at last
it was very unlike what it had been at first,
but the Widow was always the same.
Sheridan played other things occasionally, but
seldom for long. He helped once in a gory melo-
drama, in which a man in a brown coat came up
through a trapdoor and seized a gigantic and
ferocious murderer from behind. He wrote and
staged a play called “ Nap,” but after a run of a
few nights he took it off, apologised for it per
advertisement, and resumed the Widow 0 Brien.
He struggled to enlarge and expand the widow by
writing, or getting other people to write, sequels
to her, but these new widows never really caught
on. So he went back to the old business and
Widow O’Briened more or less till the end.
During Christmas week the panto, at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne), which is the “Jack and
Jill ” of the foregoing jingle, was engaged in
spreading its reputation and reducing its splendid
bulk. The beautiful show now starts at 7.45 p.m.
and ends on the right side of 11. What was best
in the first performance has been polished bv
repetition, and what was only second best has
been dropped out. On Christmas Eve, by the
way, Bert Gilbert, the bold Baron of the piece,
dropped himself out on account of a sore throat,
but his understudy (Rupert Darrell) was so very
competent, and so very like the original, that the
audience mostly didn’t know the difference.
«* * *
At Melbourne Royal the performance of
“ Cinderella,” by the “Hook of Holland” co., is
generally regarded as being
less of a panto, than a
musical comedy. Never- Ji
theless, it has points
of distinct family
resemblance to
the more gay and
giddy show at
Her Majesty’s.
In both cases
there is a baron
who falls down
the chimney,
and rolls into
evidence in a
state of excite-
ment and soot.
The Baron at the
Royal accounts for
his downfall by pre-
viously climbing up
the flue to escape a
mustard poultice,
whereas the other
nobleman has no ex-
cuse to offer. Also
there is a xylophone
octet in each panto.
Moreover, “Cinder-
ella ” indulges in a
burst of undisguised
panto, at the end of the
first act, where Phil
Goatcher has put in
some fine work. The
MISS MEREDITH
MEREDRO, leading
man in “ Cinderella,”
at Melbourne Royal.
style of the scene is boldly ornate, and the
coloring exceedingly chaste, the effect being
a study in the refinement of showiness. The
one jarring note in the picture is Cinderella’s
simple white frock, which is out of character with
the surroundings and not very becoming to the
wearer.
s|£ ■s£
At Melbourne King’s on Christmas night,
J. and N. Tait favored a big attendance with some
flickered excerpts from “The Term of His Natural
Life.” The film is long, and good in spots, like
the record of a libertine ; but its extenuating cir-
cumstances are marred by some unconsciously
funny effects. For example, the burning of the
Hydaspes in one part of the record is represented
by a smoking toy, or else it was flicker-
graphed from a captive balloon. Again, the
melancholy perish of Rufus Dawes and Sylvia on
the sinking ship—the same carried out with
agonising gyrations by earnest impersonators—
was almost laughable, though it would have been
impious to laugh. But the most amusing thing in
an otherwise interesting show was when the rich,
resonant voice of Alf Boothman, who described
the incidents, split the dark with a remark, such
as “ A terrific struggle takes place !” —whereupon
a number of persons on the sheeting entered into a
life and death grapple with the fury of listless
undertakers waiting for their prey. “ The Term
of His Natural Life,” limited to a brief season of
one night at the King’s, was subsequently shifted
to the Athenaeum, where it now resides.
** * *
Frank Thornton, now at Melbourne
Princess’s instead of the Bijou, has reverted to the
black satin gown of “ Charley’s Aunt.” In the
capacity of the spurious female from Brazil he
will appear for the next week or two, after which
Melbourne will see him no more for the
present. Thornton has made a few artistic
modifications and introduced many exag-
gerations of the original Aunt without
altering the fact that the character is one of the
most legitimately preposterous creations in farcical
comedy. Judging from the roar of the crowd
last Saturday afternoon there is a lot of popularity
left in the old piece. The co. which more or less
supports the lady in black satin leaves something
to be desired, but the shortcomings are not obtru-
sive, and as regards Miss Trench, who takes the
part of the real aunt from Brazil, the performance
is a little brighter than it has been in previous
years.
** * *
“The Unwritten Law,” which was laid
down at Melbourne Bijou on Boxing Night,
merely arouses feelings of polite repugnance and
mute reproach. Its incidents have admittedly
been borrowed from the facts of the Thaw case,
and are served up with tripe trimmings and
ludicrous histrionics. There is, however, nothing
save the depression and gloom and tripe to which
objection can be taken. Certainly in the third act
the heroine figures as a spinster living in the mar-
ried state, but inasmuch as she had boarded with
other gentlemertmeforeboarding with Mr. Thawthe
impassioned simplicity of her situation had become
proper by force of precedent. W ith two exceptions
the acting is almost original in its crudity, the
exceptions being an orthodox dude and a Yankee
uncle. The appointments are humorous concep-
tions of gilded luxury. The apartments of mil-
lionaires Thaw and Stanford White are furnished
on a hash-house 'scale of splendor, while the
frivolous Lotties and Totties of White’s acquaint-
ance are about as voluptuous as Charley’s Aunt.
The drama is studded with freak characters. In
a metropolitan theatre this curious production
looks like the sort of thing that occurs only at
Christmas.
** * *
This being the season of peace and good-
will, the writer wishes to think kindly even of
“ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” As presented by Ander-
son at Melbourne King’s it has redeeming points.
In the first place, the production was a work of
unpoetic justice, for whereas on the same Boxing
Day the nigger walloped the white man all around
the Stadium stage at Sydney, the white man
walloped his black brethren from end to end of
the melodrama at Melbourne. In the second place,
the show pleads for merciful consideration on
account of its religious fervor. One feels tha
some of the principals, as well as the burnt
corked chorus, must have escaped from
Harry Rickards’. Under the influence of the
divine spirit they have forsaken their former
song-and-dance courses in order to chant
Hymns Ancient and Modern, and get into
touch with the Infinite, generally speaking. They
try their best to make the audience feel good, and
the writer, anyhow, was quite ready to die when
the curtain fell on the first night. Granting this
much virtue to the entertainment, one must
nevertheless admit that “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin ” is
not so much a melodrama as a revival meet-
ing interrupted by comic relief and the hor-
rors of slavery. Even the Andersonian public,
which is easily moved to laughter or melted
into tears, appeared to find “Uncle” some-
what uninteresting on Saturday. Also he was
a pious fraud that night. At the outset he was
Ernest Eitts, but when he ceased to sing and
started to pray he sounded very like Edwin
Campbell; and when little Eva took him up to
Heaven he was somebody else. Fanny Wiseman,
as Topsy, brightens the proceedings in spite of
her incidental song and dance. Edmund Duggan
cracks the whip of Simon Legree with fairly strong
effect, and Bert Bailey hoists the white brolly of
Lawyer Marks. Some of the scenic and choral
effects make amends for some of the acting ; and
the undeniable juvenility of Baby Watson gives
an air of distinction to the nipper’s crude per-
formance of Little Eva.
-* -* * *
At the Melbourne Glaciarium, where the
skating used to be, the Taits are going to establish
a cinematographic show under the style of Taits’
Pictures, the success of West’s Pictures at the
neighboring Olympia having paved the way for a
rival business. Melbourne’s appetite for pictures
seems to grow with what it feeds on, and the
screen at the Glaciarium will offer it further en-
couragement to grow. The opening flicker is to
happen on New Year’s Day.
* * *
The south-west side of Princes Bridge is
evidently to become the regular camp for the
moving films that lighten the darkness. T. J.
West is already deep-rooted at the Olympia with
an almost flickerless picture show, which on
Saturday fed an unappeased public with scenes in
Mexico and Petersburg, and with a curious
marvel entitled “Christmas, Nativity to 20th
Century.” Next door, or rather next allotment,
Wirth Bros, have attached pictures to their enter-
tainment, which already includes Scooting the
Scoot, etc., band music and expositions of horse
and wild animal education, the Riding Horse
being a quaint novelty.
** * *
At the Melbourne House of Rickards
Will Haines, the warbler of the plain and the
cullud, and Miss Amber Austa, the spirituelle
edifice of elo’, have left the premises and this
paper disconsolate. In addition, the youthful
Cristofolo and those two fine damsels. Amalia
and Leonora, have been included in the fit of
extraction. Thus some vacancies have occurred,
and Frank and Jen Latona, Geoffreys and
Benson, and Guest and Newlyn have endeavored
to fill the same. The Latonas are musical special-
ists—the lady particularly ; while the other people
betray a passion for the “comedy sketch.”
** * *
Adelaide Royal has re-opened its doors
with “Bluebell in Fairyland,” which is a some-
what-different pantomime. It is a dream-plav,
with a strong London flavor, and Pollard’s mqre-
or-less juvenile company does it full justice.
Minnie Topping is Bluebell. Adelaide is used to
waiting for its pantomimes till Melbourne and
Sydney have done with them, and is grateful for
having one at the proper time. The Tivoli also
re-opened—on Christmas Day—with what it calls
a Passion Play. The rest is picture-show. About
one new house starts in at the game per week.
But it is becoming noticeable that, whereas each
starts with 90 per cent, picture and a little song-
and-dance as relief, the variety element speedih
grows, till it is almost the predominant partner.
JACK AND JILL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now doth the Demon Bard of Pantomime
Call forth his eerie imps of doggerel rhyme.
And bid them caper whilst he flaps his wings
And chants of “ Jack and Jill,” and all the things
Pertaining to a certain Magic Well
In Happy Land, where Ballet darlings dwell,
Whose lissome limbs, enclosed in sheeny tights
Their color varying with changing lights—
Suggest to sinful man’s enraptured eyes
A vision of Mahomet’s Paradise.
In Happy Land and regions thereabout
The hills resound with kiddies’ joyful shout ;
White bears make merry ; princes sing in kilts,
And quaint intruders come and go on stilts ;
A Giant Rooster flaunts a wondrous tail.
And, like a feather hurried by the gale,
The form of Folly flits from scene to scene,
And roses bloom where Winter’s snows have been.
Just here the Demon Bard lays down his lyre
And drinks to Lasses Eight from Lancashire.
To find the Magic Well a mystic hill
Is climbed by Jack Gastelle and Dango Jill,
And Baron Gilbert, Widow Campbell, too,
(Who lived with thirty children in a shoe)
And half-a-dozen others, more or less.
They all attain the Height of Happiness ;
And though a baffled Gnome breathes curses bitter,
They reach the palace of Eternal Glitter,
An edifice designed by Fairy Gleam,
And founded on the fabric of a dream.
A cup of wine, and drain it to the dregs !
The toast is : Bright Absurdity and Legs.
This passing world has little else of worth —
Good girls make mischief, and good jokes make
mirth ;
And whether life go well with us or ill,
It’s mostly pantomime of “Jack and Jill.”
VIC.
E. F.


m
m
4
Delivered to You for 355.
r * — ~——————
THE illustration shows one of our present styles in Ready-to-
Wear Clothing. We want octr readers to understand that
this is entirely different from any Ready-mrvde Clothing
hitherto produced. The cut* style and finish of these goods
have all the appearance of Made-to-Order Clothing, such
features as the Long Roll Collar, the Shaped Waist and the
Long Front, with slightly rounded Corners, are in evidence in
these Suits as in the Made-to-Measure.
The materials are Summer-weight Tweeds, and may he had
in Light, Medium or Dark Grey, interspersed with many
different colored stripes.
PRICE IS 355.
Other Summer Tweeds of superior qualities from 40s. to 655.
These Suits are excellent for everyday wear for the Country,
and for where smartness of appearance is desired.
We send these Suits, Carriage Paid, throughout the Com-
monwealth.
David Jones Ltd., Sydney.
Memory means money. The Pelman Course of
Training is simple and interesting-. Half-an-hour daily
for six weeks completes it. Permanent benefits. The
natural system. Easily and quickly acquired. Taught
by post. Write Pelman School of Memory, 3 Stock
Exchange Buildings, Melbourne. [J
VIEWS
Spanish Beauties, Bull
Fights, Aragonese groups,
etc. State wishes clearly
and full satisfaction guaranteed. Write to
LIBRERIA NUEVA, 25 Rbla Centro,
Barcelona (Spain).
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
SNAKES!
Travelling Englishman (to Maorilander) .-
“ They tell me you have no snakes in your
country?”
MAORILANDER : “ That's true enough—since pro-
hibition.”
“Jean Sibi ” goes to a wedding :
Somebody bad got married down Little Bourke-street,
tne other Saturday afternoon, and the relatives and
friends were jubilating according to the solemn Mongolian
ritual. It seemed that the perpetually shuttered shops,
the dens and the “joints” in the hideous thoroughfare,
had vomited every bit of their frowsy, saffron life. Old
Johns, with repellent toothlessness ; young Johns, with
mouths gaping like bloodless wounds ; infantile Johns,
tiny, timorous, and deep cream-tinted ; Europeanised
Johns, disreputable Johns, and merely ugly Johns, all
gabbling and gesticulating, lined the narrow sidewalks.
Up the street near the theatre there was a procession or
something moving slowly and almost penitentially,
its flanks guarded by large, white-helmeted policemen,
its head preceded by a pair of police troopers. It
stopped. The crowd closed in, and down the breeze
came the faint whine of a Chinese litany. A Mongolian
orchestra was weakly sobbing through a dirge, and, as it
soared languidly up the stave in a succession of peevish
squeals, somebody gave thanks to the All-Highest Joss
with a beastly waste of cheap fireworks. There
was a sputter like the curses of an anguished
gnome, a rattle of minor bung-bungs, then all
was peace. And after that it came into sight.
First a sedate youth in carnival attire of pink and yellow.
Then the orchestra, in dismal slop clothes and nondescript
head-gear. A wrinkled ancient, in a fourth-hand Panama
hat, pushed a contraption not unlike an ice-cream barrow.
It was the resting place of a tom-tom, which the heathen
chastised. Next to him a bland fiend in dirty garments
shoved one cymbal against another. He was followed by
the boss ’cellist, a portentous noble in blue serge
and polo collar. By dint of stroking a piece
of string tied to a strip or so of deal he elicited
a sound like the plaintive sigh of an amorous
germ. Side by side with him waddled one who scraped
a more elaborate one-stringed fiddle and seduced millions
of squeaks in alt. His pal breathed ghoulish moans out
of a Chow clarionet. The lot passed on, to be suc-
ceeded by the inevitable dragon—a one-man dragon
this—and its jowl was rouged and its nose dipped in
purple. Young Yu Bet, assistant-laundrvman, off for the
day, had changed his togs for the giddy raiment of a Chow
gladiator. Poised on his decorated clogs, he fought the
dragon with a yard or two of pink muslin. He feinted
and lunged 94 times ; then, with a masterly wallop,
valorously bashed the cardboard animal in what
is politely called the “kisser.” He did it all the
way down the street with terrible sincerity—
to the joy of his countrymen and the mystification of the
inquisitive Europeans. Some commonplace drags, stacked
with mostly patriarchal Pagans, finished the procession.
It slowly pushed down the filthy defile of Lilly Buck-
stleet. They said it was a wedding jollification ; but it
seemed too gay, too thoughtlessly felicitous for anything
pertaining to a wedding. It struck me that a John might
have been celebrating his unexpected widowerhood.
* • * *
N.S.W. Land Appeal Court was busy
deciding an interesting appeal case just about the
moment that the Leg. Council was rushing
through the Suppression of Sweeps Bill before
Parliament knocked off for Christmas. About
Easter last year two blocks of land were put up
for sale by the Crown. The usual crowd rushed
in, and the Land Board had to fall back on the
usual ballot. Fifty marbles (of the sort prohibited
by law) were put into a box (also of the kind con-
demned by law). The Crown Lands agent then
proceeded (in a manner prohibited by law)
to draw the ballot, while the Land Board
watched the nefarious proceedings. OneMcPaul’s
marble came out first; but, following the
usual, custom, the C.L. agent went on with
the ballot to determine the priority of the 50
marbles. All went well, as the railway collision
reports say, until 17 marbles were drawn. Then
when he went to draw again, two marbles ran out
together, and he could not say which was 18 and
which 19. The Board was appealed to for advice,
and after consulting the law, it annulled the ballot
and made the C.L. agent draw the sweep again.
This time McPaul came 20th, and one White, who
was nowhere in the first drawing, won the prize.
McPaul appealed to the Land Appeal Court and
upset the second ballot. The Appeal Court in giving
its decision found that there were no legal prece-
dents to go on ; and the Court, not being aware of
what Tatt.’s would do in such a case, decided it on
its own common sense. And the verdict was that
it was dashed if it could see what No. 18 and No. 19
had to do with No. 1. In view, however, of these
doubts and disputes this paper suggests that a
special Tatt.’s officer should be present at all the
Crown land lotteries, for the purpose of giving
expert advice on these fine little bits of tote
practice.
* * * *
The Children Bill, now or recently
struggling through the British Parliament, con-
tains some most necessary and commendable inter-
ferences with the liberty of the subject. For
instance :
(1) Every baby farmer must notify to the authorities
the arrival of the farmed baby within 48 hours of such
arrival.
(2) Heavy penalties are provided for persons who insure
infants’ lives in their own favor.
(3) Neglect or abandonment of children or other forms
of cruelty to children may involve £lO9 fine or two years’
imprisonment. If a mother or nurse, while in a state of
intoxication, overlays a child in bed and causes its death
by suffocation, she comes under this clause. It also
applies to anyone who sends a child out begging.
(4) Any person who, being in charge of a child under
seven, leaves it in a room in company with an open fire or
an accessible supply of scalding water may be heavily
fined or imprisoned for a long stretch.
(5) The giving of alcohol to infants is made heavily
punishable. Considering the old English custom of
soothing the infant with gin, this is a revolutionary
proceeding.
And there are over 100 other clauses, among them
being stringent provisions against juvenile smok-
ing. They include these: —
It is the duty of a constable or park-keeper in uniform
to seize cigarettes or cigarette papers in the possession of
any person apparently under the age of 16 found smoking
in a street or public place.
The cigarettes or cigarette papers are to be forfeited.
A constable or park-keeper is not authorised to search
a girl who is found smoking.
The last clause seems to be one to which even the
most ardent reformer can’t object.
SQUARING UP HIS ACCOUNT.
“ According to my memorandum book I owe you a couple of sovs.”
“ No, old man, it's only one !”
“ You don’t say sol Then just let’s have another to make my book square, will you f ”
The Copper Age, the paper that was born
at Kadina during the last copper boom, lived just
long enough to say a few dying words to general-
manager Hancock, of the big Wallaroo and
Moonta copper mines (S.A.), on his return after
wandering round the earth. Justice Gordon had
just entered up an agreement in an Adelaide
Wages Board case, fixing 7s. per day as a minimum
or living wage; and the Copper Age, by way of a
death-bed request, begged Sunday-school super-
intendent Hancock to get his officers to prepare
him a true list of the men who are “making
less than one pound per week.” It probably is
true that there are quite a lot of them. For there
isn’t another community in all Australia just like
the one that surrounds Moonta and Wallaroo.
Practically the whole population is “Cousin
Jack,” and it is glued so tight to the spot, from
which a whole lot of it has never shifted, that
even when it is only paid 3s. 6d. a day it doesn’t
think of moving off—it just goes to “chapel,”
and prays a bit louder, and trusts to “Cap’n”
Hancock and Providence to do something to put
up the price of copper soon.
* * * *
“Stony”; Just beyond the orcharded
slopes of the South Yarra river-dwellers and on
the townward side of the river, where the city of
Richmond stretches out a closely-packed area of
small houses inhabited by a sardined swarm of
toilers and their frequent children, there lies —-
what? Perhaps a broad, clover-scented grass
area, upon which the gasping poor may take their
ease in the warm weather ? Ora perfume factory ?
Mayhap a splendid flower-farm? Ah, no—not
so ! Humming there in the warm summer
breeze, a mere stone’s throw below the
river-viewing windows of luxurious lower
Toorak, and cheek-by-jowl with the dread-
ful houses of the poor across the Yarra,
there is a place where very dead wool is
given the open-air treatment in large,
unsavory quantities and the smell
thereof is as the smell of the morals of
ancient Babylon in the days before
Judkins. One of these days a Richmond
councillor will find an aged sheep’s ear
in his glass of milk, or observe a typhoid-
germ making off with his youngest off-
spring, and then there will be a lot of
wild, angry talk at Richmond. And all
the while the wool will be gambolling
there in the beautiful sunshine, hard by
the cramped and awful houses of the very poor.
* * * *
From the Old Soldier :
They have been changing the titles of officers of the
Australian Headquarters staff ; so Colonel Legge, military
secretary, becomes Quartermaster-General. The S. M.
Heram> kindly remarks that the position of military secre-
tary was created “when the compulsory service schemewas
brought forward,” and Colonel Legge “ was understood
to be responsible for the policy adopted by the Deakin
Government.” It is apparently implied that the universal
service idea is dead, which it isn’t, as the next session of
the Federal Parliament will show. The exchange of
titles is really not of the least consequence, because there
has been no change of duties.
In the British army the military secretary to a Com-
mander-in-Chief is a staff officer who sifts and arranges
the reports that come before him, examines applications
for promotion, appointments, leave, etc., and generally
straightens things out. On the other hand, the duty of
the Quartermaster-General is to look after the “ quarter-
ing and supply of the army,” to arrange its marches, and
see that it has proper, healthy camping places, and take
care that it has sufficient means of transport on the
march. The other department, that of the Adjutant-
General, which deals with drill, discipline and organisa-
tion, is quite another sort of thing—as important, but
needing quite a different set of talents. Men require a
special training in the practical work of each department,
and in each branch. The British army has tried for the
last 10 years to make the officers of the staff departments
interchangeable, and it came heavily to grief over it in
S’Africa. It was misled by finding that there is no titular
distinction between different departments of the German
staff, but. it would have found if it had looked closer that,
though they don’t worry about different titles, the Ger-
mans are careful to train the officers of their staff, and
only employ them in work for which their natural
capacity or their special experience fits them.
The Tottie lady who is always robbing
somebody, or being robbed by someone, is becom-
ing distressingly frequent in Melbourne. Tottie
has two working methods: (1) She approaches
her prey (who in a recent case was a Seotchby-
terian clergyman), kisses, hugs, or pulls him
about, and, after a space, departs with his valu-
ables. (2) She approaches (as before), kisses,
hugs, or pulls about her victim (as previously),
and, after a space, accuses him of having stolen a
£5, £lO, or £2O note from her. If the prey has any
sense he compromises for half the amount, and pro-
ceeds upon his blasphemous way; if not he goes
before the Court, and there is the very deuce of a
row, in which he (being a more or less respectable
citizen) is injured far more than is Tottie, who
has no character worth mentioning to lose. Tottie
is right enough as long as she confines herself to her
more or less legitimate sphere of operations, but
when she behaves as she has been doing recently,
it is tune that she was extinguished, eradicated,
obliterated, and, moreover, exterminated; like-
wise erased, and made to feel dashed sorry.
SEEKING MATERIAL FOR THE SERMON.
“ Oh, let us hasten away from this shocking
spectacle .”
"No, my brother , we must be brave—we must
stay and see the worst.”
Melbourne has just received a preliminary
reminder that it is leaning right up against in-
cineration. The reminder came from Footscray,
where the ropeworks of Kinnear and Sons went
up in smoke and flame, and came down in ashes
and twisted machinery to the tune of £12,000.
No one was able to prevent the conflagration,
because there was hardly enough water to ex-
tinguish a lucifer. When a tiny blaze brought
itself into notice amongst some hempen refuse in
the engine-room of the works, the water was
frenziedly exhorted to spout from the nozzle of a
private hose; but there wasn’t a spout in it. It
trickled out like a funereal worm, and was abso-
lutely useless ; so the former tiny blaze grew
gigantic, and dined upon roof, supports and
machinery. Twenty valuable minutes passed
while powerful steamers were being sent down
from distant stations; by the time they shot
upon the scene, the fire had finished the banquet.
But for a change of wind, it might have included
eight or 10 weatherboard dwellings in its dessert.
THE GREATEST DISINFECTANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A recent cable states that a well-known London doctor
quotes vital.statistics showing a marked falling off in the
death rate in cities since the advent of the motor car.
He adds that the fumes from the cars form “ the finest
disinfectant in the world.”
The motoring' form of insanity,
In the heart of one-half of humanity,
Has kindled a fire of unquenchable ire,
Expressed in a power of profanity.
They picture an imp of iniquity,
Endowed with a fiendish übiquity,
Whose devious way, as he rushes to slay,
Is proof of his moral obliquity.
The}’ tell of the mad animosity
Inspiring the frantic ferocity
With which he will chase you all over the place,
With awful, unlawful velocity.
Then the stench he emits unremittingly
They only can designate fittingly
As a breath from the pit that Old Nick might emit
If he left off the cover unwittingly.
Full proof of his malice prepensitj’
Is found in this odor’s intensity ;
The law should compel him to swallow that smell
Or greatly diminish its density.
But now,.it appears, our asperity
We shall have to revise with celerity,
For a medical man has forbidden the ban
On the car with a show of severity.
By figures he proves beyond cavilling
That this up-to-date method of travelling,
Instead of a curse, is quite the reverse—
A notion that needs some unravelling.
He quotes the returns of mortality
In London’s great municipality,
Which are lower by far since the birth of the car—
The deduction’s an idle formality.
He says the whole urban community
May live in the streets with impunity,
For, from measles and mumps, and jim-jams and jumps,
The car has secured their immunity.
For its fumes give the greatest security
Against .every kind of impurity,
■So that never a germ can live through the term
Of its natural life to maturity.
And should a bacillus pestiferous
Encounter its breath odoriferous,
il t just gives one kick and drops dead as a stick—
The statement may be a bit stiff for us.
But, if science has settled, conclusively,
That the motor-car’s, almost obtrusively,
The blessing that’s worth every other on earth,
Then it must not be mentioned abusively.
N.S.W.
WAIF.


PATENTS AND TRADE MARKS.
Griffith and Allen,
International Patent Attorneys,
163 King Street, Sydney; 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Corresponding Agents throughout the World.
THE PREPARATION
Best fitted to relieve and absolutely cure indigestion is
Dr. Sheldon s Digestive Tabules. They contain every
known digestant and digest every kind of food. Good
results are always certain. For sale everywhere, price
2s. 6d. per tin.* r
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where-
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,.
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from.
George or King Streets).*
WIDE,
MEDIUM,
or NARROW
TOES.
I
16(6
A PAIR.
9d. extra for
Postage.
A SMART BOOT AT
A MODERATE PRICE.
Here’s a smart Boot that will make you en-
thusiastic about its big’ value and good style.
It is essentially the Boot for the careful spender.
It is made of Box Calf, with Welted Soles that
will stand repairing three or four times, and
the shape is one that you will like, being made
on foot-conforming lasts. 16/6 spent on this
boot will mean the biggest value you probably
ever received in footwear.
IN BLACK OR TAN.
Write requesting a copy of our New
Illustrated Catalogue.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
From The Bulletin’s Second-Oldest
Inhabitant: —
Snakes have been found again on the Vaucluse Estate,
the Sydney Harbor-side property now being cut up for
closer settlement. So the spell is broken ! For genera-
tions Baronet Hayes’ Irish turf kept the reptiles at bay—
or boys from the ould sod said it did. The queerest sight
seen in Australia since its founding was that of 75 Irish-
men, with shovels, picks and spades made in Ireland,
planting hundreds of barrels of Irish turf in trenches
around the house at Vaucluse, the Governor and a
large number of spectators having arrived in Government
barges to witness the undertaking. Sir Henry was
in great heart. He was a man of good voice, presence
and vivacity, and he marched up and down by the
workers singing Irish ballads and reciting the snake-
chasing achievements of St. Patrick. The day was
March 17, and the Governor and principals of the
company dined that evening with Sir Henry in a
tent set up on the grounds, the convict baronet’s sing-
ing and dancing receiving commendation all round.
It is, of course, known that Hayes was sentenced to be
executed for the abduction of Miss Pike, a wealthy
Quakeress of his own city of Cork, the sentence being
commuted to “life ”at Botany Bay. London Times some
time ago reproduced an old paragraph to the effect that,
when on board the hulk, Hayes wrote the following
characteristic epistle to his inamorata : “ Other lovers
feel momentary raptures for their mistresses, but show
me one, besides my own self, that is transported for life !”
AT LONESOMEHURST.
SHE (The end of the third week by the sea):
“ What does ‘ honeymoon ’ really mean?”
HE: “Thirty days’ solitary confinement!”
The landholders up Richmond River way
(N.S. W.) are up against trouble. When the State
gave away the rich flats on the northern rivers, it
also gave away the river frontages ; and the pre-
sent landholders are very jealous of all their rights
and privileges in connection with those frontages.
Now the dreaded water hyacinth is steadily
spreading along the upper reaches of the Rich-
mond River, and already threatens to stop the
navigation of some of the hitherto navigable arms.
The local shire councils, in alarm, are attempting
to grapple with the problem. One section
wishes to tackle the job by proclaiming the
hyacinth a “noxious plant,” the effect of which
would be to make all landholders assist
by ridding their water frontages of the
pest within a certain limit of the river bank. This
section is a small and uninfluential one. The big
majority desires the destruction of the hyacinth
to be proclaimed a national work, with the idea
of making the State wholly liable for the eradica-
tion of the weed. The iandlords say that the
hyacinth isn’t theirs, and the State can have it;
in fact, they call upon the State urgently to re-
move it. Just what they would do if the hyacinth
plants were a flock of pearl oysters hasn’t tran-
spired. They might call upon the State to in-
stantly remove the things from their premises.
And again they mightn’t.
A BACK-VIEW ITEM.
“I met Miss Topnotcher when I was up the
mountains.”
“How did she look?”
The other way! ”
“Eegeebee”: Be “Akenehi’s” recent
statement that “two years ago the
Maoriland Government decreed that
those in charge of its Tourist Bureaux
should learn Esperanto,” there is no
doubt that the vogue of this jerry-built
tongue is spreading. A man of ordinary
intelligence can learn it in a month.
The grammar may be acquired in a few
hours, and the rest is little more than
committing to memory the 2000 root
words (most of them are familiar to those
who know English), and the barest rudi-
ments of French and school Latin.
The chief worry of the international
language enthusiast lies in the fact that
no two classes speak with precisely the
same accent. For instance, the Dudleys’
imported factotums and Dyson’s “Fact’ry
’ Ands ” would, conversationally speaking,
find themselves hopelessly at issue. And
then there is the national accent distinc-
tion to be considered as well. The
Geneva Conference, at which 22 nations
were represented, and which listened to
plays, lectures, and recitals in Esperanto,
met this by ruling that the accent of
every word should always lie on the
penultimate syllable, and that the pro-
nunciation of every letter should be fixed
and unalterable. '■ (Later the Cambridge
Conference, where 29 nations figured,
confirmed this.) That it has caught the
local fancy is evident from the fact that
Australia publishes five or six Esperanto
newspaperettes, while the Post Office
records the weekly exchange of thousands
of letters and post-cards written in
Esperanto.
“ Centre ” (and about 43 more to the
same effect): Don’t suppose you want a dis-
cussion on Masonry, but “Henri Singemoine ”
(B. 17/12/’08) is uttering vain things. (1) He says
he was “implored ”to join. A lie on the face of
it, as every Mason will know. [A Bulletin man
here interposes to say it isn’t necessarily a lie.
He was also once urged to join. A. mis-
guided friend did it.] (2) A home-thrust, cer-
tainly, is his reference to the initiation cere-
mony as “ asininity.” But all ritual is asininity
if you don’t understand the spirit of it. “ Henri
S.” is still, on his own showing, in a state of dark-
ness in that respect. (3) As to indigent Masons :
I am a pretty well-known Mason in my own
village, but I’ve never yet been “ touched ’’ for as
much as a tray-bit. The Mason who “trades on
it ”is soon shown the error of his ways. (4) The
£l2 125., if it included entrance fees, might be
possible in a very aristocratic lodge. My dues are
ss. per quarter. The cold truth is just this:
Masonry in spirit is a noble system of morality ;
in practice, it is an excuse for much good-fellow-
ship and conviviality, and is not taken very seri-
ously by the majority of the “craft.” There are
a few enthusiasts who waste time in futile ritual
and money in useless ornaments; a few wasters,
not members of any lodge, who trade on their
knowledge of the secrets ; and a great many, like
this writer, who enjoy the friendliness and
mutual trust of a lodge meeting, but who are
rather bored by the ritual. The benefits are much
exaggerated ; still there are some. But if you
join for what you expect to get out of it, you will
be disappointed.
The uncontradicted story that
Melba’s daughter-in-law told
to the Divorce Court in Lon-
don is as humorous as most
uncontradicted stories of the
kind. Such “awful” revela-
tions ! In April, 1907, while
they were staying in a hotel at
Brighton, he twisted her arms and
shook her violently (cause of ruction
not mentioned), and shortly after-
wards he dragged her over the shingle
at Worthing and pushed her into the sea.
But she was in no danger, as “the
water was shallow.” (The depth of
water on the shingle at Worthing would
be about one inch when the tide rippled
in, and nothing at all when it rippled
out.) “I was very much upset,” she
stated, “and returned to the hotel. I
went to my room and locked myself in.
My husband came up and tried to force
the door, saying that he would raise the
hotel if I did not let him in.
(“Blanky,” breathed through a bedroom
keyhole by the locked-out husband,
amounted to a further act of cruelty.)
Further acts of cruelty were perpe-
trated when they were returning
to England in the Orontes in
March last (when, by the way,
Mrs. Armstrong appeared to enjoy
herself considerably, according to
the report of Australians who travelled
with her). On her arrival in London the
lady went to stay with her parents for
a little while before rejoining her hus-
band. Then, noticing that he looked
ill and terribly upset (it was now his
turn to be upset), she questioned him,
and he confessed that he had been un-
faithful to her . . . and begged her not
to divorce him. But she replied that she
must think the matter over. After think-
ing it over with a solicitor, she wrote to her
husband: “We were never really made for
one another, and I am afraid that I cannot have
made you very happy, and you cannot have loved
me as you should.” The Divorce Court, in the
absence of evidence to the contrary, rightly con-
cluded that Armstrong didn’t love his wife enough
when he shook her, and that she wasn’t making
him very happy when he spoke bad language into
the keyhole; and as he had otherwise shown
reasons for a decree nisi, the Court granted it
with Costs.
* * * *
Probably the worst accident, that ever
happened to the heart of Australia has been
spreading desolation over Oodnadatta. Oodna is
the place at which the Transcontinental
line at present pulls up, or, rather, stops :
for after passing Hergott it doesn’t run
with enough energy to need pulling up.
Except by wire, Oodna only hears from
the outer world when the train comes in
once a fortnight, and sometimes it is only
once a month. Still Oodna decided to
have a good time around about Christmas,
and a good time for 200 miles east and
west and north of Oodna means a wet
time, with hops in the moisture. To
fill in the leisure between drinks it had
arranged for two days’ racing—with the
races not too long; five-furlong sprints for
choice. For three months Oodna and the
country north, east and west had been
saving up its thirst ; and then the last
train before Christinas crawled in. That
was when the frightful accident was dis-
covered. “Some tons” of beer had been
ordered—it is the local correspondent of
the* virtuous Adelaide Advertiser who is
responsible for this description of the
quantity—and there wasn’t a drain of it
on board. “As the temperature has not
been below 90 degrees for several days, the
publican goes in fear of his life,” says the
correspondent. When the awful disaster
became whispered, there was a rush to the
two local stores which stock bottled stuff,
and in two days they were cleaned out—
and still seven days to go to Christmas,
with two awful days of racing to drag
through somehow !
“L. Bier” : Some curious history is written
in the scattered bricks of the old, dismal, haunted-
looking building which used to stand at the corner
of-Hunter and Elizabeth streets, Sydney. It was
originally the residence of early officialdom, but
it became at an early period suites of offices, and
it was there that Daniel Henry Denieby served
articles to an eminent firm of solicitors of the
time. Presently the house-curse began to work.
One of the solicitors lost his reason, and his final
address was the asylum. The mantle of his
derangement fell upon the firm’s successor, who,
in a storm of ill-blowing financial ventures, also
found haven in the home of padded rooms, and
died there. In proper sequence, one of his
articled clerks cut his throat, and another, got
permanent straws in his hair (evidently the germ
of lunacy was in the building). Two more became
Gentlemen One, and were, in the fulness of time,
“struck off.” So was another legal man who <
struggled to build up an honorable practice in the
ill-starred office, and failed dismally. In later
years a double murder, or murder-suicide,
occurred in the same block, on the Castlereagh-
street side, but otherwise there has been compara-
tive peaee in Daniel Deniehy’s old haunt fora
while back.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant writes :
Some notable houses and adjoining lands belonging to
old Sydney families are now advertised for sale in bits.
One is Goderich, for 40 years the home of the late Capfnn
and Mrs. Smith (of Smith’s wharf). It was bui'i by
Sheriff McQuoid in 1838. He suicided there,, and bishop
Broughton, first Bishop of Sydney, occnpied.it after-
wards. Then one of the Kent Brewery Tooths had it.
Originally the grounds looked over VVoolloomooloo and
down what is now William-street. Within a few yards
was Brougham Lodge, the home of Chief Justice Dowling.
The Dowling house was levelled some years ago and the
grounds cut up and sold. Victoria-street runs over the site.
In the cutting-up process streets were named after promi-
nent legal men—Brougham, Forbes, Dowling, etc. The
next estate to be offered is Greenknowe, in Macleay-street.
Fifty-five years ago Mr. S. K. Salting, of Flower, Salting
and Co., lived there. Next door to him was John Henry
Challis, of the same firm, whose house was called Merino
Lodge. Mr. Challis was the munificent benefactor of
Sydney University. On the other side of Mr. Salting, in
LarbestLodge, lived Campbell Drummond Riddell, State
Treasurer. His house was afterwards occupied by Cap-
tain John Lamb, one of whose daughters married T. S.
Mort and another H. C. Dangar, In the same street
lived David Jones. His house, Barncleuth, was sold to
Henry Moore, M.L.C. Likewise Charles Nicholson lived
lower down at Tarmons (now St. Vincent’s'Convent),
and William Long hung out at Insculum. At Green-
knowe in later times lived A. H. M'Culloch, an old-time
solicitor, not long dead. F. H. Dangar lived in it, so did
Archbishop Smith, and other notabilities. Buck-
hurst, at Double Bay, was occupied half a cen-
tury ago by Frederick Tooth, of the brewery, and since
then by various tenants, long and short lived.
Bomerah House, Potts Point, was not built, as commonly
supposed, by Mr. Wm. McQuade, husband of Cicely
Durrant, who came to Sydney first with Emily Soldene in
1877, and who, with Rose Stella, left the Soldene com-
pany at Melbourne and returned to Sydney. Bomerah
was built by Wm. McQuade, his father, who owned a good
deal of Sydney property. In 1868 the Point was a beauti-
ful spot, and Mr. McQuade offered it as a temporary resi-
dence for the Duke of Edinburgh. The McQuade money
was made in Windsor, where the original Michael McQuade
was a storekeeper. He also had a business and property
in Pitt-street.
* * * *
The Last Man has met the fate which he
has dodged so long. Everybody knows the Last
Man. He grabs the last bit of railing at the tail
end of the last carriage as the train is getting
clear of the last plank of the platform, and he flies
out behind like a flag while the conveyance scoots.
He runs amid a cloud of dust behind the vanished
’bus, and he leaps 27ft. and just grabs the tail
end of the departing steamer. But at a Sydney
suburb the other day the Last Man jumped short,
and feel into deep water, and there was an end
of him. A most depressing feature of the case
was that there were no papers about him to re-
veal his identity. A person who, for centuries
past, has just caught almost every vehicle on
earth ought to be identified, but apparently in
this case the inscription will have simply to be,
“ Here lies the Last Man.”
WHEN MELBA DOES HER COUNTRY
TOUR.
CHAIRMAN: “ Ladies an’ gents — eh—Miss Melba
will now sing us, by speshul request, tU well-
known song called—eh!— eh!” —(sotto voce:
“ Wot ’n blazes d’ yer call it?”) —“ eh. !”—
(suddenly inspired) “Oh, yes—'Wot-of
'Ere's a Manky lark ’!”
“ Snell,” from Melbourne :
I saw a strong man subjected to a strange seizure at
one of the Flinders-street railway approaches the other
day, and shan’t forget it soon. He was just in front of
me, making for the gate, when he stopped short, clapped
his hand to his breast, and reeled against the building,
breathing heavily. For a moment he remained in this
attitude, pale as death, struggling, it would seem, for :
breath. A policeman approached with some concern,
and 10 people formed a semi-circle about the afflicted
citizen. The perspiring victim made a splendid effort,
and slowly searched his pockets—seeking some'antidote, ‘
I imagined. Success crowned his efforts. He straightened
up, his brow cleared, the light of happiness came back'to
his face. He had not lost his ticket after all. That,
citizen is said to be worth £7OOO a year. The ticket was;
a second-class single to Richmond.
THE DOMESTIC ANARCHIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Nelson (M.L.) a young girl engaged as a domestic
servant has just confessed to an attempt to set fire to her
employer’s house. She gave as a reason her desire to
escape from doing the washing on the following day.—
Press item.
The wild, bewhiskered anarchist by throne and council
lurks,
His clothes are filled with dynamite and such-like evil
works.
The emperor, in w r ild alarm, can readily believe
His gentleman in lace and frills has daggers up his sleeve ;
But oh, how could you, Mary Ann—soft eyes and lips
unkist—
Right on your own, and all alone, become an anarchist ?
With secret match and direful flame you fired the wash-
house wall ;
You smeared the dreadful kerosene o’er, maybe, tubs
and all ;
What time your mistress dreamed in bed, you took your
wicked way
To desecrate with impious hand the shrine of washing-
day !
O Mary Ann, O Mary Ann, you bold, bad, wicked maid,
The town to shock at twelve o’clock and bring the fire
brigade !
O Mary Ann, O Mary Ann, where will such doings end?
I’m sure it’s down the primrose way your pretty Trilbies
trend !
Did you not learn at Sunday-school where awful sinners
ito,
And how they long for washing-day who frizzle down
below?
And oh, how could you, Mary Ann, so very naughty be
With ruthless hand and burning brand to strike at
property ?
Now listen, listen, Mary Ann, and learn the lesson well,
When wicked people come to die they send them straight
to Hell,
It isn’t counted wickedness to hurt or starve a man,
A woman’s life’s of small account since slavery began ;
But property’s a sacred thing, and they’ve a bitter cup,
As black as ink, which they must drink, who try to burn
it up.
MAORILAND.
D.M.W.
DELIRIUM TRIMMINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Last night I fell upon a large, hard box,
And as I oped it all my senses reeled ;
For I beheld a wide and sunlit field,
With crops that waved in rhythm orthodox.
And ’mid the same were myriad grey flocks,
And fruit of many prosperous seasons’ yield ;
In short, some Pagan altar this—l kneeled—
For here was all except the Roasted Ox.
But whj' had my unwilling blood been spilt?
What freakish fiend had fashioned this device?
And why had this strange offering been built
Before my door ?—as though in sacrifice
To some insatiate god beneath the mat !. . .
Shadow of Inspiration ! It’s—Her Hat!
VIC.
BAMBOO.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT « *5, ZSfTte
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND,
SYDNEY : Post Office Chambers.
MELBOURNE : Queen’s Bridge Street.
BALLARAT: Lydiard Street.
BENDICO: Pall Mall.
BUYERS AND SELLERS of all Classes of New and Second-hand Mining Plants in any Quantity.
IN STOCK — Winding Engines, Air Compressors, Mining Winches, Stamper Batteries, Steam Pumps for all
Mining purposes, Miles of Piping all sizes.
Sole Agents for “ Camel ” Brand and “ Camel Hair ” Beltings, made only by F. Reddaway & Co., Ltd.,
Manchester; Ransomes, Sims and Jefferies Ltd.’s Portable Traction and Stationary Engines.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The State Bank op South Australia, estab-
lished in 1896:
Premiums
Business on Bonds Total Re-
March, Profits. Sold. Profits. serves.
1898 .. £707 £1477 £2184 £2,870
1899 .. 1184 711 1895 4,765
T9OO .. 1196 75 1271 6,036
1001 .. 1724 1724 7,760
1902 .. 2011 2011 9,771
1903 .. 2731 2731 12,502
: 1904 .. 3051 3051 15,553
1905 .. 3116 3116 18,669
1906 .. 3315 3315 21,984
1907 .. 3598 3598 25,582
1908 .. 3798 3798 29,380
This State Bank, which is managed by an Inspector-
General and Trustees, was projected for the main purpose
of helping the farmer ; but it has power also to help
the city person who wants to make a home of his
own ; also it can finance municipalities. It finances itself
chiefly by means of mortgage bonds ; and as the borrowers
repay the bank, the bank has to repay the bondholders.
Therefore when a new lot of borrowers come in the bank
has to issue a new lot of bonds. The idea appears to be
that the original lender was entitled to know the class of
business the State Bank was putting his money into, and
that when that lot of borrowers repaid the money the
lender was entitled to review the situation, in case by that
time the State Bank might be financing gentlemen who
own uncles in Fiji and such like. It was all done with
the best of intentions, but it is a cumbersome process,
and 12 years’ experience has proved that it
is quite unnecessary. Temporary financial help is
got from the Treasury. On the average the Bank
pays from £3 10s. to £3 13s. p.c. for its money ; and it
lets its funds out at a flat rate of 4£ per cent. The term
in which the money has to be repaid varies, however. As
a maximum, 42 years has been fixed upon : by paying
£5 6s. 6d. per cent, for 42 years, representing principal
and interest, a S. Australian can get quit of his debt —
which is a mighty change from the time when he paid 7
per cent, for 42 years and then died leaving the debt as
good as new.
Still, in spite of the good terms offered, the
amount of advances outstanding is by no means large.
For one thing, the Savings Bank does a good deal of the
same sort of work ; for another, the private lendlord has
cut off several per cent, in order to get an outlet for
his money ; fora third, S. Australia has had several very
prosperous years, and the by-no-means numerous new
settlers have managed to get a start without remaining
long in debt. This list shows the total advances, and
some other things :
Advances Working Expenses p.c. of
Outstanding. Expenses. Mortgages.
March, •* - s. d. '
1898 .. £360,802 £2610 19 4 percent.
1899 .. ,420,297 3516 16 9
1900 .. 454,552 3701 16 4
1901 .. 507,40 S 3773 14 10
1902 .. 536,906 3985 14 10
1903 .. 561,746 3955 14 1
1904 .. 602,642 4120 13 8
1905 .. 582,215 3968 13 7
1906 .. 602,366 4105 13 7
1907 .. 613,731 4205 13 8
1908 .. 631,414 4242 13 5 ~
The expenses are comparatively high ; if the advances
were three times as great, the cost might come down to
7s. 6d. per cent. The first step necessary to bring about
that result is the amalgamation of this bank and the
Savings Bank. The result of that ought to be
the gradual reduction of the interest payable by
borrowers from 4J to 4£ per cent. In Maoriland, with
advances totalling £4,180,000, the State Bank works at a
cost of 6s. Id. per cent, of mortgages. Still, considering
the size of its business, the S. Australian Bank’s expenses
compare well with those of the Victorian Advances to
Settlers’ Department of the Savings Bank ; for the past
year the latter’s costs amounted to 12s. lOd. per cent.,
and the advances were £1,225,431, or very nearly twice
the S. Australian total.
As previously explained, old bonds are being
constantly paid off and new ones issued. The business
in that direction is shown hereunder :
New Old Bonds Increase of Total
Bonds Repur- Bonds Out- Out-
Sold. chased. standing. standing.
1901 .. £87,700 £37,700 £50,000 £504,200
1902 .. 86,550 61,600 24,950 529,150
1903 .. 68,290 54,440 13,850 543,000
1904 .. 100,490 55,510 44,980 587,980
1905 .. 35,340 54,570 568,750
1906 .. 76,690 64,110 12,580 581,330
1907 .. 96,890 85,620 11,270 592,600
1908 .. 104,510 106,030 591,080
The total amount of advances is £631,414 ; the bonds
issued represent £591,080, leaving £40,334 to be supplied
partly by a Treasury advance (£19,042), and partly by the
bank's own reserves. The balance of the reserves is re-
presented by the bank’s premises.
• * * *
The State in Queensland advanced the necessary
money to build and equip 13 “central” sugar mills. A
number of them drifted into arrears, and were allowed to
drift; but in the days when he was anew broom, and swept
clean, Premier Kidston decided that they must place
themselves on a proper footing. Seven of them had done
from fair to well; six of them had done very badly. The
seven were allowed to go their own way, paying up in-
terest and instalments of principal; the other six passed
into the very capable hands of a Controller, sugar expert
Dr. Maxwell. Later on the Government weakened, and
allowed Pleystowe and Moreton mills to pay up all their
debt, and pass out of public control, leaving the four
derelicts in hand—Proserpine, Gin Gin, Mount Bauple, and
Nerang. On taking charge, Dr. Maxwell revalued the
assets, and wrote them down where there had been visible
depreciation. The following paragraphs show the amounts
thus written off, the profit and loss debit at the time, and
the subsequent proceedings.
Mt. Bauple Mill:
Written Off Net Deficit
(Capital a/c). Profit. (P. &L. a/c).
Dec., 1903 .. £2575 £6165
June, 1905 .. £1551 4614
„ 1906 .. 2436 2178
Reserves.
„ 1907 .. 3658 1480
Deficit.
Written off to cover capital a/c deficit, £2575 .. 1095
Loss.
June, 1908 .. 39 1134
This means that, when the Controller took charge, the
mill was worth £2575 less than it stood at in the books ;
and the business itself had gone a further £6165 to the
bad. Having succeeded in wiping out the latter deficit,
and putting the business £l4BO to the good, the Con-
troller now sets it the task of replacing the £2575 of
capital which had disappeared. Unfortunately, last season
was very disappointing, and, after writing £458 off for
current depreciation, a loss of £39 is shown. There is
therefore a total deficit of £1134 to be now made .rood
The null of course, paid full interest on the Government
loan, and in this as in every other case maintenance and
renewals are charged up along with working expenses.
Proserpine Mill :
Written Off Deficit
(Capital Written Off (P. &L.
Account). Profit. (Old Loss). Account).
Dec., 1903 .. £14,461 _ £506 9
t Reserves.
June, 1900 .. £5523 454
” mo? 931 1385
„ 1907 .. 4721 £1,196 4910
Written off (Capital a/c. deficit) .. 14,461 9551
~ 1908 .. 4944 30 4037
That looks a bit complicated. Actually the same thing
happened here as in connection with the Mount Bauple
mill, and a few other things happened as well. The un-
provided-for depreciation when the. Controller took
charge was £14,461; in addition, the business had gone
£5069 to the bad, mostly represented by interest, etc.,
due to the State. Having wiped the latter deficit out,
the State’s manager now proceeds to fill up the old hole
in the capital account. Unfortunately, in addition to
the £14,461, a number of bad debts were discovered, and
these (totalling £1226) have been provided for. To
finish clearing up the whole trouble now calls for another
£4637 ; and with another year like 1908 or 1907, that will
be done in the coming season.
Nerang Mill :
Written off Deficit
(Capital (P. and L.
account). Loss, account).
Dec., 1903 .. £BBB6 £3921
June, 1905 .. £lB3O 5751
» 1906 .. 404 6155
„ 1907 .. 100 6255
„ 1908 .. 575 6830
This is the lame duck of the flock. The trouble in this
case is that most of the cane-growing land around the
mill is in the hands of the absentee owner, who is a curse
wherever he is found. When the mills were put up with
Government money (that is to say, the Government
borrowed the money), the State took a mortgage over
the cane-lands as well as the mills. In every other case
the Government has lately released the mortgages over
the lands. It will not, however, release the mortgages
over the Nerang lands until it is assured that the tenants
will get a fair deal—a deal which will allow them to
properly support the mill. So the matter is hung up,
and the tenants, who don’t know what may happen, are
quitting the place. Hence the long procession of losses
shown.
Gin Gin Mill :
Written off Deficit
(Capital (P. andL.
Account). Loss. Account).
Dec., 1903 .. £16,148 £5Bl
June, 1905 .. £682 1263
Profit. Reserves.
„ 1906 .. 1856 593
„ 1907 .. 5879 6472
Deficit.
Written off (Capital Account deficit), £16,148 .. 9676
June, 1908 .. 5913 3763
The splendid results of the State management are most
conspicuous here: a loss of £682 in the first year has
been turned into a profit of £5913 in the past year, after
writing off £llB9 to cover the 12 months’ depreciation,
and, of course, paying interest and providing for main-
tenance.
There are seven mills besides the foregoing four
which owe money to the State. (The Moreton and Pley-
stowe mills have paid off their debts.) From the time
when the first advances were made in 18'93 down to June
30 last the State put £574,483 into the business. 'Of the
principal, £202,436 has been repaid, leaving £372,047 out-
standing. The mills have also paid £200,249 of interest,
and £45,300 was outstanding on June 30 last, making the
total debt to the State £417,347. 'Of this debt the
four mills in the hands of the State stand for £197,954,
leaving £219,393 outstanding by way of principal and in-
terest on the part of the seven mills, which, though
managing their own affairs, have not yet paid the State off.
The National Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. of Australasia (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1898 .. £2390 8 per cent. =£2400 £23,886
1899 .. 2402 8 „ „ 2400 £2 23,888
1900 .. 2403 8 „ „ 2400 3 23,891
1901 .. 2406 8 ~ ~ 2400 6 23,897
1902 .. 2407 8 „ „ 2400 7 23,904
1903 .. 2408 8 „ „ 2400 8 23,912
1904 .. 2433 8 „ ~ 2400 33 23,945
1905 .. 2414 8 „ „ 2400 14 23,959
1906 .. 2725 9 „ „ 2700 25 23,984
1907 .. 2714 9 „ „ 2700 14 23,998
1908 .. 2761 9 „ „ 2700 61 24,059
Of all Australian trustee cos.’ balance-sheets, this is the
one that it is the least easy to take seriously. Yet things
are not quite so bad as they were, when year by year the
accounts showed the exact amount necessary to pay the
dividend, with £2 or £3 over. The fact is that in the old
days the co. lent pretty heavily on mortgage, and subse-
quently had to foreclose freely. Ten years ago it had
£29,009 out on mortgage and £14,481 of foreclosed pro-
perties, less £678 set aside for depreciation. Now the
mortgages have been reduced to £4429 and the fore-
closures stand at £8484 net (this is cost price less £678 set
aside for depreciation). Possibly more or less undisclosed
profit has been used to write down the assets which have
been realised ; but how much more writing down has to
be done with regard to the assets still in hand there is no
way whatever of judging. For one thing, all the income,
including rent and interest, is lumped in one item, and
even then it is “ after providing for contingencies.”
Nowadays as other assets are sold the money is used to
pay off a mortgage on the co.’s Queen-street office pro-
perty. This cost £41,600, and there is still £13,000 owing
upon it. Apparently the co. has been steadily pulling
itself out of the mire ; but how much more pulling it has
to do it succeeds admirably in disguising. In proportion
to income the expenses are unusually high ; but whether
the alleged income is the real income or not The Bulletin
doesn’t know, for as previously said income is only set down
“after providing for contingencies”—character of the
contingencies and the amount of the provision are both
unknown.
-***■*
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan and
Deposit Co. (Melbourne), from the time when, £16,022
having been embezzled, £14,728 of capital was written
off, which left the co. with £826 of reserves :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Apl., 1902 .. £lOl9 8 per cent. =£sl6 £503 £1329
Oct., 1902.. 1156 8 „ „ 516 640 1969
Apl., 1903 ..688 8 „ „ 516 172 2141
Oct., 1903.. 949 8 ~ „ 516 433 2574
Apl., 1904 .. 820 8 „ „ 516 304 2878
Oct., 1904.. 740 8 „ ~ 516 224 3102
Apl., 1905 .. 856 8 „ ~516 340 3442
Oct., 1905.. 863 ‘8 ~ „ 516 347 3789
Apl., 1906.. 986 8 „ ~ 516 470 4259
Oct., 1906 .. 950 8 „ „ 516 434 4693
Apl., 1907 .. 1014 10 „ ~645 369 5062
Oct., 1907 .. 655 10 „ „ 646 9 5071
Apl., 1908 .. 664 10 „ ~ 646 18 5089
Oct., 1908.. 757 10 „ ~ 646 111 5200
Advances (including stock) stand at £20,520, which is
about £l5OO more than usual for some years past.
Either Melbourne isn’t as prosperous as it was, or the
Fleet rushed it into extravagances, or the Bendigo
branch opened by this co. a while ago is responsible for
the extra figures. The liabilities, including deposits,
amount to £5773, which is protected by £12,911 of paid
capital and £5200 of reserves.
The Young Co-operative Flour Milling Co.
(N.S. W.): —
Written To Re- Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901.. £2,184 7i p.c. = £1073 £584 £477 £6,435
1902 .. 16,757 10 ~ ~ 1500 566 14,691 21,126
Loss.
1903 .. 801 10 ~ ~ 1500 417 18,408
Profit.
1904 .. 2,845 15 ~ ~ 2250 503 92 18,500
Loss.
1905 .. 63 7J „ „ 1125 391 16,921
Profit.
1906.. 2,032 10 ~ „ 1500 371 161 17,082
1907 .. 6,771 25 ~ „ 3750 362 2,659 19,741
1908.. 3,877 20 „ „ 3000 349 528 20,269
Like almost everything- that is built on the “great
natural industry” of wheat-raising, this is an erratic
business. Occasionally good prices and good seasons
come together, and when they do—as they did in 1907
and to some extent in the past year—the profits of the
gamble are very alluring. But whether the farmer does
well or badly on the average, there seems to be a very
good thing in it for the miller. On a capital of £15,000
this co. has in the past eight years paid £15,698 in divi-
dends, and, after writing off £3543 to cover depreciation,
has laid by £14,311. To what extent it is really
co-operative, and therefore returns the profits to
the men who use the mill, The Bulletin doesn’t
know; but from the fact that it has built up a
big business, while Chapman, Taylor and Co.’s
competing mill has lately passed into this co.’s hands, it
looks as though at any rate the co. had treated its clients
comparatively well. The price paid for Chapman’s mill
was £7320; and even after paying for that the co. has
over £15,000 net of liquid assets, besides book debts
(£6927). So far the Australian wheat farmer has done
very little in the way of co-operation—far less than the
cow-farmer, who has now his co-operative dairies and
butter factories scattered all over the place. The record
of the Young co. is, however, enough to encourage the
wheat man to make some diligent inquiries. As a matter of
fact, he is starting, in Westralia and Queensland especially.
And it’s a start that ought to be enthusiastically
encouraged. The “refuse” portion of grain contains
most valuable qualities as manures; and local wheat
milling means (or ought to mean) that the manures in
the “offal” will be returned to the soil which has been
robbed of them, instead of being either exported or sent
down to the cities to be to a great extent wasted.
* * * *
Some people who have bought shares in Dalgety
and Co., Ltd., during the last two or three years are
likely to be disappointed. In spite of the co.’s long
record of success, the pastoral outlook was still so gloomy
in 1904 that shares (£5 paid) got down to £4 2s. 6d. With
the turn of the seasons very big profits were made, and
there has been a steady movement to the present £6 ss.
The shares have gone even a shade higher meantime.
Between these prices there has been considerable buying.
With the large increase in the co.’s turnover and in the
amount of the total debt, it was expected that some Of
the £l5 per share liability would be called up ; and
as the dividend is 7 per cent, that would have
meant a nice little bonus. The directors have
turned another way, however, and have got
authority to send out £1,000,000 of 5 per cent. pref.
shares. The present issue (size unknown) is not to be
made prorata, but “ shareholders are to have preferen-
tial treatment in applying.” Full information isn’t avail-
able ; but, on the face of things, existing shareholders
ought to have pro rata rights when pref. shares are
issued, for pref. shares mean a first mortgage on profits—
or, rather, a second mortgage, for oh June 30 last there
were £2,263,210 of interminable and £530,480 of termin-
abls debentures, and the interest on that lot has to be
provided first.
* * * *
Perth City Council is going on with its proposal
to buy out the Perth Gas Co. The co.’s Act gives the
council the right of purchase at anytime now, but unfor-
tunately it doesn’t lay down the basis on which the price
is to be fixed ; and it is a question whether goodwill has
to be paid for. W. H. Irvine, of Victoria, and Josiah
Symon, of S.A., have advised that goodwill must be paid
for—lrvine definitely, Symon less definitely. Excluding
goodwill, the council has offered the co. £158,866, equal
to about 255. per share ; and what the market reckons
the goodwill at can be summed up from the
fact that the Stock Exchange value of the shares is
somewhere about 51s. In other words, the market values
the concern at more than twice as much as the council.
This means that Perth, when it pays for its gas, pays
interest on twice as much money as has been put into the
business : or, put in another way, it pays sixpence for gas
and another sixpence for Stock Exchange “ water.”
Either the Act which gives the council the right to
acquire the concern is a shocking bit of work, or the
people who are paying 51s. per share when the council
only offers at the rate of 255. have more money than
sense. The law is an uncertain quadruped, however, so
in any case buyers at anything like 51s. are taking large
risks.
* * m •
The unsecured creditors of W. and A. Mac-
Arthur, Ltd., the concern of which Wm. McMillan was
the Australian head, are likely to get about 14s. 6d. in
the £. There is about £130,0(>0 available, and bills for
about £190,000 are awaiting payment.
* * » *
The unions at Broken Hill can’t come to terms
with the Broken Hill Prop., and things on the Barrier
are anyhow. The B. H. Prop., after it withdrew from the
general conference with the unions, fixed up a meeting on
its own account, and offered a sliding scale or a wage-
reduction ; but it must have known perfectly well that the
men would not accept either of those things. How could
they, after the other cos. had just agreed—practically
volunteered—to continue the old rate? The attitude of
the B. H. Prop, satisfies most people on the spot
that the co. wants to close down with a view to
reorganisation. It simply can’t carry on long on its pre-
sent scale. The staff is organised for a very big mine ;
and the B. H. Prop, can’t continue to be a very big mine
much longer. It may be a big ore-smelting concern, buy-
ing its supplies from others, but the bottom is just about
out of the mine itself. Certainly there may be possibly four
or five years’ ore developed, but that is a mere trifle ; and
even that ore can’t be rushed out. Already officers are
looking afield. They know that if the co. shuts up, a
’number of them must be sacrificed —and they are
getting from under with all speed. Block 10
will follow the lead of the B. H. Prop. ; and both of
them will be taken to the Commonwealth Arbitration
Court. There has been some doubt as to whether that
Court has jurisdiction ; but the B. H. Prop, has under-
taken not to raise the point.
* * * *
One or two Barrier mines, notably the B. H.
South, are making hay at the expense of the Broken Hill
Prop. Owing to the uncertainty of the Prop.’s future,
few men care to remain with it if they can get a good job
elsewhere, and the South and the North are spreading
themselves out to gather in the pick of the basket.
• m * •
F. A. Govett told Lake View shareholders in
London something about the Pinnacles mine, a few miles
outfrom Broken Hill: —“ We have obtaineda year’s work-
ing option to buy the mine and its equipment right out for
£15,000, or, with some small modifications, for a one-
third interest in a co. to be formed. The option will cost
us nothing except working expenses for' development,
etc. The point in doubt is continuity—does the ore go
down ? There are no doubt several thousand tons of pay-
able ore which are still available in the old workings, but
the important point is that underfoot the lowest levels in
both sets of workings sampled out very well—nearly 18
per cent, lead and 30oz. of silver. The high silver values
are, of course, important. The treatment tests which we
made were on a working scale —that is, in lots of 100 tons
—and showed that we should have no especial difficulty
in dealing with the ore if it turns out to be a mine.”
Despite which, however, word comes now that 8., M. and
Co., the general managers, have advised that the option
be not exercised.
* ■ * *■ *
The N.S. W. Government evidently wants to see
how the cat jumps at Broken Ilill before going- further
with the recently-resurrected proposal to carry the rail-
way on from Cjndoboiin. The first centre to be linked
up when that line is started will be the old Mt Hodp
copper-mine ; and on the strength of that, Mt. Hope has
been hanging on. But, as the work isn’t to be started
the owners will now shut down again, and wait-and as
* * * *
Vegetable Creek, or Emmaville (NSW) is
quietly digging or sluicing- away on its own grave The
sluicing or dredging claims, such as Bourke’s Hill and the
Briton, are the last props, unless something turns up in
the deep leads in the basalt, a large portion of which is
on private lands (Strathbogie). All this country has been
well prospected for the last 30 years, but it is hoped the
diamond drill may strike something deeper, down. In
spite of the big yields of the past, it has been a costlv
business ; every cwt. of tin produced has cost £5, allowing
wages for every prospector and every miner. As to
dredging, there is at least one co. that 'has spent thou-’
sands and has only produced hundreds ; yet it still plugs
on. “ Hope springs eternal in the human breast ’’—and
springs highest in the miner’s. There are men on the
field over 70 who still dream of a bonanza.
“ Bodger ” : Some time recently a par appeared
in a Sydney daily stating, amongst a lot of other wild-cat
talk, that at Foley’s Hill, about 12 miles from Emmaville
(N.S. W.), a party was raising dirt going lcwt. to the
load. The real fact was that it was going about 101 b.
It had to be run about 250 ft. underground to shaft
raised over 60ft., and carted a quarter of a mile to water!
Then the speculative leaseholder got 10 per cent, of the
proceeds, although he never put a pick in’the ground or
spent a sprat over and above the cost of the lease. I
don’t know which is the greater curse in mining—the
loafer who exacts tribute like this, or the irresponsible
scribbler who sends his sensational yarns to the papers
and causes men to flock to a field for the loafer to fatten on.
* * * *
Kangiara, in the Yass district (N.S.W.), has
hiterto been owned by a syndicate, but now, while still very
little more than a prospecting show, it has been put into a
co. of 100,000 shares. Further, no less than 55,000 of those
shares are paid-ups. Ten thousand of them go to the
vendors ; and 45,000 go to the syndicate shareholders.
The other 45,000 also go to the syndicate shareholders
but they carry a liability. It is true that an estimate has
been made that on a monthly output of 900 tons there
should be a profit of £3367 ; but that is based on a saving
of metal which is almost impossible in practice. The
workings are shallow, and, even if things turn out well,
the swag of paid-ups will be a tremendous load for the
mine to stagger along with.
A summary of Savage and Ashcroft’s report on
New Hillgrove (N.S.W.) has been cabled to London. In
effect, they say that, though there’s no ore worth men-
tion standing in the mine; it looks good enough to spend
a bit trying to find some more. The trouble, of course
is, Who is to find the money ? Would it pay the share-
holders to put up the money and wipe off the heavy debt?
An exact statement of the position must be got before
that is answered. Anyhow, Australian shareholders, who
are now easily in the majority, should think twice before
they put any more money at all into the hands of the
hopeless English management. J. Bull is a very good
mine-owner as long as he doesn’t have to do any pros-
pectingln small mines. When he has to do that, he is a
rank failure, chiefly because he won’t drop down to the
fact that there are such things as small mines. All his
geese are swans, wherefore he persistently overloads the
poor beasts, and drowns them.
* * * *
Despite numerous scares from “creeps,” New-
castle (N.S. W.) has granted permission to the A. A. Co.
to mine under 14 more of the acres on which Newcastle
stands unsteadily. The co. has given a guarantee that it
won’t take out too much coal just under the Great
Northern Railway, and has promised to be very careful
when it gets underneath the municipal buildings. Nowa-
days Newcastle feels that it must take some risks ; for it
wakes in its sleep sometimes to remember that the focus
of the coaling mining industry is steadily moving up
Maitland way. So it consents to honeycomb itself in
order to delay the movement, even if it does get the
“ creeps ” in the process.
* * * * '■
Kyloe copper mine is close to the old township
of Adaminaby (N.S.W.), which accounts for its discovery
half a life-time since, and the extensive old workings at
shallow levels. These are taken to indicate that the bot-
tom level about to be opened at 300 ft. will be productive
over a large area. But the bottom of the shaft is in
granite, and copper miners don’t like granite. Thev
compare the failures in that country rock with the big
producers in schist or slate, such as Mount Lyell and
Oobar. The shaft followed down a vein distinct from the
main lode, and in forming the plat 22 tons of 15 per cent,
ore were raised from this vein. It is impossible as yet to
define the extent of the rich ore partly developed by the
shaft and the two winzes below No. 2 south level; but
when No. 3 strikes the main lode, the levels will be’con--
nected, and the lenses of ore defined. That will not take
very long, and in the meantime the market is being sus-
tained by the small quantities of rich ore (20 per cent.)
treated at the furnace. The mine has every appearance
of proving exceedingly patch y
It isn’t often turn, the "local paper’’ has the
grit to smash away at the local wild-cat: 99 times out of
100 the wild-cat is at least described as an “ encouraging
proposition.” But the Wyalong (N.S. W.) Stab has ideas
of its own. About half-a-dozen more or less recent flota-
tions have been gibbeted ; and the Star has so far come
out on top. From all appearances the Called Back,
one of the group, has been already abandoned; and the
Klondyke, Christmas Gift and Brookman have been held
up as bad examples of the gentle boomster’s art which are
liable to go the same way. Under the circumstances it
looks as though Wyalong were a good place for the specu-
lator to be careful about.
* * "K *
For 1908 the output of gold from the Wyalong
(N.S. W.) field will barely equal that of 1907, viz., 22,0000 z.
The principal yield comes from mineral ore, met with at a
range of from 500 ft. to 1300 ft. As far as present indica-
tions go, the oxidised zone is practically worked out. A
number of old properties recently taken up, such as the
Operator, Santa Claus, and Erin’s Isle, promise to yield
good crushings for the new year; and, taken altogether, it
can safely be said that Wyalong is holding its own as one
of the principal goldfields of the State.
Principal Westralian results for November:—
Ton- Value
nage. Revenue. Profit, per ton.
Great Boulder .. 15,735 £46,824 £25,132 59/6
Golden Horseshoe .. 23,442 54,180 20,169 46/3
Ivanhoe .. .. 19,031 41,571 21,021 43/8
Kalgurli .. .. 10,815 29,740 16,446 55/-
Associated. .. .. 10,664 22,260 7,232 41/9
Boulder Perseverance 17,436 26,682 7,012 30/7
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 11,455 16,005 1,459 28/-
Sons of Gwalia .. 13,274 18,528 5,943 27/11
Great Fingall.. .. 11,270 14,201 501 26/4
Associated Northern 3,660 7,609 2,640 41/7
Oroya-Black Range.. 4,430 11,123 4,239 50/2
Lake View Consols .. 7,637 8,976 3,078* 23/6
South Kalgurli .. 9,028 12,504 2,776 27/8
Golden Ridge .. 2,185 5,425 2,682 49/8
Black Range.. ... 2,010 6,600 3,220 65/8
Great Boulder No. 1 2,548 2,700 666 21/2
North White Feather 2,000 3,304 605 33/-
Ilainault .. .. 5,956 6,524 762 21/10
Vivien 3,291 4,321 529 26/3
Northern Mines .. 8,600 7,558 18 17/7
Golden Links .. ... 3,543 6,598 146 37/3
Hills Proprietary .. 700 1,200 420 34/3
Mararoa .. .. 1,367 2,964 575 43/4
Cumberland .. .. 672 2,290 551 68/2
Ingliston Extended.. 1,780 2,200 23 24/8
Karangahake .. .. 640 1,288 488 40/3
♦lncluding £1325 obtained from re-treated slimes
. and £1176 earned from the treatment of Golden
Links ore.
Both Gwalia South and Ida II made small losses ; but in the
former case £1777 was spent in new plant.
* * * *
Associated (W.A.) has got its extra furnace
going, and hopes to have the enlarged treatment plant


ak
ou
ill
Will he
Of
M
O
J
:
s&g&feft
tOßSifs
>,' 'K
gd
Fraser g Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Class of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Offices—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE,
Macdonald Street, KALGOORLIE.
That Jeffrey Labor Saving Machinery has
taken a great hold in Australia is well shown in a
bulletin just issued by Gibson, Battle and Co., Ltd., 7
Bent Street, Sydney, and 128 William Street, Melbourne,
which illustrates a number of complete equipments in-
stalled by them in various parts of the Commonwealth,
comprising belt and cable conveyors, picking tables,
w'oolbale elevators, etc. The pictures are excellently
shown of plants in actual work in mines, breweries, wool
stores, sugar mills, and so on ; and give a comprehensive
idea of the many industries in which machinery of this
kind can be employed for handling goods in large
quantities. Gibson, Battle will be pleased to send a copy
of this pamphlet to anyone interested in this class of
machinery.*
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, ever}’ small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving- waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best soiid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
that with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supply further information to those interested.*
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel', keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. 1 bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * m »
To Assayers, Mine Managers, and others—
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
Two Traction Engines are being made for the
Victorian Agricultural Department, to the design of Mr.
Kenyon, the engineer-in-chief, for use in reclaiming the
heavy grass-tree lands of the Heytesbury forest. Special
difficulties have been discovered in the pioneer work, and
these engines are the outcome of the experiments, and
the experience of the Austral Otis Engineering Co., of
South Melbourne, who have this work in hand. These
engines are the heaviest and largest traction engines in
the Commonwealth. They are fitted with vertical water-
tube-boilers, built on the modern sectional method for a
pressure of 2001 b., and capable of developing 100-h.p.
The wheels are chain driven, and are each 7ft. in diameter
and 4£ft. in width. The total weight of each engine will
be about 24 tons.* [1
* * * *■
James Hardie and Co. carry large and useful
stocks of Dick’s well-known belting ; “ Fibro-Cement ”
Asbestos slates, sheets and silos ; “ Weston ” centrifugals ;
Ful.lis’ laundry machinery, gas engines, shafting, pulleys,
caustic soda, soda ash, sodium—lowest prices, West
Circular Quay, Sydney.* [I
m * * *
The Joint Stock Companies Journal, of
London, under date 31st July, 1907, writes as follows :
“SO, to conclude, we are not writing without justifica-
when we say that the Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society is a thoroughly sound, go-ahead office, with a
great capacity for expansion.”*
Wherever iron of superior quality and excep-
tional tensile strength is required engineers specify the
famous best Yorkshire “ Farnley ” Iron. This iron is
made from refined pig iron, is puddled into practically
pure wrought iron, hammered and piled before rolling.
Bell’s Asbestos Australian Agency, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, have been appointed sole agents for the Farnley
Iron Co., Ltd., Leeds, and hold representative stocks of
“Farnley” bars at their warehouses in Sydney and
Fremantle, W.A.*
* * * *
If you want a Winding Engine or Winch, a
Hundred Head Stamper Battery or a Rockbreaker, an
Air Compressor or a Rock Drill, a Concentrating Plant or
an outfit for an engineer’s shop, you will find them all
illustrated and priced in Cameron and Sutherland’s
catalogue of new and second-hand machinery. Addresses :
Cameron and Sutherland, Post Office Chambers, Sydney ;
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Lydiard Street,
Ballarat; and Pall Mall, Bendigo.*
•’ r ■* * *
Genuine Balata Belting.— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tknax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
* * * *
That famous engineering feat, the Zigzag,
near Lithgow, will soon disappear, its place being taken
by a series of tunnels. The Railway Commissioners, who
are carrying out this work, have ordered eight Reavell
Compressors as being the most suitable to instal for this
class of work. Reavell Compressors are coming rapidly
into favor with mining men, who appreciate the absence
of suction valves and the high volumetric and mechanical
efficiency of these machines. The sole licensees for Aus-
tralia are Babcock and Wilcox Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney.*
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.* * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-s't., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Behnett. Manager.*
*'* » »
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS.—Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
* * \ * *
Assayers, .Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers tO 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
“ Itan,” from the North Coast (N.S.W.) ;
The N.S.W. Lands Department, whose case has been
hopeless for years, ought to stand its trial for. something
it lately did on this North Coast. In a fit of profligacy,
and most likely as the result of some cunning engineer-
ing, it decided to throw open 38,000 acres of splendid
chocolate land at Bonalbo, away out in the almost
impenetrable bush, scores of miles from any decent road )
in blocks of 1280 acres. Given a railway, which is quite
on the cards (the proposed line from Kyogle to Acacia
Creek will serve it), 200 acres of that country would easily
keep a family. The land was, of course, quickly grabbed,
mostly by men who knew all about the probable rail-
way. If it were grazing land the 1280 acre-blocks would be
understandable ; but it isn’t grazing country—it must be
cultivated, otherwise directly the scrub is down, the
place becomes a wilderness of weeds. In this same belt
there are 40,000 acres left, and it is more than likely
that lot will go the same way, and will be grabbed by the
same brand of speculators. Later on the railway will be
built, and then the State will buy back this country at
about four times the price the Crown has received, and
the settler who gets will have to pay the piper.
LOHMANN | COMPANY
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
.OLE AQEHTB for IfPMlgg LOCOMOTIVES
as purchased by the Govts, of N.S.W., Vlotoria
Tasmania, and all principal mining: com
panles, sugar plantations, contractors, etc.; 17 of these Locomotives at present running at Mt. Lyell M. &R. Oo
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds. [2 '
running at its full capacity of 12,000 tons a month soon
after the new year opens. On this basis monthly profits
should top £BOOO, and, if they do, theeo. ought soon to be
in a position to pay 3s. year—for a time, at any rate.
* ■# ■»
Boulder No. l’s speculative value is increasing.
It is almost certain that it will get the Ivanhoe east lode
at 2000 ft., and it has a good chance of getting the whole
of the underlay of Morty’s lode from the South Kalgurli
at 1400 ft. As regards the co.’s Magnet property, which
gives promise of becoming a good thing, about £lOOO
worth of gold is being lost monthly on account of a diffi-
culty in filtering the kaolin slime ; but this trouble is
being grappled with.
* * » »
According to the accounts just out from London,
Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.) made a working profit of
£10,109 for the year ended June 30 ; but as £BOOO has been
appropriated to write down cost of permanent works,
development and machinery, a net surplus of £2109
remains. Only £951 of this was held on June 30 in cash,
the balance being represented by stores; while on the
other side of the ledger there was an item, “ Sundry
creditors, £1184.” The entire cost of permanent works
has been written off, while the development account now
stands at £2OOO ; and the machinery and plant, which origi-
nally cost £68,000 or thereabouts, now stand in the books
at about half that amount. The co. reckons it has
£187,500 worth of ore developed above the 100 ft. level.
The fact of Derenberg and Co. having parted with £9500
in exchange for 60,000 unissued shares in March last is
briefly alluded to, and mention is also made of the recent
creation of 200,000 additional shares having furnished
£32,500 extra working capital. Manager Robertson
estimates that the new cyanide plant will be working in
January, and that then an extraction of 85 p.c., instead of
55 p.c. under the old system of working, should be got
without any additional cost of working. The installation
of 30 more stamps, making 50 in all, is also recommended.
Ore reserves are estimated at 100,000 tons, worth 365. per
ton, and the opinion is expressed that further develop-
ment work above 100 ft. will disclose more ore. V. S.
Shallcross, of the Australian Gold Recovery Co., who
recently had a look at the mine, also furnishes a volumin-
ous report, which condemns portions of the plant, and
estimates ore reserves at double the quantity given by
Robertson, but fixes the recovery value at 7s. per ton
less. All this makes very nice reading ; but the mine has
yielded so many disappointments hitherto that great
caution is called for now.
* » * *
More money is being splashed up at the Lance-
field (W. A.), and this time 8., M. and Co. reckon that they
will come out on top. It will take some little time,
however, to fix the plant up to their liking, and give the
mine a sound preparation.
* * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) will have its new shaft down to
200 ft. about the middle of January, when a few feet of
crosscutting should suffice to get the lode. Meantime
regular crushings are being taken out by the three tribute
parties to a depth of about 90ft.
* * * *
Peak Hill Goldfield (W.A.) held another meet-
ing in London last month, when the windows were pulled
down, the door shut, and two flunkeys posted outside to
keep reporters away. As all this served the purpose of
drawing attention to the discreditable way in which the
co. is run, perhaps it was best that the meeting was held
like that.
* * * *
There are ominous reports concerning Golden
Ridge’s bottom workings. The management, however,
scouts the idea that the shoot has gone wrong, and argues
that, while the ore now being driven on is unpayable,
good values will almost for a certainty be met with
further on, as four winzes coming down from the level
above all assay well. A fettered market is the principal
drawback about this stock, and scared shareholders
desirous of turning their scrip into cash have found this
out.
« * * *
Burbanks Main Lode (W.A.) shows a net profit
for the year ended June 30 of £6422, which, added to the
balance brought forward, makes a total of £9679. A 10
per cent, dividend (£3000) has since been paid, leaving
£6679 to carry forward. Ore reserves are estimated at
22,000 tons, an increase (after allowing for the tonnage
treated) of 4000 tons over the preceding year. Having
in view the improved prospects of the mine and the
necessity for additional plant to keep pace with its
growth, it has been decided to increase the nominal
capital from £30,000 to £40,000 by the creation of 50,000
4s. shares, which existing shareholders will have the right
of taking up.
* * * *
Reflections on prospecting, exploration, and
other things by Chairman F. A. Govett at the Lake View
meeting in London : “The business of prospecting pure
and simple is an extremely probable road to ruin. . . .
The practice of exploration cos. of dividing such profits
as may, be made from time to time and hoping for the
best in the shape of new successes is radically wrong....
I am getting to look on the Lake View now not as an ex-
ploration co., but rather as a salvage co. for mines in
difficulties, from our point of view bearing a strong
resemblance to half-wrecked ships. Our object is to
accumulate a portfolio of shares, securities, and interests
which have cost us nothing, and this object can only be
attained by writing down the original cost by profits or
dividends received until the capital invested has been
redeemed.” To put it shortly, Govett reckons that there
is more money in salving derelict mining ventures than
in prospecting for new mines, and considering the num-
ber of mines that go to pot through want of capital and
brains—especially organising brains —Govett is probably
right.
« * * *
After neglecting it for a couple of years, the
market has been waking up to the possibilities of the
Sandstone Development, Black Range (W.A.), and it was
the strongest “ tip” in the gold division at the end of the
Stock Exchange year. Not that the Exchanges have had
much to do with it so far ; the bulk of the shares are held
by men who don’t usually hang round brokers’ offices.
The strong “ tip” at the end of the year was due to the
fact that in the prospecting crosscut indications are very
promising—in other words, it looks as if the expected
lode were very near. And if it is met where it is ex-
pected, and is of respectable size, then the Sandstone will
be a mine, instead of having the lode in merely a small
corner, as some supporters of the Oroya-Black Range,
next door, have persistently held.
* * * *
“Data”: Bulletin pars re British
Exploration of Australia, Ltd., and Roebourne (W.A.)
remind one of much capital lost in that nor’-west region.
Calvert’s early-day flotations at Marble Bar fizzled out
years ago, but the town has its public buildings, which
are massive stone monuments of the boom. Sydney
investors were fooled over the Bell Exploration Co. at
Mosquito Creek. Mount Cassiterite and other tin shows
at Wodgina attracted money from N.S.W., but little is
heard of them now. Chaffers Co. drew away quickly
from its copper options near Onslow. An Adelaide and
Melbourne syndicate met with disaster at Derby, about
three years ago. The Tantalite boom landed speculators
in the soup. Some Sydney money also went into an
asbestos show beyond Coolegong. Bull Bros, claim, the
Pilgrim’s Rest, promised to be a mine, but does it go
down? The British Exploration Co.’s chief property is
the Nullagine conglomerates, over which Frecheville
didn’t grow enthusiastic. Later on a Yankee named
Chatman came, saw and departed ; since when
A. E. Morgans and co. have rested. The Nor-
West is not so unknown as generally supposed.
Percy Carr, Fred Cape, and several men now
serving 8., M. & Co. looked over it without “ taking any,
and Capt. Jos. Steel and “Tassy ” O’Connor failed to
boom it. Many present-day station-owners, boundary
riders and Government well-sinkers were prospectors, and
now examine all outcrops as they travel through the
spinifex. Geologist Gibb-Maitland, in a non-committal
report, said that nothing had been proved at depth ; and
that’s the trouble. The alluvial tin at Moolyella, Coole-
gong and Old Shaw is nearly worked out, and what is
going to support the Port Hedland-Nullagine railway? I
see nothing but the probable resuscitation of Warra-
woona, Bamboo Creek, and fresh discoveries towards the
desert.
• * * *
Bendigo gold yield for 1908 was 193,1420 z.
This is down to just about the 1902 level, .when 192,8220 z.
were won. But net profits are nil this year, against
£76,359 then; so that the comparison is decidedly
dolorous. Starting with 1901, the figures for the field
work out like this :
Year. Yield. Dividends. Calls. Profits.
1901 .. 193,0150 z. .. £183,780 £136,109 £47,670
1902 .. 192,8220 z. .. 207,990 131,631 76,359
1903 .. 233,5890 z. .. 322,415 141,977 180,438
1904 .. 248,7850 z. .. 367,896 168,094 199,802
1905 .. 218,6830 z. .. 230,009 175,281 54,728
1906 .. 223,7330 z. .. 246,254 221,262 24,992
1907 .. 196,9440 z. .. 122,017 208,779 Nil.
1908 .. 193,1420 z. .. 126,268 135,923 Nil.
The honey that covers the little pill which investors are
swallowing is that calls have been heavily’ reduced, and
that, consequently, there is only a deficit of £9655 for the
year. But tack on the excess for 1907 and the calls for
the last two years exceed the divs. by £96,417, while for
the previous two years the divs. were ahead of calls by
£79,720. In other words, for four years’ work the result
of putting £741,345 into the ground has been a dead loss
to the investor of over £16,500. There cannot be any
“flap your wings and crow’’over the narrowing of the
margin between divs. and calls for 1908, because the
shrinkage of calls means a curtailment of enterprise.
Bendigo’s best year, of recent times, was 1904, but it
was a positive trap for the outsider, who waded-in
to derelicts, with the usual result that he must
now' back up or forfeit. Taking the mines,
Virginia heads the dividend list with £25,000, poured
mainly into the spacious lap of the Lansell-Mueller crowd.
Specimen Hill and Sea are the only other five-figure divi-
dend claims, and they are a long way in the rear. The
two Moon mines disbursed only £16,000 between them,
and Catherine Reef, Collman and Tacchi, Hercules and
Energetic, Hustlers Reef, New Chum Goldfields and
Victoria Consols ranged from £6OOO up to £lO,OOO. There
is the cheering fact that, as 20 mines divided some profit
or another, the public got rather more ground-bait than
in 1907, but on the Whole results were depressing,
especially with the deep show's.
* * * *
“Out of a net profit of £712 your directors have
felt justified in declaring a dividend.” This statement in
the directors’ report of the Williams’ Fancy, Berringa
(Vic.), ought to be plastered on the backs of the men who
issued it, and of the shareholders who received the money
without demur. The co. has scratched along for months
past without calls; but to save them it has had
to work on the closest of margins, costs being cut to 125.,
against 14s. 6Jd. per ton earlier in the year. The work
ahead is to prove the Fancy load at 600 ft., and to
demonstrate that the Surprise shoot at No. 5 goes under-
foot “strong and large,” and that both shoots are pay-
able. Considering that the stone crushed last half-year
was only worth SJdwt. per ton, and that £2OOO is
needed to bring the mine plant up to the standard
required to treat such low-grade dirt, there was no
excuse for icing the cake at Christmas ; plain plum duff
was the proper fare. With the stone proved and its value
established, luxury can be indulged in ; but the Williams’
Fancy hasn’t reached that stage yet.
* * * *
New Ruby Flat, Branxholme (Tas.), was one of
Alfred Clarke’s babies, and, like its parent, has an ample
reserve with which to face this wicked world. But only a
philosopher or a bear can see tin oxide fall from £lO5 10s.
to £B5 10s. per ton in a half-year and not grumble. Dirt
runs about 1 Jib. per cubic yard, but, while mine work is
cheap, Tasmania has been smitten with a drought, so
that, although the New Ruby paid a dividend or tw'O
about the mid-year, there wasn’t enough water to do
much towards the end of the year, and the balance
in the bank on November 30 was only about £lOOO. Share-
holders therefore had to go without a Christmas div. In
any case, however, with much dead work to be done, the
directors would have been obliged to go slow ; so share-
holders mightn’t have had a div. even if there hadn’t
been a drought.
* * t * *
The special Board appointed to inquire into the
recent Mount Morgan (Q.) mining disasters has recom-
mended, among other things : (1) The abandonment of
the pigsty system of timbering; (2) the adoption of a
sectional system of mining in such parts as are already
known, or may be reasonably suspected, to be intersected
by dykes or heads ; (3) the careful selection of suitable
methods of working different parts, with a view to secur-
ing a maximum of safety ; (4) more reliance on close
filling than on timb ;r; (5) that, in using wedges more
attention should be paid to keeping the wedges tight;
(6) that all falls and movements of ground should be re-
ported, and not merely those attended with seriousinjury
to any person ; (7) that the attention of the co. should be
called to the fact that lately the mine manager has been
doing the work previously done by three men ; (8) that
the workings of any flat-backed stope with two faces
advancing tow'ards each other should be discontinued
unless the intervening ground is mullocked close up to
the back ; (9) in adjoining sections of the mine, where
square-set work is adopted, the timber should be laid out
in its relatively correct position, so that it may ultimately
be connected, and may thus develop its full strength.
The Board doesn’t see any objection to ironbark, spotted
gum, or other approved hardw'ood timber being used for
square sets; and it doesn’t see any need for a special
mines inspector for Mt. Morgan alone. There is no pow'er
to compel the co. to act upon the recommendations,
which are mostly very good, but it is said that they will
be carried out in their entirety.
• * * *
Although the market is so dull, Charters
Towers can claim substantial results for the year’s work.
Mills United has maintained an average yield of about £4
per ton, but fear that ss. a year : in dividends (£75,000)
cannot be continued has brought shares down to 2£ years’
purchase on the present scale. New Brilliant Freehold,
having the eastward continuation of the Day Dawn, is
expected to take up the running before Mills United is
worked out, and the recent improvement in No. 8 is
encouraging. Another survey of the boundary has upset
old calculations, and it is now shown that the boundary
rise between No. 6 and No. 7 levels is in the N. B. Freehold
lease, and it has. also,been suggested that No. 6 East
Mexican is nearer to the N. B. Freehold boundary than it
was at first thought to be ; but the matter will have to
stand over until a check survey is made. No. 5 East
Mexican has stopped driving No. 5 at 300 ft. from the
boundary, and has started a rise from No. 6 level to try
to prove' the upward continuation of the rich shoot of
stone. The East Mexican has 40 tons of stone to crush
obtained in driving No. 5, so it is easily possible to become
too pessimistic over its chances. Brilliant Extended and
Bonnie Dundee show considerable improvement for the
year, and New Victoria and Caledonia Black is doing
better on the Just in Time reef.
•* * * *
Cloncurry (Q.) investors will not be able to get
much comfort out of the theory of Assistant Government
Geologist Ball that the majority of the deposits of copper
on that field are most likely due to “ the metamorphism
of originally cupriferous igneous rocks.” Mr. Ball has
now completed his reports on Cloncurry, and that is the
general conclusion come to. It doesn’t indicate regu-
larity of values, and the permanency of such bodies is
doubtful.
* * * *
Mt. Elliott (Q.) report, just available, gives no
hint of the unsatisfactory nature of the developments in
the bottom level. The accounts are made up to June 30,
and the reports are, in fact, all of comparatively ancient
date. On June 30, the co. had £95,800 cash, and there
was still £50,000 to be paid on account of the railway ; so
£45,000 is left to pay for equipment, further development,
etc. Two-thirds of the shares are held in Europe, and, in
spite of the poor show in the bottom, the market in
London keeps remarkably firm. Elliotts have, in fact,
had a bigger rise during the past year than almost any
other high-priced stock in Australia. Quoted at 425. at
the beginning of the year, they finished up at 725. 6d. The
neighboring Hampden moved up from 9s. to 10s., which
must have been on account of the strengthening of the
market; it certainly couldn’t have been on any improve-
ment in the mine or its dividend prospects.
* * * *
McArthur and Co., the Glasgow people who
produced a chemical process for treating gold-antimony
ores, have undertaken to send out enough particulars to
allow an Australian metallurgist to try it at Mitchell
River (N.Q.). After the plant had been erected there
under great disadvantages, McArthur’s metallurgist,
Opie, left the property on the ground that the mine
must be a failure on account of its small ore supply, and
he would not therefore risk the process upon it. As the
Glasgow firm, which holds a very big interest in the pro-
perty, had undertaken to demonstrate the process,
negotiations have been going on between the directors
and the McArthurs. The former sought to throw the
whole responsibility of the demonstration on the
McArthurs, and would not at first entertain the idea of
an outside metallurgist being called in ; but as the co. is
now out of funds, it couldn’t afford to press that view.
* * * *
The average metal prices for the year work out
as follows Lead, £l3 10s. 6d.; copper, standard, £59
19s. lOd.; ditto, best selected, £63 10s. 6d. ; silver, 2s.
2'1465d. per oz. fine ; tin, spot, £133 ss. sd. ; ditto, three
months, £133115. 4d. ; spelter, £2O 3s. 3d. These averages
are based on the official quotes to the end of November,
and thereafter on the cables to December 24. January
and December averages were :
Standard
Lead. Copper. Silver. Tin.
January .. £l4 10 6 £62 9 9 25'75d. £123 13 1
Dec. .. 13 4 2 62 14 2 24’14d. 132 3 1
* * * *
“B.B.”: Be the Northern Territory mines
being let to Chinese tributors. In nine cases out of ten
the original white owners know less of mining than they
do of Mars. Take the case of one man. He sank a shaft,
went down 20ft., and found it a duffer. Another man
came along and saw, 2ft. from the shaft, a reef which,
later on, he proved to carry 20 per cent. tin. Sailors,
shop assistants, schoolmasters, professional men, all come
to the N.T. and expect to make their fortunes at mining.
The miner, the real miner, who knows the difference be-
tween tin and taffy, can easily make a success of
mining if he comes with a little money at the
back of him, for there is plenty of mineral here. Half-
a-dozen men came up by one boat on a Monday
to Palmerston, went 30 miles into the country on
Tuesday, came back on Wednesday, and went down
south by boat on Thursday. Their decision—“ The place
is worked out; the heat is too great for a white man to
toil in it. The country is ruined by Chinese cheap labor.
It is not a fit place for a dog to live in.” On inquiry, I
found out that they had come up practically penniless,
having just enough money to return south with. If it
were compulsory for all intending settlers in the N.T. to
show themselves possessed of at least £5O, the place would
have a better name. To introduce the thin end of the
wedge, it should be made compulsory for employers to
engage three white men to every Chinaman employed.
* * * *
B. Gan : Too vague Juggins: Have never
met that cat P.R.F. : Good people behind it, but it is
over-capitalised S. Turner : Leave it alone.
* * * *
The Customs Department has been making in-
quiries already regarding the row over the supply of
explosives to Australian mines (B. 24/12/’08), and the
Argus has printed “an official report to the Minister of
Mines, Pretoria, S’Africa,” showing that the De Beer’s
factory (which has made the big contract with Australian
mines) employs only half as much black labor as Nobel’s
factory. This, of course, is calculated to put Nobel’s pot
on. Unfortunately for that yarn, the Nobel factory in
S’Africa hasn’t anything to do with the Australian trade.
The Nobel factory in S’Africa supplies S’Africa only :
the Nobel explosives which have for years been
sent to Australia come from Glasgow. (There is
another Nobel factory in Hamburg, which has com-
peted with the Glasgow factory, but the German goods
haven’t made much headway.) The object of the
tricky crowd behind the De Beer’s factory is to suggest
that De Beer’s and Nobel’s are equally nigger factories ;
but the crowd only achieves its object by disguising the
fact that the Nobel S’African factory isn’t the one from
which the Australian supplies have come.
* * * *
Herzig, who once managed things for 8., M.
and Co. in Melbourne, has reported favorably on the
Nicaragua property held under option by the Oroya-
Brown Hill Co. By the way, H. J. Daly is again in
Melbourne.
* * * *
Transvaal’s gold output for October established
another record, the total of 617,7440 z. being nearly
30,0000 z. better than the previous best monthly return.
* * « *
“Malaya,” from the baekblocks of the Feder-
ated Malay States: “ Mallarapoonie ” often wonders
“ whether J. Bull leaves old iron lying round on mines,
etc., in other parts of the world as he does here.” Yes,
only worse 1 And he is ably backed by the Australian in-
vestor. Near here are the Sorakai battery, the Teme-
long pipe-line (six miles), and many another. There is
no exemption in this place, and reconstruction or no
reconstruction, the rent of land and rent of water rights
must be paid on the nail, otherwise the movable pro-
perty is sold to recover the money due to Government,
and the land is thrown open for re-selection. Why on
earth do Australians with money put it into wild-cats
here ? Surely there are enough of them in Australia to
go round ! The best shows go to the Chinese without
exception ; anything else worth having goes to Cornish
folk ; the balance goes anywhere. Should a European
strike anything really good (it’s the Chinese coolies
who strike it), the mine very quickly gets into difficulties,
is flooded with water, the engines go “ futt,” and credit
is stopped. Consequence : Given to Chinese on a 5 per
cent, or 6 per cent, tribute. Result: Another wealthy
Chow with four motors and an impudent manner.


EDUCATION BY POST,
-The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare’s Business College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to take note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping:, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
and improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business College,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
Mr. Charles Haas, Tunnel, Tas., says :
“ For many years I was a sufferer from liver
complaint, from which I could obtain no relief.
Three years ago I commenced using Chamberlain’s
Tablets, and the result was so satisfactory that I
am now never without a bottle in the house.
Many of my friends used them on my recom-
mendation.”*
“Post Your Order
Direct
to
It does not matter where you live—thousands of miles away,
perhaps—yet you can obtain our Catalogue, which enables you to
secure the Best of Clothes, etc., at the most reasonable prices.
Smart Sac Suits, to your order, from 50/- upwards. Ready-to-
Wear Clothing for tropical or cold climates, Boots and Shoes,
Shirts to order and Ready-for-wear, Pyjamas, Dressing Goyvns, Hats,
Caps, Collars, Ties, Umbrellas, Leather Goods of all kinds, Uni-
forms, Ladies’ Tailor-made Costumes. Send apost card forCatalogue.
Now! Absolute satisfaction is guaranteed or money refunded!
LINCOLN, STUART & CO
PTY., LTD.,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
INTRODUCED.
“I say, old chap, what are you?”
“ I’m the Englishman’s idea of the Australian.
And what are you?”
“ Oh, I’m the Australian’s idea of the English-
man.”
“J. 0.”: Let me supplement “Victor
Wynnie’s” remarks (B. 29/10/’08) re the North
Queensland stinging tree. Cattle will not only
brush harmlessly by it, but will eat the leaves
with avidity even when plenty of grass is avail-
able. Have noticed that the bush grows thickest
where scrub has been felled and nothing done with
the land. Hence the edges of roads are generally
infested with it. At Atherton (Q.) they
point out the stinging tree to strangers as the
tobacco plant, and say that it sprang up as a result
of a passing black discarding his quid of weed.
It is cited as an instance of the fertility of the
local soil. To most men working among the
stinging tree, and especially in dry spells, the
minute bristles of the leaves will produce a bad
attack of sneezing, ending in bleeding from the
nose. I have heard of many cures, but found
none of them of any use.
« * * *
“ Liarbird ” : When young Mr. Rooks
arrived at his first mine-command, over in the
ranges at the back of Moomoorong, he was a proud
and happy man. One day he set forth on his
horse to go to Blackler’s, there to meet his direc-
tors in friendly converse. Time passed and Mr.
Rooks arrived not. More time passed, and the
directors sent a man up for Rooks. The man re-
turned—without Rooks. A couple of days passed,
and search parties were out for Rooks in every
direction. He was presently found, making down
a trickle-bottomed gully for civilisation, which he
would have reached in the course of a few hours.
In his strong right hand he carried a lump of
horseflesh to keep him from starvation, and in his
left breast-pocket was stowed his last will and
testament, written in horse-blood. It was un-
witnessed, the horse being dead before the will
was written. Mr. Rooks, with fine presence of
mind, had slain his steed with a pocket-knife.
He was out two nights, altogether. As they say
in the Boy’s Own Triper : “ N.B. —This is a true
story. ”
“Jeach”: “ Moorabinda ” (B. 3/12/’08)
journeys to the far Territory to discover the com-
mon bottle-tree of Queensland. He further tells
us that where these trees grow “ you are always
sure of finding water, as they grow only in good,
fertile land.” Well, the whole of Australia is
potentially “good, fertile land,” nevertheless a
prodigious number of persons have perished for
want of water therein. As a matter of fact, the
holes in the bottle-trees which “ Moora ” accuses
“some villainous travellers” of making from
sheer cussedness, have, in most cases, been gouged
to find water, there being a superstition that the
bottle-tree is a sort of vegetable dromedary, stor-
ing up a quantity of fresh fluid in its innards ;
but the water actually found in bottle-trees is by
no means fresh, and has almost certainly arrived
by percolation of rain through the usually more or
less pipey neck of the vegetable. Oh, yes, “ Moo,”
the bottle-tree is a common feature of Australia;
but it is not to be confounded with the bottle-
nose, the bottle-jack, the bottle-oh, or even with
the Tallbottle, which are all of British origin.
V * * *
“ Newsboy ” : Biked recently from Mel-
bourne to Poseidon —Victoria’s recent wonder in
the gold-producing line. For 120 miles I plugged
through small agricultural holdings, each of which
held a cocky imprecant anent the blankyism of
the climate and the mortality that was rife
amongst stock owing to lack of water. Then I
got to Poseidon. The place consists principally
of about 15,000 holes ranging in depth from 4ft.
to 40ft. Every one of them was filled to the brim
with water. At a rough estimate 1 should say
there were at least a million gallons of drinkable
liquid on the field. Yet it had had no more rain
than the surrounding country, and, had the
abandoned claims not stored the water when it
came, would have been just as fluidless. Poseidon
is pretty well played-out now as a goldfield, but,
as an object-lesson in the value of catching the
rain when it comes, it is worth more by far than
when its wonderful store of yellow metal was yet
unrifled.
* * * *
“Kola” : I struck a curiosity on Tait’s
railway the other day. It was midnight when I
arrived at Dunkeld (Western District of Victoria),
and I was amazed to discover a horde of sheep
being let out on to the passenger platform. The
platform was dusty, and the sheep were dusty
and numerous and active, and all humans except
the drovers and the unhappy railway officials
soon fled. At first I thought that it was an
emergency. Then I guessed that the jumbucks
were only let on the platform after ordinary
hours, as it were. But I found out that there was
no other way of unshipping the brutes, unless
they were allowed to jump out—about 4ft. —on to
the rails. Therefore, they shared the passenger
platform always, and the passenger had to put up
with them or else walk. Of course, Dunkeld is
in the heart of a big sheep country—in fact, that’s
all there is around Dunkeld. And you run into
sheep even in the main street. But this is the
first important railway station where I have seen
the sheep and the man on a common footing, so
to speak. One man told me that it wasn’t safe to
speak disrespectfully of a sheep nearer than 20
miles from Dunkeld, so I have waited till now.
* * « *
“Moorabinda,” his tale of the Darling
River (N.S.W.) and of the boats that float
thereon:—
The Lucy Lilian carried us from Grath down the
river to Wileannia, whence we were to go across country
to Menindie on the same river, and embark again On
another steamer. After our experience on the Lucy L.,
we were willing to place faith in the accuracy of Mark
Twain’s description of the early steamship days of the
Mississippi. Part of the time she had a barge of wool in
tow, and with a slack rope it would come gliding down
after us. When she made up her mind to visit a station
homestead, as would occur at least once a day, she would
swerve to the right or left, and let the barge float, into a
fork made by the gum-trees; then she would lunge
round, and churn herself into the snuggest spot in
the bank, with imminent peril to her smoke-
stack and pilot-house. Sometimes she would be
fractious, and break a chain or rub a limb
down with her shoulders; and again she would
become sulky, and stick on a sandbar for an
hour or two. The captain would let her wheeze and
slash the water for a while. Then he would run the
wheel round a few times ; a couple of sailors, aided by the
advice of the know-all passengers (represented by me
and another cove), would poke the sand with their sticks,
and she would give a snort, and start off again like a
French pony. After a while the captain had so coaxed
her and petted her that she grew as obedient and
domestic as a kitten. She had on board a dry-goods
shop, a fruit stand, a grocery store—an emporium, in
fact ; and the owner of the boat, who was also the
skipper, in the interludes of psalms and somnolence,
parted with his homely wares for an equivalent in mutton
or money, whenever the flag of necessity was hoisted.
Sometimes the Lucy Lilian would Consider it wise
policy to leave the regular channel of the Darling and cut
across country to save a horseshoe bend ; and once she did
it to get out of the way of a steamer of which the name I
have forgotten, but which I shall call the Irene Una.
The history of the Irene Una was peculiar. Before we
left Bourke the proprietor of the local pub said : “ You’ll
very likely meet the Irene Una coming up the river. I
sent by her to Adelaide for a load of lumber three years
ago, and She is just bringing it how. She went down
all right, but the river went dry on her way back, and
she had to stop short. So the captain turned her nose
into the bank, tied her up, and they ran her as a sawmill
for nearly three years.” And this historic and adaptable
boat we met on our journey. So certain was it of its
right of way that it seemed anxious to interfere with the
bows of our craft. It was the habit afterwards of the
officers and crew and the passengers of the Lucy Lilian to
say that the officers of the Irene Una had been indulging,
but of that I am not certain. The nervous affidavit of
our captain could not be sufficient warrant. He was
prejudiced.
But the tale of the Irene Una does not end here. When
our captain asked the other commodore what was the
matter with him (the other admiral) and his floating
coffin, he was coarsely bade to wait until he got to Grath.
Grath is not the real name of the place, but it protects
the inhabitants. We arrived there-the following day.
The hotelkeeper, the children, and Lukes (a squatter,
called the King of Grath) were sober. From the pub-
keeper we learned that Lukes, the said king, had sent to
Adelaide three years before by the Irene Una for a granite
monument, that Grath should have a piece of architecture
—of which, indeed, it seemed sorely in need—and that his
two “dear, departed wives” might have some visible
token of respect to their sacred memory. But we know
what chanced to the Irene Una, and while the people of
Grath waited for their monument, which was to be
accompanied by a function (and beer), the drought went
on. King Lukes married again. But the marriage baked
meats were hardly cold When the flood came, and with it
the Irene Una and the monument for the town of Grath.
Lukes the king was not dismayed. He had the function
(also the beer). The third wife declared the stone well
and truly laid, and in the evening the banquet was held,
at which the king toasted the aforesaid “ dear departed ”
in florid eloquence, coupling the name of his third wife
(present) with the toast. And thus Grath got its archi-
tecture, and, as King Lukes put it, “ the bygone partners
of his bosom could now rest in pride beneath the sands of
Grath.”
HE THOUGHT HE WAS BUSHED.
PARSON (who has come upon Barcoo Bill blaspheming . in the wilderness ): “ Wretched man!
Do you know that you are on the road to per-r-rdition?”
BARCOO WILLIAM: “I'm glad to hear it, Mister. I’ve goiter thirst on me like a herrin’. If
ye’ve got a tray on yer I’ll drink yer health as soon as I get there.’’
The “ Mussel ” writes :
“G.S.K.” (B. 19/11/’08) thus defines a true billabong
“ It commences in an outlet from a river, and flows in
the opposite direction to the main channel, subse-
quently discharging itself into the same river at a higher
level.”
I remember a billabong of this kind —but it was many
years ago, and I believe it is now extinct. I used to tell
other people about it, but have long since desisted, as
they not infrequently told me that I “ should get my
head read.” The true billabong of my early days used to
be near ourplace, and when the river was in flood used to
circulate very rapidly.
Once when the river was very high the rumor went round
that Mick Maguire had fallen in and been whirled away. A
number of people soon collected on the bank and gazed
intently at the mad rush of waters. “ Here he comes,”
they shouted, just as excited as when the horses turn
into the straight for a Melbourne Oup. And, sure enough,
a red head, as near as I could make out, dashed by in
midstream and rapidly vanished round a bend. In a little
while round the red head whisked again and vanished.
Then the people started timing it. The red head came
round regularly—time, 2min. 53sec. per revolution. The
schoolmaster worked it out on his shirtcuff that Maguire
was travelling a little over 33 miles an hour.
I watched till bedtime, but came down again very early
in the morning. The red head was still whizzing past,
but going a bit quicker, as the river had risen. Average
time during the last hour—2.49. Everybody in the
place had now collected on the bank. Some brought
their dinners with them. A discussion arose as to whether
Maguire was dead or not. Some thought he wasn’t. The
current waa too swift to allow him to sink, so it was
possible he might live for some time.
Late in the afternoon someone suggested throwing him
out refreshments ; so, whenever Maguire did his dash
past, he was pelted with half loaves of bread. But he was
travelling so fast that it was difficult to get: any food near
him. When the bread ran out, someone brought a bag of
potatoes, and these were thrown out to him ; also two
barrow-loads of turnips. Maguire’s red head now looked
likq the nucleus of a comet, his tail consisting of bread,
potatoes, turnips, etc.
At (i p.m. his time was 2.47.
As Maguire had shown no signs of life, and had not
attempted to reach any of the food near him, everybody
thought he was dead, so the priest read the burial service
over him. Peter Thompson gave the priest 10s ; being
part of wages owing to Maguire, who was doing some
fencing for Peter Thompson.
Just as everyone was about to go home for tea, several
meti came down from the pub, rather hilarious —for the
thing had developed into a sort of picnic, and, as Maguire
was quarrelsome and had few friends, grief for his untimely
end was tempered by the joyous manner of its ending.
One:of the drunks called out “This is the stuff to wake
him up,” and at the same time heaved a bottle of beer
haphazard out into the cataract. When the bottle left
the man’s hand Maguire was just turning into the straight
about 300yds. away. No one was prepared for what fol-
lowed. Almost simultaneously with the collision of the
bottle and Maguire’s left ear a furious bellow came from
over the waters’, and the late corpse did powerful trudgeon
strokes for shore. It is believed that Maguire was dazed
with the rapid whirl of the water, and the shock of the
bottle brought him to his senses. As Maguire disap-
peared round the bend he was perceptibly nearer shore.
When he next whizzed by he was about 20yds. nearer
still. The priest and the man who threw the bottle
left at this juncture, remarking that “ there was no need
to stay now that poor Maguire was safe.” At the fourth
revolution, after regaining consciousness, Maguire struck
the bank, rebounded 20ft. into the air, ricochetted some
distance inland, and was brought to rest in the fragments
of a demijohn of beer.
The fight between Peter Thompson and Mick Maguire
lasted nearly two hours. I don’t remember who won,
but I think it must have been Mick Maguire, because I
heard people say that Peter Thompson had to refund him
10s. burial fee, and pay him time-and-a-quarter for the
whole time he was in the water.
“ Whaffor ” : Gayndah (Queensland) is
the home of the grotesque. This village, which is
one of the oldest in Queensland, is now completely
surrounded by that great national curse, the
prickly pear. Pads and tracks are cut through this
awful, impenetrable wilderness. The spiky curse
grows in the back premises, in the lanes, up the
trees, over the fences, and on the roof tops. Pad-
docks adjoining the village are one mass of pear
from end to end. To reach a farmhouse you have
to follow a pad, so thick and impenetrable is the
accursed cactus. The river banks are covered
with it. I have been bushed more than once, but
I shall never forget the horrible night I spent
endeavoring to find this townlet. I was riding on
a pad which suddenly turned, and all night long
I sat a few yards from a pub holding my steed. On
every side of me the curse was so thick that no one
could walk either way. Those cranks who praise
the many virtues of prickly pear as a fodder or
whisky-producer should go to Gayndah and start
right in. Also, the shire councillors for the past
10 years should get 12 months’ hard labor for pal-
pable neglect of duty, and be made cut thq vege-
table.
THE AUSTRALIAN GEORGE
WASHINGTON.
“ Father! I can’t tell a lie, I did it!”
“F.B. ” : Will “Lyrebird” (B. 3/12/’08)
let me know where he, or his jackass friend, ever
saw a snake scuttling for his life in front of a
bush fire ? Before his snakeship could get across
his home paddock, an ordinary bush fire would be
in the next electorate and setting fire to Bruce
Smith. Anyhow, jackasses—whether feathered
or clothed—don’t have much time for lunch when
the fire has started. It is up to the jackass to
leap then, and leap earnestly.
THE OLD IDENTITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dunn is the old identity
Of sleepy Boomanoomanoo ;
A darned old cuss who claims to be
A pioneer of ’52.
Bad luck came with him, for, since then
The days have never been so bright;
And e’en the moon can’t shine as when
He ’possumed round at dead of night.
The seasons, as they come and go,
Are getting worse, it seems ; the crops
Are nothing like what he could grow,
Whether of wheat, or spuds, or hops.
Our dogs are not the dogs of old ;
Our guns—he had the gun for game !
Why, now (perchance a truth he told)
You couldn’t buy one quite the same.
Yea, everything, from soil to sun,
At sleepy Boomanoomanoo,
Has retrograded since o.d Dunn
First settled down in ’52.
Now, knowing this, Bill Jinks one day
Sought out the old identity,
And paused a little while to say
How wonderful a man was he ;
Thinking full surely he would sigh
The old-time sigh, and say, “ Ah, you
Cannot compare such men as I
With veterans of ’52 ! ”
But Mr. Dunn, perchance, had been
Had by some soulless wag before ;
He hit Bill fairly, square and clean,
Th u sat upon him on the floor,
And said, “My son, my one regret
For old-time Boomanoomanoo
Is that its sires could ever get
Such blith’ring idiots as you.”
VIC.
MILKY WHITE.


THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . •
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F* 0+ Robinson, Proprietor
In the North lived a feeble old maid,
Her whole body was weak and decayed.
Though her ailments seemed chronic,
Those great Pills, Laxo-Tonic,
Soon each organ in good health arrayed.
'LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10jd. and Is. 6d.*
4/- in the £ Discount
We are taking off all Solid Silver Goods this Christmas.
The slump in Metals has enabled us to make special
arrangements with the greatest and best manu-
facturers of England to sell their Silver products
.at 20 per cent, discount off their English Whole-
sale Catalogue Prices.
This forced us to make similar reductions on all
our Silver Stock.
BUY WHILE SILVER IS LOW.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures
Cash.
23 Hunter Street,
Silver-Mounted Manicure Set of 8 Fieces, in
Handsome Case, 23/6; less 20%, 18/10.
“ X.P.D.” : A piece of strenuous Papuan
history that I have not yet seen in print happened
about 20 years ago. A ship with a cargo of live
Chinamen, exported for plantation use some-
where, got piled up on Brooker Island, S.-E. of
Samarai. The natives rose to the occasion, built
a big corral, yarded the Chows into it, and fed
them like fighting cocks. Every day three or
four Chinamen were taken out of the corral and
didn’t come back. Pig-hunting was neglected,
and the niggers sang “For He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow ” every night for months. What became
of the white officers (if any) I don’t know.
. ► * *
“S.S.S.” (from Torres Straits) : Be pouri-
pouri. It is practised by the medicine men or
wizards. They aro supposed to possess super-
natural powers, and can cause sickness and death
by enchantment. “ lEita” is a charnf consisting
of a dead man’s hair and kidney fat mixed into a
bolus and fastened to a bone about 6in. long.
This amazing weapon is kept carefully concealed
by the wizard until he feels, in daily newspaperese
language, that the time is ripe. It is, then
unwrapped and laid before the wizard’s fire
pointed in the direction of the defendant. It is
supposed that the spirit of the dead man whose
fat it contains causes the after-damaga.
“ FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT”
With “Hay-carting in full swing,” “ The
dispatch of a very large snake,” “ Rush of work
at the post-office,” and “ The gloom cast over
the town by the death of our old and respected
resident, Mr. Jinkins,” the country correspondent
at Billygoat Flat has had a very busy time this
Christmas.
HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY.
“ Here, sheep? You lost a bit of your wool!"
“Harry”: Old Mac used to sleep in his
waggon in fine weather, when he had no load, on
his blankets spread out on the feed-bags; but,
one time, he struck Croydon, flush from a good
back trip, and looked in at the Du gong Hotel, to
wet his luck. Next morning he had breakfast in
the dining-room, was waited on as a star boarder,
became thoroughly demoralised, and his mind
was made up (independent of himself, as it were)
to be a gentleman for once in his life. He went
over to the store, and bought the sloppiest suit
of reach-me-downs of glossy black, and the stiffest
and stickiest white shirt they had to show, also
four bone-studs, two for the collar and two for the
cuffs. Then he gave his worn “ larstins ” (elastic-
side boots) to the stable boy (with half-a-crown)
to clean, and—proceeded. He put the boots on
during the day, one at a time, between drinks,
gassing all the time, and continued. He con-
cluded, about midnight, after a very noisy time and
interviews with every one Jon sight (slightly
interrupted by drinks) concerning
“ his room.” It was show time,
you see, .and all the rooms
were as full as he was, and he
was too full even to share the
parlor or billiard-room with
others; but he consented at
last to a shake down on the
balcony on the barmaid
volunteering to spread the
couch with her own fair
hands. Towards daylight he
woke. It is well known, to
people who know, that old
campers-out (and young men
know it too) will wake once,
and, if in a party, each at
different times, to tend to
their “cattle,” or listen for
the hobbles of their horses,
or simply to rise on their
elbows and have a look round
—the last, I suppose, from an
instinct born in old dangerous
times. Mac woke up, and it
was dark. .. He reached, and
his hand fell on the rail of £he
balcony which was to him
(instinctively and that
shows how instinct errs) the
rail of the side of his waggon,
in which, as I have said, he
was wont to sleep. So he
drew himself up on his knees,
and to his feet, with the in-
stinctive intention of getting
down to put some chaff and
corn in the feed-bags
stretched across the shafts
for the horses, seeing that he
intended, by instinct, to
make an early start. Which
shows bow instinct can never
be trusted to travel with
memory, but will get ahead of it or behind
it He got a leg over and felt (instinctively)
for the hub of the wheel. His foot
found and rested on the projecting ledge of
the balcony floor outside, and that, to him,
was the hub all right. He swung his other
leg over and expected to drop lightly on to the
grass or dust of the camp, but, being instinctively
rigid, he fell heavily some 15ft., into a kerbed
gutter. As a result of his howls, lights soon
flickered in windows and fanlights, and with eager
first-aid and assistance they carried a very sober,
battered and blasphemous drover inside, and
spread mattresses on the floor. And, some six
weeks later, an image, mostly of plaster-of-Pans
and bandages, reclined, much against its will, on
a be-cushioned cane lounge on the hospital veran-
dah, and from the only free and workable corner
of its mouth, when the pipe was removed, came
shockingly expressed opinions of them new--
fangled ! two-storey ! “night-houses
as it called them). And thereafter, when he had
a load, or the weather was too bad for sleeping in
or under his waggon, the verandah of a one-
storeyed shanty (if he could get to it) was good
enough for McSomething, the carrier.
“ Agricola ” : On the railways there is a
growing tendency to shorten the names of towns
with overgrown titles. Among the railway men
themselves every town has its nickname, induced
by a desire for brevity. However, several towns
have been officially shortened, the final Wagga
being dropped from Wagga Wagga, etc. The
average outbacker delights in rechristening his
nearest town, partly through flashness and partly
from a desire to appear on familiar and speaking
terms with it. Good examples of this christening
art are “Wang” (Wallerawang, N.S.W., and
Wangaratta, Vic.), “Wong” (Yarrawonga,
Vic.), “Coota” (Cootamundra, N.S.W.),
“Tumba” (Tumbarumba, N.S.W.), “Murrum”
(Murrumburrah, N.S.W.), “Gundy” (Gundagai,
N.S.W.), “Ran” (Narrandera and Tirana,
N.S.W.), “Di” (Quirindi,- N.S.W.), “Jeril” or
“Rie” (Jerilderie, N.S.W.), “Talang” (Talan-
gatta, Vic.), “Glen” (Rutherglen, Vic., and
Glen Innes, N.S.W.), and so on interminably.
In j'ears to come public usage will have rendered
these contractions correct, and they will be offi-
cially adopted, to the great relief of all who have
to address letters to the places in question.
* • • *
“Milky White” on a prominent Aus-
tralian animal: —
Concerning “ Werrimee”(s/11/’08)on “ Itan ” (22/10/’08),
likewise ’possums and phalangers. I think it’s about time
Australians started calling their phalangers plain “phal.”
and “ flying phal.” They’re not opossums, anyhow, with
or without an apostrophe. One might as well call a dingo
a pug or a pipeful of gum-leaves a plug of tobacco. Have
read somewhere that our arboreal cuss or cuscus and his
brothers were called ’possums because, when caught,
they frequently shammed dead. From my experience
that’s a libel; our phal., even the smallest of him, is a
fighter all the time. Anyhow, the opossum is a single
American family, consisting of two genera— Didelphys
(23 species) and Chironectes, or water opossum (one
species). They have five pairs of upper incisor teeth and
three pairs of lower incisor teeth, and three pairs of pre-
molars. The water ’possum is web-footed ; but the toeson
the hind feet of the others are all detached, and of (nearly)
equal length. The big toe is close to the other four, and
can be opposed to them in climbing or gripping. The
tails of the true bpossums are long, naked and scaly, and
the pouch is generally forgotten in their make-up. The
phalangers are found only on our side the Wallace line.
They consist of at least i 2 genera (not nine, as “Itan"
has it), and cover well over 30 species. Usually they
tear fodder with three pairs of upper and one pair of
lower incisors. The second and third toes of the hind
feet are always joined together, and the big toe is widely
and strongly opposable to the others. The tail —in some
species quite short —is never naked except on the lower
surface, and is often —Tasmanian black, for instance —
very heavily furred. The pouch is usually extremely
well developed. Surely there is more than an apos-
trophe’s difference in these differences ; but if there isn’t
I’ll name some more. Meanwhile, I’d like to see The
Bulletin insist on its writers calling our phalangers just
what they are, and not just what they are not. As for
“Itan’s” Tasmanian snakes, the Quaker naturalist of the
Tas. East coast (E. O. Cotton, a life-long student of local
flora, fauna, etc.) holds that not only are all Tassy snakes
venomous, but that wounds (bites) inflicted on humans
by the thylacine, the Tas. tiger cat, and the devil, despite
most careful treatment, sooner or later show signs of the
presence of poison.
THE MEN IN WHITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where lies the rutted feather-dust along the outward
track,
And plunging hoof and waggon-tyre turn sweating bronze
to black ;
Where carrion-flies come roaring down to seize their
living prey,
And, with lean horses, leaner men go cursing on their
way;
Here does the blazing North play with the Southerners
in white—
The men in lovely toilets of blouse-linen, lady-light!
In snowy white, these Southerners stir up the good red
dirt,
So, at the last —men all! —they come to blueys and a
shirt!
The cabin-bleach is grey upon pale face and lily hand, •
As, full of wild Coast-beer, they amble out across the
land ;
With various Southern comforts humped beneath their
saddle-straps,
All cool, they plod upon their way, and simmer not—
perhaps 1
Wise men, they creep across The Edge, dead white from
top to toe ;
But, though they started white, these days t hey wear
(because they know
The gorgeous Tree of Northern Knowledge right down to
its roots)
Old, open shirts, and blueys, with large hobnails in their
boots.
They come along, with clothes and cash, from all the
cool, clean South,
With still the taste of cool, clean Southern liquors in their
mouth;
But, by the time they turn upon the track of Coming-in,
They swear by simple blueys and by shirts that show the
skin 1
When now they track down-Coast again to see the
Barrier-swell,
To watch the Little World go round and smell the long-
shore smell,
To stare at South-bound boats and hear the swish of
women’s skirts —
These times they wear their blueys, and their plain, un-
varnished shirts!
vic.
FRANK HENTY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
F.H. : “ Regret ” is a wail that wails in a very
indefinite fashion. Apparently what you regret is being
dead, but most people are dead, and they have been dead
most of the time, and deadness # is even commoner than
grass—it is so common that to write about it seems super-
fluous H.S.: “Locusts” is only fair, and it raises a
painful subject.. ..Emu : “ Australaise ” only ordinary...
S.: “ Nocturne ” too vague. “ Comes Again ” spoiled by
faulty rhythm. “ I see her in her wet whiteNESs,” for
instance, is a very awkward line R.W.T.: You don’t do
justice to the great subject of being naked beside the sea.
Frank H.: “New Immigrant ” is a most complicated and
purposeless snake narrative A.H.8.: “Laura” is
pretty but commonplace N. Ellis: “ His First Smoke ”
deals with a subject that many great minds have tackled
before, and tackled in a better fashion. You are a girl,
so probably you don’t write from experience. Buy a
Burmese cheroot: consume it in a lonely place ; then
when you come out of hospital re-write the
poem. Especially do we recommend the Bur-
mese cheroot M.B. : “Morning" is pretty,
but only in a small, purposeless sort of way
H.Y.: Farrell tribute is belated.... The Scold: “The
Rivals” is doggerel—and incomprehensible doggerel at
that....F. Parsons: “Illumination" is a fine, albeit
hackneyed, theme; but you lack the art requisite to
make it glow Tracker H.: Of no special value.
Edith L. : Joke was dead when it reached
us. If it was alive when it left you, it possibly
died of suffocation in the post. We have noticed that
the post has also been upset the last few days.
Coma: The machinery of it is too clumsy
A. Dell : We don’t care for allegories.... Henry O.J.L. :
Both unsuitable Nosille: Falls rather flat —Louis
Blake: They don’t quite catch-on Ajax: Too long-
winded and rambling... .Vendetta : The “Envoi” is
good, but the rest is rather feeble... .D. 6. : Sorry don’t
know of one.... Louis Blake: Ingenious rhyming—the
sort of thing that just suits a young person’s autograph
book.... Frank L. : Plain dirt....R. Halloran : There are
no points at all about the story of Bloggs and Hoggs
G. : “Simplified Spellin’" is chiefly notable for the
heroic effort to make “ rippin’ ” rhyme with “ Isaac Pit-
man.” H.O.K. : You ought to have special knowledge,
and yet you furnish mere generalities which have been
presented again and again. ...C.W.M. : “A Bush Fire”
needs strong handling at this time of day; yet yours
had to be read a second time before the verdict went
against it Firkin : You’ve mistaken your measure. It’s
a° gill at most Di Spec: Doesn’t read true.
....The Wasp: Your “Tribute to Sonny Palatto, Dutch
Comedian and Dancer,” goes ; though this mime was
hitherto unknown to us. Herewith “ The Tribute :
The Past is Dead—but fond memory lives.
Young in years, Sonny Palatto —
Sank to rest.
As a Dutch comedian, he was
One of the best.
Though death hovered o’er him —
He had a cheerful heart,
And played with success
Life’s mirthful part.
As a eccentric dancer he achieved
Many an hearty encore.
But, alas 1 early was his exit
For evermore.
Newsboy: “ Dream ” much the best of a, bunch, and
it isn’t quite good enough. The rest are infantile
Jim G. (Murrin): It wasn’t a question of preference to
unionists. It was simply one of exclusion of non-
unionists. And This Bulletin pointed out that, while
that had its advantages, it also resulted in weak-kneed
creatures crawling into the unions, and crawling out
again when trouble arose ; and that’s a danger that has
to be recognised and guarded against. . ..Eva J. : “ Con-
fession ” is nicely rhymed, but the trail of the common-
place is over it. The one phrase, “ Heaven’s blue,” has
slaughtered 727,804 poetical innocents during the past
12 months Valeny : Curiously inept yarn; and the
joke suggestion is too long and labored... .M. A. C. : “The
Wish ” is a shade above Valentine card form, but ’way
below poetry... .Spectator: Local interest 0n1y....
C.H.C.W. : The 30-year-old English dipso, whom you saw
leaving Australia in a P. and O. boat to take up “ a lucra-
tive billet in the British Diplomatic Service,” got for him
“by his brother the Earl,” failed to impress us. An age
limit is imposed on would-be entrants to this Service
nowadays, also a stiff exam., for which a life of sin in
the VVestralian backblocks isn’t a good preparation
H. : You send (1) a poem to a Jackass in which you
note that your heart is broken, (2) an anagram on the
word Hell, (3) a rhymed request to 1908 to “go
quickly,” with its “ trouble, sorrow, sin and shame.”
You’re' a cheerful Christmas cake. Pensioner: The
matter hasn’t got that far yet—G.M.G. : “Her First
Mistletoe” is the sort of subject we side-step.
Communicate with us anent y'our little friend s
mistletoe experiences when she is about 14 years older...
Extex : Joke suggest i . us poor —destitute in fact. &. J.S.:
Can’t locate “Starlight’s Death.” Fact that you don’t
know the author’s name makes identification well-nigh
hopeless Resurgatn : Lie down.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.F.W. : For your drawing of Brannigan you deserve
to be cast into a Hibernian lodge in the full regalia of a
Prentice Boy of Derry....L.G.C.: Might be something in
the idea; but your monkey hasn’t got the patriarchal
look that the case calls for... .Stanley B.: Poor drawing,
and the joke is evidently just out of the Benevolent
Asylum.
‘‘ Quan ”: Hell Hole and Purgatory are two
alleged abysses in the Oonsuelo Tableland (Q.),
near the head of the Maranoa River and Meteor
Creek. Very little is known about this mysterious
tableland, and less still about the alleged abysses.
Some time ago an officer of the Queensland Lands
Department was sent to make a report upon the
country, which is unusually wild and thickly tim-
bered in parts ; but although lie took a guide
alleged to be well acquainted with the place, he
didn’t see either Hell Hole or Purgatory.
William Carmichael, of Roma, who reckons he
knows the place as thoroughly as anybody, says
that Hell Hole is about a mile wide, and a mile
and a half deep, and full of rocky shelves, and
that Purgatory is even worse, being larger, more
difficult of access, and infested with death adders.
Both contain plenty of water, Carmichael says,
and there is a rapidly-flowing creek,, from half a
mile t > three-quarters of a mile wide, in Hell Hole.


Tf? fWWKe K .
!s Off!
" His Excellency did wol' CanyiH'" /%v
Jot>H f\\ddzp' nor dlid Mr Jo
* bit*-! (Jfl/er’n«rj do \ |
*<% or> (Governors ftVatg s£<retbsyjj
r The.
We be WHerevtn »*> eo**»i«>g
year- v re ’bao'e *bea« 1 ast^yea*-
mat'C "VjA»>lCy j»a*>lcy vv'j -finance-.
/n£o tnoy«- free iVi|ji 4o
hCo hrtdt't Siv> a£- V*y Kind -
, hdf£i*»o do wiHt *s«.
<vA t *>angVly lot^-Jovt-
be j
/\ 'furti ©J eYc&jrfio V d>
Coniiczjily irj
one j>*r>lo s i$
rfjC Cjl\nT~
Wonder lly j'2\rttfj'j*l "fo
ard original
iv, CIOWII7O
jy
sa*d 'Abov'V'ble rf
Would T)c„
°f if CfoVerijOtt,
were abboiwied
u locally. *•
Xt a Scb 00l
bwaKmo uh , it" v/as
said -■tffa+'Htje i^ihos
included
c a, /J 2 i “ b i et< "
> inx> a wowiai
\ ‘ nccd s iv, ei^cK
V> ov __
/ life’
Hew* MiSW - Avid do you wishfc ftolU-
h/ew Pufil -'•0 Ma -S.hK S I be S ; n wi# a co«v S e
of __ I "
(
) »?eceht~-
°f
\(A n W
Distressed female ’. 'xl
"Pont*Know wfia+'you call a L«?
•dririble Ti^sH! Co rvj« &5m«.1l iljiS
BY THE FAIR WATERS OF THE YARRA.


THAT PARLIAMENTARY CAMP AT YASSBERRA.
EXPLANATIONS Bruce Smith and Senator Mary Jane Gould are seen in the foreground preparing a frugal breakfast for their mates (wha are still asleep in the
tent). Bill Lyne (having promised to contribute kangaroo=tail soup for dinner) may be seen in the middle, distance trying to collect the. raw, material,. The
reader is at liberty to fit any feet to the boots seen at the door, as his fancy may suggest.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
The advance that has taken place in the art of
advertising during the past few years is truly astonishing,
and this is demonstrated more particularly'by the set of
calendars issued by the Robur Tea Company for the
coming year. “ The Bush Fire,” “ The Vintage Festival ”
and “ Challenged,” three of the most popular works of
art in the National Gallery, have been so well copied
that when the calendar has fulfilled its useful mission of
tallying the days of the year, the little pictures might be
worth cutting out and framing. The Trustees of the
Gallery are to be commended for allowing copies to be
made, for by this means people in the country and those
unable to visit the Gallery are able to become acquainted
with the beautiful works provided by the nation for their
pleasure and artistic education. The calendars are
available to the public, free, for the asking from their
grocer.*
I saw Uncle Sam in Moss Vale,
A picture both hearty and hale ;
Laxo-Tonic’s his friend,
And will be to the end—
He never finds life growing: stale.
LAXO-TONIO PILLS, IOJd. and Is. (id.*
J. J. Miller’s Diary and Date Book for
1909 is now available to anyone who wants the
handiest and most instructive volume of its kind
that can be had for a shilling or two. The dates,
statistics, etc., are of the kind that everybody
inquires for at one time or other and nobody can
instantly obtain from any other source than this.
To one who is looking for wagers on questions of
“ approximate population of the principal towns
in the Commonwealth,” etc., the book is in-
valuable.
Sickness causes a loss of both time and
money. You lose the time and have the expense
of medical attendance, entailing a double loss.
This can be avoided by using some reliable remedy
at the first stage of the sickness. The purchase
of a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and
Diarrhoea Remedy often proves a profitable in-
vestment, for, by its use at the first appearance,
any unusual looseness of the bowels, a severe
attack of diarrhoea or dysentery may be averted,
that might otherwise compel a week’s cessation
from labor. Every household should have a bottle
at hand. It never fails and is pleasant to take.
Get it to-day. It may save a life.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The hungry billet of Agent-General for
Tasmania (it is only worth £4OO a year), which
became vacant when Alfred Dobson fell off a ship
the other day, goes to Dr. McCall, who was Chief
Secretary in the Broken Prop Cabinet (April,
1903, to July, 1904). He is aged 48, a native of
Devonport (Ta,s.), and acquired his knowledge of
the human inside at Glasgow.
Chief-Justice Alfred Stephen was four
times Lieutenant-Governor of N.S.W., beginning
on the departure of Belmore and
passing out on the coming of
J ersey. Chief-J ustice Darley took
up the Lieutenant-Governorship
on Jersey’s retirement, and has
been Deputy-Rubber-stamp four
times also, not
counting the few
times he has acted
while the Gover-
nor visited out of
the State. The
Deputy-Rubber-
stamp job is
highly profitable.
A Lieutenant-
Governor draws
the full salary of
a Governor while
the position is f
vacant, and half '
of it from the
time the new
Governor leaves
England till he is
sworn in; and, as
the Chief-J ustice’s
salary still ran, it
happened more than
once that his Honor
enjoyed quite a long
spell at £10,500 a
year—a bigger screw
than the Lord Chan-
cellor of England
gets.
The departing
Governor Le Hunte’s
irregular name has
been a standing worry
THE LA TEST IN IMMI-
GRATION AGENTS.
to some people, who put him down as some sort of
foreigner. In fact, he is an Irishman, a native of
County Wexford, and grandson of the eminent
and big-hearted Chief J ustice Pennyfather, of the
Dublin Bench.
When Stephenson’s first English Eleven
visited Australia, it was “Cabbage Tree Ned,”
just dead at Ballarat, who had the £3OO job of
driving them through Victoria. His last job was
driving the Benevolent Asylum cart.
Speaker Coles has completed. 19 years in
the chair of the S. Australian Assembly, and he
has never been absent from his duty for a single
day. Labor member Archibald, who sits for Port
Adelaide, has never once been absent from the
House on a sitting day since he was originally
elected in April, 1893.
When J. Longstaff years
ago won the Victorian Travelling
Scholarship for art students he
handed over his favorite drinking
utensil, an enamelled tin mug—
art students’ bank accounts don’t
generally run to silverware-—to
Aby Alston, the fellow-student
whom he judged would succeed
him in the scholarship; and
thereby he established a custom.
Each winner in turn picked out
his probable successor, and
handed over the pot, and through
a long run the artists proved
themselves expert (or darned
lucky) tipsters. Aby Alston
succeeded Longstaff all right.
He passed the mug to Quinn,
Quinn passed to Coates, Coates
to the younger Alston, and
Alston to Cohen—all scholarship
winners. But Cohen didn’t pass
it to Miss C. L. Jenkins (this
year’s winner, and the first lady
to “get there”), so the chain
has been broken at last, and
Longstaff’s “sacred mug” lies
ownerless.
Benn Wolfe Levy, who died
in London lately, aged 57, was
one of those Levys whose name
is preserved in the Levy fountain
in the Botanic Gardens (Sydney).
In 1887 he went to London as
managing partner of David
Cohen and Co. (he married David
Cohen’s eldest daughter), and
put in his spare time handing
round the David Lewis Trust
money—a mere quarter-of-a-
million or so intended for dis-
tribution among Liverpool and
Manchester charities. The foun-
tain in Sydney Gardens was
erected by the Levy children in
memory of their father, L. W.
Levy, M.L.C.
The Bulletin’s “Oldest Inhabitant”
writes:—
Mr. Ex-Justice M. H. Stephen was called to the Bar in
1850, not 1860, as printed in The Bulletin (24/12/’OS). He
had previously been Associate to his father, the Chief
J ustice.
Sydney Smith, who had built up a repu-
tation for his Yalumba wines, died the other day,
after having achieved the affection of pretty well
everybody in the S. Australian wine business.
Smith was the champion heavyweight of the
Angaston district, and, though 'he strove hard
against it, wound up at 24st.
Premier Price, of S. Aus., is looking
dreadfully ill, and has been completely worn out
by the work of the session. He is gaunt and
grey and haggard, and his colleagues are very
anxious about him. They wanted him to take a
real holiday when he went to England ; but he
isn’t built that way.
At 75, Adelaide’s banking patriarch, J. G.
Jennings, of the National Bank, looks into the
cash-box for the last time, and retires to private
life in Melbourne. Jennings’ father was a director
of the Union Bank over 60 years ago, and the
youngster first climbed a stool in that service.
Later on, after making a brief trial of sheep-
farming, he returned to the overdraft and the
N.S.F., and has ever since been keeping an eye
on that breed of stock.
The name of an almost forgotten person-
age was recalled last week when the Rechabites
of P’ran (Melbourne) ornamented their hall with
a tablet to the memory of the deceased James
Munro, Minister of Education for two months in
1875, Premier for 15 months in 1890-92, temporary
Agent-General, land-boomer, house-agent, tee-
totaler, and eminently unsuccessful banker. The
Rechabites also suspended a big photo of the de-
ceased on their inner wall. Munro was one of
the founders of the P’ran “tent” in ’65, and he
never had a really satisfying drink from that date
till the day of his death.
Governor Le Hunte sails away from
S. Aus. on December 31, and S. Aus. isn’t likely
to crack up and crumble in consequence. He has
made hundreds of nice Sunday-school addresses
to thousands of boys and girls at public schools,
and has talked crops to farmers at scores of agri-
cultural shows, but during the whole six years he
has been in S. Aus. he never made one speech
which is likely to be remembered for any special
merit in it. He is a fine-looking and well-meaning
man, but he is a lamentable failure as a speaker,
and if he has great thoughts he isn’t able to let
them out. It is a sad thing to be always thought
of as a well-meaning man.
Alfred Devine, better known as “Cabbage-
tree Ned,” about whose prowess as a whip in the
roaring days of the goldfields 2695 paragraphs
have been written, died, the other day, in Ballarat
Benevolent Asylum. There seems to be some-
thing wrong either with the records or with many
of the “ Cabbage-tree Ned ” paragraphs. He was
71 when he died, according to the official papers;
yet he was “ king of the roads ” between 1851 and
1857, and in 1851 he would have been 14, which
looks rather young for the royal job. Still,
“ Ned ” had a big reputation as a whip, and there
will be many to regret that he had to end up in a
“ home.”
The death of a descendant recalls Pastor
Handt. He arrived in Australia with huge faith
in his ability to make good Lutherans of Queens-
land aborigines. A German, of course ; and with
the methodical habits of his race, he proceeded
to study his flock in the open. But the blacks
guyed him. Then he concluded that he needed a
means of subsistence, as, although a frugal man,
’possum did not agree with him, and other diet
cost money. So he took a job in Brisbane Gaol,
intending to devote his spare time to the con-
version of Binghi. Either in sympathy or with a
chuckling malice the Government of the day
offered him a grant of land for every genuine con-
version from blackfellow religion to Lutheranism
he would make. He plodded on for manv laborious
years; but he never claimed a single grant.
THE HAPPY GEORGE WARRURTON
FULLER , M.H.R.
Mosfcly it is the languid office-boy that
comes to grief in the lift-well, but a couple of days
before Christmas it was Theodore Clark, one of
the directors of Marcus Clark and Co. He
was a brother of Marcus, the founder of the busi-
ness which now has its headquarters in the big
flat-iron alongside the Sydney railway station;
and it was somewhere inside the flat-iron that
Theodore, a weighty man, leaned over-heavily
against a guard-rail, and toppled on to the con-
crete at the bottom of the well.
Some January birthdays :—Prof. Gilbert
Murray, 49, and D. Watterston (Abgus), 54, on
the 2nd ; Chief Sec. Kirkpatrick (S.A.), 61, on the
4th; Treasurer Peake (S.A.), 50, on the 15th;
Collector of Customs Wollaston, 63, on the 17th ;
Justice Barton, 60, and ex-Senator Higgs, 47, on the
18th; Speaker Coles (S'.A.), 67, and Premier
Price, 57, on the 19th ; ex-Editor Henry, Gullett,
70, on the 20th; Lands Minister O’Loughlin
(S.A.), 55, on the 21st; Ethel Turner, 39, on the
24th; Justice Holroyd, 81, on the 25th ; Kaiser
William, 50, on the 27th ; Bishop Stretch, 54, on
the 28th; ex-Justice Bundey (S.A.), 71, on the
30th.
Muriel Matters, the suffragette campaigner
who created a sensation in the English House of
Commons re-
cen 11 y by
chaining her-
self to the
“ grille ” in
the Ladies’
Gallery, is
well known
in Perth as
an elocution-
ist and teach-
er of the art
of spouting.
She played
small parts
with the
Brough co. a
few years ago.
Muriel is a
slight, sylph-
like person of
pleasing ex-
terior, achar-
ming elocu-
tionist, well-
versed in Ib-
sen, Brown-
ing and Scho-
penhauer, and
a devout fol-
lower of Socialism, Theosophy, and various isms.
According to her own account, the little lady was
dead-anxious to suffer martyrdom; hence, being
released with a caution after the chaining epi-
sode, she immediately rushed to the main en-
trance, and took a leading part in a demonstra-
tion which resulted in gaol all round.
Chief Secretary Kirkpatrick has been a
member of the South Australian Legislative
Council almost continuously for 17 years, and
during that time he has taken part in every
division but six. Then he paired.
About the maddest citizen in the Common-
wealth this Christmas is Stephen Murphy,
once second officer of the Fiji liner Suva. While
he was on the bridge, his vessel came into deadly
collision with the steam tug Hero. The Law, in
the person of Judge Backhouse, sat on the occur-
rence, and, finding that Murphy was to blame in
the way he navigated the Suva, took away his
ticket. The Law, in the person of Justice Street,
has now sat on the case in order to find out who
is to pay the damages; and this time the Law
finds the Hero solely to blame, and commends
Murphy for the way he navigated the Suva.
Which may be very pleasant for Murphy to hear ;
but unfortunately it doesn’t give him back his
ticket.
Anyone could tell which way Melbourne
public opinion was jumping from the fact that the
new Scawtch Governor made an official announce-
ment to the effect that the Lieut.-Governor had
nothing to do with the dissolution of Bent’s
Parliament. Gibson-Carmichael has not improved
his position by claiming the whole discredit for
his act of subservience to Bent. He, as a new-
chum, should have consulted John Madden, and
John Madden should have influenced him to re-
fuse Bent’s request for a dissolution. But as it is
pretty certain that Madden would have influenced
him to do just what he did, the Gov. will con-
tinue to be suspected, not of directly consulting
his Lieut., but of having received an indirect
suggestion from him.
Just now the earth is extracting some
amusement from the spectacle of Venezuela
carrying on a naval war with Holland. The
Venezuelan navy consists of three gunboats, one
transport, a tug, and a torpedo boat—about as
poor a fighting outfit as a quarrelsome country
could well have. Venezuela, however, in respect
to naval power, is able to make as good a show as
Switzerland and Australia. The first-named
hasn’t troubled to acquire ships because it hasn’t
sufficient salt liquid to float a pannikin on ; the
second has dodged its obligations as a sea-girt
country by hiring decayed ironmongery from the
scrap-heap of its distant relative. Australia can-
not afford to join in the general hilarity over the
warlike attitude of the |-h.p. republic and its tin-
dish fleet, for its own mob of tubs is hardly more
impressive. Later on, when we grow up
nationally, and start to build ourselves real
ships with our own money, the kookaburra will
be able to scoff at one-cuddy-power States, but,
until that time arrives, the bird with the 1.0. U.
round its neck had better remain silent on its tree
in an attitude of profound thought.
“ O.” writes :
The engagement as N.S.W. Agent-General of T. A.
Coghlan is drawing to a close, and two important ques-
tions arise in the connection. First, what is to be done
with Coghlan ? Second, who will take his place ? It is a
coincidence that Carruthers has something to do with
both questions. The Beid-Carruthers party never
warmed to Coghlan. His figures made such a horrible
hash of Beid’s sham “surpluses.” Nothing but the
young statist’s genius for figure-building kept him in
office. Beid conceived the tactical idea of “ using Mr.
Coghlan more generally.” Under pretence of profound
appreciation, he took Coghlan away from his
figures and set him over this thing, that thing
and the other thing in the Public Service. The
design was to show that in his absence statistical
matters could be as well attended to by others. Thus
“Tim” as the sole and only statistician passed. He
could have grasped the Federal statistical billet, and
would have done so, but Carruthers continued the
tactical idea hatched by Beid. He dangled before the
lately-wedded figure-man the Agency-General, life in
London, a big salary and social distinction. Now there
is no room in the State or in the Federal
service for Coghlan as a statistician, and he is not
to be asked to continue in the Agency-General
beyond the term of his appointment. “ Tim ” one time
had a notion of joining the Australian press as a financial
writer. Perhaps the notion will take another innings.
But the second question is—Who will go to London as
Agent-General? Are not the whispers buzzing about
audibly enough ? Is not an increase in the salary men-
tioned? Has not Joseph Carruthers just gone through
the office and established his official influence in London
banking circles ? “ The very best man,” say the whisper-
ers, “to fight for State interests against the Common-
wealth.” Since Parkes euchred Edward Butler, there
has been nd such victim to political trickery and self-
serving as it is intended that T. A. Coghlan shall be. The
intention has been in full blast ever since his statistics
blighted Beid’s sham surplus nearly a dozen years ago.
Yet Coghlan will get the Australian High Commissioner-
ship in the end, if the appointment goes by merit and not
by influence or cussedness.
WHEN THE TIME COMES.
England will protect us .—Logic of the sport-enthralled
Australian.
WIFE: “ Save me! Save me from this!”
ANTI-DEFENDER: “ Don’t get excited. It's all
right. The old woman will be along directly.”
The same old Sosh that Australian Tories
identify in the act of driving capital out of Aus-
tralia and into England, drives it out of England,
according to English Tories, the moment it gets
there. Thus a correspondent in London Daily
Mail (4/11/’08)
The general uncertainty that exists in England at the
moment as to the intentions of the present Government in
regard to the confiscation of vested interests in general,
and of quasi-municipal investments in particular, entirely
precludes the consideration of investing in your electric
lighting scheme.
I may add that for some time past I have been steadily
realising my English industrial securities, reinvesting the
money in British Colonial enterprises, where, apparently,
at least for some time to come, one may feel a sense of
reasonable security and freedom from Parliamentary in-
terference.
Capital needs to be a dashed good sailor these
days, unless those controlling it lie most villain-
ously.
THE CHIEF END.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
What is man’s chief end ? Man’s chief end is to glorify
God, and to enjoy Him for ever. —Shorter Catechism.
When in Sunday-school I sat,
That was how they talked ;
But since then I’ve grabbed my hat,
Packed my grip, and walked.
If I went there now, I’d brew
Quite a cataclysm,
Seeing that I’ve learned the new
Business Catechism.
Man’s Chief End
Is to Do his Friend.
Midnight skies are glory-starred,
Daylight skies are blue ...
O-oh, we’ve got to hustle hard
For our weekly screw !
Let the golden sunsets go
While we scratch around,
Keeping noses in a row
Close upon the ground 1
Man’s Chief End
Is Money to Spend.
Or, when business hours are o’er,
Olubward let us stray,
Watch the nimble steward pour
In the same old way.
Crook our elbow like a prince,
Take our turn to shout:
Catechism’s altered since
Sunday-school came out!
Man’s Chief End
Is to Name his Blend.
What a rotten world it seems,
With its hungry roar !
Men oppressed by vapory dreams,
Wolfish, dull, or poor !
False the orator that rants,
False the coin that’s paid :
Mankind’s like a pair of pants,
Worn and torn and frayed.
Man’s Chief End
Is too Bagged to Mend.
VIC.
L.


k
% Px
•-(
Aw
&
$
is.
V*
X
Uv
_V
'-cO
rC
y
iSJ
pwz
S3*
K
(?
\\
V
%
/
%\
ill
L
\w.
%
ulv;
\
mti
W\
i
X
to
%\\
iiw
m\
I
** OK! hang' the political situation! This is Christmas,
HAVELOCK TOBACCO will see me through all my troubles.’


Walter Bradley & Co.
324 George Street, Sydney,
Have for Private Sale :
Rare Old Grandfather Clocks.
Carrara and Florentine Statuary.
Beautiful Water Color Drawing's.
Genuine Old French Bronzes.
Dresden, Sevre, Derby China.
Bouis XV. Cabinets and Secretaires.
Reliable and Up-to-date Furniture.
Upholstered Goods Made to Order.
Lowest Quotations for Cash.
Mr. William Wallace, Tarrawarra, Roto,
via Hillston, N.S.W., writes:—“l make it a
point to always keep Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy in the house, having never known it to
fail when given for coughs or colds.”*
All who are interested in Australian
national politics should read “ The Commonwealth
Crisis,” by C. H. Kirmess, the great serial now
running through The Lone Hanp. Forecasting
a “ peaceful ” Japanese colonisation of the
Northern Territory, Kirmess traces the political
and war consequences with a masterly hand.
See that you do not miss “The Commonwealth
Crisis.”*
LACK OF BLOOD
Produced an Endless Amount of Suffering
for this Sydney Woman.
She Saw Benefit at Once When She Tried
the Tonic Treatment, and it Cured Her.
In no disease is delay or neglect more danger-
ous than in anaemia, or poverty of the blood. This
disease is common in persons who are overworked
or confined within doors, and makes its approach
in so stealthy a manner that it is often well devel-
oped before its presence is recognised.
But taken in time the disease is readily curable,
the specific being a tonic medicine which increases
the number of red blood-corpuscles, thus enabling
the blood to carry the life-giving oxygen to all the
tissues of the body. Such a tonic is Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills. These pills have had unbounded
success in curing this stubborn disease, because
of-this wonderful property. The cure of anaemia
by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is as certain as any-
thing in medical science.
“I used to be extremely healthy, and never
knew the taste of medicine, but after the birth of
one of my children, my health failed,” said Mrs.
Fred Hoye, 1 Red win Street, Newtown, Sydney.
“ I seemed to sink lower each day. I first
noticed my appetite getting poor, arid at last I
could hardly eat anything, and when I did I’d often
bring it up again. My head would start aching
in the forehead and the pain would go shooting
through it, and I’d be days in bed. Every bit of
color left my cheeks and lips, and they were
blanched white, and also the inside of the eyelids.
I fell away from ten stone to a shadow. I could
hardly drag about the house. I had no energy
and never wanted to go out. I slept only in fits
and starts. I’d often wake up bathed in a cold
perspiration. Often I’d get neuralgia, generally
when I lay down in bed, and I’d be awake all
night. It would affect the left side of my face
and go right up to my head, nagging and burning
for hours. At last, on a friend’s recommendation,
I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. They acted on
my system like magic. From the very first day
I felt brighter, and after a few doses I began to
get my appetite back, and soon I was eating
quite well. I lost my haggard look and some
color began to tinge my cheeks. The headaches
and the neuralgia had almost gone by the time I
had finished the first box, and my strength and
energy came back and I was like a new woman.
The hysterics and low spirits went away and I could
go about the house. The faint, dizzy turns went
away. I could feel the new blood circulating in my
veins. I have never needed Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills sincethey cured me. My health from then
has been capital.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all medi-
cine dealers, or if you cannot get them locally,
send direct to The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney ; 2s. fid. for one box ;
six boxes for 15s. 3d., post free.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
tl
X
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
BYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Prime Minister Fisher’s hurriedly-passed
Stowaways Act, imposing a fine of £lOO for every
Asiatic stowaway found on a ship arriving in
Australia, is making the E. and A. Co. think
very hard. The finding of 22 Ah Leans on the
last voyage of the Eastern has almost broken the
heart of the E. and A. officers, for they simply
don’t feel capable of matching their vigilance
against the cunning of their Chinese crews. The
root of the trouble lies in the physical impossi-
bility to distinguish between the yellow crews and
the stowaways when they are all mixed up; so
the E. and A. Co. is considering whether it
wouldn’t be cheapest to fire the yellow crews
altogether and give the white sailor-man a chance.
Vic. Tory McCutcheon, once of the Bent
party, but lately flying around loose, developed a
great idea during the election campaign. “Bor-
row money,” said McCutcheon, “ and buy back
the land for the people.” That was all. When a
Government, with both hands full of loans,
rushed to compete in the famine-stricken land-
market against the buyers who are there already,
and kept bidding until it got the land—the big
landlords being perfectly well aware that it was
going to bid till it got the land—agricultural soil
in Victoria would soon cost £lOO an acre. And
the marvellous Mcßotching never apparently
even proposed any legislation to prevent the
land, acquired and cut up on these ruinous terms,
from aggregating into big estates again, and thus
undoing the whole work.
Now that there is a Federal Labor Govern-
ment in power several State Labor members, who
were inclined to be State Flighters, are becoming
good Australians. Even windy Joe Lesina, of
Queensland, who, not so very long ago, sat cheek-
by-jowl with Philp at an obscure State Frights
meeting in Brisbane, has stepped out on to the
right track. Speaking in the Assembly the other
day, on a motion concerning the approaching
Premiers’ Conference, he reckoned that there was
too much “meddling by these tin-pot Govern-
ments with the
great democratic
Government of
Australia.”
THROWING THE DOG A BONE.
The Premier (Mr. Wade) brought the session
to a close by offering the members of the Opposi-
tion the compliments of the season.
Again the question arises—so long as
N.S.W. elects awful people of the Carruthers
and Wade order, is there any possible revenue on
earth that will enable it to do without running to
the pawnshop ? In the year which ended June,
1900, N.S.W. got through on a net revenue of
£9,973,000. Last year it had a revenue of
£13,995,000, and as the Commonwealth has relieved
it of over £1,000,000 of expenditure, the revenue
should really be called £15,000,000, as compared
with £9,973,000 eight years ago. And this year
things look much the same as they did last year.
Yet expenditure is already more than £1,000,000
ahead of income, and the Government is going to
borrow another £2,690,000 to go on with. A
bottomless financial sink is the Wade Ministry.
Peacock, whose unopposed return to the
Vic. Assembly was almost as lamentable as
.Bents walk-over, has invented an astounding
novelty in certificates of merit. He told his con-
stituents that “ the fact of his having been en-
gaged m politics for 20 years said something for
the honesty of his career.” Yes, it does say
something, just as the fact that Bent thought
Peacock a suitable colleague also said something.
Now it is N.S.W. Premier Wade’s en-
gineering brother L.A.B. who comes back from
o Africa to Australia with a firm conviction that
this continent must be kept all white. They have
tried black, brown, and yellow in S’Africa, and,
so far from bringing prosperity to the country,
the experiment has plunged it into the deepest
distress. Possibly a few cold-blooded plutocrats
(mostly named Spoofstein) have benefited; but
they have just about spoiled S’Africa in the
process, and where there are no relief works there
is now mostly starvation, and everywhere there is
seething discontent.
“ Pick ” : During the Capital site debates
nothing has yet been said relative to the natural
facilities for defence offered respectively by
Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay. Yet, if attack by
a foreign fleet were contemplated, the capture of
our federal port would probably
be regarded as a step toward
Australia’s subjugation. At any
rate, occupation of the Federal
port would be looked upon as
pretty good business. Jervis
Bay, with Wreck Bay at easy
big-gun range on the southern
side, and the Pacific sweeping
well round the narrow tongue of
land that forms its northern
shore, is open to attack from
almost any point at sea, north,
east, or south, and could there-
fore be made reasonably secure
only by a tremendous expendi-
ture in the erection of fortifica-
tions along miles of foreshore ;
whereas Twofold Bay, consisting,
as its name implies, of a double
inlet, has an inner harbor splen-
didly protected by a consider-
able elevation of land, between
which and the open ocean lies an
outer bay projecting its bold head-
lands far out to sea. A few long-
range guns upon these headlands
and an occasional battery along the
shores of the bay would render the
port practicably impregnable. This
and other considerations, among which
are (1) the superiority of Twofold Bay
in regard to the depth of its waters, and
(2) the ingress of a fine river (Jervis Bay
hasn’t even a trickle) place the Dalgety port
incomparably above that of the vague Yassberra
selection, the choice of which as our continent’s
capital may truly be designated a national
calamity from whatever point you look at it.
The old Philp days are returning with a
vengeance in Queensland. The Legislature has
just hustled through a Loan Bill to provide for
the raising of £3,2oB,ooo—about £6 per inhabitant.
The measure bolted through the Assembly in one
day, and you couldn’t see its heels for dust. A
mere trifle of 500,000 people can raise a fine public
drunk on £3,208,000. Apparently the old struggle
between Queensland and S.A. for possession of the
Biggest Debt per Head on Earth is about to
resume with fresh vigor.
By the time Queensland Premier Kidston
had tumbled into the Christmas recess he had lost
seven members of his old party—Airey, Kerr,
Kenna, Blair, Mann, Murphy, and Sumner.
The Victorian Labor party is broadening
these days. Commission agents and commercial
travellers figured largely among the Labor can-
didates who were nominated. Also there were
four farmers and graziers, two provision mer-
chants, and a number of clerks and secretaries.
One hotelkeeper was on the list; likewise a
teacher, a draftsman, a clerk of works, a solicitor,
and a mining investor.
Under Britain’s new Aliens Act, any alien,
if convicted of a serious offence, may be gently
but firmly put outside British terri-
tory, and solemnly warned to return
no more. No matter how long the
alien person has been settled in the
country, he goes out with a jerk.
Canada has been known to deport a
whole herd of aliens who had been
some considerable time in the country,
for merely going on strike. If Aus-
tralia went anything like as far as
that, its Upper Houses would sav
“My God !” and then clutch wildly at
their aggregate waistcoat button and
fall dead, and the funeral would be
to-morrow.
The usual return, prepared to show how
members sacrificed themselves for their country
during the last Federal session, gives an unsur-
prising list of casual attenders. There were 44
sitting days, and on 20 of them Spruce Myth and
Harper resisted the fascination of public affairs.
On 19 of them Greid was in concealment, mostly
masticating briefs. On 18 of them Hans Irvine
and Livingston found something else to do, and
Matilda Brown missed 17. The others put in
variously from 29 to the full number of attend-
ances, Holder, Forrest, Groom, Hume Cook,
.Coon, Fowler, Foxton, Frazer, Maloney,
Matthews, McDonald, O’Malley, and Tudor
being the eminent persons who never missed a
day.
Vic. Premier Bent is a platform bully of
the most vulgar type. The civil questioner who
raises his voice in the body of the hall is instantly
stunned with an insulting jest and the loud, cheap
guffaw of the mob. During his recent want-of-
policy speech at the Brighton Drill Hall (Vic.) a
man ventured to ask the disastrous clown
on the platform something about the jetti-
soned Land Valuation Bill. It was a perfectly
fair and reasonable question, and, as such, de-
served a courteous and sensible answer. Bent,
however, having neither courtesy nor sense, hurled
back a stupid remark about improving the educa-
tion system for the benefit of people like the
questioner, and passed on to the next
promise amid the delighted shrieks of the
villagers. The uncouth old man who represents
them is a continual joy to the more ignorant
Brighton electors. His bearish ways constitute
one of the three amusements of a remote suburb
which has only its beach, its band and its Bent
with which to slay its hours of leisure and prevent
it from going melancholy mad by the sea.
Many official appointments that are com-
monly supposed to be due to Masonic influence or
R.O. influence or Anglican influence are really
engineered by money-lenders. The desire to find
a job for a fellow-Mason or a fellow-religionist
may be strong, but it isn’t a patch on the desire to
find a job for a hard-up debtor so that he may be
able to repay the monish lent with compound
interest. If the writer
only owed enough
money to enough
Jews he could get
the High Com-
missionersliip
for certain.
A DISTINCTION.
WADE (in soliloquy): “Unionists who come
under my Industrial Disputes Act are de-
prived of the unionist right of preference;
those who don’t are deprived of that and all
other unionist rights. My moderation is
proved thereby. I might have made unionism
a criminal offence .”
Westralia follows the example of S.A. in
E rotesting against the imported vice-regal figure-
ead or rubber stamp, and gives point to its com-
plaint by cutting 20s. off the Government House
vote. One lonesome quid is neither here nor
there in a financial way, but the act is supposed
to show that the Assembly is in real earnest. In
reality there are only two reasons why anybody
cares about the imported State Excellency. He
lends a sort of social glory to the rich people who
eat and drink and dance on his premises while he
is here. And when he goes back to England the
wandering and affluent Australian snob calls on
him in London, and uses him as a means of getting
a grip on the tail end of “ society.” While Aus-
tralia supports seven Governors of sorts, it is in-
deed a cold circumstance if all the ex-members of
the fraternity are out when the affluent Mr.
Woolbale calls.
“ Boswell ” on Holman :
N.S.W. Premier Wade announced, during the discussion
on the Estimates of his department, that he “ didn’t com-
plain of the attitude of his critics.” And no wonder. For
sycophancy and smooge masquerading as hostile criti-
cism, Holman’s contribution to the debate took the whole
bun-house. Holman is more than respectable these days.
He is smug. The fat person describes him patronizingly
as “safe.” His aim in life is to be genteel. He would fain
hunt, apparently, with the brief-giving hounds, and run
with the Labor hares—a hopeless aspiration, that also
afflicts “ Billy ” Hughes, M.H.R. Holman brought him-
self to admit, during his “ attack ” on the awful Wade’s
muddling, that the State had been “unfortunate” in its
law-suits. But he made no vigorous attack on
the incompetency that has characterised the whole
Wade law policy. He made no serious effort
to loudly proclaim that these “ unfortunate ” end-
ings should have had no beginnings. And he wound
up by whining that Crown Prosecutors lacked the neces-
sary ammunition wherewith to slay their victims pro-
perly. I grow very weary of the uitra-proper Holman,
in fact, as a strong Labor supporter, I feel inclined to
renounce him and all his works for evermore. He is too
good an imitation of the class of citizen who, at bar
dinners and the like, talks hopelessly of the innate
malignity and viciousness of the working classes.
S. M. Herald, summarising the work of
the N.S.W. Session, dropped a little Christmas
gift into the leaky stocking of N.S.W. Premier
Wade and his Ministry :
Deep down there are indications of a current forming
and setting from the Ministerial to the Cross Benches.
The first strong man who breaks away from the Liberal
ranks will give impetus to the stream. There are men in
the party under strong temptation to resist the Spartan
rigor of Mr. Wade’s rule ; others who consider that the
Premier’s social reform policy was carried too far, and
allowed to monopolise time that should have been given
to general legislation. They blame Mr. Wade for having
delayed until the eleventh hour consideration of the
Estimates, and admit the right of members, irrespective
of party, to discuss as they see fit every money vote.
Murmuring in the ranks is a danger signal.
There are few good speakers in the House. Ministers
are great sinners. “ Speak up ! ” urge exasperated legis-
lators, as they strain their ears to catch the purport of
answers to their questions. Still the mumbling goes on.
“Be careful! ” cried Mr. Edden in a warning tone, as he
craned his head forward in an attempt to follow a Minis-
terial statement —“Be careful, or somebody might hear
you!” Others there are who, empty as the sounding
brass, can be heard in Macquarie-street.
Further statistics have been prepared to
prove the devastation of Sydney under Federa-
tion—which, as every small anti-Australian insect
in the Ma State knows, is a base conspiracy for the
aggrandisement of Melbourne. So horribly has
Sydney been maltreated that, according to the
books of the Water and Sewerage Board, 233 city
and 4150 suburban buildings have gone up during
the 12 months. In fact, 1908 is described as “ the
busiest year on record in the building trade.”
According to the S. M. Herald, the amount ex-
pended in 1907 was £3,626,500 and in 1908
£4,752,691 —further proof, of course, that, as the
Herald always prophesied, Protection has simply
spread ruin.
Menzies electorate (W.A.) provides the
hardest political battling in Australia. The trouble
started in 1904. Up to that time Gregory, who
was reckoned a great authority on mining, used
to be unopposed. Then Buzzacott, of the Labor
party, chipped in, and Gregory won by 84. Next
year, ho just scraped through. At the last
general election, Buzzacott won by seven votes.
But Gregory took the matter to the Court of Dis-
puted Returns, where Justice Parker, well-known
to the workers, upheld the appeal. Absolutely
nothing irregular was proved against Buzzacott
or any of his supporters, yet Buzzacott was ordered
to pay Gregory’s costs. They amounted to £326.
Goldfields battlers reckon it scandalous, and plank
down the money in fine style. For instance, Lin-
den, a little 1-h.p. camp out in the mulga, parted
up £2O Is. 6d. in a day and a half. And Linden
is mostly in the next electorate—Mt. Margaret,
a safe Labor seat. That’s where Labor in the
West makes one mistake : its strongest men are
mostly sitting on the softest seats, and the other
sort are sent to battle in districts like Menzies,
where they have to buck up against wire-pulling
(official and otherwise), whisky, and allot of other
things.
The enthusiasm with which the daily
newspaper, which, as a rule, is rabidly pro-nigger,
changes its views when it has to rub shoulders
with its idol for a minute or two, is notable.
Thus Sydney Telegraph (18/12/’08) anent the
Mongolia’s crew : it
A more disreputable-looking lot could not very well be
imagined. They were all ill-clad, many having no covering ,
for their bodies beyond a couple of sacks. The accom-
modation in the Water Police Court yesterday was not
adequate to the number charged, and when both the
male and female docks were crowded, so as to barely
allow standing room, a double line of accused had to be
drawn up behind the solicitors’ table. The crowded con-
dition of the court, and the heat of the morning, con-
spired to permeate the atmosphere of the court with a
most disgusting odor, quite peculiar in character, and
none of the court officials were sorry to see the backs of
the Indians as they were marched out into the court-
yard.
The Telegraph has often enunciated strong
opinions about the wickedness of any proposal to
shut our colored fellow subject out of ships trading
to Australian ports; but when he comes here, and
his “peculiar and disgusting odor,” and his “dis-
reputableness” and his bloodstained axe come and
lean right up against the Telegraph, as it were,
the paper turns faint, and can hardly express its
joy at seeing the back of its idol, what time the
awful thing is marched away.
THE FREETRADE SPOOK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve been a-foaming round the earth, endeavoring to find
A logical Freetrader of the Bright or Oobden kind—
A sort of earnest devotee who’d go upon the blind,
And hold the Freetrude gospel with a pure and open
mind.
I’ve been up North to see the place the Hebald calls *‘ the
East ” ;
I’ve travelled East and West for twenty thousand miles at
least ;
I’ve tried to track him to his lair to see the creature feast,
And I’ve come back disappointed, for I’ve never met the
beast.
1 Chased him out from ’Frisco right across to Baltimore ;
And I thought that I had got him, but we parted on the
shore ;
So 1 crossed to dear old England, and was disappointed, for
I couldn’t find that Fiscal Myth—the Freetrade Open
Door.
So I’ve come back to Australia, where Protection is a
' Curse
Afid a Blight and Desolation and an Infamy, or worse.
But I really do not mind it—l’ve a trifle in my purse,
And I’ve found my Freetrade Spook at last—reposing in
a hearse.
N.S.W.
TOM BEASLEY.


We are
_ ...t****** l lf*-.. *n-£t .. a* -.”; ~
' T-o ir^f^^^VSs*'a:^> Tips'?
=%ns;yg!'4*-s&sv
■
'
$ll
wsssn Kv 5 •■*
;
iffttEl El
n H
'
(P
m', • ■
m
|»lP ,r :
.I 1 ,
l k *
' M' r >; • 1 -j-v-
TOliii ‘1; &&Oz*■ r *
.
is
liflsEli
jWWBP
MH|g3
:VJJr.
L A < 1
■wj*. - -cl ' |, < r
m
1 ;
■
?v£Qg
/Jgll
She
.Jj
l a
W' ~- «rr*sK~?. mH-3. _
p laiung6 ll " m ° ur
/fachine
;
Manufacturers & Designers
of Furniture. Fitments &
ffantetpieces.
All the Latest Machines are installed in
Our New & Modem Factory.
f/e claim to five Me lowest Possible Prices
with Me Maximum Standard of ffiyb C/ass Work
ESTIMATES £ DESIGNS FREE OF CHARGE
BUCKLEY & NUNN LT?
MELBOURNE.
KRUSE’S iQSKticidc
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
• s
'
"V -
■
? .rWj
;
*
-• ■
. :
BBi ■
i •v • :- .
v< ■ •
\ T,
■i - ■
'IP
.
• ' If
• - HI;
: . -
h
C I
'V-*:
ss®
It
m®
K
tfg totrn™
tier using the
■; v;' : , St'M
m
SE’S
is
v.v ; t
iMtmjhQ n«oi,MW t
,mid every oihtriwui.
imliilM dMtrim <»»
application to Dogi,
DIRECT!:
»*; i»a ett«r
iSI • a «®»a
mSr srut i>« w" fts,.
« ft*»T In IS# monitor JfL.
ZtauAftr pi* o **«»£*,*S *
apnprjpop; •»**
p|»A : ewona
M geim^€
RUSES
■
»«*.** fe «*d «/<»?/ ms
Rtf fe* ft* qmMist etJtljfM
•:,y • 4 'j application tdH'j-
ttjßPS£ \ M» ic:
(JSfa^-vsa^:-
* «w*a <pawtitr r l !"* s F.L ■a.
H «i T»K> *T
.TON, GRIMV.
/f- ■' Mitt 1« *»«» at
A great Aid to Health and Comfort.
ft* &
'
•0
u_
///J
■
H
w
Some Woman Buys
for every home
different—she wants to know the why and wherefore of everything; so that it is good po y
for the woman to do the buying. A glance at our daily batch of country letters or a g ance
into our establishment, amply proves this, and at the same time proves that Stewart
Dawson’s has the confidence of a big percentage of the womenfolk of New South W .
We attend to their wants by mail or in person promptly and carefully, and deliver all the
orders free of charge. We will be glad to post our Catalogue on receipt of a post-card.
is*?#®
m
B '
H3Bl2 —9ct. Gold Heavy Twist Bangle, Set Diamonds
and Ruhies, £4/10/-
H4723—Pearl Set 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch. Real Coral
Pear Drop, £l/7/6.
G633s—Twin Heart and Pearl Set
Lily of the Valley Brooch, £l/2/6
H8927—15ct. Gold Pearl and Olivine Bangle, £6.
D 2891—2 Diamonds,
1 Ruby or Sapphire,
18ct. Rinjr, £5/10/=
All Diamonds,
£6/10/=
H7oBo—lsct. Gold and Fine Pearl Spray Brooch, £4/10/-
D2s9o—lBct. Gold
Ring, 1 Sapphire or
Ruby, 2 Diamonds,
£6/10/-
The Favorite Curb Chain for Men.
Double Silver, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Double 9et. Gold, 60/-, 70/-, 90/-, £5/5/-
Double 15ct. Gold, £5/5/-, £6/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO/10/-
G9394—Finest Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Leaf
Brooch, £3/10/-
jjggOS—Stone Top Thistle Glove Hook, Solid Silver, 1/6.
Tobacco Pouches, with Silver Shield,
4/6, 5/-, 6/6, 7/6.
Hl44l— Silver-plated Stud Box, 4/-
hi-
fcf'sp;
HSoOS—The Favorite Scent Spray—no
Rubber to Perish. Silver-Mounted
Crystal, 4 inches, £l.
Other sizes, 15/6, 25/-
G7o4l—Solid Silver
Hat Pin Stand, no
Pins, 15/6.
(AUSTRALIA). Ltd
fgd


$
V
o
\5
T
T
bES*
£
tee
o
CH
fOK
I
EtINOS
*.
GHc.
**4^,
✓4
ll
;
m
THE GREAT FABRIC
that Rivals Silk.
Specially adapted for BLOUSES, SLIPS, PETTICOATS
CHILDREN’S DRESSES, SKIRT and BODICE LININGS’
CUSHION COVERS, etc.
BLACKS ABSOLUTELY FAST.
“Sijvasheen, the best lining-—it lasts where Silk does
( . -■ •{ not, and has all the Sheen of a Silk.”
Obtained Grand Prlx Parle Exhibition, 1000.
ASK ALL DRAPERS FOR lT.~m
The trying heat of the Australian climate with its
vagaries of wind and sun, makes undue calls upon the
complexion chat even the most robust skin cannot unaided
withstand. To those who for pleasure or profit must bear
the heat and burden of day, and to those whose skins are
exposed to aU weathers, Valaze will prove a veritable
boon. Valaze eliminates every trace of freckles tan and
sunburn, and creates perfect skin beauty. 3s 6d 6s 6d
and 6d. postage Another wonderful specific is the
Novena Sunproof Creme, which prevents, as Valaze re
moves, freckles, sunburn, tan and sallowness 2s %nd
order." **s
S&elrMelbourS 6 * 158 PiCtStreet ' Oo£
[2
m
A
Ct**
xUK
ROBWR
The next time you go
to your Grocer for any-
thing, ask him to give you
a Robur Calendar. The
Pictures are, as usual,
copies of works of art in
the National Gallery, and
are better produced this
year than ever before.
It isn’t so much that the
Calendars are of any great
value that we suggest your
getting one as that they
are handy for reference
throughout the year, and
artistic little things to have
hanging up in one’s home.
We would also suggest
that you use our tea —we
ought to have said our
good tea, for it really is
good, as well as being nice
and very economical.
The No. 1 Grade is
rich, full delightful flavored
tea. We know of no tea
more suitable for every-
day “high-class” family
trade, and none that it will
pay better to use.
QUALITY.
BUCHANAN WHISKY—
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, December 29, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
Surely the avalanche of buyers who swooped
upon Queen Alexandra s camera-pictures publica-
tion are disappointed ! From the Hoy croft Library
comes a copy of the Royal “ Snaps.” It is the
most non-committal album ever issued. Just
the type of snaps ” the London Daily Mirror
gives of the Royal family and its ramifications.
Ihere is notning in the album that any ha’penny
paper artist couldn’t have got, for the subjects are
fchat :iust walks into the fierce
fight that beats upon a throne and poses with its
W TT-Jm 6 C f l “, era - King.” He is wear-
ing Highland dress, and seated in a garden with a
background of stately architecture. “Me and
f ].? tona ’ ‘‘ My two grandsons. ” “My
father, the King of Denmark.” The deck of the
btSnf Ch » y V eld l\ aeVeral groups- ‘‘Victoria and
olav - . I? t;his group the Princess Victoria
holds a dog to little Olav, while several brass-bound
officers stand around. Miss Knollys and Lord
Knollys have the honor of being “took ” several
times. One of the staff holds hfr Majesty’s dogs
nfrw!- 0£ o h if m r7 a l nd there 1S a s°° d little snap
of Captain Shackleton, of the Nimrod. Some
views of Sandringham, other views secured in
Norway a picture or two of royal motor-cars, a
bunch of the extremely plain-looking children of
the Russian Imperial family, the King of Greece
in his garden at Athens—you see, all the people
are in the ighest society. So ’igh that the inclu-
sion of Shackleton must have been an oversight.
■ T ho C m! fc the .landaulette grows apace in this
4-u i • 1S an lns tance of the extent to
which the longing to import Old World customs
regardless of their suitability to conditions here-
abouts, afflicts a certain type of local. In
London, Pans, Vienna, Berlin—all of which
cities are comparatively speaking as flat as tables
-these heavy, covered-in vehicles are convenient
the whole year round. For more than half the
year they are something more than convenient.
The biting winds and swirling snows of
northern climes assail their solid roofs and
walls in vain. The ball, shop or theatre-
gcung dame sits in their well-warmed
depths, feeling as comfortable as though
the season were midsummer and the place Arcady
In Sydney conditions are different. The harbor
city—whose hills succeed one another with Alpine
frequency—is the worst on earth for the brand of
motor that isn t built to scale mountains. The
landaulette is a complete duffer at steep grades
Our climate ranges from mild to steaming No
sane person wants to escape the breeze during-
nine months out of the 12 in these parts. One of
the saddest and most anomalous spectacles that
has met my gaze in recent weeks was that of a
female garbed in Melbourne Cup attire (I had
observed her consuming morning tea at Jean’s an
hour previously) stewing embarrassedly in a vehicle
of this class while it coughed and whirred and
panted, and refused absolutely to progress up the
YVilliani-street ascent. It is something of tragedy
in half-a-dozen ways that the foolish number of
her threatens to increase.
T h ® incomparable Captain Leslie Wilson,
. , 0*» has become engaged, and to a Sydney
£? rl : £ lll wed Miss Winifred Smith, of
Goderich, Bayswater-road, in London during the
coming season.” One of the most notable
thmgs about the prospective groom is
that, though he is quite the handsomest
young man in local society, and charming-
mannered to boot, no female, unmarried, married
widowed or grassed, has-till the Smith maiden
happened along—been able to even hint at
the possession of his scalp. The avoid-
ance of the dum-dum bullet of warfare, and
the snaring of medals and orders, are not half so
remarkable as the avoidance, by a man who is
young attractive and an A.D.C., of the strong-
minded female on flirtation bent. And not all
men want to avoid her, anyhow. Miss Smith is
alrendy on her way to where the fog lives, and
Himself follows on a later boat.
According to a letter from a man in Papua
Be * 8 recent outbreak of vivid poultry on the
head has resulted in no end of trouble in that
island of fury and fine feathers. (The fury is
mostly in the clique-torn Government depart-
ments ; the fine feathers are in the bush ) As
soon as possible after the gentle Deakin had put
hu> Prime-Ministerial foot down on the bird-in-
the-hat mama, the officials in Papua were urged
to do something,” and they did it promptly and
with a summons. “Nearly half the population ”
says my New Guinea man, “has had to
toe the mark for illegally possessing, collecting
curing, or shooting birds of paradise without
having a license ; and quite high-up Govern-
ment officers were swept into the net, and
told that if they didn’t pay up it would be gaol in
default, Such a sensation, and no end of torrid
remarks ! Some of them pretend that, after this
degradation, they’ll never have any authority
over the ‘ niggers ’ any more. It was such a sur-
prise—why, the Papuan never thought any more
of shooting a bird of paradise than the gentleman
trom Woolloomooloo does of decorating the foot-
path in Spit-street.” So there is more bitterness
in Paradise, and we poor Eves are held respon-
sible for it once again.
Wayfarers from Europe tell that the widowed
daughter of a very big Sydney business man—she
married much against father’s wish—is engaged to
a wealthy German. This time papa is satisfied ;so
presumably there won’t be any of the fierce heart-
burnings which followed on the first experiment.
c ¥;-T Cyril ,y ard (eldest son of Premier Ward
ot M.L.) and his bride are in Sydney, or were last
week, for the anniversary of the oldest birthday
that is still extant. They will return to Sydney
after visiting the bride’s parents, who abide in
Queensland.
That melodiously-named pair, Waddy-Christie
who harvested their orange-blossoms last week'
are a brainy twain. Miss Christie was ex’
matron of the Marrickville Cottage Hospital, and
f st w a ddy, iho bridegroom, is assistant
~~ i K ! ng s T ?? h , ool > Parramatta, and a
notable cricketer. His brother, the Rev. Percy
JL w? w t6r m n u d no f ° o1 ’ although flanneled at
, T t 6 T took P lace at the
Rings bchooi chapel, and the aisle was lined
with boys in their grey uniforms. Afterwards
the human lining chased the bridal cab and hung
discarded footwear to the back of it. The newly-
weds will live at Newlands, Parramatta, which is
to be a preparatory school for King’s. Most of
our haute noblesse learned their alphabet at
Kings, which was founded in the early ’twenties.
Sydney has been finding out during the last two
or three weeks that you can’t eat your turkey at
Fleet time and then sell him at Christmas. All
ound the shops there have been grumblings and
growlmgs. Some of the chiffon stores say they
kaven i had such a dull time for more Christmases
than they ve got fingers to count up on. And
the crowds m the streets on Christmas Eve were
dull and uninterested. They may get over it bv
the end of 1909, but at present the memory of the
Jneet glare and blare is too new; and so they
«\ to one another and disgustedly asked,
What came we out for to see?” By 9.30 the
homeward-going trains and trams were crowded.
“Mario,” of Brisbane, evidently didn’t know
that there were two Perkins Powers in the land
when she wrote to me the other day and married
one of them to Miss Buchanan—married, in fact
that particular Perkins Power who had been made
happy already The present fortunate Power is
ihomas P. ; the other one, who was happy
already, is George. *
As evidence that it possesses a soul above the
ledger and aspirations beyond the cash-book, the
Bank of New South Wales keeps a healthy
musical and dramatic society on the premises,
and last Wednesday it climbed into its evening
suit and went along to the Criterion to see its own
S d a p ® rform H -Darnley’s farcical-comedy,
- Tke Solicitor.” “ The Solicitor ”is a stage-jest
of the honest British type, wherein everyone is
consistently foolish until the last part or hind leg
ot Act 111. Then there is a general clearing up
and sorting out of the carefully-arranged compli-
cations of Acts I. and 11. The dialogue is bright
m patches, and there is sufficient of it to give
each of the 13 characters a fair helping. After
making the usual trade deduction—which I be-
lieve, is 45 per cent.—for amateurs, the perform-
ance may Be described as good. Of the ladies,
Miss Brenda Wilson, Miss Nellie Woodgate, and
Miss lessie Ashton deserved best the applause of
the friendly amdience; and A. B. Dickinson as
the la ™ shark was loyally supported. Further-
more, W. A. Lloyd was a courteous and gentle
burglar. Ihe scenic arrangements were a trifle
puzzhng, as, for instance, 11 Act ll.—a Comfort-
ably Furnished Room in 17 Yere-street, Kensing-
ton, and supposed to be the home of a drunken
cabman, was a gorgeous apartment in a four-storey
building. Which suggested that the cabman was
an eccentric millionaire, who cab-drove now and
then as a hobby, and amused himself having rows
with his fares over the odd shilling.
They’ve got a new word in theatrical circles in
London. It is “sweedling,” a combination of
wheedling and swindling, and has no relation to
the swindlecate which floats a mine or the
reconswindled bank. It has just appeared in
A. Jones’ play “ Dolly Reforming Her-
self. Dolly is the wife of a young gentleman
whom she “ sweedles ” into paying her milliners
and dressmakers’ bills again and again after he
has sworn he won’t be “ sweedled ” anv more It
must run a bit on the lines of “The Thief.” Any-
how, it gives Miss Ethel Irving (who, it may be
remarked, is a sister-in-law of Mr. B. R. Wise) a
chance of dressing often and elaborately.
Mountains of bills are hurled at the husband,!
and when he behaves like an earthquake in a
glass-house, the sweedling process is brought
into play. It consists of sulks, indignation,
timidity and persuasiveness, then tears and
cuddling—and the silly he-mime gives in and
writes cheques. That’s how it is on the stage.
The other side of the footlights, tears and
cuddhngs would only add to the man’s exaspera-
tion. Men are not such fools as some men drama-
tists would have us believe. No matter how pretty
and youthful the squanderer may be, she would
weep and nuzzle on his neck in vain at her second
or third lapse into unwarrantable extravagance.
He would pay the bills, perhaps, because he’d
have to, or else advertise *• on and after this date
I will not be responsible for my own debts ” (I
mean “my wife’s debts”), but he wouldn’t doit
with any fatuous amiability.
Miss Beatrice Day’s Mercia is supremely good,
and, therefore, supremely ineffective. The'
Mercia at present showing at Sydney Royal has
no atom of melodrama in her composition. She is
a truly artistic study of a quiet, mild, spiritual
turn-the-other-cheek-to-the-smiter Early Chris-
tian maiden. Undoubtedly Mercia, if she
ever lived, behaved and spoke very much as Miss
Day does in “The Sign of the Cross.” But the
average Royal patron doesn’t consider point-
lets of that sort. The true Crossite likes
to hear Mercia “beef out” her “fat”
lines. The asseveration, “You cannot harrm
me now,” is expected to ring through the
theatre, drowning momentarily the stage thunder
and the cheers of the Christians in front. There
is no clamant note of triumph in Miss Day’s
You cannot harrm,” etc. It is gentle, pitying,
saint-like. A just rendering—but oh ! thq
“hands” and the enraptured tears it filches from
her.
A French paper says that Jean de Reszke in-
tends to give up teaching in Paris and undertake
the management of opera at Warsaw. As there
are a few Australians qualifying in his classes the
news may be of interest. Any move of a person
who charges a hundred francs a lesson (about £4)
must be of interest. Talking of teachers and
pupils: That tall, lean, very vital spark of
Maoriland, Nora Long, turns out to be study-
ing under Bouhy. She was so very promising
that Sydneysiders who take an interest in
warblers abroad feared she had been “snowed
under” when news concerning her ceased for
quite a while.
Went down South for a holiday trip by steamer
a week or so ago, and passed many lazy, sunlit
ours in contemplation of the other prisoners of
tne sea Someone started the theory that the
krnet of the Ocean could be avoided by taking
plenty of walking exercise. The theory caught
on, and within the rails that sank and rose and
sea-sawed monotonously against the exaggerated
blue of the Pacific and the steel-grey sky, a large
number of holiday people started to stagger, reel
and stumMe. Nobody could get off the boat and
walk behind, so they had to keep to the deck ;
consequently they met one another frequently,
-the promenading was usually done in twos, but
sometimes three deadly serious people linked
arms and went reeling up and down in a
triendly manner.. The trios were never a success,
oecause if they met a couple corning the op-
posite way the deck wasn’t wide enough. On such
occasions, one of the three would have to unhook
and stagger alone in the wake of the other two.
ims always made him look as if he were a menial
attending on his former confreres ; it also sug-
gested the faithful hound following his master
and a friend. The detached member, after one
or two turns up and down, would pretend to be
interested m something on the horizon, and, going
to the rail, would look thoughtfully out to sea.
fie was plainly searching for whales. When the
other two had reached the end of the deck, he
would start out on a solo stagger of his own, and,
meeting the other two coming back, all three
would nod cheerily just to assure one another that
the dispersion- had been an accident and that
there was no ill-feeling in it. The voyage was
full of small compliments of that description.
A lady writes from Brisbane :
i G I' e Hanbury says (and she ought to know) that
English robers can’t build summer frocks—that is, on the
Austrahan washing plan. During her sojourn in Fogland
k t l° 6nd of , J' unk etings upon the river and the
3 acht, but never a decently-laundered rag. Like a good
she , ther ? fo r e brought no hot-weather clothes
back. This only coincides with the remarks* of one Cora
Cassili, she of the’lightsome toe, who confided to me on
the India, bound Londonwards, that she was taking
u ree trunks of real Australian muslin gowns
with which to paralyse the Hammersmith natives.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.
The recent activity of the Melbourne Anti-
Sweating League on the subject of the legal wages
which warehouse bosses forget to give to their
employees has had the effect of breaking the
silence on the conditions in another industry.
Somebody alleges a similar absent-mindedness in
the artificial manure trade. He asserts, or implies,
or suspects, or is of the belief that a certain
boss is in the habit of sending his factory
employees down to the wharves to take a little
recreation discharging cargo at 101,d. per hour,
which is the ordinary factory rate, but is quite
below the standard rate paid to wharf laborers.
The employees concerned, however, object to their
boss’s thoughtfulness and consideration, firstly
because it is Unfair to them, and, secondly,
because it is unfair to the members of the Wharf
Laborers’ Union, with whom they are forced to
compete at a lower or Mongolian scale of wages.
Some action is likely to be taken on the matter,
and, as the pugnacious A.-S, League is declared
to be interesting itself, the action is sure to be
earnest and thorough.
“ San Remo,” in warlike mood :
The Commonwealth is progressing slowly in the matter
of providing the White Australian with a White Aus-
tralian Gun. The automatic loading rifle (the “pump
gun, as the Yanks call it) is going to be the infantry arm
of the future. With the pump gun, the recoil is utilised
to eject the empty cartridge and to reload. Five cart-
ridges in a clip are inserted in the magazine, and the five
shots can be fired as quickly as the trigger finger can
operate. The objection that military men have* to the
automatic loader is the facility it gives a panicky com-
pany for eating up its ammunition supplies. What with
machine guns and quick-firing field batteries, the problem
of feeding the lines with ammunition is already a big one.
The automatic rifle will, increase the difficulty tremend-
ously. It is interesting to recall the fact that
the British War Office functionaries years ago looked
askance at the magazine rifle for this reason
and it was a long time before they finally de-
cided to adopt it. Consequently both the French and
German armies had the magazine gun long before
Bull had discarded his out-of-date weapon. Had a big
row started just then, Thos. Atkins would have had a
warm time with his single-shot breech-loader. One of
the great advantages of the pump gun is its continuity of
aim. Of course, the rifle kicks up at the muzzle the'same
as any other, but the marksman has not to release the
grip hand to pull a bolt or jerk a lever; thus he is
enabled, for the space of five shots, to concentrate all his
attention on hitting the object. This makes for good
shooting. In the meantime, the Australian is squirting
lead through any old blunderbuss he happens to have on
the premises.
Melbourne City Council lately bumped
against the advance-guard of a threatening timber
famine, when the contractor for several thousand
messmate blocks for street paving asked to be
allowed to cry off, as he couldn’t get the timber.
One or two councillors considered that the
Government should be asked to make roads to
places where messmate could be cut, while others
thought the time had arrived to investigate the
qualities of concrete blocks; but finally the
council didn’t do anything, as usual, except to let
the contract slide.
“ Snell ” : It happened in my suburban
boarding house. One of the lodgers, a married
man whose name wasn’t Jones, was for a long
time an object of somewhat derisive pity because
of another lodger whose name wasn’t Smith.
Mrs. Jones was a lodger too. She dis-
played rather marked' partiality for Smith,
and Smith made small attempt to hide
his admiration for the lady. In fact, lie
was rather obtrusively attentive, and it was
thought that Jones was almost irritated now and
again. The climax was reached when Jones
stumbled upon Smith coming from the Jones
apartment. This was too much. The man’s
whole nature arose in arms, and he said, dis-
tinctly, and with evidence of strong feeling:
“Look here, Smith, I wish to goodness you’d
mind your own business.”
One of Bent’s “methods” was the “life
pass” on the Vie. railways ; there are 27 of these
perpetual deadheads as the result of a few
months’, weeks’, or days’ service in Bent’s
chameleon Ministry.
“0.K.”: Seemingly, the Australians
abroad have been guilty of “stinking fish” senti-
ment, even in their deriding of the Australian
displays at the recent Eranco-British Exhibition
Comparing the letters I have received from Aus-
tralian friends and English relatives in London, I
find that half-a-dozen of the former made con-
temptuous reference to the Commonwealth section
of the Exhibition (which certainly was located in
one of the White City s remotest corners),
whereas half-a-dozen English informants-of
various ages and occupations-were unanimous in
praising the Australian Court, without regard to
its State distinctions. In two of the letters Aus-
tralia was said to be more interestingly reore-
sented than Canada, which had a bigger display
and a better site. Yet, to hear the° talk of the
Australian in London, one would think that this
country was unknown to Britain, except for its
bad methods of advertising itself.


rhuNQD
•fsH
£0?
£^op//v
?
fir
, a
BEETHOVEN
r
0^
m
..
pChunh^
el
:
p
X • -
-
I / s 2-'
■
SCHUBERT
/
Hi
is
1R
6^
>tfn
TR
The Most Famous
Musicians of the World
have ALWAYS recommended
BROADWOOD PIANOS
for tone, touch, action and durability. With their
latest improvements Broadwood Pianos are now
superior to all others in a most marked degree.
The testimony of all disinterested musical and
mechanical experts is that they fix the World s
standard for supreme and unapproachable excellence.
Before committing the error of buying an inferior
instrument, which cannot give permanent satisfaction,
Send for a Broadwood Booklet
to the SOLE AGENTS:
For New South Wales —
THE BRITISH PIANO DEPOT LTD
9 Barrack Street, SYDNEY.
For Queensland —
. B. WHITEHOUSE & CO.,
JB5 George Street, BRISBANE.
If desired, easy deferred payments arranged, and your
old piano taken as part of the purchase money.


NOURISH BABY
ON FALIERE’S
Phosphatine Food
The presence of phosphates scientifically
compounded and easily assimilated in
Faliere’s Food makes it the ideal food for
infants. This food makes bone, teeth
and tissue, and builds up a sturdy body,
full of energy and vitality. Sample tin
free from Joubert & Joubert, 552
Flinders Street, Melbourne, or Claud
Healy, 63 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FALIERE’S
Phosphatine Food _
m
M 3
&
theres nothing like
our soft Para Rubber Dunlop
Heels for Comfort, Wear
and Finish. They absorb all
jarring, and outwear several
pairs of leather heels, I
Obtainable in various shapes and
sizes Irom all leading Stores. But
to get Best Results you must
specify “DUNLOP” Brand.
RUBBER HEELS
Outwear
All
Others.
>7
Only Accept
Dunlop
OUNLOP RUBBER CoJ
VUfuvttm, i»ni
V Adelaide. Perth,
•rtsbano,
Cfcrtatchurah. «*.
Dunlop
Hose
w;\
\T)
s'
S
m
Gives Excellent
Service
Does not bursts lasts/oryears
Made by Austral isols to staad
Australia Condition..?.
• SPECIFY DUNLOP BRAND*
The Dualop Rubber Co. of Aus Ltd
ALL STATES'
KANDY
KOOLA
TEA
“ The best i* the country*
side, i* faith.**
fg
refold by all Grocwg in Red, Blue, and Green Packets.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 28, 1908.
Mr Dear Yarrik,—
i TM Dudley pair are good chums—both sports and
both fond of politics. They are often seen strolling
through the Botanical Gardens or resting in the
summer-houses on Sunday mornings, where they
can have their quiet chats undisturbed by aides
chamberlains, private secretaries, or chief bottle-
driers. In these calm domestic duologues the
almighty G.-G. answers to the name of “Eddie”
and looks the character. There are other times
when, with his hat slightly askew, he might easily
be mistaken for “ Teddie.”
Breakings-up ” and school speech-days have been
a glut in the market. Amidst the rush of competi-
tion, the Catholic Ladies’ College managed to
catch our only Countess, and the. college in turn
threw a musical programme at its important visi-
tor. I reddie Beard trains the girly choir, and it
blossomed into some musical part songs. Five
girls recited an Ode to her Ex., and she bore it
bravely. The chief interest of the affair centred
round the investiture with the college badge of
honor of a few ultra-good girls. To gain this
badge a girl must have been remarkable during
four years of college life for “piety, honor,
loyalty, and a spirit of study.” The badge is
worth several years of demureness. It is a gold
chain, set with “dewy pebbles,” pearls, and
rubies. Three applicants had struggled through the
vigal successfully—PaulineKnowles, AlmaSankey,
and Florence O’Dee. The Dudley lady handed
over the baubles to the good girls whose “price
is above rubies,” as the Tired King said, and made
a commendable speech to each. Then the Sisters
of Charity and the pupils of the college presented
Lady Dudley with a volume of Australian views,
and after this series of polite all-round presenta-
tions the company took tea. On such occasions
the company always does take tea.
The Dudleys don’t even ease off in the dog
season. Society has had its turn, and has gone to
w r J leaves and the surf by the sea shore. So on
Wednesday afternoon the G.-G.’s gave a garden
party to married policemen (evidently the Dud-
leys want to encourage the birth-rate in the
force); and the policemen came with their wives
and also propelled the perambulator full of
progeny (this alliteration is getting me down).
Instead of the spanking motor that marks an
ordinary Guv’ment House frivol the drive was
clogged with go-cart. The Countess goo-gooed
the several infants in a most motherly way,
and shook hands with Mr. and Mrs. Bobby’
and Mr. and Mrs. Cop shook hands with
her. -There were bands and bagpipers, for
a Scotch epidemic has broken out in Melbourne,
and even at this grassy frivol there was a Hielan’
dancer skirling on the lawn. The Dudleys struck
an original method of entertainment, though it
should have been “dead shucks” to the guests.
There was a “burglar hunt.” Three disguised
and bearded ruffians were the refugees, and all
the police and their progeny hunted them on
bicycles.
All the outside gates and fences of Guv’ment
’Ouse were walled up by distant relatives of the
married policemen and policewomen inside. They
gaped through enviously and were kept back by
the ferocious aspect and pointed bayonets of the
gorgeous beings in uniform at the gates. Two
large marquees on the lawn were stuffed with
food, and the Small Boy of the party—the mar-
ried policeman’s son—soon became stuffed like-
wise. Pierrots were in the ballroom as a solace
for exhausted ones. The little Countess mothered
the big-eyed babies and showed the squalling
infants “ the pretties.” That same little Countess
is a brick.
Mrs. Bussell and her blonde daugher Unie
have left London for Paris, where Miss Unie in-
tends to further her musical education. Prettiness
and brains go together in the case of the Bussells’
only chick. She is a linguist, musician, Shak-
sperian scholar, and has dramatic gifts. Louise,
the clever daughter of L. L. Smith, goes with her to
Paris, and they will study together. Mrs. Bussell,
who chaperones the pair, is sufficiently youthful-
looking to pass for Unie’s sister without serious
effort.
The Scotch germ has got a strenuous hold down
Colac way. The daughter of the McKenzie of
the district was married to one MacPherson, and
out of the hundred guests at the wedding 75 per
cent, were Macs. Nearly fifty were Mackenzies.
The rest included the Mackintosh and the Water-
proof.
A spook of a recently-perished Englishman is
enjoying Christmas as he laughs over his last
earthly joke. The dead gentleman, one Sims, had
been a philanthropist in high favor at his local
Baptist Church at Cheltenham, and the elect
hoped for much by will power. The will was
read after the burial, and it bequeathed £lOO to
each of the deacons who attended the funeral.
There were nine deacons, and none had been to
the funeral. Now they are eating the hassocks in
their rage, and the ghost is convulsed with
mirth, and howls dreadfully on the banks of
the Styx.
The annual show of l)lrs. Green’s pupils, at
Melbourne Town Hall, was the usual Christmas
pudding, from which you could pick out little-boy
Cupids clothed in nothing much, and a Teddy
Bear, and the sparkling fairy who exists only at
this time of year. Babes with india-rubber
joints spun through the air on the most approved
principles of the ballet; and young “limbs” cut
capers in clownish ecstasy for the edification
of papa, who had come specially to see if
they were being justly done by. The whole
place breathed of frolic and warm-colored
light. The indefatigable Florrie Green and
mamma cracked like the trainers in the ring in
an effort to urge on the spinning dots. Some of
the “star” turns were in advance of anything
previously seen at the annual Green gather-
ing. The Teddy Bear aforementioned—young
Harry Lazarus —is a wonderful boy dancer, not
yet in his teens. Cora Whiteaway is a charming
toe dancer, and Miss Locke, a 17-year-old who
aspires to a professional engagement, appears
to have been schooled to perfection in every
branch of poetic movement. Essie Ogilvie, the
child dressed as a convolvulus, won loud murmurs
of admiration ; and another notably clever mite,
among the mitiest, was Reggie Green, a grandson
of the veteran lady who controlled the display.
At the finish the grown-ups stirred in a mixture
of dance with the illuminated baby element, and
the suffocating atmosphere got a move on. Among
trie elder portion of the promoters, Mrs. Jim
Purvis (the Sadie of the family) pirouetted in a
slim floral muslin to the accompaniment of Miss
if lorrie s heavier-toned duchess satin. The copper-
topped Evans girl, in sleek yellow that was an
insult to her crowned head, twined oft among the
rest of the public with the loose-limbed Macartney
-c lorrie was this year done in secret.
Domestic stirrings of Christmas puddings and
the outward clang and clash of political warfare
have accelerated summer heat and threatened to
knock Christmas and peace and goodwill off their
perch. In the weary pre-Christmas days the
average householder waded home daily in the
embrace of bundles, and held one idea firmly in
his mmd- to get out of his blessed city for a short
holiday, and lie in a brief costume beside the sea
and hang the call of his country ! It was most
importunate of the country to call at such a time.
±he fact that his country was, and is, and in view
of the re-election of Bent is likely to remain, in
dire and dreadful need is a mere begging of the
question. Why was the election date not settled
a few days differently, more or less, particularly
less. They do such silly things, y’know,” as
Campbell, the Widow, remarks occasionally in the
pantomime.
Williamson’s pantomime, “Jack and
Hi, takes the prize for dazzle and glory. It is a
magnificent thing that does not stop to breathe for
a moment, but rushes on in a wild and glittering
whirl of “ turns ” and ballets for four solid hours.
Jrantomime gets farther and farther away from
children. The first night drew together a
thoroughly grown-up audience. The upper and
elevated ones who had departed for their Macedon
and Lonsdale humpies motored back as fast as
the limit would allow, and shrieked at the ancient
annual jokes. The Madden maidens left off
paddling at I rankston, and were there even to
Big Baby Beatrice. They were led off by Ruby
of the Dimples, and her ancient but devoted
Ooionel who makes an excellent duenna; and much
johnnydom gathered round them. The youthful
mother Madden is in Sydney, with daughter
Mrs. Osborne. Fat brother Guy was absent—
an alarming circumstance. Panto, rarely gets
through a first night without his round and
shining moon face beaming upon it. The Irvines
took depressed stock of the show. Young Tassie
btaughton showed off her brand new fiance in the
j jt7 he Fenners made a solitary party—their
adored Raleighs had gone to watch Elsie Perrin
at the rival pantomime. Mrs. Edwards glinted
her fair hair from the centre circle. Every girl in
a pigtail and pink bows came as a final break-up
°, m • sch °ol, and amorous college youths
studied their charms in the intervals of guffawing
at Fedora and Campbell. s
Stella Gastelle turns her lead as panto, boy into
such a go-ahead rush that she might be playing
hockey or lacrosse. She pulls the girl principals
along with a rattle and a go that knocks spots off
the languid posing of most principal boys. She is
a -Nellie Farren type, and her extremely abbrevi-
ated clothing shows limbs that make the baldhead
of the orchestra stalls curl up with delight. The
star lady has a good, fresh voice, and gets in some
excellent songs.
Fanny Dango is a tame but very
who lets Jack do all the uphill work. 'Campbell,
a new pantomime institution, puts his soft
Hielan’voice and effective giggle into a widowed
part. Campbell was retained from “ The Merry-
makers,” the show that brought the Giddy Widdy
Betty Ohls to Australia.
There is a dance of giants, whose promenade-
reminds one Of Phil May’s sketch, “ Wanted a
Canoe for Family Fifteen Feet Long.”
The ballets are glorious glimpses of Girl and a
dream of color. One ballet scene changes from
summer to winter irt one crash of the orchestra—'
with the curtain up for all the world to see—a very
clever bit of magic. The rosy summer girls not
only change their draperies from flimsies to furs
under the house’s very nose, but they get into
skates and begin to cut up ice in a snowstorm all
in the twinkling of an eye. That scene will be a
ring-tailed roarer when the panto, has been running
for some weeks, and the girls get more experience
on their rollers.
There are fourteen scenes—all gorgeous and full
of wonderfully dressed or undressed Girl, and
they are sandwiched with as many vaudeville
“turns” and plentiful padding of pantomime
patter. There is a Butterfly Ballet that
runs from big night-moths to tiny baby
white butterflies, and they dance in a tropical
forest twilight with Tinker Bell fireflies flitting
through the trees. The final grand march-will
.probably cause an epidemic of spectacles. Appa-
rently naked maidens, crusted for con vention’ssake
m jewels (electric lighted), walk four abreast in a
palace whose walls are jewels (also electric lighted),
and as a quiet background to this glitter there are
circles of multi-colored electric lights that turn
into each other with slow and insane 1 precision.
Watching them is like a really artistic and well-
thought-out attack of jim-jams or an Edgar-Allan-
Poe conceit.
The Powers that Be are waking to the Veauties
of the Yarra as it is beyond the city limits, and
are considering the advisability of removing the
many snags that, every holiday time, are respon-
sible for a damp corpse being brought home where
a gay picnicker went out. Beyond Studley Park
and -through Kew and Fairfield to Heidelberg is
as pretty a tree-shadowed run of river as idlers
could wish. In summer it is like,a highroad for
traffic, but the traffic is mostly rowing boats
of leisure, rowed by local youths who
know; every snag and danger part by daily
training. But in holiday time come the
excitement-seekers—youths who rarely row,
but are assured of their powers with a load of
squealing nervous girls, who lose their heads at a
flutter or a bump. Invariably there is a horrid
squelchy accident. The increase of motor launches
has been the means of prodding the sleepy Powers
into action. Motor-boat owners are usually
wealthy, and ready to demand what they want
wi,th all the insistence of Fat. Motor-launches
have most delicate propellers, and when a sudden
“Snap-p-p” from a hidden bit of dead tree tells
him of the viinishment of £2O, the motor man ravens
like an old lion, and is almost mad enough to eat
raw meat with his fingers.
A man sends me this:—
Trotted into the National Gallery’s annual exhibition
of students’work, and was struck'with the paucity of
ideas in the only department where ideas are at all called
for, viz., the pictures for the Travelling- Scholarship.
There were four canvases presented for competition, and,
to me, it seemed that the almost repellent prosaicalness
of their subjects shouted at the onlooker. The first prize
was given to a representation of the inevitable studio
interior; the second to a portraiture of three young and
possibly marriageable women seated around a table ; the
third to a pretty affectation of the “ Grandma’s Gown ”
type, which is enormously fashionable just now ; while the
last (the only one painted by a man, by the way) set
forth in far from docile color the commonplace senti-
mentality of a grieved couple gazing upon an
empty cradle. The last was something: of a curio in its
way. Its exuberant color was discomposing-, indeed,
practically a debauch of rawness to the modest eye ; yet
the drawing was not half bad. Drawing did not appear
to be the strong point of “ Grandma’s Gown,” nor was it
a glaring virtue in at least one of the heads of the trio
performing some mystic rite around the table. The first
three pictures, however, were pleasing in a simple sort of
way—not strongly painted, as a confident male student
sometimes paints, but executed with a nice, tentative,
and thoroughly feminine brush work, which hasn’t enough
force and spontaneity to astound one as a feat. The
other work was pretty fair, though in the still-life de-
partment one here and there wished that the student
had learnt to draw an object correctly before he or she
attempted to paint it.
The fact that Maorilander Wilding won one of
the finals that clinched the Davis Cup for the
Australians (Wilding beat one American in one
game), has caused the Tennis Association of Ward’s
beatific isles to suffer from bloated cranium.
Now the Maoriland Tennis Association wants to
separate and be an. independent rackety power,
with Wilding as representative against the world.
A request that Maoriland shall be, recognised
as a separate nation (in the racket and ball
world) has been forwarded to England, though
the L.T.A. in Eogland has no more power
to grant that appeal than any other of
the six organisations whose nations haye taken
part in the annual rubber-and-net frivol. The
regulations make Great Britain, America, B. S.
Africa, India, and Australasia separate nations in
the polite scuffle. None of the rules may be dis-
solved without the consent of “two-thirds of the
Association.” The matter is stirriitg the bound-
ing brotherhood to its innermqst h@art, because,
though Australasia may be able to hold the Davis
Cup, it is quite possible that either Australia or
Maoriland, taken separately, would lose it.
Brookes, of Australia, and Wilding, of Maoriland,
are wonderful players, and there is no “double”
for either of them. Parker (N. 3. W.) and Dunlop
f ?•)’ approach in glory, are cut out
of the competition because of national rules—resi-
dence in the country immediately preceding
match, etc. V,.s,
A thrilling publication is the Australian
Yachting and Motoring Magazine,
which radiates from Melbourne. It tells the
Commonwealth many things of vast importance—
the things that all great minds—in their moments
of social nnbending, so to speak—are positively
dying to learn. As, for instance, “ The long-
standing dispute between the' Geelong and
Brighton Yacht Clubs is still unsettled.” For
five long years this dispute has retained its
bitterness unimpaired. ' It i% a question of pre-
cedence between the clubs. In 1903 the Yic. Yacht
.Racing Association granted the'Geelong Club pre-
cedence over the Brighton Club, by virtue of
seniority. The Brighton Club took exception to
the finding, and a serious correspondence on the
subject is still raging. The officials of the
dissatisfied club have proposed that “the
question of seniority be investigated, and
that the point be settled by arbitration,
but the other club has not yet accepted
this proposal.” The possibility of an acute un-
pleasantness, not to say violent disturbance, has
always been present in the local yachting world,
and now that the Commonwealth has a Gov.-
General of yachting tendencies, the dispute is
more than ever lamentable. If the commodores
of the rival clubs were to meet together at a levee,
luncheon, or other function graced by the G.-G.’s
presence, the question of precedence might become
intensely personal, for even though the G.-G.
offered to shake hands with both of them simul-
taneously, the compliment to one of them would
necessarily be only left-handed. Therefore it is
felt that arbitration is an urgent requirement.
Royal Commissions are expensive, nevertheless
the outlay of a few hundred pounds in establish-
ing or disestablishing the Geelong Club’s preten-
sion’s to seniority would be money well spent if it
averted bloodshed.
“Mario” writes from Brisbane :
The Government has come down with a handsome £3OO
a year for three years, so that our Government House
l£)(dy and her pure milk committee may see what can be
done in reducing the baby death-rate of Bananaland. If
they make a perceptible dint in the funeral roll, it is to
be supposed that further assistance will be forthcoming.
And if not ? —well, then the plant will, I presume, fall
into the clutches of the bottle-oh man. It’s mostly glass
and india-rubber.
A sensation was caused in Brisbane this week by the
arrival of Mrs. Wilson, to whom bail has been allowed in
the Carpentaria Downs murder case—that midnight
mystery about which our black brother Binghi told so
amazing a tale. Mrs. Wilson is a gentle-looking lady, and
went about her business in the city with quiet unconcern
She left for your own harbor shores by the Wollowra.
This week is chiefly made up of tin trumpets and flit-
tings. Cabs full of perspiring women and men, also ex-
cited infants and Teddy bears, form a long procession to
the seaside trains. Accommodation at the side of the
sad sea waves is at a premium as I write, and tents are in
great demand. Not that the town looks any emptier, for
as the pavement-bred folk remove themselves shorewards
the waybacks arrive in shoals (the western mail came
along in, three divisions last night).
The Bill SikeS brotherhood is going- strongly here. One
charming maiden of coppery locks is lamenting the loss
of a diamond half-hOop engagement ring, and hopes that
there’s no bad omen about the event. The night birds
last week paid a visit to one of those old families who are
by way of having a put-away box of heirlooms. And
now there is nothing left of the heirlooms save a safety
pin. J
The effort to engender “ a home feeling ” in the breast
of the imported Mary Ann is keeping quite a heap of well
Intentioned persons busy these times. As soon as Mary
Ann sets her foot on Queensland soil she is gathered in
and prayed for by a company of holy scarecrows who
designate themselves the Y.W.C.A. ; and after that she is
treated to an entertainment of song and recitation like
unto the penny readings of our oppressed childhood.
This being done, Mary Ann is free to try her luck as a
household treasure. This week, as it is New Year time,
Mary is to be taken, 60 strong, for a ride in one of
Badger’s cars, and to tea afterwards at the grounds of one
Allan, whose benevolence is as his aspirations after
Parliamentary honors in the cause of a shuffler—one
Kidston.
Apropos the Adamless Eden I referred to last week, I
hear that no less than 12 unsuited helpmates have
signed on in the venture. I also hear that plentiful
clothing will be provided per cotton plant and spinning-
wheel.
A smart angel of the sick-room hn« <
Bi^ Sn n k IH , grea i ly ,^' usted with the status ot her
in the Cold Land. “ Why,” she declares, “ a nurse them
isn tin society ! She’s treated like an upper servant ” A
journalist home for aho day from that r.ont,J . .. A
Saffron Peril Hong Kong, t« same taTe'Vome'n
who work in Asia, he says, must bear snubs galore “om
Society with a big “S ” Only the Governor’s wife who
da - 6S t 0 ask the male o?
JSftJSdSL” to *™ e - rei! * 1 c ™ h -
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.


Holidays are the best ally of Wisdom.
And the best ally of holidays is D.C.L. Whis y.
As a bosom—but not too frequent-companion
L> C.L. adds zest to zest and joy to joy. A good
D.C.L. Wisdom directed recess means such a
rejuvenation of spirit as to make the world sing
with the gaiety of youth for months to come.
I am awfully sorry,—but
if you ask for the best dentifrice, I can't offer you anything else but Odol.
That is the best dentifrice in the world, and if you search the world over
you can't find a better.
Price 216 a bottle of Odol, lasting for several months (the half-size bottle 116), Of all Chemists
and Stores.
Clerks.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A. man, aged 22, employed in an agency, whose
office hours are from 8.30 a.m. till 7 p.m., is
heinc paid 7s. 6d. a week. Another case is men-
tioned where an employer advertised for a clerk
who could “think” for him. As usual, numerous
applications were received. The number was reduced
to four and a selection was made in favor of a man who
was willing to work for a salary of 12s. 6d. a .week—and
this too in the face of an offer by a competent clerk (a
married man with two children) to work for 255. Another
case mentioned is that of a man who worked for months
at £1 a week, with the promise of a rise if he proved suit-
able His suitability having been established, his salary
was increased to 21s a week 1 This man is employed m
an agent’s office. .
In another case it has been represented that a man,
32, has been in receipt of 30s. a week for the past
three years. This man has had 15 years’ service with his
employer, and he expressed satisfaction because, two
years ago, he was given “ ten days’ holiday on full pay.
His salary has recently been increased “ because of better
times,” and he is now being paid 325. 6d. per week !
A clerk in a brewery, who had been working - till li.oU
for several nights, asked to be allowed to get away in
time to catch a train at 11 p.m., and he was told that he
“took no interest in his work.” ■ . t . .„ ,
Employees in solicitors’ offices, in receipt of 2os. ana
30s. a week, have to work overtime at nights to earn
sufficient to keep up appearances.— Records of the J\.&. W.
Clerks' Union. (N.B.—Premier Wade doesn’t see why
clerks should have a Wages Board.)
Men without trades ,
Figuring husilv
Under the lights,
Wondering savagely
What will become of them
When they are old.
The son of a clerk
He is sent to a school
At the age of five years
And he stays till fifteen
(That is ten years of knowledge
Less something for play).
At the end of it all
He knows several sums
And can read fairly well,
Also write. Thus equipped
He goes forth to Commence.
Men without trades
Figuring busily
Under the lights,
Wondering wretchedly
What will become of them
When they are old.
Raw, uninviting,
He goes to an Office, and
Commerce disdainfully
Hands him a broom,
Also a duster,
> Constructed of feathers
And one wooden stick.
These are his tools of trade,
These are his fighting things,
With them he wages a
Desultory battle with
Dust o’ the Earth.
Men on high stools,
Remote and magnificent,
Clad in eye-glasses and
Care and small salaries,
Curse at his awkwardness,
Cough at his dust.
The boy roughly snatched
From the playground of Youth
Wearies soon of the wand
With its bundle of feathers ;
The Dust of To-Day
Is the Dust of To-Morrow ;
The fight never-ending
Is dirty and profitless.
He looks at the Day Book,
The Cash Book, the Ledger ;
He envies the pale clerks that,
Bent double over them,
Scratch in the sacred tomes
With busy pens.
The Boy with the Broom
Hears them communing
Of Debits and Credits,
Rebates and Percentages,
Sixty Days’ Sight and
The Note Promissory;
He pauses-and gapes,
Wondering darkly
What it’s all about.
Long in the murk
Like a savage he dwells,
With his bald-headed charm
Made of feathers and wood,
And no teacher arrives
With a Message of Light.
Then one marvellous day
Interfering old Death,
Or the Boss or the Law
Takes a clerk from his stool;
Or perchance a brave clerk
Lays his pen down and goes
Of his own small accord
To another small job ;
Then does Providence take
The dark youth by the scruff
Of his ignorant neck,
And deposits him straight
On the stool.
Then he learns the routine
Of the mystical Books,
And the Fear of the Boss,
And the Fear of the Sack ;
For he only knows how
To manipulate pens
(Which are pieces of stick
With sharp, cloven ends).
Bricklayers, carpenters.
Miners and engineers,
Butchers and bishops and
Milkmen and cardinals,
Drapers and dustmen and
Kings and their retinues —
Pretty well everything
Knows how to write.
Bricklayers, carpenters,
Miners and engineers,
Butchers and bishops and
Milkmen and cardinals,
Drapers and dustmen and
Kings and their relatives,
Anything—everything
Can be a Clerk
N.S.W.
(But It Won’t !).
E. FRANCIS.
LOVE.
“ Yer look a bit damaged, Liz. Wot
was it? Trams or motors ?”
“No. Only another offer of marriage."
One of the diseases that you don’t talk about when
you’ve got mixed company in the drawing room
had the attention of the recent Medical Congress
in Melbourne ; and, though a lot of creepy things
came out during the discussion, probably the
creepiest of all was let loose by Dr. McMurray, of
Sydney. His contribution was a table giving the
proportion of the men of the British navy
who suffer from the disease that isn’t mentioned
in mixed company. The figures related to 1906,
and the navy was cut up into squadrons;
the patients are per 1000 of the total
strength :—Home station, 138T3 ; Channel
Fleet, 81-15; Atlantic Fleet, 110'91; Medi-
terranean Fleet, 97'84; North American
Fleet, 107'3; China Station, 107'8; East Indies,
138'74; Cape of Good Hope, 138'04 ; and Aus-
tralia (this is where the gasp comes in), 214/5
something more than one in every five ! It isn’t
a subject that one can let oneself go over ; but it
is pretty obvious that the Australian case is
shockingly bad—unless, of course, it so happens
that the ships or Crews when they leave for the
Australian station contain an unusual proportion
of wrecks. Even if that were the explanation,
the situation would be none the less grave, con-
sidering the appalling consequences of the disease
—consequences that last for two or three genera-
tions. Probably the greatest trouble is that the
extent of the risk is not realised by those most
exposed to it; and to do something to counteract
that trouble, the Melbourne Congress decided to
draw up “a short statement, carefully and
judicially worded, of the plain and honest truth
on this matter, for distribution among young
men.” Signed by the leaders of the profession,
and issued as a circular, this ought to do some-
thing; and if the Stigginses, who denounce N. S. W.
Premier Wade’s Contagious Diseases Bill, would
go and bury themselves in a vault for a while,
other measures might follow for the stamping out
of a trouble which is of more startling frequency
than perhaps anybody but the family doctor quite
realises.
♦
“The Gunyah” writes about the new Patents
Bill: —
Very few people, outside those versed in patent law,
have the slightest conception of the great benefit that
the Australian Government aims at conferring upon the
Commonwealth through the Amended Patents Bill of
1908, which was lately circulated among members. The
Bill is based on the British Patents Act of 1906, which has
already proved to be a blessing to the workers of Britain ,
for, although it has only been in operation since the end
of 1907, it is already causing the transfer of many
large manufacturing enterprises to Great Britain.
The Australian Bill contains but four sections. The
principal one provides that persons or companies that
have been granted a monopoly in the shape of a patent
must, within four years from the date of the patent,
work, manufacture, and sell,, in Australia, the result of
the manufacture of their patented machine at a reason-
able rate, and to an adequate extent, so as to meet all
local requirements and demands. At the present time it
is the custom for foreign companies and American trusts
to patent their inventions in Australia and forbid their
manufacture here. The article is then manufactured in
countries where labor is cheap and eight hours a day un-
known, imported into Australia, and the trade regulated
so as to keep us but poorly supplied, and at the same
time incidentally to keep the price of the article up far
beyond its proper value.
The Commonwealth Bill goes one better than the
British Act. The former provides that any person may
present his petition praying for the revocation of the
patent, on the ground of non-working in Australia, to
the Commissioner of Patents. The onus of the proof that
the invention is being worked in Australia in compliance
with the Bill is placed upon the shoulders of the patentee.
In the British Act the onus of proof is placed upon the
petitioner.
As is well known, but for the hard and unjust terms
existing in leases granted by a certain boot manufacturing
co., the presentpriceoffootwearcouldwell be reduced fully
35 per cent., while still leaving a fair margin of profit to
every handler of the goods. For upwards of a quarter of
a century Australia has been exposed in this way to
attacks on its industrial life through the abuse by
foreigners of the patent laws. Patents have been obtained
and simply used as a cloak for the importation of the
goods which were manufactured abroad, and, as a result
of this practice, Australia has suffered a three-fold injury :
(1.) It has been made to pay long prices for the articles
imported ; (2) it has been deprived of the advantages of
participating in the .manufacture of the patented article
whilst the patent existed ; and (3) even when the patent
did expire it has been found impossible to carry on a
similar manufacture in the teeth of opposition which has
been bloated in wealth through having been so long per-
mitted to squeeze Australia.
The democratic S. A. Government might do a lot
worse than cast a sympathetic eye the first spare
moment it gets in the direction of the man who
attends to its lighthouse. The way-out lighthouse-
keeper’s lot is parlously hard in this country. He
isn’t numerous enough to unionise. The same
circumstance tends to make him of scant import-
ance in the eyes of his member. And so he is the
bank clerk of toil —the citizen who has to endure
any old conditions for a wage that a self-respecting
pick-and shovel man would sniff violently at. He
is found at his most indigent and dreariest along
the S.A. coasts. A man starts thereabouts
as third keeper at £BO a year. Out of
this pittance he has to keep and clothe
himself and his family. The food in the remote-
nesses where he is stationed is, in the nature of
things, mostly tinned, and, also in the nature of
things, it is mostly three times dearer than it is in
the populated centres. An unpleasant, albeit
true, story circulates about one locality concern-
ing a third keeper of stainless antecedents, who,
after two years’ service at 30s. a week, was
reduced to stealing from his mates for. the where-
withal to feed those dependent on him. The
highest wage-altitude in front of the lighthouse-
kedper in the employ of the S.A. Government is
£lBO a year. This doesn’t accrue till he has
put in 30 years’ service or so, and gained the rank
of head-keeper—-and death or madness supervenes
in 90 per cent, of cases before those two difficult
conditions are fulfilled. The blue-ribbon job of
the profession lurks in the Point Charles Li ghthouse
(Port Darwin). Here the third keeper gets £lOO,
the second £llO, and the head £lBO per annum ;
and, in addition, each has an allowance of 3s. per
diem. On the other hand, £8 a year comes off
each keeper’s screw for the Superannuation if una;
each is docked £1 Is. per week for the three weeks
holiday he can never afford to take; the men
have to support their children in Port Darwin
which is 18 miles away—in order to get them edu-
cated, and out of the small change that remains
they are expected to live debt-free, with nour
at Bs. the 501 b. bag, tinned meat (lb. tins)
10s. Gd. a dozen, butter at 2s. the lb. tin,
and soap at lOd. a bar. The financial problem is
too stiff for mere human beings to cope with,
especially when they are saddled with the further
task of carrying many hundreds of lives and many
thousands of pounds’ worth of property on their
shoulders night by night. Pending the good time
when the Australian Government shall take over
the control of all Australian lighthouses, the pre-
sent S.A. Administration would do a fair and)
wise thing if it set itself to ameliorate to some
extent the social lot of its lighthouse employee,
and to give a hoist to his miserable wages. And
of the two reforms the hoist is the more urgent.
The N.S.W. Railways came along at Christmas
with another “present”, of £60,000 a year in
freights—not to the small backblocker, who has
to send to the city for a handful of stuff, but to-
the big men who buy in large quantities. For
instance, the little man’s lot of fencing wire costs-
him about twice as ipuch per cwt. as the big
man’s truck-load. Still, apart from whether
Johnson is stuffing the money into the big mans
or the little man’s pocket, the Commissioners are-
rushing tilings in a disastrous manner. In 1903
Parliament appointed a committee to go into rail-
way accounts, and th'e following year Auditor-
General Veiinon reported that, on the figures as
adjusted, the railways and tramways had been ru n
at a loss of £2,154,190 in the preceding 13 years
alone. Altogether there are over £3,000,000 of
old losses to be wiped out; but instead of Piping
them out the Commissioners pull freights down
whenever good times happen along. When bad
times slip back into their place it will be next to
impossible to put the freights up again; so,
instead of having the old deficit wiped out, the
new chum Johnson, who doesn’t know how erratic
Australian conditions are, simply lays the founda-
tions for a bigger deficit in the future.
The Stowaways Act, which was hurried through
the Australian Parliament in the last days of the
session, was a piece of work done on the spui of
the moment. It was brought about partly by the
amazing and unexplainable increase of Chows in
Westralia and partly by the discovery of no less
than 20 Chinese hidden away on one Hongkong
steamer; and the fact that the 20 were all in a
horrible and lamentable state of skin disease
made the case the more alarming. It is practic-
ally impossible for 20 unauthorised passengers to
escape notice on a lengthy voyage if there is any
proper supervision, for the stowaway isn t, as a
rule, hidden under the coals all the voyage ; he
enjoys a certain amount of liberty most of the
time, and is only doubled up and planted in h.s
hole when close to port. So Parliament has de-
cided to hold the ship responsible in such cases,
and fine the owners £lOO for every unauthorised
Asiatic discovered on board. I hat will
naturally make the owners hustle to nx up a
remedy for the evil, and they doubtless will
find one; if they can’t break their Chinese
crews of the habit of helping unauthorised
yellows into Australia, they will have to adopt
the radical remedy of getting rid of Chinese crews
altogether. But, after all, the Stowaways Act
only touches the fringe of the evil. Until Aus-
tralia gets a fleet of its own, and keeps up a vigi-
lant patrol of the northern.coasts, there will still
be about 2000 miles of shore-line on which Ah
Sin can be landed wholesale and with impunity.
There are strange tales about droves of strange
Chows who speed across the Queensland border
with their pigtails streaming in the wind, and as
the gentle Chow doesn’t fall from Heaven m the
Territory any more than he does elsewhere, it is
darkly suspected, in a general way, that these
heathen must have come from somewhere. In
fact, when one. takes a philosophic view of the
ttiatter, almost everybody comes from somewhere.


THE BEBT NATURAL APERIENT WATER.
Hunyadi Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes—
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :— A wineglassful before breakfast, either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor,
~ ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label
Ride only
r BROOKS
SADDLES
The World’s Standard
Cycle Saddles
Agents stock them. Art Catalogue free.
. B. BROOKS &Co., Ltd., The Saddle
Specialists, Birmingham.
England.
All
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
THE XJ.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop
the most
vicious
dog (or
man)with-
dfg
df
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for cyclists,
unprotected ladies,
nightwatehmen, and
others. Can be charged
with water or other
liquids, and will carry
a distance of. 25 feet.
It creates great amuse-
The Searchlight Elec-
tric Pocket Lamp and
Scarf Pin can be used as an
ordinary lamp for lighting: pur-
poses, also as a Novelty Electric
y
g
df
Scarf Pin. The
whole outfit
guaranteed in
perfect working
order, throwing
a dazzling bright
light. Price,
complete, 2/9,
or post free 3/3.
Extra Batteries
for re-charging
lamp 1/-, or post
free 1/3.
Wholesale and
Retail.
ment for both young’ and old, it is strongly made of
polished nickel, and is one of the most useful,
durable, reliable and economical novelties ever pro-
duced. Price 2/3, orpostfreeanywherefor3/- -
The Joker’s Squirt
Cinematograph.
Areal startler. You may have a lot of fun with
this little peep show. It is made entirely of
metal, and consists of a tube having-a micros-
copic lens fitted into one end. While the
victim is absorbed in admiration of the pretty
picture, and turns the button in the con-
fident expectation of seeing- something in-
teresting, a spring syringe is brought into
action, and the observer experiences a very
great surprise. It is very simple to operate,
cannot get out of order, andean be carried in
the vest pocket. Pull directions with each
one. Price post free anywhere for 1/6.
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition just published.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Strekt, Sydney.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
g
FIELD-GLASSES
WITH
ENHANCED
Distance between
Oculars. —-
STEREOSCOPIC
EFFECT,
ARMY.
MARINE.
TRAVEL
SPORT.
STALKING.
dfg
Featurea:—
Brilliant
Definition,
Extensive Field.
Great Light
Intensity,
Mechanical
Precision,
i Stability,
Tropic Proof,
Increased
distance between Objectives.
Obtainable
from all
Opticians.
NEW MODELS.
CARL ZEISS, JENA.
ENGLISH BRANCH-29, Margaret St.,
Regent St., London, England.
New
Catalogue
T 78
Post Free.
SCRAPE ! SCRAPE ! SCRAPE !
The Song of the Cheap Razor.
What a difference you notice when you use the PL.XJM RAZOR) with
its specially-tempered blade of Sheffield Silver Steel.
No other blade is “just lik# it.’’ For a cool, easy shave mark the Pl/UM
as your next Razor.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
Cake Universal Shaving- Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning- Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors 1/- each.
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George Street, SYDNEY
Established 25 Years.
Price 10/6
ANYWHERE IN AUS-
TRALASIA, POST FREE.
The Bulletin Post Cards,
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
... Is
... 10d
GOULDS House Force Pumps
Fig. 1413
operated by hand are used for filling attic
tanks, supplying water to laundry tubs, kitchen
sinks and bath rooms. These pumps are made
carefully and handsomely painted for indoor
use They can be furnished with base for
securing to a platform or to the kitchen sink
shelf. Others are arranged to attach to a plank
or the wall of a room. Our facilities for manu-
facturing House Pumps of all descriptions are
unequalled. We would like to send our cata-
logue to those interested.
THE GOULDS MANUFACTURING COMPANY,
Seneca Falls, New York, U.S.A.
AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES
REFEREE TOBACCO
GROWN and MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
AND KEEP YOUR MONEY AT HOME.
Wholesale Agents—
TEASDEL & LITTLEY, Sydney.
F. T. FIELD, Melbourne.
B. BURT & CO., Brisbane.
F. RICHARDS, Latrobe, Tas.
A. E. JOLLY Sc CO., Port Darwin.
The Inky Way.
“ Ganesha ”: lie Australian ink-slingers in the Big
Fog. E. C. Buley is night editor of the Daily Mirror.
L. T. Brient, formerly editor of Sydney Telegraph, and
ex-night editor of the Daily Chronicle, is still a big con-
tributor to the London press. F. S. Hartnell is a sub-
editor of the Standard. Wilfrid Barton, son of the great
“ Toby,” and a former Rhodes scholar, is a sub-editor of
the Daily Mirror, as well as a barrister “ devilling ” in
the Temple. Frank Boland, who has had lots of S’African
experience, is a free-lance. Henry Gullett, formerly
of the S. M. Herald, is a newcomer as a free-
lance and correspondent of the Sydney 7 Telegraph.
C. X. McKenna, who turned journalist in S’Africa, repre-
sents Johannesburg papers, and writes clever sketches
for the Daily News. C. H. Chomley edits the British
Australasian. His cousin, R. L. Outhwaite, famous for
having stood as a Freetrader against Chamber-
lain at Birmingham, writes splendid articles against
British landlords in ” the Daily News. Ethel
Mills still works as a journalist. Sophie Osmond
is a successful writer of popular fiction. F. F.
Elmes is now married and does not write so much.
Margaret Baxter, from Sydney, is a great light of the
Austral Club, the Australian woman’s club in London.
She has given up singing for journalism. Thorold
Waters, formerly of the Age staff, has almost given up
journalism for singing. M. Donohoe, late of Sydney
Evening News, is Paris correspondent of the Daily
Chronicle, and is regarded as one of the best special cor-
respondents connected with the English press. A bril-
liant journalist is P. A. Vaile, expert on golf, cricket, and
lawn tennis, whose “ Wake up, England ! ” is one of the
most successful books published by an Australian. Wini-
fred Janies, of “ Bachelor Betty,” is writing more books.
KatherineS. Pritchard, representing Melbourne Herald,
etc., has left London for Paris. She has contributed to
some heavy reviews. Louise Mack lives mainly in Flor-
ence, which is also the present habitat of painter Mey'er
Altson. Arthur Lynch, settled in Paris, represents the
New York World. William Clarke, lecturer for the
N.S.W. Government, writes of Out-back. H. C. Smartt,
an official in N.S.W. Agent-General’s office, has broken
the ice with a short play. Bernard Espinasse has given up
play-writing, and is now a successful journalist. Will H.
Ogilvie has settled in Edinburgh. He is among the best
Scotch writers. Auguste von Heinbockel is doing well in
New York. Desmond Byrne is one of the best known
Anglo-Australian journalists. “Smiler” Hales, who
writes about two novels a year, spoils himself by over-
production. At present he is somewhere in the Balkans.
On a higher literary plane, Albert Dorrington is perhaps
the most successful of all Australian scribes. “ The
Monkey God,” a novel, published in its entirety in an
American magazine, was a brilliant and humorous fantasia
of romantic adventure. His “ Bully Hayes” yarns in the
Pall Mall, which have run over a year, hold their
own with Conan Doyle, Cutliffe Hyne, etc. Dorring-
ton, who has settled at Brighton, has completed another
book, “ The Gold Trackers,” dealing with Bananaland life
and the marvels of the Great Barrier Reef. Gilbert
Murray, the translator of Euripides, has become Pro-
fessor of Greek at Oxford, the blue ribbon of classical
scholarship in the English-speaking world. But as
Gilbert left Australia at 11 he can hardly be claimed as a
local product. F. S. Delmer, who used to contribute to
the Red Page, can, however, be claimed, as he was born
and educated in Australia, and graduated at Melbourne
University before he went to Berlin, where he now
holds the position of Professor of English. There are
others. On the whole, Australian scribes "do ” better
than they write. With the exception of Gilbert Murray,
Dorrington is the only one likely to leave his mark on
contemporary literature. But the record is commendable
for a race which is supposed to be tired
“S S • There is a popular impression that the brain-
worker'is a loafer who earns his bread sitting at his ease.
I have done hard work in both departments, manual and
mental, and in my experience the effect of eight or nine
hodrs’ steady literary graft is precisely the same as eight
or nine hours’ trucking or pick-and-shovel work.
The feeling of exhaustion is identical m both
cases. But I met a man during a recent
Gippsland trip whose experience differs with mine.
Ten years ago I knew him as a maker of neat
verses and an excellent trimmer of bright pars; two
weeks ago I met him digging post holes under a sweltering
sun. We exchanged greetings, and while he wiped
copious perspiration from his brick-red ‘chiv, I ven-
tured to wonder at his giving up the game for this. He
admitted he was not doing better on land than he had
done on paper. “ But,” said he, “ the fact is, old man,
I’m too infernally lazy to write stories and verses.
♦ * * *
The hoofs of Australian pressmen are dug pretty deep
into the Inky Way of the Far North. W. H. Donald, one-
time of Sydney Telegraph and Melbourne Argus, was
until lately editor of the China Mail, Hongkong. Now
he represents the New Y ork Herald in South China,
and is booming the China-America alliance. Lionel
Pratt editor of the Bangkok Observer, Siam, is the
ex-leader writer of the China Mail. He was on
the Sydney Telegraph and Melbourne Age, and went to
the Bear-Monkey war for an Australian syndicate. Even
before the Brunkey war he was in Peking for Reuter s
during the Boxer upheavings. Stanley Kingsbury, leader
writer on the South China Morning Post, is a son of
Crown Prosecutor Kingsbury, of Brisbane, and was trained
on the Brisbane Courier. Lowry, of the Morning
Post, is another Brisbane pressman, while Kendall New-
man, of the same journal, though an old East Asiatic hand,
is a Sydney native. J. W. Bain, the great sporting press-
man of Shanghai, is an ex-employee of the Sydney Tele-
graph. H. E. Victor, on the staff of the Hongkong
Daily Press, is a Victorian scribe. Then at the top of
the list is Dr. Morrison, the Australian who represents
the London Times, and is more feared by the Chinese
than all the foreign consuls put together.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —I have been deceived! I have been
cruelly wronged ! Deceit walketh upon the face of the
earth and truth is no more. Before the Maoriland elec-
tion I read my newspaper diligently and found that I was
daily implored to vote for a certain candidate, because
every vote cast for him “ would be a vote cast against
SOCIALISM.” My electorate was Christchurch North,
and the man I was daily 7 urged to vote against was T. E.
Taylor. My newspaper described him as a red-nag-
wagger, a brigand, a bandit, a hare-brained theorist who
would hand us over to all the horrors of Socialistic, Labor
rule.” T. E. Taylor was made to look such an awful
character that I‘grew interested and went to one of his
meetings. The paper said he had few followers, and that
sensible people regarded him as a person of no import-
ance, so I didn’t hurry much. I thought there would be
acres of space. Outside the hall there was a crowd of
over 1000 persons who could not get in because the place
was packed to the doors, and had been so for over an
hour. A friend I met managed to get me m, and I waited
anxiously while Taylor addressed the outside crowd,
which refused to go away until he had spoken, ine
people in the hall, many of whom had waited hours to
hear the “ red-flag-wagger,” formed one of the best-
dressed and most intelligent audiences I have ever
seen. There wasn’t a bandit in the whole crowd. When
Taylor came in, after having spoken to those outside, he
was greeted with 10 minutes of solid cheering. He spoke
for two hours, and proved to be the finest and most able
political speaker I have ever heard. He explained his
views on land nationalisation, closer settlement, the need
of a State Bank, the necessity for defence, the utter fal-
lacy of borrowing anv more money excepting to renew
present loans. He also detailed a scheme for gradually
repaying the existing debt, of obtaining suitable work for
every man in the country, and for increasing the popula-
tion. There wasn’t any vital subject he didn’t touch on.
He talked the soundest horse-sense I’ve ever listened to,
and never made one piratical suggestion. At the
end of his speech he was cheered to the echo. 1 went
home and thought some. Here was an acknowledged
Socialist opposed to borrowing, strenuously 7 advocating
high Protection, and proposing legislation to help the
birth-rate and preserve the sanctity of the home. And I
had been told in print daily 7 for weeks that to vote
for Socialism was to become a home wrecker and help in
dragging the defenceless babe from its mother s breast.
Now the protection of mothers and children, especially
illegitimate children, was one of this bandit’s strongest
points. If that was Socialism it was good enough for nie,
and on the morning of the election I went and carefully
voted for T. E. Taylor, so that he would have at least one
supporter. My paper said that morning that the people
of Christchurch North wouldn’t stand for Socialism, being
mostly of the so-called aristocratic class. That evening
I went down town to see if Taylor would get
even the one vote I had cast in his favor.. There were
30,000 well-dressed, intelligent people awaiting the elec-
tion results outside the newspaper office. Every return
showed the “ bandit” to have a solid majority, and the
more respectable and desirable the locality where the
booth was situated, the greater was his majority. In
some of the most “ aristocratic” neighborhoods he more
than doubled his opponent’s votes. The result was that
he wiped the floor with his rival at every booth in the
electorate, and finished up with a majority of overloOO
votes. The great crowd received the news with tremendous
cheering, and yet the newspapers had for weeks been
declaring that Socialism is a curse that no one wants, or
that only the scum of society wants. Now what is to be
done with Fat-bossed papers of that class which seek to
keep Fat in power by a definite campaign of deceit 1 If
people are satisfied with the existing conditions, why did
so many vote for Tommy Taylor ? Answer me, Oye stars,
for I have been cruelly 7 deceived. Henceforth lam
a Socialist, a strenuous advocate of the same Socialism as
Tommy Taylor, M. P., and the tie I wear will be red. May
the press be confounded. —Yours in disgust, Moana.
THE POET’S LUCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If, with some sudden witchery of rime
My laureate head I smote against a star,
And, knocking it a little sideways, made
A void in Nature, would the neighbors care?
Would Jones forsake his joyous pumpkin patch
To gaze across the fence in silent awe
For one brief moment? Would Bill Henderson
Renounce at eve his deep verandah chair,
And speak of other things than wind and sun
And the land’s need of moisture? Vain the hope.
Somewhere are those would mouth my music o er
In shady gardens murmurous with bees,
Or in the cool of some book sanctuary
Thrill inlv with a quiet ecstasy
inrni miy mtn a quiet
Born of my rimes. Some faintly-fashioned maid
Would shrine me as a master in her thought,
And deem me almost worthy of the crown
L„„ E -b, Frances Ridley Have,*.,
Some pressman, hot from the large butcher-house
Of language and romance and poesy,
Would slap a hearty hand upon my back,
And praise me as a weakling of the c ra ft
Whereof himself was master. While the gods,
Rapt in large wonder, almost stood aside
As they would call me to another throne
Set in Olympus-mocking idiot Fate
Would still award the most unequal prize,
Red shining gold for their fly-haunted tripe,
And copper for the full rich wine of song.
maoriland
D.M.W.


Mr. WILHELM GANZ, one of the leading musicians in London, called, as did many other musical celebrities,
at our stand at the Franco-British Exhibition, played upon and tested our pianos, and afterwards sent the
following purely voluntary testimonial :
November sth, igoB,
8j Onslow Gardens , S. IV.
Messrs. Beale & Co. Ltd.
Dear Sirs ,
It gives me great pleasure in stating that I consider the Grand Piano-
forte , which you exhibited at the Franco-British Exhibition , a very first-rate
instrument. I much enjoyed playing on the same. The touch is excellent , like-
wise the tone —I especially admired the wonderful tone of the bass. In fact I
hardly remember a pianoforte with a more resonant sound ’ and Australia may
be very proud of your having produced such a fine instrument.
With every good wish for your success in the production of these pianofortes ,
I remain ,
Yours very faithfully ,
\
(Sgd.) WILHELM GANZ.
Inasmuch as Mr. Ganz has played thousands of pianos during his lifetime, and is one of the fore-
most musicians of the day, his opinion can only be regarded as of the highest value.
The Beale Australian Pianos have been awarded the Grand Prix, two gold medals and a silver medal
at the Franco-British Exhibition, 1908.
Exact duplicates of the pianos sent to London may be seen at any of our showrooms.
BEALE ®. CO. Ltd.
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE.”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Three Doors from tHe G.P.O.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; 243 Mitchell Street, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide,
S.A.; 837 Hay Street, Perth ; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Brisbane),
and at Maryborough, Rockhampton and Townsville, Queensland.
By manufacturing all parts of our instruments in our own factories, and selling direct from
factory to family,, we can supply you with the best pianos in the world at half the
price of the best imported instruments.
v, . v r .~ : . ' Ffi , je . . -
Cash or Easy Terms. Old Pianos taken* in Exchange.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
o Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills Superior to
All Others.
The prudent housewife always keeps a bottle in
the house, for she has learnt by experience that
Nature occasionally requires some assistance, and
that this assistance is best afforded by prompt re-
course to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. In
0?
DIRECTIONS
ttoni—...
ORIOSE3I ««m> t..
*>»n* Piu ksMwn
INDIAN ROOT
PIUS
thousands of homes the
little amber bottle in
which these pills are pack-
ed is the sole medicine
chest, for in almost every
case of sickness Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
can be administered with
beneficial results. What-
ever the ailment, it is im-
perative that the bowels
shall be kept free, and the
process by which the blood
is purified shall be stimu-
lated. Many a serious ill-
ness may be prevented by
the timely use of these pills,
which being vegetable do
not weaken, sicken nor
gripe, and may be taken
by the most delicate
woman or the youngest
child.
“I was a sufferer from headaches and consti-
pation for a long time,” writes Mrs. Eva Leach,
10 May Street Leichhardt, Sydney, “and in
search of a remedy, I decided to give Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills a trial. I have pleasure in
stating that I was not only relieved from head-
aches, but I do not suffer from irregularity as in
the past. With my children I also found your
pills most effective in regulating their bowels. I
always keep the pills in the house, and can safely
recommend them as a good remedy for headache
and constipation, mild in their action and perma-
nent in their effects.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—Messra. E. H. FOTHERCILL & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Sydney Stadium is not a place of beauty,
but, filled to the rim with 20,000 people, it makes an im-
pressive sight, even to the man who has no interest in
the booking office. Saturday’s crowd got in without any
crushing worth speaking of. Immediately the doors
opened at 7 a.m. the early-door ticket holders filed in,
and by 8.30 the great enclosure was more than half full.
It is said that some enthusiasts slept out near the struc-
ture to get in early, but this has been denied as a mere
newspaper yarn. The sky was threatening, and in the
dark clouds the augurs read an omen of disaster, for that
huge crowd was aggressively white in its sympathy. It
had not come to see a fight so much as to witness a black
aspirant for the championship of the world beaten to his
knees and counted out; and though the augurs
were persistent, they were voted down. The first
excitement was a little affair between photographer
Kerry, who had the sole right to take stationary pictures
Burns's characteristic attitude.
in the Stadium, and some cheerful pirates who had com-
mandeered the platform on which he proposed to erect
his big panorama camera. They refused to come down,
and when Kerry appealed to the police, they invited the
Law to come up and poke them off. The Law said it was
no good at climbing. Meanwhile others in the crowd had
grasped the value of that eyrie, and proposed to get there.
Then Kerry proved his ring generalship. He enlisted
the services of the first sec of pirates as a bodyguard
against those who w r ere drawing near, and they hoisted
him and his machinery up and threatened to kick the
heads off any others w ho attempted to follow.
This little episode over, the crowd leaned back
till Johnson suddenly appeared in the passage, and
climbing into the ring went to his corner. There was a
faint cheer, and the colored giant bowed again and again.
He didn’t get much homage, but made a lot of
what he did get. Then Burns appeared, and
was nearly blown out of the Stadium by the crash of
applause that thundered from 20,000 throats, for by this
time there was not a vacant seat in the great enclosure.
Looking round from the ringside over the waves of faces
that weltered away to the iron walls of the enclosure, the
writer suddenly realised what an awful lot of meat it
takes to make up 20,000 people. Johnson was not de-
pressed by the tremendous ovation his rival received.
Expectorating with unerring accuracy between the heads
of one of his seconds and a pressman on to a vacant space
about the size of a handkerchief, he leaned over the ropes
and inquired of a menial had he got “ that bet on.” The
varlet had, and Johnson seemed relieved. Then he
glanced at the opposite corner, and noticed that the man
who was giving him the chance of his life and over two
stone in w’eight, W'as wearing elastic bands upon his
elbow's. He demanded that they should be removed.
Burns refused. Johnson appealed to the referee, but the
Mclntosh said there was nothing in the rules against
bands, and the agreement had not specified that they
should not be worn. Therefore he declined to order
Burns to remove them.
“All right,” said Johnson, “I’ll sit here till he takes
’em off. They must be there to do him some good, and if
he don’t take ’em off there’ll be no fight.”
Mr. Westmacott announced to the crow'd that Johnson
refused to fight till Burns removed the bandages, and a
storm of howls and hoots ripped the air. Through the
bass roar came shrill voices adjuring Burns not to give
way to the “ black cow,” and other animals. Mclntosh
leaned against the ropes and w'aited. Larry Foley re-
monstrated with Johnson, who sat grinning at the
rage of the crowd. A man with imagination w’ould
The black man stood like a tower.
have _ been impressed—he wasn’t. Which shows the
occasional advantage of not having an imagination.
Burns ended w'hat w'ould have soon become an ugly
business by suddenly rising and throwing off the thin
elastic bandages amidst thunders of applause. Then the
official fluter announced that if the police stopped the
contest the Mclntosh would immediately declare the
winner, and that the cheques would be paid over in the
ring immediately after the scrap. Mclntosh dragged
the hands of the two men together, made a few' inaudible
remarks, and posed them for the picture. Then they
went to their corners.
When Burns fought Squires this writer opined
that the man who would eventually beat Burns would be
one who could draw his defence with one hand and then
cross with the other to the jaw. And just because this
was precisely what Johnson succeeded in doing at the
opening of the struggle, the first round was the really
decisive one of the battle. As they came together people
got their first chance to realise the great disparity
between the men. Johnson’s magnificent body and
ophidian head and face fairly towered over Burns, who
seemed a mere boy in his teens beside him. As Johnson
went in he smiled and paused. “Aal right, Tahmmy!”
he laughed, shooting out his spar-like left for Burns’s
ribs. Quick as lightning Burns’s right fell on his biceps
and took the weight out of the blow, while his left
landed in the black man’s bingey. As he swung round to
draw out they clinched, broke loose, and, like a flash,
Johnson, with a tremendous right upward swing, caught
Burns fair under the chin, lifted him off his feet, and
sent him to the floor in a sitting posture.
This was the really decisive blow of the fight,
for, although Burns was not knocked out, he was obvi-
ously dazed—so dazed that he lost his ring craft, his
hitting power, and his speed. Springing up he went for
Johnson like a tiger. But it was blind, dazed fury, which
Johnson met with straight lefts and right crosses till
Burns at last succeeded in clinching. Then Johnson
uppercut him again and again. Burns tried for upper-
cuts and belly rips, but Johnson had got that far-famed
arm lock on him, and Burns’s blows had -no strength.
Then Johnson would push him off and smash him on the
jaw as he did so. At the gong Burns went to his corner in a
very bad way, and his attendants rubbed him with
champagne.
Johnson sat cool and unruffled, laughing and
talking. “Water,” he roared with a grin, and taking a
mouthful that would have been a decent drink for an
elephant, he gargled his throat, ejected the fluid
where a fair quantity splashed over the furious
pressmen, and sat up to have a look at the crowd.
He had reason to be pleased with himself. Not
only had he demonstrated that Burns’s patent defence was
useless against him, but that he was so much stronger
that he could hold the champion helpless till he was
read} 7 to smite. In his corner, Burns’s attendant was
combing his hair, and up aloft the cinematograph man
went on turning his handle mechanically with an expres-
sion of blank indifference, except w'hen he turned his face
towards the grey, cloud-covered sky. The crowd sat
silent, wondering what the second round would be like.
Johnson cake-walked to meet Burns, who came
in determinedly and landed a few' useless blow’s on the
black, ophidian face. Excepting that Burns seemed to have
recovered some of his speed and showed wonderful skill
at evadingsome right swings, crosses and other messengers
“I thought Tahmmy was an in-fighter.”
of sudden death, the second round was not much better
than the first. The audience sighed as it realised that
Burns and Jahnson were not in the same class. Someone
remarked that Charlie Mitchell was up against greater
odds in weight and size when he drew with John L.
Sullivan; but an aged fighter sadly shook his hair and
remarked that Mitchell didn’t lead for the big man’s
head. Burns got into clinches again, and the towering
black held him helpless. He would rise on his toes and
bring his right down with an awful smash on Burns’s
kidneys, then push him off and uppercut him on the jaw
as he did so. The referee had a busy time parting them ;
and once Johnson held Burns with his left and hit him
with his right, receiving a warning for his pains. In the
clinches Burns’s characteristic attitude was one of abso-
lute helplessness, Johnson defending his stomach and
avoiding uppercuts with the greatest of ease. A more
one-sided struggle it would be impossible to imagine.
Burns was plucky as a lion, but the black man was as
strong as a locomotive. The only bright feature of the
display was the heroism with which Burns took his
smashing, and gamely came again and again. His face
was in a very bad way. His mouth was bleeding, his
cheek beginning to swell, and his eyes were growing
puffy. He seemed to realise his inability to make an im-
pression on Johnson, who occasionally stood quite still,
with his hands down, talking and jeering at him, while
Burns skirled round looking for an opening that never
came. The black man stood like a tower, and let Burns
do the fighting. He had evidently read Burns’s book.
It was not till the fourth round that Burns
sufficiently recovered from that first knock-down punch
to make a really dangerous attack. Then he caught
Johnson over the heart with a heavy left, and hauling
off landed him a weak right on the jaw. Johnson was
quieter for the rest of that round, but it was his round
all the same.
Then commenced a most beastly exhibition of
rubbing it into a man who was fighting a game battle but
was altogether overmatched. The colored mass was quite
unruffled, and determined to impress the fact on this
crowd of white trash whose champion he was beating.
Looking down at a photographer who was snapping
between the ropes, he remarked as he went by: “ Did
you get that? Anyhow, I’ll give you a good picture” ;
and with that he suddenly sprang in on Burns, smote
him in the stomach with the left, smashed him
on the jaw with the right, and hurled him against
the ropes. Frequently he would hold Burns help-
less against him whilst he exchanged gibes with the
crowd, grinning as he did so, and then twist Burns into
the position he wanted and smite. “ Come on, leedle
Tahmmy,” he laughed in the ninth; “ come right here
where I want you !” and he swung the struggling white
into the Johnsonian corner, where Burns broke loose and
feebly uppercut. “No good, Tahmmy!” guyed John-
son, “ I’ll teach.you ! ” and he threw Burns off and upper-
cut him twice with his right, and bashed him on the side
of the head with the left. Again, when Mclntosh ordered
Burns to break, the white man was too dazed to hear, and
feebly jabbed his opponent in the stomach. “Let go-
break, Tommy ! ” roared Mclntosh. “He can’t hurt, he
can’t hurt!” sniggered Johnson, bashing Burns over the
kidneys. On another occasion, when Burns’s seconds
howled to him, “ Get away from him, Tommy ; get away
from him-! ” he drew the white man in close to him, and
turning to the corner, remarked, with a drawl, “ I
thought Tahmmy was an in-fighter.”
In the 10th round Burns made a fine rally.
Feinting with his left, he suddenly hurled in a right for
Johnson’s jaw with all his weight behind it. Johnson
tried to meet it with his left, missed, but ducked in
time to let the white man’s blow go over his neck.
As their bodies crashed together Johnson gurgled : “ Ah,
that’s what I like,” and he smashed Burns heavily in the
Burns made a fine rally.
ribs with his right. After 11 rounds of this Burns was in
a horrible plight. His face was all puffed out on one side,
his jaw hung down as though it were broken, and the blood
oozed from his battered mouth. Outgeneralled, over-
reached, overmatched in strength, insulted and treated
like a helpless mouse by a great black cat, he came up
heroically to take his punishment. He would fight to the
bitter end, and all that a man could do in the face of such
overwhelming odds and in the midst of utter disaster
Noah Brusso did. And all the time he continued to
attack, to lead, to try and force the fight. It was mag-
nificent, but it wasn’t pugilism, and all against the tactics
laid down in his own book.
And all the time the cinematograph man up
above went on turning his handle monotonously, unex-
pectant ; only glancing at the sky with one eye while he
kept the second on his stops. Every time the sinking
champion went to his corner his attendant combed his
hair. He might lose his championship, the supremacy of
the w'hite race might go to the Devil, Burns himself
might be slowly battered to pieces or suddenly killed out-
right, but at least he should die with his hair properly
parted. Gradually the strain began to tell on that at-
tendant and he did his work badly, so that the exhausted,
half-fainting man came into the ring with his hair imper-
fectly parted and badly arranged. The black conqueror
was beginning to wonder if he hadn’t played too long.
He rushed in and at last seemed to be making a genuine
effort to end it. But Burns, marvellous to relate, seemed
to be slowly recovering his speed, and evaded wonder-
fully. If he had been content to evade it would have been
better if not well, but he continued to lead and meet rush
with rush, to clinch, and in-fight; in all of which proceed-
ingshegot the worst of it, till he became quite helpless and
clung to the ropes. That left side of his face puffed out
further, and the sag in hi« mouth firmly convinced people
that the jaw was broken. Johnson also apparently
thought so, and, in accordance with the charming spirit
he had shown right through the fight, aimed for it every
time, as he followed Burns up with sudden ferocious
rushes.
It was in one of these rushes that Johnson, while Burns
clung to the ropes, struck the champion twice on the ap-
parently injured spot, and knocked him down with such
force that he rolled over twice. Mclntosh bounded
across the ring, and bending down over him commenced
to count. Johnson, who all through, although un-
generous and objectionable in his attitude towards his
opponent, fought with scrupulous regard for the rules,
retired to his corner, and with his hands resting on his
hips watched complacently. He thought it was a knock-
out.
As Mclntosh counted, he waved time with his
right hand, forefinger extended, just as Nathan does.
“One—two”—right on to eight, when Burns scrambled
up and staggered towards Johnson. Johnson bounded
from his corner like a panther. “Finish him, Jack!”
yelled his second as Johnson swept down like a cyclone
on the staggering, almost helpless man, and with a left
smash on the forehead knocked him against the ropes.
He was just swinging his right for that battered,
swollen cheek again, when the Superintendent
of Police soared up the ropes and waved his
crop aloft. “Stop, Johnson!” bellowed the Mclntosh
in a voice fit to wake the dead, and Johnson’s
arm swung back as the attendants swarmed into the
ring. Johnson hurried to the centre, and Mclntosh,
pointing to him, roared, “ I declare Johnson winner on
points ! ”
As Mclntosh’s voice rebounded from the walls
of the Stadium that mighty concourse remained silent.
Johnson waved his hands to the crowd that did not
cheer him. A few straggling voices were raised, but
they were mere flecks of sound in an ocean of silence.
The black man had fought a scrupulously fair fight, and
Burns's mouth sagged down.
won on points from start to finish. To the writer it
seemed that he could have knocked Burns out any time
after the seventh round. But the victory, fairly won as
it was, was wholly unpopular. That crowd was white to
the core. It had given the brown man a fair deal, and
didn’t feel called upon to do more. It put its hat on
and streamed out. In 12 minutes from the paying over
of the cheques the Stadium was empty.
* * * *
“D.”: Not the least depressing feature of
Saturday’s massacre was the “flashness” of Johnson.
“ Flashness ” is miserably inadequate as a description of
his posturing, but it serves as well as the next word.
The English or any other language is incapable of doing
justice to the way in which Johnson published his delight
in himself and all that was his to so much of the world as
was at the Stadium. Had 1 his nods, becks, wreathed
smiles, etc., occurred in America, a prominent citizen
would inevitably have risen impressively somewhere
about the close of the fourth round, and, amid encourag-
ing cheers, have drawn a gun upon Johnson and shot
that immense mass of black humanity dead. In the en-
suing murder trial counsel for the defence would have
put in the cinematograph film as his sole exhibit and
evidence, and on its testimony alone secured a verdict of
“justifiable homicide.”
* * • *
The Mclntosh has already opened negotiations
w’ith James J. Jeffries, with the object of matching the
undefeated ex-champion against Johnson. Jeffries stated
when he retired that, if ever a black gained the heavy,
weight championship, he (Jeffries) would emerge
from the cool * pleasaunces of his Californian
farm-pub-club establishment and essay to tear
the belt from Ethiopia. America will be an unpleasant
place for James to live in if he fails to keep his plighted
word. He is 33 years of age and stands nearly 6ft. 2in.
His fighting weight is about; 15 stone, and he scales at
present nearly 20 stone. Mac will put up a purse of
£lO,OOO, and a condition will be that Jeffries must train in
Australia for at least six months before he meets Johnson.
* » * *
“ 0.K.” : I based my expr cations of the defeat
of Tommy Burns, Esq., upon „»vo good “tips,” rather
than upon personal prejudice against one who proved
himself a mean tactician in his “ go ” with Bill Lang. The
first “tip” came from Barroni, the Melb. photographer,
who has studied all these stoushers in their poses. Dis-
co rsing of the merits of Burns as compared with our
lc~al champions, the photographer brought out a nega-
tive of the darkie and remarked, “ But here is the fellow
who will beat Tommy if they ever meet.” Again, one of
the rubbers at the Turkish Bath talked learnedly of the
Ehysical points of the two men, both of whom had
een through his hands on the marble slab. “If it’s
a square fight, Johnson will knock out the white man,”
said the rubber. “That’s our idea, and we ought to be
better judges than most
people.” Physically the
black was the better
gladiator, and as for the
courage and endurance
of Burns, I wrote in
The Bulletin of Sep-
tember 10: “If he were
the Real Thing in daunt-
less pugs he wouldn’t
work the points against
his opponents which
only his ‘star’ position
allows him to work. A
bit of a ‘ bounder ’ is
Burns without a doubt. .
He’ll shrink a lot when
he meets his Waterloo,
will T. Burns, Esq., of
the arm-band and the
suit-case.” And he has
shrunk a lot.
* -re *
The photos on this
page were supplied by
Kerry and Co., 310
George-street, Sydney.
• * *
Within an hour of
the Arnst-Webb race de-
licious liars blossomed
forth in every corner of
Maoriland, informing all
and sundry that they
knew the day before
that Arnst would win
easily, because Webb
had sold the race and
had made £9647 19s. 5Jd.
Johnson thought it was
a knock-out.
thereby. The most effec-
tive reply to this fiction is the time recorded.
Arnst, although never pushed after the first half-mile,
got within a few seconds of the world’s record, and there
can be no doubt that had he been asked to shift things
in the last two miles the record would have been very seri-
ously damaged. Webb’s time was 20min. 2sec. —the fastest
race he has ever rowed—26sec. better than his effort
against Tresidder, and 43sec. better than when he pricked
the 0. Towns bubble. Added to this, Arnst beat him out of
sight from start to finish —the judge gave an uncertain
verdict of six lengths, but the gap was nearer 10—and
when men sell a race they don’t usually throw it away
in that reckless and highly suspicious manner. That
Webb did his utmost on the day to retain the title no one
who saw the race can doubt; nevertheless, he did not
seem well, he was not nearly so fit and fine as Arnst, and
it is rumored that he W’as suffering from muscular rheu-
matism. Granting all this, however, and assuming that
Webb didn’t want to win, the solid fact remains that
Arnst is a world-beater and Webb couldn’t have won even
if he’d been well and fit and had wanted to.
• * * *
For those who go travelling on wheels the Con-
tinental C. and G. Rubber Co. is issuing a booklet on
“ Secrets of Road Cycling,” compiled bv J. Salvana. The
Secrets are hints to cyclists—not social revelations of a
spicy character—and the booklet may be obtained gratis
from any cycle store or depdt of the Continental Rubber
Co. If the other sort of secrets were published, the
volume would be bulky, and the demand for it w T ould
have to be put out by the fire brigade.


ftUGELM ANN’S
masm
V '
-V
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
i Aid.”
'll FREE
! SAMPLE
sent on
Receipt of
Twopenny-
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pore Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pet
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE j* 199 Clarence St., SYDNEY
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
The SUMMER is here, and with it has come the ** SEASON at
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
THE FOREMOST AND MOST FASHIONABLE TOURIST RESORT IN AUSTRALIA.
A PALACE ON THE HILLTOPS.
When you do a thing, do it well. And, adopting that plan to your holidays, you will spend
. them at the
HYDRO MAJESTIC.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
1 29 Katoomba.
Full Details at CITY OFFICE,
38 Castlereagh Street, Opp. Australia Hotel.
HORSE GAGS, 45/-,
Complete with Bridle.
CORRESPONDENCE PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO.
LATEST VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
IN STOCK.
The DONALD ROSS
Anti-Abortion Outfit,
25/-
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
AND PREPARATIONS.
The DONALD ROSS
Emasculator, 63/-,
HUNDREDS SOLD.
DONALD ROSS & CO. LTD.
Angel Place, off 127 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
The DONALD ROSS
Mange Treatment, 8/6
per course. Cure Ab-
solutely Guaranteed.
5»
THIN PEOPLE.
THERE is now no reason why every man or woman should
not acquire or regain a Perfect Figure. If you want
to add flesh, be made plump and rosy, gain weight,
strength and beauty, send for a Free Trial Treatment of
the “Miracula” Nerve Food and Flesh Developer.
This newly-discovered Herbal Specific is a Vitalizing
Agent and Flesh Builder. It will soon put your nerves
right, tone up your digestive organs ; and the alteration in you
will astonish yourself and friends. Would you like to have
perfect health, with a grand symmetrical figure, free of all
scragginess ? You can easily obtain this blessing if you
write to-day, enclosing threepence in stamps to pay postage
on Free Trial Treatment and Beauty Booklet.
df
LOlldOl] Spociolitios Apncy, Dept. A, 44 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
READY FOR YOU AND FREE
OUR 1909 CATALOGUE.
Every cyclist and intending: cyclist should have a copy.
It tells from the A B O to the X Y Zof how our cycles are built, and why
they are so liberally guaranteed.
Every detail is explained and our Models are fully illustrated.
YOUR COPY IS WAITING FOR YOU. Send for it to-day—you’ll enjoy
reading it, and we will post it free to any address for the asking.
234 Pitt Street and 130-132
Castlereagrh Street, Sydney.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
The hardest Cvcle-buildin
House in the State,
CLOSER SETTLEMENT ACT.
WALLA WALLA ESTATE.
ALBURY LAND DISTRICT.
The Walla Walla Estate, recently purchased by the State Government, has been subdivided :
108 Farms will become Available for Application on the 18th January, 1909,
under the provisions of the Closer Settlement Act of 1904 and the Amended Acts of 1906 and 1907.
107 farms range in area from 281 acres to 640 acres, and in value from £1025 10s. to £3040, and the
homestead block of 1500 acres valued at £14,137 10s.
. Special attention is invited to the
HOMESTEAD BLOCK
of about 1500 acres, which is very highly improved. The homestead, valued at £3500, is substantially built
of brick and weatherboard, containing seventeen rooms in brick and six in weatherboard, with nine feet
verandah all round. The woolshed for forty shearers is valued at £lBOO, and other improvements consisting
of store, outhouses, fencing, tanks and dams, valued at £3444 135., the total value of the homestead improve-
ments is estimated at £8744 13s. This valuation has been written down to £6OOO, reducing the capital value
of the block to £14,137 10s.
Full particulars and directions for applying, together with lithographs and descriptions of the various
farms, may be obtained free of cost on application by post or otherwise to any Crown Land Agent in New
South Wales, or the Information Bureau, Department of Lands, Sydney.
The Estate is situated in the Albury Land District, 4£ miles to 12J miles westerly from the Culeairn
Railway Station (on the Great Southern Railway). The branch railway line from Culeairn to Corovva passes
along the southern boundary of the Estate, Walla Walla Railway Station being only half a mile distant. The
north-eastern portion of the Estate is served by the Henty Railway 7 Station, distant about 7 miles. Albury
Township (392 miles from Sydney and 190 miles from Melbourne) is distant about 25 miles from Walla Walla
Railway Station by road. The climate is good and very healthy. The average rainfall is about 26 inches
per annum. The Billabong Creek (a tributary of the Murray) intersects the Estate and forms a natural water
supply', and a good artificial supply is provided to many of the farms by dams and tanks, and there are ex-
cellent facilities for water conservation. The land comprises principally level country 7, nearly all suitable for
cultivation. The bulk of it is eminently suited for wheat-growing, and may be profitably used for orchards
and vineyards and other forms of cultivation. It is first-class sheep country—a considerable proportion
being suitable for dairying.
TERMS:—S per cent, deposit, balance (including principal and interest at 4 per cent.) in annual
payments of 5 per cent., spread over a period of 38 years.
Persons who lodge applications for any of the farms referred to herein will be allowed a refund of half the
rail fare paid by 7 them on their visit of inspection, and on any journeys they may require to make to appear
before the Land Board in connection with their application. Successful applicants, their families, and such
belongings, including live stock, as were in their possession immediately prior to the making of the
application for land, will be carried at half rates, provided that, in the case of live stock, it be not more
than sufficient for the land acquired. Persons desirous of obtaining concessions in respect of railway fares,
may obtain a form from any Crown Land Agent in the State, which must be given to the Railway Station-
master when obtaining a ticket, or if unable to obtain a form, must ask the Railway Station-master to take
their name and address, amount paid, and number of ticket. '
ROBERT MCDONALD, Under-Secretary for Lands.
CINEMATOGRAPH ENTERTAINMENTS
PROVIDED.
gd
ATYOUR
SERVICE
We give pleasing entertainments in keeping with the
season, anywhere, any evening, and
We Sell
Complete Outfits
It’s the greatest money-making game out for the smart
showman. Write or call for particulars.
HIRE YOUR FILMS at JERDAN’S.
The largest stock in Australasia —over 250,000 feet of Films
—is at your service. We hire, sell, and repair machines,
stock accessories and duplicate parts —in fact do everything
you require in Cinematography.
HAKE JERDAN’S YOUR SUPPLY HOUSE.
TTp T» T) AN’S (formerly Osborn &
J ' rV “MY OPTICIANS,
Cinematograph Specialists,
Jerdan),
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Looks as though the long struggle between the
scorching motorist and John Hop, alias Dun, is about to
end as far as Britain is concerned. The Society of Motor
Makers and Traders has prohibited any of its members
organising, or taking part in, or supporting any road com-
petitions ; and it has also recommended the Royal Auto-
mobile Club to ukase that as far as its members are con-
cerned there shall be no more road races. The Auto.
Club is more than likely to adopt the suggestion, as it has
long since thrown itself into the struggle to suppress the
road hog and generally prevent motoring becoming a
curse to people who have no cars. Public feeling is
running high against motorists, and by putting down
all speed events on public roads the M. M. and T. hopes
to remove the “prejudice ” which threatens to grow into
repressive legislation or the formation of societies to
shoot motorists on sight. The people who will lose most
by it will be the makers of cinematograph films. The
bloke and his girl who have never been in a motorcar
love to watch moving pictures of cars hurtling through
beautiful landscape, and coming to smash at sharp cor-
ners, and they thrill deliciously when the man who
rattles the zinc behind the scenes rattles at the moment
when the car on the screen turns turtle.
The Royal Automobile Club has also set its
face against the dust nuisance, which on the roads of Old
England is a very serious grievance. The hedges of Eng-
land, celebrated in song and story, are beginning to wilt
and die on account of the showers of dust the whirling
cars spread over them, and not only the hedges but
orchards and gardens along the waysides. House pro-
perty has become unsaleable and impossible to let on
roads where motorists most do scorch. The Club recently
appointed a special committee to inquire why and how,
and after much observation the committee arrived at the
conclusion that the dust is kicked up by the wheels and
tyres, and not raised by the current of air under the body
of the car. But when the dust has been raised by the
wheels this current of air distributes it over adjacent pro-
perty. And there the committee stuck. How to prevent
the wheels raising the dust it dunno, but it is trying to
find out. The only method at present seems to be to stop
the wheels going round.
Motor boating is forging ahead in Maoriland,
and on December 13 twelve launches completed the ocean
race from Auckland to Whangarei Heads for the “Rud-
der” Oup, presented by Flemming Day. The distance was
108 knots, and every one of the 12 starters got through
without mishap, the winner turning up in Marora, with
Winsome and Alice second and third. The Seabird did
the fastest time, averaging 8§ knots, and that the race
was a very even one is shown by the fact that the slowest
time was 7 1-5 knots. The affair was controlled by fhe
Royal Maoriland Yacht Squadron. This quite puts to
shame anything done of late by the N.S.W. Motor Boat
Club, the largest body of water motorists in the world.
Why this stagnation in Sydney?
* • * , .*■
Maoriland recently started its road cycle race
season with the usual Riccarton-to Leeston run and back.
The double distance between these two Canterbury towns
is roughly 50 miles, and an enormous crowd of wheelers
turned up to take part. They’re feeling sorry now. The
road was rough, the dust was thick, and riders crashed
into pools of soft, fine dust, and were spilt numerously,
and some of them were bumped badly; but the last (or
second-last) straw was the liberal sprinkling of the
roughest section of the road with tacks and villainous
spikes. The sound of bursting tyres was like unto the
popping of champagne corks at a dinner of Freetraders
drinking death to local industry. But a crowd of in-
domitables struggled through and arrived at the finishing
post, where (this was the positively final straw) a party of
police took their names with a view to prosecuting them
for furious riding in a public place.
m * *. *
Having now bred two champion oarsmen, a
ditto boxer, and a ditto lawn-tennis player, Maoriland be-
gins to think itself some potatoes, as far as sport goes,
and wants to separate from the Australasian Lawn Tennis
Association, and setup as a separate nation as regards the
Davis Cup competitions. It has applied to the English
Association for recognition, and that body has asked the
Australasian Council, which meets in Sydney in January,
for its opinion. Should that be favorable, the nations which
have competed for the Davis Cup—England, America,
Australasia, France, Belgium, and Austria—may decide,
but only by a two-thirds majority, to accede to the appli-
cation As the Davis Cup challengers must nominate
before March 1,1909, there can be no alteration next year
at least; and by that time the little Dominion may have
iiad time to put ice on its head.
Concluding day (Saturday) of A.J.C. Summer
Meeting was a harvest time for Holy Moses. Punters
were badly beaten but for first and last races, when second
favorites Myra Bluan and Rose Ray succeeded. Thus was
Patrick Abrahams able to chuckle gleefully over gather-
ing what he missed the Saturday before (The Bulletin
doesn’t believe that Mo. ever really loses) and a goodly
haul besides. There was a record Boxing Day attendance,
thanks to the big fight which had attracted many
thousands from all parts of the continent, and
the books benefited correspondingly. The biggest
set-back was Epois’ success in the Summer Oup.
Though quoted 20 to 1, he started at any price.
Nine-tenths of the onlookers who study the racing game
believed it impossible for the nag to race over the distance
—lm. sfur. Lord Fitzroy or Exsul, with ordinary luck or
good management, should have landed the coin. Lord
Fitzroy’s prospects were injuriously affected by the slow-
ness of the earlier part of the struggle and the want of a
pacemaker when he did show in front. Exsul was kept
badly in the rear over the greater part of the journey, and
then his rider asked him to accomplish an impossibility,
such a lead did the ultimate winner have. Still Exsul
finished little more than a length behind Epois. The
Summer Cup (lm. sfur.) hasn’t been run in slower time.
* * * *
N.S.W. cricketers, playing S.A. in Adelaide,
won the match in winning the toss. They won it over
again when Hopkins was missed, first ball, by Pellew.
But, being naturally not aware of these things, they pro-
ceeded to win it on their merits. Hopkins made 218, and
by that time the weak S.A. howling was done for. Noble
added 213. (Did ever two men get over 200 each
in an innings before?) The total was 713, in
two brisk days’ batting. Sunday night it rained,
the pitch became just how bowlers like it,
and next day S.A.’s strong batting side (Gehrs
absent, ill) went in and out twice for 97 and 89!
Clem Hill’s 28 and Pellew’s 37 were quite fine
performances under the circumstances. Wickets natur-
ally fell to anybody who bowled —except Cotter, who
was not suited by the mud. Emery, Hopkins, Macart-
ney, and Noble shared the easy triumph. Local critics
are still figuring out what would have happened had
Clem Hill won the toss instead of Noble. That Sunday
night storm was practically the only rain in Adelaide
since the end of October !
»,* * *
“ D.” : With queer persistency the anti-boxing
parsons in these parts cling to the theory that nothing
“ brutal” in the stoush line is permitted in England—for
it is an article of faith with the average cleric that
England can do no wrong. A Melbourne parson lately per-
mitted himself the bland lie that “Burns and Johnson
had been driven to have their disgusting contest in Aus-
tralia owing to the feeling of the English nation being
against anything of the sort in the Old Land.” And .yet
London Daily Mail has this to say (30/10/’08) about the
just-concluded army-and-navy championship prize fights
which took place at Aldershot during the last week of
last October:
“ In all, the eight events elicited a grand entry of 133,
the large majority, of course, non-commissioned officers
and men, and the 22 bouts left over till yesterday, com-
prising the semi-final and final rounds* were actually
worked through in three hours and 40 minutes.
“There was only one case of a-boxer giving in. The
etiquette of these events requires that a man shall fight
till he can fight no longer. One of the officers was saved
from complete unconsciousness only by the mercy of the
referee, and for that the officer was not obviously grateful.
“ In his semi-final heat Lance-Corporal Baker came up
with a ‘ loaded ’ left ear, which in very quick time shed
down his face and neck till he looked something like a
one-sided Red Indian. Utterly indifferent to this incon-
venience, he kept his form in each round and won a
famous victory. For the final his ear was patched up,
but in one second it was open again, and, except when
it was sponged during the rounds, he continued to lose
the vital fluid steadily and distressfully under the re-
peated buffeting of his opponent’s glove. Baker’s face
could scarcely be identified when at last his physical
misery was succeeded by the mental rapture of success.
In these men’s events the first prize is £lO and a silver
medal the second prize being £5. ‘lt will cost Baker
liis £lO for a new ear,’ was the grim sententious comment
of a commiserating lieutenant,” etc., etc.
If a pug lost an ear in an Australian prize-ring, in full
View of a number of leading soldiers, legislators, etc., the
welkin would ring with clerical protests, and the happen-
ing would be placed to tllM,eternal discredit of the
national character, When tpc unpleasantness occurs in
England it is shirred over as an'insignificant thing that is
not to be taken sgrj^usly.


WHAT TO GIVE FOR XMAS
A. SAUNDERS. •
~ A + S i H J?- A P '! re Silver-plated on White
Metal, Satin Finish, Hand-engraved.
POST o/6 FREE.
Other styles, 4/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
The perplexing question of the year is what to buy at a moderate cost as a
Xmas Gift that will combine all the elements of practicability and usefulness.
HERE ARE A FEW HELPFUL IDEAS.
OUR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
Will prove of great assist-
ance to you in the selec-
tion of appropriate Xinas
Gifts. It contains over
3000 illustrations, and it
is to be had for the ask-
ing. Write for a copy to-
day. You’ll certainly need
it for your Xmas Shop-
ping.
OUR
MAIL ORDER
DEPARTMENT
offers to distant patrons
the same facilities as are
extended to local patrons.
Our system of Free Car-
riage on all goods, with
the exception of Clocks
and Chinaware, means a
big saving to you.
A. SAUNDERS.
FRENCH BRIAR PIPE, Pure Silver Mounts,
and Screw; Straight or Bent Stem, in case.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
NAIL FILE, Solid Sil-
ver, Embossed Handle,
Open, 3in long.
POST .3/6 FREE.
Other styles, 4/6. 7/6
JEWEL CASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely
Embossed and Ornamented, Silk-lined, size 4Jin x 2}in.
POST 12/6 FREE.
Other styles, 10/C, 12/6, 16/6, 18/6, 25/, SO/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT. ’S BRUSH SET, Solid Silver, Hand-
somely Embossed, Fine Bristles, in Solid
Leather Case.
POST 20/- FREE.
Other styles, 25/, 40/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
CLOTH or HAT BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Riehly Embossed, Long White Bristles.
POST 7/6 FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
MANICURE SETS/ 4 pieces, Solid Silver
Mounted, Richly Embossed, in Silk-lined
Case.
POST 25/- FREE.
Other styles, 7/6,. 10/, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ HAIR BRUSH and COMB, Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed, Fine White Bristles, in Velvet-lined
case, 15/6-
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/.
-
A. SAUNDERS.
SILVER DORCAS
THIMBLE, Steel Lined,
Very Best Quality.
POST 3/6 FREE.
Other styles, 2/6, 3/,
3/6, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
LADIES’ HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver, Richly Em-
bossed, Long White Bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, SO/.
muHHrn
msmm
A. SAUNDERS.
PLUSH GLOVE BOX, Embossed, Silver-plated, Nickel
Silver Mounts, Sillc-lined, size lOin x 4in.
POST 4/6 FREE.
HANDKERCHIEF BOX to Match, size sJin x 51 in, 4/6.
TOILET MIRROR,
Soliu onver, Riciuy Jim-
bossed, Bevelled Glass,
Size. £2-
SCENT SPRAY PUMP,
Silver Mounted, Crystal
Glass, 4in high, 15/6*
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver, Handsomely Embossed,
Long White Bristles.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Size Larger, 20/. Extra Heavy, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE BOX, Pure Silver-plated Nickel-silver, Hand-
somely Embossed, Silk or Gold Lined, size llin x 4in.
POST £3 FREE.
With Handkerchief Box to Match, £5/10/ Pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S AUTOMATIC RAZOR
STROP, Pure Silver-plated,
Richly Embossed.
POST 13/G FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAU N 1 / ! to.
GENT.’S COLLAR-STUD BOX,
Pure Silver-plated, Satin Finish.
6/6-
Other styles, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6, 6/6, 1/6.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, Pure Silver-
plated on White Metal, Richly
Embossed, Gilt-lined.
POST 20/- FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 16/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HANDSOME PRESENTATION TOILET SET, Solid Silver, Richly Embossed,
Marguerite Design, Finest Quality Bristles, Complete in Silk-lined Morocco
. Leather Case. POST £lO FREE.
Other styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, to £26.
WAX-MATCH HOLDER and ASH-
TRAY, Pure Silver-plated.
POST 4/6 FREE.
To hold Safety Matches, 5/6.
PUFF or TOILET JAR, Pure Silver-
plated on Nickel-silver, Embossed
“Cherub” design, size 2Jin.
POST 2/- FREE.
Other styles, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 10/..
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed, Extra Fine
Long Bristles.
POST 20/- FREE.
Other styles, 10/6, 15/, 20/,
25/.
XMAS BUYING MADE EASIER.
Attention is invited to the many attractive suggestions
to be found in our fine extensive Showrooms.
The diversity of our stock makes Xmas
buying easy here.
A. SAUNDERS.
BOOKMARKER, New Zealand Greenstone Handle, Solid
Silver Blade and Mount, 3Jin long.
POST 4/6 FREE.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 13/6.
LATEST STYLE BACK COMB, Imitation Tor-
toiseshell, Gem Stem, Fancy Scroll Mounts, Well-
set Stones.
POST 7/(5 FREE.
Other styles, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/,
20/ to £2/10/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
HEAD SALTS BOTTLE,
Fine Hobnail-cut Glass,
Solid Silver Top, Sin
high, 7/C.
Other styles, 5/6, 8/6,
10/6, 12/6.
sm
=S
TOILET SET, Solid Silver-mounted, Richly Hand-
engraved, comprising Shoe Lift, Glove Hook and
Stretcher, and Shoe Hook, Polished Steel ends, in Silk
and Velvet-lined Case, 20/.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE HOLDER, Real Amber, Gold-mounted, in
Richly-engraved Solid Silver Case, 2£in long.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
IIAiK BRUSH, Solid
Silver, Richly Em-
bossed, Long White
Bristles.
POST 10/6 FREE.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, Imitation Tortoiseshell, 9-ct.
Gold Scroll Mount, Extra Secure Mount, full
size.
POST 15/6 FREE.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16'/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George-street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S.W.


r.
v
a
Q
n
Kodak brings added pleasure
to every recreation. There is no fuss,
bother or dark room in the Kodak way
of picture making—a simple, easy pro-
cess and daylight all the way.
Photographing “ Santa Claus' ” favorite gift
with a Kodak.
Send for our NEW ILLUSTRATED 400-PAQE
CATALOGUE, just issued Gratis.
BAKER & ROUSE PROPRIETARY LTD
Sole Agents for AUSTRALIAN KODAK LTD.,
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane. Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
RESTORE YOUR LIVER TO
HEALTHY ACTION.
THE ORGANIC CLEANSER
THE LADDER
OF DISEASE
REMOVED
BY KUTNOW
HEADACHE
LANGUOR
INDIGESTION
BILIOUSNESS
CONSTIPATION
LIVER-
TORPOR
KIDNEY-
DISEASE
Do you sometimes suffer from
Headache and occasionally feel
depressed ? Perhaps you sleep
badly, or on rising in the
morning still feel unrefreshed,
languid, and tired. Your
appetite may not be so good
as usual, and you may feel
the symptoms of Indigestion.
If so, you require a dose of
Kutnow’s Powder. This world-
renowned remedy removes
Biliousness and Headache,
makes you at once bright,
cheerful and energetic. It goes
down to the root of the trouble
and eradicates from the system
all the poisonous products which
accumulate therein. Kutnow’s
Powder is the perfect remedy
for permanently removing Con-
stipation and its attendant
evils. It cleanses the kidneys,
eliminates uric acid, and is a
preventive of Bright’s Disease.
Kutnow’s Powder not only
restores the liver, but all the
great organs of the body to
healthy activity.
i
tt:
I llll*?'.
'*l
KUTNOYTS
Improved EL rrr rvesccnt CarISBAD
POWDER*
m
or Deer Leap
HlPfc/nf'Af'
L?
London
41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.
RECfSTERED TRADE MARK.,.
* .*
A Well-known Actor writes:
“The Hut, Weymouth, May 23, 1908,
“ Sirs,—l have but recently returned from a tour
in the States, and feel that I must write and tell
you how your Kutnow’s Powder has been of service
to me. In the life of an actor, one is accustomed to
different food and strange climatical conditions.
All this tends to affect the liver, and it is a usual
occurrence to rise in the morning with a headache,
feeling more weary than the night before. A dose
of Kutnow’s relieved me of this trouble like light-
ning. There are so many spurious medicines on the
market that I think it is only fair that a thoroughly
genuine article should be given the notice it deserves.
“HUGH LESLIE DOBREE.”
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
The Genuine Kutnow’s Powder can be had of all
conscientious Chemists throughout the World. See
that the fac-simile signature S. KutllOW & Co.,
Ld.,” and the registered trade mark, “ HirSChcn-
sprung 01* Doer Leap/’ are on the carton and
bottle. You then
Get Genuine Kutnow's Powder.
Sole Proprietors: S. KUTNOW & CO., LTD., 41 Farringdon Road, London, E.C


Subdivision of 6,000 Acres The Property of J. H. FOX, Esq.
Estate
AND HOMESTEAD (Queensland)
Within a mile of Boonah Railway Station and Township,
59 miles from Brisbane, on the Fassifern Railway Line.
£9 Rich Dairy, Lucerne Scrub and Grazing; Farms (13 to 552 Acres) to be sold
by Auction at the School of Arts, Boonah,
MONDAY, FEBRUARY Bth, 1909,
at 2.30
o’clock
GRAND TERRAS
20
YEARS
AT
5%
One Tenth Deposit and
NO Payments of Principal
for 2 years from date of Sale
The Dugandan Estate consists of Rich Alluvial Lucerne Flats on
xevKjt Brook and other creeks, with absolutely permanent water,
and all grades of Black, Brown, Red and Chocolate Soils. A large
of _ n ®wly felled scrub is included, and this, together with most
oi the flats, has been planted with Paspalum.
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS
Charming Homestead with 550 Acres ; an improved Dairy Farm in
full profit; several blocks at present under cultivation ; Good Rail-
way facilities; proximity to market; large Co-operative Butter
V v2 r j, at B °°. nab .’* abundant Rainfall (87 in. per annum); estab-
hshed Township with 2 Banks, School, Hospital, Ac.; No Survey
or p om pulsory Residence clause; Light Clearing and plenty
, ~ . Fencing Material; Typical Lucerne Flats; Rich Scrub Farms
(partly improved); Well Sheltered Ridges; Liberal Options, Large and Small Areas- Large Areas
under Paspalum. Every facility for inspection. omau areas, narge Areas
SPECIAL NOTE—From the Government Statistics the Dugandan District ranks THIRD in
Agricultural and Dairy Products. Write to-day for illustrated Plan.
ISLES, LOVE & CO., Auctioneers, Queen St., Brisbane, Q.
mmM
&
■m
3
/
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia, until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
422 GEORGE STREET.
THAT BARE LIP OF YOURS
fore
Haven’t you often wished for a full moustache such as other men find
it so easy to grow—and yet YOU couldn’t ?
What about CAPILLARINE ?
Why haven’t you tried it? For over 25 years men have been using it
with complete success, and in your case we guarantee a full moustache
of handsome appearance in a few months if you start using it now.
Price 10/6
Post Free, plain wrapper,
any part of the world.
CRAWS & AITKEN
/Established \
V 25 Years )
654 6<?orge St., Sydney
MsM
PATENTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS,
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.-
Missing Friends.
CURLEY.— JEREMIAH JOSEPH, last
heard of at Lytton, Queensland, in 1900.
Anyone knowing his whereabouts please com-
municate
A. F. HEALY,
G.P.0., Sydney.
T> OWAN D. CHARLES ROW AND,
fl) formerly of Gippsland. Your father dead.
Apply to me for money due to you.
PERCY BLACKBOURN,
120 Queen Street, Melbourne.
WALTER WILLIAM ARNOLD, formerly
of Wellington Street, Launceston, Tas-
mania, will hear of something to his advantage if
he will communicate with the undersigned. He
was at Bourke, Hay and Forbes, in N.S. W., about
1893-4; at Sydney and Bathurst, in N.S. W., in
1894-5. If he is dead, will anyone knowing the
time and place of his death kindly inform
FRANK TYSON, Solicitor,
Launceston, Tasmania.
FOR THE
NEW YEAR.
It will be a very good start for the New
Year if you purchase an Edison Phono-
graph—the instrument that enables you
to hear in your home the most accom-
plished artists of the world,.
It doesn’t matter how far you live from
town if you have an Edison.
Anywhere that man can go an Edison can,
and there you have an entertainment
available that cannot be assembled in any
part of the world. You choose from the
best, and just have those selections that
appeal to your taste.
Write for the address of your nearest
dealer and a list of records and machines.
AN EDISON
PHONOGRAPH.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
MAKE YOUR OWN
AERATED WATERS
witsa an
“AUSTRAL”
AERATED WATER MACHINE,
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
The Latest Improved “AUSTRAL,”
With Automatic Syruping Attachment.
USED IN OVER 1000 HOTELS IN AUSTRALASIA.
The Original Machines will make
3GO doz. Aerated Waters per day.
Requires no Skilled Labor—no Special Bottles.
Aeration superior to any other.
Prices, £lB and upwards.
Catalogues and Full Particulars from the
SOLE PROPRIETORS,
Eckersley & Sons,
628 BOURKE ST., MELBOURNE.
New South Wales Agents :
BROWN & CO. i 16 Spring Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents :
ELLIOTT & HANCORNE, 113 Queen Street, Brisbane*
West Australian Agents :
WM. SANDOVER & CO., Hay Street, Perth.
South Australian Agents :
EVANS & CO., Linde’s Lane, Adelaide.
A Song of Stoush.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is Dawn !
Black Night has fled, and from the East cometh
up the Day.
In blue and gold is he garbed, and under his feet
is the silver-and-purple Pacific—
Day glanceth Westward, and his eye flasheth upon
the city—even the great and joyous City of
Stoush !
With a finger of light he pointeth, with a pencil
of bright flame he showeth the high altar of
the god.
Brothers, behold the Stadium !
Pip-pip! Toot! Toot!
Br-r-r-r-urnff !
Ting-ting-a-ling-ting-ting -ting !
Buri’oo-00-Burroo-00-WHOOSH !
Whirr-whirr-00-o-o-OM-yioo-00-00-ooom-m-m!
In the morning, in the fair and pleasant morning,
see them going forth upon their way !
Hear the marching of many feet, and the rolling
of many wheels, and the complaining of the
bells and horns!
Behold the pilgrims to the shrine of Stoush and
the chariots and horses thereof !
Many go with them for to be a guide and sustainer
unto them,
And Three there be, mightier than all—yea, four
Most Necessary unto the Pilgrims—
The Peeler, the Spieler and the Peanut Man, with
the Seller of the savory Saveloy. On whom
be Pease!
Hearken unto the murmur of the multitude and
to the prayers of the good Pilgrims—
“ I tell yer ’ell eat ’im ! ”
“ Gam boil yer self !”
How can he win after that ? Champagne and
gaiety and late hours ! ’’
‘ ‘ Nobody can give away two stone in his own
class ! ”
Brethren, let us join in the Procession !
How many people can we see ? A thousand score
and a quarter-score thousand ! And still they
come !
Hark ! the Band—What is it playing?
It is playing The Stoush March (side-step), Hymn
to Stoush, The Solar Plexus Waltz, and the
Punchanuello ! (overture).
Who is that clergyman yonder, officiating near
the altar ?
That is the Reverend Larry Foley, once a Bishop
of Stoush, now a layman.
What does the Man With the Trumpet say?
He says that Bill Squires challenges the world,
the flesh, and the Devil, best of twenty rounds,
Marquis of Queensberry rules.
He is a brave man !
He is. When Gabriel blows his Trumpet, Bill
will be the first man in the Ring, with a chal-
lenge against all comers.
"Hey! Hooray! Hooray Boo! Oooh! Hooray!
Good boy, Jack! ”
They are acclaiming the Colored Coon.
“ Hoo-ray ! Hooray! Hoo-blanky-ray ! Wow!
Whoop ! Little Tommy ! Tom, boy —Tommy !
Hoo-00-ra-a-y! ”
They are ovating the White Champion.
A song of Stoush and the place of Stoush—of the
Stadium and the stablishing of Unparalleled
Biff;
A song, unsentimental, of Rudimental Things and
primeval proclivities;
A song of an individual struggle for racial
supremacy ;
A song of astonishment and tribulation, and of
bombast and jubilation ;
A song of sore stnitings and strenuous exchanges ;
A song of feints and clinches, of jabs and jolts,
and hooks and swings, and leads and crosses;
A song of dodgings, and ducks and dives and
drives, and dogged determination and endur-
ance, and desperate effort to divert defeat;
A song of slips and sudden shifts and strange,
new breaks-away ;
A song of Homeric hittings—and Virgilian evad-
ings !
A song of equal quickness, and superior weight
and strength and skill.
A song of Fourteen Rounds, endured after the
White Champion had been " severely shaken
in the First Round.”
A song of several counts: "One! Two! Three!
Four ! Five ! Six ! Seven ! ”
Yea, even to “ Eight!” —though not to "Nine!”
or the Fatal * ‘ Ten! ’
A song of expectancy, excitement, and exaspera-
tion. and of exacerbation and exaltation of
spirit.
A song of 25,000 men, two women, £26,000, and
26,000,000 peanuts ! also of 260 policemen,
2600 vehicles and 260.000 reasons why the
Result ivas the Result!
Yet, though the Black Triumph over the White,
it shall be even as the Triumph of Night over
Day ; visible but not abiding.
Though now, for our shortcomings, we are suffer-
ing from Too Much Johnson,
In the by-no-means-distant Future, we shall see—
" White to move and mate in One Act ! ”
Even now the Coming Champion is shaping some-
where —
Possibly in Australia!
Meanwhile, let the due worship of the god pro-
ceed—
There is but one Stoush, and Johnson is his
Prophet!
Until ?
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
' “ Old Sailor ” writes :
In the struggle to be both a first-class Power and a
Freetrade one, Bull is being driven to dangerous expedi-
ents. The latest economy hits hard at the efficiency of
the sacred navy. There are 16 destroyers in the new con-
struction programme, and they were originally designed
for a speed of 33 knots. It has now been decided to
make a saving of £20,000 per destroi'er—£32o,ooo in all—
by reducing the speed to 27 knots. Nothing but blank
necessity could have induced the Admiralty to permit
such a tremendous reduction of speed, for practically the
destroyer’s only purpose in life or death is to be able to
tear about the seas at a rate impossible for heavily-
armored cruisers and battleships. The 27-knot speed is
only just outside the present limit of the big ships. A
little while ago the British battleship-cruiser Indomitable
was tried out on a long ocean run, and averaged 26 knots.
The next boat of the type will possibly do 27 or 28, so,
even if the Indomitable can’t quite catch the 27-knot des-
troyer, its successor will do so without trouble. The
folly of building 27-knot destroyers with 27- or 28-knot
battleships swaggering about, practically amounts to
suicide on the high seas.
The shilling-an-acre Improvement Leases
have still a kick left. The N. S. W. Land Appeal
Court has just heard a batch of appeals arising
out of the cancelled leases, which were put up by
the Government for competition for closer settle-
ment. The main point is the date at which the
old lessees are to quit. The Government holds
that this date is the date of the Gazette notice
under the Improvement Leases Cancellation Act
Ihe lessees say that under the Crown Lands Act
they are entitled to 60 days’ notice from the
date of the Gazette. The whole argument
before the Land Appeal Court turned on
whether the famous Cancellation Act did
or did not amend the Crown Lands Act of the
State. The Court by two to one decided that it
did not amend the Act. The minority of one
made a decent case by pointing out that the
technical terms spattered about the panicky
Cancellation Act are absolute gibberish unless the
reader knows that they refer to the definitions of
the original C. L. Act. So an appeal to a higher
Court is threatened. In speaks whole volumes
for the value of these improvement leases which
were so affably chucked away that the holders
wi.l fight for even 60 days’ grace before eviction.
Ultimate eviction is, of course, an admitted
certainty.
An Australian journalist, now visiting
Lngland, has picked up in a print shop in London
a portrait of Captain Cook published in 1803.
1 he relic went for eighteenpenee.
Christmas night brought the climax to the
ill-luck which has dogged the footsteps of the
Fenwicks, the owners of the big tug business of
Sydney and Newcastle. Within the last few
months their tug Leveret was holed and sunk in
Sydney Harbor, and the Advance was damaged
in collision. Then the Fenwicks’ new purchase,
the Belmore, was lost with all hands but one
while on the way out from Scotland. Next, the
Hero collided with the Suva, doing damage to the
extent of £7OOO. The next stroke of ill-luck was
the collision between an Island mail steamer and
the Leveret in Newcastle Harbor, when the
tug was found wholly to blame. Close on this
came the decision of the Vice-Admiralty Court in
re the Hero-Suva disruption, casting the whole
responsibility of the £7OOO and Costs upon the
Fenwicks. As a Christmas box, the Advance, a
fine iron tug, was cut down by a sailing ship off
Nobby’s, Newcastle, and all on board save one
perished. And without anticipating much it can
be guessed that all the blame will be upon the lost
Advance—first because the other fellow is a sailing
ship, and second, because the story of the captain
of the Ad vance can’t be heard. The undeserved
misfortunes of the Fenwicks have been quite a
feature of Sydney’s maritime happenings lately.
Nellie Stewart will begin her next Australian season in
April, 1909, with “ Sweet Kitty Bellairs.” “ Madame Du
Barry ” will follow. Sweet Nell is now in Paris selecting
clo’.
“Jimmie Pannikin” sees signs of re-
formation :
In spite of what superficial observers say, I main-
tain that Australians are settling- down to steady work
and steady ways. The feverish bursts of the bad boom
times have departed. One cannot help noticing how
many of the country hotels have had their billiard-rooms
closed for years and used as extra sample rooms. Country
racing is not what it used to be. Country meetings grow
fewer and feebler. In the sad, bad, mad, old days, it was
quite a common thing for country cricket teams to pay
from half-a-guinea to a guinea a head for dinners to visit-
ing teams; now a half-crown dinner is quite a banquet.
There are many unmistakable signs that this young
country has sown its wild oats. The next step will be to
live and grow without borrowed money. Speed that
happy time !


Amusements.
JJIGHLAND SOCIETY OF N.S.W.
Annual NEW YEAR NIGHT
CONCERT or SCOTS’ SANGS
Interpreted by
MISS BESSIE FRASER
MISS ZILLAH HARRISON
MR. ANDREW BLACK
MR. G. HINDMARSH JAMIESON
MR. A. K. JAMIESON
MASTER DONALD MoBEATH
SYDNEY MADRIGAL SOCIETY
SCOTTISH RIFLES’ BRASS BAND
HIGHLAND SOCIETY’S PIPE BAND
PIPERS and DANCERS.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
FRIDAY, JANUARY 1, 1909.
Reserved Seats, 3s. (Plan at Paling’s); Galleries, 2/-; Back
Seats, Is. J. Currie Eluks. Hon. Sec.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDN EYI
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE MERRY WIDOW.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 2,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
with appear in the Romantic Opera,
THE DUCHESS OE DANTZIC
Prices as Usual. Plans at Paling’s.
Amusements.
Theatre royal, sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
JULIUS KNIGHT SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK.
Grand Revival, on a Scale of Great Completeness,
THE SIGN OE THE CROSS.
Mr. JULIUS KNIGHT as MARCUS SUPERBUS.
Miss BEATRICE DAY as MERCIA.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
AIL ACE T H E AT R E, S Y D N E Y.
Direction of EDWIN GEACH.
DAILY AT 2,
Pantomime of ROBINSON CRUSOE.
NIGHTLY AT 8,
EDWIN GEACH’S COMPANY in
THE WOMAN PAYS.
35., 25., & Is. POPULAR PRICES. Is., 25.. & 3s.
Geo. Marlow, Manager.
RITERION T H EaTr E, SYDNEY.
Lessee: Mr. FRANK MUSGROVE
Sub-Lessee and Manager : Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION, including Australia’s Talented
Actress, EUGENIE DUGGAN, in
THE GAYEST OE THE GAY.
Plan at Elvy’s. Popular Prices—3s., 25., Is. 6d., Is.
THE LYCEUM
Sole Director
HALL. SYDNEY.
C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s. 6d., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Palings.
GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees, Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
‘Back to the Old Home Once Again.”
WEST’S PICTURES,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is, & 6d Popular Prices. 6d, Is, & 2s.
r I VOL I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
I Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mil. Harry RrcKAitDS.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY,
isplavs by JACK JOHNSON, World’s Champion Boxer.
AMALIA and LEONORA, Continental Equilibrists.
ORISTOFOLO, Equilibrist Juggler.
ACKINNON’S SCOTTISH MEISTERS, Vocal Quartette,
r WILL HAINES. MISS NELLIE MAUNSELL.
MR. CHARLES FANING,
DHARLOTTA and FANING and FANING.
AND 111 OUR GREAT DOUBLE COMPANY. >
RICES—3s., 25., and Is. plan at Baling s.
\ PER A HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
/ Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
GEOFFREYS and BENSON, Sketch Artists.
tOFESSOR DUNCAN’S 10 PERFORMING COLLIE
DOGS.
THREE M‘GREGORS, Musical Artists.
GEORGE SORLIE, Baton Spinner and Dancer.
AND ALL OUR GREAT COMPANY.
Plan at Allan’s. XST PRICES —3s, 2s fid, 2s, Is.
JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
EVERY EVENING,
MR. J. c. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND
PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
ist includes BERT GILBERT, STELLA GASTELLE,
ANNY DANGO, J. M. CAMPBELL, HARRY SHINL,
and VICTOR LOAD ALL.
,x Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
GREAT HOLIDAY ATTRACTION.
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
UNCLE TOM’S CABIN.
Popular Prices.
Plan at Allan’s.
/IRTH’S PARK, MELBOURNE
(PRINCES COURT).
uv Evening. Matinees, Wed., Sat., and All Holidays.
PHILIP WIRTH’S TRAINED HORSES.
“THE RIDING HORSE.”
MOUNIER & FRANZ, Athletes.
THE LENTON BROS., Comedy Jugglers.
BEAUTIFUL MOTION PICTURES, etc., etc.
AND ALL THE PARK ATTRACTIONS,
mission—Chairs, 35.; Second Seats, 25.; Gallery, Is.;
ildren Half-Price. Free Chute, Skelter, Menagerie, etc.
Plan at Glen’s. ’Phone 1113 City.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee & Manager .. Mr. Frank Thornton.
Direction of Edwin Gkach.
FRANK THORNTON
supported by his NEW LONDON COMPANY,
in the Great Success,
CHARLEY’S AUNT.
FAREWELL FOR EVER TO AUSTRALIA.
•ices—3s 25., Is. Plan at Allan’s. Booking Fee, Is.
’ ALBERT CLARK, Acting Manager.
pHEATRE ROYAL, ME LB OUR N E.
NORMOUS SUCCESS of MEYNELL AND GUNN’S
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIME,
CINDERELLA,
BY THE MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND CO.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG CAST.
rices^ss., 2s. 6d., Is. Plan at Allan’s.
• # IRTH’S OLYMPIA,
fV PRINCES BRIDGE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
’EDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
VEST’S PICTURES B O | S V
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week,
ny Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
’ PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
OPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
HE GLACIARIUM, MELBOURNE.
Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
COMMENCING NEW YEAR’S DAY.
Messrs. J. & N. Tait have much pleasure in announcing
that they have secured the above magnificent building,and
intend presenting to the Melbourne Public
A COLOSSAL PICTURE
ENTERTAINMENT.
NONE BUT THE VERY LATEST and FINEST FILMS
DIRECT FROM EUROPE and AMERICA.
FULL PROFESSIONAL ORCHESTRA.
THE GLACIARIUM CAN BE COOLED IN SUMMER
AND HEATED IN WINTER.
Popular Prices.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Vulcan ” : The mummery profesh has its consolations-
At a recent meeting of London Drury Lane Theatre Co.,
it was stated that Arthur Collins’ screw as managing
director was £5OOO a year. One director stated that last
year the co. funked the proposal to engage the much*
boomed Harry Lauder at £41,600 per annum. He
wouldn’t he engaged for the whole year, of course, but
the wage would pan out at that trifling rate £BOO a
week !
“ 0.K.” : I had not seen “ When Knights were Bold”
until the other evening, and I’ll be content to miss see-
in<r it again this side of the Equator. It
Is one of those purely English
“ society” satires which are doubtless
very effective in the hands of a
picked company of specialists. The
Jew Isaacson and his daughter,
the effusive Irish baronet, the oily
Anglican Dean, the romantic Lady
Rowena, the sporty girls and the
goatish Sir Guy are modern London
drawing-room types that can be
imitated, with a necessary touch of
exaggeration, by artists whose
personalities fit their parts.
The Australian perform-
ance by Frank Thornton
and Co. has no air of
truth in the modern
'society scenes. As for
the humor, it is crude
even when it is most
amusing'. The “dream”
device is very, very
old, but the subject of
the dream seems to be
accepted by nearly
everyone as a new idea.
That’s where veterans
like myself are unfair
critics. Our sense of
novelty is blunted. The
idea of Sir Guy in a
modern dinner jacket
being dated back to the
days of Richard the
First reminded me of
a farcical coined v,
written by Gilbert
A’Beckett, in the same
vein of incongruity.
Also it reminded me
BERT GILBERT, the
Baron, at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne.
that the title of the original farce was “ Ages Ago.”
“ Harrison O.” : Read with interest “O.K.’s ” remarks
concerning the significance of the names attached to the
characters in modern plays. “ 0.K.,” however, confined
himself solely to those names met with in the Scripture.
But there are numerous others which time-honored pre-
judice decrees shall be attached only to certain characters
in a certain class of play. Cora, for instance, is a rather
nice name (I know a very pretty girl named Cora), but
hoarv custom has decided that it must be the name of the
heavily-furred adventuress with the deep contralto voice
and metallic laugh. It is almost impossible to imagine the
splendid adventuress called Mercy Love ; and something
awful would most certainly happen were a hero to walk
the boards as Count Demetri Strogoff. On the other
hand, “Tom Bathurst,” or “Jack Tregarthen,” or some-
thing of the sort, is invariably affixed to the hero by his
unimaginative creator. Then elderly maiden ladies in
our modern more-or-less dramatic eruptions must be
Virginias or Carolines, and the unfeeling dramatist gene-
rally makes them a present of Briggs, Hawkins, or
Spriggins as a cognomen. Why should not maiden aunts
have nice names, such as Gertie, Maude, Rose, or Dora?
Then again the names which are bestowed, in the good
old mellowdrammer, upon characters. of distinctive
nationalities, are diotated solely b.v ancient and illogi-
cal prejudice. The comic Irishman is always eifchei Mick
or Pat, and the Scotchman invariably Archie or Sandy,
while the Israelitish blokes are either Ike or Sol. Verily,
the average dramatist is as conservative as a Tory munici-
pal councillor.
Miss Meredith Meredro, who is Meynell and Gunn’s
specially imported principal boy in the panto, of Cinder-
ella,” is a Yankee with all of a Yankee’s modest tendency
towards palaver. Speaking to an interviewer from a
Melbourne paper the other day, she ordered all hands to
the pumps, and soon had the scribe awash in history. So
far as this paper can gather, her career has been a succes-
sion of splendid miniature epochs or jumps. In Epoch 1.,
she splashed out in vaudeville in Shickago. In Epoch 11.,
she won a vocal competition, went to Europe, and ac-
quired for her voice its present varnish and stamina. In
Epoch 111 she sang before an Emperor and was rewarded
with abrooch. In Epoch IV., she entered into a long en-
gagement, and, in Epoch V., she entered into Melbourne
In addition, she hashad one terrible adventure—she missed
being smashed up in a motor car bv being some-
where else; and she professes, seemingly, a more
than terrible penchant for “ gyurls. Some gyurls
wrote to her from Sydney for her autograph, with the
result that she is, of course, perfectly suffocating to see
them. She didn’t mention whether she was ever robbed
of her jewels, or whether she is quiet and domesticated,
but those were probably oversights.
Writes “A Man Who Knew Him”: A London paper,
exploring in Edmonton Workhouse, has just dug up Geo.
Wombwell, the once-famous boss of VVombwells Mena-
gerie. “ Wombwell’s Animal Show” was started by
George’s father over 100 years ago, and the old man made
a fortune ; but it all went, and “ young George s knock-
out blow came 11 years ago—he was then 80-when a
disease swept away £4OOO worth of live stock, and left
him with one elephant
Just when he was sell-
phant, a star per-
the cantankerous
“ Young George ”
he was a bit too
new start, 30
face to the
and little else,
mg' , the ele-
former, for £750,
beast died too.
reckoned that
old to make a
he turned his
workhouse wall.
WITH
RICKARDS’
SHOW .
CLARENCE
RASTUS
TISDALE
(his theme is
amorous).
“ 10-2-4 ” : Despite the fact that the Sydney Cri. pro-
gramme announces “ The Gayest of the Gay ” to be “ the
latest powerful. Drury Lane Drama,”a carking doubt con-
cerning the play's modernity obtrudes itself on me. It is
not merely that the form of the production recalls to me
very powerful nights long ago at the Adelphi (London)—
not to say the Mile End-road Standard (also London).
Nor is it the fact that most of the gibes date
from the year the late Joe Miller was short-frocked.
What get's my suspicions going at full pressure
is a thing that occurs during the scene outside
“The Popular Cafe, Piccadilly.” On Saturday night
as I sat watching “The Popular Caf6,” and marvelling at
the archaic name of the establishment, an aged drunk
entered. He was of the genus “respectable drunk.”
And as he staggered forward the band struck up an old,
old tune. Fifteen years ago no well-to-do drunk ever reeled
on to a stage unless to the accompaniment of that air.
The song to which it belonged told, in cynical disillu-
sionising fashion, of the deceiving effects of alcohol. It
was called “Oh ! What a Difference in the Morning,” and
the words of the few bars played at the Cri. last week
went as nearly as I can remember thuswise :
Oh ! what a diff’rence in the mawmng !
What an alteration with the dawning !
You see ’er in ’er room,
On ’er cheeks there is no bloom,
And ’er air lies on the tabul in the maivmm.
For a year this song had a huge vogue. Then it suddenly
dropped dead. It has stayed dead, to the best of my
knowledge, till the other night. lam sure “Oh ! what a
diff’rence ! ” was played in the “ Popular Cafd ” scene in
the dear, dead days when theatres still thrilled me some-
what. And so I estimate the age of “ The Gayest of the
Gay ” at thrice five years, to say the least.
“ Melb.” : “ Jack and Jill ” is the real yore-time panto.
It is quite in the style of Blanchard—the man who wrote
38 pantos, for Drury Lane; “Jack and Jill” have been
strangely overlooked; like “ Mother Goose,” up to two 1
years ago, in the whole panto, record of this city. Formerly
the authors strove to invent the absolutely new. Thus
Akhurst wrote “Conundrum Castle” for the Melbourne
Queen’s in ’54. In ’55 he furnished “ Harlequin L.S.D.,
or the Demon of the Gold Mine,” to Coppin’s Olympic.
That year the Royal had its first panto., “The
Magician’s Daughter, or Harlequin King of the Golden
Island of Australia,” by Tom Pavey, the attorney.
In ’56 Akhurst gave the Royal its panto, of
“Harlequin Rule of Three and Pretty Practice,
or Multiplication is Vexation, Division is As Bad.”
Since then “ Whittington ” has been given in Melbourne
about seven times, “ Sinbad,” “ Jack the Giant-killer,”
Cinderella” and “Aladdin” each about six, “Robinson
Crusoe” about five, “The Forty Thieves” about four,
“Robin Hood,” “ Humpty Dumpty,” “Red Riding
Hood” and “ Sleeping Beauty” each twice. Subjects
given once include “Jack Horner,” “Valentine and
Orson,” “Arabian Nights,” “Enchanted Island,” “Gulli-
ver,” “The Piper’s Son,” “House That Jack Built,”
“ Goody Two Shoes,” “ Hey-diddle-diddle,” “Riquet,”
“Froggie Would a-Wooing Go,” “Jack Sheppard,”
“Twinkle, Little Star,” “ Adamanta,” “Djin Djin,”
“ Beauty and the Beast,” “ Matsa,” and “ Santa Claus.”
The first notable Melbourne clown was Charley Young.
After him came Joe Chambers. The Leopolds first ap-
peared here in 1857. What an unrivalled harlequinade
was that following Barry Sullivan’s “ Lalla Rookh,” in
1863, witn the combination of the Edouins and Leopolds.
The Melbourne scenic artists have included Opie, Pitt,
Fry, Holmes, Fre.vberger, the Tannetts, Wilson, Habbe,
the Gordons, Spong, Brunton, Goatcher, Coleman, Little
and Grist.
“ D ” : Both the Sydney morning dailies assail the Nero
now showing at Sydney Royal on the ground that he is
not sufficiently doddering and debilitated. He is fail'll /
broken up and, palsied and epileptic—this the papers
admit—buc thOy look for something unique in the
human wreckage line when a Nero is presented to them
on the stage. It is an interesting example of how
theatrical convention, if it has only persisted long
enough, contrives to set aside history in certain
quarters. Nero suicided at 31 to escape a worse
fate. There is no evidence that he was half as
much of a physical ruin as the Theatre Royal
mime represents him to he. On the contrary, he was
always, .and more especially towards the close of his
career, a man of tremendous physical activity. He kicked
his wife Sabina to death—a feat that must in itself have
required considerable strength and bodily “fitness.” He
was a painstaking artist. He learned laboriously to play
the flute, also to sing, and performed repeatedly in pub-
lic. He engaged, almost to his dying day, in the games of
the circus. The arrangements fortheshowsin theTaurian
Amphitheatre, to the details of which he himself attended,
would have turned the hustling Hugh D. Mclntosh
green with envy. Whereas Mclntosh seated but 26,000
people last week. Nero 20 centuries ago seated from
70,000 to 90,000, and did it over and over again. Nero’s
Early Christian Grilling turns—all conducted under
his personal supervision—alone indicate the mental
and bodily vitality of the man. He burnt down
Rome, and rebuilt it so that it became the most gorgeous
city the world had ever known. He was not physically
attractive, doubtless, as the time approached when he
was to be forced to slay himself. He had certain afflic-
tions inseparable from the riotous time he had had during
the previous ten years. Butthat was all. He wasn’ta dip-
somaniac ora drug fiend. There are probably many scores
of localcitizens who—Christian-burning, murderand arson
excepted—lead as awful lives as this maligned monarch.
Yet they don’t look old untimely. Spotty, pale, bloated
dissipated, possibly; but nothing more. Even though
they develop a paraflegic limb or two they appear none
the weaker about the body generally for it. The conven-
tional stage Nero wearies. I hanker for the Real Thing—
i.e., a thoroughly raffish young- man, who has knocked
himself about considerably, yet still retains the vigor and
fire inseparable from an ancient Roman frame that is still
in the flower of its youth.
The Bulletin has received some confidential items
about La Milo from that self-effacing lady’s invaluable
manager, Cruickshank. A few of them : —“La Milo has .
just returned from a well-earned holiday on the Con-
tinent, where she loves to go in search of the Ideal in Art,
for which she is well known. Going over to Berlin, where
she is certain of finding the Art she represents, she put
up at the Hotel Adlon, the well-known rendezvous of all
that is famous in the world of Art, letters and finance.
She soon became the chief attraction, resulting in her
being introduced into the most exclusive circles of Con-
tinental society, being invited to that Imperial function
known as the Kaiser Breakfast, over which the Kaiser
presides, and which is reserved for the 61ite of the world’s
talent. One of the chief attractions of the Imperial city
is the Kaiser’s War Museum, containing all the evidences
of patriotism and heroism of the Fatherland, and which
appealed strongly to La Milo as the daughter of a highly-
placed British officer. But the greatest feast for the
Poseuse was the Sculpture Section of the Galleries of Art,
in which she showed almost emotional interest. Before
leaving Berlin, La Milo received many offers to
appear on the Continent at very high salaries, but stated
that she had to decline them owing to her work at Liver-
pool, where she is adding many new features to her act,
which is already heavily booked —so much so, that she has
had to decline, for the present, anyhow, considerable
value in American bookings, standing firm, despite trie
high offers of Berlin and America, for Art and England 1!
Leaving Berlin amidst the sensational regrets caused by
her short stay, La Milo, fully appreciative of the courtesy
'of the Imperial City, made her way to Paris, where,
amongst the leaders of Art, letters, science and finance,
she was soon in receipt of the eulogies which Paris knows
how to express to its affinities in the halo of its fame as
the accepted of the nobility and chief citizens of France,
and the admiration of all classes of the community. Pro-
ceeding to the shrine of her old love, La Milo stood in
emotional admiration before the chipped and mutilated
Venus de Milo, the beloved of the Art world and the pride
of France ; the mortal became weak in the presence of
the sublimity of its idol, and, visibly affected to tears,
was gently led from the noble creation with whose inspi-
ration she has electrified the whole world.” There is
more to the same effect, but the above will probably
suffice the normal reader. Verily, La Milo is a whale on
Art.
To-morrow (Frida)') evening occurs the 100th perform-
ance of “ The Merry Widow.” It is a record for Australia,
and so the management intends to give each person
that attends a gorgeous souvenir programme with
the features of J.O.W. and George Edwardes (J.O.W.’s
London prototype) emblazoned on the outside ; and por-
traits of the company in the innards of the document.
The souvenir programme idea is an importation from
Fogland, and it is a 99 per cent, better importation than
99 out of every 100 articles that pass the Customs.
“ Harrison Owen ” : A retrospect of the Australian
theatres for the past 12 months is not productive of quite
the same destdly weariness as would have been a similar
review at the end of last year. The productions, taken
all round, have been of a higher standard than those of
1907; It is not that anything especially new in the
dramatic line has happened ; we are still waiting hope-
lessly for a Shawian play, and Pinero’s “ His House in
Order’’(the best thing he has done since “The Second
Mrs. Tanqueray ”) is still to us merely synonymous with
numerous pictures in the illustrated English papers.
The best productions of the year have been mostly in the
form of revivals ; 1908 has been a year of them. We have
had two excellent Shakspearian productions—“ The
Taming of the Shrew” and “ Twelfth Night”—evenly
and artistically acted, the chief character in both plays
being satisfactorily presented by Miss Anglin, whose
coming, together with our old favorite Titheradge
and the painstaking, if somewhat heavy, Kolker,
has gone a long way towards raising the histrionic
standard of the year. Of course, we have suffered
the usual outbreaks of “ East Lynne,” “ Charley’s Aunt,”
“The Lady of Lyons,” “ Camille,” and other allegedly
evergreen monstrosities. We have, however, had other
revivals of interest, in addition to the two works of the
Bard. Harcourt Beatty, Madge Mclntosh, Gaston Mer-
vale and company have given us a little less of the “ Mid-
night Matrimony” and “She Shoved Against the
World,” and have instead performed, with a fair measure
of success, such plays as “ Fedora,” “She Stoops to
Conquer,” and “ Jim the Penman.” Old favorites, such
as “A Message from Mars,” “The Private Secretary,”
and “Struck Oil” have been more or less happily re-
juvenated. We have also had an unusually large number
of musical revivals, thanks to the National Opera Com-
pany. These include “ Les Cloches de Corneville,”
“ Maritana,” “ The Lily of Killarney,” Gounod’s “ Faust,”
and others, down the scale until we reach “The
Belle of New York.” The original musical comedies
(original comic opera is never met with nowadays)
of the year have, for the most part, been
neither better nor worse than their predecessors.
Musical comedy as we have known it of late years is on
precisely the same level as the distressful vaudeville show
—it is mostly Girl, especially the lower portions of Girl.
“ The Merry Widow ” was a bit above the average, but
she did not by any means justify her advertisements, but
merely emphasised the advice of S. Weller, sen. The
other more or less musical outbreaks, “The Red Mill,”
“ The Belle of Mayfair,” “ Miss Hook of Holland,” “The
Prince/of Pilsen,” and others, have utterly failed to rise
above the usual level of fatuity achieved by such happen-
ings. The flickering flames of their several lives have been
kept on the flick by artificial aids, such as rumors of mar-
riage, breach of promise suits, and motors. We can turn
with more satisfaction to the legitimate, as distinguished
from the merely leg drama. In “ Peter Pan,” “ The Thief,”
and “The Truth,” we have had plays of undoubted
literary merit; “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch”
was one of the finest character-plays that has trans-
pired hereabouts for some considerable space; while as
a social—indeed a Socialistic—sermon, “ Diana of Dob-
son’s” was really excellent. Of course, it is possible to
at once lower the standard of the year’s dramatic excel-
lence by naming such catastrophes as “ The Modern
Adventuress.” “Two Little Sailor Boys,” “The Girl
from the (Jolden West,” “Lured to London,” “The
Gayest of the Gay,” “The Power of the Cross,” and
other heart-breaking episodes ; but I suppose a certain
amount of dross must be looked for along with the
true metal.
“Old Inhabitant”: Apropos Maxine Elliott (B.
5/11/’08). A portrait of this lady in my possession has this
legend underneath : “ By general consent she holds the
enviable position of the fairest woman on the stage;
grace and genius are also hers. Was there ever a woman
so divinely gifted? And yet, ‘lf a long-suffering public
would only pension me off,’ she says, ‘ how happy would
Ibe to leave the stage ! ’ Her husband, Mr. N. C. Good-
win, has a large place in Kent, where Miss Elliott would
gladly spend the rest of her days, far from the excitement
arid worry which invariably follow in the wake of success.”
THOROUGHLY SEASONABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the Sydney Lyceum Hall, on Saturday, Spencer’s
Theatrescope Company presented an interesting pro-
gramme of moving pictures. Among the films that
claimed most attention was that depicting the destruction
of Hyderabad. This splendid set of pictures depicts the
scene of the destructive floods at Hyderabad in Sep-
tember, when the River Musi overflowed its banks, and
drowned 40,000 natives, besides doing damage to the
extent of £15,000. News item.
Now is the season of Good Cheer
Upon us. (Certes turkeys wear
A chronic look of haunting fear ;
But, barring these, all things appear
Merry and ga3'
By night and day.)
It is the hour of Utter Joy :
The time the oldster turneth boy
And monkeys with the youngling’s toy.
(Yea, child, all bliss hath its alloy.)
And so the Hall of Vickery
Bestirs itself that it may be
Glad like the rest. Its revelry
Pursueth well-worn lines. For see
The flickergraph :
List to the laugh
That peals as people fall about
Upon the screen in a wild rout,
And wave their limbs and dumbly shout —
Even as lunatics just out.
These but presage the “ turn ” of all—
The “ star ” event. Throughout the Hall
Broods merriment, and waits its “ call.”
Black darkness casts its heavy pall
On all around,
Then with a bound
The lights flash up. A voice says “ Dad,
That is the Musi, Hyderabad
Comes the reply, “ Shuttup, me lad ! ”
Whereat the Voice grows hushed and sad.
But grief is soon forgotten quite,
And all else too except the sight—
The gracious sight that on the bright
Wide linen sheet of shiny white
Now greets the eye.
Right merrily
The crowd applauds as blackamoors
In twos and threes and tens and scores
Are seen to die. The stream down-pours,
And nigs in serried thousands floors.
For half a joyous hour on end
The slaughter rages. In each bend
Of Musi bodies are. Depend
They even from the trees. They lend
A pleasing air,
Seemly and fair,
Unto the landscape far and wide
As o’er the surging flood they glide.
“ Perfect! ” folks say when once outside,
“ A pleasant show for Christmastide.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking 1 , Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, over £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 111,527—Assuring £32,753,136.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,405,811.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Bank of ||ortb Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
.gents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.-^
PAIR INTEREST.
EASY TERMS.
WE
1?
&
CAPITAL - £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to
Suppress Usury.
nxr.s.-w.
OTontdepieteo.«LC<>.,[t<l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH ST., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
(iuarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.0., Chair-
man (Gibbs, Bright & Co.); J. Campbell-Wood, Esq..;
W. O. Watt, Esq. ; J. J. Allen, Esq.
General Manager tor Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt ; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
“ THE IDEAL WAY TO
SEE EUROPE.”
Member of Historic Society personally drives parties on
tours of any scope and duration, arranged as to sceneny
and places of interest to suit his clients. Also First-Class
Touring Cars, specially equipped and reliable, for hire.
THE MOTOR TOURING COMPANY,
43 PEMBROKE PLACE, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
STANDARD BRICK MACHINE
f
Makes Twenty
Concrete Bricks
One Operation.
Three men
make 5000 per
tl ay. Make
your Bricks
on the job.
Write for
particulars.
J. J. STEELE,
S#.e Agent,
104 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
ord 1/eutscher JL^loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY HAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers
Marseilles, Gibraltar. London. Anturpm n ,l i> '
Steamer
*YORCK ..
♦FRIEDRICH
DER GROSSE
..
*ROON
*SEYDLITZ
C T 3
£ |
g"v -a
3S <3
♦Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
via NEW BRITAIN and NEW GUINEA.
MANILA .. .. .. _ __ 12th JAN
PRINZ WALDEMAR (Twin-screw) .. 9th FEB.
PRINZ SIGISMUND (Twin-screw) .. 9th MAR,"
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
gank of Heui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£2,000,000
£500,000
£504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE LONE HAND is the logical complement
of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LINC.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, ancl
London ,
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
' REGULAR SERVICE.
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw.
FARES :
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the higheststandard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
gdf
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
• January 20.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
February 20.
MEDIO, AFRIC and SUEVIO to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, &c. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
JDalgety and Company, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
* holipay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
gd
CRUISES.^
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district*
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
SPECIAL SUMMER CRUISE TO THE
WEST COAST SOUNDS of New Zealand
THE MAGNIFICENT STEAMER WAIKARE will leave Dunedin on Saturday,
16th January, for a cruise amongst the beautiful West Coast Sounds of New Zealand, passing
about TWELVE DAYS amidst scenery surpassing even the famous Fjords of Norway.
Extra time will be allowed in Milford Sound to enable tourists to visit the SUTHERLAND FALLS (1904 ft).,
the highest in the World.
The ULIMAROA, leaving Sydney on the 9th January, and the turbine steamer
MAHENO, from Melbcurne on the 6th January, will connect with the WAIKARE
in Dunedin. For Leaflets and Full Particulars apply
UNION STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD., 259 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
fg
RICHFIELD HOTEL,
Murray Street, HOBART.
& H. McDONALD, Manager.
TASMANIA
HIGHFIELD
.The ideal spot for pleasure seekers; climate delightful, scenery
magnificent.
The Fashionable Hotel for Tourists; lately Enlarged and Re-
furnished. Rej/.ete with every Modern Requisite for the
Comfort of Visitors. Centrally Situated. High-class Cuisine.
Alcock’s Billiard Tables.
CORRESPONDENCE INVITED re TERMS, &c.
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
m
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O/ A the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
| When Mosquitoes annoy you
£ remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
I insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap,
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
>Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
The bulletin
Series, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Ten, lOd.
POST CAliDS—New
Packet of Twelve, Is;
' EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
ON OUR NEW SELECTION, by Steele
Rudd. Cloth binding, posted free, 65.,
from The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping afc Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, Saturday,
January 2.
S.S. Bullarra (from Pre-
man tie to N. -West Ports),
January 12.
BRISBANE,
MACKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
.S.S. Wollowra, Jan. 2.
S.S. Marloo, Jan. 9.
Bent (aid Choicest Itoute to <3 old H eld/,.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
jyjESSA GERIES jyjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS
LEAVE SYDNEY AS under :
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/ to £B2/10/-, includin' l '
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with the other Mail Companies, issued at greatly
reduced rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 375. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEEL'OKG
COOMA, 5 p.m., THURSDAY,
December 31.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, January 9.
ADELAIDE
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.)
BURRUMBEET, 2 p.m., TUES-
DAY, Jauuary 26.
BRISBANE -\
MARYBOIIOUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACIvAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
January 2.
BURWAH (Cargo only), 5 p.m.,
TUISDAY, January 5.
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY.
January 9.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Full particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
f New Steamer. * Twin-Screw Steamer.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPAMY OF H.Z. LTD.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
F.— H. vS.
Federal-Houlder.Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via Suez Canal.
T.S.S. “DORSET.**
11,400 Tons. VV. L. Prentice, Commander.
Excellent accommodation for saloon and third-class
passengers.
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - 10th January
~ ~ ~ SYDNEY • 15th January
~ ~ HOBART - 20th January
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - 27th January
~ „ ~ ADELAIDE - 2nd February
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
Tickets issued, and prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL 1 1 £49 108, £l3 13S- £l5 15s - £l7 17s ‘
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by
other fast twin-screw passenger steamers. For further
information, illustrated pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.


Ilf
<?9
w-
Wh
m
M
mm
//,
-
. ■
If you are
thirsty
try a
glass
I of
«w
£
£
9
/LIME
JUICE.
«* MONTSERRAT**
Lime Juice
is made from cultivated limes* and
is always fresh and pleasant to the
taste. Mixed with plain or aerated
water, it makes a cooling, refreshing
healthful drink.
HADE IN TWO KINDS -
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice.
Sweetened — i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
LADIES’ TAILOR GUT
SHIRT COSTUMES
TO ORDER.
CAMBRICS from 32/6.
LINENS from 42/-
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Sole Agents for:
VERTEX CELLULAR
SINGLETS from 2/6.
SHIRTS from 4/-
£BN S popular
“ATOH-
RAZOR
Guaranteed a High Grade Razor.
FULLY HOLLOW GROUND.
ELECTRICALLY TEMPERED.
ALWAYS KEEPS
THE EDGE.
df
Finest Steel. Smooth Shaving.
In Black Vulcanite Handle.
In Real Ivory Handle . .
7 in Case, one for each day of the week.
TO BE OBTAINED OF
MICK SIMMONS, Sydney, n
THE BALLET GIRL
4
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fret, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lilts of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
121,000
The WaybacK .Series*
Australia laughed ! I! No. S.
aiid keeps laughing. Red Harry 1s
WHAT TO DRINK IN SUMMER!
■s«ssa
You want a beverage tnat is
wholesome, refreshing, and
pleasing to the palate.
“ LEMOS ” is the best drink
to revive your tired body.
It is delightful.
BROOKE’S “LEMOS”
SWEETENED
LEMON SQUASH.
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
g
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results, A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
ALWAYS HAVE
BOVRIL
By Royal Warrant
handy in the kitchen for Soups, Gravies, etc.
ymgMaiuUr*
& Sohn,
A.Q.
Optical Works : Brunswick, Germany.
Branches in England, France, Russia, Spain and
America.
dfg
REFLEX
Cameras
6 SIZES.
J x 2g inch.
2£ x inch.
4J x 3J (J-plate).
fii x 4} (i-plate).
1J x 4J inch.
WITH FOCAL PLANE SHUTTER.
Sole Australasian Agents :
HARRINGTONS LTD.,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Send for Illustrated Booklet, “ Talking with Taylor ”
(on Lenses, Cameras, etc.), post free. 12
NEAT swid
STRONG.
df
TO
MEND
BELTS and HARNESS
giourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
No need to punch holes. Simply drive
? R/vets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1098. Sydney, or Bifurcated &
"Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington, Eng.
Price List on
application.
ATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J& 2/9 per box.
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
GOUT
PAY YOUR DOCTOR
TO KEEP YOU SICK!
-ar
'•j
s
THE first impulse of persons who find that they are ailing in any way is to
plunge into a chemist’s and purchase a box of pills or a bottle of some patent
medicine. . . Failing to get more than temporary relief from this they then
consult a doctor, and he writes a prescription which more than likely calls for the
same medicine, only in a different form from what the patient has already taken.
The same result, generally. Next, the patient comes to the conclusion that this
doctor didn’t diagnose the case right, and then goes to another, with the same
result. And so on.
Oup modern medical system is a foolish system. "We practically pay
oup doctors to keep us ill. Their prosperity depends not on our health,
BUT ON OUR SICKNESS ! . . . To-day very little is known of medicine
and its use. The wisest doctor can do tout little more than clear out
the system or accelerate the action of the heart. When he has done these
thing's he has reached the end. MEDICINE CANNOT MAKE STRENGTH.
Now, just study yourself for a moment. The failure or breaking down of any
organic function means that it has not strength to do its work. If there was any
nourishment in medicine it might bring about a healthy change, but you know there
is not. Drugs, medicines, stimulants, narcotics and antidotes are POISONS, not
food. Food is needed to build up new energy. Electricity is nerve food, nerve life.
No pain or debility can exist in a body charged with Electric Life; you can have
no Weakness, no Inactive Parts, no Rheumatism, Indi-
gestion, Constipation or Kidney Trouble, if you fill your
body with it, because the life generated by this grand force gives health and
strength to every organ, and
Dr.MgLAUGHLIN S ELECTRIC BELT
is the newest and most successful method of applying it. It is a series of small batteries which you wear about your waist.
It worKs while you. sleep, and generates its power constantly. It is worn as comfortably as your clothing,
adjusted in a minute, and made as strong or mild as you like by the pressure of a finger upon the regulator. With it
you can carry the current direct to the spot affected. You can get the full current at your ankles, feet, arms, shoulders,
head or any other part of your body. It has a Special Attachment for men. We have fixed a price for it which puts it
within the reach of everyone. Its price is as low as £1 in many cases.
FREE BOOK.
If you want to be Strong
and Vigorous, with your veins full of
youthful fire; your eyes clear; your mus-
cles strong and active, then send us this coupon to-dav, and we
will send you, postpaid, our new Free BooK, which
every man should read, and which will inspire you with courage
to help yourself. It is full of things that make a man feel
liKe BEING a Man ! . . Send the COUPON to-day.
or for Free Consultation. Hours —9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
the McLaughlin co.,
Dep. 10, Linden Court, Castlereagh and Market Sts., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
The MCLAUGHLIN CO.,
Dept. 10, Linden Court,
Market and Castlereagh Sts., Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address .’ ’..
1


GOT NO RELIEF
FROMECZEMA
Which Spread Over Hands, Arms,
Neck, and Face—Face so Swollen
She Could NotSee —Doctor Called
It Incurable—Treated by Many
but Grew Steadily Worse
UNTIL WHOLLY CURED
BY CUTICURA REMEDIES
. My wife was cured of eczema about
six years ago. It came between her
fingers and on the palms. She was ad-
vised by friends first to try one thing
and then another but it continued to
spread to the elbows. She had the ad-
vice of three doctors. The first said
there was no cure. The second said
the disease was due to the change
of air and water our home being in
Kent. She continued with him for
about three months but she still got
worse. Much against my wish she
went to the hospital. They gave her a
prescription for ointment only. That
did not satisfy me, so after a week I
went with her to another doctor, as the
eczema began to show on her face. He
said he could cure her but it would take
a long time. He attended her five
weeks, giving her medicine and oint-
ment. She soon went from bad to
worse. Her hands, neck, and face be-
came swollen. For two days she could
not see out of her eyes. I was in terrible
trouble. A fellow workman asked me
if she had tried Cuticura. His uncle
suffered with eczema and found great
benefit from the Cuticura Remedies. I
then got a set for my wife to try. I
commenced with great eagerness. For
three days she was bathed freely with
Cuticura Soap before we could remove
the crust of matter and ointment which
had formed. Then things began to
change, the swelling went down and she
could move her fingers and feed her-
self. We continued using nothing but
the Cuticura Remedies and in three
months’ treatment my wife derived a
complete cure. I shall at any time be
pleased to recommend the Cuticura
Remedies to sufferers. G. Campany,
Jubilee House, Hart St., Walsall, Staffs.,
July 30, 1907.”
Send to nearest depot for free Cuti-
cura Book on Treatment of Skin Diseases.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults
consists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuti-
cura Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura
Pills (Chocolate Coated, in vials of 60) to Purify
the Blood. A Single Set often Cures. Sold through-
out the world. Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse
Sq.: Paris, 5, Rue de la Paix; Australia, R. Towns
* Co., Sydney: South Africa, Lennon, Ltd ' Cape
Town, etc.; India, B. K. Paul, Calcutta: U. S. A„
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.. Sole Props., Boston.
THE NANON
PIANO.
THIS delightful little piano
is built to give every
possible satisfaction and
enjoyment to all musical people.
It possesses an extended iron
frame, and is overstrung. The
tone and touch are' perfect,
while the construction possesses
every requisite feature to com-
mend it to those in search of a
good instrument at a very
moderate price.
Most Moderate Extended
Payments Arranged.
0
Old Instruments taken in
Part Exchange.
SOLE AGENTS
Nicholson & Co, Ltd,,
342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
The summer has arrived—there is no doubt of it.
The heat is hard enough to endure, but you must
remember that the heat and the dust of an Australian
summer will not only prove unpleasant and disagreeable
to you, but your complexion is going to be ruined unless
you are very careful.
Your complexion and your beautiful skin you prize,
and rightly so, therefore preserve them by using only
4711 Glycerine Soaps and 4711 Eau de Cologne. After
a day’s motoring, golf, or shopping, “4711” will refresh
you, and render your skin beautifully subtle and clean,
and give you that peculiar charm which is always
associated with the superb Toilet Preparations of No. 4711.
>
I 8 >•*.<» /. il
r ■
-Hjii
' A \s»
/*
* ~
j r*
u 7he cfogslmrk r but
“ t/ie Caravanpaffe{\
ArdJj/cxnproverb.
SOLE AUSTRALIAN AGENTS-
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.
226 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, and 23d Clarence Street, Sydney.
g
A Smart Patent Leather
Tie Shoe for Ladies &
The Shoe illustrated is one of Fashion’s latest fancies—fo r
style, fit and finish it cannot be excelled.
In patent leather, with round toe and Cuban
heel, it may be had with pump soles, at - -
16/6
Or in same style, but with hand-sewn, welted sole, at 21 j-
Note.—lf you should be ordering from any-
where in Victoria, add 9d. extra for postage
or Is. if from any other State. Send for
“ Shoeliyht,” our illustrated booklet— free.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne; land 3 Errol St.
North Melbourne ; 303 Chapel St., Prahran. ’’
iEREBOS
SALT
df
gdf
SEE
HOW
IT
RUNS
Agents—Harrison & Attivood, Sydney.
PHONOGRAPH
RECORDS
6d.
Reduced to
SDTTON’S MUSIC WAREHOUSES,
290 & 292 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
Ballarat; Bendigo; Geelong.
Wm. Atkins & Co. Ltd.
STEEL MANUFACTURERS.
449 & 451 Kent St, Sydney.
MINERS' DRILL STEEL
SPECIALLY MADE FOR
AUSTRALIAN MINERS.
TURTLE BRAND
STEEL FOR EVERY
PURPOSE KEPT IN
STOCK.
Contractors to New South
Wales Government.
PONT LOOK OLD,
DARKEN
YOUR.
WITH
LOCKYER’S
HAIR RESTORER
* 7S
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation and Biliousness.
O
The immense number of orders for
Frootoids, sent by post direct to the Pro-
prietor, is convincing proof that the
Public appreciate their splendid curing
power over the above-named complaints.
Frootoids are elegant in appearance and
pleasant to take; they are immensely
more valuable than an ordinary aperient;
they remove from the blood, tissues, and
internal organs, waste poisonous matter
that is clogging them and choking the
channels that lead to and from them.
The beneficial effects of Frootoids are
evident by the disappearance of headache,
a bright, cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish, depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are the proper aperient medi-
cine to take when any Congestion or
Blood Poison is present, or when Conges-
7 ion of the Brain or Appoplexy is present
o threatening. They have been tested,
and have been proved to afford quick
relief in such cases when other aperients
have not done any good at all.
Frootoids act splendidly on the liver;
a dose taken at bed-time, once a week, is
highly beneficial.
A constipated habit of body will be
completely cured if the patient will on
each occasion, when suffering, l take a dose
of Frootoids, instead of an ordinary
aperient. The patient thus gradually
becomes independent of Aperient Medi-
cines.
Price 1/6. Chemists, Medicine Vendors,
or the Proprietor, W. G. Hearne, Chemist,
Geelong, Victoria..
POMEROY
Liquid Powder
Tones down any undue redness and
renders flushing of the face less notice-
able. Is a great protection to the com-
plexion especially when motoring, yacht-
ing, golfing, etc. Made in five shades :
Flesh Pink, Pale Pink, Rachel, Pale
Rachel and White.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores; or
direct from Mrs. POMEROY, Ltd., 29, Old
Bond Street, London. England.
“ PLASMON increases the
food value enormously.”
— Lancet.
g
*a<
COCOA
10 times more nutritious
than ordinary Cocoa.
* DELICIOUS, -
_ DIGESTIBLE.
[ of all Grocers, Stores,etc.
Business, Robbery, etc.
‘-F.A.R. : A philanthropic movement is on
foot in Vic. to give away land for nothing. This is the
idea. Land unsuitable for agriculture has heeri bought
up largely in a sparsely-settled district, where the- price
per acre averages £3. It is situated amidst pretty
scenery, and is suitable for a week-end or holiday home
(vide advt.). It- has been subdivided into' quarter-acre
blocks, and if you are good, and believe in philanthropy,
all you have to do is to write to the co. and apply for not
more than five blocks. Not more, because, of course, we
want to treat all comers fairly, being philanthrop-
ists. Every alternate block will be given away
gratis until .five hundred have been taken. To cover
survey fees, you pay a “ merely nominal” 30s.
So the co. is actually “ giving away” the land at £6 per
acre, and paying all survey fees’ etc., out of its own
philanthropic pocket. The blocks in between will be sold
in the ordinary way, and by judicious booming should
realise quite £4 per acre. After the transfers are effected
at £6 per acre (survey fees thrown in ; don’t forget those
survey fees) there will be an additional 30s. per block to
pay for registration of title. Such a number of people
are hastening to get land “ for nothing ” 1 And such a
lot of others would like to give some away on the same
terms !
* * - i ' i - *
Some time ago Sydney importing people kicked
up a disturbance about the way their goods were landed
at certain city wharves, everybody’s stuff being beneath
everybody else’s, while nobody’s was ever on top. A 1 com-
mittee was appointed to deal with the affair, and it
found that (1) the present system of discharging goods
was causing much loss to the importers, and (2) that it
should be altered at once. The committee also said that it
was the Customs’ duty to sort Smith’s goods in one heap
and everybody else’s in a lot of other heaps. The Cus-
toms said it would see the importers dashed first. The
committee then said it-had made d mistake—it meant the
Harbor Trust, not the Customs. The Harbor Trust told
it to be blowed. The committee hurriedly remarked that it
meant all the time to say that the shipowners were'the
parties responsible. When the shipowners sarcastically
smiled, the importers tried to put it on to the stevedores.
Finally they discovered that the only persons liable to
sort the importers’ goods were the importers themselves. -
It was ascertained that for a small charge per ton the
matter could be fixed up, and a solution was almost
arrived at with the unanimous idea of passing on the
small charge to the consumer, when it was discovered
that many of the wharves in Sydney are all right, and
that the trouble occurs only at a few. This knocked all
idea of payment out of the importers’heads, and the old
way is to continue. Smith’s carters arrive at the wharf
nice and early, and start to find their cases by the simple
process of heaving the huge stack in all directions until
they come to the things they want. Subsequently Brown
and Jones, arrive, and, unless they are either dumb or
Plymouth Brethren, they swear horribly, and they also
heave the stuff in all directions. The very last man’s
stuff has been heaved (or hove) 40 times before taken
away.
* * * *
“Mate” on a sympton of the importing
disease : Glad to see The Bulletin (19/11/’08) notice the
habit of importing ship’s mates. This is a grievance
not confined to the North Coast Co. All the inter-
state lines have the importing disease to a certain
extent. Of course, we are mostly imported as it is,
and none of us object to the newcomers if only they
start at the bottom, as we did. It’s the man who comes
in a new' ship as skipper or mate, and stays on in the
same position, that we object to. The Australian
coasting trade is a distinct one, and requires some
learning. It’s all right getting a new chum as third ;
but when you’ve been a few years on the coast, and
are : second, it’s galling to have a stranger put as mate
over your head. You have to do most of his work
until he gets into the run of things, and you also lose
the, promotion that is your due. It’s a bad policy on
the part of the owners, making for slackness," and
causing a lot of dissatisfaction. You have been putting
your whole soul into the job of looking after the
owner’s interests, only to see the billet you expected
filled by a man whose recommendation is that he
managed to get on the right side of the owner or
super, when he was in England after the new' ship.
If the Commonwealth would stick a heavy duty on
ships it w'ould, among other good things, do away
with the importing of ready-made skippers and mates.
New men would still come out, but they would take
their chance with the rest of us.
* * * *
Now it has been found that Uncle Samuel not
only makes timber hams for export, but artificial lamb
chops for home consumption. Still, though the manu-
facture is all right; something seems wrong with the dis-
tribution, because by mistake some artificial chops were
landed lately at the house of Dr. Wiley, chief of the U.S.
Pure Food Bureau ; and he promptly diagnosed them as
old lamb-chop bones, cleaned up (probably), with meat
cut from just behind the sheep’s ear threaded carefully
on to them. The Pure Food man made such a fuss about
it that there has been quite a slump in lamb chops ever
since.
SMILES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
School 27 in New York is giving- a course for sales-
women, at which the pupils are taught “ the art of
smiling when a customer approaches.”— News Item.
She graced the ribbon counter in
A store of huge extent,
Whereto, sent thither by their wives,
Male persons sometimes went.
Her supple figure, tall and straight,
Was robed in charming style,
While, neck to hair, her face did wear
One vast resplendent smile !
I spoke her softly, fearful lest
My rugged accents might
Disturb the gracious damosel,
And put that smile to flight.
“ Have you,” I said, “ a shade like this—
I think ’tis purple styled?”
She said she thought she had, and brought
Much ribbon forth —and smiled !
Not at the ribbons glanced I then ;
Much had I lacked in grace,
Had I removed my optics from
That fascinating face.
A shilling’s worth I’d come to buy—
She parcelled up a roll.
“ Four yards,” said she, “ at one and three—
Nine shillings, sir ! ” and—smole !
I paid the cash and backed away,
But still, without a lull,
While genuflecting graciously,
That charming damsel smul!
I button-holed the shopwalker—
A pompous person he—
“ Yon maiden there, with smile so rare,
Who, prithee, sir, is she?”
The “ step-this-way-mum ” man replied ;
“ She is a priceless pearl—
Our record-breaking, champion,
Long-distance smiling girl!
She holds a smirk diploma, sir—
Is mistress of all styles—
For she’s 8.5., which means, you’ll guess,
A Bachelor of Smiles ! ”
I hied me home, much marvelling
At all I’d heard and seen—
And got a ragging from the wife,
The stuff I’d bought was green !
And ever since that fatal day,
This thought my temper riles,
One single bob on ribbon went
And eight bob went on Smiles !
MAORILAND.
SING. S. CLARK.


Australian riutual Provident Society.
Next Annual Distribution of the Profits as at 31st December, 1908.
Every participating Policy in the Ordinary Department, issued previous to the close of the current year, will
share in the Bonus to be then allotted.
Amount divided among the Members for the one year 1907 was £708,245, representing more than a third of
the total premiums received during the year.
Total Cash Bonuses divided amount to £13,596,507.
The Society being a purely mutual institution, the whole of the prolits earned are distributed among the
participating Policy-holders, there being no Shareholders to first claim a portion of the surplus.
Accumulated Funds, £23,500,000. Annual Income, £3,100,000. Amount dis-
bursed among Members or their beneficiaries, £27,765,937.
Policies can be secured for any sum up to £lO,OOO. For full particulars write to the Head Office, 87 Pitt
Street, Sydney, or any District Office or Agent of the Society.
RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S., ROBERT B. CAMERON,
General Manager and Actuary. Secretary.
Christmas and New Year Post Cards.
5 O Beautiful Post Cards, 1/3 Post Free. Order at once.
Christmas Greetings, New Year Greetings.
Pretty & Novel Designs. Choice Cards, 1/3 Post Free. Send To-Day.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER CO.
Post and Christmas Card Publishers,
192-194 Castlereagrh Street (near Park Street), Sydney.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH/'
Post Free 6d. from "Thi
Bulletin ” Office
PATERNOSTER’S
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
■ . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only oy
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of ail Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
1
HJMI
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys" DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant.*
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
ypp^
df
0
I
#
It aets like a eharm in
DIARRHEA.
4 o ** *
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY,
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Mankind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Cancer, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbago, &e.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the world , in bottles , Is. lid. ; 2 oz., 2s. 9 d. ; 4 oz., 4s. 6 d. each .
WARNING -Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMANiIjHLORODYNE, which was invented by Richard
Freeman, Pharmacist, in 1844, has the ‘ ELEPHANT” Trade Mark, on the wrapper, without which it is an imitation.
Agents: Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne. Sole Proprietors: Fkeeman’s Chloiiodyne, Ltd., London, S.K., England.
gdf
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
The Famous Remedy For
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma <fe Consumption
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough Croup
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allayin o- Irritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient and a complete
cure is certain. F
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE,
Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
0
*
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
{Fjenger's Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.
The Fishing Excursion of “ 10-2-4” :
I had often heard of the fishing merits of Woy Woy
(N.S. W.), and so on a recent Sunday morning' I journeyed
there with a lady of my acquaintance. We boarded a
skiff. I remarked on the smell of it. My companion—
an optimist—said not to worry, it was “only the brine.
In an under-convinced frame of mind I rowed away. Our
destination was “The Rip,” and with the tide behind us
we approached it at a swift pace. “The Rip” is a
channel where the out-going waters produce, twice in
every 24 hours, a swirling torrent that resembles a Nor-
wegian salmon river in spate. I did not know “ The Rip
by sight, nor did my companion. Afterabout an hour’s row-
ing a howl broke the Sabbath stillness. I looked to see my
friend’s eyes riveted in horror on her feet. Somewhere
in the recesses of our craft about 17,000,000 blowflies
had been toiling double-shifts on the prawn bait that
former voyagers had left behind. The results of their
labors—long, pale, stout and intensely active—were
everywhere. They crawled up our lunch-basket, gyrated
over the cushions, and stormed the gunwale of the vessel
as though intent on self-destruction. As a fact they did
not want to suicide. Their birthplace was leaking at
every pore, and the wretched creatures had emerged
from their hidden fastnesses in an effort to keep dry.
“ There are only about 34,000,000 of them,” I said hope-
fully ;“ we may be able to bale them out.” Holding our
breaths we started, using respectively a jam- and a
salmon-tin. We found that the best scheme was to
hold the tin against the side of the boat and scrape
sharply downwards with a bait-knife. The prey was
then hurled overboard. A strenuous half-hour passed in
this way, when suddenly the boat stopped and turned
violently round. We looked overboard to find that we
had left the calm water behind. All about us were surg-
ing waves and whirlpools. Frenziedlv I grabbed the oars
and started pulling. I have done some vehement work
in this line, but, the effort to row against “ The Rip ” won
easily over any previous effort of the sort. After ten
minutes of it I perceived that I was not gaining a foot. I
decided to make a break for the shore, which lay about
200yds. to the left. I reached it in a quarter of an hour,
half dead, wet through, and with the boat three-parts
full.
My friend said, “ Well, anyhow, we’ve escaped with our
lives, and we can bale those things out easily 7 now that
the boat’s full of water.” We started. Many millions
were hurled into the tideway, and once more the vessel
was empty. But only, as it transpired, of water. Our
efforts had merely-touched the fringe, as it were, of the
trouble the blowflies had bequeathed us. I hardened my
heart and made inspection beneath the thwarts. I would
not have credited there were so many 7 of this fauna on
earth. My friend and I gazed at the spectacle in a sort
of hushed awe. It suggested a portent or manifestation
of the power of Nature. I thought of Hannibal, of
Horatius, of Napoleon on the hither side of the Alps.
With the icy calm of the desperate man, I handed
my coat to fny 7 ally, bade her deposit it in a safe
place, remove all hampering and unnecessary clothing
from her own back and shoulders, and get to work. For
two solid hours we drowned, at the rate of about 500 a
minute, creatures whose only offence lay in living. I
have never before felt so thankful about a natural history
discovery as I did on ascertaining that the descendants
of the blowfly are good swimmers. In fact, they ap-
parently 7 cannot sink ; and so we gathered them from the
water with which we re-flooded our boat with some ease.
At length the. holocaust was complete. Faint and ex-
hausted we fell upon our polluted lunch. It was now
growing late. The tide had turned, and was rushing
north as wildly as it had rushed in the other direction all
the morning. Also a stiff southerly was blowing. The
home of the person who had hired us the zoological craft
lay due north. Physically I was a wreck, but a certain
ingenuity of mind remained to me. My eye fell on a
large, white umbrella I am wont to take with me on these
excursions. I directed m.v friend to hoist it, and myself
seized the tiller. We tore through the water at an in-
credible speed. A mile from home the umbrella blew
inside out and went overboard. I took regretfully to the
oars and in due course reached the boatshed. The boat’s
owner was absent. I fancy he always is absent when
people return with that boat. It struck me, as I noted
the fact, that lie had claimed payment in advance. A
wise precaution. Strolling towards the station, I esti-
mated the cost of our day’sfishing. It worked out, roughly 7,
thuswise : (1) Total ruin of my 7 clothes and boots, (say)
£lO ; (2) loss of umbrella, 10s. ; (3) total ruin of my friend’s
shoes and skirts ; and (4) partial ruin of her hat, which I
had inadvertently bashed with an oar in the first fine
frenzy of discovering “The Rip,” (say) £6; (5) loss of
sundries—bangles, buckles and so forth —while baling,
(say) £3. When to this is added the cost of railway
tickets, lunch, cab-fares, tips, the hire of the maritime
menagerie, and wages (unpaid) for the work of two adults
for 2J hours as garbage destructors, it will readily be seen
that for less than an hour’s sail, with an umbrella as
balloon jib (the only bearable part of our fishing trip), the
money-value disbursed was excessive.
As matters stand, it is evident that the
State Premiers did their best to commit financial
suicide when they arrogantly rejected ex-Treasurer
Lyne’s offer of a subsidy of £0,000,000 a year,
gradually rising to about £8,750,000. Now that the
Commonwealth lias had more time to size up its
liabilities in the shape of old age pensions,
Defence, the Northern Territory, transcontinental
railways, postal and telegraph and telephone ex-
tensions, etc., it is realised that Uncle Bill
strained things to the utmost when he made his
proposals, and nothing so large and liberal is ever
likely to happen again.


MICK. SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
E6c LEADING
HOUSE FOR
gdf
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to tbe value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
Our SPECIAL SNAP
"THE MAINE
PiFle
„VW/W/ Apsrr-
The Maine” S.S. Rifle
CAN’T
B
BEAT
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It is a take-down, and
can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simply unscrewing the thumb-screw located
underneath the fore arm. The action used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is
exceedingly simple, consisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored
and rifled with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed accurate to 300
yards, weight 2flb., fitted with plain V back sight -« f
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300 yards ...
15/-
Postage on one Rifle—-Is 3d, N.S.W. 2s 2d, Inter-State.
S S
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. LTD., Proprietors, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged editiofi, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lSposted. MyNeighborßaymond,ls; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
lOs Od. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Houses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s Od. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
g
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIRSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Bra'zing, Gas-Fitting, etd., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d,
That Rascal Gus’f ave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, whidh- rpakes it : a'superior guide to the action of men and
women both ,in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is pqsted. Cabinet Makers’ Handbook, Is 3d. Mac-
f adder's Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’S Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers OF Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. gST" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bosii Songs, Is 3d post. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Olog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. • Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.. leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bbund, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete),*ls 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
w.
\
'IARK r.UAPANTtt*
m
m
m
SB
E 5
are Smoked
all over
Australasia
UL
riWE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
X Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Is;
Packet of Ten, lOd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
(Drawn from photo)
“The ehqmpion "
the only machine on the
market covered by a
written guarantee for
five years,
Absolutely FREE!
TO BREAK Hl* TRUSTS, COMBINES and MONOPOLY.
|| “Champion” Phonographs
Given Away FREE to Readers of this Paper.
Having taken up the agency in Australia for the “ Champion ”
Phonograph, we _ have been instructed to push them and bring
them under public notice, regardless of expense, in a legitimate
and practicable wav. WE MAKE A START BY GIVING AWAY
500 FREE MACHINES.
We will send one of these Phonographs FREE of any charge
whatever to every applicant answering this advertisement, who will
promise to give a Practical Demonstration of its wonderful merits,
among their friends and home circles, using our new and popular
records and distributing our circulars and price lists. No first deposit
asked for, and nothing to pay on the machine after vou receive it. We claim that this is the only
reliable machine on the market, backed up by a 5-year guarantee by the makers, and a written
guarantee is sent wi.th every machine we give away. We invite all who wish for one of these
machines to make application at once, and enclose a stamped addressed envelope so that we
may advise when the case containing Phonograph will be sent, as the machines will be awarded
in order on receipt of each application. We present the Phonograph entirely and absolutelv
free. Write at once to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING CO., o pp . c.P.0., Sydney, fI.SW.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
df
IMikoteen Insecticide.
APHIS & ALL OTHER INSECTS POWERLESS BEFORE IT
A refined extract of tobacco, of uniform
strength j long-established, safe, reliable and
handy to nse.
Insist on having NIKOTEEN; there art
many worthies* substitutes, which you might
be advised to take.
For sale by seedsmen,florists, country chera-
‘lstt, storekeepers, and by E. 1). MORKISON.
Proprietor, 89 Hunter.steeet, mdnet.
Sample botUet and full particulars, be pent,
Is. id. {stamps) to make 5 gallons spray.
ASTHMA CURE
ERIWAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAB-
KITES. Sold by all Chemists. __
Biitisl)=flustralasiait
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
(\A POST FREE, £t per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
rnHE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
I in magazine form. It's the finest'shilling’s
worth the 1 ustralian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.


A MAN IS NO STRONGER
THAN HIS STOMACH.
45
Perfect Digestion
weans Perfect Health v^irTTly^gfl
THE stomach is the organ on which the whole human
system must depend for subsistence and existence,
If the stomach fails, then what is to become of the
rest of the body ? Where does the force of life
come from ? Doesn’t it come largely from the food !■
You know that if you stop eating, you will die. But
the mere eating of food does not give life. Food can
no more give life without digestion than coal can give
heat without combustion. It is not what we can eat, but
what we digest that keeps up the motor force of the body.
UNDIGESTED FOOD.
is not only useless, but harmful. It ferments and decays in the stomach, the
evidence of which you have in the distress you experience, that feeling of fullness
especially after eating, flatulence (wind in the stomach), belching and vomiting*
These symptoms are simply Nature’s warnings to you that something is wrong and
that you should do something.
PERFECTLY DIGESTED FOOD.
Now how are we to get perfectly digested food ? We are all entitled to this, but by
ignoring or abusing Nature’s laws we are deprived of it unless we make other provisions. We
can do this only by taking the remedy which Nature has provided, the remedy which contains
a, perfect combination of all the elements which make up the
digestive fluids as they exist in the human digestive organs. In
no other way can we perfectly digest all we eat. Such a prepara-
tion is DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES. They
actually digest the food itself and prepare it to be taken up by the
blood. They do this with no assistance whatever from the
digestive organs or their juices. Food in tubes is digested in
our laboratory tests as completely and perfectly as it would be
in the most healthy stomach. Is it any wonder then that DR.
SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES effect such seemingly
wonderful cures ?
DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE TABULES are obtainable
everywhere a t 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 tabules.
The Pangs of Indigestion
“ Razor, Sir ? ” “ Yes,
METROPOLE.”
gd
To be had only at Hotel Metro pole Hairdress-
ing Saloon. Price 10/6 ; Pair in ease, 21/- j
Metropole Strop, 7/6 (all guaranteed) post
free. Gentlemen visiting town can be made
look toney in the above saloon. Facial Massage
a speciality. C. P. MOORE,
65 PHILLIP STREET I _SYDNEY^_
HIDDEI Sill TEOOBLES.
k
M.
Y /.
■A
&
4
" Out of Sight, Out of Mind”
Dangers; Don't Neglect
an Unseen Sore!
Hundreds of apparently healthy
311 ell and women suffer torture from
unseen shin troubles, about "which
their nearest and dearest friends
know nothing". If a skin trouble is
so situated as to be no disfigurement,
it is frequently neglected—with dire
results.
Poisoned wounds, discharging ulcers and
sores, and pimply eruptions on chest or back,
are among the most common of these invisible
sources of weakness and woe. If you have
such a “skeleton in your cupboard ” take new
hope from the knowledge that Zam-Buk Balm
has cured in hundreds of such cases, and will
purify and heal in hundreds more.
“For fully four years,” says Mr. 0. Ward, of 66 Cromwell Street, Colhngwood,
Victoria, “ I suffered from eruptions on my back in the form of sores, which broke and
ran one into the other until the whole of my back \v&ss in a very bad state. 1 was com-
pelled to seek the aid of a doctor, but although I consulted more than one medical man,
took a variety of medicines, and used a number of dressings in the shape of ointments
and liniments, my back obstinately refused to heal.' After having suffered thus for four
years, and was beginning to think that I would never be free of the trouble, I one day
received a sample pot of Zam-Buk at the house, And noticing it was a reputed cure for
sores and allied skiij diseases, I applied the Balm t'd'my back. The first application was
encouraging. I thereupon purchased a large pot of Zam-Buk, and by the time this was
finished, the sores had completely disappeared. My back is now as clean and healthy as
a child’s, and I cannot adequately express my sincere sense of gratitude for my cure after
those four long years of suffering.”
Zam-Buk is invaluable for all summer skin troubles, as well as cuts,
burns, scalds, bruises, eczema, piles, scalp sores, festering sores, sore
feet, sunburn, prickly heat, and all injuries and diseases of the skin and
tissue. Of all chemists and stores at Is. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per pot, or post
free from the Zam-Buk Co., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
N
A
T
XJ
R
E*
S
H
E
A
Jb
E
R.
4
“RUB IT IN”
The Dead Men’s Call.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DOWN in the gully, and over the crest,
In graves that are nameless the dead
men rest;
There the dark waters go murmuring by
The ruinous walls where the dead men lie.
Who are the dead men ? Why were they slain ?
The tale is forgotten, so long have they lain.
But a Judge with white hair and a sybarite’s eye
Knows the walls, long abandoned, whereunder
they lie.
Who will hear when their blood from dishonor
shall cry
From the dolorous dust where the dead men lie?
There’s one who remembers, nor shall he forget;
For the terror of cravens still clutches him yet.
He well may recall the dazed faces, the dock,
And the pitiless lie that was firm as a rock ;
The ready ear lent by the sleuth-hounds of law ;
The cunning suppression of weakness and flaw.
There were men to be trapped, there was blood to
be spilt,
There were scapegoats for justice—what matter
the guilt ?
The thoughts crowd about him and wrap him
to-night;
There’s an ominous gleam in the fast-fading light;
There’s a dying red glow with the last of the sun
Like gold—gold of blood-money heinously won.
A storm has come up and the world is in gloom,
As sad as a grief and as dark as a tomb ;
With rolling of thunder, and beating of rain,
And singing of wind like old dirges of pain.
Well may he remember—he only, that knew
The plausible tale that was foully untrue ;
Iniquitous spawn of an infamous brain,
The offspring of hate and the hunger for gain.
He knew he had lied away lives as he swore—
Well, they’re dead and forgotten—they’ll trouble
no more !
They are things of the past, they are shadows or
less;
There’s no reparation ; they ask no redress.
They lie and want nothing, so long have they
lain
The tale has blown over. They’re out of all pain.
And those that they cherished, their children and
wives,
Are dead, or have rooted them out of their lives.
What was that, gliding by like a wraith in the
storm ?
But the shadows that out of the darkness take
forth—
But the turmoil of branches, where wind-spirits
sing
In the pendulous twigs that tumultuous swing.
Hark! Voices are calling, “ Come into the night;
Come into the open and out of the light !
“ Turn to the west, and round by the crest,
And look on the place where the dead men rest —
Where the dark waters go hurrying by,
Seek ye the walls where the dead men lie ! ”
So he went forth and into the gloom,
Drawn by the voictes that called him to doom ;
Shuddering, tremulous, shaking with dread,
Down where the storm had awakened the dead.
Livid and white flickered tbe light,
Flooding the skies and riving the night;
A fiery snake, then blackness opaque ;
And the shadows were with him by bend and by
brake !
The sorrowful sleepers had risen from rest;
They waited his coming ; about him they pressed ;
They uttered no word—there was naught to be
said —
The Living had come at the call of the Dead.
The bony hands fingered his neck-hamper loose,
And fashioned his ’kerchief into a noose ;
And they swung him, a horrible sight to see,
To the straining branch of a blackwood tree.
The leaves sang loud in the wild wind-race,
And the lightning lit up the twisted face
As that strange fruit swayed in the storm-wind
free,
And swung and hung to the blackwood tree.
A nd the coroner said it was plainly shown
Deceased had died by an act of his own :
“ There was nothing to show, at the time he died,
The state of the mind of the suicide.”
But down in the gully, and over the crest,
Sound in their graves do the dead men rest;
Where the dark waters go murmuring by,
There’s a marvellous peace where the dead men
lie !
vio.
C. G. A. COLLES.
The Proctor Intervenes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
KETTS, the special artist of the Weekly
Ghoul, ascending the dimly-lit stairs to
Mowle’-s studio one dark autumn after-
noon, stood aside on the narrow landing to let a
woman pass by. She was, he observed, quite a
young and pretty woman, and, in the grey light
which struggled through the dingy skylight over
the landing, he discerned traces of recent emotion
—a certain redness of eyelid conveys much to an
expert like Ketts. He stood awhile, looking
after her and wondering, vaguely at this hinted
romance upon which he had stumbled. These
painters seemed to get more time and facilities for
cultivating romance than the special artists of
weekly papers. Pondering upon the unfairness
of it, he knocked at the door and entered.
Mowle waved him to a chair. He sat down.
“ Who’s the girl I passed on the stairs ? ” he in-
quired, delicately. Ketts was still young, and
retained something of the manners of the litho-
grapher’s workroom in which he had started his
career.
“ My boy,” said Mowle, “ never go in for art.
Art is a fearful Wrecker of happiness, as that
young lady and myself know. I should be sorry
to see you lose your blithe impudence. Stick to
your rag, Ketts, and remain unspotted and
uncouth-. ”
“ Oh—stow it ! ” Ketts was not hurt—he was
Used to Mowle. “ I ask you a question, and you
tell me black-and-white isn’t art. Anyway, it
pays.” *
“It does —it does. Vulgarly. You, in the
first flush of your youth, are getting positively
rotund. In ten years you will be stout; in
twenty, fat ;in thirty, obese. After that, there
is nothing for it save to become bloated. That is,
if you always follow the Chinese-white Muse, and
don’t start teaching.”
“ I see,” said Ketts. “ That was a pupil, and
you told her to give up art and take to knitting.
I noticed she’d been crying.”
“How quick he is to notice things ! Those
tears were the expression of an artistic soul,
wounded to the quick by unkind criticism—which
doesn’t worry you, so long as the cheque is
honored.”
“ I thought so, you ”
“ But not my criticism.”
“ Bah ! Nobody else could have set her cry-
ing like that. You’ve got a tongue like a whip,
and whether it’s a drunken model or a poor little
devil of a girl, you flick them all alike.”
“ You flatter me,” said Mowle. “ And your
noble rage does you honor. But it is quite
uncalled for. This young lady once professed to
learn painting from me. But now she is married,
and she is learning life, Ketts. And she is
learning that life can be as full of unpleasant
surprises as painting.
“Never take pupils, Ketts. It is an honest
way of earning one’s living, I admit—honest, but
poor. Above all, never take women pupils. My
idea of the woman in art is that she’s better out
of it. There are exceptions—epicene souls whom
no man in his senses would marry. Of course,
some of the nice ones have a good deal of facility
and energy, and a certain feminine charm in their
work which, so far as it goes, is interesting. But
it doesn’t go far—and when they get married it
stops dead. I have taught a good many women
to paint, Ketts. It is a wearisome business.
They weep when you slaughter their work. That
is, the earnest ones of faint capacity. Then there
is the type which has the gift of correctness, but
never having learned in sorrow what it wants to
teach in paint, turns out stuff about as warm as
snow. I have, in the course of my duties, advised
some of these vestals to fall in love. They have
obeyed. They have chosen me as the object of
their young affections — confound them. Ah,
well ! Most of them are married now, thank
God, and have more serious business to attend
to than spoiling canvas. Lastly, dearly beloved,
there is the damsel who will learn because
painting is a nice accomplishment. That one. who
passed you on the stairs is one of this class.
“ She came to me about three years ago. She
confided her reasons to me, and I promptly ad-
vised her to learn cooking. She thought I was
joking, and insisted upon joining my classes.
Man, her work was the most futile stuff that ever
came under my notice. After a few attempts to
make her understand the rudiments of drawing, I
gave her up, but she padded along on her own
and thought my silence gave consent. In com-
mon with most of her type, she used to take her
tripe home and frame it in large gold frames. She
assaulted the art of landscape painting too.
‘ Assaulted ’ isn’t the word ; she feloniously slew
it dead. She bought a book about it, and used
to bring her crimes to me for appreciation. I
used to tell her they were very pretty and in-
tensely original; but, bless her thick little head,
she never minded that—she took it for praise.
“ Well, ‘ the end came sudden, father dear,’ as
the obituary verse says. She was a nice little
thing, except for this one vice, and she caught a
man and married him. She told me all about it,
and asked me whether I thought marriage would
interfere with her ‘ art.’ I told her the truth, and
said I didn’t think it would. She sent me a piece
of the wedding cake—which I gave to my fox-
terrier—and I thought I had seen the last of her.
“ Unfortunately, she had married a man with
more money than will-power, and, instead of
seeing that her servants did their work properly,
she came back to my class six months after her
wedding. She painted like a pink, amiable little
demon to make up for lost time, and her husband
must have spent a small fortune in colors. There
was a fly in the ointment, though. He was a very
clumsy man, I was informed, and very forgetful.
He used to fall against her pictures and wreck
them, and, whenever she gave any to him to take
to the framer, he used to leave them in the train
or lose them somewhere. Twice they were actu-
ally stolen from him. You begin to see now. As
a result of this extraordinary carelessness, she in-
formed me one day that there was hardly one of
her ‘ works ’in the house. ‘ And I had hoped to
have something better than these horrid prints to
hang upon our walls,’ she said. ‘ He’s so fond of
pictures, too.’
“ One day he Came up to the studio to take her
out to tea, and for one outside the craft he talked
quite sensibly about painting. And, while she
was playfully going over the recital ofhis careless-
ness, I caught his eye. I winked at him. By
Jove ! —he winked back.
“About four months ago she told me that, as I
it would be his birthday soon, she was going to
paint his portrait as a surprise gift. I asked her
how she was going to manage without getting him
to sit for her. She reminded me that there were
such things as photographs. Ketts, she intended
to do what is a common habit of yours, to debase
her art by working from a photo. She felt qualms
of conscience about it—which you don’t. But, as
it was to be a surprise, there could be no other
way.
‘‘ So she set to work. She used to wait till he
was out of the house, and lock herself in her
‘ studio ’ against his unexpected return. The
work Penelope pul in at her loom was nothing to
(Continued on next par/e.)


THE BATTLE OF LIFE.
Efficiency Depends upon Health. Health Depends upon the Kidneys.
and
Every man or woman who works must keep healthy, if work is to he done effieientlv tLp „ « ,
work depends upon good health. Work becomes a nightmare to those who are no/welf ARE TOT EFFICIENT ?
Or are you Depressed Tired, Suffering from Broken Sleep, Backache, Pains in Z Limbsßad TafteTn the II
these are symptoms tha your kidneys are weak or diseased, and unable to carry out their work of filtering the b ood
keeping it pure. The Kidneys are the Filters of Life. All these nitenng tne blood
symptoms are forerunners of Dropsy, Kheumatism, Urinary
Diseases,. Gravel, Stone, Neuralgia, all of which are Kidney Dieascs.
Only a kidney medicine can cure you. Doan’s Backache Kidney
Bills act on the kidneys, and on the kidneys only. They will keep
you bright, free from pain, backache and headache. Thev will
keep you efficient.
LASTING SYDNEY CURE.
Mr. John Loaney, 20 Swanson Street, Erskineville, states “ I wish to give vou particular* of mv
experience with Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I owe these pills a debt of gratitude, for they have cured
me of very serious kidney diseases. My ill health commenced three years ago, when I first had to lav up
I had terrible pains m my back and right side, and my secretions scalded, and were thick and contained
twn' mat . ter - 1 also h , ad fits of , giddiness, and every day I would have a violent headache* For
two years I spent an average of two weeks out of every three in bed, and even when up I was very ill
I was very weak and fell away. 1 had the best medical advice and treatment to be procured • ten lead
mg .Sydney physicians treated me in the three years of my illness ; their bills totalled £lBO. The general
idea was that I suffered with stone m the kidneys, and I was constantly advised to undergo an operation
At lasu a Specialist put me under the X Kays. He found no foreign substance in the kidneys, but a dark
\ed enveloped the right kidney, showing pronounced disease. He told me that it was unnecessary to be
operated on as my kidneys were too far gone for an operation to benefit me. I gave up all hope of
fU l J ex P ected t 0 d lf so T on - and fnends were of the same opinion. My lawyer was
Doan’s BrckacheKXev°P n my t! 5 1 WaS , held Up j° S,gn N ° fc . lon S after this I was advised to use
? Backache Kidney Pills. The man who urged me to give this remedy a trial had been cured by
it, and had the utmost faith in its healing properties. He told me he had been doubled up with the aif
ment, and not able to get about at all, and one box had cured him, and for good. One could not but be
convinced that he was in thorough earnest, so I sent for a supply to Ellis’s Pharmacy Erskineville I
used nine boxes, and was cured. I felt no good effects until I was using the third box ; but after that mv
In C d°ln7stTlt S if r tb dU b 1 ' i > L ft ?5 tal Sr g th ® pdls t° Ur months a g°’ and have not needed to take one
and am still in the best of health. My case is the more marvellous in that lam an aged man The
medicine I took before I got Doan s Backache Kidney Pills would stock a chemist’s I had fallen
away five inches round the waist, but I have regained all the lost weight. I might mention that the
operation which had been suggested was to cost me £6O. My cure by Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cost
m" 30s ‘ If I . had “® d these P dls wh ® n 1 first £ ot m - I would be considerably over £2OO richer
to-day. My recovery is well known, and may be authenticated by many ; but if any sufferer would like
to call, I shall be glad to substantiate this testimonial.” y huuerer woum lllce
?!'77, August, 1908, Mrs. Loaney says .—“l am pleased to be able to say now that my husband is
L” 7 r»' he was ne,er better in his lifft Md “ witl ' Mt «*• « 1 «w»k
“ Every Picture
Tells a Story.’*
!i <.JiA
HP
A
C'
I
3
1
m
i
7
&
i
€■
/*
r
]
J
:
II
DOAN’S
Remember!
DOAN’S
Kidney
fg
2s. 9d. per Box 9
At all Chemists and
Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co.
76 Pitt St., Sydney.
what she put in at her easel, and if it wasn’t
better, I can’t understand why Ulysses didn’t
shoot Penelope instead of the suitors. But love
guided her hand, and, after ten weeks of hopes
and fears, and smudges of paint on the furniture,
the portrait was finished. She used to report
progress to me, and ask me whether I didn’t
think her idea would please him, and whether it
wouldn’t be a surprise. I regretfully said it
would. And she used to tell me how she had
escaped discovery by a hair’s-breadth, and how
she had perjured herself to keep the truth from
him. She enjoyed herself acutely over the fool
thing, and her anticipations of the moment when
she would show it would have made you lose your
young cynicism.
“The day arrived—all this part of the story
came to me to-day. She called him when he
came home, and he obediently followed her into
the ‘studio.’ The picture, as far as I could
gather between sobs, was veiled. I fancy I can
see his apprehensive gaze at the mystery. After
a little speech and a few endearments which we
need not pursue, she advanced and threw back
the curtain, and stood waiting for the rapturous
exclamations of the man she had sought to please.
At last, hearing smothered sounds from his direc-
tion, she turned round and saw his face
oveitime to keep the laughter in. At her glance
he exploded—exploded brutally, Kelts, falling on
the floor, she told me, and rolling helplessly to
and fro, biting the. hearthrug in his mirth. Be-
tween ourselves, I should have liked to see the
horror. It must have been something special in
the way of wickedness to have broken the man
down. However, there it was—the studied con-
sideration of two years gone in a burst of uncon-
trollable laughter.
‘ “ With white face and heaving bosom ’ —that
is the phrase, I think—like the heroine who finds
that she is betrayed, she crossed to the portrait
and cut it to ribbons with a palette knife—l hate
those knives with sharp points, always grind ’em
down, myself. Then she, casting a glance of
ineffable scorn at him as he stuffed more of the
hearthrug in his mouth, swept out of the room,
went downstairs, put on her hat, and departed for
mother's. When he recovered, he ivent after her,
but the old lady would seem to be something of a
Tartar, and more of a damned fool, and refused
him the house. He hasn’t seen his wife for a
fortnight but I think she 11 go back now.
ou see, Ketts, I have been acting the part
of the chap that intervenes—King’s Proctor, I
think they call him. Mind you, when she
arrived here this afternoon she was for a judicial
separation. .At first, it w 7 as a divorce, no less,
but I got it down to the other by pointing out
that that would leave him free to marry again.
She dwelt on the enormity of the offence. I agreed,
but reminded her that we could not expect a
Philistine to understand. However, it was, I
said, distinctly a case for separation—the man was
a scoundrel (she began to wake up here). He
deserved a horsewhipping (here she made a sound
which, had she not been young and pretty, I
should call a snort). I went on another tack.
Left to himself, he was probably having the time
of his life with late hours, lobster suppers, and—
you’re too young, Ketts. This made her anxious.
I drew a moving picture of the ruin of his life by
reason of her withdrawal of the one restraining in-
fluence. She wept. Then ”
“You kissed her, eh ? ”
•ii are disgusting. Anyway, there
will be an affecting reconciliation in about an
hour As a King’s Proctor lam a success.”
Yes, and you didn't forget the fee. You
kissed her, Mowle.”
“ What about dinner, Ketts ? ”
“ Listen ! Is that brown madder you have on
your chin ? ”
Mowle put his fingers to his face—they came
away smeared. Ketts laughed.
Because I noticed a smear of the same color
on her cheek as she passed me on the stairs. You
might make a good Proctor, Mowle, but you get
pretty well paid for it. The evidence is that you
did feloniously kiss another man’s wife, and the
sentence is that you will pay for my dinner.”
HASSAN.
The Spook on the Mosman
Boat.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HOW many of the passengers on the Mosman
Ferry know that a certain boat carries
a non-paying passenger—a spook? Is
there a single business man from the hamlet of
the ruddy roofs who is aware that every morning
for years past he may have sat next an impalpable
spectre disguised as an old woman ? Yet if he
had only touched her ! I did.
A spook on the Mosman boat ? It seems
absurd almost as impossible as finding a passen-
ger there who does not play bowls or carry home
tomato plants in the evening. Well, I have seen
her, and probably you may all have seen her, for
there is nothing to distinguish her from your
mother-in-law unless you happen to touch her.
And the captain knows, and the plank-hurlers
know, but they won’t tell. You might get a
new wharf-lassooer to express his opinion in the
intervals of observing “ Hurry off, please ! ”
especially if he has not yet seen her ; but not
one of the old hands—the captain or the
gentleman who plays tunes on the bells, the men
who know—will utter- a word on the subject.
These scientists have their own opinion, of course;
but they simply do not care to talk about the
matter. As one of them said to me when I had
cornered him, “ You know, it does no blanky
good discussing these matters ; there they are,
and the less we interfere in matters that don’t
concern us, the better chance we’ve got of being
left alone ourselves. Of course, if she insisted on
taking the wheel—and she may do that some day
-—I d have to chuck her out, if she can
be chucked out. I won’t say I haven’t seen
her; but, then, how do I know she was
a ghost? After all, it’s a matter for the
directors of the company. But if you want to
find out anything more about her, and, mind you,
you do it at your own risk, you just ask the turn-
stile man at the Quay. She costs him twopence a
day. She goes through that turnstile once a day,
but the funny thing is that though she’s easily
enough seen on the boat, nobody has ever seen
her go through the turnstile. But every night
there’s twopence less in the box than the turnstile
registers. At first the directors used to dismiss
the men that was five years ago, when she first
started spooking. Then a spry young chap—he’s
still there took on the job. He pays in two
pennies from his own pocket every night. A
shame, I call it; but what can you expect from
directors?”
' ‘ ‘ But surely the turnstile would have to turn ? ”
‘ ‘ That’s just it. It does turn. For a long time
nobody ever saw it. All the man would hear
would be a slight click—she always chooses a
moment when he’s not looking, in the slack time
of the day and there he was, done out of an
honest tuppence by a designing spook. Why she
doesn’t go in through the subscribers’ entrance beats
me ; but then you never can tell with a woman.
But the bloke in charge of that turnstile sees it
now regularly. _ The turnstile will just swing
round softly by itself, and bang goes tuppence.”
I discovered the ghost by sitting through her.
7 /trough her, I said. It happened this way. I
was going home one evening by the half-past-five
boat, and got up to get out at Musgrave-street. I
was standing at the bottom of the stairway, with a
crowd of passengers in front of me. Some people
were sitting on the seat just inside the door. We
bumped into the wharf as usual, and the bump
threw me off my feet, for I was carrving home
some fish, three dress-patterns, a round of beef,
tour packets of hair-curlers for the wife, and a tin
of tomatoes in a string bag. I was flung into the
lap of an old lady on the seat. At least, that is
what I expected. But, though I had distinctly
seen her sitting there quietly reading Home
Spasms, I found myself not on her lap, but on
the hard seat. I had sat through her.
I bounded up to my feet again, too scared to
t “ 1 “; 1 looked round fearfully, and there was
the old lady still deep in Home Spasms. Yet I
had sat through her without touching her, without
touching anything. Nobody seemed to have
noticed my fall ; but I observed that an old
gentleman two seats off was staring at me
as if I were Tommy Burns. But the youth sitting
next her was too absorbed in the rabbit-proof
netting blouse of a girl opposite him to notice a
creditor.
I edged away, and found that the boat had left
the wharf. As if by accident, I swayed against
the paper the old lady was reading, and my arm
passed noiselessly through Home Spasms. It
was a psychical Home Spasms. Then I did a
desperate thing ; I deliberately trod on her toe.
There was no toe to tread on, though I distinctly
saw a boot. It wms a subliminal boot.
Well, I kept my eye on her till we reached
wharf. She never looked up from
Home Spasms. She was busily reading an in-
teresting, though technical, article upon a new slip-
bodice (paper pattern given away with each issue).
I waited,-hovering, till all the passengers got out,
and she did not stir. I put it down to the paper
pattern. I stepped to the commodore of the
gangway and said, “ There’s a passenger who
hasn’t got off.”
“ Oh, we often get ’em like that—tanked. I’ll
rouse ’im.”
I waited. He went inside to rouse and came
out hurriedly. “ It’s all right,” he said ; “ she’s
not getting off here. Round trip.”
I waited. “I see you know,” he whispered
at last. “ She’s a ghost, all right ; but she’s
’armless, quite ’armless. We just lets her stay!
That there spook is an independent old girl, likes
’er special seats —that’s one of ’em. She'never
goes in the smoking saloon. Shouldn’t think a
ghost would smoke, though.”
I have seen her once or twice since. She was
still reading that technical work upon a new slip,
bodice. From the engineer I learnt some further
particulars about her. He had tried to put the
old lady off at the Quay, thinking she was doing
the company out of her fare. He found that
there was nothing of hen to put off. He appealed
to her better nature ; but she simply sat quiet,
with a pained look on her face, reading Home
Spasms, while the engineer wrestled with the
atmosphere and struggled to drag it on to the
wharf. He did not report the incident, and since
then the spook has become a regular non-paying
passenger on the boat.
In order that you may be able to identify her,
I add a few particulars of her appearance. There
is nothing specially remarkable about her face.
She has tired eyes, a thin nose, and a straight
mouth. You might easily mistake her for a
boarding-house entrepreneuse, or a woman who
writes the social gossip in the daily papers. Her
hair is drawn tightly back from the forehead, and
done in a knob behind. She always wears a
black hat, trimmed with jet, and she is dressed in
brown. In her lap is an imitation sealskin hand-
bag, with silver top slightly tarnished. She has
an ecru complexion, somewhat corrugated. And,
for further identification, if you notice an old lady
in the boat to-morrow reading Home Spasms,
just look at the date on the top of the left-hand
corner. If it is September 30, 1903, she is a
spook. But before sitting through her, make
sure of the date. Twice I have sat down on a
lady's lap, and found that it was a lap.
In this fact can be found, I fancy, the explana-
tion of her presence on the boat. Perhaps, on
that date, her husband slew her while she was
reading about the slip-bodice—slew her dead
because the tea wasn’t ready. Perhaps she died
in the struggle to make that slip-bodice from the
paper pattern. The theory put forward by a
converted wharf-lassooer, that she is a lost spirit
who has mistaken the Mosman boat for Charon’s
ferry over the Styx, has in it some plausibility ; or
it may be that she is merely an ordinary spirit
who cannot rest till the Federal Capital is fixed.
Meantime, I can only advise passengers to be
careful about sitting on the lap of any passenger
with a corrugated ecru complexion. Such a
course may only' lead to unpleasantness. First
make sure of the date ; if she is reading Home
Spasms of September 30, 1903, you can have
that seat.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


(i After having recovered from rheumatic fever I was
so weak that I thought I would never get strong again.
I
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
but to make sure I took ih all
eight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
Adelaide.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disappoint
you. Get “AYER’S.”
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowed, Mass., TJ. S. A.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE'S
QHLORODYfII
(THE ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUNE)
Acts /ike a Charm in DIARRHOEA,
and is the only Specific in
CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Checks and Arrests-FEVER, GROUP, AG UE.
The Best Remedy Known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
The Only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Conducing- Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
PRICES IN ENGLAND—I/1 j£, 2/9, & 4/6
1
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBER& and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
•sjnoii 8t
ui
Eiub Capsule bears the name
(MIDY.
V. J. Daley’s “ At Dawn and
collection of his best verses ; bound iuc
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksell
free from Bulletin office, ss.
THE ‘DAISY’ FLY KILLER
destroys all flies and affords comfort to even- home—
iu diningroom, sieeping-ro an. and all places where flies
are troublesome.
Clean, neat and
ornamental, will
not soil or injure
anything. One
lasts the entire
seas. .n.
sold by
Wholesale
Druggists,
Groce, s and
Hardware
Dealers,
fK
among wnom are
Sydney—Anthony Hordern A Sons : Elliott Bros. Ltd.,
O’Connell St. ; F. H. FauWinß & Go., O'Connall St. ;
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson & Co., 268 Pitt St. ;
Australian Drug Co., O’Connell St. ; Sayers Allport
Proprietary, O’Connell St. ; S. Hoffnung & Co., Pitt St.;
Feldheim,Gotthelf & Co., Barrack St.; Briscoo &Co. Ltd
Manufactured by Harold Somers. Brooklyn, N.Y., P.S.A
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
. MANPFAOTtTEKES OF
Fire-Proof Safes and Strongroom Doors,
Government Contractors,
296 Sussex Street, Sydney.
IF you take THE LONE HAND from month
. to month, you’ll in time have a great collec-
tion of Australian pictures for your bush-home—
in color and in black-and-white. The subscription
is 12s. a year. Qtfice : 214 George Street, Sydney
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In nse since 1596
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, aio, Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
•: : •
im
Imparts to Metal the
brightness of the Sun,
hence its name.
Ask for SOLARINE,
and do not be put
off with any other
JUST AS GOOD—
there is NO OTHER
AS GOOD.
METAL POLISH
?i0 I
'3V~
s L o
s.oxm
i#.
&
Hi
Manufactured by
N. QUTHRIDQE LTD., 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
r*
<ti c
and
GOOO LUCK
POST CARDS.
CEND us your name atad address, and we will forward you ia
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at) : 6d. per packet. When you have sold the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose |rom the list of jewellery which we forward
you. By continuing thefsale of our cards, you can earn a LADY’S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS, LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF'CHAINS, RABBIT RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or Gent.’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement, aud
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK.
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district. Our
post cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in
every case positively as represented in our illustrations. SEND
N© MOISEY. Your name and address are all we want.
REGAL POST CARD C?,126 OCONNELL ST,S> ONET
A MERRY-MINDED MAN
shows his temperament in his face. His eyes are laughing eyes.
His outlook is joyous and attractive. He is optimistic to a degree#
and you may be sure his body is attuned to his mind. No dyspeptic
he. No biliousness in his composition. No dizzy headaches in his
experience; and depend upon it he is a wise man as well as a
merry man# and
IS MADE AND KEPT SO
by the regular use of Beecham's Pills. For it is now a generally
accepted fact that as a preventive and curative medicine these pills
are absolutely reliable in their results# and there are few troubles
arising from disorders of the stomach# liver, bowels or kidneys that
they will not speedily cure. The ultimate result is the healthy
magnetic personality of the happy man or woman. You are certain
to carry a light heart if you feel really well# and this you
may always do
BY USING
BE EC HA M'S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price I Ilk (56 pills ) & 2/9 {l6B pills).
VA
2^
MB
m
A Money Spinner:
A GOOD WINDMILL.
Built in all sizes capable of giving
from 1 to 50 horse power, will
pump water in large quantities,
furnish electric light, make ice, etc.,
at no expense lubricating
oil, it is a money spinner if it is
strongly built, has a large sail area,
and a bearing on each side of the
windwheel to make it easy running.
The only Windmill in the world to fill the above
requirements is made by the
Steel Wings Windmill Go., Ltd.,
Address Enquiries to Dept. C,
BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY,
The Bulletin
t POST
PRINTED IN
SIX COLORS.
CARDS.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
No. IV. SERIES OF TEN. “ The Heathen
in his Blindness.” From Original Drawings
by Livingston Hopkins, L. Lindsay, and
A. Dyson.
No. V. Ten Australian Types. From
Original Drawings by Norman Lindsay.
No. VI. SERIES OF TWELVE. From
Original Drawings by Leading Australian
Artists—B. E. Minns, L. Lindsay, D. H.
Souter, G. Lambert, Frank Mahony, Hugh
McOrae, aiid “ Splash.”
Forwarded, Post Free to any address.
Packet of Twelve - - - Is.
Packet of Ten - - - -Tod.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
%lh George Street, Sydney.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price £3 15 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding- locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duek Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual Drice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price.. .. £0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
I ss=
MEN
WOMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &».
Consulting Physician in ali Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted ersonaily or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd. and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Pages
Crown 8vo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
tire diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with lone-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been vubli*h*J 6
FREE.
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this (rreat work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
v'ertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his set of Lectures on
receipt «f this adversisement. fcSg"A tote Address
‘ Men’s special Ailments'
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“Elmloy House,” /5/ Elizabeth-st. .
— HYDE PARK, SYDNEY. . 9


Get an Oilskin Now.
dfg
If yoa go in for fishing,
boating, or driving, you cer-
tainly need a good Oilskin—
one from our splendid stock.
The regulation shape is avail-
able in “Shellback” brand at
21/- and 15/- ; Dugong, 17/6 ;
Titan, 12/6 ; Oilclad, 10/6.
Oilskin Suits, Jacket and
Pants, in Dugong, 25/-; Titan,
12/6.
Write for our illustrated
Catalogue detailing all Sporting
Clothing.
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“ The House far All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
— AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
■WXVIVB 3N10N33
ONV IVMIOMO 3HI
TRADt.
df
gd
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a iruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARPS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve,,ls ; Packet of Ten, lOd.
fg
LOOK
FOR
THE
NAME
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
* .v 4 ■*-' • ' "’■’f ’■' ty ' ' ''-v -$ '•-■ v •, . i; .I* , -/ y - , ; ■, , • ,
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven. For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McINNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply-J. WILDRIDGrE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
COMPLETE
MINING
EQUIPMENTS.
DICK KERR 8 CO. LTD.,
Head Australian Office : E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
Engineers, Contractors, George Street, SYDNEY.
YOUR
INQUIRIES
SOLICITED.
GENERATORS. MOTORS.
ETC.
ON OUR NEW SELECTION,
By STEELE RUDD.
Cloth binding', posted free, 6s.
FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., 2J4 George Street, Sydney.
COLORED POST CARPS,
By HARRY J. WESTON.
"WEEKLY WORRIES,” set of sa. posted free, 6d.
FROM
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., 214 George Street, Sydney.
NO (SHRINKAGE.
NO FIRE RISK.
Interchangeable Metal Bushings to fit all sizes Shaftin g.
THE AMERICAN ALLWROUGHT
i
PULLEY
has following easily
recognisable virtues.
■V”
A STRENGTH AND RIGIDITY that renders it practically indestructible.
A WEIGHT two-thirds less than that of the ordinary Cast-irbn Pulley, and about same
as most wooden ones.
A PULLEY that, besides having unique lightness and strength, is true running, p
balanced, and positively safe under highest speeds.
THE ALL-STEEL PULLEY is rendered interchangeable by the use of metal bus'i it
and will fit shafts of different diameters.
SEND FOR PRICE CIST.
AG ENTS s k ;
H. P. GREGORY & GO.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
the SPERRY VANNING BUDDLE
Is the only SUCCESSFUL
SLIMER on the Market.
It is treating successfully in Australia Antimony,
Copper Silver and Tin Slimes .
CAPACITY ABOUT 12 TONS PER DAY .
The Cut illustrates the New Type, embracing important improvements.
t .i, '
K
: . /iS
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd., Sydney and Melbourne.
