

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—* 1
99
R. G. WATZUNTS & CO.,
107 Korat) Street, S;yca.:n.ery,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
KS
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, n.s.w.
.. . AND .. ,
128 William St., Melbourne, Vic.
fiadley’s Orient pel.
i
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
PIONEER -
dfgdf
LEATHER
'BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C.Ludowici & Son Ltd„ 117 York St., Sydney
mm
JO AdOO V
A Paying investment
FOR
£lOO
3 Shearing Machines and a 2 B.H.P*
Fairbanks-Morse Engine.
SUITABLE FOR ALL CLASSES OF FARM WORK.
FOR TERMS AND PARTICULARS WRITE TO
COOPER SHEEP SHEARIHC
MACHINE PROPRIETARY LTD.,
16 Young Street, Sydney.
cal,
U He Mst.
THE SECRET OF
THERE’S MORE
WEAR IN
PERSAN TYRES.
■HI
i i
Save PUNCTURE
TROUBLES—Use
PERSAN TYRES.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
owiirs
“HOUSE OF LOKSS”
OLD SCOTCH WHISKY.
“LYSAGHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE! IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
4 V 3© E*IXT STREET, SYDKTEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit=Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSACHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
gd
SIMPLEX
THE WORLD’S BEST
OIL ENGINE
IRRIGATION PLANTS
SUPPLIED.
AUTOMATIC IGNITION.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
ALL SIZES.
STATIONARY and PORTABLE,
IMPLE.
CONOMIC
ELIABLE
CHAS. BURRELL & SON’S (Thetford, England),
World Famous Traction Engine & Road Locomotive.
Best and most Economical for Ploughing and
general Haulage for Farmer, Squatter, Miner
and Merchant. Send for Illustrated Catalogues
B of Oil and Traction Engineso o
E. COULSON,
116 a’Beckett St., Melbourne.
fg
df
gdf
NETS
WRITE
HSTWS, SYDNEY.
ERATOIS
ECONOMY
n
©te Jfottmß.
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD, 03 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDOH SPA WATER.
Saves such wear and tear of tHe
digestive organs.
‘■OO V NIIIOQ
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.—N0. 1484.]
[Thursday, July 23, 1908-
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A NEW ART SERIES,
MASTERPIECES IN COLOR.
A Series of Books on the World’s Masters, each
volume containing- Eight Pictures, reproduced
in color by the most recent processes, giving an
almost facsimile of the original, together with a Monograph on the Artist by a writer of distinction.
NOW READY: Rossetti, Reynolds, Romney, Creuze, Turner, Velasquez, Botticelli, Raphael, Rembrandt,
Lord Leighton, Fra Angelico, Titian, Cievanni Bellini, Holman Hunt. Arriving Shortly : Tintoretto, Bernard-
ino Lirini, Carlo Dolci, Van Dyck, Whistler,. Gainsborough, Burne-Jones, Rubins, Millet, Leonardo de Vinci,
Frans Ha'ls. PICTURE BOARDS, Size Bx 6 inches, 1/9, postage 3d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, liv FLU EN2A, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
-
m
03
m
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps,
C. HUDSON, Manufacturing Chemist, 5& 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney. Agencies in all the Australian
States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
THE RED PAGE
A Parallel.
mHE graphic exposure of the methods
g of J apan in dealing with a subject
nation, given by P. A. McKenzie
in The Tragedy of Korea (Hodder and
Stoughton), has a stern lesson for Aus-
tralia. This history of the elimination
of Korea from the nations begins only at
the termination of the Russo-Jap war;
and its conclusion is practically now
reached. In that short space of time
Korea has been wiped out by Japan, and
in a time of peace. The exposure of
Japan’s methods is terrible enough ; but
the world has taken little heed. Korea
is far away—a mere 20 million people who
had no efficient system of defence. Let her
go. But history has a habit of repeating
itself. Korea’s death-throes may be
ours, and the stroke dealt by the same
hand. Let us anticipate a little, and
picture the possibility of Australia, which
has no fleet, becoming subject to Japan,
which has the strongest fleet in the
Pacific. We purpose recounting the
history of the decline and fall of Korea,
merely transposing the scene of that
tragedy to Australian soil. In this true
story the sole change made in our quota-
tions is the substitution of “Australia”
for “Korea.”
Japan, fought Russia nominally to pre-
serve the national integrity of Korea, and
at the conclusion of the war formally
guaranteed Korea its independent status.
Japan then proceeded to filch Korea’s
nationhood from her, until now Japan
stands as the supreme ruler of the Her-
mit Kingdom. The sole reason was that
Japan possessed an army and a navy :
Korea did not. Let us now turn to
another Hermit Kingdom, the unpopu-
lated continent of Australia, which also
palpably lacks the means of defence.
. W
At the conclusion of the great war
between East and West (say, five years
hence) England had enough to do to
protect herself. She therefore handed
over to the paramount Power in the
Pacific the unprotected and feeble Com-
monwealth, Japan formally guaranteeing
Australia full autonomy. Japan there-
upon took charge, pouring troops into the
continent in.order to garrison the Com-
monwealth against the world. J apan did
not find it necessary to murder our queen,
as she murdered the Queen of Korea, for,
fortunately, we don’t possess such an
article. But the Queen of Korea was a
patriot, and in Australia Japan found it
advisable to murder J. C. Watson and
Alfred Deakin for the same reason. Even
being affable did not save Alfred. He and
W atson were done to death by J apanese
coolies, while the Japanese soldiers, with
fixed bayonets, stood on guard outside
Parliament House in Melbourne. Pur-
suing the same tactics as were so success-
ful in Korea, Japan next forcibly de-
posed the Governor-General, and elected
Bruce Smith in his place—at the Ame
time compelling Bruce Smith to cut his
hair. That is exactly what happened in
Korea. Everybody else was also com-
manded to cut their hair Japanese
fashion. Martial law was enforced, the
names of our cities transformed into
Japanese hieroglyphics ; and a vast num-
ber of Japanese coolies were let loose to
overrun the continent.
They went through the country like a
plague. If they wanted a thing, they took
it. " If they fancied the house, they turned
the resident out. They beat, they outraged,
they murdered in a way and on a scale of
which it is difficult for any white man to
speak with moderation. Australians were
flogged to death for offences that did not
deserve a sixpenny fine. They were shot for
mere awkwardness. . . The outrages were
allowed to pass unpunished and unheeded.
The Australians who approached the office
of a Japanese resident to complain were
thrown out, as a rule, by the underlings.
>l/
The next step was the confiscation of
all the best land in the country —for
military purposes. All the big run-holders
were forcibly dispossessed, and might
be seen carrying their swags from Japan-
ese inn to J apanese inn, and compelled to
drink saki—if they could get it. In this
way the whole of North Sydney was re-
served for military purposes, a nominal
sum being paid as compensation to the
Australian Government.
The people who were turned out received,
in many cases, nothing at all, and, in others,
one-tenth or one-twentieth of the fair value.
. . . Within a few months, large parts of it
were being resold to Japanese builders and
shopkeepers, and Japanese settlements were
growing up on them.
Australians who protested were im-
prisoned—men and women in the same
cell—in conditions of incredible filth.
The murdered Premier had thought that
because Australian independence was pro-
vided for in treaty after treaty with the
Great Powers, therefore he was safe. He
had yet to learn that treaty rights, unbacked
by power, are worth little more than the
paper they are written on. An embassy
dispatched to America, which had promised
under treaty to exert her good offices to pre-
vent any Power from treating Australia), un-
justly, was met with the query, “Do you
really believe that America ought to go to
war with Japan over Australia ? ”
SI )
Japan next presented a series of de-
mands, easily assented to by Bruce
Smith, placing the foreignrelations of Aus-
tralia in the hands of Japan. As Japan had
thus deposed a nation which had existed
for 4000 years, and possessed a popu-
lation of twenty millions, it was natu-
rally easy to reduce to servitude a few
millions of unarmed Australians.
It became more and more clear, however,
that the aim of the Japanese was nothing
else than the entire absorption of the coun-
try and the destruction of every trace of
Australian nationality. One of the most in-
fluential Japanese in Australia put this quite
frankly : “If you ask me what is to be the
outcome of our policy, I can see only one
end. This will take several generations, but'
it must come. The Australian people will
be absorbed in the Japanese. They will talk
our language, live our life, and be an inte-
gral part of us. There are only two ways of
colonial administration. One is to rule over
the people as aliens. This you English have
done in India, and, therefore, your Indian
Empire cannot endure. India must pass out
of your rule. The second way is to absorb
the people. We will teach them our lan-
guage, establish our institutions, and make
them ono* with us.” That is the benevolent
Japanese plan ; the cruder idea, more com-
monly entertained, is to absorb the Austra-
lian lands, place all the industry of the
country in Japanese hands, and reduce the
natives of the place to hewers of wood and
drawers of water for tlieir triumphant con-
querors.
\l/
Let us take a few specific instances
vouched for by McKenzie. Cardinal
Moran was openly insulted and struck by
Japanese soldiers in his own Cathedral,
and nothing was done. The case of Mr.
Weigall, an Australian mining engineer,
in Korea, is well known. Its counter-
part in Australia is that Mr. Hoffnung
was obscenely insulted and fiercely jabbed
at with bayonets by the J apanese garrison
at Parramatta. Meantime Australia had
sent a deputation asking the aid of the
Hague Conference. As Australia had
had only herself to blame, and did not
possess power to free herself, the Con-
ference politely refused to hear the
deputation. The disbanding of the re-
mains of the Australian army followed ;
though here and there the Australians
mutinied, put up a good defence, and were
subdued by machine-guns and bayonet-
charges. Then Australia, too late, re-
volted. A volunteer army of patriots put up
a good fight in the mountains; but poorly
armed and without artillery, their ex-
termination, which is still going on under
circumstances of Oriental barbarity, is
only a matter of time. Little news of
this conflict is allowed to leak out; but
McKenzie reports village after village
ruined and reduced to ashes, a broad
swath of destruction running for hun-
dreds of miles through the land.
Obviously the next thing to do was to
suppress the anti-Japanese press. The
Telegraph and the Herald were, of course,
with seardbly any change noticeable in the
editorial columns, now sturdily upholding
the rights of their masters, the Japanese.
But The Bulletin still fought. The
Japanese started a Japanese Bulletin
(which had to be read sideways)
with its headquarters in the Chinese
merchant’s shop just opposite ; The
Bulletin offices were taken for mili-
tary purposes by Marquis Ito, and its
editor’s home at Strathfield was resumed
for the purposes of a military cabbage gar-
den. Every member of the staff was first
offered bribes, then kept under perpetual
espionage, and harassed in a thousand
peculiarly Japanese ways. At last, stung
by Hop’s continual cartoons (printed on
a hand-press in the back of a barber’s
shop), the Government summoned the
publisher to court, and tried him for
publishing seditious articles. The
J apanese court ordered him to be on his
good (Japanese) behavior for six months.
And The Bulletin, repeating the lan-
guage of Mr. Bethell’s Korea Daily News ,
similarly suppressed, stated that:
The effect of the judgment is that for a
period of six months this newspaper will be
gagged, and therefore no further reports of
Japanese reverses can be published in our
columns.
\l>
But in the mountains the fighting is
still going on, pitilessly and hopelessly
going 0n... And recently news has come
through of serious reverses suffered by
the Japanese troops at the hands of the
Australian patriots. But the war that is
being waged is now a war of extermina-
tion; and the Japanisation of Australia
—-the Japanisation, also, of our wives and
daughters—is only a question of time.
That is the story of Korea, retold for
the benefit of Australia.
* —. ——
The advertising magazine has come to
Australia. With the success of System and
other American business magazines, it was
inevitable that a magazine devoted entirely
to the problems of the fine art of advertising
should be published in the Commonwealth.
The lieason Why, edited by Walter Burke
and illustrated by Harry J. Weston (Burke
and Weston, Challis House, Sydney), makes
a promising first appearance. The articles
are informative and written by experts ; the
illustrations show all the cleverness know r n
to the artist’s work in The Bulletin ; and the
printing is a credit to Australia. There is
no reason why this monthly should not be a
success in its special trade line.
For those who are interested in the ques-
tion of Science v. Theology, a useful reprint
at one shilling is P. Vivian’s The Churches
and Modern Thought, originally published in
1906. Its attitude can be gauged by the fact
that it is published by the Rationalist 'Press
Association. '
Kipling’s Letters to the Family, travel
notes of Canada, which have been running
in Collier’s, are mere journalese, rather tired
journalese, ineffectively varied by echo-
verse. However, these remarks about Canada
have a bearing for Australia :
The question before Canada is not what she
thinks Or pays, but what an enemy may think it
necessary to make her pay. If she Continues
wealthy and remains weak, she will surely be
attacked under one pretext or another. Then she
will go under, and her spirit will return to the
dust with her flag as it slides down the halliards.
“ That is absurd,” is always the quick answer.
“In her own interests, England could never
permit it. What you speak of presupposes the
fall of England.”
Not necessarily. Nothing worse than a stumble
by the way; but when England stumbles the
Empire shakes. Canada’s weakness is lack of
men'. England’s weakness is an excess of voters
who propose to live at the ex’pense of the State.
These loudly resent that any money should be
diverted from themselves, and, since money is
spent on fleets and armies to protect the Empire
while it is consolidating, they argue that if the
Empire ceased to exist, armaments would cease
too, and the money so saved could be spent on
their proper comforts. They pride themselves on
being*an avowed and organised enemy of the
Empire which, as others see it, waits only to give
them health, prosperity and power beyond any-
thing their votes could win them in England. But
their leaders need their votes in England as they
need their outcries and discomforts to help them
in their municipal and parliamentary careers.
No engineer lowers steam in his own boilers.
So they are told little except evil of the great
heritage outside, and are kept compounded in
cities under promise of free rations and amuse-
ments. If the Empire were threatened, they
would not, in their own interests, urge England
to spend men and money on it. Consequently, it
might be well if the nations within the Empire
were strong enough to endure a little battering
unaided at the first outset—till such time, that is,
as England were permitted to move to their help.
For this end an influx of good men is needed
more urgently every year during which peace
hold&-meh loyal, clean, and experienced in
citizenship, with women not ignorant of sacrifice.
Tho Extinction of Christianity
ONE of the best “ Looking Forward ’
novels of recent years is Lord of the
World , by Robert H. Benson (Pit-
man, per G. Robertson, Sydney). The
author takes us forward to the time when the
world is divided up into the European Con-
federacy (including Africa), the American
Republic, and the Eastern Empire, which, of
course, includes India, Australia, and Maori-
land. The book deals with the final extinc-
tion of Christianity by a world that had got
beyond Christianity. The opinion of the
world may be indicated by the view-point of
one of the characters whose old mother had
been brought up a Christian for a few
years: “It seemed to him sometimes
as if it had left a taint. .. . Christianity
was both wild and dull, he told himself,
wild because of its obvious grotesqueness
and impossibility, and dull because it was
so utterly apart from the exhilarating
stream of life ; it crept dustily about still,
he knew, in little dark churches here and
there ; it screamed with hysterical sentimen-
tality in Westminster Cathedral, which he
had once entered and looked upon with a
kind of disgusted fury. But it would be too
dreadful if his own mother ever looked upon
it again with favor.”
Of course it was Roman Catholicism that
had survived, confined to Ireland and the
city of Rome, where all the deposed sove-
reigns of the world had gathered, adherents
to the Pope. The downfall of Roman
Catholicism had been brought about by the
Masons having admitted women into their
body.
Instead of Christianity a new religion of
Humanity had been inaugurated, as more
suitable for this time of “ volors,” euthan-
atisers (for committing' suicide), and world-
peace. A great war between the Eastern
Empire and Europe was averted by the
efforts of one man, who is thereupon hailed
by the world as its Saviour, its Superman,
its visible God. Throughout the book this
man is referred to as He.
An attempt to commit an outrage at the
opening ceremony of the new religion of'
Humanitarian ism brings prompt punishment
upon the Catholics. A fleet of “ volors ”
simply proceeds to Rome, and methodically
wipes out it and its five millions of Christians.
But one cardinal escapes and becomes Pope,
and finds refuge in Nazareth, and there the
final act of persecution—or justice—is about
to take place when a world-catastrophe
happens. The book is admirably written,
sensationalism being always subordinated to
the ethical purpose of the story —to eluci-
date the point of view of a world that had
got beyond Christianity. And the "author
holds the balance-of sympathy even, for the
claims of the religious life are adequately
and convincingly presented. And'as a.picture
of the Socialistic ideal, when “man had at
last learned that the race was all and the
self nothing, when the cell’ had discovered
the unity of the body, when death was no
more than a wrinkle that came and went
across the inviolable sea,” the book is well
worth reading.
» —— .
The present position of the leading candi-
dates in the polling for the Australasian poet
laureate is as follows : Quinn, Adams, Law-
son, McCrae, M. Forrest, Hervey.
The July number of the interesting little
Trident contains a delightful description by
H. H. Champion of the Trafalgar Square
riots of 1886, when the mob smashed the
windows of the clubs in Piccadilly—the first
missile thrown being a war-veteran’s medal—
and broke into the shops of Mayfair ; and
the trial of the Socialist orators. Good verse
and critical articles make up a readable issue.
F. S. Del met, appointed Professor of
English at Berlin University, is a native of
Melbourne. He has no University qualifi-
cations, but is an excellent linguist. He
contributed some good work to The Bulletin,
and recently translated Jorn Uhl, a realistic
novel by a German Lutheran pastor.
Irene of the Kinglets! Does the average
novel-eater want anything more delectable
in titles than that ? What pictures of laugh-
ing loveliness, of bewitching raillery, of
tender sentiment, does not that title conjure
-up ? It should be a little idyllic comedy set
in a pretty landscape where hair curled
naturally and never a hair-pad intruded. It
should be- —— But to find out what it is, it
would be necessary to read the book. Which
would not be fair to its title. For any
reader who cares to take the risk, it may be
mentioned that it is by Horace Wyndham,
and published by John Milne.
After her unspeakable Three Weeks, Vic-
toria Cross announces a novel entitled Five
Nights. The next will probably be Tioo
Hours, and its. sequel Thirty Seconds.


JL
we
gd
Very Comfortable Easy Chair, upholstered in good
wearing Cretonne, spring seats and stuffed Kapok, 35/-
AT
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
No. 81.
Box Ottoman, upholstered in good wearing Cretonne, reversible lid, spring seat, stuffed Kapok
box lined Sateen, good castors, £2/2/- 9
m
m
mt
•**a
Ao. 70
Easy Chair, upholstered in fancy Cretonne, sprino-
cushion seat, best finish, 75/- "
mt.
m
m
No. 67.
m
mi
Mm
A'*•'; SjftgSfe .- -M
:-
i i . i if* v * “ •.ir'wH
* s< ' ' f INiH
.■:.' V: '^ss
si- ■ ft .jju itrjffli irMittf 1, .iVit? as ‘
wl v 9S S a|Ts^
No.
&
m
No. 67.
Suite of 3 Pieces, upholstered in a good wearing tanestry, the seats and baoks have special soft springs, Kapok stuffing • sneeial snrin,, ... , ,
Single Chair, 75/-; Settee, £6/10/-; the Three Pieces complete, ’ £l3/10/- " dg ’ Br °° d sllk cord and Sllk P om ’P om fnnge.
No. 84.
Sleepy Hollow Easy Chair, frame of Tasmanian Walnut,
upholstered in best Pegamoid, JB4/17/6
No. 68.
Easy Chair, in rich saddle bags and Utrecht velvet, best
springs, Kapok stuffing, good cord and fringe,
and first-class workmanship, £3/10/-
Many other Styles are shown
in our Illustrated Guide to
Furnishing. Send for a copy,
posted FREE on application.
*****
- V*
No. 69.
Settee,
in best quality saddle bags and Utrecht velvet, Kapok stuffing, special
easy springs, good cord and fringe ; best workmanship, £6/10/-
■
No- 82.
We are Family Drapers, Australian Manufacturers, and
Universal Providers, and our unique system of Spot Cash
Trading is a guarantee of TOP QUALITY at BOTTOM PRICE.
'v'fV'
3ft
rfS;
if!
-
Mfes
r^BBE
&k
No. SO.
Box Ottoman, upholstered in serviceable Cretonne, reversible lid, box lined with Sateen,
good castors, spring seat, £3/3/-
Arm Chair, upholstered in new Art Cretonne, very soft spring seat, polished
best finish (No. 82), 85/-
Morrls Chair, in saddle bags.and Utrecht velvet, bolster top, solid Walnut frame ;
forward places the back at any angle. A splendid chair for the study (No.
Or upholstered in best Pegamoid, £4/5/-
arms, hair stuffing,
by sliding the seat
70), £4/16/-
No
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


UIIIT
and other
SKINS;
aiso BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Go., Ltd.
SYDNEY’S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
Xjt.cL.
SYDNB "XT.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, a»d MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Sole Agents in N.S,W. for the McNally Steel Patent, “GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
fgd
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248 pages, 400
colored plates and engravings, 7/6
posted. Dr. Faulkner’s Original
Book of Nature, 1908 Edition, 4/-.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Comic Reciter, 1/-. Billiard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
King Koko, Conjuring Instructor,
1/3. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/-.
Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
How McDougall Topped the Score, 1/3. Loyer’s
Letter Writer, 1/-. Boccacio’s Decameron, 2/6.
Heptameron. 2/6. Bride of the First Night, 1/3.
That Rascal Gustave, 1/3. Love Under, the
Tiles, 1/3. My Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Bill Edwards, 1/3. Percy Ramage, 1/3. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3. New Tricks with Coins,
1/-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-to-
Date, Easy Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Cordage,'l/3. How to Mesmerise, 1 /-.
Astrology, 1/-. Fruits of Philosophy, 1/-. Mid-
wiVKg’Handbook, 90 illustrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit. 2/-. Reynold’s Court of London Series, 2/-.
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. How to Be-
comk a Clairvoyant, 1/6. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen of Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, 1/-. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture, lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
lOd. Kreutzer Sonata, 1/3. Zingara Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/-;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise, and all Zola’s, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, 1/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, 2/- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, ad. . How to Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/3. Australian Bushranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3. Smiler Hale’s
Novels, Bd. each.
US?" AND ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS
PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
■
JfH
/1
n
w
/
I
mm
22 §
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.'
Sold by reliable dealers .
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO’S ‘FKUIT SALT’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
* S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES n ‘ mt only of SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
C.B.
TAILOR-MADE
CORSETS.
C.B.
ever created.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
B
ft
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by
upwards of Half-a-Million Smart Women in
Europe, and have been hailed by the
Leading Fashion Experts as the Lightest,
Daintiest, and most elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over all other types.
-
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/|| to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STORES.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Flinder’a Lane. MELBOURNE.
f , „ „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
JRV
ICORStTS.
fg
pue[Suj
ut dpeu
Underwear
3avax
The “BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C.
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK' MERINO UNDERWEAR
df
fHE TESSAR
F 3*5, F 4-5, F 6*3.
iiiMyfig
Simplicity in Design. Brilliancy of the Image.
Exquisite and Uniform Definition from
centre to margin.
CAN BE FITTED to almost
ANY CAMERA.
New Booklet p 78 port free.
Obtainable from all Dealer* and from-
CARL ZEISS,
Jena.
ENGLISH BRANCH-
-29, Margaret Street, Regent Street,
London, England.
MAKES the SKIN
as SOFT »
VELVET.
PREVENTS
the
ATTACK
ot
V*-
KEEPS THE SKIN
COOL ANB
REFRESHED
IN
HOT WEATHER,
and entirely removes
AH Roughness, Redness,
Tan, Chaps, Irritation, &c.
BOTTLES, 1/- A 2/6.
MOSQUITOES.
Sole M ikers: M. BEETHAM & SON, Cheltenham, England.
Agents Elliott Bros., Sydney; Felton, Grimwade & Co., Melbourne.


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
A
now in London
writes under
date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 65 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to he used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
>fyer’s
ftair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A»
SKIN
FOOD
Of all
Stores or
Chemists
o
M
E
R
Y
Keeps \
the skin n.
soft an dNv
smooth and, by N,
nourishing it, eradi-\.
cates lines or wrinkles.
Made by Mrs. Pomeroy
Ltd., 29, Old Bond Street,
London, England.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office. 214 George Street, Sydney.
** Rowland, aged 6, was very-
ill with wasting disease, the
bones being nearly through the
skin, and we had very little
hope of his recovery. However,
thanks to SCOTT’S Emulsion,
he is to-day a fine healthy boy.
Norman was bom with
n ® in
spinal
trouble
and had never been able to sit up |
unsupported. At 2 years I started ,
SCOTT'S and after the first \
bottle he could sit up alone and |
move a little. Now he is 7i years
old, and able to walk. '
My fifth baby, Charles, was |
very weak and ill with whooping
cough, bronchitis and teething,
but the first few doses of j
SCOTT'S relieved him greatly I
and he has now lost the cough,
and is gaining strength and
putting on flesh rapidly."
(Mrs.) E. A. Sylvester.
High Street, Little Coogee, N.S.W.
20/8/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facto.
Here is Proof in the Reason Wh y:
This power of SCOTT’S Emulsion
to cure speedily and radically
makes it the most economical of all
emulsions, for the
sooner the cure
comes the sooner
the expense stops.
It is the fine, vigo-
rous quality of all
the materials used
in SCOTT’S, and
the perfect digesti-
bility which the
SCOTT process
achieves, that give
_ _ ~ e> ’
to SCOTT’S a rapidity and cer-
tainty of action that none of its
competitors can equal. Therefore,
when purchasing, don’t ask for
“ Emulsion; ” ask for and get
gd
scorn
Emulsion
—the difference between them means
* a cure for you! See that “ the Fishman
I with the Fish” is on the package. Of
all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
I
I
IRISH MOSS
FOR
-The besr remedy-
INFLUENZA,
COUGHS,
COLDS
Ask for Banning ton's BRONCHITIS*
and seethatyou get it. ASTHj^A^
fgd
Send us your name and address and you will receive by return Mail, Free, Post Paid, our BIG ART BOOK,
the finest ever published, which is of interest to every rider. This Book ??°l°
Engravings, including beautiful country Beenes; it describes every detailof the manufacture of a high
grade Bicycle with all the latest improvements; it shows you the difference between high class worn
and cheap construction. You cannot afford in your own interest to be without it.
IlflTII TUP rnrr HOT nnniA y° u will receive the most liberal and marvellous BlcycleoOer
WITH THE FREE ART DUuK ever made by any cycle manufacturer or dealer, explaining
how we are able to send you a cycle, direct from our Coventry guaranteed ten yearsg
packed and delivered free at your nearest port, for your inspection and a PP r °™ 1 _■' _TL e . Sf' 1 .
the highest-grade British-made cycles direct from the factory at less than manufacturers prices ,liow wo
are able to let you ride the cycle Ten Days and give it every trial and tesih yoii wißh before i your pur
chase becomes binding; how you can make large profits easily—all are I “^L. e *P*““ ed i “ » /nterestvom
sition, which Will be sent you free, post paid. Whether you are a cyclist or not, it will interest you.
Write to-day, using sufficient postage.
MEAD CYCLE CO., DEPT. 280 LIVERPOOL.
CONGO ROOFING
Just what you want to settle your roof problems. A permanent
reliable roofing, that anyone can apply themselves. Put up
in compact form, absolutely impervious to moisture, stands
any climate, lasts indefinitely.
Will outlast corrugated iron and being a non-
conductor of heat, is much cooler.
Congo is the “ Never-Leak Roof.
Send for free samples to any of the addresses below
Manufactured by BARRETT MANUFACTURING Co..
Philadelphia, U.S.A., and London.
For Sale by G. E. Crane & Sons, Ltd.,
Sydney; John Sanderson & Co.,
Ltd., Melbourne; George Wills
& Co., Brisbane; Millar’s
Karri Jarrah Co., Perth,
West Australia.
f.'--
1
[r« I' r r£i
SBfckJnm
?nn
S&SSB
©a
/gg»:CP
E3SS /arsn
sfl
ami
A CURED WOMAN
Relates her Intense Sufferings—how Doctors
Failed to do her any Good. She Finally Tried
Clements Tonic
Which Makes Permanent Cure.
(BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.)
Here is » "11 assuredly put. many where
years, that our special correspondent was granted the inter-
view which th e illness. yon refer to. It doesn’t seem half so long ago, for
everything is as fresh in my memory as though it was only yesterday.
iTSfueKn*e h Srm P e re .nd|d^Slf£sSSS
i hrmSr edl d I felt myself to be about the most unhappy woman in the world,
andiSk l had occasion to be, in view of the fact that the outlook was so black,
trifle better one day, I was sure to teei ten times t bing Was that I felt always so worn-out,
ineffective, was always I t tk • | an g d Ue down and die-yet when I made
S o effor“oslS“d„tonthink“oul/l Nof. bit of it. I’d twist and turn nearly the whole n.ght
through the medicine prescribed
t^ ie TVioVtdkm for instead of only easing me a little occasionally, it went right to the base of my
else I bad taken, for i d * by the roots !In addition to what I have already told you, I must
thatlwas highly nervous-nobody could be more so, for I was actually afraid to stay in my own
wiisebv myself and was continually worrying myself about things that I imagined were going to
b°"®® ™,y ’ wag always hanging over me, and I couldn’t get the idea out of my head—not until
T Viad been taking Clements Tonic for a space of time, when, quite mysteriously, I ceased brooding
I had beeni taking < weimen’os as happy as the day. Oh !it was wonderful what an
altered woman Clements Tome made me. Instead of being anions and timid all day, I got as happy
altered --ui nothing- frightened me, and my nerves were steady. It is because I know
so raamfnervous women that I my duty to say what a splendid remedy Clements Tonic is for
tWoomDlaint though, for that matter, it was equally beneficial to me m other ways. I used to get
mins down the small of my back and about my shoulders, also palpitation and pains m the region of
mv heart which made me think that something very serious was wrong with me there, but Clements
Tonic showed itself to be such a pam-removing medium that I can faithfully recommend it to
iT®!: Its regulating influences on the heart were extraordinary, and for making one s sleep sound
thelame remedy was the only one to meet with my requirements. I wish I had used it
months before for plenty of people told me what a grand medicine Clements Tonic was. The least
™an do is to assist^ to throw off their afflictions, so you may publish my experiences in
any manner you like. _____
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
t ANNIE YOUNG of Myrtle-street, Leichhardt, in the State of New South Wales, Coaanonwealth .of
I, ANNIE r uw, i declare that I have carefully read the annexed document, and that it contains
Australia, do andaSincereiyaTC cure by elements Tonic, and also contains my Ml permission
tl^sarne^^be^rue'^and^b^virtue^ofwhe^pro'rtMOnß^the^ths
ACfc S l ubs°cribed and declared at Petersham this fifth day of September, one thousand
before me.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Forty Tears Ago
The fliers race with their turbine screws,
The tramps still tramp with one ;
And every day we’re getting news
Of another record done.
Yet I mind the time when the paddles sang—
Big twenty-eight-foot wheels—
With clatter and clash and heavy clang
That quivered the sluggish keels,
From the Golden Gate to Auckland Town
And into Sydney, too,
The huge beams swinging up and down
Against the starry blue.
Nebraska —she wa3 a ship o’ mine—
Her crank had a twelve-foot throw.
I fired on the Californian line,
Full forty years ago.
Nevada, she was a ’Frisco boat,
The Moses Taylor, too :
The big Dacotah was scarce afloat
Before the line withdrew.
They worked at an easy pressure then,
Twelve pounds of steam, no more ;
And the wide wheels sank and rose again
And raced with a sullen roar.
Beamy and high, with one tall stack
That smeared the sea behind,
They spread the broad Pacific track
The turbine fliers find.
With paddles trimmed to skim the brine,
Just right, not high nor low,
They shook things up on the ’Frisco line
Some forty years ago.
The deck-staffs wore a uniform
Most gorgeous to behold,
All dazzling white when the day was warm,
And bravely slashed with gold.
They shipped no heavy seas at all,
They were built for the Yankee war,
They’d roomy decks, and a social hall,
And you ran more risks ashore.
When the mails were stowed, and the bugles
blown,
And they’d fired the signal-gun,
The lazy miles were caught and thrown
Behind us, one by one.
There’s nothing running to equal now
The splendor that once was mine,
When I wiped my hand on my streaming brow
And fired on the ’Frisco line.
From keel to truck they were solid Yank,
Wood planks oh a wooden frame.
They’d a twelve-foot throw to the paddle-crank
That went away and came
Like a girl who means to say “ Good-bye”
And then decides to stay,
And shuffles round till you wonder why
She doesn’t go away.
The great beatns swung ’tween the funnel-guys,
The smoke soared up and spread,
And we fed the coal till we had no eyes
And wished that we were dead.
Nebraska—she was a ship of mine—
I hear her whistle blow,
And Pm slinging coal on the ’Frisco line,
Full forty years ago.
MAORILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
Soliloquy in a Closed Pub.
Eighty-six Hotels Closed in Sydney.
—Daily Paper.
Darkness and dust! The empty shelves agape
Yawn at the bench whereon the lounger sat
Enraptured with the pert bar-maiden’s shape,
Or slumbered heavily beneath his hat.
Closed are the doors thro’ which the jovial crew
Were wont to burst upon their homeward way ;
All motionless the engine whence she drew
The ale that sparkled and the froth that flew
On many a bygone day.
Silence and dust! Beyond the bolted doors
The tradesman rattles gaily on his round,
Just as he did when hoarse, convivial roars
Eilled this dark place with cataracts of sound ;
The echoes of the wheels pour in and die—
As echoes do within an empty house —
Bits of road music that in times gone by
Always dropped in, now from the silence fly
As from a ghosts’ carouse.
Mem’ry and dust! Alas ! the ghost of Beer
Lies very flat upon the heavy air.
Shades of departed spirits linger here,
And vex the nose with bouquets faint and rare ;
An icy draught up from the cellar sweeps,
And sighs and sighs and lays its fingers chill
On the intruder’s face—then wildly leaps
With a quick, thieving plunge, and leers and peeps
In the dark, empty till.
Dry as the dust, I sadly ruminate
On Life and Death and barmaids proud and
cold,
Who made it very clear ’twas evil Fate
Had called them to the bar. Sneering, they
sold
Beer to wayfarers —slammed the money drawer
And glode, all frigid, to the further bar,
Showing they cared not if they never saw
The dry, respectful interloper more,
And glared at him afar.
Good fellows, topers, barmaids —all have gone,
They sing and sleep and smile by other bars ;
Here, the wan daylight, looking in upon
The battered counter, lights the tankard scars,
Made when the ancient arguments were hot —
Crude, savage records of the hand that fell
Grasping in anger a bright pewter pot
Brimful of beer, when someone muttered “Rot!”
In this dead, dry,hotel.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


/
o
a
&
p
G
LL\W
WUNDERLICH
ART METAL
CEI LINGS
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists. «
Originated by expert Designers • «
Modelled by first-class Artists • •
Erected by competent Tradesmen. • •
DECORATED BY SKILLED COLORISTS.
Decorated by Skilled Colorists,
who apply their tease of art
to the greatest advantage on
Wunderlich Metal. • • a
Write for TQiutraltd Salalogut.
SYDNEY:
36 PITT ST.
‘Wunderlied Jbimited,
N. S'. Wales Postal Address Box 474. G.P.0.. Sydney.
MELBOURNE;
123 QUEEN ST.
fg
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on BettGf Tcftns than
elsewhere in Australia.
Executive Building's.
George Street, Brisb
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Director.
Under Vice«Reg'al
df
Patronage
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with . . .
Miss Van Brakkel),
fsS^ H rsssss!i£SZ *«
®*“ TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc., IN STOCK.
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP. Te’ephone 2138.
gdf
enables you to tread the
road of life with a brisk,
Cocoa,
strong, steady step because it is rich in
strength-imparting essentials. It is the
purest and best of liquid foods, and its
constant use ensures
robust health.
*Joy
of Living {
JL
rvW
SIB'
MB
HOTEL
METROPOLE
■^SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 10s. 6d. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manages.
S Mf
1 Architect,
2 Mechanical Engineers
1 Electrical Engineer, 1 Mining Engineer, and 2
Draftsmen are in the regular employment of The
Sherwin-Williams Co., manufacturers of Sherwin-
Williams Paint and Yarnish Products. They are kept
busy all the time preparing plans and specifications
and supervising the construction of new'buildings, remodelling and improvements
necessary to keep pace with the growth of business.
This large and -rapid growth of business is the
There are no other paint and varnish products on
equal Sherwin-Williams in quality. Each product
for its purpose that human ingenuity can produce,
the results you want.
result of quality.
the market that
is the very best
It will give you
When you have need for Paint or Varnish in your Home,
Shop or Factory, or anything in them, ask your dealer for
Sherwin- Williams.
Write to-day for valuable little booklet, “ Who Makes the Best Paints and Varnishes.”
gd
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
C. Morrison, Sydney, New South Wales.
J. GRAHAM & SON, Wauerly, Sydney, New South Wales.
A. PARSONS & Co., Wollongong, " " «
D. COPELAND & Co., Wagga Wagga, " “ "
Frederick ash, ltd., Newcastle, " " “
CHARLES REGAN. Tamworth, " " "
T. J. PHILLIPS, Dubbo, “ “ "
Bracet's Limited, Llthgow, '• "
John Meagher & Co., Ltd., Temora, New South Wales.
Brook 8, Robinson & Co., Ltd.. Melbourne, Victoria.
Crooks & BROOKER, Port Adelaide, South Australia.
COUCHE, CALDER & CO., Perth, West Australia.
ROONEY & Co., Townsville, Queensland.
R. S. EXTON & CO., Brisbane, Queensland.
HOCKLEY & CO., Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. Fred C. DONNISON, Lock Box 811, Sydney t New South Wales.
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Expert operators treat the hou=e without inconvenience to those living' in it. ,
Give us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
-5 Life Buildings, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY*-
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the—
L*o*U*l*S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich* and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
)
OUIS
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies.
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
& n
0
4*I'W:UI]Z
BO P.OST
issf;
Prepare for a Good Position! Our splendid system of Postal instruction brings a thoroufrlodnd , jitaotlcfll
training: within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own hortte. \
BOOKKEEPINC
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
INDUSTfIY^t
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations. ,
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds oftljßieegaful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
56 HUNTER STREET, SIDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
HmMm
fg
English
N
ROTH
HAMS
m
Watch
pel
11bwb| v
Prize Awards.- London 1851, Paris 1889.
Lonpon 1862, Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH, i
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue
\ ~1
Office of the
Kensington Land
Company, Ken=
sington, Sydney,
covered with
RUBEROID
nwww—inwm m i n ———
Red Roofing.
mmmmm
WHOLESALE AGENTS:
E. Rich & Co, Ltd,
Sydney and Brisbane.


The Bulletin
Registered ac the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
THURSDAY, JULY 23, 1908.
Vol. 29.-No. 1484.
Price 6d
OATS IN THE SMOKING ROOM.
When the s.s. Orion left Devonport (Tas.) for wayside ports and Melbourne.the holds were crammed with cargo, and the men had to stand on the hatches to
force them down. There was cargo on the main deck and on the upper deck (and at Burnie, later on, 253 bags of chaff were also put on the upper deck).
There were 25 bags or oats in the smoking room. — Evidence given at inquest.
And the Orion went out and was never heard of again. Also, it seems that no one was responsible.


AfIERICAN FLEET NUfIBER,
BULLETIN of August 20 (or, should any
serious alteration be made in the Fleet’s pro-
gramme, of the Thursday immediately pre-
ceding the arrival of our American visitors) will be
a special number of extra size. It will contain an
unusually large quantity of fiction and verse by
the best Australian writers, and a fine array of
illustrations. A special feature will be a double-
page drawing by Mr. Livingston Hopkins.
Agents requiring an extra supply are advised to
order early
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maoleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bolletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(in Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bullktin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
llow to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tms Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part, of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor tvill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, ivliether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded without stamps
for return it 'will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Jtlaole and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of Tiie Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Gordon and.
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetoivn ;
Dawson and Son, Capetoivn ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, A hi Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada. — C. It. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Shanghai. —Brewer and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents' Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6)in. x thin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JULY 23, 1908.
A CITY BY THE KATHERINE RIVER.
A pew cold days happened recently in N.S.W.,
and the small, noisy crowd which represents
the parish-minded importing interest seized
the opportunity to say things about the unfitness
of Dalgety, upon the Snowy River, to he the
political centre of Australia. One Sydney paper
—the Telegraph—came out in its exeitement
with a picture of Austin Chapman, M.H.R.,
trudging over the snows of Monaro on his way
northward to the milder climate of Cairns, in
Queensland, in search of rest and health, and the
other members of the importing and anti-Federal
and anti-Australian press took up the same
parable more or less. Yet the three Sydney
importing papers still bellow consistently and
enthusiastically for Canberra as the Australian
capital, and part of the Canberra site is 250 ft.
higher, according to the official figures, than
the Dalgety site, and the difference in the winter
temperature of the two places is less than three
degrees—in fact, Canberra is just Dalgety over
again, minus its scenery, its great river, its
splendid water-supply and water-power, its port,
and the advantage of having an outlet into two
States. Even the Telegraph didn’t venture
to depict an imaginary Austin Chapman hasten-
ing to Canberra in search of warmth aud comfort.
But the Canberra sHe has, in the eyes of the im-
porting and anti-Federal and anti-Australian
press, these six great advantages over Dalgety :
(1) A capital there would be wholly surrounded
by N.S.W. territory ; (2) it would have to depend
entirely on the charity of the N.S.W. State
Government for its drinking water, and would
have to pay for that supply any price that Wade,
or some person like him, chose to demand, and
could always be reduced to a humble frame of
mind by the threat of some State jack-in-office at
Sydney that the supply might be cut off; (3) it
would have no water power worth speaking
of for manufacturing purposes; (4) it would
he wholly dependent on the N.S.W. State
Government for its road and railway com-
munication with the outer world ; (5) it would
have no port, so all its trade would go
through Sydney; and (6) by reason of all these
disadvantages it could never grow to be a great
city—such a one as Australia’s metropolis should
ho, seeing that it will be the only city in all the
world that is the political centre of a whole con-
tinent—but would he of necessity a humble sort of
place, far inferior to Sydney, and not even to be
compared with Newcastle. These six drawbacks
are the matters which recommend Canberra to
the anti-Australian or Mean Colonial clique.
Dalgety would have its own water supply,
its own port to make it independent of
State capitals, a land outlet into two States
so that no one Parish Insect could coerce it
by threatening to cut off its land communication,
and a tremendous mass of cheap water-power
which ought in time to make it the greatest and
cheapest manufacturing city in the Common-
wealth, and the Manchester or Chicago of Aus-
tralia. And all these things are hateful to the
anti-Australian or Mean Colonial faction.
That institution holds that the part is
greater than the whole, and that the
natural order of things is for the Commonwealth
to he bossed by the State (that is to say, by the
State of N.S.W.), and that it is better for the
capital of a whole continent to be a mere dog-
kenuel controlled by the Foreign-trade politicians
of Sydney than a palatial city that owned no
master save the people of all Australia.
* * * ■ *
So during the three or four cold days which
recently struck the highlands of N.S.W. the anti-
Australian papers shouted bitterly about the
climate of Dalgety, which place they object to
because it is a favorable site for a great and noble
city ; and said nothing at all about the exactly
similar climate of Canberra, which spot they
greatly admire because it is eminently suited
for the growth of an obscure hamlet and a
place of no account. And the fact that
Customs Minister Austin Chatman had
left Melbourne (not Dalgety) to recuperate
at Cairns in the tropics (not at Canberra) was
somehow held to be a reason why the Australian
capital should be, not up in the tropics, but at
Canberra on the same plateau which Dalgety
occupies, and at about the same elevation. It was
a curious piece of reasoning (or lying), and sug-
gests a lot of inferences and possibilities. Aus-
tralia is a vast country with a vast range of
climate. Its people vary from the hardy moun-
taineers of the South, who wear snow-shoes in the
winter and run ski-races, to the tough, gaunt,
wire-and-whipeord dwellers of the North, who
have grown hard under a vertical summer sun,
and ride or walk amazing distances, and live
astonishingly long lives, and do strenuous things
at an age when the British grandfather is reason-
ably expected to be in his grave. Judging by the
remarkable tenacity of the people of Monaro, and
the equally remarkable tenacity of the peojjle
of most parts of tropical Australia, it doesn’t
seem to matter very much where the Australian
capital is located provided (1) it is at a fair
and healthy elevation ; (2) it is at a safe distance
from the sea; (3) it is in a fairly fertile region; (4) it
is situated where there is abundance of water for
drinking and washing purposes, and abundance of
water power to shove manufactures along, and
where ail this water can be under Federal control;
(5) provided it has attached to it a Federal
Territory large enough to allow bf almost
unlimited expansion; and (6) provided it
is so situated that no cantankerous State
Insect can interfere with or control its railway
and road communication and its access to the sea.
All these matters are absolutely essential if the
Australian capital is to be worthy of its unique dig-
nity as the only continental metropolis on earth,
and, providing they are supplied, it is really of
little importance to Australia whether its capital
is on the Snowy River in N.S.W. or on the
Katherine, in the Northern Territory.
* * * *
In mentioning the possibility of a Federal
capital on the Katherine River, it must be re-
membered that the Australian Constitution is
subject to alteration, and the manner in which it
can he altered is fully and carefully prescribed.
The clause which declares that the capital must be
in N.S.W. is just as much subject to alteration as
any other clause. If the fixing of the capital in
N.S.W. had been the condition on which N.S.W.
was induced to enter the Commonwealth, then
clause 125 couldn’t be altered without a breach of
faith—that is to say, the alteration might be legal,
yet it would be wholly dishonorable. But the
fixing of the capital site had nothing to do with
the popular acceptance of the Constitution.
N.S.W." wasn’t “ induced ” to enter the Common-
wealth ; its rulers invited the other States to
enter. The N.S.W. Legislature agreed that the
Federal Constitution, as drawn up by the people’s
elected representatives, should hold good in
N.S.W. if it received a majority of the votes at
a referendum, and if the affirmative vote num-
bered at least 50,000. The Constitution, as
drawn up, left the selection of the capital to
the Australian Parliament without any question
or any limitation, and the people of N.S.W.
accepted that Constitution by 71,412 votes (21,412
above the stipulated minimum) to 65,954. The
people of N.S.W. were not responsible for the
fact that a disreputable Legislature of liars and
traitors and breakers of faith annulled their
decision and broke the agreement with the other
States, by raising the minimum affirmative vote
to 80,000; nor were they responsible for Premier
Reid’s subsequent demand that the capital should
be fixed in N.S.W. as the only price at which he
would go on with his own Federal movement.
The Bill was altered without any reference to the
people of N.S.W., and the people accepted the
new Bill just as they had the old one
because its rejection would have meant the
abandonment of Federation. But, so far,
every attempt to fix the capital in N.S.W.
has been blocked by the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment, which declines to take any notice of the pro-
visions of clause 125, and insists (1) that it shall
decide whereabouts in N.S.W. the capital shall be;
(2) that it shall fix the area of the Federal territory ;
(3) that the capital of Australia shall be so placed
that its water supply, its road and railway com-
munications, and its sea-outlet shall be wholly
and entirely under the control of N.S.W. The
State Government’s outrageous demands have left
Australia, so far, without any capital at all, and
they have so broken and discredited clause 125
that there is very little of it left these days. Under
the circumstances, it is time for the Australian
Parliament to begin to consider the needs and
interests of Australia a little more, and to devote
a little less attention to the arrogance of the
N.S.W. State Government.
* * • *
This paper never professed to regard the selected
site on Southern Monaro as the best that could be
secured in the interests of Australia. It is con-
spicuously the best site yet discovered inside
N.S. W. territory, when the matter is considered
from the purely Australian standpoint, but that
is a very different matter. If the people of
N.S.W. allow their cantankerous Government to
block indefinitely the creation of an Australian
capital inside N.S.W., as it has done for the last
four years, then Australia is absolved from its
agreement, and the obvious remedy is to secure
an amendment of the Constitution, so that Parlia-
ment will have the whole continent to choose
from. In other words, the obvious remedy is to
revert to the terms of the original Constitution—
the one which N.S.W. adopted by 71,412 votes to
65,954. The amendment doesn’t require the
sanction of N.S.W., provided the assent of the
other States can be secured; if the N.S.W.
State Government won’t let the capital he
fixed in N.S.W., then that State can
simply be ignored, and the whole business
be refixed without its consent. Assuming that an
amendment was made with a view to fixing the
political centre of Australia in the Northern
Territory it would almost certainly be a great
benefit to Australia at large—to the Australia of
the future that is, as distinguished from the
straggling line of population round a section of
the coast which comprises the Australia of the
present. The Northern Territory will almost
certainly become Federal property next session,
consequently there would be 500,000 square
miles of Federal soil round the capital—a
healthy change from the condition of things
under which a truculent collection of State Insects
denounces the Federal authority as if it were a
brigand because it asks for a piece of country 30
miles by 30. There would be a healthy semi-
tropical climate instead of a healthy temperate
climate, and the Australian is a man of so many
climates that the difference matters very little.
The capital could be placed at a fairly safe dis-
tance from the sea, just as it would be at Dalgety.
It could have a fine water supply and a vast re-
serve of water power, j ust as it would have if located
beside the Snowy River. And there would he
this great extra advantage—the creation of a
Federal city beside the Katherine, or some other
of the big northern rivers, would mean the dravv-
ing together of a large population in what is
now the emptiest and most defenceless part
of Australia, and also in the part which is
most liable to attack from Asia. It would mean
that this country’s weakest point would be strongly
garrisoned within a very few years, and that the
long stretch of lonesome coast, where the illicit
Chow and the unlawful nigger are now smuggled
in without let or hindrance, would be at once
brought under close supervision.
* * •» *
One great reason advanced in favor of a Federal
capital on the Snowy River —the choice of a capi-
tal being limited to N.S.W. —was that its
establishment would draw population to the
emptiest of the habitable parts of the State,
and thus tend to decentralisation of a con-
gested community and the settlement of the people
on the land. The same reasons—the need for
decentralisation, and the necessity for settling the
people on the land—apply with tenfold force
to the Northern Territory, which is far more
empty and far more remote from population
centres than Monaro. And there is a vastness
about the idea of a capital up by the Katherine
which should appeal to men with great minds and
a love for great undertakings. The creation of a
city in the Territory would add immense value to
the 500,000 odd square miles of the new Federal
property, and the profit thereof would belong to
the people of Australia. The new order of things
would make it possible to complete the transcon-
tinental line from Adelaide to Port Darwin as a
paying proposition. It would have a tendency to
draw population to North Queensland, which is
fairly empty, and to the northern part of Wes-
tralia, which is very empty indeed, and would
make it feasible to build railways from these
places into the Territory. It would so reorganise
things that the 500,000 odd square miles of Aus-
tralia which are to he directly administered
by the Australian Parliament and Govern-
ment would be directly under their eye,
instead of there being a mere subordinate
officer on the spot and a Ministerial boss at the
other end of 2000 miles of telegraph wire to give
instructions ; and in the agricultural, pastoral and
mining development of the country that would
count for a great deal. But, above all, the
Australian Government, in the location proposed,
would be planted where its eye would be always
fixed on the point of greatest danger—or, at least,
the point where the danger looks greatest, thus fol-
lowing the policy of the great Diocletian, who
left the flesh-pots of Rome and made his capital
at Nicomedia, so that the Parthian danger would
always be visible from out of his dining-room win-
dow and be under his personal observation.
* * » *
The Territory looks a long way off from what
are at present the most populous parts of the
Commonwealth, but it is impossible to own a
whole continent without some place being a long
way off from some other place. Yet distances
are not what they were even seven years ago.
Brennan’s mono-rail railway and gyroscopic car
have got beyond the experimental stage, and
cheap railways with a speed of 100 miles or more
per hour are, to all intents and purposes, a matter
of certainty ; and the air-ship has advanced with
such a sudden jump that companies are being
formed in Germany to exploit it as a regular
means of passenger conveyance. Probably if any
one started to build a city beside the Katherine or
the Roper to-day he would find, long before
he had got the roof on, that the Territory
had become almost as close to Adelaide
in point of time as Sydney now is to Mel-
bourne. And even if there was some incon-
venience in the early years of the new settlement
when ways were still long, and travel on the
transcontinental railway was still gradual, it
would only be inconvenience to politicians and
civil servants, and it is an axiom of the bagman
interest which controls most of the city press
that they are people who don’t count for
much. On its merits—viewing the proposi-
tion as a scheme to redress the balance of
population, to open up Australia’s lost province
more rapidly than it could be opened up under
any other conditions, to garrison with all possible
haste the weakest point in our defences—it is pro-
bable that the Katherine, or some other of the big
rivers of the Territory, would furnish the best
possible site for a capital when the matter is
viewed simply in the interests of Australia.
A city up in the neighborhood where a foolish
Foreign-trade politician tried to sit on an alligator
would have the added merit that it would furnish
an escape from the climate of Canberra, the bleak-
ness of which seems to have struck the Sydney
Telegraph and its political tame cat Johnson
very hard of late, judging by their recent
outpourings. Anyhow, the time is plainly com-
ing when the question of the Australian
capital will have to be taken up in dead earnest.
The Australian Parliament can’t hang out for
ever in lodgings in Melbourne ; it lias already-
dwelt in hash-houses and tents far longer than is
desirable. If the N.S.W. Government —which
refuses to allow the establishment of a capital in
N.S.W. unless the Australian Parliament will
accept some utterly undesirable spot, where it
will be wholly under the thumb of the local Legis-
lature at Sydney—continues to hold the fort, or is
allowed to continue holding the fort, the only
visible remedy is to ask the people to annul clause
125 of the Constitution. Then all Australia will
be available for selection, and the deadlock can be
brought to an end. There is nothing more sacred
about clause 125 than about any other clause—in
fact, the constant wiping thereon of the muddy
boots of Oakruthers and Wade tends to inspire
the community with a huge contempt for clause
125.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Cats in the Smoking-Room.
One day last May the little steamboat Orion left
Tasmanian ports for Melbourne, and failed to
reach its destination. The sea quietly swallowed
it and its crew and cargo; and barring the fact
that certain dumb and speechless wreckage after-
wards came ashore, no trace of it remained. Now
the usual inquiry has been held, and curious things
have been alleged. One witness swore that the
captain told him he intended tso leave the vessel
after next voyage (just a couple of voyages too
late), because the Orion was better qualified to be
a submarine than a surface boat. “ It’s a terrible
ship to dive, and it’ll dive once too often and for-
get to come up,” was the alleged prophetic state-
ment of th 6 master, and apparently it dived just
about two days after that, and did forget to come
up. This, however, was a mere hotel conversation,
and hardly amounted to evidence. Here are
some things that really look like evidence :
Charles F. Emmet, postmaster at Latrobe, said he was
a passenger from Devonport to Stanley by the Orion on
May 5. Before leaving Devonport the hold was full, arid
he saw men standing on the hatches to close them down.
Both holds were full and there were some bags on deck.
He formed the opinion that the vessel had then quite
enough on board to go into rough water.
Frkd L. Kins said he assisted in loading the Orion at
Devonport. It had all the oats in the afterhold, and oats
and potatoes in the forehold. It had about 20 bales on
the top deck and about 25 bags of oats on the main deck
IN THE SMOKE ROOM.
That finished the day’s evidence as regards Devon-
port. Then the miserable vessel plodded on to
Burnie, and this happened :
Jabez W. Snithes gave evidence : The Orion unloaded
no cargo at Burnie, but took on 253 bags of chaff (about
10 tons). The chaff was put on the upper deck. . . . Wit-
ness remarked to Captain Lloyd that the vessel appeared
to be well down by the stern. Captain Lloyd replied
that he had a quantity of cargo to take on board at
Stanley, which would bring it to its sea trim.
Then the Orion left Jabez Snithes’ town and
went on to Stanley, and there it put out 10 tons of
cargo and took on four tons and four passengers
(about 6cwt. possibly). That left the craft still
four tons more heavily laden than when it
plodded out of Devonport with the hold full, and
cargo on the main deck and the upper deck, and
oats in the smoke-room. And as it struck out for
Melbourne or Eternity (it proved to be Eternity),
it got this send-off :
Frederick Burgess, master of the ketch Active, which
delivered potatoes to the Orion, at Stanley, said the
deck cargo was not lashed. The vessel was drawing 7ft.
or Bft. forward when it left, but no figure was visible aft,
being under water. The cargo was badly loaded.
Even that wasn’t quite the end of the story, for
there was a final call at Smithton. About
what happened at Smithton there seems to
be rather a scarcity of evidence. Perhaps—the
hold being full, and the main deck loaded,
and the upper deck loaded, and there being
already oats in the smoking-room—perhaps
they tied oats to the funnel at Smithton.
It may be remembered that one harbor-master
said he badly wanted to detain the Orion on that
fatal trip on a charge of overloading, but found
that the futile Tasmanian law gave him no
power to act. So the famous diving vessel fled
out to sea with the hold full, and loose cargo on
the main deck, and more cargo on the upper deck,
and oats in the smoking room, and the stern deep
down and the bow cocked up ; and it was never
seen any more. It is plainly time that the whole
navigation business was taken over by the Federal
authorities and completely re-organised. The
necessity for keeping oats out of the smoking
room can’t be recognised any too soon, and ex-
shellback Evans’ Government seems of little use
in such a case as this.
■——
Th.o Victorian Railway Smash.
“ J.G.” writes a highly justifiable letter :
If Bent and co. are not watched, the inquiry into the
causes of the Sunshine smash will end with the trial of
Milburn, Dolman, and Kendall. There will be no Royal
Commission, nor any other inquiry into the whole system
of Bent and Tait railway management. The way in which
Coroner Cole put both feet on anything that appeared to
reflect against the management of the railways by the big
panjandrums, and the way in which he shut up lawyer
Woolf when he asked a few questions about Tait, looks as
if the Government were moving Heaven and earth to pre-
vent the inquiry going further back than one mile from
Sunshine station, and you can’t find many original causes
inside a mile. The brakes didn’t wholly fail when they
were tested after the smash, and that is accepted as evi-
dence that they didn’t fail on the night of the smash.
Apparently it is held that the fact that the brakes were
about 30 years behind the times isn’t worth considering,
nor is the question whether the Sunshine station was
undermanned and sweated, nor is the muddled
habit of making-up an express train, about half
a-rnile long, and hitching two engines to it
(instead of dividing the train), and so causing a
loss of time at every station, because the platforms
are too short, and two stops are necessary instead of one ;
nor is the habit of fining trainmen when they lose time
on the road owing to these long trains and short plat-
forms, and thus giving them a direct incentive to furious
driving; nor are all the other reasons why the long-
expected did come at last. All tms general disorganisa-
tion was carefully smothered up at the inquest, and will
be more carefully smothered up by Bent and co. later
on, if their hands are not forced by the Victorian public.
Even now it is whispered about that it would not be a
wise thing to hold an inquiry by commission, as it would
cost too much, and the taxpayer would have to pay
more taxes. But this sort of yarn should not go down
with the Vic. people, and they should insist on the rail-
way management being probed to its very bottom, and if
the inquiry is expensive, and if the expensive inquiry
brings it to light that a whole heap more expenditure is
required to bring the railways up to a safe working basis
and abolish sweating, what’s wrong with bringing in a
progressive land-tax, so that the landowners who benefit
by the railways will have to pay their fair share towards
the upkeep of the lines? Take the Bendigo-Melbourne
line as an example. For the greater part of the way it
runs through the properties of squatters, who contri-
bute hardly anything for its upkeep, although the
railway has doubled and trebled the value of their land.
The Ballarat-Melbourne, the North Eastern, and all trie
other trunk lines tell the same tale. One of the
reasons why the Victorian railways have to be starved


and sweated is because they have to run about 70 out of
every 100 miles through blank wildernesses. Probably
when you get to the back of all things the original cause
of that ghastly Easter Monday night butchery at Bray-
brook Junction was the big landlord and the dreadful
Upper House which supports him.
Sugar.
Queensland Statistician Weedon’s just-issued
report on the 1907 sugar crop is a streaky docu-
ment. It is true that the yield of sugar has in-
creased without a break for the past five years,
which makes ono of the nice pink streaks. On
the other hand, there is the fact that the area cul-
tivat id for sugar in 1905 was 134,107 acres, in 1906
133,134 acres, and in 1907 only 126,810 acres ; and
that isn’t a nice pink streak. Moreover, the reduc-
tion in area has been almost entirely in the far-
northern districts of Cairns and Geraldton, where
the bulk of the discolored labor was employed. In
the change from black and yellow to white
labor there was bound to be some trouble
and worry. Almost the whole daily press of Aus-
tralia has cursed the northern climate so hard and
often that white labor naturally wouldn’t rush the
new job when it was made available; also the
northern planters had in most cases persuaded
themselves that T. Tanna or Kee Hong was a
necessity, and when T. Tanna and Kee Hong were
withdrawn, they saw blue ruin and striped snakes
in front of them. And even in those cases in which
the planters didn’t believe that T. Tanna and K.
Hong were indispensable, the banks and other
concerns upon which they relied for advances were
obsessed by the Southern Tory view with regard
to the helplessness of the white man. Under all
these circumstances a temporary shrinkage in the
area under cultivation was no more than could be
expected. Things will right themselves in time ;
but while they are righting themselves the Com-
monwealth will have to give a hand. Up to
now a so-called bonus on white-grown sugar
has been paid; but that is a temporary
arrangement, and a whole lot of southern people,
who only know that there has been a large increase
in the production of sugar during the past two or
three years, begin to allege that the bonus
isn’t needed. The two facts that need nailing
up alongside the track are that the increase
in production has been due entirely to two or three
extra-good seasons, and that it has been accom-
panied by an actual reduction in the area culti-
vated—and the latter fact is the really significant
one. Under the Sugar Bounty Act. 1905, the
present bounties run only to the end of 1912. and,
even then, during the last two years the bounties
will tumble down, first by one-third, and then by
two-thirds. It is quite possible that by 1911
Queensland sugar-growing will be put on its feet
as a white labor industry, and the Australian and
European will prove themselves more profitable
employees than T. Tanna and K. Hong. But
if the time is too short, then Australia will
have to make up its mind to continue the so-called
Vjonus, which, after all, is no more than the par-
tial remission of special taxation. As a matter of
fact, this special taxation, in the shape of Excise
duty, amounted to £1,586,359 in the three years
1904-7, while the total remitted by way of bonus
amounted to only £618,803. Thus, instead of the
industry costing Australia anything, it actually
supplied the Australian Government with £967,556
of revenue after paying the bonus. What the
industry is suffering mostly from now is uncer-
tainty, and the uncertainty is keeping many
northerners from providing those conveniences
which white labor demands, and without which
the best and most self-respecting sort of white
labor won’t stick to the business. Also it is pro-
bably keeping many white laborers from going
north. The industry needs to be assured, then,
that Australia is quite well aware of its difficul-
ties, and has quite made up its mind to see it
established on a White Australian basis ; and the
sooner Australia can satisfy the planters of that,
the sooner it will be established on that basis.
4
The Sydney Tram Trouble.
Sydney tramway men are in a blaze of indigna-
tion which may yet lead to serious trouble. There
is an idea on the part of persons in authority that
the conductors make a little money by picking up
tickets that passengers have left on the seats, and
re-selling them. If they do this it must be for
lack of sufficient inspectors, and that is mainly the
Department’s fault. It is only when the car is
empty that a conductor can go round gathering
up the very few tickets that are sufficiently clean
and smooth to be safe for re-sale, and if he sells
them next journey he takes a serious risk of
being bowled out on inspection, because the
numbers of the tickets in the car will probably
fail to run consecutively. Therefore, if there
was sufficient inspection of the open and
above-board kind there would be mighty
little fraud. Against the ordinary in-
spector the conductors apparently have no
complaint to make. When he bowls out the
fraudulent conductor the fraudulent conductor
knows that he is bowled out, and that he must
take the consequences. But, in addition, there
are plain-clothes officers who don’t make any open
charge against the conductor when they believe
they have bowled him out. Now and then, how-
ever, he is called on to answer a report to the
effect that yesterday or the day before or two
days before he re-sold a used ticket. By that
time he can prove nothing. The informer says he
saw the official do the sleight-of-hand act whereby
the old ticket is passed off as a new one. The
informer may be honestly mistaken. He may also
be telling a wilful falsehood because he hasn’t had
a case for some weeks and fears he may be
suspected of incapacity if he doesn’t get one. If
the charge had been made at the time, as the
regular inspector would make it, the conductor
might be able to prove, by simply exhibiting
the number of the suspected ticket, that
the suspicion was quite groundless. But to
make the charge at the moment would reveal the
fact that the very ordinary-looking passenger
was a spy, and, once known, his usefulness as a
spy would be greatly diminished, so the case is
heard later on, and then the alleged fraudulent
ticket and the holder thereof are as completely
lost as a germ in a haystack. The detective simply
says the tram officer committed a fraud ; the tram
officer says he didn’t; the Department probably
believes the detective; and all is finished. The
Department strikes a lofty attitude over the
matter, and talks thus :
The honest man has nothing to fear. Unless he is dis-
honest he will not he reported, but even should an honest
man by some error find himself called upon to answer a
charge , he has ample opportunities of proving his inno-
cence. Each case is fully inquired into, and unless Mr.
Kneeshaw (Superintendent of Tramways) is satisfied that
the charge is sustained, no further action is taken. The
accused always has the fullest benefit of the doubt. After
dismissal an officer has the right of appeal to the Appeal
Board, upon which Mr. Kneeshaw does not sit, and there
the evidence is taken on oath, and witnesses may be
cross-examined. If the person charged is not satisfied
with that he may, as a last resort, appeal direct to the
Commissioners.
That is all very beautiful, but it is also very
absurd. It is folly to say that “the honest
man lias nothing to fear,” unless the Commis-
sioners can guarantee that their spies are all men
of noble and perfect character, and that they
never make mistakes; and no one can guarantee
either matter. It is ridiculous to say that the
accused conductor “has ample opportunities of
proving his innocence,” when the only way he can
prove it is by finding a man or woman or child
(he probably doesn’t know which), name and
address unknown, and by getting him or her to
produce the ticket that was most likely long since
thrown away, and by then convincing the
authorities that he or she is the person to
whom he was suspected of selling the wrong
ticket. All that is utter impossibility. As for
the assurance that the Department serves out
strict justice—what else could the Department say
it served out ? And as regards the declaration
that the Department gives the conductor the
benefit of the doubt, the trouble is that
the Department—”’hich, per medium of its
hired spy, is . .rtually the accuser—assumes
the sole right to decide what is the doubt.
The Department’s testimonial to its own complete
fairness counts for no more than anyone else’s
self-presented testimonial. And the honest con-
ductor, who can’t prove his innocence because he
can’t find yesterday’s needle in the day before
yesterday’s haystack, doesn’t want the benefit of
the doubt, which is simply being sent back to
work under suspicion ; he wants a chance to prove
that the whole accusation was a mistake. The
men complain of other grievances—chiefly that
the lack of shelter for drivers has caused among
them a large crop of rheumatism, tuberculosis and
pneumonia—buc the outrageous injustice of the
detective system is the chief difficulty.
The ‘ Age” and a Governor.
Chief-Justice Madden had no sooner been ap-
pointed Acting-Governor of Victoria, in place of
the departed Talbottle, than he managed to
get into trouble. Madden, who is even more
affable than Deakin, went down to Geelong with
Swinburne, and there, addressing a farmers’ con-
ference, he used up the best part of a dictionary-
in lauding the progress of the State. Thereupon
the Age took him severely to task in a leading
article, and reproved him for preaching comfort
and prosperity when neither of those valuable
commodities was visible on the horizon. Madden
had woven masses of statistics showing that our
population was increasing, and that our marriage
and birth rates were both in good order. The Age
replied that, though there was a little improve-
ment, there were years of leeway still to make up.
It added that Victoria must get face to face with
the position, and remedy this lack of population ;
and that Madden, by stating that all was well, was
helping thecountry to dwell in a fools’ paradise, and
was on the wrong track altogether. Madden re-
plied to this criticism with a long and inconse-
quential epistle, to which the Age appended a
lengthy footnote; and the correspondence raged
and boiled for several days. There is no doubt,
however, that the Age is right, and that the
position of Victoria with regard to population is
anything but satisfactory. Marshall Lyle, who
joined in the controversy towards the tail end,
mentioned that Victoria’s net loss of population
through emigration, from 1891 to 1906, was
160,806, which is certainly a scandalous state of
affairs. He finished a convincing epistle by put-
ting his finger firmly on the leakage :
Our population question to-day is the question of the
promotion of agriculture in Victoria, and there cannot be
agriculture unless the people have the land. All we may,
say or do, outside of assisting the people to get the land
in Victoria, is, after all, nothing more than “ rum-ti-tum.’*
“ Rum-ti-tum ” seems to fill the bill pretty well.
It is comforting to find that the land trouble is
every day becoming more of a burning question ;
and that it threatens soon to consume the Ministry
that fails to deal strenuously with it.
-o
The Hazy Chow.
Melbourne District Court, the other day, adju-
dicated in some cases which let a streak of daylight
into the processes of the Chow furniture-maker.
Qcoon Lee and Co. came along to answer seven
charges of having violated the Furniture Board’s
determination by paying their Chow workmen
less than the legal minimum wage—s6s. per week.
An inspector had happened into Quoon Lee’s
factory and buttonholed one Ah Dim, a member of
the firm. Dim blandly explained: “Oh, yes;
payern ploper wages, 545. a week; alii.”
When informed that 565. and not 545. was
the proper wage Dim looked surprised, and said
that was the first he had heard of it, or something
like that. Then the inspector found a wages
book, which showed that one W. Chinn was being
paid only 30s. per week. In Court W. Chinn
was called for the prosecution, and he smoothly
explained that he was getting 565. per week,
but being an economical soul, and having
boundless faith in Qcoon Lee and Co.,
he only drew 30s. per week, and left the
odd 265. with the firm “to mind for him.”
The firm was then “minding ” about £lO for him,
remarked W. Chinn. Also it was explained that
Ah Dim’s yarn to the inspector about the 545. was
all a mistake, due to Dim being busy or absent-
minded or something, at the time. Thereupon
the case was dismissed on the ground of insuffi-
cient evidence, and the baffled prosecution had
another shot in the case of Ah Ping. Ping was
also an economical, trusting being, it appeared—
he was getting 565. ; only drew 305., etc. ;
and Ping’s case was bumped out. Then
Pukves, K.C., for the defence, gently re-
marked that it might save time if he
explained that the evidence would be similar
in every case, and the tired prosecution
replied that it had 23 more cases, but in the cir-
cumstances . So the remaining cases were
withdrawn, and the economical Chow workmen,
who preferred to let their employers “ mind” the
balance of their pay, instead of putting it into the
Savings Bank and getting interest on it, trooped
off to putty up a few more worm holes in the
furniture. Yet it seems, somehow, as if the Dis-
trict Court was a shade less earnest than it might
have been. It might, for instance, have had the
books inspected to see how many hundreds or
thousands of pounds the firm was “ minding ” for
its employees, and have ordered the whole amount
to be paid to them in cash in the presence of an
official of the court. That might have been
awkward for Quoon Lee and Co., and again it
might not.
Sydney’s Belated Railway Station and Some
Figures.
New South Wales has about 130 miles of Govern-
ment tramways, and last year they carried about
144,000,000 passengers—perhaps 150,000,000, allow-
ing for deadheads. That means about 1,154,000
passengers in the year to each mile of line. But
the mile or so of track which leads along Pitt-
street, Sydney, to the belated railway station that
stands on a huge hump of ground at Redfern, and
the mile or so that leads back by Castlereagh-
street, carried 12,000,000 passengers—something
like 6,000,000 per mile. And that is saying
nothing of the horde of railway passengers who
travel on the George-street tram-lines. A very
large amount of the congestion of Sydney’s streets
thus arises from the wild policy which built the
so-called “central” station on the roof of a ridge
away at the far south extremity of the city. When
the suburban train comes in there is a clamorous
rush for the trams, either at the station itself or
down in George-street. The people who really
want to get out at the Central because that
place suits them seem to be about as numerous
as those who voluntarily got out at Newtown, so
practically everybody takes a tram. Where the
people really want to go to can be guessed by the
fact that, as a rule, not a soul gets off the moving
beehive till King-street is reached, and the outfit
practically empties at Hunter-street. These
matters might have served as a hint to a less ob-
tuse Ministry than the one which built the Red-
fern white elephant, and might have told it where
a central station really ought to be. The tram-
cars going back to the station fill up about the
same points, which should have been another
hint. The average morning and evening cars
look like ant-heaps on wheels, but about 1 p.m.
on Saturday the cars become rather like
moving earthquakes, with 14 people on the
back step and bunches of humanity hanging
on to every possible or impossible spot, bar-
ring the roof. All these railway tramcars,
with their drivers and conductors, are sheer
waste and dead loss. If the railway, instead of
stopping dead on top of a ridge or hill away at
the far south of the city, had come right through
Sydney, with a main station close to where the
trams do the great unloading act, the trains them-
selves would have carried these 12,000,000 passen-
gers, and also the lot that rushes down the
precipitous flights of steps to waylay vehicles in
George-street. They would have done it faster
than the trams do. They would have done it
with no perceptible extra wear of rolling stock or
human beings; and a penny could have been
added to each fare to pay for the extra mile of
journey. The revenue would thus have been
much the same, and the cost of building, main-
taining and running a whole lot of tramcars would
have been saved. Also, in two streets alone, there
would have been saved a congestion of traffic
which represents 12,000,000 people per annum, and
is steadily increasing. Sydney is now up pretty
hard against its street traffic problem—exactly how
hard it will probably realise when the U.S. fleet
fleet arrives and the city fills to the brim with
sightseers, tars, drunks, and disreputable and
other characters. All manner of small things are
proposed or are being done to make room—a little
widening here, and the chopping off of an awk-
ward corner there, and the shifting of a railing in
another place. But three really big problems—
the construction of a city and suburban railway
system, the extension of the main line across the
harbor, and the removal of the main station to
some place where it will fill the bill—can’t be
put off much longer, no matter how many small
patches and repairs are effected.
♦
Hunger v. Reason.
Two steps hadn’t been taken towards applying
the N.S.W. Industrial Disputes Act to the Lith-
gow ironworks business before there was the
usual clamor : “ They want to compel Hoskins to
keep open even if he has to do it at a loss.” It
takes a long while to kill that silly gibe. The
law doesn’t require any man to keep an industry
going at a loss, unless, of course, he has under-
taken to keep it going for a certain time. If he
has made that agreement, then he stands in the
same position as the other man who has under-
taken to supply goods, and is expected to go on
supplying them even if the market goes
against him. Apart from that special case, all
that an employer has to do is to satisfy a J udge
that he will lose money if he pays a certain wage.
The Law then does one of two things: it fixes a
lower wage, which will allow him to make a
profit, or anyway escape a loss; or, if that
will mean a degrading wage, it fixes a
fair wage. In the latter case it says that it is
better that the business should cease than that
the degrading wage should be paid. It doesn’t,
however, compel any employer to continue a busi-
ness—it simp / says that if he does continue the
business he 5k..1l not pay below a certain amount.
After that it will not allow any employer to adopt
other means to squeeze a lower w'age out of the
employee. It won’t allow any man to reduce
women and children to hunger in order to do
something of which justice and reason do
not approve ; and, therefore, it prohibits
the lockout under heavy pains and penalties.
In the Lithgow case, provided there was no
agreement in the way, the Court vyas open to
Hoskins. If he could not pay the wages hitherto
paid, then all he had to do was to lay his proofs
before a trained Judge, and the Court would give
him the relief which justice and reason required.
To say that the Court would compel him to keep
going at a loss is to allege that the Court is a fool
which doesn’t know proofs when it sees them.
The fair employet will welcome that Court; the
employer who prefers to rely upon the lockout
(and The Bulletin says this without reference to
the Hoskins ease at all) is the other sort of em-
ployer, who prefers to rely upon the hunger of
women and children rather than upon reason and
justice.
♦
Some Straight Facts Concerning B. Smith’s
Brother and. the Empire’s Ally.
A man at Kobe (Japan) writes
The termination of the war with Russia has been fol-
lowed by a marked increase of crime throughout Japan.
During the last three years there has undoubtedly been a
conspicuous growth among the criminal classes of the
nation. Indeed the authorities have of late become
alarmed at the increasing tendency to assault and
battery among the common citizens, often leading to
wounds, and even murder. Crimes resulting from
debauchery and levvdness are on the increase. Foreigners
no longer find it safe to wander alone or unprotected among
the beautiful valleys and hills that environ so many of
the Japanese cities. Robberies and holdups that used to
be almost unknown are now common. Even on the
public street foreign women have been relieved of their
purses in broad daylight, after the manner of towns in the
so-called “ Wild West.” The authorities seem either help-
less or indifferent to the urgency of the circumstances.
The police force of all Japanese cities is no doubt inade-
quate to the extent of duty devolving upon guardians of
the law, being much weaker in calibre and numbers than
the force in similar communities abroad. And the few
there are appear to be either in constant fear of the
criminal classes or deficient in the initiative necessary to
the capture and punishment of offenders. The Japanese
policeman does not patrol the streets as in Europe or
America ; he keeps his measured watch at what is known
as a police-box, a place often difficult to find ; and the
criminal feels perfectly free to operate at a safe distance
from the station. The night watchmen of towns and
cities go about banging two pieces of hardwood together,
the constant clapping keeping the criminal aware of the
exact spot the watchman is in, and so enabling him to
escape detection.
It is the conviction of most foreign residents in this
country that the root of the trouble lies in the fact that
the officers of the law are really in deadly fear of the
criminal classes. Every Japanese criminal carries a con-
cealed weapon, and the murder of policemen is a frequent
occurrence. Even if the thief does not succeed in dis-
patching his captor, he will in time find some means of
getting square with any that would hamper his move-
ments. Consequently, offenders against the law are per-
mitted a much freer hand than they would enjoy in
western communities. In old Japan, the fear of sum-
mary treatment by the community itself exercised a
wholesome and, on the whole, deterrent influence on the
would-be wrongdoer ; but, now that all is in the hands of
a few police, crime appears to thrive.
The very fact that hundreds of people in Japan are able
with impunity to live by blackmail is in itself sufficient
evidence of inadequate protection to citizens.
The average citizen of Japan appears to have little con-
fidence in the law as an arbiter of the wrongs he suffers ;
in fact, he more frequently takes the law into his own
hands. Among the lower classes the appeal is not to the
authorities, but to the fist or the knife, and not infre-
quently to the yet more fatal short sword. Stabbing
is a favorite ” method of settling individual di-
vergences of opinion \ and in cases of clashes with
corporations, rioting and destruction are almost sure to
ensue. Last week some students at a common school had
a dispute over a game, and three of them were seriously
wounded with knives. During the same week there was
a wanton and destructive riot on the premises of the
Oriental Timber Company, in the island of Kyushu. This
is a French concern doing extensive business in various
parts of Japan. The men in the big sawmill at Okobira
demanded a rise of wages ; and, failing to receive satis-
faction from the managers, the laborers at once became
riotous, attacked the foreigners, and beseiged the build-
ings. The infuriated mob made a savage attack with
- stones and other missiles on the office of the company,
making short work of the typewriters and other office
appliances, and then completely wrecked the building.
Then they proceeded to the residences of the officials and
demolished them in a similar manner. Next, the mill
was attacked, and all the valuable machinery, including
the electric plant, was in a short time reduced to scrap
iron. Individual pieces too large to be reduced to a
hopeless mass were thrown into the river. Even a couple
of bicycles that belonged to the officials were crushed
beyond recognition. The management staff and its fami-
lies in the meantime had fled into the mountains. The
vindictiveness of the rioters was especially seen in the
residence of Mr. Mak/xin, the manager. There, after
playing havoc with the house, they gathered up all the
bedclothes and the personal effects of the family
and tore them to shreds before finally, deposit-
ing them in the river. The nearest police
station being more than two hours away, all the
damage possible had been done before the arrival of the
officers. The amount of destruction is computed at
about 100,000 yen, but it is said that the work of re-
building is not likely to be undertaken. As this is the
first case of any wholesale destruction of the property of
foreigners since the abolition of extra-territoriality, it is
expected that the Japanese Government will have to pay
the damage, as did the Canadian Government in the
matter of the anti-Japanese riots in Vancouver last year.
In the event of an affair resulting in fatality for the
victim, the perpetrator very commonly turns his weapon
upon himself as a means of escape. The house-breaker
will usually kill a molester rather than brook interference,
an eventuality which the police have to bear in mind.
The same recklessness as to the value of life is apparent
in cases where the offender is not to be classed as an
habitual criminal. In the city of Nagoya recently
two private soldiers had a squabble over a petty
divergence of opinion. Their superior officer took
them out on the parade ground, remonstrated
with them, and then, becoming angered at their
indifference to his expostulation, shot them dead,
and then blew r out his own brains. Sergeant Yamaguchi
had been a model soldier, and on account of distinguished
services in the late war had received from the Emperor
the seventh Order of the Golden Kite.
A rather significant development among the criminal
classes in Japan is the increasing frequency of piracy
along the coasts and inland seas of the empire. The
Japanese have been known to plunder wrecks that had
been abandoned, but an attack upon cargo in transit has
not hitherto been known. However, a big lighter on the
way to Yokohama with a load to be transhipped to an
ocean steamer, was lately attacked by a force of pirates
and a large part of the cargo abstracted, the crew of the
fio-hter being helpless to offer resistance. In the beautiful
waters of the Inland Sea, too, especially in the vicinity of
Seto, acts of piracy are becoming alarmingly frequent.
Boats engaged in this nefarious method of livelihood are
known now to number more thau a dozen, each armed
w'ith deadly weapons. Various vessels plying among the
islands have been ransacked from time to time, and many
persons have been robbed in the last few years ; and even
women have been carried away captive. The present cap-
tain of the pirates is a young brave named Kadota,
who a vear ago was in the penitentiary. The police aver
that all the pirates in the Inland Sea yield him unswerv-
inw obedience. It is reported in the vernacular press
that, although the Inland Sea is known to be infested with
these sea-robbers, the police have so far been defied
with impunity, and are even in ignorance of the main
movements of the outlaws. Not long ago a Japanese mer-
chant from one of the islands set out in a boat with 600
ven in his pocket to pay a bill on the mainland. He had
proceeded but a little way when a boat lnauned by pirates
Maoriland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On March 31 the Public Debt of Maoriland was
£64,179,040, an increase of £2,274,857 during the yqar.
Oh, Maoriland is a merry land, for there do the
people thrive;
The air is fresh from the big, salt sea, and it’s
good to be alive;
There’s a mixture fair of work and play, and
enough of corn and oil,
And, thank the Fates and the Little Gods, it’s a
country hard to spoil;
But, the way that they’re trying there’s little
denying
They’re going to manage it yet
(You bet !),
With the steady increase in the debt.
Oh, Maoriland is a wond’rous land, for there do
the forests grow,
Also the spuds and the bright green grass, while
various breezes blow;
Its mountains are covered with mantles white, its
rivers rush and boil,
And, in spite of the Tourist Bureau and such, it’s
very hard to spoil;
But still there’s no knowing, if Ward can keep
going,
He’ll manage to euchre it yet
(You bet !),
Joe Ward isn't frightened of debt 1
Oh, Maoriland is a windy land where, under a sky
of blue,
A joyous people can manage to eat their cake, and
keep it too,
A place where cranks and theorists bloom in a
highly productive soil;
But in spite of all the Wellington talk the
country’s hard to spoil;
Yet, if they keep trying, there’s little denying
They’ll make a fine smash of it yet
(You bet!)
It’s but rarely they mention the debt I
Oh, Maoriland is a happy land where the seasons
come and go,
Man, dog and cat and house and farm—it belongs
to Moss and Co.,
We love him much, and with joy we send the fruit
of our toil to him,
And he gathers it in with a smile like that of the
heavenly cherubim.
So, in spite of fine lying, there’s little denying
The Jew has us all in his net
(You bet !),
We have built up the Devil’s oivn debt!
maoriland.
D.M.W.


Users of steam power will be interested to
know that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a depot in N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having acquired the business of J. W. Glenfield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves and water gauges,
can now be obtained in this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
If you are suffering from biliousness, con-
stipation, indigestion, chronic headache, invest
one penny in a post-card, send to Chamberlain’s
Medicine Co., 608 Harris Street, Sydney, with
your name and address plainly on the back, and
they will forward you a free sample of Chamber-
lain’s Stomach and Liver Tablets.*
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been received
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston
Previously acknowledged
Hugh Arentz
G. B. Edwards
“ Corrigenda”
Gerald Byrne
J. H. C. Harper
A Swagman..
P.H
8.5., Jr.
2 2
10
2
£2O 5 0
CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS.
DUTY
REMOVED.
Important Reduction in Price of Films.
New Shipments, arriving- Every Week from all
the Leading Makers.
We are the Largest Importers of above in
the Commonwealth.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Stock Merchants,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
As for wit and
Humor good,
Bet a bit and
Back Tom Hood !
And as Hood’s great
Humor’s pure,
So is Woods’ Great
Peppermint Cure t*
mysteriously appeared from behind another island, bore
down upon him, and soon relieved him of all his money.
A great many other instances indicating an increase of
crime in Japan might be given, but perhaps enough has
been said to show that apprehensions are justified. The
Japanese newspapers are continually complaining of the
decline of moral standards throughout the empire gener-
ally ; and education is repeatedly declared to be quite
ineffective to obviate the dangers that threaten society.
♦
Stinking Fish in London.
Vic. Premier Bent must feel proud of his Attor-
ney-General Davies, who descanted so tactfully
on State Frights at a recent London function.
The occasion was a farewell shivoo to the new
Victorian State Rubber Stamp, Thomas Gibson-
Carmichael, and, after the usual valedictory flap-
doodle, Bent’s Mr. Davies uprose to speak a
trifle. And Bent’s Mr. D. created a very bad
impression. Instead of confining himself to harm-
less generalities, as every discreet person does in
mixed company, the egregious Davies must harp
on the internal relations between Commonwealth
and States. He told the company that he was a
true Federalist, but that he was also a true repre-
sentative of the States. “The States,” said he,
‘ ‘ are separate and independent under the Crown,
and the Commonwealth has no right whatever to
encroach upon the powers of a State any more
than a State has a right to encroach on the
powers of the Commonwealth. I am sorry to say,”
moaned Davies, “ that there is a tendency on the
part of the Commonwealth to encroach.” He
didn’t say how the Commonwealth encroached,
probably because he couldn’t, but he impressed
most carefully on that British audience that we
are a quarrelsome and disagreeable push, and that
we have got into such a bad state of shindy and
cantankerousness that we must bail up passing
strangers who have nothing to do with the family
animosity and who take no manner of interest in
it, and tell these strangers all about the row in
our back kitchen and how it was impossible to go
to sleep owing to the nagging of Maria in bed.
The utterly bored audience hailed Davies’ family
troubles with laughter and ironical cheers and
calls of “Time,” and the daily papers mostly
ignored his remarks. But all the same, Australia
needs its High Commissioner badly—a man to
speak in the name of all Australia, and drag small
folk like Davies out backwards by the coat tails
when they begin to be horribly foolish.
♦
“ Floater,” from Melbourne :
On llth May last, Constable Goodson, of the Melbourne
police, was charged with having committed wilful and
corrupt perjury ; but, on account of the conflicting
evidence for the prosecution, the charge was dismissed.
That case excited little comment at the time—it was
briefly reported by the daily papers—but it presents
features peculiar enough to warrant a short recital of the
events which led up to those abortive proceedings. On
the night of 9th April last, Goodson arrested one
McGregor, at Fitzroy, on a charge of using obscene
language ; but when the case was brought up two or
three weeks later, McGregor was able to produce two or
three witnesses who declared on oath that his con-
versation had been without blemish, or words to
that effect. Consequently, the presiding magistrate
had no option but to dismiss the charge—a
result that gave to Goodson’s sworn statements an
extremely dubious appearance. Accordingly, Goodson
was proceeded against for perjury, with the resultalready
noted. On that occasion, however, the evidence against
him was not entirely unanimous—indeed it was so fishy
and contradictory in minor points that the Bench re-
marked that gross perjury had been committed. So it
had, but why? In the light of some recent history,
Goodson’s case becomes especially significant. Some few
people may remember that he played a part in the pro-
ceedings against the notorious City Tattersall’s Club,
that owed its foundation to ex-Tote Boss Wren
and a couple of kindred spirits. At that time, Goodson
was aiding the pertinacious Detective O’Donnell in the
collection of evidence for the suppression of this disrepu-
table resort and the prosecution of its proprietors. As
may also be remembered, the case against the club broke
down, and Goodson, the chief witness for the Crown, was
subsequently charged with perjury, and acquitted. Thus
it will be seen that this obscure police-constable has been
twice charged with perjury, and, in each case, one or
more of the witnesses seems to have sworn falsely in order
to convict him. Such circumstances bear a suspicious
resemblance to a conspiracy, nor is the suspicion
decreased by the fact that Goodson’s very connection
with the futile campaign against the club would
make him distinctly unpopular in certain quarters,
if not lay him open to persecution, when an
easy opportunity of injuring him presented itself.
The two charges were palpably trumped up, evi-
dently with no other motives than those of evil intent:
but what I wish to draw attention to is the facility and
impunity with which such false charges can be laid.
Apparently, two or three men can go into the witness-
box and swear anything without fear of subsequent
punishment. When the proceedings in both cases against
Goodson had proved abortive, and perjury was strongly
suspected against him, why was no further action taken ?
In each case one, if not more, of the witnesses stood as a
self-confessed liar on oath, and liable, under ordinary
circumstances, to prosecution. Yet I am not aware of
anybody other than Goodson being charged with either
perjury or conspiracy. This immunity from punishment
is singular ; and it looks as if there is one justice for the
constable who raises the “ dander ” of John Wren’s crowd,
and quite another and more questionable sort for his
accusers.
*
In 8. Aus. the farmer has given up being hostile
to the Labor party ; and of the members of the
Commission which has been moving around getting
information to help him in marketing h’s grain,
two-thirds belong to the party that suppo.." T.
Price, You don’t frighten aS. Australian farmer
now even by telling him that a Socialist is coming ;
■ instead he mostly asks Mrs. Farmer to get “the
front room ” ready, and they start wondering
what the Socialist is going to do for them now.
According to one of the farmer-members of the
' Commission that has been taking evidence lately
in Sydney, about the finest thing that has been
done for “ the backbone of the country ” up to now
is the appointment of inspectors to see that
“the backbone” isn’t robbed in the matter
of fertilisers, and the appointment of other
experts to find out and advise what
special treatment the soils of various parts
of the country call for. There was a time when
the imported fertiliser consisted mostly of some
indefinite dirt in a bag with a bad smell attached ;
but nowadays the stuff has to pass a rigorous
Socialistic examination, and the result has been so
remarkable that, whereas only 60,000 acres were
artificially fertilised in 1897, this year the total got
up to 1,456,000 acres. On the information gathered
during this present inquiry and previously, mem-
bers of the Commission put the improvement in
the average yield at 100 per cent, in the case of the
poor areas of. S. Australia—and S. Australia is
mostly poor areas—and anything from 20 per cent,
upwards in the case of the better country. That
is the outcome of " interfering” with the “ great
natural resources ”; so in these days when the
Foreign-trade Ass brays about the folly of “ arti-
ficial aids to industry,” the S. Australian farmer
says “Rats!” and goes out to vote for Labor, or
Protection, or both.
«. ;
The wealthiest corporation in Melbourne is the
Metropolitan Gas Company, which always pays a
first-class dividend. This is one interesting fact.
Another is that, at the Kew court, on July 8, a
married man, with a sick wife and a sick child,
was charged with stealing a bicycle, house-linen,
etc. He was employed by the Gas Co. as a lamp-
lighter, and his wage was 255. a week. His wife
appeared and gave evidence as follows :
Accused only repeived 255. per week, and had to pay
out of it 3s. for a bicycle to do his work, and 10s. for rent.
Witness was unable to work herself, having been under
medical treatment for years, and her child had been
attending the Eye and Ear Hospital. She asserted, amidst
floods of tears, that her husband had committed the
crimes through absolute poverty, in order to support her
and the child. Then the witness broke down.
The Chairman of the Bench referred to the case as
“ pitiable,” and admitted that it was due to “in-
sufficient wages.” But, “as there were six
charges,” the Bench awarded six months’ gaol.
And probably it would have been simple
justice if those of the Gas Co. responsible for
the crime of paying a man 225. a week
net for his services (the whole dashed lot
of them) had, at the same time, been given 32
months’ Hard Jug. Still, of course, the Tory
orator will declare that Wages Boards are quite
unnecessary.
+.
The Private Enterprise slaughter-house, as a
rule, shouts to Heaven; and, when it doesn’t
shout, it screams. Heaven can’t hear itself harp-
ing for the uproar made by private slaughter-
houses, and saints go about with their halos over
one eye asking bothered archangels why the nuis-
ance isn’t stopped. The average private slaughter-
house proprietor gets so used to the disastrous
smells of his profession that ordinary, fresh
breeze seems flavorless and uninteresting. If he
is a conscientious person he cleans up his pre-
mises in accordance with the law, and regretfully
suppresses the bright blue smell of dead pig, the
purple odor of cow, and the green and red whiff
of the Sheep That Was. But, if he is one of the
bad old school, and belongs to the large gang which
howls about interference with Private Enterprise,
he just lets the offal lie round until the accumu-
lated horror brays in the sun like a brass band
gone mad. Quite lately, a doctor from Melbourne
Board of Health inspected a Private Enterprise
establishment from which Ballarat draws some of
its meat, and this is a brief newspaper description
of the tragedy he discovered :
In referring- to one place situated in Buninyong Shire,
and just over the Ballarat East boundary, it was stated
raw offal is simply thrown into the yards and pigsties,
where a large number of pigs are kept and fattened for
the market. The yards and some of the pigsties pre-
sented a filthy and disgusting appearance. Besides raw
offal being scattered, and some of it trampled and half-
buried in slime and mud, some hundreds of carcases and
portions of carcases of sheep were found lying all over
the place, in all stages of decomposition, and evidently
intended as food for the pigs.
The fact that he managed to stagger back to
civilisation and make a report is probably owing
to the fact that he timed his visit for the middle
of winter. That example of Private Enter-
prise, under a November sun, would be fatal to
any ordinary human being unprotected by a
diving-suit. It is gratifying to read that the
Board of Health has resolved to request the
Buninyong Shire Council to “take steps.” It
wouldn’t have been unreasonable, under the cir-
cumstances, if it had asked the council to take
a cannon. Almost anything might reasonably be
taken to an affair of that kind.
- . i
A better from a gentleman whose pen-name is
none too legible :
The Methodists, the Sydney Telegraph, and other
religious bodies are greatly indignant over the proposed
labor ordinance in Papua. Emergency meetings are
called, audit is yelled that the ordinance will lead to the
enslaving of the native population. Now, why all this
stir ? Is it because the Australian Government has
control over Papua ? If the Imperial Government had
control, and, according to usage, simply forced the
natives to work, would anything be said ?
In British ‘ ‘ Protectorates ” in the Central Pacific, forced
labor has been in vogue for several years. Take the
Gilbert Group, for instance. The natives have been com-
pelled to do “Government work” since 1900—not one
month in the year, but three days of every week, except
about a month before Christmas and a week or so before
the King’s birthday. This includes women as well as mjen,
and the alternative there is imprisonment with hard
labor. Fairly heavy land-taxes are imposed. There are
three mission societies in the Group—barely on drinking,
and certainly not on speaking terms with each other ; but
not one of them ever said a word against forced labor.
The proposal does not sound very nice—interfering
with the liberty of the subject and all that, don’t you
know; but when you become acquainted with the
natives the thing takes on another complexion. A set of
houses (living, cook, firewood, bath) for each family must
be built by the working community, roads must be kept
in repair, prisons built, hospitals for skin diseases erected
and maintained in good order, leading marks erected on
the reef showing the boat entrance, etc. This “ Govern-
ment work ” done, the nigger still works compulsorily,
but h<- does it more directly for himself. He must gather
his fallen cocoanuts ready to be cut out for copra making,
work on his babai-plantation, clear away the under-
growth in the bush —things he rarely tackled before the
“slavery” days. The work for the coming month is
planned and discussed in open council in which all
natives take part. Native magistrate, councilmen and
police supervise the work. This still leaves the natives
enough time to play their games—dancing, kite-flying,
or racing miniature canoes on the surf —and to seduce
each others’ wives.
Sometimes labor is misapplied, as when the natives
were compelled to pull down their large fine houses and
erect houses of uniform size and pattern (12ft. long by
10ft. wide), about the only ordinance in connection with
enforced labor that has caused any real discontent.
+
The N.S.W. Forestry Commission, after a solid
year’s tripping, is still proceeding merrily along
the primrose way, with many crusts and empties
littered in its wake. And, according to the baro-
meter, it looks as if the report will not be ready
for next session of Parliament. Ninety-nine men
out of every hundred were fully aware, before the
Commission started to wander voluminously over
the landscape (1) that the forests of N.S.W.
should be placed under better control; (2) that
the export of hardwood should be stopped until
improved methods of administration are adopted ;
(3) that a system of reafforestation should be prac-
tised especially on those areas where the land is
unsuitable for settlement ; (4) that nurseries
should be established in central districts; (5)
that a Commissioner should be appointed to
administer the timber industry ; (6) that in future
leases provision should be made for the planting
of trees and the protection of young timbers; (7)
that on the Western plains steps should be taken
to plant belts of trees for shade and timber pur-
poses. Yet the Commission has been travelling
about Eastern Australia for a solid 12 months
while one witness after another, and single wit-
nesses, and casual heaps and stacks of witnesses
told it these facts over again, and it threatens to
continue this journeying and good living inde-
finitely at the expense of Wade’s surplus.
A Vic. Art Show.
“ 0.K.” writes in bitter mood :
The pictures in the latest Exhibition of the Vie. Artists’
Society number 350, including the black-and-white draw-
ings, among which Will Dyson has something interesting
to say, and Tom Carter attracts attention with a crayon
portrait study of a gracious woman. To say that 200 of
the exhibits are unworthy of place in a pretentious
show is to understate the fact. The average quality of
the V. A.S. paintings was higher ten years ago, when they
were fewer, and when more care was taken in the disposal
of them. Indiscretions in the hanging are apparent
everywhere. Some of the indiscretions amount to sins,
and seem intended to excite protest.
Instance the portrait of Norman Lindsay (No. 5) by
Bernard Hall—the strongest thing in the gallery. It
shouts defiance at its nearest neighbor—the picture of
Sydney Harbor by Streeton. Streeton’s decorative work
is for the most space a presentment of bright blue paint
—a solid cerulean sea dotted with white-sailed boats
that are on the mimic water, but not in it. This
expanse of blaring blue emphasises the bilious “ greenery-
yallery” background to Norman Lindsay, and repels the
admiration due to the portrait as a work of art and a
likeness. With a different environment it would make a
better impression. Almost equally convincing and less
objectionable is the same artist’s portrait of Archibald
Strong (24). Bernard Hall can present a young man in
his habit as he lives, but his failures to portray a pretty
girl are unpardonable. There are two attempts, and the
victim in each case is Miss Ruby Lindsay. Heavens 1
How cruelly these artists advertise one another ! An
avowed portrait (23) of the glowing Ruby misrepresents
her as a troubled matron of uncertain age, propping up
her chin with her thumb as she wavers, perhaps, between
the question of beef or mutton for dinner. She is backed
by a parlor wall (presumably). The wall tint is bright
yellow, aggravated by a blue and green dado. No. 30 intro-
duces the same young lady disguised as an ’Arriet
in a bright blue bank-’oliday ’at, leaning against
the.same hideous parlor wall as before. The cult of ugli-
ness can go no further than in these libellous paintings.
But Bernard Hall is a finished craftsman, who can stand
upon his professional dignity to defend his arrogant
mannerisms of color.
The trouble is that many of his pupils have adopted the
cult, without having anything to stand upon. A few
years ago Leslie Wilkie was accepted as a most promising
student, and newspaper commentators were advised to
encourage him. What can be honestly said of Wilkie to-
day ? liis work is utterly devoid of charm even where it
shows technical ability. His No. 19 gives a back view of a
brown, unwholesome female figure in the nude, ungrace-
fully posed on a faded mauve cloth, so hard in its folds
that one would pity the poor bare sitter if she looked real.
But the touch of human nature is not there. The hand
wherewith the figure scratches her head is as arti-
ficial as the arm that directs it. No. 27, by Leslie
Wilkie, is “ The Debutante,” price £lO5. The damsel hasa
swollen face and neck, mouse-colored hair, and a frock
and gloves that are insults to her complexion. There
are misguided jargonists, maybe, who will affect to see a
harmony of color in this large picture—as though there
could be true harmony in a concord of sour tones. The
thing is Ugly. A sensitive person, condemned to live in
one room with it, would die of it. The same remark
applies to other figure paintings in the present collection,
not excepting the Bft. x sft. portrait of Panton, P.M., by
Mrs. Muntz Adams. This gigantic affair may be Art to
Panton. It would be death to some people if they had to
take it for a term of punishment.
Yet the painters, in many cases, have a good knowledge
of the tricks of the trade. They are artists in the same
degree that a painstaking mummer of long experience
and no ability is an actor. They do their best, but they
ought not to be doing it at all.
No. 45, “The Sawmill,” by Hal Waugh, was lately ex-
hibited elsewhere, with many other Australian bush sub-
jects by the same improving striver. The false and
depressing coloring is the matter with it. .In 299, “ The
Forgotten Dead,” the color is equally false and exceed-
ingly festive. All the tints of Joseph’s coat are introduced
into an alleged bit of West Melbourne. The blue, red,
pink and yellow houses in the background seem calcu-
lated to wake the forgotten deceased. Here is the very
“jim-jams” of art. Yet the painter, Alf Fischer, may
bope for general recognition of his ability when he' has
sobered his style and ceased to paint the town red. In
one of the water-color pictures, where his gaiety of spirit
finds a more fitting outlet, the result is very pleasing.
Of the water-colors, by the way, none are more simply
effective than two by Amy Vale—weak in drawing, but
tasteful in composition—and other two or three by Jane
Sutherland. Several contributions by McOubbin tell of his
recent visit to England. He has broken out into the*
Turneresque method, and there is a less decided imitation
of Corot in one instance. The original McOubbin has
effaced himself for the time being, and the atmosphere
of Australia is absent from his work. Walter Withers
is another “ old hand ” unworthily represented, nor has
J. Ford Paterson anything to boast of, although “The
Lagoon ”is a characteristic canvas. Talking of John
Ford P., the baneful influence of his National Gallery
picture, “ A Bush Symphony,” can be detected in
sundry places on the V.A.S.’s walls just now.
The “Symphony” was sickbed o’er with the pale
cast of a decadent impressionism. New in design,
when the Gallery trustees paid £2OO for it, the
friends of the artist thought they saw the element of
greatness in it. Now there is a cult of mystic art, and
what the high priest tried to evolve from his own inner
consciousness is being weakly imitated by faithful
disciples.
The most successful of the young painters is C.
Wheeler, who has received more than enough praise for
“ Grandmother’s Gown ” (No. 34). The picture, though
cold in tone, is not unlovely in character. Clever and
faulty. A young girl, seated before a dressing-table
against an indefinite background, hasturned round in her
chair to look in a hand-mirror and get sight of her reflec-
tion in the table-mirror behind her. The effect is not
vivid, yet there is an air of truth about the picture.
Something much stronger may be expected from
Wheeler next year, if he closes his ears to the jargon of
them who deprecate rude health and sanity in art pro-
ductions, and cures himself of a tendency to insipidity in
his coloring. The picture might have been made more
forcible.
Of the others “ too numerous to mention,” some are
meritorious, but none are striking. The most strikingly
inferior ones can be left to condemn themselves.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Zira.”
Theatre Royal “ The Red Mill.”
Criterion “ Miss Hook of Holland..”
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaclarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage
Patch.”
Her Majesty’s........ “ The Merry Widow.”
Theatre Royal “The Fatal Wedding.”
The King’s “Man to Man.”
Opera House Abdullah’s Arabs.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Town Hall Kubelik.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
A very much larger Mark Hambourg than
of yore—much more robust in frame, and much
more robust in art —appeared at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday last. Also he showed much
larger geniality. His reception of a very warm
welcome was quite touching. He threw a not-
aggressively-long crop of hair at the audi-
ence in a whirl or Catherine wheel, and he
infused a certain heartiness into his repeated
bows, and a geniality into his smile.
Some years ago Hambourg came here as a very
moderate band. He has come back twice, and
each time he has added to the number of the
instruments. Also each time he has come back
with a better conductor. He is now a complete
orchestra, and one may take it that the conductor
is settled in his place for life, and has not
much left to learn. Mark presents many of
the features of a first-rate band. He can
fill the Town Hall with the sound of his piano
in a manner that satisfies without making one’s
head ache. That is more than can be said for the
Town Hall’s own fixed instrument, as those know
who remember the largest organist in the world
when he threw himself like one possessed upon the
world’s (almost) largest organ. And Mark can, as
well, produce those ppp up to fff effects
which suggest moonlight scenes, or the drop-
ping of eiderdown feathers, or of raindrops, or
of hailstones or thunderstorms or earthquakes;
and he can send not only the critics, but people
who do really know something about music, into
raptures what time they discourse of all those
technical excellencies which are bound up in the
Musical Dictionary. Hambourg is a great man
in his own particular way. As a pianist, he is
quite in the front rank, and nothing but the dire
necessity to save up for the American fleet can
make his season other than a success.
** * *
“The Red Mill” revolves joyously at
Sydney Royal these nights, and brings good grist
to the box-office. It is a merry show, with no
particular pretensions to be classed except just as a
fun-maker; and Sydney evidently has a vacancy
for that sort of show just now.
*- * it-
As a wind-up to its Sydney season, the
Flemming-Day co. revived “Doctor Wake’s
Patient ” at the Criterion. The sentiment is
treacly ; the fun, for the most part, aggressively
obvious. It is, however, on those very qualities
that “ Dr. Wakes Patient” grips the great heart
of the people—the sort of people, that is, who
don’t stop between laughter and tears to ponder
on the unworthy methods by which their emotions
are being got at. Given the situation of a frOnt-
rank Harley-street doctor, loving and loved by a
maiden of title, the audience is asked to credit
that the latter’s haughty parents, who didn’t
object to their child’s suitor as a doctor, are going
to forbid the banns and go fanti about the
man generally as a farmer’s son. It is
an archaic idea dating back to the epoch
when ladies wore crinolines and talked in
all seriousness of “the better classes.” A suc-
cessful grocer or ironmaster (a Lipton or a Krupp)
is a more desirable match in London or Berlin
society to-day (no matter who his progenitors
were) than one with more birth and much less cash.
Palpably, the hypothesis that the Earl and Coun-
tess of St. Olbyn would become anguished wrecks
on discovering that Dr. Forrester Wake’s people
owned a farm is advanced so that Andrew Wake—
that splendid old humbug—may dampen every
handkerchief present by offering to “renounce
the boy for ever,” and wander abroad in an atmo-
sphere of desolate uprightness with “ the wife” —
an outcast for that, though honest, he is poor.
But it isn’t good enough. One mentally indicts
the aged bucolic (even in the very act of
listening to his protestations and observing
his “business” with the pathetically-immense
Family Bible) of obtaining the sobs of the female
immediately behind one under false pretences.
And so with the humor. The Devonshire agri-
culturist who is prosperous enough to send his
son to a University doesn’t talk like a Tivoli
comedian. Such British countesses as are outside
Colney Hatch comport themselves with more re-
pose than she of St. Olbyn—if only for their
liberty’s sake. And one of the reasons why the
Church of England continues to impress the
masses is to be found in the fact that such digni-
taries as the Criterion Bishop of Selby are im-
possibilities in it.
* * * *
The most interesting feature of the very
brief “Dr. Wake” season was the acting of A.
Mallalieu. This writer has visited the Criterion
about a dozen times since the Flemming-Day
co. came there, and yet failed to appreciate to the
full, till last Saturday night, this mime’s finished
artistry. Mallalieu played Duff Wynterdon, a
rather fatuous youth about town. He never once
over-stressed a word or gesture (a wondrous feat
in such a part), and yet he made his every point
so that the house rose at him, at short intervals,
with cries of joyous affection. His gift is that of
the skilled draughtsman; he gets his effects in
the fewest lines possible. Beatrice Day was an
admirable Lady Gerania. She brought an air of
reality even into the unconvincing scene where
the doctor persuades her that “ duty ’’ compels
them both to bow to the incredible attitude of her
parents. In lighter vein she was charming. Her-
bert Flemming played Andrew Wake as well as
it is possible to conceive of anyone playing that
mass of bogus sentiment, and A. S. Homewood
was good as his Byronic doctor-son, who de-
servedly, towards the end of the play, endures
the stigma of knighthood—Britain’s now firmly-
established method of ear-marking utter J.P.-like
obtuseness. Harriet Bronson was a bewitching
little person in the hands of Elise Clarens. Mr.
and Mrs. Murdoch, the Bishop and the Countess
aforementioned, this paper declines to take
seriously.


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how—write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. .Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jerdan,
Ltd.. Cinematograph Specialists and'Electricians,
393 George Street, Sydney.*
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
You find no pessimism in The Lone Hand.
It is its mission to tell the truth about Australia,
the cheerful, sunny truth. See the current num-
ber.*
“ Miss Hook of Holland” makes her bow
to Ma State for the first time on Saturday night
at Sydney Criterion. Miss Hook will be sup-
ported in her trying feat by a number of tuneful
songsters and dancers of both sexes, so that her
legal guardians confidently anticipate the exorcis-
ing, by her agency, of the chronic depression that
sits upon the Leah (not to say the Gummidge)
among the States.
** * *
This week sees the last of Miss Anglin as
the very gradually penitent Thief at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney); and on Saturday the charmingly-natural
lady will make a second start in “ Zira,” described
as “ a drama in four acts, by J. H. Manners and
Henry Miller, founded upon the same story as
Wilkie Collins’ ‘New Magdalen.’” But, as the
first act of “ Zira” is pitched in S’Africa, at the
close of the Boer war, this “ New Magdalen ” is
served up in a dress that W. Collins might not
recognise. G-. S. Titheradge is, on this occasion,
Sir Frederick Knowles, F.R.C.S. ; and if W.
Collins suggested the main story, Sir Frederick
Treves, F.R.C.S., probably suggested Knowles.
Titheradge ought to do splendidly in that part; you
can rarely watch him without thinking what a
charming bedside manner he would have if he were
in the doctoring business.
-*■ * X- -X-
The “Kilties,” a Scottish band of two
score players, who can play as softly as the
buzzing of a bee and as loudly as the trumpetings
of twelve “must” elephants, open in Sydney Town
Hall on August 15. It is on a world tour under
engagement by Fred Shipman. There is a vocal
choir, two seven-foot drum majors, and a clan of
dancers to add novelty to the band’s attractiveness.
* * *-
At Sydney Lyceum, the übiquitous Spencer
has anticipated the arrival of the American fleet
by reeling off views of the armada entering San
Francisco Harbor, the parade at San Pedro, the
flower fete at Santa Barbara, the official reception,
and the long line of warships swinging at anchor.
The “Merry Widow” waltz craze is in its last
nights, and all who have not seen and heard are
warned to do so quickly. It is good. The story
of Samson begins a new epoch in moving pictures,
and writer has great hopes that he will yet see
Revelation and Genesis flitting across Spencer’s
screen. Samson is a picturesque figure, but
Delilah is not the writer’s ideal of that Philistine
charmer. Writer always pictured her with a
Madonna-like face—that type, of woman always
suggests the Madonna face and long tapering
fingers and small plump limbs. The Bible in
moving pictures is a good idea, as the gentlemen
who composed the Old Testament had a splendid
knowledge of human nature and a breezy decisive
way of telling things.
* * *
Shakspeare is becoming more famous. He
has got into the Fiiekergraph. At Sydney
Palace on Saturday, the large, hot, kilted tragedy
of “ Macbeth ” was shown in a series of West’s
Pictures, and the joy of the audience was
unbounded. It felt it had learned something of
a classic that in unpictorial print seems to lack
juice. Victoria’s Premier, the beknighted Thomas
Adolphus Bent, was in the auditorium, and the
Great Living Statesman was immensely interested
in the scenes without words reminiscent of the
Somewhat Dead Great Writer. “The Pirate’s
Honor ”is the latest star attraction. It is quite
possible for a pirate to possess such a commodity
as honor without stealing it. “ Scenes in Surrey ”
comes as balm after the bloodshed of “ Macbeth ”
and the pirates’ fight in mid-ocean.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli has been brightened con-
siderably by the arrival of the Miles Stavordale
Quintet, the clever banjo players who can make
their instruments preach like a country clergyman
on a drowsy summer morning. As the sermon
drones along you can almost hear the occasional
reverent and subdued cough, the old man in the
back row shuffling his feet, and the indignant
verger kicking the inoffensive and religiously-
inclined dog from the porch. Miss Mignonette
Kokin, a bright young person from Chicago, who
character-sketches and dances, lets the audience
see how she does her lightning changes with the
help of two dressers. The revelation is made
per medium of the biograph screen. This
keeps the audience interested during the wait, and
the instant the picture is switched off, the lady
herself steps on to the stage just as if she had
floated down off the screen. Galetti’s dogs and
baboons constitute a good animal turn. The dogs
look affable, and are distinctly clever, but the
baboons—though talented—suffer from their near
resemblance to inferior human beings. This paper
would rather see baboons keeping to Nature than
observe them keeping close to Man, and imitating
his accomplishments. The rest of the bill leans
mostly on the agile John Higgins, Tod Lowen,
Regan and Ryan, Fred Bluett, and clever little
Baby Watson.
*m * *
“Brewster’s Millions” is well into its
second week at Adelaide Royal, and has been ad-
vertised by a money-scattering act in the public
streets. Practical Adelaide took the usual com-
petition seriously, and sent in all manner of de-
tailed suggestions for spending a spare quarter-
million on good works ; the prize went to someone
who suggested presenting the Commonwealth with
a warship. Brewster himself is what our ances-
tors described as “an agreeable rattle,” and
Kingston plays him with just the requisite light-
ness of touch. Mrs. Brough and Miss Temple,
Roland Stavely, and many other good players flit
airily through parts that are quite unworthy of
them. The yacht scene is rather a tight fit on the
Royal stage, but it does all that was expected of
it. The co. promises the almost-tragedy of “John
Glayde’s Honor ”to finish its season. The Tivoli
has gone back to its own brand of Variety.
* * ->ic *
The same old “ Fatal Wedding ” —which
is not a wedding at all, but a deading—was re-
vived at Melbourne Royal on Saturday. Instead
of a different plot, or an entirely new set of dia-
logues, the management offered a change of cast
as a suitable novelty in this connection. The
public craving for novelty will not be fully satisfied
by the change. Aunt Cora appears this time as a
stoutish lady, with a benevolent chin and a
serenity of countenance quite unbecoming to a
villainess of the deepest dye. Also the weeping
young mother (Miss Beatrice Holloway) pre-
serves a pleasing embonpoint through all her
extraordinary misfortunes, and in no particular
is the foolishness of this audacious narrative
less apparent than before as regards the
grown-up characters. The improvement is
in the juvenile section. Little Queenie Wil-
Hams, the boss kiddie, is very little and
bright, and almost natural in her precocity. When
“ The Fatal Wedding ” first came to Melbourne
the presiding youngster was surprisingly clever,
but since then the supply of Australian stage
infants has increased in volume, and the
phenomenon of yesteryear is outdone by the prize
nipper of to-day. Under the careful management
of 0. JR,. Stanford, the Tin Can Band variety show
has been even too much developed. There are
now 40 kiddies on the job, and although the
scene is always strong in little details, it outstays
its welcome. The sparkle goes out of it. Which
remark has already lost its application if the per-
formance has been shortened. Anyhow, the
rowdy kiddies from the Alley will march to the
banging of the tin can for a fortnight only.
* * *
Last week this paper feared that the gods
of Bent’s capital would not save Anderson’s some-
what dull drama. The doubt was ill-grounded.
The gods are doing their best, and “Man for
Man ” will hold the big stage of the Russell
Theatre for another two or three weeks. (The
“ Russell ” is not the official name of the house,
but the name which ought to have been chosen in
preference to the “King’s.”) Every, night last
week 1100 bodies—-some of which contained souls,
perhaps—were packed into the spacious amphi-
theatre, and 2200 eyes glared at Dunbar when he
remarked that the game was going nicely into his
hands. The less expensive seats are less crowded,
owingto the fact that Anderson’s wealthier patrons
are mainly addicted to the giddv-girl brand of
bellowdrama, and want a lot of gilded sin for
their money. There is no gilded sin to speak of
in “ Man for Man.” Nor any blud. Bert Bailey .
committed a murder, he says, but the crime is a
bygone incident, and it contributes nothing to the
gaiety of the story, save that it accounts for the
gentleman’s presence at Portland, where he gets
introduced to George Cross. Bailey, the blood-
thirsty. is not intended to send a shudder through
the audience’s frame. He comes under the head-
ing of comic relief—a species of intermittent
humor which is comic when it arrives, and a relief
when it goes away.
RUTH LINCOLN as Sally Hook in “ Miss
Hook of Holland,” to be staged by Meynell
and Gunn at Sydney Criterion on Saturday,
25th July.
Photo, Burlington Studio.
Maskelyne and Devant’s Mysteries, now
at the Bijou, have received all The Bulletin
approval they ever deserved. In fact, a little
extra indulgence has been granted to the show on
account of its moral purity and tendency to go
slow. “Will, the Witch and the Watchman” is
a very ancient illusion, loaded with talk and
“business” calculated to set a Sunday-school
picnic in a roar. For the rest, the juggler is
neat, the conjurer is an expert, and Barclay
Gammon, with his quick, thick tongue and lively
treatment of the piano, has no difficulty in shaking
things up.
* * *
The tenth week of “The Merry Widow”
brings an announcement that her nights are
numbered; “Peter Pan” is coming back to Her
Majesty’s presently, therefore the Widow must
waltz elsewhere. Before she goes the Melbourne
public has an opportunity to note the effect of a
new conductor on the music of the opera. Harold
Carr was to take the chair last Saturday, and the
difference between massive Slap, and gentle
Harold should be more or less perceptible to the
ravished ear of the Widow’s frequent attendants.
** * *
Mrs. Wiggs moralises with continued
success at the Princess’s. The breath of popular
applause has not tarnished the shining surface of
Mrs. Wiggs’s artistic triumph. She makes her
points as quietly as at first, nothing exaggerating
nor setting down aught in malice. Her example,
which is even better than her precepts, should
deter Hiram Stubbins from exceeding the legiti-
mate limits of a stage drunk when he rolls upon
the ground of the Cabbage Patch in his greed for
the guffaws of a weak-minded minority. The
Grseco-Roman style'of intoxication is out of place
in such company. Otherwise the performance has
been slightly strengthened by a change in the
personality of Miss Lucy’s young man. All the
same, Miss Lucy must be regarded as unlucky in
her voung men.
** * *
Kubelik is to give three more recitals at
Melbourne Town Hall, for the delight of the local
musical community and the entertainment of those
people who missed hearing him last month hut
are bent on getting there this time. The World’s
Greatest Violinist is a celebrity not to be missed
by those self-respecting persons. The three
Kubelik nights are Saturday (25th), Monday
(27th), and Thursday next.
** * *
West’s star attraction at Melbourne
Olympia last Saturday night was Don Juan, some
of whose erotic exploits were thrown upon the
cambric with thrilling effect. He is attired in the
vivid, loquacious togs of the First Charles epoch,
and, when not prancing about masked to the
teeth and slaughtering elegant beings as harm-
less-looking as himself, the Don is making
passionate proposals to buxom wenches in
satin raiment. Sometimes, the p.ps. cause the
mercury to almost ignite in its upward impetus.
The most noticeable facts about the film are the
splendid oratorical powers of Juan’s clothes, his
furniture, and his apartments; and his timid
pugnacity when facing a spook which unaccount-
ably wanders about in ill-fitting hardware.
Altogether, it is a nice, imaginative piece of fic-
tion from Paris, and is the sort of fattening food
for the masses which can be extolled. Other
incentives to optimism are “The Good Candi-
date,” “ The Cat’s Revenge,” and “Jones Has a
Tile Loose.” But “ A Breach of Promise Case”
—a rather inane picture of a gentleman dog and a
lady dog—-makes one despondent.
* * * sK
Abdullah’s Arabs, who made their first
appearance at Melbourne Opera House last
Saturday, are equally bright and exciting in their
famous “act.” There are a dozen of them, includ-
ing the bearded Abdullah himself. In the build-
ing of human pyramids these cheerful sons of the
desert take turns at bearing the heat and
burden of the superstructure. Any of them,
seemingly, can support several of his colleagues
on his shoulders and twined around him.
Finally ten Arabs dispose themselves neatly about
the body of the principal Samson of the troupe,
his legs being the only pair of understandings in
touch with the stage. After which an individual
arid collective whirl of Arabs—a wild competition
in agility—rouses the Rickards public to the
giddiest height of enthusiasm it has attained for
many a long month. The “ turn ”is better than
merely wonderful. It is exhilarating. There are
other “turns” by other people, but the'Arabs
leave no room for any rival importance in the bill.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Parvenu”: Let me correct some of “Ami’s” mis-
apprehensions concerning- Dan Barry, deceased. He says
(9/7/’08) that he “ can never imagine Dan Barry being
stage-struck. Whatever had to be filled up he’d take it
respectably.” Now, if Barry had a fault, it was his high
opinion of Barry as an actor. As for filling up vacancies—
well, rabbits! plain and illuminated rabbits! Oftdid Daniel
brave the scathing sarcasm of his “bunch” by picking
out the “fat” parts—many of which were entirely un-
suited to him—solely on account of their corpulence.
“ Ami ” opines that Barry had “a gopd education,
gleaned partly from the Melbourne University.” As a
fact, Barry had to shift for himself at the age of eight, or
thereabouts ; selling papers was one of his early enter-
prises. Dan’s only Alma Mater was the kerbstone. He
was given to romancing some, to put it mildly, which
accounts probably for “Ami’s” quaint views as to the
place where this mime absorbed his learning. “Ami”
notes that Barry’s health had “ for many years been
delicate.” Rabbits and small deities! His homely old
dial glowed like a summer sunset! Once, on seeing in a
patent-medicine book an account of his mortal illness,
and the swift and complete cure that was effected by the
swallowing of Bashed Pills, I asked him whether the
nostrums had really done him good. Dan answered with
the frankness that'made him the lovable character he was
that he’d never had a day’s scarlet illness in hiscrimson life,
but had got five bright-red pounds for the testimonial.
“ Ami ” is right as to Bob Holtyford being the descendant
of Bob Whitworth, but when naming Barry’s stock artists
he omits Lou Levy' and Gladys Grant. Barry, Baker and
Norman were all supering together in Arthur and Helen
Vivian’s Dramatic Co.
“ Harrison Owen ”: Re the evil influence which the rise
of the shickergraph had on the fortunes of the late
Dan Barry (B. 9/7/’08), the old busker was enabled
through this instrument to demonstrate for the manyth
time his wonderful knack of adapting himself to circum-
stances. About a fortnight after the San Francisco earth-
quake, Dan arrived in our hamlet and bespread its walls
with the following ad. : —“ Pictures of the Fearful Holo-
caust. Realistic Reproduction of the Devastating
Horror. Gigantic Upheavals of Mother Earth. Giant
Buildings Swaying and Crashing,” etc., and much
more written (capitals and all) as only one man in
Australia could write it. The public, pausing not
to calculate how long it would take an airship to bring
a load of flickergraph films over from Am-murika, hurried
like mad to see the glorious and bloody wreck. For a
couple of hours they gazed blankly at pictures of the
Eight Hours Day procession and other peaceful events,
but never a spadeful of earth quaked anywhere. At long
length the deceived rustics became boisterous, and for a
time it looked as if somebody would have to go in search
of the Law to read the Riot Act; but Dan came before the
screen and, in reply to rounds of hisses, catcalls,
Kentish fire, etc., he gave the soft lie which turneth away
stoush. And because Australians (most of ’em) have a
sense of humor, law-an’-order was restored.
Hawthorn has raised a choral society in its midst, and
the first concert of the new organisation is to make the
welkin ring next Wednesday (29th). Fred Mewton, a
clever young organist, will wave a baton at the choir, the
assisting soloists being Miss Lilian Reid, Leslie Banfield
and Hattenbach with his ’cello.
“Dora G. W.’s” trope: Beethoven’s “Moonlight”
Sonata, as interpreted by Hambourg, is a wild and
stormy thing. Others have played it, and have
suggested naught but a golden moon gleaming on the
placid waters of the harbor, with lovers filled to over-
flowing with “Love’s Young Dream” and a determina-
tion to catch the last boat home, gliding down to Manly.
Mark’s rendering whirls us outside the Heads in the
teeth of a roaring gale, while dark clouds obscure the
.moon, and white-haired combers hurl themselves against
the South Head, and sea-mews complain, and gulls argue
the point, and all is terror and commotion.
The sight of the three Chows now pervading
Sydney in their national costumes brought back memories
of Li Hung Chang, who looked as quaintly out of place
when he visited London, a decade ago, as these aliens do
here to-day. While I live I shall not forget Li’s arrival in
the Empire Lounge, London. It was a Saturday night.
The promenade that encircles the back of this huge
music-hall was packed with .youthful Britishers, male and
female. Every light lady in the metropolis who
could raise the wherewithal to get her frock out
of pawn and pay her ss. entrance-fee seemed to
be there. The great arc with its inhabitants suggested
a drunken rainbow after a downpour of patchouli. Far
away on the stage below an unimportant balladist made
faint melody. Suddenly strange noises were heard with-
out, and the whole place grew still with amazement as
Li Hung Chang, followed by five or six of his countrymen,
entered. The points that struck one hardest about Li
were—(l) That he was about 6ft. Bin. high ; (2) that a
foot at least of the said stature was forehead. He seemed
to like the Empire Lounge. Though his party had a
couple of boxes Li kept obtruding himself on Lutetia’s
chosen haunt. He paced gloomily' round the circle, glaring
deadly over the ladies’ heads, and then paced gloomily
back again. Strenuous efforts were made to anchor the
potentate, whose extraordinary night-gown arrangement
in eighteen different colors went far to confirm previous
rumors as to its owner’s immense wealth. (The London
female regards a Chow or nigger as “adorable” and
“ simply sweet.”) To his credit be it said, he remained
adamant—in public. When he left at about 11 p.m. a shrill
cheer went up ; the aged Pagan’s “turn’’had been the
most successful of the evening.
“Snell”: Some managements are almost too “fresh.”
For instance, at the opening night of the King’s Theatre,
Melbourne, a man was dragged out of the gallery for
crying “ No ! No ! ” when Tommy Bent called for cheers
for the King. It’s a question if a man who pays to see a
play is not justified in crying “No !” when other people’s
politics are pushed at him, and managers are rash in
needlessly turning on the chucker-out. Some day they
may badly want a chucker-in.
“ Vulcan ” : Manager Harry Rickards tells London Era
that, being 60 and a grandfather, he pines to quit the
show business and settle down in the sphere of life for
which he feels Nature intended him—viz., that of a
British country gentleman. However, Henry doesn’t see
much prospect yet awhile. He had the misfortune to
make more money last year than in any one year before,
but his bookings run right up to 1910, and unless he can
find somebody to buy his theatres he’ll have to grind at
the heartbreaking job of piling up coin till further notice.
Florence Baines, the buxom proprietress of “Miss
Lancashire Limited,” has resolved to make Australia her
home and abiding place, and has possessed herself of
15,000 Westralian acres, with the intention of becoming a
squatteress. This lump of land and the cattle and
sheep on its surface represent only portion of the Aus-
tralian profits of “ Miss Lancashire,” so there is evidently
money in running a cheap sort of play with a loud dish-
wrecking hoyden in it. Miss Baines intends devoting
herself to cattle breeding and theatrical management,
which somehow reminds of the genius who divided his
time between prize-fighting and the collection of rare
editions of Shakspeare.
The City Dads of Christchurch (M.L.) have promul-
gated a by-law ordering theatre managers to number
admission tickets to correspond with the seats in the
house, and making it a punishable offence to issue
more tickets than there are seats. So good old “ Standing
Room Only ” is dead and buried in Christchurch, and the
grass is already growing over his grave.
“ D.” : London is just now torn by conflicting emotions
over the dancing of Maud Allan. Maud cavorts about a
public stage in a more undressed state than any other
female has dared to affect since the gay old times when
two coats of woad and a stone battle-axe were considered
the height of propriety. The special correspondent of
the Paris Nf.w York Herald hurried over to see her show,
and afterwards wrote this to hispaper(l/6/’oB)from London:
—“lt is a mooted question here whether her dance is
thoroughly improper or thoroughly artistic. There
is no middle opinion. Many go to see her be-
cause they think it is the most improper perform-
ance ever put on the English stage. As many
others go to see her because they consider it absolutely
pure and chaste art. Her dance struck me as being in-
decent and at the same time perfectly modest. She does
not wear tights or fleshings. She is barefooted and bare-
limbed. The draperies she wears are of the thinnest
gauze. In the Salome dance she is nude to the waist
except for some strings of beads and jewelled ornaments.
Below the waist she is also practically nude, as the single
gauze skirt is transparent and is generally floating high in
the air.” Local loyalists, who hold that the views of British
royalties and their associates are, in such matters, even
as the views of Ebenezer of the Abernethy Tabernacle,
and that the tastes of these exalted ones jump with
the tastes of Ebenezer’s godly spouse Martha, will be
amazed somewhat at the Herald’s further statement:
—“The King and Queen of England have seen Maud
Allan dance a number of times, including a special per-
formance at the Earl of Dudley’s house. Lady Richardson
has seen her about twenty times, and Prince Francis of
Teck about eight times.”
Pansy Montague Milo was last month touring Ireland,
and the truthful Cruikshank announced “she has covered
herself with fresh glory.” There are people who consider
there is room for covering of some description.
“Jean Sibi ” : There is one point about “ The Belle of
Mayfair ” that I should like to grow diffuse upon—but
won’t. I allude to the Gibson girl septet who exhibit
themselves in Act 11. According to the canons of Gibson
art, they ought to be thrilling examples of grace, deport-
ment and shapeliness ; but I doubt if any of the ladies
under notice fulfils all those requirements. The leader
of the team, robed in black velvet, appears to me as a
trifle too short and buxom for an ideal Gibsonienne,
while the bulk of the others, strikingly garbed in ruby, by
the way, seem unnecessarily slender. I could say a word
or two more, but, as that would be unchivalrous, I heap
much silence on the subject and pass on. And that is not
all I have against “ The Belle ”as a show. I object to the
painful freedom of Sir John Chaldicott’s malapropisms.
They hurt me so much that I would cheerfully assist in
his arrest for furious inanity.
“R.M.”: Was the detective in “The Thief’’really on
the wrong scent when he accused young Henri of stealing
the money? I doubt it. What if the boy and not Marie
was the thief after all ? They both confessed their guilt,
and in neither case was the confession withdrawn. In-
criminating bank notes were found in the possession of
both. So far their claims are equal. But now there is
the detective’s evidence to turn the scale in favor of the
boy’s guilt. There are several items—his heavy losses on
the turf, his entertainment of an actress in town, notable
an expensive form of distraction—which were never
properly explained, and could not be accounted for by a
paternal allowance of less than a “pony” a month.
What if the authors themselves have been deceived ?
Will somebody take the matter up ?
“ Melb ”: Everyone is charmed with Fitz Gerald’s article
in The Lone Hand on Rignold. Allow me to weave a
little woof into the web. The mother of William and
George was a splendid actress, even in such parts as
Romeo and Hamlet. Fitz Gerald under-estimates Irving’s
position just before “The Bells.” Irving had made a
name by his performances at the Queen’s in “ Dearer
Than Life,” “ Uncle Dick’s Darling,” and “ Oliver Twist ”
(he was praised by Dickens as Sikes), and, above all, in
“ The Two Roses,” at the Vaudeville. He had been a
leading man in London five years, ever since a successful
performance in “ The Belle’s Stratagem.” Yet, as Rig-
nold says, his appearance in “Fanchette,” at theL3 r ceum,
was a dismal failure. No wonder that Manager
Bateman tried to supersede him with Rignold. Jack
Ryder said, “ Don’t go ; the house will be in the hands of
the bailiffs 1 ” Well, maybe Rignold would not have
saved it from that. When Irving played Charles 1., Rig-
nold played Cromwell in opposition, in a play by Col.
Richards. Belmore’s Cromwell was a despicable foil for
Irving-. Rignold’s was the optimistic kind, adapted from
Victor Hugo. By the way, Belmore’s daughter, Miss
Daisy Belmore, teaches stage elocution in this city. She
was the original Dacia, named after her, in Barrett’s
“ Sign of the Cross.” Rignold’s Henry V. obliterates all
others in English stage history, from Kemble, Macready,
Phelps and C. Kean to Coleman, Calvert, Benson and
Waller.
Australia was well represented in Cork, Ireland, on a
recent date, when Olive Lenton, Winnie Browne, Ernest
Mozar, and Frank Lawton were showing in Musgrove's
“ Belle of New York ” co. at one theatre, and Milo and
Cruickshank Lang held the fort at a rival establishment.
NO FOLLOWERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One Australian management, it is said, has been com-
pelled to take strong measures to prevent the female
adorers of his leading man invading those parts of the
theatre where there is supposed to be no admittance
except on business.
Ye little ladies in the stalls,
And pert young persons in the pit,
Whom his entrancing smile enthralls,
Contented be from where you sit
To view the actor’s lovely face,
And glory in his youthful grace.
The manager is very wroth
At maids who wish to throng behind,
And so the unromantic Goth
Has set this notice, duly signed,
High up before the tearful crowd
Of girls : “ No followers allowed ! ”
VIC.
S.S.


df
Sale Time Closes
AN ORDER FOR A PAIR OF RIDING TRODSERS.
If you send an order and post it up until the closing
time of our Sale on Saturday, JULY 25th, we send it at
Sale Prices and less 5 per cent, discount for cash.
These Riding Trousers are in White and Drab
Colored Canton Moleskin, light weight, very soft, and
splendid wearing. They are specially cut to give room
and comfort in the saddle.
Narrow cut, tapering at the foot, as illustrated.
Our own make. All sizes are stocked.
Usual Price, 9/6. Sale Price, 8/6.
And 5 por cent. Discount for Cash.
We send these goods Carriage Paid.
David Jones Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
-
iM
m
J 8»
m
mm
The
‘Goerz Anschute”
FOLDING CAMERA.
AN IDEAL CAMERA to take
THE FLEET,
and for those who require a High-Class Camara,
in a Compact, Light, and Quickly Adjusted Style.
An Entirely New Mode!. The SPEEDS of the
FOCAL PLANE SHUTTER working automatically
from l/1200th of a second up to 5 seconds. The Lens
is the GOERZ “ DAGOR.”
The New Improvements in this Excellent Camera
must recommend it to the most critical. Users of it
are charmed by its efficiency and adaptability.
Though Extremely Light, no quality is sacrificed.
Everything that science could give has been added
to this SUPERB CAMERA.
PRICE, including-Lens, Shutter, Three Double-Dark Slides, and
Velvet-Lined Leather Carrying Case—
-s|in. x 3£in. (Post Card Size), £lB/15/-, Complete.
x 4fin. (|-Plate), £23, Complete.
C. P. GOERZ,
or HARRINGTON & CO..
1 to 6 HOLBORN CIRCUS, LONDON, E.G.
„TD., 386 George Street, Sydney; and 93 Queen Street, Brisbane.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
It is well to have these little points of
social etiquette Settled ! It has been held by a
Berth bobby magistrate that it isn’t libellous to
accuse a man of being friendly with the hang-
man, “as the Westralian hangman might be a
most estimable gentleman.”
DESPERATE.
A kitten was found to be suffering from plague. It
bee me infected through contact with rats. —Daily paper.
Thomas: “I can't stand this. There is nothing
for it hut to go and he inoculated."
The latest outrage on the feelings of help-
less babes was perpetrated the other day in Mel-
bourne on the departure of retiring Governor-
General Northcote. In the words of the morning
paper —
On and about* Princes Bridge a throng of about 3000
school children had gathered. At the approach of Lord
and Lady Northcote they were formed into an open
square. In the centre a flag was raised, and the children
saluted bareheaded. A band which attended them played
the National Anthem, which the children sang with vigor.
The carriage was stopped. Mr. Sachse, Minister for Edu-
cation, was among the children, and Lady Northcote
requested as a favor tliat he would grant a holiday on a
suitable date for the State schools throughout Victoria.
Mr. Sachse promised favorable consideration of the sug-
gestion. The little ones requested the Minister to inform
Lord Northcote that the children of Victoria feared God
and honored the King, and in the presence of the flag
they wished him to take that message to the King. This
Lord Northcote undertook to do.
Never in the whole course of its life has The
Bulletin met a child that would, of its own free
will and without prompting, send a message of that
description to a middle-aged gentleman that it had
never even seen. If this paper ever did meet
such an infant, it would raise its fatherly gamp on
high and, taking careful aim, smite the degenerate
furiously on the half way down. And it wouldn’t
feel any remorse about it e.ther —unless it
.happened to break the gamp.
A Sydney property-owner found himself
the unwilling landlord of one Rock recently, and
had to use legal dynamite to shift the obstruction.
“ Propputy’s” agonised tale (as told to Justice
Cohen) was that, his house being vacant, Rock got
hold of the keys, elected himself non-paying
tenant, and subsequently “refused to do any-
thing ”in the way of moving. Seemingly, being
Rock, he just deposited himself, and awaited the
legal shifting-powder with ponderous muteness.
* * * *
The jealousy between Sydney and Mel-
bourne is brotherly love compared to that which
exists between Wellington and Auckland in Maori-
land. The trouble dates back to the days when
Wellington collared the capital site from Auck-
land. Wellington calls itself “ The Empire City ”
—whatever that may mean—and Auckland re-
torts by dubbing itself the “ Queen City ” —which
is more understandable. Kipling came along and
threw dynamite on the troubled flames by address-
ing the northern city as “last, loneliest, loveliest,
exquisite, apart,” and so forth, and Wellington
never quite got over that. Then Wellington com-
menced to boom with a mighty roar, and to
soar upwards in population, commercial import-
ance. and swelled head. But Auckland,
although it didn’t soar quite so fast, still went
upwards sufficientlv fast to keep ahead of
Wellington. When" the Yankee Fleet was first
announced, Wellington clamored that the capital
was the place it ought to visit, but the White
Armada announced that time was limited, and
therefore Auckland would be the door at which
it would hand in its card. Wellington lost the
power of speech for nearly a fortnight, and when
it recovered, it arose with dignity and said it was
real glad that the squadron was going to Auckland.
It was just the sort of squadron Auckland
deserved. The men were badly disciplined and
mad and drunk and possessed by a devil, and
every place the armada had called at on the
voyage was mighty glad to see the tail of it disap-
pearing over the horizon. Then Wellington sat
down on its tail to think of some more nasty things
to say.
J • * * *
St. Kilda (Melb.) Council, the other day,
got the answer it deserved when it asked Minister
Cameron to repair, ornament and improve the
local pier, and then hand it over, holus-bolus, so
that the Council might charge Id. or 2d. a head
for promenading thereon. Cameron, of course,
refused ; but the blessed Council, having heard of
the Hinglish practice of charging, still hankers
after the trifle of revenue —at State expense —and
will presently come cadging again. St. Kilda
Council is about the most incompetent adminis-
trative body in the Commonwealth. Years ago it
traded away its tramway rights for a trifle ; it did
the same with its gas rights ; it has no market;
its town hall is in such an unfinished, dilapidated
state that it earns hardly a penny of revenue; it
was too big an ass to build the tramline that Bent
afterwards built, and so lost considerable re-
venue; it has chivvied the public off its fore-
shore to make room for merry-go-rounds, wheels,
and other follies; it has handed over its bath
sites to private speculators ; and now it wants the
State to put the pier in order so that it can
skirmish up a shilling or two for the dog-man’s
wages. If St. Kilda Council had made the most
of its natural advantages and position, it might
be the model municipality of the State, with
hardly any direct taxation ; but apparently the
ratepayers like to be taxed, or they wouldn’t have
put the men they have done into the Council.
*“* * *
A Federal official got this letter the other
day from a Tasmanian farmer
My respected and dear friend, —
Permit me to solicit a high and 1 \sting favor at your
hands, that is to say if in your travels through Hobart
you know of any Female of soher and Steady Habits that
has no objections to marry and make herself and myself as
happy as possihle, i should like .you to write to me on
this all-important matter as i Wish to marry at once as
i have not any person to look after me, so that i am living
lonely and very miserable, my Wife departed this life a
little time past i send certificate i beg that you Sir show
it to the Woman so that she may know all’ about me
in asking you to dr. this for me i beg that you wil 1
not for a Moment object to my making you ample recom-
pence as far as lays in my power and i ask you Sir to re-
member that no object is so pleasing to the eye than the
sight of the Man you have obliged nor any musick so
Agreeable to the ear as the voice of him that owns you
his Benefactor and am Sir,
Yours in humble Sincerity,
P.S. the Woman i should like not under 4-0 not over 50
a sober and a Godly Woman to her I say come to me and
a thousand Welcoms to you in the lord if by .your consent
you can be my married wife, married at once on Arrival
the minister waiting, and so am i i say God bless you
and me and all the Human Family yours in the Lord
Jesus my hand and m.v Vieart.
P.S. m.v dear Sir please to tell the Woman no rent to
pay fine garden Well furnished hut stocked with flour
bacon tea and sugar Splendid Bed and all that is wanted
i have, less the chief, thing, that is a Mistress and i don’t
like to see the empty chair
P.S. i may say that if a Lady comes here that can be a
good Washer or a Charwoman she might easeily pocket 8
eight shillings or more a Week as good Washerwomen are
very scarce on this township, finally i shall not object if
there is a child or two (2.) the lady can come down as the
coach passes my, door twice a day 7 and if she does not like
me on arrival i Will pay her passage to Hobart please
don’t delay 7.
* « * *
Some men have no luck. A train runs
to Oodnadatta, in Central Australia, but once a
fortnight, and then it only runs in a moderate
way of speaking. Also, if you managed to escape
beingkilled by the train that runs (in the gradual
way of speaking) once a fortnight, you would have
to wander on 1200 miles or so before you got in the
way of another one. And yet, with all that time
and space for dodging, a man found himself in
trouble with a train at Oodnadatta, the other day,
and all the rest of his life he will carry round a
maimed hand as a memento of his shocking luck.
THE RAILWAY TRAM.
An intelligent Government having placed Sydney's “ Central ” Railway Station on the top
of a huge knob of earth at the far south end of the city, this is the way the Ashfield and
Burwood resident starts his journey home.
The curse of drink again. That well-
known Sydney man who stands charged with
lifting £2OOO, and who, it is alleged, fitted
out a schooner for Guam via the Islands,
took 10 gallons of whisky along with the
“trade.” Now the “trade” schooner isn’t
allowed to carry spirits to the simple Islander;
also there is a limit to the ammunition, and the
amateur trader stocked up with an excess of car-
tridges. So there was trouble with the Customsover
a clearance, and, while the matter was being fixed
up, three days slipped by —and then the arrest
happened.
A war of some dimensions is raging in
North Queensland. The Rifle Association is the
cause ; the clubs are the belligerents. Charters
Towers influence, it is declared, has been domi-
nating affairs in the past, and Townsville has
waded in to burst up the alleged monopoly.
Occasionally the clubs radiating about the two
centres meet, and resolve and generally declare
that what the other set has been doing is hereby
rescinded and demolished. The commotion
reached its top at a special meeting called at the
Towers, the other day, when two chaiimen took
two chairs, and each said his chair was the only
true and cons’tooshnal piece of furniture. The
secretary didn’t know where he was, and until he
could find out he refused to read the minutes.
Legal opinions were produced which were, of
course, at variance ; and the gathering ended in
blank cartridge. Now the Minister for Defence
is being implored to settle the trouble; and, if
these rifle-club bodies are to be taken seri-
ously, the trouble can’t be settled too suddenly.
Nor can the circumstances which make such
trouble possible.
If Sydney is going to have a tramway
strike, it may as well have it during the visit of
the U.S. fleet as at any other time. There is a
dreadful fear that the system will break down
during that period of excitement, and make Sydney
a laughing stock. More electric power is wanted,
and the officials had the importing disease so
badly that they couldn’t think of having the
new machinery made in Australia ; and now the
British contractors have failed badly, as per usual,
and the machinery, that was to be on hand at
latest two months before the fleet came, isn’t
likely to arrive till three months after it is gone.
If the cars are running at the time of the great
spree they will have to stand a huge extra strain,
and it is quite probable that for want of power
the system will snap like a carrot, and Sydney
will be a by-word and a reproach. But if the cars
are not running they can’t break down. And it
would be more respectable to show our visitors a
strike in good working order than a tram system
that wouldn’t work at all. In fact, it might be
worth while to pay the men to strike that week,
and allow them 6d. a day extra for rioting. Un-
less there was some rioting the Yankees might
refuse to believe that the strike was real.
THE DIGNITY OF LABOR.
The white population in the Transvaal, says the corres-
pondent of the London Dailt Telegraph, seems to have
already been stirred up, and navvying by whites is no
longer looked upon as an impossible spectacle. Indeed,
extensive drainage operations have lately been carried
out by European labor in the streets of Johannesburg.
The track laying in the neighboring colony in connec-
tion with the linking up of the Bloemfontein-Kimberley
railway line was done by about sixty poor whites, and
they maintained the good average of lj miles of rails laid
per' day, while their record was If miles. One hammer-
man who came especially under notice was, until very
recently, in a good position as an accountant. There
were three accountants in the gang, a blacksmith, a
watchmaker, and a number of Dutch farmers. — Mel-
bourne Herald.
THE ROMISH EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rome was making its power felt even in the newspaper
world. It had gripped the London Turns. Its columns
were open to all Papal questions under a Roman Gatholic
editor. And the doings of the archbishop and the priests
had a prominent place among the daily and weekly news-
papers.—Extract from Yelloiv Pup oration, S. M. Herald,
U/71'08.
The Romish editor is clad
In silken vestments red,
A censer wreathes an odor had
About his mitred head,
And devils scurry in like mad
To earn their daily bread.
His scissors bear the sign of Rome,
His ink is Popisli ink,
And from his nib drips sable foam
Whene’er he stops to think.
The mitre on his thoughtful dome
Vibrates with rage and drink.
With Popish plots his brain is packed.
He writes to Rome : “ We will,
Ere very long, begin to act.
We have our eye on Dill.
He’ll be a bishop—or be racked !
Ha ! ha ! a bitter pill ! ”
The priests play dominoes in pairs,
The cardinals play cards
,(“ Thrippence-a-dozen ”) ’neath the stairs,
While brigand Papal Guards
>Go up and down with dreadful swears,
Disguised as drinky bards.
Year in, year out, the Plotter sits
Wittiin his Romish den,
While with his incense-sodden wits,
And Pope-blesssd, ruffian pen,
He makes, his sly and wicked hits
At good, staunch Orangemen.
n.s.w.
KODAK.
ALCOHOL IN MEDICINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of forty-two samples examined not one was totally free
from it, and several ran up to over 40 per cent., which
means that every patient who took a dose was getting-
more alcohol than if he drank a nip of the average
whisky. ... A tonic “ recommended for the treatment
of the alcohol habit ” panned out 26J per cent., which is
more than would be expected in a liquid beef prepara-
tion. —Sydney Telegraph.
If you’re swearing off strong liquor,
After being on the “ shikker,”
Do not weep ;
For amidst domestic (?) blisses,
You can pacify the “ missus,”
Likewise keep
Sundry pledges you’ve been making,
With an inward, coward quaking,
And much grief,
Through a Heaven-born specific,
That will quench your thirst terrific—
“ Liquid Beef.”
With a tongue like ink-eraser,
If you feel you need a bracer
Come with me ;
At the chemist’s round the corner,
You’ll no longer feel forlorner,
For your spree.
If you know a righteous yearning
For repentance, and for turning
A new’ leaf;
Never hesitate to turn it,
Then just tear it out and burn it —
Mine’s a “ Beef.”
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


A CERTAIN
CURE FOR
RHEUMATISM.
The Rheumagnetic Ring’s curative powers are un-
doubted—it has cured hundreds, including doctors.
Will positively cure you.
The ring is sold to you under a guarantee ; if it is
not what we claim, we return your money.
Nickel Plated, 7/6 Post Free.
Believes Nervous Complaints, Kidney Troubles,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Gout, Neuralgia, etc.
V
We Send Booklet on
Request.
THE RHEUMACNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart. [2
In spite of what pessimists say,
Science holds all diseases at hay,
And nine-tenths of our ills
Can be treated by pills,
Laxo-Tonic is leading the way.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
The Han»
AMERICAN FLEET SOUVENIR.
The best souvenir of the American Fleet pub-
lished in Australasia will be the August Lone
Hand. .
(If you are a Sydney resident, see the giant
frame in Paling’s, showing some of the special
Fleet pictures; it has almost blocked the traffic
these last few days.)
If you are not a regular subscriber to The Lone
Hand, make sure of getting this August No. by
ordering now from your newsagent, or send Is. Id.
to the office for a copy to be posted to you.
Thelphe. ffprep
214 George Street, Sydney..
Australia is suffering from a rush of pig--
tail. Every time The Bulletin looks out the-
window it sees something shuffling by dressed in
faded pyjamas, and with a tiling that looks like a
thin, dead serpent dangling from the back of its
head. These are understood to be ambassadors
or something from the North, and when the Sydney
daily paper young man goes meekly along to sit
at their feet and interview them, they make
remarks of this description :
In all places where the British flag- flies the Chinese
always appear contented. What wonderful colonisers the
British are 1 My advice to my fellow-countrymen is this :
There is a saying, “ When you are in Rome you must do
as the Romans do,” therefore I say to my fellow-country-
men, “You must at all times remain good and law-
abiding citizens ; you need not then fear any injustice-
under British rule.”
If, after this, The Bulletin’s vegetable John
dares to recite to it: “ Imperial Csesar, dead and
turned to clay, might stop a hole to keep the wind
away,” this paper will immediately take steps to
get its lettuce' somewhere else.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
T-'V :-e ,
, «
11-. C l ■*)■,. fr\> * -
Cliff
*■
Pure Wool Vests
They combine smartness with warmth and
great comfort, and, being knitted, they fit
easily. Our illustration shows one of them,
/. and it does not do it justice—it cannot
portray the handsome design—nor the good
general effect. We strongly recommend
them as first-class Vests— of pure wool—per-
fectly cut and shaped, and long wearing.
The 14/6 Vest is Black with Red Spots,
with White Spots; Blue with Red Spots.
Price - - 14/6 each.
Others 16/6 and 18/6.
Add Gd. for Postage.
Please state Chest Measurement.
PEAPES (EL CO. LTD.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
Providence last week gave the Victorian
police a leg-up by delivering into their hands a
gang of untidy housebreakers. The affair began
on a Saturday at midnight, when a South Yarra
woman hurried into the local police station with a
parcel of jewellery, and told the man in charge
that it had fallen from a cab which had driven
away at top speed from a small house in a back
street. The constable, after comparing the valu-
ables with descriptions in the stolen-property list,
made noises for a brother John, and the two set
off in a stealthy manner for the back street. As
they drew near, they heard shouts of “Murder” and
“Police,” so, getting up off their waistcoats (they
had crawled all the way from the station on their
official stummicks to avert suspicion), they rushed
in and found a man on the floor and another
kicking him. The Johns leaped at the pair and
bore them off to the watchhouse, where the kickee
laid a charge of assault against the kicker. The
kickist, who had been shifted without his coat or
vest, sulkily asked the police to send back
for the garments, as he was cold. They did
so, and when the clothes arrived they felt
in one of the vest pockets and discovered a
skeleton key, which key gave rise to suspicions.
The police prospected round some more, and
found bits of burnt jewellery in the untidy fire-
place of the house in the back street, and frag-
ments of broken, jewellery in the untidy yard.
They hadn’t sufficient time just then to crawl up
on the untidy roof, or they would most likely have
found that littered with jewellery also. By the
capture of this gang, the virtue of tidiness has got
another advertisement, for if the thieves hadn’t
got into the habit of dropping the spoil on the
public highway and casting it about the house and
backyard, they would, in all probability, be still
burgling peacefully for their crust. Then the fact
that one person thought the other had stolen the
package of jewellery (which in reality had been
untidily dropped from the cab), and knocked him
down and kicked him under that erroneous im-
pression, and caused the kickee to call out “ Mur-
der” and “ Bigamy,” and things like that—these
matters also contributed to the downfall. Even
the Victorian police will walcemp and do some-
thing if you shriek “Murder 1 ” long enough.
MARK’S HUMBUG.
“I was a single man in those days, when I lost things.
Now I am travelling with 40 packages, 10 cases of milk”
this for the baby—“ and various other items, and,”
with a justifiably triumphant air, “I have lost only two
packages.”—MARK HAMBOURG.
NEWSPAPER FIEND: “ Which packages?”
MUSICAL LION: “The baby and the milk!”
rpi it r
The breathless public notice in redress of
IWki-n £TVh 8 f "n Wn m more P laces than
Hi 1f • L° W W g C °'v leS fro “ Perth ’
and was published m the west Australian :
"PUBLIC NOTICE
JL " ‘
Whereas Myself and Daughter have been GROSSLY
INSULTED by one Mary Keep, because of our respect
for and sympathy with Mrs. Gregory, I tender my
Resignation as a member of the Perth “Ladies’”
National “Liberal” League. MARY MORGAN.
There is a stints abmif TVlN™’*
tha tfs Ibarra er f Y t
that is sharper than the fan" of Sosh itself.
LIBERAL.
PORTERr (whom the passenger had sent at the last moment to see if his lost hag was in the
waiting-room): “Yes, sir! It’s there on the table, sir.” (Passengers remarks are
lost in the distance.)
“ D.M.W.” his reply :
Rats to the theory of “Mabel Holmes" (B. 11/6/’08)
that the colored male possesses “ an irresistible attrac-
tion ” for the white female! The white man consorts
with the colored woman the world over, if you like ; but
the reverse is about as common as white hair in a girl of
15, or any other unnatural phenomenon of the sort.
The greaser races of South and Central America
are the product of a blending of European and savage.
How many Spanish women mated with Indians? There
are and always have been plenty of half-caste niggers in the
United States. How many of them have white mothers?
Maoris and whites have for long lived nearly on an equality
in Maoriland. How many Maoris have white wives?
I’m all with “ Mabel Holmes ” in her wish to see niggers
banned from white men’s countries, and that for a thou-
sand good and sufficient reasons. But it isn’t a good or
any other sort of sane reason to barrack for exclusion on
the ground that women of our color cherish a mad,
dangerous tendency to marry yellow and dusky men.
They don’t (except in the rare cases where they are hope-
less perverts), and to hurl such a generalisation at them
amounts to what ought to be an indictable libel.
A while ago the Australian press pub-
lished a cablegram from London which was to the
effect that some authorities (unnamed) considered
the submarine “not adapted” for Aus-
tralian defence. The impression con-
veyed was that the submarine was a de-
licate little thing only fit for pottering
about harbors. Now comes the news
that 17 of the craft have steamed from
Dover to the Firth of Forth, a distance
of 415 miles—under water, except for the
conning towers—at a speed of 10 knots,
and this paper feels moved to inquire why
the submarine is “not adapted” for Aus-
tralian waters. Those 17 dots rippling
along the surface of the sea would make a
hostile admiral a lot more nervous than
the sight of seventeen ships of the class
Bull keeps in this section of the ocean,
and if they can navigate the North Sea,
it is up to the authorities we heard about
to explain why they couldn’t struggle
along in the Tasman Sea also. A dark
suspicion begins to float around that some
“authorities ” in England, in their desire
to discourage the creation of any marine
force that won’t be directly under British
orders, are prepared to declare indis-
criminately that battleships, cruisers, tor-
pedo boats, and sub-marines are all “ not
adapted ” for Australian waters —unless
Bull owns them, that is. Some day we
may even hear that big guns won’t stand
the climate on the Australian coast.
The Bulletin’s Oldest Inhabitant grows
garrulous :
Another lover-poisoning episode occurred last week in
aristocratic Toorak (Melbourne). Charles Groves, a farm
laborer, aged 22 years, had been “keeping company’
with Mary WalkingtOn, aged 23, a domestic employed at
Mrs. Murchison’s private hospital for the insane, “Clover-
dale,” near the old Government House grounds, Toorak.
The man gave the girl (of whom he was jealous) strychnine
in chocolates, and then took some himself. Both are
dead. “Cloverdale” in the early ’fifties was built by
Edward Arnold, a bookseller of 56 Elizabcth-street, Mel-
bourne. The quaint little shop still stands, buttressed by
Altson’s newly-erected tobacco shop and chambers. That
particular corner (half an acre in extent) was known in
early days as “ No. l,” and, when this scribe was employed
in Arnold’s book store next door, half a century ago, was
also known as “ Cusbmore’s Corner.” At the first land
sale the half-acre was bought by Mr. James Ross for £32,
the purchaser entering into a bond to erect a “ substantial
building valued at £2O within two years.” Mr. Ross, to
oblige certain friends, consented to cut up the half-acre,
and in May, 1839, the lots brought at auction £650. In
1888 the bit of ground was valued at £493.500. In the
late ’fifties Mr. Arnold sold “ Cloverdale ” to John William
Bogg, a partner in the wool firm of J. H. Clough and Co.
Mr. Bogg lived in the house for some years until Clough
and Co. dissolved. Mrs. Arnold was a daughter of Mr.
Perry, the first to establish a plants nursery in Victoria,
on the road near Heidelberg. William Perry, of the old
auction firm of Symons and Perry, was a son of the
nurseryman. Arnold sold off his book business in JB6l
and went with his wife to Dunedin (M.L.). He was an
artist by profession and a good draughtsman. In Dune-
din he established a photographic business and did well.
Picking up a picture of “ Old Otagoites”in the’sixties,
I find Arnold and many other old Melbournites—Vincent
Pvke, Brodie, etc.—amongst the number. And mean-
while Charles Groves and Mary Walkington are still dead.
For downright flat perjury a maritime
collision case is supposed to hold the record. If
one side produces 12 witnesses to solemnly declare
that a vessel’s lights were showing with a dazzling
brilliance, the other easily musters 14 to prove
that they were all dead out. But the cases under the
N.S.W. Liquor Act dealing with sly-grog selling
are going strongly to beat the sailor men’s record.
Thus Smithers, S.M., was called upon last week
to decide a sly-grog case. A constable swore that
he called with a “ friend ” at a house in Redfern
(Sydney), at 1 o’clock on Sunday, June 21. He
asked for drinks, was served with beer, and paid
9d. His “friend” went into the box, swore that
he shouted for the bobby, and paid 9d. The police
swore they visited the house, and found a keg of
beer. As a side issue, the friend of the police
further swore that the beer-seller called on him
and tried to square it up. The occupier of the
house then went into the box. He swore that he
had never seen the previous witnesses in his life,
had never sold them beer, and hadn’t sold anybody
beer. He was a kind person, and at the request of
the local football cl übused to mind their beer. After
him about seven witnesses swore that they were
members of alocal football club. On Saturday nights
they would buy a keg of beer. The defendant
would receive it, and on the Sabbath they would
go to his place for a quiet drink. They all
severally swore—(l) Defendant did not sell them
beer; (2) the beer was their own beer ; (3) the
police witnesses were not on the premises at 1 p.m.
on June 21, but they (the footballers) were.
In face of this galaxy of talent, Smithers, S.M.,
was speechless for a bit. Then, remarking that
there was artistic lying by one side or the other,
he fined the defendant £5O for luck.
* * * *
The Prahran Chronicle (Melbourne) re-
cords a complaint made by Malvern Council
against Tait’s railway economies. Councillor
Edgar remarked that he had to wait in the dark
at Kooyong station because Tait didn’t run to a
light, and when the train came along he was
staggered to find it in charge of one man—appa-
rently Tait had economised by sacking the fireman
and making the driver fire himself. Of course, if
anything happened to the driver, the train would
run wild till it struck something, or died out for
want of steam ; and Tait ought to know better
than that in a district where rich men reside.
Knox of the Hat dwells somewhere about
Malvern.
**.*•*
It is really time this crime of starving
infants and other valuable Victorian citizens was
taken in hand seriously. So far the Courts have
been regarding it as a playful little trick of the
trade, to be met with a fine of a few shillings.
But, as Chairman Dr. Norris told the Board
of Health the other day, of 212 samples of alleged
milk captured during the past six months in Mel-
bourne and suburbs, no less than 61 were found on
analysis to be adulterated. The community
which is content to have that proportion of swindle
in relation to its most important article of food
supply hardly deserves to be alive.
Queensland Supreme Court Justice Real
has decided that Thomas Keane is defunct; but
for all that Thomas may not be nestling in
Abraham’s bosom. The story that the Judge
listened to was a bewildering mixture. In 1893
Keane, a laborer, of Maryborough (Q,), left for
Sydney. Before going he gave his Government
Savings Bank pass book to a friend, William
Clancy, of Goomeri (Q.), with a request to send it
to his father in Ireland should anything happen
to him. There was a credit of £156 in the book.
Since then neither Clancy nor Keane’s relatives
in Ireland have heard from him. It is alleged,
however, that upon reaching Sydney he went into
partnership as a builder with one Neville, but
neither Keane nor Neville has been found.
In 1899 a son of Clancy read in a paper
that a Thomas Keane had been admitted
to the Plague Hospital in Sydney, and had
died there. This caused Clancy the elder to leap
to the conclusion, without any apparent reason,
that the cadaver was Keane of the pass-book. In
1905, Clancy went for a trip to Ireland, and
handed the book over to Keane’s father, and toldl
him of Keane’s disappearance and alleged passing-
out. The old man had fresh inquiries made im
Sydney, and it was discovered that the plague-
stricken Keane had not died, but had been dis-
charged cured. This Keane wrote, alleging that
he was the real Keane of the pass-book. The*
solicitors sent him a list of questions to answer to>
prove his identity, but he didn’t reply to them.
The final act came, the other day, when the
Queensland Deputy Curator of Intestate Estates
applied for letters of administration for the £156
and £B5 9s. Id. interest which has since accrued,
and Justice Real decided that a man who left that
amount of money lying around unclaimed was
dead enough, anyway, and granted the appli-
cation.
* * # *
By “Green Tape, Junior” :
Belmore, a small Sydney suburb with a large voice,
sent its inhabitants to interview Railway Commissioner
Johnson last week. They wanted (1) more trains and (2)
bigger trains. They could not go to Belmore often
enough, and when they did go they had to travel in
heaps, the trains were so crowded. Johnson, in reply,
was dubious, to put it mildly, and he gave this extraordi-
nary reason : “ Notwithstanding the facilities at the new
Sydney station, it is almost impossible to get an additional
train in or out of the station at certain hours of the day.”
Shades of Owe’Sullivan 1 The colossal white elephant,
the cynosure of the Southern Hemisphere, hasn’t
been open more than a couple of years, and
already it can’t grapple with the ordinary business of
the railway service ! What on earth will it do in ten years”
time? Perhaps Owe’Sullivan will be Premier by then !'
If he is, he had better pass a law ordering the populace
to start to go home at 3 p.m., and to go to work before'
daylight. Or he may have to declare that the people are'
to go in every other day, or that those who go in to work:
to-day can’t go home until to-morrow. Ye gods ! The'
Central Railway Station, which is to carry the name of;
Owe’Sullivan down the ages, is already too small to carry
the traffic to poor little insignificant Belmore 1
THE PLAIN GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bishop Green, of Ballarat, earnestly appeals to the
local young man to give less regard to girls who are
pretty, and marry those who are good.
Listen to the proposition
That a bishop puts in prose :
Care not for her mere condition,
Or the color of her nose ;
Do not mind the size and brightness
Of the eyes beneath her hood ;
Disregard her buoyant lightness—
Wed a maiden who is good !
There is hope in solid ankles,
And in hair of sunset tint;
Even though the cross-eye rankles,
There is virtue in a squint.
Scorn the deep, deceptive dimple,
Heed the goodly bishop’s strain.
Dames and maids are always simple—
Always artless when they’re plain !
Dicken ! Mr. Bishop, Dicken !
No safe rule is to be had.
She who’s freckled and no chicken
May be more than pretty bad.
If she’s lovely, true, some flat may
Carry oil your wife from you ;
But, who knoweth ? Even that may
Be a great advantage too.
VIC.
S.S.


Arthur Leplastrier ®. Co.
G4 PITT STREET* SYDNEY.
Specialise in-
“ROBEY’S ”
English Machinery, Portable and Fixed Engines, Traction Engines, High-
Speed Engines, Threshing Machines, Oil Engines, etc.
“NATIONAL ** Gas Engines and Suction Plants.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope; A. Ransome & Co., Ltd., English Wood-working and Cask-making
Machinery; Massey’s Steam Hammers; “ Novo ” High-Speed Steel, Steel Rads, Tramway Material,
Steel Trucks, Locomotives, etc.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
hold full stocks of all Mining- Requisites,
including Air Compressors, Rock Drills,
Engines and Boilers, Steam Pumps,
Batteries, Krom Rolls, Concentrating
Machinery, etc., and for the Mine Workshops, Lathes, all sizes, Radial and Pillar Drills, Punch and Shear
Machines!! Pipe and Bolt and Nut Cutters, Shafting-, Pulleys, Belting.
Sole Agents for F. REDDAWAY & CO., Manchester, CAMEL HAIR BELTINC ; RANSOMES’, SIMS’,
Addresses — JEFFRIES’ PORTABLE, STATIONARY and TRACTION ENCINES.
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Post Office Chambers, Sydney; Lydiard Street, Ballarat; and Bendigo.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The N.S.W. State Bank.—Officially this is
known as the Government Savings Bank ot N.S.W.
Originally it was worked in connection with the Post
Office ; but it was taken out of the eye of the Postmaster-
• General on March 1, 1901, when the postal and tele-
graphic services were transferred to the Commonwealth.
For six years the business was administered from the
Treasury, which paid a commission to the Post Office for
that part of the work which it continued to transact.
This period was, on the whole, not one of much pros-
perity ; and the reserves were pretty nearly swamped.
Subsequently, as from the end of 1900, the bank was put
under the control of a Board, with an experienced banker
(Alex. Mclntosh, ex-general manager of the Bank of
New Zealand) as president ; and the heavy loss of the
previous years was promptly turned into a profit. The
proceedings have been briefly as follows :
Profit. Reserves.
Dec., 1900 .. .. £25,008
June, 1901 .. .. £26,959 51,967
„ 1902.. .. 21,601 73,568
„ 1903 .. .. 18,992 92,560
Loss.
1901 .. .. 33,915 58,655
„ 1905.. .. 20,817 37,838
„ 1906 .. .. 21,663 16,175
Dec., 1906 .. .. 4,484 11,691
Profit.
„ 1907 .. .. 2,945 )
Accumulated interest on guarantee de- >39,654
posit with Commonwealth, £5OlB J
The only explanation given for the heavy losses made in
1904-5-6 was that the commission charged by the Postal
Department was excessive. The new management
doesn’t repeat this State grievance; instead it set
to work to straighten things up, and the result
is shown above. As a matter of fact, the com-
mission paid to the Post Office is no more
than 4s. 6d. per cent, on deposits and withdrawals. It
wasn’t the Commonwealth that was victimising the un-
fortunate Ma State —it was, among others, the Private
Enterprise person who, to dodge ordinary bank exchange,
made use of the Savings Bank to effect his remittances ;
and it was mainly to get at this enterprising gentleman
that the Board a while ago took power to charge the de-
positor for keeping his account. In 1904-5, when the bank’s
loss was very heavy, the interest earnings averaged £3 6s.
9d. per cent, on the mean funds ; for last year the average
was £3 ss. 3d. That shrinkage, however, was counter-
balanced by a reduction in the interest paid and credited,
the average being £2 15s. 9d. per cent, on the mean of the
funds, as against an excessive £3 ss. 2d. per cent, in 1904-
1905. A concern that earned £3 6s. 9d. per cent, and
paid out in interest £3 ss. 2d. percent., surely couldn’t
be surprised that it was losing money. But instead
of increasing the margin between interest earnings and
interest payments, a State grievance was made o.ut of
the fact that the Commonwealth charged the State a
commission of less than J per cent, for transacting the
Post Office agency business.
When the change was made in 1906, an Ad-
vances Department was created to straighten up and ex-
tend the operations of the Advances to Settlers Board.
The latter began on a wrong basis. As part of the Lands
Department it was regarded as a semi-charity. Men
went to it as others go to the Prospecting Board in con-
nection with the Mines Department—that is, when they
didn’t have good enough security to take to the ordinary
financier. It is alleged that when the Advances Department
took over the Board’s affairs, there was a profit balance
(reserves) of £14,320. But the arrears of instalments
under the old Act amount to £30,989, while under the
new Act they are only £7O. Apparently these old arrears
have not been valued ; consequently, when the bad debts
among them have been written off, the alleged accumu-
lated profit on the working of the Advances to Settlers
Board will pretty certainly be all wiped out. Under the
new Act the Government guarantees the Board against
loss or deficiency in connection with these old advances.
Nominally at Dec. 31 this was the position of the Advances
Department:—
Reserves.
Taken over from A. to S. Board .. £14,319
Profit.
1907 .. £4735 19,054
The total amount advanced, etc., has been :
Advanced by A. to S. Board .. .. £683,309
Advanced by Advances Department 106,025
Total advances .. .. .. 789,334
Total amount repaid .. .. .. 365,823
Total advances outstanding .. £423,511
The £106,025 advanced during the year was in 424 ad-
vances. Even allowing that the early part of the year
was consumed in preliminaries, and that 287 approved
applications were awaiting acceptance or completion of
securities at the end of the year, the business actually
transacted can only be regarded as disappointing, con-
sidering all the recent talk about land settlement. The
explanation must lie between these two things : (1) The
private banks and mortgage cos. are offering better terms
or more prompt assistance than the bank ; (2) in spite of
all the talk, there has been very little actual land-settle-
ment, and there haven’t therefore been the clients for the
State Bank to do business with.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria
Dividends.
* , Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 5 p.c. 3Jp.c. serves. serves.
June 1902.. £33,323 £10,419 £18,572 £4,332 £149,636
Dec 1902.. 33,715 10,4i9 18,572 4,724 154,360
June, 1903.. 29,440 10,419 18,572 449 154,809
Dec. 1903.. 34,354 10,419 18,572 5,363 160,172
June 1904.. 34,555 10,419 18,572 5,564 165,736
Dec.,’ 1904.. 34,583 10,419 18,572 5,592 171,328
4 p.c.
June, 1905.. 34,260 10,419 21,225 2,616 173,944
Dec., 1905.. 34,524 10,419 21,225 2,880 176,824
p.c.
June, 1906.. 37,212 10,419 23,878 2,915 179,739
5 p.c.
Dec., 1906.. 42,912 10,419 26,531 5,962 185,701
June, 1907.. 43,739 10,419- 26,531 6,789 192,490
Dec 1907.. 49,921 10,419 26,531 12,971 205,461
June, 1908.. 50,063 10,419 26,531 13,113 218,574
The disclosed profits of this bank have increased rapidly
during the past few years. Possibly after the big troubles
the cleaning-up was not very thorough ; in that case
more or less writing down remained to be done out of
subsequent profits. That might account for the com-
paratively poor returns shown for several years. The
actual balance-sheet figures certainly show no very tre-
mendous changes. Ten years ago the advances totalled
£5,208,896 ; they now amount to £5,981,612. The in-
crease in quantity certainly wouldn’t account fora spring
in profits from £24,380 to £50,063. The most obvious con-
clusion is that the advances 10 years ago included many un-
remunerative assets which have since been written down,
and probably got rid of, while profitable business has
been secured to take their place. It is just as well to
remember now and again that the unprofitable business
of 10 years ago was no doubt very remunerative business
16 or 18 years ago ; and what looks highly profitable
business now—business that is highly profitable, so far as
current revenue is concerned—may turn out shockingly
unprofitable a few years hence. In that case there may
be another drain on the profits in order to write down
assets and fill up holes in the accounts. In the past four
years some outrageous prices have been paid for country
lands: and, though banks and other financial concerns
haven’t lost their heads as they did when city and subur-
ban lands boomed 18 or 20 years ago, it seems almost im-
possible for them to escape some trouble. Certainly a
smash in the values of country lands won’t be as
heartbreaking a business as the other smash was; for
while most country land can be put to some use, there
isn’t any deader weight in all the world than the unused
suburban allotment. Nobody can teil from a published
balance-sheet how prudent or imprudent a bank manage-
ment was during the preceding six or 12 months. All
that can be said is that in the past two or three years
any Australian mortgage-dealing concern could very
easily have laid the foundations for a large amount of
future trouble.
Getting back to the Bank of Victoria in par-
ticular, the principal items now and 12 months ago
compare this way:—
June, ’O7. June, ’OS.
Notes in circulation.. £126,370 £120,852 Dec. £5,518
Bills,;etc 750,532 523,907 Dec. 256,625
Deposits at interest.. 3,862,770 3,813,955 Dec. 48,785
Free deposits .. 1,594,860 1,654,561' Inc. 59,701
Liquid assets .. 1,939,843 1,441,549 Dec. 498,294
Advances .. .. 5,715,996 5,981,612 Inc. 265,616
Premises, etc. .. 416,142 423,680 Inc. 7,538
The fairly large increase in advances looks all right; but
it isn’t altogether satisfactory. For this increase in
advances has been accompanied by a considerable
reduction in the amount of public money on hand.
The increase in the advances and in the premises
account during the 12 months, added to the re-
duction in public money (deposits, etc.), totals
£524,378; of this the undivided profits provided £26,084,
leaving £498,294 to come out of the liquid, assets. The
latter have thus been reduced until they represent only
23 percent, of the total debt to the public. The free de-
posits (current account money) alone total £1,654,561;
the liquid assets amount to only £1,441,549. The pro-
portion of liquid assets is too low ; yet it is quite likely
that to increase it the profits will have to be cut into.
Still, while the bank is not as well placed as it ought to
be to meet any sudden trouble, its big share capital is a
strong guarantee for the depositors and other creditors ;
the total liabilities to the public amount to only£3l2s. 6d.
for every £1 of the shareholders’capital in the business.
Largely, no doubt, because of having the use of only that
small proportion of public money, the profits are no bet-
ter than moderate. Calculated on the basis of capital
and reserves, they have lately run as follows :
Dec., 1904 .. £4 4 2 p.c. Dec., 1906 .. £5 3 6 p.c.
June, 1905 ..4 3 1 ~ June, 1907 .. 5 5 4 „
Dec., 1905 .. 4 3 7 „ Dec., 1907 .. 5 19 6 „
June, 1906 . 4 9 11 „ June, 1908.. ,5 18 11 „
The capital is in 41,676 pref. (5 per cent.) shares paid to
£lO and £1,061,250 in ordinary £5 shares, all fully paid ;
the preference lasts until 10 half-yearly divs. at the rate
of 7 per cent, have been paid ; and only 5 per cent, has
been reached so far. These pref. shares participate with
ordinaries in anything over 5 per cent.
The Commercial Bank of Australia, which
had a revaluation of assets in 1901: —
Profits Dividends
(less loss (3 p.c.) Writ- Added
on Assets on Pref. ten to Re- Re-
Trust). Shares. Off. serves. serves.
June,’o2.. £38,434 £31,758 £6,676 £34,295
Capital forfeited .. 143,000 177,295
Dec., ’02.. 39,194 31,759 7,435 184,730
Capital forfeited .. 3,000 187,730
June ,’03.. 37,442 31,759 5,683 193,413
Capital forfeited .. 2,500 195,313
Dec., ’03.. 40,638 31,759 8,879 204,792
Capital forfeited .. 1,500 206,292
June ’04.. 38,746 31,759 15,521 , 197,758
Dec. ’04.. 41,461 31,760 9,701 207,459
June ’05.. 39,470 31,760 5,000 2,710 210,169
Dec., ’05.. 42,530 31,760 10,770 220,939
June ’06.. 41,055 31,760 5,000 4,295 225,234
Dec. ’06.. 44,351 31,760 12,591 237,825
June ’07.. 46,423 31,760 5,000 9,663 247,488
Dec ’07.. 51,678 31,760 19,918 267,406
June,’oB.. 52,015 31,760 5,000 15,255 282,661
“Profits—less loss on Assets Trust,” the first column
says ; and that introduces us at once to the skeleton in the
ice-chest. In 1893 the least productive of the assets were
turned over to a Trust, which was practically a new de-
partment of the bank, the object being to let the public
«-et a fair view of any progress the bank might make in
the matter of new business. In brief, it was decided to
put the skeleton in the ice-chest instead of keeping it
nailed up on the front door-post. The bank acted wisely;
for, the skeleton being kept out of sight, the business of
the new bank steadily picked up. The new bank—to all
intents and purposes a new bank, anyway—had, of
course, to make itself responsible for the debts (de-
posits, etc.) which the badly-depreciated assets re-
presented. Part of the depreciation and loss was
made good by calling up capital and forfeiting it (that
is to say, shareholders found out, as they always are
liable to do, that contributing shares are a loaded gun,
liable to go off when the holder can least stand the shock).
The balance of the loss or depreciation has to be made
good out of the bank’s profits. There is very little ordi-
nary 7 share capital left to write off ; in all there are now
only 191,088 ordinary shares, fully paid to 10s.—all that
is left of the old original lot of 300,000 shares of £lO each,
the whole of which was eventually called up.
But in spite of this tremendous blotting out of
shareholders’ capital, the unprovided-for losses and
shrinkages were still very serious. In 1901, when general
manager Heron was appointed (he is just now taking his
first “ breather”in the shape of a European trip), he made
a valuation of the Trust’s assets, and decided that there
was still a deficit of £1,534,903. In the seven years since
then a fair amount of realisation has been done ; using
the 1901 figures as a basis, things have gone like this
Dec., ’Ol. Dec., ’O7. June, ’OB.
Liabilities of Trust £3,334,903 £2,508,214 £2,382,172
Assets of Trust .. 1,800,000 1,120,000 995,000
Deficit of Trust .. £1,534,903 £1,388,214 £1,387,172
Less Bank Reserves 27,619 267,406 282,661
Net Deficit .. £1,507,284 £1,120,808 £1,104,511
At least, they have gone like that on the surface. But
18 months ago the chairman, being asked how the general
manager’s valuation was panning out, submitted some
figures, from which it appeared that in five years £479,566
of assets had realised £24,186 over the valuation. In the
past 18 months assets valued at £335,000 have been sold ;
and if £24,186 were realised above the valuation on the
first lot, it is pretty certain that more has been realised
on account of the swollen prices of the past 18 months.
As assets have been realised, old deposits have been
bought up. In July, 1902, they were worth 13s. 3d.; in
July, 1904, 135.; 1906,155. 6d.; 1907, 17s. 9d.; and at pre-
sent, 17s. 6d. What has become of the discounts? As
shown above, in 6J years the liabilities have been reduced
by £952,731. The assets (general manager’s valuation)
have been reduced by £805,000. In other words, £805,000
of assets (G.M.’s valuation in 1901) have got rid of
£952,731 of debt. But whether that includes the £50,000
(or possibly more) of receipts over and above the valua-
tion, or whether an internal reserve has been created to
safeguard the rest of the valuation, there is no way of
ascertaining. The chances are that the man who made
the valuation, being also general manager, has put some-
thing up his sleeve so that he may keep his valuations on
the right side in the end. But when H. L. Heron puts
something up his sleeve he is the last man in Melbourne
to mention it.
Afe to the recent progress of the bank, take these
figures■
June, ’O7. June, ’OB.
Notes, bills, etc. .. £741,347 £567,815 Dec. £173,532
Deposits at interest.. 2,202,721 2,040,147 Dec. 162,574
Free deposits.. ... 2,443,511 2,225,430 Dec. 218,081
Liquid assets .. .’. 2,517,873 2,181,856 Dec.. 336,017
Advances .. .. 4,915,663 4,751,330 Dec. 164,333
Premises, etc. .. 451,110 432,520 Dec. 18,590
The Commercial of Australia is one of the very few banks
which show smaller advances. It may be that the bank
didn’t have the money (the deposits have also shrunk) ;
but the liquid assets represent no less than 45 per cent,
of all the liabilities to the public. There are only one
or two other Australian banks in so strong a position
in that respect. It seems, therefore, that it isn’t from
want of money that the bank hasn’t lent out more money ;
it looks more as though the bank has been a bit afraid of
recent conditions, and preferred to keep its resources for
a while earning nothing. And since so large a proportion
of its deposits consists of call-money, carrying no interest,
it can afford to do that better than most banks.
* * * *
The City Bank op Sydney
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1902.. £BOl6 4 per cent. = £BOOO £l6 £110,097
Dec., 1902.. 8108 4 ~ „ 8000 108 110,205
£109,000 transferred to Contingent account .. 1,205
June, 1903.. 9351 4 percent. =£Booo 1351 2,556
Dec., 1903.. 9052 4 „ ~ 8000 1052 3,608
June, 1904.. 9045 4 ~ „ 8000 1045 4,653
Dec., 1904.. 6158 2£ ~ „ 5000 1158 5,811
June, 1905.. 6060 2-J ~ „ 5000 1060 6,871
Dec., 1905.. 6068 2£ ~ „ 5000 1068 7,939
June, 1906.. 6066 2J ~ ~ 5000 1066 9,005
Dec., 1906.. 6049 2£ ~ ~ 5000 1049 10,054
June, 1907.. 7066 3 „ „ 6000 1066 11,120
Dec., 1907.. 7205 3 ~ „ 6000 1205 12,325
June, 1908.. 7098 3 ~ „ 6000 1098 13,423
At the shareholders’ meeting, the othe’r day, somebody
asked how it came about that the profits were always just
about the same. As .'’ill be seen from the table, when
the bank paid 4 per cent, the profits were £9351, £9052,
and £9045 in a half-year. Then, when things in general
became more prosperous, the dividend was cut down to
24 per cent., and in spite of the general prosperity the
profits were £6158, £6060, £6066, and £6049. Asked to
explain this, the chairman said that shareholders must
not forget that the bank was making internal reserves.
In other words,. shareholders must not forget that
the published figures were of absolutely no value as
a guide to current business, and very little value as
an indicator of the present position of the concern.
The trouble certainly didn’t begin with the present
management. When the bank made heavy losses in the
boom time, it muddled through somehow, and didn’t face
the situation and provide for the losses. Instead, it pre-
tended (on paper) that it didn’t have losses—pretended
that, even when its shares were at over 50 per cent, dis-
count. Not having frankly faced the situation, it has
now to provide for the losses out of profits instead of out
of capital. It was wretchedly bad policy. Few people
remember now that the Commercial Bank of Sydney
wrote off capital ; but it did, and so it pays a 1 "l per cent,
dividend, and makes fine progress, with over i 5 millions
of deposits. But the City—well, few remember that
the City didn’t close its doors. The fact that it
didn’t is worth nothing Whatever to it in the way
of advertisement. But while the fact that it didn’t re-
construct is worth nothing to it, the fact that it only
pays a 3 per cent, dividend is a standing advt. of the
other sort. The public is no doubt very foolish in pre-
ferring to trust or “do with” a bank simply because it
pays a big div. ; but the simple, if lamentable, fact is,
that 95 times out of 100 the big dividend pays. The
National Bank of Australasia put up its dividend re-
peatedly a few years ago, when the figures didn’t justify
the increases ; and business rushed to it. The City
Bank, with some of its old losses still hanging to its neck,
has to crawl along on the 2£ per cent, and 3 per cent,
mark ; and it is thereby handicapped terribly.
Compared with 12 months ago, this is how
things look at present: —
June, ’O7. June, ’OB.
Notes .. .. £93,449 £98,502 Inc. £5,053
Deposits, etc. .. 1,233,382 1,253,353 Inc. 19,971
Liquid assets .. 451,737 335,496 Dec. 116,241
Advances .. .. 1,148,542 1,289,402 Inc. 140,860
Premises .. .. 144,596 147,049 Inc. 2,453
Advances have increased by £140,860, and premises
account by £2453: together £143,313. Of this only
£19,971 has been provided by increased deposits. Five-
sixths of the total increase of advances have been made
by reducing the liquid assets ; wherefore the latter have
been so heavily drawn upon that they now represent only
25 per cent, of the total amount owing to the public.
However, the proportion of current account money is
smaller, no doubt, than it is with most banks;
wherefore, less than the average proportion of
liquid assets may be allowable in this case.
Still, it is fairly clear that the bank is already working
about to the limit of its present resources. What real
progress it is making, and how far the book-value of the
assets is from real value, it is impossible to say. Pre-
sumably the directors know’; but neither shareholders
nor the investing public, with nothing but the published
statements to go by, can form any certain opinion. To
those alleged internal reserves that the chairman talked
about. £lOOO or £lO,OOO a year may be passed—there is
no wav of telling which. Certainly the advances have
only increased in 10 years from £1,222,764 to £1,289,402 ;
but that is no test, because “ £1,222,764,” when printed in
this bank’s balance-sheet, may really have meant £750,000.
Wherefore The Bulletin once more says that the law
which allows of the issue of such bank balance-sheets is
really too foolish to be at large, since its folly constitutes
a public danger. * #
The Trustees, Executors’ and Agency Co.
(Melbourne), which wrote £42,000 off its reserves in 1898 :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec. 1901 .. £2783 5 p.c. = £2250 £533 £9,391
June, 1902 .. 2436 5 „ „ 2250 186 9,577
Dec., 1902 .. 3168 5 ~ ~ 2250 918 10,495
June, 1903 .. 3699 7 ~ „ 3150 549 11,044
Dec 1903 .. 3226 5 ~ ~ 2250 976 12,020
June, 1904 .. 5352 5 „ „ 2250 3102 15,122
Dec. 1904 .. 3332 5 ~ ~ 2250 1082 16,204
June, 1905 .. 3768 5 ~ ~ 2250 1518 1/,i22
Dec. 1905 .. 5577 6,, ~ 2700 2877 20,599
June, 1906 .. 5466 6 „ „ 2700 2766 23,365
Dec. 1906 .. 7061 8,, ~ 3600 3461 26,826
June 1907 .. 4432 6 „ ~ 2700 1732 28,558
Dec. 1907 .. 4271 6 „ „ 2700 1571 30,129
June’, 1908 .. 4892 8 ~ ~ 3600 1292 31,421
The extra dividend at the rate of 2 per cent, per annum
has been paid by w’ay of a bonus, which doesn’t commit
the directors to anything permanent. Still the position
has undergone one change. For very many years the co.
carried on business in a leasehold in Queen-street; then
it got boom fever, and built a palace in Collins-street. Al-
most ever since that timethe old leasehold has been a drain,
the difference between payments and receipts amounting
to £265 or £275 a half-year. That Old Man of the, Boom
has now been got rid of; the final payment (£785) under
the old lease was charged to Profit and Loss in December
last. This term, apparently to celebrate the event, a
5 per cent, bonus (£429) is paid to the staff ; in the fore-
going table this amount has been deducted from profits.
The following comparison shows the recent progress in
some respects :
Dec., ’OO. Dec., ’O7. June, ’OB.
Commissions .. .. £9,176 £10,424 £lO,/07
Interest .. .. .. 649 1,056
Expenses .. .. 5,611 6,454 6,498
Profit on Funds, p.c. .. £7 14 9 £7 4 1 £8 210
Trust Estates .. .. £6,326,344 £8,665,494 £8,607,883
Expenses p.c. of Es-
tates .. .. ..£0 3 6 £0 211 £0 3 0
In this comparison the past half-year’s expenses have not
been charged with the staff bonus. The business—which
has now’ been conducted for 30 years—is large and profit-
able ; but it gets comparatively little assistance from the
investments. As previously mentioned, the co. went
into Collins-street during the boom, and put £70,000
into premises. These have now been written dow’n to
£65,000; yet last term they only returned £9l net,
in addition to providing the co. with its own office
. accommodation. If a reasonable amount for rent
were added to the expenses, a few pence w’ould have to
be added to the 3s. per cent, of trust estates shown
above ; but still the record w’ould be among the very best
in Australia. Nevertheless the co. does not aim at cheap-
ness : the staff appears to be given more than ordinary
consideration, and that is a point of importance in con-
nection with a trustee co. The shareholder, with a nose
for dividends, may want economy ; the client, however,
wants efficiency above all things, seeing that the trustee
co. only comes in when he goes to some place from whicn
personal supervision is difficult, not to say impossible.
The Perth Gas Co. (Westralia): —
Dividends. Written Re-
Profits. Paid. Oontrib, Off. serves.
Nov., 1903 £11,812 { «goO 2 £2600‘} £1953 £19,1&3
May, 1904 10,450 {J 2077 17,526
Nov., 1904 14,190 {“ftj 40 } 2090 19,626
£5OOO share premiums added to reserves .. 24,626
May, 1905 14,894 { 2 ° 7 j?s 25 37 P 6 0‘} 2797 25)473
Nov., 1905 17,247 28 3291 26,929
May, 1906 16,918 { f 3370 27,977
Nov., 1906 21,036 { 2 ° 7 500 '} 3380 33 ’ 133
On all shares. ' .
May, 1907 17,234 20 p.c. =£12,500 3690 34,1//
Nov., 1907 19,168 20 „ „ 12,500 2498 38,347
May, 1908 16,309 20 „ „ 12,500 2510 39,646
The directors don’t say a word in their report about t e
notice which they received from the Perth City ' jOU “
awhile ago relating to the transfer of the works from tn
co. to the municipality. The Council unquestionably l
the right to take the works over; what is disputed
whether the co. has the right to make the city pay i r
the goodwill of the business. The co. has had a remarK-
able record. Up to 1898 it had 100,000 shares ; m that
year 50,000 more were issued, and 6s. Bd. was paid, upon
upon them. In eight years 245. 9d. was paid in divs. on
these shares, of which 13s. 4d. was called back and applied
to pay up the shares to £l. Thus in those eight years
the consumers paid up two-thirds of the capital and pro-
vided in addition an average dividend of about per
cent, on the cash actually put up by the share-
holders ; and now the consumers are paying 20 per cent,
all round, on the two-thirds they provided as well as
upon the one-third the shareholders themselves provided.
Private Enterprise has had a few “ soft things in Aus-
tralia, but it is doubtful if it ever before had anything
quite so “soft” as this. The co. has an electric light as
well as a gas department. The former had a re Yf” u ?,?‘
£23,481 last half-year; the gas department, £11,246.
Apportioning the general capital expenditure between
the two departments, the electric light business last hail
year appears to have returned about 19 per cent, net and
the gas business about 14 per cent. net. The amounts
shown as written off are covered by the item Deprecia-
tion on plant and buildings.” Apparently this money is
spent either on replacements or on additions to countei -
balance the general wear and tear. 1 os ® lb *y •
however, repairs and replacements are covered by
“ manufacture and distribution.” Naturally, all the
co.’s funds are in the business; cash and bank balances
and book debts at May 31 totalled £15,390, and the lia-
bilities were £1996. And the co. proposes to go on
extending, and has more electric-plant additions on
order. The Council’s right of resumption apparently
isn’t limited as to time: the co.’s Act, passed in 188 b,
gave it a 20 years’ life certain ; after that, the Council
can come in at any time on six months] notice. The price
to be paid is to be settled by arbitration ; but, as men-
tioned above, the lawyers can’t agree as to the basis on
which the arbitrators should proceed.
* * * *
Broken Hill and Suburban Gas Co. (N. S.
Wales):— „
Written To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1904 .. £2401 6 p.c. =£1694 £707 £5,636
1905 .. 2986 6 „ „ 1694 1292 6,928
1906 .. 3165 6 „ „ 1694 1471 8,399
1907 .. 4542 6 ~ ~ 1694 £2051 797 9,196
1908 .. 5014 6 ~ ~ 1694 1248 2072 11,268
Broken Hill moves in spasms. In 1903-4 the co.’s total re-
venue, apart from investments, was £6093 ; during most
of the past year lead boomed, and Broken Hill didn t
care whether it turned the gas off or not, wherefore this
co.’s revenue reached £11,175. In four years profits more
than doubled ; for the next year or two they will be
shrivelled and shrunk. Fortunately the co. is run by
men who know 7 Broken Hill’s curious little w'ays, so the
directors don’t pay 17 p.c. in dividends because once in a
way the capital happens to show that return gross.
Instead, they continue the old modest 6 p.c., and put
the rest aside, so as to allow for wear and tear later on
when probably the current profits won’t run to a de-
preciation allowance. So far as the published accounts
sho\v, mains, plant and meters- have cost £82,807, and
£6593 has been written off, leaving these assets standing
at £26,214 ; and it is doubtful whether £6593 would cover
the general wear and tear and depreciation. If it w-on t,
then of course some of the profits, as set out above, are
over-stated; also part of the reserves are not true
reserves. In fact, that is to some extent admitted, as
£4950 of the reserves forms a replacement fund. The co.
has no debts except a few small current trade accounts,
while its liquid assets, apart from stocks, total £7803.
The future of this co. is as uncertain as the future of
every other co. which hangs wholly upon the uncertain
metal markets ; and this co.’s future is further obscured
by the recent undertaking 1 of the municipality to run the
local electric light works.
Fitzgeralds’ Brewing and Malting Co.
(Castlemaine, Vic.) : *
Net Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1898 .. £4701 10 p.c. = £4OOO £7Ol £9,382
1899 .. 6457 10 ~ ~ 4000 2457 11,839
1900 ” 6353 10 „ „ 4000 2353 14,192
1901 .. 7107 10 ~ ~ 4000 3107 17,299
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making
it £50,000, and reducing reserves to .. 7,299
1902 .. 6814 10 p.c. = 5000 1814 9,113
1903 .. 6268 10 ~ „ 5000 1268 10,381
1904 .. 6250 10 ~ „ 5000 1250 H. 631
1905 .. 6423 10 ~ ~ 5000 1423 13,054
1906 .. 6741 10 ~ ~ 5000 1741 14,795
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making
it £60,000, and reducing reserves to .. 4,795
1907 .. 6778 10 p.c. = 6000 778 5,573
1908 .. 6705 10 ~ ~ 6000 705 6,278
The profits of this co. are remarkably uniform. In fact,
until you look at the figures of some brewing cos., you
can’t have any idea how regular the drinking habits of
the people are. No matter how things go they don t
seem to vary more than a pint or so from year to year.
Certainlv there is another explanation—that these par-
ticular breweries don’t tell you more than they want you
to know, and that, if they make a good profit one year,
they can always find something to do with the extra-
ordinary part of it, in the way of writing down assets,
without showing anything unusual in the balance-sheet.
Going into detail this is how the published accounts may
be itemised :
1900. 1905. 1907. 1908.
Overdrafts, etc. .. £B,OOO £6,500 Nil Nil
Freeholds . .. 20,644 26,966 £23,949 £24,714
Advances .. .. 17,045 22,617 18,483 17,839
Stock and plant .. 13,929 12,827 11,704 I £> 2 ‘l
Sundry debtors .. 10,477 8,469 (>6Bl
Cash balances .. 2,098 1,175 6,'5/ n’oct
Gross trading profit.. 9,223 8,849 9,150 9,361
Management. .. 2,870 2,426 2,372 2,659
Between 1905 and 1908 freeholds (hotels and other proper-
ties) have been reduced by £2252. This may not represent
sales • possibly, in fact, the actual holding has been
increased during the period. In other words, undis-
closed profits to the extent of £2252 plus the amount
paid for new properties or additions may have
been used ostensibly to provide for wear and tear
and depreciation. There is no proof, of course, that
that has been done ; but it is in such ways that profits
may be made to look uniform. Anyway, it appeals to
be a remarkably profitable business; arid the remark-
ably profitable business is usually the business that
grabs the period of prosperity to make provision of
this kind, instead of playing all the profit up in dizzy
dividends. In the long run, of course, that sort of co.
can safely pay big divs. This concern has twice in the
last eight years capitalised reserves. In 1901 ss. per share
was paid up on 40,000 shares; in 1906 8000 shares were


The Pacific Cable Board
(Gf which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
F. H. LLOYD & GO. Ltd.
MANGANESE STEEL and
All Classes of Steel Castings
for Mines, Railways or
Dredges.
Fraser & Chalmers,
LTD.,
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
2
Mining and engineering men will be interested
in the development that has taken place as regards the
use of Dunlop Conveyor, Elevator, and other rubber belts
in Australia. A few years back, the number of Dunlop
Conveyor belts in use in the Commonwealth would not
have totalled a dozen ; whereas to-day they are numbered
in the hundreds. The Dunlop Rubber Company (who
have depdts in all the States) have, during the past year,
sold large belts that alone totalled up about six miies in
length, and weighed over 80 tons. Some of the belts
supplied weighed over 50001 b. each, and were 600 ft. long.
The success of the Dunlop Co.’s belts has been so re-
markably consistent on nearly all the leading mines that
it is little wonder that the Conveyor belt is coming into
such general use in this country. The Dunlop Company,
who have the best-equipped plant in the Southern
Hemisphere for this class of work, are prepared to supply
belts in any length (endless if desired) up to 40in. wide.
Tenders and samples submitted.*
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating mills and workshops, ever}'small item should be
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
than with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supplv further information to those interested.*
* *| * if *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
—Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform,, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet 1 inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. ffm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
* * * *
To Assayers, Mine Managers and others —
Felton, Grimwade and Co. hold large stocks of cyanide,
zinc shavings, fine chemicals, mineral acids, chemical
and scientific apparatus, furnaces, crucibles, balances,
microscopes, etc. Correspondence invited. Quotations
supplied upon request. Head office, Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.*
* * * *
After conducting exhaustive tests in the con-
centration of the ores at the Broken Hill South mine, the
manager, Mr. Wainwright, has finally decided to instal
the Wilfley type of table, modified in the direction best
adapted to his particular local requirements. The great
advantage with this type of table is that it admits of so
many slight variations which adapt it to meet all classes
of pulverised ores. Provided the pulp for treatment is
graded it can be used to treat all varieties of ore from
slimes up to coarse grades. When treating slimes and
lightly mineralised ores, care must be taken to have the
slope of the table accurate, and a fine, smooth dressing
surface beyond the feather edged diagonal termination of
the riffles. When treating coarsely ground ores or ores
heavily charged with mineral, as at the Broken Hill South,
the riffles or grooves can be carried further along the table
and in some instances right up to the concentrates dis-
charge end. Mr. Wainwright ordered six tables as an
experiment, with fewer riffles or grooves than customary,
and with some of them—the lower ones—carried to the
extreme end of the table. So successful has this type of
Wilfley table proved that he has ordered 50 more from
the Austral Otis Engineering Company. This same firm
has been placing several of the patent Callow Screens at
Broken Hill and elsewhere. This ingenious and simple
mechanism has solved the problem of grading prior to
concentration.* [6
« * * ' *
The Joint Stock Companies Journal, of
London, in its July, 1907, issue, writes regarding the
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited :—“ It is
writing well over £1,000,000 of new business every year in
Australasia, the United Kingdom, and Africa ; it has
accumulated funds which are within a little of £3,000,000
sterling, invested with due regard to security, but,
nevertheless, in such a way as to return substantial in-
terest ; and in the last five years alone it. has.paid to
policy-holders £1,328,000 in settlement of claims.”*
. * * * *
The New Zealand Insurance Co., Ltd., whose
head-office for N.S.W. is at No. 81 Pitt Street, Sydney, is
the largest colonial Fire, Marine, and Accident Insurance
company, and a large amount of their reserves of £690,000
is invested in the States. Net revenue (1907) £642,759.
Lowest rates and prompt settlements.*
* * * »
Before ordering Mining Plant be sure you have
a copy of Cameron and Sutherland’s priced catalogue.
We can supply everything you want right through from
Rock Drills to Cyanide Plant, including Reddaway’s
Camel Hair Belts, Motive Power, Lathes, Drilling
Machines, etc., for the Engineering Department, Winding
Gear, Concentrators, etc. Address:—Cameron and
Sutherland, Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat and Bendigo.*
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
‘ * ■*
Genuine Balata Belting.—We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney ; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
* * ■* *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereagh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
« * * *
The liquidator’s note of sale, by public auction,
of the machinery plant and stock of the Australian Forge
and Engineering Co. Proprietary, Ltd., Williamstown, has
been withdrawn, the whole of it having been sold
privately to the well-known firm of Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, ironfounder, etc., Melbourne, who has removed
everything to his engineering works, Footscray.
Machinery merchants, engineers, mining companies, and
others interested are invited to inspect this plant, which
is now offered for sale at very low prices. Detailed
catalogues are being prepared and will be posted to any
address on application to Mephan Ferguson, head office
and engineering works, Footscray.*
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
In connection with the visit of the American
Fleet, engineers will be interested to note that 16 of the
vessels, including all of the Class “A” battleships, are
fitted with water-tube boilers of the Babcock and Wilcox
make. This boiler is also being extensively adopted in
the Australian Mercantile Marine, two recent orders being
the S.S. Paringa, ' 1500 1.H.P., and S.'S. Koombaba,
42001.H.P., both for the Adelaide S.S. Co.’s inter-State
trade. *
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colltson &Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
• C.anbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS. —Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
* * * •*
Some notable improvements have been intro-
duced by Alfred Herbert Ltd. into their Hexagon Turret
Lathes, to adapt them for use with modern cutting tools
with high speed steel and to permit of driving by electric
motors. Among other advantages, these improvements
provide greater power, more speed, and better facilities
for changing speed and feed. High speed steel cutters
are furnished with every lathe, and the speed tables are
calculated for high speed tools. Gibson, Battle and Co.,
Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney; and 128 William Street,
Melbourne ; are Alfred Herbert’s sole agents.*
LOHMANN COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
BOCHUM UNION
Sole Agents for
Steel Ralls, Trucks, Points and Crossings,
Large Stocks always on Hand.
Turntables •
Importers of Tramway, Mining:, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds
issued, paid up (like the others) to 255. This makes
48,000 issued, and there are still 32,000 in reserve. On
the £40,000 actually paid by shareholders, the present
div. is equal to 15 per cent.
* * *
Barrier Wharf, Ltd., a co. formed mainly in
Melbourne, in 1905, to take over wharf-property at Port
Pirie, where the Barrier silver-lead field does most of its
shipping (the deficit to start with represents preliminary
expenses)
To Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit
Dec., 1905.. £66
Reserves
May, 1906.. £362 Nil. £362 £296
Nov., 1906.. 160 Nil. 160 456
May, 1907.. 1485 7| p.c. = £1316 169 625
Nov., 1907.. 2725 12| „ „ 2194 531 1156
May, 1908.. 3482 19 „ „ 3447 35 1191
The right people got hold of this property—people who
could influence most custom that way : managing direc-
tors and directors of many mining cos., and representa-
tives of big foreign metal-buying firms. The capital to
begin with was £27,350; at present £36,600 is paid up,
leaving 13,400 shares unissued. Of the 36,600 shares,
9000 are “special.” These have been issued from time
to time to “ certain shareholders of the Spencer’s Gulf
Stevedoring Co., to obtain the advantage of their busi-
ness,” and these special shares, according to the directors’
report of November, 1906, carry “special privileges as
regards distribution of profits.” These are evidently pre-
ference shares of some sort; yet Barrier Wharf shares are
dealt in by investors as though there were only an ordi-
nary issue. The co. has hitherto been favored by the
extraordinary prosperity of Broken Hill and the boom
output of metals. The boom is, however, past, and a
shrinkage in this co.’s revenue is pretty certain.
During the boom the co. might very reasonably
have been expected to write off something for de-
preciation of assets ; but all property—even down
to the office mat —remains in at cost. Possibly
there may have been a temporary increase in the value
of some of the assets ; but, even so, where there was de-
preciation it should have been provided for out of boom-
time profits, the more particularly as the property still
carries a mortgage of £lO,OOO. At May 31 there was an
overdraft of £1361; but this was rather more than
counterbalanced by book debts and credit balances in
S. Aus. The present dividend (£2745) will apparently be
paid either out of this current half-year’s profits or out of
overdraft; £702 (4 per cent.) of the dividend credited
above to the past half-year was paid in March. The co.
got hold of a very profitable, though most likely an un-
certain, business ; but it is fairly clear that dividends so
far have been paid up to the very hilt.
» * ■* *
Sydney Exchange Co.
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Dec., 1902.. £1174 6 per cent. =£9oo £274 £15*311
June, 1903.. 837 6 „ „ 900 15,248
Dec., 1903.. 1395 6 ~ ~ 900 495 15,743
June, 1904.. 986 6 „ „ 900 86 15,829
Dec., 1904.. 1269 6 „ ~ 900 369 16,198
June, 1905.. 881 6 ~ ~ 900 16,179
Dec., 1905.. 1069 6 „ „ 900 169 16,348
June, 1906.. 806 6 „ „ 900 16,254
Dec., 1906.. 1316 6 „ ~ 900 416 16,670
June, 1907.. 739 6 „ „ 900 16,509
Dec., 1907.. 1186 6 „ „ 900 286 16,795
June, 1908.. 896 6 ~ ~ 900 16,791
The June half always is the slack one, and the profits
now disclosed are better than the average, though they
don’t reach the amount of the dividend. The co.’s build-
ing is valued-at £70,000 —nothing has been written off for
many years ; the unearned increment (if any) is appar-
ently relied upon to counterbalance depreciation of bricks
and mortar. The capital is £30,000 ; there is also a de-
benture debt of £21,440, besides a temporary loan of £5OO.
Theco., formed in 1851, had a precarious existence’till
1871, when the present secretary and manager, O. H.
Hayes, was appointed. Things improved till 10 per cent,
was regularly paid in the lare ’eighties and early’nineties ;
but from 1893 there has been a steady shrinkage in the
dividend, the last 7 per cent, being paid in 1901.
* * * m
Sydney got a hint, last week, thatN. S. Wales
has been having a boom, and that already the boom isn’t
what it was, by a long way. The hint came in the shape
of a notice to attend a meeting of creditors, and the
figures were the biggest that any Sydney meeting has had
to run its eye over for several years past. It was mostly
a coal and shipping business.
* * « *
From Thos. J. Heskett, of the Heskett-Moore
iron and steel process : —The reference made by “ Engi-
neer ” to the business of The Iron, Steel and Metals 00.
(B. 9/7/’oB)is unfortunate in its collection of facts, and in its
representation of events connected therewith. It is not
true that this co. had anything to do with a process pro-
posing to reduce oxide of iron (iron sands) to metal by the
agency of aluminium. The process owned by the co. is not
“ merely a combination of the ordinary reduction pro-
cesses,” but an adaptation of known chemical and metal-
lurgical .principles in a new way to effect important
economic results. Shareholders have received due notice
of all deposits paid on options, viz., the Commonwealth,
Maoriland and Indian rights, and are not likely to be
influenced by “Engineer’s” suggestion of large sums
in the way of forfeits, the outcome of his imagination.
The co. having proved, at a cost of approximately
£30,000, the correctness and practicability of its process
to its. own satisfaction, and also to the satisfaction of
many able experts, is accumulating data as to cost from
actual working operations, a tedious undertaking con-
ducted under great difficulties, but now nearing com-
pletion, to place before Krupp, Carnegie and others in
various parts of the world where patents have been
applied for, and in every case granted. In the meantime
it ill becomes “ Engineer” to sneer at an honest effort to
solve a great problem and to establish a new Australian
industry because the necessary experimental work cannot
be completed in a day or a year. Who is “Engineer,”
anyway ?
*** . *
The annual meeting of Mount Morgan G.M.
Co. was held at Rockhampton (Q.), and took about four-
teen seconds longer than usual. Mostly three minutes
sees the whole thing through, but an old chap, known
colloquially as “Hugh Kalyptus,” got even with the
company at last, and had his say to the tune of fourteen
seconds. The annual meeting of Mt. Morgan for some
years has been the event of the old chap’s life. His
shareholding is a bit.on the small side, but it’s of
vital consequence to him; so for a whole year he
prepares for “the next annual meeting.” For eleven
months in the year he potters about in the bush
amongst rocks, etc. But he bobs up, with his
hair brushed, in time for the annual meeting, armed
with a lot of questions concerning the working of
the mine. Up till the present meeting he had always
had hard luck with his questions. He was not quick
enough to get them in, as all the business was completed
and the meeting closed before he realised that the game
had started. This year, however, he was on the door-
step early, and nailed Captain Richard. The captain
breathed something into his ear, “Hugh Kalyptus” got
up and asserted that he did not want to put any ques-
tions to the meeting, and now the future of Mt. Morgan
is assured.
* » * *
The old thing, about which The Bulletin has
been talking for weeks, happened in connection with
Charters Towers. The keen local jobber (and practically
all Charters Towers is a jobber) fully 7 discounted probable
developments, and put some stocks up 300 or 400 per
cent. ; and then the outsider came in—and likewise fell
in. New Brilliant Freeholds, Bonnie Dundees, and others
all fell from the high values to which outside buying
bumped them ; and now there will be a lot of weary
waiting to do.
• * * *
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, crushed 270
tons for £1065. Instead of being better, this was poorer
than the previous lot. Besides, people began to realise
that a patch of good stone near the boundary was not
enough to boom shares on ; if the main level picks up the
shoot, things will be different. This reef is supposed to
be the old Queen Cross, but it is very different from the
rich shoot discovered and worked some years since. The
Queen Cross itself has given some dissatisfaction to
London shareholders. Nothing happened at the mine, so
there were no good reports to cable ; but the fact that
shares rose smartly to ss. aroused a good deal of sus-
picion, for the Londoners were quite out of touch with
the Day Dawn excitement.
» * » *
The East Mexican, Charters Towers, is breathing
more freely now that freeholders have accepted paid-up
shares in return for mining rights. One of them (Staple-
ton) exchanged his freehold with the E. Mexican Co. for
another allotment that is an intrusion across the boundary
of the New Brilliant Freehold ground, and some distance
to the east, and ahead of the level that is causing so much
excitement. The East Mexican, having a market boom to
engineer, did well to secure these allotments ; for it was
known that Mills United would have purchased them. It
may well be wondered why the freeholders were not
bought out long since, but things are run on the Towers
to suit big speculators, who have more than one interest
to serve. There are, for instance, 15,000 E. Mexican
shares in one man’s name. The three mines that attract
most attention on the Towers are involuntarily playing
into each other’s hands. When a rise is put up by the
N. B. Freeholds above No. 7, towards the E. Mexican
boundary, it is likely to cause a lot of speculation. The
most recent information is that the reef at the end of
No. 7 is looking very well, and that No. 8 is likely to pick
up the shoot.
* * * *
Charters Towers people got out of their depth
in handling a copper proposition. Up to the end of 1906
the ore raised from their Carrington United was 6600
tons, worth £23,290. A dividend(£2soo) was paid early in
1907, but ever since then things have been drifting, until
even the directors at last admit that they have reached
the end of their tether. The bank overdraft
is about £lO,OOO, and a proposal is now before
the shareholders, offering, on behalf of southern
investors, to take half the mine on a two months’ option at
Is. 3d. per share contributing, and 3s. 6d. for paid ups.
The co.’s issue is 240,000 ss. shares, of which 80,000 are
fully paid up, and the balance paid to Is. Bd. The ore is
picked to between 7 and 9 per cent, copper and 3dwt. or
4dwt. gold, but thesmeltingmixtureavailableisnot a good
one, and the process of reverberatory smelting is far too
slow. Also the cost of handling the material generally is
far too high. Operations have, in consequence, of late been
conducted at a loss, and the advice of two experts has been
sought. Poole, of the Charters Towers School of Mines,
reports that the mine is a good one, but the treatment
much too costly 7. He estimates the cost of rectifying
matters connected with smelting at £3OOO. Shepherd, of
O. proposes to spend £2OOO to put the house in order.
In addition, the cost of development will be considerable.
The general manager was imported from Queen Bee
(N.S.W.), but he has not had a free hand.
* * * *
Centreing the gems with a sieve is the present
method of getting the sapphires from the washdirt at
Sapphiretown (Q ); but a recent arrival from S’Africa,
one of the great Smith family, is making a machine
which aims at a revolution. The weapon is worked by rota-
tion, and is similar to theapparatus successfully used on the
diamond fields of S’Africa. Smith reckons that he will be
able to put through about 50 loads of wash per day, and
will use only a very little water in the process. If the
machine answers, it will be able to work a large area of
ground near Sapphiretown hitherto regarded as too poor
to pay.
* * * *
The original scheme for the flotation of the Ida
mine, Ma.vtown (Q.), has been modified. The issue is
now 25,000 shares of 10s. each —15,000 to be put on the
market at Is. on application, and Is. a month later ; 6000
fully-paid go to the vendors, and 4000 are held in reserve.
It is intended to sink a new shaft 300 ft. ; also, it will be
necessary to repair and add to the old machinery on the
property. The £l5OO to be raised in the first two months
will not go far for all this, especially in that remote dis-
trict, and further calls will soon be required.
* * * *
Smith’s Creek tin show (N.Q.) which, since its
discovery in 1902, has been in trouble more than once,
has again gone under. The lode is big but low grade, and,
in spite of fairly economical handling, the management
has been beaten by what is termed the “ low ” price of the
metal —£133. The closing down is said to be temporary
—one of the most indefinite of mining terms.
* * * «
Mitchell River Antimony Co. (N.Q.) is in
trouble. After having been filled with hope at the pros-
pect of a start at last, Northern shareholders were
shocked to hear recently 7 that all hands had been knocked
off. The explanation now given only goes so far as to say
that the plant was quite ready 7, but McArthur’s repre-
sentative left without having a trial of the process on a
working scale. Is there anything the matter with the
process, or is it the mine ?
*«•*■*
“Vigilans” : While boring for water, a strong
current of gas was struck at 3709 ft., some years ago, at
Roma (Q.). This was stored in a gasometer, and the town
was lit up by the gas for six weeks, when the bore col-
lapsed. The business cost the council £7OOO. The Roma
Mineral Oil. Co. is now putting down a bore some yards
away from the old orifice, and is down about 3000 ft.
Shares are not to be had.
* * * *
It is just 50 years since gold was first discovered
in Bananaland, then part of N.S.W., but separated the
following year. Canoona, in the Rockhampton district,
was the scene of this discovery 7. It was only 7 a small field,
but was rushed by 7 many thousands, who, at that bad old
time, were mostly engaged stampeding from one magnet
of attraction to another in East Australia. Chappie, a
Cornish miner, was credited with the honor of first find.
He had been prospecting about Gladstone for sometime,
and struck the alluvial patch at Canoona Station. After
a few nuggets were exhibited in Sydney shop windows
every available sailing craft was headed for Port Curtis,
filled with men, some of whom had no more than they
stood up in after passage was paid. Hundreds, dis-
appointed at the unfavorable reports which reached them,
refused to leave the vessels, and a few hundreds more had
to be helped back by the Government.
When it set itself to the job of producing
metallic zinc in Australia, the Broken Hill Prop, faced
two big difficulties. One u 7 as the discovery of a clay suit-
able for making retorts ; the other was a labor trouble.
Zinc smelting is done in small retorts which at the best
only last on an average 30 days. The fire is applied ex
ternally, and the least irregularity in the making or drying
of the vessel means that it cracks almost at once, and is
valueless. Clays have been tried from all parts, and very
good results have been got from two places—Kangaroo
Island and a bed near the Iron Knob (S.A.), where the co.
gets its iron flux. The labor trouble is, however, still a
worry. As mentioned just now, the heat is applied ex-
ternally, and the job of attending to the retorts isn’t one
to be rushed. Where men are almost born and bred to
the business, the attendants can get through their task
in a very few hours; but the new chum, who has
to put in a full shift, has a job beside which sugar-cane
cutting is almost a picnic. No doubt it is a question of
money in the long run ; there are, for instance, other
severe mining jobs that have to be done on six hour shifts.
But, unfortunately, zinc is down to £l9 per ton, as against
£24 6s. 3d. this time 12 months ago, and £26105. this time
two years ago ; so the early prospects of a big Australian
spelter industry are not at all brilliant.
* * * *
The long-distance duel between the Adelaide
directors and Broken Hill shareholders in the B. H.
Junction still goes on. The Broken Hill shareholders
having accused the directors of loafing, the directors in-
genuously assume that that means that they ought to be
working the mill ; wherefore they issue another circular
to prove that, if they did that, they would lose about
£2 17s. 4d. per ton of concentrates, or 7s. 2d. per ton of
ore. It certainly would be absurd to work the mill now ;
the Junction hasn’t got enough metal to waste on a poor
market. Besides, as the mine stands, with hardly any
reserves, the mill could only be kept going by rooting out
ore regardless almost of either cost or consequences. The
real offence of the Junction management is, not that it
won’t run the mill now, but that it missed its chances
hitherto.
* * ■» *
The little bit of ore that all the fuss was made
about in King’s 400 ft. level of theß. H. Junction continues
to hug the British boundary. The “ north ” drive on the
lode, which is now pursuing a north-easterly course, is
44ft. from the boundary, and it is close to the footwall.
(The hanging-wall is in British ground.) This develop-
ment work is very necessary, however, as it will open
the way for sinking King shaft later on.
* * * *
There is a good deal of bitterness between the
Zinc Corporation, which is using the Elmore oil process,
and the Sulphide Corporation, which is using the Catter-
mole oil process. The latter, owned by the Minerals
Separation, Ltd., was alleged to be a piracy, and litigation
has been dragging its expensive and python-like length
through the English courts. The last point has been
scored by the Cattermole people, who cable out that the
High Court has dismissed the Elmore people’s action,
with Costs. Unless this should chance to be upset by the
Higher or the Highest Court, the Sulphide Corporation
and the Minerals Separation, Ltd., will feel a lot better,
for they have both had hanging over them the possibility
of a big claim on account of royalty on all the product
hitherto turned out from the works.
■* * * *
Frank Cotton’s oxy-hydro process bas been set
going in the Moruya district, on the N.S. W. South Coast,
on the complex gold ores recently described in The But
letin. A theoretical success was assured ; but practical
results are still awaited. In any case, however, the
N.S.W. gold yield won’t soar up, because all the shows in
the district are very small.
* * * »
Harden (N.S.W.) has struck the reef in the
450 ft. level ; but, as expected, it is poor at that point,
being worth only 6s. per ton for the first 3ft. Something
a little better in' value than this was looked for ; on the
other hand, the nature and size of the body are well up to
anticipations.
* * * *
Tewkesbury, the Victorian dredging man, is
going further afield; the Tewkesbury Proprietary
Dredges, No Liability, has been formed to take over from
the Commonwealth Dredging Syndicate 1000 acres at
Braidwood (N.S.W.). The new co. has issued 70,000
shares, 45,000 of them prefs. and 25,000 ordinaries, and
there are 30,000 in reserve. Tewkesbury is to manage
the concern, and ex-Labor Premier J. C. Watson will p o-
bably be found interesting himself in it when he quits
politics.
• • * *
The King’s Bluff gold mine, Olary (S.A.), is a
Broken Hill-managed concern, and the methods of
development belong to the Stone Age. At the far end of
an incline shaft, which is about 540 ft. long, equal to a
vertical depth of about 200 ft., there is a bunch of stone of
uncommon richness, but whether it is a ledge of quartz
resting on the slate wall, or a permanent reef, or merely a
pocket, the work done up to the present has not made
clear. And if the present policy of development is con-
tinued, it never will be clear. A few of the old-school
minefs got bold of the property in the first instance, and
when they found they really had a gold mine, or what
looked suspiciously like one, their first impulse
was to run away and hide it for fear that
some one would take it from them. For months the
directors have been dawdling along with a five-head
battery, and something that was once an engine. Both
of these contrivances would fall to pieces and lie down if
they got near a scrap heap. Now work is about stuck up
for want of a pump. A new boiler was put in because the
old one became so tired that it refused to get up steam on
a cold day, and after that burst of enterprise the directors
sat back and wondered at its own daring behavior. What
the King’s Bluff wants is a more progressive management
—a Board that will hit things up, and not be afraid
of knocking the bottom out of the mine by doing a bit of
work there.
* * * *
The paper published on the spot accuses Tin-
dal’s management (W. A.) of want of system and intoler-
ance of criticism ; and no wonder. Neither the value of
gold won nor particulars of working expenditure are
given with the occasional output figures, and any share-
holder who wants information must go to the mine
authorities and ask it as a favor—and then the chances
of his getting it are not bright. The co. badly needs to
mend its ways.
* * * *
Something in the wild-cat promoting line is
troubling the Southern Cross (W.A.) paper, and it ex-
postulates mildly in consequence : —“ Yilgarn has been an
unfashionable field since Coolgardie and Hannan’s over-
shadowed it, and unless some of the liars, fools, and con-
scientious scoundrels who are at present hanging round
are exposed, Yilgarn will be a smellful name until the
pimps and parasites who now paralyse its progress are
stoking in Hell.” Some references are also made to
spielers, reptiles, rogues, and shameless rascals : and it
almost looks as though the local paper were annoyed
about something.
* * * *
M.B.P. : (1) A gamble, of course; but the
chances in its favor are hardly worth considering. (2)
Very fair prospects D.J. : (1) Apply Thos. Welsby,
Commercial Union Buildings, Brisbane. (2) He has had
a lot of experience, but very little success.


EDUCATION BY POST,
—The Proprietors
of Stott and
Hoare ! s Busing&s College wish the readers of The
Bulletin to lake note that their old-established insti-
tution is in no way connected with any other Corres-
pondence School. Their systems of education in
Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Shorthand, Electrical En-
gineering, Penmanship, Mechanical and Architectural
Drawing, etc., combine the results of their years of
experience in education with the most up-to-date
developments in the branches taught, and are both
genuine and thorough. It is only by adopting: the best
means that the best results will follow in good positions
agd improved prospects. Every ambitious young man
or woman should therefore send for this firm’s booklet
“ Home Study,” post free.
Only Address— Stott and Hoare’s Business Collegre,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE removes the
cause. Used the world over to cure a cold in one
day. E. W. GROVE’S signature on box. Is. l|d.
Abo. writers may revel in riotous argu-
ments over wild pigs, wombats, gohannas, and
other festive denizens of the Bush, but the fact
which admits of no dispute whatever is that
D.C.L. is deservedly the most popular whisky
among all discriminating humans. Such a pure
spirit is D.C.L. that the most unveracious Abo.
prevaricator becomes almost truthful under its
wisdom inspiring influence.*
When Bill the Burglar got run in
He’d close cropped hair and shaven chin.
“Why groanest thou?” the warder said.
Bill pointed to his chin and head.
“ ’Twas just my luck,” said he, “ to pay
For this short crop and shave to-day,!
But all these troubles I’ll endure
If given Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure ! ”*
ABORIGINA-
ALITIES
“Gip” : Did Mr. Johnson, M.H.R., really
want to organise a winter picnic to Monaro so
that the party would realise the full horror of the
climate? Someone had better advise him not to
come just now, anyhow. This 14th day of July
would have surprised him some methinks. Since
early morning the sun has been shining hotly and
gloriously—so hotly that the men rode coatless, and
down in the rocky basin the spring water grew
warm. In the patch of garden the autumn-sown
pansies are casting up their buds, the strawberry
plants are covered with new leaves, and the La
France violets are as big as florins. And, by
the way, who was it said we couldn’t grow cab-
bages? Our winter-grown Savoys might open his
eyes *, Brussels sprouts we have been using for a
month past, and the tall broccoli are folding their
leaves over the coming flower. But it was the
day I started to write about—a still, blue-topped,
golden, midwinter Monaro day. Surely there’s
no other day like it.
* • * •
“Quineecha ” : Your contributor, truthful
“ James Outback,” seems to have absorbed most
things in his time, but I beat him, I fancy, by
one item at the least. Had the misfortune to
dwell for two years in the Philippines. There
was little variety about the foodstuffs provided.
We got either “mutton” (which
was in reality goat) or a mystic
medley hight “ stew.” One day I
inadvertently wandered into the
kitchen, and there found on a
table, grinning hideously in
death, and looking gruesomely
human, a monkey. I took it shud-
dersomely, and threw it away. The
eook (a nig of infinite dirt) expostu-
lated. “ What do you want it for ? ”
I queried. “It’s stew day,” he re-
plied. When I came to I stowed
away on an Australia-bound vessel, and
have clung, leech-like, ever since to the Common-
wealth because it is monkeyless.
* • * *
“F.S.P.” : If any scalping is in progress
on the “Abo.” page, I should like to reach out for
the top decoration of your contributor, ‘‘ W. H.M.,”
who lies most villainously (B. 11/6/’08) re river
cod. In the first place, it is not the practice
among fishermen to tether cod by the lip at all;
they almost invariably tether them through the
nose. And, in the second place, “W.H.M.” to
the contrary notwithstanding, it is a common
thing for cod to be eaten after they have been tied
up for as long as two weeks. I know of an in-
stance where a cod was forgotten and left tied up
for three months, and in-the meantime it had fat-
tened and thrived. It is a regular practice among
fishermen on the lower Darling and Murray to
keep their catch tethered for a fortnight pending
the departure of a down-river boat to Morgan,
whence it is trained to Adelaide, and there sold
freely at 9d. per lb.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : In reply to “ The
Prooshan,” I desire to say that crows and
gohannas both eat the flesh of the fox, though
most bushmen swear that fox-flesh is never eaten.
Recently I shot a fox near Gunongjugrowah (I
can’t spell the rest of the name) on the Muddv-
bidgee. Three days later I was duck-shooting,
when I found that the greater part of the carcase
had been devoured. At my approach a couple of
gohannas of pronounced embonpoint waddled
away towards the gums on the river bank. As a
rule, the fox carcase is skinned because the fur is
valuable. It is possible that the bush animals
fight shy of a skinned carcase, fearing poison.
Unskinned dead rabbits are eaten much more
quickly and readily than the skinned dead ones.
*.* * *
“ Cicfc.” : “ Agricola ” (B. 2/7/’08) grossly
libels a very gamesome bird when he accuses the
turkey of cowardice. He throws up at the entire
breed the conduct of a bird he saw being assailed
by two white magpies. Such a happening is,
however, no criterion in this regard. The mag.
is the Malay-run-amok of the feathered world. I
will- back it to disperse, when so disposed, any
other sentient thing on earth in short order, not
excluding crows, hawks, horses, dogs and men.
I believe whales would flee from it. As to the
gobbler, I have seen one of , him sicken a trio of
gamecocks, backed up by their , entire harem, in
well under the fifth round, and accept stoically all
that was handed him in between' the clouts he
himself was busy dealing aroiind. Has “ Agri-
cola ” ever essayed to tear asunder a couple of
warring turkeys ? I have, and Can testify that
the job was as lively and as difficult a one as I
could do with. The wattled fowl is handicapped
by his cumbrous figure, and when side-stepping,
feinting, or manoeuvring for a short-arm jab, is
likely to get on his back and be passed out before
he regains his equilibrium. But mostly he makes
good. His pluck, weight and staying powers, as
a rule, cause the other side to sky the towel While
the radiant orb of scrap is barely up over the
horizon.
* * * *
“ Veldt ” on a fodder question :
“ Prooshan ” (B. 9/7/’08) wants to know at what stage
sorghum may be fed to stock without causing any
injurious effects. The subject is of economic interest,
but so far has not been handled to any extent. Investi-
gation has elicited the following facts :
(1) Two varieties only have been known to cause death :
sorghum saccharatum and early amber cane.
(2) There is no case on record of horses or sheep
succumbing after eating either variety. Cattle only seem
to be affected.
"(3) The active agent is either hydrocyanic (prussic) acid,
or more probably an alkaloid possessing similar properties.
(4) Sorghum, cut and allowed to wilt for a day or two,
may be fed to cattle without danger.
(5) Known cases of death have generally resulted from
turning hungry cattle on to an immature crop or on to a
crop that has been stunted by a period of dry weather.
(6) Liberal quantities of molasses, given at the time of
feeding, or previously, act as an antidote.
(7) Ensilaged sorghum, no matter at what stage the
plants have been put into the silo, has never been known
to cause injury, and a crop turned into silage has
twice the feeding value, from a digestive standpoint, of
the same crop when used in a green state.
* * * *
“ Agricola” : About once a month one of
our imported naturalist experts sharpens his teeth
and files his toe-nails, and delivers himself to the
effect that our native birds are not adaptable to
changing conditions, and must therefore disappear
before the imported article. I wish he could
happen along among the grain sheds at t'he
Riverina railway yards, what time the cookies
come to view their stacks, and collect the opinions
and profanity and blasphemy. The parrots are
adapting the wheat in a way that would astonish
him. Shell parrots and rosellas do the most mis-
chief, and they just swarm in the sheds. The
locust can take a back seat these days. Each bird
selects a different bag, bores a hole in it, and con-
sumes the gram, meanwhile remarking that it is a
lot easier than cracking pine-seeds, and 11 times
as satisfactory. When the owner of the stack
comes along the parrots depart, and he spends a
pleasant hour plugging the holes (and, great
Scott, how he does plug !) with old papers and
bits of Sacking, and tries to work ou-t mentally
how much a day it costs him to feed the poultry.
Then he goes mad, and after trying to slay the
whole family with an axe, his eldest son and his
second wife seize him by the collar and the be-
hindment of the pants, and rush him off to the
asylum.
A SKETCH FROM LIFE ON THE MARANOA
(QUEENSLAND) STOCK ROUTE.
At the tail of the mob; the calf-cart.
“Aural” : Allow me to answer the query
of “Prooshan” (B. 9/7/’08) re sorghum and
spotted thistle poisoning. Investigations con-
ducted by the Imperial Institute in 1902 disclosed
the presence of prussic acid and cyanide of
potassium ip sorghum. The poisons are present
during the first five to seven weeks’ growth, and
disappear after the blossoming stage, or at any
time shortly after the plants are cut. Crops that
have been checked by dry weather or other causes
are most dangerous, and these are the kind that
Mr. Cocky likes to graze his stock upon. The
more vigorous the plant the less poison is present,
but crops manured with nitrate fertilisers are so
lethal that 41b. of the green horror would assassin-
ate a cow. Sorghum, millet, amber cane, Egyptian
and Kaffir corns are all equally dangerous, and
should not Be grazed off, nor fed green, nor used
at all when young or stunted, unless made into
ensilage or hay. “Prooshan’s” examples of
poisoning from older crops might be explained by
a possible check in the growth through a dry spell,
a circumstance favoring the development of the
poisons.
A RECOGNITION.
“ And can the baby talk yet, Mrs. Murphy ?”
“Indeed he can that, Mrs. Mangles, for we took him to the Zoo yesterday, and when we was
all a-laughin’ at the monkeys he said ‘ Dadda ’ as plain as ennythink.”
“ Wearris ” encounters a brace of eccen-
tric drunks:—
Was in a Birdsville (Q.) pub recently (Birdsville, with
an adult population of 15, has three pubs), when "a beer-
worshipper struggled in and demanded a drink. He was
handed a bottle, but he took the gong instead, and pour-
ing from it what he considered a fair nip, thirstily drained
the imaginary contents. As he planked down a “ bob ”
an ugly leer overspread his rugged features, and he with-
drew muttering, “That’s the rott'enest damn drink I ever
had.” Later I struck another in the same establishment
who was haranguing the barman re what change he
would get if he shouted and paid for the drinks with
“good money.” The servitor explained that “goo'd
money ” would be tendered in change. The reveller was
satisfied. “ Right ho !” he said. “ Fill ’em up, old buck,
but blime if you’re goin’ to ring enny dawg scalps
inter me.”
* * * *
“ Dandalup ” : “ Groper, ” in his endeavor
to lead The Bulletin (2/7/’08) from the paths of
virtue, brands himself as a member of the
Westralian Stinking Fish family. He screeches
through his decayed belltopper when he says,
“ There is practically no land available for selec-
tion in W.A., except 40 or 50 miles from the
railway line.” “ Groper ”is a liar ! Not so very
far from Geraldton, and within easy distance of
the railways, are millions of acres of some of the
best wheat country in the Southern Hemisphere.
Stretching from the Murchison to Northampton
are the Alpha Downs—a mighty wheat belt with
a magnificent annual rainfall. Through this un-
inhabited paradise runs the Murchison railway
line. Nearer to the coast is the Chapman Valley,
a huge tract of country of such good quality that
Victorian cookies would rave over it. All this
land is within easy distance of a market, yet the
domicile of the cocky is few and far between. 1
Then, where there are no railways—around Car-
narvon —there is 200 miles of rich alluvial soil,
capable of growing anything, from cotton to jim-
jams. If “ Groper” wants land. I’ll guarantee to
get him a ten-billion-acre selection if he can only
cut himself loose from his little southern fowl-run
and steer north. We want a Progressive Land-
Settlement Policy—the land is there in abundance.
Finally, “ Go north, young man !”
■* * * •
“ Loco’s ” unreliable tale :
“ Yairs.” said Jim the engine-driver, as he shifted the
empty pewter from his mouth, “ I’ve had some wild ex-
periences in me day. I remember one night I was ordered
ter take a doctor from Melbourne ter Birrigurra in th’
quickest possible time. Ter make me ingine lighter I
uncoupled th’ tender an’ left it on a side track. When
th’ doctor took a seat on th’ fireman’s box I threw th’
lever down in th’ corner an’ gave ’er steam. Away we
jumped like a scared kangaroo. The doctor’s eyes bulged
out like a pair of doorknobs as we went like Hell over th’
track towards Geelong. ‘ Ripity-click ’ we smashed
erlong over th’switches an’frogs an’bridges, th’doctor
’angin’ on fer ’is life an’ lookin’ like an uninsured man
sittin’ down to ’is first dish er cucumbers.
“‘What’s that—a post?’ asked th’ doctor as we
passed somethin’ in a jiffy.
“It was a shed 120 ft. long. So yer can see ’ow fast we
were goin’.
“ ‘ What’s that funny-lookin’ fringe on our left?’ asked
th’ doctor.
“ ‘ Them’s the telegraph poles,’ answered the fireman,
as ’e stopped ’arf a minute from shoveilin’ coal, just as we
zipped through Geelong.
“ Well, we made Birrigurra, without er stop, in 41
minutes, just two miles ter th’minute, an’l boiled th’
cawfee in me dinner billy on th’ drivin’ boxes.”
The barmaid heaved a sigh of relief. “ Well, I’m glad
you got there safe,” she said. “ I expected you would
tell us that the engine jumped off the track, and all three
of you were sent to glory.”
“ No, we were all alive an’ kiekin’,” replied J.im, confi-
dently.
“What er long-armed fireman yer must ’ave ’ad,” put
in Billy, the navvy, as he wiped his mouth with his
sleeve.
“ ’Ow’s that ? ” asked Jim.
“ Why, ter shovel coal in Geelong from er tender that
you’d left on a side-t,rack in Melbourne.”
Jim went outsidp to cool.
“The Prooshan” : A dead, drear, awe-
some place was the Australian bush at its worst,
even in o]den ti but ifc had it rel j ef
. .
ln the gorgeous plumage of its feathered
folk. Now, alas ! owing to the wholesale destruc-
of birds by phosphorus poisoning, the dead-
ness 13 deader, and the awesomeness is awesoine-
nesser. I recently rode 26 miles through the bush
and heard but three “peeps” the whole time,
Thank the Lord, they can’t get their poison cart
down into the gully haunt of the lovely pheasant,
or stiU another sy lvan asset would go.
J b
* * * *
“ 11. G.” talks sedition and blasphemy
• r j
A controversy has been progressing as to the name of
the more or less disreputable character to whom belongs
the “honor” of introducing the trout into Australian
waters. Presumably when this is done a movement will
be started for erecting a statue to the benefactor who
introduced the rabbit and the fox and the prickly pear
and the fruit fly. So deeply ingrained into the nature of
scmie people is the mania for importing things that the
m m ded altruist’; and,’had some crank* in the early da.vs
let loose a few hundred hyenas in the West, he would
probably be held up to public admiration on Empire days,
and Pulsford would write yards of letters to the papers
gb'ing the statistics of the hyena production from 1852 to
% P e T" r ™; n e citizen should class the man who first
p] aced trout in Australian streams with the man who
brought the rabbit and the fox, for he has done precisely
the Same for the Australian waters as the rabbit idiot did
for Australian lands. When the white man came to
Australia, the streams were fairly well filled with native
fish, almost all of them edible and of commercial value. In
mos ’ t of those streams into which imported fish have been
introduced, the native fish have disappeared, and in their
place are a handful of inferiorimported things, which serve
solely for the amusement of a few alleged sportsmen,
When it is said that the trout is good to eat, nothing
™ re ca ". be P ut forward in his favor. He is a small fish,
only mediocre in flavor, arid his sore virtues are what are
called his « flghting qualities.” That is to say, instead of
submitting to be killed in a humane manner, he struggles
against the inevitable in order that so-called sportsmen
may gloat over his pain and terror for a more or less
lengthy period. The harder the trout dies, and the more
cruelty that is imported into his killing, the better the
“sport”; and the noble sportsmen, many of whom
shudder at the thought,of a boxing contest, spend many
pounds in order to gratify their atavistic instincts,
For all practical purposes, there is just as much gen-
uine sport in angling as there is in decapitating the
family rooster on the box-block. But as the family
rooster’s death is accomplished speedily, and the attempt
of a sportsman to compass it by'long-drawn njeans would
lead to a prosecution by the Society for the Prevention of
Brutality to Fowl, he is forced to turn his attention to
trout, which apparently are regarded by the same society
as outlaws. Meantime, while he isn’t being tortured to
death for the delectation of sundry degenerates, the trout
works off his fightability by killing other fish, and he has
so far succeeded in this that it takes very few months to
clear the streams he occupies of all the native fish. The
resultis that in streams wherein there were formerly tons of
big, fine-flavored Australian fish which might to-day have
provided hundreds of men with a living, and added
materially to the food supply of the State, there are only
a few pounds of trout, and these are looked after at State
expense, in order that once a year a gang of fat gentle-
men may come up from the city and make merry,
It is not only in respect of trout that the importing
mania has helped to deplete Australia of what should be
one of its most important resources. When Melbourne
was a small township, the black fish from the Yarra
formed no inconsiderable factor in its food supply. To-
day there are no black fish. They have all been killed by
the roaches—small, bony, insignificant English fish, prac-
tically uneatable, which some maniac introduced in order
that he might enjoy “sport.” The extermination of the
native fish from Australian streams is on all fours with
the practice of European lordlings in throwing wheat
lands out of cultivation to fatten a score of deer to be
shot at intervals of a year when the cafes of London and
Paris begin to bore the obese landowners. The only
difference is that in England the State itself doesn’t
directly encourage the lunacy of restricting sources of
production, while in Australia the general body of tax-
payers is called upon to weigh out in the cause of
national starvation.
A SOUTH SEA FANTASY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh ! wouldn’t it be
A glorious spree,
A jubilant, jibbering jamboree,
To live as a cannibal, bold and free,
On an isle in the South Pacific Sea,
Near far Fiji ?
Any old island would do for me.
AVhen the mission man
His “ work ” began,
With his carpet-bag and his boots of tan,
And his specs and gamp and a palm-leaf fan,
He’d be welcomed there by the whole dashed clan
With eclat and elan,
While the villagers danced a wild can-can.
And then as he sat
On a native mat
For a soulful, sanctimonious chat,
I’d notice the rabid and rampant “ rat”
That he kept concealed in his white cork hat;
And the back of his black cloth suit I’d pat
To feel the fat,
And then, in the native tongue, order that—
The POT be got,
The three-legged pot—
The biggest among the blooming lot;
And straightway set in the same old spot,
Filled to the brim and made boiling hot.
Then, having arranged the regular plot,
I’d show him WHAT—
This holy person who talked such rot.
When he chanced im stoop
I’d raise a whoop
And swing my club with a mighty swoop,
And bring it down with a “ scrunch ” and “ scroop,”
And the man with the mission would sag and droop,
And a festive group
Would tumble him cheerfully into the soup.
And what a shout
The rowdy rout
Would raise as they revelled and romped about;
Till the cook-in-chief should serve him out,
And We’d all tuck-in at the great tuck-out
Of sanctified tucker, till all grew stout;
And beyond a doubt
He’d have made us happy if not devout.
So now you see
Why I’d like to be
A cannibal chieftain, bold and free,
’Neath the cocoanut palm and the bread-fruit tree,
With a gentle shepherd at times for tea,
On an isle in the South Pacific sea,
Near far Fiji.
Any old island would do for me.
WESTRALTA.
JAMES SAYERS.


Taßen Hot with. Lemon at Bedtime
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
CUR.ES colds.
BRACELET
WATCHES
11 12 1
I
are the rage—the latest approved by Society.
They are eminently practical—useful. They
Heavy iBct. Watch, 15 Jewel, Lever
Movement, £lO 10s,
are essentially handsome—a perfect finish on a long glove.
We have just opened another shipment, all Gold—Gold with Pearls —Gold with Diamond? —Gold with
Turquoises and Pearls—Gold on a Leather Band. Silver in several forms —Gun Metal in various styles.
PLAIN FIGURES’
CASH.
FAIRFAX AND ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 HUNTER
STREET.
“The Lizard”: Be “ Boronia ” in your
issue of 2/7/’OB. Selectors are not all mad, surely,
or they would not be taking up over 1,000,000
acres of Westralian land every year. However,
I’ll leave the land matter over to a further issue.,
and have a go at “Boronia’s” scalp over the
poison plant. To start, leaving out personal ex-
perience, let me quote two men who are perhaps
the best qualified in W. A. to speak on the subject,
one residing in a lightly-infested district and
the other where the poison is heavier. I
might mention that the extracts are from the
Westralian Royal Commission on Immigration
(1905): —
Warren Marwick had a poison lease of 5970 acres, about
12 miles from Greenhills. He had acquired the lease in
July last (1904), and had eradicated the poison, and the
land was stocked. He considered that Sixpence an acre
would be sufficient to eradicate the plant from the worst
poison- land he knew of. He was not afraid of it.
Chas. A. Piesse, M.L.C., had been settled in the liatan-
ning district for the last 25 years. He had had consider-
able experience with country infested with poison. Had
one 800-acre paddock, 450 acres of which had been badly
infested with poison, but he had grubbed and burnt it off
at a cost of 3s. 6d. per acre. The second year after com-
mencing operations he had had the paddock Stocked with
sheep. Last year he had 1134 sheep on this 800 acres for
12 consecutive months, and had not lost one of them.
They were fat when taken out.
So what is “Boronia ” snorting about ? I reckon
that the poison plant, instead of being a curse, is
the greatest blessing Westralia could have had,
in that it has prevented practically nine-tenths of
a magnificently-watered wheat belt from being
held by the big squatters. If “Boronia” wants
to know whether poison can be eradicated, per-
haps Mr. John Wilkie (Coolgardie railway
contractor), who has cleared 60,000 acres of it,
will enlighten him further.
A HEARTLESS ADMINISTRATION.
FARMER: “I hev my troubles as well as you.
There's my poor boy as two doctors ’as ffuv
up, so bad that ’e Icin ’ardly milk a ’undred
cows of a mornin’. An’ the Gov’ment’s
yoin' ter fine me for not sendin’ ’im to school.
Where’s their humanity?”
“ Alpay ” : At Narrandera (N.S.W.) wit-
nessed a scrap between a buck rabbit and a craw.
Crow got Bunny by the ear, and made him
squeak. Then the rabbit made a bound and dis-
lodged his antagonist. The bird tried for another
hold, but missed. The buck made a flying leap,
kicked the black fowl hard on the head, and then
landed on his back. The crow was stunned, and
the rabbit and others sat down upon him, and
clawed his eyes out. Make no mistake about the
rabbit as a fighter. He could take Australia, if
he only knew it.
A CONSIDERATE FATHER .
SYMPATHETIC STRANGER : “ Bless my soul , why do yon allow pour poor wife to carry such a load?”
THE LORD AND MASTER: “ Blime, you wouldn't have me put it on the kid, would you?”
“Jimmie Pannikin”: “ W.H.M.” (B.
11/6/’08) does not know what he is writing about
when he asserts that a cod cannot be tethered by
its top lip. The Menindie fishermen, who sup-
plied Broken Hill with tons of lovely Darling cod
and perch during my three years of Outback exile,
used either to tether their big fish or keep them
inside a netting enclosure while waiting for the
fish-waggon. Along the Muddybidgee, even the
townies from Gunda, Coota, Murra and Mutta
have sense enough to tether the fish they wish to
take home fresh. The big cod are often tethered
for two or three days, and fed twice a day on
worms, oak-grubs, crickets, frogs, rabbit-chitter-
lings, etc. Some day I intend to find out whether
it would not be both possible and profitable to
fatten cod for the market. We used to fatten
oysters with oatmeal in wooden tubs up in the
Big Scrub.
* * * *
“ The Prooshan ” : “ Elmore ” claims (B.
9/7/’08) the “fur” and rind of the wombat to be
valuable assets, hitherto overlooked. “Elmore”
should really know better than to talk of fur in
connection with wombats. They wear
bristles, and coarse ones at that; and,
so far as leather is concerned —rats ! A
neighbor of mine skinned a wombat
some years ago and sent the outer
bag of the animal to Goldsbrough’s
firm in Sydney to ascertain whether
it could be turned to any practical use.
Goldsbrough duly received it and sent
it to a tannery, and in a month or .so
wrote to say that, as leather, it was
valueless. The mere task of skinning
and the removal of the thick layers
of fat would satisfy “Elmore ” that the
hide of a wombat is a fraud. The only
practical use the thing can be put to
is to make a mud mat of it. The
Chinese value the gall of the wombat
highly, giving as much as ss. for it.
They hang the galls under a sheet of
bark in the air, placing a small china
basin under each to catch the fluid
that drips out. This they use chiefly
as a hair lubricant. The residue of
the gall is sent to the Flowery Land,
and there prepared as a highly ex-
pensive medicine. It is a strange but
indisputable fact that the gall of a
wombat is fullest at full moon. John
always gives a bigger figure for a full-
moon gall than for any other. At full
moon it is bluer or darker in color than
at other times.
“ Nym ” : A foretaste of the profit to be
derived from systematic fish culture is now being
experienced by stout hearts in the Vic. channel
country. Here, owing to slackness of graft
through the drought, they have been dragging
w i re -nets through the dams adjacent to the few
channels that were running at the tail-end of
summer, with the result that splendid hauls have
been made of cod and perch. Most of the fish
weighed close up to 101 b., and all the small fry
brought to grass were put back. These fish came
down, in the fry-stage mostly, with the channel
water. Those marketed were eagerly snapped up
at 6d. per lb., uncleaned, and heads included,
One thing noticeable is that where yabbies were
caught in the nets there were no fish ; where fish
inhabited the dams, no yabbies were caught. A
few cod-fish policemen patrolling the channel-
ways, and protection against molestation by
poachers, would do much to minimise damage
from this yabbie pest in the big Waranga-Goul-
burn canal when it is finished and filled.
“ Harry Stockdale ” writes :
Will Ogilvie, in his new book, “ My Life in the Open,”
says with much truth, “ They say that you can tell a
man by the company he keeps, but I would rather judge
him by the horse he rides.” In his chapter called “ The
Blood of the Desert ” he says also
“ You may have ridden some good horses, but the
Arab is a thing apart, for in his veins runs the royal blood
of a line of kings—the matchless blood of the desert!...
But if you have not ridden such, let me say thiat you have
fallen short of learning the possibilities of equine excel-
lence raised to its highest power. ... We ride him—a
royal privilege—ride him fast and ride him far. Behind
him our companions, on their tried old favorites, drop
backward one by one ; but the further we go the gayer
becomes the dancing step of our scion of the desert chiefs.
The red light kindles in his anxious, resolute eye ; it is
the light of battle, the love of speed, the pride and
power of pre-eminent endurance, the badge of irreproach-
able courage. Every jaunty flash of his white hoofs,
every sweep of his blown white forelock, is a menace to
the miles and a mockery to the toiling rivals in his train.”
This may be fine writing and makes pleasant enough
reading, but is altogether contrary to fact, as proven
by many trials, not only of speed but of endur-
ance ; also, of speed and endurance combined—trials
that have been made between picked Arabians
and second-class thoroughbreds. In every instance,
over both short and long courses, the Arabians
were defeated and became “the toiling rivals in his
train,” That the Arabian is a grand horse and a very
desirable one to cross with our mares few horse-breeders
will gainsay ; likewise, that he has much to recommend
him in his good looks, his docility, his courage, and, above
all, in the incomparable soundness of his legs and feet;
but, as a rival to the British thoroughbred, either for one
mile or ten, he has no pretension whatever under any
weight, light or heavy, either in his own land, or here in
Australia, or elsewhere. This has been proven over and
over again where all the advantages were on the side of
the Arabian, the contests taking place in his own country,
the inferior class thoroughbreds giving away no end of
weight and beating the Arab all the way. Yet the Arab
is a noble steed that might, perhaps, be ntore properly
classed as a galloway, as those I have seen were all well
under 15 hands ; and I venture to say we have had, and
still have, galloways under 14.2 here in Australia that
could beat the best of Mr. Ogilvie’s “royal blood of a line
of kings.”
As far ba'ck as King James’ time the then Duke
of Newcastle wrote—“l never saw any but one of
these horses (Arabian), which Mr. John Markham, a
merchant, brought over and said he was a right Arabian.
He was but a little horse, and no rarity for shape ; for I
have seen many English horses far finer. Mr. Markham
sold him to King James for five hundred pounds ; and
being,trained up for a course, when he came to run every
horse beat him.”
Gervase Markham in his old horse book said—
“ When the best Barbaries that ever were in my
remembrance were in their prime, I saw them over-
run by a blapk Hobbie at'Salisburie of Maister Carlton’s ;
and yet that Hobbie was more over-runne by a horse of
Maister Blackstone called Valentine, which Valentine
neither in hunting or running was ever equalled, yet
was a plain bredde English horse, both by syre and
damme.”
And so it has been right down to the present.
Captain M. Horace Hayes, F.R.C.V.S., one of our greatest
authorities on thi? horse, says of breeding in India :
“ The country produce bred by General Parrott from
nearly pure English blood, although incapable of holding
their own against Australians, have been at weight for
age and class capable of defeating Arabs at all distances.
The Iftdian weight for age scale compels English and Aus-
tralian horses to carry 3st. more than Arabs at three and
four miles.”
And though up to Hayes’ time Bravo was the only
first-class Australian Which had run in India, and he, from
unsoundness, was quite unable to show anything like his
true form, yet, Hayes says, speaking generally, “ no weight
within reason can bring Arabs together with even second-
rate colonials ; and for the last 20 years we have not had
a single Cape horse that could hold his own against
Colonials.”
So much for the pretensions of the pure-bred Arab
when put in the scale against our own Australian-bred
horse
WHERE THE BIG TREES GROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Despite the ancient grandeur of the Danube and the
Rhine;
The castled heights, the gardens of the olive and the
vine ;
The old and crumbling splendors ; the forests swathed in
snow,
I know a better country, where the big trees grow !
From the blue Dividing Ranges to the Baw-Baws, glim-
mering white;
From Nar-Nar-Goon to Marysville, across the timbered
height;
From Neerim, through the passes where the bullock
waggons go,
Lie the red-soil hills and valleys where the big trees grow.
Old veterans and warriors of many a roaring fray,
The scars of countless wars they bear, yet stout and
strong are they,
With lofty branching heads upreared to all the winds
that blow—
There are giants in the country where the big trees grow.
Where the hardy brown selector carves his home by dint
of axe
They dwarf his little clearing ; and they hem the winding
tracks, s
Where the bullock-teams go crawling, axle-deep, and
moving slow
Round the shoulders of the mountains where the big
trees grow.
From the meadow lands of England to the apple-groves
of France—
Though tinged with ancient legend, and though haunted
by romance—
From the cities on the seaboard to the summits and the
snow
There is nought to match the country where the big trees
grow.
VIU -
O.G.A. COLLES.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
A T o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps'(of any State) accompany.
W.H.K. : “Death—or Sleep” has locomotor
ataxia in its verse-legs. Furthermore, it is intensely
biassed. It omits mention of the many points in Death’s
favor, such as the absence of the possibility of falling out
of bed, or of getting nightmare or cold feet, or of having
to get up these chilly mornings W.E.K.: In plain
prose, a man came to borrow a pound from the editor,
and was thrown downstairs. The incident is too sicken-
ing a commonplace of the journalistic life for versifica-
tion J. Gibson : You send four more or less humorous
jokes, together with a written assurance that “These
stories are original.” The first of them (viz., “None
Passing ”) appeared in this paper with an illustration by
Norman Lindsay (16/4/’OB) —which casts, to put it mildly,
something in the nature of a murk on the other three
Bernice : You can’t write poetry yet, but there are faint
glimmerings of something of the sort in your verses....
U. B.: This paper doesn’t stock costumes for poster-balls,
and while life and reason remain it doesn’t mean to
Trader : Mistake re Millocker’s opera was corrected in
a subsequent issue Investigator: Certainly not. !..
D.M. : Well for you that you live in far-away Forbes. The
last man who sent a Limerick to this office abode east of
the Blue Mountains ; he is now a hopeless cripple....
G.R.B. : Quite believe your yarn about the four-year-old
boy is true ; the trouble is it isn’t funny Day-Dawn :
Interested to hear of the lady who “has always been
most respectable, but unfortunately her husband has
fallen into drunken habits, and, while under drink’s in-
fluence, has committed crimes that have made it impos-
sible for her to remain with him whilst retaining her own
self-respect," but can’t advise her in the matter. Try a
lawyer J.A.K. : “ The Lug Stakes” says nothing new
in irreproachable language... .Funny : There are possi-
bilities about the Bohemian boy (and girl) who riot con-
versationally at Fasoli’s on 9d. —but you miss them....
T.P.L. : Never heard of Crisp, but interested withal to
know that he “regards The Bulletin as the most
dangerous publication in Australia, if not in the British
dominions.” J.P.M. : “ Ode ”is unsuitable. Consider-
ing “Question,” but it hasn’t much hope ...W.P. : Irre-
ligious fellow!—E. J. Coady : A good, up-to-date
dictionary is Chambers’ Lotus : Too slight. The
world is not made up of poetical regrets O.P. : Long
and rambling, like the Epistle of Paul to the Ephesians.
James Lamb: Led to the slaughter Pard : Wilde’s
complete verses can only be got in the collected edition,
12s. a volume, and you can’t get a separate volume. But
a horribly cheaply printed American selection of his
verses can be got at any local booksellers. It does not
contain the poem you want... .Y. : Commonplace
F.S.P.: Har'd' - / enough interest in your jackeroo’s
troubles... .Edith G.: None quite strong enough; still
there’s a simple directness about one or two that is worth
the encouraging word... .L.L. : “The Gong” perished
again.. ..C.G.T. : “Insomnia” should have beendonein
rhyme. There are times when blank verse seems to
arise through a bard being too tired to hunt for rhymes.
.... Ansonia : The mere fact that you had great difficulty
in collecting your accounts hardly makes a story
Augustus B.: “ Bohemia” is too shuddery G.S.H.: The
wild demand to be buried at sea has been made in verse
so often....E.K.: “Looking Forward ” only fair, yet
good enough to justify you in trying again Lotus:
“ Curlew’s Cry ” very indefinite. What was the curlew
crying about? J.P.M.: “ Question ” not of any import-
ance.... Mountaineer: “Ci udemned” is indeed horrible
—but not in the way you mean.... John Somer: You
speak of “ the enclosed cuttings ”as “ a coincidence,” but
as there was only one cutting, and it couldn’t coincide
with itself, the point is lost. Also, please enclose stamps
next time you want anything returned... .Benita:
“ Springtime ” declined with much hesitation. It is so
very near acceptance level... .R.L. : “Coquetry” is a
pretty trifle, butonly atrifle.. .D. 8.8.: “ Bill’s Damages ”
is a terribly old story, dished up afresh and spread out...
R.S.R. : A promising theme, but it could hardly have
been worse handled Pibroch : Well, it might be worse,
but it would have to be a lot better to have a chance of
print Dalkeith: Both have good points, but the bulk
of them is third class only Usay : Probably from life,
but hardly worth recording....Goodgeregah (nearest we
can get to it): A bit too prosy and long-winded R.R.
T. : “ Mysteries ” too. stiff in the joints F.J. :No
W.S.O. (Tas.) : Unsuitable doubtless, and duly W.P.B’d.
....Orara: “Temptation" hopeless Dunlavin : In
future cut out pars and post to accountant yourself,
when cash will follow Mervis Harward: Sketches
have a certain merit; but their labored phraseology puts
them out of court Davee: Dirty and hopelessly
foolish stories.. ..Kum Baroona : Two very small and not
very interesting anecdotes R.E.L. : “Platonics” well
written save the end, which is bathos Nero: “Con-
ventionalism” gives a good hard knock to one of the lies
of our civilisation, but we can’t quite grasp which....
Pyrrhotite: Good points, but the metre is too staggery.
W.J.W.: “Sonnet—l2th July” takes a foolish busi-
ness seriously—which is a mistake.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Billie B. : Three pictures badly drawn, and with labored
jokes at foot Henry D. : Had received a portrait of
that gentleman before yours came to hand.,. .F.W.M. :
As a picture it is naught, but the joke may do some
service Red: Picture representingßrowne’s ghost and
some sundries has no particular story to te11... .H.B. :
No demand for phofo of very ordinary nigger L.G.C.:
You show some artistic ability, but you need to draw on
a much larger scale, so that the work may be photo-
graphed down. Moreover, the Bent joke isn’t very ap-
parent—what tourney is Tommy going to? No stamps
enclosed for return.. ..Valli : Two ordinary-looking
people making remarks to each other. You can illustrate
anything in that fashion M.E.C. : Picture of drunken
woman thrown out. Don’t like pictures of drunken
women D. Hartley (and sundry other artists): Do
please write your gags in ink —not in faint, dim pencil....
H.8.G.: No hope about any of the three. Art too wildly
original. ..^.H.8.G,: The sketches came to hand. They
were awful. There were no stamps or instructions for
return. They went into the basket. The lady who cleans
up cast them out. The wind blew them away. Then
next morning we found your letter with stamps for re-
turn. Why send two separate communications about a
small thing like that ? Why not pin the stamps on the
sketches instead of making two bites of one water-
melon? P. Tuck : Nothing very promising about that
collection. You have a small, cramped style of art that
is aggravating to look at.
Have you seen the July Lone Hand yet ?
There’s a reproduction in colors of Frank Mahony’s
bushranging picture, “As in the Days of Old,”
that you will want to frame ; a picture of William
Buckley, the wild white man; and Blamire
Young’s illustrated article on the Gum Tree will
also appeal to the heart of Australia.*
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Be fox carcases.
In the Gundagai-Tumut district (N.S.W) a
favorite plan is to fasten the skinned car'case
(with the mouth wide open) latitudinally on a
wire-fence. I have seen quite a many grinning
Reynard-remains showing impotent defiance on
fences.


JP ,ris poino +b Vy £€naj —
'htshssps we tc-tfeK roof b^ ce o/€k
mstl*a of «**"% 41 ”*7 .
v >f W .™ «•*-
A*« H %
' r
€ €f>seTr^p 1 b 2C^«•'j/
-Jo mc<?l~ condition^.
-as -H« inWible &n fJshe*- £A*"e *l>reAsr
a.', wall A$ *»>y C o<i &C ouvrfry* | Would HoW .
MV«/^
fictf
drop S
f)Xn<
'' W I7 c*v
bUcK-
eye**
b u s^
' (o* vlC s
) Ov> ,
b®v<l
foiled
"A Vc«n / /yy
1 nVonted ///
■5OO Tb>s meonv/V
-firsTt* ' x * r^^]wA
would
"be e*blodin£/// ‘////m
Shelly -fired mt^y/f/// / ' / ‘
% rsmm.
yowtyfy-ore too ffc >*Ay wlja^sfi'ucK'aj?
" 0-» didVi'■you K«ro«f< ?— # Pvis °ffc*>cd '{••'« !
D^AjTfcK
Airship
)
- T/xkikc, 7o
Twe Parachute-5
//
wi*r
'. "
sn^
-fo st»»|».
WAR BY SAUSAGE.
“Air Ships for War”; “Britain’s Vita! Necessity;” “What Germany is Doing”; “Six Vessels Ordered”; “Remarkable Progress”;
“Zeppelin’s Latest Car ."—Various Cables.


THAT A N F -T.
<* it is intended to Issue for each capital a pocket programme containing
the engagements and various hints for the public, as well as for those who
lire most closely identified with the work.”
L.8.M.: “My word! 1 shall have to get a pocket
made expressly for mlnel’
The Bishop of South Toklo (the Right
Rev. W. Awdry), in a letter to The
Times, says: “The Japanese do not
entertain the slightest idea of invading
Australia. The rumor rests on abso-
lutely nothing but the uneasy con-
sciences of those who are keeping lands
they cannot use themselves.”
OEMS FROM MRS. BESANT.
*< Some of us were one day moving
about on the other, side, and we came
across a terrified woman. She had
been burnt to death in the cabin of a
ship, alone. Two of us
found her on the other
side, surrounded by flames \
that her imagination had
\ created, buV suffering under
|)Vhat imagination.”
IIJ “Hop” hates to throw cold water
y in these cases, but isn’t it just pos-
f ( sible that Annie and her friends
l\ got into the smoking compartment
of “T’other Side”—by mistake, of
11 course ?
Bishop : “ 1
absolutely
guarantee
v the harm-
lessness of
my friend
here.”
“ Then in this other world an evil man experiences great suffering when he:
finds that the only forms of happiness he knew on earth are now beyond hi®
grafep.”
Imagine the awful pangs of an old toper on the 44 other side *\ (the hot
side, say) of a gridiron, for ever reaching out after the unattainable long
sleever ! Why, oh 1 why does Annie put such unpleasant thoughts into l
our heads?
SOME ThOUahTS UPON A THREATENED
TRAM-CONDUCTORS’ STRIKE.
r i t JWrr
. • For 30 hours after death the man
stands in a condition ol happy but
dreamy consciousness.'
This is only another way of saying
♦ •'E dunno where ’e are.
THIS SIDE AND T’OTHER SIDE.


Use Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It
relieves the lungs, aids expectoration, and effects
a prompt and permanent cure.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson, Proprietor
For acute kidney ills, or for chronic,
Unequalled are Pills Laxo-Tonic,
Liver troubles they cure,
Make tainted blood pure,
And the nerves act in manner harmonic.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10}d. and Is. 6d.*
“ Woods’ Peppermint Cu.re appears to brin
Your trade amongst the snuggest,
I ’spose it won’t cure everything ? ”
“Well, no,” replied the druggist.
“ It wort’t cure everything, at least,
Unless I’m much mistaken ! ”
“ What; won’t it cure in man or beast?”
Said he : “It won’t cure bacon ! ”
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The oldest legislators in Adelaide are
John Carr and Alfred Hardy, both of them 90.
Carr was several times a Minister, but Hardy
never climbed that high. He is the oldest soli-
citor on the S.A. roll. Both men are to be seen
almost daily in the streets of Adelaide.
There is a story of the late Tom Fitz-
gerald, Australia’s most adept surgeon, that he
was one day approached by a wooden-legged
youth in the bird-cage at Flemington. The per-
son with the hickory limb gave the sporting free-
lance a dead cert., and said : “ I don’t forget you,
guv’ner, and I’m a grateful bloke, I am. I was
poor ’n’ alone—hadn’t a friend in the world—and
you cut off me leg.”
CHANTER , M.H.R.
“X.Y.Z.”: The Bulletin is wrong
(2/7/’08) in so much of its par re Sydney University
Medical School as states that “Dr. W. G. Arm-
strong can really claim to be its first graduate.”
Says the University Calendar of 1888 :
Honors at Graduation.
First Class.
P. Bancroft.
A. E. Perkins.
Second Class.
W. G. Armstrong.
A. G. Henry.
N. G. Davidson.
Of these A. G. Henry is dead. Peter Bancroft
practises in a neighboring' State, and has been
president of the Medical Board there. A. E.
Perkins is a busy suburban healer, and was
awarded the D.S.O. in the late farm-burning
shivoo. N. G. Davidson is a well-known Balmain
specialist.
Two Queensland pioneers, Torn Petrie and
Pan Donovan, ea6h Of whom is 77 years old, were
photographed together recently. Petrie has been
71 years in Bananaland and Donovan 63. They
will probably die w.ithin the next 20 years. This
Northern climate always kills white men sooner
Or later.
“ Myrtle ” : Died at Yeppooh (Central
Queensland), early this month (July), at the age
Of over 70, ( 0ne Lane, father of “ Paraguay ” Lane,
Of Rue Australia fame. He was a sturdy
Socialist, and died, as many prophesied he would;
arguing politics. ThO old inan iyas caretaker of a
small farm, owned by Senator “ Jiffliny ” Stewart;
and it was with the Senator that he was holding
converse when his heart failed for the first time ini
his life, and he quietly lay down.
Mrs. Stouu, wife of Chief-Justice Robert;
Of Maoriland, in an Auckland Herald interview;
says she has a “strong conviction that the Maoris
are one of the 10st ten tribes.” It’s Very evident
the Maoris are going to be found out; they can-
not (between the theory that they are browri
Irishmen and the dream, that they are lost
Hebrews) stay concealed much longer. Incident-
ally, it is curious to find the wife of such a mail
as Robert Stout—teacher, lawyer, politician,
Judge,, and always a philosopher—expressing such
an archaic opinion.
“Dandalup” sends a memoir:—
Died recently, in the Cold Country, aged 82, Arch-
deacon Lecaille, known for many years in Westralia as
“ the little bushman-priest.” He landed in the West in
1857, and was at once handed a diocese which stretched
from Busselton in the south to Northampton (then a
booming lead field) in the north. (Bunbury, at this time,
consisted of a few bark humpies and a dusfrbox ; “ Big
John” Forrest was known as “Tiny Jack,” and hadn’t
begun to trouble about the boots of civilisation ; Premier
Moore didn’t exist.) Lecaille did his extensive rounds on
horseback. He was a game horseman, and would straddle
the hottest outlaw this side of Sheol. Likewise he was a
mighty builder. He raised churches at Geraldton,
Greenough, Northampton, Bootenal, Back Flats, North-
ampton, Bunbury district, and Lord knows where
besides.
Nicholas Hawken, M.L.C., dead at the
age of 72, passed through both Houses of N.S. W.
Parliament. No man took llimself more seri-
ously, but no man in either House was taken less
seriously. His portentous gravity was accepted
as a mask of comedy on most occasions. His
ideas were bizarre, as a rule, and his words made
them more so. “I know I alone hold this
opinion,” he told the Council; “ but the feeling
that inspires me is one of pity for you.” He pro-
duced things he called verses—which were worse
than the perpetrations of Neild. He had spent
over half a century in N.S.W., and was highly
esteemed in the electorate of Newtown; but,
though professing to be a politician, he was inno-
cent both of theory and practice.
Died last week, at South Yarra (Vic.),
Miss Helen Hart, woman suffragist and many
other things. She was an untidy woman and
much given to wearing shapeless shoes and a
baggy ulster, and she was a rebel and unorthodox
from her fept to the top of her bashed hat. She was
clever and eloquent and democratic and in deadly
earnest, and she was wholly neglectful of her back
hair. In some sense she was the counterpart of
Jos. Symes, the bigoted atheist of Melbourne.
She was so insurrectionary that she could never
have settled down, even if everything she wanted
had come to pass ; the instinct of the fighter was
in her, and she would have bitten the hind leg of
the millennium rather than have had nothing to
battle with. Between her and sleek, persuasive,
nicely-groomed Annie Besant there was a sort of
kinship, yet a great gulf. One was akin to the
drawing-room Socialist and the other to the women
who stormed the Bastile. It is to be hoped Helen
Hart is resting where she has gone. While she
was alive the capacity to rest was not in her.
“Jean Sibi,” of Melbourne—the wail
thereof: —
The immense indefiniteness that the Nash case has
reached to date has been characteristic of the proceed-
ings all along. Everything has been as vague and dis-
ordered as a Chinese ode—and quite as exciting. Mystery
has been heaped on mystery, until the top of the
substance has got so high that people with weak chests
dare not look at it. And all this time —some years it
seems—there has been nothing but speculation, com-
ment, abuse, and a heap of archiepiscopal capers. Except
among the people immediately interested, nobody knows
what the parson did, or why his spiritual boss said he
did and then said he didn’t do what we don’t know
whether he did or not. The parson is without a position ;
the Archbishop is in the dim distance hurling vetoes and
contradictions; while the parson’s parishioners censure
his far-away Nibs and swear that they will stand by their
Nash until they get footsore or something. And, while
the circus is developing all the fascinating qualities of
a religious phantasmagoria, without beginning- anywhere
and ending in the same spot, Nash’s old parish at
Hawthorn is in the throes of internecine strife. The
vestry out in those parts is divided over some
international question about as attractive to the
average man as a milk diet or vegetarianism, and
are calling each other “falsehoods” in the daily
press. Every morning, on opening the daily paper,
one is confronted by about half a column of correspond-
ence, of superfluous explanation and equally-superfluous
accusation about their lost box of dominoes, or whatever
it is—superfluous in so far that 101 per cent, of the popu-
lace never read it. In addition, there is anything from
half to three-quarters of a column about the people who
are goingto maintain the vertical down at Geelong—stuff
which is as dull and unedifying as a treatise on crema-
tion. And there the case remains. It has long since
ceased to be notorious ; it has reached the apogee of
wearisomeness ; and has produced nothing but 2487 miles
of “guff.” Who are Archbishop Clarke, Nash, anld
Nash’s parishioners that they should be inflicting their
unexplained trouble upon me for ever and ever? I
should never dream of dragging my disputes with my
fishmonger or bottle-oh into the arc-light of publicity.
The death of James Kenniff, senior, of
Lethbridge Pocket (Queensland), recalls the last
faint flicker of the bushranging art in 1902. Dalke
(station manager) and Constable Doyle set out to
arrest James (junior) and Patrick Kenniff for
horse stealing. Only Sam Johnson, a black-
, tracker who accompanied Doyle and Dalke, came
back alive. Some charred remains, some odd
buttons, and some ashes in a bag on a pack-horse
—a walking sepulchre—expounded a tragedy.
The two Kenniff brothers appeared before a Bris-
bane Court (Roma as a court centre was tabooed —
local sentiment buzzed too strongly there). Much
circumstantial evidence and the black-tracker’s
testimony led to a conviction. A Pull Court of
four Judges, at Brisbane, confirmed the verdict —
Justice Real, the perpetually cantankerous, dis-
senting in favor of James Kenniff, which fact
accounts for James’ life sentence at St. Helena.
The hangman’s rope disposed of Patrick. There
was a great haze about the matter, and a lot of
people still believe that the mystery was never
really explained. The fact that a pack-horse
was found walking about loose with a bag of
remains that might easily have been buried, was
a bewildering circumstance. Some earnest readers
of Poe’s “Rue Morgue ” story had wild ideas that
a gorilla or a devil or an insane humorist was at
the bottom of the matter.
Obit iri England (10/7/’08) Captain James
4. Elmslie, Cetdt 81. He had sailed with more
Australians, in All probability, than any other
skippef on the high seas. Joining the SobraOn—a
favorite old-time passengCr-ship—after its maiden
Voyage, he navigated it on every trip between
Cold and Australian climes from ’67 to ’9l. Then
he and his vessel retired together from active
wind-jamming.
LET HER GO.
The Victorian Ministry has promised a Bill for the
abolition of slums, and the erection of new buildings in
place of those condemned as unwholesome. —Melbourne
paper.
A firm of London solicitors has been
advertisim.’ - in Brisbane Cqukier for the next-of-
kin of one Louis Smallwood O’Connell, and states,
among other things :
Daniel O’Connell, a brother of the Settler’s father, is
believed to have gone to Australia in 1869, and is alleged
to have been killed there by a pirate.
Whereupon The Bulletin hunted up an old,
musty directory—the father and grandfather of
all directories, by its appearance—and looked for
“Pirates” in the “Trades and Professions”
sections, but found none. There have been bush-
rangers, solicitors, land sharks, cannibals, and
motor hogs in Australia, but the crop of pirates
has always been thin.
Chairman Meeks and general-manager
Teece have fixed up the London directorate of the
A.M.P., with N. S. Wales’ old-friend Jersey at
the head and that enthusiastic guinea-pig, the
ex-S. Australian Dr. Cdckburn, at the tail, and
one of the numerous Gibbses and H. S. King in
between. Dr. Cockburn made a pretty-consider-
able rise out of Mfi. Lyell, through its amalgama-
tion with the North Lyell, and isn’t in poverty
these days ; the other three are all disgustingly
rich. Jersey is a partner in the Child’s private
bankery; Gibbs belongs to a firm that has
probably more tentacles than any other jn Eng-
land (Gibbs, Bright and Co. is the Australian
house, and chairman Meeks is the senior partner
in that firm’s Sydney house); and Henry
Seymour King is a yachtsman who is a banker
and insurance man in his spare time.
One man in Melbourne has lately been
living the strehuous life all right. First he tran-
spired as acting sec. to a Sectional Committee
for the Fleet Decoration of the Collins-street
Block. He advertised for workmen, and
got some 300 answers, but selected nobody.
He next appeared as a spokesman for the
unemployed, but was repudiated by them,
and urged to remove himself from a de-
putation that was interviewing the Pre-
mier. He then fell foul of Opposition-
leader Prendergast, and was chased by
that irate party down the Treasury stairs,
escaping with his bell-topper over one
ear and his coat-tails flying over the
other. A few days later the police had
to escort him from a Yarra bank meeting
under a shower of stones. Next he ex-
cused himself to the Malvern beaks for
his failure to pay a small furniture bill,
and was ordered to settle up immediately.
Incidentally he informed the beaks that
he was somewhat flurried as he “had
had no breakfast that morning, and had
broken away from his prospective mar-
riage feast” in order to meet their Wor-
ships. He then lay quiet for a day or two,
his next appearance being at the City
Court on two charges of giving valueless
cheques —for trifling sums. He once
more assured their Worships that he was
to be married that morning and had ample
moneys to honor the blessed cheques. Still,
they committed him for trial. And at
almost the same moment the Malvern
Court, in his absence, was handing him
out £lO or a month for a trifling disagree-
ment with his landlord. It wasn’t the
proper thing to do, as the strenuous person
might have had something to say which he
wasn’t able to say, not being where he could
be heard ; but when a man has so many engage-
ments as this one has it seems almost impossible
for him to give proper attention to everything.
An early Victorian pioneer, Mrs. Jane
Millar, of Alberton, Gippsland (Vic.), went over
last-week at the age of 90 years. She arrived with
her husband in the early days of Port Phillip.
Mrs. Millar witnessed the last great fight between
the Gippsland tribe of blacks and their hereditary
. enemies, the Monaro tribe. The rows of these
two tribes spread in a general way from the site
of the Federal capital down to the Lakes.
By this paper’s Oldest Inhabitant
A much-administered estate came up for probate be-
fore the Victorian Court last week. Over half a century
ago Thomas Warburton was engaged in tinplate and iron-
work in Melbourne, where he built up a big business. He
was one of the first to issue copper tokens, which passed
as pennies in the absence of the re&l thing ; on the ob-
verse of the cojp one could read, “ Irpn and Zinc Spouting
Works, T. Warburton, 11 Little Bourke-street, West
Melbourne,” and on the reverse, “Victoria, 1862,” with
the Australian arms and motto, and an advertisement for
Stokes, the die-sinker who turned out most of the Mel-
bourne tokens of the time. In 1871 Warburton went to
Fiji on business, and was killed by natives. He had a
large estate in Victoria, and probate of his will was
granted to his widow. She, however, did not long sur-
vive the husband, and the administration of the estate
was granted to the testator’s eldest son, T. W. Warbur-
ton. In April last this Mr. Warburton died, and on
Thursday administration of the still unadministered
estate was granted to Mrs. Aikins, eldest daughter of the
testator. It seems a rather fatal estate.
Edward MacEarlane, who was the unsus-
picious Under-Secretary for Cornstalk Lands in
the days before the Department was disinfected,
has nailed up his shingle as a licensed surveyor in
Sydney.
The Beiit-cum-Weedon scheme for getting
themselves knighted may’have originated in the
busy little brain of the gaud Mayor, rather
than in the massive intellect of Victoria’s
amazing Premier. Anyhow, Weedon’s
yearning for a title to his appropriate
name was always more apparent than
Bent’s. Two successive terms of gaud-
Mayoralty had failed to bring him his
heart’s desire, therefore he got himself re-
elected again. And then he went to London as
one of Bent’s Commissioners at the entente
cordicde Exhibition, in order to urge their
joint and several claim to “ knight bachelor-
hood,” or whatever form of title has befallen
them. Their recommendation to
the Colonial Office came from
Victorian Governor
Tal bottle, it appears,
and not from G.-G.
Northcote, who had
previously been
sounded on the
subject. The Tal-
bottle recommenda-
tion would hardly
have sufficed to do the
trick, hence the sending
forth of Weedon to do
battle in London.
' Windsor (N.S.W.) has lost an ancient
native, Mr. William Gosper, who died at Mac-
quarie-street in the old town on July 12, aged 81
years. He was an innkeeper in the old drinky
days when Windsor boasted 30 pubs. Windsor
hardly drinks enough for two pubs nowadays.
LOCKING UP.
It is evident, from the British Admiralty’s delay in sub-
mitting- to Mr. Deakin its long-promised scheme for Aus-
tralian defence, that it is trying to postpone the incep-
tion Of a policy it has always regarded with aversion.—
Melbourne Age.
AUSTRALIA: “ Well, Admiralty or no Admiralty ,
I ain't going to bed with MY front door open
of nights!” (Shuts it with a bang.)
Some people have an amazingly weak hold
upon life. Two recent suicides were (1) that of a
young man in S.A. who shot himself because he
received an anonymous letter reflecting on his best
girl: and (2) that of a N.S.W. girl of 18, whose
mother had spoken harshly to her about the in-
efficient washing of certain plates.
LONG LAN TUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow, has been
appointed Chinese Consul-General for the Common-
wealth.—News item.
Silence the lettuce ! He’s here with us how.
Hail! Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
iurn off the cabbage ! Respectfully boW
io Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
Arrange ev’ryone for solemn pow-wow
\Vith Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
Get the best joss-sticks, and murder the sow
For Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
Each on the carpet must bump with his brow
To Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
Pour not in the tea the juice of the cow
For Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
If you do, you’ll have the deuce of a row
With Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
That’s one of the things he will not allow
This Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
Milk’s stuff for the cat that yelleth “ Mee-yow ! ”
Not for Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
He doesn’t keep it at home on his scow,
Ah Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
Here’s luck ! May your gods with pleasures endow
You, Long Lan Tun, taotai of Swatow.
Fill up the teapot ! old fellow —“ Here’s how ”
Hi-yah 1 Whaffor ! Taotai of Swatow !
N.S.W.
E. O’F.
ADOLPHUS BENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thomas Bent has hinted that his second name is
Adolphus. Following the example of Hector Oarruthers,
he will probably be known as “Sir Adolphus Bent.”—
News Item.
T. Adolphus Bent,
Tell us what you meant
By so long concealing this superb embellishment ?
Think you, we’d have sent
You to Parliament)
Had we known you postured ’neath a title fraudulent ?
Shame upon you, shame !
What a blessed name
To affright the masons as they chip the Scroll of Fame !
Has some lovely dame
Happened to inflame
Feelings that were dormant, this agnomen to proclaim?
Tom ! Oh, tell us where
Happened you to snare
Such an appellation, so bizarre and debonair?
Can you truly swear
It was on the. square,
Or of some job that’s shady does it represent your share ?
Tom of old, relent,
Let us not lament
That our earnest praises of your prowess were misspent;
Dire despair prevent,
Close the incident,
Seek not painting lilies nor adorning Thomas Bent.
VIC.
MILTON MACGERGOR.


.
-7
FI
LaJ
rr
Lt"
O
<>
V- *;
J
/
\
f
5
wr
«
CHAMPION.
99
The new “ natural flavor ” tobacco (cut and plug)
of big'best g'rade, and retaining' the delicate flavor
of the original Virginia leaf.
The “Champion” trade-marK appears on every 2oz. tin p light and darK cut.


CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
draws out the inflammation, kills the germ of
disease, strengthens the mucous membrane.*
Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Arti.tic Designs. . . . Durability Guaranteed.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent Men.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and GO.
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Cougli while vou can, for after taking
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY you
can’t cough any more. A certain cure in every
bottle.*
SHIRTS.
For Station and Out-door work our Silk Stripe
Mattalasse and other Unshrinkable Shirts
are highly recommended.
33J- per Half-dozen, free by post throughout
Australia.
Patterns and Measurements Forms on Application.
B. MOUNTCASTLE & SONS, BRISBANE.
A MODERN REMEDY.
That dreadful word “consumption ” need never be
feared if Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is taken in time.
Thousands speak of it in the highest praise. Obtainable
everywhere, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
How near Australia came to be colonised
by free Americans instead of by the prison popu-
lation of Great Britain is told in the July Lone
Hand by J. O’Byrne.*
FIVE MISERABLE YEARS WITH
ANOSMIA.
Sydney Girl Drifting Into a Decline.
Thin, Pale, and Languid—Rapidly Lost
Weight—Constant Headaches and Faint-
ing Fits—Advice from Eight Doctors —
Finally Cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills.
“ When I was 17 I became anaemic, and I was
ailing until I was twenty-two,” says Mrs. Francis
McGoldrick, 10 Randle Street, Sydney. “It
came on gradually. I found myself getting very
weak and run down. All my strength went. My
appetite left me altogether. For (lays at a time
hardly a morsel would pass my lips. I mostly
lived on bread and butter. I had a mad craving
for vinegar ; if the bottle wasn’t locked up I’d get
up in the middle of the night to get at it. I fell
away till I could count almost every bone. You
could see through my hands, they were so trans-
parent. My head would ache for days at a time
till I was nearly distracted. The top of my head
seemed as if it was opening and shutting. I’d get
faint turns perhaps three times a day, sometimes
I’d go right off, even if I were in the street, and
other times the room would spin round and every-
thing would go dark and I’d have to sit down at
once. I couldn’t do any form of work, sewing or
reading were beyond me. My feet and ankles
were all puffed up. My eyesight began to fail.
All the color faded from my face and lips. I was
the color of parchment. I was so bloodless I
dreaded a cold day—l’d feel perished. My eyes
were sunken and of unnatural brilliancy with
dark lines under them. I had advice from eight
doctors and spent quite a large sum of money try-
to get relief. I went down in weight to seven
stone. If I walked quickly my heart would throb
and jump and then seem to stop altogether. I’d
get hot flushes and feverish turns and then go
quite cold. I fully believed I was in consumption.
I was a victim to hysteria and would cry and
laugh in turns until I was thoroughly exhausted.
I never slept well and never got up feeling re-
freshed. I was so utterly wretched that I didn’t
care whether I lived or died. At last, through an
article in the newspaper, I read of Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills and decided to give them a trial. I
could feel the benefit before I had finished the first
box. I felt my circulation better. I began to eat
a little solid food and lost my mad craving for
lemons and vinegar. A tinge of color came back
to my lips and cheeks. My strength began to
return with every dose. In a li.ttle while I began
to put on flesh and get rosy. 1 longed for meal
time. My headaches left me altogether, and the
fainting fits disappeared, and in a short time I
was fully restored in health. lam as well now as
I could wish to be. I can go out and enjoy my-
self, and feel bright and energetic. In my case
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills acted like a miracle.”_
When you begin to take Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, watch your appetite. In a few days you’ll
feel that you can’t get enough to eat. That’s one
of the first signs that they are doing good. They
make new blood and tone run-down nerves, and
sufferers who take them find daily improvement.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all medi-
cine dealers, or if you cannot get them locally,
send direct to The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.
of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney, 2s. 9d. for one box ;
six boxes for 15s. 3d., post free.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS
s:
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 George St.
(opp- Hunter St.)
Also at Melbourne.
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A QUEENSLAND MINISTERIAL TRIP
IN THE FAR NORTH.
Photograph taken at Dalby (Queensland) of the
30-h.p. Panhard motor-car of Mr. J. W. Blair,
Q. Attorney-General and Secretary for Mines. In
four weeks Mr. Blair travelled in this car 3000
miles in Central, Northern and Western Queens-
land, much of the country having never before been
traversed by motor. The car was railed to Black-
all; starling from there Mr. Blair passed through
Barcaldme, Longreach, Winton, Kynuna, Mackin-
lay, Cloncurry, Mount Elliott and Mount Hamp-
den. He travelled from Cloncurry to Richmond
(230 miles) on the newly constructed line, motoring
thence via Hughenden, Tangorin, Muttaburra, and
Aramac to Blackall. From Blackall he proceeded
with his motor via Charleville, Mitchell, Roma,
Dalby, Toowoomba, and Ipswich to Brisbane.
The occupants of the car are Messrs. Blair,
Murphy (Northampton Downs), O'Hagan (Pri-
vate Secretary), Leach (COURIER and, QUEENS-
LANDER) and C. E. Hall.
The surprise visit of Kaiser William to
the British fleet during the North Sea manoeuvres
makes you think of the man who, seeing a crowd
on the vacant allotment next his house, strolls
over casually in his shirt-sleeves to have a -look
round and see what’s doing. The North Sea is
Bill’s vacant allotment, and he always likes to
know what’s happening there.
“ Vulcan ” : Sydney Telegraph (11/7/’08)
instances yet another of the baleful effects of Pro-
tection —the tariff imposition that was going to
“place the unfortunate Australian piano-buyer at
the mercy of a single piano-making monopoly ” :
Wertheim and Co. have decided to construct a large
piano manufactory at Richmond, which is expected to
o-ive employment to between 200 and 300 men.
The building is to be completed within 12 months.
Meantime the firm is making exhaustive experiments
with various Australian tvoods.
Lemmon, M.L.A., startled Vic. Assembly
lately by reading a letter in which the writer said
that, on emptying a bag of flour he had lately
bought, he found the inside of the bag branded
“So-and-so’s dissolved bones—best artificial
manure.” He repacked the bag and returned the
flour to the storekeeper, who sent it back to the
miller—who turned out to be a one-time lecturer
of the Producers and Property Owners’ Associa-
tion ! That was the quaint concern which, while
really a Tory electioneering agency of the deepest
dye, pretended to be above all things the farmer’s
friend. If the Association believes in putting
flour into bags which have held bone manure, it
probably meant that it was the baby-farmer’s
friend.
“ P. 0.” makes a few remarks ;
New Victorian Governor T. Gibson-Carmichael early
got an example of what a pest the State Frights insect is
when it starts to buzz. Some people in London gave a
farewell dinner to the new Ex., and J. M. Davies, of Vic-
toria, upended himself. He fixed one eye on the guest
and the other on the tired pressmen, and he droned forth
at stupendous length about “Federal tyranny,” “ injus-
tice,” “States were determined to fight,” etc., etc.—all
the usual old gags. His Ex. looked cold and unhappy at
being dragged into the matter, the company yawned,
boredly, and the pressmen laid aside their pencils, and
gaped wearily among themselves, and still Davies
droned. Then there arose calls of “ time,” “ leave off,”
and ironical applause, and when that didn’t stop Davies’
drone the company just turned its chairs and conversed
loudly about any old thing, and let Davies drone to the
flies until he was too tired to drone any more. And all
the time Davies was of just as much account as a blue-
bottle calling aloud in a pickle jar.
The Victorian Government, by way of
encouraging Australian industry, has let a con-
tract to Lysaght Brothers, of Sydney, for 500
miles of wire-netting at £1 per mile above the
price at which the goods could be procured from
England. The Bent Government has at least
some vestiges of a broad Australian outlook. It
realises that it is good policy to pay a little extra
to encourage a N.S.W. industry, simply because
N.S.W. is part of Australia, so it spends £24,000
of its money in N.S.W. on principle, and the
Lysaght firm has re-engaged 150 lately-sacked
N.S.W. workmen in consequence. The N.S.W.
Ministry doesn’t do things that Way. It refused
to give a contract to Lysaght though that firm is
in its own State; and it sent to England for
some urgently-needed electrical machinery rather
than give Victorian or S.A. machinery makers
a show On this last item it gets its re-
ward, for the blessed property hasn’t turned up,
and for want of it the Sydney tramway system
will probably break down horribly during Yankee
Fleet week.
The old trick in N. S. Wales used to be
to send up the de
feated party hacks
to the Legislative
Council, and mollify
them with a little
honor, and a free
railway pass for life,
and the chance of
getting a job on the
Public Works Com-
mittee and on the
Boards of companies.
But in these three-
or four-party days,
when there are al-
ways a few men
ready to move on to
whichever side con-
trols the loaves and
fishes, a new use has
been found for the
Legislative Council
-—the man who is
squeezed out of a
Ministry to make
room for the new-
comer is “ called ” to
the “Upper” House. The present Government
crowd has now three men in the Council whO' used
to be Ministers and sit in the Assembly—Ashton,
Dick, and Barnabas O’Conor.
Re the legal opinion for which the N.S.W.
tram employees paid good money the other day,
and which set forth that dismissed members of
the service have no right to appeal to a court of
law, it is worthy of remembrance that the N.S.W.
Civil Service Bill, when it was before the Assem-
bly, contained a clause giving employees the right
of legal appeal. The measure passed the Assem-
bly with that clause still in it, but the Council
fixed its old and rheumy eye upon the proviso, and
it went out. The ancients were always great at
throwing things out. Even members who can
hardly totter or see recover their lost youth for a
moment when there is something to be thrown out.
Harwood, of the Victorian House of Fat,
is a very mild person, but when up-
holding Stakes in the Country, he
can be bitter indeed. When the
nice, old, unnecessary gentlemen
met after the recess, Harwood
made a speech, purporting to pro-
phesy his and his colleagues’ atti-
tude on the land legislation to be
introduced, so Bent says, during
the session. He warned everybody
that the blessed Uppah House was
going to assert its dignity, and
would not swallow anything and
everything without due and proper
time for reflection. “ The Govern-
ment desires to take the power to
deal with any man’s land as it
pleases,” he remarked, almost
broken up with amazement; “I
hope no member of this House
will entertain that proposal for a moment.”
The anti-Socialistic bodies that are scat-
tered about the Commonwealth are to hold a big
conference in Sydney next October. Mr. John
Stinson is apparently boss of the movement.
Aunty Sosh threatens to settle the following
questions at the conference : (1) The Australian
Navy; (2) the State Hebts ; (3) the Liquor Pro-
blem ; (4) the Censorship of Literature; (5) State
Rights. From this list it would appear as if
Aunty mistakes herself for a very vigorous female
indeed.
Rev. Charles Strong complained, the
other day, that “the people can’t get on the
land ”; whereupon Victoria’s humorous Bent
knight has done some more bellowing. It was
most unfair, he said—why, land was even now
being thrown open in the N.-W. Mallee district.
Which is true. Bent has thrown open at least
4000 acres in the last four months; Yet if he
threw open 10,000 acres a week it would take him
about 55 years to adequately settle the cultivable
but as-yet-uncultivated lands of the State. The
job is too big for 20 Bents ; but a steep graduated
land-tax would set a thousand land-grabbers to
work getting their waste areas occupied
in a violent hurry.
THE NEW FINANCE.
No one can witness the present trend of Common-
wealth finance without serious misgivings.— Argus.
ARGUS: “ It’s not like the State finance of our
young days, is it, George, when we pawned
every stick in the place and left the children
to pay our debts. That was finance, to be
sure! ”
Apparently, where the Customs are con-
cerned—which is to say, where the people’s purse
is concerned —the blessed importer can’t be
honest ! The other day one of him appeared
before the Melbourne Customs Court, charged
with passing a little lot of German-made alarm
clocks as British, in order to escape with the
preferential duty of 20 per cent, instead of the
ordinary 30 per cent. He was a large importer,
and he only made about 30s. by the swindle; but
apparently it is as hard for the importer to go
straight as it is for the professional pickpocket to
resist “lifting” when he gets a chance, even if it
is only a “brummy” chain. He simply to to
do it.
Bent’s Indeterminate Sentences Act came
into operation on July I—-the1 —-the part dealing with
habitual criminals, that is. The sections provid-
ing for the probation and reform of hopeful cases
are still inoperative, because Bent and Co. haven’t
yet found time to provide reformatories. Chief
Sec. Peacock has had six months to do the work
in, and both Castlemaine and Beecbworth gaols
are practically empty ; but apparently it takes the
hesitating Peacock a couple of years to do a little
job like that. Either that or Peacock’s connection
with wild-cat promoters and Red Indian insur-
ance fakirs has given him the opinion that all
mankind is hopeless and incorrigible, and that
reformatories are, therefore, wasted brick and
mortar.
THE BUSH OF POPULATION.
The country wants land settlement without land rob-
bery.—ARGUS.
Some people’s idea of nice land settlement
without robbery.
Practical Adelaide is proposing—through
the Chamber of Manufactures—that all city shop-
keepers shall fix a day during the September
Show, when the streets are crowded with country
visitors, for exhibiting in their windows only
goods of Australian manufacture. Governor Le
Hunte is backing up the movement, and has
promised to head a tour of inspection of the
various displays. Adelaide, it may be remarked,
makes cement and locomotives and fiddles and
cricket bats and many other unexpected things,
besides its familiar flour and wine and olive oil.
Brudder Snowball, of the Orange organisa-
tion, sees the insidious paw of Pome in the fact
that the Christian Brothers’ schools in Victoria
are going to supply three battalions of cadets.
What on earth is wrong with Snowball ? If war
comes, and somebody must be killed, isn’t it as
good for a Roman Catholic to be killed as a Pro-
testant ? Hoes Snowball want only his own crowd
to be wiped out on the horrid field of battle ?
“ Matai ” : Apropos a Bulletin par
(18/6/’08) re Prime Minister Deakin’s threat to
extinguish the legislative questioner “without
notice,” M.L. Parliament suffered badly from that
person until Seddon (just before he passed
Beyond) wiped out the time-wasting pest
effectively. His scheme, which is in
operation to-day, is that all ques-
tions asked must be in writing.
Each question appears on the
Order paper on the day fo -
lowing its acceptance by the
House, and on every Wed-
nesday (provided it is a
sitting day) the questions
and the Ministerial replies
are printed and appended
to the said Order paper. This
idea completely blighted the
incorrigible time-waster and
destroyed his chance of debating
at considerable length absurd ques-
tions about: “Whether the Govern-
ment will take into consideration the
advisableness of putting a fresb coat of paint on
the railway goods shed at Jeroboamville. ”
Very early in their career the new Com-
missioners of the N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank, which nowadays is really a State Bank,
bumped against the Auditor-General. When
Alex. Mclntosh and his two colleagues presented
their first balance-sheet, the Auditor-General
wanted some alterations made in it. For instance,
he wanted the value of unused postage stamps
credited back to profit and loss account; and
President Mclntosh, who has spent a good part of
his life auditing bank accounts, wouldn’t do it.
Instead, the Commissioners present their figures
in their own way, tack the Auditor-General’s
remarks to their report, and tell Parliament in a
note that “except as an attempt to dogmatically
assert the dominance of departmental officers sup-
posed to be skilled in matters affecting audit ” it
is impossible to understand what the Auditor-
General means by all the commotion ; also they
mention that what they were asked to do was
“ contrary to the principles of audit as applied to
balance-sheets.” It is a nice little row, which
Parliament is sure to chew over sooner or later.
AVE ATQUE YALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little ones requested the Minister (Mr. Sachse,
M.L.C.) to inform Lord Northcote that the children of
Victoria feared God and honored the King ; and in the
presence of the Flag they wished him to take that
message to His Majesty the King.— Argus patriotic
report.
Peanuts strew the path of Fate,
Aldermen creep in the mud !
“Vale 1” passing potentate !
Babies of the Bulldog Blood
Shout to far off Royalty,
Pap and peanut Loyalty.
Hear our kiddies rant and roar
To the purple, to the gold ;
Speed a parting Governor
Shivering with rain and cold 1
One whole day from lessons free
Vivifies tfieir Loyalty.
Drenched on Bent’s Imperial sod
Three-year Patriots squeakers fling
Over Northcote ; fear their God,
Publicly proclaim the King.
What a nation we shall be
Fed on State school Loyalty 1
For Our Boys will learn to grope
After Sachse ; to be soon
Viscounts of the Sacred Soap,
Barons of Ned’s Gilt Spittoon,
Ushers of the Buns and Tea —
Knights, like Bent, of Loyalty.
As they clutch their lucky-bag,
Little Willie, Little Eve,
Bare of head, salute the Flag,
Edward hath no cause to grieve ;
For all’s well with Royalty,
Saved by Toodles’ Loyalty.
VIC.
L.E.
THE FALLEN IDOL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Satan, Beelzebub, Apollyon, Nick,
Mahound, the Devil, Zernebock, the deuce,
Behold me squirm, my heart is very sick,
Teach me some scorching terms of new abuse.
Lo ! this gold bullock that we reared for you,
This pleasant god our own fat hands have made
Is tumbled from his perch, and all may view
The sacrilegious murder of Freetrade.
We knew indeed that all his feet were mud ;
But it was holy mud, we taught the crowd.
We sprinkled all his altars with much blood,
And we made merry when their heads they bowed
In worship. “See, how cheap is bread !” we cried.
“ Buy in the cheapest market! ” chanted they.
“ Sell in the dearest 1 ” we with zest replied.
Alas 1 Where are those worshippers to-day ?
All lost and gone 1 Protection rears her head ;
Our altar fires are burning very low.
Our coffers empty, and the poor have bread,
And we are damned, for all the people know !
MAORILAND.
D.M.W.


ESTEY ORGANS
Over One=third of a Million Manufactured and Sold.
The ESTEY FOLDING ORGAN,
for MISSION PURPOSES (Closed).
Cased in Oak,' extra strongly built, and specially
adapted for travelling. Four Octaves Compass,
well voiced, ample wind power. Can be carried
easily by one man.
Price, £lO : lO : O
S 55
m
STL YE 6.—LOW TOP, 7 STOPS.
Price, £l 5 :O : O
Think of the vast experience gained during
the manufacture of this enormous num-
ber of Organs. Is it to be wondered at
they are acknowledged everywhere to be
the WORLD’S BEST. '
Every inch of material used in their con-'
struction is the very best obtainable.
All timber is thoroughly seasoned, being air-
dried for months, and, in some cases,
years, and then kiln dried.
They are sold with our full guarantee.
Prices are from £lO.
Catalogues and Price Lists, shewing Easy
Terms, Free.
W. H. Paling' & Co. Ltd
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sss*
i
m
m
STYLE 121.—HANDSOMELY CASED IN
WALNUT.
Two Full Sets of Reeds of five Octaves each,
with Treble and Bass Couplers, Knee Swell
Grand Organ, Vox Humana, etc., 11 Stops.
Price, £2l : O : O
STYLE S32.—AMERICAN WALNUT CASE.
Two Full Five-octave Sets of Reeds, with Divi-
ded Couplers, Knee Swell, and Grand Organ
(Knee). ;
Price, £32 : 0:0
•Business Suits
for Coventry ©Town Wear.
Si
(A
,n
i(u!
Best Value
+
m
Australia
m
I
f
i
r
Write /or Patterns
and
Set f Measurement
Forms.
Cut Style & Finish,o/ High Standard.
BUCKLEYtNUNN L™
Bourke St Melbourne.
COLLECT
Green Coupons
——————■
THE COUPON SYSTEM.
CHAPTER VI.
A THIRD objection raised against the
system is one raised on behalf of the
shopkeepers, viz., that it creates a monopoly.
We suppose the people who use this word mean that it gives the shop-
keeper, who uses Coupons, an advantage over the man who does not.
Well, we admit at once that the shopkeeper who does adopt the Coupon
system does a very much better business than the man who does not, but
the latter has only got himself to blame if he does not adopt the Coupon
system also, because if he does not like our Coupons he can get Coupons
from another Company, and you will readily see that if there is more than
one Coupon Company there cannot be any monopoly. The only other
objection that is raised is that the goods given in redemption of Coupons
are not always of the value they are represented to be. Well, we suppose
there are some discontented people, but in our experience they are very
few, and the fact that our showrooms are thronged every day with people
redeeming Coupons, who go away perfectly happy and contented with what
they have chosen, is the best evidence that good values are given. The
goods are displayed for inspection by all, and careful housewives know the
value of these things better than anyone else, and if they saw that they
were not being fairly treated they would very soon complain and give up
the system, and so the Company would come to grief.
We hope that in these six chapters we have fully explained the system,
and shown you that it is a good one, and that it is honestly administered,
and that you will do well to adopt it, whether you are a storekeeper or a
customer of a storekeeper.
Visit the Showrooms:
387 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite The Strand).


AG fy
*
I
o
\e*
o°
<<*
afc^
A*
<?
The
Choicest
Liqueur
in the
World.
Wholesale
for Australia—
Hogg. Robinson
& Co., Propty.,Ld.
Sydney & Melbourne.
HUMPHREY TAYLOR
& CO.,
LONDON, ENGLAND,
Liqueurists to the House of Lords.
Under the Stress and strain of modern life all
beauty that is not closely guarded and cherished must
perish soon. Valaze is the mightiest guard against the
ills that mar beautiy. It acts as a tonic, a preserver, and
a stimulant, evicting all the impurities from the pores,
and making the skin clear and healthy, as well as
beautiful. 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d., 6d. post. Use also the
Valaze Herbal Soap, which is a perfect skin cleanser, and
is pure and wholesome. 2s. 2d. posted. “ Beauty in the
Making,” is the title of an interesting and instructive
book, by M'lle. Rubinstein, on the subject of the com-
plexion and skin, their defects and the remedies of them.
Write and send 3d. for postage, or call on Mile. Rubinstein
for the booldet. Mile. Helena Rubinstein and Co., Valaze
Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 271 Collins
Street, Melbourne; or 9 Brandon Street, Wellington.* [1
£3
\tu> _
K
I’m the Robur Tea Girl, ,
and I’m going to tell you one
way that experts test tea—
After the tea has been made
and poured off, they examine
the infused leaves that remain
in the teapot,
PURE TEA.—The leaves
have a bright reddish-coppery
(like a new penny) color —and,
as a rule, the brighter they
look the finer the quality of
the tea.
COMMON or FAULTY
TEA. —The leaves are dull
brown, with an occasional
dark leaf, and sometimes, little
pieces of black stuff among
them.
ARTIFICIALLY
FLAVORED TEA—The leaves
are reddish-brown, with green
leaves among them—these
Green ones vary in number
according to the proportion
of flavoring that has been used,
and they vary in color from
dark olive to the very brightest
green—whether this artificial
stuff is good to drink —we
leave you to judge—all we can
say is. nothing would induce
us to mix it with Robur—
now you can judge your own
tea !
P.S —The No. 2 Grade Robur
is splendid tea for every-
day family use. All grades
of Robur are pure tea.
“The Connoisseur’s Friend. *'
“BLACK and WHITE.”
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Is the acme of perfection, and the hig'h>class standard
stimulant of the British Empire.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 21, 1908.
My Dear Arini, —
One of Sydney’s prettiest and most popular girls
hied her up an ocean-going steamer’s gang-plank on
Wednesday last, and shortly after was whisked
through the Heads and awa’. In plain Australian,
Miss Irene Marks has left for foreign regions. An
imposing tally of unsuccessful suitors ranged up
with valedictory garden produce. The purchaser
of Glenrock looked as though news of the destruc-
tion by fire of his property in an uninsured state
had just reached him. Far more impressive in
the matter of Great Grief, however, was the
adorer of the bunch—the tame and faithful’cat,
who has fed docilely out of the hand for so
many years. He stood on the Blue-Petered
craft’s deck anchored to an immense mass
of vegetation, till rough, coarse stewards
jostled him off, and then he wandered brokenly
ashore. As the vessel edged towards the fairway
he might have been observed leaning helplessly
against a sack of bonedust, tears dimming his
specs—a classic figure of Sorrow. Indeed and
indeed the lot of a jettisoned adorer of years is a
passing sore one. He has grown used to the rdle
of human hat-rack ; he is accustomed to being a
Eiece of animate furniture on which the lady and
er friends pile their coats, hats, gamps and so
forth at theatre parties and the like. Of a sudden
he finds his occupation gone. There is no one
who wants to hang sof tgoods on him. The world
appears to him a desolate spot. He is thus
enabled to grasp the feelings of a “scrapped”
motor-car; and that seems about the only ad-
vantage of the position.
After all, it seems that women, and the people
who will be women by-and-bye if they live long
enough, make more'use of the technical colleges
in N. S. Wales than the mere males do. In
Sydney and other parts they teach about 100 sub-
jects (it is marvellous how subjects have been
divided up and splintered these days ; you can,
for instance, learn no less than 12 sorts of drawing
and even that number doesn’t include the art of
drawing a chequ e for seven figures, so that the Bank
of N. S. Wales will give you good gold - for it).
From out of these hundred subjects the figures
that relate to dressmaking stand up like
the Himalayas above all the rest; the
only other classes that have nearly as
many patrons are those that teach “ cookery,
domestic science and laundry work ” —there are
1172 students in the tacking and 874 in the cook-
ing section. The Technical Education Depart-
ment teaches iron-founding, too; but in all the
classes in all the State there are only 19 yotjng
men who want to know the mysteries af that
business. Which is pretty sorrowful when you
come to think of it.
In pushing the cookery classes both at the
Technical Colleges and the bigger public school,
the Department is, so to speak, fattening two
birds with one stove (that looks mixed, but you’ll
straighten it out if you take time.) When the
cookery business started the trouble was to get the
goods off the cook’s hands. Cakes and such like
the budding cook might take home ; but Irish stew
doesn’t carry well through a crowd. But nowa-
days dinner is served, and for two shillings or
half-a-crown a week young Sydney Augustus
and Ethel May may pass in from the other classes
and have their three-course dinner. Perhaps five-
pence is still reckoned a ha’penny or so too much
to pay for young Sydney Augustus’s mid-day
meal; but, even so, there isn’t as much surplus
Irish stew as there used to be, and the path of
the cookery mistress is made smoother. Thus
Augustus is fed in his youth, while Emmeline, of
the cookery class, learns how to feed Augustus’s
big brother, from whom she expects things later on.
A correspondent writes this item: “I saw
Mrs. Besant the other night, and she is
indeed a comely-looking Theosophist. In her
white robe, with angel sleeves, and her glittering
gem, jewel, or order at her full, round throat, she
is a picturesque and wholesome figure of a woman.
She seems what a lady bishop of the Episcopal or
Roman Church would be if ladies held office of
that kind. The head—you don’t see the grandeur
of it till the lecturer turns sideways—is massive,
and the soft, white, short spun-silky hair forms
the halo which the Besant face seems to call for.
The complexion is as pink as a rose-petal, and
most wonderfully unlined, and the hands, small,
slender, and artistic, show the same time-defying
quality. She uses practically no gestures what-
ever—just a slight outstretching of one hand and
a movement of the body now and then. The
voice, full of energy, is splendid, and, like the
artist she is, she waits for no applause. If Mrs.
Besant would only publish the occult secret of her
astounding complexion, she would make her for-
tune in six months; also she would bring her
audiences to their Heaven (if not to hers). The
road to woman’s earthly Paradise is along the
pavement of rejuvenation.”
Maggie, an aboriginal, was married to W. Kirk-
wood, at Norseman (W.A.), the other day. The
bride was “attired in black lustre, with kangarGO
and dingo-tail trimmings.” I have no doubt about
the good faith of the Age fashion writer who pro-
vides these details, but should like further infor-
mation re the kangaroo-tail trimmings. It does
not seem to me that the tail of the kangaroo lends
itself to frivolity of this kind. It makes very fair
soup, but soup doesn’t look well when cut bias and
worn in a hat. How were the tails put on—whole
or in sections ? Did Maggie drag them behind or
wear them as a boa ? It seems to me that the
bride who would go to the altar trimmed with
kangaroo tails would not disdain to wear a Ger-
man bologna as a hair ornament, and a leg of
mutton as a breast pin, with a ham or two for
general decoration. Possibly Mr. and Mrs. Kirk-
wood and friends ate the bride’s trimmings at the
wedding breakfast.
Mr. H. S. Nicholas, Mr. Arthur Adams, and some
other of Sydney’s bright young men have been
persuading Margaret Anglin, by proxy, to return
to Sydney at the beginning of next year and stage
some Shaw plays. “ Arms and the Man,” “ Cap-
tain Brassbound’s Conversion,” and “Candida”
(what an excellent poet young Titheradge would
makeJ) were talked of, and the lady, who is a
keen Shaw enthusiast, is so willing that she says
she is prepared to sink a wad of her own private
cash in the venture if J.C. W. will take it up. The
idea is to have a subscription scheme among local
Shaw-worshippers, so that there may be no likeli-
hood of the company playing to deserted
upholstery. As a fact there would probably be
no need for this. Sydney has a Shaw public, like
most other big cities, and the chances are that the
manager who first gives these vital plays a trial
will strike something of a bonanza.
We first heard distinctly and audibly of Miss
Irene Ainsley when Melba got up the famous
concert in the. Bechstein Hall for the young con-
tralto’s debut in London. The Prince and Princess
of Wales came to the Bechstein for the first time in
their august lives, and never before in the Hall was
seen such exhibitions of spine-bending. Melba her-
self played Miss Ainsley’s accompaniments. Mar-
chesi was present, and the advertisement resulting
was past all whooping, as they say in Shakspeare.
Last week, at the invitation of flautist Lemmone,
a small herd of persons assembled in Paling’s
concert room to diagnose the contralto’s quality.
She has a fine, dramatic voice—unusually fine in
the lowest register. It could do with more train-
ing and general riveting up and screwing down.
The low, stifling roof of the concert room did
not allow the voice the fairest of hearings for one
thing. And the young Maorilander, no doubt,
did not look her best. She wore a wide, smother-
ing hat and a costume with reach-me-down attri-
butes. Possibly she had no heels, or very low
ones, on her shoes, for she appeared to move flat-
footedly. Some of the disjointedness of her voice
is apparent in her bodily movements. Melba, I
reckon, would be the first to tell her protegee of the
extent to which a harmonious appearance backs a
harmonious voice. Miss Ainsley needs to stage-
manage herself with the aid of a skilled dress-
maker and a critical physical-culturist. She will
open her concert season in Auckland, and in the
sweet by-and-bye will lift her voice in Sydney.
The interview of Miss Rose Scott, Mrs. Hugh
Dixson, Mrs. Jenkin, Miss Atkinson and Miss
Fry with Minister for Public Instruction Hogue
looks in the reports like an Anthony Hope
dialogue. Nobody finishes a sentence; always
somebody interrupts. Not one purr of Miss Scott’s
but was broken in upon by a Hoguean ultimatum :
“That has already received my attention,” or
“ That has already been determined upon.” Yes,
there was one purr : “ You must have let us come
just to hear us praise you.” For all the deputa-
tion had come to ask had already been set down
for granting by the Minister. What the dep.
wanted was an amendment of the Truancy Act.
What about giving Lady Northcote Gibbons’
“Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire” (in
eight volumes) as a farewell bit o’ lumber ?
Mayoress Hughes presided at a meeting called by
her last week to decide upon a suitable remem-
brancer to her Ex. from the.women of Sydney.
No decision was arrived at, and the Mayoress
didn’t hear me make my eight-volume suggestion.
The 150 women present will do a big think
between now and next Eriday about the
raising of the subscription and the spending
thereof. The fearfully prosperous-looking Mrs.
Hugh Dixson made some useful suggestions.
Her suggestions are always useful, but they were
lost because as soon as she stood up the listeners
became gazers only at her furs. No one made the
perfectly sane suggestion that all those who have
been in the habit of tearing a bit of food with
their Excellencies should send their cheques for
five guineas each to the Mayoress, and so settle
half of the problem. If the Mayoress would like
a list I’ll draw one up.
As the matter now stands Mrs. Hughes is Presi-
dent, and has Mrs. Barton, Mrs. Wade, Mrs.
Suttor, Mrs, J. M. Gordon, and Mrs. Ashton
acting with her.
Lady Northcote, attended by Early Christian
Martyr Fyers and Captain Stephens, returned to
Sydney on Thursday, and on Friday night she
and Miss Rawson, attended by the faithful and
adhesive Wilson, took a dose of Culture from
Professor Henry Jones at the University. The
Professor continued his serial (or python) story
on Philosophy and Modern Life. He wrestled
with the Deep Down and the Far Qff, or Self in
Relation to Society, and a lady graduate friend of
mine kept murmuring, “O, how acute, how
acute ! ” as if the Prof, were neuralgia.
The Robertson-Bettington wedding took a
Crowd of smart Sydneysiders to Parramatta last
week. The squatter bridegroom’s holding is
Toganmajn, in N.S.W., and the bride is Beatrix,
youngest daughter of Bettington, of Oatlands,
one of the haute noblesse of that very hot (in
summer) flat district of past grandeur, Parra-
matta. She was decked in Empire dress
of white satin, rose point, silver cords,
—the usual bridal garniture, only more so and on
the more artistic and costly scale. Pretty Miss
Esme Sly was one of the bridesmaids, and Mr.
Oliver Osborne was letter-perfect in his r6le of
best man. A motor-car, a present from the bride-
groom’s mother, bore the joyous pair away on
their honeycomb. When you get a wedding
present of a motor-car you can afford to dispense
with the singing of the hymn, “ O Perfect Love.”
Miss Elsie MacDonald, daughter of the new
Under-Secretary for Lands, is preparing to climb
the orange-tree and fetch down the harmless
necessary blossom. Her future partner is one of
the squatter Macks of Narandera.
Another nice girl, who has been teaching music
at Paling’s, is graduating into matrimony about
the end of this month. She is Miss Lindeman,
daughter of Captain Lindeman, of Woollahra.
She marries a sprig of the Pelham Clinton family.
It was one of that totem who was for a while hus-
band of May Yohe. the music-hall ladv.
Yet a third brace are qualifying for the as-
long-as-ye-both-shall-live blessing—Mr.. Montagu
Francis Morgan, third son of Mr. George Mor-
gan, of Neutral Bay, and Miss Cecilia Isabella
Scott, second daughter of Mr. Barry Scott of
“ Stirling,” Mosman.
In the monthly dress competition that is run by
the St. James’s Gazette and Evening Standard
Mrs. W. B. Dailey has taken first prize for the
design for an Ascot gown. It is described as “a
charming toilette in ivory-white crepe-de-chine
meteor and ninon embroidered in marguerites,
with leaves of palest green. The design is a
particularly graceful one, the Greek influence
being shown in the case of the tunic skirt and
plainly cut corsage.” The yoke is of finely tucked
net cut out over a little vest of lace, while folds of
the same edged with gold are crossed over the
bust just above the opening of the corsage. It all
sounds “charming” enough, and so does the
paper’s practice of having the gown “carried out ”
by Ernest and presented to the designer and
prize-winner. Ascot is the best-frocked of English
outdoor frisks, so Mrs. Dailey, encircled by her
own creation, ought to take the eye “amongst
those present.”
The latest tone in toast or tan —the “ pale ale ”
shade that took the Viennese such time and
money to develop—was worn here for the first
time in Sydney by Mrs. Fred Shipman at the
reception given her at the Australia by Mrs. J. C.
Williamson and Mrs. C. Deane. The non-
temperance shade was in materials of silk net
over silk. A white hat, with white feathers and
some gold, “went with ” the frock harmoniously.
It was a huge and merry party.
Mrs. W. H. Weston, a Point Piperess with red
gold hair and Clara Butt height (not width), leaves
Sydney presently for a visit to foreign parts. Her
doctor hubby remains here earning the well-
buttered crust. Before and after crust-earning
hours he cultivates the loveliest pansies and carna-
tions. Their pretty villa, “Coowong,”is to be
inhabited by the American (Dr.) Maxwells, who
have been tethered in Armidale. He is the sugar
expert, and she is reputed to be fearfully smart —
the last word in fashion.
Other near departers from this State are Mrs.
and Miss J. H. Want. The Cornishes (Mrs. and
Miss), who went hence a while ago, are having a
chromatic time with the Wilders. The Wilder
lady’s motor and jewelled snake and frocks are
still recollected by Sydneysiders.
Nicholson and Co. have been showing a window
full of beautifully printed and illustrated musical
compositions, by Mrs. Beresford Brodie. Dance
music would seem to be Mrs. Brodie’s specialty.
Her Beresford Waltz has been played at recent
Government House balls, and helps to fill the
intervals at the theatres. The Royal and the
Langley Waltzes are also her work, and provoca-
tive’ of a desire to solve perpetual motion. The
composer is a daughter of Archdeacon Langley,
but, fortunately, her musical bent didn’t run to
depressing hymn compositions.
Mark Hambourg’s baby girl Sonia is by way of
proving a good advertising asset. She is like an
owl in an ivy bush, the very image of Pa—but she
may grow out of it. Sonia bossed the Manuka,
and was beloved for her cuteness and sweetness ;
and the Musician with the Mane is her slave, and
alludes to her respectfully as “ Miss Hambourg.”
Sonia’s Ma, who was a Miss Muir Mackenzie, is
very tall, very thin, and has the valuable posses-
sions of good teeth and eyes. Mark’s musical
season is going to be a financial failure—sure.
But anyone in the instrumental musical groove
would “frost” at this juncture. Sydney is
yearning to hear the boom of big guns, not the
melody of big chords crashed out by even such
master hands as Hambourg’s.
The Art Society’s annual ball (plain and fancy
dress) will occur at Paddington Town Hall on
July 30th. Tickets may be procured from Mr.
A. J. Daplyn, Vickery’s Chambers.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane :
There’s one thing that worries the R.C. fraternity in
this city. The vice-regal dinners are invariably held on a
Friday. This would be bearable enough were the wily
flounder or the skipsome skate present in sufficient force,
but often there is not a fin to be seen. And it is a hor-
rible temptation when the devout Romaness has helped
herself (for politeneSs-sake ; it does look so bad to keep
on refusing things !) to have to leave the wing of the
duckling on her plate for her soul’s sake, and exist on a
mere pea or so.
There’s a story going the rounds this week, which I’m
sure isn’t true, of a high horse-marine dignitary, who fell
a victim to’flu’just as his best friend arrived from the
South for a week or sO—“ to escape the Southern frosts
you know.” A feeble scrawl to the effect that he was
laid low on the field of battle was her only greeting. But
she was a woman of action, and next day the masthead
soldier on duty at the gangway of the barracks was con-
fronted with a be-uti-ful nurse, in spotless garb. She
had come to take charge of the invalid. The patient
nearly had a fit when she arrived, but, all the same, he is
recovering rapidly, and will soon be charging in a hollow
square on his vessel’s deck once more.
The rush for the imported Bury Ann leads to weird
complications. A week or two ago a country dame, pos-'
sessed of 'more lucre than perception, sallied forth to
engage a “chummie,” at the Kangaroo Point dep6t,
where they keep the rosy English maid until she accepts a
place. Mrs. Money Bags has a way with her, so she
managed to bustle through the crowd and got in about
fifth. Seeing a likely-looking person near the end
of the room, she rustled up that way, and having planted
herself in front of her intended victim, eyed, her up and
down, from her heels to her head and then from her top
hairpin to her boots. Then she inquired, “ Are you en-
gaged?” The addressed one lighted up her eye with agleam
of amusement. “ Er —no—I’m married,” she remarked
languidly moving away. And it took the flurried dame
about half a second to realise that the female to whom
she had almost offered a kitchen job had been in the
inner circle of Society when she herself was struggling
with the dishes in the kitchen on pa’s selection. Why
anyone should worry over such a trivial mistake, I don’t
know, but I hear the Money Bag's family has taken to its
bed and is receiving medical attendance.
The wonderful Children’s Hospital held its annual
meeting in a quiet manner last Wednesday afternoon,
Her Ex. occupied the chair and said amiable things
about progress being sure if slow. It was a peaceful day,
and the lions of the Committee lay down with the lambs,
so'to speak ; but the fact leaked out, nevertheless, that
unless something or somebodj’ gets a hustle on, another
diphtheria outbreak is expected in the germ-pervaded
wooden structure.
It’s about time that the ladies of the W. C. T. Union
had their attention called to that little paragraph in the
Scriptures which advises all and sundry to respect
truth. The advertisements they put in the papers
touching the attractiveness of their meetings and
the brilliance of their orators are a disgrace
to any Christian body. They unblushingly affirm
that their specially-imported lectures?, Miss Fitzjob, is
another Demosthenes in skirts or a Cicero in corsets.
Well, you go to hear her. Your first view of the meeting
is a blow, for it consists of about 30 untidy women in
drab clothes. But Miss Demosthenes ! The last one I
heard had a motherly figure, a mouth likedhe delta of the
Nile, and a voice that suggested the raven which
had a cold and said “Deverbore.” Her British
language matched her voice. She talked of the
“perlice,” “the seatings of the Suprime Court,”
“ What we do in the Dough-minion,” and the “lovely
young lady who sung us a solo.” She told two hoary
chestnuts, and declared them to have been epi-
sodes that came under her personal notice, and in
conclusion she naively remarked, “ Of course your light
mayn’t be as brilliant as mine.” How the meeting ended
I don’t know, for just here I went out with thoughts too
awful to be repeated.
There was a jolly little dance on board the Ortona, at
Pinkinbar on Friday night. It was quite informal —just
about 20 girleens in their prettiest frocks, and as many
blue-coated officers and mere shoremen. Miss Edith
Mason had the arrangements in hand.
A smileful story which is going the rounds this week
has to do with a recent private and under-manned dance.
The despairing hostess, having got all the available males
going, retired to the drawing-room for a brief respite. There
she was confronted with no less than 19 unappropriated
blessings. The sight of so much untwirled chiffon made
her light-headed, and to collect her wavering senses she
talked wildly of the flowers which adorned the room.
“ And what do you think of my wall flowers ? ” she asked
of an acid dame in the corner, indicating a bowl upon a
table near by. “ I think they are looking as bright as
can be expected, seeing there’s no one to dance with
them,” was the blighting reply.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BY APPOINTMENT
BROTHERS
LTD
VICE-REGAL-JEWELLERS - WATCHMAKERS - SILVERSMITHS
FANS
DAINTY and USEFUL PRESENTS
Entirely New Stock just received from London
Latest
London
and
Conti-
nental
Designs
i
m
Leal
Lace
and
Hand-
painted
Spangled
Gauze
INSPECTION OF THE SHOWROOMS INVITED
/&
PRICES RANGING FROM £1 10s. to £lO
The Finest Selection of High-Class Goods in the Commonwealth
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT ON ALL CASH TRANSACTIONS
I3HUNTER STREETSYDINEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
LONDON ADDRESS I 9 CHARTERHOUSF STREET
All Athletes
Use
BOSISTO’S
“PARROT
BRAND **
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
r'
i
W.O
m
iM
' .
;E§
jgpi
V
. ‘A- V
)
L
' ’ *
<
mm
W<WJ
nmm
■7 ■,
i
- .
k
W
K
mm
M
■
it®
,
Hi
fiillitr:
"V-it ‘“C £ t .fetl
vr
;\ ■•••' (
tv ,
Wl;. |
Bosisto's “Parrot Brand” Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
<Ou
'LL
€
< 1-^
v;
V
m
W*:
■v
: ■
...2
■
m
Hi
mm sis !
2
kit#
»Wm a
«SSr /**%
©
as
*
ssgr
- >
W> / J2> - •
C -L.>
saa«
- ■ C_
M
Si
*w£r
3ccl TJorckn.
auld jock whisky
tooth h CO., LTD., Proprietors, KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY,


The Asiatic Menace
During the next six months The Lone Hand
will give serious attention to the Asiatic menace.
The reports of its special commissioner, Louis
Esson, after a close study of conditions in China
and Japan, will be published, and with them
other articles by resident Europeans in Asia.
It is work of great national value, and appro-
priately enough, will begin with the August
number, the Special American Fleet Number,
which will be a souvenir of the historic event
that brings a new White Power into the Pacific.
We want Australians to read these Asiatic
Menace articles, every one of them. Are you on
the subscribers’ list ? If not, see to it at once. It
will cost you 12s. post free, direct from the office
or from your nearest news-agent.
The |o£ie
214' George Street, Sydney.
Don’t be afraid to give Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy to your children. It is intended
especially for coughs, colds, croup, and whooping
cough, and is the best medicine made for these
diseases,*
Is# 6 *
Gracefulness and Freedom
of Figure and Movement is necessary for
your comfort and health.
“P.D. CORSETS” assure you of these
great essentials—imparting a beauty of form,
an attractiveness of personality, and a
stylishness of deportment that no other
make of Corset can approach. Every pair of
“P.D.” CORSETS is beautifully shaped, and
whether Nature has endowed you with a
beautiful figure or not, you will find one in a
“P. D.” CORSET. Made of the highest
quality materials —by skilful French Cor-
setieres, “P.D.” CORSETS possess all the
superb lines of beauty, with the additional
advantage of perfect ease—comfort—freedom
—support and superior service.
PRICES RANGE FROM 5/11 up to £4/4/- PAIR.
Only First-class Drapers and
Storekeepers stock
“P.D.’W"P.D.”
gdf
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 20, 1908.
Mr Dear Yarrie, —
The V. A.S. had its official opening last Tuesday
afternoon. It was a crowded chaotic episode
in two spasms. President Mather’s mild opening
speech comprised one. spasm—of enforced, unwill-
ing silence. The mad endeavor of everyone to see
somebody, else, and so prevent all from seeing a
single picture, made up the second. An artists’
affair is always amusing to me. Igoto it as Ido
to the Zoo or a reformatory, expecting to have
my excited apprehension disappointed—which
duly happens on each occasion. In the last in-
stance, all the pigment-flingers were on view, and
nary aone wore a bow- tie; in fact, several woref rock-
coats and demeanors that even surpassed the mis-
shapen respectability of those garments. Bernard
Hall paraded his inscrutable frontispiece around,
pursued by anxious eyes. His students, past and
present, followed him to their various works, and
waited ox-like for a vanity-killing blow. But
mighty Mr. Hall was merciful, and never said
anything more cutting than “umph.” Blatnire
Young centred the most pleasant circle, and said
smart things. And John Ford Paterson and
Fred McCubbin collogued with Gaelic en-
thusiasm. The actor Wickham reared his bulk
beside ruddy Cornelius McNally. Mrs. Buchanan
and Mrs. Jas. Gibb struck the high-water line in
the way of frocks—Mrs. B. in a picturesque
arrangement of blue velvet, with a monstrous
mauve-feathered hat; Mrs. Gibb in a fine cloth
tailored gown of creaseless fit, and a rose-trimmed
lid. Miss le Soeur was a lovely pastel arrange-
ment of pale prettiness and grey furs, with a
violet-flowered toque. And Mrs. McCubbin was
a radiant, good-humored filling for a green Empire
shape. Mrs. E. P. Fox wore a surprising black
velvet princess garment with dead white flaps, and
a white pussy-cat cape which belied her nature.
Ruby Lindsay assaulted her reputation as a studio
belle with a hat which looked like a soup-plateful
of cherries ; and pretty Miss Prendergast and her
mother, Mrs. George Michael, arrayed themselves
respectively in simple blue and ornate brown.
Dora Sommers, in a quiet tweed, and a dame in a
courageous French hat of bright yellows com-
pleted the score of people whom one looked at
hard. Web Gilbert was on view, and, of course,
Mrs. Art-patroness Laurie Abrahams,- in black
chiffon, and accompanied by a cluster of sisters.
Nowadays no artistic function has a better raison
d'etre than the presence of the intelligent picture-
purchasing family of Abrahams.
An Australienne in London writes to say that
she’d just finished buying bargains in Bond-street
when she stumbled across two Victorian beauties.
One was Hal Cohen, the large, blonde, melodious
tenor of gorgeous memory, whom we once cherished
here. T’other was Elsie Moore, now Mrs. Million-
aire Starr.
Hal was sublimely tailored, and slimmer and
handsomer than of old. Elsie Moore was a
bundle of chinchilla and ermine furs, which alighted
from an electric landau. She was merely
a margin on either side of a stream of diamonds,
and her hair was a shade too red, and her cheeks
also, to conform to the best English ideals of
beauty. She was supercilious rather, and couldn’t
remember “Florodora.” But she was full of in-
formation about her hubby’s family’s devotion to
aerintberdle of daughter-in-law, and she ended
:>y taking along the one who writes to me while
die bought five hats at prices that ranged up to
iwenty-eiglit guineas. Why, oh! why was
your Johanna not made into a comic opera
chorister in her past youth !
Unie Russell, the golden-haired girl who played
“seconds” to Maud Jeffries during her two years’
flutter with the Julius Knight company of yore,
writes to Melbourne friends in enthusiastic
praise of London and its medical talent. Four
months ago Miss Unie and her mother set out to
the Cold Country on pleasure bent. A week after
their introduction to the Great Smoke the youth-
ful-looking mater was stricken down by ’citis,
plus complications. Pleasure flew out of the
window as the doctor came in at the door. In fact,
several doctors were concerned with the interesting
case, a surgeon named Ware achieving a wonderful
operation—since when the patient has been con-
valescing nicely. The Russells had been fortunate
in finding their old friend, Mrs. G. B. Lewis.
Mrs. G. B. it was who prepared Unie for the
stage, and when this alarming trouble befell the
two strangers in a strange London she took her
ex-pupil to live with her at Maida Yale, where
she and her son have a flat. Which reminds one
that Mrs. G. B. has had her troubles since her
return to England. Three months ago, her
brother, Willie Edouin, died, and in losing him
she lost his influence towards obtaining an
engagement.
What will become of “Chloe,” that famous
painting of the nude, owned by the late Surgeon
Fitzgerald? A year ago a squatter offered
Fitz £lOOO for it. It is one of the most exquisite
nude studies painted in modern times. It was
loaned to Melbourne National Gallery some years
ago, but created such public comment from the
people with the Seven Deadly Virtues that it was
hustled back, blushing, to the shelter of the
owner’s Lonsdale-street house. It is Lefevre’s
“ Chloe,” and it was first exhibited in the Paris
Salon in 1875.
Bertie Zelrnan has begun his series of Quartet
chamber concerts in Glen’s Hall. The Quartet
consists of Hattenbach at the ’cello, and Zelman,
North, and Dawson, with violins and viola. If
one counts Hattenbach a naturalised Australian,
then the Quartet can claim pure Australian origin,
and its concerts are the finest instrumental music
in small doses laid on in Melbourne.
J.C.W.’s tall and beautiful conductor-man,
Howard Carr, has taken possession of his comic-
opera baton once more. The lengthy musician
has had a pain in his weskit, or some other subtle
sickness upon him, since he last waved a stick
here, and has been nursing it round on the other
side of Australia. It’s to be hoped that, with the
deposition of the tremendous Slap., a lighter
interpretation of the thrilling “Widow” waltz
will arise and please. My special expert informs
me that here one wouldn't; recognise the waltz as
the same bit of sensuousness that made London
breathe so loudly. I almost believe him.
Apropos to the Higginsoii, some more amusing
yarns circulate. Meeting a blithe comedian,
during a morning saunter, he asked, “ Have you
seen how (a certain unmentionable papah) is
cutting up young Bottomley about his vanity and
so on? Rather funny—what?” Ten minutes
later the rival warbler was asking the same ques-
tion of the same humorist. “Did you see
(certain paper) on Higginson ? Isn’t it cruel?”
Again, the “ Widow’s ” houses have decreased
in numbers. “ Mai people are not heah ! ”
explains Merry Andrew. “Mai people are
giving balls, and have many social duties
for the taime being. They will be back to watch
me again on Saturday. They are very faithful—
what ?” I suppose that any man’s common-sense
would be deranged if, after fourteen years of mostly
provincial mumming in the Supercilious hemi-
sphere, he were suddenly dumped into the centre
of a city of silly woman, and so fussed over.
Rupert Clarke returned badly damaged on
Wednesday last, after pursuing money and mos-
quitoes and other superfluities through Papooah
(is that the way Mr. Chapman says it should be
pronounced?). With him came his henchman,
A. S. Bloomfield, the man whose acquaintance-list
is everlastingly being curtailed owing to his
friends’ bankruptcies. Our only hereditary aris-
tocrat managed in his absence to smash up his
tendon Achilles. (Which is something to do with
the foot, and nothing to do with his collection of
Greek literature ; the latter is still intact, even to
its uncut leaves.) And he is limping round at
present upon a rare piece of furrin wood. The
hereditary aristocrat brought back a cargo of
gorgeous birds of Paradise, and skulls, and other
decorative details. Also he has brought with him
a live chowdoglososaurus—an almost extinct
animal of wonderful beauty, which he’s going to
use as a chaperone in his bachelor flat.
Miss Maisie le Soeur, the Rosetti-like damosel
who rears her slender throat out of Meynell and
Gunn’s melodrama trappings, is a cousin of Mrs.
Lily Langtry, that Helen of the Channel Islands
who iced King Neddie’s spine in the long, long
ago. Folk who admired the elder lady claim that
the Australian girl’s flower-like beauty has a
family likeness to enhance it.
That extraordinary effort of an American
imagination (aggravated possibly by drink and
cheese), “The Fatal Wedding,” lured a large
audience to the Royal on Saturday night, even
though it was its fourth revival. The show had a
new interest, on account of the Australianism of
its cast. Lilian Myers, who used to talk with a
miraculous accent in the Brune co., and pretty
Beatrice Holloway, besides the Williams infant
and a score of other brolgas, have the pick of the
parts these days. Miss Mvers plays the adven-
turess in a succession of beautiful gowns, which
are rather spoiled by her figure—the figure is
generous to the point of extravagance. Her even-
ing frocks were, one a poetic thing in black
crepe-de-chine, t’other a skin-tight sheath of gold
tissue veiled in jewelled tulle. A walking frock
of white ninon, with wide bands of flower-embroi-
dered net, was another charming arrangement.
The little Holloway, as long as the plot let her,
was expensively arrayed in mauve chiffons and
silver details.
In the audience, Mrs. Charlie Lempriere’s
golden head waved a huge aigrette above her
black and white net frock, and sundry operatic
individuals paraded their best bibs and tuckers
with much buoyancy. And, of course, the
übiquitous Boffard sat in a conspicuous seat,
where the whole house could wonder at him and
admire.
The Northcote dame dispensed her favors with
a lavish hand before she departed. The Writers’
Club got a fine collection of pictures bestowed
upon it; and the Austral Salon got another dozen.
All Miladi’s pet hen-coops got some souvenir, but
now some are sulky because the other hen-coop
got as much as they did, and there are bitter feel-
ings in chookdom.
The farewell singsong tendered by Melbourne
business girls to Dame Northcote sounded less
impressive than might have been. Various choirs
gave tongue vigorously under the guidance of a
conductor, but the serenaded lady looked down
from her balcony on a sea of silence, dotted by
islets of vociferous song, so numerous were the
damsels who came to sing but remained to stare.
Besides girls there were mere men in evidence,
and certain ancient and unlooked-for crones
prowled round the Government House porches,
and peered up at Mrs. Northcote on her balcony
as if they expected vice-regal gratitude to material-
ise in a shower of flannel petticoats and the
popular brass-bound ulsters.
Melbourne’s parting view of the Northcote
Lady will be remembered as a feast of color. An
aggressive turquoise-blue feather nodded to the
multitude, in unison with the vice-regal head. A
bouquet of wattle yellow quivered in the smiling
Dame’s hand, and the cushion that supported her
through the triumphal ride to Spencer-street
station furnished a royal purple background to the
picture.
Mrs. Robert Harper is god-mothering a pecu-
liar scheme. Lizzie Newbold, a rather mature
wearer of a long plait and short petticoats—-a girl
with a fine soprano voice—is being floated into a
company under the auspices of that lady and
others. The 1200 shares are at the normal guinea,
amounting when fully subscribed to £1260. This
sum is to be applied to the cultivation of the
Newbold voice. I don’t know the exact arrange-
ments about paying dividends, but I have been
told that the co. will get one year of the finished
Lizzie’s services. The young woman, meanwhile,
is to be insured, so that, if she should take fire
and be burned to the ground, the co. will not be
at a total loss. But it is hoped that, at the worst.
Miss Newbold will be extinguished before any
serious damage is done.
These nights our Vienna Cafe is doing its best
to look like a smart supper-room. There’s quite a
recrudescence of the late-at-night conviviality.
This is all owing to the two opera companies.
The brightest show-ladies have each a following
of men, and often six men sup one lady by
turns. When Smith is the favored host of a
favorite beauty, six mere Browns and Robinsons
combine forces and sit girlless at an opposite
table to ogle her. Therefore our cafes are
crowded. On Saturday night the adorers and the
adored were in full force. The Sinclair Grace
with elongated Miss Cottee were on view,
with their respective hair crops bound into
quaint parodies of classic Greek coiffures. Little
Gwen Boyce, looking schoolgirly in a simple blue
silk garment, was close by with an attentive
Jewish youth. John Gunn and Manager Wen-
man presided over another table ; while little
Willie Cromwell and his dainty missus sat further
along amidst the Philistines. That was as much
of “ Miss Hook ” as one could see from a corner.
Then there was Florrie Young, gorgeous in green
and black chiffons, with a set of superb diamond-
set emeralds, shedding a radiance on her
vivacity. With her were more mummers,
and Reginald Roberts. Behind her Carrie
Moore, at an orchid-decked spread, sat
with a furry-looking worshipper. Our Carrie is
getting into bad habits as far as her appearance
goes. She had her hair screwed into a sorry little
knob, which disappeared behind a blue bow,
bigger by half than her heaving young bosom : and
she wore a fatigued-looking frock of the same
color, which she wisely concealed under a rosy
burnoose. Claude Bantock and the mildly aesthetic
Mr. Sherras were some more.
The late Colonel Templeton’s gentle little
widow (who was also his niece-in-law) enjoys for
life the income derived from the bulk of her dead
husband’s estate. The .departed warrior’s first
wife, having no children of her own, had always
been very fond of her nieces, the Taylor girls, and
when she died the bereaved widower clung to them
as part of his old home. After a while, one of
them became the second Mrs. Templeton.
Another is Mrs. iEneas Gunn, authoress of the
“Little Black Princess.”
The Hawthorn Lacrosse Club announces its
annual ball for September 4. Its secretary adds
that the affair is on -the official list of Fleet fes-
tivities, and that the supper is going to beat the
band, and upwards of 100 officers from Ohio and
elsewhere are going to help eat it.
Mrs. Janet Clarke still wavers ’twixt a recovery
and a continued illness. Her favorite Dr. Maud-
sley is in attendance now, as well as solemn Dr.
Stawell. Dr. M. is the sort of family physician
who prescribes a course of what amounts to
Christian Science to his patients, bidding them
make up their minds that they’re going to get
better now that he’s in attendance. The dowager’s
next rally is expected to be the corner round
which she’ll catch health again.
The State concerts which are to tame Uncle
Sam’s big nephews are to be conducted by Freddie
Beard and the weighty Geo. Peake. These days
Mr. Marshall-Hall might as well be in Europe
for all that any but his own coterie hear of him.
Dr. Bob Strong is said to be in bad health.
Anybody who bears up under Supreme Court
trials always strikes me as being a clod. A break-
down after a divorce suit is as proper a social
observance as a dinner-call. Poor Dr. Bob has
white hair and a pale, lined face these days.
A young Melbourne debutante waxes enthusi-
astic over first impressions of the London season :
The grandest of all things was the Royal Opera
[enclosed was a majo-magnificent programme of the show
printed in scarlet and gold on parchment]. The theatre
was hung and ceiling-ed and lined.with roses—roses that
began with white-pink buds, and smelled upward through
the scale of pink rose until they burst into red rose in
alt. The four tiers of boxes wore garlands of roses. The
Royal box boasted orchids—orchids at about a fortune a
whiff.
And hereabouts the writer grew excited, and
began to scatter capital letters and exclamations
wildly:—
Oh, the Women ! Oh, the Jewels ! Oh, the Singing ! Oh,
the Duchesses, Peeresses! and Lords and Dukes —
in fact, Oh the everything! Peeping out from
their bowers of roses were English aristocracy.
Mostly all were painted or enamelled, and blazing
with jewels. They all wore their crowns and
coronets, and all the men were in full dresk uniforms. A
maharajah wore a headpiece worth £50,000. The Weedons
were there with the Earl and Countess of Jersey. Now,
how am I to explain ? Well, the women wore just
diamonds and a little—very little—chiffon for bodices. The
singing was wonderful. Tetrazzini thrilled me through
and through. Imagine, she trilled on E in alt! Melba was
adorable and icily perfect. Tetrazzini thrills you and
makes vou feel. I just love and love the King. The
President of the French Republic led the Queen in.
Wouldn’t I just love to have her figure !—it’s willowy and
perfection. She wore a black “spangly” dress, a tiara
of diamonds, a big necklace of diamonds, diamond
bracelets, a huge pink and red carnation in her
bodice, and gloves only to her elbows, with all
the top arm bare. We’d think it country-cousinish.
She does not wear her dresses low like the duchesses.
Dresses are nearly all Empire and Princess Robe. It is
all Directoire style and the time of Robespierre. The
hair is just a nest of curls. Really as long as you can
make it look old-fashioned you are Just It. Ribbon is
threaded through ; bands of silver and gold and color.
People with profiles indulge in a thoroughly Grecian fiair-
dress—bands and all.
The Princess wore dead white, and was mostly hidden
behind diamonds.
It was a pageant to see the King and Co. drive away.
All the Royal' personages drove away. All the Royal car-
riages were out, with the footmen and powdered wigs.
All the dukes had their state carriages out. It was mag-
nificent. I was greatly amused seeing one duchess pass
by in the stately, old-fashioned carriage with the gold
and white liveries, for she was smoking for all she was
worth ! The old-fashioned turnout and the modern
woman inside ! The Queen looks marvellously young,
but is at least an inch thick with enamel; yet she is won-
derful. London is packed.
The 1830-style bonnets are to be worn at Ascot this
week (first week in June)—hats running wild with flowers
and feathers. Nell Gwynne’s hat is just The Thing of the
moment.
Too much motoring and golf have given the English
women a stony, fixed look. I have been out night and
day ever since I have been here—two or three in the
morning is considered early ! The Victorian Court at the
Exhibition is the worst in all the show. The Queen
stopped to look at the Queensland jewels, and she bought
something in the court. A few discolored fruits and a few
sundries form the Victorian Court. It was the first the
King went into, and there ivas nothing to see. N.S.W.’s
show is just fine. It takes four hours and a half to walk
around the Exhibition, without stopping to look at any-
thing.
From “Rosna ” in Adelaide: —
Our song maiden, Ethel Hantke, gave a farewell burst
of melody at the Town Hall on the 16th, before hastening
back to fulfil engagements in London about August. The
audience was a good one, and much of the peerage left
its hearthstone to hear the lady’s charming bird-notes.
Our chief fiddling boy, Eugene Aldermann, lent a hand,
also clever Violet Parkinson came from Melbourne by
Bent’s train to help at the piano. The singer-girl wore a
simple gown of soft white, and much gorgeous vegetation
and ribbon were handed up to her.
The latest engagement will eventually deprive Adelaide
of one of its clever elocutionary and amateur mumming
maidens. Miss Mabel Haslam will be wed, somewhere
about next March, to Mr. Home, who dwells in the red
and green isle of Ceylon. The damsel returned not many
months since from a European jaunt taken in company
with a girl chum, and the engagement is one of the un-
premeditated results of the trip. Mr. Home pronounces
his name Hume, which confusion of sounds is a sign that
he can trace his ancestry back to the dark ages when
Alfred the Great defeated George Washington on the
bloodstained field of Chickabiddy Lick. When a man
spells his name S-m-i-t-h and pronounces it Johnson it
is solid evidence that he is of high degree and comes
from the Browns of Jerusalem,, who were contempora-
neous with Pontius Pilate.
Ladv Le Hunte gave an At Home at the Residence last
week 'in honor of Mrs. Hallida.v of the Mothers’ Union,
and all the local dukes were invited to hear how to bring up
offspring the way it should spring. The ballroom was
crowded with a frilly throng. The Chief Justice Wav
dame, the Bishopess and others lent their support on the
dais. The visitor gave an interesting discourse on the
way of the wily infant, and the influence of Home, and
sundry other thrilling topics. Then a vote of thanks Was
handed to her on a plate, and the guests flocked into the
dining-room to eat and tell each other how true it all was.
But it isn’t likely one of them will remember to take the
advice thrust at them, and little Willie Will scramble along
on general principles as heretofore.
The Vice-Chancellor of Oxford ’Varsity, in a letter to ah
ex-Bishop of S.A., has been givihg a nice little unsolicited
testimonial of that brilliant Adelaide youth, Roy Lister
Robinson. He says :—“ A fellow named Roy Robinson is
one of the most remarkable all-rohhd men we have ever
had. He runs, puts the weight, is Captain of the lacrosse
team, has taken a first in geology and a Burdett-Coutts
scholarship, and is now coming out as a ’Varsity
Cricketer.” The letter was read at the St. Peter’S old
scholars’ dinher t’other night, and the association swelled
Visibly.
Some well-known voyaging South Australians, the
Misses Kay, have been writing enthusiastic descriptiohs
of their doings in Rome, where they intend to tarry awhile
and study art. They had an audience with his Holiness,
and. strict Unitarians though they be, their reams of
rhetoric about the wonderful palace, the gardens, the
quaint ceremonial, and, above all, the wonderful charm of
the Spiritual Monarch himself, would make the Yellow
Pup howl in the back-yard for the rest of its life. The
frocking rule for an audience with the Pope, it seems,
requires you to wear a black evening gown and black lace
mantilla. Boots are advisable, but not compulsory.
Adelaide mankind is busy brushing the cobwebs off its
top hat for the Governor-General’s levde at the Residence,
which will happen on the 27th, at the end of his Murray
trip. The same day will see the City of Unley fall on the
neck of our Premier, and welcome him home.
Mr. Barr Smith has given £2300 to the Trades
Hall, which will finally clear the building from debt.
This is the largest gift ever received for the hall,
thousrh sundry well-known South Australians have given
smaller sums on various occasions, among them Edwin
Smith, Richard Baker, the late J. H. Angas, Alexander
Hay, and G. 0. Hawker.
Yours affectionately,
JOHANNA.
On Tuesday next, the 28th, the ball in aid
of the Hospice for the Dying, at Darlinghurst,
-will take place in Sydney Town Hall. In order
to make the affair attractive to the many who have
given up dancing, and thereby help to fill the great
hall to the doors, Mrs. J. C. Williamson will stage-
manage a series of tableaux and living pictures,
which will be a revelation of beauty and art. A
number of the most handsome of Sydney
young women have volunteered their services
towards depicting some of the pictures in
the Sydney Art Gallery. It will be the
first entertainment of this nature ever offered to
a Sydney audience, and as it may be a long while
before the said audience gets another, it should
roll up numerously. The musical programme
will be rich and varied, and rendered by an
excellent orchestra. Tickets are on sale at
Nicholson’s, price 25.. booking 6d. extra. The
Hospice for the Dying is one of the most meritori-
ous establishments in N. S. Wales, and it is
urgently in want of funds, as the accommodation
available is, quite unequal to the demand.
Premier Bent’s latest idea is to build a
hospice (which is the knightly way of mentioning
an ordinary pub) on Mount Buffalo for the accom-
modation of tourists to that outlook. Thomas has
been considering the Westralian State hotel at
Gwalia, likewise the profits thereof, and has a
notion that an ornate building in the baronial
style of architecture, with a publican’s license,
could be built to bed and board about 100 tourists,
with pleasure to all and profit to the State, at a
cost of about £lO,OOO. Which suggests an idea.
Bent certainly ought to appoint himself landlord
of this pub. He could easily find somebody else
to go round making futile promises and boosting
up land values to no purpose.


‘
•
m
/
•! ,0
.
/-> s
ifWifci
'
ftw
WkM
:
’J
K> 1
/ \
'
?y ■ /
__ /
1
..V
W%
m
■T
SS&H
!IS»V
.
A,
•>' '>#s ;-s|Bs
r grfp^fi
"5*
a '^..--'&%!
> K*^.
; v-
"
:>rwm
foj
\
a .
IT cl
FT
%
~^ZiSmmm
MMan
OV \ 1 3
I •»
\ v:
&
Af"
L
f s
'
/s^9\V
<£
■■ m
A
■/'* ' g
O
s '■>
4t
<C
o
o
73
p
<
-2
/\
111
■‘ ■!
v >
S. 1
,
«S
I
c’tkO/iij,.
/yV\TH'<v
mr
p
A
*3
£b
T
•z
5C
s:
3L
§
Dr
<
*
o
oe
*
N/
V?v
H£
<■
.A
V 43
:
ott?
' /
2-i- •
k V
VA
SShP-A
wmmmms
a
Interstate Mail
Steamship Lines
gd
HE traveller who
takes one of the
steamers of the
Five Companies,
and speeds away
to North Queens-
land at this season of the
year., can always be sure of a jolly
time. He steps on board either at
Sydney or Melbourne, and henceforth be-
comes a decidedly envied person. He can have a
deck cabin, fitted with every convenience, and
peculiarly suited to the needs of the northward-
bound tourist. Ample deck-space provides him
with room for exercise. Magnificent, invigorating
air gives him a keen appetite ; and he is always
ready for each of the many adjournments to the
provision department, which generally keeps him
in a state of tender expectancy after each adjourn-
ment. As an appetiser alone, the northward tour
is to be recommended.
Of course, the merit of the cuisine and of the
accommodation generally in the steamers of the
Five Companies is not the sole purpose of this
article. It was merely mentioned somewhat inci-
dentally to get the reader into a good humor.
Now, the bulk of the travellers who go to North
Queensland might be said to be genuine tourists
who want to pack into every day of their stay as
many sight-seeing excursions as their time will
allow. And, as there are hundreds of sights and
beauty spots that are worth visiting, it becomes a
matter of exceeding difficulty to advise upon a pro-
gramme that must be necessarily limited. Start-
ing from Melbourne, the steamer calls at Sydney,
Brisbane, Keppel Bay (Rockhampton), Flattop
Island, for Maekay, Bowen, Townsville and Cairns,
long enough to permit excursions into the
neighborhood. Thus, before the trip has,
say, reached finality in the inspection of
the natural wonders in and around
Cairns, the tourist has acquired a
heap of impressions of other splen-
dors on his way up. For in-
stance, the steamer remains a
couple of days at Brisbane,
which gives him an opportu-
nity of looking around the
prettily-situated city. The
electric tram service, which
covers the whole eity with a net-
work of rails, will take him to
any part of the environs, affording enjoyable rides ;
while the train will put him into touch with the
pleasant seaside towns of Sandgate, Southport,
etc., or with inland towns such as Ipswich—which
areall within short distances. Again, without mak-
ing use of the facilities provided by tram and train,
the traveller can easily spend an interesting hour or
two in the city proper—and here let it be men-
tioned that' he should not omit to visit the
Botanical Gardens, especially attractive for their
fine collection of tropical flora. Altogether, the
traveller who spends the couple of days ashore is
in no danger of succumbing to ennui. Though
the city cannot approach either Sydney or Mel-
bourne in size, it is still interesting to the stranger.
P
Bound North,- the traveller again settles down
to the regimen of seven or eight meals a day,
and during the intervals of recuperation, so to
speak, gathers up the illuminating tales of
those passengers who have journeyed to the North
before. In the saloon everybody is all expectation,
and the person who has previously made
the tour, becomes the centre of an inquiring
circle. If the person is at all talkative, he imme-
diately ceases to be the bore he was. His fellow
passengers overlook his fault in the charm of
getting their imaginations tickled by his tales.
And if he is at all observant, and has the ability
of a raconteur, he is certainly worth listening to.
He tells of the beauty of the Hinchinbrook, open-
ing up to the tourist some of the finest coast
scenery in the world. Then he descants upon
Cairns and its remarkable railway, that climbs up
the Cairns Range, and finally lands the traveller
in the immediate vicinity of the Barron Falls.
Anon, he talks of the sugarcane country; of
the timber forests; and of the immense Barrier
itself, which the steamer is fast approaching. Anon,
he discourses of the miles of shining beaches ; of the
air; of the fruits that one only sees in the shop
windows of Melbourne town ; of the acres and
acres of canefields, indeed. Thus it can be reason-
ably conceived that such a person will have a
mightily-interested audience.
And what a world is this that he talks about !
For a thousand miles an almost motionless sea that
carries the steamer on an even keel from day to
day, and, in all this thousand miles an ever-vary-
ing coast-line, in places equal in picturesque effect
to anything extant. Moreover, the travellerhas
this part of the tour punctuated, loosely speaking,
by little jaunts ashore. A day from Brisbane,
and he arrives at Sea Hill, Keppel Bay,
where a steam tender meets the vessel to
convey passengers up the Fitzrov River to
Rockhampton. The next day the vessel anchors
off Flattop Island (Mackay), and proceeds thence
through the extremely picturesque Whitsunday
Passage to Bowen, which is reached the same
evening. Here he again disembarks to collect
more material for future reminiscences. A further
day at sea and he is set down at Townsville,
where, after a survey of the town, he picks up the
“Kuranda,” to proceed to Cairns via Hinchin-
brook Channel. Hinchinbrook Channel is not
very long, but, mile for mile, it can compare in
color with anything extant. And along this
route are scattered such attractive spots as Lucinda
Point, Cardwell, and Mourilyan Harbor. At
Geraldton, a little further on, one gets a view
of the Johnstone River and of the banana and
cane plantations. Here the industrious Mongolian
may be seen in practically his native state. He
may be said to entirely control the cultivation of
the banana in the district—for on few of these
plantations hereabouts is there seen a European.
And thus being a person of some importance in
these parts, anyhow, Ah Sin has imported one or
two of his ancient implements of locomotion. He
may be noticed on the Johnstone flitting about in
a sampan—and the observant traveller will note
the contrast between Orient and Occident —
between antiquity and modernity, in fact—when
the oil-launch of the white man appears on the
scene.
(53?
Indeed, everywhere from Geraldton up to
Thursday Island, John and many of his Asiatic
neighbors make the thoughtful visitor con-
templative. In the crowd of pearl-shell
and beche-de-mer fishers at Thursday Island
in the populations of the coast towns right
down to Cooktown and Cairns, may be seen the
Malay, the Japanese and the Chinaman. They
add a certain amount of picturesqueness to the
scenery, if you look at it that way.
But, otherwise, they are
only a small part of the
North. It is the
Atherton Scrub; the
mountains around
Cairns; the exquisi-
tely-colored Barrier
Reef, and a million
other beau t i f u
things that consti-
tute the attraction
of the magic North.


GOOD”
DIGESTION
MAKES GOOD HEALTH.
The surest way to have good health is to keep your digestion healthy
and active. All the nourishment of your body must pass through your
stomach, and if "that is not in a fit state to digest it properly, it stands
to reason that your health must suffer. Undigested food will not yield
its nourishment. On the contrary it sours in your stomach and clogs
your system with impurities. Mother Seigel’s Syrup puts your stomach
right, and keeps it right. Here is an instance. Mr. Harry Dunn, 187,
Goulburn Street, Sydney, writing on March 4th, 1908, says:—“l suffered
from violent pains in my stomach, frequent sick headaches, and bilious
attacks every few days. I took all sorts of medicines without the least
benefit until at last I was persuaded to try Mother Seigel’s Syrup. The
result was complete cure, and I have been well ever since.”
MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP
ENSURES PERFECT ACTION OF THE
DIGESTIVE ORGANS.
Conjuring Trioks, Puzzles, Surprise and Joke Novelties.
THE SPRAY
WATER PISTOL
will stop th e
most vicious dog
or man without
permanent in-
jury. Invaluable
for cyclists, un-
escorted ladies,
nightwatchmen,
etc. Has more
effect on beggars
and tramps than
a watchdog. It
creates great
amusement for
m
t
m
m
young- and old, and is one of the most popular joke
novelties ever placed on the Australian market.
Reloading unlimited, length 5 inches, nickel-plated
and nicely ornamented. Price 1/6, post free to any
part of the world.
THE SEBACKRCSOOPE, or Detective’s Assistant.
WONDER
» lOF THE /•
fiiJg
CP
No. 73.
Attach to the
e.yein the same
manner as the
common mag-
nifying- lens in
use by watch
repairers,being-
careful to turn
the small open-
ing in square
tube to the
outside, that
is, away from
the nose. When
placed to the eye you can see what is taking- place
behind and in front of you at the same time. No
need to wish for eyes in the back of your head, as
with this article you can observe all that occurs in
that direction without even turning- your head. You
will find lots of fun in owning a Sebackroscope.
Made of hard rubber, and finished in an excellent
manner. Price, securely packed and posted to any
address free on receipt of 1/-
The LooK and Laugh Glass.
See the passing Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
people look thin—thin
people look stout. The
Laughing Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
All growfatfrom laughter.
It is well and strongly
made, and cannot get out
The Laughing Camera.
of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
THE “ NEVER-STOP” HUMMING TOP.
THI
i»luwciki.>pi«ow
r TOP.
No. 79.
This new metal hum-
ming- top is of original
design, graceful in
outline, and hand-
somely painted in five
enamelled colors, and
measures 10 inches in
circumference. There
is nothing in the top
line that can approach
it. The top, being
metal and the spring
of tempered steel, is
practically indestruc-
tible. Spins about
three minutes, hum-
ming all the time.
Price 1/- each post
free anywhere, or
three tops posted free
to any address for 2/6.
Send for our illustrated Catalogue—new edition
just published. Wholesale and Retail.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney,
710 CEORCE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Hay market. Post Office.
CZ eos <sr-. .-w-'
burgeon
/
Is your Liver right ?
It’s one thing to feel well and bright and happy, and
another to have a sluggish liver. A sluggish liver positively
kills enjoyment. You cannot even rest, sleep or eat comfortably.
But you would after a Cockle’s Antibilious Pill, for Cockle’s Pills
liven the liver and give it strength to do its work. Used for over 100
years and still prescribed by physicians and preferred by the public
throughout the world.
1
L
o
PI LLS.
I i
Music, as you like it>,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Trice 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home—one
would charm Yours — Why not NOW ?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27/6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue'Free.
SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO.
Prop. Ltd,, 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
BY APPOINTMENT
fg
TO H.M. THE KING.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
df
SGRUBB’S* —AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
gdf
m
NEW TONE-ARM
GR AP H-o -phone
for CYLINDER, records.
A MUSICAL TRIUMPH.
The “ CROWN ” GRAPH-o-phone
with the famous Columbia Alu=
minium Tone=Arm, Lyric Repro=
ducer and Flower Horn, which
swings in any direction. Uses all
standardize records.
Write for descriptive circular.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO.
■ ‘ • CEN’L.,
257 Clarence Street, Sydney.
iJIZmaHtIHiKI
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDS'
magnesia!
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
za
Business, Robbery, etc.
Some of the mining methods on the West Coast
of Tasmania are fearsome. At one of the two leading-
mines in one district the general manager is surrounded
by his sons and daughters, their wives and husbands and
sons’ sons.. The scientific knowledge of the bunch would
wear no brain out. Every little while the local paper
mentions an “ unfortunate accident.” Lately the com-
bined wisdom of the staff designed a new shaft which was
to be sunk to a great depth. (Already on this property
there are about a dozen shafts. Each starts to go down to
500 ft. straight away, but the same old 50ft. sees a level
opened out.) Unfortunately they omitted toput in a single
diagonal stay, so now the poppet legs sport guy ropes to
prevent them being pulled over bodily. Until recently the
ore from the main body reached the mill via a tram
w'hich delivered the ore at the foot of an old, abandoned
set of poppet legs (with the usual guy ropes), when it was
tipped on flat sheets and shovelled up into a skip, which
delivered it from the surface to above the level of the
bins, about 30ft. in height. It was then run along a
trestlework rotten with age, which delivered it into a bin
abov , e the mill. The truck went through one day. The
trucker averted another unfortunate accident by
seizing a beam, and remained suspended in mid-air tiil
rescued. After that it was decided that the ore should
be delivered to the mill by means of an inclined tramway
from the ground level to above the height of the bins. A
start was made, and uprights were erected (still no dia-
gonals); the cross-bearers laid on top ; and it was well in
progress of erection when, unfortunately, it blew down !
However, the job was finished and the mine delivered
the bj ns< (There were no tie bolts, and the structure just
°P ened * * *
“ Val Strange” : Re “Hub’s” par. (B. 28/5/’08).
I also am a White Australian, and I sympathise with Mrs.
Hub in her knock-out experience whilst trying to
encourage the White Australian ideal. If the lady has
not a i rea( jy burst with grief, I would ask her to postpone
the explosion until I console her with a tale of the woe
that happened to me. I was sojourning in a Northern
River Ma State town. A white wksherlady of the district
had the honor of laving my linen ; and, although her
seell,ed
that she appeared pretty stiff herself, and had
no “ hub ” to help her with a goodly mob of youngsters.
Q ne sa d day a crippled wreck of a man called and asked
me jf j WO uld send my washing to his missus, who was
the sole support of himself and a houseful. I said I was
sorrj', but Mrs. Bluebags, likewise an indigent citizen,
did my washing. “ She does it?” he snarled. “ Yer
think she does it, like a lot more of yous ; but the loafin’
old takedown sends it all to the blightin’ Japs, and when
it conies back, she makes out her own bills and flops a
penny or so on’every article, and then sends ’em round to
yous by one of her pore, little, bare-footed nippers. She’s
doin’ orl right, she is.” And behold, on investigation, I
found that it was so.
» * * *
“Victae”: Rumor came and whispered in the
earg Qf tWQ M L detec tives recently, whereupon quoth
No. . « Arise, j e t; us g 0 hence. In yon bleak land of
prohibition is a knave who selleth spirits at a guinea a
bottle, calling it cold tea, forsooth. Let us capture
him.” So they travelled with haste until they came unto
the place, and they encamped that night in the company of
th< ; evildoer. When it was light they awoke, and one cried
out, as if in exceeding bitter pain, calling for brandy. Then
chanced along their host. “ Brandy? ” quoth he. “ Yes,
nrlord.” He brought the potion, and the stricken man
drank copiously. “ Good sir, ,ve have saved my life,” said
he, smacking his lips. “ What’s the damage ? ” “I am but
an honest, poor man,” responded his host loftily, yet
firmly. “ But the law may not be broken. Put back
your gold, sirrah. I sell no brandy here.” Then one
winked. “ Mayhap,” he said carelessly. “But we go upon
f long journey, and rumor tells of a noble drink named
‘cold tea.’ I prithee give us some. ‘Ay that will I and
merrily, answered the other. “How much-? quoth No. 1,
a s he looked lovingly at the bottle. “ Two guineas, good
master. Extra special brew of cold tea on this morning.”
And he, too, winked. Then, with much joy in their
hearts, the two minions departed. When they came
unto one invested with much authority they brandished
the bottle, exclaiming loudly—“ Look ye ! And make ye
oub a warrant for the arrest of a knave who
sold ns fchls calling it cold tea, and charging us
extortionately therefor. And with haste and much re-
joicing the script was made ready. “ Uncork,” said the
one in authority. “The day is hot. Let us sample this
beverage of the'wrong-do.er.” And the two smiled largely,
and proffered the drink to him. The one in authority
took a goodly mouthful. . . . And away in the King
Country one sinner who had emptied the teapot chuckled
the chuckle of the ungodly as he beheld two sovereigns
that nestled softly in his palm.
COASTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis no fool’s game on the bridge to-night, for the
Southerly blows like H—l,
And the drenching sprays fly left and right—What’s up
with that fo’c’s’le bell ?
A mere hour seems like a full-kept watch. Good Lord !
there’s a sea to ship !
What’s that!. ... Burst open the for’ard hatch ?. .. Well,
the skipper ivould let her rip !
Now rouse the watch and batten her down (I’m as cold
as a perished shag).
I wish I could settle in Sydney town with the kids and
my old girl Mag.
It’s cheerless work is this coasting life, and I’m full to
the neck to-night,
For I see the smiles of my kids and wife in the loom of
the South Head light 1
The light looms up with a lazy gleam ; but it’s millions
of miles away.
And I keep my watch in a kind of dream, half blind with
the stinging spray !
Millions of miles—so it seems to me as I watch this darned
old tub
Rise up and descend remorselessly with a crash on the
world’s great hub !
She shakes and shivers, and strains and groans, and the
racing screw flies round
Till the souls in the haunts of Davy Jones burst out into
mirth profound.
Two knots she’s done by the patent log—and the waves
they increase in height,
And the rain comes thick as a Melbourne fog, and shuts
in the South Head light 1
The black squad stops in its lair below, and it works with
a stubborn will,
And the “second” watches the heave and throw as he
throttles the “coffee-mill.”
The chief walks round with his face askew and prates of
the dearth of coal,
And his curses rise in a vapor blue from the depths of his
inmost soul.
The cook looks out with a frenzied eye, and acts like a roan
gone daft
As his pots and pans go sailing by en route for the well-
deck aft.
And I—l think as my watch goes on of home that is clean
and bright,
And a wife and kids whom I dote upon, not far from the
South Head light.
We moor to the wharf next day at eight, and then when
my graft is o’er
I rush away, with a heart elate, to the ones whom I love
on shore.
I give no thought to the previous day, nor care for to-
morrow’s blow,-
While the kiddies talk in their childish way to their dad,
whom they scarcely know.
An hour at home and it’s time to part—ah! the time it
is none too slow ;
So I kiss them all with a heavy heart, then back to my
ship I go.
We lose the lights of old Sydney town and steam through
the moonless night,
And the thoughts in my heart go sinking down, and dip
with the South Head light.
N.S.W.
ALBATROSS.


QUALITY in a piano depends
upon many things, of which the first
and most important are the Scale and the
Sounding-board.
The SCALE of a piano is the scientific
plan of its sound-producing parts, the length,
thickness, and radiation of the strings, and
the striking-line of the hammers. The calcu-
lation of the scale is by far the most difficult
part of piano-manufacture, and can only be
accomplished after many years’ experience.
Most of the makers of foreign pianos simply
buy their frames from foundry . people
who are usually quite ignorant of the
mathematical requirements, and devoid of all
scientific knowledge. One piano “ manu-
facturer, in writing a “ Handbook of Piano-
Manufacture,” recommends that a frame
should be taken out of some well-known
piano, and the casting be made from that,
thus saving the trouble of calculating a scale!
But this cannot be done successfully, for
there is an exact allowance to be made for
shrinkage in casting. Ihe only correct and
scientific way is to first calculate the scale,
making allowance for two shrinkages, then
cast a pattern, and from that cast the frame
to be used. This is the method followed in
the production of the BEALE AUSTRA-
LIAN PIANOS.
The SOUNDING-BOARD is the
second important feature. No ordinary care
is required in its manufacture ; the highest
skill and perfect knowledge only will assure
satisfactory results. Ihe timber must be
carefully selected, of the best quality, and the
grain must be graded from fine in the treble
to coarse in the bass. The strips of timber,
never more than five inches in width, must
also be tapered m thickness from treble to
bass. Ihe amount of camber, or con-
vexity (like a violin belly), of the complete
sounding-board must be arrived at to
a hair s-breadth, so as to assure the
best quality of sound when the strings are
vibrated.
In the Beale Australian Pianos all these
details are carried out with the utmost care
by specialists of many years’ training, in their
turn guided by management whose know-
ledge of the whole result to be obtained—
and the method of obtaining it—is unsur-
passed in any part of the world. The
materials are the best that money can buy.
Our great aim is always “ How much better
;
can we make it ?” And to this end we
spare no pains, giving our every thought to
the perfecting of an Australian product that
is already far ahead of its old-world com-
petitors. That this is so you can verify for
yourself by comparison. Call and inspect
our pianos, and then examine the goods of
our competitors. Our faith in our product
is shown by the fact that we guarantee every
Beale Australian Piano for Twenty-Five
Years, whereas no importer will guarantee his
goods for more than Twelve.
CAIALOGUES AND CIRCULARS FREE.
»>
‘‘THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Me,bourne; 24 Bridge Street, Baiiarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; ,27 Rundie Street, Adeiaide, S.A.
837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgooriie, W.A.; 29, Queen Street, next 0.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
AN AUSTRALIAN INDUSTRY.
For the past five years Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills have been manufactured in Australia, and
we believe they are the only purgative pills on the
market that are made in this country by the pro-
prietors. Most other pills are made by manu-
facturing chemists and sold in bulk to the specula-
tive pill companies to be boxed and labelled. We
take no chance of this kind with Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, and we know that the formula
does not vary one-hundredth part of a grain. We
also know that the ingredients are up to the
standard, both in strength and quality. The
crude material is imported direct, being ground by
our own machines in our American laboratory,
where the greatest care is observed in the selection
of the roots and gums from which this crude
material is made. We have both in Sydney and
Wellington (New Zealand) up-to-date plants for
the manufacture of these pills, and should any of
our friends be interested we will be only too
pleased to show them the process of manufacture.
DR-MORSE'S
Indian
Root
Pills
are a perfect blood purifier, and a safe and reliable*
remedy for biliousness, constipation, indigestion,
headaches, sallow complexion, liver and kidney
troubles, piles, pimples, boils, and for female ail-
ments.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
Brewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
Australian Agents—Messrs. E. H. FOTHERCIU. & CO., 16 Mouatt St., Fremantle.
West
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Evidently the Anglo-Welsh team has struck
form, evolved a system, or done something very untoward
when the Taranaki Tigers could make no impression
against it. Taranaki won by a goal to nil, hut that goal
should not have been allowed, and will even yet probably
be wiped out by the Union. The ball had gone
out close to the English line, and a Taranaki player was
lying prone, badly damaged on the Head. The English
forwards crowded to his assistance, expecting the whistle
.to blow. But it didn’t, and to the Maoriland foot-
baller in his baresark fury, a few deaders don’t matter.
They lined up, and as it was Taranaki’s throw in, the ball
was placed in the arms of Dives, who hopped across, and
the goal was kicked while the English forwards were still
attending to the injured Maorilander. The Taranaki cow-
spankers are mighty:’bailers, and the fact that the in-
vaders stood up to them in the manner they did will go
far to renew interest in the tour.
Most of the English cracks are suffering re-
coveries, and the rough play of the local men has brought
down a storm of abuse and expostulation from the news-
paper correspondents. The Maoriland footballer is as
unscrupulous as he is brii?sant, and his doctrine is “ win
anyhow,” or “ win by fair play if possible, but win all the
time.” And unless that sort of thing is stamped out,
Rugby, as it is now played in the Isles, is doomed. That
hardened ’bailer who writes under the name of “ Off-side
Mac ” is not squeamish, and knows how to take hard
bangs as well as give them ; but even he has pointed an
accusing quill ac his countrymen, and declared the
last match in Wellington was too rough. And it
was, as newspaper correspondents declare that
there was deliberate hacking by the exasperated
Maofilanders. This sort of thing will be excellent
when Maoriland is playing Asiatic invaders for keeps, but
it is.quite out of place in friendly football. The record
of Wallace’s injuries, recently mentioned in this paper,
; sounds like the record of a veteran of about 17 campaigns,
or the injuries of a man who had spent 40 years in frontier
fighting. If the Maoriland Union can’t control the game
better than it is doing it should give up the ghost, abolish
the clubs, and recommend the players to take to lawn
tennis, where a net separates the rivals. If necessary,
the net can be replaced by an iron fence with spiked tops
or a wall crowned with broken glass.
* « * *
The Union Rugby match between Queensland
and N. S. Wales drew a crowd of over 20,000 people to
Sydney Cricket Ground on Saturday last. The ground
was sodden and slippery, and the local backs were indivi-
dualistic and powerless. But the forwards were as nippy
as could be desired, and practically won the game. The
Queensland team was decidedly fast, so much so that the
forwards repeatedly got in among the Cornstalk backs
and played Aged Henry with the blue jerseys. It was the
superiority of the local men in dribbling rushes, and the
lack of combination among the Queensland back division,
that won the match for N. S. Wales. The game vvas a
dreary struggle in which men clawed the air to hold
themselves up. N.S.W. did all the scoring during the
first-half, and midway had put up a record of 14 to
nil. After the resumption, Queensland converted two
tries, and played' much better right through. Then
N.S.W. added another try, and made the score 17 to 10.
There it stuck till the whistle blew.
* * * *
A much finer game to watch was the struggle
between the Rugby League’s Australian team and the
Maoris. The latter, as expected, made it a wild and
whirling business during the first half, and did things on
a considerable scale. They played with their well-known
abandon and recklessness, Pouwhiuwhiu soaring clean
over the head of an Australian back who tackled him
while he was in full flight for the goal. Within the first
five minutes the Maoris had swept the struggling Austra-
lians right back, and broken through them, and jumped
over them, and scored a try, and then kicked a field
goal from half way. With the score five to ni
Messenger commenced to kick down the field, but
he had no .hope. The ball came back like lightning, and
the Maoris came with it, laying out and running over the
Australian full back as they did so. But for Hedley’s fall
the blacks would have gone clean over the line. After
the resumption the blue team got to the half-way line and
was driven back. Another passing charge was made, and
brought down. Then Messenger led his whole back
division down the field, sweeping on right to the line,
where the Maoris, with a whoop, flung the whole crowd
right out of bounds. In the struggle that ensued on the
line the Maoris again got the ball and carried it to the Aus-
tralian line. There Hedley was again laid out, and over his
prostrate form the Maoris converted the try, making their
score 10 to nil. Hedley retired, and when his substitute
arrived the Australians flung the whole team on to the
Mxoris, and from a free kick Messenger sent the ball
across the face of the goal. The Walers dashed in and
scored, and, of course, Messenger converted. The Maoris
were beginning to fizzle out, and the whites came again.
Messenger showed the Maoris one of his beautiful star
runs; he reached the line and fell into the arms of the
Maori full back just as he passed to O’Malley,
who dived across. Messenger again converted,
and the scores were 10 all just as half-time
went. After resumption Messenger commenced to
bombard the Maori goal, and, following up one of his own
shots, got across and converted. Then the Maoris
reached the Australian line, and a series of scrums
ended in Australia forcing. Play swept away to the
Maori line, where the Black team forced twice. Time was
running out, and the Maoris strained every nerve to
equalise things, but they were a wasted lot of browns by
this time, and the old energy was not in them. The game
ended in a win for Australia by 20 to 10, after one of the
fastest and most exciting struggles ever seen in Sydney.
The brown men fulfilled sundry Bulletin prophecies to
the letter. They raged furiously in the first half, and
then died away. The Maori is a maddened seidlitz-
powder. First‘he fizzes, and then he goes flat. Being
improvident, like all his kind, he never economises his
fizzing power, but lets it all off in a single act.
As to Vic. League football, as Carlton has but
one game to the good over Essendon, and a single
additional defeat may mean the loss of the “right of
challenge,” a huge crowd trammed and walked out to the
ground beyond the cemetery on Saturday to see if Col-
lingwood could equal Essendon’s feat of the week before.
The magpies started well, and, playing methodically
along the windward side of the paddock and at a rare
pace held their own till nearly half-time, when a chance
kick from the scrimmage gave the blues a three-pomt
lead. So far, the play had been open, clean, and very
swift ; but, on resuming operations, the Woodsmen
seemed to be victims to over-anxiety, and time after time
mulled chances that would have kept Carlton back at its
most dangerous time—the third quarter. The systematic
game was played as usual, but its effect was nullified
by a disheartening inability to hold the ball when passed,
or to pick it up cleanly and send it on. So they added
nary a point that quarter, while Carlton put on
30 After that the episode became a mere rout, the Old
Blues finallv winning by 77 points to 37. ’Wood needs
a man with'a powerful boot to clear its goal, and a lot of
practice in handling the ball. A gorgeous crowd trans-
pired at South Melbourne, in the expectation of seeing
Skinner’s Hirelings give Melbourne a “doing,’ and thus
wipe out the unaccountable defeat inflicted earlier in the
season. There was no doubt about South’s superiority,
in the barrackers’ minds ; and it was on its own ground
and couldn’t go wrong. So the crowd yelled cheer-
fully, and urged deeds of bloodshed. But the first quarter
saw the Red Legs with three goals, South 2 goals 3 behinds.
At half-time the tally was Melbourne 6 goals 2 behinds.
South 3 goals 5 behinds, and the barrackers flocked to the
booth and imbibed deeply. Lemon-time saw the pets
still nine points to the bad —and Melbourne had the wind for
the finish. The supporters “ blime-d ” freely and argued
lengthily as to how things could be thus, and why, and
what for. When the bell rang, leaving Melbourne victors
by 11 goals 8 behinds to South’s tally of 5 goals 10 behinds,
there was no room for any excuse about luck or rotten um-
piring. South had played its darnedest and was beaten,
and badly at that. Richmond was at home to Essendon
and by making the most of its chances, kept the lead till
the last quarter—that quarter that mostly belongs to the
well-trained, seasoned team. Then the “same old,”
knowing that even one defeat meant a lot to them, bogged
in, and drove the ball down the ground even as Jehu
drove his mud cart, scoring 4 goals 6 behinds, while Rich-
mond added one goal—scores 68 to 45. St. Kilda was
burning to avenge its previous defeat by ’Varsity. The
cheek of these newly promoted juniors, in daring to
“out” an old-established club like Saints merited condign
punishment, and an example was to be made. So the godly
men wired in and steadily piled up points till at lemon-
time they led by 43 to 29. Just then ’Varsity’s captain
was badly damaged in the ruck and was carried off
the field to be nursed, and it looked any odds on the
Saints winning. But the Students set their teeth, and in
a whirling, clashing 20 minutes put oh 27 points, while
the paralysed Sinners added none. It was a revelation,
and if the. Students could but bog in that way always
even the mighty Carlton would have to play second
fiddle. Geelong encountered ’Roy, and the usual disaster
occurred —by 56 points to ’Roy’s 74. Geelong has now a
record of 12 successive defeats, and this paper opines that
something ought to be donel There is such a thing as
being too monotonous.
* * * «
The most pleasing feature among Association
Clubs is the continued uprising of Port Melbourne.
After seven notable wallopings that club drew its
game against the top-notch ’Scray, which happening
seems to have persuaded it that it could, if it would,
beat all-comers. Anyhow, it has won every game since
then, ’Cote being Saturday’s victim by 95 to 19 ;
wherefore this writer desires to pass Port the glad hand as
a repentant sinner or a reformed rake or a riser on
stepping stones of its dead self or something, and to
assure it that the door is not yet shut, and that if it will
joyously and enthusiastically jump on its opponents the
next four Saturdays, it may yet arrive at the final. The
Association premiers—Williamstown —commence to be an
obstruction to the scheme of things by reason of their
habit of getting thrashed unaccountably and unex-
pectedly. This habit upsets all scientific calculations.
As a consequence of its Saturday’s defeat by P’ran —32 to
59 —’Town is now 2£ games, or 10 competition points, the
worse of ’Scray, and only two games ahead of Brunswick.
Essendon, having regained the services of the redoubtable
Mick Madden, plucked up courage to fracture its run of
defeats, and put a head on Preston by 88 points to 24.
’Scray collided with Brunswick, and after a period of
banging and bumping, stressed its superiority by a score
of 58 to 39. Brighton encountered North, and permitted
it to trouble the scorer to the extent of 13 points, itself
scoring 63. North is hereby recommended to get a band,
as Port did. It might change the luck, and it couldn’t
make things any they are.
Seems probable that professional toeballers will
be among Maoriland’s exports this year. Several members
of the recently-returned-from-England pro. team have
been offered tempting salaries to go back and play for
Northern Union clubs. One of the forwards will captain
the Wigan Club, a very famous N.U. organisation. The
agreement is that 'be is to be supplied with a steady
billet at £2 12s. per week, while for his services on the
field he is to be rewarded to the tune of £4OO per annum,
with 10s. added for every win and ss. for every loss. The
young man who can scientifically boot an inflated bladder
about on a grass plot is in great demand in Fogland.
* * * *
West Adelaide (S. A.) is another example of the
wonderful recovery business. From being last for years
on the premiership list (it didn’t win a game in 1906) the
team suddenly heaved uo and won three out of four.
Critics said it 'was a mere flash in the pan—a sort of dying
kick. But it wasn’t. This season the club has carried
all before it, mowing down even the redoubtable Nor-
wood —until then the champion club of Australia —in
the wild rush for the premiership.
* * * *
The Anglo-Welsh team struck trouble once
more when it bumped Auckland, going down by nothing
to 11 points. Still, considering that the team was de-
prived of the services of its best six men, who are still
recovering from the previous matches, the showing can
be considered good. At the start of the game the visitors
were somewhat superior, and kept Auckland on the
defensive, but by the end of the spell, which closed with
three to nil, theAucklandsrs had got their second wind,
and were beginning to press the British very hard. In
the second spell the Auckland men crossed the line twice,
while the British had never a hope. The third Test will
take place in the Queen City next Saturday. Meanwhile
the injured men have been sent to Rotorua, in the hope
that the bracing atmosphere and hot water will speed
the recovery. The casualty list among the British is an
eloquent commentary on the quality of Maoriland Rugby.
* » » *
The Queensland League Rugby team made a
somewhat better showing against N.S.W. on Saturday.
The explanation was that the League cracks were to meet
the Maoris, and it was a second-rate team that downed
the Queenslanders by 12 points to three.
The race for the Australian sculling champion-
ship duly eventuated on Saturday on the Hunter River,
over the Raymond Terrace course. The honor was
decorated with a purse of £lOO a-side, and the coin and
laurels were a gift to big Benjamin Thoroughgood. By
one means and another Fogwell’s barrackers had blown
up around him a pretty bubble reputation, but before
three-quarters of a mile had been traversed Thorough-
good bad driven the bow of his boat right through the
bubble, and Fogwell began to resolve into mere
slush with great rapidity. From the start Thorough-
good made the pace, and Fogwell kept sprinting
to overtake him, onlv to be left again imme-
diately. At the half-mile Fogwell, barring a miracle,
was an obviously beaten man. Shortly afterwards the
boats, which had both been in neutral water for some
time, came so close together that the sculls clashed, and
both men raised their hands for a foul. Then Thorough-
good swung out and shot away, leaving Fogwell as
though standing still. At three-quarters of a mile things
resolved themselves into a procession of two, Thorough-
good pulling easily and Fogwell making frantic
efforts to swarm over the intervening water.
But although he did lessen the distance some-
what he had never a hope, and Thoroughgood
paddled home an easy winner by a distance that was
variously estimated at from six to 10 lengths. Seldom
was an aspirant for championship honors more easily
wiped out. The debacle was a severe set-back for the
Fogwell party, which had been cheerfully laying six to
four on its man almost to the start of the race. The
time was 18min. 20 3-ssec. It was fast, but the record
is somewhat discounted by the fact that the scullers
pulled with the tide.
r * * * *
Some Fogwell supporters made a considerable
stir over the clashing of the sculls, but it was as bad for
Thoroughgood as it was for Fogwell. The men were
equally'’to blame, as the boats were both in neutral
fluid. Thoroughgood seems to have been thrown out
of his course more than the other man, as he drew out
and rowed right round Fogwell till he passed him. As
they both appealed, the race should probably have been
stopped and started afresh,' in which case Fogwell would
probably have got a worse licking than he did, and the
one he got was bad enough in all conscience. Still, the
foul may serve as an excuse to get Fogwell another race,
on the ground that the impact threw him out of his
stride, or off his mental balance, or dislocated his driving
crank, and things like that. But unless he can improve
vastly in the interval he is strongly advised not to put
any of his own cash into the speculation. He is almost
as big a disappointment as Charles Towns.
The Grand Prix Motor Race (Dieppe, France)
provided something of aboil-over this year. Last year
the brilliant driver, Felice Nazarro, on a Fiat, took the
championship to Italy, and in consequence Italian cycle
exports went up by leaps and bounds. With a view to
recapturing the lost ribbon, France this year entered 24
cars the Italians only six, the Germans nine, the English
six and the Yankees one. France was popular favorite,
and a great tussle was expected between the French and
Italians. But none of the favorites came up to expecta-
tions and Lautenschlager drove the German Mercedes
round the distance of 478 miles in 6hr. 55min. 43sec., and
beat all others rather easily. This was over eight
minutes slower than last year’s time, when Felice
Nazarro won. Lautenschlager wa9 quite an unknown
man and no one dreamed that he had a championship
about him. The race was marred by some bad smashes.
The Panliard car left the track owing to the bursting of a
tvre and killed driver Oissac and his mechanician ; and
Harrison, one of the English drivers, was taken to hos-
pital as the result of his car overturning into a ditch.
The winning Mercedes was a four-cylinder 120-h.p. chain-
driven ear, with four speeds and Simms-Bosh high ten-
sion ignition. This is Germany’s first win since Jenatzy
did the deed in 1903. Oissac was one of the oldest drivers,
and was admittedly the cleverest and most successful
at the business in Europe. Altogether, motor racing
seems to be about as deadly as steeplechasing. Lauten-
schlager’s performance is enhanced by the fact that in
the draw for places he drew the 85th position, and,
therefore, when making speed, had to thread his way
through and past 34 other cars on a road that was a dense
dust-cloud. Under the conditions his 68 miles an hour is
considered a better performance than Nazarro s 70J the
previous year. w
Owing to recent rains in the interior of Cen-
tralia and the use of the Stepney spare rims on the
driving wheels, South Australian transcontinental motor-
ists, Dutton and Aunger, are making excellent progress.
Alice Springs has been left behind, and if the same speed
is maintained right through, Port Darwin will be'struck
at the end of the fifth week out.
« * * *
Said that a squadron of motor cars will leave
Brisbane shortly loaded up with excursionists, provisions
and camping gear. The expedition will potter along the
roads and linger at the pleasant places, and so arrange
thing’s as to reach Sydney in time to see Jonathan s r leet.
The detailed reports of that big match for £5OO
between Nazarro on a Fiat and Newton on a Napier car, at
Brooklands, last month, when the Napier broke down, show
that Reuter’s cabled account was a rank injustice to the
Emdish car. At the start Newton jumped away, and at
three miles was leading by a quarter of a mile and tra-
velling at the rate of 111 J miles an hour. At this juncture
a hot bearing seized and drove the connecting lod right
through the crank chamber, compelling Newton to haul
off Nazarro flew on, and averaged 94J miles an hour for
the 27| miles. In the third lap he shimmered over 2f
miles at the rate of 120 miles an hour. The Napier car
lost the 90-h.p. event, but in the two other matches for
£5OO against the Metallurgique, the English representa-
tive wiped the floor with the foreigners.
Japan has been bitten by the cycling bug : Last
year 34,500 machines, worth £130,000, and £95,200 worth
of parts were imported ,to the land of wistaria and
chrysanthemums. #
Ellegaard, the Danish cycling wonder, is said to
be riding better than ever, although he is at an age, both
in years and in length of cycle riding, when a man usually
retires from the track. He is now the father of his
circuit. _ _
* * * *
Apparently the cycle is about to enter on a new
phase The “ pedal-glider ” has already been proved a
success, and will soon be on the market. The pedal-
glider is a foot-driven aeroplane wherein the rider sits in
a bicycle saddle. He drives the propeller with the ordi-
nary bicycle driving wheel and gear. The cycle is a bit
of a curse now, but it will be worse when the blessed
things take to sailing through the air.
* * *
With the exception of A. T. Clark, all the com-
petitors for the Vic. amateur billiard championship (now
rao-ino- at Alcock’s room in Melb.) have figured in previous
contests. At time of writing, ex-champion Arthur Tricks
looks most likely to live through the tournament, in
which case he will have to try conclusions with Jacoby,
who beat him in the final last year. Tricks has made the
break thus far, and although he has shown nothing
better than his old form, and is not quite in the same
class as Belfield, the Sydney amateur, he can be trusted
to put up a plucky fight for his State if he wins the local
blue riband once again.
* * * *
There will be a mighty gathering of men who
love horseflesh at Christchurch (M.L.) in August, for on
the 12th of that month the horses of the late G. G. Stead
will pass under the hammer, and the break-up of the
Round Table was nothing compared to the scatter of the
finest stable in Australasia.
* * * *
J. J. Miller’s sporting pamphlet, just to hand,
is the usual shilling’s worth of information on sporting
matters in general, and the spring horse handicaps in
particular. The performances of all the entrants for the
Metropolitan, and Caulfield and Melbourne Cups are
alphabetically set forth, and the lists of race winners and
athletic records are brought up to date with sundry latest
improvements in the arrangement thereof.
* * * *
R. G. Casey, chairman of the V.R.C., toasting a
departing Governor the other day, hoped that his Ex.
would use his influence to have King Edward send a horse
to Victoria to win the Melbourne Cup. We should like
to see his Majesty represented here by a horse or two,
said Mr. Casey. Why not? Hasn’t Majesty been re-
presented here by an ass or two in our time ?
* * * *
Champion bruiser Tommy Burns, whose real
name is Noah Brusso, is evidently a man of resource.
Not only has he made more money at the game than any
other bruiser who went before him, including even the
marvellous Philadelphian, Jack O’Brien, but, like
that meteoric pugilist, he has produced a book.
It is a well-written volume, in which Burns dis-
plays neither swelled head nor bogus modesty. He is,
if he wrote his own book, a well-balanced individual of
pleasing personality. He knows something about fighting,
havinn- fought his way to the world’s championship, and he
has a yarn"to tell. He tells it in an easy manner, and in
simple, direct language, driving his arguments home with
sentences of Maoaula.v-like brevity and force. He calls
his book “ Scientific Boxing and Self Defence, but the de-
fence he teaches is of the Napoleonic type, which con-
sists of being the attacking party all the time, while
keeping the other fellow under the delusion that he is
the aggressor. And anyone who has had a few rough and
tumbles of his own will bear testimony to the wisdom
of that gospel. “ Glove fighting,” he remaiks,
“ has passed out of its early stages of brute
force and indomitable endurance into the era of brain
work and science. Brains are of more importance than
fists to-day.” “ It is the quick, short jab on the proper
spot which is felt, even though it isn’t often seen.” “ Trick
ball-punching is the bane of the boxer... especially if you
are young at the game ” He drives home the neces-
sity of speed—rapidity of hitting, rapidity of evasion, the
delivering of short, quick blows that anticipate the
longer and heavier ones of an opponent of the
older school. He discourses on the short, quick
tap on the shoulder that destroys the aim and para-
lyses the force of the other fellow’s swing. But it is
when writing of Squires that Burns becomes of most
interest to Australians. Before Squires left Australia we
knew he was a rusher of the worst sort who had been
demoralised by meeting men who allowed themselves to
be rushed, and we “ feared for him,” as the Scotch say,
when he met a man who wouldn’t be rushed. It is in his
instructions “ How to Meet a Rusher” that Squires floats
to the top as a shocking example, and Burns explains
that although rushers may look awkward, they are
usually, barring accidents, dead easy. Here is Burns
account of the historic debacle, . , .
“ A striking instance of this (easy disposal of rushers)
may be quoted.of my meeting with the Australian cham-
pion, Bill Squires.
“ We had only just faced each other, when he came at
me like a bull at a gate. In a bound he was on me, but
my right got there first on the angle of his jaw.
“ Down he dropped as though he had been poleaxed,
and, for just a few seconds, I fancied that the whole busi-
ness was over. ,
“ But in four seconds he was up again, had leapt clear
across the ring, and had given me a beauty right in the
mouth. It was one of the worst and hardest blows 1
ever received, and for a second or so I was dazed and
hardly knew where I was.
“ But I kept my wits about me, clinched and leant up
against him, while I recovered my senses. I wasn t far
from being ‘ out,’ but had no anxiety that he should get
acquainted with the fact. So I just cuddled up to him
and asked him w r hat he was about. I said I wanted to
know whether he couldn’t fight or wouldn’t?
“The bluff came off, and I’m sure that Squires
didn’t even guess that he had hit me, while all the
reporters stated that I never received a blow at all right
through the affair. . ,
“He struggled to push me away, and I just leant
against him and let him shove, for my senses were fast
coming back to me.
“ We broke in the centre of the ring, and, as he came
on at me, just as before, I popped my right over again
and dropped him for the second time. He was up again
in a second, and feeling rather groggy, evidently, but as
full of fight as ever. So I just put in as many as I could
and as fast as I could make them follow each other. I
didn’t want to give him an opportunity to recover and
give me another like the one I had already received. He
dropped his arms. Over came another right to his jaw,
and he was down and out in 2min. Bsec., one of the
shortest, if not the shortest, championship battle on
record.”
Judging by the accounts just to hand of the
scrap between Burns and Squires at Paris, Bill has suc-
ceeded in getting out of his rushing habit. Burns
book contained the first hint that the Australian
once had victory within his grasp at Colma, and the in-
formation knocks out the tale that the Australian had
lost his punch. He had not mislaid the wallop—the
trouble was he couldn’t get it home. Burns admits that
he was nearly outed by the solitary blow Squires did get
in. At Paris Squires managed to more than hold bis own
till his strength gave out, which bears out what Burns
says in his book about making his opponent do the fight-
ing. Squires exhausted himself making play, and the
fact that he lasted as long as he did suggests that he
did not make play bv rushing as aforetime. Letters re-
ceived by the Mclntosh tell that Squires had improved
out of all knowledge, and never offered a-chance till his
strength gave out. If Squires continues to advance at
the same rate, it is possible that Tommy Burns will bury
his championship in an Australian grave. But whether
he does or not, his book proves him to be a man of parts
—or else his literary' “ ghost ” is.
* *. * *
The want of a stage-manager and announcer
accounted for an unexpected flatness on the opening
night (which was Saturday last) of the Melbourne amateur
boxing and wrestling competitions at the Masonic Hall.
As a rule the stoushing bouts provided livelier sport than
the wrastles on the mat, but in the matter of humorous
display the young pugs werfe outdone by the one pair of
singlestickers. The thwack of a wooden implement on
the protected person of one who looks like Ned Kelly is
an essentially droll incident, and this department of
athletics deserves more encouragement than it gets. The
competitions at the Masonic will be concluded next Mon-
day night—the fifth of the series.
*** * . .
The perpetual drawing of wrestling matches
had already been very discouraging to the “ gate,” and
the third match between Peter Ban non and Buttan
Singh, which lately transpired at Melb. Oyclorama,
ended in a way that is liable to make future “ gates ”
worth 2s. 6d. or thereabouts. For the first half-hour the
display was vigorous and scientific; then, in 39min.
35sec., Bannon got a leg hold and a half-Nelson, and
steadily forced the brown ancient down. The match had
been declared to be “to a finish,” so, on resuming, one
naturally expected Bannon to try for a second fall and
settle the argument; but, instead, he calmly 7 sat or
spread himself around, and let Buttan do all the work.
Either Peter was playing for another draw, or he felt con-
fident of his ability to throw the Indian once more. Any-
how, after a quarter of an hour’s twisting, Buttan got a
waist-hold and arm-lock that speedily brought Bannon’s
shoulders to the mat. Time, 18min. 47sec. Once more
the two came on, and, after a brief spell on top, Bannon
again sought the floor. He was earnestly adjured to
get to work,” but seemed satisfied with wriggling and
spinning out of holds. He seemed to be showing the
crowd how much he is a master of the game ; then, sud-
denly, after 21 minutes had passed, Buttan slipped his leg
round the other’s, spun him over, and held him. There
were a few hand-claps, but before either could reach the
dressing-room loud hoots broke from all round the house.
The situation was emphasised by the fact that, after
Bannon had secured the first fall , 3 to 1 was laid on
Buttan. Suspicions of this size will probably kill pro-
fessional wrestling in Melbourne for a while.
* *
In England the hog in the juggernaut begins to
strike a new brand of trouble. For instance, “Lord Vernon,
of Poynton Towers, Cheshire, was at Leicester on Saturday
fined' £2O and costs, and his license was suspended for 12
months, for furiously driving a motor car through the
village of Oadby.” My lord had got into the habit of
being convicted, so the magistrates did the next best
thing to locking him up—ordered him to abstain from
handling his weapon for 12 months. Just how it will
workout isn’t too certain ; but, on the face of things, it
looks like a hint that Australia might do worse than take.
There would be particular joy in handing out to a fat
importer or a Stinking-Fish Australian a brand of punish-
ment made in “ the dear old country.”


HEAD NOISES
Ringing: in
the Ears
DISCHARGING EARS
Perforated
Ear-Drums
SUNKEN EAR-DRUMS
Nasal or Throat
Diseases
Catarrhal DEAFNESS
Etc., Etc.,
COMPLETELY CURED WITH
PURE NATURAL
AURAL KINETICS
II
X
AMD ALL
EAR DISEASES
Do Not Be Rupturing: Your Ears or
Destroying Your Hearing Entirely
WITH
POISONOUS DRUGS
OR
DANGEROUS ELECTRICITY
Probing, spraying and syringing (the doctor’s usual method) never will
cure deafness permanently, but frequently causes the trouble to advance to
a more severe stage. It often ruptures and perforates the delicate drum of
the ear, ruins the sensitiveness of the ear-nerves, creates inflammation and
tenderness, stopping the vibration of the Ossicles, naturally causing the
drum to sink inwardly, and other various complications. These are usually
the penalties of medical, electrical or surgical treatments when coping with
any disease of the PAR, which is the most delicately and wonderfully
constructed organ of the entire human anatomy.
SCIENTIFIC EXPERT’S OPINION.
PROF. OSBORNE, in his annual lecture before the Medical Society, said “ The
medical, electrical, or even surgical system of coping with ear diseases is a scientific
murder.” The eminent PROF. EMMETT also said: “ The science of medicine with the
fragile organs of the EAR is founded on conjecture—improved by murder.”
Against, these ruinous and painful medical methods appears the “ EAROSCOPE
TREATMENT,” without drugs or electricity. No doctor’s probing, syringing or
spraying, but simply “PURE NATURAE AURAL KINETICS,’’ which is applied by
yourself at your own home (wherever you may reside) without the aid of a doctor or any-
one else. The most delicate person can use it quite conveniently, and apply it to the
most sensitive ears with absolute safety.
Read the following statements, and Judge for Yourselves.
MRS. ELIZA UNCLES (68 years ol age), 257 Riley Street, SURRY HILLS, Sydney, N.S.W.
writes “I am delighted to tell you I cured myself completely with the Baroscope.”
G. GILLICATf, Esq., of BILAMBIL CREEK, Tweed River, N.S. W., writes —“ lam so satisfied
with your Earoscope that I shall recommend it to anyone suffering from Deafness and other ear-
troubles.”
J. A. HODGKINSON, Esq., the well-known retired foreman of the Government Locomotive
\\ orks at PORT MELBOURNE, VIC., writes : —“ lam pleased to sav that my deafness is cured
and the head-noises have disappeared.”
J. SMITH, Esq., Malvern, GRAVESEND, N.S.W., writes : —“ I was at a lecture last Sunday and
heard every word quite plainly from the back seat, something I have not done for years.”
EVERY POST BRINGS US SIMILAR GRATEFUL LETTERS.
Full particulars with abundant testimonies FREE OF CHARGE.
Sfe
J
Lr
All it will cost you to get full particulars of this great
boon to humanity is the postage stamp of your letter.
Mail us the coupon below, and we will forward you full
particulars with abundant testimonies Free of Charge.
Tlease send Full Particulars FREE of Charge.
Dept. 26
Name
Address.
The Earoscope Institute
(Dept.
26),
90 Pitt Street, Sy ney, N.S.W.
The Carrington Hotel,
HATOOMBA.
Ideal Winter Climate.
Winter Terms, Bs. per Day ; £2 2s. per Week.
L. PEACOCK, Proprietor.
gd
.ARE. WE D OWNHEAKTED ? NO,
You see it’s this way : Nothing knocks the heart out
of a man (or a woman for that matter) so much as a cold..
I am never downhearted, because I never let a cold get a
grip of me. If I catch a chill or feel any symptoms of a
cold, I simply reach for my little bottle of Eckersley’s
Mentholine, which I always carry in my pocket. A few
drops soon put me right. It is pleasant, palatable and
pungent to take, and a certain remedy for Influenza,
Coughs, Sore Throat or Quinsy. All Chemists and Store-
keepers sell Eckersley’s Mentholine (but be sure it is
Eckersley’s) at 1/- bottle, or four bottles for 3/6 (post free
anywhere), from the Sole Manufacturers,
ECKERSLEY & SONS,
628 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
Free Trial Bottle for 2d. stamp.
«
fg
A Positive Moustache Producer*
CAPILLARINE mustn’t be counted among the useless pomades that
come like “flashes in the pan,” and then die out. For 25 years it
has been used with complete success in Australia, and if there be
the least sign of down on your upper lip CAPILLARINE will raise it
to a healthy moustache.
10/0 a Jar,
Post Free Anywhere
In Plain Wrapper.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney 1 ;
Established 25 Years. w
Makes you look manly
flfter
c.
LO 9
CUSHION HEEL
'P,
7V^ ,0 />N
/rJ:
m
m,
\yurv\°P
r
'Xyr^ 3
DUNLOP
dfg
df
RUBBER
GOODS
are Unequalled for
Quality, Finish 6 Price
Tenders Submitted.
Illustrated Lists on
Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY, ADELAIDE. PERTH, j
BRISBANE and CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z. J
Cu
Mats &
For the Heaveb-knows-how-manyfch time
the Australian Foreign-trade press is trying to
assure itself that the United States is tired of Pro-
tection, and that the Low-Tariff party is going to
triumph at the coming Presidential election. This
cheering over the dead horse grows pathetic. For
about 30 years the same papers saw the great
Foreign-trade reaction coming at every Victorian
election'. At two Federal elections they have
seen it approaching, without any possible doubt.
They have noticed it arriving to a dead certainty
in Maoriland, Queensland, and S.A. They have
observed .the obvious revolt of Germany against
Protection ;•■ ditto France; ditto Austria; ditto
almost every other place. And the only thing
that really comes is the British revolt against
Foreign-trade, and the steady decline of the im-
porting gospel in N.S.W., and the bursting of the
Cobden myth everywhere.
In view of the vicious remarks made so
often by the Sydney dailies regarding Victorian
protected industries, it is interesting to find that
the N.S.W. workman is not fooled by them. As
witness the recent testimonial sent by the Sydney
wire-netting workers to Jabez Coon, member for
Batman (Vic.), for his efforts to get higher Pro-
tection for wire-netting—a big Sydney industry :
We wish to express our thanks for the interest you have
shown in the N.S.W. wire-netting industry, and the
endeavors you have made to get Parliament to protect
the Australian product against the competition of that
made with cheap foreign labor.
Coon fought hard for a decent duty, but the
N.S.W. Foreign-trade votes —Cook, Kelly, Reid
and Thomson amongst them—were too many for
him. And the Smellygraph has the impudence
to denounce Victorian Protectionists for their in-
difference to N.S.W. interests.!
They simply boiled the billy for the Inter-
State Labor Conference dinner in Brisbane—there
was no stronger drink on the premises. The
Labor agitator used to be represented with a pipe
in his mouth, a leer on his face, and a bottle in his
pocket; but they have had to leave out the bottle
at last. When they picture the Labor Socialist
setting out to break up the ’ome and disrupt the
marriage tie, they have to assume nowadays that
he gets infuriated on ginger-beer or lemon-squash.
“J.P.”: Cleveland, ex-president of the
U.S.A., who has just gone across the border, was
the man who tried to run “the greatest kuntry
on airth” in much the same way as Freetrade
Reid, and others of his ilk, would run Australia.
A few years back I asked an American what he
thought of Cleveland. The Yank spat viciously,
and, in a twang that smote the stars, he observed :
“ I guess, stranger, if thet gol-derned maniac
with his no-tariff loonacy hed uv run fer another
turm th’States ud iv been in charge uv th’ Sheriff,
an’ ther’ wouldn’t ’a’ ben a denied factory left in
th’ kuntry, Blarst him ! ” Cleveland was evi-
dently not a man beloved of the people.
There is trouble over the estate which
John Robb, the magnificent, left behind him ;
and the family has started to peck at one another
in an expensive way in the Victorian courts.
John, in the course of his railway contracting, had
a good share of the big job of punching the inter-
state railway through the hills at the back of
Adelaide. While he was busy at that, his
daughter, reckoned the most beautiful woman o r
the day in S. Aus., married “Charley” Muir-
head, who was the province’s beauty man.
“ Charley ” is a solicitor (his last job of import-
ance was to defend “Joe” Coleman, who was
hanged the other day), and it is against the
ex-beauty man that most of the “other side’s”
shafts will be hurled. For a start, the trustees
tell the Court in an affidavit that “plaintiff’s
husband” (Mrs. Muirhead is the plaintiff) “is
freely using this suit for financial purposes,
alleging that plaintiff is entitled to a sum of
£30,000, being one seventh of an alleged fund of
£2l0 n OOO of which defendants (the trustees) are in
complete ignorance.” There is “law” on both
sides, so the old contractor is likely to have his 1
bones greatly raked and pawed over.


WATCHES FOR the MULTITUDE!
alone has secured for A. Saunders’ Watches the public’s appreci-
ation of tbe perfect watch. Whatever you’re prepared to pay, you’ll find
that for strength, accuracy, durability, A. Saunders* Watches stand supreme.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Amethyst centre,
25/.
15ct Gold £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Gold
CIRCLE BROOCH.
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.
25/.
SOLID
SILVER.
25/-
SOLID
GOLD.
gdf
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver Hunt-
ing Keyless WATCHES,
Richly Engraved Case,
f-Plate Lever Movement,
Fully Jewelled, Patent
Adjusted Balance.
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/, 40/, 50/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
£5/10/, £6/10/.
Guaranteed for 1,2, 3, and 4 years.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Rubies,
or Sapphires.
OPEN
FACE.
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Keyless WATCHES,
|-Plate Movement, Non-Magnetic, Patent
Adjusted Balance, Dust and Waterproof
Cases.
25/.
Higher Grade, 30/.
Guaranteed for 15 Years, and kept in free
repair for 1 year.
Cheaper Grades, 10/, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
HIGHER
GRADE.
30/-
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
BUYING BY MAIL
NO MATTER WHERE
YOU LIVE, YOU CAN
SHOP BY MAIL WITH
AS MUCH SATISFAC-
TION AS IF YOU
VISITED OUR SHOP
PERSONALLY. ALL
GOODS SENT CARRIAGE
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
35ct. Gold
Two Heart BROOCH
Set Fine Opals and
Diamond.
£2/10/.
Larger, £3 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hsct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Fine Pearls and
Sapphires or Turquoise.
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et. Gold
Pure Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£3/10/.
All Diamonds, £5.
EggE
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
CLUSTER RING,
Set Diamonds
and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
HEART CHARM,
Raised Forget-Me-Not
Spray.
10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver TIE CLIP,
2/6.
Engraved, 3/.
9ct. Gold, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
SEAL PENDANT,
Bloodstone and
Sardonyx.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
HEART and
DUMB-BELL LINKS.
12/6.
15ct. Gold, 25/.
Silver, 3/6.
OPEN
PACE.
15/-
HIGHER
GRADE.
20/-
s
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black, Open Face,
Keyless WATCHES, Short
Wind, Stem Set, Perfectly
Regulated and Adjusted,
Splendid Timekeeper.
15/.
Higher Grade, 20/, 25/, 30/.
Kept in free repair for 1 Year
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Half-Chased Curb Padlock BRACELET,
with Safety Chain Attached, £2.
Smaller, 80/, 35/. Larger, £2 10/, £3, £3/10..
OPEN
FACE
A. SAUNDERS.
_ Nickel Open Face Keyless “GUARD”
LEVER, Short Wind, Non-Magnetic,
Patent Adjusted Balance, Dust and
Waterproof Cases, Fine or Bold Dial
15/.
Higher Grade, “Railway,” 20/.
Guaranteed for 10 Years,
and kept in free repair for 1 Year.
higher
GRADE
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH,
Raised Floral Spray,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
get. Gold PENDANT
and NECKLET, set. Fine
Pearls and Amethysts.
£4.
15ct. Gold, £5 10/,
Set Pearls and
Tourmalines, £6 10/.
FREE
CATALOGUE.
SEND US YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS AND
WE WILL MAIL YOU,
POST FREE, A COPY
OF OUR LATEST CATA-
LOGUE. WRITE TO-
DAY. ITS YOURS FOR
THE ASKING.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
“LYRE” BROOCH,
Set Fine
White Pearls.
£3.
15ct. Gold BROOCH,
Set Pearls, Ruby and
Turquoise, or all Pearls.
£3/10/.
Olivines, Rubies, and Pearls, £4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Two-Bar Bird BROOCH,
Set Diamond and Ruby.
35/
A, SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold
HEART BROOCH.
Set Fine Pearls
and Turquoise.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Pure Diamonds and
Rubies or Sapphires.
£B/10/.
AH Diamonds, £l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct. Gold
Half-Hoop RING,
Set with Double Out
Diamonds and
Emeralds.
£lO.
INNA
qE
OR
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
“Dinna Forget”
CHARM.
12/6.
Smaller, 10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE CLIP,
Solid Silver,
2/6.
Extra Heavy, S/6.
'The Loro watch
BetweehMe _
Thee
m
WHS
Abbther
m
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Mizpah
HEART CHARM,
8/6.
Smaller, 5/6, 6/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold
OVAL LINKS*
22/6.
15ct. Gold, £2.
Initials Engraved
Free of Charge.
A.
18CT
GOLD
£l2 10s.
1
higher
GRADE
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s 18ct Gold Hunting;
Keyless WALTHAM LEVER,
1-Plate, Fully Jewelled,
Compensation Balance, Per-
fectly Adjusted, Extra Heavy
Case, Hand Engraved.
£l2/10/.
Higher Grade, £l5, £l7/10/, £2O.
Kept in free repair for 6 Years.
A. SAUNDERS.
]sct Gold Floral Spray
Cluster BROOCH, Set
fine white Pearls,
£2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold 2-Bar Scroll BROOCH.
Set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires.
£2/10.
SOLID
GOIID.
£L7I 10/-
gd
fg
SOLID
SILYEE.
A. SAUNDERS. , r ,
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Key l ?;®
WATCHES, Stem Set, f-Plate, Fully
Jewelled, Compensation Balance, Perfectly
Timed and Adjusted.
£2.
Higher Grade, £2 10/, £3 10/, £4 10/,
£5 10/.
Solid Gold, £7 10/, £8 10/, £l2 10/,
£l5, £2O, £25.
Guaranteed 2,3, 4, 5. and 6 Years.
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
■
817 George=street,
*
Opposite New Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
•Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melrodrne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Rational Rank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1865.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,308 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64.000 0 0
Interminable Deposit Stock .. 3,116,621 6 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT. ,
All New Business since 1893 specially protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and throughout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors.— Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Callan, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq. ; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.— W. V. RALSTON.
The Colonial ffjutuai Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674—Assuring- £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hoi.. C. .7. Roberts, C.M.G.; M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F, Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
of Korth Queensland
(Established ISSS.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Manly. Hornsby. Clen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Brandies and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)aw Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
unci Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.
fair interest.
EAST TERMS.
WE
&
Free
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
3NT.S/W.
|l|ont depieteo.fi |. Co., [td.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH Sr., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, Esq., M.L.O.
(Gibbs, Bright & Co.); E. Vickery, Esq. ; J. Campbell-
Wood, Esq. : J. J. Allen, Esq. ; E. Laidlky, Esq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt Sc., SYDNEY.
rHE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £27,500 0 0
Directors: F. R Godfrey, Esq.,Chairman : R. Murray
Smith, Esq.,C.M.G., Vice Chairman; John Grice, Esq.;
Hon. J. M. Pratt; Hon. Thomas Skene.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d.
Shipping.
3XT. D. L.
(T. ORD-DE UTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
*T\/in-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
MANILA 28th JULY.
n£ WALDEMA R 25th AUG. - •
PRINZ SIGISMUND 22nd SEPT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
limited. "
Capital Paid-up £485,003 30 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 167 85710 0
Reserve FuNDflnvested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE. ’
Gen. Manag-er, Edwd.D. Day. Chief Aoct.,E. H. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE BOW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Bt anches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the World.
A POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH.
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office. ;
WHITE STAR LINE.
dfg
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
SUEI/IC, 12,500 tons, to sail about sth
August.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 2nd
September.
RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New ?ork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation^
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Amplication.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Ply mo nth. and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
* Twin Screw. f New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
TIJ iRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Panp'hlets, Time-Tallies, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
# holi pay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands {2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
df
CROSSES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Banking, &c.
Bank of |)eui South UJales.
Establish iti) 1817.
Head Office—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Paid-up Capital £2,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1.560,000 0 0
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. .. 2,500,000 0 0
£0,560,000 0
Directors :
The Hon. 0. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Richard Binnik, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Sir James Reading Fairfax. Kt.
Auditors • i Alfred G. Milson, Esq.
' 1 William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zea-
land and Fiji, and Agencies and Correspondents through
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India,
China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the United
States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
The Bank allows Interest on Fixed Deposits ; Collects
for its Customers Dividends on Shares in Public Com-
panies and Interest on Debentures; undertakes the
Agency of other Banks; and conducts all customarv
Banking business. Also issues Letters of Credit and
Circular Notes negotiable throughout the world.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
The Bank of jjastraiasia.
(Incorpo.-Aed by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund 1,470,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors .. 1,600,000
£4,670,000
liondon Office; 4 Threadneedle Street.
With Branches throughout the Australian
States, Tasmania and New Zealand.
LONDON AND FOREIGN DRAFTS AND TELE-
GRAPHIC TRANSFERS ISSUED.
CIRCULAR NOTES and LETTERS OF CREDIT
ISSUED, negotiable by Agents and Correspondents in
the chief cities of Europe, North and South America,
Africa, and the East.
ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
C. R. COWPER,
Superintendent.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalog ues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find, every comfort and convenience at—
MRS- TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, is to 5 Beaconsfieltl Parads
ST. KILDA.
r pHis Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation 4 ,? facing- Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, £-hour
by tram. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Larg-est Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., Lcndon, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, lOcf.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
Satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia
Makers : F. C.' Calvert & Co.] Manchester, Eng.
Sbippinj
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping: at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongala, July 31.
(To Melbourne only.)
S.S. Grantala, Anjrust 15.
(Without transhipment.)
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY,
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to. Oairn
S.S. Burrumbeet, July 25.
S.S. Innamincka, Aug. 1.
Jiest and Cheape.it Ho ate to Goldfields.
saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other iiiter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions,, which can be ascertained
on application at th Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILf & CO., LTD.,
Ag( its, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
IyjESSAGERIES
FRENCH MAIL
IyjARITIMES.
STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
able Wines.
ENGLISH' SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates. • !
J. LOTH, r ■ .
Tel. 378.
Acting General Manager in Australia,
■57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELONG
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATUR-
DAY, July 25. '
BOiIBALA', 2 p'.m., SATURDAY,
August I. .
ADELAIDE V
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking- passengers (
and cargo for S. A.,-1
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Hopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) J
KYARRA, noon, SATURDAY,
August 22.
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS
COOSIA, 2 pan,, SATURDAY,
July 25.
GABO; 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
. July 28.
PEREGRINE, 2 pan., SATUR-
DAY, August 1.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable ■ with other inter-
State S.S. Companies. Fuji particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 360
GEORGE STREET. .
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED RO UTE.
THE- BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
EXCURSION TO BANFF ,
in the CANADIAN ROCKIES, costing
£6O, includes FIRST-CLASS FARE
throughout and hotel expenses at
nine of the finest hotels in America —
leaving by R.M.S. MANUKA, on 3rd
AUGUST.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF tI.Z. LTB.
Managing Agents, George-street, Sydney.
I MOLLER’S |
COD LIVER OIL
For Colds, Chest and Lung
Diseases, the safest remedy.
NO DISAGREEABLE AFTER EFFiCTS
so often experienced when using
ordinary oils and emulsions.
Expert Opinions :
Indian Medical Gazette :
“ Superior to any we have seen.’
Medical Review : “It is qui'e
unexcelled.”
Sold in capsuled bottles only.
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, High Holborn, Londai.
Factories ; Lofoten & C ristiania, Nory ay.


DON’T FORGET!
Otar Capacious New
Stores containing
over Five Acres of
Floor Space, and
2
PER. CENT.
one of the Finest Show Floors in the Commonwealth, are completed, and ready
to receive your growing clip.
OUR CONSOLIDATED WOOL SELLING CHARGE IS 2 Per Cent .
Australian Mortgage, Land and Finance Co., Ltd.
(A. J\n. L. & F. Co. Ltd.)
PER. CENT.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS
STOCK and STATION AGENTS
BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
You can cure that miserable cold you have
by taking CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH
REMEDY.*
Bent has struck the commendable idea of
introducing Australian marble into Victoria’s new
London offices, and has cabled the contractor an
offer of 60 tons of Toungabbie stone. Proposal is
to polish the stuff locally, and land it at £6 per
ton free in London, where, properly displayed, it
would prove a splendid advertisement for Aus-
tralia’s little-known marble resources.
FOR. MOST WHEAT and
Best Selling Sample always.
ftfs
THE “SUNSHINE” HARVESTER.
For Heavy Hay Harvests
THE “ALBION” BINDER.
Ask for Catalogue LlO of all Farm Implements.
SYDNEY SHOW ROOMS : 42 ENGINE STREET.
Depots at:
Adelaide, Melbourne, Perth, and Toowoomba.
Agencies in ail Towns.
H. V. McKAY,
Sunshine Harvester Works, SUNSHINE.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
THURSDAY, JULY 23, FRIDAY, JULY 24,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE THIEF.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 25,
MARGARET ANGLIN,
tHE DISTINGUISHED AMERICAN ACTRESS,
IN ZIBA.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
PROMPTLY at 8 NIGHTLY,
COMPLETE AND INSTANTANEOUS TRIUMPH OF
THE DELIGHTFUL DUTCH MUSICAL PLAY,
THE RED MILL.
By Henry Blossom and Victor Herbert.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERI ON THE AT RE, SYDNEY.
Commencing, SATURDAY, 25th JULY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell and Gunn’s Comic
Opera Co. presents
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By Paul A. Rubens and Austin Hurgon.
One of the Most Successful Musical Productions of
Recent Years.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
PRICES—D.C. and R.S., ss. ; Stalls and Family Circle, 35.;
Gallery, 25., and Is. after 7.45.
HALL, SYDNEY
* (Under the Sole Management of
Frank Buckingham).
ELTURN OR KUBELIK.
SYDNEY /MONDAY, AUGUST 3.
DATES /TUESDAY, AUGUST 4.
BRISBANE f FRIDAY, AUGUST 7.
DATES (SATURDAY, AUGUST 8.
(SIGNOR DE BEAUPUIS WILL ASSIST AT
THE SYDNEY CONCERTS.)
Country Booking Orders promptly attended to at
PALING’S, SYDNEY, and at Brisbane.
RESERVED SEATS, 21s. and 10s. 6d.
H. N. SOUTHWELL,
Local Business Manager.
THE LYCEUM HALL. SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES —25., Is. 6d., Is., and 6‘d. Plan at Paling’s,
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
WEST’S PICTURES
“ The Best of
AH.”
Everything-New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by i
De Oroen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
■p H E GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
GRAND FANCY COSTUME
ICE CARNIVAL, .
WEDNESDAY, sth AUGUST.
THE GLACIARIUM, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SVDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
GALETTI’S DOGS and GIBBON BABOONS.
MISS MIGNONETTE KOKIN, Charming Comedienne.
THE MILES STAVORDALE QUINTETTE.
TOD LOWEN, REGAN AND RYAN,
Eccentric Comedian. Comedians and Dancers.
Mr. JOHN HIGGINS, World’s Champion Jumper.
THE DESMOND SISTERS, Character Duettists.
MISS FANNY POWERS. BABY WATSON.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manatrer. Mr. Harry Rickards.
TROUPE OF 12 REAL ARABS, World’s Greatest
Acrobats and Tumblers.
NELLIE WILSON, Dancer, Impersonator.
RIGOLETTO BROTHERS, Gymnasts.
THE MEYMOTTS, Comedy Sketch Artists.
MUSICAL IBSONS.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. AST PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, 2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
ONLY EIGHT MORE NIGHTS.
MEYNELL and GUNN’S DRAMATIC CO.
—in—
THE FATAL WEDDING.
Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
LiER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
’ ‘ Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
LAST NIGHTS OF
THE CENTURY'S GREATEST MUSICAL SUCCESS.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
TH B MERRY WIDOW.
Re-appearance of MISS CARRIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC 00. in
MAN TO MAN.
RE-APPEARANCE OF MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMEDY
CO. IN
MRS. WIGGS OF THE
CABBAGE PATCH.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
“TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE
* (Under the Sole Management of
Mr. Frank Buckingham).
SATURDAY, MONDAY, and THURSDAY,
JULY 25, JULY 27, and JULY 30.
TY TT H UT, rTY THE world’s greatest
XV. U AJAJAJ L IV, VIOLINIST,
FAREWELL CONCERTS.
PRICES—2I/- & 10/6 (Reserved); 5/- & 3/-(Unreserved).
Plans at Allan’s.
THE LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
Amusements.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THB oe S a LL
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change ol Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST’S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
E A L ICE SKATING.
MELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
POPULAR PRICES EVERY EVENING,
ONE SHILLING.
SCHOOL CHILDREN, SATURDAY MORNINGS,
SIXPENCE.
Personal.
WOOD.— The Children of HERBERT
WILLIAM WOOD and ROSA WOOD
(maiden name Towers) are requested to send their
names and addresses to HENRY CONWELL
WOOD, of Woodford, Queensland, without delay.
Legal Notice.
Herbert george hack, late of No.
106 Queen's Road, Dalston, London, Eng-
land, who was last heard of as living at Yaleo-
winna and Mount Gipps Station, New South
Wales, in 1884 is requested to communicate with
the undersigned, as he is interested under the will
of HENRY ALLIN deceased, who was a cousin of
his father the late THOMAS HACK. In default
of his communicating by the 31st December, 1908,
be may be presumed dead and his share may he
divided among the other beneficiaries.
STAPLETON & SON,
Solicitors,
Stamford, England.
business Announcements.
CZERNY’S
CONJURING CARDS.
Complete set, with full directions.
Three splendid Tricks easily done by anyone.
Post Free ONE SHILLING (Postal Note).
CZERNY, P. 0., Hawthorn, Yic.
To Users of Acetylene
$
ss
Gas,
'Get rid of those anti-
quated and wasteful
Gas Consumers, and
obtain a brilliant light
by adopting Our
ECONOMICAL NON:
CARBONISING BURNERS
Catalogues and price lists free.
Sample Dozen assorted makes
sent post free for 10/-
ROBERT C. SWAN (Sb CO. Ltd,
119 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
gd
WHAT IS CATARRH?
CAT ARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
throat, and lungs: it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgia, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, postfree-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st„ Melbourne.
The Famous
NOZ3IAJ
Accordions.
These Accordions are justly
famed for their magnificent
Tone and Superior Construc=
tion. Write for our illus=
trated Catalogue of Musical
Instruments—FßEE.
Note the change in our Street
Number—from 297 to 256.
wymm
ulezoii
MEZON ACCORDIONS are
guaranteed for 12 months.
PRICES:
The Celestial Mezon, 30s.
The Organ Mezon, 355.
The Wonder Mezon, 425.
The Grand Organ Mezon, 635.
The Chromatic Mezon, 90s.
Sent Anywhere on receipt of Price.
LYONS, 256 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Sole Agent.
c?
m
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 1908.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Calander, Hordern Street,
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing; will be advertised in this paper on November sth.
To any person forwarding- stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns,
or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Trades Hall, Sydney. Eight-Hour Committee.
The other day Adelaide lost a man who
was one of the world’s boss authorities on some-
thing, even if the som '■thing was only the shade-
house cyclamen. Georg > Laughton was the boss
authority: he divided p his life between skins
and hides and the gract ul bloom, and gave the
bloom all his last few years. In his shade-houses
he had 600 plants, of almost every tint and color ;
but the king of the lot was a tremendously-photo-
graphed ancient of 46 years, claimed to be the
patriarch of all cyclamens—the last time he was
pictured he was bearing 295 blooms.
Like many another municipal body, the
Moorabbin (Vic.) Shire Councils burdened with
the incubus of its own foolishness. Some years
ago it leased to the usual shindykit one of its
main roads along the Port Phillip foreshore
between Sandringham and Mordialloc. The said
shindykit thereupon laid down a single line horse-
tramway—the usual hilarious concern that ought
to be arrested for disorderly conduct. The tram,
however, is still running—or rather ambling—
down in those parts; and the council, practically
right up against Bent’s new and excellent electric
service between Brighton and St. Kilda, can’t help
but make comparisons. Consequently it makes
no secret of its desire to remove its own
ugly animal, but doesn’t know how to do it
pleasantly because it has just recently renewed
the lease. So, for the present, it contents itself
with bitterly reproaching the tram co. for the way
it keeps the road, and has, moreover, coldly in-
formed the mortgagee of its action. It seems
there is a mortgagee, and has been for quite a long
while now.
“ The Big Five,” Ambrose Pratt’s stirring
story of the Northern Territory, nears a conclusion
in The Lone Hand. The chapters dealing with
the fight with the Asiatic colony in the Territory
(July No.) have a fine thrill.*
The M.L. cleric, with the mind that
clamors aloud for f umigation, has been at it again.
Rev. R. McNaughten told the Napier Magis-
trates Court, the other day, that he considered
Gervais’ picture, “La Folie de Titania” (it is a
fanciful painting of fairies, sprites and gnomes,
illustrating a scene from “A Midsummer Night’s
Dream”) was “indecent,” and unfit for the public
eye. Bernard Hall, Melbourne’s ice-cold art
authority, should—according to McNaughten—be
“ashamed of himself for having painted ‘Sleep.’ ”
The Rev. Canon Tuke then stormed the witness-
stand, adjusted his halo, and gave it as his view
that “La Folie de Titania” and other pictures of
its sort were “calculated to play evilly upon the
passions,” and were “suggestively indecent.”
Tuke remarked that “whenever he noticed pic-
tures of the nude in art galleries, and had young
people with him, he got them away as quickly as he
could.” Normal citizens, noting the unpleasant
state of these people’s intellects, begin to wonder
whether they ought to be allowed in art-galleries
at all.
The N.S.W. Parliament re-opened for
business on Tuesday, and the Governor’s speech
contained, among other things, the following
The rights guaranteed to New South Wales under the
Federal Constitution with respect to the capital site are,
THROUGH CIRCUMSTANCES OVER WHICH THIS STATE HAS HAD
NO control, still withheld ; but the hope is entertained
that, in view of the assurances given, a final settlement
of the question will be arrived at during the next ensuing
session of the Commonwealth Parliament.
The Australian Parliament did its part of the
work by selecting a capital site which not only
conformed in every way to the letter of the Con-
stitution, but which was also in the locality
specially recommended as the best by the officer
whom the N.S.W. State Government appointed
to report on possible sites. Then things stuck
fast, because a new N.S.W. Government had come
in, and it repudiated the acts of its predecessor
just as it might have repudiated its predecessor’s
bonds, and the new Government was savagely anti-
Australian, and apparently regarded it as its chief
mission in life to insult the Australian Parliament
on every possible occasion. Seeing that everybody
knows that it is the Oarruthers and Wade Govern-
ments alone which have prevented the establish-
ment of a capital, and seeing that the right to have
the capital in N.S.W. hasn’t been “withheld,” for
it was granted four years ago, it would have been
a lot more decent to have left that outrageous
statement out of the Governor’s speech.
Bent has a bill before the Victorian
Assembly which tries to do good by a roundabout
road. It provides that in future all persons
desiring to commit matrimony must give the
parson three days’ notice of their intention.
Should this regulation be fractured the marriage
will still be legal, but the parson will be liable to
a £2O penalty. Any minister who, in the Chief
Secretary’s opinion, makes a business of cele-
brating marriages instead of carrying out the
“ ordinary duties ” of a minister, may be struck
off the roll altogether ; and the head of each de-
nomination is required to send to the Government
Statist, every January, a complete list of all
ministers of his faith who are in the regular soul-
saving business, so that the Chief Secretary may
the better keep the list free from the professional
marrier. Yet, instead of going to all this trouble,
Bent might have done the thing much uiore
effectively by providing that the legal marriage
must be performed by a State official. After the
State official has done his best or his worst, the
parties might be at liberty to employ any parson
they liked, or no parson at all. In that case, if a
man believed that the only true sect is one that
has only two adherents —himself and the pastor —
he would be at liberty to give that pastor a
job. Under Bent’s scheme the chances are
that that pastor won’t get a license. Yet
the only True Church may be one whose
parson only gets lid. on the plate and that sort
of parson has to do something to earn the rest of a
living, even though that something isn’t connected
with the regular soul-saving business.


Melbourne Anti-Sweating League recently
commented on the scarcity of State land available
for settlement in Victoria, and the stricture
prodded Bent on the raw. Yapped Tommy :
I wish that the man who made the statement, and
others like him, would put forward some suggestion about
settling people on the land. There is too much yapping.
Let the critics of the Government point out how more
land can be made available.
Well, -here goes for a suggestion: Supposing
Tommy tries what a heavy graduated land-tax
will do towards bursting up some of those big
estates that Tommy knows of ; and thus ascer-
tains whether “ more land can be made available ”
that way. It isn’t a new suggestion, still
In the light of Postal Secretary Scott’s
evidence, before the Postal Commission, the
chronic “Federal Postal Muddle ’’ howl becomes
interesting:—
Has the discredited system arisen since Federation ?
It arose before Federation. Since Federation the De-
partment has not been given sufficient money to replace
the obsolete appliances and methods handed over to it
when the Commonwealth was established.
Then the service was in a rotten condition when it was
handed over ?
Yes, I think it was.
The witness said, in answer to questions, that some
complaints against postal administration were un-
doubtedly prompted by hostility towards Federation, a
desire to discredit the Federation by discrediting a
Department which it managed. ;
The Ideal Winter Holiday Resort
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
AN ELECTRICALLY=LIGHTED AND STEAIVLHEATED PALACE HOTEL
situated upon the most imposing outlook on the — ;
BLUE MOUNTAINS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Now’s the Time for the Rest Cure and the full enjoyment of a quiet Holiday.
Telephones
( 4349 Central.
'( 29 Katoomba.
&
For Details apply —
City Office, 38 Castlereagh Street.
The Plum Retains its Keen Edge
long after you expected to send it to the Razor doctor.
The PLUM has an extra hollow-ground, keen-edged blade
guaranteed and kept in order for at least two years.
That’s the reason you can rely on your morning shave
being thoroughly comfortable with the PLUM. Try it.
THE PLUM RAZOR, 10/6, POST FREE ANYWHERE.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Razoleo Lightning- Sharpener, 6d
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Single Razor in Leather Case, 10 6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
m
Palmer Gasoline Motors
MARINE and STATIONARY.
Over 20 sizes. to 25 H. P. One, two and four
cylinder. Two and four cycle. Jump and snap spark.
25,000 engines running'. Catalogue FREE.
PALMER BROS.
Cos Cob
Conn., U.S.A.
CANADA CYCLE & MOTOR CO. LTD., Agents, Brisbane.
KNOWLES AUTOMOB9LE & MOTOR POWER CO. LTD.,
Agents, Sydney.
r a®
.1 J
Free!
2-ft. High
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR a BOY’S RIFLE
FREE!!
The Life=siz ;d Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-Dainted
French c eation. Dolly is Unbreakable, fair or dark hair, berutiful rosy
cheeks, brown eye , and rep resented , with flesh-coloure i body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Babv’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of best material rapid in itsaction, and
ecu ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver WST6H
CHHIN and PENOaNT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3d per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FRKIi. and when you have sold them,
return the money ts/-, ana we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to in troduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seea.~ in the World—lmitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent wi h the seeds —also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, and we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by return
Windsor Wright & Co., Seedsmen, 910 Pitt -st., Sydney, ff.S.W.
fg
Eoy’s Rifle.
THE JERDAN “HOME
BATTERY.
We claim the Jerdan “ Home ” Battery
as the most modern —being capable of easy
control by the patient —practically indestruc-
tible and having nothing to wear out or get
out of order.
It is simple to operate, suitable for persons
of all ages, and will outlast a lifetime.
Doctors are recommending it, and it has
d£s*s
no equal for Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago and similar troubles.
Price, 35/-> Post Free.
Send for one to-day. If it isn’t all we say, we will refund your money.
Our “ Battery ** Illustrated Booklet is Free.
TO FARMERS;
The battery can be ttsed for experiments in the electrification of grain, and a child
can use it.
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
A Charming' Actress
PRAISES
s:
w
f "
,v yy.'.^ANVAV.y
:J|v
yiSS::
:|P
gSSaSs
EDWIN QEACH’S
t'Premier dramatic Organisation. '—rf s
GEORGE MARLOW Manager.
“2/2
LURED TO LONDON.
By Edward Than®.
POWER OF THE CROSS.
190<f
Reply-
FUEL* PROTECTED
UNDER ALL
COPVBIGMTS
<Jtr?
/h i *o*
oOzcluy /£.&^?taCn t
<&'cdw-c. Ws£o CL
C</ZLO (Zo CZr^
CL* SCzZ*7TA$ CzZ*7TA trusty tZxsrrt*. SfrcdUsO <Zcbz4Cj{
O' / iftiy /tZis&H, sPZvny&t a J&c
/o&n*-£-' 9" Asm A*y6y&f ~?c /0a^ f cz/'
CzrCpb V My
/CunyCru/- yJr
“ 0.T.”
Sold by all Hotels, Chemists, Storekeepers.
Look for the Red Chillie Label and the name
of the manufacturer,
J. DIXON <a CO.


Fata’, Mother, and Two Girls
Covered with an Ugly, Pimply
Rash—Baby Covered from Crown
to Sole—Thought She Would Die
—Tried Every Kind of Ointment.
. j
AT LAST COMPLETELY
CURED BY CUTICURA
"Myself and two little children were
covered with a red pimply rash, and it
was so itchy. I had tried every oint-
ment it was possible to get. Until I
tried the Cuticura Ointment, it was the
first relief we got. I was afraid to go
near a doctor for fear of him making
a fuss, as of course I knew it must be
infectious, for I took it first, then one
little one, and then the other, and finally,
my husband. I used about twelve or
thirteen boxes Cuticura Ointment, but
that wasn’t much considering all I had
to do with it. My own arms and be-
tween my fingers, on front of shins and
between my toes, were completely cov-
ered with an ugly, itchy rash, and my
youngest little girl was covered from
crown to sole. I thought she would
have died. She was only a year and
two months at the time. My eldest
wasn’t so bad, but bad enough. Thanks
to the Cuticura Ointment, we are com-
pletely cured, and I shall recommend
the Cuticura Remedies to my friends.
Mrs. D. M. Grieve, Donaghmore Co.,
Tyrone, Feb. 12 and Feb. 19, 1906.”
DISFIGURING
Humours, Eczemas, and Itchings
Cured by Cuticura.
The agonizing itching and burning
of the skin, as in eczema; the frightful
scaling, as in psoriasis; the loss of hair
and crusting of scalp, as in scalled
head all demand a remedy of ex-
traordinary virtues to successfully cope
with them. That Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment, and Pills are such stands proven
by testimonials of remarkable cures when
many remedies and even physicians
have failed.
Complete External and Internal Treatment for
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
Ointment to Heal the Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
& Co., Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul,
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
08“ Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
ASTHMACURE
GfiIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold bv all Chemists.
NONE JUST AS GOOD
We do not advertise cheap
goods •- *
The pianos we sell are of a
standard quality, absolutely
the best that money can buy,
and are not excelled or
duplicated anywhere at any
price ♦
If you doubt this statement
ask anyone of broad ex-
perience, or any of the many
purchasers of
The Steinway—The Feurich—
The Mignon or The Nation
—Pianos.
We give a ten years' guar-
antee with each of these
instruments ♦
CASH OR
TERMS.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
34-2 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY.
The WaybacK Series.
115,000
Australia laughed ! ! !
and keeps aughing.
No. S.
Red Harry Is.
lllllllallHlt
HI
mu
OF
An Agreeable
ttild ond
Efficacious
Laxative.-
Gentle
tyet Prompt
in Action
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative,
pleasant to the taste, pleasant in action,
pleasant in results.
Symptoms of constipation are not difficult to
tell. With a dose or two of California Syrup
of Figs they are as easy to dispel. Indigestion,
Biliousness, Sick Headache, depression and
loss of energy, sluggish action of the Liver,
Kidneys and Bowels, are rapidly cured by
California Syrup of Figs ; and the prime cause
—habitual constipation —is gradually overcome
by the invaluable tonic action of this ideal
household remedy. Of Chemists and Stores,
in two sizes, 1/3 and 1/11.
CALIFORNIA FIG SYRUP CO., 32 Snow Hill, London, Eng.
An Unequalled
WINTER WALKING
BOOT for Ladies
m
w 2
at 15/6.
For this present weather we’ve a splendid
Button Boot in the one illustrated. It is
so neat and stylish in appearance, has a
welted soul, with the toe and heel most in
fashion for present wear. The boot will
give splendid support to the ankle when in-
dulging in outdoor exercise. It’s price is 15/6
If you should be ordering-in Victoria, add
9d. for postage, or 1/- if from any other
State.
Our splendidly-illustrated booklet “ Shoe-
light” is sent free on receipt of a card.
Shall we send you a copy ? All our finest foot-
wear, together with prices, is shewn in it,
LBEMING’S BOOT STORES, 109 Swanston
Street, Melbourne ; 303 Ohapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
Excess Fat \
Makes women look ten
years over their age.
Makes them ugly and
ungainly. Endangers
their health. Impedes
their progress, and
makes them a laugh-
ing-stock for their
acquaintances, and a
standing butt for
family jokes.
Weakens the heart,
and makes life miser-
able—as you know.
YOUR
IGHT
"FATCURE”
Makes life worth living-. It reduces the weight
permanently. Gives back the graceful curves
of a good figure. Strengthens the heart, and
gives perfect health where only indifferent
health had been existent owing to the accumu-
lated fat.
Send a 2d. stamp for free trial sample, and
full particulars, or call if convenient.
“FATCURE” is absolutely harmless, and is
pleasant to take.
THE WATWORTH GO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance from Castlereagh or Market Streets.
[29
nORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horltck’s Malted
Milk is an ideal food-
\ beverage, easily digested,
nourishing, invigora-
ting. It is indispens-
\ able to invalids
and the aged,
and provides
a full diet
in sick-
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
break- ,
fa s t
time or
supper time
Horlick's
Malted Milk is
a delicious sustitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute,
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail
&c., &c. Samples: 82, Pitt St., Sydney,
Food Co., SEouph. Eng.
JHorlick’s
Stores,
N.S.W.
TRANSLATED FRENCH NOVELS
■ (some illustrated); Actresses’ Photos.
Catalogue from 1/- with samples (letter postage), 2£d.
A. de SAILLE, 20, Rue de la Michodiere, Pari3.
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved t'lat the
“ XTRIC^.”
Galvanic Rings positively cuie Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
. . ness and kindred ailments. \ .
r'
[MNUimniiu
lll , !l ,Biiiumiiiu!iiii!iiiimuiiiiiii„ lill
®a
Wa
Others are being cured while
you are thinking about it.
These Rings are scientifically made from
specially-prepared metals with four zinc
and three copper coils, forming a complete
battery, which have an affinity for drawing
the uric acids to that part of the finger
that the ring is worn on, and causes it to
leave the body, and at the same time
freeing the system from Rheumatism and
other kindred ailments.
PRICES, POST FREE—Silver, 55.; Gold-
Filled, 55., 7s. 6d. and 10s. each.
When ordering cut hole in piece of cardboard for
size required, or send for measurement card.
BUNDLING,
The Jeweller,
315=317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemise or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria.
THE BALLET GIRL
dfg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Free, 1s-
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
Sena Stamp for Illustrated Lists of Books and B ovelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913 s G.P.O.m SYDNEY.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA.
■-
4
mm
44
5/'
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
tipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The liULLEim.] 1“
The Inky Way.
Indeed and indeed the “ Australian Short Story ” of the
average British weekly is a wild farrago of calamitous
rot, and ought to be slain at birth. In a recent issue of
Puck, a new London publication, a “ typical young Aus-
tralian ” is represented paying a call, in the Old Country,
on a Bart. whom he has met “in the colonies.” Illustra-
tions show him a splendid being in white duck riding-
breeks, spotless shirt, shiny black top boots, and immense
spurs, Spanish sombrero shading his brow, and
countless knives, bowies, daggers, pistols, revolvers,
derringers, etc., at his waist, galloping furiously along a
country road with about 180 ft. of stock-whip encircling
his head. Says the author :
“ The horseman, Stock Ryder by name, was fresh from
Australia, and looked somewhat out of place between
green English hedges. He still wore the everyday dress
of a Queensland stockman.”
The Bart, arrives, whereupon :
“ Whip in hand the Australian horseman plunged down
the lane, and the whip-lash went off in a volley of start-
ling cracks in front of a motor which contained young
Sir Edward Loscoe and his chauffeur, who wore goggles.
“ ‘ Bail up, Teddy ! ’
“Judged by the style he stopped the motor, Stock Ryder
might have been Ned Kelly, the bushranger. The young
baronet had just lighted a cigar, and there was a neat rim
of ash upon it. The driver jammed the brakes on and
wrenched at the wheel. The car stopped with a jerk,
and the reckless horseman yelled :
“ ‘ Good old Teddy. I’m collecting cigar ash, and I’ve
got yours.’
“ The whip-lash flashed through the air in a sudden
streak, and a little puff of ash from the cigar-end flew on
to the baronet’s hat, but the cigar itself was not even
shaken in his mouth.”
The Australian feels he would like to make Sir Edward
a present:—
“ At 10 yards distance Stock Ryder drew something from
a saddle-bag. It was a nugget of solid gold big as a
cricket ball.
“ Flinging up his arm, Stock Ryder threw the nugget
across to the young baronet, and, rising in the motor-car,
Sir Edward caught it neatly.
“ ‘ Got it, Teddy ; you always were a good catch, and a
knock-out rider. How a man who’s ridden for the Mel-
bourne Stakes as a gentleman jockey could come down to
a tin-can motor beats me.’”
The chauffeur, maddened by the gold-lust, essays to
steal the nugget thus donated :
“ The gleaming revolver of the mechanician was
levelled straight at the baronet’s head a. Stock Ryder
stood forward with his stockwhip uplifted. The whip,
flashed through the air, and the long leather lash curled
like a serpent around Nat Slack’s wrist, forcing it up, and
at the same time discharging the revolver overhead.
Rvder’shand gave a twist to the lash, and the revolver
flew high up in the air above Nat Slack’s head. The next
instant the lash curled round Slack’s legs, and he was
pitched backwards to the ground, as if he had been
thrown by a wrestler.
“Two other men, accomplices of the chauffeur, broke
through the brushwood, armed with sticks.
“ ‘ Leave them to me, Teddy,’ Stock Ryder cried.
“ He slashed out with his whip, and served them the
same as he had done Nat Slack, roping them together
with the lash and bringing them to earth in a heap.”
j Among the semi-educated of Britain, grotesques of the
Stock Ryder breed are trustfully accepted as “ represent-
ative Australian citizens.”
• • * *
“ Jean Sibi ”: The Twilight News of my township is an
ino’enious organ. Somewhere buried in its office is a
paragraphical genius, and every day this god has to bury an
atom of information in a w'hole column of pars ; also every
day the purchaser of the rag has to fish for the atom. For
instance, the boss reporter is told off to report the trial
of one Giuseppe Maraschino, A.B. of the barque Britannia,
accused of having stabbed a fellow seaman, Gustav
Pedersen, in the “ stummick.” Both appear in court
supported by their witnesses—a crowd of shellbacks
whose cleanliness, English and veracity might be beyond
reproach, but aren’t. The evidence is, strictly speaking,
commonplace; but is lightened by little sparks of un-
conscious drollery, mainly due to the witnesses’ rocky
conceptions of English. The boss reporter faithfully re-
cords every word, and, later, returns to the office, where
he spreads himself in a verbatim report over three columns.
Throughout that report are scattered sensational head-
lines emphasising the tiniest points in the narrative ; and
that should be the end of the matter in a reasonable news-
paper. But the boss reporter also runs the “Notes”
column and the “ On Dit” column, and he fills them up
in such fashion as this
“In a case for assault, held at the Port Police Court
to-day, one Giuseppe Maraschino was charged with
stabbing his 'shipmate, Gustav Pedersen, in the stomach.
Accused created much amusement by his persistent
declaration of ‘ Bosh-ta, me bosh-ta ! ’ ”
Then, two or three pars further down, something like
this will attract notice
“ ‘Basta! him drinka fooll up-a.’ was the description
of the state of the accused, given by a witness in a case
for assault at the Port Police Court to-day.”
Towards the end this will glitter :
“ The quaint, broken speech of several witnesses in the
Port Police Court to-day created much amusement on the
Bench. For full report see page 3.”
And further:
“An Italian seaman, by name Giuseppe Maraschino,
was sentenced to 17 years and 2 minutes at the Port
Police Court to-day, for scabbing one Gustav Pedersen in
the stomach.
And again : .
“Gustav Pedersen, who was stabbed in the stomach
(vide our report on page 3), is not, as stated previously, a
native of Trondhjem. He hails from Khamschatka.”
And even then the subject of Gustav Pedersen’s stomach
isn’t quite exhausted.
•* * * *
“ Y.” : One of the sights in the Australian newspaper
world is Kunnel Reay and his aide, or major or deputy-
quartermaster-general, constructing a Melbourne Herald
“Leading Note.” Reay selects most of the topics,
and dictates his ideas of what the paper should say
without any danger of rushing headlong into rash
statements. The adjutant makes a memo, of the
Colonel’s views, and when the senior well of wisdom
begins to pump dust, he retires and reduces the stuff to
typewriting. But the real grief is the first proof of the
labored note when the Colonel gets through with it.
Often the foreman printer has to calculate whether it
would be quicker and cheaper to correct the thingorgive
it out as fresh copy. It is quite another note when the
final revise is done—as a general rule. Erudite, dignified,
logical, and models of grammar and composition as Mel-
bourne Herald “Leading Notes ” always are, it is doubt-
ful if they are worth quite all the worry they cost.
THE MONEY BOWL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the legend poets troll
Of One on some first-floor
Who keeps a brimming money-bowli
Beside his office door.
And ev’ry morn the office waif —
A small, old-fashioned boy—
Doth fill it gaily from the safe
With jingling, golden joy.
Then, as the day draws slowly on,
The bards creep up the stair
And feast their hollow eyes upon
The treasure gleaming there.
A tattered sign that swings above
The bowl gives all to know,
“ Take what you need, with my best Jove t
Don’t count; to count is low.”
So, stooping to the calabash,
Each bard drops in a tear,
And takes a handful of the cash
That buys the soothing beer.
They steal like ghosts adovvn the stair,
They creep like spectres up ;
And gradually pubwards bear
The Treasure of the Cup.
Next morn the office waif appears
To sweep with might and main ;
He brushes up the poets’ tears,
And fills the bowl again.
This is the legend poets troll
Of some good editor
Who keeps a brimming money bowl
Beside his office door.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


Milk Arrowroot Bisc
*
THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.
»)
Amuse the
Children
Laughing is one of the healthiest
things a child can do, so you ought to
see that your little ones get plenty of
real wholesome fun—fun that will make
their sides fairly shake.
There’s nothing like an Edison Pho-
nograph for provoking mirth. You see
you have the world’s funniest comed-
ians always ready to render a funny
song or tell a good joke. It can sing,
talk, play, recite, whistle, or laugh !
Did you ever hear a laughing song on
an Edison? It’s just the thing to drive
away the blues and make the whole
family see life through rose-colored
spectacles.
Write for our lists of records and
machines. We’ll send the name of
your nearest dealer, too, so you can call
and hear the real Edison yourself.
With an
Edison Phonograph
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.,
Dept. 8., 340 Kent Street, Sydney.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ The ‘Stockport
Remedy for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 yea rs’proven efficacy.
linseed compound ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Gives immediate relief in Bronchitis, etc.
LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy for Bronchial irritation. >
LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
‘COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
—Cements for broken and other articles.
MOUNTAIN FLAX (‘ Linum Gatharticum ’ Trade
Mark) PILLS. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
NlMULiOati
PMSVTd
SANDOW on DIET.
“Take the Plasmon Preparations. I myself should
never like to be without them.”
4? # / # # / #
NO MORE EXPENSIVE—MUCH MORE DELICIOUS, DIGESTIBLE, NUTRITIOUS.
“ Plasmon increases the food value enormously.”— LANCET.
PLASMON LTD., LONDON. Australian Depot: 5& 7 BARRACK STREET, SYDNEY.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
9
$
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON,
Bridge # Loftus Sts., Sydney
A Policy for the Commonwealth:
Pric p o 6 s l
COMPLETENESS is a Distinctive
Feature of our Stock
Have you had your copy of our
New Art Catalogue yet ? . . .
Come in any day and see what is
probably the most Complete Stock of
Up=to=date Goods at Reasonable Prices
that you could wish to see. We
welcome sightseers as we welcome
buyers—we don’t worry them.
df
gdf
(AUSTRALIA), Ltd.
If not, it is here ready wrapped up, and
wants but your name and address to speed
it on its way to you. It contains hundreds
upon hundreds of illustrations of the most
reliable kinds of Watches, Jewellery,
Silverware, Clocks, Purses, Bags, etc.
1®
Gold-mounted Back Comb, 21s •
Half-hoop of Diamonds,
in 18ct. Gold,
£6 lOs.
Half-hoop of Dark
Amethysts, in 18ct.
Gold, £2 15s.
No. G 4704. Solid Silver Ink Stand, 50s<
No. H 2029. 9ct. Gold Links,
18s. 6d. Silver, 3s.
No. H 7732. Pearl Set, 15ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £7 7s.
Nellie Stewart Bangle, 9ct. Gold, £4 ; lighter, 50s. and 70s.
15ct. Gold, £5 15s. ; lighter, 755. and £5.
No. 190 GA. Heavy Trace Mull Chain, 9et., £5 lOs. ; 15ct., £9 10s.
Fashionable 9ct. Gold Loose Link Bangle, with Padlock if desired, in case, £4 4s.
Half-hoop Diamond
and 18ct. Ring',
£l6 lOs.
18cfc. Ring, diamonds
and Rubies, £2 10s.
Gold-mounted Back Comb, 18s. 6d.
The “ Perseus ” Pegg
Safety Purse, 10
■y Bag-, with
's. 6d.
No. H 2035. 9efc. Gold
♦ Links, 16s. 6(1.
Silver, 3s.
Extra Heavy Solid Silver Sovereign
Purse, 13s. 6d.
No. H 7731. Pearl and Turquoise set, 15ct. Gold Flexible Bangle, £7 10s.
15ct. Gold and very fine Opal Bangle, £ll 10s .
No. H 7094. Our latest in 9ct. Gold Bangles, £3.
No. 1908 A. Heavy Curb Muff Chain, 90t., £5 10s. ; 15cfc., £9 10s.


*
A. WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both.
'Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jisk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
WINCHESTER
=1
t„"; If)
i
S 5
sTsm ;,
?.•; /.y
2
■S<
m
m
✓ v
; V ,'
il
ad
“NEW RIVAL”
Loaded Black Powder
Shotgun Cartridges
“Newßivals”are as per-
fect as brains and in-
genuity, coupled with
first-class materials and
mod ern methods of
manufacture, can make
them. They are sure
fire, make evep pat-
terns, shoot hard and
strong and will stand
reloading. Ask for
“New Rivals” next time
THEY HELP MAKE BIG BAGS
PATERNOSTER’S
pills mm
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON. -
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
%
$
$
tolllhG
* «>
CYes
gd
- aw*vW/*
m
tSii
•Afst- : ,V-
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one sal e and reliable remedy
lor COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES- Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
Mr. THOS SHELTON, 18, Crown Street, Oxford, writes: —“ If the value of 4 POWELL’S BALSAM OF
ANISEED’ was better known, many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung Troubles would do as I
have done for upwards of 50 years ; I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably
sets me up. It is invaluable. I have several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired
effect. I have had three attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and aor 3 bottles ha d the desired effect when all
else failed. You may make what use of this you like."— December nth, 1907.
Mrs. S. W. BAILEY, 32, Manville Road, Balham, London, S.W., writes I may add that I recommend your
BALSAM after 12 years constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and Warminster,
Wilts, for 33 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his customers.”— -January, 1908.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and STORE!3.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON, England.
Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR
COUGHS.
&
FOR
COUCHS.
fg
i
df
fs
o
It acts like a charm in
DIARRH(EA.
The only known Specific for
CHOLERA &
DYSENTERY.
The Greatest Medical Discovery of the Age.
A Boon to Man Kind all over the World.
IT IS THE BEST KNOWN REMEDY FOR
COUGHS, COIcDS, CONSUMPTION, BRONCHITIS, & ASTHMA.
It is the only palliative in Rheumatism, Gout, Caneep, Toothache, Neuralgia, Sciatica, Lumbag-o, &c.
It is extensively used by Medical Men in their official and private practice, at Home and Abroad, who have given
numerous written testimonials of its wonderful efficacy.
Sold by Chemists all over the World , in bottles, Is. 1 \d. ; 20z,, 2s, 9 d. ; 40z., 4s, 6 d. each.
CAUTION-— Every bottle of the GENUINE FREEMAN’S CHLORODYNE has the Trade Mark, “The
Elephant,” on the wrapper, &c., without which it is an imitation. Established over 60 years.
Agents for Australasia: Kocke, Tompsitt & Co., Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
RUPTURE
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
ness Cannot Win
in the Ibattle Of life. Life’s battle is a hard one, and you must have steady nerve, a clear brain, and muscles like
bands of steel. The weak man or woman must give way to the strong, the robust and the vigorous. Your health and
physical vitality should be guarded as the miser guards his gold. Dr. McLaughlin, the electrical authority, has discov-
ered the true method of applying Electricity for the perfect cure of the ills and ailments
of mankind. Electricity is Nature’s Remedy. There is not a weak person in
this whole world to-day who cannot become strong, healthy and vigorous again if they
will only apply the right current of Electricity. We have a method of applying Electricity
for the cure of the various weaknesses of men and women which will cure in every case.
Our method of applying Electricity is fast supplanting the use of drugs all over the world.
T
\\
v\
m
'A
W N
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
Drugs cannot and will not cure the Nervous Ailments and Weaknesses of Men and
Women, such as Loss of Vigor and Vitality, Rheumatism, Kid-
ney, Liver and Bladder Troubles, Constipation, Stomach
Disorders, etc., etc. Nature never intended a man’s stomach to be the
receptacle for strong drugs, and if you persist in their use it will not be long until
you will be beyond curing ; your stomach will be totally destroyed. Electricity,
when applied by Dr. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt, gives to every part
of the body—as it travels over the nerves —strength and vitality, and quickly
drives out disease, no matter where it is located. When you are weak there is
simply a lack of Electricity in the system —not bnough electricity to keep up your
nerve force—and before you can again be restored to vitality and vigor electricity
must be supplied. Weakness defeats the aim or ambition of man. The weak
man must be made strong before he has the necessary energy and brain power to
succeed. Electricity builds up the shattered nervous system, restores strength and
vitality, makes rich, red blood ; it is the bulwark against which disease must fall. It brings
the sunbeams of happiness and health into a life which has been darkened by weakness. We have thousands Of
testimonials to prove all our assertions. Our belt is simple, easy to use and is guaranteed to give a strong current.
It has special attachments for men and women. They are within the reach of all; price £1 and up.
Beware of cheap imitations.
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illus-
trated book, which every
man and woman should
read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the failure of all other treat-
ments. We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write
us, and our specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your
case free. All communications are treated with strict con-
fidence. For private address, address : M.E.B. Co.
the McLaughlin go,,
JOSEPH R CORCORAN Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
The MCLAUGHLIN GO., Dept. 10,
Linden Court, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
12


It was dreadfully foolish for the Victorian
agricultural implement manufacturers to revert
to the old scale of wages paid in the anti-tariff
days, which they did as soon as the High
Court’s decision was delivered. Some reduced
the rates without even the usual week’s notice.
Apparently these stupid individuals imagine
that the whole advantage of a Protective
tariff is to accrue to them—the worker is not to
share in it at all. It is folly such as this which
lies at the bottom of the old Laborite demand to
“sink the fiscal issue.” The difference, however,
between the two policies is just this. Without
Protection the worker won’t have even the chance
of getting high wages ; with Protection he has the
chance of getting high wages, though in such cases
as this he will have to struggle for his share.
Without Protection all the struggling in the world
wouldn’t help him, because there isn’t in that case
anything to share.
‘ ‘ Branaraba’s ” musings
Carious how the politics of the Darling- Downs (Q.)
agriculturist have changed of late. Fifteen years ago the
Downs voted Labor to a man. Then they became Mor-
ganite and later on Kidstonite. At the last State elec-
tion, the Wages Board Bill being in sight, they nearly all
went the whole Tory hog, and voted Philp. 'Before* the
election Kidston held all the Darling Downs seats (four),
but at the election he lost three (Warwick, Cunningham’
and Aubigny), and it was only the purely Labor vote that
saved the fourth (Cambooya). As a matter of fact, the
Darling Downs was Philp’s stronghold. The explanation
is, of course, that the Downs dwellers have got down from
the barren ridges they inhabited of yore to the fertile flats
which used to be the exclusive preserve of the big
squatter, and are making their pile. So they want the
status quo maintained. They have got all the Socialism
they want for the moment, so they turn dog and vote the
Anti-Sosh ticket in the good old usual way. Their sup-
port goes to the party which tried to keep them on the
barren mountain-tops while the big land-grabber held
the rich plains and valleys, and the party which helped
them down from the haggard peaks and found them good
farm-lands in the vales gets nothing bdt curses these times.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
*
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing: Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine'
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. ; The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E'. Winehcombe, M.L.C. ;
Jas. 0. Fairfax. Esq. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece, F.I.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE. Is. Packet of TEN. lOd
TOOTH’S XXX ALE is UNRIVALLED.
gdf
gd
AULD JOCK
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
PROPRIETORS,
KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY
The Famous
S
Remedy for
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Coughs, Bronchitis, Pneumonia,
Pleurisy, Asthma & Consumption
BRONCHITIS and PNEUMONIA
Cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
Kr. W. G. Hearne. Dear Sir,- —From a strict sense
of duty I feel that I should publish the following state-
ment, so that others may know what to do when the
awful fact is evident that a life is in danger of being
lost:—ln September, 1906, my little girl, aged at that
time 3 years, contracted Measles, and in the following
October was attacked by Bronchitis, Pneumonia and
Congestion of the Lungs. She was attended by a
legally qualified doctor of high standing, but his treat-
ment was not successful in arresting the progress of the
illness. On Saturday, the 21st October, 1906, he said
that her life was in danger—that there was very little
hope for her. For eight days and nights she had been
prostrated by Cough, Pain and Fever, and was lying
like a statue, unconscious. At this stagtf I was per-
suaded by a friend to obtain Hearne’s Brohchitis Cure,
with its auxiliary medicine for the Fever and Conges-
tion of the Lungs, as directed in the Catalogue of
Medicines which , accompanies each bottle of the Bron-
chitis Cure. I gave the medicine as directed, and there
was an improvement from the first dose of Hearne’s
Bronchitis Cure. The improvement continued after
each dose of the medicine. In a week she was perfectly
free from the Pneumonia, Congestion, Cough, Pain and
Fever, and was well, except that she was still weak. In
a fortnight she was quite recovered, and is now in
splendid health, and stronger than ever. Any person
asking for information about this grand medicine can
be supplied by me, or by any of my neighbours who have
witnessed its wonderful effects. It absolutely snatched
my child from an early grave.—Yours gratefully,
D. GARDINER,
Police Station, Geelmng East, Feb. 5, 1908.
BRONCHITIS.
A Sufferer 73 Years of Age.
Thoroughly Cured by Two Bottles of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure.
Immediate Relief-Effect Wonderful.
Mr. Hearne. Sir,—l was very ill with Influenza
and Bronchitis. A friend of mine persuaded me to try
your Bronchitis Cure. The first dose gave me imme-
diate relief, and after taking the second bottle I am
thoroughly cured. Its effect on me has been most
wonderful. lam 73 years of age. I trust you will
make use of this statement by publishing it for the bene-
fit of humanity generally. Yours most respectfully,
THOMAS R. TREZISE,
Reedy Creek, Victoria.
PNEUMONIA and PLEURISY
cured by
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
After other Treatment had Failed.
.I> Prudence M'Kee, of Carr-street, South Geelong, In
view of the importance of a person making it quite clear
what treatment was successful in curing a serious and
complicated case when the medicine, directions and treat-
ment of a legally qualified doctor had failed, state as
follows:
My son, Henry M'Kee, then aged 8 years, had been
attended by a legally qualified doctor, who pronounced
him to be suffering from Pneumonia, Pleurisy and a
stoppage of the passing of Urine. Under the doctor’s
treatment the child gradually got worse, and the doctor
pronounced the case hopeless. He told me that the
child could not live. At _ this stage I obtained from
Mr. W. G. Hearne, Chemist, of Geelong, a bottle of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure, and gave it to the child, ac-
cording to the directions which accompany each bottle
°f it. ; The child improved after the second dose of
Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure. He continued to improve
each day from each dose of Hearne’s Medicine alone, and
within three days he was free from the Cough, Pneu-
monia and the Pleurisy, and the Urine was passing satis-
factorily. He was out of bed at the end of a week,
completely recovered, and he is now in perfect health.
PRUDENCE M'KEE,
Carr-street, South Geelong, Feb. 6, 1908.
CONSUMPTION.
Too 111 to Leave His Bed.
A Complete Cure.
Mr. W. G. Hearne.
Dear Sir, —I am writing to tell you about the wonder-
ful cure your medicine has effected in my case. About
three years ago I began to cough. At first the cough
was not severe, but it gradually got worse, and I became
very weak and troubled with night sweats, pain in my
chest, and great quantities of phlegm. On several oc-
casions there was blo.od in the expectorated matter. I
had been treated by a doctor who pronounced my case to
be. consumption, and various other treatments had been
tried, but without benefit. It was at this stage that I
heard of your Bronchitis Cure, and sent to you for a
course of the medicine. When it arrived, I was too ill
to leave my bed, but I commenced taking it at once, and
gradually improved. I am glad to say that the two
lots of medicine you sent have effected a complete cure,
for which accept my very best thanks.—Yours gratefully,
J. BLAIR,
Westminster Bridge-road, S.E., London.
BRONCHITIS and PLEURISY.
A Bevere Case Cured By Two Bottles of
Hearne's Bronchitis Cure.
After Other Treatment had Failed.
Mr. Hearne, Chemist, Geelong.
Dear Sir, —Some months ago, in Sydney, I suffered
from a severe attack of inflvfenza, and was confined to
my room for about a week, at the end of which time,
feeling somewhat better, I got up and tried to transact
my business as usual. But I got up too soon, for the
very next day I had a relapse, and suTtred tortures from
what the doctor told me was pleurisy and bronchitis.
The pain from the former in my chest and shoulders
was frightful, and for four long weeks I was confined to
my bed under the care of a well-known Sydney doctor,
and all the time his medicine gave me but temporary
relief. The landlady of the hotel (the Cleveland), where
I resided, told me of a medicine—Hearne’s Bronchitis
Cure—from Victoria, which had cured her of a bad at-
tack of bronchitis and pains in the chest, and begged
of me to try it. I did so, and, in thanks and gratitude
to you, tell you that, after the second bottle, my cough
had ceased; but what is more astonishing, the pains from
pleurisy entirely left me, and in about a week I was able
to attend to my duties as usual.—Yours faithfully,
~ „ „ „ .. J. BRAHAM.
Melbourne ‘ Punch ’ Office, Melbourne.
ASTHMA-A 17 YEARS CASE.
Previous Treatment Failed.
Cured by Three Bottles,
Mr. Alex. J. Anderson, of Oak Park, Charleville,
Queensland, wrote:—“ After suffering from asthma for
seventeen years, and having been under a great many
different treatments without benefit, I was induced to try
Hearne’s Medicine for Asthma. After taking three
bottles of this medicine I quite got rid of the asthma,
and since then, which was the beginning of 1883—fifteen
years ago—l have not had the slightest return of it.
The medicine quite cured me, and I have much pleasure
in recommending it.”
Speaking in February, 1908, he states:—“l am keeping
very well. Never have the slightest return of the asthma.”
“ Hearne’s Medicine cured me of Asthma, from which
I had been suffering for twenty-five years, during which
time I had used almost every patent medicine on the
market—including asthma inhalations—without getting a
cure. It was 8 years ago that the cure was effected
by Hearne’s Medicine, and I now feel stronger than I
have felt for years—in fact, I feel splendid.”
C. WISEMAN,
Meredith, Victoria.
Beware of Imitations! The great success of HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure has induced a number of
unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of deceiving
the unsuspecting, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure has. Consequently it has become necessary to draw your attention to this fact, and to request you
in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S, and see tnat you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6, Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. 1a does NOT contain any Morphia or any Opium whatever. It is equally beneficial
for the youngest child and the most aged person.
*
Food
The more delicate the state of health, the greater the
prostration from severe illness, the greater the need for
Benger’s Food.
To “ start the stomach ” after prostration, great exertion,
sickness, or enforced abstinence from food, use Benger’s Food.
s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, &c., everywhere.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.S.W.
S he LEADING
HOUSE ro *
ICAN’T
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of SOs. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
OUR
Special
Snap.
2/0
4/0
6/0
ASK FOR
MUSTAD’S
KEY BRAND.
m “n™ u i*!f ■ To 1 Ja sr‘“» r^r‘ "T‘'w’ s l;* x s s onK '« 10/0 ,
N M M. Id. Si. lOd. 1/- l/l 1/2 1/* I/O 1/1° P" b “ 0150 -
M4o—Mustad’s Best Bright, Rustproof or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted
N “- 1 4°d‘. 01 a £ Si" Sf ?£ & ffi Ji V- $ box 0.60
M44—Mustad’s Best Bright, or Japanned Kirby Bent Hooks, Flatted, XX Strong
Nos - i sr i a a a a iffi a a a a a “aV-—®
Angler’s Guide and Hints on Fishing, Post Free.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.Y De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, ißisn Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle op the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys op Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, IS 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, Is posted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science op Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Perso'nal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
op Paris, Is 6d. History of. thf. Rod (Flagellations
and. the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
IjAtest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
Brotsh, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle op Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography SELP-TAUGHr 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. n«w
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
fg
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mf.smerise, Ib. Metal-working .for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, is
post. How to Yamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book pF
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is; posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds ot young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition jus,t arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Versf.s, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptambron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. D.SF Esictblishcd %5 1 cctvs.
Cheap Book Depot —
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS
POSTAL NOTE
, MONEY ORDER, OR
OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 1i» fid Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alt Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds' Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet - and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
hound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Grand Pipes
Best Pipes
Delightful Pipes
Mark
weans
SOLD EVERYWHERE
SEE THAT YOU GET THEM
Obtainable FromallTobacconists
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVING WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following'is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter
Copy of Testimonial. &<0 VERN MENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. MURPHY.
Lady Mary Lygon wishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied with the two costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well.
(Signed) C. JARDINIER.
0
£
%
For over Fifty years the
name “ALCOCK” has been
closely associated with Bil-
liards in every part of Aus-
tralasia) until to-day the
name is everywhere recog-
nised as being; synonymous
with all that is excellent
and high in quality.
The ALCOCK TABLES have
always won prizes wherever
exhibited, and at the New
Zealand Exhibition they se-
cured the SPECIAL AWARD
and TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Write to-day for our Cata-
logue of Billiard and other
Sporting Requisites.
MELBOURNE SHOWROOMS,
155 ELIZABETH STREET.
SYDNEY SHOWROOMS,
422 GEORGE STREET.
M Britisl)=flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
fin POST FREE > £1 p * r y e "*
Jr OvC in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOL6ORN (KearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in DiARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY and CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England— Hl\, 2/9, 4/6.


4
Ineluenza is the outcome of a very severe cold, and
is dangerous if not properly controlled, as it is likely
to develop into Pneumonia or Bronchitis. The
dangers of these complications need not be feared
if Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery be given in
teaspoonful doses every two or three
hours, as this powerful
remedy will at once relieve
and soon cure
the worst cases.
dfg
Two Letters from Mothers*
Mrs, Charlie Dissell, Staughton Vale, Anakie
via Geelong, Victoria, writes “ I have much pleasure
in writing to tell you of your wonderful Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery for Coughs and Colds. 1 have used it
ever since it has been on the market, and find it a splendid cure for In-
fluenza. My brother and sister also use it, and say that it acts like magic.’’
Mrs. C. McDonald, Laurel Grove, Goondiwindi, Queensland, writes :
I have used Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, and am very pleased to state
that it is a very good medicine. My ittle girl, aged three years, was very bad with Influenza
and I am sure it has done her the world of good.” J ’
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is obtainable from all Chemists and Storekeepers or
will be posted upon receipt of the price, 1/6, 3/-, or Hospital size, 5/-, by the ’
Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Established 1752.
When you need a Pill, take
Brandreth’s
Pill
PURELY VEGETABLE.
ALWAYS EFFECTIVE.
For Chronic Constipation.
Brandreth’s Pills purify the blood,
invigorate the digestion and cleanse the
stomach and bowels. They stimulate the
liver and carry off vitiated bile and other
depraved secretions. They are a tonic
d
Draw the picture up
close before your eyes
and _ watch the pill
go into the mouth.
medicine that regulate, purify and fortify the whole system.
Constipation, Dizziness, Drowsiness, Coated Tongue, Bad
Breath, Headache, Pain in Stomach, Indigestion, Dyspepsia,
Diver Complaint, Bilious Headache, Jaundice, or any disorder
arising from impure state of the blood.
FOR SALE BY DRUGGISTS throughout the world.
<0 Pills in every Box.
fgd
Established 1847.
Allcock’s Porous Plaster
A Universal Remedy for Pain.
Wherever there’s pain apply an Allcock’s Plaster.
fg
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
df
We don’t believe any Accordeon come
so near perfection as the Celebrated . .
Star Trombone Accordeon
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Potary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price 7s 6d;
Postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical Instruments)
Watches, Jewellery, Etc., 210 Qtieetl St., Brisbane
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
gd
Seven
Prize Medals.,
Works: Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
The Standing Army.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HAVE you seen the Out-at-Elbows on
parade—
Seen the chronic ragged-seated regulars.
In their uniform of patches, when they rendezvous
in batches,
Cadging beers and smokes and matches at the
Bars ?
At the Bars ! Bars! Bars ! Open Bars !
(Fall in ! )
When they skirmish round for fluid at the Bars !
Though they never send recruiting sergeants out,
They’re an army that grows stronger with the
years.
Though their aspect uninviting may repel, it is
exciting
Just to stand and watch them biting ears for
beers—
Ears for Beers ! Beers ! Beers ! Gratis Beers !
(Eyes front !)
Ears for long and cooling, thirst-allaying Beers !
By the beer-stains on their whiskers are they
known !
By the foozled, super-foozled way they blink !
And their wretched wives go charing while those
reckless souls are marring
Health and prestige, gamely sparring after
drink !
After Drink ! Drink ! Drink ! Lengthy Drink !
( Quick march 1)
After pots that hold full pints of precious drink !
Some were born to bite the pewter; some were
not.
There are derelicts of Fashion in their ranks ;
But they’re all upon a level, drifting on with
every revel,
Nearer, nearer to the Devil! They are Tanks !
Merely Tanks! Tanks ! Tanks ! Human Tanks !
(Breast up !)
“Death or Moisture” is the motto of the Tanks !
MAORILAND.
SINC S. CLARK.
A Debacle,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ON a corner allotment, swept by a
bitter wind, stood the survivor of a forest
of land agents’ boards, and on it flapped
loosely a sign which announced in straggling
characters, “ Great Rally: Testemoneys, To
Night.” Grouped in a small circle round the post
was the great rally. It consisted of half-a-dozen
men, whose fierce eyes mocked the feebleness of
their features and physique, and several objects
which appeared in the torchlight like small, gabled
dove-cots on posts, but which closer inspection
proved to be coal-scuttle-bonneted Amazons of
the “Army.” Some of the men wore robin-
breasted uniforms, some were in mufti, but one
and all bore the metal S of active service, even to
the armor-bearers and camp-followers of the
detachment.
The enemy was mostly resting on its base at
that stronghold of sin, the Royal Hotel—the pub
obliquely opposite. Yet its vedettes were within
range, fully eleven of them, tempted from cover
by a rumor that an erstwhile “pal” who had
“gone over” and become a “comrade’’was to
give the worldly show away.
One by one the members of the little band
related to the wind their tedious, twice-told tales
of the terrible time when they feared not God
neither regarded man—or, for the women’s part,
regarded man too much. And the fervor broke
out at the usual pauses, deepening in intensity
when an extra deep probing brought to light a
sin “ not elsewhere included.” And each suc-
ceeding testifier prefaced his depositions by
remarking with proud sadness, “Ah, fr'en’s, I’ve
bin a grite sinner. I’ve bin even worse ’n youse.”
Then the raw recruit fell clumsily into line.
“Fren’s,”he said, “it takes more courige some-
times ter surrender than ter stand out. I've stood
out often, ’n’ I’ve fell often, slain—slain by sin; but
this time I’ve got up again, ’n’ I’ve got up on ther
other side of ther line.” (Slow music: “Over
the line it’s on’y a step.”) “’N’ I’m goin’ ter
kick orf me truck ’n’ unload me orful parst.
Fren’s” (as his Dutch courage rose), “some of
youse bin bad coves, but my sins ’as bin as scarlet
—scarlet with crimson stripes ’n’ delirium trim-
mins. I was alius bad. I was born bad. Before I
wasone luseter chuck menuss-girl under thechinas
I lay on’er knee, ’n’ say ‘goo’ to’er. ’N’ while me'
mother was comparin’ me with neighbors’ nippers,
I useter shake their dummies ’n’ their rattles.
Soon after I was weaned I stunned me mother
with me feedin’-bottle because she never put no
sugar in me milk. As I grew older I on’y grew
worse; me thoughtless prime was early ripe to
ill. I passed from folly into crime, ’n’ me parents
pleaded ‘no control ’ when I was five. When I
broke away from the schools, on me sixth birth-
day, ’n’ went ’ome, me father and mother cleared
out because they couldn’t, stand me drunken
’abits, ’n’ the way I roughed ’em up. When me
father ’n’ mother forsoke me, the perlice took me
up ; ’least, they did orf and on, but I was too ’ot
to ’old, I was. I was a ches’nut fair orf the ’ob.
When I turned round er corner one d’y, ’n’ come
right onter two pleecemen, they both dropped
dead, ’n’ the verdick was ’arc failure. I slowed
up a bit when I got a job. I woulden’ er took it
on’y it give me the ’andlin’ o’ cash. But em-
bezzlement ’n’ petty larceny got too slow fer me.
‘ Satin finds some mischief still fer idle ’ands ter
do,’ ’n’ I started a bit o’ garrotin’ in me spare
time. Bein’ noo at the gime, a good many o’ me
victims died at first; but I never felt no remorse,
although I useter git ’eadaches thinkin’ out noo
crimes. But now the harrer of conviction ’as sunk
deep into me soul. I realise I bin too frisky.
I’m goin’ to break off me ole bad ’abits, ’n’ instead
o’ the ’and of the lor, I wanter feel on me shoulder
ther steadyin’ ’and ’n’ look around ter catch ther
lovin’ smile er Jesus.”
With a sudden suspicion of something missing,
the speaker paused, but vnot even a groaned
“Amen ” or “ Glory Be ” ch'eeted him to continue.
For a broken, dispirited band had dejectedly dis-
persed into the darkness, and the only sound was
the wind-borne echo of stolid, sullenly-retreating
footsteps upon the sleeping streets.
But down upon his head fluttered the sign, like
the robe of the praying Pharisee descending upon
a worthy successor, or the winding-sheet of
Ananias enfolding a lovely liar who could shame
even a Salvation Army squad into silence.
WUSSLEAN.
A Tertium Quid.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE was once a man who loved his
wife, and lived with her for many years in
such content as comes to those who are
truly mated. But troubles fell upon him—bur-
dens grievous to be borne, yet making little show;
and he began to falter as he went. “Unto him
that hath shall be given,” says the Scripture, and
so, to crown his dismay, he suddenly found him-
self possessed of a devil.
It came to him at the hottest hour of a dead
and breathless summer’s day, when his work was
heaviest and his vitality lowest; no horned and
tailed reminiscence of Pagan Pan, but something
mist-pale, shining with a thin phosphorescence,
grey as a man’s shadow in the water, with eyes
f«ll of inexorable malice, their rims reddened, not
from tears, but from the flame whose flicker woke
them to life.
The Man bore with this visitation as best he
might, assuring himself it was but the juggling of
an overtired brain. But the thing wore on him.
By clay he could neglect it; he grew used to
working with those red-rimmed eyes upon him—
but of evenings, as he sat book in hand, it rose
above the opened page and held his helpless gaze,
and at night it drew him from his bed to commune
with it under the black sky.
His wife saw him thus ill at ease, though he hid
it all he could. She desired exceedingly to ask
him the occasion of his trouble; but, being not
only wife, but also true companion and friend, she
waited in silence and made as though she saw
nothing.
For a long time this went on, till one night she
heard him mutter in his sleep of eyes, eyes, and a
devil, and so guessed him to be haunted by some
fearful and relentless presence.
The Man withdrew into himself more and more.
His great and abiding fear was lest his wife, whom
he loved, should learn his trouble, and so suffer
for him, or come to share it, and so suffer with
him. When the devil became too insistent,
therefore, he would away out of doors, walking
back and forth with hurried step while he fought
for the mastery of his mind, that, like a mad-
dened horse in the grip of some strange terror,
made shuddering, frantic struggles to get loose.
So he walked one evening under the climbing
roses whose fragrance the night dews called forth,
and all the way as he went the devil walked
beside him, near—nearer—in him, perchance : —
God knew which. Then his wife, after calling
from the window, came out to him; but he,
absorbed in that fierce conflict, at handgrips with
that evil power, heard her not till she was close on
him.
“ Back ! keep back ! ” he cried, and the sweat
broke out on his face. “ Never touch me, or you
will see it, too ! ”
Then the wife knew her time had come. She
stepped forward fearless, and clasped hp damp
and shaking hand in hers. She had thought and
thought over this moment, how she would see
what he saw, through his mind, and know it to be
a thing of fancy ; how she would smile in its face,
mock it, and so lead him she loved away from it
for ever.
But now, when she looked into its eyes of
flickering flame—lo, she was afraid. He felt her
tremble.
“You see it? You fear it?” he cried. No
chance had she to lie—her face spoke.
“I see it! I fear it!” she quavered. “Oh,
hold me close, Beloved, lest it come between us.”
Then they walked back and forth together, the
Thing beside them, near them, in them—God
knows which—and he told all he had suffered so
far as words might tell, and what he could not
tell she knew, for at every step her heart within
her failed for fear, and she went with him all his
weary way.
So the days and years passed on over that
haunted pair, and the shadows darkened about
them. Yet through it all, they knew touches of
joy together,, moments of half-forgetting, fore-
shadowings of the peace they looked for. when this
lifelong trouble should be ended. Whereas when
the man watched alone he seemed cut off from all
hope and rest, now they could ease their hearts
by speaking together of their relentless visitant.
When she saw him blench and lift a frozen stare
she would come close, and put her face against
his, declaring she had no fear of that ugly horror ;
it had never hurt them, nor ever could, and so
win him back from that dreadful quietude to
common kindly talk. When he saw her features
distorted with a sudden pang, her hands wrung
together in agony, he would gather her into his
arms and speak comfortably to her till her strained
muscles relaxed and the tears came. Once her
heart failed her for a moment. “ Shall we never
be free ? ” she wailed, as they lay handfasted one
starless night, while from the darkness looked out
on them those red-rimmed eyes lit with flame that
was to them as tears.
“Never,” said he ; and then, groaning, “Why
have I, who love you, brought you to this?”
Then she turned and gripped him fiercely with
her arms.
“Sooner this,” she whispered from dry lips—
“ sooner this than all Heaven without yo'u, ” and
after a while they slept.
There came a time at last when the man was
permitted to lay down the heavy burden of his
life. He had but little to say as he drew near
that desired end ; he lay for the most part still,
with fast shut eyes, for his enemy had no mind to
quit him till the very last. Words were not
needed between him and his wife ; they had shel-
tered- together too long under the terror that
walketh in darkness and wasteth at noonday to
have much left unsaid.
Yet she would sit for hours patiently, and so
hungrily waiting for the languid look, the slow
smile, the faintly breathed word; and ever with
them waited the devil that was their portion
in this world.
At dawn of his last day she rose to put back the
curtain. The wan light that comes before the
day fell across his face, and from the midst of it
hot eyes glowed and flickered. He turned his
sunken gaze upon her ; then, with a sudden
startling quickness, glanced to left, to right, before
him.
“Gone!” he panted, for his breath began to
fail. “ Free at last! ” he sobbed, and stretched his
arms towards her. Before her lips reached his
lie was past all knowing.
She knelt beside him, and watched his worn
face settle to an utter quiet; then she lifted a tear-
less look on the mist-thin Presence beside her.
“You think to daunt me now?” she smiled,
“ It was for him, for him I feared,” and laid her
face to his.
When she raised it she was alone. The earliest
glow of sunrise flooded the silent room, emptied
now alike of man and devil, and to the mind of
the woman came a sudden sense of desolation most
strange, most piteous.
A. WISHAW.


PILES
PERMANENTLY
CURED.
Suffered for Two Long Years —Unable to
Work—Many Treatments Failed to Cure.
Piles are caused by the defective and irregular action of the bowels,
such as constipation and diarrhcea. They are the direct cause,
but the predisposing cause of piles is invariably a disordered
liver. It is to this important organ that the bowels look for
support and assistance in performing their proper functions,
and it is only by acting directly on the
liver that a regular action of the bowels
may be obtained. Under such circum-
stances piles cannot exist. Bile
Beans act directly on the liver,
and through it on the bowels, and
are the best and safest remedy for
piles and constipation.
fg
“ In the interests of thousands of fellow-
creatures who may be suffering as I have,
I desire to testify to the efficacy of Bile
Beans,” says Mr. Alfred Hopkins,
of 45 Princes Street, Church Hill,
Sydney. “ I have been a terrible
sufferer for over two years from
Piles, and although I have tried
nearly every so-called cure, and
undergone the pangs of pain to an almost suicidal
degree, I found no relief until I happened acioss
Bile Beans. My trouble seriously incapacitated
. . . me * I- however, obtained work at a prominent club
as waiter, but had to give it up. I saw an advertisement in one of the papers, and deter-
mined to give your Pills a trial. The first night I took one; the second night I took
three, and for several nights I took three ; and then two, and sometimes one on alternate
nights ; and by the time I had taken one box of Bile Beans I was cured. I can solemnly
swear that Bile Beans, and Bile Beans only, cured me. I shall feel gratified if any other
sufferer obtains the same cure as I have by taking Bile Beans, and request you to give
this testimony the fullest advertisement.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
Bile Beans, the standard family medi-
cine, are sing'ularly suitable for fortifying 1
the system to cope with the demands
made upon it by the present season.
They ward off colds, influenza, liver chilis,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, and speed-
ily cure indigestion, biliousness, plies,
headaches, anaemia, constipation, debility,
bad breath, impure blood, disturbed sleep,
loss of appetite, and all liver ailments. Of
all chemists and stores at 1/1£ per box, or
2/0 special family size (contains three
times the 1/1J box).
ONE BEAN—ONE DOSE.
Bl LE
BEANS
. if** W--
dtdmd add,
Mma d'
dd-dm.
ql/& d d dwdd
and JaJd dna&d d
d&ddda/ad.^ —
Of the Delight in Bad Plays.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DRAMAS that are just bad are every-
night occurrences. The perfectly bad
drama is comparatively rare, but when
found it is worth all the trouble the discovery
may entail, and connoisseurs carry the news to
each other with enthusiasm not exceeded by
Egyptologists at the finding of a new tomb or an
unheard-of Pharaoh. A perfectly bad drama is a
classic in its way, and it is to be part of the office
of my projected Society for the Cultivation of Bad
Plays t.o collect and preserve such dramas, with
the idea of establishing a unique library.
Another object of the Society will be to rescue
from oblivion those authors whose bad plays are,
in the opinion of the committee of experts, found
to be possessed of all the essentials of artistic
badness, and reward them with a benevolent
infamy.
The defects necessary in a really bad play are
very numerous, and the collecting and compress-
ing of them all into four or five acts, and the fix-
ing of appropriate places for them, implies in the
author at least that capacity" which is manifested
by a genius for taking pains. In fact, the rules
for the making of perfectly bad plays are so hard
and fast, the materials so rigorously prescribed,
that the mere dilettante student might jump to
the conclusion that it is within the power of any
bad playwright to make a play that will be artisti-
cally and intrinsically bad just when and yvhere he
pleases. But this is not so ; otherwise, plays de-
serving to rank as classic for their badness would
be quite common. Your shockingly bad dramatist
has his moments of inverse inspiration, when his
genius assumes a sort of ecstasy of imbecility. It
is at such moments that the exquisitely bad play
is produced.
No caricature of man and his customs, no bur-
lesque of civilisation that I know of can approach
the exquisitely bad play for humor and vivid
satire. You get these qualities in a less degree in
the merely bad play, but in the bad play that
attains to classical depravity they are present in
perfection. What better setting for satire or
travesty could you have than the great theatre
flooded with its dim, religious light, the audience
filling every part, grave, rigid, accepting the farce
with the ingenuous confidence of babes; the
orchestra, never doubting, sedulously blending
appropriate music with the emotions rioting on
the boards; and then the actors, in many respects
closely resembling men and women, in many others
so deliciously impossible, posturing and babbling,
with a solemn respect for themselves and for the
inspired balderdash of the author—that is the
quintessence of comedy!
Consider the hero, the ideal, so exquisite in
person, so lofty in purpose ! He is the noblest
work of God. With what is great and good in
the human race the author thinks to endow him,
and, as ne plus ultra , the audience accepts him.
With all these perfections thick upon him, he
plunges into follies that are the distinguishing
characteristics of the village idiot. But let him
demonstrate convincingly in test after test that
his mental qualities would earn him the
contempt of a community of African pig-
mies, let him be inane, weak, a blather-
skite, a coward, a currish husband, and a bad
father, not one jot of his imagined magnificence
falls from him. His intelligence, his heroism, his
courage, his amiability cling to him still. He is
the trusted hero to the end, when, in an amazing
flash of insight, he suddenly discovers divers
simple facts that have been grinding into his skull
through five acts, and exclaiming, “Ha, by
heavens, I see it all! ” he forgives the heroine the
wrongs he has inflicted upon her, and retires to
enjoy unmerited happiness and prosperity in the
bosom of a large family wholly his own.
The villain is even more grotesquely imagined
and portrayed. He is the sublimity of farce.
Ostensibly he is the very Devil, becomingly dark,
utterly unscrupulous, fiendishly cunning, capable
of any crime that will serve his ends. Yet he is
actually a paltry poltroon whose criminal instincts
would not win respect for a dog-stealer. Although
he is accepted as a daring ruffian, ready to break
houses and murder his own parents for the meanest
motives, the slim heroine has only to strike a stern
attitude, point a rigid finger, and cry : “ Stand
back, Gerald Armitage ! you shall not harm my
child!” and he cowers three paces down stage,
and skulks out of the limelight a crushed and
beaten man.
The pale heroine is perhaps the most bewitch-
ing feature in the perfectly bad play. Her stupidity
is without fleck or flaw. The unerring instinct
with which she does the wrong thing clamors
for the intervention of the Master-in-Lunacy.
But the audience respects and loves her. It is
blind to her crass foolishness, and oblivious to the
fact that she ignores the simple and easy ways out
of her most trying situations with a fatuity that
would be irritating in a blind puppy. She trusts
herself implicitly to the villain, when the smallest
grain of common-sense would satisfy her that she
would be safer in company with a crocodile. She
is idiotically dumb at moments when a word
would put everything right, and foolishly voluble
of explanations when explanations are no longer
called for. In real life, if not sent to an asylum,
she would be tied to the bed leg to keep her from
playing with the matches and biting the baby ; but
she is the heroine, and that fact consecrates all
her acts and scenes. The heroine can do no wrong.
The elderly parent usually dies early. He
adapts himself to being murdered in Act I. in a
most accommodating way, but while he survives
he lives at grotesque variance with his reputation
as an astute man of business. With two men to
choose from —a youth of flawless integrity and
an unspeakable villain —he invariably selects the
villain as his friend and confidant, while his mis-
trust of the hero, whose visible and glaring honesty
is almost a disease, and whom he loves with an
affecting tenderness, can only be excused as a
quaint form of monomania.
In this particular the comic servant is diamet-
rically opposed to the heavy parent. He knows
an honest man by instinct, and can identify a
villain as readily as a terrier sniffs out a rat.
Fortunately, however, he makes no particular use
of his gifts, otherwise the play could not possibly
go on. The liberties permitted to Court fools in
other times are extended to comic servants in bad
drama, and increased and multiplied. In point of
fact, the comic servant is the only really in-
fluential person in the play. The good characters
all defer to him ; the bad characters all fear him.
He it is who, when weary of trifling with human
lives, brings matters to a climax by confounding
the last device of the villain, and inducing the
assistant ruffian to exclaim : “Then I will tell all
I know !” and the sallow adventuress in a shabby
black cloak to confess everything that has been
plain to everybody for three acts past.
In the bad play the Law is always an ass, com-
mon-sense belongs to the fools, heroes are knaves,
and wisdom is sheer idiocy—in fact, topsy-
turvydom riots with an abandon that Gilbert did
not dare to approach in his travesties. Consider
its delicious “business.” When the villain,
having the heroine drugged, is about to destroy
her with a steam-hammer or a rolling-mill, he
prowls the stage, peering right and left (anything
to waste time), and hisses, “ Ha, ha ! the coast is
clear!’ while the comic servant, or the super-
numerary bad man, is staring him straight in the
face, so openly that the intruder can only be
ignored through a mental or optical derangement.
Again, when the wicked one, having the lady in
some inaccessible place, laughs a mirthless laugh
and sneers, his “ R’s ” in fine frenzy rolling : “ So,
my cold, proud beauty, you cannot escape me
now!” we know perfectly 7 well that that is the hero’s
cue to step through the brick wall, deal the air a
shocking blow that sends the villain sprawling,
and drape the heroine over his arm while the cur-
tain falls and the orchestra works up the general
excitement. There are scores of these familiar
situations, all screamingly funny to the student in
his right mind.
The delightful farcical quality of the truly bad
drama is attested by the fact that the play ceases
immediately the characters become commonly
rational. To finish his play, the author cracks his
finger and thumb, like the professional mesmerist,
cries “ Now you’re all right! ” and the whole fan-
tastical business is at an end. The men and
women wake up, blinking; they become sane
again ; they will no longer drink kerosene, eat
raw carrots, and carry themselves like asses. We
connoisseurs have enjoyed a feast of unreason,
but it is over. With fairly sensible men and
women to handle, the author is nonplussed. He
pairs his couples precipitately 7, and drops the cur-
tain on his fantastical world. It is a mad world,
my masters, but its madness makes for inex-
tinguishable mirth if you have eyes to see, and
ears to hear. May its creator live long to hold
his knotted mirror up to nature, and edify with
his reflections the distinguished members of the
Society for the Cultivation of Bad Plays !
SILAS SNELL.
Exceeding Small.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(~y WING round the motor cars to where
. \ The tall Australia stands —
V-/ The female bronzes light you there
To take the ladies’ hands—
And from your silver sovereign case
Slip out the careless gold —
The gay world, for a little space,
Is yours to have and hold.
Our home, it is a bonny place,
The hills and bush are near,
And picnic parties camp along
The water frontage here.
Our guardian is a kindly man,
To comfort and forgive—
For three of us are doomed to die,
And one is doomed to live.
There’s one of us—our hope and joy
Wlio’d thirty years of strife ;
He thinks he is a ‘‘naughty boy,”
And plays the part to life.
There’s one who cannot read nor write,
Yet studied ancient bards—
He seeks his fortune all day long
From endless rows of cards.
So “grind ” to win your high degrees
While runs the new world round,
And win the Chair / You’ll not be sunk
In wisdom more profound
Than some of us. We’re from all schools —
One’s an 31.J0. Alas 1 —
We bachelors, but not of Arts,
And widowers —of Dried Grass.
We’ve fought the merry fight where gaps
In firing lines grow wide
(And one of us is doomed to live
To tell how others died),
And one of us is doomed to grow
In gruesome terror old —
One, breathing, died two years ago,
And so the tale is told.
So prattle through your four o’clocks
And Thursday afternoons,
And never read the thing that shocks,
But toy with silver spoons,
And show your arms, so fair and white,
And coo and smile to please :
But I could write of things to-night
Woidd give you little ease.
We four can jest at little things,
We worry not at all;
We’re mortals whom the mills of God
Have ground exceeding small.
There’s one who’d, with his latest breath,
Keep black Depression out,
And he is doomed to die the death
We dare not write about.
There’s one who never lifts his eyes
And ne’er a word has said—
Our living dead lies still in bed
Till he is changed and fed.
There’s one on whom the Fear is set —
The jail presentiment;
Undrugged, he’s never rested yet,
And—he is innocent.
So lie abed, ye gentlemen,
And rest, ye ladies too.
While servants trained in voice and step
Bring breakfast in to you.
Then seek the Stock Exchange or Course,
The ball, or grand hotel —
There’s space for many and many a bed
In wards where we folk dwell.
The trained attendants glide about
To tend the “ paying guests ” ;
They drug the night with sleeping draughts,
We pass the day with jests—
Or brood or rave—or mouth and grin—
Or think and ply the pen—
For some of us are First, and some
Third Generation men.
Some pray all day who never prayed
And rise to no command
(Ah ! this, my children, is a song
That doctors understand).
We are the scapegoats of the world,
The wrongs the world shall rue;
We’re Freethinkers and Atheists
Who found the Bible true.
So speed your flying cars avid build
Your mansions strong and tall —
Be sure the mills of God will find
Avid grind exceeding small.
Though Man or Nation or the World
3lay dream and rave and doubt —
Ah God! the words are true: Be sure
Thy sins shall find thee out.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


*9
»
“ I was troubled greatly with
pimples on the face and neck,
which so-called blood medicines I
used did not remove. I then,
about two years ago, began with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and I have
not been troubled with the pim-
ples since. You can use this photo
and testimonial as you like.”
Miss B. Johnson, Adelaide.
Blotches, rashes, pimples, eczema, boils, are not sim-
ply signs of a little trouble on the surface of the body.
The real trouble is down deep in the blood itself.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
purifies the blood and brings back to the skin all its soft,
natural, and healthy condition.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Look
outfor imitations that will only disappoint you. Get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. O. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
FREE
NO
CARDEN SEEDS
V, _
%
Q
MONEY
WANTED
Tn order to introduce our JIIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS
1 into every home, wle are giving away prizes such as
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, SILVER WATCHES and
CHAINS, CAMERAS, RABBIT RIFLES, LADIES' MUFF
CHAINS, SOLID GOLD RINGS, JEWELLERY, etc., FREE
to the value of ONE THOUSAND POUNDS. All vou have
to do is to SEND US YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS and
we will forward you 24 assorted packets of our reliable
vegetable and flower seeds, such as TURNIP, LETTUCE,
CABBAGE TOMATO, WALLFLOWER, SWEET WILLIAM,
MIGNONETTE, GAILLARDIA, etc.: Sell the packets at 3d.
per packet, send ns our money (6/-) and we will send you by
return mail any present you may select from our grand list.
WE TRUST YOU—THE RISK IS OURS. Yo.u may return
the seeds if not sold, though you will find" the t*ask of selling
them ridiculously easy, for they are splendid value. Don’t
delay, SEND AT ONCE before our offer is withdrawn.
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co, 52 BOND ST SYDNEY, N SW.
fill Dt
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
iCUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without,
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
m
Each Capsule bears the name
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
neuralgia.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
T
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
4.11 Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
GOUT
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunea
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, Loudon, Eng.
FREE TRIALS!
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE OR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC BELT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico r
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Liver, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness, and all weakness of Men and Women.
We wifi give Free
son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper
dfg
COLORED
and
A &
POST CARDS.
df
GEND us your name and address, and we will forward you 12
packets, each containing 6 of our colored and high art POST
CARDS to sell for us, at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the
cards, return us our 6s. and we will send you for your trouble any
present you may choose from the list of jewellery which we forward
you. By continuing the sale of our cards, you can earn a LADY'S
or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and CHAIN, a PHOTO. CAMERA
loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES, GOLD RINGS LADIES’
GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT, RIFLES of faithful
workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Eadies’ or Gent’s
DRESSING CASES replete with every toilet requirement and
other exquisite and choice.prizes. WE TAKE ALE THE RISK
You can return the cards if not sold. We are the largest dealers
in post cards in Australia, and import our jewellery, or we could
not make you this liberal offer. Be the first in your district Our
post cards sell at once, wherever seen. We defy contradiction when
we assert that OUR PRIZES ARE SPEENDID VAEUE, and in
casepositi veiy as represented in our illustrations. SEND
NO MONEY. Your name and address are all we want.
IGOOO LUCK
REGAL POST CARD C?, 126 O'CONNELL ST,S> ONLY.
BEECHAM’S PILLS
do certain things better than any other medicine in
the world* It is important to bear in mind what those
things are in order to understand clearly the far-
reaching beneficial effects which these pills undoubtedly
exercise* Beecham's Pills, then, give tone to the
stomach, and ensure a sound digestion, entirely
remove biliousness, regulate the liver and bowels,
purify and enrich the blood, and, as a result,
permanently fortify the nervous system* They
ARE THE TRUE
pearls of health, and their possession is within the
powef* of rich and poor alike* If you feel headachy,
irritable, nervous, run-down, dyspeptic, have immediate
recourse to Beecham's Pills, which are composed of
medicaments that cannot harm you, but that must do
you good* Fight shy of the many new, so-called
remedies now-a-days very recklessly and speciously
advertised* Many of these, when not absolutely in-
jurious to health, are worthless, and are soon discarded
and dishonored* BEECHAM'S PILLS, on the other
hand, have achieved a splendid reputation, and for
three generations have proved themselves to be the
FRIENDS OF THE PEOPLE.
Prepared only by THOMAS BE EC HAM, St. Helens, England.
Sold Everywhere in Boxes, price 10y 2 d. (36 Pills),
Is. iy 2 d. (56 Pills), and 2s. 9d. (168 Pills),
Wr/L-
-a*®?,
THE“STEEL WINGS”
WINDMILL
is just the Mill for
IRRIGATION.
A 25ft. .diameter Wheel, with a 40ft. Toyver, costing:
£B6 55., will, with a fair wind, pump 13,000 gallons
per hour to a height of 40 feet, and
WILL IRRIGATE 7 ACRES OF LAND.
IRRIGATION increases the yield of the land fourfold,
therefore get a
“STEEL WINGS” WINDMILL,
and it will pay for itself in the first year and
leave a handsome profit.
NOW is the time to instal, as the Summer will
soon be here.
Catalogues and Estimates free on application.
Steel Wings Windmill Company, Ltd.
Department C, BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
‘ON THE HOP
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift*
men
NO
™o men
Dr. John Martin, M.D. & c .
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4,7 to 9 daily.
DR. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,”
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Ltd., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contain»4s92 Pages
Crown Bvo, over 500 Prescriptions, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting-, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering humanity afflicted with long-
standing, chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been mblished.
FREE
advertisement cut out.
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send
on receipt of this adversisement.
FREE OF CHARGE his sefc of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments”
fcir/Vo te Address
DR. MARTIN, M.D.,
Please mention this paper when writing.
“ Elm ley House,"
151 Elizabeth-st.,
HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


The “ WATERSHED”
This splendid Waterproof buttons over the side
and has a seamless front.
The sleeves are fitted with Elastic Cuffs if desired,
and the skirt is full, allowing plenty of leg-room.
When used for riding-, extra
buttons in front are employed,
and the skirt falls over both
sides of saddle. A special pleat
covers the back of the saddle
and ensures absolute protec-
tion.
The “ DUCONG ” WATER-
SHED costs 275. 6d. ; the
“RAINBOW,” a heavier quality,
225. 6d. We pay the car-
riage.
When ordering, quote your height and easy chest
measurement, and don’t forget to ask for our
Catalogue No. 17. It will interest you.
gd
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd.,
“The House for All Kubber Ooods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
fg
will clear the run in,
a few weeks. Now
used all oyerN.S.W.
SPRAYERS
will save a Pastoralist 10 per cent. of his
breeding ewes if sprayed before lambing.
TYREE LTD., 314 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above cut illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill ror
Mines or Quarries. Weight about ISlbs. Operated by com uessed air. consuming about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKIIiC PART— Strlotly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
SOLE AGENTS; W
• itaw— 1 - WW 9
•v '■ V/:;' v
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
Water 9
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
ENGINES
s+4
“ B”
Catalogue
SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
■
Rider,
Am
Spoons, Forks,
Pocket-Knives,
and Scissors
Celebrated
PLATE and
"<1 A P»K
The Beaver Brand has stood the test of time,
Am
07 I,
\^>o
At the Showrooms-
Empire Chambers, 93 York Street,
Also at SYDNEY
“ THE KLOCK:.'’
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
PROPRIETORS—
J. & Jo Maxfiefd, Ltd,, Sheffield
JOHN HURST & CO.,
WatchmaKers and Jewellers,
unter Street, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 5177.
r
IF YOU ARE THINKING of
installing Shearing Machines,
send us a note. We will quote
you a price by return of post,
and cover purchase of same
with liberal terms. DO
IT NOW. Things are busy
with us, and we want tcK give
you our Very Best Service.
OUR BUSINESS METHODS
WILL PLEASE YOU.
Mat-virtue
Head
Office:
MOFFAT-VIRTUE LIMITED,
VICTORIA : D. A. Skene, 464 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND : Federal Sheep Shearing Co. Ltd., Margaret Street, Toowoomba.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA : Federal Sheep Shearing(W.A.)Co. Ltd., Melbourne Road, Perth.
N2W ZEALAND : John Chambers & Son, Ltd., Auckland and Wellington.
7 Bent Street, SYDNEY
SHEEP
SHEARING
All our Agents carry
Stocks of Duplicate
Parts, Combs, Cutters,
Oil, Emery Cloth,
mmm
m
! '
s;, v
.
‘
m
f
11 .
A
•C-W:
I
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock.
v **
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide),
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED.
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application.
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles,”
nitnnun
Ete
- .1
in uua^
tiiiiiiiiiiiiiii;iiMi»i>in>i>iMi».mHmmr»>>niuiuiU]
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
Engineers & Machinery Merchants,
carry Large Stocks of
Modern Machine Tools,
Lathes, Radial Drills, Steam
Hammers, Shapers, Millers.
AGENTS FOR
AMERICAN TOOL WORKS CO., Cincinnati.
DEMPSTER, MOORE & CO., Glasgow.
mmmmm
:
ill
Combined WRENCH & SPANNER
Self-Adjusting—Self-Releasing.
fl ONE-HAND TOOL, AUTOMATIC.
STRONGEST, SIMPLEST, and BEST.
The Greatest
df
Johnston’s
Patknt.
ft Strictly High-Grade Tool.
One Set of Three forms a Complete Kit
of Wrenches and Spanners, }£in. to 2)4 in-
N. GUTHRIDGE, Ltd.,
Sole
Agents,
263 George Street, Sydney, and all Hardwafe Houses, j
