

A Word to the Wise is sufficient—“
JJ
&
107 Kent Street, Syc lney,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
SxjftU, Zr <£?
FOR MINING, MILLING,
PASTORAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL MACHINERY.
7 Bent Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
... AND ...
128 William St., Melbourne, vie.
HOBART,
fiadley’s Orient ptel.
PIONEER
I 1 —
LEATHER
BELTING
EVERY BELT GUARANTEED.
J.C. Ludowici & Son, York St., Sy
V
\
" Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTONS
Pine Apple firand I
dgdrdfg
CHUBB’S DIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
7lafjonaly
FIRE and MARINE
INSURANCE CO. OF N.Z.
Fully Subscribed Capital - - - £2,000,000.
Lowest Rates. Undoubted Security.
Prompt Settlements.
- ■ ... ■■ :
New South Wales Branch :
14 Spring' St., Sydney
(Opposite Head Office, Australian Mutual Provident
Society).
W. A. GIBB, Manager
Active Agents and Canvassers Wanted.
u
) THE SECRET OF ITS POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
TYRE TROUBLES
DISAPPEAR WHEN
YOU PURCHASE
PERSAN TYRES.
• J?
UW'
ONE PERSAN TYRE
WILL OUTLAST
TWO OF THE Y
ORDINARY KIND.
CO., 279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“LYSMCHT’S”
WIRE NETTING
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
LYSAGHT BROS. & CO. LTD.
39 PITT STREET, SYDINTEY.
Manufacturers of the Celebrated Loose Rolled Rabbit-Proof Wire Netting and Barb Wire (lowa Pattern).
“LYSAGHT’S”
BARB WIRE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
m
r fg
mm
IS
FOR
fgg df
WRITE
mmm
, SYDNEY.
,-n.urlint«»i
(i
FERRIER’S” Woolpresses
AUSTRALIA’S CHAMPION PRESSES
Will do more work in less time than any other Hand-Power Presses ii> existence. Strength, Speed and Durability combined.
Sole Makers — SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
HUMBLE & SONS,
GENERAL
ENGINEERS,
Vulcan Foundry, Geelong, Victoria.
Also largest makers in
Australia of Refrigerating and Ice-Making Machinery.
HELIDON SPA WATER.
A Table Water wbicb renders food
ff>i~mentation imnnsgihlft.
OO # NIIIOD
The Bulletin
Vol. 29.— N0. 1483. ]
[Thursday, July 16, 1908.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A NEW ART SERIES.
MASTERPIECES IN COLOR
A Series of Books on the World’s Masters, each
volume containing Eight Pictures, reproduced
in color by the most recent processes, giving an
almost facsimile of the original, together with a Monograph on the Artist by a writer of distinction.
NOW READY: Rossetti, Reynolds, Romney, Creuze, Turner, Velasquez, Botticelli, Raphael, Rembrandt,
Lord Leighton, Fra Angelico, Titian, Giovanni Bellini, Holman Hunt. Arriving Shortly: Tintoretto, Bernard-
ino Linni, Carlo Doici, Van Dyck, Whistler, Gainsborough, Burne-Jones, Rubins, Millet, Leonardo de Vinci
Frans Hals. PICTURE BOARDS, Size Bx 6 inches, 1/9, postage 3d,
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes”
PT an ideal remedy.
VWiDSO/V
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price t/6.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says-: “Proved to be effective bactericidally,
—as is creosote. ”
Unlike cough medicines, “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES"
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on receipt of
16 ,n Stamps.
G. HUDSON, Manufacturing Chemist, 5 ®. 7 Queen’s Place, Sydney-
THE RED PAGE
Letters from Queer-street
JH. M. Abbott, the Sydney press-
# man who wrote those excellent
Australian impressions of Tommy
Cornstalk and An Outlander in ."England,
is well on the way to be a great writer.
His latest book, Tetters from Q.ueer-street
(Bell), marks an advance on his ’prentice
work. He now takes his place as a
writer who has an individual standpoint,
a clear view of life, an artistic method.
His book is like nothing in English
literature; we must go to France or
Russia for his models. This is no novel,
but a series of letters written by an
Australian who finds himself “right
down to it ” in London, homeless and
starving, precariously existing in that
city of Stone. Herein he contrives to
give a picture of London that it is hard
to forget. John Mason is on the do\vn
grade, and he tells the sad story of his
gradual fall without self-pity, with philo-
sophy, with a stubborn pathetic humor.
At intervals, when he is temporarily in
funds—that is, when he has sixpence to
pay for- a night’s lodging, he writes these
letters to his friend In Australia. But
they are not letters for assistance. John
Mason, who went through the Boer war,
has too much pride to ask for aid. The
only address he gives is “ Queer-street,”
which he explains is essentially a resi-
dential locality, the only shops there
being pawn-shops. And there Mason
lives, often thinking of Australia.
At rare intervals I read an Australian
paper, and I always look up the weather
reports, to see whether there has been rain
out your way.
W
Qf Queer-street he. truly says :
Never was, and never will be, a falling
birth-rate amongst the people of the street.
Never will there be an empty dwelling or a
room unoccupied. If all the cities and the
towns of the world were to disappear,' there
would still remain some row of caves in the
chalk-cliff, leaky caves, probably along
some stretch of shore or river-side—mdst
likely bleak and barren enough ; or the
weather-side of some steep hill (the lee-side
would be barred to them), where God’s
reject would surely establish themselves in
all their flashness and pathos, squalor and
noisomeness, misery, and—yes —even hap-
piness.
Mason tells his friend how he came
to be “up against it” in the wealthiest
city in the world.. It began with being
kicked out of his club for a drunken
assault upon some person or persons un-
known—and the bitterest part of his
recollection of the affair is that he cannot
remember whom it was he assaulted.
There were one or two persons whom he
would have assaulted with zest. And,
once started on the down-grade, the rest
was easy.
There were duns, and then there were
letters, and then there were lawyers’ letters.
After them came writs, summonses, judg-
ments —the whole melancholy and sordid
procession of such things; Then there were
borrowings from friends; infernal lies to
friends ; the rupture of friendships that one
did not want ruptured ; cuttings in the
streets ; the wholesale exaggerations of half-
truths that somehow drifted back to one ;
“Not at homes ” that meant “ Not to you,
you rotter reproachful letters; nervous
jumps at the ringing of the front-door bell;
sleepless nights ; boose ; demoralisation;
loss of courage ; kickings out of lodgings—
in short, hell, Jimmy—complete hell,
vt/
So we have the picture of this wreck,
generally managing to preserve a passable
appearance, drifting about London, and
slowly silting down.
It is true that I am getting outrageously
tired of dry scones arid cocoa. Twice a day
those delectable foodstuffs have served me
in the light of a meal. The scone costs a
penny, and the cup of cocoa a halfpenny—
so you see, Jimmy, that a man can live for
3d. per diem in this poor man’s paradise of
London. Ido not think there is any other
food so filling at the price; but I can see
clearly that I shall have to curtail my ex-
travagant habit of smoking three penn’orth
r\ ‘.<V >. ‘J
of shag in the twenty-four hours, and add a
little to the menu. A sausage is fast becom-
ing a necessity. After the manner of our
country, I am ever beset with a craving for
meat foods. Yes, I must save up and buy
a sausage one of these days.
\t/
He has his moments of savage revolt,
starving in the midst of plenty.
I have gazed at the Monument, and pic-
tured myself in the cage at the top with a
magazine rifle and fifty cartridges. The
clearing of those busy city streets would be
a matter of minutes. How the shopmen and
bank-clerks, and stockbrokers and coster-
mongers, and cab-drivers and women, and
louts and loafers would run for cover ! Anri
when the streets and thoroughfares were
cleared, as far as they might be within my
range, it would be vastly entertaining to lob
some long shots westward that would drop,
as bolts from the blue, in Fleet-street or
Lincoln’s Inn. With the sight up to 2000
yards, you could make yourself unpleasant to
London over a wide area, and annoy it very
much. ... Of course they wouldn’t take long
to get hold of ofle, if they really meant it;
but I doubt whether many would be found
in the city to tackle the hazardous job.
They would probably decide to starve the
lunatic out. At any rate, lam sure one
would last for quite half or three-quarters of
an hour. It would be a very exciting half-
hour in the City of London, a very hell of a
time. One could imagine oneself laughing
at them, and singing out “Dance, you
devils ! I’ve been hungry amongst you, and
I hate you, »and it’s my turn now—damn
you ! ”
But London is safe enough. You couldn’t
get your rifle and your cartridges, and, if you
could, the first thing you’d do would be to
try and sell them for the price of a feed, and
even if you did nOt do so, your savage,
bloodthirsty imaginings are quite another
thing to their practice. Hunger makes you
savage enough at times, but it cows you too.
*
I have often wondered why the hungry
English bear their hunger so quietly, so sub-
missively, and with such an heroic fortitude.
But experience has convinced me that it is
neither fortitude nor submission, nor is
there anything particularly heroic about such
endurance. It is simply fear—the terrible
fear possessing starving human beings who
are a contemptible minority amongst a well-
fed majority—that controls them, and keeps
them down, and amenable to law, and
slavishly obedient to its administrators.
And that fear is not the simple natural
manifestation of the instinct of self-preserva-
tion, such as you and I have often experi-
enced, say, under shell fire. It is not the
sub-conscious dread controlled by cerebral
or vertebral regions—the mere healthy dis-
taste for the unknowability of death,
the animal dislike for extinction. It
is a dreadful something that comes from a
chronically empty stomach, from a semi-per-
manent feebleness of heart-beat, from a
weariness of brain and nerve, and from,
above all, an innate consciousness of the
sheer despicableness of the state of starva-
tion.
However sullenly angry starvation in the
midst of plenty will make a man, he is,
nevertheless, involuntarily conscious of his
own inferiority to those about him who are
well-fed. . . . And it is this sense of fear of
the efficients —for their qualities of effici-
ency, rather than for their numerical strength
—that keeps him from active revolt. To
put it coarsely, he knows that he “hasn’t
the guts ” for it—and such a consciousness
makes him afraid, cows him, holds him back,
and leaves him to “ stew in his own juice.”
A man may be a man, but a starved man is
only a quarter of a man—and he knows it.
9
So, inevitably, through ill-health, the
results of exposure, comes the final break-
down. No longer did policemen and
park-keepers reply with a “ sir,” when he
addressed them—“ a thing I often did,
simply to test my apparent status in their
regard.”
As a picture of lower London by a clear-
eyed Australian this book is admirably
done. It should be read by everyone
who contemplates trying his literary luck
in London. Abbott may do great things.
Gorki
Drunkenness, cruelty and misery form
the sordid background of the modern
Russian novel; and from the perusal of
the works of Tolstoi, Merejkowski and Gorki
the Australian reader receives the impres-
sion of a people yet in the birth-throes of
civilisation. There is evident in this race of
white men a large capacity for the endurance
of suffering. The Russian army can with-
stand defeat after defeat, and yet remain
unconquered ; the Russian peasant stoically
survives incredible oppression ; but the
yeast of modernity fermenting in that
vast, unconscious mass ; and Gorki’s novel
shows the nation slowly and with immense
difficulty finding itself.
Comrades (Hodder and Stoughton, per
Sydney Book Club) tells quietly and without
heroics of the life of the Russian Socialist.
It is a terrible story of oppression, sordid
and depressing, a mean picture painted with
niggling little strokes. The narrative is
dull, long, slow, composed, as it were, with
infinite pains, and enveloped in an atmosphere
of inevitability. Gorki shows the intimate
life of the revolutionists, their matter-of-
fact acceptance) of the dangers of their
struggle, their prosaic heroisms, their in-
evitable defeats, their quiet devotion to
their inchoate and frequently contradictory
ideals. But, implicitly, the book shows
more. Though ending in a tragedy, it pos-
tulates, with a kind, of saddened hopeful-
ness, the ultimate triumph of the revolu-
tionist ideal. The characters in the book
accept martyrdom as an ineradicable consti-
tuent of the larger plan ; and that dumb
courage and that fatalistic idealism are to be
murdered neither by ukase nor knout.
\t/
Of the life of a revolutionist, and his accept-
ance of it, Gorki speaks with a quiek com-
mon-sense that is more impressive than any
frenzied indictment.
“ ‘Life is, not made very easy for us, I
admit. There, for instance, is the case of a
friend of mine who returned a short while
ago from exile. When he went through
Novgorod, his wife and child awaited him in
Smolensk, and, when he arrived at Smolensk,
they were already in prison in Moscow.
Now it’s the wife’s turn to go'to Siberia.
To be a revolutionary and to be married is
a very inconvenient arrangement —incon-
venient for the husband, inconvenient for
the wife, and, in the end, for the cause also !
I, too, had a wife, an excellent woman, but
five years of this kind of life landed her in
the grave. . . . Well, let’s get down to
business.’ •/.
“His voice changed and his face grew
more serious. He asked questions about
the way in which the mother intended to
smuggle the literature into the, factory. ...”
“There is life for you, mother. You see
the position in which people are placed
toward each other. You don’t want to, but
you must strike! The police, the gendarmes,
the soldiers, the spies—they a,re all qur
enemies, and yet they are all such people as
we are. Their blood is sucked out of them
just as ours is, and they are no more regarded
as human beings than we are. But they
have set one part of the people against the
other, blinded thpm with fear, bound them
all hand and foot, squeezed them, and
drained their blood, and used some as clubs
against the others. They’ve turned men
into weapons, into sticks and stones, and
called it civilisation, government. . . . And
why ? They stifle everybody and everything
to death merely to keep the timber of their
houses secure, their furniture, their silver,
their gold, their worthless papers—-all that
cheap trash which gives them control over
the people. Think, it’s not for their own
selves, for their persons, that they protect
themselves thus, but for the sake qf their
possessions. They do not guard themselves
from within, but from without.”
For an understanding of the aims of the
Russian, this book demands to be read.
An Australian Novel.
Thomas Bailey Clegg has mastered the
formula of the novel; and with three excel-
lent works to his credit— The Love Child,
The Wilderness, and (now) The Bishop’s
Scapegoat (Lane)—he may be presumed to
have learnt his trade. His latest novel
marks an advance in constructive power,
evidencing a closer interknitting of his plot
texture, a more artistic elimination of the
obvious. Yet this yarn of Noumea and
Queensland is not a great novel. It is just
an interesting and dramatic story well told.
One does not divine behind it, as in all
great works, something more grandiose than
narration. But to demand this is to ask
for a work of genius. Clegg’s novel is
not in the same class as For the Term of His
Natural Life, but it is a novel worth
reading. The author has a cleverly con-
structed plot ; and his artistic treatment of
the main situation shows a nice dis-
crimination ; for the question between the
Bishop of Capricornia and his scapegoat, a
convict in Noumea, is which of the two really
murdered a useless rascal. The clergyman,
in self-defence, half-strangled him; then,
passion overpowering him, he strangled him
some more, and left him. The scapegoat, a
doctor, who had every reason for the death
of the rascal, finds the man dying. Pos-
sibly he might have been able to revive
him. He does not make the attempt ;
he is observed leaving the room, tried,
convicted, and transported for life.
Thus both men are probably guilty of
murdering the same man—at different inter-
vals of time. For both might have saved
him. Thus the question of guilt is finely
poised.
v!/
There is in The Bishop’s Scapegoat much
adventure, and some delightful portraits of
charming characters. Tire boasting Cacalouch
is a true Stevensonian rascal, and “ the
Madame,” with her abounding figure, her
great heart, and her philosophy of matrimony,
is delightful.
‘ ‘ But you may ’ave a sight too much
cleanliness. There’s poor .Priscilla ’Unterat
Werriwa, who suffers from nervous frustra-
tion, and, my dear, it’s sorry I am for
Edward ’Unter, ’er lawful ’usbancl. There
isn’t any dust in that ’ouse, and there isn’t
any kind of natural ’appiness. There are
no flies on Priscilla either, for she’s always
catching them with saucers of fly-papers and
little cages of colored paper. Fleas, too !
She makes them ’op right enough. .. .
Edward, when ’e’s at ’ome lives mostly out-
side. ’E isn’t allowed to smoke inside on
account of the curtains, and if ’e drops a
dead match on the floor she gets the dust-
pan. They’ve one little girl, and Priscilla
’as just cleaned all the life out of ’er. I’ve
seen that child look at a puddle with a
longing that would break your ’art.”
It is evident from this novel that T. B.
Clegg will write many good novels of Aus-
tralia. E 2.
The Simple Life
Clean up and breakfast. Telephone to say
Surgeon-Superintendent called out. (I am Missis-
belong-Hospital.) Nine o’clock, wards, soldiers,
The poll for the Laureate of Australasia
closes on July 18 ; but unless there is a
large accession of votes received before that
date, the poll will regretfully be declared
invalid as being too small to be fairly repre-
sentative Of the choice of the bards of Aus-
tralasia. The position of the leading candi-
dates is unchanged from last week.
A Mottled
Day.
and some civilians ; Japs with
“banzai” and beri-beri, mostly on
the mend. The rest—Malays, Ma-
nilas, Chinese, Polynesians, Binghis
and Papuans, sick of mystic maladies. Inter-
viewed Javanese cook. Advised Malay house-boy
on domestic details. (His fiancee’s husband has ;
only stayed away one year. He wanted to know,
weepfully, if he married her would they 0 Thank-
youplease” put him prison. Thought so.) And
then to outdoor. Interpreted chits. One was :
‘‘Dear Sir, —Please kindly supply this bearer
a madacine full in this bottle for l am very mach
cough and moist a month ago and I feel a little
better now. Matsuda Mkomatsu. \
AM expecting to take care of my health in it
hospital.”
Admitted some patients, amongst them a
pourri-pourri (evil eye). Yarned with .lap man
about their fleet (maybe he’s an admiral)..
“ Yes,” he oozed, oilily, “we take of everything
the best—the German army, the English navy,
the French arid German science.”
“And when,” 1 asked, “do you take Aus-
tralia ? ”
“Not yet.” V _.. 'j
Thence to dispensary to make riiedicines. “ Kai-
kai” (lunch). Morq wards, and books to do.
Tvyentv minutes shut-eye. Then clad me in long-
tailed linen and went}, a soul-scratching. Home
through town track. ITowir being a long, low
line of street, malodorous. Herding it, cloven
roofs, canned. From yshop-sheds slink humans,
sleek, slat-eyed, mongol. It is hot. Occult
corks creak, and brawny stinks climb through the
keyhole. Color curse) screams.) Found some
Guinea chicks (Papuan,■&) waiting to make cobba-
cobba—which is melody made manifest. They
did Fish-song, and “Me.” (Theme
of “ Me ” : “ Missis, miSsis, plenty plenty Missis,
plenty plenty tobao; plenty plenty mashes.”)
Then they lifted feet like fenders, and danced.
Gave them tobao and matches. Mamoose gave
me a crab-claw necklace. V
Ate. A flash of fir 1-flies came round the
coiner. It resolved into (ambulance wheeled by
gesticulating Japs; illu, hinant. Inside lay a
littlo;gay lady whose love.-rhad cast a lamp. She
was burned, brutally, but\ stolidly sighed—“No
savee.” i
Nine-thirty—lights out. q
Got into glad garb and lined me Government
house ward. To meet a neighboring Administrator
and coriiscant guests. }
Had a lovely time. Home by the witching
hour. Sat on the step and ( absorbed —aeons of
blue, boundless—and, more sc\ith-east, a sough in
the palms. King tide foam-flecked at my feet.
Tom-toms throbbing on “ Hoi\n,” —and Above
arid Beyond a glory-haze of stW-shihe. Bed.
Through my sleep crept, “ Missia, pourri-pourri
bucka-up.” I stumbled into ward.
Saiape (evil-eyed by an enemy in the Ellice
group) was spread on the floor. “ W. N at
“Three O’Clock I finish.” “This one Four
O’Cldek.” (It was not; but it was Bluff Silence.
“No good finish (die) now, I go sleeps I tired,”
O’Clorik I finish.” They waked' me just
before. At six he finished.
A weird day. Fully filled. But this ia the
Edge. And Different.
SIDNBY S. SEVERN.


*
a
TIP-TOP
ANTHONY HORDERNS' Famous Low Prices*
Barnes’ Upright Drill.
if..
Barnes’ Nz. Upright Drill, £34
With Combination Lever, Automatic Stop, and
grand Self-Feed ; weight, 9761 b.
A strong, stiff, and thoroughly well made drill; high-grade in
every respect. Spindle fitted for No. 3 Morse taper ; roller
bearing for spindle thrust. Positive Self-Feed, with four changes
of feed. 22£in. swing. Height, 74in. ; diameter of column, fifin. •
diameter of spindle, 1 11-16 in. ; vertical travel, 12in. ; diameter of
table, 18in. ; from spindle to table, 26in, •; diameter of large pulley
in cone, lOin. ; diameter of small pulley in cone, 4in. ratio of
back gearing, 5£ to 1; floor space required, 52 x 19in.; belt
required, 2£in. ; fast and loose pulleys, 10 x 3Jin. Countershaft
should make 200 revolutions per minute. Back geared.
The above Drills are fitted with quick return Lever for spindle.
SCREWING MACHINE
*
Green River Bolt Thread Cutter, Nut Tapper
and Pipe Threading- Machine, for Bench!
Machine complete with Taps, Dies in Collets for Bolts
i, 5-16, if, 7-16, f, f, |, 1, l|, Ij, If, and inch ; also
for Bipe with adjustable Dies in Collet (right hand)
i, 1, I£, and 2 inch, <£3B.
Weight, packed ready for shipment, 4cwt. Oqrs. 21b.
The same Drill filled for power, £42 10s.
Extra steel dogs are attached to the vice to secure large smooth
pipe which might sometimes siip into the jaws. These are both
made to cut exact Whitworth threads.
CUSHMAN’S Celebrated CHUCKS.
3 Jaw Universal, with Two Sets cf Jaws—
-4 5 6 74 9 10| 12 15 inch
42/- 56/- 67/6 77/6 92/6 102/5 112/- 150/-
4 Jaw Universal, with Two Sets of Jaws—
-3 4 5 C 74 9 10£ 12 15 inch
42/- 51/- 60/- 77/6 80/- 100/- 111/- 126/- 160/-
4 Jaw Independent, Reversible Jaws—
- 4i h 8 10 12 15 18 24 inch
41/- 52/- 64/- 75/- 87/6 102/6 125/- 185/-
Star Screw Cutting
Engine Lathe.
New Model Lathe fitted with Treadle and with Compound Rest.
The Lathe has a 9in. swing, and is invaluable for light Manufacturing,
Toolroom, Experimental, Laboratory, Technical School, and Repair
Work, where accaracy, durability, and convenience are essential.
No. 1. —The Star Screw Cutting* Engine Latlie,
Treadle, with Compound Rest.
Will cut threads from 3 to 64, without combination, and by combining
the gears, almost any thread required.
mod^
■
1
lmproved Self-acting, Sliding,
Surfacing, and Screw - cutting
Lathes, fitted with powerful double-
geared headstocks, steel spindle
running in_ conical or parallel gun
metal bearings. Reversing motion
for cutting right- and left-hand
screws, for sliding in either direc-
tion at will, without the use of an
extra stud in quadrant. The Guide
Screw is accurately cut and full
length of bed, fitted with double
clam nut to clip screw at top and
bottom, the nuts self-compensating
for wear in the thread ; quick hand
traverse by rack, pinion and double
purchase wheel thereby being under
easy and ready control. The bed
is accurately planed and surfaced,
fitted on standards, and provided
with movable bridge piece or gap,
compound slide rest adjustable for
surfacing and turning conical, tra-
versing steady stay. Loose head-
stock can be made to move sideways
for conical turning when ordered,
self-acting, sliding and surfacing
motion by backshaft, independent
of guide Screw. 22 Change wheels,
one face plate, one catch plate, index
plate, screw keys, overhead motion,
cone countershaft, hangers, fast and
loose pulleys complete. Gearing
and all change wheels turned and
cleaned by Tooth Cleaning Machine.
Maude & Turner’s Gap Bed Lathes.
Centre
These Lathes are all fitted with
PRICE.
£ s. d.
51 10 O
54 5 O
74 O O
91 10 O
109 5 0
125 7 6
Countershaft, included in
WEIGHT.
Cwt. qr. lb.
21 1 0
22 '3 0
38 0 0
43 3 0
64 0 0
76 1 0
price.
The Star Power Saw
95/-
Price includes six Saw Blades.
This Machine is designed for cutting
iron and steel any size up to 4| inches in
diameter, and any shape that can be held
in the vyce. It also cuts piping. We do
not claim great speed in cutting, but metal
can be cut much more rapidly in this
Machine than can be done in a Lathe or
Planer, or by heating and cutting with a
Blacksmith’s Hack, and at a trivial cost.
By its use a good percentage of metal is
saved, as the pieces cut are left smooth,
and no labor or metal is lost in squaring
up, as in the case after heating and cutting
with the Hack.
For Brass work or thin tubing our blades
with 23 points will prove most satisfactory.
Ordinary stock has 14 points.
.'JTT.-;.'
Ding Dong or Star Hack Saw Blades
With 14 or 23 points—
Length of Blade 6 7 8 9 10 11
Per dozen 2/- 2/3 2/6 2/9 3/- 3/6
Lach ... -/2i -12 h -13 -/3 -/8i -/4
Disstons Hack Saw Blades—
-8 ' ' • 10
12 inch
4 1-
-m
12 inch
Cleveland Twist Drill Ce.’s Celetrated
High-Speed Twist Drills
For use with Drilling Machines—
i 5-16 f 7-16 9-16 § 11-16 § inch
4/- 5/- 5/6 6/- 7/- 8/- 9/9 11/- 13/- each
13-16 i 15-16 1 11-16 1J 13-16 1* inch
14/- 17/- 20/- 21/- 24/- 28/8 32/- 33/- each
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Rricßfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


MBIT
and other
SKINS;
A'so BUTCHERS’ PRODUCE, send to
Winchcombe, Carson & Co., Ltd.
SYDNEY'S ABLEST and MOST ENERGETIC SALESMEN.
New Zealand Loan & Mercantile Agency Co.
rr
SYDNB "ST.
WOOL, PRODUCE and GRAIN BROKERS,
FAT and STORE STOCK SALESMEN.
All Consignments of SHEEPSKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, and MARSUPIAL SKINS
are carefully attended to by our staff of highly efficient EXPERTS, who pay special attention
to weighing;, classing, and disposing to very best advantage. Account Sales rendered promptly.
Exceptional facilities are offered by this Company to WHEAT growers for free storage of
their grain. Full particulars will be furnished on application.
Agents in N.S.W. for the McNally Steel Patent “ GRIP DROPPER.”
Will Anprape « BOOKS.
ŕd gdf
Dr. Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248 pages, 400
colored plates and engravings, 7/6
posted. Dr. Faulkner’s Original
Book op Nature, 1908 Edition, 4/-.
Up-to-date Comic Reciter, 1/-. Irish
Comic Reciter, 1/-. Billiard Marker’s
Yarn and six other recitations, Bd.
King Koko, Conjuring Instructor,
1/3. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/-.
Ready-made Speeches and Toasts, 1/-
How MoDougall Topped the Score, 1/3. Lover’s
Letter Writer, 1/-. Boccacio's Decameron, 2/6.
Heptamkron, 2/6. Bride of tiie First Night, 1/3.
That Bascal Gustave, 1/3. Love Under the
Tiles, 1/3. My Neighbour Raymond, 1/3. Marion-
Bill Edwards, 1/3. Percy Ramage, 1/3. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3. New Tricks with Coins,
1/-. New Tricks with Cards, 1/-. Magic Up-to-
Datb, Easy Tricks, 1/3. Knotting and Splicing
Ropes and Cordage, 1/3. How to Mesmerise, 1/-.
Astrology, 1/-. Fruits op Philosophy, 1/-. Mid-
wives’ Handbook, 90 illustrations, 2/10. Forbidden
Fruit, 2/-. Reynold’s Court of London Series, 2/-.
Bootmaking and Repairing, 1/3. How to Be-
come a Clairvoyant, 1/6. Every Man His Own
Builder, 1/6. Camille, 1/-. Gay Life in Mel-
bourne, 1/-. Queen of Slums, 1/-. Melbourne
Barmaid, 1/-. Wife’s Guide and Friend, by Dr.
Warren, 1/2. Socialism and Agriculture, lOd.
Socialism and Religion, lOd. Bases of Socialism,
lOd. Kreijtzer Sonata, 1/3. Zingara Gipsy
Fortune-Telling Cards, with full directions, 1/-;
posted, 1/3. Manning’s Great Horse Book, 10/6.
Ladies’ Paradise, and all Zola’s, 1/6 each. How
to Dance, 1/-. Dance Cards, Figures of Sets,
4d. Letter Writer, 1/-. Etiquette of Court-
ship and Marriage, 1/-. Ideal of French Art,
five parts, 2/- each. Scientific Wrestling, 1/3.
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. How To Box, 1/-. Ferrets and
Ferreting, 1/3. Poultry-Keeping, 1/-. Dream
Book and Fortune Teller, 1/3. True Story
Kelly Gang, 1/3. Australian Bush ranging, four
parts, 1/3 each. Botany Bay, 1/3. Smiler Hale’s
Novels, Bd. each.
ANY BOOK YOU WANT.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
PLEASE MENTION THIS PAPER WHEN ORDERING.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
r g
m
TARGET practice with U. M. c.
.22 Cartridges is a pleasure.
When your aim is true you hit
the bull’s-eye. With inferior car-
tridges there is always a discouraging
doubt whether the cartridge or your
eye is at fault. Improve your shooting
by using U. M. C. .22s and insist on
getting them. Sure fire, accurate,
powerful.
Sold by reliable dealers.
The Union Metallic Cartridge Company,
Bridgeport, Conn., U. S. A.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
TOOTH & CO., Limited.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £900,000.
Our ALES & STOUT
In Bulk and Bottle are universally acknowledged
TO DEFY COMPETITION.
WINES rhe Bat only °’ SPIRITS.
MANUFACTURERS OF MINERAL WATERS, CORDIALS, &c.
Kent Brewery, SYDNEY.
TAILOR-MADE f* n
CORSETS.
The most stylish and perfect corset shape
C.B.
*3) &
tO*S ITS
w
ever created.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets bear the seal of
Public Approval, and render other corsets
ordinary and antiquated. They are worn by up-
wards of Haifa Million Smart Women in Europe,
• and have been hailed by the Leading Fashion
Experts as the Lightest, Daintiest, and most
elegant corsets extant.
C.B. Tailor-Made Corsets are Light as Air,
yet they are guaranteed to outlast two ordinary
corsets.
A Single Trial is sufficient to Convince every
woman of the immense superiority of C.B.
Tailor-Made Corsets over ail other types.
Obtainable in 50 types, at prices ranging
From 8/11 to 4 Guineas
OBTAINABLE IN ALL STYLES FROM ALL
PROGRESSIVE STOREB.
If any difficulty in procuring the correct
style write to :
J. E. NEWPORT, SONS & Co., Fllnder’g Lane, MELBOURNE.
» „ Barrack Street, SYDNEY, or
J. BUNTING, Central House,
Hobson Street, AUCKLAND.
THE FINAL TOUCH
OF PERFECTION.
(erebos
Salt
Agents —
Harrison <Sc Attwood,
Sydney.
WE ARE ONTHE SPOT
with Crystaiate Bieliard Bales
(" m
Y/A,
flik
mk
The •
Only
Subsiifufe
for •
Ivory
r ALCOC/f & C? PtjrMd-
£UZAB£TffST
ME LB.
The Crystalate
Billiard Ball . .
is positively truer than ivory,
is as near as possible the same
weight, and will improve your
game 20 per cent. It is the
same color right through and
will last three times as long as
its expensive rival. It has now
been admitted to championship
rank, and the world’s greatest
“ Knights of the Cue ” freely
admit its superiority.
J£>
Sydney Showrooms—
-422 GEORGE STREET
&
No OtHer is Good
Enough For You ...
The full, rich, ORGAN-LIKE TONES of the
World’s Best Accordion,
“The MEZON”
will while away many a pleasant hour for you.
“THE MEZON” ACCORDION is Artistically
Designed and Beautifully Finished. Awarded
SILVER and GOLD MEDALS at Antwerp
and Leipzic.
PRICES : As illustrated, 42/- ; others, 30/-,
35/-, £3/3/= and £4/10/-. Guaranteed 12
months. Carefully packed and forwarded
anywhere.
WRITE FOR YOURS TO-DAY.
Splendid Illustrated Catalogue of Musical In-
struments of all descriptions mailed Free
on request.
E. LYONS
Sole Agent, 256 BOURKE STREET.
MELBOURNE.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
Forwarded
NEW SERIES, IV., V.,
Post Free to any Address.
SPECIAL RATES TO AGENTS.
VI.
Is. PacKet of 12.
lOd. „ 10.
99


This elder brother
evidently knows
how to play
doctor, in real
earnest. He
knows about |
Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. His
mother told
him. Her
mother told
her, and her
grandmoth-
er’s mother
told her
mother. It’s
the one stand-
m
Mg,
ard cough medicine for children.
Mijer’s
'Cherry 9eetoral
is entirely free from narcotics or
poison of any kind. It is the great
remedy the world over for colds,
coughs, croup, whooping-cough,
influenza, la grippe, and all bron-
chial complaints.
Accept no substitute or cheap
and worthless imitation. Be sure
you get Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Put up in large and small bottles.
Prepared by Dr. i. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S-A.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
f
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
h i ghes\ on /r , ad°e n MßAD ay8 ’ °«
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each dia*
trict. Large loroflt*
easily made. Write a. once, using sufficient postage.
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO.. .jm LIVERPOOL.
IF you don’t read THE LONE HAND you
can’t keep current with Australian Art,
letters, and music : and you’ll miss many brilliant
stories and sketches. Send in a year’s subscription
(125.) to the office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
“My little daughter, Maude,
aged 4! years, was very ill with
bronchitis, whooping
COUGH
and pneumonia, and we had
MAUDE CAIRNCROSS
little
hope of
her re-
covery.
The doc-
tor re-
commen-
ded
Scott's
Emul-
sion and
within a
few days
I noticed
a great
improve-
m e n t;
she be-
gan to eat heartily, and a week
after was able to leave her bed
—altogether a different child.
She likes Scott’s.”
(Mrs.) E. Cairncross
Spring Street, Rockdale, N.S.W. 2/8/07.
Above is the Proof in the Facts.
Here is Proof in the Reason Why :
SCOTT’S is the o»ly emulsion in the
world which is manufactured by the
original perfected SCOTT process, of
the finest possible materials. This
makes SCOTT’S intensely nourishing
ani very digestible, with the result
that it passes quickly into the system,
healing the weak spots and making
the whole body strong. Therefore,
when purchasing, do not ask for
“ Emulsion; ” ask for and get
SCOTT’S
Emulsion
—the difference between them means
a cure for you!
See “ the Fishman with the Fish ” on
every package. Of all Chemists and
Dealers in medicines.
IRISH
3
MOSS
WILL CURE THAT . . .
Hacking Cough,
Troublesome Cold, &
Annoying Influenza
Asthma, Bronchitis, Consumption.
Mssnp 1
DON’T BUY IMITATIONS
THE BEST NATURAL APERIENT WaiuK.
HunyadJ Janos
For CONSTIPATION.
Professor D. LAMBL, of Warsaw, Professor of Clinical Medicine at the University, writes
“ Hunyadi Janos Bitter Water, besides being an excellent general aperient,
has proved specially efficacious in the treatment of chronic constipation,
venous obstruction and congestion, haemorrhoids and obesity.”
Average Dose :—A wineglassful before breakfast , either pure or diluted with a
similar quantity of hot or cold water.
CAUTION.
Note the name “Hunyadi Janos,” the signature of the Proprietor.
ANDREAS SAXLEHNER, and the Medallion, on the Red Centre Par
of the Label.
GREASELESS BULLET CARTRIDGES
Conical, ball
sH£i>
v mi I m^^
SMOKELESS POWDER
By doing away with the lubrication on the bullet,
one of the prime causes of the deterioration of the
powder is removed, and the accuracy, reliability
and keeping qualities of the cartridges greatly
increased. It also prevents fouling of the bar-
rel and working parts; and the cartridges are
much cleaner to handle. Winchester Grease-
less Bullets are made of a special alloy, which
gives exceedingly satisfactory results. A trial
of Winchester .22 Short, .22 Long, .22 Long
Rifle, .22 Winchester, .22 Winchester Auto-
matic Rimfire or B. B. Caps, Conical Smoke-
less Powder Cartridges will convince you of
the value of Winchester Greaseless Bullets.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS.
EIGHT YEARS SUFFERING
A PERMANENT CURE.
THE CASE OF MRS. A. WEAVER.
BY A SYDNEY REPORTER.
No one can tell the self-denying work which
good men have done in the early days of this
country, neither can we exaggerate the nobleness
of spirit which animates present-day people in a
desire to ameliorate distress as much as lies in their
power. Therefore, the public should be informed
of some of these efforts, one of which was made by
Mrs. Alice Weaver, of No. 7 Louis Street, Redfern,
who replied to the reporter by saying :
“ About this time last year I was living in
ielopea Street, and it was just before I left there
for this place that X was fortunate in casting’ aside
a complaint that had worried me for no less than
eight years What a fearful life of suffering mine
had been all that time, to be sure, and to think that
nothing in the world could benefit me made my
spirits droop lower than they will ever be again,
I hope.’
What made you think that nothing could
benefit you ? ’ queried the writer.
I arrived at that conclusion because nothing
had done me good so far, and I believe I tried
e y?. r J medicine going. At the time my second
child was born. I was under a doctor, who did
everything he could for me, but still my health re-
mained as bad as it could be. Indeed, at that
period I was nearly dead with indigestion, al-
though I dieted myself and did all that could be
done to keep my torments in check. It was of no
avail, though, for when I ate anything I could
hardly breathe owing to a feeling which came like
a lump in my chest, from which place a sharp pain
went right through to the centre of my shoulders.
1 then remained in the utmost agony until the food
was vomited up again, after which I felt so ex-
hausted that I could not think of doing a thing in
the house until I had had a good rest. It would
surpriseyouif you only knew how poor my appetite
wjis. You would wonder how anyone could keep
alive with it, and as for my head, oh, my sufferings
with it were awful. The most piercing pains at
onetime, and the most depressing aches at another.
Really, I think it was a marvel how I kept my
senses with the agony I endured in the head ; and
it s strange that I did not meet with many a nasty
accident through the giddiness which used to over-
take me. I was a misery to mvself and everybody
around me, and to tell you the nonest truth I never
thought I would live through it all. My eyes used
to feel heavy enough to drop out of their sockets,
and I was affected in the mouth by such a bitter
taste that it made me feel sick of a morning, after
putting in the usual restless nights that had done
much towards making a wreck of me. Even in the
daytime I was alwaysimagining something terrible
was going to happen, and these were just the very
things that Clements Tonic, which I commenced to
take, showed itself to be the master of; for it gent
such a vigor through my frame, when I had been
taking it a couple of weeks, that I could not help
feeling joyful in the belief that at last my health
had taken a beneficial turn. I got more Clements
Tonic, and as each bottle was finished, so did my
prospects improve, for I commenced to take my
meals with a degree of heartiness which astonished
my people as much as it pleased them ; and to my
own satisfaction and delight theformer discomforts
attending my meals were quickly out of existence.
Oh, dear, what a changed woman I am now to then.
My limbs do not ache from weakness like they
formerly did, and I can go about my work as
cheerfully and as actively as any housewife in the
country. Ido not spend any restless nights now;
never dream during my sleep, and the pains that
used to abound have long since been driven away
from every part of my body. Well, Clements
Tonic made me the healthy woman I am, and for
the sake of other sufferers I trust you’ll publish
this interview in any way you think fit.”
STATUTORY DECLARATION.
I, Alice Weaver, of Vo. 7 Louis Street, Redfern, in the
State of New South Wales, Commonwealth of Australia,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have carefully
read the annexed document, and that it contains, and is
a true and faithful account of my illness and cure by
Clements Tonic, and also contains my full permission to
publish in anyway my statements, which Igive voluntary,
without receiving any payment, and I niase this solemn
declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true,
and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act, 1900.
(Signed) ALICE WEAVER.
Subscribed and declared at Redfern, this sixth day of
September, one thousand nine hundred and four, before
*ne. L. BREARLEY. .
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The White Squadron.
Over the seas they’re tramping now,
Tossing the foam to spray,
Lifting white each thundering bow—
The ships of the U.S.A.
White are they, as the lily’s white,
On the deep Pacific blue,
And a glad song’s echoing day and night
From every thrashing screw.
Night and day, they swing and soar,
Churning the miles astern,
“Peace,” they’re singing, “Peace—or WAR,”
At every engine-turn.
Deep they ride, their guns ride low,
And a long, long course they steer,
For the Yellow Man must learn to show
Respect for his betters here.
Their guns are housed and their lamps are trimmed
Beneath the starlight clear,
The squadron white are as shadows limned—
Shadows of death and fear.
A bugle wails and a trumpet cries,
A hoarse voice breaks the gloom.
Sudden, a licking flame replies
From a hard-fired furnace-room.
This is the might of America,
The fist which is mailed with steel,
Welded at Philadelphia,
Each to its living keel.
The grey fleet palters and plays with Time,
While the yellow ships presume ;
But the ships that are white as the frosted rime
Are making the East give room.
Over the seas they’re tramping now,
Down to a White Man’s land
To clink the glasses and sigh, “ Here’s how !”
And know that we understand
The thing they’ve learned and proved aright—
' That the races will not blend,
That black is black, and white is white,
And shall be to the end.
A bugle calls and a trumpet cries,
A hoarse voice breaks the gloom ;
Tip to the stars a red spark flies
From a hard-coaled furnace-room :
“ Men of Australia, build your ships—
Ships to guard your home ;
Make them strong, with cruel lips;
And paint them white as foam ! ”
Maoriland.
WILL LAWSON.
The Men The Dingoes Buried.
No monuments above them rear,
No graving false and florid,
No more the madding thirst they fear —■
The men the dingoes buried.
The scattered tooth-scarred bleaching bones
By wind and wild things carried
O’er plain and scrub are graveyard stones
Of men the dingoes buried.
And as in life in death again,
Not lingering nor flurried,
Entombed they lope across the plain—
The men the dingoes buried.
Comes to me on nights drear and lone,
From desolation hurried.
The wild dogs’ wailing monotone
For men whom they have buried.
And when at Gabriel’s tattoo
We rise in columns serried
The dingoes they must answer, too,
For sinners in them buried.
VIC.
JEACH.
Mrs. Somebody Else.
Mrs. Somebody Else
Was to have shared my life.
Every girl I’ve loved,
Is Somebody Else’s wife.
Mrs. Somebody Else
(Lucy of long ago),
Sweet were our rambles home.
Didn’t you find them so ?
Mrs. Somebody Else, —
Helen, I loved you well;
Ah ! but you worshipped gold
(The story is sad to tell).
Mrs. Somebody Else, —
Violet, they called you a flirt.
I wouldn’t believe you false
(How the awakening hurt !).
Mrs. Somebody Else, —
Annie, I bow my head ;
I was the lover false,
Whose roving affection fled.
Mrs. Somebody Else,
My glamor fell away ;
I thought you were commonplace,
I know you are rare to-day.
Mrs. Somebody Elses ,
Listen you all and each :
I am a lonely man,
And you are beyond my reach.
Mrs. Somebody Elses,
If one of you were but near,
To soothe with your touch again-
The ache of my forehead, dear !
VIC.
M.E.F.


/.
o
a
SC
o
“a
<s*
WUNDERLICH
ART METAL
CEI LINGS
Embossed by highly-trained Specialists.
Originated by expert Designers •
Modelled by first-class Artists •
Erected by competent Tradesmen. •
I Decorated by Skilled Colorists,
who apply their sense of art
to the greatest advantage on
* Wunderlich Metal. • • «
DECORATED BY SKILLED COLORISTS.
Write for JHuttralei Soldo#ut.
SYDNEY:
SO PITT ST,
‘Wunderlief) Jbimited,
N. S. Wales Postal Address Box 474. G.P.0.. Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
123 QUEEN ST.
m
Thirty=Four Experts
are Making Tests
to safeguard the quality of Paints and Tarnishes. That is
what you can see at any time in the various Paint and Var-
nish Plants of the Sherwin-Williams Co. They test all raw
materials to see that they are not only absolutely pure, but
conform to standard in every respect. They apply both
. chemical and practical tests to all finished products, and
nothing is ever allowed to go out that does not measure up to the
highest standard of quality in every detail. This is one of the things
that has made Sherwin-Williams Paints and Varnishes the very best
Paints and Varnishes that money can buy.
When your Home needs decorating, or any of the little things
about the house, such as Chairs, Tables, Shelves, Boxes,
Picture Frames, Wicker Furniture, Piping, Bath-tubs, Bed-
steads, etc., need touching up, ask your dealer for the
Sherwin-Williams Product made especially for the purpose
desired. Color Cards are free for the asking.
w-
ADDRESS NEAREST AGENT LISTED BELOW
i „ „ ~, , C. Morrison, Sydney, Neu> South Wales.
i: PARsoNsVnn'. Znlt^ d " ey ' s v; th Wc :! es - i° HN^ E t aHER& c °-h n ->.
PARSONS & Co., Wollongong,
D. COPELAND & Co., Wagga Wagga,
Frederick Ash, Ltd., Newcastle,
Charles Redan. Tamworth,
T. J. Phillips, Dubbo,
Bracey's Limited, Llthgow,
BROOKS, ROBINSON & Co., LTD., Melbourne, Victoria.
Crooks & Brooker, Port Adelaide, South Australia.
CouchE, CALDER & CO., Perth, West Australia.
ROONEY & CO., TownsuiHe, Queensland.
R. S.'Exton & Co., Brisbane, Queensland.
Hockley & CO; Maryborough, Queensland.
Sherwin-Williams Australian Representative,
MR. FRED C. DONNISON, Lock Box 817, Sydney t New South Wales.
MRS. MACLURCANS Creat Cough Cure
Is the Unfailing Winter Remedy for Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, Tonsilitis, Catarrh, Chill,
Wheezing, Hoarseness, Asthma, Whooping
Cough or Croup.
MISS FLORENCE YOUNG,
Australia’s Charming Soprano,
says of it—
“I recommend Mrs. Maciurcan’s Cough Cure to all my
friends. For the voice it is invaluable.”
During Winter weather, keep this Great
and preventer of all Throat and
ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, 1/6 per Bottle.
Cough Cure handy. It is a certain cure
Lung Troubles. It saves life.
Don’t Travel Without It.
dfg
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
M Par Wars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
J. M. CAMPBELL,
Executive Buildings
George Street, Brisbane.
l>irectoi
Under Vice»Ref>'al
d
Patronage.
The MISSES ISAACS
(Late with ...
Miss Van Brakkel),
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
Workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY
Between Elizabeth and Castlereag-h Streets.
ID®?- TRANSFORMATIONS, TOUPETS, FRINGES, TAILS, Etc IN
ORDERS BY POST PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO. COMBINGS MADE UP.
STOCK.
Telephone 2138.
AN HONEST PROPOSITION
TO PARTIALLY
DEAF PEOPLE.
The “EXTRA EAR
is a scientifically constructed HEARING APPARATUS, which can be
toth with oomtort at Home, in Church, Theatre, or Concert Hall.
Weight under, Joz.
, ™ e ‘ EAR” is not “ invisible ”or “ electric,” nor will it cure vou of deafness hut it- is
J .t the most useful instrument invented, to date for the comfort of anyone whose hearing is’defective.
Price 213., postage paid, to any address. Money Order or Postal Notes must accompany orders.
- I”““ireceipt. , '” tr * *
CARL ZOELLER <& CO* LTD*, The Surgical Supply House,
Contractors to Queensland Government and Hospitals. BRISBANE Q
Reference ; English, Scottish and Australian Bank, Ltd.-All Branches. N.8.-We publish no testimonials.
BAIN’S WHITE ANT
NEVER
FAILS.
EXTERMINATOR
GUARANTEE
GIVEN.
Give
-5
Expert operators treat the house without inconvenience to those living in it.
us approximate size of building, number of rooms, outbuildings, etc., and get our price.
Mtitttal Life MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.-
,Yri
LED
!
Elfjj
w&mm
-<
K. 7
;MMB
4mBm
d_i>
n
©
'SSfe.
muHt
1
AND 0
■ - %
USE
rWBEHARK fit ' £KO
aii
’ '■' a
n.~ - i v
3 STSOdC DURABLE r.Y»t/W
iihoo
■ar i
jji-wMiaimt.
W$
■
ENSURES DRY FOUNDATIONS
When the founda-
tions of a building
are laid with
Ruberoid
Dampcourse
the walls are PER-
FECTLY and PER-
fIANENTLY DAHP-
PROOF.
v
Wholesale Agents :
E. Rich & Co.,
Limited,
SYDNEY and
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 29.-No. 1483.
THURSDAY, JULY 16, 1908.
Price 6d
THE LAND FAMINE.
Though all the applications had not yet been received, there were already over 400 applicants for 34 blocks. News Item.
The Exasperated Immigrant ( just arrived): “B-B-B-But they told me there was plenty of land ready to settle on.”


AfIERICAN FLEET NUfIBER.
HTHE BULLETIN of August 20 (or, should any
serious alteration be made in the Fleet’s pro-
gramme, of the Thursday immediately pre-
ceding the arrival of our American visitors) will be
a special number of extra size. It will contain an
unusually large quantity of fiction and verse by
the best Australian writers, and a fine array of
illustrations. A special feature will be a double-
page drawing by Mr. Livingston Hopkins.
Agents requiring an extra supply are advised to
order early.
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclicod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... rEI 6 ®
Half-yearly ... ... ... 013 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
I lore to Address Betters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin ’will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To A inateurs in lilaclc and II Hite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only t. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail from Messrs. Cordon and
Ootch, Ludgate 'Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown,
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B.C. ;
Irvine and Forsyth, hhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
Canada.— C. R. Stephens, 77 Bank Street, Ottawa.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hono Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong.
Shanghai. —Breiver and Co.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special' Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6§in. x lkin.,
ivill be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
t^&aZZdfori.
THURSDAY, JULY 16, LWB.
N.S.W. UNDER FEDERATION: SOME
MORE TAKING OF STOCK.
The Lithgow (N.S.W.) ironworks have tempo-
rarily suspended for want of Protection, or assist-
ance in the shape of a bonus ; and, despite the fact
that Lithgow is in a district which has persistently
returned virulent Freetraders, a great deal of
strenuous eloquence is being expended because
Lithgow has got the thing its members have always
declared to be the secret of all true prosperity.
\nd the local State Frighter (principally
Johnson, M.H.R.) has arisen again-tliough
not with anything like his old vigor-to say
that N.S.W. is a neglected place, and that it
is the victim of a horrible conspiracy, to which
Victoria and South Australia are the chief
parties. The local person who discovers anti-
Ma-State conspiracies in his sleep is always
painfully scant in his particulars, but in
his generalities he is very large and
terrible. Exactly how the other States get
at poor old Ma’s money he never really explains.
Nor does he ever tell in detail though he
generalises in a reckless fashion-how the tariff is
made to specially benefit Victoria and S.A., and
to leave N.S.W. out in the midnight gloom, seeing
Sat the duties are the same all over Australia
and the industries to which they apply are also
very much the same. Of course, there are some
small discrepancies—for instance, the N.S.W. and
Queensland sugar industries and the N.S.W.
piano industry have been largely assisted under
the tariff, though Victoria and S.A. grow neither
sugar nor pianos—but in a general way the States
make the same classes of goods and get the same
assistance. And the State Frights person always
fails to furnish details about the other alleged
sufferings of N.S.W. at the hands of its base neigh-
bors. The wounds and damages of Ma have never
been specifically pointed out; yet, if she is, and
has been for years, the victim of “Victorian
tyranny,” they should be visible somewhere. The
new Commonwealth Official Ykar Book, com-
piled and issued by a Statistician from N.S.W.,
seems as good a place as any in which to look for
solid evidence of the profits which other States are
making at N.S.W.’s expense, but even there
evidence is hard to find.
The number of employees in factories (which
mostly represent protected industries) seems to sup-
ply a reasonable subject with which to commence
the investigation, for manufactures should be in-
fluenced by the Federal fiscal policy to a greater
extent than most other matters, and it is here the
conspiracy of the southern States should show out
most clearly. The following figures are from page
437 of Mr. Knibbs’ monumental work
Oct of each 10,000 hands employed in Australian
FACTORIES EACH STATE’S SHARE WAS AS FOLLOWS I—
-1903. 1906. Increase.
Queensland .. 984 1,047 63
N. S. Wales .. 3,350 3,403 53
Decrease.
Victoria .. .. 3,737 3,726 11
Tasmania .. .. 397 372 25
S. Australia .. 928 888 40
Westralia .. .. 604 564 40
10,000 10,000
These figures, of course, do not imply that the
number of employees in the last four States has
diminished ; there has been an increase in every
State, and between 1903 (Mr. Knibbs’ figures go
no further back) and 1906 (where Mr. Knibbs’
figures end) the total employees in the factories of
the Commonwealth increased from 195,943 to
228,721. But the great increases are in N.S.W.
and Queensland, and the small ones in the other
four States. Therefore, in three years, N.S.W..
has so improved its position that its share of the
Commonwealth’s industries has gone up from 33|
per cent, to over 34 per cent., while Victoria’s has
diminished from 37'37 per cent, to 37’27 per cent.
In fact, the two States which have made the most
row about being robbed show the best results, and
the States that were accused of doing the robbery
show the worst. If the Australian Government
is, as frequently alleged, a “Victorian-run
Government,” manipulating the tariff in “South-
ern interests,” the results should be very different.
In fact, one would almost imagine, from the re-
sults, that it was a N.S. W.-and-Queensland-run
Government which fixed the tariff with a careful
eye to Northern interests.
» * * *
The condensed statement of arrivals in and
departures from the Commonwealth since the
beginning of Federation (recently revised and
corrected) also throws a certain light on the
situation :
Immigration and Emigration.
Gain by
Excess of Arrivals.
Westralia .. .. .. 52,348
N. S. Wales 46,532
Loss by
Excess of Departures.
Other States .. .. .. 80,212
Net gain for Commonwealth 18,668
And if the whole increase of population (the
growth by excess of births over deaths and the
growth—if any—by excess of arrivals over depar-
tures) is considered we get these further remark-
able results for the period of the Commonwealth’s
existence :
Increase of Population.
N. S. Wales 208,637
Other five States .. .. • • 223,061
Total for Commonwealth .. 431,698
The figures don’t seem to suggest, that
N. S. Wales is a depressed and ill-used State,
suffering great wrong and loss at the hands of
ill-conditioned neighbors. Rather they would
almost create an idea that, by hard and persistent
hollering, N.S.W. has succeeded in getting so
many things done for it that it is having a really
good time, while most of its neighbors are having,
by comparison, quite a moderate time.
A large, loose, vague impression is, or used to
be afloat in Sydney that in some unexplained
way the other States got money out of the Ma
Province. A.t one time this lie or delusion
amounted to a mania, and herds of persons wrote
to the Sydney Telegraph in burning indig-
nation about the “robbery”; about how
the other States “battened on N.S.W.;
about how N.S.W. “carried the poorer States
on her back”; and about all manner of
vague, unspecified but sbrieky frauds said
to be done in ways unexplained by people vaguely
described as “them.” At one time the Sydney anti-
Federal papers had the gall to rave in their
leading columns about this wholly unspecified
“ robbery,” and the thing was quite a fashionable
mania. Statistician Knibbs, himself from N. S.
Wales, doesn’t rave, but sticks closely to figures.
Taking the statistics in his book (page 659) and
adding to them the figures just published in the
anti-Federal Sydney Telegraph for the year
ended June 30, 1908, it is possible to get some in-
teresting results. According to the Constitution,
three-fourths of the total Customs and Excise
revenue has to be divided among the States, in
the aggregate, but this was how things panned
out as regards individual States :
Tariff Revenue (7£ Years).
N. S. Wales received back fths of the Cus- Surplus.
toms and Excise revenue it paid,
and in addition it got .. .. £2,599,220
Victoria Do. V?qn’fl4o
Westralia Do. M«9973
S. Australia Do. 589,973
Tasmania . Do ' , 153,43
Queensland did not receive back fths of the
Customs and Excise revenue it Dehcit.
paid, the shortage being .. 17,168
To put the matter shortly, the Commonwealth
returned to the States the legal three-fourths of
the Custom - and Excise revenue, and £6,664,258
over ando,.: ,'f this Federal gift or benefaction
N. S. Wales gvn/t much larger proportion than its
population wou i lead one to expect. Roughly
speaking the amount returned to the States over
and above the stipulated proportion was 295. 6d.
per head in years (the amount per head
being calculated on the latest population esti-
mates), but the return to N.S.W was
about 345. per head, while that to Victoria
was about 265., and to the States m general,
apart from N.S.W., about 275. per head Yet,
curiously enough, while N.S.W. received back so
much more Customs and Excise money than the
average of the other States, it seems to have paid
a good deal less than the average. On page 648,
Statistician Knibbs supplies these figures up to
June 30, 1907
Customs and Excise Revenue Collected.
To June, N. S. Wales. Commonwealth.
1901 .. £0 15 11 per head. £l2 0 per head.
1902 .. 2 011 „ „ 2 6 6 „ „
1903 .. 2 9 7 „ „ 2 911 „ „
1904 .. 2 5 3 „ „ 2 6 5 „ „
1905 .. 2 1 8 „ „ 2 4 2 „ „
1906 ..2 3 4,, „ 2 4 5 „ „
1907 .. 2 610 ~ ~ 2 610 „ „
So these two tables reveal the curious fact that
N. S. Wales paid per head less than the average of
the States in Customs and Excise, and yet in the
division of the surplus Customs and Excise
revenue, it got back a lot more per head than the
average. Thus, for instance, in 1907, the first
year when N.S. W.’s payments were not below the
average, it contributed £2 6s. lOd. and got back
£ll9s. 7d. ; the Commonwealth on an average
contributed £2 6s. lOd. and got back only £llBs.
Id. Probably there was some reason which
doesn’t quite appear on the surface which made
this division fair. But when any decent citizen
considers the crusade which certain disgraceful
anti-Australians instituted against the Common-
wealth a few years ago on this matter; and their
tales about how N.S.W. (which was paying less
per head to the Commonwealth and receiving back
more per head from the Commonwealth than the
average of its partners) was being “robbed” by a
combination of unprincipled neighbors; and the
frantic attempts that were made to break up the
Federation on account of this bogus “robbery”;
and when due attention is paid to the smug
hypocrisy of the Sydney importing papers which
countenanced and helped this campaign of lies
and anti-Australian slander, a feeling arises that the
importing and anti-Australian and Stinking Fish
party is curiously akin to the hangman in its
moral and mental development.
* * * *
At various times there have even been com-
plaints and weeps by the Sydney importers and
their friends to the effect that a wrong of some
kind had been done to N.S.W. in the allotment
of members in the House of Representatives. On
this matter the handiest authority is the Year
Book of Australia, which sets forth some rather
interesting facts. At last Federal election there
were in N.S.W. nine electorates (out of a total of 27)
with less than 26,000 electors ; in Queensland there
were two such electorates (out of nine); in Vic-
toria there was none; in Westralia there was
none ; in 0, Australia there was one. Therefore
when it came to having a whole member to a very
small constituency, N.S.W. held the record. On
the other hand, there were five Queensland mem-
bers (out of nine), eight Victorian members (out
of 22), one S. Australian member (out of seven),
one Westralian member (out of five), but no
N.S.W. member whatever, who represented over
31,900 electors. So far as the mainland States
were concerned, it seemed to be the luck of things
that wherever members were multiplied by having
a whole Representative to very few electors the
thing happened in N.S.W. ; and wherever mem-
bers were made scarce by having one Representa-
tive to a very large number of electors it hap-
pened in some of the other States.
* » * »
These facts and figures are presented, not out of
any hostile feeling to N.S.W., but out of a feeling
of devotion to Australia, of which N.S.W. is the
most important State. Ever since the Common-
wealth came into existence, the curse and danger
and disaster of Australia has been the importing
and anti-Australian gang in Sydney and the dis-
reputable papers which support it. The grievance
of that gang against the Australian Parliament
lies in the fact that the Australian Parliament has
consistently endeavored to create Australian indus-
tries. The ambition of the said gang has been to
destroy Australian union and to destroy Australia
itself, if necessary, in order that it might wreck
local industries and restore the monopoly and the
profits of the importer. Its hope of destroying
Australia has been based on the idea of inciting
N. S. Wales, the most powerful of the States, to
revolt against the Commonwealth, and in its
effort to bring about that revolt, it has invented
the most amazing falsehoods concerning the rob-
bery of N.S.W. by its neighbors and the con-
spiracies entered into against N. S. Wales by its
partners. The campaign of lies is still in progress,
though it is a comparatively feeble campaign now-
adays, and it is beginning to be recognised as a
failure. But the Australian Government, in its
anxiety to furnish the Freetrade liars and agita-
tors with no semblance of a real grievance, seems
to have given N. S. Wales the benefit of the doubt
on every possible occasion, and N. S. Wales has
done better under the union than any other
State —in some directions it has done better than
any other two States put together.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Commonwealth run on Cow and Back Gate
Principles.
The Labor Conference which lately met at Bris-
bane to overhaul the planks of the party’s plat-
form, and burn any that showed signs of white
ant, came to a number of good resolutions, and to
some very unsatisfactory ones. The demand for a
graduated land-tax, a citizen defence force, com-
pulsory military training, an Australian-owned
navy, an improved Arbitration system, and the
New Protection were all fine, large inspirations.
The demand for “restriction of borrowing” was
a small, miserable, unfinished idea; it might mean
restriction to practically nothing, or restriction to
£30,000,000 a year. Anyhow, it is not restriction
but’ abolition of borrowing, and enthusiastic re-
payment of the old debt, that Australia requires.
But it was when the Conference set out to deal
with Federal and State finance that it became a
huge joke and a ghastly futility. It seriously
proposed that the country should consider how
much per head the States received back from the
Commonwealth in “five representative years
before 1910,” and—with certain small deductions
to allow for Federal old-age pensions, etc.—should
make that the basis of future returns by the
Commonwealth to the States. Such a mode of
calculation appears quite hopeless. There was,
for instance, a gorgeous year when the Common-
wealth returned to the N.S.W. State Government
nearly £2 per inhabitant out of the Customs and
Excise money, but there were at least four good
reasons why that figure, as well as all the other
figures, was wholly unreliable and abnormal: —
(If High duties had just been put on. There hadn’t
been time for them to create new industries in any large
wav - therefore, imports were still going strong. As the
new ’industries get started, imports and import duties
m ?2f i It was a time of good crops, and of good prices for
o-rain wool and metals. In their sudden affluence people
were buying so lavishly that N.S.W.’s imports from over-
sea had increased in two years from a shade over
£lB 000 000 to over £17,600,000. That meant an abnormal
Customs revenue, but when N.S.W. strikes bad seasons
and low prices, and begins to manufacture largely for
itself the Customs revenue may easily drop one-half.
>3l ’it was a time of considerable borrowing, and a
whole lot of Customs revenue arises through the importa-
tion of goods paid for out of loans.
(4) It was a period when sundry expensive departments
had not yet been taken over by the Commonwealth.
Therefore the Commonwealth’s expenditure was less, and
the surplus returned to the States and the State expendi-
ture were more than normal.
For these reasons it is absurd to base any
calculation of what the Commonwealth can return
to the States in the future on what it has returned
in the past. But an even madder resolution was
arrived at in these words :
An additional sum, NOT TO EXCEED £1,000,000, for
the expanding' necessities of the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, such as the creation of a Federal capital, railway
undertakings, and the development of the Northern
Territory.
So there is set forth once more the old unpatriotic
idea that Australia should be always a small boy in
short pants, revelling in a small allowance doled out
to him by his six maiden aunts, the States. “ An
additional sum not to exceed £1,000,000 ! ” If the
resolution had read “not to exceed £50,000,000”
it would have been much more like a business
proposition- The Commonwealth has a city to
build (after paying for the private lands in the
Federal territory), and to drain and supply with
water ; it has over 2000 miles of main transconti-
nental railway to construct; it has branch lines
and high-roads to make over a territory nearly
twice the size of N.S.W.; it has the Australian
army and navy to create ; and even these don’t so
much as begin to exhaust the new undertakings
ahead of it. (In Britain defence costs 275. per
inhabitant per annum. If it cost the same here
that alone would run to over £5,500,000 a year,
and even then the British person’s 275. would
only have to pay for the defence of two acres of
land while the Australian’s would have to protect
400 acres.) The State Laborists who talk of “an
additional sum not to exceed £1,000,000 ” show no
more capacity for sizing up the possibilities of the
future than did those who reckoned, 100 years ago,
that the streets of Sydney were wide enough
for all the possible purposes of the future if they
would allow two bullock-drays to pass, and those
who, later on, disfigured the plan of Melbourne
by reducing Little Lonsdale and Little Bourke
and Little Collins streets and Flinders-lane to
mere alleys, on the ground that they would never
be wanted except as a means whereby the settlers
might bring their cows in at the back gate. Lack
of faith in the future has caused a whole lot of
things in Australia to be established on Cow and
Back Gate principles, and great have been the
subsequent loss and inconvenience ; but it is to be
hoped the same error won’t be made as regards
the Commonwealth. Yet a party which talks of
“an additional sum not to exceed £1,000,000”
with which to run all the new undertakings of: a
continent, has got the Cow and the Back Gate idea
in a bad form.
A British. Capitalist.
It is a long time since Australia had so super-
cilious a brick thrown at it as that aimed the other
day from London by the chairman of the British-
owned Perth Electric Tramways, Limited. This
personage used very severe language about the
alleged misconduct of Australia in not encourag-
ing the influx of British capital, and he professed
to feel sorry for our ignorance—very sorry. His
attitude was practically that of an infuriated
pawnbroker denouncing people for not borrowing
money from him on his own terms whether they
wanted the money or not, and threatening them
with serious consequences. But Australia has its
own views on the matter of foreign capital, and its
own experiences. The investment of capital in
the country—unless the owner of it comes to
live here and to spend the interest here
—simply means the increase of foreign
debt—public debt or private debt, but
always debt—and the interminable export of
interest. And the foreign capitalist is a horribly
unsatisfactory person to do business with. When
he is allowed to go into large public enterprises
here—lie seldom goes into mere manufactures
though the way is always open ; “ con-
cessions” 3-re what he wants he almost
always makes the country feel sorry it ever
met him. His tramways are mostly slow, in-
efficient and expensive. His mines—well, the
Northern Territory is littered with the ruins ot
English-managed mines which perished through
sheer muddle. His land companies are mostly
mere hindrances to settlement. When he pro-
mises to build a railway it is the experience ot
Maoriland’s Midland line over again—he stipu-
lates for huge land concessions, he doesn’t build
the line after all, but he comes round constantly
asking for more concessions, and if he is requested,
however mildly, to live up to the terms of his
contract, he becomes abusive. The Van Diemen s
Land Co., the Peel River Co., the S. Australian
Co., the Australian Agricultural Co., the Midland
Railway Company of Maoriland, the 1.0. F. Life
Assurance concern, the Mildura Irrigation Com-
pany, the Hampden Plains Co. in W.A., the
temporary English management which brought
the Bank of New Zealand within 24 hours of
insolvency, the rapacious syndicates which offered
to build a transcontinental line if they got almost
the whole Northern Territory for doing it,
the recent new mail syndicate which never fulfilled
its engagements, the English land and explora-
tion companies in the Territory—these and scores
of other concerns engineered from abroad have
made Australia feel depressed about the outside
capitalist. He is a panicky and uncertain person ;
it was mostly his sudden resolve to draw out
his bank deposits all at once that made the
bank smash of 15 years ago. He wants too
much State aid in land grants and concessions and
cash loans, and in the shape of the public’s name
on the back of his bill, and in guaranteed divi-
dends. He wants high interest and low wages.
He is worse than a Central American republic for
brazen neglect to adhere to his bargain. And
when Australia lets him have a nice rich monopoly
like the Perth tramways, its usual reward is the
fellow’s supercilious criticism, not to say Billings-
gate. If the average Englishman was like the
London company-monger (the company-monger,
by the way, is as often as not called BoscheN-
heimer and is only English by courtesy), Bull s
country would be a modern Gomorrah in a frock
coat and a shiny top hat.
♦
About an Unpoliced Region.
One of Australia’s side-menaces these days is the
rapidly-growing fleet of Asiatic-manned prahaus
which, in placid defiance of Immigration Restric-
tion legislation, gather shell, bbche-de-mer, etc.,
along the N. Australian littoral. The prabau-
owners know enough of the Commonwealth’s
unpoliced state to realise they can land their alien
crews unchallenged in most parts; and they do
so with cynical indifference to the feelings of
the infrequent white resident. Dutch and
Arab-owned vessels, manned by Chows, Japs
and Malays, began the existing trade many
years ago on the Ashmore Shoals, and on
the Cartier and Browse Islands. These lie a
couple of hundred milesoff the Australian mainland.
As their reefs became denuded, the Asiatic fleet
pushed Australia-wards. Here a valuable field
for brown or murky industry presented itself.


The explorers hailed the newly-found territory as
a combination of Canaan and Goleonda. I hey
carried the glad news to their homes, together
with rich cargoes of beche, shell and pearl. Each
year now, more and more vessels are being built,
fitted up and despatched by wealthy Dutch and
Chowmen to engage in the trade. It is a
perfectly safe speculation. The Commonwealth
with its kindergarten army is, as foreigners
well know, impotent to enforce its laws
in its outlying parts; and its appalling leaven
of anti-defence citizens and politicians gives
foreigners fair cause to assume that the day is
distant when it will be able to enforce its laws in
these regions. The position in this regard is not
cheering. Parts of the Australian coastline are
being despoiled day by day, by aliens, of invalu-
able products whose replacement will be a matter
of many years. Also, it is a slight, to put it
mildly, on the national self-respect, that niggers
from over-seas should be able to set our laws at
naught with impunity. But there is a still more
serious aspect to the case. The majority of
those comprising the visiting crews return
home with their prey;' and in the final
result, beyond robbing and making something of
a mock of this country, do little lasting damage.
But if Territory rumors be correct, by no means
all of them do” return. In well-nigh every ship
the more or less moneyed Chow, whose Mecca is
Australia, fifids a passage. The undoubted a,nd
extraordinary Chow leakage into the Common-
wealth of late years is accountable in several
ways, and one of the most plausible is this, which
is the view of the average settler along Australia’s
northern shores—-that the Chow is imported in
great numbers by shell-gathering prahaus out of
Koepang, Timor, and so on. It is a calamitous sort
of situation. But in Australia’s present defenceless
and sparsely-populated state it is a calamity that
cannot well be averted. Till a spell of Protection
gets a chance to bring along the population, and
till a spell of patriotism produces a defending
army, this country can’t hope to shoo the intrud-
ing alien off its coast-line. Meanwhile, the posi-
tion is worth noting as a horrible example, which
is liable to become yet more horrible later on if a
Foreign-trade and anti-defence administration
manages to win to office in the Australian Parlia-
ment.
Cattle-Driving.
Ireland is trying in a quiet way to settle one of
the urgent problems of civilisation. To get back
to the beginning of the trouble, it has the misfor-
tune to be almost wholly an agricultural land. It
was once a great manufacturing country, as great
manufactures were accounted in those days—in fact,
the Irishman seems to have been a manufacturer
by instinct, and under fair and decent government
Ireland might have been the industrial centre of
the British Isles—but English selfishness and
narrow-mindedness prohibited one Irish industry
after another, till they were practically all gone.
England even prohibited the growth, as well as
the manufacture, of tobacco, lest it should inter-
fere with the English importing trade. By the
time England abandoned this lamentable policy
two things had happened; (1) The Irishman,
through centuries of industrial persecution,
had to a considerable extent lost the manufactur-
ing instinct, just as the once purely agricultural
Jew, in the centuries when he was prohibited by
Christian intolerance, from owning land, lost the
agricultural instinct; and (2) the Freetrade curse
arrived and made the rebuilding of the lost indus-
tries almost impossible. So the Irishman became
an agriculturist—a pursuer of the great primary
industry which is, in the aggregate, the worst
paid industry on earth; and he didn’t even
pursue it on his own land, but on the land of
his rack-renting landlord. Half the population
of Ireland Vanished from the country in the
gl lastly tragedy of Freetrade, landlordism, ruined
manufactures, and English muddlement and mis-
rule. Now a considerable great part of the other
half is fighting for its existence. Beef has “ riz ” in
England. In the most fertile parts of Ireland it has
been discovered that cows pay better than men and
women and children, so men have been driven off
to make room for cows. Over large districts
practically the only places where land can now
be hired at all for agricultural purposes are
in the bogs—regions which were regarded as
uninhabitable till this crisis arrived. The
situation of the dispossessed Irish agricul-
turist has become incredible. He used to find a
refuge in the United States, but the United
States has now the most rigid laws on earth for the
exclusion of pauper immigrants. There is no
surplus work in the Irish towns. The English
towns are already swarming with unemployed.
The Irish immigrant can’t take up a farm in Eng-
land for want of money, and there is no demand
for extra agricultural labor in England, where
thousands of unemployed laborers, thrown out of
work because Freetrade is killing the hop indus-
try, are crying for assistance, and making protest
by processions and demonstrations. The contin-
ent of Europe and South America are closed to
hint through lack of knowledge of any foreign
language. His world has shyt in upon him, and, for
want of other resources, he rents 20 acres of bog, at
a hideously high price considering the quality of
the land, and tries to wrest a living out of what is
not much better than a quicksand. He is
allowed to live on the bog (at a price) because Cow
would die there; in a great part of his own
country there is nothing for him save the
leavings of Cow. Naturally enough he makes
occasional protest. According, to the English law
of property, landless Man has no rights. If the
landlord ordershim tomove off one-half theearth he
must move on to the other half, and if some more
landlord orders him off the other half also he must
move into the sea—he can’t stay on the highroad
because that would be “loitering,” and in the
public parks there are signs ordering him to keep
off the grass. It is a wonderful theory, but the
victims of it fail to see the point. They hold that
somewhere and somehow Man, as apart from Land-
lord, must have some right of existence on the
globe, and they assert this theory by cattle-
driving. The great aggregate Cow, to make room
for which man has been harried into the bogs, is
driven away by night to remote places of conceal-
ment, and the squatter weeps in the morning
because beef has “ riz ” in England and he has no
longer any beef to sell. It is a very mild and
patient protest —the French, with less provoca-
tion, drove Louis XVI. to the scaffold, instead of
merely chasing a few beeves along a lane. But
the rilling class alludes to those parts of the
country where man has got tired of starving in a
bog as “the disturbed districts,” and speaks
regretfully about “lawlessness” and such things.
The wrong is so gigantic and so shameful that
some perfectly humane and orderly people are
half-inclined to wish that there was a lot more
lawlessness than there is.
♦
The Much-Discussed Immigrant.
“ Exile ” writes from London :
The Australian over in England is apt sometimes to get
a bit tired. Certainly the six hatters have had decent
obsequies, and the Petriana ghost has been laid. But
now one’s ears are continually plagued with the rebukes
of people who call themselves Emigration Experts. Not
only do the English papers assume the cloak of one
Jeremiah, but the English papers in India ( e.g ., the
Allahabad Pioneer) don’t like our policy in these matters.
They seem to be feeling something very bitterly. What
they are feeling so bitterly is not very apparent, and what
they know about the subject is yet to be discovered. The
Pioneer, for instance, and it is only one of several, disen-
cumbers itself of the heavy sentiment that “ Australia’s
policy of exclusion is not only short-sighted, but a slight
upon a large body of fellow subjects and fellow allies.”
In faot, though India buys from us—a number of
horses —we do not allow our glorious fellow subjects in.
Oh, gross ingratitude and appalling insolence ! Well,
this comes badly from an Anglo-Indian paper, run by
Englishmen for Englishmen. They talk glibly of “fellow
subjects,” and consider the native a subject, but not a
fellow. Anyway, these cherished fellow subjects aren’t
good enough to be fellow voters. The very idea is—-damn
it all—preposterous, but they’re quite good enough to
foist on the place the horses come from, and, damme,
the-horses are so beastly wild we can’t ride ’em.
Their reasoning is not conclusive. Surely, not even an
Anglo-Indian—or perhaps least of all an Anglo-Indian—
would advocate that a thinly-populated country should
take in a colored race en masse, and give it all the
benefits of universal franchise, old-age pensions and wage
regulations that an Australian citizen enjoys. Yet the
alternative would be to import a helot folk who are just
a degree better than slaves. Eor it would, of course, be
only the lower orders that would reach our shores. Such
an idea may seem natural enough to one who lives in
India, but it is a question whether it appeals to an
Australian.
So much for the Anglo-Indian press. The English
press also takes a cavalier view of our exclusive-
ness. This view varies in expression. The Three-
penny Daily calls it “a somewhat parochial lack of
foresight.” The Ha’penny Daily calls it “pig-headed,
obstinacy, cloaked under the superficial pretence of an
impossible ideal.”
Certainly at present in London there is not so much
animosity over the color question. Canada has lately
been putting a heavy foot down with vigor, and Canada
is the little white-headed boy of the Empire. Lord Milner
(and Milner, besides being an admitted authority, is a
Peer of the Realm) has declared his absolute sympathy
with Australia’s white ideals. So now John Smith, Esq.,
of London, is silenced upon that point.
But he breaks out in a fresh spot. Why are these Aus-
tralians so beastly particular ? Long ago they refused
more convicts, a most excellent type of colonist, if taken
in hand, and flogged regularly. The other day the Sal-
vation Army offered them a present of some slum scum,
and they positively snarled at the proposal. Last week
one of my clerks, ungrateful dog, thought to better him-
self out there, but they told him that they didn’t want
clerks. What do they want? Then comes the old, old
echo which reverberates in every paper in Britain.
“ Look at Canada”—the Oliver Twist of colonies.
Yes, look at Canada ! Several Canadians of weight and
wisdom don’t like looking at Canada. They are rather
appalled by the present and future of Canadian immigra-
tion. Canada, they say, is in fair process of becoming
de-Anglicised.
Some Canadians flatter themselves that this will correct
itself automatically as the West fills up. So it might, but
the situation gets more complicated. At present Canada
is rushing in shiploads of immigrants—some Scotch,
a few English and Irish, and an enormous horde
of Croats and Galicians, and Poles, and other such folk.
Even the Doubhokors are there now. The Slav has come
to his own, and, people fear, to our own also.
These people don’t properly assimilate into the poli-
tical system. They can’t. On the other hand they pro-
vide a large bunch vote which is worth (and which gets)
much fine gold. In the new provinces of Alberta and.
Saskatschewan the interpreter is omnipresent, and his is
a lucrative profession. Cosmopolitanism is a good thing,
but. may go too far. Then it is merely a euphemism for
bastardisation. Also, it may be bought too dear.
These immigrants get work promptly. The agentst see
to that. They send them over to the wheat belt about
harvesting time, and as the season is short and the crop
large, there is plenty for all to do —for a time. Rauroaa
construction also claims many. Then comes the haid
Canadian winter, and many have an awful time. Immi-
gration records are boomed, emigration statistics are not.
And yet they would account for quite a lot, especially_of
sucli British as go out with a little money, and are able
to raise the price of. a steerage ticket home again a
single ticket. . . ,
And England blames us for not doing the same, the
bulk of our states don’t offer her farms, having norm to
offer. Still we are honest about it. In the post offices
over here there is always a notice specifying in what
occupations men are in demand. Here again we are
honest, and don’t specify city trades. But that is another
rock of offence. Because we prefer to go slowly, but
safely and surely, we are told that we know nothing about
the principles of sound economical government. Perhaps
we don’t, but if knowledge means that a large proportion
of immigrants die and another large proportion goes home
again, then ignorance is bliss.
»
The House Where One-twelfth Stands for
One-third.
While representatives of the political Labor
bodies of Australia were up in Brisbane recon-
sidering and revising their platform, and deciding
what reforms they would struggle for next, the
Wade Government in N. S. Wales was adopting
very effective measures to prevent them accom-
plishing anything at all so far as the Ma btate is
concerned. On the plea that the Leg. Council
had “ dwindled down to 50,” and that “when a
critical stage had been reached with the Indus-
trial Disputes Bill fewer than a score of members
were present,” Wade “called” 12 more people
to the Chamber, and of that 12 only one is a
Laborite. Moreover, that one does not adopt the
view taken by the Labor majority with regard to
the Industrial Disputes Bill, the most important
piece of Labor legislation introduced to the State
Parliament for years past. Even assuming, how-
ever, that he does fairly stand for the Labor
party, here we have a political section, comprising
a third of the House that is elected by the people,
represented in the new batch of nominees by one-
twelfth of the total number. Moreover, the
eleven-twelfths are put in a position where they
may block Labor legislation, or help anti-Labor
legislation through, not for a mere three years,
but for their whole lifetime. As a matter of fact,
there was no justification for any new appoint-
ments at all. It is pleaded that the Leg. Council
had “dwindled down” to 50. The fact is care-
fully suppressed that the elected House has
“dwindled down” to 90. Even before this new
nominee batch was added, the proportion of nomi-
nees to elected members was 55'5 to 100. In 1902
the proportion was only 52 to 100. Ten years ago
the proportion was 49 to 100. Twenty-fiveyears ago
the proportion was under 47 to 100. Thus, even
disregarding this latest batch, the proportion of
nominee legislators had steadily increased. Nor
was the Government in trouble with its proposed
legislation. Given the existence of a Ministry
which unmistakably represents the people, there
is, under ordinary circumstances, only one possible
justification for rushing a new crowd into the
Council, and that justification is that the Council,
without the new crowd, declines to accept the
policy of the people as presented by the Ministry.
This Ministry had not that justification; for it was
already much stronger in the Council than in the
elected House. In fact, though more than
one-third of the people of N. S. Wales, vote
for the Labor Opposition, that third had hither-
to been represented in the nominee House by
a poor little group of four members ; and the pro-
portion remains unaltered even after this new
batch of appointments —the one-third and more of
the people are still represented by less than one-
twelfth of the members of the nominee House.
What progress the Labor party in A.S.W.
hopes to make under such circumstances it is hard
to say. In the ordinary affairs of life in the
affairs of £ s. d.—it would, however, seem a
monstrous jest to devote an enormous amount of
time, money and talent to doing something which
would be instantly undone by some other authority
over which we were powerless. Even a suburban
council wouldn’t labor over the construction of a
street if it knew that behind the workmen came
some great machine, ploughing up the whole
completed work. Even a suburban council
would know enough to give attention to
the plough first of all. And, fortunately,
so far as Australian politics are concerned, the
plough can be got rid of with comparative ease ,
or, at least, the work may be done where the
plough cannot follow. For, thanks to the fact
that the Federal Convention was elected by the
people, the Australian Constitution knows nothing
Of any nominee legislator hanging on to his job
of progress-blocking for life ; it knows nothing of
any property qualification, either in the elector or
the candidate ; it knows nothing of any privi-
leged class; it knows nothing, in short, but the
will of the people. It is the most complete in-
strument of democratic government ever devised.
Viewing it on one hand, and considering on the
other the instruments of State government, with
their nominee Chambers, their property qualifica-
tions, and so on, one ceases to be amazed at the
tremendous struggle of the privileged class to
maintain and extend “State rights. Io
them, State rights mean Fat’s privileges—
the privilege of the few to rule the many, while
cheating the many into the belief that they rule
themselves. Conceding that I at is inherently
selfish and, therefore, unpatriotic, The Bulletin
admits as cheerfully as the circumstances allow
that he would be a fool if he didn t struggle as
hard as he knows how for State rights—that is
to say, for the right to be finally governed by a
House wherein the Labor one-third or more has
less than one-twelfth of the representation. The
amazing thing is that so much as one Labor man,
or so much as one other man who believes in
government by the people, should be so foolish as
to fight on that same side.
Charity and Bad Economics.
Melbourne Age lately printed a three-quarter-
column list of charities that had received sums
under the Felton Bequest. It included 12 met-
ropolitan and 35 country hospitals, 22 homes for
children, 17 benevolent societies, 25 philanthropic
societies, and so on—a mighty array. Further
institutions were held over from participation in
the cash that was going, pending counsel’s "P llll ? 11
as to whether they were “ charities ” under the
terms of the bequest. No one will deny the need-
fulness of the regular State-aided institutions
which are doing magnificent work for the poor
and suffering all over Australia to-day; but the
Age list suggests powerfully that there are scores
which, in the nature of things, can be doing little
or no useful work. These latter are run mostly
by well-meaning religious people with a gift for
subscription-raising, but little organisation or
business talent. Buildings are leased ; secretaries,
clerks, attendants and the like hired ; and, when
the rent has been paid and the wages of the
helpers found, there remains very little for the
unfortunates on whose behalf the public originally
set the show going. Sydney, and the-other pig
cities of the Commonwealth, have their chanties
of this sort no less than Melbourne. Most house-
holders know their frenzied and beseeching
circulars passing well. Such organisations
are tottering always on the brink of finan-
cial ruin. Each month the more or less
well-to-do of the community are deluged with
statistical literature proving that unless LzUU,
£3OO or £4OO is to hand by a certain near date
some Charity or Mission or Home will have to
cease missionising, discharge its helpers (already
in arrears with their salaries), and shut up shop
for the rest of the world’s life-time. As about 30
per cent, of these institutions live permanently,
by their own admission, on the doorstep of the
Insolvency Court (one of them in June issued an
urgent appeal to Sydneyites on the ground tha ,
with nothing in hand, it “ owed the bank fctoo
3s. 2d., as well as £7B 9s. for general working
expenses, and £2O 2s. sd. for the salaries
of 16 agents”), it is plain they can t have
much over for charitable purposes. lhe tact tnac
they not only go on living, but increase and mul-
tiply year bv year, shows that the public is not
appealed to in vain. Under existing conditions
practically anyone can start a home, or mission,
or what not, and beg money for its support and
his own. The Australian public is about the most
indiscriminating public in the world in such
matters. It is a prosperous public ; m its view,
one charitable institution is much the same as
another, and all are “deserving.” The man on
the tram gives mostly to the 'philanthropies!
mission-runner who asks him loudest or hrst.
The result is lamentable from an economic stand-
point. An enormous sum of subscribed public
money is being scattered annually throughout the
Commonwealth, not in relieving want or sickness,
but in paying the salaries of mostly unnecessary
officials. A good three-quarters of such institu-
tions would be advantaged in the matter or
efficiency by being merged into one another, inis
would bring about a curtailment in the adminis-
tration expense bill, and divert a stream of
charity-money to where it would do real service. A
rough calculation of the sum the various secre-
taries, treasurers, collectors-on-commission, letter-
writers and so forth connected with these places
absorb annually suggests the need for the State
Legislatures to take a hand in the matter As
things are, many hundreds of charity officials
are making good livings at the expense of the poor
and helpless.
: — +
Drunk Again.
Maoriland heard a gladsome tale last week from
the mouth of Premier Ward, and Joseph prophe-
sied smooth things to the Dominion, and said le
was a messenger of good tidings,
last year was the biggest on record (£9.055,U4h),
and next year it is expected to be still bigger.
The “surplus” last year was a trifle over £bUU,uw,
and next year it is expected to be more than that.
The amount paid out of revenue into the Public
Works Fund during the last seven years has been
£6,430,000: and in another year that tine total
will be considerably added to. The State coal-
mines are doing well. The State land biuik is
doing well. The Bank of N.Z., in which the
State is a big shareholder, is doing well.
The repurchase of big estates for ci< ? se V
settlement is doing very well indeed. And
the Public Debt is doing amazingly well
for £2,274,857 was added to it during last
financial year, and on March 31 it stood at
£64,179,040, and it has been growing since, and
more large borrowings are foreshadowed. xSuc
the most amazing thing of all was the, assurance
of Premier Ward that most of last year s gigantic
loan expenditure was for revenue-producing
works-most of it, not all. It is these huge, reck-
less, drunken borrowings, and the purposes to
which so much of the borrowed money is put,
that cast a gloom over the Maoriland surpluses,
and over many other things in Maoriland. me
surpluses are spent on public works—-the non-
revenue-producing works that in any well-ordered
community would be charged directly to revenue,
in which case there would be no surplus at all.
Then, apparently, the surplus not being large
enough to pay for all the necessary but non-revenue-
producing works, the balance of them is charged
to loans. And that changes the surplus into a
deficit. There is hardly any limit to the sur-
plus ” a Treasurer can have if he doesn t pay Ins
current expenses out of revenue, but charges them
to the surplus—in fact, there seems no reason
why the revenue of £9,055,000 should be charge-
able with anything save the Governor s salary, and
then there would be about £9,050,000 surplus, and
everything could be paid out of it. But this kin
of paper glory does no good ; and when a country
is borrowing over £2,000,000 a year, and paying
for all its productive and some of its unproductive
works out of loans, it is on a huge reckless cash
“jag,” even if its alleged surplus is £10,000,000
per annum. And then there arises a dark sus-
picion that other things are hollow besides the
surplus-—that a whole lot of the banking pros-
perity, and the commercial prosperity, and the
boom in land and settlement and population and
wages are also mere jag. When a tiny community
of less than a million people has settled down to the
■ steady borrowing of over £2,000,000 a year, and the
larger its “surpluses” get the more loan money it
seems to require, it is very hard to tell where the
real assets end and the mere jag begins. Money
is a rapidly circulating thing ; the same four sove-
reigns, paid in wages on Saturday and spent by
the ensuing Friday, may represent a week s re-
muneration to 52 separate artisans in the course
of the year. Therefore it is quite possible to
make a £25,000,000 drunk on a £2,000,000 loan,
and to make a £25,000,000 crash the year when
the customary lender grows alarmed
to hand out the regular new loan of £2,000,000.
If, on top of that, he says he won t renew the
old £2,000,000 loan that is falling due, and
demands repayment, it is quite possible to have a
£50,000,000 crash. Things are very sudden in
finance at times.
-
N.S.W. Labor Leader McGowen, concerning the
recent Brisbane Conference ■ .
We in the St ates have every cause to be satisfied. It is
most desirable that harmony should exist between the
Federal and State parties, and the Conference has gone a
Ion«• way in the direction of removing the causes likely to
create misunderstanding. The spirit of compromise pre-
vailed with the result that an agreement satisfactory to
everyone has been arrived at on a number of important
questions, such as the financial relations of the Common-
wealth and States, and the matter of industrial legisla-
tion. It is in regard to the latter that the States secured
a great victory, and much of the success w-as due to the
splendid fight made by Mr. Holman for State Rights.
Thus does the lamentable leader of the N.S.W.
Labor party rank himself with the petty-minded
gang of State Frights. His idea of arriving at am
agreement “ satisfactory to everyone is to secure
“a great victory” for the States—or rather for
the State Parliaments. He believes, apparently,
in keeping as much power as possible in the hands
of the N.S.W. Parliament, where Labor is a,
feeble minority in one House, and where the other
House is a gathering of life nominees ana an out-
rage on the system of government by the
people which McGowen is pledged to support;.
and in leaving as little power as possible to the
Parliament where the people elect both Houses on
the most liberal franchise on earth, and where the
Labor party holds the balance of power, and, to a,
great extent, dictates the Government policy.
As a good State Fright, he is jealous of any
Federal encroachment on the authority of the
infamous Victorian House of Rich Landlords and
the awful Tasmanian Legislative Council. I hat
attitude brings the Labor State Fright person
into the same camp as Embling, M.L.C., and his*
kind, which is curious company for a Laborist to
keep.
The Song of th American Entente, and
Other Things.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the song of the great Entente,
And the courteous Cordi-al,
And the casual Kangaroo that took
The Eagle for a pal,
And went on a high and a lordly drunk,
And a wild, unhallowed spree,
While a Monkey watched from a lofty bough,
And smiled on the jamboree.
This is the song of a Kangaroo
(For the truth of it I can vouch)
With a head swelled up to the size of two,
And a most depleted pouch :
And a bilious, battered, and blear-eyed ’Roo
Will certainly rue the day
When the bust is o’er, and the bill comes in—
The bill that he’ll have to pay.
This is the song of “ Yeh can’t teach me,”
And “ I know my w’v abaout ” ;
It’s the ballad of “ Fill ’em up agine,”
And of “Ain’t yeh goin’ to shaout ? ”
It’s the song of the blind who lead the blind
To the edge of a deep abyss,
And they’ll never know they are off the track
Till they’re over the precipice.
This is the song of a gaseous race,
The prophets of slcite and talk—
A folk who’d very much like to fly
Before they have learnt to walk ;
The syren song of a shiftless crew
Who sail on the ship “ Don’t Care,”
In a sort of a way—they don’t know how—
To the land of “They Don’t Know Where.”
It isn’t a song, it’s a wail o’er those
Who lie in a deadly trance —
Who woo the goddess of “What’s the odds? ”
In the temple of “ Come by Chance.”
It’s the ghost of the last despairing shriek
Of victims led astray
By priests of the cult of “ Do next week
What ought to be done to-day ; ”
The song of the doctrine of “ Work be bio wed ! ”
And the gospel of “ Thrift be banned ! ” —
Of those who would like to reap the crop,
But never will till the land.
It’S the echoed laugh of a mighty host—
Unconscious of its plight—
Which reels, blind drunk, through a blithe to-day
To a morrow as black as night.
N.S.W.
IRONBARK.


Hope for the
DEAF
If you suffer from Deafness, Head-noises, Bing-
ing in the Ears, or any other Ear disease, and desire
a complete and permanent cure, write at once to
The EAROSCOPE INSTITUTE, 90 Pitt St., Svdney,
N.S.W., for a free pamphlet, fully describing an
entirely new, self-applied method, Which will be
sent to you gratis on mentioning this paper.
CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS.
DUTY
REMOVED.
Important Reduction in Price of Films.
New Shipnlerits arriving' Every Week from all
the Leading Makers.
We are the Largest Importers of above in
the Commonwealth.
HARRINGTON & CO. Ltd.,
Photographic Stock Merchants,
SYDNEY and BRISBANE.
"Naval Hero Hodson tells his fellow Yanks
if they keep a sufficiently powerful navy they
needn’t worry about the -japs. Well, the nation
which brightens its “Think’’with D.C.L.— the
brand of whisky which stands for Wisdom —is
sure to be ahead with its defence and every other
peaceful development. D.C.L. supplies the best
defence against “ Anti-Feds.,” and other apathetio
and unpatriotic politicians.*
A Half-and-Half Verdict.
When the lengthy taking of evidence as to the
cause of the Sunshine (Vic.) railway disaster was
concluded, and various legal gentlemen had
addressed the Court, Coroner Cole summed up,
and put seven questions for the jury to answer
(1) What was the condition as regards efficiency of the
Westinghouse brake at the time and place under con-
sideration ?
(2) What was the speed of the train, and when and to
what extent did Driver Milburn apply his brake to reduce
that speed?
(3) What was Milburn’s duty, and did he neglect it,
and was such neglect, if any, culpable?
(4) Ditto as regards Driver Dolman, of the second
engine?
(5) Ditto ditto Stationmaster Kendall ?
(6) Ditto ditto Guard D’Arcy ?
(7) To what cause, other than the above, if any, direct
or indirect, proximate or remote, is the collision at Sun-
shine attributable ?
The jury was also invited to express its opinion as
to the condition of Sunshine station ; the observ-
ance of regulations regarding signals ; as to how
far the Railway Department insists on their obser-
vance or allows lax practices ; and, generally, on
the evidence given in the inquiry. These ques-
tions covered most of the ground, and the seventh
was quite as important as any other, if not more
so; but immediately it was enunciated lawyer
Starke, appearing for the Railway Department,
strenuously objected that the Coroner had no
jurisdiction to ask the jury to give a verdict as to
“causes other than the above,” etc. —that the
Coroner had no more right to ask that than he
had to ask the jury what it thought of
the Government of the country. Amazing
as it seems, Coroner Cole ultimately took this
view, -and withdrew the question as an item of
the verdict, and merely invited an expression of
opinion on the matter. Thus restricted, the jury-
men, after long consideration, decided to pass
over all questions as to the efficiency of the brake,
the speed of the train, and other possible direct
or indirect causes of the accident, and found that
“ the collision was caused by the culpable
neglect of Drivers Milburn and Dolman and
Stationmaster Kendall, who were adjudged
guilty of manslaughter.” They also “sug-
gested ” that the platforms at Sunshine should
be re-arranged, that a competent signalman should
be placed at Sunshine, and that the train-register
books there should be checked by a responsible
officer. The verdict takes no count whatever of
the tests of May 28 and J une 2. In the second
test on the former date the train, with the brakes
in the same condition as on the night of the
collision, and applied “full on ” 250 ft. beyond
the home signal, failed to stop until 432 ft.
past the point where the collision occurred.
The corresponding test on the night of June 2
demonstrated that with the brakes in proper order
the train could be pulled up 41ft. 3in. on the safe
side of the point of impact. The jury had wit-
nessed these tests; it had evidence that the
Department considered the brakes to be good
enough, that it was the practice for drivers —not
only at Sunshine but all over the State—to run
past the distant signal and rely on the brakes
to pull them up at the home signal and that
the “line clear” signal had been wrongly
given, not only then but on other occasions; it
knew that the drivers had both been on duty long
hours; that the stationmaster had repeatedly
complained of overwork and had strenuously be-
sought, assistance, and that the Department knew
all this—and it calmly ignored the Department’s
share of the responsibility altogether. And the
Department, through its lawyer, loudly demanded
to be' ignored ; it might almost have been a
Department that knew its methods couldn’t bear
investigation, so vigorously did its lawyer
clamor that nothing should be allowed to
be said about it. It is just here where
the jury’s shiftlessness threatens to cause
disaster, for already there is an assumption
that “ owing to the thoroughness of the inquest
there does not seem any need for prolonged
inquiry”’ particularly as “the jury has in no way
seriously inculpated departmental methods.” Cer-
tainly Premier Bent has already promised a
Commission of Inquiry, and has actually ap-
pointed three commissioners. But that is as far
as the matter has got, and if Bent’s previous per-
formances are any criterion, that is as far as it is
likely to get unless the public protests. And
unless the public does demand a further and
full inquiry, another two or three score of
them may easily meet the fate of the
Sunshine victims. The evidence in this in-
quest further spreads the old suspicion that the
railway servants are overworked, and are allowed,
if not expected, to take risks in order to overtake
their work ; that departmental regulations to
ensure safety are habitually broken—in many
cases must necessarily be broken—and that the
rolling stock and the lines are not maintained in a
proper state of efficiency. Further, the public
knows that the Sunshine disaster was not an
isolated “accident,” but one of a long series of
casualties, though the others were far less sensa-
tional. Therefore an inquiry into the methods of
the Vic. railway management is urgently needed
—all the more urgently because the management
seems so little anxious to be inquired into.
♦
Sheep show luncheons in N.S.W. used to be boss
occasions for the glorification of Freetrade.
Bright, Cobden and co. were supposed to attend
in spirit, and one after another woolly orators
exalted the policy of exporting the raw and import-
ing the made article. That time is dead. At the
Sydney luncheon, the other day, F. B. Suttor,
President of the Commonwealth Sheepbreeders’
Association, cried out amid applause for local
manufacture, “ instead of sending wool to London
and back before wearing it.” He even detailed
what N.S.W. lost by not imitating Victoria in
ejecting the Freetrade fetich earlier :
The manufacturing industry here was in a lamentably
languishing position, and after 100 years only four mills
were working. In Victoria there were nine. In New
South VVales were employed 330 hands, in Victoria 1434.
Our plant was worth £36,000, while the Victorian manu-
facturers’ plant was worth £239,000. We made in 1906
500,000 yards of tweed. Victoria made 850,000. We
made 730,000 yards of flannel to 3,600,000 made in Vic-
toria. Our manufacturers made 20,000 blankets and
rugs, to 302,000 made in Victoria. Surely our capitalists
could establish manufactures here, and bring us up to
the level of Victoria.
No doubt “our capitalists” could. But just at
the moment when they are putting their hands in
their pockets to do it, they remember that N. S.
Wales has got into the foolish habit of electing
G. Reid, and Joe Cook, and Johnson, and Willy
Kelly, and Neild, Soapy Gray, and Gould,
and Dugald Thomson —all of them pledged to
the Freetrade that smashes the local factory, all
of them convinced that the Protection which has
done the great things for Victoria is ruinous.
And thereupon “our capitalists” take out their
hands in a hurry and keep their money in their
pockets.
♦
“0.K.” on Britain’s Naval-War Cloud :
A knight named Doughty has been worrying the House
of Commons with further complaints Te the arrogant
behavior of a German gunboat towards some British fish-
ing smacks that were accused of fishing in Kaiser
William’s portion of the sea.
Which suggests that even Britain is at last waking up
to a knowledge of William’s policy. It is, in fact, an open
secret that German naval authorities are acting as though
a war with Britain were a foregone conclusion, and an in-
vasion of England inevitable.
German spies have been discovered at English seaport
towns and vulnerable points on the coast. The
official atmosphere of the Cold Country is rife
with tales of secrets bought and sold. If
the aforesaid capture of the fishing craft were
not explainable as the act of an irresponsible
bounder it would be accepted by all reasoning onlookers
as evidence of Germany’s anxiety for a fight without
further delay. Of course, the incident may have been
only part of a policy of pretence. The discovery of spies,
etc., may have been a “put up job” on the part of the
Kaiser Government, intended, with ulterior motives, to
strike the British Government with mortal funk. In any
case, the situation is made very serious for Britain by
the undisguised strife now existing between two rival
factions in naval management. Lord William Beres-
ford, says the cable, lately made a public display of his
refusal to shake hands with Sir John Fisher, the man to
whom all the taxpayers of the Island should be looking
for a reform of old-standing naval abuses.
Beresford is notoriously engaged in uncivil warfare
with the “First Lord” Fisher, and the chuckle-headed
multitude, taught by the newspapers to revere Beres-
ford as a hero because he is a Baden Powell of the sea,
are encouraging him in his impudent breaches of dis-
cipline.
The multitude never made a greater mistake in its life.
Whereas Fisher stands for democratic government
(comparatively speaking) in naval affairs, Beresford
is the champion of the privileged Tory party, by
which the plums of the service have long been regarded
as the natural rewards of “ birth and position.” The best
naval reform possible would be a prompt dismissal of Lord
Bill Beresford for insubordination. And with him out
of the way, Britain couldn’t do better than get .violently
angry with William the Kaiser, and catch his fleet on
the briny, bellowing hop, ere it becomes more numerous.
■+
According to the secretary of the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers’ Association, there probably
isn’t any “ honorable understanding ” between
wheat buyers in the Ma State like that in S.
Aus. ; but if there isn’t now there used to be.
Before the Co-operative Association came into
existence, “city and country millers met to fix
the price of wheat ” —that is to say, there was
practically only one buyer. “ There is now great
jubilation because the Co-operative Association
lias gone into liquidation,” the Farmers’ secretary
told the S. Aus. Wheat Commission, which was
a pretty large hint that the “ horrible understand-
ing’’may be expected to arrive again shortly.
And, if it does, it almost serves the cocky right.
Years ago, the Co-operative Association got so
little support from the farmers that it ceased to
be truly co-operative; it practically became part
of W. and A. McArthur’s business, bossed by
the considerably exploded William McMillan.
When McArthurs got into trouble, the Farmers
and Settlers’ Co-operative Association got into
trouble, too ; so now the N.S.W. cocky is left, so
far as wheat is concerned, even without that little
bit of protection from the gentlemen who are
liable to enter into “horrible understandings”
among themselves.
V
The customary ypung woman with the incredible
assault-yarn duly made her bow at the just-
concluded Quarter Sessions at Neweastle(N.S. W.).
She was named Sylvia Burns this time, and was
aged'about 13. The man she tried to “shop” was
William Bailey, her brother-in-law. According
to Sylvia, Mr. Bailey grabbed her and did a
number of appalling things to her, despite shrill
shrieks and heroic struggles on her part. This
was in his hairdressing saloon (Bailey is a barber)
at 6.30 p.m., with Mrs. Bailey lying in bed in an
adjacent room. (The Bailey house is of weather-
board, and the clicking of the scissors, etc., in the
saloon can be clearly heard from the wife’s room ;
also from the street outside.) For 20 weary
minutes (according to Sylvia) a fierce struggle
was waged between her and the would-be ravisher.
She screamed, she fought, she wept, she yelled
out “ Maggie ” (her sister’s Christian name), and
did every other thing that modest maiden might
to save her virtue. None (according to Sylvia)
hearkened. The sister remained torpid and in-
different in her bedroom ; the people in the street
paced callously by and took no notice of the up-
roar. The crime over, the outraged girl walked
into the bedroom, kissed sister Maggie, said
good-night to her and the nurse, and departed
apparently on good terms with the world. When
last seen that night Sylvia was engaged at about
8.30 p.m. (so swore a wheeler named Pres-
LANd) “ bopscotching along the footpath, in the
best of spirits, to the hotel where she lived
with her father.” The next day Bailey ordered
Sylvia’s father out of his shop in connection with
some money dispute; also, incidentally, he
ordered Sylvia and another of his sisters-in-law
out as well. For five days Sylvia brooded upon
her wrongs ; then the crime which had preceded
the shameful experience of being tired out of
Bailey’s shop surged up. and she complained
all round, and had Bailey arrested. After
various acquaintances of Sylvia had given evi-
dence showing that she was in the habit of
throwing round awful allegations, the jury decided
unanimously that she was- a pernicious young
unreliability, and gave a verdict (hat way. Of
course, nothing is being done to Sylvia. She is
not even bound for a reformatory, where they
teach lijttle girls that it is wrong to tell, when
annoyed, stories which may quite likely get some
innocent male relative hanged. Maidens of
Sylvia’s type never are punished in any way in
Australia ; nor, when they get older, are they
ever indicted as they should be for perjury. The
legal fiction is that the public wouldn’t like to see
these females dealt with in a harsh manner.
Some magistrate or Judge ought just to try a little
equitable harshness as an experiment. He would
become the most popular law officer in the Com-
monwealth before he could say “committed for
trial,” or even “five years.”
♦
“J. G.” presents a true bill
Victorian Water Supply Minister Swinburne supported
that shameless crowd of Shire Councils, big land-
owners and big cockies, who raised such a tremendous
howl against the proposal to divert a portion of the
water in the Acheron River to relieve the impending water
famine at Melbourne. The push which objected to some
of the Acheron Water being taken to help out the dimin-
ishing supply of the Yan Yean and Maroondah reservoirs
has, for the last 50 years or so, squatted down upon the
banks of the Acheron and Goulburn Rivers, and watched
their waters running to waste, and made no attempt to
use them for irrigation purposes. But now and again,
when a dry year or two came along, this crowd would
send up a mighty howl, and say that it would
be done for if the Government didn’t come and build dams
across the rivers, and supply the poor farmers with water.
The Government then went and cut channels, and
dammed the Goulburn in various places to supply the
poor farmer with water, the farmer agreeing to pay the
interest on the cost of construction and the working
expenses of the water schemes. Then, after a few years,
the poor farmer, who mostly consisted of big land-
grabbers, got too tired to use the water to any extent,
and he also got too tired to pay up the interest on the
water schemes, although the said water schemes raised
the value of his land from about £4 an acre to about £ll.
When the. arrears of interest on the water schemes
amounted to a few hundred thousand pounds, the default-
ing landowners sent up another mighty howl and
insisted upon the Government writing off the whole
amount of arrears of interest, and the Government
meekly caved in and did so. So the result was that the
public of Melbourne, and especially the city toilers, who
supplied the bulk of the money to provide the water
schemes for the defaulting up-country landowners,
were robbed of more than half the sum they had
advanced to a lot of rich, dishonorable frauds,
and the rich, dishonorable frauds also scored by
reason of the enormously enhanced value given to
their land through the waterworks that were
mostly supplied by Melbourne money. But, now,
when Melbourne is on the brink of a big water
famine, these Goulburn valley sharks are going
mad at the idea of a little of the Acheron water being
diverted for the time being. They forget how much the
city people have done for them, and say in effect that,
although the Acheron water is running to'waste and has
been doing so since creation, it can just run to waste
till the crack of doom, but they will see Melbourne in
Hades before its people shall have any of the drinking
fluid. And the pious Swinburne backed them up in this
resolve. Yet in addition to getting at the city toiler over
their water-supply works, these up-country brigands are
continually rooking the same city toiler indirectly by
getting special grants for districts where the municipal
rates are levied on under-valued land, at the rate of from
6d. to Is. in the pound, while the city ratepayer has him-
self to pay rates at the rate of 2s. 6d. in the pound.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Thief.”
Theatre Royal “The Red Mill.”
Criterion “ The Red Lamp.”
Palace West’s Pictures.
Town Hall Mark Hambourg.
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope.
Tivoli Rickards' Co.
Glaciarium.. Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s........ “Mrs. Wiggs, of the Cabbage
Patch.”
Her Majesty’s “The Merry Widow.”
The King’s... “ Man to Man.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia West’s Pictures.
Theatre Royal “ The Fatal Wedding.”
Bijou Maskelyne and Devant.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
“The Tame Cat,” a comedy by Arthur
Adams, which “The Muffs” presented to a
packed house at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
afternoon, is too earnest a production for the
indiscriminating back-pat, which is the fashion
when amateurs perform in the name of charity.
The play and the acting thereof are more than
good enough for serious criticism. Cecil Thavre
is a young Englishman who, after a strenuous
time in the Maoriland bush, has come back to
London society, and has fallen into the toils of an
unhappily married woman of his set. Mrs.
Cordemoy is a lady of fascination. She ha ( s had
other Cats before Cecil—a whole menagerie of
them. Some are in foreign parts “trying to
forget ” ; others have died, untimely, from gun-
accidents. Arrives Jack Barian, who was Cecil’s
“ mate ”in the old Maoriland days. Jack com-
bines the rough, manly force of the track-blazing
Argonaut with the virginal purity of a Dowie,
Jun. The artless maiden who beseeches him to kiss
her at Lady Calmseas’ dance, is met with the chill
rebuff : “ I have never kissed anyone in my life.”
He views the philanderings of Cecil and Mrs.
Cordemoy with disapproval. All the strength of
his iron will is directed to winning his friend
back to Maoriland, where they prosecute the Nude
in Art and never frivol. The struggle that follows
for Cecil’s somewhat tricksy soul is the motive of
the play. On the side or right are ranged, in
addition to Jack, Cecil’s aunt, Lady Calmseas,
and Marjorie Heinault, a good and beautiful girl
who loves the erring one dearly. Against their
influence Mrs. Cordemoy wars in shameful isola-
tion. During the third act Barian and Mrs. Cor-
demoy discover on amazingly short notice that
they love one another, and the Tame Cat enters
unexpectedly to find his late proprietress absorb-
ing the initial kiss of his strong, cold friend’s life-
time. The Cat retires epileptic with annoyance,
and the curtain falls. Jack and Cecil become
reconciled in Act IV., on the reasonable basis
that the lady isn’t worth quarrelling about, and
leave together for M.L. and the upright or verti-
cal life.
* * * »
The handicap under which this play
labors for the purposes of stage presentation, is
apparent. It is practically eventless. There is
no “moment” in it. The deposing of a Tame
Cat is not one of the urgent things of life ; a Tame
Cat is there to be deposed as soon as the next
one happens along. An audience won’t take Cecil’s
pocket tragedy any more to heart than he (who
five or six hours after it has befallen is discovered
cured, and as good as engaged to Marjorie) does
himself. A constructional fault of the play is the
awful suddenness with which Barian crashes from
his high pedestal of virtue. Love (alas ! that it
should be so) comes suddenly, mysteriously enough
to the ordinary male weakling when alone with a
beautiful and responsive young woman. But if
super-men of the Barian type are like that too,
then farewell to this paper’s cherished notions
concerning the private habits of bishops. The
writer, however, refuses to yield up his ideals in
this regard, and holds that Mr. Adams’ psychology
is at fault. The dialogue is packed with good
things from end to end. There are more bright
sayings in an act of “The Tame Cat” than in any
two acts of the average comedy of manners which
has been imported to th'e Commonwealth from
abroad of late years. If a play could live by wit
alone, “The Tame Cat” would be the longest-
lived animal in all natural history. The author
played the name-part in interesting fashion ; and
Gr. E. Fletcher was excellent as the forceful
Jack Barian. Beatrice Brandon-Usher acted with
professional restraint, and looked divine as the
naughty Mrs. Cordemoy; and another wholly-
charming study was the Marjorie Heinault of
Miss Lilian Paton. Miss Elsie Prince made a hit
as Moth Vane—a quaintly original character.
Catherine Brook was an excellent Marchioness of
Calmseas, and Leslie Carey portrayed a verbose,
introspective philosopher-valet, calculated to make
the local bachelor look with a reconciled eye on
his general servant or rouseabout.
* # *■ *
The Flemming-Day co. revived “The
Red Lamp ” at Sydney Criterion on Saturday
night. It is rattling melodrama, pure and simple,
but, unlike the melodramas the Criterion is used
to, it is crisply and naturally written, and artisti-
cally acted. Also there is no wholly-impossible
incident in it, nor any character who is beyond
the wide bounds of human belief. The result is
an immense gain in the matter of “thrill.” The
audience isn’t fain to kick itself shamedly after
each act for shuddering at the exciting things
that have been going on across the orchestra.
Such humor as occurs does not come in slabs like
music-hall turns, to the detriment of the piece’s
action. In a word, “ The Red Lamp ”is a play to
which the local mother may allow herself to be
led by her intelligent daughter, secure in the
knowledge that the art the daughter approves will
be found there in conjunction with a good deal of
the “fruitiness,” so to speak, of the older school.
The Flemming-Day co. in “The Red Lamp”
makes something the same appeal as Melba does
when she sings “ Cornin’ Thro’ the Rye.”
* * * - *
The scene is laid in St. Petersburg.
Morakoff, husband of the beautiful Princess
Claudia, is one of the Czar’s most loyal subjects.
None is more vehement than he in denunciation
of Nihilism ; and his wife shares his views. The
visitors at the Morakoff Palace would appear, on
the surface, to be a clique of confirmed Czar-
worshippers. However, they are not. Prince
Alexis Valerian, brother of Morakoffs wife, is up
to his neck in revolutionary schemes ; so is Ivan
Zazzulic, the brilliant editor of Russia’s most
reactionary newspaper. Zazzulic—a curious sort
of patriot-villain—uses Princess Claudia’s love
for her brother to make her an accomplice in a
plot against the Czar’s life. The god in the
machine in her case is Allan Villiers, an imper-
turbable journalist from the U.S.A., who arrives
slick to time with a revolver and his national
hide well in evidence, when wanted. The efforts
of the Morakoff Palace Nihilists and their friends
are observed with unflagging zeal but with a
negligible measure of usefulness, by Paul Deme-
trius, of the Russian Secret Service. Paul is a
portentous old man, whose weird habits of never
sitting down, of brooding publicly about his
clues, of changing with terrifying swiftness from
gay to grave (all suggestive of the astutely-formid-
able S. Holmes type) ill accord with the fact
that he is euchred at every turn in his detective
schemes. A series of hair-raising situations lead
up to a denouement in Act IV., wherein things
are sorted out more happily than seemed possible
in the earlier stages of the play.
* * * *
Herbert Flemming plays Paul, and makes
him a very dreadful old gentleman indeed ; one
of the sort who smilingly chucks the parlor-maid
under the chin with one hand preparatory to brain-
ing her by medium of a coke-hammer with the other.
At the beginning Paul frightens us. but after a
while his utter barrenness of achievement in the
crime-discovery line (herein he proves little ahead
of Melbourne police form) causes him to appear
futile. It is a complaint which is not to be laid
at the door of Herbert Flemming, whose character-
study of the part is magnificent. H. W. Varna
as Zazzulic. A. Mallalieu (Villiers), Winter Hall
(Morakoff), and A. S. Homewood (Alexis Valerian)
are all surpassingly good, and Beatrice Day’s
Princess Claudia is a delightful person whom any
imperial executioner, with an eye for the beautiful,
would execute free of charge merely for the
pleasure of her society. The minor parts are well-
handled, and the staging is good.
** * *
“Miss Hook of Holland,” who enjoyed
ten weeks of prosperous publicity in Melbourne,
will smile on Sydney on the 25th inst. from the
stage of the Criterion.
** * *
“ The Red Mill,” produced at Sydney
Royal last Saturday, is “a Dutch musical play”
in the programme description ; in fact, it is
musical comedy of the familiar type which the
craze for Variety Entertainments has forced on
the theatres. Of its class it is very good. An
element of novelty is given by the intro-
duction into the flimsy plot of two Ameri-
can youths “doing Europe,” and somehow an
air of probability is given to their quaint
antics and disguises, so that a thin strand
of coherency runs through the evening’s
entertainment. Musically “The Red Mill” is
quite undistinguished; its melodies are all
rechauffe, or sausage, or plain stew; but the
composers have allowed themselves to be haunted
by various great masters with a good deal of
impartiality, so that the reminiscences run from
Sullivan to Wagner, and if there isn’t originality
there is variety. It is on the comedy interest
purely that “ The Red Mill ” travels, and it
hardly finds room for a single sentimental song.
Judging by results the comedy interest is a good
thing to travel on.
“ The Red Mill ” introduces to Australia
John Ford, American comedian and eccentric
dancer. He has for stable mate the old favorite,
Fred Leslie. They make a precious pair of fun-
makers, with their laughable legs and absurd dis-
guises ; as American tourists, as waiters, as Italian
street musicians, and as Sherlock Holmes and Dr.
Watson they are merry absurdities all the time.
Which is the more agile dancer, which the funnier,
it would be quite impossible to say. The comedian
who adorned “The Prince of Pilsen” with a
donkey laugh has disappeared from this cast, but
Charles Loder turns up again as a Dutch inn-
keeper, with some good comedy opportunities of
which he makes full use. But, perhaps, on the
whole, the gayest circumstance of all is Miss
Fanny Dango, who flutters through the scenes
like a pretty pink butterfly, giving always the
impression of grace and vitality. Miss Olive
Godwin and Miss Alma Barber have the “lead-
ing” feminine parts, but the comedy interest in
“The Red Mill” is allowed to quite smother any
sentimental or serious work, and neither lady gets
as much chance as the audience would wish after
sampling her bright singing and acting.
*# * *
Sydney is really behaving better than was
expected. There are only traces of melodrama in
“The Thief,” and they make a smudge on the
performance; there is neither a corpse nor a high-
kick in the whole three acts ; there isn’t even a
“Parsifal” earthquake or a “Brewster’s .Mil-


Make Money with the Cinematograph.
—Let us show you how— write for full particulars
to-day—free. We have everything for the show-
man. Jerdans Ltd., late Osborn and Jordan,
Ltd., Cinematograph Specialists and Electricians,’
393 George Street, Sydney.*
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY,
The OLDEST MUTUAL and ONLY FIRE OFFICE confining its Business SOLELY to NEW SOUTH WALES.
Lowest Rates Charged. Settlements Prompt and Equitable. G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
Users of steam power will be interested to
know that Bell’s Asbestos Co., Ltd., of London, have
now opened a depot in N.S.W. at 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, having acquired the business of J. W. Glenfield
and Co., Ltd. All their Asbestos specialties, Dagger,
Condor and Demon packings, jointing materials, non-
conducting composition, etc., as well as the well-known
Asbestos-packed cocks, valves and water gauges,
can now be obtained in. this State at their Sydney
warehouse.*
lions” shipwreck. There are just half-a-dozen
people acting a dramatic story in a simply-natural
way. The production was a challenge to Sydney
to show how “ intellectual ’it really is. And
Sydney has turned out, as remarked above, bet-
ter than was expected ; so, towards the end of the
third week, there still isn’t room for any icebergs
in the boxes where J.C.W. takes the money.
Probably there will be a change of bill within a
fortnight, when Miss Anglin and Titheradge will
be seen in “Zira,” a S’African piece.
** * *
The Spencer pot-pourri at Sydney Lyceum
is as varied as ever, and runs the whole gamut of
fun, fancy, imagination, tragedy, and melodrama.
“The Merry Widow” film, in which the whole
house sways to the strains of the new waltz, while
on the screen the master of ceremonies breaks
into waltzes when he ought to be attending to the
serious matters of life, is the star item. Egypt,
France, the English Derby of 1908 supply in
tabloid form the sensations of a 12 months’ tour on
a Cook’s ticket. Other subjects, such as the Depila-
tory Powders, the Airship, and a few more give the
sensations of opium, drink, insomnia, and other
delights of the millionaire without the consequent
bad head and injury to the cat. The picture
craze is, however, becoming a vice, and quite a
large number of people have got it in such an
acute form that they would sooner go without food
than miss the thrills of the picture show. It takes
them out of the ordinary every-day world, and
lands them in a region of romance, where gravi-
tation is not, and the thing that was never
dreamed of invariably happens. If it becomes
more general a Reform Government will be put-
ting Spencer on the list of prohibited drugs.
*# * *
Sydney Liedertafel rose to its 145th con-
cert last week, and waded through “ The Desert.”
This symphonic ode is not as arid as its name.
It gives the Garden of Allah all that is due to it
in the way of the simoon, the tramp of Arab
steeds, tomato and quince sunrises, orange and
melon dawns, hymns sung by long-bearded in-
sanitary riders, and various verses, descriptive
of the ways of the Big Dry Spot. Mr. Arundel
Orchard conducted, and Mr. Lawrence, repre-
senting the Desert in a declamatory sense,
pleaded its cause so well that he is sure to be
briefed for the same client again, if necessity
arises.
** * *
The lion-maned Mark Hambourg is strol-
ling around Sydney, under the shepherding care
of Manager Tait. He has been telling an inter-
viewer how he used to lose things when he was a
single man. Once a grand piano was lost for six
months; then his autograph book, his music,
his boots, his clothes—everything but
his hair. Now he’s married, and travelling with
forty packages, exclusive of the wife and baby,
but he never loses anything— not even one of the
ten cases of baby’s milk. Hambourg opens at the
Town Hall on Saturday night.
** * *
An assorted lot of shudders—cold shudders,
hot shudders, boiled shudders, and prickly shud-
ders that run up and down the spine, and curl the
toes up inside the boots—are being experienced
by audiences at West’s Pictures at Sydney Palace.
Ihrills for the Girls are principally packed into
the Picture Story of Pretty Lettie Fairly, the
“prettiest girl in the post-office,” who is a
telegraphist, and naturally knows all about the
Morse code. Lettie gets into a train after
her day s work, and on the journey a ferocious
conyict comes from under the seat. None but the
twain are in the carriage, and, menaced by the
convict’s knife, the girl gives up some of her cos-
tume so he may disguise himself. Then he sits by
her side (his knife close to her ribs) as if he were
her own “steady company.” A postman enters
the train, and the girl taps out the tale of her
companion’s bad character. At the next stop
.the ruffian is arrested after a desperate
struggle, in which hordes of police and others
are engaged. The Celebration of Corpus Christi
at Manly continues while the De Groen’s band
plays the appropriate hymn, “Sacred Heart.”
The petroleum industry at Baku is exploited in a
geyser flow of naphtha; and scenes in Khartoum,
and various other subjects and objects tickle the
eye whilst music scratches the ear.
ifc # *
This week the Sydney Tivoli has added to
itself—according to the advertisements—“ Regan
and Ryan, comedians and dancers,” and “Tod
Lowen, eccentric comedian.” This paper doesn’t
profess to know exactly when a comedian ceases
to be ordinary and starts being eccentric, but it
takes the advertisement’s word for it. Fanny
Powers has returned, and is echoing other per-
formers, most of whom have passed away to other
stages, r and the rest of the bill is met by the
Deane Tribune Trio, John Higgins (the champion
jumper), Baby Watson, Fred Bluett, WillLochrane
and the Gibson Girls.
*
The end of “ The Village Blacksmith,” at
Adelaide Royal, recalls an old story. The villain
dies at curtain-fall. “ What was the complaint? ”
“There were no complaints; everyone was quite
satisfied.’ So it is here. The hero just breaks
the villain’s neck, and no questions are asked.
But the Anderson co. has gone on to do some
theatre-opening in Melbourne, and “Brewster’s
Millions came in on the unfashionable evening
of Thursday. This play gives Adelaide a land of
not-unpleasant thrill down the spine. The sober
city is quite capable of Doing the Thing Well
on occasion, but it settles the bill religiously
on the following Monday at latest. It does
not gamble much—with the one glaring ex-
ception of mining speculation ; and even there
it generally unloads on to London or someone
before the trouble comes; and emphatically it
does not shy half-crowns at sparrows. Soto see
the dollars being Brewstered gives it the thrill
aforesaid. And when the joke is wearing thin the
sensation scene of the yacht brings in a thrill of
a different kind, straight out of melodrama. The
Tivoli has broken out into farcical comedy. This
writer drifted out after one act of it; but he
cheerfully admits that he left the house rocking
with laughter at the spectacle of five ladies fainting
simultaneously and showing their underwear. And
the public knows what it wants, and pays for
it. It has just paid a lot of money to see Griffiths
and Burrows swing clubs. At the finish, the
Tivoli was all too small for the crowd, so the men
were motored (still swinging) to the Exhibition,
where both broke the 65hrs. 20min. record.
Burrows won on “points”; the £175 purse was
cut up between them; and on the endurance
question nothing is proved. As a curious side-
issue, the referee and the two trainers also went
without sleep for the 2J days.
r <^s)^ ls^er i n g that the Andersonian public
?i rnu e n oarae might have welcomed a revival of
/he Corpse at the Keyhole,” or “The Vilest
Vixen in Vienna,” or anyone of half a dozen
shockers which were remarkable in their way, the
selection of “Man to Man” as the inaugural
drama for Anderson’s new house must be briefly
described as a managerial “bloomer.” The King’s
theatre is as gracious and majestic in its internal
arrangements as the sceptred Monarch himself,
or even more so. The color scheme is happy, the
lighting is glorious, and the opening piece
should have been victorious, and long to reign
over us. But the gods are not going to save it,
Ihe Bulletin fears. Allowing for the pervading
sense of strangeness which must have hampered
the old Anderson co. in its new environment,
there remains the melancholy fact that “Man to
Man ” seemed to suffer from reconstruction and
loss of reasonableness on Saturday night. The
plot dates back to the Portland prison period of
bellowdrama, when the helpless ’ero was invariably
sentenced to 15 years’ penal servitude on the evi-
dence of papers that had been concealed about his
person by order of the heavy villain. In this case
the villain Dunbar craftily taunts George Cross
with the secret of his birth in order that Cross may
take off his coat and stoush him. Whereupon a
youthful forger, threatened with exposure of his
juvenile indiscretion, places stolen bonds in
Cross’s coat pocket. It is the coat he marries
Miss Duggan in. Ten minutes later the villain
sends for a policeman, and the bridegroom insists
upon going into custody, although the owner of
the bonds doesn’t lay any charge against him.
* ff * *
Also the old gentleman in question, being
the father of the villain, knows him for just what
he is, and has the best possible opinion of the
unhappy bridegroom. Therefore the drama
disposes of the old gentleman. He disap-
pears during the interval between the
acts. After a lapse of years the blame-
less hero and the youthful forger are discovered
“ doing time ” at Portland, midst a gang of other
convicts whose quaint exposition of hard labor
goes to explain why they are mostly fatter than
convicts ought to be. Whilst George Cross is
languishing at Portland, his bride remains On
terms of tender friendship with his accuser,
the wicked Dunbar, and her expensive half-
mourning costume indicates that grief has its
compensations. Owing to a railway accident in
the next act, the bride—Miss Duggan—-is carried
by the villain into a coach-house, where Cross and
the boy forger and Bert Bailey are hiding from
the police. They have previously escaped from
Portland at the instance of Bailey, who was
doing a “lifer” for murder. The irrepressible
Bert is a comic murderer, and all in the way of
kindness he hits Cross over the head with a shovel
or other hard utensil, so as to assist his escape.
Also he wrecks the train above mentioned in order
to pick up some bits of luggage from among the
heaps of slain. Bert, in fact, is the good angel of
the drama. He forms a humorous, murderous
attachment to the man he smote with a shovel,
and is mainly instrumental in bringing the villain
to confusion.
* * * *
Under these ridiculous circumstances,
Miss Duggan and George Cross are deeply com-
miserated by all right-thinking spectators. The
appearance of probability is denied them. They
can only act with a capital A. Cross bears his
burden of woe manfully enough when he isn’t
doubled up with sickness and despair, and the
leading lady shows a marked improvement in her
diction, as well as a commendable tendency to
draw her character mild. Dunbar repeats ’ the
villain that he ever was, whilst Bailey introduces
touches of novelty into his method, suitable to a
murderer whose mission is to raise larfs from the
dead. Other conspirators are Miss Guildford as a
wandering gipsy with a secret to disclose, and
Temple Harrison as an impolite lunatic who
somehow drifts into the police force. The scenery
by Rege Robins is the best he has painted, and
the horses that drag Miss Duggan to the village
church in a bridal barouche are worthy of the
highest praise.
*■ * * *
“The Belle of Mayfair” will conclude its
quick and lively season at Melbourne Royal on
Friday night, after which the company will travel
towards Sydney with the purpose of disclosing
“ Miss Hook of Holland ” at the Criterion on July
25. Melbourne would willingly have undergone
a revival of “Miss Hook” right away, but this is
a joy deferred till the co.’s return, later in the
year. Meanwhile the girl from Holland is ex-
pected to dance a triumphal progress at Sydney
and elsewhere.
* * * »
After “The Belle of Mayfair” comes
“ The Fatal Wedding ” (for two weeks only), with
a new infant performer in the principal part.
The small girl who thwarts the evildoers is not
absolutely essential to the story, but the narrative
would be an unpardonable matter if she were not
there, consequently the forthcoming change in her
identity is mentioned as an inducement for a tired
world to feel a fresh interest in “ The Fatal
Wedding.” Other changes in the cast are pro-
mised, but these, being of a grown-up character,
will have no important bearing on the result.
** * *
At Melbourne Princess’s the Cabbage
Patch is yielding a fine crop, and Mrs. Wiggs
smiles at crowded audiences, especially on Satur-
day. A marriage will be arranged at each of
three Melbourne theatres by the end of the week.
At the Royal a bullet will prevent the catastrophe.
At the King’s the happy pair are parted by the
arm of the Law on their return from the altar.
At the Princess’s the union of Miss Hazy and
Hiram Stubbins is accomplished without a hitch
under the sole direction of Mrs. Wiggs. And all
Melbourne roars at the humor of it without pausing
to consider that the wife of Stubbins is hardly less
to be pitied than the man who gives Miss Hazy a
new name, but is powerless to change her face.
The countenance of Mrs. Stubbins is a lifelong
tragedy.
* * *
At the Bijou, last Saturday night, Mel-
bourne got a first experience of Maskelyne and
Devant, the well-known dealers in things incom-
prehensible. To start with, there was Mr. Owen
Clark, a personage with an angelic stage presence
and a dexterous tongue. While animadverting
cheerfully and amusingly upon nothing in parti-
cular, Owen proceeds to be casually mystifying.
He evolves a guinea-pig from nothing; a silk
hat gives birth to a cannon-ball; a banjo
grows into a bouquet—and all with an
airy deftness that has the weirdest effect.
His “boshter” trick, “The Tub of Diogenes,”
is left to the last. He shows an empty barrel
with both ends open. These he closes up with
paper, whereupon there issues from the inside, and
through the paper, a very tangible-looking old
man. Another excellent illusion is “ St. Valen-
tine’s Eve.” This depicts an old bachelor who,
in a fit of sentimental superstition, burns
a couple of forty-year old newspapers.- Forth-
with there materialises from the conflagration
the vision of his long-lost best girl. Alas !
there are times when one would burn
one’s best girl to recover a long-lost news-
paper. The programme finds room for mundane
things, and devotes some space to Mr. Barclay
Gammon, an entertainer who does Spurr-cum-
Harris soliloquies with a piano. His imitation of
a German lecturer spouting profundity is the best
thing he does ; and his apologetic introduction —a
breathless monologue—is entitled to honorable
mention. _ Altogether the show is surprising.
Even the interval is surprising, on account of an
incidental ’cello solo.
** * *
“ The Merry Widow,” at Her Majesty’s
(Melbourne), is seemingly a fixture, to be inspected
at monthly intervals, like West’s Pictures. On
Friday of this week a train from Gippsland will
run for the convenience of a rural population
which yearns for a sight of the Widow who in-
vented the waltz tune. In due course other
“M.W.” trains will be laid on, until every in-
habitant of remotest Victoria has had a chance to
buy a railway ticket that admits the purchaser
to a reserved seat.
** * *
The Rigoletto Bros, have been added to
the forces of Rickards at Melbourne Opera House.
They are hand-balancers and gymnasts with a
fondness for expounding their choicest feats upon
a suspended ladder, from which place of vantage
they also spill “ Merry Widdy ” music per
mandolin and zither. As for the rest, they are,
in the bulk, not particularly engrossing. The
Meymotts have supplanted their previous good
sketch by a worse, in which they appear much less
distinguished. Les Warton and the Rosebuds are
determined not to increase the general geniality.
Consequently the audience plumps for Austin
Rudd—chiefly for the pinkness of his ditties and
the faint indigo in his leer. It takes Rudd to
arouse the vacant guffaw with a perfectly innocent
gamp.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Melb.”: Witnessing “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage
Patch,” my mind was full' of Rudd, Lawson, Dyson and
co. Here is the kind of thing which will have to be done
in Australia, to give our eminent writers ample remunera-
tion. Only the drama can pay them for their best work,
instead of having to pot-boil. Perhaps the hardest im-
pact is made by the strident scrag, Mrs. Eichhorn. Then
there’s that bride, Miss Hazy. The cleverest thing in the
whole show. Her whine haunts, you, like something from
Jefferson’s “Rip,” or Emmet’s “Fritz.” Nor is Mr.
Stubbins behindhand. A vulgarised, rasoalised Abe
Lincoln, but you are angry when his rascality comes out.
Every one of the numerous other parts, especially the
Fat Woman, is intensely individualised. You want a
Backblock audience, and it would be frantic. I never
saw anything on the stage so much like Dickens,
not even the best adaptations of his own novels.
Behind a success like “Mrs. Wiggs” there is always the note
of truth. The authoress has explained that the original
was a Mrs. Bass, of Louisville. She was a sort of female
Handy Andy, with two left hands, and a soul brimming
over with love for every creature. Stubbins, Mrs. Eich-
horn, Miss Hazy, and the other characters would
never satisfy an audience without the actuality behind
them. Reminds me of seeing Phil Day make up for his
wildly extravagant Bosco Blithers, in “ Mixed.” He said,
“ You know, the audience would never stand this unless
their instinct told them that the nucleus was in some
real man. My Blithers is only an exaggeration of the
drollest character I ever met, old Jimmy Williams,
prompter with Phelps at the Sadler’s Wells Theatre.”
“Boh”: A Saturday night audience, which had
gathered to hear the golden-voiced Mrs. Besant, got
rather a shock when an hysterical female moved slowly
towards the platform, waving her arms like demented
semaphores and moaning like a sad sea breeze. She
carried high above her head a Bible, which she held out
to the lady who lectures on spookland. The lady paused
and “ eyed her over,” as she gently tried to take the book
from her. But the excited person held on to her Bible as
if it were a marked-down blouse at a summer sale, and
didn’t seem happy. Perhaps she wanted an astral body
or a Mahatma, or some little thing of that kind, in ex-
change. Meanwhile she mouthed and moaned and
upset things, until someone carted her out. And the
last I saw of her was a vision of a wild-eyed man trying to
push her into a tram. Perhaps a fortnight’s attendance
at lectures combined with wet weather had got on the
lady’s nerves, or helped to develop web feet. Anyway
the incident supplied a badly-needed touch of drama,
and that was something !
Over the centre of the proscenium at Anderson’s new
Melbourne theatre is an allegorical painting of a winsome
female, with a cheeild on either hand. The lady is in-
tended for Aurora, and the children are Joy and Happi-
ness—or something in that way. But as allegorical
figures in theatre decoration bear no titles, mistakes of
identity are likely to be made. For instance, the Mel-
bourne Herald reporter spoke of the lady' over the pro-
scenium as the “Goddess of Melodrama.” He didn’t
mention the names of the two children. Presumably he
thought they were Blood and Thunder.
In Maoriland, recently, Julius of The Legs held forth
considerably about the time and thought he had expended
in making the scenes in “The Scarlet Pimpernel”
absolutely accurate in every detail. When a mild young
newspaper man meekly inquired how electric light,
instead of candles, managed to get into the ball-room
scene away back at the end of the eighteenth century,
dear Julius almost fainted. Upon recovery he dashed
round to the theatre and had the offending electric
bulbs fired out of the scene with a loud bang.
“ Star ”: The late Dan Barry, despite his reputation as
an eccentric Bohemian, was at bottom a cute and deeply
calculating- business man. Through all his expeditions
and in all his tricks and schemes his eye was ever on
the financial aspect of affairs, and it will be found that he
“ cuts up ” very well. Those theatrical expeditions into
the forest fastnesses were treated by commentators with
boisterous levity, and Dan cultivated that idea of them,
but they panned out well, and Dan was never reduced to
returning on his heel-blisters via the dirt route. The things
he did which are recorded as mad pranks were done with
an eye to the main chance, and prompted by a keen sense
of advertising, as, for instance, when he produced “East
Lynne ” in the Victorian provinces under the title of
“Barry’s Tricopherous.”
“Snell”: I remember Dan Barry, entrepreneur of the
Backblocks, primarily as the man who brought “ Romeo
and Juliet” right up to date. Travelling in a hooded
waggon as shopwalker to a softgoods hawker, I struck
Kitchen township, and found the trees of the adjacent
woods papered with announcements of the first appear-
ance of the Metropolitan Dramatic Co. (“ manager, Daniel
Barry, Esq.”), in the stirring drama of to-day, “ The
Pugilist’s Pride” (by Daniel Barry, Esq.), a play that had
raged with phenomenal success in all the great centres of
Europe and before all the crowned heads of the earth. I
occupied a back seat in the Kitchen Mechanics’ Institute
that evening, and sat out “ The Pugilist’s Pride." It was
a weird and wonderful performance, unlike anything in
the nature of a play that had ever befallen me, but
for all that it was hauntingly familiar. Presently
I dropped to the device. D. Barry, Esq., had taken
ruthless hold of “Romeo and Juliet,” and converted it
into a modern melodrama. Romeo was O’Romey, an
Irish pugilist. The Montagues had become the Mona-
ghans, and the Capulets had become the Caseys. The
street brawl between Romeo and Tybalt (one Tynan) was
developed into a 10-round glove fight. In the balcony
scene O’Romey was discovered on the Casey’s verandah,
and pursued as a burglar. The tomb scene was converted
into a prison cell, in which O’Romey and Julia Casey
meet, Julia charged with bigamy, and O’Romey accused
of poisoning Tynan (Tybalt) at the ringside by introduc-
ing arsenic into his lemon. “The Pugilist’s Pride” was
an immense success at Kitchen, and ran two consecutive
nights to great business.
“ 0.K.”: Evidently Carrie Moore, in the showy charac-
ter of the Merry Widow, has disappointed many of her
former Melbourne admirers, without gaining new ones.
Too much was expected of the returned Australienne by
carping critics. They complain that she has “ lost her
voice,” and “isn’t suited to the part.” Of course she is
not suited to the part, which is extravagantly sentimental
and not “ merry ” at all. But in a soubrette character
the lively Carrie is doubtless everything that she used to
be and a little more. People who saw her play the lady’s
maid in “Tom Jones,” last year, declare that they
wouldn’t have known her for the same girl as the Merry
Widow. Give her a chance to be just Carrie Moore, and
her vivacity scores every time. As for her singing, it is
no better or worse than of yore, but the voice is probably
stronger. She always mouthed her words, singing or
talking. The voice production was always gaspy, and
the enunciation bad. These defects are of minor im-
portance in a character where dash and “go” are prin-
cipal essentials. Just now, when she is asked to appear
obsessed with a ridiculous passion for a serio-comic
prince, Carrie figures to great disadvantage. Which is
no reason why the Melbourne public should proclaim
its disappointment. Did anyone suppose that Carrie
had been born again during her absence in England,
where she played only the same characters—musical
comedy soubrettes and panto “boys”—with which she
had been identified on the Williamsonian stage ?
“M.”: The new King’s Theatre (Melbourne) is dis-
tinctly Parisian inside. lam convinced that it will come
round to light opera by some kind of swap sending
Anderson and Holt back to the Royal. The King’s is the
most elegant Australian theatre. Anderson calls it the
Drury, but it is rather the Gymnase or the Odeon of
Paris. This effect specially radiates from the almost life-
size moulded female figure called Aurora, on top of the
proscenium, with two Cupids, one hanging on each side.
(I don’t mean that they are suspended by the neck until
they are quite dead, or anything like that.) Aurora is
not presented in the altogether, but clad in a translucent
celestial bathing suit, or mosquito curtain—a pretty
and striking figure, though not modelled to abso-
lute perfection. Probably no Australian playhouse
has had so much spent on interior decoration.
All is airy and graceful, not suggestive of heavy sensa-
tional drama. Architect Pitt is a tiger for insisting on
right angles of sight. The gallery is absolutely the best in
Melbourne for view, good as some others are. At the
daylight view I could not get out of sight of the stage up
there. Pitt had most difficulty with the back stalls,
under the circle. This is a sort of backed pit, and I expect
it will ultimately be called a plain old pit. It is very
much better for seeing than Her Majesty’s pit, where
Williamson has never been able to get quite’ enough rake.
King’s Theatre prices: circle and front stalls, 3s. ; back
stalls, 2s. ; front part of gallery with backs, Is. 6d. ;
rear part without backs, Is.
At the dinner given by the Queensland Laborites to the
Federal Conference in Brisbane, the Laborites provided
their own (more or less) sweet singers—McGregor, Wat-
son, Batchelor (the only tenor in the crowd), McGowen,
Foster, Catts, Jensen, and Warmington. And, appro-
priately, they put up the baby of the Conference—Wat-
kins, of Tasmania—to recite them a piece.
The life-size poster portrait of Mark Hambourg, wear-
ing his best “Rubinstein” scowl, was a conspicuous
advertising feature at many of the London tube-railway
stations for weeks before he set out to tour Australia.
Being artistically qualified to bill himself as the
modern Rubinstein, he displays his physical resem-
blance to the original in large framed portraits,
and so directs attention to the postcard picture
of the defunct genius which is included in the
Famous Musician series, “ purchasable in packets at all
stationers.” Every long-haired pianist of eminence is
somewhat mad, of course. But the genius of little Mark
has a strong background of sanity. He is a show-
man, like Paderewski. Had he been merely clever in
his art, one would have expected him to get
lucrative engagements at the music-halls as “ Rubinstein
Redivivus.” The auditorium in darkness. A blue lime-
light streaming on Mark’s pallid face whilst he played one
of the hackneyed classical pieces on a gilt-framed' piano.
And behind him a succession of pictures on a sheet, illus-
trating the life of Rubinstein, with imaginative details.
Last of all, the Death of Rubinstein, accompanied on the
pianoforte by the celestial portion of Chopin’s Funeral
March. What an effective thing Mark might have made
of it! Being restricted in his public appearances to the
cold platform of musical eminence, he indulges his taste
for the sensational by narrowly escaping destruction from
express trains, and braving the uncalled-for vengeance of
Russian revolutionaries. Blood-stained letters from
would-be assassins have been forwarded to Mark, he
says. Also on one occasion the Nihilists gagged him and
bound him and left him at the mercy of the world. Full
details of his hairbreadth escapes' will be supplied to
newspaper interviewers on application.
The old method of buying a schooner and
fleeing in it with the cash or the girl is rather out
of date these times, though it is occasionally tried.
A good many years ago two Sydney traders fled
per yacht with the creditors’ money, and haven’t
been seen since. And the other day the
police arrested a Sydney business man—accused
of having a brevity of £2OOO in his cash-
in the bush at Derry’s Bay, close to where
a newly-purchased 90-ton schooner (said to be
his property) was riding at anchor, apparently
ready to start for parts unknown. Want of
punctuality is alleged as the cause of the capture;
the start for milder latitudes was to have been
made on Thursday, but Monday found the good
ship Procrastination still dawdling in the harbor,
and then things happened.
THE SHOUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ You saw my Hamlet, sir ? ” he said.
He fixed me with a fishy eye.
A mass of hair bedecked his head,
His frame was tall, and thin, and dry.
His accents hinted at catarrh.
His optic rolled towards the bar.
“ You saw my Hamlet at the show ?
Ah ! there was acting-—strong-, intense.
You saw my Hamlet, and you know.”
He waved an arm, and said “ Immense ! ”
I jerked a thumb at Biggs’ hotel,
And in his haste he nearly fell.
“ He saw my Hamlet,” said the pro.
Across his heer. I answered, “ Nay ! ”
He turned a darkling brow : “ So, so !
Then why dost shout me liquor, pray ? ”
“ I didn’t see you play, old boy,”
Said I, “and so I shout with joy.”
VIC.
S.S.


Men’s Hats Sale Prices
Usual Price, 7/0
Sale Price, 0/9
And 5 PER CENT. DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
It is impossible to meet an offer like
this every day ; the fact is we have
overshot the mark in indenting these
Hats, and we are trying the magnet of
reduced prices to bring our stock down.
These Hats are all black, by that we
mean they will retain their color ; the
shapes are medium and like the illus-
tration, and suited to the needs of most
men.
Our Sale lasts until July 25th ; all
orders posted up till that day will be
executed at Sale Prices. Write now for
one if you cannot call.
David Jones Ltd., Sydney.
Perhaps she’s on the railway !
Perhaps she’s on the sea !
Perhaps she’ll go
To Jericho,
Perhaps she will! Perhaps she won t.
But if she does or if she don’t,
I’m glad that I presented to her
A bottle of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.-*
Society
PENEOLD’S
WINES
EQUIVOCAL.
HER (truculently): “ I see there's a man in France
has murdered three of his wires in succession.
I’d like to see the man that would murder me!”
HIM : “So would I, my dear!”
An amiable ass wrote to the Vaucluse
(Sydney) Council, the other day, and made several
brilliant suggestions. Here are the brightest of
the batch :
The lightship can be so treated as to become an im-
portant feature. At present she is of the color of a
rusty kerosene tin. Her flat sides will lend themselves
splendidly to display. They can be painted to look like
the American flag. How astonished the visitors will be
to see the unique spectacle of a floating flag, so to speak.
Their astonishment will turn to pleasure when they hear
bursting from the same lightship the grand strains of
“ Hail Columbia,” played on a powerful brass band.
The “Sow and Pigs” can have placed on them a
wooden structure of the nature of a pedestal. On this
pedestal some well-proportioned, tall Australian girl,
appropriately robed, might stand like the Goddess of
Liberty Statue in New York Harbor, holding in her hand
a torch representing the goddess lighting the world.
Unfortunately, the weather is cold these times,
and the Uncle Sam fleet is expected in early, and
a tall Australian girl in loose robes, freezing on a
platform in • the middle of the harbor, would
probably get benumbed and fall off. And even if
a boat put off in haste from the insane-looking
striped lighthouse, it might not be in time to save
her. Perhaps a better idea would be to decorate
the hills down Sydney Harbor with stripes of
whitewash and red carnations, and to send out a
striped tug to meet the fleet ten miles off shore
and play “Hail Columbia” on the steam whistle.
* * * *
The Sydney Citizens’ Reception Committee
is finding it difficult to raise the necessary cash to
hang out the festive drapery when Uncle Samuel’s
marine monsters arrive. By way of partly ex-
plaining the reason why, one business man has
sent along his opinion to the daily papers:—
The Citizens’ Reception Committee is composed of
many aldermen, and these very men, not long ago, sent
an inspector from the Town Hall to me with instructions
to remove and obliterate the business sign on my premises,
under pain of instant death if I did not do so. About a
fortnight later a gentleman called upon me from these
very same men, all smiles, and with the most pleasing-
manner requested me to contribute what I thought a fair
thing to the Fleet Week celebrations, and I promptly did
so by showing him to the door. Apparently we have the
whole thing in a nutshell, and it is plainly seen that the
Cit} 7 Council is receiving just what it has been looking-
for, and in spite of its appeals for help it is evidently
going to have a bad time.
So it seems that the American nation may get a
cold, grumpy “how-de” in Sydney, just because
the City Council (which Uncle Samuel doesn’t
even know) made a few horribly inartistic busi-
ness men pull down tuppence worth of unpic-
turesque advertisement daubs. Who was it said
that “the trader’s soul is in his signboard”—or
words to that effect ?
The monopolistic Melbourne Tram Co. is
at present on the horns of a dilemma. Its
trouble arises through some cheerful citizen
having suggested that it should give a free ride to
all sailor-men wearing the Yankee uniform during
the visit of the Fleet. The Bent tramline and the
Bent railways are “ doing the generous.” But
the idea of doing or giving anything for nothing
is abhorrent to the soul of the Tram Co. —it keeps
its soul in its money-box—and, so far, the sugges-
tion has been received with the enthusiasm of an
oyster. But if anybody can offer the co. a valid
excuse for charging extra fares during the Fleet
uproar, he will be welcomed by the co. and hand-
somely rewarded. Well, anyhow, he will get an
enthusiastic vote of thanks.
The Fleet Reception Committees are strik-
ing a good many sorrows; but, of all their
crosses, none is heavier to bear than the avalanche
of suggestions which fall upon them out of the
inkpots of irresponsible persons of large, florid
ideas but small practical capacity. One such
lately desired the Victorian committee to (1) cap-
ture a flock of eagles and liberate them as the
fleet enters the Heads; (2) make rubber eagles
and send them up like balloons, with Yankee
flags attached to their beaks ; (3) liberate several
million pigeons from St. Kilda pier ; (4) string
flags on a wire across the Heads, the wire being
suspended by captive balloons. There were other
quaint suggestions, mostly concerned with bal-
loons, the gentleman evidently running much to
gas. Another genius desired each of the visitors
to be presented with a box cut in the shape of
Australia and divided into compartments to rep-
resent the States, each compartment being filled
with a sample of the soil of the State. That
brilliant individual wanted to give away the
country in dead earnest.
* « * *
“ Billy T.” : I see that a contingent of the
Yankee tars are to be taken on an excursion to
Mirboo while their ships ai - e in Victorian waters.
When this trip was first suggested it was regarded
as a mad joke even in Mirboo, but the idea has
Government sanction, and the innocent sailormen
are practically doomed to Mirboo. I know Mir-
boo. At its gayest and brightest, in the giddy
Spring, Mirboo is so dull that a funeral passing
through the township lends it an air of unseemly
levity ; but in the wet season—and it is nearly
always wet in Mirboo—this Gippsland hamlet is
given over to mud and melancholia ; and to take a
friendly Power there under the pretence of enter-
taining him is almost equivalent to a declaration
of war. The Mirboobies are organising sports for
the misguided seamen, but the only winter sport
they have in Mirboo is fishing for eels in the main
street, or sliding down the mudbanks on the pub
shutters. I write this in the hope that our present
amicable relations with Uncle Sam may not be
strained by any betrayal of innocent Americans
into the morasses of Mirboo.
The need for a Reformatory for Aged
Criminals cropped up at a Sydney police court
last week, when John King, aged 86, was sent to
gaol for a month for having fowls under his arm
without any knowledge how they got there.
Certainly, the magistrate had no alternative ; but
it is a foolish system that throws a man 86 years
old into gaol. King, it was alleged, had “ a long
list of aliases and a large experience of gaol life ” ;
but surely it would be better to cause such old
bad-markers to be housed and safely kept till the
sands ran out. No one cares much about “ re-
forming ” a totterer of 86, for even if he took to
habits of honest industry he couldn’t do more than
chop a bit of kindling wood ; and he wouldn’t
livelong enough to be a shining example to the
rising generation; What he needs is to be quietly
put away where he can have a square meal and a
pipe and a window to look out of, instead of
doddering round in the cold encumbered with a
stolen hen, that could lick him in a fair fight if he
hadn’t taken the bird by surprise.
DEAD EASY.
TEACHER: “ Look here, Jack, you haven't answered a question to-day . And this is such an
easy text — you've seen it hanging up scores of times: ‘ Be ' — Now what’s the rest?”
JOHN: “Oh , I remember now—‘‘Beware of the dog.'"
“ Sans Terre ” : Within view of the ornate
sandstone castle, or eyrie, which I inhabit (it is
by Maroubra, N.S.W., and is known to all men—
and a few women —as “ The Eremite’s Cavern”) is
a settlement which is variably referred to as Irish-
town, Lingerville, the Bank of England, Rook-
wood, or Vagabonds’ Village. The dwellers
therein are pensioners, ex-soldiers, tinkers, ex-
diggers, fishermen, dealers, rent-lords, ex-
navvies, sarsaparilla and fern and flower gath-
erers, oystermen, an artist who paints pictures
for tucker and tobacco, an aged German who lives
on cockles, and an ex-Rue Australian. The rest
of them are human mysteries, nondescripts,
wrecks, and mouchards. There are many Irish
nobles living here. They all have fat banking
“ Ejayem ” writes :
The meeting at the Prince of Wales Hotel (Sydney) to
compensate or reimburse publican Thomas Mullane for
the cost of his defence in the Rydalmere case was an
extraordinary affair. Mullane, with four others, was
originally charged with wounding with intent to murder
Constable Michael William Howard on Sunday, Sth Sep-
tember last. Before the Quarter Sessions, on a modified
charge of inflicting grievous bodily harm, the others—
George Workeman, Patrick Murphy, Michael Mullane
(brother of Thomas), and James Boyle—were acquitted,
but the jury disagreed in the case of T. Mullane. Here
the facts of the affair : Constable Howard was unpopular
with Mullane and his friends, on account of his zeal in en-
forcing the Liquor Act, and he had successfully instituted
a prosecution against the publican. On September 8
Howard averred that he went to the local Roman Catholic
school premises on Sunday, foupd the sacristy door
locked, heard the clinking of glasses and the voice
of publican Mullane saying, “We’ll have another drink.”
Presently the door opened, and the listening bobby
confronted Mullane and asked him what he was doing
with two flasks projecting from his pocket. Mullane
backed, and then followed a terrible fight, of which
How'ard gave a very detailed account. He said he was
struck and kicked by Mullane and two of his friends. He
drew his revolver in self-defence, but it was knocked out
of his hand, and while he was on the ground Mullane (so
swore Howard) booted him in the eye. A Judge and/jury
have twice failed to settle the truth of the constable s
story. But of this fact there is no dispute : How’ard got
away from that building a bashed and gory wreck of a
man, and subsequently, at the Prince Alfred Hospital,
what was left of his injured eye had to be removed.
Shortly stated, the defence was that Mullane and his
friends were, as a church committee, engaged in peaceful
conference, at which Mullane produced a friendly drop
of whisky; that the constable burst in upon them
and raised a riot; that he lugged out his revolver
and tried to shoot Mullane, who thereupon grappled
with the policeman to defend his own life. Mul-
lane absolutely denied kicking the constable in the
eye, or anywhere else, so that, by his story, the optic
must have been smashed by collision with the table.
J. C. Gannon, for the defence, laid stress upon the fact
that the constable was a trespasser, that he had no busi-
ness there at all; but, even if that statement were true,
which is doubtful, it is difficult to see that it amounts to
an explanation of Howard’s dreadful injuries. An inde-
pendent witness, Mrs. Jane Burke, said that from outside
she heard the struggle and the groaning of a man in
agony, and cries --.of “ Help ” and “ Murder.” She saw
Howard come running out of the church. Two men fol-
lowed and tried to drag him back to it. There was a
terrible scene. She (Mrs. Burke) picked up some road-
metal and threatened the men who were trying, with
sanguinary threats, to drag Howard back to the building.
The"constable was bloodstained and in a state of collapse.
“He appeared as if half his face were off.” Dr. W. S.
Brown said that when Howard was brought to the Parra-
matta Hospital on the afternoon of the alleged outrage, the
upper and lower lids of his right eye were literally black
and blue. It was impossible to see the eye itself
on account of the swelling ; there was a lacerated wound
on the upper lid ; he had a lacerated wound on the right
side of the scalp, and other head injuries, an abrasion on
the shin, extensive bruise on the lower part of his back,,
bruises on the right shoulder and hip, etc. “He seemed,”
said the doctor, “ completely collapsed.” Cross-examined,
the doctor said, “ I do not think that a big man like
Howard, falling off his feet against an edge, would receive
as much injury to his eye as Howard had. If the man
was thrown bodily on to the edge of the table, I do not
consider as much injury would be occasioned as I saw to
Howard’s eye.”
It is a deplorable thing, to put it mildly—it might be
better to say that it is a disgraceful thing—that promi-
nentlocal citizens should take the step E. W. O’Sullivan
and his friends have in regard to Mullane—a step which
amounts in effect to hurling further mud at an unfortu-
nate man who has been maimed for life in (as he swears—
and no jury has yet disbelieved him) doing his plain
duty- # * *
A couple with a great gift of silence is
just now vexing the souls of the Melbourne police.
The other night a small boy slid in to the Carlton
lockup, informed the “John” in charge that a
man had been killed in a house adjacent, and slid
out again. The John investigated, and found the
man not quite dead, but well on the way, with a
deep wound in the neck, just alongside the carotid
artery. A blood-stained table-knife, snapped in
two, lay beside him, and his wife, the only other
occupant of the house, was trying to staunch the
flow of gore. When he got to the hospital he was
still this side of Jordan, and is expected to keep
on this bank for a while longer; but he firmly
declines to say anything about the occurrence.
The lady also maintains a Sphinx-like demeanor,
and declines to offer any explanations, hints, or
suggestions whatever—and no sooner do the
police decide on “doing something than they
think better of it, and continue to wait and do
nothing at all.
POET AND PUG.
“So that's Burns, is it? Blime, I think I could
take a fall out of 'im meself!"
accounts in cold climesi-
al so land and houses! They
are very bitter against
their tenants in the Ould
Sod for their dila-
toriness in the matter
of rent-p ayi n g.
Otherwise they
are cheerful'. The
settlem en t reads
the S. M. Her-
ald to a man,
and after-
wards sleeps
in it, and is
Anti-Sosh to
the core.
Sydney Telegraph has been brimming
over with with leaders, cartoons, and so forth, con-
cerning the awfulness of the snow-fall which
occurred at Dalgety on June 23. The thing was
represented as a cataclysm of Nature that drove
Austin Chapman to Brisbane, and would have
been the death of him had he stayed and
faced it. Admittedly June 23 and 24 were the
two worst days Dalgety has known in years. Yet
they didn’t worry the inhabitants much. In®
local school, for instance, has an enrolment of 44 1.
On Tuesday, June 23, 24 children attended; on
Wednesday, June 24, 39 turned up. A number
of these children walked three miles, and one boy,
aged 12J years, walked four miles to and from
school, and attended the whole live da.ys for the
week ending June 26. It seems an unlikely sort
of thing that this climate which, at its worst, can t
keep infants indoors, should, as the Telegraph
holds, be going to slay immense, rotund people
like G. Reid, B. Smith, and so on, stone dead.
MR. JOHNSON SATISFIED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The N.S.W. Chief Commissioner of Railways told the
members of the Waverley Tramway Recreation Club that
he was satisfied. Referring- to comments made about
him in what he termed the ha’penny papers Mr. Johnson
said, “I don’t care what people say about me. If it
affords those people any amusement, I would like to say
that it does not hurt me.” Continuing, the Chief Com-
missioner remarked that it did not matter what people
said about them ; it was what they were. “ I haven’t
suffered the loss of a wink of sleep since I have been in
Sydney through any of those foolish things which appear
in the public press. This is absolutely certain, that none
of those people who write these things in the press will
ever get a reply from me.” —News Item.
Blow hard upon the flageolet,
The mandolin in frenzy flick ;
Before he’s out of hearing get
A joyous chord from Kubelik.
Turn on a chorus loud and long,
From barrackers expert and tried,
And let the country ring with song—
For Mr. Johnson’s satisfied.
The city man who, homeward, clings
Upon the footboard of a tram,
Rejoices that the trend of things
Makes Johnson never care a damn ;
The workmen in harmonious lilt
Sings o’er the dinner he’s denied,
Through tramway engines foreign-built,
Now' Mr. Johnson’s satisfied.
And joins the tumult in the West
With dying bleats from starving stock,
Which cannot reach the pastures blest
That waste, in waiting vain, a flock ;
For Mr. Johnson has no truck
With what the elements decide,
Though they' may' ravage, we’re in luck,
For Mr. Johnson’s satisfied.
What matters it if fools are cut
To pieces in the city street?
What though some factories are shut,
Some workmen have no food to eat?
What though the dried-up countryside
Is black with crows that gorge in glee?
There’s Mr. Johnson, satisfied ;
N.S.W.
The only question is—Are we?
A.B.


Rheumatic Patients
Use Nature’s infallible cure—Electricity—by
wearing- the Rheumagnetic Ring. Recom-
mended and used by doctors. Speedily
relieves or cures Gout, Sciatica, Insomnia,
Neuralgia and Weak Nerves. Ask us to
prove it.
We will send our Booklet FREE.
V
THE “ RHEUMAGNETIC ”
RING, nickel finished, 7/6
post free.
THE RHEUMAGNETIC RING
CO., LTD., 45-47 Melville
Street, Hobart, [X ,
For the ailments we all know and fear,
The pill so long wanted is here ;
Laxo-Tonic its name,
Its merits can claim
Naught but praise from us all far and near.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, IOJd. and Is. 6d.*
Tn E fe? E ß^
American Fleet Number,
The August Lone Hand, on sale Saturday,
August 1, will be a Special Number to com-
memorate the visit of the great American Fleet
to Australia.
Over 40 pages of this Special Number will be
devoted to pictures of the warships and their
officers, and a vivid history of the American navy
since the days of the old Massachusetts whalers,
right through the stirring records of the War of
Independence, the Civil War, the campaigns
against pirates, and the recent war with Spain.
By getting the August Lone Hand you will not
only know all about the ships and officers ; you
will have a digest of the stirring deeds of the
American navy in the past—a digest written by
Australians with a constant allusion to Austra-
lian conditions and aspirations.
Besides, you’ll get the same good old magazine
with all the usual features.
Louis Esson, who was recently despatched to
Asia for The Lone Hand, with a special commis-
sion to investigate' the Asiatic menace, has re-
turned with a budget of startling interest. In
“Japan’s Jiu-Jitsu Diplomacy” (August Lone
Hand) he begins, a series of articles which will
waken Australia to a sense of the imminent
danger of the North.
Dulcie Deamer will conclude in the August
Lone Hand her fine tetralogy of prehistoric life
with “The People of the Lion Slayer.” Other
stories and sketches are by Randolph Bedford,
F.R., J.D., and Ambrose Pratt.
In the Public Good Section, Melbourne’s most
fashionable and wonderful “medium” will be
exposed.
You will want the August Lone Hand. That
is sure. We intend to print a big extra supply.
But to make certain of getting the August
number ORDER NOW from your newsagent, or
direct to the office.
If you wish to send this great souvenir of the
Fleet to a friend, post Is. Id. in stamps to the
ce with address, and we’ll mail it on.
TME[one JI*ND
214 George Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart, should
pay a visit to Wild’s hairdressing saloon, where six
first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under the Patronage of Lord Northcote.
Address, 30 Sydney Arcade (upstairs), entrance
from George or King-streets.*
dfg
This Stylish Overcoat, 45/-
A particularly stylish Overcoat, with character in it that the
average ready-to-wear overcoat does not possess.
We describe these garments as model Overcoats —full of style
—handsomely designed of materials that are specially smart;
for we imported them ourselves, and made the coats in our
own workrooms.
We KNOW that there is no ready-to-wear Overcoat sold to
equal them at the prices.
PRICE., 45/- EACH.
In Greys, Greens, Fawns, etc., with striped effects woven in.
Patterns Post Free.
ORDER FORM.
PE APES & CO. LTD., Sydney.
Please send me your Overcoat at 45/-. Chest Measurement
Measurement from centre of back to end of sleeve
___ ; ’ / Waist 1
Please measure over ordinary coat.
Name Address
PEAPEiS CO. LTD.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street, SYDNEY.
Some remarks by this paper s Oldest
Inhabitant: —
The Star and Garter Hotel, corner of Lees-lane and
King-street, Sydney, gave up the ghost on the night of
June 30, when' the license expired. In the long ago the
corner belonged to Sam Terry, the Australian Rothschild,
who owned most of the valuable corners in the locality,
and the passage was known as Terry’s Lane. One of the
earliest occupants of the corner was Mr. Anthony
Hordern, who carried on the business of a coachbuilder
up the lane, and by “ Mrs. Hordern, Milliner and Haber-
dasher.” This pioneer couple, the progenitors of the
Horderns of to-day, remained on the corner or in the
neighborhood until 1847, when the family spread out. In
the early ’forties, nejct door to Hordern was Thomas
Trood, who kept the Albion Printing Office, and on the
opposite corner of the right-of-way was Nehemiah
Rundle, auctioneer, progenitor of the property-owning
Rundles of to-day. In the early ’fifties, the Star and
Garter corner became the John Bull Inn, kept by James
Fortune. After Mr. Fortune—in 1858—came Mr. F. A.
Muller, who named the house the Hamburgh. Mr.
Martin Keshan came after Mr. Muller, and kept the old
drinkery until his death in 1889. In 1872 he changed the
name of the house to the Star arid Garter, and in 1883
demolished the old decayed structure and built the
present one. After Mr. Keshan’s death it had many
tenants. In November, ISBO, Kate Kelly and her brother
Jim, of the famous bushranging family, occupied a
building in the lane, and the lady made an attempt to
show herself at a shilling a head, but the police put a
stop to the exhibition. In 1887, no less a personage than
F. B. Deeming, afterwards hanged for cementing wives
under the hearthstone, had a workshop in the lane, and
was a frequent visitor to the Star and Garter, where he
was known to the barmaids as a most affable young man.
**' * *
“ 0.K.” on the Ottoman Wash
The essay on Turkish Baths in a recent Bulletin con-
tains just as much truth as was necessary to make it
humorous, and enough of indirect misstatement to
deserve contradiction. For instance, the writer ignores
the fact that exceedingly attenuated persons of both
sexes use the baths for the purpose of inducing flesh oh
their bones. The Fat Man, who perspires freely for the
sake of his best barmaid, is less numerous than the thin
man who hopes to rid himself of liver and kidney' com-
plaints that he may begin to put on weight. Also’it may
be remarked, in parenthesis, that no habitual bather or
thoughtful fat man dreams of achieving more than
a temporary reduction in weight by going into
hot rooms. The Turkish Bath habit is not a “bant-
ing system.” Indeed, one may say of its devotees
that they (other than jockeys “ doing a sweat ”)
are merely trying to be healthy—and moderately
plump. They believe that perspiration clears the way for
good health, and that a Turkish Bath saves
them a lot of trouble and nerve-exhausting
exertion in arriving at the end they have in
view. The athletic person who strives to be
always “in form,” is an enthusiastic sweater.
He lives to sweat himself. The Turkish Bather
spares himself the athletics. That he becomes
somewhat the slave of a habit is doubtless
true in many cases, but when your humorist
declares that “no physically and morally
healthy man ever wanted a Turkish Bath,” he
should have added the paradox that no man
who does not cultivate a profuse perspiration
at least once a fortnight can be physically and
morally “fit.” The habit has a virtuous side
to it, assuming that cleanliness is indeed a
virtue. Read what Leigh Hunt had to say
about it in his chatty and now classic work
on old London, and its historic associa-
tions, published under the title of “ The
Town,” some 60 years ago :
“ The Hummums Hotel and Coffee
House, which stretches round into Covent
Garden market, is so called from an
eastern word signifying baths. . . . People
went to the Hummums not only to
bathe, but to get themselves cupped.
Bathing is too much neglected in this
country ; but the consequences of our
sedentary habits have forced upon us a
greater degree of attention to it, and
the mutation of the Turkish system of
cleanliness has been carried further in
vapor baths and the startling luxury of
shampooing, which makes people
discover that they have in
general two or three
skins too many. Eng-
lishmen, in the pride
of their greater free-
dom, often wonder
how Eastern nations
can endure their ser-
vitude. This is one of
the secrets by which
they endure it. A free
man in a dirty skin is
not in so fit a state to
endure existence as a |
slave with a clean one ;
because Nature insists
that a due attention to the
clay which our souls inhabit
shall be the first requisite to
the comfort of the inhabitant. Let
us not get rid of our freedom ; let us
teach it rather to those that want it ; but
let such of us as have them, by all means get
rid of our dirty skins.”
Having got in a word for the Habit, I will now proceed
to get in a nasty smack—a smasher “on the point”—at
the writer who told you in his first sentence that athletes
and jockeys take Turkish baths, and then went on to say
that “ the world of the bath attendant is a world of mon-
strous, bloated nakedness. The slim, the young, the
beautiful he has never seen —they don’t take Turkish
baths.” Nevertheless, jockeys are slim and young. And
athletes are beautiful in figure, and in face not infre-
quently. Also they are young, as a rule.
* « * *
Previous to the Coroner’s summing-up of
the Sunshine (Vic.) railway accident inquiry,
lawyer Joe Woolf (who has the habit of raising
unexpected legal difficulties and a commendable
disrespect for autocratic departmentalism) ob-
truded himself into court with the announcement
that the case for killed and injured passengers had
not been properly submitted to the coroner’s jury.
The real question, he argued, was as to whether
the Railway Commissioners had made every pos-
sible provision against the accident. The Com-
missioners are common carriers, with whom the
passengers—in buying tickets—contract for a safe
conveyance of their bodies and their personal lug-
gage. Consequently the public, looking at the
matter from Woolf’s point of view, should want
satisfying re the question, not so much of negli-
gence on the part of railway servants, or the
failure of mechanical appliances, but of con-
tributory negligence by the men who draw
large salaries as controllers of the common
carrying business. Chief Commissioner Tait, being
merely mortal after all, is bound to recognise the
fact that the worse-paid servants of the public
are mortal likewise, and that in the ordinary
course of human nature they must err sometimes.
There have been railway accidents ever since loco-
motives were invented, and there will be accidents
m the future. The query that lawyer Woolf raises
is : Did Tait do all that could have been done to
prevent an accident happening at Sunshine, in the
ever *t of an engine-driver or station-master com-
mitting an ordinary error ? Were the railway
platform and the approaches thereto planned oil
the safest lines, and was the engine brake the best
that could have been fitted ? If not, why conduct
the coroner’s inquiry in a manner calculated to dis-
tract all blame for the tragedy from the Commis-
sioners, and cast it upon men who had to deal
only with such platforms, brakes and gear as were
provided for them? But the coroner’s jury took
the line of least resistance, and brought in a
verdict of manslaughter against two engine-drivers
and an overworked station-master.
PAR EXAMPLE.
“Say, auntie, what’s swears?”
“ Words a nice little boy shouldn’t say.”
“ You say some so’s I’ll know not to.”
The British Navy seems of late to have
gone to seed very badly. Nearly every time the
fleet assembles for rehearsal a collision happens ;
when the two most prominent admirals meet one
of them insults the other ; and now it is reported
that a boss salt was guilty of ordering two ships
to perform an evolution which—only that one
commander saw the impending smash and held
his vessel back —would have resulted in a most
gorgeous accident. Australia pays annually a
small premium l to the J. Bull Naval In-
surance concern, and Bull is alleged to feel the
utmost scorn for our microscopic premium ; also
the sort of lame ducks he sends out to the
Australian station represent that sentiment
admirably. What really has kept this country
up to the scratch with its premiums is the idea
that, in the event of serious trouble in these
waters, Bull would send out some of his prize
monsters crammed to the fighting tops with the
Bulldog Breed. That pleasing hallucination has
kept us for many years waving a borrowed flag
and leaning on a hired gun, but now the dream
seems to be fading, and, as it dissolves, it doesn’t
even look as if it had been a robust dream. In
any case, the time is now decayed (it has got
past being “ripe”) for us to start running a
kettle or two of our own. Even if we only
managed to get an ancient gunboat like the one
Kipling nicknamed the Flatiron, or a vessel like
the good ship Clampherdown, it would be some-
thing to hang the Australian flag on, and it might
help to get us into the desirable habit of owning
real men-o’-war.
* * * * '
“C.E.8.”: “Hassan” probably doesn’t
know that all Melbourne suburban towns did not
reward the finder of a floating corpse alike. At
Richmond the deceased on the face of the waters
was worth 10s.; at Hawthorn he fetched ss.
As a consequence those who knew the game
towed the defunct a mile up the Yarra for the
sake of the other ss.
A NATURAL HISTORY NOTE.
SHE: “Is that a shark out there?” HE: “ Yes, that’s Harem, the lawyer, bathing.”
If Dr. Ramsay Smith, Adelaide’s City
Coroner, read the law right, the S. Aus. Govern-
ment simply bluffed the press and the public over
the Coleman hanging, from which it was announced
that everybody except one clergyman was to be
excluded. At the formal inquest, when the
Sheriff was put in the witness-stand, he was
asked whether “ any justice of the peace, minister
of religion or officer of police was refused
admission ” ; and when the Sheriff replied that
nobody was blocked, Ramsay Smith explained
that it was a question he was “bound to put in
accordance with law, which provides that no
justice of the peace, minister of religion or officer
of police shall be refused admission if he desires
it.” Now that “the exclusion of everybody but
the attending minister ” turns out to be bluff-
accepting Dr. Smith’s statement of the law—it
isn’t very likely that it will be tried on again.
Either the law will have to be altered before the
next hanging, or a few of the multitude of S. Aus.
J.P. reporters will be there.
* * * *
That; good Yictorian Christian, Rev.
George Tregear, felt himself called upon to criti-
cise a Collingwood Mayor's ball, the other Sun-
day. Said he: “At that ball men and women
will be invited to guzzle—men and women whom
we would not be seen with at a dog fight.” These
meek and lowly preachers of the gospel of love
have a fierce turn of mundane viciousness. How-
ever, there are a few righteous, even at Colling-
wood, so that the Rev. Tregear need not be
utterly desolate when he goes to a dog fight.
A THINKER’S VERDICT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I disapprove of Mr. Deakin’s polic}’ of Defence. I have
examined the whole scheme, and can see that it has never
been submitted to a Military Board. —Willy Kelly at
Randivick, U/71’08.
In the intervals of travelling to England,
And buying clothes and things at big expense,
I’ve been often wont to think awhile how things stand
In Noo South in the matter of Defence.
In my matutinal crawl down Piccadilly
I’ve frequently stood still and slapped my brow 1 ,
Wond’ring anxiously the while, “ What antics silly
Is foolish Deakin getting up to now?”
During trips on different mail-ships to the Old Land
(Whenever I’d a little time to spare)
I would buttonhole someone anent the bold stand
We’d have to make against the naval scare.
I have brooded on this subject in my motor
(When there was nothing else to brood about),
Disregarding, for the nonce, the fit of coat or
Of trousers like some common working lout.
The result is I have come to be a master
In everything pertaining to red war.
And the Deakin schemes must lead unto disaster,
And our forces really dunno where they are.
N.s.w.
P.J.
A QUESTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
American papers praise the graceful condescension of
the President’s wife in dancing with a common sailor at
a ball given in honor of the U.S. Fleet. ■
I’m a sailor. Yes, sir ! As you gentlemen here in this
bar
Might have guessed. When the ships was just leavin’,
they gave us up thar
A nice hop—an’ the President’s wife she went round with
a tar.
“That was nice,” did you say? Waal, I s’pose that it
was—more nor less—
They was both of them spruced up regardless, and had on
full dress ;
She was han’some, and he was a cit. of the good old U.S.
I ad-mit ’twas a sight that you wouldn’t have seen any
day—
A high-stepper in charge of a tar, lookin’ friendly an’gay,
An’ a-smilin’ around in the naturallest sorter way.
’Twas a nice, friendly act, but th’ noosepapers made a
great whoop,
Like some gol-dolled old roosters a*crowin’ on top of a
coop ;
By their noise you’d a-thought it was somethin’resemblin’
a scoop!
They remarked —or implied by their words—that the
deep-water lad
Should have been mighty pleased with himself. Waal, I
trust that he had
Some slight feelin’ of joy—or at least that he didn’t feel
mad !
If the President’s lady can dance, then I reckon the boy,
When she asked him to dance—which she did ! —wasn’t
backward and coy ; ■>
If she can’t, waal, I calkerlate he wasn’t speechless with
joy!
Likewise, too, if young Jack staggered round with his
hoofs on her dress,
I can see Mrs. R. hangin’ out weary looks of distress,
An’ resignin’ his arm with a feelin’ of deep thankful-ness.
But if both got along without givin’ occasion t’ cuss,
Waal, I don’t see no reason f’r all this here noosepaper
fuss,
F’r by that Declaration ev’ry man is equal with us !
Which I take it to mean it applies to the women also.
So—if you can spare me your opinion—l’d like f’r t
know,
Was the compliment on the Jack Tar or on Roosevelt and
Co?
n.s.w.
KODAK.


Arthur
Specialise in
Leplastrier (Si Co.
64 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“ ROBEY’S”
English Machinery, Portable and Fixed Engines, Traction Engines, High-
Speed Engines, Threshing Machines, Oil Engines, etc.
“NATIONAL** Gas Engines and Suction Plants.
Brunton’s Scotch Wire Rope; A. Ransome & Co., Ltd., English Wood-working and Cask-making
Machinery; Massey’s Steam Hammers; “ Novo ” High-Speed Steel, Steel Rails, Tramway Material,
Steel Trucks, Locomotives, etc.
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND
hold full stocks of all Mining Requisites,
including Air Compressors, Rock Drills,
Engines and Boilers, Steam Pumps,
Batteries, lirom Rolls, Concentrating
Machinery, etc., and for the Mine Workshops, Lathes, all sizes, Radial and Pillar Drills, Punch and Shear
Machines, Pipe and Bolt and Nut Cutters, Shafting, Pulleys, Belting.
Sole Agents for F. REDDAWAY & CO., Manchester, CAMEL HAIR BELTING; RANSOMES’, SIMS’,
Addresses— JEFFRIES’ PORTABLE, STATIONARY and TRACTION ENGINES.
Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne; Post Office Chambers, Sydney; Lydiard Street, Ballarat; and Bendigo.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westralia took an extra week over its Treasury
figures, presumably to see if another seven days of cold
weather would shrink the expenditure figures until, they
got smaller than those covering the revenue. But it was
no good, and at last Westralia, the State with the mag-
nificently profitable gold mines, has to own up to still
another deficit. Six years’ results :
Revenue. Expenditure.
1903 ..£3,630,238 £3,521,763 Surplus £108,475
1904 .. 3,550,016 3,698,312 Deficit 148,296
1905 .. 3,615,340 3,745,224 Deficit 129,884
1906 .. 3,558,939 3,632,318 Deficit 73,379
1907 .. 3,401,354 3,490,182. Deficit 88,828
1908 .. 3,376,646 3,379,006 Deficit 2,360
The loan figures are not, however, published ; and in a
State where “repairs to a glasshouse for breeding insect-
destroying parasites” and such things are charged to
loans, one has to know the size of the borrowings before
one can size up the real extent of the year’s drift.
* * * *
The inter-State Labor Conference has decided to
put the establishment of a Commonwealth Life Assurance
Department in its platform. There is no good reason
why there should be any delay about the matter at all.
For this is a case where there are practically no vested
interests. In all the Commonwealth there is only one
proprietary office of any size, and even in that case the
proprietary principle is hedged about. Yet, since there
is practically no proprietary life-insurance in Australia,
it follows that practically no profits are paid away ;
the dividends earned by the A.M.P., National Mutual,
Colonial Mutual, T. and G., Widows’Fund and M.L.A. all
belong to the policy-holders. There is no question, then,
of exploitation by capitalists.
And yet, in spite of that, there ought to be a
Commonwealth Insurance Department—not to save divi-
dends, but to save expenses. The Ordinary policy-holder
is, however, concerned in the matter to only a limited
extent. If the Commonwealth department has to can-
vass for business, it would probably not be able to give
any cheaper insurance or larger bonuses than (say) the
A.M.P. The man who really does need cheaper insur-
ance, and who ought to be able to get it, is the Industrial
policy man—the citizen of small means who is insured
for £5O, and who has to be chevvied for the pre-
miums. One or two of the societies doing this
.small-policy business have got the expense rate
down lower than it used to be; but with even
the A.M.P. last year the expense rate was over
80 per cent. That is to say, the insurer got less than
three-penn’orth of insurance for every shilling he con-
tributed—the other ninepence went in the pursuit of the
policy and the fortnightly premium. Thus the very people
who need insurance most, and ought to be able to get it
cheapest, get hardly any of it for their money. It is to
this department that the Commonwealth ought to turn
its attention. There are no doubt large difficulties in the
way. If the insurance is optional, and the Common-
wealth has to chase the citizen and persuade him to in-
sure, and then persuade him to keep up his payments,
and call round again and again until the missus happens
to have the change in the house, the Commonwealth pro-
bably won’t be able to show better results than some of
the existing societies. . There seems no way out of it but
compulsory universal insurance for wage-earners, and the
wage-pavers must be the collectors, just as they are in
the case of the N.S.W. Miners’ Accident Relief Fund.
It is sometimes said that the Old-Age Pensions
law covers this matter. Of course it doesn’t. The Old-
Age Pension isn’t much use to the woman of 45, left with
eight hungry children. She isn’t old enough to draw the
pension, and neither are they.
* * * *
The Electric Light Department of the
Melbourne City Council
Paid Contri- Writ-
Gross as In- bution ten To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit, terest. to City. Off. serves, serves.
£» £ £ £ £ £
1901 .. 11,786 5,179 6,607 28,939
1902 .. 10,566 17,866 21,639
1903 .. 23,568 11,791 11,777 33,416
1904 .. 30,877 12,750 18,127 51,543
1905 .. 36,636 13,395 1000 12,608 22,241 61,176
1906 .. 40.956 13,456 1000 5,650 26,530 82,056
1907 .. 48,722 14,386 1500 5,039 27,797 109,853
1908 .. 53,761 16,144 3000 62,079 82,391
The reserves include sinking fund and renewal and de-
preciation fund. As the latter fund is not strictly a
reserve in every case—it depends upon whether it is (1) a
provision for future wear and tear, or (2) a mere set-off
against past wear and tear—these reserves had better be
described in more detail:—
1903. 1907. 1908.
Sinking Fund £40,985 £50,720 £57,092
For Renewals, etc 59,002 25,240
P. and L. balance, Dr. .. 7,569
„ „ Or. .. 131 59
£33,416 £109,853 £82,391
It will be seen from this that a very large amount has
actually been taken from the Renewals and Depreciation
Fund this last year. The net amount written off that
fund (that is to say, exclusive of the year’s contributions
to the fund) was £33,762. In one line £56,812 was
debited on “ account of the buildings, machinery, and
plant put out of use owing to the conversion of the sup-
ply to the outer area.” The new system of supply is by
high tension underground feeders to sub-stations, where
the current is transformed down to the voltage required.
This meant displacing a number of horizontal engines and
T.H. arc dynamos,
The profit for the year shown above was made
up as follows (figures for the previous year are added for
comparison)
1907. 190 S.
Balance from Working Account .. £45,529 £49,599
Sinking Fund Interest .. .. .. 1,717 1,971
Renewals Fund Interest 1,446 2,046
Profit on Sales of Plant, Debentures, etc. 30 145
£48,722 £53,761
And that profit was disposed of in this way :
1906. 1907. 1908.
Interest and Charges on debt .. £13,456 £14,386 £16,144
Sinking Fund, 1 p.c 3,753 4,400 4,400
Depreciation and renewals, 2 p.c. 7,507 8,303 \
Ditto, special appropriation .. 7,500 12,000 / ’
Change-over costs written off .. 5,000 4,339 4,326
Aid to city revenue .. .. 1,000 1,500 3,000
Written off loan discounts, etc. 700 941
Balance for reserves .. .. 2,120 3,094
Totals £40,336 £48,722 £85,623
Taken from reserves .. .. 31,862
£53,761
As will be seen from the first table printed above, the net
amount taken from reserves was £27,462 ; but that is after
the addition to the reserves of £4400, the amount of the
sinking-fund contribution for the year. The result of the
year’s operations can be put this way : After paying-
interest and charges on the debt, and putting aside 1 per
cent, for sinking fund, there remained £33,217 to provide
for depreciation, and to wipe out the loan discounts, and
to relieve the city of taxation. As the list shows, £3OOO
has been applied to the last-named purpose.
Originally the amount provided for deprecia-
tion was 1J per cent, of the capital outlay. This was
found to be insufficient, and the allowance was put up to
2 per cent. It is, however, found that constant improve-
ments are being made in electrical engineering, where-
fore large further amounts have to be set aside to
provide for these changes, as they mostly mean the
displacement of plant, etc. In order to put the
Depreciation Fund on a sound footing, the com-
mittee which manages the undertaking on behalf of
Melbourne City Council made inquiries during the
year. The members came to the sensible conclusion that
the fund should be built up at such a rate as would pro-
vide for the renewal of the works by the time they need
renewing ; in other words, that when the present plant is
worn out, it shouldn’t he necessary to charge new plant
to capital account. To carry out this policy of plain
honest}’, it was found, on the basis of reports made by the
engineer, that £18,608 would be required—presumably
for this past year. As the contributions to the fund
haven't been anything like that much hitherto, special
contributions to the fund will have to be made in the
future. The total spent on plant and buildings and on
purchase of undertakings has been £469,215 (this is apart
from changing-over installations); so the amount which
it is found necessary to write off is practically 4 per cent.
And on top of that are the amounts specially provided
to wipe out the cost of change-over displacements, etc.
The Sydney Oity Council, which began with less, has
been trying to make 2 percent, cover everything; and,
as The Bulletin has several times pointed out, there will
be trouble by-and-bye. And the trouble can only take
one form : it will be found necessary to replace worn-out
machinery (paid for with loans) by more machinery (to
be also paid for with loans) ; and when that happens, one
lot of machinery and one lot of consumers will have to
carry two lots of debt and pay two lots of interest.
This shows the progress of the business :
Expen- Works’ Capital
Revenue. diture. Profit. Outlay.
1901 .. £35,727 £24,462 £11,265 £204,051
1903 .. 64,008 41,352 22,656 324,979
1906 .. 72,214 33,628 38,586 380,565
1907 .. 81,190 35,660 45,529 420,236
1908 .. 92,365 42,766 49,599 510,843
The City has borrowed in all £440,000 ; the undertaking
has itself provided the balance. As the first table shows,
after writing off over £85,000 out of profits, and making
various aids to the rates, it is still £82,391 to the good in
the way of unappropriated profit.
**•**■
The Bank of North Queensland
Dividends and Added to Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
June, 1902.. £2038 2£p.c. = £1313 £725 £13,808
Dec., 1902.. 2687 2| „ „ 1313 1374 15,182
June, 1903.. 2153 2£ ~ ~ 1313 840 16,022
Dec., 1903.. 2408 2| „ „ 1313 1095 17,117
June, 1904.. 2251 2J ~ ~ 1313 938 18,055
Dec., 1904.. 2421 2£ „ „ 1313 1108 19,163
June, 1905.. 2262 2j „ „ 1325 937 20,100
Dec., 1905.. 2310 2j „ „ 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906... 2461 2f ~ ~ 1330 1131 22,215
Dec., 1906.. 2644 2£ „ „ 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1907.. 3018 4 ~ „ 2113 905 24,429
Dec 1907 \ 3371 4 » >• 2122 - t 91 rvrs
Dec., laui.. -j Written off, £4OOO f 21 > 6 ' B
June, 1908.. 3677 4 p.c. = 2129 1548 23,226
This bank continues to make solid progress in a modest
way. Beginning its career at Townsville, and confining
itself in its early days to the North, it ought to havedone
great things, seeing that colored labor and other such
alleged means of salvation were plentiful enough. Instead
of piling up riches, however, it lost three-fifths of its
capital; and even when it had written off £3 of every £5
paid, there was evidently still a considerable gap between
book and market values. Then came a change in the
policy of the country, and the pessimism with which it
was viewed did the bank a deal of good: it made the
management refuse to think about dividends for years,
and then it proceeded to administer them in very
small doses; at the same time also the bank
spread itself out into agricultural districts in Queensland
and N. S. Wales. Thus it has greatly added to its
strength ; and the recovery of various parts of the North
has further helped to wipe out the old deficit, with the
result that the bank’s shares, which had shrivelled to 11s.
ten years ago, have steadily advanced to 345. Further,
its credit has moved up, so that deposits have just
doubled in the 10 years.
The bank’s present position compares with that
of 12 months ago in this way :
June, ’O7. June, ’OB.
Deposits £475,374 £509,505 Inc. £34,131
Bills in circulation, etc. 43,367 74,777 Inc. 31,410
Liquid assets .. .. 169,662 183,708 Inc. 14,046
Advances .. .. 446,553 494,803 Inc. 48,250
Premises.. .. .. 29,068 31,127 Inc. 2,059
The total debt to the public amounts to £584,282 ; and
the liquid assets represent 31 per cent, of that, below
which it will probably be imprudent to go. So far, how-
ever, as security is concerned, the public is protected by
the large proportion of the shareholders’ money in the
business. Deducting the liquid assets from the liabilities
to the public, there remain £400,574 of the latter ; and
there stands against that debt a total of £525,930 of ad-
vances and other assets. The disclosed earnings, calcu-
lated on the basis of shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves) have lately moved as follows :
Dec., 1904.. £4 2 Op.c. Dec., 1906.. £4 6 7p.c.
June,1905.. 3 16 0 ~ June,1907.. 4 17 9
Dec., 1905.. 3 16 11 „ Dec., 1907.. 5 8 4 „
June,1906.. 4 1 4 ~ June,l9oB.. 6 0 10 ~
The proportion of profits put to reserves is 42 per cent.—
one of the best records among Australian banks. Pre-
sumably the policy is to build up the reserves and nurse
the concern back to the point at which a 5 per cent, divi-
dend may be paid ; with the shares then at par, a favor-
able opportunity should be taken to increase the capital.
Any further considerable expansion of the liabilities will
certainly call for that.
* * * *
National Mortgage and Agency Co. of New
Zealand, one of the mostly foreign-owned pastoral finance
cos., transacting nearly all its business in Maoriland
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1903 ..£24,306 8J p.c. =£16,999 £17,307 £61,789
1904 .. 32,610 8J „ „ 16,999 15,611 77,400
1905 .. 40,240 10 ~ ~ 20,000 20,240 97,640
1906 .. 34,880 10 ~ „ 20,000 14,880 112,520
1907 .. 35,226 10 „ ~ 20,000 15,226 127,746
This concern, which has waggon-loads of money at the
back of it, didn’t always look like that. In fact, just
before 1903, when the above list opens, the Co. trans-
ferred a few thousands of forfeited capital to reserves,
and at the same time re-issued the forfeited shares at a
premium. The paid capital is £200,000 in 100,000 shares,
on which there is a liability of £B. The co. trades largely
on borrowed money, however : it has a little plan of issuing
five and seven year debentures, carrying 4 per cent.
Practically these are deposits : the co. is entitled to issue
up to £BOO,OOO, or the amount of the uncalled capital.
There was £439,505 worth outstanding at the end of the
year ; and other debts amounted to £496,243. The assets
consist mainly of advances (£977,541). Premises, plant,
and furniture stand at only £51,915 ; going back over
this item, it looks as though it is kept well written down.
The advances have increased heavily during the last few
years. For instance
1903. 1907.
Mortgages and secured loans .. £313,485 £492,148
Advances on wool, etc 34,164 44,294
Current accounts 225,229 440,511
Total advances .. .. £572,878 £976,953
There was, apropos that, a significant remark or two in
the speech of the chairman of directors at the meeting in
London. (The concern, by the way, is so awfully ex-
clusive that the transfer of shares from the London
to the Maoriland register is not permitted.) The chair-
man announced that there had been “ a great deal of
activity in land sales, and we have temporarily financed
the buyers of several large estates with a satisfactory
profit to ourselves.... In all cases these advances are to be
liquidated during the current year, and in some the pro-
perties have already been resold to farmers, and our loans
repaid in a very short time. We are glad to say that these
second purchasers have not applied to us for assistance."
But still the boom continues, and later on the farmer,
who has bought at boom prices, and whose back is bent
with the weight of the mortgage, will be asking for seed
wheat and the free carriage of starving stock. In other
words, the subdivision syndicates and the finance cos. are
fattening now at the expense of the future of the farmer
and the future of the taxpayer.
Victorian Butter Factories Co-operative
Co., Ltd. (Melbourne), which began with a deficit repre-
senting preliminary expenses:—
Dividend Bonus to Written
Aug., Profits. (10p.c.). Clients. Off. Deficit.
1900 £163
April, • Reserves.
1901 . £914 £149 602
1902 .. 1603 164 £lOO6 1035
1903 .. 2513 191 1612 1745
1904 .. 3072 201 2593 £2O 2003
1905 .. 2882 206 2483 20 2177
1906 .. 4278 212 1947 571 3725
(5 P-c.)
1907 .. 3006 133 2372 748 3478
Reserves transferred to Capital (£592) 2886
1908 .. 997 161 584 3138.
The co. was formed to carry on co-operative marketing ;
but subsequently it launched out into freezing works and
a butter-box factory, without any direct increase of
capital. Bonus shares were, however, allotted to share-
holders paying something extra for boxes. That is to
say, instead of buying shares straight out, they bought
them by paying a higher price for boxes ; and that, of
course, inflated profits. Apparently the same policy has
been followed during the past year ; but, in spite of any
higher price that may have been charged, the butter-box-
making business wasn’t profitable. The separate accounts
of the freezing and the box-making departments are not
published ; but a lumped debit balance of £9Bl is charged
to general profit and loss. Thus, in spite of the general
bad season in Victoria, the marketing business of the
co. showed a gross profit of £1968, which was
reduced to £997 through having to make up the deficit
on the other departments. The capital was sufficient
for the original purposes of the co.; but it was not large
enough when the co. went further, with the result that
it has liabilities totalling £35,574, while apart from works
its assets are only £24,472. The works cost £19,368, and,
even reckoning in the bonus shares, the capital is only
£3224. Twelve months ago, noting these' things, and
noting also the rapid depreciation of such works, it was
remarked that “the future must be causing the directors
a deal of anxiety ”; and the same remark applies still,
only'a little more so. If it was the shareholders’ own
money, a dividend could be dropped if things went
wrong ; where it is somebody else’s money, interest must
be paid, no matter how things go. An ordinary concern
that put up rapidly-deteriorating works at a cost of six-
times its capital, when its capital was already well occupied,
would deserve to be spoken to very severely ; but The
Bulletin has a good deal of sympathy with the manage-
ments of co-operative concerns, especially concerns whose
shareholders are in the Cow business ; for in nearly every
case those managements are expected to go ahead and
make bricks without straw. With luck they pull
through, mostly by borrowing straw ; but if bad luck
arrives, there is disaster and a dreadful mortgage on the
bricks.
•* •* * *
The Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne): —
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900 ..£4035 If p.c. = £562 £1336 £2137 £15,750
1901 .. 4608 3 „ „ 927 3681 19,431
1902 .. 7255 3 „ „ 927 6328 25,759
Loss.
1903 .. 629 Nil 25,130
Profit.
1904 .. 2061 Nil 2061 27,191
1905 .. 2018 Nil 2018 29,209
1906 .. 3511 2f p.c. = 843 2668 31,877
1907 .. 1323 Nil 1323 33,200
1908 .. 3021 2f p.c. = 843 2178 35,378
But the reserves only exist in name. Of the total £lO,lOO
belongs to a fund for replacements and repairs ; and as
the repairs and replacements are made, the expenditure
is added to the assets ; so there must be a lot of broken
crockery among the assets, and a large quantity of the
reserves lying in the rubbish tips of Melbourne. For the
same reason the true profits are less than the figures
printed, since no deduction is made to cover wear and
tear. If 10 per cent, of their book value were written off
furniture and fittings it would call for over £2OOO a year.
Another£lo,ooo of the reserves is an “assets contingency
fund”; and most likely that isn’t a real reserve either.
The freehold property stands in the books at £103,290 ;
and probably that valuation is one of the “ contingencies.”
But, if the value of the property shrank after the
boom, the mortgage stood firm, and it has taken
half of the profits during the past nine years to
bring it down from £70,000 to the present £59,000
an average reduction of £1220 a year. And unfortunately,
in spite ofithis reduction, the interest bill is heavier now
than it was nine years ago ; it runs away with over £2400
a year. For the shareholders the road has been long, and
drinks have been few and far between, and the outlook
is still dry and dreary. Yet many a Melbourne concern
has done worse. The Grand Hotel had a mortgage nearly
three times bigger than its capital; and the average con-
cern that found itself in that state a few years ago simply
passed out.
* * * •*
Washington H. Soul, Pattinson and Co.,
Ltd., druggists, etc., of Sydney (the notice is a bit late,
probably through trusting to one of Johnson’s trains): —
To Re- Nominal
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
Aug., 1904.. 10 p.c. =£6ooo £1912
Feb., 1905.. £6143 10 „ „ 6000 £143 2055
Aug., 1905.. 5959 10 „ „ 6000 2014
Feb., 1906.. 7124 10 „ „ 6000 1124 3138
Aug., 1906.. 6338 10 „ „ 6000 338 3476
Feb., 1907.. 6390 10 „ „ 6000 390 3866
Aug., 1907.. 6730 10 „ „ 6000 730 4596
Feb., 1908.. 6198 10 „ „ 6000 198 4794
This concern, though its shares are in high favor in the
Sydney investment market —so much so, in fact, that the
return on present price is only about 4% per cent.—pub-
lishes very little information about itself, It started off
with a heavy goodwill item, wrapped up with other things.
At August, 1904, this bundle read —“ Stocks on hand, plant
and fixtures, patent rights, etc., £98,178.” Patent rights
are, of course, paper assets, and probably the “etc.” is the
goodwill of the businesses which the co. took over. Evi-
dently investors believe that the profits are larger than
they are represented to be, and that the undisclosed
excess is being used to write down these paper assets.
There is some indication of this in the reduction of the
lumped item: —
Aug., 1904.. £98,178 Aug., 1906.. £80,227
Feb., 1905.. 93,757 Feb., 1907.. 73,882
Aug., 1905.. 89,540 Aug., 1907.. 77,541
Feb., 1906.. 85,841 Feb., 1908.. 77,716
As, however, stocks are included, and these no doubt
move up and down, nothing very definite can be deduced
from the figures. All that can be said is that in 3J years
the co.’s debts have been reduced from £18,716 to £4223,
while cash and other assets apart from “stock, patent
rights, etc.,” have increased from £48,451 to £57,301.
The latter, however, includes “ W. H. Soul, Pattinson
and Co. (Newcastle), Ltd., shares, £3596,” and the whole
or part of the value of that asset may have been formerly
included in the lumped item previously mentioned. On
the face of it, this looks a very prosperous business ; but
it always has to be remembered, where large merchandise
stocks are concerned, that the size of the profits depends
upon the nature of the stocktaking. If insufficient allow-
ance is made for depreciation, then the profits are over-
stated ; while it is quite possible to stuff profits away by
making over-liberal allowances.
* * * *
The Zinc Corporation, Ltd., formed in 1905 to
get millions out of the zinc that has hitherto been mostly
disregarded in the Broken Hill sulphides (the millions are
still in the sulphides, by the way):—
Loss. Written off. Deficit.
Feb., 1906 .. £4,499 £4,499
Aug., 1906 .. 7,951 12,480
Keserves.
Premiums on new shares, £28,333 15,853
Deficit.
Feb., 1907 .. 13,841 £28,333 26,321
Feb., 1908 .. 22,902 35,932 85,155
And the capital account, etc., stands as follows
Capital. Liabilities.
Feb., 1906 .. £240,000 .. £11,631
Aug., 1906 .. 292,453 .. 150,360
Feb., 1907 .. 373,689 .. 144,769
Feb., 1907 .. 555,213 .. 108,228
During the year the capital was increased by 182,000 £1
pref. shares, of which, however, only 113,355 have been
issued. The assets consist chiefly of tailings dumps and
“purchase consideration.” The latter is now lumped
with the tailings, and the total stands at £372,104. The
first balance-sheet, however, showed that the “purchase
consideration” item —really the promoters’ “cut”—is
£BO,OOO, a sum, represented by free shares, which share-
holders must nowadays look on w'ith keen regret. The
bargain was certainly not worth the money.
The Corporation entered into very big contracts
with the Broken Hill South, Block 14, Block 10, and
British cos.; and some of the payments which should
have been made could not be met. A note to the balance-
sheet show's how matters were squared. The co.
bought from Block 10 straight out large quan-
tities of tailings, and a bill of sale has been given
over 50,000 tons, “and arrangements are being made
to give Block 10 Co. security over additional tailings.”
Other cos., from which the Co. bought tailings, have also
been secured in the same way. That is to say, the
Corporation has pledged its capital, represented by tail-
ings already paid for, that it will complete its contracts.
Of the liabilities shown above (£108,228) £101,204 is due
to Block 10. That leaves £7024 of sundry debts. On the
other side there was £17,471 of cash, and £5130 of book-
debts, etc. The practical question is whether the co. can
pull through on that. The directors certainly don’t help
one to form an opinion. Their report—surely the briefest
on record —is merely this The year represents a
period of expenditure on capital account on construction
and experimental work. The Elmore plant commenced
working in March, and is running satisfactorily with
continuously improving results.”
Unfortunately, the experimental period is not
over. True, the Elmore plant is now doing very much
improved work. But the Corporation is not content
with the Elmore product. All that the Elmore machine
does is to take the tailings and make a product carrying
about 43 to 45 per cent, zinc, 12 per cent, lead, and 16oz.
silver per ton. But on account of the deductions made
by those smelters who will handle a mixed product of
that sort, the Zinc Corporation is struggling to divide
this Elmore concentrate into two products by a re-treat-
ment process. This is the problem. On the one hand, if
the Corporation doesn’t divide the Elmore concentrate
into two products, it loses four units of the lead for a
start, and is only paid half price for the balance; also
for the silver contents it is paid only about Is.
per oz. for half the total. This is apart alto-
gether from the smelters’ deduction of eight units
of zinc. On the other hand, if the co. attempts (as it is
attempting) to save these very heavy losses and deduc-
tions bv making a further separation of the Elmore con-
centrate, a certain quantity of all the metals is lost in the
residues ; and even then the smelters’ deductions, though
not so large, are still heavy ; and there is also the cost of
the re-treatment. So the success of the Elmore process
has not lifted the Zinc Corporation out of the bog. The
fact that the Corporation is struggling after a satis-
factory re-treatment system indicates that it can’t
see much profit in the Elmore concentrates at the present
prices of zinc and lead. In fact, it is probable that only
an increased output without proportionate increase in
costs will enable the co to show any profit at all.
* * .* *
Some hundreds of Australians paid good hard
coin for shares in the Marconi (Canadian) Co., but never
got any scrip, and lately they found that the share-
pushers with whom they traded went smash in the last
Hew York crisis. Possibly they will get a grain of com-
fort out of the fact that so far Marconi finances are none
too brilliant, wherefore they haven’t missed any dazzling
bonanza. Anyway, the parent Marconi Co. was making
tremendous efforts when the last English mail left to get
in some more capital, and was offering 7 per cent, cumu-
lative pref. shares for subscription, w'ith full priority, and
with the added inducement of a full share in further divs.
after the ordinaries have received 10 per cent. A co. that
has to spend as much on bait as that can’t be doing too
well.
* * * *
During the last day or two a few of the Aus-
tralians whose money H. G. Robinson collected for Mar-
coni shares have received a circular purport ing to be from
that enterprising gentleman. The writer professes
to be horribly surprised to discover that the Australians
haven’t got their shares, and proceeds to fix things up:—
“ A plan has been formulated by which I shall under-
take in due course to deliver, through the New York
office of Robinson and Robinson, your shares and the
shares due every other Australian purchaser. This will
take some little time, and will be dependent in ameasure
upon the continued support of the relatives and friends of
Munroe and Munroe.” It is all horribly vague and in-
definite ; but it is a trifle to go on with. By the way,
the Union Bank (Sydney) received from Munroe and
Munroe, New York, some time ago, a few small lots of
scrip, and some of these lots have not yet been claimed.
Last year the output of coke in N. S. Wales
rose to 254,609 tons, valued at the ovens at an average of
12s. 6d. per ton. The industry is not 20 years old yet;
in fact, down to 15 years ago Australian coke was con-
demned as being dirty and too “ weak ” for furnace use ;
and there is a pretty strong suspicion, that very large
commissions found their way into the pockets of some of
the people w'ho created that impression. (In justice let
it be added that they were not State officials.) When the
Australian coke business started— say, in 1890 —the aver-
age value at the ovens was £1 6s. sd. per ton. The in-
dustry having been established —the Dibbs tariff helped
it —Australia not only gets to-day a better coke than
it got before, but the value at the ovens has been brought
dow'n about 54 per cent.—say, 10s. 9d. in the £. And
now an export trade is being built up; from Sydney
alone last year 26,599 tons were shipped to foreign ports.
This is another Australian industry that has made a very
fine show as soon as it has been helped on to its feet.
Broken Hill opinion is pretty unanimous with
regard to the Junction mine being troubled with a most
distressful management. The directors, when they had
the chance —and they have had more than one—failed to
make anything of the mine. A shilly-shally policy has
been pursued all along, and now the mine is left, like a
blown hunter, unable to negotiate the next fence—a
fairly stiff one. By their own apparently ill-advised
action the directors have aroused suspicion with regard
to the development in King shaft. There was surely no
valid reason why local shareholders should not have been
permitted to make an inspection of the crosscut and 40ft.
drive at the 400 ft. level. If it was intended to use the
small ore-body in King’s to stalk the sixpenny call,
the directors, by trying to keep it dark, have put them-
selves away. The more this King shaft ore body is opened
up at the 400 ft. level the clearer it becomes that it is
merely a pipe of ore underlying rapidly into the adjoining
British mine. After driving north for 30ft. through good
ore, the footwall was met, and the drive had tobe continued
a little to the east. This makes its direction almost par-
allel to the British boundary, and throws a lot of cold water
on the hope that the Junction would get the length of
the ore shoot. To all appearance, the length of the ore
at any one level will not be much greater than its breadth,
which goes to support the “pipe” theory.
The King shaft ore in the Junction is, however,
of good quality, and would come in very handy for
“sweetening” the hard, poor-grade stuff that knocked
the heart out of the mill during the twelve months it was


Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited)
Has
Uncalled Capital - £975,000
Perpetual Deposit
with Govt. - 20,000
Reserves - 33,000
£1,028,000
As SECURITY for its
Management of Trust Estates
under Wills, Intestacies,
Marriage Settlements,
Trust Deeds of Every
Description.
2, 4 6 Spring' Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
Fraser | Chalmers,
LTD.
(The English Firm),
Manufacturers of the Highest
Glass of Mining & Power Plant.
WRITE FOR ESTIMATES.
Australasian Office—
Equitable Building, MELBOURNE.
COHMANN <a COMPANY,
493 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR
Germania Refrigerating' &. Ice MaKing' Machinery
As supplied to Foster Brewing Company and Victoria Breweries, Melbourne;
Kohn’s Brewery, Bendigo, Perth Ice and Refrigerating Co., etc.
Importers of Tramway, Mining, Industrial and Electrical Machinery and Materials of all kinds, [i.
working. Without some good ore of n . th ®
ductive operations at the present price ° f „
not be made profitable for the Junction. Sa.v. for exa 'q e
the proposal to resume operations on an increased ton-
nage of 2500 tons a week were put into execution, and
the mine had to depend on its usual 12 per cent. 0 • ,
more than a weekly average of 340 tons of concentrat
could be produced under those conditions, assaying 60 p
cent, lead and 28oz. silver. These would contain, then, 204
tons lead and 95200 z. silver, which, allowing for slightly
improved market conditions (£l3 for lead and 2s. 2d. f
silver), would be worth to the co. approximately £3683.
It is scarcely likely that a smelter’s returning charge or
less than £4 10s. could be secured, which would take
£1530 off the value of the week's production. For raising
the ore and milling it, the lowest figure the Junction is
likely to get down to is 17s. per ton —another bite or
£2125 off the cake. This would leave the co. only £-.8
with which to meet development, administration ana
other expenses. * * *
The Carmichael-Bradford desulphurising pro-
cess at Broken Hill has risen from its own ashes. A little
over six months ago the co. was almost moribund, and
the two directors, foreseeing the difficulty they were
likely to experience in trying to make four go into
two, gladdened a shareholders’ meeting by announc-
ing their intention of cutting down their fees
by one-half. Before the next six months had expired,
the B. H. Proprietary developed an unexpected desire to
use the process, and the Big mine’s experts very soon
showed the Oarmiehael-Bradford people how to run the
invention at a better profit. By the end of the half-year
about £250 had filtered into the co.’s pocket as the result
of the Port Pirie experimental work, and with the swelling
of the exchequer the beautiful halos of self-denial, with
which shareholders had adorned the heads of the directors,
faded rapidly. When the balance-sheet appeared, the
item for directors’ fees appeared boldly as of yore—£loo
for the half-year. The £250 royalty had been too great a
temptation.
* * * *
Excellent recoveries have been made at the
Oobar Gold Mines with the Elmore process; the inventor
himself has been up on the field satisfying himself that
all is going right before he returns to England. It is
doubtful, however, whether a commercial success can be
secured as long as the treatment plant has to depend on
the old stamp-mill for a supply of pulp. Originally the
mill was all right, but both that and the power plant are
now only fit for the scrap-heap ; and the moment the co.
has satisfied itself that the Elmore process can make
an extraction of the metals, new power and crush-
ing appliances should go in. The multitudinous
engines and boilers are in a probably worse state even
than the stamp mill, and from one cause and another
delays are long and frequent. The mine has well over
100,000 tons of ore available, out of which a profit of over
255. per ton should be made ; but it is being handled in an
exasperating fashion.
* * * *
Some illuminating correspondence has been
published at Oobar (N.S.W.) lately. One of those “ Ed-
ifice-to-know-Mister-Chairman ” shareholders every
Board of directors knows that the whole tribe ought to be
taken out and executed—couldn’t understand how the
monthly reports of Queen Bee showed a profit, while the
half-yearly report showed a loss. Of course he was told
not to be an impertinent person, and that he ought to
put it in writing, anj'how. Now, being apparently more
of a sticker than most, he has put it in writing. From
July 1 to December 31, 1907, the monthly reports (forfive
months only) showed a profit of £4174 ; deduct £l2BO for
general expenses and depreciation, and £2894 profit re-
mains. Yet the half-yearly balance sheet, issued a couple
of months later, showed a loss of £982. The secre-
tary replied that the monthly figures “can
only be estimated from the amount of matte on
hand according to the mine returns, and they are pub-
lished as only estimates, while the net proceeds of refined
copper actually recovered are shown in the balance-
sheet.” The matter might just as well have been allowed
to drop with that confession, but the “ I-would-like-to-
know-Mister-Chairman ” shareholder pursued the sub-
ject ; whereupon the chairman, instead of frankly own-
ing up that the management had been a mighty poor
estimator, flew off to tell the shareholder that his letter
was regarded with “ the contempt it deserves ” —which
wasn’t exactly the humble and contrite spirit that the
case called for.
• * • *
The puffing of the Grafton copper mine
(N.S.W.) is becoming a joke. Every week the public is
breathlessly' informed that something or other is im-
proving, and adjectives are poured out over appearances
and prospects. The little show is made to look as big as
Oobar or Broken Hill, and all the time it turns out
a poor 450 tons of ore a month—less than the Broken Hill
Prop, handles every six hours. The Grafton is a good
little mine, but it shouldn’t make itself look absurd, and
it ought to try to save itself from its friends. Fortu-
nately, the ore is high-grade, and easily smelted; if it
were not it could never stand the present heavy charges—
especially heavy when the exceptional facilities for cheap
mining are considered.
» * •* «
The latest phase of the muddle over the Opera-
tor, Wyalong (N.S.W.), is that the whole of the applica-
tions for the lease have been rejected by the Mines De-
partment, on the ground of insufficient pegging. The
lease will now be thrown open for another—which will
make the third—scramble for possession.
X- * m 0
Auditors Collingwood and Dickenson have made
a piping-hot report in Melbourne on the Marvel Loch
(Vy.A.). The points of the report are—(l) No contract
with vendors is available, and in terms of the prospectus
the vendors were to receive £5OO cash and 50,000 shares ;
(2) no prospectus was adopted at the preliminary meet-
ing ; (3) 50 original shares were duplicated; (4) for
10,000 contributing shares issued in May, 1907, at 35., no
credit is to he found in the co.’s banking account; (5) 900
paid-up shares have been duplicated ; irregularities
have occurred over the mode of issuing scrip; (7)
directors have signed scrip in blank ; (8) balance-sheets
were not issued in accordance with the articles; and (9)
there is a deficiency in the accounts of £1707. Those
concerned may be able to explain these things, but they
have not yet been heard from.
* * * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) is now being tested at 1970 ft.,
but it may be some months before anything of conse-
quence will occur. The intersection of the' east lode,
which for some years past has been the backbone of the
mine, is about due ; hut this development is shorn of a
good deal of importance on account of the winze from
the level above proving the existence of 60s. ore to within
a few feet of where the crosscut will strike the lode. The
Ivanhoe is looking very solid at depth, and the half-yearly
estimate of ore reserves, now being made up, should show
the gross value of the gold in sight to he greater than ever.
* * * *
The ways of the Board of the Sons of Gwalia
(W.A.) are mysterious. Without any apparent justifica-
tion whatever it has brought the monthly output down
to £18,500, which means that shareholders will get smaller
dividends. At the present time the mine ranks as one
of the best in the State, and in view of the splendid way
in which it is developing in the lower levels, it is up to
shareholders to require some explanation of the new
policy.
• * * *
The last half-yearly balance-sheet shows Prin-
cess Royal (W.A.) to be again on its uppers. The old gag
about “improved prospects” having worn out its wel-
come, the resourceful crowd at the back of this failure
has hit upon a new idea. Some 60,000 tons of sands,
which are estimated to yield a profit of 2s. per ton, have
come to light, and a hint has been given scrip-holders
that a further reconstruction may be necessary in order
to provide funds to erect the necessary leaching plant.
In the light of past unfulfilled prospects, shareholders
ought to require some very definite information before
parting' with any more cash.
* * * *
An attempt is being made in Westralia to form
a co. to exploit the Hidden Secret at depth. About
£52,000 has been taken out' of this mine to date ; but as
the rich seam of telluride ore from which this wealth was
obtained disappeared at 300 ft. and has not been seen
since, the prospect of finding it again does not look very
brilliant.
* * * *
Sleeman, who bosses the Whim Well (W.A.),
told the Perth Herald the other day that the co. had
already realised on 3200 tons of 22J,per cent, copper ore,
that 1300 tons of 18 per cent, stuff was ready for ship-
ment, and that 18,000 tons of 7J per cent, rock was lying
loose around the property. Something was also said
about the levels “ looking pretty,” and, to fill up with, a
word was added about bore-hole prospecting, big treat-
ment plants, and the enormous tonnage of 5 per cent, ore
and upwards exposed in the mine. Only recently The
Bulletin said that this co. was getting ready to push off
some of its reserve shares on the public, and it looks as if
the unsuspecting Herald were being used as one of the
means to that end.
« * * *
To date, £50,667 has been won from shallow
mining in the Fenian, at Meekatharra (W. A.). More than
half of this.amount has found its way into shareholders’
pockets; and, as rich ore is still going through the mill,
further dividends may reasonably' be expected. The per-
manence of the Meekatharra reefs at depth is still, how-
ever, a matter of doubt.
» * * *
Nearly £40,000 has been added to Chaffers’
market valuation on the strength of a find made by two
tributing parties working some ground near the south
boundary. These men struck lSdwt. ore at a depth of
30ft.; but, as only £4OO worth of bullion, representing the
proceeds of two small crushings, has been dug out so far,
and as little or no development work has been done, it is
evident that they have an extravagant notion of specu-
lative value in the West.
* * *
A new find between Meekatharra and Abbott’s
(W.A.) looks promising. A shaft sunk a few feet on one
reef shows 2ft. of stone, which dollies from dwts. to
ounces, while a second reef, 4ft. in thickness, also carries
good values. Neither reef shows much gold, hut they
give good dolly prospects.
The decrepit Burbanks Birthday Co., which
issues accounts in London and gets them passed in the
West, held a meeting at 8.. M. & Co.’s Kalgoorlie office
the other dayj It is not known whether two dozen or
two shareholders were present, or whether chairman
E. J. Welstead had the floor and the room to himself.
The published report of the proceedings contents itself
with remarking that the balance-sheet was adopted, and
the retiring directors (who live in London) were re-
appointed ; the rest all remains a
Mining north of Bendigo is in a state of chaos.
Two mines at Sebastian have for a long time past been
taking gold out of the shareholders’ pockets, instead of
putting some in. At Ravwood the New Nil Desperan-
dum, on the site of the old Nil, has up to the last month
or so been turning out big yields of gold ; two or three
times the yields beat the best of Bendigo’s. On the
strength of these returns a big battery was run up, and
the shareholders, mostly district cookies, had visions of fat
divs. The first few crushings that went through the new
battery yielded a bit better than ever, getting up to
300 odd ounces from 400 to 500 tons of stone. Then
the shareholders called for divs. ; but no sooner had one
of Is. per share been declared than the yields slumped
fast, and the last yield was just enough to pay exes.
Anything less would have meant an early call. A
lot' of scrip has been unloaded upon the market
at cheap rates. The old Nil had a provoking habit
of luring on shareholders until eventually a lot
of them had their fingers burnt. A new
wild-cat venture at Kamarooka, run by Ballarat
investors, has just burst, and all hands are knocked off.
The burst-up occurred at the first half-yearly meeting at
Ballarat, when half of the shareholders accused the other
half of running the show to suit themselves ; and as the
first half said they were the biggest half they bucked, and
one of the biggest party went up and had a look how
things were. When he got back he told the others that
the whole turnout on the mine wasn’t worth 305., that
the shaft was in the wrong place, and that. most other
things were wrong. Amid the noise the mine has been
shut down. J. N. Dunn, ex-M.L.A., is manager and
leader of one half of the shareholders, and Davie Kerr,
ex-M.L.A., is leader of the other half—the half that claims
to be the biggest.
* * • *
Star of the East, Sebastopol Plateau (Vic.), has
a “really important development”; likewise it has a
still more important overdraft. Also there are “unpre-
sented cheques,” worth in the firmament of credit £1744.
Next to having hard cash, the right thing to have is
credit; and of that the Star of the East and South Star
have had as much as would float a modest Flinders Lane
importer. On old account, Star of the East owes £9705,
and on the new account it is £492 to the bad, and it has
issued the little lot of unpresented cheques previously
mentioned, making a total debt of £11,941. The balance-
sheet shows calls due £504, and forfeited shares £1368. The
“important development” is at 2200 ft. on the Consols
lode. The directors write : “ The stone being opened up
off the rise is showing payable gold ; and, should it con-
tinue, as it gives every promise of doing, will add new life
to the mine.” Roll up ! Roll up #
Lord Nelson North, St. Arnaud (Vic.), has hit
a shoot going for the Lord Nelson lode at 2080 ft.—this
lode is supposed to be ahead.. Gold, sdwt. This won’t
pay with refractory dirt, so there isn’t much to flutter
over yet. When the Lord Nelson shoot is reached there
may be a bit more of the real Mackay in the stone. Lord
Nelson has a nipe-sized lode which at 2000 ft. should be in
the North. What its quality is has to be proved, so it has
yet to be seen whether it will pay to put up a plant to
work the formation should the stiff-backed crowd at the
Lord Nelson refuse to take what is obviously the right
step—amalgamation.
Porcupine, Yarra Glen (Vic.), has issued a
report. William Baxter, mine manager, writes “ Your
shaft is down 86ft. in hard country. Though difficult to
work, it is a good omen for the permanency of the reef.”
Assuming that the “it” refers to the country and not to
the shaft, then “it” is a pity that W. Baxter did not
explain why in his mine it is easier for a reef to live in
hard country than in soft country, contrary to the
general experience. True, he says, “ I feel confident you
have a valuable and permanent property,” so probably he
goes by his own feelings in the matter. The shaft was
only down 86ft., and he had not proved either the reef or
its contents, so he couldn’t have had much else to go on.
If his view be right, the co. has a bargain, for it only paid
£3OO for the lease, though the fact that the flotation cost
£l3l rather indicates that shares weren’t rushed.
* * * *
Coal mining in Gippsland is languid. The last
six months’total output was 57,600 tons, against 71,027
tons for the first half of 1907. The shortage, though
ascribed to the closing of the Coal Creek mine, is paitly
due to the smaller output of the Outtrim-Howitt, where
a combination of non-union labor and faulted seams dis-
turbs everything.
* * * *
North Mount Lyell continues to drift about
seeking the No. 20 stope ore-body, but so far has not got
it. Now the hunt has turned south, where the diamond
drill will be used. Reports from Queenstown are cock-
sure that the shoot will be found. Remembering that
the ore is a replacement, and that in the upper levels new
shoots have been unexpectedly met and others lost, there
is no guarantee that anything more than the barren
quartzite alreadypassed through will be got. The loss of
this ore body would cut into supplies, hence the weakly
tendency of the Mount Lyell stock. Nearly 10,000 tons a
month are being dragged out of the 850 ft. level, but the
level opened up so well that it can stand the strain for a
good bit, while poking about is going on at 1000 ft.
•* '***
So far the furnaces of the Queensland Explora-
tion Co., Cloncurry, are not behaving quite as they
should, and the 27 tons copper produced in 10 days must
have been costly. Two furnaces have been in commission
alternately during that short period. No. 1 was shut
down after three or four days on account < f a leakage,
and after six days’ smelting on No. 2, a similar mishap
befel that furnace. Then the available sulphide ore gave
out, and smelting ceased temporarily. The sulphide lode
does not seem to have turned up when expected, and the
richer oxidised ore on hand cannot be made use of without
it; consequently, the amount of copper is considerably
below the estimate. The manager finds that by hard
driving the furnaces can each smelt 50 tons daily ; 408
tons was the actual amount treated in 10J days. His
statement that the winze and old slags bad to be depended
on “ for sufficient quantity of ore ” makes it appear that
smelting has got ahead of development.
The Mackay (Q.) district has made its first
shipment of copper matte for 30 years. This was from
Isen’s. a Brisbane-owned property with SO acres of free-
hold at Mt. Flora. The tributors have a reverberatory
furnace at their disposal, and say they can turn out 50
tons of 60 per cent, matte monthly. The ore smelted at
present averages 20 per cent, copper, and 500 tons of this
material is in sight, as well as a large tonnage of lower-
grade smelting ore. How long the 50 tons a month will
be maintained is therefore at present problematical.
There are 12 men working on tribute, and prospects are
said to be good. The first shipment was 22 tons of matte
valued at £BOO.
• * * *
The Palmer field (Q.), where much gold was
won in the early days, is to be exploited by a Victorian
co., which has issued 2600 £lO shares to work the Ida
mine in that district. A good deal of machinery was
erected here years ago ; but the plant was never finished,
although the stone is said to have averaged somewhere
near 2oz.
* * * *
Charters Towers’ turnover in shares for June
approaches that of the boom in July, 3902, the figures
being’ respectively 404,464 shares valued at £93,925, and
424,638 worth £158,192. Comparing the six months of
this year to June 30 with the corresponding months of
1907, we have 819,623 shares (£162,901) and 253,229
(£52,103). June was responsible for about half the busi-
ness this year. East Mexicans top the list with 33,072
contributing at prices from 4s. 2d. to 165., and 18,150 paid
up at from ss. lid. to l7s. 9d. East Mexican’s increase of
capital (3500 fully paid up shares, to secure the freehold
rights of property) will give the co. in all 34 acres and
1200 ft. frontage to the New Brilliant Freehold.
* * * *
The East Mexican, Charters Towers, has an
office in Adelaide, although most of the old crowd have
long since dropped out of the eo. A meeting is to be held,
as a matter of form, on the 17th, to authorise the pur-
chase of two acres of freeholds, which happen to be on
the boundary, and may include the Day Dawn reef.
The directors have made a good bargain by buying these
freeholds for 3500 paid-up shares ; and the freeholders,
who couldn’t do anything with the blocks on their own
account, no doubt consider themselves in luck, too.
There is nothing very certain about the East Mexican.
The show has been a failure in the past in spite of the
attempts to pick up the Day Dawn reef. It certainly
doesn’t follow because No. 7 has proved such a good level
in both Mills United and the Freehold that No. 5 in the
East Mexican will rapidly improve. The fact that the
east Day Dawn shoot changes so quickly in value and size
is a double-edged argument as applied to the East Mexi-
can. It would certainly require to improve a lot on the
prospects at the end of Mills United upper levels to be
payable ; on the other hand, it seems incredible that in
rising above No. 7 for a distance of 90ft., such a fine reef
can narrow and become barren.
* * * *
After extending Mills’ United No. 7 level some
300 ft. into the New Brilliant Freehold, the directors at
Charters Towers have decided to sink their shaft 450 ft.
deeper, and crosscut in search of the Day Dawn. The
level they are now driving will have to continue more
than 600 ft. eastwards to come level with the shaft, which
is away to the north in front of the Day Dawn formation.
There is an idea that the Brilliant alsoexists as a separate
reef some hundreds of feet in front of the Day Dawn,
which theory is based on the position of the Brilliant
Freehold upper workings. The N. B. Freehold was not
much good in the Brilliant formation, so a speculative
chance of this kind is worth very little. It is a paradox
that mines that have been working the Brilliant reef with
so much profit have the greatest faith in getting the Day
Dawn, while Mills’ United and the N. B. Freehold, which
have the eastern Day Dawn shoot, care very little about
the Brilliant. The possibility of one parallel formation
being rich and the other poor is obvious; there are
stretches of poor ground all over the field.
* * * *
Prospects appear to change rapidly at the
Gilmore tin mine (N.Q.), though the changes are often of
little real consequence. The fact is that the property
has a number of small shoots, and one or other of them is
liable to open up into something good at any time, and
the market gambles on these changes. Some time ago
the lode was met with in the 200 ft. Midas level; but the
market cooled oil on finding that a barren patch had been
struck on following the lode. There is, however, a
length of about 30ft. of payable ore at this level, as
against 55ft. higher up at the 160 ft. stope. The grade is
less, but still the body is of fair value. The worst
feature at present is that the Dolly Grey shoot has
become poor, so the supply of brown ore is falling off. A
crosscut is now being put in to the Dolly Grey from the
bottom of the Midas shaft (200 ft. level), which should
open up some medium grade ore when it gets far enough.
Prospects, not very bright, are not likely to improve
much for a while—disregarding the possibilities already
mentioned as to the small shoots.
« * * *
Good progress is being made with the flotation
of a co. to introduce the Renard road-train system of
haulage to Australia. The power is supplied by Daimler-
built motors ; and the system has had very cheerful
things said about it by leading European engineers. The
prospectus was printed in last week’s Bulletin.
Portland Cement: Much too large an order.
“ Commonwealth Year Book ” says “ 793,928c\vt. of
cement, gypsum, etc., valued at £71,765, were imported
into Australia in 1906.” The N.S.W. Mines Department
report for 1907 shows that the output in that State in-
creased from £46,500 in 1902 to £144,548 in 1907. Principal
producer, Commonwealth Portland Cement Co. The
head-office is in London, and the accounts are not made
public. There are big works also at Marino, S. Aus. ;
accounts of that co. are also not published, but in the
past it has had difficulties Felix: The A.M.P
S.G.P.: The show is good enough ; hut consider this—
prior to the present boom, in only one year had tin
averaged more than £122 per ton for the past 25 years.
The past may not he a complete guide to the future of the
market; still it is the best guide there is.
In the calculation of working costs in concen-
trating- mills and workshops, every small item should he
taken into consideration. It is the small and uncon-
sidered factors, involving waste of power, that make for
high working costs. The type of bearing employed has a
marked effect on the power consumed in overcoming-
friction. Recent exhaustive tests emphasised the marked
superiority of the Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings over all
other types of roller, sleeve, and other anti-friction
bearings. Under equal conditions the loss of power due
to friction in Hyatt Flexibles is 23 per cent, less-than
with the best solid roller bearing, and 65 per cent, less
than with babbit metal journals. Messrs. W. and J.
Lempriere, 506 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, will be
glad to supplv further information to those interested.
* * * *
Adams’ Asbestos Boiler and Pipe Covering.
Gives better results than any other. It saves from 20
per cent, in fuel, keeps steam pressure uniform, prevents
condensation in steam pipe, is very light in weight, and
easily applied. J bag covers 40 super, square feet I inch
thick; price 20s. per bag. Wm. Adams and Co.. Ltd.
163 Clarence-street, Sydney.*
*•*..**
The introduction into the Broken Hill and
Western Australian Mines of a small hand rock-drill for
boring “ pops ” to break up large blocks of ore, cutting
“ hitches ” for timber, and squaring up shafts and levels,
has quite revolutionised the old method of working with
hammers and gad. The best machine for this work is the
“Shaw’’Hand Rock Drill and is manufactured by the
Austral Otis Engineering Company, Ltd., Melbourne,
who are the sole agents. The machine weighs only 161bs.
and has only one working part—the hammer—-which
serves the purpose also of a valve. One man with this
machine can easily do as much work as four men with
hammer and drill. It some of the hardest lodes m the
Boulder these machines bore over 1-in. a minute, and in
softer country as much as 2£in. per minute. Unlike other
types, the operator does not experience any excessive
vibration due to the recoil of the hammer. The working
pressure is 801bs. per square inch and the machine uses
about 25 cubic feet of free air per minute. Ten of the
biggest mines in West Australia are now using the Shaw
Hand Rock drills. Fullest particulars may be obtained
from the Company’s offices in South Melbourne, where
the machine may be seen working.* [5
» * -* *
The Journal of Commerce, Liverpool, August,
1907, writes in its review of the last annual reportTo
peruse the report and balance-sheet of the Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited for the year
1906-7 is to acquire proof of a typically successful,
carefully safeguarded, and economically managed modern
insurance office.”
* * * *
Before ordering Mining Plant be sure you have
a copy of Cameron and Sutherland’s priced catalogue.
We can supplv everything you want right through from
Rock Drills ‘to Cyanide Plant, including Reddaway’s
Camel Hair Belts, Motive Power, Lathes, Drilling
Machines, etc., for the Engineering Department, Winding
Gear, Concentrators, etc. Address Cameron and
Sutherland, Sydney, Melbourne, Ballarat and Bendigo.*
* * * •*
Mining and engineering men will be interested
in the development that has taken place as regards the
use of Dunlop Conveyor, Elevator, and other rubber belts
in Australia. A few years back, the number of Dunlop
Conveyor belts'in use in the Commonwealth would not
have totalled a dozen ; whereas to-day they are numbered
in the hundreds. The Dunlop Rubber Company (who
have depfits in all the States) have, during the past year,
sold large belts that alone totalled up about six miles in
length, and weighed over 80 tons. Some of the belts
supplied weighed over 50001 b. each, and were 600 ft. long.
The success of the Dunlop Co.’s belts has been so re-
markably consistent on nearly all the leading mines that
it is little wonder that the Conveyor belt is coming into
such general use in this country. The Dunlop Company,
who have the best-equipped plant in the Southern
Hemisphere for this class of work, are prepared to supply
belts in any length (endless if desired) up to 40in. wide.
Tenders and samples submitted.*
* * * *
The big demand for Kemp’s Branding Liquid
proves it to be the best for sheep branding on the market.
It goes further and is considerably cheaper than any
other. It will scour out and should certainly be used by
those who hope to get a good price for their wool.
E. Rich and Co., Sydney and Brisbane, hold stocks.*
+ ■*•**
Genuine Balata Belting.— We are sole agents
in Australasia for the original “ Tenax” brand, which is
superseding all others. Every belt is guaranteed. In
use on Broken Hill and other big mines in Aus
tralia. Beware of imitations. Wm. Adams and Co.,
Ltd., 163 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521 Collins Street,
Melbourne ; 87 Eagle Street, Brisbane.*
■*•***
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors,
write to H. B. Silberberg and Co., 44.3 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
■* * •+ *
If you want to borrow money, go to N.S.W.
Mont dePieteCo., Ltd., 74 Castlereayh-st., 74, Sydney, and
17 Hunter-st., Newcastle. Eustace Bennett. Manager.*
* * * *
The liquidator’s note of sale, by public auction,
of the machinery plant and stock of the Australian Forge
and Engineering Co. Proprietary, Ltd., Williamstown, has
been withdrawn, the whole of it having been sold
privately to the well-known firm of Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, ironfounder, etc., Melbourne, who has removed
everything to his engineering works, Footscray.
Machinery merchants, engineers, mining companies, and
others interested are invited to inspect this plant, which
is now offered for sale at very low prices. Detailed
catalogues are being prepared and will be posted to any
address on application to Mephan Ferguson, head office
and engineering works, Footscray.*
* * * *
Clarke & Sons (sons of the late Reginald H.
Clarke), Stock and Share Brokers, 99A Queen-street,
Melbourne. Member of Melbourne Stock Exchange.*
* * * *
In connection with the visit of the American
Fleet, engineers will be interested to note that 16 of the
vessels, including all of the Class “A” battleships, are
fitted with water-tube boilers of the Babcock and Wilcox
make. This boiler is also being extensively adopted in
the Australian Mercantile Marine, two recent orders being
the S.S. Paringa, 1500 1.H.P., and S.S. Koombaba, •
4200 1.H.P., both for the Adelaide S.S. Co.’s inter-State
trade.*
» * * »
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Canbelego.— Mining speculators correspond
with Eric B. Treatt, Share Broker, Canbelego, for the
latest information on the field.*
* * * *
CHARTERS TOWERS. —Mining speculators
would do well to correspond with Alfred Bowry, member
of the Charters Towers Stock Exchange, for the latest
information on the field.*
* •*■*■*
To get the maximum output of good work at a
minimum cost is a vital question in the modern engineer’s
workshop—a result only to be obtained by the use of
high-class machine tools. Alf. Herbert Ltd. are specialists
in this line of machinery, and their capstan and turret
lathes, milling machines, etc., are now widely employed.
They claim for their patent roller steady that it enables
bar work to be done three times as fast as by any other
machine, and the output is guaranteed of any machine
they recommend for a certain duty. Gibson, Battle and
Co., Ltd., 7 Bent Street, Sydney ; and 128 William Street,
Melbourne, are their sole agents.*


Learn by Post
H
r in your spare time, and without interferen
with your regular vocation, subject* which willl
enable you to attain speedy promotion in your ’
present position, or qualify you lor a more •
genial and better paid occupation.
STOTT & HOARE’S
BUSINESS COLLEGE
bas the largest and most highly qualified stall of ]
expert instructors in Australasia, who give personal
attention to postal student.
BOOKKEEPING and ACCOUNTANCY. SHORTHAND
snd TYPEWRITING. CORRESPONDENCE <
ARITHMETIC. PENMANSHFP. Etc.
. - % Electrical St Mechanical ENGINEERING.
~
"Ho
( Fra*
ST SV£ll
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets.
Chemist refund money if it fails to cure. E. W.
GROVE’S signature is on each box. Is. ljd.
r-P
V
m
A Philosopher ?
No, I am not exactly —but I know more
about “The Philosophy of Dress”—l know
where the best values are in Men’s or
Boys’ Clothing. Send for a copy To-Day—
“The Philosophy of Dress**
will show you how to
“Pay Less and Dress Better.**
Sent Post Free on application.
Lincoln Stuart Co. Pty. Ltd.
FUNDERS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“The Prooshan”: Australia’s Echidnea
Aculeata, or porcupine, is excellent eating-. I have
tried, and X know. The spines are easily removed
by scalding, or the animal can be skinned. His
plumpness suggests that the ants on which he
fattens are effective fodder. The flesh resembles
pork—though it is a trifle darker and coarser—
and the flavor’s tiptop. I had two helpings once,
under the firm delusion that I was feeding on
sucking-pig.
* * * *
“ Mopane,” from Bulawayo (Africa) :
Can any of your Abos. tell me what is the longest dis-
tance done in a day by a man with a single horse ? The
subject of long-distance riding frequently crops up over
here, and I often tell yarns about it which are usually
taken with a grain of salt; but I should like to have such
an unimpeachable piece of evidence as a printed state-
ment in the “ Abo.” column from someone who has
actually done a big ride, or who knows of one having been
done. Not long ago a lightweight rode from Victoria
(Rhodesia) to Gwelo (105 miles), on a 14.2 pony, in about
16 hours, and I have heard of other pretty good journeys
being done here ; but I am willing to bet that there is
nothing to touch a good Australian horse over such a dis-
tance ; and actual experiences will be interesting. The
famous ride of Dick King, from Durban to Grahamstown,
somewhere about the early part of last centurv, would be
hard to beat.
THIS IS THE HOUSE THAT JACK AND
BILL BUILT.
Two selectors bought adjoining selections, but
only had sufficient iron to cover one house. So
two houses were built, one above the other,
the iron on top. And they tossed to see who'd
live underneath. When the men are away, and
the women folk retire aloft, the ladder is pulled up.
“ Republican ” : Was listening to a black-
fellow telling of a trip he’d had. He said :
“Jindu (sun) come up, walk, walk, walk, nothing
gabbie (water). Jindu tumble down, schleep.
Morning time, ’nother feller jindu come up.
Walk.” Here I interrupted to say that it was the
same old jindu. He said : “’Notherphella tumble
down that-a-way ”—pointing with his chin
towards the west. When I started to explain
how the earth turned around, he indignantly
said: “ Ground nothing walk about; ground all
the time sit down,” and looking at me sideways
with scorn, he added “Mine thinkit you blurry
phool ”—a deserved reproach in the case of one
insane enough to try and hammer science into a
mulga nigger.
“ Vigilans ” : The tiredest pub I ever had
the misfortune to strike was while travelling down
from Mitchell to Roma (West Queensland). Cold !
It was bitter ! There was no fire in the drinkery,
and I slept in a slab room full of draughts. In
the morning I rose at seven and found the water
frozen in the jug. The publican was still asleep,
so I went across the line to the lengthsman’s fire.
Returned at 8 a.m. and ascertained that Mr.
Beerbottle still slumbered. At nine he opened
the bar. Breakfast happened at 10. Horses were
up at noon. It’s a climate where the white man
can’t work.
* * * *
“ Tothersider ” : lie Westralian Crown
Lands. “Groper” (B. 2/7/’08) states that if a
man wants good land he will have to put up with
the inconvenience of being 40 miles from a town,
and that a selector who camped with him the
other night could not find 500 acres of agricultural
land west of the new rabbit-proof fence. As to
the first statement, if “Groper” means by a
town the capital, he is right; but if he means a
centre where he can get his stores, he is wrong,
and if he selected three years ago, and went out
40 miles, he must have been carried over the in-
tervening country in a trance. Since “Groper”
selected, 3,000,000 acres of agricultural land has
been alienated, a big slice of which has been taken
up by experienced Eastern farmers, who would be
well able to discriminate between good and bad
country, and who would have brains enough not
to select rubbish. At present there is an area of
1,744,000 acres of country being surveyed before
selection lying east of Dowerin and north of the
Eastern railway, and of this 692,000 acres is first-
class country carrying salmon gum, gimlet and
morrell equal to the Bu'loke and box country of
the Wimmera. The Government proposes putting
a railway right through this subdivision ; anyhow,
nearly half of it is within five to 10 miles of the
Eastern railway. Only six weeks ago a Rainbow
(Vic.) farmer selected 3028 acres at the terminus
of the Wagin-Dumbleyung railway and 321 J
acres adjoining the Dumbleyung town site at
11s. an acre, the south-west corner peg of
his 3000-acre block being only four miles
from the terminus. The same week a Natal man
selected 500 acres of first-class land within eight
miles of Darkan, between the Arthur and Beau-
fort Rivers, west of Wagin. These are only two
out of a number of selectors who took up 160,000
acres the same month. “Groper” also com-
plains about the Government reserving areas for
survey before selection; but those who have had ex-
perience of selecting unsurveyed lands, and have
had their farms shifted on survey, will not grumble
at this system. That good land has been selected
within recent years is proved by the fact that in
1906 the export of wheat from Westralia was nil;
while in 1907 £BO,OOO worth was exported, in
addition to about 4000 tons of hay and chaff to the
Eastern States.
* * * *
“ Wang’s ” neighborhood has some excite-
ment :
No, meanness doesn’t pay.
Next door lives an elderly party, with a fringe of red
whiskers. His chief delight is making money and growing
flowers.
I was sitting admiring the sunset and the passing girls,
when a Dago, with an organ, a monkey, and a dirty face,
strolled into Next Door’s garden. He proceeded to m ike
a noise.
The monkey was loose, and amused itself amongst
the flowers.
After “Killarney” had run dry and “Annie
Laurie” been murdered, the musician took off his
“ lid,” marched up to the front door, and rang.
Next Door answered in person.
“ Well, what do you want?”
“ You helpa te moosic ?”
“ Naw.”
“ You gif joost thripenny ?”
“ Naw.”
“You gif twopenny, then ? ”
“ Naw.”
“ Well, joost one pinny ?”
Next Door mentioned that he had a dog.
The musician put his hat on his head. “ You
damn sweater ! ” he yelled ; “ You blanky tief ! ”
Next Door nearly choked.
“Mary,” he yelled down the hall, “let Ponto
loose.”
Ponto was let loose. He was a mastiff. He spotted
the Simian and charged.
The Dago let out a yell of anguish. “ Aha, my
Beppo ! You calla you damn dog off and 1 get out
quick.”
Next Door hadn’t noticed the monkey among
the flowers till then. He stepped back and grabbed
a stick.
The Dago dropped his organ and followed Beppo.
“ You no hurta my Beppo, you damn lunateek ! ”
The door of a glass house was open. Beppo
sprang for this haven of refuge.
Next Door shrieked frantically to the mastiff to
come off; but the game was too good and rare.
Ponto doesn’t get a monkey to worry every day.
The monkey clambered up on to a ledge near the
top. A continuous crash came from the glass-house
as pot after pot was knocked down and smashed.
At the door, Next Door and the Dago fought to get
in first.
'' Then I rushed on to the field of battle, and helped to
revive a fainting neighbor.
The Dago clasped his monkey to his bosom and
gathered up “ te moosic ” and fled for his life.
Next Door surveyed the damage. “Ten pounds won’t
pay for the lot,” he gasped. “Oh ! the ”
* * * *
“ O.K.Y. ” : We had a pig raffle at
Gohanner Flat t’other night, an’ wos real jolly, we
wos. In course we wos all a bit tonicked. Gin-
gertop sez : “Me an’ me dorg’ll fight any other
bloke an’ his dorg fer a flamin’ quid.” Snorter said
he’d take him on. Snuffles held ther coin, an’
we’s all said we’d see fair play. Snorter’s pup is
a half-dingo, an’ Gingertop’s was a kangerooer.
He. ain’t anythin’ now. Some o’ ther coves
wanted the go done in heats, fust the dorgs an’
then the blokes ; but Gingertop wouldn’t break
his team, so at the word the dorgs wos let go, the
blokes squares up, an’ the scrap starts. Yous
never see the like in all yer days. It wos better
nor the oprey, with Melba at the wicket. Bluey
an’ Tarantula come to holts at once, an’ it was
mixed dorg. Gingertop wos side-steppin’ real
pretty to one from Snorter when he falls over the
dorgs. Tarantula had been scorin’ on points, and
had a Manning holt on Bluey’s near hind-foot, when
two hundredwate of bloke fell on him and flat-
tened him out. He back-stepped sudden fer
repairs, an’ tangles round Snorter’s right leg, an’
both goes ter grass. Nex’ round Gingertop was
cunnin’, waltzin’ round the dorgs that was doin’
more growlin’ than bitin’. He keeps off Snorter
till, seein’ a chance, lie falls heavy on Tarantula
an’ stiffens him. Snorter sees the strength o’
ther game too late. ’E never got a chance ter
land Bluey, who hung on his rear pants while
Gingertop put his face through the stampers.
When Snorter falls, Bluey stands from under,
like a Christian —you never see the like. The
dorg wouldn’t let Snorter get up again, so Snuffles
gives the verdick to Gingertop, an’ we drinks the
two quid. Talk about a scrap ! Yous never see
the like! ”
AN OLD MELODY,
BILL COWBAILS (singing at his work): “But
though I listen to thy voi-oi-oi-oe, thy face I
never see.”
WIFE: “ Bill!”
BILL: “ What the devil d'yer want now ?”
“ Maorilander ” : “Cross Nibs,” on his
showing (B. 18/6/’08), would appear to be a per-
nicious liar, unless (as seems unlikely) the wild
pigs up Bogan River way have developed charac-
teristics quite different from those of the bristly
descendants of those liberated in my native coun-
try by Captain Cook. “Cross Nibs” claims that
his athletic friend did a 500yds. break with a
“nursing mother” a yard in the rear. As a
matter of cold fact, a wild pig’s method of attack
or retreat is confined to short, torpedo-like rushes,
and while they last a man, however swift, would
find himself badly left. A bush pig is perhaps
the quickest animal afoot for a sudden dash, and
you could put your socks on him against the
winner of the next Melbourne Cup for a short
break of,,say, 50 up. If, on the other hand, a pig
can be kept moving for 100yds., or more, it gets
winded, and is incapable of either flight or pursuit.
An athletic man can run down almost any pig in
a 500yds. clear go, and I never yet saw the old
sow capable of doing that distance without want-
ing to halt en route for a smoke and a drink.
“Gundy” : Before we Australians knew
the fox we were assured that he was a marvel of
cunning and speed. Now that we know him, we
find that, even in the matter of his own alleged
virtues, the local product can beat him hol-
low. A boy rabbiter recently showed
me the pelts of 40 foxes, all killed
this winter, mostly in ordinary
rabbit traps, and a few with
a bit of strychnined bunny.
He also introduced a very
ordinary old mongrel, which
he said had run down and
killed several of the boasted
fliers. The one thing as to
which the smelly little
beast displays any diplo-
macy is in concealing the
abode of its cubs. One
rarely hears of the nursery
being found, though, con-
sidering the redoubtable
aroma which clings to the
animal, it should be quite sufficient to follow
one’s nose. Apart from this trait of cunning, the
fox is a poor companion in devilry for our own
dingo. I like your chance of getting the latter
party in a rabbit trap.
* * * *
“The Prooshan ” : The gohannais a whale
on hen fruit, and delights in scaring off a good
old close setter and devouring her baker’s dozen
clutch just as she is beginning to have dreams of
an increased birthrate. A friend and I discovered
about a yard of “go.” once in the act of scoffing
the last of a 17 clutch, what time the good
mother-to-be “ chook-chooked ” and “ cliook-er-
awed ”in a most excited manner over her loss. I
grabbed the go. by the tail, and swung him round
like a poisoned dog. Presently the eggs let go,
and bang, smash went the clutch into my friend’s
eye. Since then he swears off eggs and gohannas.
“ Hassan ” :
Th o ugh th e
power of the
J.P. is strictly
curtailed in Vic-
toria, there is one
recorded case
where the crea-
ture passed the
death sentence,
and that sent-
ence was carried
out. It was in a
township not
more than a mil-
lion leagues from
Benalla. Jones’
dog had bitten
Smith sorely, oc-
casioning him
great pain of
mind and body.
Smith, being a
Sunday - school
teacher, was vin-
dictive, and de-
manded the in-
stant suppression
of TovC'ser, as
well as payment
of the doctor’s
bill for repairs
to the tail of his
back. J ones de-
murred, and the
case came before
the local J.P.
After hearing
the evidence, he
ordered the dog
to be brought in-
to Court. Amid
a silence in which
one could hear
a whale rise, the
Bench addressed
the culprit as
follows : “ Afthre
bearin’ the i vidence
agin’ yous, this Coort
has decided that yous
did, as alliged, mali-
ciously, fraudulintly,
an’ obscenely boite the
defindant—no, no —the
eomplaintiff, wid intint to
» do grievious bodily h arruin.
The sintince of the Ooort is
that yous shall be taken fr’m this place to
Rafferty’s paddock, an’ there shot wid a gun until
yure body is dead—an’ may the Lor-rud have
mercy on yure sowl.”
'*.***
“D.” : Berry, the capital city of N.S.W.
South Coast Cowdom, is organising a National
Show. The president of the local A. H. and P.
Society (H. D. Morton), in outlining the financial,
etc., schemes proposed, made one statement that
caused every bucolic present to gasp in helpless
amazement, and thereafter to cheer, as men do
who stumble unexpectedly into the presence of a
bright gem of horse sense. Said Morton :
There will he no official luncheon on the show-ground,
as the public time should not be taken up and ring
events held up during these dinners.
The main feature of country shows has hitherto
been the official luncheon. All other events
of the day are wont to pale into insignificance
beside it. ’ It lasts for hours. It is the vogue
among the prominent citizens of the locality to
attend at it in great numbers, to overeat, to get
rather drunk, and in that condition to speechify
blitheringly at length. Meanwhile, the competi-
tors chafe madly outside with their exhibits, judge-
less and committeeless, hearkening to the raucous
voices of the revellers. I had a horse entered for
a hunting contest at one of the Western shows
two years ago. I proposed to bestride the animal
myself, and the event was timed for 4.30 p.m. |At
3.30 or thereabouts the Minister, local member,
judges, committee, and so on reeled from the
luncheon-tent, and the ring events were resumed.
There were about half-a-dozen to be got through
before mine came on for decision, Time passed
COUNTRY TYPES.—THE BUTCHER.
the while I shuddered in the chill breeze and blas-
phemed impotently. The sun sank behind the hills.
Dusk fell. My horse must have seen the fences, as he
didn’t follow Dusk’s example ; for my part, till
right on top of the fences I couldn’t for the life of
me discern one, and my sight is good. There
were two falls out of four starters in this event.
I warned the judge before sallying forth that if
aught befel me I should sue the most inebriated
and long-winded of the official orators, and I
would assuredly have done something of the sort.
With three or possibly four exceptions there is no
up-country show big enough to sport an official
luncheon whose programme of events isn’t utterly
disorganised every year owing to the passion of
the indigenous notables for protracted feeding.
THE DEAR THING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I once went down to Sydney town,”
Said Bill of Bungaree.
“ I once went down, and meant to crown
My visit with a spree ;
A Christmas spree,” said Bill, “ is dear,
Oh, very dear to me !
“ I met a girl in Sydney town,”
Said Bill of Bungaree.
“ Her cheeks were bright, her eyes were brown,
And she was fair to see.
Brown eyes,” said Bill, “ are very dear,
Oh, very dear to me !
“ This damsel had a taking way,”
Said Bill of Bungaree,
“ For she was always light and gay,
And very frank and free.
Oh, taking girls,” said Bill, “ are dear,
Oh, very dear to me !
“To Manly ? Yes, I’ll take you down,”
Said Bill of Bungaree.
She winked her merry eye of brown—
“ I’ll take you down,” said she.
“ That harbor trip was very dear,
Oh, very dear to me !
She sent me home with half-a-crown,”
Said Bill of Bungaree.
QUEENSLAND.
OSCAR MESTON.


The more we master the forces of nature, the
more do our chances of accidents multiply, even as the
tamer’s dangers increase in proportion to the number of
wild animals which he “puts through their tricks” in
the cage. Formerly, we avoided the contact of these
forces as much as possible ; to-day, they have gained
admittance to Our household. And’so, notwithstanding
our more prudent and peaceable manners, it happens to us
more often than to our fathers to look pretty closely upon
death. The South British Insurance Company of 12
Bridge Street, Sydney, issues policies covering all classes
of accident and seventeen (17) specified sicknesses for
£2 2s. per annum upwards—special policies for vour
special needs.*
111-health is what everyone hates,
Good health is the best of all mates ;
To secure it you must
Laxo-Tonic Pills trust;
The best asset we have in the States.
LAXO-TONIC PILLS, 10Jd. and Is. 6d.*
LUCKY BLACK OPAL.
Marion Crawford writes of it in ** Soprano ” as follows:
“ I wish you good luck,” he said lightly. “Thank you,” she
answered ; “ one can never have too much of it—never! Get a
talisman, a charm, a jagoo. ... A Black Opal is the best, but
if you choose that you must get it yourself—you must buy it,
find it, or earn it. Otherwise it will have no effect.”
Black Opal is creating a furore in London.
A new Geological Discovery—it aroused Scientists. —Its
unparalleled beauty captured Society.
We are showing it in great profusion—both in the rough,
cut, and mounted as jewellery.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Cash.
23 HUNTER STREET.
%
Black
Opal and
Olivines,
set in
Fine
Gold,
£l5 15s.
“Bronson Elliott”: Re “ Quan’s ” par
(2/7/’08) on dead trees and their falling habits,
undoubtedly perfectly calm weather, |oggy or
bright, is the time they favor for the practice. I
fancy that the sudden drying caused by bright
weather following on a spell of moisture inter-
rupts what a Scotch timber foreman I know calls
the “continuity o’ fibre,” and so produces the
downfall. With the exception of small top sticks
dead timber hardly ever falls during a gale.
* * * *
“ Riverina ” : I’ll admit most of the towns
sung by “Mac ” (B. 11/6/’08) bear native names;
but Moulamein —the weird old Edwards River
settlement, about 70 miles below Deniliquin—is an
exception. It was named by a darkie who was not
aboriginal, and is called after some Indian
town. Years ago (so many years, in fact,
that he is only a name to the very oldest inhabi-
tants) this nig. held much land in the Riverine,
and to this day a river station, a few miles below
Moulamein, bears the name Chah Singh.
HE KNEW THE GAME.
THE FOREMAN : “ Gripes, kid , the editor did
roust when he saw that football article of his
that you set up. It's full of bloomers!”
THE INTELLIGENT COMP: “Gam, them ain't
MY mistakes. That's only where I c'rected
HIS mistakes!"
AFTER SHEARING.
MA SHEEP (to shorn ram. with influenza): “There now, didn’t I tell you to always wear
wool next . the skin!"
“ Waukeroo ” tells of the perils of the Big
Trickle:—
Was “ hoofing- ” it down the Darling- with a lubber once,
and had a Big Thought. We would build a bark argosy
and float down stream, thereby saving exertion. After
much persuasion, the lubber was brought round to my
way of thinking, and we started to strip bark. The
surrounding forest soon took on a ruined appearance,
and not till the devastation had spread far and wide did
we haveduck. We fired the bark, and it curled up like a
girl’s hair. We caulked the leaks with pieces of an old
felt hat. Though she flattened*opt like a saucer on the
water, we thought her tolerably river-worthy.
Finding the Plimsoll markdisappear with onepassenger
only, we confined our initial cruises, strictly to coastal
navigation. But in the evening I crossed the stream,
and set a line in a good spot ; also hung a jam tin on the
springer to give the alarm in case of a catch. Time for
round voyage, lhr. 18min. The lubber made some re-
mark about walking round to save time, and christened
her the Pancake.
Early next morning the welkin rang with the clang of
the jam tin. I woke the lubber to help cast off, etc., and
his language heated the atmosphere comfortably. I sat
on the kerosene case (the lubber called it the poop), took
the gum-stick paddle, and glode out on the face of the
early morning waters. It was a fine cod that gazed at
me reproachfully as I extracted the hook from his nutri-
ment receptacle. Placed him on board tenderly, just
abaft the poop, and he laj r quite resigned till we reached
mid-stream. Then he started to knock on the poop with
his tail. This upset me, and I told him to leave off. He
retaliated by mixing himself up considerably and taking
sudden leaps into the atmosphere. Once he landed on
the gunwale, and I had to shift to the starboard edge of
the poop and port the gumstick. This made her roll
horribly, and a heavy river threatened to lay her on her
beam ends. The fish, feeling the spray of his natural
element on his countenance, gyrated some more, stood
on his nose amidships, turned a tail-spring into space,
and landed on the fo’c’s’le with a sickening thud. Then
the Pancake dipped her nose and dived like a seal.
The scenery at the bottom of our natural resource did
not appeal to me worth a cent, so I left my boots there,
and side-stroked for the surface. The lubber was- making
an undignified display of mirth on the bank, and the cod
and the poop Were hurrying round the bend.
All was lost.
* * * *
“Agricola ” : I have recently been taking
some observations of the peculiar critter known as
the ant-devil or ant-lion,
which makes littlefunnel-
shaped hollows in the
dust. Over the edge of
these, incautious ants
sometimes slip, and then
are unable to climb out
because the dusty sides
give them no toe-hold.
So they gradually slide
down into the hungry
jaws awaiting them at
the bottom. It struck
me that the devil could
only catch ants in dusty
weather, and that he
must frequently do
starves of considerable
length. I captured three,
and, having boxed them,
proceeded to diet them.
To one I gave two ants
per day; to the second,
one ant every two days ;
while the third had Good
Friday every day. At
the end of two months
I found that the devil
which had eaten nothing
at all looked just as well,
and had increased in size
just as much, as the other
two. A casual stomach
like that is an item
worthy of all encourage-
ment. I am continuing
the experiment with a
view to finding out how
long the faster can keep
it up without beginning
to wilt. It is rough on
the ant-devil, but I am
gaining information all
the time.
It was stated by a discolored-labor advo-
cate before the Pearl-fishing Commission at Bris-
bane that there is no hope of successfully culti-
vating the shell, and that it isn’t any use trying
to give Nature a lift in the matter of arranging
future supplies. But Queensland fish-exDert
Saville Kent threatens to knock a hole in that
contention. He has, he claims, found a method
which will yield a reasonably sure crop—anyhow,
he says he can rely on his crop of pearl-oysters to
quite the same extent as a Roma farmer can rely
on his crop of wheat. Saville Kent is on
his way to the Cold Country to put his re-
searches before capitalists. If his scheme turns
up trumps, it will render deep diving unnecessary,
and put the brown and yellow ochre pestilence
out of a job.
“ Edyson ” : The most lugubrious man I
have ever known was Donald Queen. He was
braceman at the Working Miners, Candle Flat,
and had never been known to smile. His mother
owned a small farm in the neighborhood, and
Donald had no particular worldly responsibilities
to worry him, but he possessed a sort of grievance
against life. His mother was said to be almost as
cheerless an object as Don ; but her I never saw.
I can only speak' for her son, and he was the sum-
mit of misery. If existence was as much of a
burden to the mother as it was to the son, I don’t
wonder that the old forgotten father had cleared
out when Donald was five months old, and had
never since been heard of. Donald was now 30,
and nothing oh earth pleased him. He was a
strong man, and apparently quite healthy, but he
could extract black woe from the most trivial
objects. I was Queen’s whim boy one afternoon
shift, when a scrubby toiler of about 55
came into the ring, and asked me which
was Donald. I pointed out the braceman,
and the stranger approached him. “Hello,
Don, my lad, don’t you know me ?” he said. Don
shook his head. “No, ’n’ don’wanter,” he said.
“ Look et me, Don,” said the stranger, with
emotion; “I’m yer old father.” “Yer what?”
cried Don. “ I’m yer old father, me boy.” Don
approached him, looking closely. “Er yer sure ?”
he said, warningly. ‘ ‘ Quite sure, ” cried the
elder. “ Then take that ! ” said Don, and he gave
his parent an awful punch; “and take that and
that ! ” He landed three more, and then kicked
his father clean off the brace. The boss and the
blacksmith came running up. “Here, here !”
cried the manager, “ you oughtn’t to treat an old
man like that!” “Oughtn’t I?” growled Don.
“He’s the cove I’ve been lavin’ for these twenty
years. ’Twas him brought all my troubles on me.
He’s my father.”
CRIMPED.—A TALE OF NEWCASTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I dumped my bag on a lime-juice craft tied up to the
horse-shoe buoy,
The crimp went down with the old man aft, and his face
was full of joy.
A lime-juice ship, and a Scotchman too, and a skipper
from braw Dundee,
And hungry looks on the half-Dutch crew that ate up the
soul of me.
But work is money, and money’s beer—-who cares if the
purists mock?
I’ve drunk my share of the amber cheer, but now—it’s
hard bed-rock !
Clear stony-broke, if you understand—as poor as a parish
mouse,
I cursed when the skipper shook the hand of him from
the boarding-house.
They' said “Good-bye ”in a friendly style. My heart it
was well-nigh broke ;
My thoughts went back to my little pile gone out to the
winds like smoke.
The hash-house man he was neat and trim, and sported a
suit of blue,
But I thought: “Some day I’ll do for you, and all of
your sneaking crew ! ”
He took my clothes, and he took my brass, and threat-
ened to run me in,
And said that I was a blessed fool to part with my hard-
earned tin,
For he had me by the blessed ears fair beached in that
rotten den
But I promised myself I’d have my turn when we should
meet again.
There isn’t no bloomin’ capstan song when for sea ive
make a start !
We’re stuck like bullocks up for sale in the Devil’s own
auction mart,
Which breaks me up, also makes me curse the day' when
I first smelt malt;
For I know quite well I’ve come to smash thro’ this cursed
drinkin’ fault.
But that don’t make it no better for the curs who have
helped me down—
(l’d sell my kit—if I had one now—for one bloomin’ old
half-a-crown !)
They say each dog has a day in store—a day when that
dog will bite —
And that’s the day I look forward to when I lie awake
at night!
I’ve got t’ graft—there are some that can’t, but I’m
up against it now—
I’m shipped away with a measly kit. . . I won’t get much
from that cow !
I want sea boots and an oilskin coat. (Next time I will
save my' pay !)
And I’ll have to buy from that d d slop chest, which
don’t give much away.
I want to lose sight of that d d light that gleams on
the Nobbies clear,
For it brings me dreams of the bar-lights bright that
shine on the soft brown beer.
It’s droppin’ astern each minit now, it’s gettin’ misty' and
dim—-
Oh, that crimp and me we will meet some day, and
Lord ! won’t I do for him 1
N.S.W.
ALBATROSS.
THE DISGRACED PIG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TO SELL a pig-, under extreme circum-
stances, as it caused a lot of ill-feeling.—
Apply 0., Portland. —Portland Guardian ( 29/61'08 ').
The milch-cow we know, and the rage she stirs
Wherever dairying
(Beloved of the country’s Backbone) occurs.
But this is a new thing :
That the gentle pig
Should cause strife ; a big
Surprise, and a sharp sting.
The 12th of July in the country parts
Arouses frenzied hate
In hitherto quite unemotional hearts,
But always (up to date)
The porker has stood
For ev’rything good—
Charity’s kindly mate.
Rows over horses, “ dawgs,” women and beer
Are regular happenings
’Mid Primary Industries. Yet no year
(Till this) has seen such things
Roused by the inert swine,
Whose quietude divine
Suggests he should wear wings.
“111-feelings,” a mild inexpressive phrase
To indicate the ire
That rages like mad in a thousand ways
Through hamlet, town and shire
On every point—
The weight of a joint,
The ag-e of a sheep,
The width of a leap,
Street, river or log.
But ever the hog
Just wallowed and smiled,
And got no one riled,
Till Portland weighed in
With this creature of sin
That has rendered Pig’s name Mire.
N.S.W.
D.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Ivan A. R.: “Unfinished” starts in a well-
worn rut, and then fades away to nothing A.W. :
“Inheritance” too precipitous for general reading....
Vinnega: If it were compressed, and the statements
were more definite, “Jam” would make a good short
article Keller: Very unconvincing drunk Io:
“Conversation” cheerful and promising, but rather
slender; other commonplace Wild Oats: Very well
told, but, alas! impossible....E.B.: “Comparisons”
very school-girly G. Elton: Unsuitable Eric:
“Pledge” tuneful, but too slight Janor: “Leaded”
too obvious....E.M.M.: “Bowing” still too weak to
drag its length through.... Shirle3 r ; Too long for the
B. ; and the same idea has been used,anyway....J.N.G.:
You’ve dressed the sausage in a new skin—and it’s a
rather good skin,; but it is the same very familiar old
sausage Isaac Backhand: Your tale—“ Knew a coun-
try P.M. who got drunk with the local doctor, and next
morning gave his accomplice 14 days. The doctor
worked the fortnight out ostensibly cutting wood every
day at the magistrate’s place, and during- the term he
won £l7 at poker, £5 12s. at hazard, and they drank three
cases whisky, a case of bull-dog porter, and 11 dozen
split soda.” You are a liar, Isaac, and not a plausible one
withal Drakona: Neither good enough, but still they
are not wholly unpromising....Poodgeregah : “Meta-
morphosis” is a squalid sort of thing Lignum : Can’t
recall the address of the writer who said Tom Dawson
would give pounds for the words of a catchy comic song.
The obvious thing for you to do is to try Dawson at first
hand... A.P.A. : Concluding lines —
But I think when I miss that poor little chap,
That somewhere in Heaven he’s having a nap—
would kill the saddest ballad ever written....B.L.: Be-''
turned “ Half Breed Girl ” to the address you gave, but
it came back to us “ unclaimed.” It would be a mighty
unsafe address to send remittances to.. .Wave: Un-
interesting lie of how a British tar outed three French
sailors, with his bare fists, in Bourke-street, Mel-
bourne. We are tired of that redoubtable mariner....
O. : The controversy with Steele Budd (re “For Life"
yarn) is off. We’re satisfied.. ..B. H. Fitzherbert: Des-
pite your statistics (regarding which the weight of naval
opinion is against you), your conclusion shows you in sub-
stantial agreement with us... .Benalbo: Your Pegasus
won’t do for a lady’s hack, anyway—it would bump her
teeth 0ut.... Wyoming : Doggerel, and stray dog at that.
Dead Crook : Sorry to have to say no. Far better to
consult a doctor, who will probably diet you W.S. :
“ Mirage” has material for a good story ; but treatment
too loose and sloppy T.S.G. : Hardly weight and
point enough. Don’t remember “Ah Sing.”.. ..Siphon :
You don’t “draw.” A.T.W.: Doleful howl about
nothing in particular Larry F.: You start off at a
great pace, but in the fourth stanza you come down with
an awful crash Pepper-and-Salt: The pepper has no
“ bite ” and the salt has lost its savor E.C.: “ Not
Yet ” ambitious, but hopelessly vague... .Noiram : Verses
by no means “ awful,” but still below publication point...
Jim Frion : “Bill’s Bevenge” is not going to occur in
this paper. For one thing, it isn’t well-enough spelt....
E.H.B. : Article on doctors right out of this paper’s line.
... .G.W.G.M. : Not good enough to print ; not bad
enough for a hard word....W. Jay : Well, even after all
that, you don’t say specifically that 500 men offered to
enrol H.J.K. (a Victorian in Maoriland) : Yes; it is a
contrivance for keeping alive prematurely-born infants. ..
A.E.O. : Both rather clumsy and pointless... .W.A.G. :
Your amusing letter justifies your initials. Sorry the
.verses are not quite up Silly Billy: Well, we are not
inclined to quarrel with your estimate of yourself
S.S.T. : Yes ; it’s slightly improved ; but we fear there’s
no salvation for it... .B.D.C. : Weakly melodramatic.
You haven’t learnt what to leave out Talia: Some
force, but little skill... .Arthur P. :It could have done
with a little less vigor and a little more art F.W.D. :
Beads like fact, but lacks the necessary literary serving-
up Galtee More: “Milk-and-Water” is principally
water.... Billy de V: Has no Australasian interest
Bunham : That scribe left England four or five years ago,
after a residence of several years, and the fact that you
quote two houses in England with baths in them doesn’t
affect his testimony. This writer spent eight years in a
small English manufacturing- town, in which there was
no water supply except wells, no drainage, and, so far as
he ever heard, no baths at all L.L. : “Go on the
Land ” sacrifices sense to rhyme in too many places
Adelos : Sketch weak ; joke feeble and 01d... .The Wasp :
The office grammarian achieved concussion of the brain
trying to parse the following, taken haphazard from your
last batch of poetry :
In the loathsome camp—the
Brave Constable bold,
For nights kept watch on a certain Den,
In which assembled the suspects
Of the stolen gold,
A desperate gang of vile Chinamen,
One night he disappeared
Sudden and grim,
And alas, was never heard of any more,
The yellow Monsters had
Brutally slew him,
Leaving no clue for the hands of the Law.
Bill B.: “ The Traitor” is one of the most muddled
poems we have met, and its weather conditions are in-
credible. Three staves.
The rain came pouring from above ;
Snow lay upon the ground :
The wind a victim seemed to shove
And whirl him around, and round.
“ I must see life, for I am not a child ;
Ye fates come on !” he qothe.
“Man,” they whispered, “your name is filed
On the downward path.”
“ I see it not, I do not know:
So how can I complain ;”
Thicker seemed to grow the snow,
Harder poured the rain.
Cressida : The style is a shade too Bruce Smithian for
us. Witness this: “Should the spirit of-the recently-
departed veteran of Scotland’s Boyal and Ancient game
choose, on its way home to the inevitable abode of all of
similar nationality and profession, to rest its weary self,
when journeying through southern latitudes, the act, in
at least one ‘ kingdom ’ of the over-sea dominions, may be
fraught with disaster.” Nero : “ Buried Talent ” is the
only one to get within cooee of print, and it is too long
for its interest.. ..B. C. Hend : AH four pieces too young
and green.
TO ABTISTIC (AND INABTISTIC) CONTBIBUTOBS.
Seneca :No hope for microscopic drawing. Do some-
thing about eight times the size so that it can be photo-
graphed down, and we can judge your abilities
Bob S. : Alas, the “cast-iron sinks” jest isn’t new” !
Philp :No hope nor promise nor anything Bert B. :
Well, the pictures might be a lot worse. They might also
be a lot better. By a curious coincidence, they are
neither of those things P.S.: Picture re two boys and
one cigarette rather dull.


"A n-rAn should
f€*nemh CK t^^Kes
A/home «S «o+ A brcHy
A good girl I
(3nhof op
'*ji7e Old
'fV^y! .
£\*] <^UiCide
(fttlb) provided himse/p
with A •'A} 01 'AcCor Kscre*s
, for purpose %: yjj~did
Succeed
He (RTBvho did *\oC~for \
hjonjCnt" S««'pes'f' tfoiX tt r Irvine
would 'fall a lie, b«-T somehow
SomQ njen Oo'f' in boli tics
Sorl'oj:tw.« > t-'Hj^|? t i+-
I ffern outride defensive
lincs,' '
lh><> ]°b 'S more
Iy K^o rrj <» every dAy
Bishop--" “foKe \ •
r my boy , Sncs y ont-S
Cblcf Juffice »> 'k b* v<?
* dfcj 't,l I
ntfw' 'wn
prises "
*Yoo Matly
\ 3°s°P ,r 7P
\L/h bu'ttoh-
d > c
SOUTHERN O C{A J
Df«SScr - Here* Coine, sl«f> Sm or>
Sir_ y oure only "to w *Ar enn wee .
C.J.M —*• Three weeK* * ])— it" 1 —H' worl%~
w'Hilc 'fcKirif? 'l%e oifor*, off- !
The men of -fee Con>ino
pleerf" A K e "to be provided wife
LAnd CbvT while
" V/o+ )>ri<e ?
LAND CHART
puBS marked — [Bfj
Bendigo Mine riAnApei'S
'"HiAr Gov*'
Should Asyst" deep
h-i>*l >l9 AS AIS /]
imbodAlcQ- J
RfA r pol<i s^OlAia '')
"be -found m deep yT-/
\' < 'f
Superintendent' /
GA'i'is'baiy be,
for b'S -v
Splendid ?ftort%
Connell , '
"V/I7A+' S+n<C«s me »S #>s*”yoar C*tflc
At* Q$ bvfJttlS - 1*
c£n »n AwiencA- SiaJ'^WAß*
(A v, S* +, English cv
)\ «v
i«npresyo«*}
Indeed, !*r a
IJ>t? l>Aby rnv/ bune "rt)C
roof down Wiftj |+^
Cries bottle 'fljA+-
aC- 1 Is noT pjvcn iT*
VA*yMvW«n
" We Krrow -Hfc+£
"true «+i
Y QU.r - j
\\ recently.
*
BY HOBSON’S BAY.


BREAKING THE NEWS.
Lithgow Iron Worker: “Well, Maria, the works is closed, and what you an’ me an’ Baby Cobden there’s goin' to do f'r a bit to eat, I dunno; but, thank
Heaven, the principles o’ Freetrade has been preserved.”
His Wife ( bitterly): “An’ about them beautiful principles o’ Freetrade, Bill, will ye have ’em biled f’r supper, or would ye like ’em fried?”


THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation*
Special Attention to
the Cuisine* . . *
Lift and all Modern Conveniences*
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson* Proprietor
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
“ What’s your verdict? ” in a fury
Asked the counsel of the jury.
Though 'twas somewhat premature he
Could no more endure !
“ What’s our verdict! ’’ said the foreman,
“ We’ve all colds through that door, man !
Give us what we asked before, man,
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cuke Rheumatism, Kidney Ttouble,
and Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper
appreciate good advice, and we are glad, there-
fore, to be able to publish the following from a
prominent physician.
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of
kidney trouble and other diseased, such as rheu-
matism, bladder and liver troubles, which are
almost invariably caused by weak kidneys. It is
said on good authority that fully one-third of the
people in Australia who have reached the age of
maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney
trouble in some form. The most dangerous
feature of this disease is the fact that many people
have it without their knowledge, and consequently
neglect it until it has reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as
backache, must be given prompt attention, and a
good reliable treatment should be taken, until
every trace of the disease has been eliminated.
We are glad to be able to give our readers a
prescription which we have seldom known to
fail in any case. It contains no harmful in-
gredients, is pleasant to take, not expensive, and
can be supplied by any good chemist. It is as
follows :
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup
Rhubarb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound,
one ounce; Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at
bedtime.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continuously for a few
weeks, it will be found to be an almost absolutely
certain cure for rheumatism, kidney and bladder
trouble, backache, and all allied complaints.
Note.—Other papers are privileged to copy the
above.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Bright Australians seem to get appreciation
everywhere but in Australia. P. R. Cole, M.A.,
Ph.D., late of the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment, goes hence at the end of next month to take
up a Professorship in the Columbia University,
America. Prior to the imported Mackie’s
appointment as Principal of the Training School,
Cole was an applicant for the position. He
labored under the deadly handicap of being a
native product, and so was passed over. The
Department, after long length, made partial
recognition of Cole’s ability. A vacancy was
created by the Principal of the Practising School
being appointed an inspector for six months, and
Cole was offered his job. He was willing at a
reasonable remuneration, but the thrifty Educa-
tion Department wanted him at a cut rate such as
it would never have had the front to offer to an
imported man, and Cole cried off. Thus America
gains and the N.S.W. Education Department
loses the brightest scholar it ever produced.
J. A. Gunn, one of the dozen whom Wade
has called ’to the N.S.W. Legislative Council,
has only one claim to immortality : he is chairman
2* tte - e wanted and still wants to
flood N.S.W. with the Danysz poison for the ex-
termination of rabbiters and other alleged noxious
animals.
George It. Fearby, one of the two Aus-
tralians recently butchered by Bruce Smith’s
a 6n< i . ne ar .Tonkin (China), was well known in
Australian mining circles. His profession of
mining engineer took him to many of the biggest
fields, though of late years he chiefly toiled in
Westralia. A couple of years back he went to
China to manage a mine there, and the other day
the “gentle, industrious coolie workman” wiped
him out.
Said T. Bent, K.C. M.G. (King’s Chosen
Market Gardener), while farewelling Victoria’s
late Governor Talbottle : “I am not permitted to
sing, or I should sing ‘The Girl I Left Behind
Me.’ Your Excellency, if I could be that girl,
now that you are going away, I would be clinging
to you and crying.” This called up a truly touch-
ing picture of a short Bent in short petticoats,
clinging to the legs of the aristocratic and elon-
gated Reginald, and weeping copiously in the
vicinity of his knees, which are the same tem-
perature as a dog’s nose. Talbot turned deadly
pale at the prospect, and made an involuntary
movement towards the door, but B§nt, after
lingering a moment on the verge of tears, fell into
a more cheerful vein, and the banquet breathed
again.
William Farmer, knight, head of the firm
of Farmer and Co., Sydney, died in London last
week, aged 76 years. He was a son of Samuel
Farmer, of Moor Hall, Worcestershire, England,
and nephew of Joseph Farmer, who in 1840
established himself in Pitt-street, Sydney, as a
draper. In the early ’fifties the firm became
Farmer, Williams and Giles; later on Farmer,
Painter and Pope. The recently-deceased knight
came to Sydney in 1849 and remained until 1874.
He cared little for society and less for politics, the
only diversion he allowed himself from silk and
calico being indulgence in gaudy little jobs as
mayor or sheriff. He could spend hours de-
scribing his haberdashery at a sheriff’s entertain-
ment. Otherwise his tastes were simple and his
manner of life frugal. His ideal of human com-
fort was clothes ; of happiness, more clothes ; and
of human ecstasy, ornamental clothes.
The recently-deceased Bathurst (N.S.W.)
solicitor. A, G. Thompson, was for many years a
“ prominent citizen ” of his dreary old town ; but,
apart from the rather nebulous dignity of being a
prominent citizen, he will be chiefly remembered
as the brother of William G., of agricultural show
fame. A. G. Thompson was a shockingly bad
speaker; nevertheless, he was regarded as a sheet
anchor by the local drunk and disorderly and the
person who had broken windows while in beer,
and, in consequence, had a fair police-court prac-
tice. He stood for the Assembly once, but ran
second to ex-engine-driver Bill Young. By the
way, considering that Bathurst has for years been
slowly suffocating under the huge-estate incubus,
its political record has been remarkable. Con-
sider its representatives for the past few years.
Bill Paul, Freetrader; Frank Suttor, Protec-
tionist ; Pumpkin Smith, Freetrader ; Bill Young,
unattached Laborite; and Miller, Wadeite —at
least, that’s the nearest one can get to Miller’s
politics.
A MEMORY IMPRESSION OF OUR
LAMENTED DAN BARRY.
Surgeon T. N. Fitzgerald, of Melbourne,
who died while seeking health on a North Queens-
land trip the other day, did just enough college
work to qualify him for a diploma, and no more.
He wasn’t a graduate in medicine—he was just a
licentiate in surgery. With his license in his
pocket he came out as a ship’s doctor, landing in
Melbourne when he was still only 20. But he had
a wonderful “hand,” and when he got into private
practice he leaped to the front; and finally they
made him a knight—in return, the cynics said, for
patching up the freezing Hopetoun lady’s face
after a hunting-field smash.
WHEN THINGS COME TO
THE WORST.
"'Hullo, Brown, what are you doing now?"
“O, I cure consumption, debility, rheumatism,
kidneys, deafness, blindness, and obesity.”
"I never knew you had studied medicine.”
"Neither I have; but, d-it, I’ve got to do
something! ”
Prospector William Bowden (“Buffalo
Bill” to Cape Yorkers) has pegged out his last
claim. He discovered the Bowden wolfram field
on the Pascoe River, and for many years hunted
fortune in territory practically unknown. ' He
hunted with much energy, but little success.
Fortune is a swift female in the wilderness, and
most pursuers can’t see her heels for dust.
Barrister John Garland, whom Wade has
rushed into N.S.W.’s House of Upper Sleep, used
to be member for Woollahrain the Assembly, and
was Attorney-General’s understudy in days
when Charles Gregory Wade was too small politi-
cally to be worth mentioning. But Garland did
something or other that aggravated the electors,
and he went out. In fact, he went out twice ;
Woollahra rejected him violently in 1901, and
Tamworth, after giving him a brief trial, rejected
him vigorously in 1904. There was such a dearth
of barristers in the Assembly just then that Wade,
the new, unknown man. was left with only fat
Cohen between him and the Attorney-Generalship,
and presently fat Cohen couldn’t see Wade’s heels
for dust. Wade got the Attorney-Generalship,
and that lea to the Premiership. But both prizes
would almost certainly have gone to Garland but
for the unpleasant view the, electors took of his
case. Now he gets his reward ; the fact that no
constituency seems to want Garland as a legislator
for three years is held to be sufficient reason why
he should legislate for life.
An Adelaide suburb witnessed an interest-
ing shindy the other day. S. Aus. owns two
brothers Rowell. One of them is a Colonel, and
a C. 8., and a V.D., and an A.D.C., and numerous
other things ; the other is a mere lieutenant.
But the mere lieutenant is chairman of the
suburban municipal council, and when the mag-
nificent Colonel brother put up for a seat, the
small or garden variety of Rowell put up an
opposition candidate and ran him for all he was
worth —ran him, and won. Wherefore, at, the
declaration of the poll, the Colonel; C. 8., V.D.,
etc., boiled over :
He attributed the results to the action of the chairman
of the council in canvassing for his opponent, which was
a dirty thing for a brother to do, and showed a poor
spirit of brotherly love, an action that he was sure would
lead to no good result.
Fortunately even a Colonel, feeling bitter because
he can’t be a suburban councillor as well, hasn’t
the power to call for a court-martial at the nearest
culvert; else by this time probably the mere
lieutenant would be as full of holes as—well, say
a State Anti-Gambling Act.
’Ector—who was understood to have gone
to look after N.S.W.’s barrel of Ripe Fish, or
something, at the Shepherd’s Bush Exhibition—
has been having a royal time in England. So far,
he doesn’t seem to have done much in the fish
line, but just consider the company he’s been in.
He himself told a S. M. Herald correspondent
about the company ;
Our former Governors especially made me very much
at home, and I am indebted to Earls Carrington, Jersey,
and Beauchamp for their kind attention to me. Lord
Crewe and Mr. John Burns, members of the British
Cabinet, have done a good deal to make my way easy.
Mr. Henniker Heaton, M.P., has also gone to no end of
trouble to render me services. I visited Canterbury, the
other day, and spoke to a large gathering there.
I was the guest of the Dean of Canterbury.
I was also at Windsor recently, as the guest
of the Mayor., and addressed 'a large gather-
ing there. PRINCESS CHRISTIAN was present on
that occasion. The staff at Windsor Castle were most
kind. Sir Gerald Strickland, Governor of Tasmania
recently, invited me to an excursion to the North of
England, and I stayed at his country seat, Sizergh
Castle, in Westmoreland. At two or three Australian
gatherings, further, I have been the principal guest and
speaker, notably at the dinner of British-Australian
merchants (Lord Carrington in the chair), and at the
Cold Storage Association’s banquet, at which Sir Edward
Montague presided.
Truly may ’Ector say, as Mr. Chadband did
when he and grandfather Smallwefed called on Sir
Leicester Dedlock : “My friends, we are now in
the halls of the rich and the great.”
It is a bumpy world, as the death of an
ancient S. Australian recalled the other
day. Away back in the early times of
b. Aus., Alexander Maegeorge—the
ancient alluded to —kept a shop where
Adelaide bought its socks and braces.
1 lungs had been bright, and Mae-
george sold out and promoted two
or three of the Adelaide and
suburban tram cos. But the
Commercial Bank of S. Aus.
smashed, and the once-affluent
Maegeorge drifted into an
agency business. The man
who bought the socks and
braces business was G. P.
Doolette. He put his bit
of money into a prospect-
ing syndicate; and now
he is chairman of the
Great Boulder, Westra-
lia’s premier mine, and a
director of more Anglo-
Australian cos. than any
other man living.
And behold ! he was
a mighty footballer be-
fore the Lord :
The retirement of William
Wallace, the “Admirable
Crichton of the Maoriland
Rugby World,” is an-
nounced. He learned the
game at the Mount Cook
school, Wellington, and
played in the Wellington
Schools’ Reps in 1892-93.
By 1895 he was in the third-
class reps. In 1897 Wallace
first played senior football,
being selected as a provin-
cial representative the same
year. He toured N.S.W.
and Queensland with the
1903 Maoriland team, being
selected as a fullback ; played
wing three-quarter against Siv-
right’s team, 1904 ; toured Britain
with the 1905 All Blacks, playing in
26 out of. 32 matches, and in every
hack position except scrum-half';
played in every match in the 1907’
Maoriland tour of N.S.W. and Queens-
land ; and has this year played in both Test matches
against Harding’s Anglo-Welsh men. In IS9B Wallace
sustained a broken leg-; in 1899 a broken nose ; in 1900 a
broken collarbone ; in 1901 a severely sprained ankle ;
and in 1903, at Sydney, a broken jaw. Despite these
little breakages Wallace, at 31, has been playing as well
as ever ; but lately rheumatism has attacked, one of his
knees, and prudence advises retirement. Maoriland,
which loveth this much-damaged gladiator, is preparing
itself for a big thing in benefits,
Another parson is reported missing, if
Elder William Mackie, of the Church of Jesus
Christ of the Latter Day Saints, otherwise the
Mormons, ranks quite as a parson. He had a
little flock of Brigham Youngites at Richmond
(Vic.), and the flock has lost the run of its elder
for some time, and would like the finder to return
him.
THE SOUL HUSTLERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Charles Alexander, who came to Australia with
Messrs. Torrey and Geil, is likely to visit these shores
again soon, in company with another evangelist, on a
mission to the chief centres .—Religious paper.
Alexander’s once more near,
Gomes once more to conquer here,
Having- conquered twenty times
All men’s foes in other climes.
Well he loves a Devil hunt —
Alexander with the “ front ”;
With the arts and with the aids
Of the mummer masquerades ;
With the voice and with the hands
And the “ presence that commands ” ;
With “ the Brother ” who can speak
With a tear-bespangled cheek ;
Who has learned in West and North
How to pour the burble forth ;
How to run out slow or quick
Demijohns of rhetoric ;
How to make the nursemaids cry,
Matrons bob the head and sigh ;
Callow youths, with bated breath.
Think on doom and Hell and death ;
While they draw the handkerchief
To support unmanning grief,
They, with woe commensurate,
Drop the “ thruppence ” in the plate.
To be serious : What’s the sum
Total of this rum-ti-tum,
All this bounding ’Murkan slang
Gospel with a Yankee twang ?
Does the soul the faster trudge
Hustled by such foolish “ fudge,”
Prodded in her mystic home
By the fussy quacks who roam ?
Sail by your own light each one,
By your chart serenely run,
Sight by your own lamp the goal,
Sail to it your hardy soul;
Steer through all the accidents,
Live by your own elements ;
Helm by your immortal heart,
Out the tug line —let it part.
Signal the evangelist,
Pass him babbling in the mist.
Change the figure—parable
Always serves the preacher well.
Is the soul a tiny seed
Set amid the clay to lead
By its undeveloped power
Its own self to perfect flower?
Oh, ye dull evangelists,
How have ye the Purpose missed !
But I pray you leave it be,
It has aids to destiny,
Wind and sun and storm and sod,
Instinct, and immortal God ;
Best to leave the task to them
Of the training of the stem,
Seeing that they understand
Better than your blundering hand
How to woo the bloom from out -
Aphis blight of Sin and Doubt.
Oh, ye dull evangelists,
How have ye the lesson missed 1
Know ye not the while ye preach
Each is out of all men’s reach ;
Each must weep his bitter tears,
Agonise through halting fears ;
Dree his weird, and drink his dram—
You’ve no power to help or damn ;
Be the vessel gold or delf,
It has got to cleanse itself.
Shout without and make your din,
Heaven blossoms from within.
And your little texts and creeds
Fail to fertilise the seeds.
Shout away, if shout ye must,
Lest your throats should gather rust;
Ply your trade, evangelist,
Wailing voice and pounding fist;
Scare the nursemaid and the dame,
While the world wags on the same
As it did ere you appeared
Dreeing out its weary weird,
For your recipes, good folk,
And your patter shift no yoke.
vie.
ALPENSTOCK.
THE COLLABORATORS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Writers claim I say I made the world. Well, in
making the world —I admit Providence had something to
do with it.” — T. Bent.
All Space was empty, and a haggard sky
Stared dully at the Pit’s blue cellar flames
Until a white cloud floated out on high
Bearing two Names.
Ages went by, and still the cloud alone
Hung like a feather in the mists of space
Until, one day, the round earth like a stone
Dropped to its place.
Then spake a voice from out Immensity,
Crying-, “Behold ! our work is at an end !
Lo ! we have finished it. Give thanks to me—
And to my friend.
“Mine is the Sky—l worked with paint and brush,
Using rare pigments that Will never fail;
Gaze ye upon it! (While I made it— hush !
He made the snail!)
Mine is the Sea —I planned the awful deeps.
The deeps that. Man must fear from death to birth.
(He made the worm-—the common sort that creeps
Within the earth.)
“ Mine are the Hills—l moulded them with care ;
Breasts of the world whereon Mankind may rest.
(He made the desert. It is had —but, there 1
He did His best!)
“ Mine is the Man—the ruler of all things—
The kingly conqueror who kills and takes.
(He made those stinging flies with gauzy wings—
They’re His mistakes!)
“ Greater than all, my largest work of art
More splendid grows when His small things are spent;
It is my own unto the smallest part—
I made T. Bent !”
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.


PROCLAMATION.
r -
U
ul
O
u*
0
U
*
Y-
JC
V"
r
o
-J
cC
<js
<i
<£-
o
a
rv
D
ETTES
<3.
?gs
o
,
I
\\i
•o
1
rW
HDOIIMi
3§?
%!
HAVELOCK CIGARETTES
are in every mouth. They
have been proclaimed First
in
Flavor
Sweetness
Color
Strength
HAVELOCK CIGARETTES
A Special Blend of the Choicest, High-Class,
Well-Matured Virginia and Carolina Tobaccos.
3d. Per Packet.


Furniture and Upholstery
WALTER BRADLEY & CO.,
324 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LARGEST and BEST LIGHTED SHOWROOMS
in the city.
IMMENSE STOCK OF FURNITURE.
Artistic Designs. . . . Durability Guarantied.
REPAIRS and UPHOLSTERING
on the Premises by Competent M.n.
LOWEST QUOTATIONS FOR CASH.
WALTER BRADLEY and CO.,
32* GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Of all the silly proverbs, one
Whose vogue should be diminished,
Is : “ Woman’s work is never done ! ”
It should be : “ Never finished!”
She’s always working, understand,
To keep the home together,- •
And has Woods’ Peppermint Cure on hand
For colds in wintry weather,*
THE PERIL OF OUR TIME
Is lung disease. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for
coughs and golds cures lung trouble. Small dose.
Pleasant to take. Every bottle guaranteed. Obtainable
very where, price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
This Elastic Truss
mm
Elastic
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomforfc,made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Mklbodrnk. _________
POLITICAL
POINTS
Johnson, M.H.R., in his recent curse in
the Sydney daily papers at the selected Australian
capital (Dalgety), plaintively asked :
What about the health of those officials and others who
must perforce remain permanently domiciled in the
Federal capital in connection with their official duties?
Poor Johnson really doesn’t seem to know that
there are people living noiv in the Dalgety dis-
trict, that there were people living there long
before Johnson was heard of, and that the
Southern Monaro folk include some of the finest
specimens of the Australian race. And those
people don’t worry about their health ; they just go
on being born, and marrying, and developing the
Great Natural Resources, and growing old, and
yarning reminiscently with each other in the
nonagenarian stages about the “good old days.”
They are “permanently domiciled” in Monaro,
in fact. And when they hear Johnson telling
them that they simply can’t do these things,
because the climate won’t allow them—well,
they wonder what asylum Johnson burst out of
when the keeper wasn’t looking.
A GENEROUS COMPROMISE.
One speaker declared that if a Chatswood resident now
went to church on Sunday “he could not wait for the
sermon, but had to go out in the middle of the service,
disturbing the congregation and losing that magnificent
discourse!” — Daily Paper.
CLERGYMAN (to reporter): “ The Chatswood wor-
shipper, it is true, loses the sermon; but, what
is of far more importance, the church loses
his thrippenny bit. The hour for the sermon
cannot be altered, but the collection in future
will be taken up immediately after the singing
of the first hymn."
The Great Wall of China seems to be an
obsession with the Freetrader. Bruce Smith used
to have it badly, and he evidently thought that,
instead of being a mere military defence along the
northern border, the wall extended right round
China, and was built by a Protectionist Chow to
keep out foreign goods. And Sydney Telegraph
suffers from the same delusion at times. Speaking
last week on Colonel G. R. Campbell’s statement
that Australia, if driven to the necessity in war
time, could do without foreign trade, it com-
plained :
The putting forth of the theory of beneficent isolation
awakens many old historical mempries. It is what
Washington proposed for his country when in the dawn
of American civilisation he thought he foresaw a self-con-
tained nation coming which would grow all its own roots
and grains and trade them off to its own manufacturers,
the whole community living for itself and in itself and by
itself, “ the world forgetting, by the world forgot.” Just
the same notion inspired the authors of the great wall
round China.
Now, why this foolish throwing of mud at a re-
spectable old Chinaman who merely built a forti-
fication, with gates in it to let trade passthrough?
That eminent squatting person, W. E.
Abbott, propounded to the N.S.W. Pastoralists’
Union a theory that Australia should pay
£3,000,000 to the British Government for defence,
and should abandon every attempt at self-protec-
tion except by the training of a few cadets. In
other words, he thinks all grown-up Australians
should keep carefully out of the reach of bullets,
and the country should fight with a cheque book
and a few unfortunate school kids. And W. E.
Abbott described Alfred Deakin, who thinks that
Australia should shoulder its own rifle, as showing
“all the effrontery of the sturdy beggar, who is
at the same time half a beggar and half a bully
and all a coward.” It is wonderful what inverted
ideas of courage some of these angry sheep men
have.
The British House of Commons listened
for 10 minutes, with that laughter which is the
crackling of thorns under a pot, to Kincaid-
Smith’s proposals for compulsory military train-
ing, and then threw them out. There is talk in
England of another reduction in the army, which
has already been greatly reduced; the volunteer
forces have been practically abolished ; and the
British naval programme has been so cut down
that some authorities reckon Germany may, in
another five years, be the stronger sea power of
the two. Yet there are fossils here who urge
Australia to do nothing for its own defence but to
“trust frankly to the mother country.” The
mother country contains a lot of people these days
who have ceased to even think about defending
Australia. It is the future defence of London
that troubles them.
Sometimes Bent’s critics in the Vic.
House find the subject of his past administration
rather perilous to touch upon, as Kirton did the
other day. Kirton was criticising the appoint-
ment of the three Commissioners to the Shepherd’s
Bush Exhibition, when Lemmon hinted that
Kirton had nothing to complain about, seeing that
he had obtained an appointment on the Ballarat
Water Commission, regardless of much Parlia-
mentary opposition. And then, to increase
Kirton’s perturbation, the coarse Bent himself
must turn round upon him and yell:—“It comes
very funny from you. I never had such a censure
as I got when you got that billet! ” Whereupon
Kirton, after a word or two, also turned round,
and eulogised the Government, just to show that
he was not ungrateful.
With one eye on the punitive clauses of
the N.S.W. Industrial Disputes Act, the Hoskins
ironworks people rushed to say, after they had
shut down the premises, that it wasn’t a lock-
out —it was merely a temporary stoppage of
work to allow of some very necessary re-
modelling of the plant. It might sound con-
vincing but for two things—(l) it had been
announced that, if the ballot of the men
went against the wage-reduction proposal, the
works would be shut down ; (2) the notice that
the works would be shut down was posted within
two hours of the announcement of the result of
the ballot. Still, the Tory daily papers have
alleged again and again that the employers can
never dodge an Arbitration law—only the em-
ployees can do that. This case proves that the
Tory papers are just as truthful as usual.
Speaking at Bairnsdale (Vic.), one night
recently, G. H. Wise, M.H.R., the little man
who looks like an undertaker, brought up the
subject of the “ salary grab,” as it was termed by
the blatant dailies, and, after explaining how
Greid had pocketed the extra £2OO, went on to
say :
Mr. Fairbairn, who made a strong show of opposition to
the measure, also quietly pocketed the extra money,
although declaring that he hoped the electors would
reject every candidate at the next election who counte-
nanced the “ disgraceful salary grab.” He himself could
have done what Mr. Fairbairn did, and had his name
placed on the white list in the newspapers, but he thought
the course he had taken was far more honorable.
Still it is only fair to Fairbairn to say that he,
being well off for money, distributed his extra
£2OO among the charities of his electorate, after
explaining artlessly and at great length in the
press that the distributions were to be “ anony-
mous.”
The S. M. Herald put its tongue in its
hardened olid cheek and announced that it cut
N.S.W. State Premier Wade to the
heart to include only one Laborite
among the 12 new Leg. Councillors ;
but “it would not be fair to the State
to nominate men who are, in effect,
pouring contempt upon Parliament by
their attitude towards recent Indus-
trial legislation.” In short, if a big
body of men feel themselves aggrieved
by recent legislation, the proper plan
is to refuse them the means of Con-
stitutional redress. On the same
principle, the S. M. Herald, since
it cordially disapproves of most Com-
monwealth legislation and spends a
lot of its time pouring contempt over
it, will, of course, admit that it and all
its friends shouldn’t have any Com-
monwealth votes. If it isn’t fair to
the State to nominate Laborites, it
can’t be fair to the Commonwealth
to elect the Herald’s friends Greid,
Joe Cook, little Willy and B. Smith.
The N.S.W. Works Department has de-
cided that, w’hen the through-to-the-West railway
comes to be built, it will recommend that the line
be continued from Condobolin, and not from
Cobar. It will mean more newline to join on to
the S. Australian system at Broken Hill, but it
will be a trifle more direct. About 15 years ago
the Public Works Committee went into the
matter, and Dr. Garran was then the only member
who supported the Condobolin idea; but a lot of
haze has drifted off the Far West since those days.
To one little crowd that farewelled him,
the departed Talbottle confided that he often
found himself a great deal more democratic than
the most advanced Radicals. Democracy meant
government by the people, he remarked, and this
surpassing democrat didn’t know how you could
have democracy when people in Victoria were
governed by people, say, in Queensland. Also,
Talbottle probably doesn’t know how it can be
democracy when the people in Geelong are
governed by the people in Bendigo, or when the
people at the bottom end of Oollins-street are
governed by the people at the top end of Collins-
street, or when the people in 943 Bourke-street are
governed by the people in 944 Bourke-street.
The fact is, Talbottle has got mixed. He isn’t
a democrat; he is merely an anarchist —anarchy
being individualism run mad. When he gets back
to London he had better protest agajnst the
people at Beckham Rye (London) being partly
governed by the people at Barking (London).
CREED AND CORROBOREE.
Australian clergy recommended (at the Pan Anglican
Conference) that the use of the Athanasian creed be made
optional, in consequence of the offence given to members
of the congregation by the damnatory and sulphurous
clauses.
If we mat make a suggestion, we should say
that the Athanasian creed should be worked on
Australian lines altogether; that is, “ corroboree”
lines, which seem to just suit the smoky and
sulphurous clauses aforesaid.
The Sydney Freetrade papers which shriek
for more Protection for Hoskins’ ironworks, and
pour tears over the Hoskins firm because it hasn’t
got more of the thing that they hitherto alleged was
a curse, ought to turn up the report of an interview
they had with Mr. Hoskins himself the day after
Lyne’s tariff was published. Hoskins on that
occasion said he was a Protectionist, but the Pro-
tection that Lyne proposed was too strong
altogether—it was prohibition. The Sydney
Telegraph printed that interview; yet the Tele-
graph says that Lyne is a monster for not giving
Hoskins more of the thing which, in Hoskins’
opinion, Lyne had given too much of already.
(N. B. —Hoskins hadn’t bought the ironworks then.)
Lifchgow (N.S.W.) ironworks have closed
down for a time because the men refused to accept
a temporary reduction of wages, said to be ren-
dered necessary by the want of adequate Protec-
tion or a bonus. Under these circumstances, the
Union proposes to apply for a Wages Board to fix
rates; but it might be an even better idea to
apply for a commission of inquiry to decide:
(1) Why the Labor party sank the fiscal issue for
the last 17 years ; and (2) why the Lithgow elec-
torate, if it wants Protection, ever sent the
rampant Freetrader J. Cook into politics? First
the fiscal issue sank ; then the iron business sank ;
now wages sink. And these three sinks are really
one sink.
Certain N.S.W. pastoralists have a great
scheme for saving their stock. They propose that
the Government should build railways across lots
from the terminus of one country line to another,
until there is a big outer circle from (say) Hay to
Glen Innes. These lines will be almost idle in
good seasons, but in bad ones they will be used for
trucking stock from drought-stricken districts to
places where there is still grass and water. The
squatters, according to “ Wingen” Abbott, their
president, lost £2,000,000 last year simply be-
cause this railway wasn’t there. Not that Abbott
proposes that the squatters shall pay anything for
the railway. It is to be built out of loans, and
when occasion does arise to use it the stock pas-
sengers are to go at “starving stock ” rates and be
carried for next to nothing: A deputation from
the jumbuck kings called on Minister Perry to
ask for the lines. Perry sadly reminded the kings
that when he was a Minister last time, the squat-
ters and their friends went round the country
hollering for ’Ector and Wade, chiefly because
Perry’s Ministry had spent too much money on
railways and such. Still, if they would wait,
Perry would see what could be done.
THE EXPLOSION.
The King was most genial.... He took Mr. Carruthers’s
arm in friendly fashion... . Mr. Carruthers was particu-
larly anxious to show' his Majesty a beautiful room in the
court —constructed, floored, decorated, and furnished
entirely with New South Wales ornamental timber; but
the King good-naturedly declined. He put his hand on
the shoulder of the New South Wales representative, and
said, “My boy, I really can’t do it now.” When the
King and President had passed on, the Prince of Wales
advanced to Mr. Carruthers, smiling, with his hand ex-
tended.— Daily Paper.
Ten minutes after the King had left the court
there was a terrific explosion. “ Hulloa! who
threw that bomb ?” said the constable on duty.
“It was no bomb," answered an Australian
stranger. “ Poor Mr. Carruthers has just burst
with delight."
The N.S.W. Closer Settlement Advisory
Boards have had half-a-million acres of land
gazetted as suitable for closer settlement. The
Boards have now to inspect these areas; the
Government, on their report, has to offer the
owners a price ; Parliament has to agree to the
transaction ; the sale has to be effected ; and if
all this is not done within 12 months from the
issue of the Gazette notices, the resumptions
collapse. So there are still many miles between
the man who wants land and the threatened sheep-
stations, and drinks are a long way apart on that
road. ; , f < 1 ; <a
The Sydney bottle-
oh and rabbit merchant
is up against trouble.
Not long ago, the Second
Hand Dealers Act was
passed, and this makes
him take out a license,
and puts him to no end
of trouble. Now, the
Local Government Act
is in force, and under this
glorious statute councils
are empowered to levy
license fees on all street
purveyors of merchan-
dise. Sydney contains
about 40 such councils,
and each one is reaching
out for license fees. So
the bottle-oh, who can’t
always tell when he
reaches the end of one
pocket-handkerchief bor-
ough and is into the
next, is expecting more trouble and more expense.
Apparently he will require 41 licenses—a general
one, and 40 municipal ones. If the State devoted
as much attention to the big land monopolists as
it does to the empty bottle merchant, it would be
much better for the State.
Dear Bulletin, —You advocate an Aus-
tralian Navy. The principal drawback is the
expense. I have a suggestion to make. A ready-
made fleet is shortly visiting our shores. All the
crews are ready and willing to come ashore and
get gloriously drunk. Let us steal their ships
while they are extra drunk. With such a navy
we could defy the small yellow' iniquity, and play
“ Hail Columbia ” generally.—Yours in haste,
Salmo.
THE STRAIGHT LYNE-AND OTHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Icy Irvine claims that he and the other members of the
Opposition corner, in the House of Reps., are “true
Liberals,” and scoffs in a superior strain at Lyne, whose
blunt mind is unequal to the subtleties of their political
creed.
Big William does not comprehend
The man who doth from day to day
Go backward with a forward trend,
And downward in an upward way.
To speak with both sides of the mouth,
And reconcile the lie and fact,
While facing north and walking south,
Requires a large amount of tact.
Along no easy-going rut
Their lives political they live,
Who’re Liberal in precept, but
In practice most Conservative.
VIC.
S.S.
THE SENSIBLE WAY TO CURE
INDIGESTION.
Make the Stomach Strong Enough to Do Its
Work.
Sydney Young Woman had a Bad Bout of
Indigestion. Food Caused Intense Pain.
Violent Headaches ; Nerves so Upset
Couldn’t Sleep ; Grew Thin ; Sick and
Miserable. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
Gave Her First-class Health.
Indigestion simply means a weak stomach. If
the stomach is strong enough to do its work
properly there can’t be indigestion and all the
misery it causes. Doesn’t it strike you, if you are
a sufferer from indigestion; that what you need
is a stronger stomach—a stomach that will do its
work properly—that will digest food ? And,
candidly, if you are using pre-digested foods and
purgatives, do you think you are making your
stomach any stronger? It should be patent to a
child that you’re not. Why, you’re just getting
something else to dq the work the stomach ought
to do, and, because you’re not using it at all, it s
getting weaker all the time. If you want to test
the truth of this, after you’ve lived a week on
some invalid food, try a good square meal. 1 hat 11
convince you quickly enough.
The sensible way to cure indigestion then, is to
make the stomach strong enough to do its work-
tone the stomach, and that’s not difficult to do.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills will do it. < They make
new blood and strengthen the whole system.
Every organ of the body is better for their use.
They’ve cured so many Australians of indigestion
that the question is not one of theory ; they ve
done it actually for others. After you have taken
them for a few days you’ll notice how much keen-
er your appetite is and how much more comfort
you have. In a short time the complaint goes al-
together, the pain after eating, the wind, the
heartburn and bilious feeling, the pain between
the shoulder blades, the heavy weight in the chest
and what’s worst of all, the gloomy feeling of
im Ther d e i ’s g the efperience of Mrs. Fredk. Whitaker,
9 Boundary Street, Redfern, Sydney, to guide
other sufferers. She writes .
“I used to be a perpetual sufferer with indiges-
tion,” said Mrs. Whitaker. “I always had a
pain in my chest, like a heavy load there, just at
the end of the breastbone, and I could hardly
straighten myself. The pains would shoot all
through me, down mv sides and through to my
shoulder blades. I’d feel like bringing up my
food, but never could. I always had heartburn,
my mouth would fill with hot burning fluid, i
nearly always had a dull sick headache with pains
over the eyes. My sight would grow dim and
hazy I couldn’t see to sew or read at times, as
mv head would be swimming and I’d have specks
before my eyes. If I stooped forward I d feel as
if I were going to fall. I never cared to eat much
—l’d always feel worse after, so I often skipped
my meals. At the least sound at night id wake
up and be restless till morning, then I d get up
drowsy and heavy, and be like that all day,
feeling all the time as if I’d never had enough
sleep. I suffered with wind, it troubled my
heart so much that I thought I had heart
disease. I’d get out of breath if I walked quickly
and I’d feel quite asthmatic, and my heart would
thump like a steam engine. I felt low-spirited.
All the color left my face. I was a yellowish
white. At last some of my friends told me about
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills and got me to try them.
I felt fine after the first box, and that encouraged
me to try another. The two boxes cured me.
The nasty heavy feeling left my chest. Ihe pain
went out of my sides and back. I began to have
a little appetite and my food agreed with me.
The heartburn gave less and less trouble. 1 was
able to get about briskly and was much brighter
in spirits. I could sleep well and the bilious
color left my face. My health is very good now
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by all chemists
and storekeepers, or may be ordered by mail from
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Go. of Austra.asia,
Ltd.. Sydney, at 2s. 9d. a box, six boxes 15s. dd.,
post free. Write for hints as to diet, etc.


BucKley & Nunn
LIMITED.
FOR THE WINTER
/M///MIA
¥3
7/m
mm
Wa.
n
m
Be Comfortable
and Wear •• •
THE
RAINLEA
OVERCOAT
For the Winter
Weather.
It is without a Rival,
being thoroughly
Waterproof, light in
Weig'ht and Porous.
No Rubber Used.
PRICES :
63 1- to 751-
BucKley & Nunn
LIMITED,
300-310 BourKe Street, Melbourne.
A. ®> F.
PEARS,
Limited.
By Royal Warrants SOAPMAKERS
to their Majesties
THE KING & THE QUEEN.
IRotice
having been brought to Messrs. A. & F. Pears, Ltd
that imitations of their Specialities are being
offered for sale in Australasia, they have authorized
Messrs. F. Forrest & Co., 495-7, Bourke Street,
Melbourne, their Agents for the sale of
PEARS’ SOAP, to take legal proceedings
against all persons infringing their Labels,
Trade Marks, Rights, etc.
La -
•Malthoid Dampcourse
NOT THE SAME AS OTHERS.
“If it is not seemly , do it not;
If it is not true , speak it not.” — Marcus Aurelius.
MALTHOID DAMPCOURSE has been aptly termed the Alpha and
Omega of satisfactory building construction, since an inferior dampcourse
will cause disaster to the finest structure. MALTHOID DAMPCOURSE
differs from all others, and its merit lies in the fact that it is always uniform,
without the slightest variation, and its superiority has been proved over and
over again by the severest tests known, and many years of practical use in
some of the most important buildings in the world.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET POST FREE.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COfIPANY,
San Francisco, and Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney..
Established 1884.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
W. S. FRIEND & CO.
JAMES SANDY & CO.
G. A. GARDINER.
SORBY & CO., Newcastle.
JOHN KEEP & SONS, LTD.
F. LASSETTEE & CO., LTD.
WILLIAM BALDWIN, FOREIGN MANAGER, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The New
Model
BRITON
Universal Keyboard. ■■
Steel Type and Bars.
Two=Color Ribbon.
Tabulating Indicator.
Simple, Strong, Durable.
Typewriter
Is Now Ready.
Saves 1200 parts; saves £l2 in cost.
Young, July 6th, 1908.
THE SOUTHERN SALES LTD.,
282-284 George Street, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,—At this point it may not be out of place to mention that I consider the BRITON
Typewriter capable of doing all that you claim for it.
The entire absence of any complications in its construction is a point that should recommend
the BRITON to any and every user of a Writing Machine.
I shall always have very much pleasure in recommending your production.
Yours faithfully, (Signed) ALF. W. STRINGER.
For personal, professional, or business use, it is the simplest machine
it is the best investment.
Get particulars of our Free Trial Offer.
SOUTHERN SALES LTD.
252-4 George Street, Sydney.
\
ift
V
X
A- Mans Dest-Friend Is—
DCKERSLEYS
MENTAOLINIL
MENTHOLINE and I are inseparable friends.
The familiar little bottle has a permanent
abiding place in a corner of my waistcoat
pocket. If lam threatened with a-HEADACHE, a
sniff or two soon puts me right. If I feel the slightest
symptoms of a COLD, or if I catch a CHILL,
MENTHOLINE provides a cure on the spot. It is
pleasant, palatable and pungent to take, and a certain
remedy for INFLUENZA, COUGHS, COLDS,
SORE THROAT, HOARSENESS, QUINSY,
and all troubles of the Throat or Lungs. All
Chemists and Storekeepers sell MENTHOLINE—
ECKERSLEY'S MENTHOLINE (be sure it is
Eckersley's). If you cannot readily procure MEN-
THOLINE locally, write direct to the manufacturers,
Messrs. ECKERSLEY & SONS, 628 BOURKE
STREET, MELBOURNE, who will post a bottle
to you for 1/-, or four bottles for 3/6, with the name
of the storekeeper nearest you who stocks it. Free
Trial Bottle for a twopenny stamp of any State.


EGT. 1818.
HEERING’S
CHERRY BRANDY
SUPPLIED BY ALL
Principal Australasian
Merchants.
“PRICOTA”
liqueur
The Ideal Ladles’Liqueur
If you want a liqueur,
Why not try a “ Pricota ? ”
It is wholesome and pure
If you want a liqueur.
To its praises I’m sure
You will soon add your quota;
If you want a liqueur
Why not try a “ Pricota.”
WHOLESALE FROM —
Hogg, Robinson & Co., Propty., Ld., Sydney & Melbourne
If you are one of those particular women who seek
the best preparations for toilet use, you will be interested
in the list of the Valaze preparations, and appreciate the
many suggestions for beauty culture to be found in Mile.
Rubinstein’s booklet, “ Beauty in the Making-.” Valaze,
the chief beauty-maker, is a skin food par excellence!
It revitalises the tired and wasted tissues, removes all
impurities, and makes the skin soft and clear. 3s. 6d.
and 6s. 6d., 6d. post. Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure
easily and quickly banishes these complaints, and prevents
their recurrence by destroying- their cause. 2s. lOd.
posted. Valaze Skin Tonic, specialty for greasy skins,
removes bagginess under the eyes. 3s. 6d., 6d. postage.
All chemists, or direct from Mile. Rubinstein and Co.
Valaze Massage Institute, 158 Pitt Street, Sydney ; 274
Collins Street, Melbourne ; 9 Brandon Street, Wellington,
N.Z.* [2
mmbm
r
mm
M
m
I’m the Robur Tea Girl.
You can smell a cup of
Robur so soon as it is brought
into the room—it hasn’t a
scenty smell—its aroma is
full, soft, rich—just the kind
that makes you feel you would
like to sip it.
Tea-tasters and Analysis
will tell you that it is
impossible to get purer tea
than Robur—and you couldn’t
have better proof of its
goodness than that they use
it in their own homes—could
you?
I ufie it exclusively in
my home, and have done
so for a long time.
C. R. BLACKETT, F.C.S.,
late Government Analyst.
The No. 1 Grade is
beautiful tea.
“The Connoisseur’s Friend.”
“BLACK and WHITE."
riind—■niiiw-.-.. l .ni«iMrfaCTHaawTnw .wdirnTAAiwW., i ■ ■■ ■■!—i;«rMniHn'fW.-iff.i. ui , MssihVim^rsn> ;T««aiiiOTiHnaffli»y
BUCHANAN WHISKY
Is the acme of perfection, and the high-class standard
stimulant of the British Empire.
A WOMAN’S LETTER.
Sydney, July 14, 1908.
My Dear Arini,—
The Week’s Things That Matter may be
ranged into line thusly :
(1) The Python.
(2) Professor Henry Jones’ lecture.
(3) The great Bain and Hail Storm.
(4) Cate Chantant in aid of Seamen’s Institute.
(5) Production of Mr. Arthur Adams’ “ Tame Cat.” a
meow in four acts.
But the Python has coiled around my past
week. He has tinctured my religion, my
philosophy, and my relations with my kind.
My horizon is bounded by 24 feet of
reptilian pythonality. He is the accomplice of
the World, the Flesh and the Devil. The Python
—he is one of our fellow-subjects from India—lies
coiled in his cage inside a city shop. Coil upon
coil he lies on his sawdust in concentric circles, as
a sailor places a spare cable, his long, flat head,
with the ever-open eyes—dull, amber beads—rest-
ing upon the topmost of the pile of coils. There is
an ancient atmosphere about him as of something
that was born millions of years ago. He is but
50 years of age, and is reckoned a beautiful reptile.
Where he has shed his old skin, the new shines
green—the sinister, mysterious green of cats’
eyes seen in the darkness. Poke him
with * a parasol, and a yard or two of
him shudders and heaves ' like the surface
of a quicksand in the rising tide, while
fifteen or twenty feet remain quiescent. If he
came into this room now, it would be of no use my
climbing on to the top of the bookcase. Twelve
feet of him could rear up to me, leaving half of
him sitting on the floor. Better take my chance
of a jump from the three-storey window. The
evening papers would at least be able to mark
with an X the spot where I landed. The Python
would have digested me—body and bones and
bead necklace and littery opinions.
The Python lies and dreams and professes to be
a symbol of something, but no one can tell
exactly what. He is the original Snake Yarn
of the Earth. He is the Embodiment of All
Sausages. He is a combination of Unutterable
Sin and a garden hose. He represents the serial
tale in its earliest development, for he came round
the corner in four chapters of six feet each, and
broke himself to the cave man by degrees. He is
the origin of the corset; when he squeezed the
First Woman the Second Woman fled in affright
and invented something similar. He is wise and
heartless, and long-winded ; also he is artistic,
and heaps himself up in elegant patterns which
suggest designs for a carpet. There are more
things to be learned from a Python than are to be
found in all the books of philosophy.
Remember in “Martin Chuzzlewit” the two
transcendental ladies who were presented to
Elijah Pogram. One wore a brown wig of enor-
mous size. Sticking on the forehead of the other
was a cameo the size and shape of a raspberry
tart. They were Miss Toppit and Miss Codger.
“Mind and matter,” said the lady in the
wig, “glide swift into the vortex of immensity.
Howls the sublime and softly sleeps the calm
Ideal in the whispering chambers of Imagination.
To hear it, sweet it is. But then, out laughs the
stern philosopher, and saith to the Grotesque,
‘ What, ho 1 Arrest for me that agency.’ And so
the vision fadetb.”
After listening to mental philosopher Prof.
Henry Jones with strained attention for a quarter
of an hour, the above passage rushed in over the
mind of your Akenehi, and she looked around for
someone to chortle with her. The Great Hall of
the University was almost full—possibly 1500
persons, men and women, weie present and
hearkening to the sage’s words, as of old men lis-
tened to those spoken with the thunders on Sinai.
The fine flower (or should it be flour?) of our
University was present—professors, graduates,
students and—and others. Prof. MacCallum
was in the chair. The ascetic, prophetic-looking,
handsome Prof. Jones spoke (in a Welsh voice
with a thick top-dressing of Scotch accent) on
Philosophy and Modern Life, or, rather, Man and
his Environment. Every now and then the lec-
turer left his desk and lamp and notes, stepped to
the edge of the platform, and poked the finger of
Fate into the collective eye of his audience, and
said this, and others like it: “Nothing in the
world is a law into itself but Spirit. All else but
Spirit or Mind is ruled, as it were, from behind.”
In short, one thing only rides on the cowcatcher.
Everything else travels in the train and is asked
for its ticket. It was all so beautiful and vague
and difficult, and, as a solemn matter of fact,
language is not comprehensive enough for the
subtleties of Mr. Jones’ idealism. He had often
to do what girls do when adjectives fail them—
make a face. Minister Hogue and Inspector
Dawson curled the tail of the cultured time with
appropriate comments. (N.B.—“ Culture ends in
headache. ” — Emerson.)
The great lightning, thunder, and rain and hail
storm was finely produced on Wednesday night.
It was almost as well stage-managed as a Flem-
ming drama, but it was put on at a most in-
opportune time—just as numbers of persons were
about to start for the Cafe Chantant in the Town
Hall. Also the Western Suburbs got all the hail.
At eleven o’clock next morning it was still stacked
oyer two feet high against house walls. Light-
ning, chain, forked and sheet, made a splendidly
fiery display. - Rather a pot-boiler picture, though.
It was the sort of night when the dog had to be
taken indoors because he was too scared to remain
out.
Unlike the Great Storm, the Cafe Chantant in
aid of the Seamen’s Institute was badly engineered.
Influential sections of the metropolitan press had
no intimation of the effort-to-be in aid of the
worthy object, and there was no adequate “ draw ”
for the galleries. The promoters claim to have
made a financial success of the Frisk. If
that be true, in spite of the addled
business management and muddled programme,
they might have trebled the “success”
if there had been no addle and less muddle. A
remark by one of the promoters was the best
thing in the programme: “We needn’t spend
much on the catering because Our Class dines
"J®- | he capitals are mine. Holy Frost!
Our Class suggests all the blood of all the
Howards, or lineal descent from the Emperor
Jimmy who ruled Japan in 660 B.C. The tables
financed by several of the big steamship com-
panies would seem to have been the chief factors
in the financial success.” For the rest, the tem-
porary shopkeepers and stall-holders and ped-
lars bought from each other, and there was
a general robbery of Captain Wilson. Miss
Jtaciith Walker ran a beautiful flower table,
and the Knoxes bought things they didn’t
want from the Dangars, who purchased
materialised “guff” from the Knoxes, and Lady
Foore did business deals with Mrs. E. P. Simpson,
q uP a, d spot cash to various Osbornes and
btephens for articles she would enthusiastically
Jose out of her motor on the way home. General
Gordon and Hr. Roth looked harmlessly ridicu-
lous in an encounter with the foils.
The Centuries Ball Committee has put a bit of
elastic into its programme—or rather it has
reached back and gathered in another century—
the eighth. Sorry the Centurians don’t see their
way to have a Before Adam Century. At a cost
of about eighteenpence for cocoanut fibre, and a
bit of old rope for a tail, a lot of ns could
make a good fancy-dress appearance at the ball.
Ihe pillars on the ground floor of the Town Hall
would be just the thing for the pre-Adamite sec-
tion to swarm up. A sweet spot in the sixteenth
century part of the pageant will be the presence
of Henry VIII. and his six wives.
The Hospice Ball Committee h;is decided on its
principal gallery attraction —tableaux from the
National Gallery masterpieces. Hon. treasurers
for the ball: Mrs. Arthur McElhone and Mrs.
Snell.
There is every possibility of the American Fleet
giving us more than we will give it in the way of
excitement. The U.S. man-o’-warsman isn’t the
well-disciplined, fine piece of machinery, with a
tail of 500 years of tradition to carry, that his
British brother is. A young Sydneysider was in
Genoa in ’92 when a U.S. squadron was there.
He has shudder-some recollection of the dead
body of a man lying on the pier, and covered with
the American flag. He had been knifed in a
brawl with some Italians ; but then the Americans
had knifed two or three of the Genoese, which had
naturally roused Dagodom to fury, and all Italy
had leaped out of its fish emporium and done
battle. San Francisco was literally painted red
when a portion of the Fleet was there three or four
years ago. What with the incursion of Americans
and the rush cityward of inland folk, we are going
to have a sirocco of a time !
A budding impresario, who has been taking
flickergraph pictures for Mr. Charles MacMahon
through the South Coast towns, such as Bega
Bodalla. and Nimitybelle, tells me that he met
hundreds of men and women who have led the
simple life with such strenuosity that they have
never seen a railway train. Yet these people
intend coming to Sydney to see the Fleet. No
Race Cup Festivals here or m Melbourne, no
record Agricultural Shows, no Duke of York’ no
prize fight or lure of Spring millinery has ever
charmed them hitherward. The Fleet will suc-
ceed where all other attractions failed.
Mr. Claude McKay, J. C. Williamson’s private
secretary, leaves this week for Auckland, to meet
the Fleet, and will help to do some entertaining
m the city ’way up Hauraki Gulf, on behalf of his
boss.
Mr. Thomas Nesbitt and Mr. Arthur Mac-
arthur, who are in the shafts of the Citizens’
Reception Committee, seem to be having a sad
time of it. The money isn’t coming in with the
speed and volume of the waters that came down at
Lodore. Up to date there are in hand £2282 Os. 6d.,
and it has come from only 240 donors. Possibly
the explanation of the scarcity is to be found in the
letter of a man who wrote to one of the morning
dailies saying that he would give his cheque for
five guineas if he, his wife and daughter were
asked to the functions to be given by the vice-
regals and others in honor of the visitors. The
logic of the request is quite impeccable.
T. E. Donne, of Maoriland, leads the strenuous
life these days. He has lately been appointed to
take charge of the arrangements in Auckland to
welcome the Yankee Armada, and this in
addition to the following little jobs, whereby
he earns the contents of his modest monthly
“envelope”: General Manager of the Maori-
land Government Department of Tourist and
Health Resorts; Secretary for Industries and
Commerce for Maoriland ; Manager of Maoriland
Advertising Department (controls advertising for
the whole of the Government service); Corres-
ponding Secretary for the Commercial Intelli-
gence Department of the British Board of Trade ;
Member of the Maoriland Government Scenery
Preservation Board ; Member of the Maoriland
Civil Service Classification Board ; Trustee of
Tongariro National Park; General Manager of
Township of Rotorua (includes functions of Mayor
and Town Council); Controller of the Govern-
ment Acclimatisation Society in the districts of
Rotorua, Whakatane, and Wairoa; exercises
functions of the Maori Councils in three native
villages ; controls all Government hotels, board-
ing houses, spas, gardens, parks, and most of the
Government steamers running on the inland lakes
of Maoriland; and, finally, is generally useful
whenever any new bit of work turns up. And
still he looks fit and well, and shoves his multi-
farious undertakings along with a firm hand.
Considering the rubbish quality of the British
National Anthem, there is no reason why the
verses called “Australia’s Greeting,” written by
L. J. Villiers, and set to music by A. Compton,
also (the music) arranged by T. G. Constantine,
should not become quite popular. As for the
melody, it is harmless, like many temperance
drinks, and, like the said drinks, would be better
if it had a stick in it. No one will become musi-
cally intoxicated by this composition. Also some
may think they recognise a certain diluted flavor,
as of an old but not distinguished friend—what
hop beer is to beer—in the chorus, which is remi-
niscent of “Soldiers of the Queen.” The whole
thing may be taken at a draught—l mean read at
sight—and there is no reason why it should not
become popular—again like hop beer.
Kensington was a riot of tall, well-nourished
men and small, humble-looking ponies, last week.
In a word, the winter polo carnival was on. To
the mere female this is an inexplicable sort of
pastime. The ponies totter hurriedly about under
an immense load of man, saddle, timber,
whiskers, etc. ; long-handled mallets are waved in
the air, and a white ball is hit now and then, and
anon the dull, dead thud of wood connecting with
somebody’s skull resounds. Then such of the
female relatives of the wounded player as are near
say“ Tut, tut!”or “Dearme!”and resume their in-
terrupted conversation anent the utterly loathsome
way Mrs. A. is carrying on with that wretched lad
B. Something of a gloom has been cast over the
festival this year by the unworthy action of oneof the
evening newspaper young men who, in the course of
a rapturous panegyric on the players’ costumes,
wound up with the finely-imaginative statement
that “they wore their ties quite ala Piccadilly.”
This has exasperated the Mudgee men to the
verge of frenzy. As a fact your deponent would
class the neck-gear of all hands as more
distinctively “a la Jamboree” than anything
else. But it is a matter of opinion.
The Duke of Norfolk, England’s Hereditary
Marshal and premier Duke and Earl, scored a
son and heir last month. He has been married to
his present wife for the last three years. Mrs.
Alick Dalgleish, a niece of this important
Debretter, lives at Pomeroy, near Goulburn, with
her squatter husband. The twain had the loan of
Arundell Castle (which is the main Norfolk
humpy, and the place where the arrival of the
infant above-mentioned took place) for their
honeymoon—about the only case on record of a
squatter and squatterina putting in this trying
time in such an environment.
A sister of Mr. Dalglish has, by the way, just
become engaged to be married. She is the elder
daughter of the late J. C. Dalglish, who made the
family’s money, and she lives with her mother,
Mrs. Dalglish-Bellasis, at Eilleslev Hall, Ashby-
de-la-Zouch, where the joyous passage of arms
took place. The prospective husband is Captain
Lyons, of Croom House, County Limerick, and
he used to be in the 13th Hussars, which seems an
unlucky figure somehow. It is to be hoped he
didn’t leave on a Friday.
The marriage of Mr. Lionel Phillips, a young
widower (with one small girl) to one of the Ben-
jamin girls of Melbourne, occurs presently. The
bridegroom-elect’s first wife was one of the Auck-
land (M.L.) Nathan family. Miss Zelma Aron-
son’s marriage to Mr. Stewart Macphail comes off
early in August.
The rush of Sydney folk to Cairns to escape the
cold of this State is unusual. For that matter, so
is the cold. Manager Ramaciotti and Mrs. have
gone, and considerable of the Bar and several
fragments of the Bench are facing that way. So,
I believe, are Commerce and the Church and the
Wholesale Liquor-business, and a good deal of
Politics and Finance. The only thing that stays
at home is Literature, which hasn’t the price of a
ticket about it
The new golf champion, Mr. Clyde Pearce, is a
strong! y-built, hawk-eyed youth from Tasmania.
The Maorilander, Mr. Arthur Duncan, gave a
brilliant account of himself; Mr. M. Scott
the ex-champion, kept up his reputation ; and the
“gallery,” as the onlookers are called, was
numerous and well frocked and furred.
The coming in (late) of Miss Anglin to “ The
Tame Cat ” on Saturday afternoon caused more
buzz than the arrival of the State Government
and Admiralty House parties. An excited mes-
senger crawled through a crowded aisle of the
circle and touched Mrs. “ Innisfail ” Toohey
on her sombre toque, and the lady
arose and hurried out, and received from
Mrs. “ Glenyarrah ’’ Kelly the precious package,
viz., one star actress —costly, perishable, fragile,
immediate—and took It and It’s sister to the
roosts of the mighty. Mrs. Kelly, in a blotting-
paper pink cloak with raven braiding, resumed
her stiddy job of programme-selling. The per-
formance was in aid of St. Martha’s Home, and
the Criterion was packed to its last foot of space.
Miss Katherine Brook, who played Lady Calm-
seas in the cast, was capital, and made the others
seem sadly amateurish. Miss Connie Usher was
a winsome ingenue instead of the author’s Circean
grass widow, whose “eyes have lighted fools the
way to dusty death.” The clever acting of Mr.
Adams’s fiancee, Miss Lilian Paton, who played
for the first time, was a joyous surprise.
The Fred Shipmans arrived by the Manuka.
Among their fellow-passengers were Mark Ham-
bourg, his wife and child, and five baboons. The
missing links are for the Tivoli.
The Freemasons’ Annual Ball, in aid of the
aged and infirm, always a brilliant gathering, will
occur on Wednesday, July 22, at the Town Hall.
Mr. James Heighway is hon. sec. The Enslaved
Bricklayers are expected to do extra well this year.
“ Mario ” writes from Brisbane
His resolute Excellency pursues his way amid the wilds
of the North, and seems to be having a good time. His
party is doing the rounds of the fine station homes which
exist like oases in the northern wilderness, and now and
then there trickles down news of the bags of duck and
quail which the Governor and Joey Bell are making on
off days. If there is one thing that really brings a gleam
of joy to the eye of King Edward’s substitute it is the
unwary wildfowl, and as he is a good shot the fowl begins
to wish that King Edward had never been born.
Meanwhile, our Mrs. Excellency is going round paying
calls upon some of our institutions. This week she hap-
pened along at the Diamantina Hospital, the State-owned
asylum for incurables. The new wards for epileptics
came in for special notice, and also the general beauty
and tidiness of the grounds and things generally. The
Diamantina is called after theimperious Lady Bowen, who
was a Greek or something of the kind, I believe—not a
Greek Slave.
How these sleek Church folk do play the game, and how
they take down the Pagans and the-simple Children of the
Sun for their spare cash ! The latest Presbyterian effort
was the “Launching of a Viking Ship of War,” a silly
arrangement of red paint, tin and cardboard, with a
dragon’s head, borrowed from the local Joss house, for a
figurehead. This piece of inanity, manned by a lot of
silly psalm-singers, supposed to be in Viking attire, Lady
Chelmsford was required to “ launch,” which she couldn’t,
seeing that the whole thing was a fixture. However, I
suppose there was some money in the business somewhere.
There was a great roll-up at the inter-State lacrosse on
Saturday, when S.A. and Queensland drew the game at
five all. Briefly, the visitors had the head for the game
but the local wielders of the racquet had the feet, so the
odds were even.
On the same afternoon a reckless Frenchman made
a reckless descent from a balloon at the cricket
ground, to the joy of about 4000 persons. He landed all
right per parachute, but the collapsed balloon descended
upon a chimney, and, draping itself gracefully thereon
put out the good housewife’s fire, filled the house with
soot and smoke, spoiled the steak she was grilling, and
wrecked her temper. There are now rumors of actions for
damages from the annoyed one, and a counter summons
from the indignant parachutist, for cruel illtreatment of
the balloon.
We are to have a much-felt want supplied within the
next few days. A small and canny Scot, named Main,
has organised a series of coaching trips to adjacent beauty
spots. The stranger may now buy a ticket at Pinkenba,
on arrival by boat, and join a coach in town, and do a
three or four hours’ drive behind four good horses through
the pineapple farms, to the waterworks, up Mount
Gootha, or to White’s Hill and round the famous Oxley,
Oorinda, and Indooroopilly turnpike, for a moderate sum’
and see “ sugar bushes,” scenery and sunsets as he goes.
Yours Affectionately,
AKENEHI.


/
II
ami
f
irH
Q\
m
a
80*
u
IS
fm
%Bffi
i?
:' •:
<W
l
1
■
l»S
4-
:
: .
m
■
afrjS
m
im
1
m
m
m
m
‘
• i
aw
f
s
00&»
1
fcitf
3®»
n
SIT:
N«
A
m
m
m
s
m
m
■
m
w
m
m
m
s
mm
m
__
■•■ l
m
S:
m
mmm
m
1181
♦ - ' j
• ■: :
m&mm
}%it,
mSSsyj-. ■■. .*
r
Q» itM/C
L w:
is a
- ■-'■■ ■ j ... :> ■■■
l i
TN THE COLD SOUTH these days one can
hardly imagine the joy of the North Queensland
Winter —the warm invigorating sunshine, the bright
tropical scenery. It
is an earthly Para-
dise-North Queens-
land in the Winter.
And you may get
there so easily by rail.
FIRST=CLASS RETURN FARES.
SYDNEY and BRISBANE £6 0 0
SYDNEY and ROCKHAMPTON 10 0 0
MELBOURNE and BRISBANE 12 0 0
MELBOURNE and ROCKHAMPTON ... 14 5 0
and TOWNSVILLE ... 915 0
and CHARTERS TOWERS ... 10 10 0
and CAIRNS 10 17 6
including- Saloon Fare by Turbine Steamer from Gladstone to Townsville.
Write to the Queensland Railway Department, Brisbane, for full particulars.


V
l
CORSETS
THE CORSET that is recommended by
Fashion's leading authorities. Beautifully
designed by the most skilful of French
Corsetieres, and thoroughly tailored; every
pair possesses the graceful lines and curves
that are synonymous with a charmingly
perfect figure. Fit you like a glove—yet
for comfort, stylishness and service the
P.D. Corset is absolutely unrivalled.
Insist on a
“P.D.”
1
All Drapers.
I m>:Ss
mx
553
-.•V
:i?35 S&'
|| Sel/LClosiivg
'tobacco Pouch
Smokers will reach
% for their Money
\ as soon as they see this
i Neat and Effective Pouch.
| IT LOOKS GOOD
J§ AND IS GOOD.
.S'
£ !/
No Splitting, NO Trouble,
and Aif*Tight.
If you want a Satisfactory
Pouch at little Cost the
Dunlop Self-Closing
Pouch will suit,- Ask
your Tobacconist to
show you a sample.
Only accept
“ Dunlop” Brand,
for they are
newly-made,
and will last
for years.
O t uniop Pouches
made in
Various
Styles.
m
Made irt
Red Rubbef
id Three
Sizes
’/a oz. ■
1 oz.
17* OZS.
r DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney. Adelaide.
Perm, llrlsbane S Cbrlslchurcti N. 2.
DUNLOP 1
RUBBER 1
'HEELS*
'“X
\
For
Easy
Walking
OUTWEAR
ALL OTHERS
None their Equal for Quality
and Comfort.
Accept only "DUNLOP” Brand
ALL BOOT SHOPS.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., all St«te» And W.Z.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 13, 190 S.
My Dear Yarrik, —
This has been a rather crowded week, full of
wet days, and minor festivities, and races, and
committee meetings, and farewells, and other
futile things. Everyone’s sneezing violently, furs
obscure the sex, and devil a new frock has shown
its face through the rain unless it was an old one
altered. Weather and wet have brought us to the
point of going to a race meeting in last year’s
shopping gown mildly refurbished.
The three race days have been drizzly, slithery
episodes. Never a vice-regality showed until
Saturday, when the Commonwealth couple
happened along to lunch. This official feed was
arranged like a Jewish congregation. Miladi
was given up to the V.R.C. wives and mothers,
and fed by them in a place where nothing more
manly than a waiter penetrated. Himself ate his
capon in company with the racing-men. Both
were talked at complimentarily before they’d
half finished digesting. Lady Nortbcote faced
the day in a cascade of fine furs, and a dull blue
cloth gown. Muriel Gumming, with niece Phyllis
in tow, was sealskinned and plumed to perfection,
and looked like the lid of a chocolate box. Racy
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald was fairly obvious in a
blaring hat and a check suit that shouted aloud
in two keys. Mrs. Stuart Murray was in some-
thing sombre, with a set of beautiful sables, and a
purple hat that lent her heavy handsomeness
particular lustre. A theatrical leavening didn’t
help to a brighter aspect much. Victor Gouriet’s
sinuous missus reared her golden head out of
a nondescript tweed gown, and capped it
with sable and ermine, which didn’t suit her.
Florence Young, looking smartest of the lot, was
in melancholy black. As far as frocking and
general dash went, Mrs. B. Allen took the honors
of the meeting. She trotted round in some
capital wrappings—astoundingly cut coats and
skirts in small cheeks, with miles of braid upon
them. These clothes alleged “ I’rn from Paris ”to
the most casual eye; but they, too, were wintry-
tinted and sorrowful.
The Victorian artists’ show is here again
already. This year the oldsters give place to our
younger daubers for the most part; and the
youngsters fairly deserve their prominence. John
Mather shows only small pictures—all of them
careful, and colorful; none of them specially
interesting. Ford Paterson has “ Black
•Swans” (a beautiful harmony of quiet color)
and a sketch, as his representation. Secretary
Oolquhoun exhibits two portraits—one of a
baby daughter, which is a charming little study ;
•one of a red-haired girl, which is capitally painted
and naively posed. Fred McCubbin shows a
number of river scenes, English and Australian.
They are right away from his usual methods, but
they don’t suffer any for the digression. Our
Fred has improved without doubt. He’s assimi-
lated to a wonderful extent aTurneresque feeling,
which infinitely idealises Australian scenes with-
out disguising their latitude. There is a big
proportion of portraits in the exhibition. Bernard
Hall has four—one a picture of Norman Lindsay,
against a detestable background of flat yellow,
in which the gifted youth looks like an
acolyte out of a Boccaccio tale. Another is a
strong and characteristic study of clever Archi-
bald Strong. The other two deal harshly with
divers aspects of pretty Ruby Lindsay. Tom
Carter’s picture of a lady 7 is marked by its fine
treatment of her dress textures, which are blended
into a pleasant color arrangement. Leslie Wilkie
shows a big canvas of a pink-frocked girl. The
face and flesh are delightfully done ; but the
details of mud-colored gloves and a dull, gloomy
background aren’t pleasing. He also signs a life-
like portrait of William Moore. Mrs. Georgette
Peterson is responsible for an amateurish attempt
at Lady Talbot, which makes that picturesque
dame appear to be severely deformed about the
neck. Her Northcote Graciousness, in white
satin, smiles humanly in the pigments of Violet
Teague. Abby Altson is. guilty of a study which
would discredit his small brother. Streeton’s
picture of a sunlit stretch of Sydney Harbor serves
as a measurement of our local men’s shortcomings.
Will Ashton, of S. A., has a lovely marsh-scape to
his credit; it glows with delicious color. And
Efal Waugh’s bush scene is a mile-post. It shows
him at his best as an animal painter; in his tran-
sition stage as a landscapist.
Leslie Wilkie’s finely-drawn nude woman
kneeling upon draperies of impure purple (to
crib Herbert Spencer’s quaint adjective) is a
daring bit of work, which shines amongst a maze
of conventionality.
In the etching department, Shirlow and Cobb
are a show in themselves. Cobb has largely lost
the heaviness of effect which used to mar him,
and has assayed some delicate plates which are
quite beautiful. Shirlow, too, has progressed
beyond his best previous work, and in every
one of his eight or 10 etchings shows
a masterly freedom of line, and a curious
charm of atmosphere and “ color.” McCimtock
and John Sommers, senior, lift the water-color
section high up with their five exhibits. Sommers
has captured Truth and made it good to gaze upon
in his study of Spring-street at sunset. The view
of Melbourne Hospital is remarkably well drawn.
McClintock’s rural scenes are gems that have no
flaw visible to the lay woman’s eye. Alf Fischer
makes up the sum of the worthies to be respected.
The pastels he has done this year are moie than
good. They are jewels of dainty color and the
most careful cutting.
A derisive howl arises anent Mirboo for the
American Fleet’s visiting—a howl from patriots
who know their country to the furthermost ter-
mini of suburban beach trams or Sunday train
trips to Tree Gully. Mirboo is the door to the
Forest Country—the land of the B:: Trees. Folk
snort at the door because it has a bushy name and
one pub. They’d snort at Paradise because
Peter of the Key is an or’nary coon with a straggly
beard and one hair on his bald head.
Mirboo is 50 miles from the south coast as the
fly crows—and the miles are mostly mountain.
Mountains are a glut. You sit on mountains.
There are mountains all round playing ring-a-
ring-a-rosy, and further mountains playing all the
purples in the scale, and they’re all clothed in the
heavy velvets of thick, tall timber. If you went
insolvent there, you could pay two mountains in
the £ easily.
Jack and Tom and Bill of the Spars and Ropes
won’t be taking many shares in the blues and
purples of the divine hills. The pub’s influence
will concentrate the color scheme in their con-
glomerate nose. But it won’t 'need the pub in-
fluence to impress Jacktombill with the big gums
that take three sailors and a marine to see to the
top, or with the mere saplings which are an all-
day diive round the bole.
I don’t know if the Fleet is being taken to
Mirboo for Scenery or Sport or Impressions, or all
three. The district has good fishing and shooting;
and a multitude of wild pig makes for something
like a boar hunt. Also there are deer (fully two
to 2000 acres).
As for Impressions, at Mirboo you See the
southern forest country, chopped into here and
there by vigorous pioneers (the hard-gained
ground is marvellously fertile) and thrown
before the Altar of the Cow. The forest is not
mere big timber, but a cathedral of columns,
straight and vigorous. It is Big Timber inter-
laced with undergrowth, rising by steps—glossy
“flannel shrub” with its tang, and mush tree
with mushy soft scent springing out of the lower
ferns buried in the bright brown of rotting fallen
fern, and strung with the throttling tangle of supple
jack, and twined blossom and berries. All
through the dim leafiness there is an orchestra of
birds. And, most cunning of all, in branches of
safe height, little Norman-Lindsay bears grin at
you over their black fiddle-bridge noses in fluffy
grey friendliness. They are protected, and no
Australian worth the name will kill a native bear.
Yes, I’d like the Fleet to say, “How Do” to a
little grey bear.
Possibly the worship of Higginson by Mel-
bourne’s stage-struck womankind would be less in
evidence if it were generally known that the
“lovely eyes” of the tall new baritone are very
inferior articles for seeing purposes. Girls who
dote upon him from a distance of ten paces stand
no chance of a genuinely responsive smile. The
shortsightedness of the adored one leads some-
times to misunderstandings that are almost
pathetic. For instance, a pair of Melbourne
sisters are constant visitors at Her Majesty’s,
these “ Merry Widow ” times. They sit in the
front row of the stalls and beam, and beam—wait-
ing and watching always for the Idol to recipro-
cate their tender combined smiles. If he happens
to have been apprised of their locality in the
stalls, Higginson makes them happy, but if he
doesn’t know of their presence, or if he has mis-
placed them, the spinsters pass a sorrowful even-
ing under the impression that he is “ cutting ”
them. And all the time the well-meaning mum-
mer is struggling hard to do the fair thing by
everybody.
The opening night of the King’s Theatre was
a matter of no interest to Toorak, seemingly.
People who make a point of emphasising their
social quality at the Princess’s, or Her Majesty’s,
when a Williamson or Musgrove show comes on
for discussion, were almost unanimously missing
from the new temple of bellowdrama on Satur-
day night. They are to be found at the Royal on
special occasions, clothed in war-paint and fine
linen, and wearing an expression of surprise at
their own condescension. But, with few
exceptions, they had not troubled to attend
manager Anderson’s house-warming function ;
or, perhaps, they were too late in applying for
seats. Lawyer Croker and his wife loomed among
the d.c. audience, and a shining figure in white
and silver, surmounted by a pale golden coiffure,
was that of deputy-Mayoress Davey. The mana-
gerial box was dedicated to Premier Bent, whose
weary-visaged daughter, Mrs. Bleasby, sat be-
tween Mrs. Pitt and her girleen. In the opposite
box, Mrs. Barney Allen, handsome and beautifully
dressed, kept a motherly eye on her expensive
chicks, one of whom, by the way, created a mild
diversion during an entr’acte by tripping into a
fire-bucket at the back of the circle when return-
ing from a visit to the foyer.
A previous entr’acte was the occasion for a some-
what motley gathering in an unfurnished upstairs
room. Some champagne came to pass, and, whilst
the hundred or so of gatherers preserved a solemn
silence, the Bent Knight had several words to say.
After which, architect Pitt, M.L.C., returned
thanks on behalf of his achievement, and Mr.
Anderson made a few bashful remarks. There
had been speeches earlier in the evening in front
of the curtain. T. Bent delivered a stodgy
address from a paper which he held in his hard,
rough hand ; and a prologue, written by Mr. Alf
Lumsden, was spoken by Mr. W. L. Paine.
Therefore when the performance of “Man to
Man ” came to a belated end, it seemed advisable
for one to escape hurriedly, lest Bent might have
more to say.
When the late Surgeon Fitzgerald started on
his last trip it was plain that recent worries had
rudely shaken his sands of life. One blow came
through his son-in-law, the brave but unlucky
Captain Lumsden, who lost his command along
with his ship. As the eldest of three motherless
daughters, Mrs. Lumsden had always been the
apple of the old man’s eye, and her sorrow hit him
hard. In her girlish days the then Miss Ethel
Fitzgerald was a pale, slim belle, with blue eyes,
black hair, and a pretty knack of versifying.
In one way and aflother, the great surgeon had
his share of sorrow. He lost his wife nearly 20
years ago—she was a Tasmanian beauty when he
married her. One of his daughters was attacked
by juvenile hip-disease. Her father always said
he could have cured her had she been some one
else’s child. As it was* she evaded painful
remedies, and is a sufferer to this day.
A change that bothered the old doctor near the
end was the marriage of Miss Burrowes, long the
matron of his private hospital. The gifted lady
made an advantageous match, and her employer
was the last man to grudge her her prosperity ;
but he had often said that “so far as his hospital
was concerned, when he found Miss B. he
found a fortune.” When the engagement was
announced, friends tried to cheer the bride-elect’s
ruffled boss by saying that there were still good
hospital-matrons in the market. Said the tired
ancient: “ Yes, yes ; but I’ve no time to seek for
them.”
The ex-Miss Burrowes, now Mrs. Robertson, is
the daughter of a bygone member for Bendigo.
The fact that she did not wed till after her 50th
birthday was not due to lack of opportunity.
More than one moneyed invalid vainly tried to
induce the witty ministering angel to assume the
charge of his declining years. The applicants
were refused so charmingly that they all proved
good for handsome wedding-gifts. It was Miss
Burrowes who tended Lady Hopetoun’s broken
nose and made lifelong friends of the sufferer and
her liege lord. The latter never left the hospital
without pleading, “Here’s a nice chair, Miss
Burrowes. Do come and make us laugh ! ”
Sculptor Webb Gilbert, a chef who cooks for
his living and sculps for his happiness when the
mood is on him, is a man of keen artistic instincts.
He has recently designed a group—a native com-
panion with two baby native companions and a
snake. It is a particularly fine piece of work.
His wife is represented as the native companion
guarding her babies from Death—the snake. It
is a gruesome idea, but the group has attracted
the attention of that unusual individual, Dr.
Springthorpe. Dr. S. has purchased it, and in-
tends placing it with the McKennal group over
the grave of his beautiful wife.
I was not there, but a Man rather enthused
about the Bachelors’ Ball at St. Kilda (he said his
enthusiasm was not roused by Joy Juice or other
bubbly nectar, because there was none, but
there Was a remarkable preponderance of Pretty
Girl). All the colors in the dressing (the girls,
not the salad) were particularly attractive. The
decorations—long ropes of pale green and orange
from roof to balconies—harmonised with the
softness of coloring. In fact, the Man raved that
the,effect was more of a staged and sane ballet
than the usual grotesque burlesque of a suburban
“dance.” All St. Kilda maidenhood was there,
and, according to the Man, the prettiest girls wore
soft tone dresses “ slashed ” (whatever that may
mean, oh my sisters !) with something else.
The latest thrill in Melbourne’s medical circle,
and thereabouts, is the engagement of Dr.
“Dick” Stawell. Dr. “Dick,” son of the late
Chief-Justice Stawell, is a bachelor of not less
than 45 winters, who had withstood the yearning
glances of ten thousand eyes, and was generally
regarded as a hopeless case. A seasoned bachelor
with a gruff style is never despaired of, but here
was a dear medico with an ideal “bedside mail*
ner ” and a hand that never seemed unresponsive
to a gentle pressure. A nurse—a “sister ” with
an Irish name—is the heroine of the unexpected
event.
Prom “ Rosna,” a dweller in Adelaide :
Old Hymen lit his torches last week for the marriage of
Speaker Holder’s eldest daughter Ethelwyn and Mr. A.
H. Harry, who teaches the young idea at the Geelong
Grammar School. The two share much intellect between
them, the bride being an M.A. and the Benedict a B. A. of
our ’Varsity. The knot was tied at the Kent Town
Church in the presence of a large and decorative throng.
The bride was handsomely garbed in white silk trimmed
with soft chiffon and silk appliqud, and her train was
dotted with true lover’s knots. The Benedict’s gift was a
gorgeous necklet of gold and pearls. Three jolly maidens,
—a heliotrope girl, a pink angel and a blue demoiselle-
assisted her through the ordeal. They were her two
sisters, Rhoda and Winifred, and the bridegroom’s niece.
Their frocks were of soft ninondesoie, and their millinery
was a triumph of chiffon. Mr. F. H. Cowell upheld the
bridegroom. After the two had become one, the bride
and bridegroom rushed off in a motor to show themselves
to the Benedict’s invalid parents, then to the Holder’s
place, “ Wavertree.” A reception w.s held in the pretty
stragglesome old garden, and after that the wedded ones
set out on the honey period.
Another matrimonial event which created some stir in
the annals of this quiet neighborhood was that of Mr.
Frank Toms and Miss Peterswald, which happened at
Christ Church, the fashionable tabernacle of South Oss.
The bride was handed over to her Benedict by her
brother ; she was transferred in a soft cream raiment, the
gorgeous old lace caught here and there with gold
medallions. The bridegroom’s gift was a diamond pen-
dant. Mr. C. Toms was second best man, and two sweet
muslin-and-valenciennes-elad maidens, with wreaths of
pink roses round their heavenly cream hats, assisted the
bride. They were her niece (Miss Irene Wilkinson) and
Miss Monica Murray. The reception was held at Mrs.
W. B. Wilkinson’s in North Adelaide, and the victims are
honeymooning at large in the Eastern States.
While Monty Brewster is squandering his assets at the
Theatre Royal, the Adelaide social lights are rushing in a
long procession to knock at Mrs. Brough’s door, and beg
her to come out and be entertained. The charming dame
is very popular here, and we’ve seen nothing of her for an
age or two, except when she appeared meteor-like at the
first Kubelik concert, while the company was pausing in
Adelaide for two minutes and a cup of tea on its way to
Westralia. The circulation of Monty Brewster’s cheques,
by the way, has occasioned the inevitable dubious jokes,
and local bank tellers have almost turned grey and
mad in a single night because of the army of alleged
humorists who desired to cash Monty’s paper, or pay it
into an account.
Our Excellencies have been sightseeing at Broken Hill.
There isn’t much of this portion of the continent that
they haven’t personally inspected. South Oss generally
has seen more of them than of most of its Exes., and as
they are sane folk, who travel with a minimum of frill
and bustle, their departure is likely to occasion an
unusual amount of regret. Next month the Psyche will
carry his Ex. up our turbulent Gulf, to visit the ports
thereof.
The University Shakspeare Society invited the elect to
a performance in the hall of Brockman’s Buildings the
other evening, and the elect came liberally, as it.usually
does when it hasn’t to pay for the privilege. The
members of the Society expended some skill and good
frocking on several scenes from “ Ooriolanus.” Among
the performers were Mrs. Kceppen Porter, Miss Nora
Kyffin Thomas (who made a charming Virginia), that
skilful reciteress, Muriel Oraigie, and one of the Jiirs
damsels. Two other of those clever girls, Oarlien and
Vera Jiirs, assisted among others with a musical pro-
gramme.
A cable has just announced an important happening in
the Foggy town. Abe Shannon, 8.0. (Bachelor of
Clothes), has been presented to Edward Rex at a levCe,
and King Ed. shook him warmly by the hand, and said
his fame had preceded him, and would he mind giving
him the name of his tailor. At least, if he didn’t, it was
a great oversight on his part. There was much disap-
pointment hereabouts because the cable carelessly forgot
to describe Abe’s presentation robes.
Two frenzied club-swingers have been breaking records,
and incidentally the calm of this Holy City again, and all
day long the streets have been crowded with excitable
males, their countenances glued to the windows where
the records were being posted. One midnight the heroes
were brought forth from their lair (swinging their mur-
derous weapons all the time), packed into motors, and
(still swinging) dragged in triumph to the Exhibition
Building, that barn being the only place big enough to
break records in with impunity. The crowd that followed
the motors covered a square mile or so.
Yours affectionately,
JOJANNA.
THE YELLOW PUP, WHICH IS IN REALITY A
WHITE DOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Senator Gray said that the great principle upon which
Orangemen worked was peace : peace on earth and good-
will towards men. — S. M. Herald report (IS/7/’OS ) of the
12th July Concert in the Sydney Town Hall.
The things that Derry says about the Pope
(Viz., that he dissipates without surcease)
Are not unkindly meant. 'Tis Derry’s hope
Thus to promote the sacred cause of Peace.
When Dill (good soul!) gets up and states that Rome
For bloodsomeness and evil takes the bun
So that it’s come to be Nick’s chosen home,
Rebuke him not. It is the Doctor’s fun.
It is a pleasing habit with the Doc.
To drag dead Karth’licks from the silent tomb
And prove they’re damned both singly and in block.
This is Dill’s way of causing Peace to boom.
When Brother Snowball slates the Cardinal,
Calling him “ Socialist” and “ Man of Guile,”
It simply means Snow wants to be his pal:
He’s trying to be friendly all the while.
And so with kind Bill Wilks and “ Soapy” Gray,
At heart they’re Romanism’s dearest friends,
Their slanderings of Ireland are mere play ;
Goodwill and peace on earth are their joint ends.
.. Muchly misunderstood’s the Saffron Dog,
It never barked in malice in its life ;
Those who hold otherwise are in a fog,
Derry talks stoush by way of soothing strife.
N.S.W.
J.B.D.


TYRE
WINNING
GRAND PRIX.
CABLE from MICHELIN TYRE CO., PARIS,
Paris, July Bth, ’OB.
sd
This Contest was held on Tuesday, July 7, 1908, over the Dieppe Circuit of 480
miles, and is the Third Annual of the Greatest Motor event of the world in
which “ MICHELIN ” TYRES have been successful. This takes the place
of the “Gordon Bennett” Cup, which in 1904 and 1905, was also won on
“ MICHELIN ” TYRES.
In the “ TARGO FLORIA ” Cup, run in May, 1908, the result was :
Ist, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, sth on Micheiin Tyres.
Also in the Targo Elorio Yoiturette Race the First Four were on MICHELIN Tyres.
This contest was held in Sicily this year over a mountainous course of the roughest
possible description, that being the object which makes it the world’s greatest
reliability test.
The
Non-Skid
Tyres
Alone being: on tbo Majority of the Cars of the World. They are by appointment
Motor Tyre Makers to His Majesty the King: and Royal Family.
Sole
Agents
Barnet Glass & Co.,
Para Rubber Works, Saltwater
River, Footscray, and AH States.
Makes you look manly
Before
Start using CAPILLARINE now, and the result in a few months
will be a permanent, handsome moustache that will improve
your appearance and make you look quite five years older. In
use it is undetectable, and a little rubbed on each nig-ht gives
the results we claim.
CAPIIvL-ARIMICs, 10/6 a jar.
Post Free to any part of the World.
CRAIG AND AITKEN, 65 1- George Street, Sydney*
Established 25 Years.
The Merry Widow Waltzers
fg
/ T'HE Dreamful Dancers. The Poetry
of Motion. A Most Fascinating
Toy. The very latest, up-to-datesc
novelty. Everyoody admires the Pretty
Little Tair as they waltz aiound and
reverse in a life-like manner.
Price 1/6 Posted.
THE UNION COMPANY,
299 Elizabeth. Street, Melbourne.
DON’T LOOK OLD,
DARKEN
jTOTO.
HAIRS
WITH
LOCKYERS
HAIR RESTORER
m
In Bottles, 1/6.
OF ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES.
POMEROY
LIQUID POWDER
Protects the skin from
sun and wind, and
conceals blemishes.
Of all Stores and Chemists.
Made by Mrs. POMEROY Ltd.
29, Old Bond Street, London, England.
Hale and hearty, he knows that no beverage is so beneficial
as Cadbury’s Cocoa. It is not so much the delicious flavor as
the nourishing qualities of Cadbury’s Cocoa that appeal to him.
He remembers, too, that it is absolutely pure.
On the score of economy, there is no better breakfast or
supper beverage than
Cocoa
S
made at bournville,
ENGLAND.;'
“ Pick ” writes :
J. D. Stafford died on 28th June, at Bombala (N.S.W.),
when within a few days of four score and ten, fifty-
seven years of which were spent in the healthful climate
of Monaro, near the Federal capital. For a long term he
held the position of coroner for the Bombala district, and
his skill as an architect was utilised gratis in the erection
of all the public buildings in the township.
William J. Bryan, the twice-defeated can-
didate, the loud hero of the bi-metallic craze and
the busted suspender buttons, is out again as
Democratic and tariff-reduction applicant for the
U.S. Presidency. It is thought the nigger vote
may carry him in. After 44 years of steady
adherence to the Republican party. Brother Ham
is said to be wavering for the first time, owing to
the fact that Taft, the Republican candidate, has
spoken unpleasantly about him. Bryan is a
Democrat, and his party is the old slave-owning
and nigger-flogging party of the South; while
Taft is the lineal successor of Grant, “the man
what sot us free.” But that was away back in the
’sixties of last century, and gratitude gets frayed
in the course of years.
A tale of the sea :
The scow Whangaroa, laden with timber, left Wanganui
(M.L.) on June 3, and used up the rest of the month fight-
ing a savage 20 rounds with the wintry and cantankerous
sea. A curious fact about the encounter is that the vessel
was nearly wrecked with its own spars. In the small
hours of June 10, a squall leaped dog-fashion out of the
darkness and carried away all three masts. The vast
mass of timber, still attached to the hull by the lee rigging,
swung under the laboring ship, and every wave
drove the Whangaroa down on the broken ends.
All attempts to tear the combatants apart in the
darkness failed, but at daybreak they were dragged
asunder and a sea-anchor was got out. But
gale after gale fled up like a flurry of mad elephants from
the west, and the battered mariners had all they could do
to prevent a clean knock-out, and the possibility of being
blown down into the Antarctic was always before their
eyes. So they rigged more sea-anchors, and pumped,
and generally fought the insane ocean with one hand while
they held on and ate a ship-biscuit with the other. By-
and-by, the great deep started to recover from its hysterics,
and the little band of soaked seamen sorted out from the
accumulation'of splintered timber three scarecrow masts.
The mizzen boom was used as a foremast ; the main boom
as a mainmast; and a number of planks acted as a mizzen-
mast. On these were hung what sails the ship had
saved, and some rags, and certain washing, and the
Whangaroa crawled for home and mother at the rate
of two miles an hour. Some more gales hit the scow, arid
one big, wolfish gale took away most of the bulwarks ; but
on July 3 the tattered ruin was off Cape Farewell, and a
tug took charge, and the crew danced whatever hornpipe
there was left in its sodden bones.
Messrs. Barnet Glass and Co. have received
the following cable message from London : —“First five
out of six in Grand Prix de Paris, including winner on
Michelin tyres.” Messrs. Dutton and Aunger are also
using Michelin tyres on their transcontinental journey.
Concerning the result of the Targo Floria Cup, run in
Sicily on May 18 last, Messrs. Barnet Glass and Co. have
received the following communication “ First, Trucco,
on Issotta Franschini; second, Lancia, on Fiat; third,
Ceirano, on Spa ; fourth, Porporata, on Berliet; fifth,
Goranzana, on Issotta Franschini. All the above cars
were fitted with Michelin tyres, as were also the first four
in the Coupe des Voiturettes.”*
A public meeting, held at Tamworth
(N.S.W.) the other evening, decided that it
would rather trust even the Peel River Co. than
the Wade Government to subdivide the estate
which for over 50 years has been blocking Tam-
worth’s progress. For two years the Government
has been fiddling with the resumption and sub-
division o,f 100,000 acres of the estate, and a good
part of Tamworth has got so tired of the Govern-
ment that it wants the State to withdraw from
the business and let the co. go ahead on its own
account. The only trouble is that the co. never
would go ahead if it wasn’t for the dread of action
by the State—it had 52 years in which it might
have subdivided, and it didn’t subdivide worth a
cent until the last few years. Now it points out,
as proof of the liberality of its prices and
terms, that on re-sale every farm brings a
higher price than the co. sold for. Which
isn’t proof of the liberality of prices and terms at
all; what it is proof of is that the co. has cutup
so little of the vast estate that the supply isn’t
anything like equal to the demand. Yet, even
with all that thrown in, a big part of Tamworth
would rather trust the co. than to the Wade
Government.
“ J.D.”—his protest :
The “brutality of boxing” is a shibboleth with the
ultra-upright these days. The same people who go to
Randwick as to a religious ceremon}' when the Governors
(Federal and State) attend, are comporting themselves
like demented creatures in connection with the proposed
visit of Tommy Burns to these parts. Someone wrote to
the S. M. Herald (10/7/’08) demanding that “ Sydney
people should show themselves up to the Melbourne
standard of morality in disallowing the Burns contests
altogether”—a thing', by the way, Melbourne hasn’t
done ; it has merely disallowed boxing on the Saucer
Track, where boxing was already disallowed under
the terms of the dedication —and wound up
“In the name of God and humanity I protest.”
Consider dispassionately the “ brutality” of this sport in
comparison with that of—say—steeplechasing, which is
countenanced enthusiastically by Ed. Vll.’s representa-
tives here, and by the leading lights, male and female, of
local Society. I have been watching boxing contests
fairly regularly for ten years. In all that time I have never
seen anyone killed. I have never seen a man smashed up
—this, in racing parlance, means having an arm, leg,
collar or pelvis bone shattered, and it is a quite common
happening in jump events. I have never seen a boxer
“ outed ” for so long as to preclude his going home the
same night. But I know a rider who spent three weeks
on an improvised bed in a weighing-room before it was
reckoned safe to move him to the hospital, and for about
half that time he was unconscious. In the whole long
history of the London National Sporting Club there have
been but three deaths as a result of fights, and in at least
two of those cases Bettinson, the secretary, discovered and
proved to the satisfaction of a London Coroner’s Court
that the deceased had been suffering from heart trouble.
No one has been killed in a Sydney boxing bout in my
recollection. Contrast the conditions on the steeplechase
track. The local jump riders are known in sporting
circles as “The Suicide Brigade.” Ido not know one
who is physically sound; they have all had their
“ smashes.” During last month alone the Commonwealth
roll of killed and wounded equalled the average
casualty list of one of Britain’s frontier battles.
Regan, and a dozen other first-flight horsemen have
been fatally injured in full view of a racecourse
crowd in quite recent years—showing among other
things that skill is of little avail in the matter. Where
the jump rider isn’t slain outright he stands a chance,
nearly always, to get horribly hurt. The ambulance,
which gallops around the course near the con-
testants while our hurdle and steeple races are in
progress affords dramatic testimony as to the authorities’
view in this regard. How often, year in year out, does
an ambulance find it necessary to visit a hall where boxing
contests are carried on? A boxing “knock-out,” on the
rare occasions it happens along, is a trivial thing. The
merest tap on the “ point ” effects it; and two seconds
after the “ count-out” the victim is, in 99 cases out of 100,
as well as ever he wag. The racing “ knock-out ” (which
is a matter of considerable frequency) means, as a general
thing, the silent tomb. There is more canting, unin-
formed nonsense talked about boxing just now than
enough. If people want to protest “in the name of God
and humanity” against “ brutality,” “ ministering to a
degenerate crowd’s blood lust,” and so forth, they would
be more logically employed memorialising the local
Governors to stop patronising Randwick than in raising
trouble about sparring bouts which contain about as
much of the danger element as so many tram rides.
The High Court of Justice was called
upon recently to presume death. One Solomon
Lewis was born in England about 1796, and in
1826 was convicted of highway robbery and sen-
tenced to death. The sentence was commuted,
and Solomon L. was transported to New South
Wales. He never returned to England, and was
last heard of in 1867, when he was 71 years of age.
In 1835 there was in Sydney a Solomon Lewis, a
carver and gilder, in Upper George-street, and in
1845 the same gentleman carved and gilded and
sold tobacco at 315 George-street. As he would
now be 112 years old, if living, the Court re-
luctantly decided that Solomon Lewis is resting in
the tomb, and decided to bear up as best it could
under the loss.
The bright spot in Wade’s unnecessary
appointment of 12 new men to the unneces-
sary N.S W. Leg. Council is the inclusion of
Henry Gullett. To this solid old fighter the
Federal cause owes much. When Reid was
Yes-No-ing, and the possibilities were that
N.S.W. would reject the vote for Federation,
Henry Gullett, then editor of the Herald, in the
face of a multitude of antagonistic influences
committed his journal to the Federal cause. At
that time the Telegraph was fighting tooth and
claw against Federation ; and had the weight of
both dailies been cast on the one side, it is possible
that the vote would have gone to the “Antis,”
who are really the same party that is fighting the
battle of State Frights to-day. Since that date
Gullett has remained the Federalist he always
was ; and, though a director of the Telegraph,
he has on occasions simply scarified the policy of
that journal by writing letters in which its falla-
cies have been pitilessly exposed. The accession
of Gullett to the Council will doubtless lead to
some unpleasant truths being told to theWade-
ites of the Upper Total) when the customary yap
against the Commonwealth is raised.


Prescribed by
the Medical
Profession for
over 40 years.
■ci i u'l'iTe
qCARBq
1
5?
i
<o
Mi
1
£R6t^
«§
This is the wrapper of
WRIGHT’S
The ORIGINAL and ONLY GENUINE
COAL TAR SOAP
6d. per Tablet.
Free
vs
ts
2-ft. High.
H LIFE-SIZE DOLL,
OR H BOY’S RIFLE
■ n
The Life-sized Doll is an exact reproduction of a hand-oainted
French creation. Dolly is unbreakable, fair or dark hair, beautiful rosy
cheeks, brown eye-, and represented with flesh-col jure, 1 body, red stock-
ings, black shoes, and will stand alone. Baby’s Clothes will fit Dolly.
The Rifle is an air and spring gun, complete with darts, etc., highly
finished, a 1 work ng parts are of bestmaterial rapid in its action, and
ecu-ate in its shooting, also a handsome Nickel Silver W?ITCH
GHRIN and PEXOMT sent FREE with the Doll or Rifle For
Selling only 2 Dozen Packets of our Reliable Garden
Seeds at 3a per packet.
NO MONEY WANTED.
We will send you the seeds FREE, and when you have sold them,
return the monev (o/-, and we will forward you the Prize you select
NO MONEY WANTED. WE TRUST YOU-
We do this with the sole object of advertising our Reliable Garden
Seeds, and can afford to give awav these valuable prizes to those who
will help us to introduce them We are the largest dealers in Garden
Seeds in the World —Imitated but Unrivalled.
In addition to the Doll and Rifle Prize, our Premium List includes
Watches and Chains, Gold and Silver Jewellery,
Phonographs, and Many Choice and Useful Pre-
sents— a complete illustrated list sent with the seeds —also
Substantial Cash Prizes given for the Best Specimen of Flowers
Grown from our Seeds.
Send your name and address plainly written, ana we will forward the Seeds
carefully packed by re*'wn.
Windsor Wright & Co., Soadsmen, 910 Pitt-st., Sydney, ftI.S.YJ.
sdf
Boy’s Rifie.
The Ideal Winter Holiday Resort,
Hydro Majestic Medlow Bath
AN ELECTRICALLY=LIGHTED AND STEAM=HEATED PALACE HOTEL
t situated upon the most imposing outlook on the
BLUE MOUNTAINS OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Now’s the Time for the Rest Cure and the full enjoyment of a quiet Holiday.
I
l
Telephones,
4349 Central.
29 Katoomba.
For Details apply—
City Office, 38 Castlereagh Street.
FILMS FOR HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE..
FILMS
FOR
HIRE-
FILMS
FOR
HIRE-
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
We hire films oat tb’ Cinematograph Showmen
throughout the Australian States.
We have a stock of over 200,000 feet on hand —
all good subjects, and including the latest pro-
ductions.
We are constantly adding to our Stock.
We sell everything pertaining to the animated
picture business —especially hiring out films.
Reference to
T. J. WEST, Esq.,
King of the Picture Business.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
FILMS
FOR
HIRE.
JORDAN’S LTD.
(Late Osborn & Jerdan, Ltd.)
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS.
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
&
PRIZES Value £1750
IN THE
EIGHT-HOUR ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 31, 1908.
Ist Prize, value £500; 2nd Prize, value £lOO
Third Prize, value £63; and 247 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. Calander, Hordern.Street,
Newtown, Sydney, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November sth.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of the
results will he posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all towns j
or direct from ALLAN McDOUGALL, Secretary
Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
CONJURING TRICKS, PUZZLES, SURPRISE
AND JOKE NOVELTIES.
THE MAGIC
COINER.
w
Something quite new, a real mystifier, and one of
the cleverest tricks ever invented. This little trick,
which pan be carried in the vest pocket, never
fails to add to an evening’s amusement, and is in-
dispensable to a conjurer. It represents the coinage
of threepenny pieces from plain pieces of metal,
and one, two, or three coins can be made at the
will of the operator. Full directions enclosed.
Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
COMIC MAKE-UPS.
Consisting' of a
pair of' false eyes
(made of cellu-
loid and unbreak-
able), price Bd. ;
a set of false teeth
(made of celluloid
and unbreakable), 1
price 10 dm ; a
false nose (made
of canvas cloth,
covered with wax,
gs
beautifully colored and made in every conceivable
shape), price 6ct. ; and a false moustache, any color
and easilv attached to the nostrils, price 3d. each ;
or the complete set 2/-, post free anywhere.
dfg
THE SPRAY WATER
PISTOL.
Will stop the most
vicious dog or man with-
out permanent injury.
Invaluable for- cyclists,
unescorted ladies, night-
watchmen, etc. Has more effect on beggars and
tramps than a watchdog. It creates great amuse-
ment for young and old, and is one of the most
popular joke novelties ever placed on the Australian
market. Reloading unlimited, length 5 . inches,
nickel-plated and nicely ornamented. Price 7/6
post free to any part of the world.
MAGIC BED ELI A BALLS.
Very novel and surprising-.
You squeeze the ball and out
pops the legs, as shown, in
an amazingly life-like manner.
On releasing the pressure the
legs at once disappear. One
of the most comical novelties
to be found in our varied
stock, and affords no end of
of amusement for old and
young. Price //-, post free
anywhere.
Send for our new Illustrated
Catalogue—just published.
Wholesale and Retail.
sd
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
No. 1 Branch: 2& and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
710 GEORGE STREET, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
H. L. Hutchinson', Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
Business. Robbery, etc.
“Picton”: Has anyone noticed the mysterious
charm that hangs round the word “ vegetable ”? Patent
medicines of all kinds, pastes, ointments, salves, powders,
pills, and liniments require only one word to secure a suc-
cessful sale —“Vegetable.” So long as the mixture bears
a label which reads “Vegetable,” “ Of Vegetable Origin,”
or “ A Vegetable Product,” the proprietor of the com-
pound need never starve ; but let any attempt be made
to force upon the housewife mixtures which do not con-
tain the magic “Vegetable” word on the label, and ruin and
insolvency stare the manufacturer in the face. Foolish
agents, with mistaken ideas of originality, have endea-
vored to vary the monoton\f by such signs as, “Free
from minerals, etc.,” thereby hinting at the presence of all
the vegetables in the universe, but such experiments are
costly. The man who first struck the happy idea of com-
bining upon one label the announcements of the presence
of vegetable products and the absence of minerals retired
after a month’s business. I have much pleasure in ap-
pending a small list of vegetable products which do not,
in my opinion, produce any special benefit when applied
internally. I fully realise the seriousness of the step I
am taking, but all the same here is the list : —Beer, tar,
indiarubbyr, turpentine, tobacco, gum arabic, opium,
wine, morphia, belladonna, castor oil, whisky, brandy,
strychnine, timber, cabbage-stalks, ropes, ivy, and coal
(petrified vegetables).
* * * *
“ Agricola”: What’s in the wind with regard
to jam ? One co. is energetically buying up every fac-
tory it can lay its hands on in Sydney and Melbourne,
where the most important factories are situated. It is
reported that hardly a single Sydney firm is outside some
sort of combine, and, in Melbourne, only two. On these
two, gentle but well-known methods are being exercised.
For one thing, prices are being cut till the profit on
manufacture is almost invisible. Under the circum-
stances, it is not to be expected that the stubborn firms
will resist the persuasion much longer. And then, my
masters, I fancy we’ll begin to pay for our present cheap
jam. To the Wayback, where fruit is impossible and
jam-making is ditto, this is a serious matter, especially as
the jam factories are also the fruit canneries.
“E.D.”: R. B. Levien, Victoria’s commercial
agent, recently from Asia, tells of a big Christian mission
in China that was jubilant over an enormous rush for
Bibles. The supply was not equal to the demand although
the mission’s press worked day and night. Then some
pestilent person discovered that the Bibles were being
torn up and used by the Chows for wrappers in the
manufacture of crackers ; and the mission’s enthusiasm
had a dull, sickening slump. Which reminds the scribe
of a big run on hymn-books at a Wesleyan mission in Bal-
larat East. It was hailed as indicating a grand revival in
the camp, till the good shepherd in charge found that the
leaves were being turned into paper tails for Sin Fat’s
kites. And that was not as bad as the action of the
“ converted ” John at Lefroy, who stole the candlesticks
off the ltrcal church organ to set before the squat idol in
the tin-pot joss house.
* * « *
“ Agricola ” : Some of The Bulletin scribes
seem lately smitten with the importing craze, and take
fiendish delight in enumerating the foreign goods they
use. Why don’t they become patriotic and buy Austra-
lian stuff ? Their pars would give one the impression
that Australia manufactured nothing but “Aboriginal-
ities.” Casting my eyes over my humble but solvent per-
son, I find that my suit is Marrickville tweed. My hat,
boots, macintosh and braces were made in Sydney. The
bedsteads, spring mattresses, chests of drawers, sofas,
tables, sideboards, tin trunks, dress baskets, stove—in
fact, almost every article of furniture in the house, came
from Melbourne. One set of blankets comes from Gee-
long ; the other from Marrickville. The crockery
comes from Bakewell’s; the verandah blinds from
Victoria. The missus sports a wedding-ring made;
in Sydney from Australian gold, and also various
other rings and brooches of the same manufac-
ture, set with Australian pearls, diamonds and garnets.
My ring and tie-pin boast the same origin. We use soap
and candles made in Sydney. In the pantry I notice
jam, two kinds of sauce, three kinds of pickles, and
biscuits and lollies from Melbourne ; tinned fish from
Port Fairy ; golden syrup, treacle, arrowroot, sugar and
preserved pineapples from Bananaland ; tinned ox-
tongues, sheep-tongues and oysters from Sydney; and
cornflour from the Hunter. On my landlord’s farm, just
outside the garden fence, are two Mitchell ploughs and
one Gibbons, a Sunshine harvester and seed-drill, all from
Victoria ; and a variety of harrows from Meadowbank
(N.S. W.). The fertiliser comes from Victoria. Three
sulkies, two tip-dravs, and a spring cart with the necessary
harness, adorn the premises, and all were made locally—
not merely “assembled parts.” I almost forgot to mention
that alongside the fence rusts a Canada-made plough,
clothed with a full suit and macintosh of curses, having
Cost, in three years, the price of a new plough for repairs.
* ♦ * *
“Croson ” : Either the Commerce Act isn’t far-
reaching enough or it isn’t honestly administered. Lots
of Melbourne retail drapers are dealing in a patent
cloth which they cheerfully swear is “all wool,’’ and
sell as such at from lOd. to 2s. 6d. per yard. Above 2s.
per yard it is probably genuine sheep’s covering, but
below that the proportion of wool gets smaller, until at
lOd. a yard the disgusted jumbuck would absolutely dis-
own the stuff. Also as to silk, Mrs. Croson lately bought
a dozen yards of Louisienne silk at Is. 2£d. per yard. It
was alleged to be a bargain and going like hot cakes, and
was “ warranted pure silk.” We inspected it by day-
light, and found the web to be silk all right, but the woof
was cotton. Then a very angry woman carried the parcel
back to the shop and demanded to see the proprietor, but
was headed off and filled with a quantity of excuses.
Being persistent, however, she presently returned home
with yards of alleged .Japanese silk—l hope it isn’t
really Jap made, but it certainly is silk—of double the
width of the other, for the same money. Though it isn’t
mentioned in the good book, I am certain Barabbas must
have been in the softgoods trade.
* * * *
Strikes are not quite the modern trouble that
some people seem to think they are: they arrived long
before the Labor party or the “ new unionism,” and years
before Spruce Myth started to talk of the blessings of
“freedom of contract.” They began even before the
old unionism. Leaving out the strike that Moses
organised in Egypt, Newcastle (N.S.W.) had its first taste
of strike in 1851. After that it had odd spasms, until
in 1872 it had a considerable smash, and a more consider-
able one the next year. The first didn’t do much one
way or the other, but the old IOJ-hour day was wrecked
in the second trouble —after that the pampered miner-
fellows only bad to swallow coal-dust for 10 hours a day.
It wasn’t till 1885 that the eight-hour system
arrived. Taking it all round, probably the cruellest time
Newcastle ever had was in 1895, and for two or three
years after that. The selling price of coal got down to
7s. a ton during those years, and the hewing rate to
2s. lid. (present prices, 11s. and 4s. 2d.). The best time,
except for the appalling hours worked, was just 20 years
before that, when the selling price was up to 14s. That ,
was the spurt in trade that led to the opening of the
Western (N.S. W.) coal mines, though these latter have
never competed against the Northern field as the
Southern (Illawarra) collieries have done, and still go on
doing.
"AKS LONGA, LODGEH BKKVIS."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.] .
He came to stay, across the way. The landlady was
proudly gay,
For he was no “ rough workin’ man,”
But read a book with studious look, or p’raps a pen and
paper took
To give his wondrous thoughts a plan.
For he was learned. ’Twas said he earned much gold by
verse that in him burned ;
He toned the squalid street anew,
When he would go with footstep slow, and meditating
brow and low,
Past, when the evening odors blew.
“ There goes ther pote,” with awestruck note, would slip
the gaping youngster’s throat,
As by their shabby cots he went;
And maidens too, brown-eyed and blue, blushed shyly as
he sauntered through
With weight of inspiration bent.
But lack-a-day ! It’s sad to say what happened one
regretful day,
Or rather night. His dreamy eye
Forgot to dream, as it would seem, for, ere the morn’s
most youthful beam,
He’d flown ; and left his rent-bill high.
N.S.W.
NERO.


yONE QUALITY in a piano depends
upon many things, of which the first
and most important are the Scale and the
Sounding-board.
The SCALE of a piano is a scientific
plan of its sound-producing parts, the length,
thickness, and radiation of the string's, and
the striking-line of the hammers. The calcu-
lation of the scale is by far the most difficult
part of piano-manufacture, and can only be
accomplished after many years’ experience.
Most of the makers of foreign pianos simply
buy their frames from foundry people who
are in most cases quite ignorant of the
mathematical requirements, and devoid of all
scientific knowledge. One piano “ manu-
facturer, in writing a “ Handbook of Piano-
Manufacture,” recommends that a frame
should be taken out of some well-known
piano, and the casting be made from that,
thus saving the trouble of calculating a scale!
But this cannot be done successfully, for
there is an exact allowance to be made for
shrinkage in casting. The only correct and
scientific way is to first calculate the scale,
making allowance for two shrinkages, then
cast a pattern, and from that cast the frame
to be used, d his is the method followed in
the production of the BEALE AUSTRA-
LIAN PIANOS.
The SOUNDING-BOARD is the
second important feature. No ordinary care
is required in its manufacture ; the highest
skill and perfect knowledge only will assure
satisfactory results. The timber must be
carefully selected, of the best quality, and the
grain must be graded from fine in the treble
to coarse in the bass. The strips of timber,
never more than five inches in width, must
also be tapered in thickness from treble to
bass. The amount of camber, or con-
vexity (like a violin belly), of the complete
sounding-board must be arrived at to
a hair’s-breadth, so as to assure the
best quality of sound when the strings are
vibrated.
In the Beale Australian Pianos all these
details are carried out with the utmost care
by specialists of many years’ training, in their
turn guided by management whose know-
ledge of the whole result to be obtained —
and the method of obtaining it —is unsur-
passed in any part of the world. The
materials are the best that money can buy.
Our great aim is always “ How much better
can we make it ? ” And to this end we
spare no pains, giving our every thought to
the perfecting of an Australian product that
is already far ahead of its old-world com-
petitors. That this is so you can verify for
yourself by comparison. Call and inspect
our pianos, and then examine the goods of
our competitors. Our faith in our product
is shown by the fact that we guarantee every
Beale Australian Piano for Twenty-Five
Years, whereas no importer will guarantee his
goods for more than Twelve.
CATALOGUES AND CIRCULARS FREE.
" m
“THE OLD COLONIAL HOUSE,”
378 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCH OFFICES at 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 24 Bridge Street, Ballarat; Charing Cross, Bendigo, Victoria; 127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
837 Hay Street, Perth; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.; 291 Queen Street, next G.P.0., Brisbane (our only address in Queensland).
Branches and Travellers throughout the Commonwealth.


PILES CURED IN 6 TO 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
case of Itching, Blind, Bleeding, or Protruding
Piles in 6to 14 days or money refunded. 2s. 3d.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LA<5€R
E. RESCH,' Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents— Messrs. E. H. FOTHERQILL & 00., 16 Mouatt Bt., Fremantle.
Bbewery and Offices :
DOWLING ST., REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Despite the heavy going at Flemington last
Saturday, the prediction of a light-weight success in this
year’s G. N. Steeplechase was utterly 7 falsified. The first
three to pass the post were numbers five, four, and three
on the card, the winner eventuating- in the handsome grey
veteran Cardinal (list. 21b.), of whom it had come to be
said that he would never get nearer than second in a big
event. With sundry notable “seconds” and “thirds” to
his credit, Cardinal was not much fancied, even by ordi-
nary followers of the Miller stable. The Messrs. Miller —
Albert, Septimus and Hubert (son of Albert aforesaid)—
were represented by four starters in a field of 22, and the
market indicated that old Cardinal carried most of the
family beans. Nevertheless the public didn’t rush in to
take the hint. The grey started at 15 to 1, although he
looked remarkably fit and blooming. The glory of the
Miller stable had departed, punters said. It hadn’t pro-
duced aG. N. winner in 12 years. Cardinal was no
good for fighting out a finish, and Dickenson, his jockey,
couldn’t ride a hard finish even though the horse were
equal to it. All of which was plain as the proverbial
pikestaff to the man in the street, who knows all about
everything before the event. Indeed, the prejudice
against Dickenson’s riding was shared by himself. He
proposed to relinquish his claim as principal jockey for
the stable, and let somebody else have the mount on
Cardinal; but the owner (Albert Miller) told the pessi-
mistic Dickenson to go in and win, as though he were the
luckiest man at the game. The result was a crushing
answer to the critics of both horse and jockey. The
quadruped ran a strong willing race from end to end, and
the artist in the saddle rode a ding-dong finish
before he brought Cardinal home a neck in front of
Ally Sloper. At the final jump the race appeared to be
Ally Sloper’s, ftrrtlra Tasmanian nag had taken the lead
in commanding style, and was reckoned to be faster than
Cardinal on the flat. At the distance post the grey got
level with the hope of Tassy, but the latter was not
beaten. They raced together for a time, and then
Dickenson, using his whip for all it was worth, seemed to
get the necessary extra bit out of his mount, and all the
Tasmanian punters on the course relieved their feelings
with a groan of despair. The cheers that greeted Cardinal
were mainly an expression of good feeling to the jockey.
He had done exactly what the crowd had thought him
incapable of doing.
Of the light-weights, Maine (last year’s runner-
up) was backed down to 6 to 1, on the strength of his
having won a steeplechase on the Wednesday. Some-
thing happened to Maine when he was in the lead, and
half a minute later the son of Mainsail hadn’t Buckley’s
chance of winning. The favorite, Boisdale, made a bold
show for a time, but as soon as the struggle between
Cardinal and Ally Sloper began (a long way from home),
none of the others looked likely to beat the pair. Tarpon
got third money, 150 so vs., twelve horses came to grief,
and the time was 6min. 40Jsecs., which was not bad con-
sidering the muddy state of affairs.
Cardinal’s weight— list. 21b.—is seemingly as
much as an ordinarily good ’chaser can be expected to
carry to victory in a Grand National. Out of 28 winners
20 have not carried more than list. 21b. Five of the re-
maining eight winners humped the burden of 12st. 71b. or
more, but in only one of these cases was the pace respect-
able. Redleap, with 13st. 31b. up, did the three miles in
6min. 45fsec., which then was record time. Of late years
the record has been lowered to 6min. 31sec., thanks to an
improved track, areduction in the number of jumps, and
a comparatively dry day when the fast time was regis-
tered.
* » » *
As to Melbourne’s Saturday football, it came
to pass that about the third hour after noon the heavens
opened and floods descended, and the moist, spongy
grounds became mere mudholes ; also the spectators up-
ended their brollies and dripped and swore what time
mud-splashed figures slid afid sprawled around after a
greasy blob of leather. A competent Soccer-player with
spiked boots might have done things with the ball under
such circumstances, but it is only on a day 7 like Saturday
that the “ dribbler ” would earn his salt at the Australian
game, wherefore he doesn’t transpire to any extent. The
day was chieflv notable for the moisture referred to
and the downfall of the previously unbeaten Carl-
ton team. The expectation of a notable concussion
enticed a full house to East Melbourne, the home ground
of the Essendon club. The “game” was a strenuous
scuffle, the soft soil precluding any fear of serious damage,
and both sides bogged in and slithered and kicked wildly,
while the rain trickled into their boots, and their flopping
pants sprayed mud around as they ran. The Dons had
the better of the argument throughout, winning
handily by 42 points to 29. There was, of course, no
football on view, hut this writer opines that Essen-
don, though last on the League list last season,
is to-day fully the equal of the “old blues.
The latter will now practise assiduously for a week or
two while wearing a subdued expression and a contrite
frame of mind. Collingwood, which has got its system
back to something near the beautiful mechanical pre-
cision of the old days, made a holy show of the Students,
whose lusty bogging-in in the mud was a mere vanity and
a vexation to their barrackers. Scores 31 to 14. The
Saints v. South ploughing-match was a joyous exhibition
of large, lusty men sitting down on the land. There was
little to choose between them till the third quarter, when
the Holy men potted a couple of lucky goals. Two goals
was a long lead under the conditions, and though
Skinner’s Hirelings threw themselves—and their oppo-
nents—about regardless, all their efforts availed not. The
bell rang with them still five points short —34 to 29.
Richmond scored another much-needed win, chiefly by
straight kicking ; its opponents—’Roy—doing an awful
lot of bullocking to no purpose, and being still one point
to the bad at the finish—33 to Richmond’s 34. Geelong
wasted an afternoon on the Melbourne ground in a vain
endeavor to break its long run of defeats, the Red Legs
ultimately winning by 66 to 48. All these discussions
were adorned with a lot of pushing, striking and elbow-
jabbing ; but the Geelong-Melb. disturbance was
something extra in the way of stoush. Several hefty
blows landed on sundry countenances, and one seasider
had to retire through a badly-cut eye.
■x * * *
The chief Association surprise was the capsizing
of Essendon by Brunswick. The brickies played a con-
certed game, and landed 7 goals 7 behinds to the others’
5 goals 11 behinds. Under the exhilarating influence of
its band Port scored its fifth consecutive victory, sending
the North men home to their hilly suburb with a ton or
two of sand and an old man walloping to wipe off—scores,
92 to 22. Willianistown, having noticed Brighton’s recent
uprising, put a strong team in the field and notched a
creditable performance—l 6 goals 4 behinds to the digni-
fied suburb’s 2 goals 9 behinds. ’Scray gave heed
to the roars of its barrackers, and, after having
the worst of the play throughout, “got its nark
up” and toiled hard through its,last quarter against
P’ran, winning finally by 36 to 23. Preston and ’Cote
drew with 43 points each, though as far as Ass. honors
and glories go it would have made no difference had they
both lost. The moisture and mud soaked so deeply into
the souls of some junior teams that Ports and ’Varsity
abandoned their game after half-an-hour’s play, and some
of the others would have done themselves credit by doing
likewise. Carlton scored but one measly point to ’Roy’s
56, while Pembroke failed to trouble the scorer at all,
North Melbourne doing all the work and notching 93
points.
* * * »
The Norwood (S.A.) football club which did so
well in Sydney lately had a severe fight on getting back
home. Playing against North Adelaide, it suddenly found
itself unable to kick straight. It piled up behinds, but a
goal wipes out six of those, and at the finish it was glad
to make a tie with 70 points. (At the free-scoring Aus-
tralian game, a tie is almost as unlikely' as at cricket.)
This leaves West Adelaide at the top of the local tree, and
as West has never till this year been a team worth taking
into account, S.A. football is interesting just now.
* * * *
The Maoriland University team met with un-
mitigated disaster in Sydney, being beaten twice by the
local collegians, and once by' a team representing the
combined Metropolitan clubs. The Collegians downed it
by 30 to nine in the first match, and by 26 to 11 in the
second ; and on Saturday last the Metropolitan team won
by 14 to six. Although there was a distinct lack of com-
bination among the Maorilanders, they' played good foot-
ball as far as it went—the trouble was, it did not go far
enough. Speed was deficient, and the lack of
initiative was very striking. With two excep-
tions (Rhodes and Delamere) the men individually
did not rush in to make the best of what
opportunities came their way, and the fellows
opposing them did, and the result was the margin on the
scoring-board. Rhodes, especially against the Metro-
politan team, played a magnificent game, and but for
him the local men would have won by about 30 points to
six. He stopped rushes in a most reckless manner, and
saved his side again and again by smart handling and
decision. Had the whole team been like Rhodes and
Delamere history had told another tale.
The match against the Metropolitan team, on
Saturday', was a curious affair. The local men had
absolutely no combination, and the Maorilanders
got off some beautiful passing rushes which beat
Sydney completely, and then, when there seemed nothing
to do but score, the Maorilanders would blunder, and not
only fail to score, but be trampled over by the quick rally
of the Metropolitans. At half-time the score was three to
nil in favor of the local team. Immediately 7 upon resum-
ing, the Blacks got off a great charge, and were in full
sweep.for the goal when a local man, Goddard, darted
into the melee, and snapping the ball from them, sent it
hack over their heads. It was bewildering. Thrown back
nearly to half-way, the Maorilanders came again, and
with another splendid charge were right on the line,
when the half-caste, Nuku, failed to pass promptly
when tackled, although the goal was open. He was
thrown down, the ball was embezzled from him, and a
rush started that carried the leather right to the Maori-
land line, where a try was only averted after a most
strenuous time. Delamere dribbled from past half-way
to within 15y'ds. of the Metropolitan line, and then
neatly' and deftly kicked along the line to Brosenhan,
who scored a tr.v. The extra points were not
added. The shadows fell across the ground ; evening
came suddenlv ; and frantic Maorilanders in the crowd
abjured the Blacks to “ bog in,” as it was still anybody’s
game. One goal would give Maoriland a margin of three
points, and the Blacks were playing better than ever.
Then the rot set in. Nuku, the partially brown brother,
marked right in front of the goal, but the kick missed,
and Maoriland students seemed to feel that the game was
up. They just crumpled, and the Metropolitan team
went through them twice m rapid succession. Sydney
won by' a margin of eight, in a game that was anybody’s
game up to ten minutes before time.
In spite of the overwhelming attractions of a
match between a Maoriland team and a scratch crowd of
Metropolitan players, and an inter-State struggle under
the League banner at the Agricultural Ground,
where Messenger was playing fantastic tricks with
his boot, the attraction of the day was the struggle
between University and Eastern Suburbs at Uni-
versity Oval. Wearing mourning bands for a lost
club-mate, and the shadow of death resting on the team,
Eastern Suburbs went on to show the city how a gallant
XV. can go under. And 7000 people were not dis-
appointed, for the last display of Eastern Suburbs in the
1908 competition was its finest game and most splendid
effort since the great disruption. As the Frenchman
said, it was magnificent, it was superb, it was
tremendous, it was all right. How Eastern Suburbs was
beaten, this writer cannot quite make out even now. In
dribbling rushes, in passing charges, in drawing the
defence, in relentless tackling, in everything the Eastern
team seemed superior; hut somehow a series of lucky
accidents, a succession of inexplicable blunders at
crucial moments, gave the University the game. It was
hard to follow, so fast did the players sweep from one to
the other end of the ground. Both were keen as razors,
and the slightest mistake of the Eastern team was snapped
up by the blue-and-gold whirlwind, and turned to account.
At the start University saved a score by a difficult force, and
then East came again and scored first blood. University
evened the figures, and later on East left a man uncovered
in a line out on the goal line. It was University’s throw
in, and of course that man scored. The extra points were
added. East bullocked down to the line, and Corbett
charged through the struggling mass, and passed. The
pass was taken, so was tbe taker, and the ball was
punted back to the 25, where the Eastern full
back took it and dropped a beautiful goal, making
the score seven to Uni.’s eight. Then Uni. lifted
its score to 16 to seven, and the game looked hopeless, as
University invariably scores better in the second than in
the first spell. East came again, only to be blocked every
time by the splendid line kicking of the Uni. full back.
But Corbett charged him, and, passing when tackled, let
his man in, and the extra points lifted the Eastern score
to 12. Thence onward the East played a game that was
great in its speed and strenuousness, but luck was against
it. At least three tries were, missed by the width of a
lean hair, and just on time Uni. again broke through and,
scoring a try just as the whistle went, won by 19 to 12.
*.. * * *
Newtown and University now head the com-
petition with 22 points each. Glebe is in the second row,
alone, with 20 points, and South Sydney is the third rank
with 16 points. Eastern Suburbs has 12, and Manly 11.
Next Saturday the competition is hung up to give
plavers a chance of seeing the match against Queensland
at Sydney Cricket Ground, where the Northerners will
bump one of the most powerful teams to he got together
in the continent.
A Queensland League rabble played against a
representative N.S.W. crowd at Sydney Agricultural
Ground on Saturday last. In mercy to a team that was
absolutely dead when it started, and quite butchered
when it finished, the less said about the thing the better.
The most remarkable feature of the match was the kick-
ing by Messenger of eight goals in 10 attempts. The
awful record was 43 points to nil!!
* * * *
The League Maori team has not been a whoop-
ing success. So far,.it has played 10 matches, and lost
exactly half of them, which is not too good for an alleged
star team. It won its first two matches against Brisbane,
and then the Northern capital turned the tables and beat
it by six to five. It was walloped at Toowoomba by 11 to
nine ; it was dished at Warwick by 23 to 14 ; but on
Saturday last at West Maitland it overthrew Newcastle
by so tom
It is now three weeks since the Anglo-Welsh
team in Maoriland received a “doing,” and on Saturday
last it mopped up Wanganui by nine points to six. But it
has met weak teams of late, although Wanganui regards
itself as anything but small beer. All the same, it is
expected that the Anglo-Taffy crowd will show much
better form, the men having now got thoroughly into
condition and also gained familiarity with one another s
play. Too much notice should not be taken of the second
Test as an index of form. That unexpected result was the
inevitable sequel to the overweening confidence of the
Maoriland Rugby Union, which regarded the visitors with
such contempt that to save money it did not arrange for
the home team to have any practice together. The first
Maoriland team had a week’s training together at Dunedin,
and the score was 32 to five. The second Maoriland team
just drifted to Wellington anyhow, stayed, at different
hotels, roamed the streets, talked to barmaids, and. had
no practice whatever. It had no plan of campaign-
nothing but the overwhelming and staggering confidence
of the M.L. Rugby Union, and when it met the British in
the mud-and-wat’er polo match known as the second Test,
the wonderful backmachine, which is Samson’s locks, was
powerless, and in the wild forward struggle through a
porridge pot the British were, man for man, as good as
the Maorilanders. Result: three all. In the meantime
the Anglo-Welsh crowd has been working hard to get fit
and redeem its reputation. '' - m '
“ Maori Mac ” : Some people can’t learn, some
won’t, and some are too beastly “gentlemanly” to try.
If the amateur All Blacks’ tour demonstrated anything,
it was that ph vsical fitness is 62J per cent, of the battle at
Rugby. The" Blacks trained hard going to the Cold
Oountree, kept off the luresome tangi when there, and
used what brains they had to plan attack and defence.
The teams of nice young men whom they defeated with
regularity and despatch did none of these things. It
wasn’t “'the thing” to train for Rugby, you know—pro-
bably because Willyum the Conkerer did not do so. Later
it was alleged that the Blacks had revolutionised, resus-
citated, or done something else to the game. The Maori-
land Union, with visions of a bitter and desperate and re-
suscitated British team coming out, planned the present
tour, what time it arranged with its bank to enlarge its
coffers and prepare for a deluge of gate-money. Then the
Union went on to the wind-smitten wharf at Wellington
and watched the Athenic discharge 28 “gentlemen’s
sons.” They were nicely-turned-out young fellows, each
one in receipt of an allowance from Pa, and every man
Jack of them hog fat. The Union tore round and dug up
“ Dorry ” Leslie, who trained the 1904 Maoriland team for
its strenuous contests. The Britishers were affable, but
regarded the trainer as a joke—just as they probably
regard the heavy stuff of Paunch as the cream of wit—
and their training consisted of a 25yds. sprint daily. At
most of the early games the Britishers crumpled up like a
paper hat in a shower of rain. And the bank has nailed
up the extra vaults, and the Union, which loveth the
good red gold, has lost all interest in the tour. So has
the public.
* * * *
“Moana”: Re Anglo-Welsh Rugby team. It
is not quite correct to say that “it is an indifferent com-
bination.” It is suffering defeat at the hands of the better
provincial teams of Maoriland because its system of play
is useless against Maoriland football tactics. Take the
match against Canterbury. Prom 36 scrums the Anglo-
Welsh forwards heeled out 30 times, but in each instance
the ball went straight across the ground to the wing
three-quarter. That individual usually encountered
Fryer, the M.L. rep., whose tackling is as certain
as Death itself, and that was the end thereof.
Neither the halves nor the centre three-quarters,
even when attacking close to the line, made the
slightest attempt to beat their man, and instead of gain-
ing when they got the ball, they actually lost ground
through their absurd system of passing back and out.
The backs don’t take the ball running; they don’t start
till they get it. The result is that the wing-three-quarter
is usually stood on his head before he gets off the mark.
The forwards depend on the backs, and once they have
heeled the ball out, they sit down and wait for things to
happen. They don’t follow up, but rely upon the line
kicking of the backs ; which is all right when the ball
finds the line, but disastrous when it doesn’t.^
Adelaide dealt very practically with its recent
case f football-umpire assaulting. Two things happened
to the assailant. First, the umpire himself showed an
un-Christian spirit, and smote him good and hard. And,
after he had been smitten good and hard, the Law
gathered him in as a plain, ordinary, violent person, and
the chairman of the League attended to prosecute and
see that he was struck good and hard in the pocket also.
* * * *
The Gardiner Cup still lures the Soccer men
along the path of sudden death, which is already encum-
bered with the corpses of Corrimal and Northern Suburbs.
It was Pyrmont, on Saturday, that gave Corrimal the
cold steel in a fast, sparkling contest at Epping, in which
the score was two goals to nil. The same day Glebe was
down at Wollongong, on the South Coast, endeavoring
to do the same trick with Helensburgh, but the country
lads struggled so hard that the butchers were unequal to
the killing, and occasionally had to fight for their own
lives. After a great struggle both teams escaped in the
darkness, the scoring board reading two goals each.
* * * *
Brother Tuck, Webb’s backer, is having an
anxious time. Wehb recently went out .into, the raw,
damp Wanganui atmosphere after putting in several
hours beside a furnace, and he contracted a chill which
turned to dry pleurisy. So Brother Tuck has put down
both feet and sworn that Webb shall* work no more till
after the race, even though he has to pay the wages of a
substitute out of his own cash-box.
* * * *
Said that a party of speculative Maorilanders
will come over to see Arnst row Pearce on August 1 on
the Parramatta River. Pearce has now left Middle
Harbor, where he did his preliminary canters, and settled
down to the serious business of training over the course
under the tuition of veteran sculler and ex-champion
Peter Kemp.
* # * *
The Thoroughgood-Fogwell tussle, on the
Hunter River, for the sculling championship of Australia,
takes place on Saturday afternoon next. By 4.30 p.m.
Fogwell will know whether he is rightly named, or if he
should be called Fogworse; and Benjamin will have
ascertained whether he is Thoroiighgood or not. Ben-
jamin will lift 13st 41b. of meat through the water, while
Fogwell will have only list. 71b. to propel. On the other
hand, Thoroughgood has more muscle with which to do
it, and an advantage of. 3in. in height and reach. But
Thoroughgood has had 15 years more wear and tear in a
cold, cruel world than Fogwell, and that may count for
something. Fogwell’s backers are elated by the fact that
Fogwell is certain he will win, although he admits that it
will be a big job. Writer would like to hear of a man who
in the same position would not feel exactly that way. It is
the correct way to talk, no matter what the feelings are.
No wise man decries his his own.^ehances.
Harry Pearce, who is to row Arnst, had an un-
pleasant experience while training on Middle Harbor
(Sydney) recently. His boat just fell into two pieces,
letting Pearce slide down'into the icy water between
them. In its wav, it was as great a mystery as the turn-
ing over of the Bega. His brother, who was pacing the
sculler in another outrigger, could not get him out of the
water, but told him to hook on, and started to tow him
to the shore. Middle Harbor is a dangerous place to be
towed in, as it is infested with sharks of a curious frame
of mind —one of them once snapped at a lily-white hand
which a fayre ladye was trailing in the water from a row-
ing skiff. Fortunately, a lau.nch came along and rescued
the sculler and the fragments of his boat before Billy
Bluenose got his dull, fishy eye fixed on the phosphores-*
cent gleam of Pearce’s legs as they trailed through the
water.
• * *
The Inman v. Lindrum rivalry is, seemingly,
the most attractive thing in long billiards that Melbourne
has experienced. For 12 days (ending last Saturday) the
sombre Englishman and the chirpy Australian youth had
crowded audiences at Alcock’s Room, although the play
was always of a dead earnest, rather than a sensational,
character. This time there was money on, Inman con-
ceding 6000 points in 18,000 on the assumption that he
was the better stayer. Previously the handicap had been
4000 in 9000 (once), and 3000 in 9000 on three or four
occasions, the youngster losing only one bout of the
series. The recent meeting must have satisfied
nearly everybody that Inman is biting off more than
he can chew when he gives Lindrum a third of
the game. His work shows no improvement on
his first attempts in Australia last year—in fact,
he appears to have lost some of his confidence as regards
hazard striking. The Australian, on the other hand, has
been learning billiards from his opponent all the time,
and his nerve is hardening. In the first half of the match
Inman gained considerably more than 3000 points, but the
youngster, showing the coolness of a veteran, pegged
away until, at three-quarter time, he was 800 ahead of his
- handicap terms. After that victory was a foregone con-
clusion for him, considering that he had got Inman in a
troubled state. Time and again the “scratch” man
halted between two minds before choosing bis stroke.
He showed none of the masterly style of a real champion.
And it needs a champion to give a long start to Lindrum
with any certainty of success.
There was a sporting flavor about the struggle
for the vacant seat in Sydney City Council, last week,
when W. P. McElhone, the “Fighting Mac” of the
Cricket Board of Control, met Hugh D. Mclntosh, the
“ Fighting Mac ” of Australian cycledom, while the
“Widdy” O’Brien, also famous in the same direction,
danced round looking for an opening to slip in while the
two big men fought. The fortune of war went with the
cricketer, but the Mclntosh, who is a fighter from his
teeth to his toes, will yet win his way to the Council,
and, if his energy lasts, make history. His ideas of
municipal government are as good as those which he
holds upon sport.
He * * * *
Marylebone Cricket Club has briefly intimated
to Australia that if it doesn’t like to come along and join
in a triangular cricket contest in 1909 it can stay at
home and be blowed. And Australia has just as briefly
intimated that it will stay at home, but declines to be
blowed. The triangular contest is all right for England,
which will be playing in its own backyard, and under no
particular expense ; but it is no good to Australia, to
which it probably means a serious deficit, and the experi-
ence of the £lO,OOO guarantee which England demanded
last year has quite satisfied the Australian associations in
the matter of deficits. Anyhow, there is no need for
Australia to worry ; the “ ashes ” are on Austral soil, and
when the Englishmen want them the} 7 will have to come
after them. When the haughty English club has been
allowed to stew in its own fat for a while it will probably
begin to see reason, and realise that Australia has a right
to look to itself and decline to exist merely to make
money for the English county clubs.
Bulletin readers can set their minds at rest on
the vexed question whether Burns will fight Mr. Johnson
in Australia. Writer has seen the agreement by which
he binds himself to do so if Mr. Mclntosh can bring the
darkie to the ring. Whether Fighting Mac will be able
to lug the coffee-colored coon inside the ropes is, of
course, another matter, but at present he is confident he
will. Burns’s terms are £2OOO for the match with Squires,
win, lose, or draw, and £lOOO for each further contest,
which will be fought under the Marquis of Q. rules,
with a special proviso that the gentleman opposite must
protect himself always. The original £2OOO was deposited
to a trust account on May 27, and Burns on landing will
put up £5OO as security for his fulfilment of the contract,
under which he is bound to appear only under the mar.
agement of Hugh D. Mclntosh. The syndicate could
have got Squires for £6OO, but with the patriotic.hope cf
inducing him to make a special effort to wipe Burns right
out, gave him £B5O straight—win, lose, or draw. Thefight
will probably take place on the 22nd, two days after
the arrival of the armada in Sydney, and on the same
date the syndicate will entertain 400 men and officers at
National Park with a huge picnic and sports programme,
and a dinner in the big pavilion opposite The Rest.
Terrible Tiny and other aspirants for damages at the
hands of Mr. Noah Brusso had better consider that
“ protect himself always ” clause very carefully, and read,
mark, learn, and inwardly digest the full significance of
it. It may be rough on the fighter, but it means that the
public, which will pub up the cash, is going to get its
worth of glove contest, and no mere sparring match.
SELECTING THE CHAUFFEUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My advice is to beware of the shop-trained mechanic.
Rather teach some middle-aged coachman ; there are
many such out of work now, owing to the enormous
spread of motoring. It will give him a new trade, and he
will, if he is any good at all, throw himself into it with
the enthusiasm of one who finds himself reprieved from
poverty and hopelessness.—“ Adoice to Motorists,” by one
of them,—Sydney Evening News (10/7/’08).
Let him be old,
And an ex-coachman ; also see that he is destitute.
Direct the cold
Stern eye on other applicants, and say they “ do not suit.’
When he appears,
Ask him at once if he has ever driven motor-cars
In all the years
He’s lived—the answer “ Yes” is (in my view) the worst
of bars.
We will assume
He nothing knows of earburreters, tyres, slow speeds or
fast,
Still do not plume
Yourself unduly. Ask him when he had his dinner last.
If his eyes bright-
Ly gleam with hunger, and he owns he hasn’t fed for
days,
Curb your delight—
An over-prompt engagement might o’ercome him with
amaze.
At long last fling
The news to him that he has won the job—recking alway
In motoring
A bankrupt coachman licks a trained mechanic any day.
N.S.W.
J.D.
THE KINGSTON MEMORIAL.
The following contributions have been receiyed
towards the fund which is being raised to provide
a memorial to the deceased patriot and statesman,
Charles Cameron Kingston :
Previously acknowledged .. .. £ll 12 0
J. Gill 2 6
B. Westall 2 6
Alf. Hafner .. 2 6
Cbas. Potter ... .. .. •• 5 0
A Scrub Camp 14 0
Tin Miner .. 3 6
Brown .. .. 5 0
G. E. Beaton 10 6
F. E. Hall 2 6
J. O. Hamilton 2 6
B. Park 2 6
Two Australians 5 0
J.F.M 2 6
J.G.M 2 6
F. T. Wimble and Co., Sydney .. .. 110
£l5 16 0
“ALWAYS AILING.”
What a world of meaning these two words
convey. Yet in thousands of homes the same
tale is told of sick and ailing wives and daughters
who suffer from constant headaches, loss of energy,
loss of appetite, depression, habitual constipation,
and frequent attacks of biliousness and indigestion.
“For many months,” writes Mrs. Francis, of
32 Shepherd Street, Redfern, Sydney, “I was
always ailing, suffering from bad headaches and
generally depressed. I saw the doctor several
times, and he prescribed medicines which only
gave me temporary relief. I usually retched upon
rising every morning, and it was not until I
commenced taking Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
that this ceased, and I began to recover my
strength and get relief from the headaches. Ever
since, your pills have always been our family
medicine, and, indeed, they are the solejiousehold
remedy of many of my relatives. Aou are at
liberty to publish this for the benefit of others.”
Are you always ailing? If so, do not give up
hope ; do not despair if doctor’s prescriptions and
other medicines have had no permanent effect.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills have invariably
proved successful, and thousands of women who
have been restored to health gratefully testify to
the great curative and corrective influences of Dr,
Morse’s Indian Root Pills.


KUGELMANN’S
©
©
Pure
Herbal
SKIN
SOAP.
"Beauty's
Aid."
Jt
, FREE
SAMPLE
■ent on
Receipt of
Twopenny
Stamp.
Kugelmann’s Pure Herbal Skin
Soap may be obtained at all
Chemists, Drapers and Storekeepers
throughout Australasia at 2s. per box of 3 Tablets. If not
obtainable locally, send Postal Note or Stamps of any State to
the value of 2s. to the Proprietors, when it will be posted pef
return mail. Sole Proprietors —
H. E. KUGELMANN & CO., Wholesale Druggists & Manufacturers,
14-16 Queen St., MELBOURNE jt 199 Clarence St., SYDNE¥
And at ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
“0.T.”
THE GREAT
AUSTRALIAN
DRINK.
PUBLIC NOTICE
“0.T.”
THE PREMIER
WINTER
BEVERAGE.
"•oiccsTior*
0
r^ Dt
"A*
WHISKY
BRANDY
WINE OR
US* •
rc BEERoi
MAKES A
SODA V
f WATtR #
, Delicious
J UMONAOej
OR INK -»•
ALS 0 THE
;<2
BEST
oCOi-O %
\WATtAj
LIQUEUR
AFTER MEALS
95
SSCmti
d Dixon & ft
TtLtPMONI. 17H5153
A GREAT CURE
FOR indigestion
The extraordina'y success of “0.T.” in every State of the
Commonwealth has brought into the market more than the ordi-
nary number of imi :ations—the products of unscrupulous tr;.aers,
who seek to take a ivantage of the wide publicity given to the
popular beverage, aad to hoodwink the public in their endeavor
to pass off an inferior beverage as the genuine “0.T.” These
counterfeit preparations contain none of those pure health-giving
ingredients that have made “0.T.” so popular, and the trader
who gives you one of those so-called “just as good substitutes
does so in order to swell his profits at your expense. The pro-
prietors of “0.T.” offer a
REWARD OF £lOO
for information leading to the conviction of ony person, wilfully
misrepresenting or selling an inferior beverage as “O.T.’
You know what you want —don’t let the trade choose for you.
Residents in country districts are particularly warned against
the many unscrupulous imitations of “0.T.” that are on the
market The genuine “0.T.” bottle is of a new and distinctive
shape has a Red Chillie label, and carries the manufacturer s
name’and address. No other beverage has the same strength, the
same health-giving properties, the same delicate flavour, as O.T.
The Country House Drink.
Plain water (hot or cold) added to one bottle of “0.T.” will
make from twenty to thirty good drinks. Mixed with either
water soda lemonade, spirits, or wine. “0.T.” gives a delicious
nnlatable beverage for all occasions. Keep a bottle in the house
(vour storekeeper keeps “0.T.”), and if guests drop in _ unex-
pectedly you have a delicious drink ready for them m a minute s
notice If such unwelcome guests as Indigestion, Influenza,
Chills’or Colds, call then you have a very euecuve remedy—but
Insist firmly on
J. DIXON & CO.’S “0.T.”
Obtainable at all Stores, Chemists, Hotels, and Confectioners
throughout Australia; also in England, South Africa, India.
flanufactured by J. DIXON & CO., Distributors for Victoria,
HIGH STREET, PRAHRAN, MELBOURNE.
SYDNEY: Grocers, Storekeepers, Chemists, and Confectioners order from
O.T. FACTORY, 3 EDDY AVENUE, CENTRAL RAILWAY, SYDNEY.
Hotels and Wine and Spirit Merchants order through
ORME, KEIGWIN, 269 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE Wholesale Agents : QUINLAN, GRAY & CO.
TOLLEY LTD., Fremantle, Agents for WEST AUSTRALIA. OR DIRECT FROM
A. E. N. F. TOLLEY, Adelaide, Agent for SOUTH AUSTRALIA. J. DIXON,
JOHNSON & WILMOTT, Agents for LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA. VICTORIA.
FERGUSSON & CO., Agents for HOBART, TASMANIA.
Nearly all Merchants will supply It. It is also sold in India, London, South Africa and Japan.
Agents wanted where not represented. This Drink is wanted all over the world.
It is the sensible person’s drink of the future ; something long wanted between the soft and
hard drink. RETAILED BY HOTELS, GROCERS and CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Amusements.
1" H E AUSTRALASIAN TOUR
.... OF ....
mark hambourg,
THE ILLUSTRIOUS PIANIST,
OPENS
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
SATURDAY, JULY 18,
Under direction of J. & N. Tait.
mark hambourg,
THE RUBINSTEIN OF TO-DAY.
Prices : 6/-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/- Plan at Paling’s.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ B Lessee and Manager :J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
J. 0. Williamson presents to the Australian Public
MARGARET ANGLIN,
THE DISTINGUISHED AMERICAN ACTRESS,
in the Powerful riirfLi f|'TTTI?D
Emotional Play, I 11 -R 1 IT I IVF .
MARGARET ANGLIN as MARIE LOUISE VOYSIN.
Prices as usual. Box Plan at Paling’s.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
PROMPTLY at 8 NIGHTLY,
RAPTUROUS RECEPTION OF
THE DELIGHTFUL DUTCH MUSICAL PLAY,
THE RED MILL.
By Henry Blossom and Victor Herbert.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee: MR. FRANK MUSGROVE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HERBERT FLEMMING’S NEW ENGLISH
COMEDY COMPANY
in the Great Historical Play,
THE RED LAMP.
By Arrangement with J. C. Williamson.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
MATINEE EVERY WEDNESDAY AT 2 P.M.
OR ITER I O N THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Commencing, SATURDAY,'2Sth JULY.
Rupert Clarke, John Wren, Meynell and Gunn’s Comic
Opera Co. Presents
MISS HOOK OF HOLLAND,
By Paul A. Rubens and Austin Hurgon.
One of the Most Successful Musical Productions of
Recent Years.
Box Plan Opens at Elvy’s Monday, 20th July.
PRICES—Ss., 35., 2s. Booking Fee, 2s. 6d. for
FIRST NIGHT ONLY.
THE LYCEUM HALL, SYDNEY.
Sole Director .. .. C. SPENCER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
WITH A REPERTOIRE OF SUBJECTS NEVER SEEN
OR EQUALLED IN AUSTRALIA.
NEW SUBJECTS EVERY WEEK.
PRICES—2s., Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
EVERY EVENING.
MATINEES-WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, at 2.30.
THE PRE-EMINENT and INCOMPARABLE
WEST’S PICTURES “ The A « e ,? tof
Everything New. The Latest Novelties and Surprises in
Cinematography. Full Orchestral Effects by
De Groen’s Vice-Regal Band.
Prices for the Million—6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements.
Jhe GLACI ARIUM, SYDNEY.
GRAND FANCY COSTUME
ICE CARNIVAL,
WEDNESDAY, sth AUGUST.
THE GLACIARIUM, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Opposite Railway Station.
’Phone 492 Glebe. Dunbar Poole, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mu, Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY.
TOD LOWEN, REGAN AND RYAN,
Eccentric Comedian. Comedians and Dancers.
Mr. JOHN HIGGINS, World’s Champion Jumper.
THE DESMOND SISTERS, Character Duettists.
MISS FANNY POWERS. BABY WATSON.
Miss BELLA PERMAN. WILL LOCHRANE.
Miss IDA BE BRIDGE. Mr. RICHARD CECIL.
Mr. HARRY LINDEN. Mr. FRED BLUETT.
PRICES—3s., 2s. 6d., 25., and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
RIGOLETTO BROTHERS, Gymnasts.
THE MEYMOTTS, Comedy Sketch Artists.
MUSICAL IBSONS.
MYRTLE MARSDEN, Soprano.
AUSTIN RUDD, Vocal Comedian.
ETHEL PRESTON, Acrobatic Song and Dance Artiste.
CHARLES MILDARE, Whistler.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s 6d, -2s, Is.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THURSDAY, JULY 10, FRIDAY, JULY 17,
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE BELLE OF MAYFAIR.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 18,
MEYNELL and GUNN’S DRAMATIC CO.
—in—
THE FATAL WEDDING.
Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plan at Allan’s.
UJER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
NOW IN THE NINTH WEEK.
THE CENTURY’S GREATEST MUSICAL SUCCESS.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
TH H MERRY WIDOW.
Re-appearance of MISS CARRIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
|£ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING,
Mr. WM. ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO. in
MAN TO MAN.
REAPPEARANCE OF MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Popular Prices. Plan at Allan’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
A GREAT SUCCESS.
MR. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMEDY
CO. IN
MRS. WIGGS OF THE
CABBAGE PATCH.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
WIRTH’S OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING, and MATINEES
WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS and ALL HOLIDAYS.
THE UNAPPROACHABLE and UNASSAILABLE.
WEST’S PICTURES THE^ S I LL
ALL THE WORLD’S GREATEST NOVELTIES.
Change of Programme Each Week.
Any Picture worthy of note to be seen at WEST'S
PICTURES. West’s Grand Military Band.
POPULAR PRICES. Box Plan at Glen’s.
pEAL ICE SKATING..
MELBOURNE GLACIARIUM.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY.
POPULAR PRICES EVERY EVENING,
ONE SHILLING.
SCHOOL CHILDREN, SATURDAY MORNINGS,
SIXPENCE.
CZERNY’S
CONJURING CARDS.
Complete set, with full directions.
Three splendid Tricks easily done by anyone.
Post Free ONE SHILLING (Postal Note.
CZERNY, P. 0., Hawthorn, Vic.
1
3 Peerlessloi lef Prejaratforte c
unrivalled for the Complexion, \ "
Softening& ,
GOLD MEDAL. PARIS. 1900.
k GRAND PRIX. STLOUIS.I^CK;
OF ALL CHEMISTS
SbJ* PERFUMERS
Made by
P. WOLFF & SOHN,
KARLSRUHE.
Perfumers to
H. R.H. The
Qrand Duke
of Baden.
Sole Agents
London, G.C.,
81 Hatton Garden,
Of all CHemists, Perfumers, Drapers, and
Storekeepers.
LOHMANN & CO., Melbourne & Sydney.
Rev. Joseph 0 Malley, of Adelaide, is
hereby entered for the Mixed Metaphor champion-
ship. Writing to the Register, of July 7, to con-
tradict a thumping lie ” circulated by “ certain
pious fire irands about the Cardinal, he ends
V 1 j joyous whoop_ that the thumping lie
is dead, and the weeping firebrands hold in their
arms a corpse.”
t ,
Une Of tile last men who saw a footmark,
reasonably supposed to be the genuine article, of
Ludwig Leichhardt was Charles Jarrett, who
recently patronised the boat of Charon the ferry-
man. He was born at Parramatta in 1828, when
Ralph Darling was King. In 1846 he went to the
Richmond River (N.S.W.), and, barring a visit to
the Condamine a little later, he was a stationary
person for the rest of his days. It was on the way
to the Condamine that he came on the tracks of
Leiclihardt, then blundering heavily westward to-
wards the inevitable. '
Colonel Foster, who is “director of mili-
tary science ” at Sydney University, is busy tell-
ing Australia not to worry even if the fleet which
it pays for does go away in war-time :
Lest some may think that too much stress is laid on
the protection of Australian commerce, and the safety of
Australia overlooked, it must be pointed out that’the
same naval action which keeps the enemy off the trade-
routes can hardly fail to make it difficult for any hostile
expedition, and impossible for a large one, to traverse
thousands of miles of ocean and reach Australia. The
British home waters are therefore the strategic centre of
the w . hole s - vstem of the trade-routes of the Empire,
Precisely what good the protection of “the
British home waters ” is going to be to Australia
in the event of Japan sending down an attacking
force, the “director of military science” doesn’t
mention. It may certainly keep Putney fed and
Ashby-on : the-Wallop clothed, but it won’t pre-
vent Sydney being destroyed and Melbourne
turned into a slaughter-house.
N.S.W. Marine Court, which couldn’t find
any blame attachable to anybody when the Bega
tipped up in a calm sea on a clear night, fell on
top of the skipper of the Westralia with a 12
months’ suspension for almost colliding with the
continent near Port Hacking. The Westralia
case was pretty bad, and Judge Backhouse, who
sentenced the master, made short work of the
excuses put up for the defence. Probably,
however, the real reason of the trouble was
the hurry-skurry to keep up with the time tables.
So many new crack boats have been introduced of
late on the coast that the ones that are not so
crack have to hustle to keep their places in the
procession. Denizens on what the boy reporter
of the dailies calls the “water front” freely
remark that if Judge Backhouse had sat on the
Bega he would have found no excuse for the lady
turning turtle, and would have slain.somebody for
certain.


WEDDING GIFT IDEAS
What more useful and appropriate Gift could you give than a
Handsome piece of Table Silver. Here are a few suggestions,
all of A 1 Quality a quality tbat assures life-long satisfaction.
FRFF rAT AT HPT IRQ If you’re interested in
r I\n.n. 1 tL.O. Watches, Clocks, Jewellery,
Silverplate, Leather, or Optical Goods, a post card will bring you a copy
of our Illustrated Catalogue. Write to-day.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation INKSTAND and CALL BELL, Pure Sil-
ver-plated on Nickel Silver, richly engraved, crystal
glass bottles,
£3.
Other styles. 25/, SO/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPECIMEN TUBE, pure
Silver-plated, Gilt-lined,
weighted base, 6in 4/6,
6Jin 5/6, 7in 6/6, 7Jin
A. SAUNDERS.
SOUVENIR EMU EGG, Hand
Carved, Pure Silver-plated Mounts,
Ebonised Wood Base, 9in high,
10/6
Other Styles, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/, 40/.
CLI {"hDDI \T/"* DV I\/I ATT No matter where you live
'-'■l i 1 1 N Vj D I iVI/\ll_i. our Up-to-date Mail Order De-
partment will serve you promptly and satisfactorily. Free carriage on all goods,
with the exception of Clocks and Chinaware, to any part of Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco
covered, Pure Silver-plated,
Screw Top,
15/6-
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD-BOARD and KNIFE, pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, richly embossed, solid base (can be
used as a waiter),
£2/10/.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Porcelain China lining,
7/6-
Other Styles.. 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
UflE
aau
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
pure Silver-plated frame,
fine cut-glass bottles,
15/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6,
12/6, 17/0, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA STAND, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, gilt-lined, handsomely fluted, on
ball feet,
£2/10/.
Other styles, £3/10/, £4, £5.
f
■
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Amber or Ruby
Tinted Glass,
12/6
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR SCUTTLE, Pure Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Hand Engraved,
20A
Other Styles,-16/6, 21/, 25/, 30/.
HOT-WATER KETTLE and siaND,
Pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, rus-
tic stand, richly embossed,
£2-
Plain, 35/. Other styles, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
fg
«sa!
■^3
£4/4/
A. SAUNDERS.
PRESENTATION TEA and COFFEE SERVICE, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal, com-
prising Tea, Coffee, Sugar, and Cream, richly engraved, gilt-lined, with covers, £4/4/.
Other styles, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/, £l5, to £5O.
£4/4/-
TO
m
as
m
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4-bottle, Pure
Silver-plated Frame, fine Cut-glass
Bottles,
25/-
Other Styles, 15/6, 17/6, 21/, 25/, 30/.
BREAD
A. SAUNDERS.
r CAKE SERVER, Pure Silver-plated, Pearl Handle, 7in long,
6/6
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
ii'v'j; A.-J'-Ll'::.-
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR-SIFTER, JAM SPOON, and BUTTER
KNIFE, Solid Silver, hand-engraved, Pearl handles,
30/- , ,
Other styles, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
A 1 Quality,
£2/10/.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/.
SPORTING CUP, Pure Silver-plated,
richly embossed, gilt-lined, detachable lid,
16in high, any subject;
£3/10/.
Other styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, to £25.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD KNIFE, Pure Silver-plated Handle, finest Sheffield steel blade,
S/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, real Carl-
ton. China Bowl, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts,
15/6
Other Styles, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
: uiiMni ni
$ l V
AFTERNOON TEA SPOON and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, richly embossed
handles, 12/6.
Other styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT, BUTTER, and CHEESE COMBINATION and
SERVERS,’ Pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality,
Satin-glass Lining, £2/10/.
Other styles, 30/, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR BOWL and SIFTER
Pure Silver-plated, satin fin
ished, gilt lined,
12/6
Cream Jug to Match, jLO/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, A 1 Quality, fine
Out Crystal Glass,
20/.
Other Styles, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver,
Al Quality, richly embossed, hand-fluted,
£2/10/■
Other styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 60/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815,
817 George=street,
opp. New Railway Station, Sydney N.S.W.


MYRIADS of PHOTOGRAPHS, of SORTS,
will be taken of “The Fleet” that is coming. Some will be
good, others will be better. But the best will be taken with
“Eastman” Kodaßs
«•«
(not the imitation ones). The genuine Kodaks are obtain-
able at the Depot of the Sole Australian Agents, and the
Prices rang'e from 31s. tO £,12.
Using any of these Kodaks with Kodak N.C. Film, and
adhering to
the simple
practice of
ANK
The best possible results are assured. There is no getting
away from the fact. Just give it a trial and be convinced.
sdfg
Proprietary Limited
Sole Agents in Australia
for KODAK LIMITED.
375 & 377 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. “ The Block,’
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 78=80 Queen Street, Brisbane.
’ 284 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba.
AA/HEN a man leaves home these cold
winter nights it is simply because
you offer him no attraction to stay indoors.
The best way to keep him at home is to
provide some rational amusement for him
there. Make the horne a competitor of the
club, the theatre, or the concert hall.
There’s nothing will furnish so much amuse-
ment for so many people so many times and
in so many ways as the Edison Phonograph.
Talk about versatility ! If you had a brass band “on tap ” and
several leading concert hall singers on salary, and two or three funny men
to crack jokes, and a beautiful soprano to sing ballads, you could not give
the same amount of varied entertainment that the Edison Phonograph
gives by simply changing records. You can hear some recent selections by
calling on your nearest dealer. Write us for his address and a list of
records and machines.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia. Ltd,.
Dept. 8., 340 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
HOT
OR
COLD
LIQUIDS
*******
X
frt
PATENT
SKt
11
REMAIN
SO IN
THERMOS
BOTTLES.
PRICES*
PINTS from 2ls.
QUARTS from 425.
POSTED ANY-
WHERE, Is, and
Is. 6d. Extra.
Invaluable to Travellers, Sportsmen, Motorists, Military Men, Excur-
sionists, &c. No need to boil the 4t billy.” T afce your tea or other
liquid refreshment with you, and simply pour out Hot or Cold as desired.
THOS. WEBB SONS
236 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


Suffered Untold Agony for Three
Years—Had to be Washed,
Dressed, and Fed Like a Baby—
Was In Doctor’s Care and in
Infirmary but Could NotGetCured.
CUTICURA CURED HER
IN THREE MONTHS
*‘l had eczema for three years and I
was under doctor’s treatment the whole
of the time, also the Infirmary, and I could
not get cured. It would get better for a
day or two, but would break out again
worse than ever. At times it was so
bad I had to be washed and dressed
and even fed like a baby. It was only
my hands and arms that were affected,
but I suffered untold agony, and I got
so low I was afraid to be left alone, and
I had quite despaired of getting better,
but at last I tried Cuticura. I used
three boxes of Cuticura Ointment, and
three bottles of Cuticura Pills, and in
a month I was cured. That was twelve
months ago, and I have seen no signs of
it returning. I always keep a bottle of
Cuticura Pills in the house. They do
me more good than anything else, and I
never use any other than Cuticura Soap.
I think that no matter how bad any one
was, if they gave the Cuticura Reme-
dies a fair trial, they would cure them,
for I was in an awful state. Mrs. Con-
ley* 9, Gawen St., off Jock Lane, Hol-
beck, Leeds, Jan. 23, 1906.”
CUTICURA A BLESSING
To Skin=Tortured Babies
and Tired Mothers
The suffering which Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment have alleviated
among the young, and the comfort they
have afforded worn-out and worried
parents, have led to their adoption in
countless homes as priceless remedies
for birth humours, milk crust, scalled
head, eczemas, rashes, and every form
of itching, burning, scaly skin and scalp
humours, of infancy and childhood.
Guaranteed absolutely pure under
United States Food and Drugs Act, and
may be used from the hour of birth.
Complete External and Internal Treatment tor
Every Humour of Infants, Children, and Adults con-
sists of Cuticura Soap to Cleanse the Skin, Cuticura
t 0 Heal tlle Skin, and Cuticura Resolvent
Pills (Chocolate Coated) to Purify the Blood. A
Single Set often Cures. Sold throughout the world.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; R. Towns
&Co„ Sydney; Lennon, Cape Town, etc.; B. K. Paul.
Calcutta; Potter Drug and Chem. Corp., Sole Props.
oar Post-free, Cuticura Book on Skin Diseases.
PAT
NTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all Countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE.
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877-
PIANOS
Pianoforte artists judge an instru-
ment by many fine points, small
matters by themselves, perhaps,
but each contributing its quota of
quality to the general excellence
of a piano.
One of these, which is a very
severe test of the perfect tonal
balance of an instrument, is contra-
puntal eccentricity, or, in other
words, intentional discord in har-
monious sequence. In some com-
positions, like the Brahms Concerto
in A minor, Op. 51, No. 2, the
accompaniment of the bass veers
away from strict harmony in places,
and yet works back thereto in a
most weirdly charming manner.
During such a musical sequence a
piano is put to a very severe test.
If the tone quality of the entire
register from bass to treble does not
blend perfectly, if the bass lacks in
diapason, the result is disastrous to
the performance of the number.
The Feurich Piano endures this
test as well as all other tests with
astonishing success, and for this
reason is the choice of people of
musical discrimination everywhere.
Cash or Terms.
I 342 GEORGE STREET—SYDNEY ,
115,000
The Wayback iSeries.
•Australia laughed ! ! ! No. S.
and keeps awjhing. Red Harry Is.
s
An Unequalled
WINTER WALKING
k BOOT for Ladies
at 15/6.
For this present weather we’ve a splendid
Button Boot in the one illustrated. It is
so neat and stylish in appearance, has a
welted soul, with the toe and heel most in
fashion for present wear. The boot will
g-ive splendid support to the ankle when in-
dulging- in outdoor exercise. It’s price is 15/6
If you should be ordering in Victoria, add
9d. for postage, or 1/- if from any other
State.
Our splendidly-illustrated booklet “Shoe-
light” is sent free on receipt of a card.
Shall we send you a copy ? All our finest foot-
wear, together with prices, is shewn in it.
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES, 109 Swanston
Street, Melbourne; 303 Ohapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
d
FOR
FAT
WOMEN
ex ercise is
good, but a Sydney physician who has investi-
gated says “ that without any doubt the
most successful, harmless, pleasant, and
certain method, as well as the cheapest, is
"FATCURE.”
It reduces weight in many cases by
over five pounds a week, and when re-
duced the condition does not come on
again. The cure is permanent.
The method is perfect, its results are
marvellous, its clientele tremendous. Send
2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample and
full particulars. Write or call at once.
No ill after-effects result from the use
of “Fatcure.” No Publicity.
THE WATWORTH CO., Suite J,
LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
Entrance either Castlereagh or Market Streets.
--V ' *:• [3O
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
HOP LICKS
MALTED^^^H
M ILK mSm
“ No cooking,
add water
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD
for infants, in-
valids, convales-
cents, and the
aged. Easily di-
gested, strength-
ening and
soothing.
JThe
ood
n a t
ver
or
jes.
' e d
thy
cow’s milk, malted
barley and wheat.
Sold by all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail
Stores, &c., &c.
Samples: 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. Wales
Horliek’s Food Co., Slough, Bucks, England.'
THlii LONE HAND is Australian sunshine
in magazine form. It’s the finest shilling’s
worth the Australian can buy for home consump-
tion, or for sending abroad to answer detractors
of our great Commonwealth.
RHEUMATISM
CURED.
Thousands have proved that th«
“ URIOA”
Galvanic Rings positively cure Rheu-
matism, Sciatica, Neuralgia, Nervous-
i ness and kindred ailments, i
Si
W
m
Others are being cured while
you are thinking about it.
These Rings are scientifically made from
specially-prepared metals with four zinc
and three copper coils, forming a complete
battery, which have an affinity for drawing
the uric acids to that part of the finger
that the ring is worn on, and causes it to
leave the body, and at the same time
freeing the system from Rheumatism and
other kindred ailments.
PRICES, POST FREE—Silver, 5s.; Gold-
Filled, 5s., 7s. 6d. and I Os. each.
When ordering cut hole in piece of cardboard for
size required, or send for measurement card.
DUNKLING,
The Jeweller,
315=317 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
fg
WHAT IS CATARRH?
SCAT ARRH is inflammation of the lining- membrane
1 of the nose and passages which lead to the ears
' throat, and lungs; it injures sight and hearing,
destroys taste and smell; the discharge causes dys-
pepsia, and consumption.
RAMEY'S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh, Colds Hay
Fever, Headache, Neuralgia, Bronchitis. Write
for full booklet, or send Ten Shillings for Medi-
cator complete, with 4months’ treatment, post free-
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins-st., Melbourne.
PROSPECTS GOOD?
SEND YOUR ORDER EARLY FOR
q'SsS,
“SUNSHINE” HARVESTERS.
Albion Reapers and Binders and
Mowers.
Disc Ploughs,
Disc Cultivators,
Mouldboard Ploughs
Stump Jump
or Set.
Horse Works and Chaffcutters.
Oates, Trucks, Bag Loaders and all
Farm Implements.
Ask for Illustrated Catalogue LlO. Posted Gratis.
Melbourne Show Rooms, 102 Spencer Street.
Sydney Show Rooms, 42 Engine Street.
Adelaide Show Rooms, 56 North Terrace.
Perth (W.A.), Sandover & Co., Agents.
Toowoomba (Q’land), Mott & Barlow, Agents.
Agencies in all Towns.
H. V. McKAY,
Sunshine Harvester Works, SUNSHINE.
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT & Go’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
Yes, dear, but you should have asked for the —
L O U I S Velveteen
THE CHIFFON VEL-DUVET
make is just lovely. I never saw anything like it
for pile and lustre and brilliancy. And—well,
you should just see how beautifully it drapes,
and it doesn’t even crush. It’s that soft and
rich and silky I wouldn’t have any other.
DON’T FORGET
I
OUIS
To be obtained from
Drapers and Silk Mercers
throughout the Colonies .
IS STAMPED ON
EVERY YARD.
2s. "S
The Inky Way.
“Mao”: The country editor, when handling a matter
of local import, makes the words fly somewhat. This is
how a Bathurst paper concludes a leader con-
cerning one Ambrose, who, secure in his job of Gas-
buperintendent, wanted to be Inspector of Horrors or
Town Blitherer or something as well:—“What we object
to is the ravenous greed of the man who, secure on his
bough, stretches down into the weltering mass of humans
who are fighting round the tree bole for one morsel of
food, and who, already well-fed, plucks it from their
slavering and expectant jaws. Mr. Ambrose is surely
such a one.” J
* * *ir w
“M M.’’: Undeterred by a recent adverse vote, a sec-
tion of Sydney City Council seriously proposes that that
body, which hasn t enough money to flatten the mass of
broken bricks and rocks known as the Elizabeth-street
footpath, or repair the George-street kerbstones, or re-
move the dirt that is everywhere, should fritter away a
sum, variously estimated as between £270 and £4OO
yearly, in a municipal Hansard, wherein all the luminous
utterances of the aldermen about the dog nuisance will
be set out in detail, that he who reads may run. In all its
long record of wastefulness, it is questionable whether
quite such a piece of useless extravagance as this has ever
been previously suggested. Everything said by the aider-
men which is worthy of record, and much that is not, ap-
pears in the daily papers now, and the only result of
the proposed Hansard would be a ponderous tome of
printed matter which could not even be turned to account
to wrap sausages in now that butchers are compelled to
use white paper. The accuracy of a Hansard report,
Parliamentary or municipal, is pure fiction. No more
imaginative works are published than the Hansards of
the Australian Parliaments, Commonwealth or State
The writer spent several years in the galleries of the
Federal and one of the State Parliaments, and knows that
fully half the speeches reported bear no resemblance
whatever to the utterances of which they purport to be
a record. Alderman Stephen, when he described Hansard
as “ an incorrect record of the proceedings,” spoke more
truly than probably he realised. The ideal Hansard man
is not the speedy shorthand writer. Men who can take
200 words a minute grow on trees, so to speak ; but few
of them are satisfactory on Hansard, for the simple
reason that they are too accurate. The speech of the
average member of Parliament is something truly awful
if transcribed faithfully, and, with its bad grammar, un-
finished sentences, missing aitches, misquotations’ and
bulls, would be instantly repudiated by the maker did it
appear in cold print. The ideal Hansard man is a writer
of idealistic literature, who turns out what the member
wants to say and can t. Whereupon the member reads
it gleefully and prides himself on his powers of oratory.
Hansard gives members the speeches they think they
made ; a shorthand writer, pure and simple, would give
them the ones they did make and hold them up to public
ridicule while memory endured. Further, even the
sweetly-flowing sentence of the Hansard man is liable to
alteration by the member himself, because it is the cus-
tom that all speeches are sub-edited by their makers
before appearing publicly. A few years ago in the N. S.
Wales Parliament a scene occurred, in which a very big
politician yelled through the uproar : “ It’s a damn lie.”
The Telegraph reporter, who was in the gallery at the
time, took the remark ; but, to make doubly sure, ob-
tained a proof from Hansard later in the evening, and
found the interjection set forth. But when the Tele-
graph came out next day the politician in question wrote
an indignant note denying that he had said any such
thing. He demanded an instant apology, and submitted
Hansard— since revised by his own fair hands—as proof
of his assertion ! So much for the accuracy of Hansard.
If the Sydney City Council deems its utterances of such
vast importance that they should be embalmed in the
coffin of history, a gramophone would come much
cheaper.
* ■* * *
“Spoff”: I event got much simpethy with ther blokes
wot ’ad er go et ther Lone Hand push over ther undresed
pictchureß ; but I come down with both feet et ther
Bulletin ov er resint date. On page one ef ther erforesaid
isschu ther wus er crowd ef derliniashuns (I’ve got ter
write pritty strong) ef some lingerie er something that—
strike me—wus simply red ’ot. I’m talking straight.
Ther wus something erbout nainsook and double in-
serhuns and immitatin torchin lace at fore bob er time
and ther derliniashun (I’m talking straight) wus—well,
pretty crook. Ther wus ther parriphinalia ’n’ rigmerole
and fal-de-rols in all ther native beauty enclosin’ er
wummen. I’m talking straight. Some ’ad not much on
others had less and some had ’ardly enythin’ wotever.
Now Es Ther Bullkrtin er fashion plate? Es Ther
Bullertin a Bruce Smithey rag ? Es Ther Bullertin er
derlineater ef lingerie in its primative state, er wott?
Wot with ther coursets pitchures, ther lingerie ’n’ ther
continental tires, Ther Bulletin’s worse then eny Lone
Hand going. Ther deliniashuns orter be derliniated
diffrint. I’m talkin’ strate.
* * * *
“ Yarriambiak ” : lie pressmen’s pay. Adelaide is the
home of the boy reporter and the sweated pressman—so
much so that Parliament has there found it necessary to
insert a clause in the Hansard contracts fixing the mini-
mum of gallery men’s salaries at £4 per week. “ Space ”
rates work out at about £1 per fathom of matter. Some
time ago, during the progress of a shindy in connection
with a big municipal undertaking, a lot of public feeling
had been stirred up. Questions had been asked in the
House, and the dailies had put their brightest youths on
to the job of ferreting out the innards of the matter. All
without avail; those in the know lay low and said no-
thing. Writer, havingsome inside information, supplied
it to a daily, which published the contribution under
black headlines. The stuff ran into nearly a column, and
I had bright visions of a journalistic future. But it Only
panned out one postal-note (45.), two twopenny stamps,
and one ton of blighted aspirations.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: I enter a S.A. daily paper for the Dis-
torted Cable competition. It was in the long ago, of
course, when messages were brief and involved. Searle,
the sculler, was winning the world’s championship for
Australia, in England. Joe Thompson, the bookmaker,
and a few others gave him a watch and chain, and, to
make a big splash of the presentation, borrowed the stage
of the Cambridge, then one Of London’s chief variety halls.
The cable came out as “ Searle presented jewellery, Cam-
bridge Music-hall,” and a local interpreter had the
usual passion for embroidering on the half-understood.
His version appeared in print as “ Mr. Searle, the (etc.,
etc.), has made a valuable present of jewellery to the
music-hall at Cambridge, as a souvenir of his visit to the
University town.” On the other hand, London Times
not so long ago made a sensation by stating that the
Bishop of Adelaide had been found dead in bed. He
hadn’t, and the paper, on being called to account, turned
up its cable-files. The message ran : —“ Bishop Adelaide
found dead sea-serpent Coffin’s Bay.” The last four words
had been taken as a separate item, and suppressed as
piffle not worth printing.
THE BAFFLING NEWSPAPERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ThL ht L deep 1 ea B' rounds Should be thoroughly tested
“Sf fairly within the limits of Stall activity?-
sssssfi;' <IW " , " admm ‘* * • *«•
obilct I ]on i e 1 , trend of politics no formidable
State own rt S • be ra i sed t 0 the ff ener al theory of a
(ws)
legion Protection ; give the Wolgan Valley Pro-
any day b Ba lnam Protection.— Either paper almost
When Federal elections rage amain,
And controversy lightens ev’ry eye,
Socialists and their tenets give them pain ;
For good old Private Enterprise they cry.
That is a time when they make haste to prove,
By daily leaders, that to give State Aid
To anyone inaugurates Free Love,
And Ruin brings on matron and on maid.
Oblivious that, in brighter days, the State
Carried them, free, they make a bitter song
Re Public Interference. The grim fate
Of Tyre, they hold, must follow on such wrong.
The contest o’er—ye gods ! the paradox !
State Aid, Protection, ev’rything that bosh
Was erst proclaimed, they rush like gold in blocks,
These Anti-Soshite worshippers of Sosh 1
N.S.W.
J.B.D.


INFLUENZA
AND CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY.
WHAT IS INFLUENZA 1
ITS EFFECT.
MEDICAL MEN INTERVIEWED.
These questions are best answered by several
eminent medical men in published interviews.
The most important points emphasised by the
doctors are these:
Influenza is highly infectious.
Influenza stimulates other diseases.
Influenza has an extraordinary effect on the
mental function.
Influenza picks out the weak points in a person’s
constitution.
The victims of influenza are adults who perish
from pneumonia or bronchitis and the aged who
sink from heart exhaustion.
Children, while prone to the disease, enjoy com-
parative immunity from its complications and
dangers.
Influenza shows a decided tendency to relapses,
a feature to which the indirect fatality of the
disease is in a great measure due.
Alcoholic stimulants are not only unnecessary
but positively harmful.
An attack of influenza seems to render the indi-
vidual more liable to contract the disease from
future exposure.
The attack comes on with lightning-like speed.
A person in apparently perfect health is suddenly
overcome by a feeling of discomfort. He feels
chilly, or shakes with the rigor worthy of an ague.
His head aches. There are pains in his eyeballs,
and other symptoms characteristic of the disease
soon follow.
Quite Different.
The ordinary cough medicine may soothe the
throat, but it has no power to heal; recovery is
not complete, and a second attack is more liable,
to follow. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is quite
different, because it not only soothes but also
heals, so that the affected parts are restored to a
healthy condition, and the danger of a future
attack is removed.
What We Do.
Buy a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
from your Chemist or Storekeeper, or if they can-
not supply you send direct to us. Enclose 1/6 in
stamps—any State. If you derive no benefit after
giving it a fair and thorough trial, write us about
it, and we will immediately refund the price.
Every bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
is sold on a positive guarantee.
Chamberlain Medicine Co.,
608 Harris Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THREATS
OF INFLUENZA.
ITS DANGERS.
ENGLISH AND CONTINENTAL ADVICE.
The increased mortality last season from Lung
Affections following attacks of Influenza em-
phasises more than ever the necessity for nursing
an initiatory cold.
Especially since the advices from England, The
Continent, and America indicate that there has
been raging in all those countries an epidemic of
Influenza of the most virulent type. It is only
natural that Australia will in turn have the same.
We are always anxious concerning the public
health, have repeatedly called attention to the
dangers of undue exposure during inclement
weather, and now reiterate the injunction with
still more earnestness in view of present con-
ditions.
Most of the fatal cases of pneumonia at this
time of the year are due to the lack of timely
treatment of what appears to be a simple attack
of bronchial catarrh. The taking of the stitch in
time is at the bottom of all questions of preven-
tion of other more serious ones lying in wait for
solution.
It is well to take into account in such connection
that our winter months are generally considered
the most fatal for pneumonia, especially when
influenza is prevailing even in mild epidemic form.
Thus far we have escaped a visitation of a viru-
lent form of the latter malady, but there is
abundance of time and opportunity for the
development of a severe epidemic, with the usual
aftermath of alarming mortality.
The effective treatment of an ordinary “cold”
is a matter of a day or two against a possible
subsequent sickness for weeks.
The indications of a severe attack of influenza
are headache, chilliness, general muscular pains,
fever, sore throat, cough and systemic lassitude.
When these show themselves no time is to be
lost, and the patient should give up work at once
and promptly place himself under proper medical
care.
There is no danger whatever of any serious con-
sequences from an attack of influenza when Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy is used, as it counter-
acts any tendency towards pneumonia. This
fact has been abundantly proven in many thou-
sands of cases during the epidemics of the past
few years.
1 ,
Can be Cured.
Commence at first symptoms to use Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy. Thousands have used this
Remedy during the last few years, and we have
yet to learn of a single case where they were not
pleased.
HOW TO CURE
INFLUENZA.
BEAD. REFLECT.
REMEMBER.
Rest, warmth and quiet are the three sovereign
remedies for this disease, and the best preventives
of its secondary complications. Go to bed and
remain in bed until well on the way toward re-
covery. Two or three days in bed when you first
contract the disease is better than two or three
weeks later on. Also take a double dose of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy to begin with, and
then the regular dose every hour. If it should
nauseate, discontinue it until the nausea subsides,
and then take it in smaller doses or less frequently.
Before going to bed take two of Chamberlain’s
Stomach and Liver Tablets, and bathe the feet in
water as warm as can be comfortably borne. If
the attack is a severe one, take sulphate of quinine
in doses of two grains each, every four hours, for
a few days. It will keep up the vitality and
enable the system to withstand the attack.
What Follows.
Often it is the persistent cough, which is not
only dangerous but annoying. Chamberlain's
Cough Remedy has been used most extensively,
and always with success, for the relief and cure of
this cough.
No Opium.
There is no opium or narcotics of any descrip-
tion in Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, and this
makes it a favorite with all. It can be given to a
baby as confidently as to an adult. As a cure for
bad colds, croup or whooping cough, it is un-
equalled, and may be depended upon with the
utmost confidence. It is pleasant to take, which
is of much importance. It always cures, and
cures quickly.
Every Bottle Guaranteed.
If you fail to get beneficial results after using
two-thirds of a bottle of
; . . ' V' '
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
according to directions, return it to your dealer
and get your money back. It is well known, for
its prompt cures of coughs, colds, and croup.
PHYSICAL & MENTAL
AGONY.
LACK OF SYMPATHY.
Before we can sympathise with others we must
have suffered ourselves. No one can realise the
suffering attendant on an attack of Influenza
unless he has had the actual experience. There is
probably no disease that causes so much physical
and mental agony, or which so successfully defies
medical aid. All danger from Influenza, however,
may be avoided by the prompt use of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy. The pain in the chest dis-
appears, the fever subsides, and the whole body
becomes more comfortable. Many persons find
themselves affected with a persistent cough after
an attack of Influenza. As this cough can be
promptly cured by the use of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, it should not be allowed to run on until
it becomes troublesome. Among the tens of
thousands who have used this remedy, not one
case has ever been reported that has resulted in
pneumonia, or that has not recovered.
Its Dangers.
An attack of influenza seldom results fatally,
but it is the indirect cause of many deaths. If it
does not result in pneumonia, which is frequently
the case, it leaves its victim with a cough which
lingers on long after every other symptom of the
disease has vanished. The system is thus left in
a weakened condition and is susceptible to almost
every other disease. The influenza can be greatly
lessened in its severity if Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy is used, and any tendency towards pneu-
monia is promptly checked. There is no medicine
which has met with greater success in the treat-
ment of this disease. It cures the cough and
leaves the system in a natural and healthy con-
dition.
Always in the House.
You should always have a bottle of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy in the house. You cannot
tell just the hour you will need it, for you do not
know when you will take cold. You could not
bring home a better present than Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. It may not be needed to-day,
but what about to-morrow ? Colds come into
every home. Be prepared for them. Be sure and
have a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
always on hand.
CHAMBERLAIN’S COUGH REMEDY
Sold Everywhere 1/6.
a
issl
■ m*
sdf
Prepare for a Good Position ! Our splendid system of Postal Instruction brings a thorough and practical
training 1 within your reach. Distance No Obstacle. We teach you at your own home.
BOOKKEEPING
ACCOUNTANCY
SHORTHAND
ARITHMETIC
PENMANSHIP
ENGLISH
ILLUSTRATING
DRAWING
ADVERTISING
AGRICULTURE
LIVE STOCK
INDUSTRY, Etc.
We prepare candidates successfully for all Public Examinations.
Every student receives the individual care and attention of skilled teachers. We have hundreds of successful
students, and can do the same for you. Write for free copy of Prospectus E, and state subject
in which you are interested.
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
56 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
428 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
I
OMwmsfo
WMMU
3 Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOUND-BELLOWS.
Music, as you like it>,
becomes doubly beautiful when played
on the
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours—Why not NOW?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Price 21/- post free.
Complete with instruction book.
Other Models—7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27 6, 37/6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
— SOLE AGENTS
ALLAN & CO. Prop. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
• Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten ...
%
m.
RAZOR COMFORT
The comfort the PLUM RAZOR gives in shaving is the kind
secured only from a high-class blade that cuts keenly—
gives little trouble—and does the work quickly. The PLUM
is that sort of Razor, and we guarantee it to remain so for
two years at least.
Price 10/5
POST FREE
ANYWHERE.
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6 Single Razor in Leather Case, 10/6
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/-
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established 25 Years.
w
NEW TONE-ARM
GRAPH -o-phone
for CYLINDER, records.
A MUSICAL TRIUMPH.
The “ CROWN ” QRAPH-o-phone
with the famous Columbia Alu-
minium Tone-Arm, Lyric Repro-
ducer and Flower Horn, which
swings in any direction. Uses all
standard-size records.
Write for descriptive circular.
COLUMBIA PHONOGRAPH CO.
, CENL.,—
257 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bullktin size
Price, 21s.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
‘Twin Screw. Calling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £57
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
Spacious Staterooms and Excellent Cuisine.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agbnts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agbnts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
Banking Public Companies, &c.
Rational gank,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland.
Under Agreement Extending to 30th June, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. 413,296 0 0
Reserve (in Government Stock) .. 64,000 0 C
Interminable ueposit Stock ..3,116,621 t> 0
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 speeiall) T protected.
Branches : London, Sydney, and througnout Queens-
land. Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, and China, and the East.
Directors. —Jas. Munro, Esq., Chairman ; Hon. A. J.
Gallon, Esq., M.L.C. ; John Cameron, Esq.; Jas.
Milne, Esq. ; F. Lord, Esq.
General Manager.—lV. A r . RALSTON.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOB
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £'3,000,000.
Policies Issued 106,674 —Assuring £31,475,102.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,132,731.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. J. F. Burns.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
gank of |)orth Queensland
(Established 1888.) LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
Sydney Office: Corner George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq.
Manly. Hornsby. Glen Innes. Deepwater.
Tenterfield.
Branches and Agencies throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout AUSTRALASIA, and in AMERICA
and THE EAST.
London Agents: LONDON & WESTMINSTER BANK LTD.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Rein Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £504,097
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
Upon - all - Classes - of
Security.—
FAIR INTEREST.
EAST TERMfc
WE
$
Accident Insurance
Policies
now presented to customers.
CAPITAL .. £lOO,OOO
This Company was formed to Suppress Usury.
i ‘ axr.s. w. -
||]ontdepieteo.fii|.Co.,tt!l.
(Opposite Tivoli Theatre),
74 CASTLEREAGH Sl'., 74, SYDNEY
AND AT
NEWCASTLE, MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
OCEAN
Accident and Guarantee
Co. Ltd. of London.
The Premier Accident and Guarantee
Corpn. in Australia.
T)ireotors S vdney : Hon. A. W. Meeks, Esq., M.L.C.
(Gibbs* Bright, & Co.) ; E. Vickery, Esq ; J. Campbell-
Wood, Esq.: J. J- Allen, Esq. ;E. LAiDLF.Y,.Jisq.
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 litt St., &YDN
-pHE TRUSTEES. EXECUTORS
AGENOV, COM;PANV our UmTED
£27,500 0 0
Smith. r Ho,,. Thomas Skene.
Hon. J. M. boKUOWMAN, Manager.
FItEDK. A. LANG Assistant Manager.
POLICY fou the COMMONWEAL IU
Price. Gd.
Shipping.
nxr. id. x_».
(NORD-DEUTSCHER LLOYD.)
Four-Weekly Mail Service
PASSENGERS BOOKED to Egypt, Naples, Genoa,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
*Twin-Screw Steamers.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
From SYDNEY, via BRISBANE, NEW BRITAIN, and
NEW GUINEA.
MANILA 28th JULY.
PRINZ WALDEMAR 25th AUG.
PRINZ SICISMUND 22nd SEPT.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply
to the Agents,
Tel. 698. LOHMANN & CO., 7 Bridge-street.
Ranking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Rank of Queensland
LIMITICIt.
Capital Paid-up .. . .. .. £485,003 10 0
Reserve Li ability op Shareholders .. 167,857 10 0
Reserve FundClii vested in Government Stock) 70,500 0 0
£723,361 0 0
Head Office: BRISBANE.
Gen. Manager, Edwd. D.'Day. Chief Acct.,E. 11. Matthews
London Office :
31 BUDGE ROW, CANNON STREET, LONDON, E.C.
19 Branches in Queensland. Agents and Correspondents
Throughout the. World.
A POLICY foe the COMMONWEALTH.
Price Cd, from The Bulletin Office.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown, Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
REGULAR SERVICE.
♦ Twin Screw. f New Steamer.
FARES:
Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LIME.
g
PLYMOUTH & LONDON via CAPETOWN
and DURBAN.
Twin-screw 12,000 ton Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about sth
August.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about 2nd
September.
RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
FARES —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New Fork, &c. .. 25 5 0 to 36 5 0
Only One Class of Accommodation.
Pamphlets, Timetables, and all other Information
on Application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
Dalgety and Company. Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
5 HOLIDAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo to
Port Moresby, Samarai, and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
\ ~
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining" a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 70 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
HERCULES CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINERY.
Write for Catalogues and Price List before building
with wood or brick. See machine and stone turned
out at 104 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
J. J. Steele, Sole Agent.
sdfg
NEAT and
STRONQ.
TO
MEND
BELTSIufd HARNESS
yourself is quite simple if you use
BIFURCATED RIVETS.
v No need to punch holes. Simply drive
Rivets and bend back the prongs.
Of all Ironmongers or Store-
keepers; if unobtainable, write
J. Harrison, Letter Box G.P.O.
1098, Sydney, or Bifurcated &
Tubular Rivet Co. Ltd.,
Warrington. Kng.
Price List on
application.
REMARKABLE VALUE
Nickelled Silver Pencil
WITH RE-FILLS TO LAST FIVE YEARS
HALF PRICE: ONLY 6d. EACH
WE are letting these beautiful Nlckelled
Silver TELESCOPIC PENCILS go for
HALF PRICE for One Month only,
simply as an advertisement. Our usual price is
Is. each, and, as you could not buy them any-
where else under Is. 6d., you can see what a
splendid offer it is. The Pencil is of Copying
Ink, guaranteed not to wash out of clothing,,
and there is an extra case of Re-fills given-
sufficient to last for five years. There is a Ring
at the end of each Pencil for hanging on to a
watch chain. ONLY 6d. each, postage Id.
extra. Our famous Wooden Cross Puzzle (cost-
ing 6d.), which baffles everybody, given free if
vou order three Pencils, or the Pencil and Puzzle
sent anywhere for only Is. Anyone who can
solve our Cross Puzzle without the directions
will receive a handsome prize free.
h. J. SMITH & CO.,
14 HUNTER ST.
SYDNEY
r <MHE LONE HAND is the logical complement
| of The Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader.! Brice Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : 214
George Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
VISITORS TO MELBOURNE
Will find every comfort and convenience at—
MRS. TOBINS,
Queen’s Mansions, 2 to 5 Beaconsfield Parade
ST. KILDA.
rrVHE Largest and Best-Appointed Boarding-house in
the Colonies. Magnificent situation, facing Beacn.
Charges much lower than licensed hotels. City, i-hour
by train. Billiards etc. Telephone No. 107, Windsor.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES —IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, Is. Packet of Ten, 10d.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all phepiists and Stores,
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian*
Victorian and Queensland Ports.
FOR MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS,
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, July 18.
(Without transhipment.]
BRISBANE,
MAOKAY.
TOWNSVILLE,
And Ports North to Oairns.
S.S. Wollowra, July 18.
S.S. Burrumbeet, July 25.
Rest and Cheapest Route to ti old Helds ,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
JYjESSA GERIES jyjARITIMES.
FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS
To LONDON, via
BOMBAY AND PARIS.
PASSAGE MONEY, £27/4/- to £B2/10/-, including
Table Wines.
ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
EXCURSION TICKETS TO COLOMBO, interchange-
able with all Mail Companies, issued at greatly reduced
rates.
J. LOTH,
Acting General Manager in Australia,
Tel. 378. 57 Pitt Street.
HOWARD SMITH LINE
OF FAST PASSENGER STEAMERS,
FROM KING STREET WHARVES.
For
MELBOURNE
GEELOjS’G
COOMA, 2 p,m., SATURDAY,
July 18.
PEREGRINE, 2 p.m., SATURr
DAY, July 25. *
ADELAIDE
ALBANY
FREMANTLE
(Taking passengers
and cargo for S.A.,
Gulf Ports, Perth,
Bopetoun, and all
other W.A. ports.) J
KYARRA, noon, SATURDAY’
August 22.
BRISBANE "v
MARYBOROUGH
BUNDABERG
GLADSTONE
ROCKHAMPTON
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS, and
RIVER PORTS J
BOMBALA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
July 18.
ALLINGA, 5 p.m., TUESDAY,
July 21. .
COOMA, 2 p.m., SATURDAY,
July 25.
Passenger Tickets interchangeable with other inter-
state S.S. Companies. Pull particulars on application.
BOOKING OFFICES EQUITABLE BUILDING, 350
GEORGE STREET.
WHARVES : FOOT OF KING STREET (Electric Tram).
Telephone Nos. 1706, 1707, 1708.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-Screw Steamer.
EXCURSION TO BANFF,
in the CANADIAN ROCKIES, costing
£6O, includes FIRST-CLASS FARE
throughout and hotel expenses at
nine of the finest hotels in America—
leaving by R.M.S. MANUKA, on 3rd
AUGUST.
PAMPHLETS FURNISHED FREE.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z. LTD.
Managing A cents, Georc e-street, Sydney.
Mystic Circle Fortune Teller
CTJPPLIES everything: necessary for
v -' learning what is to happen to you
and to your friends. When you will be
narried, whether you will be rich, what
d ingers threaten you and many other
things. Very mysterious and surprising*
Send SIX PENCE (.Stamps of any State)
and we will post it FREE with our 320-
page Illustrated Catalogue of Wonderful
Things you cannot get anywhere else.
The OXIOX COMPANY
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
df
THE BALLET GIRL
gd
fg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Fra*, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
Send Stamp for liluslrated Lists of Books and Koveltiet
Madame Panza,
Box 913 s G.P.0.. SYDNEY „


A Half-Paa'e of Beautiful Thing's from which
to Choose.
How do you liKe the New Style of NecKlet
Set with the Fashionable Turquoise Matrix ?
Very effective when worn, we can assure you;
and the Style and Color suits the majority of
people. We have a variety of designs after
the style of the one we picture here.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.
ST,SYDNEY-
Then we have the Malachite Necklets—rather
a pretty stone in shades of green. They come
out at the following prices—Bos. and 90s. If
you want to wear the very newest you can
order one of these with safety.
df
*6
g
C 2 Gold and Real Pearl Set Necklet, in case, £4/10/‘
Fine Opal and Diamond
Marquise Ring-, 18ct. Gold, £l7/101-
<v,— Fine Pearl Set 15ct. Gold Necklet, in case, ;C4//5/-
No. H 1549. —Real Peat:
Set, Amethyst and (told
Pendant, £2/101-
No. G 9396. —15ct. Gold and Fine Pearl
Set Brooch, £.111716.
No. F729B—Pearl Set Gold Spray Brooch,
211- ■ with Pearls and Olivines, in 15et.
Gold, £2.
No. H 7727 —15ct. Gold, Pearl and Exquisite Enamel
Pendant, with Gold and Pearl Necklet, in Morocco
Case, £ B/10 /-
No. G 5069.—
Sapphire,
Pearl and
The Latest Style of Necklet. Real Turquoise Matrix and Pearls, mounted
in Gold, £5/5/-.
Other styles, somewhat similar, for 70/-, SO/- and SO/-.
No. H7729.—Pearl and Tur-
quoise Tortoise Brooch in 15ct.
Gold, dS d/15/-
No. H772B—Whole Pearl
Acorn Brooch, in 15ct.
Gold, 35/-
Pine Gold—Whole Pearl—Diamond
and R. Ruby Brooch and Pendant,
in case, £3O.
9ct. Gold Tie
or Safety
Pins.
lin., 3/6
ljin., 4/6
liin.,s/6
2in., 8/6
No. H7726—Pine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Necklet and
Pendant, in Morocco Case, £ 9/10/ -
BILIOUSNESS AND ALL LIVER TROUBLES
11l -
UK
f
sr
KUT NOW’S
Improved Eftcrvesccnt CarISBAD
POWDER,
■
m
m
Hirschcnsprung or Deer Leap
I
L?
4 ' London
41, FARRINGDON ROAD E.C.t ' *
REGISTERED TRADE MARK.
t
REMOVED BY KUTNOW’S POWDER.
j-HEN liver troubles arise from any cause taKe a
dessertspoonful of Rutnow’s Powder in the morn-
ing' before breaKfast. Tbe action of this refresh-
ing corre«stive is materially hastened by a cup of hot tea
taKen about ten minutes after; in twenty or thirty minutes
the desired effed is attained, and the entire system is
cleansed and invig'orated. Rutnow’s Powder has been
before the public for a period of over twenty years, and
is most strongly recommended by the leading Physicians
for Biliousness and every form pf liver trouble. It is
speedy and painless in adion, pleasant to the taste, and
suitable for men, women and children. Those who have
not tried Rutnow’s Powder should do so at once. You
will never regret it.
A CIVIL ENGINEER
WRITES :
“Mr., W. Barns Kinsey, M.lnst.C.E., F.C.S., having
received a bottle of Kutnow’s Powder at Dundee, Natal,
some time back, has pleasure in stating that his personal
experience of it for the alleviation of rheumatism and allied
complaints bears out fully what Messrs. Kutnow & Co.
claim for their preparation, and he has had much pleasure
in recommending it to others who have also received like
benefit from its use.
“Soutbsea, May 9th, 1907.”
GUARD AGAINST FRAUD.
There is only One Genuine Kutnow’s
Powder; it can be had of all conscientious
Chemists throughout the World. See that
the fac-simile signature, “S. Kutnow
and Co., Ld.,” and the registered trade
mark, “ Hirschensprung, or Deer
Leap,” are on the carton and bottle. You
then get
Genuine Kutnow’s Powder.
KUTNOW’S POWDER Cleanses YOUR


FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,
Constipation, and Biliousness.
For sale by leading Chemists and Store-
keepers. Retail price, Is. 6d. If your
Chemist or Storekeeper has not got them,
ask him to get them for you. If not obtain-
able locally, send direct to the Proprietor,
W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong,
Victoria.
PATERNOSTER’S
H PILLS ■
THE OLD RELIABLE
ENGLISH REMEDY
. . FOR . .
Gout, Rheumatism, Sciatica,
Lumbago, and all pains of
Head, Face, or Limbs.
Prepared only by
POINGDESTRE & TRUMAN,
71, OLD KENT ROAD, LONDON.
Can be obtained of all Chemists in
Australia and New Zealand.
CDe Societp of
motor manufacturers
ana Craaers, £ta.
For the protection, encouragement ana
development of the A utomobile Industry.
The Society has organised a
TRADE INFORMATION
DEPARTMENT
which will be pleased, without
fee, to direct enquirers to the
Traders who can best supply
their needs, whether for Motor
Cars (commercial or pleasure),
Motor Agricultural Machines,
Motor Boats, Fire Engines,
Stationa'y Motors,Component
Parts, Tyres, or Accessories.
Address :
Maxwell House, Arundel St,
London, England.
gcuJZo?
PLASMON
INCREASES THE FOOD
VALUE ENORMOUSLY”
Lancet. _ a
COCOA
?V
/O 77M£S MORE NUTRITIOUS
THAN ORDINARY COCOA
DELICIOUS
DIGESTIBLE
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
ESTARTVrSTIvn M . .. . __ . _ . _ ■'*
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Established 1849.
HAS MONEY TO LEND _ _
of e Governmeri?’nk£.« o !r bir,eco, Pa storal and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
tralian States or '"scribed stock or Treasury Bills ot any ot the Aus-
x anan states or New Zealand gv AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST
UDtft^n^ or^ e peed contains a condition allowing 1 Borrowers the privilege of repaying:
tt-1 . of oan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel,
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use,
DINNEFORD?
MAGNESIA i
MAGNESIA
n ‘ u COMPOUND.’ The ‘ Stockport
Remedy for Coughs and Colds. Of 40 yea rs’proven efficacy.
LINSEED COMPOUND ’ for Coughs and Colds.
Oives immediate relief in Bronchitis, etc.
LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Of proven efficacy' for Bronchial irritation.
LINSEED COMPOUND’ for Coughs and Colds.
Relieves Asthma and. difficult breathing’.
LINSEED COMPOUND ’ of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, and difficulty of breathing.
‘COAGULINE,’ 4 KL!NX,’ ‘TENASITINE.’
Cements for broken and other articles.
MOUNTAIN FLAX (‘ Linum Catharticum ’ Trade
Mark) PI LS. An agreeable aperient. Worth a trial.
‘ LINSEED COMPOUND.’ Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
w
,G*™*
in&JNs
For 50 Years the Standard for Quality,
W. W. GREENER'S
TREBLE-WEDGE-FAST
ARE
KNOWN TO LAST.
The Strongest Cun in the
World and the best Shooting
For Catalogues write W. P. Thomp-
son. 317> Collins St., Melbourne;or
simply address
“Greener, Birmingham.”
»ii' r i»\ /■ |ir
ROJKIUS
tliUHnf
kteMSMrn
&
pm?
O E MA^^’
For eighty years, POWELL’S BALSAM has been the one safe and reliable remedy
for COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all LUNG
and THROAT TROUBLES. Read the following proof of its efficacy:—
Mr. Thos. Shelton, iff, Crown Street, Oxford, writes“ If the value of ‘ POWELL’S BALSAM OF ANISEED ’
was better known, many who suffer with Coughs, Bronchitis and other Lung Troubles would do as I have done for
upwards of 50 years; I take that when nothing else will give relief. One or two bottles invariably sets me up. It is
invaluable. I have several times given a bottle to suffering friends, and it has had the desired effect. I have had three
attacks of Bronchitis since January last, and 2or 3 bottles had the desired effect when all else failed. You may make
what use of this yo i like.”. —December iith, 1907.
Bailey, 32, Manville Road, Balham, London, 3. W., writes:—“l may add that I recommend your
un, (* after 12 years constant use, and my father, who was a chemist at Lordship Lane, S.E., and Warminster,
Wilts, tor 35 years, was a staunch believer in its merits, and always recommended it to his cuiicomers.”— January , igoB.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Observe the TRADE MARK of this British Preparation on the outer wrapper, without which NONE IS GENUINE.
Proprietors: THOS. POWELL, LTD., Blackfriars, LONDON* England.
__ Sole Wholesale Agents for New South Wales and Queensland :
ELLIOT BROS., LTD., O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, and Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
FOR COUGHS.
RUPTURE
CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
Dr. McLaughlin’s Electro-Plastic Truss
is a positive cure for all forms of
Rupture. Write for full particulars and copies of testimonials.
Varicocele Can Be Cured!
THE CAUSE OF MORE WRECKS THAN ANY OTHER DISEASE.
IT CAN BE CURED BY ELECTRICITY.
and never'ceai”n S untd'it SbfaTan &S
DRUGS ARE USELESS!
for the cure of Varicocele and its concurrent or attending weaknesses Applied exter
nally or internally drugs usually prove either ineffectual or injurious. There are many
ways of treating it, but none is so sure of success as properly-applied Electricity We
have devoted twenty years to the study of Electricity for the cure of this and kindred
ailments, and have cured 5000 cases of Varicocele. We have cured cases of thirty years
standing, where the patients had exhausted all other known treatments without relief
Sj °* co “P lefce debility. DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT and electric suspensory—our method—has cured after the
knife, injection, ligation and every other known means had failed. We have cured
physicians, lawyers, ministers, merchants and laborers. We use a method of our
own ; one which is the result of vast experience during the past twenty years We have
an electric body battery which can be worn comfortably while the patient sleeps at
night, and which gives a powerful yet soothing current that is always under control
It pours its vitalizing energy into the body for six to eight hours every nio-ht in a
manner which dissolves the congestion, assists the circulation, gives contraction to
relaxed cords and restores strength. If you are tired of useless drugging and have scent
your time and money without benefits, write to-day. We have made over <5O 000
people strong and vigorous, and they never tire of praising our wonderful remedy.
It IS a positive cure for all Weaknesses, Nervousness, Varieoeele, Loss of Vitality Stomach
Kidney and Liver Troubles, Rheumatism, Seiatiea and Lumbago, and wheif’used with our
newly-patented electro-plastic truss, is a certain Cure for Rupture. . . . It is easy to use- no stin*
™h Pn Tb° r Sh ° elC; P Ut v d on . when y° u g° to bed > and y° u get up in the morning feeling like’a two-year-oki
colt. They are guaranteed to give a strong current, instantly felt, and have Special attachments
They are within the reach of all; price £i and up. Beware of cheap® I Citations
7a
1
FREE
BOOK
ADVICE
We have published an illustrated
book which every man and woman
should read. It shows how and
why our method cures after the-
failure of all other treatments.
We will mail it FREE, post paid to all who write us, and our
specialists will give you a full diagnosis of your case free. All
communications ars treated with strict confidence. For private
address, address: M. F. B. Co.
the mclaughun go.,
Dep. 10, Castlereagh and Market Streets, SYDNEY.
JOSEPH R. CORCORAN
The MCLAUGHLIN CO., Dept 10,
Castlereagh & Market Streets, Sydney.
Please send me your FREE ILLUSTRATED BOOK.
Name
Address
“O.K.”: Yic. Hardware Association is
preparing a smoke night or something;, in Mel-
ourne, in honor of its president’s return from
a - . ca l trip to England in the interests
of Foreign Trade. There are many presidents
ot various trade associations, but this particular
one—Mr. “Joe” Chamberlain—is notable, as
being humanly characteristic of the “line”
he travels in. The Australian Joe Chamber-
lain stands 6ft. 3in. and is probably the hardest bit
ot commercial ware on this side of—of—well, the
place is frequently mentioned in the sermon on
feunday and we are told to avoid it. You know
where I mean—the tooth-gnashing establishment.
An embittered correspondent :—
Should the law be made more stringent regarding the
speed of motor-cars ? I should smile ! When these vehicles
nrst came out there was an unlovely crop of accidents, and
many people asserted that the strain of looking both wavs
s ji me u ™ e to dodge motors did more to injure their
health than all the other worries of life lumped together.
But considering how easily these machines can be turned,
and how quickly they respond to the driver’s touch,
there is not much reason to worry. For the motorist is
like Allah—if he wants you he will catch vou, no matter
how energetically you jump or how carefully you watch.
.Ihe motor people, or their friends, have pointed out that
people who drive automobiles are just like dthers—have
the same feelings of responsibility to their species and
the same regard for human life as members of the com-
munity who do not drive juggernauts, and it is only
in cases of dire necessity that they drive at ex-
cessive speed. The unfortunate part of it is that
there are so many cases of dire necessity—one
policeman caught about a dozen of them in an
hour over North Sydney way one recent morning, and
in any suburb you will any day see several cars travelling
at anything between 40 and 50 miles an hour. Still they
have their uses. They amuse the bystanders (who are safe
™ ™ side-walks). To see a motor whizzing down, sav,
Pitt-street, Sydney, just missing trams, lorries and cabs by
a hair-breadth, is a sight that is better than any of the star
turns at the variety theatres or at Wirths’ circus. And
the spectacle of a fat, elderly gentleman who is rapidlv
degenerating owing to lack of exercise jumping 17ft. into
. the air, and turning a triple somersault into a shop
window when he hears a “ toot-toot ” from somewhere
right on top of him, is a sight that causes no little amuse-
ment. Every time a person has to avoid a motor car,
presence of mind and agility’' are both exercised, and
piesence of mind and energy are good things for a com-
munity. For training footballers nothing could be better.
It is well-known that that mighty footballer Messenger
acquired his wonderful agility by running away from
motor cars. If we had more motor cars running wild we
should have more wonderful footballers of the Messenger
type, and anything of the Messenger type is a crown of I
everlasting glory to the nation. Yah ! !


TOOTH’S XXX ALE is UNRIVALLED.
dfg
SO IS
AULD
WHISKY.
TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
PROPRIETORS,
KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBACO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail .
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/t£ & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
darn
HOLLOWAY
#>v
THE PILLS
have gained their wonderful reputation by sheer force
of merit, because every person who uses them
recommends them to others. They have positively
no equal for thoroughly cleansing the. system and
putting the liver and kidneys in functional order,
without pain or griping. They are the best known
remedy for Indigestion, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, and the common condition of ilhhealth
known as "run-down " <r “out of sorts.” Females
of every age find Holloway’s Pills an invaluable
remedy and aid.
THE OINTMENT
is known throughout the world as positively the
best and quickest remedy for Bad Legs, Old
Wounds and Sores, and Skin Eruptions of every
kind, and should be used in conjunction with the
Pills. It is also the speediest remedy for Rheu-
matism, Lumbago, Pains and Stiffness in the
Limbs and Joints, Backache, etc. For pains and
Soreness at the Chest, and for Throat and Lung
Complaints arising from Cold or Weakness,
Holloway’s Ointment affords mo* 1 welcome relief
in a very short time.
V
# v s # *
*'3
&
aV
I
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
$k
df
This DIET is recommended
I in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant.*
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd ~ and Bridge & Loftus .Streets, SYDNEY.
HEARN ES be< SS l e ™
The Famous Remedy for
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA, <fc CONSUMPTION,
Has the Largest Sale of any Chest Medicine in the World.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its wonderful influence. Its healing power is marvellous. Sufferers from any form of Bronchitis, Cough, Difficulty of
Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and immediate relief; and to those who are subject to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it
effects a Complete Cure. It is most comforting in allaying irritation in the throat and giving strength to the voice, and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption has never been known to exist where " Coughs” have been properly treated with this medicine. No house
should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose is generally sufficient, and a Complete Cure is certain.
Beware of Imitations ! The great success of HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, has induced a number
of unprincipled persons to make imitations, each calling his medicine “Bronchitis Cure,” with the object of
deceiving the simple-minded, and so getting a sale for an imitation which has none of the beneficial effects that
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE has. Consequently it has becorpe necessary to draw your attention to this fact,
and to request you in your own interests to be particular to ask for HEARNE’S and to see that you get it.
HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE, Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6. Sold by Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by the
Proprietor, W. G. HEARNE, Chemist, Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
NOTICE. —Hearne’s Bronchitis Cure No. lAdoes NOT contain any poison within the meaning of the Act. It is equally beneficial for the youngest
child and the most aged person.
BENGER’S FOOD is quite
distinct from any other. It
possesses the remarkable property
of rendering milk with which it
is mixed when used, quite easy of
digestion by Infants and Invalids.
0
One of the most valuable foods
known to science. It gives the
body abundance of nourishment,
with complete or partial rest to
the digestive system, regulated
as may be advisable.
Benger s Food is sold in tins by Chemists, etc., everywhere.
“ Wyung ” on Tom Mann’s rivals :—
Mann, of the tempered beer and the equally unexhilar-
ating platitude, can’t succeed in persuading- Australia’s
work-slaves to arise and wake up. It t ikes the “ tyran-
nical, blood-sucking plutocrats” that Mann incoherently
raves about to rouse the Australian slave, and keep him
aroused. People who live in any manufacturing suburb
of Melbourne know about this. Here, in South Melbourne,
for example, the “ ervvake ! erise 1 ” process is in full blast
every morning. At 5 o’clock, steam whistles start to squeal.
At 5.30 there are more whistles. At 6 the “ arousing ’’influ.
ence gets properly to work. The S. Melbourne Town Hall
clock opens the show, with the Port Melbourne chimes
closely following. Then, from the centre of Port Mel-
bourne there proceeds an ear-splitting, terrifying erup-
tion of outcry, the duplicate of which was never heard
outside Gehenna. It is a dreadful combination of roar
and shriek and wail in a jarring discord of afflicting keys.
The machine which commits this sin and outrage is called
a “screamer.” Its noise capacity is 5,000,000-devil
power, and if the day is fine enough it can be heard 35£
miles away. The “screamer” keeps going till all
the live are awake, and all the dead have
turned over in the loathly tomb. When it stops,
the silence seems deafening ; but immediately
a chorus of factory whistles, smaller screamers, syrens,
hooters, dog howls, and indiscriminate uproar leaps upon
the back of the still tottering atmosphere and tears it
into shreds. It takes five minutes for the din to subside.
At half-past six the big screamer again commits its
crime. At 7 o’clock the whole exasperating atrocity is
once more perpetrated, and there are repetitions of the
infernal performance at 7.30 and 8 o’clock. By this time
there are no sleepers within ten miles. The slaves
have arisen, and awoke. Mann may not know how to
work the “ awake ! arise ! ” oracle, But the bosses know
all right.


MICK SIMMONS
liaymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
S he LEADING
HOUSE FOR
g
Sporting' Goods
AND TOBACCOS.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (Cricket Mats and Nets excepted) to the value of 50s. or more, and on
all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Our SPECIAL
... SNAP...
CANT
B
BEAT
HHM
-
K
iimiir.""""""“—""Ba
NATIONAL ARMS COY.’S 12 or 16-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, reinforced
breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar locks, Greener cross bolt, extension rib, left
full, right modified choke, 30-inch special steel barrels, pistol grip, walnut stock,
weight of 12-gauge, about 6f to 71b. ;of 16-gauge, 6£ to 6|lb. ... &S,
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above gun, which has been made to our own
specifications, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
DELIVERED FREE TO ANY ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1906 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare boot Dy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horsf., Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. MyNeighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught 1 <Z.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. jSfaw
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
df
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Page 9.
17 IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How TO Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
Sosted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
[an His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other. Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prioes Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established, 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
, ♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
Hew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bdsii Songs, Is 3d nost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, 19 9dk Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to alii Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassf/s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest; songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
REFERENDUM
UnauimousEkctioii
of the
Celebrated
r n
ThePremierPipe
of the World
Obtainable from all Tobacconists
Costume Cloths,
ETC.
SHIPMENTS ARRIVING WEEKLY.
DAVID BRAHAM
AND CO.,
TAILORS and
COSTUMIERES,
94 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Following is one of several testimonials received by
our head cutter :
Corn of Testimonial. ,
1V GOVERNMENT HOUSE,
SYDNEY.
To Mr. JHURPHY.
Lady Mary Lygon icishes me to say that
she is thoroughly satisfied with the two costumes
you have made for her, which fit very well.
( Signed) C. JA RDINIER.
MOLLERS
HYDROXYL-FREE
COD-LIVER OIL
(Sold in Capsuled Bottles only)
THE ONLY NON-REPEATING
AND PUREST COD-LIVER OIL
IN THE MARKET.
The Safest Remedy for Coughs. Colds, Consumption and
all Lung Complaints.
As a food Mil! huildor-up for* both, children
anti adults, MOLLER'S OIL is unequalled . .
BECAUSE! It is easily digested and assimilated.
No unpleasant taste or smell.
No disagreeable after effects, so commonly encountered in all
ordinary cod-liver oils, emulsions, &c.
HOLLER'S HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL.
A CUIDE TO HEALTH.
READ WHAT THE MEDICAL PRESS 5.47 S ABOUT MOLLER’S
HYDROXYL-FREE COD-LIVER OIL .
Medical Review.—“ We have no hesitation in saving it is quite unexcelled. It is
of a pale golden colour ; it is free from any trace of free acid ; it is easily assimilated,
and, what is most important, it does not cause eructations or nausea.”
Medical Press.—“ Messrs. Peter Miiller, Ltd., by the introduction of their
Hydroxyl-Free Cod-Liver Oil, have placed in the hands of medicalmen a most excel-
lent and valuable preparation which is almost free from taste, limpid in character,
and, what is a still greater charm, does not cause the objectionable ‘ repeatings’ we
are so familiar with in certain brands.”
MOLLER’S COD-LIVER OIL has been awarded 22 Highest Prizes
and the only Grand Prix at the Paris Exhibition, 1900. To be obtained
of all Chemists and Stores, or from
PETER MOLLER, Ltd., 18, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, W.C.
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE Is. PACKET CF TEN, 10d.
Britisb=flustralasian
3*
A Weekly Journal fol - Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Pt'if'f l dci POST FREE, £1 per year,
* * irit* j n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
- formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
DR. J. GOLLIS BROWNE’S
Chlorodyne
(The Original and Only Genuine)
THE BEST REMEDY KNOWN FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
/lets like a charm in DIARRHCEA,
DYSENTERY anti CHOLERA.
Checks and Arrests FEVER, CROUP, AGUE.
The only Palliative in NEURALGIA, GOUT,
RHEUMATISM, TOOTHACHE.
Convincing Medical Testimony with Each Bottle.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Prices in England—ljl\, 2/9, 416.


V,
D?SHELDONS
a
DIGESTIVE
TABULES
DIGEST WHAT
YOU EAT
w
FOR
COUCHS
COLDS S*
CONSUMPTION
ALL PAIN
xk
Yes ! Miss
DB SHELDON'S
NEW DISCOVERY
for COUGHS COLDS & CONSUMPTION
is, the most effective Remedy
ok the market. And it’s pleasant to take.
Allcock's
Porous Piaster
For pains in the region of the
Kidneya, or for a Weak Back,
the Plaster should be applied as
shown above.
Wherever there Is pain apply
Allcock’s Plaster.
A universal remedy
for pains in the back
(so frequent in the case
of women). They give
instantaneous relief.
Wherever there is a
pain a Plaster should
be applied.
Rheumatism,
Colds, Coughs,
Weak Chest,
Weak Back,
Lumbago,
Sciatica, &c. &o.
INSIST UPON HAVING
iIIICQC&S
£
I
A
*
£
sft
1 For Rheumatism, or
Pains in Shoulders,
Elbows, or elsewhere,
or for Sprains,
Stiffness, etc., and for
AohinS Peat. Plaster should be cut
size and shape required and applied to
part affected as shown above.
1
REMEMBER —Allcock’s Plasters have been solrl by the millions for over 60 years.
Like all good things they have been imitated, but only in appearance. Allcock’s are
guaranteed not to contain Belladonna, Opium or any poison whatever.
For Sale by Drug-gists throughout the World.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Establish** 1753.
BOVRIL
Should be in every home as well as in every hospital.
When you are worried and cannot eat well nor sleep well, you will
find a great help in BOVEIL.
BEWARE OF CHEAP IMITATIONS.
By Royal Warrant to
His Majesty the King.
Here's a Bargain
This New
FASHIONABLE MOUNT-
TWO TIPS with
OSPREYS,
The Bunch O /
Post Free, ■
BLACK, CREAM, or BLACK
TIPPEO WITH WHITE,
WORTH TWICE THE MONEY.
Illustrated Price List Free.
gs
dfg
V
r II
Pale Blue Bead Necklets, 1/- Each.
The very Newest Novelties. Worth more than
twice the money. Only a limited quantity in stock,
pe- Write early if you wish to secure one.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Cor. Strand Arcade,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mention The Bulletin.
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.
Me and Me Cash.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN I’m on me larst bed,
An’ ye lift up me head.
Lift up me head —an’ I’ll say :
“Me an’ me cash was soon par-ted,
I’m just goin’ out as I star-ted.
An’ what does it matter to-day t
Oh, what does it matter to-day ?”
Me father was ever a rover,
Me mother a “Rom” an’ a vag ;
I spent me young days in the clover
Most joyfully “playin’ the wag.”
I gev up the joliy old Kipsey,
An’ started to bein’ a gypsy,
Before I was out o’ me teens;
A Romany over the water.
The kid of a Romany daughter,
As wanted the blues an’ the greens.
I never was made for a farmer,
I hardly was built for a stool;
I’ve got a stout heart for me armor,
I’ll worry along as a fool.
A pal of me youth ’e was thrifty ;
’E grafted an’ saved an’ struck ile ;
When Death gev ’im orders to shift ’e
’Ad built up a nice little pile.
’ls missus she took an’ she blewed it,
An’ what could the pore feller say ?
He’d got ’is nice cake—an’ she chewed it,
But ’e was under the clay.
I’ve never held more than a “ twenty,”
To hit up the Earth, an’ to blew,
But I’ve found that a little is plenty.
To see a pore sailorman through.
Oh, me an’ me cash ain’t together
Not ever at all very long.
But used to the wind an’ the weather,
I’ll battle an’ worry along.
I’ve ’ad a tough time on the earth ’ere,
I ’avenever “done any man dirt,”
When, through with the graft an’ the mirth ’ere,
Just bury me, boys, in me shirt.
A Romany over the water,
The son of a Romany daughter,
A rover an’ waster am I.
Me an’ me cash is soon parted ;
I’m just goin’ out as I started,
We live—an’ we’ve all got to die.
n.s.w.
E. J. BRADY.
Capricornus.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
CAPRICOKNTJS was sitting in his arm-
chair, waiting. It was not his first assigna-
tion by any means, but to-night he was
nervous and irritable. Oapricornus put it down
to digestion. It could not have been the pudding,
for pudding always made him cynical. It might
have been the wine, which sometimes left in its
wake a maudlin sentimentality. A verse of
Browningkept running through his mind. He
leaned back in his chair, and with an edifying
melancholy—a melancholy which he felt to be the
highest-toned morality—he crooned :
“‘Dust and ashes! So you creak it, and I
want the heart to scold.’ My God ! Browning’s
right. Browning’s right. Dead Sea fruit, all of
it; to-day tempting and alluring, to-morrow a
handful of bitter ashes. Ha !
“ ‘ Dear dead women, with such hair, too’”—
and Oapricornus sighed as he laid his hand fondly
on a bundle of photographs that lay before him.
‘“What’s become of all the gold that used to
hang and brush your bosoms ? ’ Heigho ! What
indeed ? What ? What ?
“‘I feel chilly and grown old.’ Chilly—and—
grown— Ugh ! ”
Oapricornus was assuredly out of gear. It was
only a harmless little excursion that Phyllida and
he had planned—a moonlight motor-trip along the
bay, under the discreet chaperonage of the
chauffeur. And they were to pick up Capricor-
nus’ sister by the way. But Oapricornus’ experi-
ence of the sex was not a re-assuring one. It was
highly flattering to himself personally ; but at
forty-odd one must consider others. And for this
woman he feared, tio he made a heroic resolve.
He would save her! From Himself.
But Oapricornus, for all his experience, erred.
He determined to preach to her. Now, the very
last way of reforming a woman and stopping her
on her downward career is to preach to her.
Oapricornus, as a man of the world, should have
known this. But he did not. Which showed that
he was still a fool.
And as to Phyllida herself? Well, there are
seven distinct species of flirt—the most dangerous
being the young married woman of the early
twenties. Woman, according to Oapricornus—
and Oapricornus was an expert in women as other
men are experts in horses or in wine—is at the
height of her charms in the third year of her
wedded life, when the glamor of her early bride-
hood has passed away, and she is tempted to re-
produce it—with an altered cast. After Love’s
Young Dream, the Wash-tub and the purchase of
the Daily Chop. After Heaven, Earth; but
Earth with a plus; the desire for Heaven persists.
* * * *
There was a rustle, a slight laugh. The door
opened suddenly, and Phyllida stood before him.
“ I am here.”
It was a Tittell Brune entry. Oapricornus per-
ceived the dramatic note, and with it the sense of
falsity. Oapricornus sighed, for he thought she
came out of love for him. Which again showed
that he was still a fool.
She was taller than Tittell Brune, and her black
hair curled caressingly on her forehead. As she
sat on Capricorn us’ knee, with her arm around
his neck, she towered head and shoulders above
him. A horrible suspicion flashed on Oapricornus
that he was looking insignificant. Oapricornus
was right. He was also looking absurd. He tried
to remove the impression by adopting a tone of
jollity.
“ Well,” he began, “ how’s Hubby ? ”
“ Hubby ! Oh, the beast! He’s up at Mans-
field. Coming home last train to-night. By
the way, where’s Vesta? I expected her.”
Capricornus looked serious. Now or never.
“Do you know, you’re an altogether different
woman from what I imagined at first. I used to
look on you as the very pearl of married woman-
hood, the pink of domesticity.”
Phyllida’s arm relaxed, and two little vertical
wrinkles shot up from between her eyes. She
slipped off his knee and took up her position in
front of him.
“I used to watch you from my front-room
window. At first I took you for a middle-aged
woman, 35 at the very least. Then came the
change, a sudden change. . It was as if the sun
shone again. You became suddenly absorbed in
baby and your domestic duties, flow the front
windows used to be polished and the verandah
scrubbed ! And what a glorious little song-bird it
was ! And what a shy little wifie ! I can see her
now, coining out in the afternoon into the garden
to look after the flowers; first glancing at the
opposite windows to make sure that no male
brute was watching her ; then coming to the gate,
and leaning her cheek against the pickets to peep
timidly up the road, for Hubby was due.”
Phyllida looked at him in blank astonishment.
Poor Capricornus ! How little he knew of the
sex after all !
“My God! how I used to envy you ! It seemed
such an idyllic life compared with mine ! Oh, my
style of life was more volcanic. It was all right,
save for the after-taste. It aimed at bliss—and
struck to-morrow morning. You don’t under-
stand? Hegh ! Why should you? Perhaps you
know the drunk’s three stages: ‘Have one.’
Pill’em up again.’ ‘To-morrow’s headache.’ I
have struck to-morrow’s headache. ... chronic.”
There \fras a pause. ’
“Life’s a tap-room.”
There was another pause—a silence that finally
became interrogative.
“The drinks are exquisite. ... But you must
leave them alone. ... It takes you ... forty years
to learn that. But you do learn it. Then you die.
Or go mad. Or simply live it out.”
fle paused again. A slight rustle among some
papers in the corner sounded painful. Capri-
cornus laughed.
“Th~e longing for pleasure is infinite. The
ability to enjoy it limited. It is like Balzac’s
Wild Ass’s Skin, it shrinks with use, and you
are left as I am—more eager for pleasure than
ever, more dependent on it, but —a futility. It’s
cruel. ...
“Look here! There are hundreds of women
that flirtations and all that sort of thing do no
harm to. There are hundreds that—well, I’ll not
say what I was going to say, but there are a few
that it kills, body and soul. They are the finer
natures. ... You are one of them.”
Phyllida blinked as if she had been struck
between the eyes.
Now that is j ust sweet of you. You are simply
charming. Do go on. Please do. This is so
pleasant.”
Phyllida had seized the bundle of photographs
and was looking at them attentively. Then :
“ You won’t mind my criticising your friends,
will you ? But what a bright, intelligent face ? ”
Capricornus gave a grunt of satisfaction :
“ That’s the dilapidated wreck that showed you
in—my ‘ freak ’ waiting-maid. At least, that was
she before the Years took her in hand.”
Phyllida was about to express a polite surprise,
when another of the photos took her attention.
“Hullo! Marcella? But she was younger
when that was taken. I didn’t know that you
were acquainted with Marcella. You hardly
belong to her plane . . . Morally,” she hastened
to add in response to his look of indignation.
Then :
“What a noble, devout and charitable woman
she is! I’m sure I ought to envy her and to wish
that I may be like her some day.”
For a moment wrinkles rayed from the outer
corners of Capricornus’ eyes; then as suddenly
smoothed out again, and his face became set as a
stone. Phyllida continued sententiously :
“ How these saintly people love humanity!
And how they detest the mass of their fellow-
men ! ”
For a long time Phyllida sat in silence. Her
legs were crossed. Her elbow was on the table.
Her chin rested on the palm of her hand; her
fingers curled back so that the nails touched her
lips. In spite of the fire an autumn chillness
seemed to invade the room—a sense of falling
leaves—a vague impression of death and decay.
Finally, she drew out of her reverie and rummaged
again among the photos, apparently little inter-
ested. At last:
“ What a sweet, angel-faced little thing this is !
She is of an opposite type to Marcella; but, I
should fancy, equally devout. Maybe more so.”
“Maybe.”
Capricornus laughed :
“She is one of the foulest-tongued women I
have ever met. Her mental gallery would sicken
most men. But that is a commonplace of the
novelist. A strange conjunction, eh ?”
Phyllida was puzzled. She had sorted out
three of the photos and had stood them up against
a book.
“ Here is a group. What a family resemblance
in these three faces—this servant girl, this lady in
the fur jacket (married, if one can judge by the
ring), and this creature with the cigarette ! What?
They are the same ? Oh, I see—fancy dress. No ?
What a fall from such a respectable lady to that
cigarette creature! ”
Capricornus interposed.
“ You are wrong. The cigarette phase is the
second; the furs and silk the final. Morally,
there has been neither rise nor fall. Three facets
of the same identical character.
“The servant girl phase was unfortunate.
There was a child—known to employers as an
Impediment; to Society as a Disgrace. It was an
honest impediment, though, born of honest love.
But it was not a legal one. Nature smiled.
Nature was satisfied, eminently satisfied. But
Society objected. Society, to all intents and pur-
poses, said, ‘You must get rid of that child, or
we shall make life impossible to you,’ She rid
herself of the brat. Society smiled again and
proffered her a pittance. She refused the pit-
tance, and took to the streets. But the pavement
has its drawbacks. It guarantees no future. So
she changed the streets for a private house, the
chance lover for an old man of wealth and posi-
tion, but a permanency—likewise a monopolist.
She registered it with an oath—solemnising it is
the technical term. Society smiled once more.
Nature always comes in at the curtain —always.”
A look of bewilderment had crept over her face.
“ They. .. they all seem to be worthless. I
can hardly congratulate you on ... ”
Then a look of intelligence flushed to the sur-
face.
“ Ah, now I see., lam one of a series, .. . and
these are my fellow-victims. Poor .. . poor .. .
things ! But what a charming idea to keep their
photos. So original. Classified, too, I hope.
Each duly dated and numbered.”
Capricornus was silent. Phyllida took up a
photo and scanned it closely.
“ But what is Marcella doing in such a collection
—Marcella, the twentieth century saint ? She
doesn’t belong to Our Society. What has she in
common with this cigarette creature and . . . me ? ”
(Continued on next page.)


THE WELL-ADVISED NEVER NEGLECT
KIDNEY DISEASE.
The best advice that can he given to anyone suffering
from urinary troubles, weakness of the bladder, backache,
headache, watery swellings round the ankles or under
the eyes, constant tiredness> dizziness, broken sleep,
ringing in the ears, or irregular heart, is to take Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills at once, for they cure the kidneys,
and therefore cure all these symptoms of kidney and
bladder disease.
"Every
picture
Good Advice
From a Sydney Man*
Mr. Thomas E. Wilkinson, Dyer and Cleaner, 366 Oxford-street,
Paddington, says :—“ I suffered from various symptoms, which arose from
disordered kidneys. I had a very severe pain in the small of my back ;
my secretions were at times very thick, and I had a touch of rheumatics!
After taking a number of remedies, which proved failures, I was recom-
mended to use Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. I did so, and after taking
thp first box I felt better, and went on taking them. After I had taken
thirty boxes I found myself cured. I recommend these pills to all who
suffer with kidney disorder; they alone proved of any benefit to me.”
]\lr. "Wilkinson makes a second statement; —X have been free of
kidney trouble ever since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me, years
ago.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2/9 per box (six boxes,
15/3), or will be posted on receipt
of price by Foster-McClellan Co., 76
Pitt Street, Sydney.
r;
sm
m
M
fbackache
Wa®
4i .
.rr.vv'i
DOAN'S OINTMENT
CORES EVERY TORTURING SKIN IRRITATION.
Eczema.
Mr. H. Boyd, 8 St. Andrew’s-street,
Balmain, Sydney, says “My little boy
has suffered with Eczema ever since he was
six months old. He was very bad indeed.
We had to muffle his hands and cover his
head to keep him from scratching. The
irritation was frightful, especially at night
time after he had been put to bed. We were
always using one remedy or another, but
nothing seemed able to give him relief until
we got Doan’s Ointment. A friend advised
me to use this preparation. She had used it
with great success on one of her children, and
told me that she was quite sure it would do
my boy good. Six boxes effected a complete
cure ; not a sign of the ailment remains. It
acted marvellously from the first, every
application giving instant relief.”
Mrs. Boyd says, three years later: “My
little boy is still free of the Eczema. It is
not possible for a remedy to do more than
Doan’s Ointment has done for him —a perfect
and permanent cure.”
Piles,
Mr. J. G. Carter, jun., 182 Bulwayo Road,
Ultimo, Sydney, says:—“l can strongly
recommend Doan’s Ointment. For two
years I suffered agony from protruding and
itching Piles, the pain and irritation were
almost unbearable. I could scarcely get
about, and could not sleep at night. I was
very bad, and could not get relief, although
I tried everything I could hear of, and got
treatment from doctors. Fortunately Doan’s
Ointment was recommended to me. I com-
menced to use it, carefully following the
directions. Relief came after the first appli-
cation, and I persevered with the treatment
until I had used three pots. I am abso-
lutely right, and it is twelve months since I
used the ointment. Seeing how good Doan’s.
Ointment proved for Piles, I used it for
Eczema, which had broken out all over me;
it was very painful and itchy, as well as
most unsightly, but Doan’s Ointment again
proved its genuine merit, and absolutely and
completely banished all trace of the ail-
ment.” . V ■■
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d.
per pot, or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Capricornus evaded the main issue. His eve
refused to meet Phyllida’s inquiring gaze. He
looked thoughtfully at the carpet and scraped at
it with the toe of his boot as if he wished to erase
part of the pattern.
“Marcella? Oh, that’s easy enough. The
anment Greek - offered up oxen ; the medieval
Catholic entered a nunnery ; the modern Protest-
ant devotes herself to benevolence.”
Capricornus gave a vigorous flourish with his
toot and suddenly looked her in the face.
“And all to placate an offended Deity ...”
became insatiate in her demands.
And Marcella, as a last resort, opposed it with the
Church and divine Charity. Who knows ? It may
be successful. At any rate, it is justifiable,
psychologically. ”
Phyllida hastily raised herself from her chair ;
then as if suddenly changing her mind, she let
herself gently down again. Her voice grew almost
sugary in its sweetness; for a time it trembled on
the verge of a hiss.
•^ I hinder you. You will continue your
sermon. How nice of you ! Just a moment.”
She smoothed down her dress. She folded her
hands in her lap. She modestly cast down her
eyes to the two little crossed feet that just peeped
from beneath her dress.
“ Now then, please.”
Capricornus restrained a movement of impa-
tience, and smothered an oath. Phyllida began
once more.
“And so, in indulging in a little mild flirtation
—mild flirtation, mind—l have neglected my
duty to my husband, eh? Granted. But you
don’t know how horribly dreary and monotonous
it became. Ugh! At first, everything was
splendid. A house of your own. Your own mis-
tress. A Beast that adored you. Novel situa-
tions. Novel experiences. And then Baby. I
thought I should never have grown tired of Paby.
Baby was simply exquisite. For months we just
adored him.”
Capricornus looked up in astonishment, and
was silent. A strange feeling came over him ; for
the first time in his life he feared the influence of
Woman—he, Capricornus, the hero of a hundred
photographs; Capricornus, the generous; Knight-
errant and Dragon in one. Phyllida rose.
“Now I must go. Really I cannot stay any
longer. Hubby will be home soon, and Hubby
would be just a little Wee bit incredulous if I told
him I came over here to Church.”
She paused a moment, and appeared to catch
her breath.
“And,” she continued, “I must send you my
photograph for your... your... collection. It
would be so sweet to be dubbed number... what?
say number one hundred and fifty . . . four; eh ?
Yes, 154. And then to-morrow you could show me
to 155.”
Capricornus winced.
“Now, good-bye,” and Phyllida held out her
hand with a show of great cordiality ; “you have
done me such an amount of good.”
There was an empty plate on the table. Phyllida
went over and placed a threepenny-bit on it.
“ For the Cause,” she explained, gravely. Then
she left the room. But Capricornus was almost
sure that he heard a stifled laugh outside; and
the rush of skirts through the passage was more
hurried than strict decorum demanded.
* * ■* *
Capricornus was standing at the window of the
darkened room, looking out into the street. And
Capricornus’ thoughts were darkened, too. He
had fought the fight as most other men. And the
trophies? He had surrendered everything—
career, position. . . . For a bundle of photos and
a future that was not even black. . . only blank.
“It was the teaching of Zola’s ‘Fecundity.’
Who leagues himself with what makes for life,
lives; but who, with what makes for death, dies.
First, the aspirations; then the man; then, the
animal; and, last of all, the carcase.
“ How a child, born not only in wedlock, but in
honest love, would—but, bah ! look at it.” And
the pageantry of the street took color from his
disordered brain.
Beneath the lamplight opposite, a child was
playing, forsaken and forlorn. Against it, and all
its kind, all the resources of modern civilisation
were levelled.
Portia passed ; Portia, with gutta percha bosom
and whalebone hips, forging Nature’s credentials
in obedience to an effete tradition.
Scenting her money-bags, Bassanio followed in
her wake, with well-creased pants and padded
shoulders—the acme of social elegance and
physical prowess.
A motor hooted its way noisily up the street,
•trailing a stench of petrol and the shrill laughter
of women. It was Phryne, Midas’ wife ; Phryne,
flitting from lover to lover in quest of a love that
she never knew, and, now, never will know.
Capricornus sighed ; then catching himself in
the rebound he gave a short staccato laugh.
“ After all, what matter ? It may be that Kid
stands for the race, for the future, for hone.
“ Bah ! ” *
D. BOLOS.
The Man Next Door.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FRAGMENTS of songs around me lie,
Fair ballads of delight,
Sweet things an editor would buy
And treasure at first sight ;
All broken now, they’re but a heap
Of paper on the floor.
(Some night, armed with an axe, I’ll leap
Upon the fiend next door !)'
Whene’er a verse I try to write,
Or spin a story gay,
There comes a howling in the night
That chases thought away;
Then, throwing down the pen, I call
Down curses on his roar.
(Some night, with daggers three, Til jail
On him who shrieks next door 1)
If I am feeling fit and well,
And forth the inkpot bring,
He gives a wild and dismal yell
And starts his bellowing.
I glare upon him from above
As round his room he prowls,
While all the songs I most do love
He mangles into howls.
The golden guineas fade away,
The bailiff waits without;
I curse each agonising bray,
I curse each empty shout;
My pen is still, my brain is numb,
My senses sick and sore.
(Tve asked for something swift to come
And slay the Noise next door!)
N.S.W.
KODAK.
Two Men and a Dog; a Breath-
less and Unvarnished Tale.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
JACK and I stood on the Banks of
Blackfellow’s Ck and waited impatiently
( f° r the Chinaman to go and water his
Cabbages and when we saw him trotting off with
two buckets filled with an evil smelling decoction
we borrowed his flatty and a large watermelon
and accompanied by the Dog and three plugs of
Dynamite shoved off from the mangrove flat and
glided over the sparkling waters, and when the
waters gave - out we pushed the flatty over the
mud and pulled it over the snags and after half an
hour’s honest toil and the consigning of the flatty
and the owner thereof to perdition many times we
floated into deep water and went on our way
rejoicing, we hadn’t gone very far however, when
we came suddenly on a Swarthy maiden dressed
lavishly in a hairpin and an all-embracing
smile and we rested on our oars but not
for long, as a boomerang caught Jack in
the rear and we retired into the boat
m confusion three deep, the dog being on
top we picked ourselves up with much haste and
got off the mark with such amazing rapidity that
the watermelon hopped over the side and we
left it. a prey to the frantic crowd that lined the
banks, and the Dusky maiden ran along the
Creek and wanted to come with us, but we
shoo’ed her off with an oar and Jack shook his
fist at her and sang out, flee, get thee hence and
when she would not, he hit her severely with a
sixpence and followed up the attack with a plug
of tobacco and the enemy after collecting the
spoils sat herself down on a hollow log and wept
and while the blinding tears dropped off the
point of her nose we scooted round the corner and
after pulling steadily for some time shot into
■ Trinity Inlet and we found a nice shady water-
hole where fish love to.reside during the heat and
burden of the day, and we tied up the boat to an
overhanging branch and Jack fixed up the Dyna-
mite, and all nature appeared, to have sunk to rest
and breathing hard, the wind rustled and whispered
through the trees and wondered what our little
game was and the Goburra laughed and chuckled
silently to itself and swore into its feathers, and
the moaning and sobbing of the ocean as it leaned
up against the flatty and softly wept was—
But right here Jack dropped the Biug of dyna-
mite into the water and shoved off but not very
far as we were still tied to the tree and two pairs
of willing and eager hands tried to undo the knot
in four different ways at the same time and we
tugged and strained and cursed and swore and the
tree then decided to come with us, it came, in fact
it came with such startling swiftness that it smote
both of us mightily over the head and toppled us
into the briny deep and collared the boat and
sailed away on its own accompanied by a Mud
Turtle that had been roosting in the branches, and
left us to kick splutter and cough our way towards
an old cedar log that happened to be passing
and we climbed on top and followed, but
at a more leisurely pace, then the dynamite
went off and a large gleaming body, something
like a cross between a Dugong and a blooming
sea-serpent shot out of the water in great indigna-
tion and a badly wounded tail and went bounding
and careering over the foaming billows and when
it couldn’t climb over it crawled under and when
last seen was heading towards the Barrier Reef
and going as if the Legions of Hell were after it
and the pearly gates yawned in front, and we
laughed till our jaws ached, and then the log
rolled, and most of our matches that we had laid
out to dry got drowned, a few we saved and
spread them out some more, then we heard a most
appalling noise proceeding from the Mangrove like
unto the Roar of a Lion when he singeth out in the
silent watches of the night, and a dark object
slipped into the water, Jack thought it was a boat,
but it was only a half grown alligator and
it came towards us with great earnestness and
singleness of purpose and tried to climb up on the
Log, but with a judicious poke in the ribs with a
stout waddy we found floating past and a bang
pver the snout it retired in such consternation that
it nearly tripped over its hind legs, and lay off
and on for a bit and when its attentions became
too pressing and the yearning look in its eyes too
pronounced, we fed it on sixpences and halfcrowns
and boots and anything else that came handy and
we prepared another plug of dynamite with a fuse
three feet long and struck a match, then we
struck many matches, but they were all too wet
and Jack rubbed one cautiously and tenderly on
his shirt front, and its head threatened to come
off but thought better of it and stuck on and after
causing us much anxiety lighted up with a flare,
and glowed and waned, but during the glowing
season we managed to light the fuse and the
alligator viewing the proceeding with dire sus-
picion backed water with great ferocity. Jack
held out his foot as an inducement to come
near and it came with such a rush that it nearly
had him by the toe and the way he carried on and
the language he used was simply shocking, then a
sickening dread gat hold of us and Jack offered to
let me hold the Dynamite but I declined with
such fervor and fluency and backed with such
haste that the alligator thought it had a soft thing
on and came up with a cheerful grin and we let it
have the lot namely one small plug dynamite
three feet burning fuse and one sickening dread
(dimensions doubtful but known to be of a fairish
size) and that confiding animal swallowed it and
retired not at all satisfied with its prize and a
thoughtful and pensive look stole over its face
beginning at the point of its nose and working its
way up in ripples and undulating waves and
stopped dead behind its lugs and a dreary and
wistful look came into its eyes and as it gazed
across the vast expanse of troubled waters we felt
quite sorry that we were travelling with such
ghastly strides in the footsteps of Cain and we
waited for something to turn up.
And the world seemed to come to an end and
the air was filled with Screaming humanity pacific
Ocean and Cursing Dog and a large Tidal Wave
taking its rise from where the Cedar Log had been
carried us on its watery bosom and spread us
violently along the Queensland Coast and
we picked ourselves up and counted our
dead and the sum total was three parts busted
alligator one part wriggling tail (name and
species unknown) and as we bent down to
examine this more closely and marvelling much
at the ungodly looking denizens of the deep it
rose up in most unseemly haste and struck Jack
on the nose and fell back and expired and that
unfortunate young man in great wrath seized it
with both hands and swung.it round his head, my
word how he did swing it and heaved it into the
mighty deep, at least it would have gone there if
Ah Chow the Chinaman hadn’t came trotting
round the corner and stopped it violently with his
face and that Heathen Chinee came at us with an
impediment in his speech and a bamboo in his
hand and we girded up our loins and fled into the
gathering gloom.
H.W.M.


Having held a position as field umpire to me South
ralian Football Association, and having to go under
s
rather severe training, my con-
stitution had a very severe
strain. The tonics I took did
not benefit me. I then tried
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and can
faithfully say that it did me a
wonderful amount of good. In
fact, it built my system up so
that I could go through my
training, without an effort.
Phil A. Blackman,
Now of Penola, S. A.”
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
imparts force and vigor, and builds up the whole system
to withstand the severe trials and tests which sooner or
later come to all of us.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure you get the old reliable Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, not some
other kind that will only disappoint you.
>' Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
*
Garden Seeds
NO MONEY WANTED
In order to introduce our HIGH-GRADE TESTED SEEDS into
every home, we are giving away prizes such as MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS, LADIES’and GENT’S SILVER WATCHES arid
CHAINS, PHOTO. CAMERAS loaded for use, RABBIT RIFLES
and DERRINGER PISTOLS of faithful workmanship. LADIES'
ELEGANT PEARL NECKLETS. SOUI) GOLD RINGS, GOLD
BROOCHES, HANDSOME PIPES mounted in SOLID SILVER,
GOLD CASED CURB BANGLES, FREE to the value of ONE
THOUSAND POUNDS. All you have to do is to SEND US YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS and we will forward you 24. assorted
packets of our reliable seeds, such as Cornflower, Stock, Mignonette,
Candytuft, Poppy, Sweet William, etc. Sell the packets at 3d. per
packet, send us our money (6 -) and we will send you by return
mail any present you inav select from our grand list. WE TRUST
YOU—THE RISK IS OURS You may return the seeds if not sold,
though you will find the task of selling them ridiculously easy, for
they are splendid value. Don’t delay, SEND AT ONCE before our
offer is withdrawn. We defv contradiction when we assert that
OUR PRIZES ARE SPLENDID VALUE, and in every caae
positively as represented in our illustrations.
Kim
FLORISTS SEED SUPPLY Co. 52 BOND ST SYDNEY NSW.
„ —mu
I
Superior to
, INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
j COPAIBA.
f Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name wr-
dr
The Standard Remedy which ha* outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT*
In use since 1596.
Hfc
cures'"' ' a? ''" 3Wstv# ' F!
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN, UO. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
eollectionof his best verses; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
§|^lpog§jf
FREE
NO MONEY WANTED.
COLORED and
ARTISTIC
POST CARDS.
Send us your name and address and we will forward you 12 packets, each
containing 6 of our colored and high art POST CARDS to sell for us,
at 6d. per packet. When you have sold the cards, return us our 6s. and
we will send you for your trouble any present you may choose from the
list of jewellery which we forward you. By continuing the sale of oui
cards you can earn a LADY’S or GENT.’S SILVER WATCH and
CHAIM, a PHOTO. CAMERA loaded for use, SILVER HAIR BRUSHES,
GOLD RINGS, LADIES’ GOLD CASED MUFF CHAINS, RABBIT
RIFLES of faithful workmanship, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, Ladies’ or
Gent, s DRESSING OASES replete with every toilet requirement, and
other exquisite and choice prizes. WE TAKE ALL THE RISK. You can
igturn the cards if not pold. We are the largest dealers in post cards in
Australia,-and import our jewellery, or we could not make you this liberal
first in your district. Our post cards sell at once, wherever seen
REGAL POST CARD CO., 126 Bend-si., Sydney.
A MERRY-MINDED MAM
shows his temperament in his face. His eyes are laughing eyes.
His outlook is joyous and attractive. He is optimistic to a degree,
and you may be sure his body is attuned to his mind. No dyspeptic
he. No biliousness in his composition. No dizzy headaches in his
experience? and depend upon it he is a wise man as well as a
merry man. and
IS MASSE AMD KEPT SO
by the regular use of Beecham's Pills. For it is now a generally
accepted fact that as a preventive and curative medicine these pills
are absolutely reliable in their' results, and there are few troubles
arising from disorders of the stomach, liver, bowels or kidneys that
they will not speedily cure. The ultimate result is the healthy
magnetic personality of the happy man or woman. You are certain
to carry a light heart if you feel really well, and this you
may always do
BY USING
BEECHAM'S
PILLS.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price IHI (56 pills ) & 219(168 pills).
£
THE STEEL WINCS
WINDMILL
is a simple, reliable and effective piece of
mechanism. Has no cogs nor complicated
gear. CAN PUMP 50 PEE CENT. MOEE
WATEE than all other types of Mills in
the small sizes, and beat them out of sight
in the large sizes, because THE STEEL
WINGS WINDMILL IS THE ONLY ONE
WHICH CAN BE BUILT IN LAEGE
SIZES AND AT A MODEEATE COST.
The Mill here shown, working at Jerilderie,
wheel 40 feet, tower 80 feet, is the largest in
the world.
Steel Wings Windmill Company, Ltd.
Department C, BAY ROAD, NORTH SYDNEY.
m
y/Sz
S:
P
</■
FREE TRIAL 11
NOT A PENNY DOWN.
Simply drop us a post card with your name
and we will arrange to forward one of our
latest improved high grade ELECTRIC
BELTS FREE.
THE DR. AUSTIN
ELECTRIC B&LT
is the most perfect and complete ever invented.
It will cure all cases of Rheumatism, Varico-
cele, Indigestion, Lumbago, Weak Back. Kid-
ney, Livei, and Stomach Complaints, Nervous-
ness. and all weakness of Men and Women.
We will give Free son writing
to us one copy of our beautifully illustrated
Medical Book, which should be read by all
Men and Women. If you are weak in anyway
delay no longer, but write to-day for our splen-
did Book and Belt Free. Write to-day.
The Dr. Austin Co.,
317 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
Please mention this paper.
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
Cor. Little Collins & Elizabeth Sts., Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
**■ to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear: —
4 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price, £6.
Sale Price 0
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £8 15s. Sale Price.. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 12 6
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price .. .. .. .. .. ..£5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual orice, £5. Sale price £2 15 0
12 Rifles, 20th Century Winchester pattern,
fires 22 short or long cartridges. Usual Price,
225. 6d. Sale Price . ..£0 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES. 12 Gauge ss. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
‘ON THE HOP’
PRICE, 21s, A Unique and Luxurious Gift,
fe==
Men
and
"OMEN
Dr. John Martin, M.D. &c.
Consulting Physician in all Diseases
of Men and Women, Specialist in
Nervous and Blood Disorders
May be consulted Personally or by Letter.
Hours: 10 to 4, 7 to 9 daily.
D k. MARTIN’S NEW BOOK,
“The Diseases of Men and Women, and Their Home Cure,’’
May be had from Geo. Robertson and Co., Lid., and
from all Booksellers, Price 7s. 6d., or if you apply to
Dr. Martin now a copy will be POSTED FREE for 3s. This magnificent medical work contains 692 Page3
Crown Svo, over SOOPrescriptlons, 50 Chapters, and 193 Illustrations, with Beautiful Four-Colored
Plate. The most interesting, up-to-date, and reliable medical work published. It is a true guide for all
the diseases of Men and Women. It is entirely different to those so-called medical books advertised free
to the public. It is a complete Encyclopaedia of information for suffering- humanity afflicted with long-
standing. chronic, nervous, exhausting, or painful diseases. No similar book has ever been published.
FREE.
To all persons suffering from any ailment, Dr. Martin will send a Complimentary Copy of
this great work Free on enclosing five stamps (the actual cost of the postage), and this
advertisement cut out.
To all MEN, Dr. Martin will send FREE OF CHARGE his Set of Lectures on “ Men’s special Ailments”
on receipt of this adversisement. {3 W" Note Address :—
DR. MARTIN, M.D., Mouse, ’ 151 Elizabeth-st„,
Please mention this paper when writing. - __ HYDE PARK, SYDNEY.


gd
A RELIABLE OILSKIN
Is one of the most useful assets of a
country or outdoor man. Here are a few
lines you can depend upon.
In the long Regulation shape—as
lllustrated-the “ Silclad ” Brand is
18/6, the “Titan” 12/6, and the “ Du-
geng” 17/6. We pay the carriage, and
can ensure a perfect fit if you send voar
height and easy
over clothes.
Rubber Boots for Mon.
Highest Grade Oandee Pure Gum Boots
extra light, splendid for riding, 26/- ; a
heavy grade with rolled edges at the
same price. Others at 15/- and 17/6.
The Storm King Thigh Boots in the
standard quality, sizes 6 to 10, 21/-
Hip Boots at 25/-
Sea Boots at 15/-, 17/6 and 26/-
Fuli Details in our Winter Catalogue No. 17.
Ask for a free copy.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
sr
C£
LITTLE WONDER” AIR DRILLS
The above out illustrates the LITTLE WONDER SIDE VALVE DRILL, a Pneumatic Hammer Rock Drill vor
Mines or Quarries. Weight about 181bs. Operated bv compressed air, consuming: about 25 CUBIC FEET
of air per minute. Only ONE WORKING PART — Strictly ONE MAN Rock Drills.
- E W. & J. LEMPRIERE,
506 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
And at 64 PITT ST., SYDNEY.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL ANB
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt.
ear
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced.
Every Belt GUARANTEED. AS a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Sole Importers: JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
W. Circular Quay, Sydney.
JOHN HURST & CO., 4 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
WatchmaKers and Jewellers,
—— : ——
TELEPHONE 5177.
Taken Hot with
Lemon at Bedtime,
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Cures Colds.
4
elosf WSiaf the Doctor onbral
“SENTINEL” AIR COMPRESSORS.
Belt, Steam or Motor Driven.——For Mining Purposes.
DOBBIE McSNNES STEAM ENGINE INDICATORS, Etc.
For Prices apply—J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Engineers, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
PARKE & LACY COY LTD.
60 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SSggaliS
SOLE AGENTS IN AUSTRALIA FOR
KNOWLES STEAM PUMPS
All Sizes and Styles Kept in Stock,
Single, and Duplex; Regular, Brass, and Iron Fitted (for Cyanide).
EVERY PUMP IS GUARANTEED,
Catalogues and Full particulars on Application,
“There is No Better Pump than the Knowles/'
If you want a vS>toCl vS>plit and want the BEST, specify
The AMERICAN
With rim of one layer of metal, stiffened by internal central Flanges and rolled Beads on edges ; six duplex steel arms
radiating from a steel hub, and without rivets between hub and rim. See that you got a Pulley like this
The advantages of “ The American ” Steel Split Pulley are strength and rigidity, which renders it practically indestructible.
The weight is two-thirds less than that of an ordinary cast-iron Pulley, and about that of most wdjoden ones.
The Pulley, Besides having unique lightness and strength, is true running and perfectly balanced, and positively safe
under high speeds. The only Pulley on the market with a groove in centre of rim, by which the air is allowed to
escape, and this enables the American Pulley to transmit 33J per cent, more horse-power than a cast-iron Pulley.
Bushings supplied for Shafts of different diameters. Large Stocks carried.
AGENTS—
LJ
n ■
Engineers
Machinery
and
74 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
mam
■...
v;
A Cheap, Durable, Simple, EfFe /e,
and Easily Adjustable Csas *r, )
which has long been wars! j
concentration—for dividing
into different grades, enable
Concentrator to do better w
Sole Licensees (SI Manufacturers s
1
%
t
For separating Gangue from Slimes
after Concentration, so that the
Slimes may be treated on a Sperry
Slimer.
In Cyaniding with or without Con-
centration it is invaluable.
263 George Street, Sydney;
436 Collins Street, Melbourne
